
001000000001000000001101onno~nnnooon~u 
2~ 3U 31 32 33 3.; 35 l;i l1 38 39 40 41 4:1 43 i4 4~ 4b 4/ t~ t·: j~ ·~: 11 ~~ ;t ',, -,~ ~: :3 ,~ ·:.; ;:· 
· 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 I 1 1 1 1 11 1 111111 1 1 I 1 1 2 2 r-N>l'1l 2.J ~ 21 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 i 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2i 2 2 2 2 
C 

1 1 ~ 
• 

8 I 
~ 



:-:;:-~­
,:<•-• .._,.. ­

••:< .eOurse.:eeNaluation. booklet lfalf 1973 :
.• ·-~~· .... --=~ -.!-_-·.,.·.-~: \. --~ -~:.,,,'/"::,•··.·-·' -,-. ' -' ' ,--· -• • -1• ... ,4-... 
0

?::}·?, :-, Il~it:e daiµe --st ll1ary's ·::···:." 
-. •. ,:•-" .. 
, > c,' ._ ~ -;

-. ~,. _, . ­
--,.. " --: ,,, ~ ·. 

;-:-' ,,--r • •• : • ;., • •~. • 
-.• ... 



.. 
. . .
:.. -:· -,:v 

. ~ ~ , -. ~ ~-' --_: 
. •',: --..>' -. : .•• 
ARTS AND LETTERS 

··j american ·studies ~_..art . 8 black stµdies ·.:.-__ ' · ·-· · · 48 8 collegiate semi~ar :: _: . ··. ,:_ · · :>-.-..-··_ --SO 

·9 economics 

51 11 education 
~2 
. ·12, english 

53 · 19 general progr~m 1 · · 2\. government-political sc:ie1:·ice 
24 history 


· s.c · 29 -humanistic studies . ·29 language . 33 ·:mu'.sic .34 .. phi'losophy ·
'' ~-:·¼~ ~,> :-i--• • 
37 psychology_ _ ·.. _·57 40 ·. sociology:'."anthropology . · : 58 43 speech and drama _ 
..59 

·44" t~eoJogy-religious studi~s -59 
62 

· 6~ 
BUSINESS. 
accou.nti_ng finance ·. marketing 
"'' 
. management -business-econom,cs 
ENGl"J..EERING 
-SCIENCE 
, . 
biology chel'l'.'istrv -earth ··sciences 
·mattter11a.tics. ·physics · science 
"":: ,:_ 
:, --. ·~"' 
-

l . 
~-Course Evaluation Staff 
AMERICAN STUDIES: Jim Purvis, chmn.; Debbie Busch, Jim  
Cauley, Dan 'Doody, Lynn Lee  
ART ­ND: Bob Kincaid, Chf!1n.; Timothy Standring, Dan O'Hara  
ART-SMC: Linda McKenzie, chmn.; Terri Lustic, Maria Piacquad  
B-USINESS-ECONOMICS: Sue Armstrong, chmn.  
-ECONOMICS: John Matthews,· dimn.; Bob Kelley, John Abowd,  
,::  Dan O'Hara, T. J. Carney, Bob cothe, John Conrad  
.;;  
~  ENGLISH-ND: Dave Kravetz, Jack Wenke, co-chmn.; -Jerry  
Ricigliano, Mary Coady, Joe Runde, Tom Gora, Dan O'Donnell, Greg  
Stidham, Tim Corrigan, David Manfredi, Joe Nescio, Jim Fanto,  
Bubby Vespole, Jim Pauer, Juan Manigualt, Pat McCracken, _Jim  
Gresser, Jack Collins, Andy Wyniarczyk, Ginna. Smith, Michael  
French  
ENGLISH -SMC: Claudia Gartland, chmn., Jan Giordano, Beth  
Hall, Debbie Johnson, Alison Kittrel, Kathy Schwille, Carol Sommer  
GENERAL PROGRAM: John Moskop, chmn.; Albert Brenner,  
Adam McIntosh, Michael Kiecien, Katherine Kersten, Mark Moes,  
Stephen Reitz, Gilbert Nadeau, William Kane, Richard French  
GOVERNMENT: Rick Gering, chmn.; Tim Burke, Dennis Etienne,  
Bill Henkel!, Mike Hess, Ted Mukulskl, Bob Pious, Greg Smith, Dan  
Snopkiwsko  
HISTORY. NO: Rick Bostwick, chmn.; Tom Broden, Cindy Ceraso,  
'  
,Al · Cr:amer, Ginny .Fisher, Jeff Harkin, Rose Lennon, Tom McAn­ 
drews, Jim Munsch, Tim Murphy, Mark Sorvillo, Joe Weisenburger,  
Mark Wenig, David Yates, Eric Zagrans  
HUMANISTIC STUDIES: Mary Ellen Raphael, chmn.; Natilie .,  
Dwyer, Maurren McRedmond, Judy Moore, Linda Mortell  
MOO& CLASS LANGUAGES:: Mary Ganz, chmn.; Marcy Ravlick, ­ 
Bob Rieser, John Balkwill, Mary Ferrari, Bill Kakish, James Hoban,  
Kathy Kelly, Sally Fisher, Barbara Galik  
LANGUAGE -SMC:' Geri Duffy, chmn.  
2 ..  

ICJ7ZJ.li: 

MATHEMAT1c·s • SMC; Diane t:.oguidice, chmn.; Nancy Draves, 
Geraldine Kearns, Kathy Kowalskir Looraine Lo, Kathy Nolan 
MUSIC • ND: Brock Burroughs, chmn.; Ted Wand, Corinne Bir­
skovich ' 
MUSIC. SMC: Marie Weber, chmn.; Beverly Beer, Susie Kellow 
PHILOSOPHY -ND: Ralph Seep, chmn.; Rex Frett, Ron Fadowski, 
Frank Whitsell 
PHILOSOPHY -SMC: Cindy Nilles, chmn. 
PSYCHOLOGY -ND: Al Constants, chmn.; John May, Scott Allen 
'PSYCHOLOGY : SMC: Michel_e Kane, chmn. 
POLI. SCI . SMC: Nancy Alleshaski, chmn.;_ Cathy Lannon, Berni _Turi 
SOCIOLOGY -ND: Frank McLaughlin, chmn.; Ed Seponsky, Charles Zetter, Kerry McNamara, John Niederman, Dan Quillen, Klem Bantoski 
SOCIOLOGY SMC • Sue Hargrave, chmn. 
SPEECH AND ORAMA: 'Mia Wernlg, chmn.; Tom Fehrenbacher, Marianne Rinella 
THEOLOGY i<aren Denny, chmn.; Mary Ellen Raphael, Ellen Freeman,-Tom Varga, Mary Mack, Dennis Shastasoff, Frank Masino, John Eddy, Kathy Meyer 
BUSINESS: Jayar Daley 
ACCOUNTING: Dick Keenan, chmn.'; :Terry Cooney, Rob Keenan, 
• ' 1••-· ' • 

-Martin Broussard, Jim Roller, ~ill ,Allen, Bob Ryan, Mike·0eu1in, John Walsh, John Peterson 
ENGINEERING: Ed Burke, chmn. 



· · ··:•sioltoGY: Kurt Battier, chmn. 

. -·:_~"'_;~·iENCE -SMC: Ellen Skriba, .~h;:;~;~:~athy' Breitenbach, Linda ·:. ·:··-~H,}ti~camp, R~ina Ivory, Cinda t'i~,~a~x, T~t:ie Otto 
Arts and Letters american studies 
S'f~DENT ADVISORS: Dan Bekavac, 213 Flanner, 1052; .Joseph. Runde, 448Ly~ns, 7995; Jim·Purvis, 01 Sorin, 8436; Jim·Pauer, 21 Old College, 6361, Greg Conti, 719 Rex St. ·232-2693· John Canna 
349 Sorin, 8546. · ' ' ' 
!he American Studies Major Sequence 
The American Studies Major has undergGne a minor change this year. This 
change will effect only Juniors coming into the major. Seniors will continue 
under the.present system. The changes in the major are as follows: 
American Studies: The format has been changed from the present 3-2-2-2 
delegatio11 of credits to one of 2-2-2-4. This entails the following changes. The 
student will be asked to choose 3 areas in which he will concentrate. He will be 
required to take at least 6 hours in each of these disciplines. They are American Literature; American Government; American History; American Art; and , American Philosophy. The 12 hour sequence will be taken in the American 
•Studies Department. This will consist of 2seminars (6hours) and 2 free electives in the Department. 
American Studies-Connumication Arts Intent: The format for this is the same as that of the American Studies Major excpet that instead of 2 free electives (6 hours) in the American Studies Department, the C.A. Intent should take Visual Communication and some Writing course as well as his 2seminars (6hours). 
NOTE: This will effect only incoming Juniors in the major. 
Schlereth Arnst 352 Amer Thgt and CuIt I 09TTll . seq. 101260 
DESCRIPTION: This new course will interpret cultural, intellectual, and 
social ideas and movements throughout seventeenth, eighteenth, and early 
nil~eteen~h century American life. Emphasis will be placed on th~ development 
of American thought within the context of the Western intellecfual community as 
well as on the ·changes in indigenous cultural patterns. Topics to be examined 
include: the New World in the European imagination; Puritanism and the role of 
religion in early American history; the American Enlightenment and its 
ramifications; the rise of democratic social and political theory. Two lectures a 
week will each be followed by a question-discussion period. Readings will be 
examined and discussed parallel to the lecture topics. Throughout the course a 
special effort will be made to familiarize the student with the methodological 
approaches of American Studies and the techniques of cultural and intellectual 
history. American Studies 352 is designed to be follov.ied by a subsequent course 
in the spring semester which will continue the investigation through the 
nineteenth and twentieth centuries. 
READINGS: Levine and Middlekauff,,eds., The National Temper, Readings 
in American Culture and Society to 1877; Nennig Cohen, ed., Approaches to the 
Study of The United States:· The American Culture (Vol. I}; The American 
Experience (Vol. 11); McGiffert and Skotheim, eds., American Social Thought: 
Sources and Interpretations: Colonial Beginnings to the Civil War;, Edmund 
Morgan, The Puritan Dilemma, the Story of John Winthrop; Sumner Chilton 
Powell, Puritan Village, The Formation of a New England Town; John Barth, 
The Sot-Weed Factor; Cedric B. Cowing, The Great Awakening and the 
American Revolution: Colonial Thought in the 18th Century; Daniel Boorstin, 
The Lost World of Thomas Jefferson; H.H. Clark, The Writings of Thomas 
Paine; John William Ward, Andrew Jackson, Symbol for an Age; Henry Nash 
Smith, Vi:gin Land, the America'n West as Symbol and Myth. . , 
STU DENT WORK: There. wilJ,.b!! several short essays dealing with various aspects of the course, a mid-term, and a final examination. 
.-... 
Stritch Amst 357 Arts of America I 
01 MWF seq.·: 101460 
DESCRIPTION: This popular American Studies elective op·en to'all students has now been expanded into two semesters. The trrst semester focuses on. art in general, how to look at paintings and architecture, the meaning of music, and form in the narrative arts. There are no pre-requisites for the first semester · course, but the first semester course is a necessary prerequisite to the second semester course, which concentrates·.on American Achievements in 'fh'e arts. Lectures, slides, films, discussions an~ museum projects comprise th.e.lJlethod of presentation, and because of'fW,triumber of "visual" lectores, regular at­tendance is important. 

READINGS_: Readings include Langer, Feeling and Form j:lnd· P.roblems of Art; Read, The Meaning of Art; Knight, The Liyeliest Art; Andrews, Ar­chitecture, Ambition, and Americans; Nye, The Une~~ba.r::rassed ~'ii; Rose, American Painting Since 1900. Total cost of books is SlOto·s12. 
STUDENT WORK: Class attendance, 5 to 8 short pppers (2-3 pages), in­dividual conferences with the-professor, and a mid.term and a final exam required of all students. 
COMMENT: Professor Stritch is in his own element when discussing the Arts of America. His informal lectures are lively, pointed, and well:flavored with his acute aesthetic sensibility. His genuine interest in each student promotes the learning experience, which, when shared with Professor Stritch, is both "delightful" and '.'charming." 
Weber Amst 381 · The Amer Char 03MWS . · seq. 101660 
DESCRIPTION: The American Character is a lecture course exploring rne 

tension and paradox in the national character from colonial times to the present. 
The course argues that what is most characteristic about America is its baffling 
array of contradictions--and that its contradictions have created within America 
a complexity of feeling that is at once a source of strength and weakness. The 
course develops its structure from the pursuit of three themes of particular 
resonance in America--the land, the city and the road. The course is open to 
about 50 students and is recommended to all Juniors in the American Studies 
department. This course is no longer a requirement for Juniors, but it is 
recom,"!'ended for various reasons. There are two primary reasoos: 1) to gain 
some insight into the development of the American Character as a reference for 
later study, and 2) to acquaint the student with Prof. Weber. 
READINGS: The materials of the course are basically drawn from classic 

American literature and include the following: D.H. Lawren~, Studies in 
Classic American Literature; J.F. Cooper, The Pioneers; A.:-ae~Tocqueville, 
Democracy in America; M. Twain, The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn; H.. 
Garland, Main Traveled Roads; S. Crane, Maggie; R. Hofstadter, The Age of 
~eform; S. Lewis, Babbitt; H. Alger, Ragged Dick and Mark the Match Boy; J. 
•Kerouac, On the Road; T. Wolfe, The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test; and F.s:· Fitzgerald, The Great Gatsby. There will also be a few supplementary readings for the American Character. They will be taken from the following: Crevecouer, Franklin, Jefferson, Thoreau, Emerson, and Bellamy. 
STU DENT WORK: The reading list is a bit long but it is not impossible for the student to keep up on the readings. During the first weeks of the course the progression is rather slow and the student is able to read ahead. There will be slides and films to augment the course as time permits. This year the course will m'eet on Mondays and Wednesdays for a one hour lecture and there will be a supplementary meeting on Firday for all who are interested and wish to take part and discuss the ideas presented in class and the readings. This is a great asset as the class period often does not present a sufficient oppo!!l!nity for the student to discuss his own thoughts on the works. There will be 3 or 4 small Cl-2 pages1papers as well as one longer (5-10 pagesJpaper. In additio'h to the papers ther;;-will also be a mid-term and a final. . 
COMMENT: Do not let the rather large work load scare you away from the American Character. This is indeed one of the finest courses presented by the American Studies Department. Professor Weber calls the class a monologue, but it is exceptionally interesting. His lecture style is one that never tires the student. Prof. Weber has the uncanny knack of getting his students to really think of the ideas that he presents. The mid-term and the final as well as the papers afford the student a chance to express their thoughts on certain topics by relating to specific books. Many students feel that Prof. Weber's enthusiasm for· the subject makes his presenta_tions all that much more enjoyable. So, if you would like to gain some valuable and sometimes cryptic insights into the .L\merican Character, by all means sign up for this course. 
Kolbenschlag 
Arnst 383 fmage of Woman 04TT6 seq. 101860 
.:>ESCR IPTION: This is a reading course that will foc!JS on the stereotype of 

VfOman as a received image in the American cultural·mmeu. Readings and 
discussions will explore the visual and verbal sources of popu\ar mass images: 
American langu13ge, fiction, film, advertising, psychology, theology and various 
representatives of public mythology. 
REA11tNGS: The texts to be used in the course will be announced in the fall. 
STUDE.inf WORK: There will be one paper and one project due in the course. 
,._ 
3.. 

Fischer Arnst 443 Vis Commun 11 MWF seq. 102060 
DESCRIPTION: This course presents an experience in basic· design--line, shape, form, color, harmony, balance, etc.--in both theory and practice. The course attempts to provide an understanding of the principles that underlie the areas of advertising, film, !elevision, magazines and sometimes the writing involved. Ther~ are no requirements for Visual Communication. The course is, however, required by all Communication Arts Majors. There are presently 25 places open in the course and any places not filled by American Studies majors will be open as University Electives. 
READINGS: None. STUDENT WORK: This course is primarily a work by doing course. The 
· course will begin with about 2 weeks of lectures and slides presentations on the elements of design theory. The remainder of the semester will be a utilization of the design theory in the preparation of 12-15 assigned design projects. The· 
· projects progress from the simple to the non-representational; that is from the simple cut and paste to the more complex designs of boofs jackets, record covers, brochures, magazines and three dimensional packaging. There is ample time given for the preparation of each project and tardy work is thus frowned upon. Because of the importance of the in class guidance of Prof. Fisher, cuts in the class are discouraged. 
COMMENT: This is that infamous American Studies elective that is termed Cutting an~ Pasting I. It is indeed more than Cutting and Pasting, it is an exercise in the use of the imagination and its representation in the media. The creative element of the mind is challenged and the student learns the essentials of design as well. If you decide that you would like to try your artistic ability at design, take this course. If you believe that designing a record album or a book cover is the easiest task in the University, then take the course. The fact is, you may surprise yourself. 
. Kolbenschlag Arnst 446 Newswrit 06M9 seq. 102260 
DESCRIPTION:. The course is designed for beginning journalists who are directly involved in the production and reporting _staff of the Observer. Lab sessions include practice in the basic news story, speech reporting, in­terviewiQg, interpretive and in-depth reporting, and copyediting. Prerequisite: clearance by Sr. Kolbenschlag or editor-in-chief of the Observer, Jerry Lutkus. (Sr. Kolbenschlag may be contacted at the American Studies Office, 349 O'Shaughnessy Hall, 7316). 
Fischer Arnst 450 Writ Publication 02TT4 seq. 102560 
DESCRIPTION: This course, as the title suggests, places emphasis upon writing for publications, especially magazines. The works are prepared in hopes of being published in various types of· campus publications as well as the magazine in general."There are no prerequisites for the.course, though some previous writing experience will be of a definite advantage to the student. The course is geared toward a career in professional writing and is open to American _St.udies Majors with a Communication Arts Intent. The course is open to 15 students. 
READINGS: None. · 
STUDENT WORK: The class will meet for about the first two weeks of the semester for general lectures on writing tips and basics of journalistic writing. Prof. Fischer will read a few works of his own as examples of the final goal of the· 'course. Following this introduction students are assigned their first topic for research. From this time on the class session wit! become individual meetingswill, Professor Fischer. During these sessions students will discuss their progress and their problems with the articles. Since there are no readings, it is strongly suggested that the student spend considerable time each week in the preparation of his article. During the semester. each student is expected to complete a minimum of two research magazine 'articles. These should be of a considerable length and stiould be completed before the end of the semester. The 
·articles will be considered for publication in local magazines and the students will have an opportunity to meet with the editors of these magazines and to "discuss the potential of their works as well as their careers in writing. 
COMMENT: It is always helpful to have an insightfui professor and Professor ·Fischer is exceptional in this department. But an insightful professor is of little 'value to a student who lacks motivation. It seems natural that a student in­terested in learning the essentials of magazine writing and publicatio~ will benefit a ?re<!t deal more than the student who enrolls to IT!erely fulfill a 
A. 
requirement. As usual the student gJ_t~.•o:ut of this course only w~¥t he invests in it of himself. Professor Fischer Js,j!fpeed a very •amiable man when the assignments are completed_ when t~~X-~re supposed to be but late assignments are not the best way to stay on his good side. He is always available and often · eager lo help students smooth out t~e·r,ough spots in their work. If the approach that the student has chosen is too complicated he will help him tone it down. So if you have always wanted to attempt a.rr,asterful command of magazine writing, partake of the experience provided_iri Writing for Publication. Who knows what fate may await those who endeavor _t~.b~come journalistic whizzes? 
Stritch Arnst 4?1 -Cult of South 1855 04TT6 seq. 103060 
DESCRIPTION: This course investigates, through readings, seminar-type discussions and short papers some of the aspects of southern culture, specifically omitting Faulkner and, as far as possible, the race question. The course is limited to 15 students. This will be counted as a Senior seminar or an AMST History requirement. 
READINGS: Topics include The Legend, The New South, Demagogery and R~form, God, Agrarians Old and New, Today, and Journalism, Orato.ry and Literature. Some of the authors studied are Donald Davidson, John Peale Bishop, Sidney La1iier, David Potter, C. Vann Woodward, W.J. Cash, Eudora Welty, V.0. Key, Flannery O'Connor, and Tennessee Williams. Total book ex­pense is roughly S10-12. 
STUDENT WORK: The amount of reading is commensurate to the level of the course, but not over-burdensome. Each student will be asked to write roughly six papers, all of'them relatively short. Seminar participation is also expected of each student. In addition, Professor Stritch will hold mid-term conferences with each student. 
COMMENT: This course is Professor Stritch's gem. Having been born and raised in Nashville, he enlightens the discussions through his broad experiential interest and knowledge of the South. This cou:-se provides the relaxed learning atmosphere which a Stritch course emanates. It is ideal for the student who wants a real learning experience, one which promises to explode any stereotypes of the South one might have. 
Kol bensch lag Arnst 475 Amer Best-Sell 01TT3 seq. 103260 
DESCR IPT ION: The complete title of this Seminar is American Best Sellers: · Studies in Popular Culture. The seminar will explore the relationship between popular fiction (and some 1,on-fiction) and the unique qualities of the American cultural consciolJsness. Genres explored will include the spiritual revelation, self-help manual, political pamphlet, biography, dime novel, pulp magazine story, utopian fantasy, Western, muckraking sketch, and others. Tliis course will count as either a senior seminar or as a literature requirement for majors, and will be open to about 20 students. 
READINGS: The texts for the course are as yet unchosen and will be an­nounced in the fall. 
STUDENT WORK: There will be a minimum of two P.2J2.~rJ!.slfJd__Qne project that will demand extensive research in the periodical of the 19th ' and 20th century. l 
COMMENT: Stu_d_egts agree that Sr. Madonna conducts a well research and interesting class.She takes a personal interest in her studentsi and is always willing to consult with or answer a student's questions outside of class. Papers and tests _though demanding are graded fairly. Students concur that their grades were truly_representative of the effort they had put into the course. The only criticism-consistently leveled was that Sr. Madonna, in an effort to cover a great deal of 111aterial, proceeded too quickly at times. 
;::. 'i. 

Weber·· Arnst 482 __ ;,_ . , Contem Amer 
't" 
02TT4 seq. 103460 
1,,... ' ...... \,./;# 

DESCRIPTIO~: This is a seminar exploring the change in American life in 
the 1960's and 70's with particular attention given to issues that are raised by the Viet Nam war, the decline of religious and institutional authority, racial tension, .shifting social relations, and styles of perfor.~nce in the arts. In these specified areas t\YO!qlJestions will be dealt with, whert!~riief"ica is now and where it should be. Thisiwili'be a key to the understanding Gf';fhe position of the above areas in the American society at the present. This will be a senior seminar in the 
American -Studies Department and will beopeii'to 15 students. 
· READINGS: Key readings for the course;: will include The· Best and the 
Rrightest,· D. Halberstam; Bare Ruinec1·choirs; G. Wills; America is Hard to ­
Find, D. Berrigan; as well as works by1SauFBellow, Theodore Rosza·k, James 
Dickey, Paul Goodman, Philip Slater, ·and"'Nora Sayre. . 
•._,:STUDENT WORK: Since the format oMliei::-ourse will be that of a seminar, tbe students will be .expected to participate"lnitfiff.discussion as well as be respon• Sible for •the rcad!ngs of. the books. Th'e·..readlng list is not too lengthy, but a Lomprehensive reading of each book wfll be essential in the consideration of the two seminar questions. The student will be expe.cted to submit small, Cl-2 pages) seminar papers on each of the works that is read in class. The student will also be held responsible for a larger semina·r paper. 1:"his major piece of writing in which the student will not only analyze the changes in a particular aspect of the Americ,m culture but will attempt to offer a blueprint for the change and the effects that it has on the culture. There will be no exams. 
COMMENT: Professor Weber is indeed a competent seminar leader. If his previous classes are any indication of his style, this seminar will be one of the finest offered in the department. The focus of the course is one that is not touched by any other department of the University, that of the contemporary American in contemporary America. This is indeed an area for discovery and each student will do a great deal of that. on his own. Professor-Weber's style is such that the inducement lo learninq is natural and not forced. 
Schlereth Arnst 485 Artifact in Amer Hist 10TT12 seq. 103660 
DESCR I ~TION: This new course in the department is designed as an in­terdisciplinary approach to the study of American culture primarily by means of non-literary dimensional sources such as architecture, the fine, decorative, and graphic arts, fplklore, oral history, balladry, technology, photography, and domestic artifacts. Using various anthropological, archaelogical, and historical techniques, the seminar will explore the relation between verbal records and artifacts as c1_wc1y of investigating c1nd understanding the American past. This is a senior seminar open to twenty American Studies majors. 
There will be two seminar meetings a week, except when a research ex­pedition is scheduled. The semester's study will be organized, collectively as a class and individually via independent research, to explore the problems and possibilities of the artifact as an historical resource. Extensive use will be made of slides, films, and visual resources. 
Several research expeditions will be made to various local and regional museums and research· centers such as Northern Indiana Historical Society, Chicago Historical Society, Fort St. Joseph, Art Instituteof Chicago, Henry Fe.rd Museum and Deerfield Village, DuSable Museum of African-American History, and Chicago Museum of Science.and Industry. Transportation costs will be minimal but students will be expected to bear this expense as part of the course. 
READINGS: A tentative list of required readings includes: Richard M. Dorson, American Folklore and the Historian; Allan Gowans, Images of American Living: Four Centuries of Architecture and Furniture as Cultural Expression; John A. Kouwenhoven, Made In America: The Arts in Modern Civilization; Alan Trachtenberg, The Brooklyn Bridge: Fact an·d Symbol; John Burchard and Albert Bush-Brown, The Architecture of America, a Social and Cultural History; Carl Bode, Anatomy of Popular Culture, 1840-1865; Leo Marx, The Machine in the Garden, Technology and the Pastoral Ideal in America; John Anthony Scott, The Ballad of America, the History of the United States in Song and Story; George Kubler, Hard Times, an Oral History of the Great Depression; John Sumner Chilton Powell, Puritan Village, the Formation of a New England Town; Constance Rourke, The Roots of American Culture; Siegfried Giedion, Mechanization Takes Command; Harry Russell Heubel, Things in the Driver's Seat, Readings in Popular Culture. 
STUDENT WORK: Several short research reports will be required on certain aspects of the course's inquiry as well as a major research essay that will identify, document, and explain an actual historical artifact and its cultural significance. Students will be expected to attend and aprticipate fully in all seminar sessions and research expeditions. During the course of the semester, probably in collaboration with a colleague, each student will prepare and be responsible for a class presentation. 
·Various scholars in the fields of archaeology, historic preservation, art and architectural history, folklore, and museum curatorship will be invited to bring their expertise to particular problems that the seminar will investigate. · 
COMMENT: All of Mr. Schlereth's students agree that he is enthusiastic in his teaching. He is young and genuinely interested in his students. Several students felt that his major problem in teaching was perhaps his inexperience,·and the resultant lack of a highly polished lecutre style. But <lue to his constant careful preparation all have seen improvement throughout his teacliing here at Notre Dame. The discussion following lectures is' interesting whe11 it does occur, but-~-.. often does not due to lack of student interest or questions or to lac;k·of time. Mr. Schlereth.is most receptive to questions in and out of class, ano ,is constantly questioning and reevaluating his own opinions. Papers and writteQ work are~ carefully read and returned promptly. 
trends in the United States. Such sources will include archival sources, un published manuscripts, public 'documents, newspapers, campus publications, general histories, and scholarly monographs. Extensive use will be made of the· -· 
Unive·rsity Archives in the investigation of these materials. During the semester various scholars also working on the University's history will be invited to bring their expertise to bear on particular topics that the seminar will investigate. The class will be limited to eight students. 
READINGS: A tentative list includes:· Edward Sorin, Chronicles of Notre Dame du Lac; John T. Wack, The University of Notre Dame du Lac: Foun­dation, 1842-1857; Gary MacEoin, Father Moreau, Founder of Holy Cross; John Tracy Ellis, American Catholicism; Mary C. Coquillard, Alexis Coquillard-His Time, A Story of the Founding of South Bend, Indiana; Theodore Maynard, Orestes f\rownson, Yankee, Radical, Catholic; George P. Schmidt, The Liberal Arts College: A Chapter in American Cultural History; Arthur Hope, Notre Dame, One Hundred Years; Ralph Weber, Notre Dame's John Zahm; Thomas McAvoy, Father O'Hara of Notre Dame; Richard Sullivan, Notre Dame; Joel R. Connelly and Howard R. Dooley, Hesburgh's Notre Dame; Frederick Rudolph, The American College and University, A History. · 
STUDENT WORK: Each studnet will be responsible for certain weekly assigned readings that all course members will read and prepare to discuss together. Students will also pursue various avenues of independent reading and study, write several short research reports, and maintain a research journal. 

art nd 

STUDENT ADVISORS: Margaret Kleinheny; Jennifer Luhrs, 1010 Notre Dame Ave. Apts; Mark Riley, 1303 Michigan Ave., LaPorte; Edward Scloego, 54018 Ivy Road, South Bend; Timothy Standring, 824 So. Bend Ave., ·233-5336; James Lewis Thomas; John Vitale, 1179 So. Bend Ave. 
Leader Art 151 Art Traditions 08 MWF seq. 111001 01 MWF seq. 111002 
DESCRIPTION: This is an introductory course for all students interested in Western Art. The areas covered the first semester range from prehistoric art at Allimira, through ancient Eg.ypt, Crete and the ~egean Islands, and then on Jo· the qlorious periods of Greece and Rome. The work of the_ first semester: ends with the Byzantine Period in Ravenna and Istanbul. 
The course has a slide lecture format and the representative pieces of work from each period are shown and analyzed. Prof. Leader tries to r.ommunicate to his students a feel for each period and a sense of historical continuity in which. these periods arise and evolve. · 
Rf;:ADINGS: There are two paperback texts: Readings in Art History, Vol. I (ed. Harold Spenser) ($4.95). Art, Style and History, Jon Longaker (S4.50). 
STUDENT. WO,RK: There are three exams including the final. These exams draw on the material covered in class (i.e. usually specific slide identification) and the lectures. Also covered on the exams are the reading assignments which are rarely discussed in class. There is an optional term paper of 2500 words in length which provides an excellent opportunity for independent research and for the more mercenary participants in the class, extra points for falling somewhat short on the exams. 
COMM_E;~T_: Art Traditions is an excellent course for those who have no ­background in that subject. It is also an excellent course for those would-be 1dilettantes in the colleges of Sciences and Business Administration, there are no prC'requisites. The tests are relatively difficult but with regular class attendance ,ind c11tendnace at the review sessions, held before each exam, they are very 
~ 
Staff Art 210 Intro Studio Art various times 
DESCRIPTION: This course is designed to acquaint the student with several forms of the creative process: Drawing, painting, design, sculpture. This course l'nlails a mixture of lecture, discussion and practiceof the aesthetic principles of Ml. Along with the work done in the studio the class usually makes trips as a 
• -, . • hody to both the Notre Dame Gallery and ISIS student gallery for discussion Schelereth Amst4aa· Hist of N.D.~.. ,_ -purposes. Most of the class time, however, is allotted to the gutsy problem ofOJMWs-: seq. 103860·,:. · ,,rtistic production. _.. ,, r • ·READINGS: 'There are no formal readings required.
', ! =)

DESCRIPTION: This will be a new.r.e~_ding course that will explore the•,.,.-,. STUD_ENT ~ORK: There are a series-~f short papers during the semester 
development of the University since 1842)!1· ti:,e context of several important:;:.-:..co~cernmg various exhibits and other aspects of art. Two brief informal exams dimensions of American cultural, intellect.uat··and religious history: the history-~~t~i-:which are more corre_ctly termed as quizzes. The material covered on the ;of the Catholic experience in America; the ,development of American higher ,: r: -Quizzes is usually reviewed immediately before they are give_n. The grade·is det­ieducation in the nineteenth and twentieth ~e11turies; and the national visibility ,,., .• : _<'rmined from the ~ork done in class ~nd ti)~ o_i:ogress of the individual student 
\and si!)nificance of modern American Cat_h.QI icism since Vatican Council 11. This! ~i i.1·: .not on the aeSthet1c correctness of his work. 
seminar'will investigate a variety of materials pertinent to the University's;•• -',~•-· 
s

1,istory and its involvement in regional af\dJnational cultural and intellectual ··,, ·_·• 
COMMENT: This course offers an excellent opportunity for relief from the "A 
B . C" pressures of academia, however, it should not be taken with t~at purpose ;j1 mind-for if requires enthusiasm and intent. The pace of the course 1s set by the .;tudent himself and while working with an artist, one gains an insight <through ,'xperience) into the sensitivity required in the process of artistic produc~i~n. The average cost of the necessary materials is about S10 to S12 for the entire 
~e111l"ster. 

Ancient and ClassicalHunt Art 353 
seq. 113800
11 MWF 
DESCRIPTION: This course traces the history of art from its known origins in 11,e prehistoric caves of the Franco-Cantabrian region, through the ciy-ifizations ol Mrsopotamia, Egypt, ancient Crete, and Mycenae and erids with the classical worlds of the Greeks, Etruscans and the Roman·s. 
The basic presentation of this course takes the form of slides, but the essence of the course resides in the amazing array of knowledge exhibited by Brother 
· Edmund Hunt. The classes are usually small and this makes for an extremely beneficial learning experience. There are no prerequisites for the course, unless they be an acute sense of humor in order to appreciate Brother Hunt and an interest in the ancient foundations of myth and religion. 
. READINGS: Tentatively the text will be the La Rousse Encyclopedia of 
Prehistoric and Ancient Art, Putnam, (S17.95). 
STUDENT WORK: The work load in this course in not one of the more ,;trenuous i"'I the university. If consists of a mid-term and a final in which characteristics of the particular culture are required: but not specific · identification of the work itself. In addition to this there is a paper requirement tor c1ll students with more expected from majors and graduate students. 
COMMENT: The opportunity of studying under Brother Hunt is one that most 
-an'v student should welcome. This man is not only a teacher but has personally ,,xperienced this era of art longer than most of us have been alive (sorry Brother>. Brother Hunt once told the Director of the British Museum that some of 11,e bull-head harps which they had on exhibition fr_om ancient Mesopotamia wI're not strung correctly, they did not restring the harps but Brother Hunt was 
· indeed correct in his criticism. 

Porter Art 355 Rom and Goth Art 09 TT 11 seq. 114000 
. . 
DESCR I PTlON: An in depth survey of art produced in Western .Europe from the coronation of Charlemagne in S00to the international style of 1400. The major monuments in architecture, painting, manuscript illumination, sculpture, metal c111d ivory carving will be included. Specific problems will be dealt with. For ,•xample, is there substance to the popular i9eas that a renaissance occurred in the.ninlh century under Charlemagne's rule or in the twelfth century during the 10 called Golden Age of Romanesque? 
·. • The social, politicaL r-eliaious,.and intelle£;t1,1al climate will b~ examined in reration to the arts produced during the period. The personalities of Charle-, magne, the Ottos, Bernard of Clairvaux, Henry of Blois, .Charles the_aid, Jean de· ·RC'rry, Villard de Ho1:mecourt, Bishop Bernward, etc. will be discussed in terms of t11eir influence on the great artistic heritage of the Middle Ages. An exhibiti­on of mediaeval art will be employed so that the students may_ work with the _object. Unpublished material, such as architectural renderings and the material 
,wailable in the Medieval Institute will be employed in the course.. . READINGS: George Zarncki, _Romanesque Art, S6.95. Florens Deuchler, Gothic Art, S6.95. 
STUDENT WORK: A midterm thought organizer and final exam. One paper to be given orally in a 20 minute presentation. 
-COMMENT: Let's face it, an art history course consisting of slide lectures dealing with places you've never been (Chartres, Reims, St. Dents--catch the latest _Pan Arn ad?) or art objects you've never thought were objets d'art, rather things kept in your mother's credenza (metal work, ivory carvings, m.tnuscripts)--can surprizingly turn out to be nothing but a literary travelogue. If !hat's what you expect from this course either reread the course description or cancel your plans to register for it. But if you want the real thing, don't ju:5t drink Coke, sign up for Professor Porter's class. This is a field that Mr. Porter excells jn and as a consequence feels most comfortable in. His lectures are not mere 
·readings of notes, but verbal, articulate expressions stemming from a thorough knowledge of the material covered. The classes are casual and informal, yet not wit11out a keen seriousness towards objects, ideas, and feelings of Romanesque :,nd Gothic Art. · · 
Art 385 Photography 11

Stevens 
seq. 11626001TT3 

· . DESCRIPTION: The purpose of this class is twofold: first, teaching basic · 
. darkroom skills (developing film, making prints) in order to make a technicall_y goog black and white photograph; second, deve\oping the sJudent's visual and cinotional sensitivities, stressing the artistic and creative aspects of 

photography. 
READINGS: There are no ;~quired readings:Cost of film, paper, and other 
,upplies (aside from te camera} average.$35-$40 per semester. One may easily 
-;pend more lhan ihaf. · '; 
STUDENT WORK: There are no written tests, quizzes, or papers. There are 
tour critiques of student work during ·the semester, and four. prints ·are to be 
shown ,,t each. Mr. Stevens strongly encourages student part,icipation in the ­
critiques. The final grade is based on a portfolio of 20 prints. Student parti: 
cipillion is essential in class. There are frequent slide presentations and both le­
cture-discussion outside of darkroom time. 
COMMENT: Mr. Stevens is·well ·versed in many aspects of photography and 
complements the interest in the photography of his students. Students choose 
their own subjects, and experimentation within the medium is encouraged. Mr. 
Stevens' often challenging opinions offer the students the opportunity to expand 
lheir knowledge of photography as an art. 
Rushton Art 457 Ital Renaissance 09·MWF seq. 115400 
DESCRIPTION: ·This course will cover the painting, sculpture, and ar­
chitecrure of this passionate period of Italian history from the 1300's to the end of 
the High Renaissance. The basic problems of the artists: revival of interest in 
the natural world, and the revival of interest in antiquity. 
The course is a slide-lecture format with a-third of the course set aside .for the 
various problems of how art is related to the thought and the powerful European 
t;imilies of this time. 
READINGS: F. Hartt, A History of the Italian Renaissance, about $13.00. This hasic lext will be supplemented by books and articles placed on reserve in the librnry. 
STUDENT WORK: There are two one-hour exams, which are basically used 
I,'v Mr. Rushton to prepare the student for the exam. In addition to this there is a 
10-17 page research paper. 
COMMEN.T:-Mr. Rushton is an extremely academic teacher. He is not con­cerned with the history of art as an isolated subject but in its relation to culture, philosop:w, literature and music among other things. If one is looking for a study, not singly antiseptic, but of a total experience of one of the most important epochs of man, the course is highly recommended. 
The 19th Century
Art 461

Fern 
seq. 115600


04TT6 ­
DESCRIPTION: This course basically deals with the developrpent of modern 
,,rr in Europe: Neoclassicism, Romanticism, Realism, Impressionism, and 
Post Impressionism. This century is the first definite break from the framework 
of traditional authority which confined and sustained.the artist since the time of 
the Rmaissance, this is the century which enabled the artist to act win,· tt;,i>­
latitude both frightening and exhilarating and which we know as moderft' arr: 
This course is open to all students, no prerequisites. 
READ! NGS: The readings have not yet been d~cided _upon. 
STUDENT. WORK: -The student work is based around the traditional ND 
midterm and final structke with slide identification constituting a large part. 
There is a term paper require.ment for all majors and grad students leaving the 
major portion of the class free for any of various outdoor games lightly and 
capriciously attended on fall Satl.lrday afternoons. 
COMMENT: Mr. Fern is a competent artist in his own fj,ght and recently his 
won work r,as dealt with the extremely important probl_gn;i•of traditional artistic 
presentation and the transcendence thereof. As chairman nf the art department 
h~ surprisingly finds the time ot talk over the prcorems ~f students at _their own 
ro11venience. The student Who elects to take this course ,has the unique opportu­
nit'v to study under a man who i!i both artist and art hi~torlan and competent in 
holh fields. . 

Rushton Art 467 Master Draughtsmen 01 TT 3 seq. 115800 
· DESCRIPTION: Drawing forms is possibly one.of the foremost tools of the 
vbcabulary of the artist. A drawing is usually th·e first thing Which the artist uses· 
ro~rccord his sensual impressions, in thTs respect it is the first register of his 
iml)1C'diate thoughts,'.it recor_ds the creative process . 
• .• ! •· . . ­
This course will consider the·major European araughtsmen from the fifteenth 
tq Jhe twentieth centuries in order-.,tQ~uncover the differing appr'oaches to 
clr~Wing ;is an expressive art for.m. Aw,ong other things to be covered during the 
-;~i1_ieslcr are: different types of dra\ying, sketches, studies, etc., and the dif­
1er'e11t media and techniques emplOY!?.d~by the artists. 
''T1~e course is basically a lecture~slide presentation but with argumentation ­
qrowJLl~ in each class._This is enco.~r{l9~ by Mr. Rushton who feels that if a 
poin Iis-wort'tidiscussing it is worth ,di~~~s.sing on the spot. Some major questions
•'fif\~'9 in the co:urse are the signif,if~ce in the development of the history of clf~win_9 and drawings as works of ~ft).Q.their own right. 
_READINGS: D. Mendelowitz,,Dra'!<(~{lg, is the text. The majority of readings ,o;,ccrriing_ individual draughtsmen, will be taken from books and articles oil r~~~-~rve in_ p,e library. -:, --iol b9 i­
~rruDE"'/ T WO~ K: One_~es~arch1g~r ~f 10-12 pages, one one-hour exam and a· final exam (both of which are essay). c • . 

COMMENT: Mr. Rushton is an excellent man to hold a discussion with. His knowledge of the subject and the historical and cultural aspects relating to it make for interesting and exciting discussions.-Mr: Rushton encourages students 
from ,111 colleges and majors which makes his discussions extremely 
1'nlerlc1ining and broad in differing points of view. 
Kinsey Art 491 Etching-Woodcut 09 TT 12 seq. 116450 
DESCRIPTION: This is a course that is·very open to new areas of self­l'Xp~ession. _Two p~o~esses are utilized in the ~ormat of the course. 09r is in­taglio, Iha! 1s a printing process of etching done on a metal plate, the other is woodcut relief. That is etching that is done fr_om a woodcut board. Both pro­cesses are taught but an emphasis is placed upon intaglio. There are various presentations and ~emonstrations of other techniques that are important in the .,,udy of the subject. The class begins by learning the intaglio process and then continues on to the woodcut process. There is an emphasis upon artistic ability as well as artistic content--composition, shading, lighting and texture. As ­previously said, there are demonstrations ad little need for lecture. Mr. Kinsey is alwc1ys l1elping the student in the progression of his study and work from one pr~_cess lo lhenext. Since the process of intaglio involves several adjustments..,._ betweenproofs it is often necessary to plan your next stage of etching before the 
present one. is completed. 
READINGS: There are no readings. There are, however, several books in­

troduced at the beginning of the semester as recommended readings. These may 
be obtained from the Library or the Architecture Library. 
STUDENT-WORK: A studet must produce at least tw~ editions, each con­

-=;isling of five prints per credit hour Various intaglio techniques should be in­
cluded ·in the student's portfolio of prints. Attendance is required. Since the 
student is' expected to work at least three hours a week per credit hour, he must 
,,ften worR outside the class hours. At the mid-term, aportfolio of two editions· 
must be qresented by the student. The portfolio must include a matted print of 
Pach edition, Materials for the course, tools and plates, are available from Mr. 
-Kinsey. The studio furnishes the printing process material and supplies. 
COMMENT: This course is a valuable course for all students interested in ·1C'c1rning the essentials of the processes ofletching. The work load may appear to he great but under the circumstances it is a sure way of developing a discipline in the subject. Mr. Kinsey is always helpful and often times demanding. · 
Vogl Art 493 Lith and Silk 01 MW 4 seq. 116650 -
DESCRIPTION: No prerequisites-open to all arymajors and with depart­

mental approval other creative minded students. This course is an exploration 
of printmaking techniques and artistic potential of planographic and stencil 
processes. The student also learns to build his own screens and to prepare them 
for printmaking. 
READINGS: The text. is Silkscreen As A Fine Art, (Clifford T. Chieffe) ­

( 12.50). However, the student should check other books and periodicals to keep 
up with what is being done in this media. 
STUDENT WORK: 15-20 prints per edition per credit hour. Ho"'ever, em­

phasis is placed on good single prints rather than good editions. 
COMMENT: The creative possibilities of this course are unlimited. Students 

1111 their own and with the help oftheir instructor are able to explore the many 
areas of this media. A ·good companion course for photographers. ·The in­
'-fructor is readily ·available for cocnmgo.t_and discussion. Class time is six 
hours per week, out additional time should be spent on the course. All costs are• 
.borne by Ille student: screen, paper, inks, and miscellaneous supplies. If there 
is,, question concerning finance the student should check on approximate costs 
before enro_ll'ing in the course. Note: Time and money are important factors in 
laking this course. 
Beckman Art Visual Communication 
08TT11 seq. 113261 
09 MWf. seq. 113262 
11 MWF seq. 113263 

DESCRIPTION: The aim of the··course is to investigate and become c1cquainted wiht the phenomenon called fh'e 'corporate identity and the devices used lo produce that identity. Th·e student· will gain both research and studio C'Xperience in the techniques used by·ttiose people engaged in the practice of corporate image making. . •:::,! -· · 
READINGS: The Corporate Search for<Vlsual Identity by Ben Rosen. 

STUDENT WORK: The class will be bfoken up into small groups of four to six students each. As projects are assignecJ'each grMp is responsible for its own presentation. Professor Bechman will desig'nate one company to be the subject of a full corporate study. Each group:•WilFh'ave one portion of the study to research and present. :-,,. ~r ·
11 

COMMENT: This course is not intended for art majors. The course·is a blend of 111,,ny arts and letters and business Wi'ajors, Professor Beckman is always ,ivailable for consultation. : i"G?.,:;,• ' 



art smc 

Paradis 
Art 111 Ceramics I 08 TT 11 seq. 801060 

DESC_RI PTI01'i: Ceramics is a studio course intended to introduce the student to clay and its possibilities as an art form. The class meets for two hours on Tuesday and Thursday, with additional time (out ofclass) expected at one's own schedule. Lectures and demonstrations are given throughout the semester, acquainting the student with slab and coil construction and wheel-throwing techniques. Glazing variations using engobes, mishima, wax resist, and oxides are also introduced. 
The beginning semester is geared toward a basic knowledge of the ceramic process, from mixing clay boxies through firing. All students enrolling in this course are asked to remain for the entire year in order to insure enough time for the skill and ,interest to develop. 
READINGS: The texts used are: Ceramics by Glenn C. Nelson and A Potter's Handbook by Bernard Leach, both approximately S10.00. 
STUDENT WORK: Students are given a sheet of course requirements at the beginning of the semester listing projects required for a grade of "C". The emphasis lies on both quality and quantity. 
COMMENT: Mr. Paradis is seen as a demanding teacher, but most seem to find the class enjoyable. In addition to class days, Paradis is often available on MWF, when he is working on his own pieces. (Paradis is also offering two workshops this summer--one on throwing techniques and one on glaze _ex­perimentation.) 
Levin Art 203 Design I 09 TT 12 seq. 800460 
DESCRIPTION: A study of the successful use of line, shape, volume, texture and color. The object of the course is to learn to work effectively with various tools such as the ruling pen, T-square, compass and exacto-knife. The semester will be incorporated into the use of basic elements of design, and a combination of techniques in varied media. The course involves 2 studio periods a week (each' 3 hours long). 
READINGS: None. STUDENT WORK: Numerous projects with emphasis on creative produc­tivity. . 
COMMENT: Most students find Sarita a very demanding teacher yet ex­tremely flexible. She is sensitive to the students' needs and desires which makes working with her a very enjoyable and rewarding experience. The course itself is a tremendous introduction to design. 
Raymo Art 221 Photography I 08 TT 11 seq. 803660 
DESCRIPTION: Beginning Photography involves the use of the camera, film developi~g, and printing. Basic exploration of the photoQ@Q!:!Ic medium through a creative problem solving approach. Projects are Introduced through the use of slides, books, photographs and class discussion. Techniques are presented through group demonstrations and student instruction on an individual basis. 
READINGS: None. 
STUDENT WORK: Projects due periodically throughout the semester. The final presentation includes the mounted, final prints of the best work submitted for each project. 
COMMENT: The assignments are designed to give the student direction, not restrict him. The student is encouraged to work in any creative manner he pleases. The course is demanding and good work and improvement is expected of the student. As a teacher, Mr. Raymo is considered by his stu.dents as one of the best they have ever had. · 
Kelly Art 301 Response Drawing 12 MW seq. 805060, 
DESCRIPTION: A perceptual apprf'ach to the act of drawing, stressing the development of the visual, realtional .and emotional response to the subject­Mixed media. There is a prerequisite of one semester of drawing. 
READINGS: There will be a text, the title of which is uncertain at this point. STUDENT W.ORK: Exhibition of work is an integral part of this course:-·A portfolio is required at the end of the semester. C(?MMENT: This course is directed at students already familiar with the 
• basic drawing techniques. Sister Kelly, herself a talented artist, handles her class with great interest and the concern that the students need. 
Levin Ar+ 303 Design 11 12 TT 3 seq. 802860 
·DESCRIPTION: Design I is a prereqtJisite for this course. It is a study of t_he 
concepts of design in relation to two-dimensional and three-dimensional com­
munications. The course will entail the development of total design problems 
including the areas of layout, typography, illust~ation and printing processes. 
READINGS: None. 
STUDENT WORK: The exact work required of the students is not certain· at 
this time, however it will include actual work with various businesses and in­
dustries in this area. 
COMMENT: This is one of the first courses at St. Mary's which is designed to 

offer actual working experience in commercial art. It Should prove to be ex­
tremely helpful to anyone who is interested in commercial art as a career. 
Raymo Art 325 Photo Silk Screen 01 TT 4 seq. 806060 
DESCRIPTION: This course is open to anyone having one semester of 

beginning photography. It will deal with the use of photographic images, ideas, 
and techniques in the graphic proc~ssof seriography. The class presentation will 
be based on group discussions and critique. 
. READINGS None. 
STUDENT WORK: 5 separate editions of final prints. 
Baroque Art

O'Brien Art 348 
09 MWF seq. 807260 

This course is crosslisted as HUST 328. It is evaluated in the Humanistic Studies department. 
Levin Art 403 Design in Nature 03 TT 6 seq. 805260 
DESCRIPTION: An exploration and correlation of the basic structural units of 

design and nature with emphasis on creative interpretation of both areas. A 
variety of media will be used to fit the individual students' needs. The class 
presentation will include lectures, discussions, slides and field trips.. · 
READINGS: None. 
STUDENT WORK: Student work will include various projects thro~ghout the 

semester with a presentation of a portfolio at the end of the semester. 
COMMENT: This is a new cour~e but the fact that it will be taught by Sarita is 

promise of it being a very demanding yet rewarding experience. 
Paradis Art 411 Jewelry and Meta_ls time and.course sequence number,unavailable 
DESCRIPTION: This course is open to both art and non-art majors and is counted as a fine arts credit. The aim of this course is to use metal as a creative art media and stress is placed on the use of new and original designs combined with knowledgeable use of construction techniques. For beginning students, a two week,eriod is spent learning the handling of tools and equipment, con­struction techniques and design. After this work in silver is done, anything from jewelry to bowls can be mi'lde. 
READINGS: A general text on jewelry is required ($10). 

STUDENT WORK: It will depend on the individual student as to the amount of work produced and types of projects chosen. No examination as such is given, however, at the end of 'the course a presentation 9f work done during the semester will be required. 
(NOTE:·The title of this course is actually Ceramics and Form in which three­dimensional design in the student's desired media can be studies as a structural form.) · 
Art 443 Hist of Photography

Ray"!'o 
seq. 807850
07 M 10 
DESCRIPTION: An indepth visual exploration of the development and 

creative application of the photographic medium. From Camera Obscura to the 
Holograph, all important trends are covered. The method of class presentation 
will include slides and lecture format:Additional films and guests will add scope 
to the discussions. 
READINGS: History of Photography by B.eaumont Ne-..yhall. 
STUDENT WORK: Mid-term and final exams. 
COMMENT: This is a new course designed for those students who always had 

an interest in photography, but were too shy to show _their skills behind a 
:::amera. Mr. Raymo is a knowledgeable professor in. this field and greatly 
·espected by his students. This course should prove tp be very informative and_ 
:iefinitely worthwhile. 
,;_; J '. 


STUDENT ADVISORs:·v;~~~ Campbel], 3 Fisher, 1875; Carl Elliso (i749: Terrence Harris, 354 Alumni, 1218; Susan Jackson; R. Irvin 402 Fisher. 3057; Rob~it.~f~urg, 1146S0. Bend Ave.,-233-4300. 
The following co_urses are available for credit under the Black,Stu'dies Program. They are.cross listed and the reviews for most of these courses can be found iri ·their respective department~. 
Carby-Samuels BLST220--Econ 220 Econ Anal I 0lTT3 seq~ 121560 
Herring BLST 325--Eng 325 Srv Afr Am Lit 01TT3 seq. 122560 
Che-Mponda BLST 419--Govt 419 Sem on·Atro­·Amer 10TT12 seq. 123060 
Che-Mponda BLST 431--Govt 431 Linkage Pol Africa 10 MF seq. 123560 
Lamanna B LST 435--Soc 435 Intergroup Rel 02MW4.. seq. 124060 
Walshe BLST 451-Govt 451 Tropical Africa 0lTTJ__ seq. 125060 
Carby-Samuels BLST 463--Econ 463 Ee Dec Mkg Blk Exp 09TT11 seq. 125~60 
Che~Mponda BLST 480-_-Govt 480 Black Pol Thought 11 MWF :;·-seq. 126060 

BLST 437-Soc 437 Man in Amer 10TT12 seq. 124560 

collegiate seminar 


-Sem.441::.. Images of Women 01TT3 seq. 164060 
DES~R IPTION: . This team-taught course, for. Theology or Collegiate 
•jeminar credit, will examine the various images_of women, in sl_ect literary and theological works. Emphasis will be o·,.-,an"in-depth analysis of the readings; seeking to discover whether the image presented reflects women's r:eal sitution anc{h'er--own reaction to it, or inititates and justifies conventionally defined vafues ·in any given cultural milieu. -. 
There will be two lectures per week, alternating the theological and literary approaches, as well as ample opport(,lriit9-'tor small group discussion. Active class participation is encouraged. Much'of the sliape of tne course will be determined by the class itself. ,.,,. "'" 1 
Registration is by permission of the·professors. (No invidious distinctions will be made between serious male ant:rfeniale students!) · 
READINGS: Certain sociologica11Wf.itlngs will be suggested:as a pretac·e. The theological discussi~n s arranged in four parts: Old :Testament, New Testament, Church History and c'onteifiporary theology. Readings will ra·nge . 
from' a ttreatme11t of the figures of l!illtyn:sther, Rugh and Judith (OT} to the concept of women ,in Paul· and Post-Pauline writings and in 'Apocryphal literature (NT}. "Church History"1W.Winclude selection from the Fathers, Thomas Aquinas, Luther and Schliermacher, "While contemporary theological discussion will include select. papal encyc!icats~ Tillich, Jung and the ~oinan theologies. 
Literary selections·w111 begin with Grimm's Fairy Tales and Anne Sexton's COMMENT: The purpose of the course is to provide the students with 1he Transformations and include the following: selections from Chaucer (Wife of l<.nowll'dge they will need to solve the many personal and family consumption Bath, Clerk':. Tale), selections from Paradi11 Lost, a Shakespeare play, Tess of prohle111'-which they will face in the future. This course is open to ~II students. the D'Urbervllles by Thomas Hardy, Mator Bfrbara, Saint Joan by George Th1' rlilss ecu, tend to drag at times but the advantages of the course far outweigh Bernard Shaw, a Virginia Woolf novel, W~m•rr~{ff'L:_ove by O.H. Laurence, and 1hr clisadvil11lilges. This course is recom~e11ded for all as a free elective. 
Arl~I and later poems, Sylvia Plath. · , .4+."'·•" • STUDENT WORK: Three projects (open to definition); final exam. Swartz Econ 341 Fiscal Policy 
. : ..

economics' 

STlJDgNT ~DVISORS: John Abowd, 4r Lyons, 7812; Peter Homer, 10~ Morrissey. 3447; Sue Anderson; D~le Belock, 246 Lyons, 7924; l\hke Cnsale. 423 Grace, 1814; Buzz Craven 622 California 234­H5:J5: John Horeled, 534 _Jackson: La_rrr, ~Velcbek, 364 Dillon.'1849. 
Bonello Econ 223 Prin of Econ 02 MW seq. 210962 
DESCRIPTION: A basic introductory course in Economics. The major em­
philSis is Milcroeconomics; that is, what forces in the economy determine such 
hroild mt'ilSures of eco1,omic activity as national unemployment, inflation, and 
,·co,1omic rrrowth. Once c1 lheoretical framew,:,rk is established, the question of 
,·co,1omic policy is raised: How can the government through monetary and fiscal 
polic\ ,1s well as less conventional actions affect economic activity. Other.topics 
rrc,1lt'ct •included basic economic problems, poverty in the United States, and 
povf'rl\ i-t developing coun!ries. The course is required for all first semester BA 
111,1iors ,,,1d ,,11 economics majors; however, many students opt to take the 
rourse ,,s ,111 rlcclive. 
STUDENT WORK: The course is divided into two parts, the lectures and the 
r u1oric1ls. Prof. Bo,,ello lectures lo the entire cl-ass of approximately 300 students 
twice ,1 w,•ek while the third hours is spent in tutorial groups of about 20 students. 
T111•rc-,,r<' IWll hour long exams worth 30 percent each'and a cumulative final 
111,1ki,1CJ up the_ re:>t. The exams are generally multiple choice covering the 
rC'ildii,Qs ,,net ,1oles, with an occasional problem thrown in. 
RE'ADINGS: The required text is Samuelson's Economics (Sll.50), and in 
,1ctctilio11_ ro thc1t. there might be some other required supplemental readings 
\\hich i1r<' discussed in !he tutorials. 
COMMENT: Due lo the size of lhe lecture class, the flow of material is 
:tC'11erallv ll•te way, with an occasional question by the students. On the other 
hilnd, !herutorial sections serve lo clear up any questions the students may have 
,11)0111. the. 111t11C'rial presented in the lectures, with the flow of conversation 
11e,wrc1llv hei,,g two-way. 
Prn1: B,•11ello's style of lecture helps lo make the material more interesting, 
,1o1d his ,1bilily lo use good examples makes the material easier to understand. 
Tl1r,1'xilm'-.tre il fair lest of the student's understanding of the material, and 
\' ilh .~rrlul reading of the text and faithful attendance at class, the course will 
prnv<' •n ·11e quile rewarding, both in terms of the knowledge gained and the 
Davisson · Econ 302 Macroeconomics 09 MWF seq. 211961 
DESCR.IPTION: This course is the study of Macroeconomic influences in our ,ocict.v..•,Spccilicc11ly ii involves the measurement, analysis, and control of ,1nnren,itC' rconomic c1ctivity---i.e., business cycles; changes in the level of' ,·mploymc111:.: ,. , 
This course ,,nalyzes the Keynesian and Classical systems as the approach to 111c problem l,I Macroeconomic.activity. _ READINGS: Macroeconomics, Durenburg and McDougal; Money and Markets: .A Mone_ta~ist View, B.W. _S1;>r.jnkel. . . STUDENT WORK: One paper,one fi_hi!l<-1110rethan one empirical study, using ,111wdel of lhc American Economy (including da.tal from 1948-1970. 
COMMENT: Prof. Davisson normall,Y employs a lecture format but en­rour~qes discussion and class participation-. He relates the material in' a very· clear: ,1nd interesting -manner and remains after class to answer, outside quesli~n.s or hcfp solv·e problems. The assignments require the assimilation and i11lcrpretillio1, of economic data---both ,from the lectures and individual_ resci'lrc11.' The ·wor~ load is not overbearing ,but conducive to those really in-• '<'restect-in learning Macroeconomic theor.y and its applications. · 
Durbin· Econ of Consump,: .. 
seq_. 21216Q • 
-; '116 ,.~ • I 

DESCRIPTION: Economic principle~na,Qd practices in the U.S. directly,_ related t_ci lhe consumer and from the:c.ruisumer's viewpoint. An analysis of.. rons'un_,rrs'·problerns and solutions in the areas of credit, contracts, home and-_,_. ,1.u10 <..linancing,-leases, mortgages, ;,~p__rq1flties, insurance, annuities, , ~n;, ctow,nents, inve~tme1,t options, and in~~str:nent management. Particular• at-~.,-,
1 

•l'nlio·n is il1so given to fraudulent an~ .~e~~pt,ive practices in advertising, con;, tracts, pie.· .. ' . · . :1i b'JI': ,. -· >. 1 
· RE~DI_N.GS: The text currently used-i.?-"\~~.~.t;,mics for Consumers, by Gordon,_. 1 ,,;,ct_ Lr.e . .._ Bibliographies and mimeo note~.,q!?~!ing with_ the various aspects. of.:.~: ro;1su1\11•rs' problems are also proyide¢!.t2o=i · . ,,·;_._,_-­. . STUDENT WORK: -There are 2in class:~:@m~~one paper, and a final based onJ:1: 'he Jc~l_u_r~s_and.lhe readings; ,;:,nm1,;i,:· ·:,; 
': '• 

.. l 
J • f' 

•·:. I • •• 
09TT11 seq. 212560 

DESCRIPTION: Analyzes the past, current, and future expenditures, and tax 
policies. The format emphasizes a seminar type presentation more than lecture. 
Discussion is openly encouraged and is interrupted only by an occassional short 
l1•cture. 
READI NGS: A moderate and consistent load of reserve readings. 
STUDENT WORK: No tests are planned as of now. One term paper is· 
required. Slandard grade is a B. -· 
COMMENT: This course is geared to the economics student who isJnteres1ed 
in ,,pplying his theoretical knowledge. Professor Swartz removes all the 
drudgery and makes it a very worthwhile course. 
Brown Econ 301 Inter Micro 11 MWF seq. 211862' 
CONTENT: Since Dr. Brown will be returning next semester from a two year .cave of ilbsence in Africa not much is known about the exact content of his rourse. Microeconomics generally deals with supply and demand analysis as it is c1pplied to the theory of consumer utility, the firm and the general structure of ,111 industry. 'iopics like indifference curve analysis (derivation ·ot the demand curve), monopoly, oligopoly, monopolistic competition and perfect competition are qenerally covered. Econ. 301 is required of majors. Some students take Econ. 301-302 instead of Principles of Economics (Econ. 223-224) because they arc interested in<! more theoretical approach to the subj,ect. 
Worland Econ 225 Intro to Econ 02 MWF seq. 211260 
DESCRIPTION : A precise analysis ofMicroeconomics, Macroeconomics, and lnlernalionat economics in one semester. The course is taught in a lecture tonn,11 but students are encouraged to interject pertinent questions. 
READI NGS: One textbook is required, Contemporary Economics by Spenser, 
Sl0.00. , . . 
STUDENT WORK: There will be take hQme problems every week to sup­
plenwnl the lecture material. Grade will be based on two one hour tests and a 
finill. 

COMMENT: This course is limited to soph_omores from any major. It would ~e . 
il qood course tor those interested in a basic knowledge of '7COnomics but do not· 
w,,nl lo take the principles course. 
Masters 
Econ 353 Labor Econ' 11 MWF seq. 212660 

D~SCR I PTION: Topics to be covered include an economic analysis of em­
ployme,,1, unemployment, wages and wage control programs, unions, industrial 
relations systems in other countries and labor market aspects of education, 
poverty ;ind discrimination. 
READINGS: Prof. Masters is not yet definite on the books to be used in the 
course. He is opting for two or three "mini-texts," that is, then paperbacks in 
lieu of a large textbook. There will also be various supplemental readings to­
allow Ihe student a broader perspectiveof the Iabor economics situation. 
STUDENT WORK: The students will be required to write a term paper and 
lake a final. Prof.,Masters noted that if there was pressure from the students for 
,, mid-term, that too could be arranged. 
COMMENTS: This is the first semester Prof. Masters has taught the course, 
liut he is changing lhe style of presentation considerably. Rather than having a 
lecture format, Prof. Masters is going to make the course a seminar. His 
knowledge in the field is excellent and his determination to make the course both 
interesting and rewarding for the students should make the semester with Prof. 
Milstcrs a must for economics majors. · 
Durbin Econ 367 Econ of Pollution 09 MWF seq. 212760 
DESCRIPTION: A systems analysis approach to the economic causes, extent, 
;ind the leclmic:al feasibility of controlling pollution, the economic and social 
costs of pollution, And appropriate public policies. 
:The purpose of the course is to analyze the economic and technological factors 
which explain why man is now laced with the problem of saving his own in­
dustrial and social environment, and what remedies he might have to apply if he 
is lo successfully solve his pollution problems. 
READING: There is no text for the course.. Besides the lectures, students will 

be provided with an extensive bibliography, mimeograph treatises on many ?f 
th~ major topics covered, and a list of reference sources reserved for the class ,n 
!he· library. 
STUDENT WORK: Normally there are two quizzes and a final exam based on 

the lectures and handouts. 
COMMENT: Father Durbin's lecture style is dry but overall the course has a 

Ior to offer someone looking for an elementary background in the area of 
pollution control. Non-economics majors should have no problem grasping the 
material. Grading policy is extremely fair. 
Worland Econ 405 Hist Econ 10 MWF seq. 213360 
DESCRIPTION: Covers the area of economic thought starting with tne 

mercantilists and ending with Karl Marx. The material is presented in a com­
bined lecture and seminar form. He gives the initial ·insights on the various 
economists and lets the students develop these ideas. 
READINGS: One·paperba·ck text is required, Readings in the History of 

Economic Theory by Rima, S6.25. Several reserve readings are also required. 
STUDENT WORK: There will be two tests and a final. The student may 

substitute a paper for one of the tests. Standard grade is a B. 
COMMENT: Nearly every undergraduate major is represented in this course. 

There are no prerequisites although it would be useful to have taken the two 
semester principles course. Professor Worland takes a deep interest in his 
students. It would be a mistake not to take at least one course from him before 
you· graduate. 
Pollution

Davisson Econ 417 
09TT11 seq. 213560 
DESCRIPTION: Prerequisite: Economics 224 or 331. An economic in-' 

vestigation of the causes and nature of society's pollution of its natural 
resources. A microeconomic approach will be the basis of analysis of society· 
achieving jointlv its de.mand foe .national .output and its ~nviro11mentpl. ob­
jectives. The course·wilJ examine in depth the trade off between pollution and 
technological advancement. Case studies will be analyzed that present the costs 
(private and social) and benefits ofpollution control projects; _ 
READINGS: Marshall I. Goldman (ed.), Ecology and Economics: Con­

trolling Pollution in the 1970's. Other works and selected articles. 
STU DEN'T WORK: There will be two tests (one take-home, one final) and one 

research paper studying some aspect of pollution. 
COMMENT: Econ of Pollution with Prof. Davisson takes an up to date look at_ 

the pollution problem around us. The class involves actual case studies of 
pollution problems--in various parts of the United States. The course deals 
mostly with water and air pollution and searches for incentives to solve these 
problems. There are guest lectures from South Bend and the surrounding area. 
The class takes a field trip also. This class is excellent for anyone interested in 
pollution and is probably the best pollu.tion course offered at N.D. 
Econ 451 Reg & Priv IndFitzgerald 

10 MWF-seq. 213900 
DESCRIPTION: The course seeks to put stress on the major types of public 

policy toward business activity such as controlling monopoly through anti-trust 
enforcement and by regulatiq_n of utilities, communications and transportation. 
Attention is also given to maintaining and controlling competition to protect 

consumers; investors and future generations. Appraisal is made of the com­
parative merits and demerits of these policies in view of past experience and of 
their impact on the general welfare. 
RE-ADINGS: Text: Public Policies Toward Business-Wilcox. Major readings:-The Closed Enterprise System-Green;Monopoly-Goulden;Report on the.Federal Trade Commission-Cox;The Interstate Commerce Commission­Fellmeth;The Food and Drug Administration-Turner ;The Impact of Multi­National Corporations-Stephenson; America, lnc.-Mintz and Cohen, andln the Name of Profit-Heilbroner. 
STUDENT WORK:' Father Fttzgerald requires a 10-15 page paper along with· 

3 in class exams and a final. The tests are a general review of the lectures and 
the required readings since the last exam. Attendance is taken. ­
COMMENT: Although quite a lot of work ls required of the student, it's not that difficult and is worth the effort. Fath" Fitzgerald adds a lot to this course and makes it very interesting with his knowledge of the sublect. The course ts recommended for majors and non-majors interested In the subject. This writer -believes the course and the teaeher to .be among the best in the. Economics 
department and highly recommends it. 
McDonagh Econ 459 Trade Unions in U.S. 09 MWF seq. _214160 
OESCR I PTION: A,, interpreti!tion of the American trade _union movem~t Jased-~n historical and institutional factors of develo_pment. The course will 
. . . 

irace the growth of the unions from the 1870's to modern times. Th: fo~us ~ill be ori an interpretation of the economist Seileg Pearlman and the basic operation of lhe A.F. of L. , 
READINGS: Because this is a new course there is no definite text as yet; however, Prof. McDonagh is leaning towards a text incorporating a series of essays by cc~nomists, historians and political s~ientists. · . · 
STUDENT WORK: Prof. McDonagh is not certain whether or not there will be a term paper but there will be three exams during the semester. 
COMMENT: This is the ,irsLsemester the course has been offered. The presentatio11 will be of a lecture-discussion form with the !ir~t t~o cla~ses covering the historical aspect of· the course up to Pearlman s interpretation. Howev~r, the lhird period will be student conducted focusing on current trade 
Carby-Samuels Econ 463. Econ Anal and Black Exp 01TT3 seq. 214360 
DESCRIPTION: This semester's subject is explicitly as well as implicitly an exercise in applied economic analysis. Students who take this course must have had al least Economics 220 and 221 or their equivalent. 
The course uses the part;c·uIar social problem of the B!ack experience as a vehicle for encouraging willing and capable minds to apply their energies to social phenomena. In the process the semester's subject encourag~s the stud~nt 10 resolve for himself, the extent to which existence of particular socs-al phenomena as well as that which is_reported about them, are due to !'roblems in the victims of economic discomfiture, or can be tr:aced to problems m the use of economics as an analytical framework th.at is applied to the experienced social 
problems. . 
READINGS: These are extensive and from a wide sleection. They include: The Economics of the Ghetto, C.S. Bell; The Star Spangled Hustle, Blaustein and Faux; P(!litics Economics and Welfare, Dahl and Lindblom; Economics, Lipsey 
and Steiner. STUDENT WORK: A term paper on a subject of the student's own choosing, 
bul with context that reflects the learning experience over the semester, is required. Examinations are open book, the students are given questions in which Ihey must use analytical and supportive reasoning and identify the truth, 
falseness, or "uncertainty of the presented proposition. · 
COMMENTS: According to the Economics department, this is the first semester this course is being offered. Prof. Carby-Samuels own comments on the course are: "The semester subject is analytical. It in no way reinforces any particular ideological position. Howev_er, it also makes no attempts to skirt unpalatable analytical truths. What the stuaent therefore gets out of the cour~e, is intended 10 be an accuracte· reflection of what he puts into it." Judge ac 
r.nrcilnnl v 
·Jameson Econ 469 Econ Behav & Const 03 MWF seq. 214560 
DESCRIPTION: The course will examine the va'rieties of constrai_nts to which economic units are subjected. Along with resultant, behavior. Historically the common constraints were "natural" as survival _was the crucial economic problem. This same constraint is in operation-today in many developing coun­tries, as well as in our own as the ecqlogicc!l crisis deepens. 
Now, however, lhe constraints on behavior are no longer ·natural but are developed in lhe process of socialization. Time will be spent in investigating how constraints on our behavior are developed. Analytiq1I techniques will include behavioral theory, computer simulation, and statistical testing. Prerequisites are Econ 223, 224 or the consent of the instructor. 
READINGS: Mostly articles on reserve. Dacy, The Economics of Natural Disasters, on r.eserve; Morgan, J., Human Behavior in Economic Affairs, on reserve; Meadows, d., Limits to Growth; Polanyi, K., Primitive, Archaic and Modern Economics. 
STUDENT WORK: One student paper-presentation, two essay-type athletics, computer simulations. COMMENT: The course will be of a lecture-discussion format. This should 
serve lo amplify Mr. Jameson's fine teaching style. Mr. 'Jameson is knowledgeable in the area of-developing.countries which may well prove to be insightful. 
Rakowski Econ 471 ;;v:,,"" .-International Econ 10TT12 seq~ 214660 
. :-.~~ '> ­DESCRIPTION: The course is struct.u.r:ed in a lecture format. The lectures which are carefully prepared deal with the.general theory of international trade. REAOI NGS: Tiiere is one hard. cov,er.: textbook and occasional reserve r..eil(linas .., -,.,,-.,· STUDENT.WORK:. Three tests and a final, all a rigorous challenge. Standard grade for the course is a C. . , COMMENT·: This is a theory course on a11 integral area of economics. As a subject matt~r it is·difficult_ and as a course it has as jts only salvation, Professor Rakowski. Though lie canriot make the course any more exciting than the sub­ject matter he is able to handle it with the precision and coolness of a computer• 
~ ~~ --~ -;·-,u-,jJ_,:-, . 

Econ 473 Comp Econ SystemsSkurski 

seq. 214760
10TT12 

DESCRIPTION: The basic.objective of the·course is to provide the student with Ille opportunity to increase •his or her understanding of alternative cco11omic systems: their goals, their structure, their performance and their problems. In the first section of the course different theories of economic organization are anlayzed and compared, and contemporary contro'l(ersies are examined. In the second part of the course, the structure, the decision-making process ,md Ille currmt difficulties of several representative economies occupy Ille center of c11tention. The economic systems of such countries as the USSR, Yugoslavia, France, Japan and the U.S. are compared not only with each other but also with the ideal of the system they seem to espouse. The last section of this course will be devoted to a brief examination of some of the current problems in the field such as the evaluation of economic syslems, the possible convergence of systems and problems of development. Economics 223 and 224 or Econ 225 is prerequisite for this course. 
READINGS: RC'adings will be taken from materials in ·the library reserve room and rwo textbooks: Bornstein, m. (ed.), Comparative Economic System, revised edition; Shonfield, A., Modern Capit,1lism. 
STUDENT WORK: A combined lect.ui:e-disi:ussion format will be employed with lhe readings supplementing the lectures, and providing a basis for the discussio11s. There are two in-class examinations during the semester which are C'lcclive ,md o final which is required. Grades ore determined on' the basis of the C'xaminations taken and participation in class. 
COMMENT: The_ course is mostly discussion and unfortunately they often becomC' langential to lhe topic. The readings are excellent, if difficult. This course docs not offer a penetrating comparative analysis of economic systems but it docs provide a working knowledge of the problems facing economic systems throughout the world. 
Skurski Econ 477 Soviet Econ System 02TT4 seq. 214960 
DESCRIPTION: The purpose of this course is to expand the student's knowledge and understanding of an important alternative to the capitalist economic system, that of the USSR. The course begins with some political and historical background in ordei; to put the study of the economic system in per­spective. Soviet economic history and economic growth are taken up next followed by an examination of Soviet economic planning. Although many Soviet plans still drawn up in physical terms, prices, wages, finance and credit have increasingly significant roles to play in the functioning of the economy and they olso are discussed. The next secti.:in .of the course looks at some of the key sectors of lhe econonw i1icluding that of labor and the proverbial problem sector of agriculture. Alter that such current topics as the consumer, the reforms and foreign trc1de will be analyzed. Finally, the Sc,viet experience will be evaluated c1nd discussed from the point of view of its relevance for developing countries of today. Prerequisites are Econ. 223 a·nd 224or Econ. 225. 
. READINGS: Nove, A., The Soviet Economy, Second Revised Edition; Born­stein, M. and Fusfeld, D., The Soviet Econi,my: A Book of Readings,. third cdilion. Other materials will be available in th•? library reserve room. 
STUDENT WORK: A combined lecture-discussion format will be employed with the readings supplementing the lectures and providing a basis for the discussions. There are two in-class examinations during the semester which are elective and a final which is required. Grades are determined on the basis of the ~xaminations laken and participation in class. 
COMMENT: This is an excellent course for all economics majors. The detail ond deplh with which Professor Skurski treats the subject provides for slimulaling discussion. Professor Skurski is one of the most amiable people in the department and he has an excellent knowledgeof Soviet economics. · 
Eco Dev Pol ·Modern

Walshe · Econ 480 
seq. 215060

09TT11 

DESCRIPTION: Professor Walshe is currently on sabbatical and this is unable to submit a course description. A year ago the course emphasized the political implications of the economic situation in Third World countries. Professor Wolshe also examined suggested ways for developed countries to aid 
lhe poorer nations. READINGS: The Economics of Underdeveloped Countries by Bhagwati; The Economtcs of the Developing Countries by Myint; Modernizing Peasant Societies by Hunter; Economic Growth and Development by Baldwin; and Partners in Development by Pearson. Als'c>'several reserve readings. STUDENT WORK: A mid-term and a final and one major paper. COMMENT: Mr. Walshe is a South'African and he has a vast knowledge of the . developing countries. The lectures are clear and lend themselves to note takin_g.. .' 
\ 1:: n?· !" 
• 
Urban Econ .:

·Leahy 
seq. 215260. 

.. f ~-::i DESCRIPT.ION:. Topics covered in.this course are: an analysis of urban location'and land use, central place theory and system, urban economic growth, 
economics base theory, and urban manpower development, and model cities 
programs. 
READINGS: ·Urban Economics: Theory, Development and Planning by Leahy; Spatial Economic Theory by Leahy, McKee and Dean, and other selected readings. • 
STUDENT WORK: A final exam and a term paper on a subject chosen by the student. COMMENT: As can be seen from the reading list Professor Leahy is very. much in tune with current developments in the field of urban economics. He is 
readily available for consultation and he invites discussion of topics he covers in class. For both the city dweller and the country bumpkin, Econ 487 gjves a g·ood birdseye view of current a,,d past trends in our modern cities. 


education smc 

Leggett Educ 200 Intro Practice Sped Ed 
01 MW 3 seq. 840860 

DESCRIPTION: This course is an introduction to the exceptional individual. The blind, deaf, mentally retarded and culturally different are among those discussed. The· course is designed to give the students a better understanding of the problems these individuals have in learning and some ideas why. In this way ,/le student should be better equipped to help them. The course is required of Special Education students but others may take it. 
READINGS: Exceptional Individual by Telford-Sawrey, Sl0.75. 
STUDENT WORK: The course is divided into seven tasks which consisted mainly of c1 lecture, reading material, a stimulation exercise (i.e. going blind) and a diary describing that experience. It is also required to do some ob­servations in various assigned schools. There are no tests. 
COMMENT: This course is based on the honor system. Although few lectures are given, the knowledge gained by the students is far more beneficial than that learned in other courses in this department. 
Campana le Educ 305 Child Psychology 08 MWF seq. 842860 09 MWF seq. 842660 
DESCRIPTION: This course is still very much in the planning stages_ The professor plans to combine class discussion with classroom observations which will correspond to material being presented. It is desired to have one-third class and lwo-thirds observation, although this is still tentative and· may depend partially on class size. This course will deal with the pragmatrc, substantiated by basic psychology. It will afford the Education major another classroom experience before the student teaching experience. 
COMMENT: This is a new course which is structured differently from previous courses on the same subject. Dr. Campanale is completely open to discussio11 and concerned with the learning of each individ1Jal stud0nt 
Mefford Educ 350 Behavior Char Men Ret 01 TT 3 seq. 8434~0 · .. 
D ESCR I PTION: Behavior Characteristics in the Mentally Retarded is offered for those in Special Education. Definitions, classifications, and diagnosis and treatment procedures from medical, psychological, sociological and educational points of view are covered in this course. It is taught in lecture form. 
READINGS: The text will be either An Introduction to'Mental Retardation by Smith or The Mentally Retarded Child: A Psychological Approach by Robinson and Robinson. There will also be outside readings to supplement the text. 
STU DENT WORK: Questions will be handed out at the beginning of the semester. When the professor feels a test is n·ecessary, he requires the students. to write an essay on one or two of these questions. There may also be a related project. 
COMMENT: Mr. Mefford's lecture,, are instructive, but tiresome. 
Doherty Educ 353 Children's Literature 04 TT 6 seq. 843660 
DESCRIPTION: This course, open to juniors and seniors, is designed to provide elementary school teachers with the criteria needed to evaluate imaginative literature for children. Methods of presentation are lecture and discussion. Readings include poetry and the various narrative forms with the greatest emphasis on myth, folk·and fairy tales, and the short novel. Fiction is both classic and contemporary. · 
READINGS: Book lists vary but usually include folk and fiary tales from the collections of Perrault, Jacobs, the Grimm brothers, and Lang. · STUDENT WORK: 20 reviews (200-300 words) of contemporary children's ,,_ books and one paper (1500-2000 words), or 5 papers (1500-2000 words); one hour exam and a final. COMMENT: Although the lectures tended to bea bit boring, a large amount of , material is covered in this course. The amount of work required is well above average. M0re 111ovies would benefit the students considerably. · 
Bochtler Educ 406 Corrective Reading 10 MWF seq. 845060 
. DESCRIPTION: This course will follow a basic class discussion format with some lecture. Outside class experiences coupled with the lectures·,-mms, etc. 
will form the basis of the discussions. READINGS: Readings will include a text and supplementary articles. STUDENT WORK: The students will be·required to administer two ,reading 
diagnostic tests and write diagnostic reports using Durrell Analysis of Readi~g Difficulty. There will also be work with a child who has some problems in reading. This can be done through the ND-SMC tutorial program or classroom participation. There will be three tests given C<?vering the lectures an~ readings. 

. These are given when the basic subject matter changes, not at midterm and final· dates. 
COMMENT: The tests for this course are fair. Dr. Bochtler keeps the class _{el axed and moving at each student's own speed. He is always open to questions and general group discussion. 





english nd 
STUDENT ADVISORS: Neil Rcsini, 1112 Grace, 1802; Dan O'Donnell, 315 Notre Dame Ave., 232-9828; Timothy Corrigan, 801 Park S_treet, 234-2334· Patrick Crowe, 13171/2 Lincolnway, 232-7442; John D1Cola, BOSE. C~rby, 234-4914; David Kaminski, 101 Keenan, 7474. 
Sullivan Engl. 301-401 Fiction Writing
--' 
01Tu4 seq. 240662i 01Th4 seq. 240663 
DESCRIPTION: There are no specific prerequisites for fiction writing except a sincere desire to write and to criticize fiction. Most members of the 401 sec­tion, however, have had some previous writing experience, often in 301 or 302. The atmosphere is that of a writers' workshop, a sensitive seminar where a serious concern for prose fiction contributes toward its improvement. The usual 

· anonymity· of authorship for stories submitted is actual! optional at the writer's discretion. READINGS: The stories submitted by class members. STUDENT WORK: Three short stories or their substantial equivalent.. Meeting the deadlines occurring at three-week intervals is obviously immensely . important. The first two stories submitted are typed on ditto masters. Begin­ning in September 1973, students might be required to procure their own ditto masters, the cost for which has been assumed by the department up to the present time. COMMENT: No room here ·tor the umotivated. A course with few e>rganizational demands, it yet requires much thoughtful attention both in the classroom and behind the typewriter. Professor Sullivan, a vetern writer of more than half a lifetime who has published stories and novels, also has a uniquely capable<ability to lead discussion through difficult areas. What makes the course successful ultimately is an enthusiastic class of writer-discussants. 
_Doubleday  Engl 308  Intro Linguistics  
09 MWF  seq. 240960  
DESCRIPTION:  This  course  is primarily a comparison of two different  

grammars of English, structural grammar and transformational-generative· grammar. As part of the study of structural grammar we will learn to use a phonemic alphabet for modern American English.•The final question of the course will b~ the relation between English linguistics and English literature and composition. 
STUDENT WORK: The course will be organized around two one hour exams and a final examination. A term paper will also be required, and Prof. Doubleday also mentioned the possibility of quizzes, 
Doubleday Engl 317A Orient Lit I 01 MWF seq. 241560 

DESCRIPTION: A study of some few masterworks of two major literatures; those of the Islamic world, and the literatures of India, in translation. The ,-course will examine both the work itself and its social, political and religious 
Engl 331 Age of Hero

Doub!eday 
09TT11 seq. 242660 

DESCRIPTION: A study of the natureof the hero and of the heroic situation in· early medieval epic, heroic poem, myth legend, and saga. . 
STUDENT WORK: The workload for this course will entail either: two ex­tensive evaluations of heroic values and a creative piece of literature, art work, or musiccompositior thatrelates to some aspect of heroic folklore; or three short papers dealing with some problem in one of the tales. · 
READINGS:_ Old Irish: The Tain, Middle Welsh Welsh: The Mabinogion, Culhwch and Oliver; Old English: Beowulf, Finnsburg, The Battle of Malden; Old French: the Song of Roland; Middle High German: the Niebelungenlied; Old Norse: Njal's Saga, Hranfkel's Saga, Thattr Authunar Vestfirzka . 
COMMENT: Prof. Doubleday is a very koowledgeable teacher who wishes to elicit some type of creative response from his students. At times his lectures, however, can be somewhat dull but the student should realize that in order to obtain any significant value from Doubleday's courses, the student must realize the potential that is within him as well as in Prof. Doubleday. Once he tran­scends these two dichotomies the student wilI have gained a valuable insight into the design and maekup of English literature but also a more valuable insight into himself as a person. 
Huber  Engl. 309  Nonfiction Prose Writing  
lOMWF  seq. 241061  
02TT4  seq. 241062  

DESCRIPTION: The course will not teach you to write, but it will give you an opportunity to learn. Members of the class will write about six essays on any any subject, according to deadlif'.'='-ruthlessly enforced. You may wish to write autobiograph~, history, criticism.technical reports, argument; attempts at the novel or short story are discouraged, because there are other courses for that. In addition to the six essays, students will be expected to read actively and in­tensely each other's work. Student essays are duplicated for class discussion, usually in small groups, sometimes for the class as a whole. The class therefore provides an audience, a judge and a guide to revision and the control of style. Little class time will be given to grammar, but when students come to the course with feelings of inadequacy (as one-third of the class usually does), individual help will be offered. 
READINGS: Ken Macrorie, Telling Writing; cost of duplicating essays, about S2.00 or S3.00 for the semester. 
Huber  Engl. 315  Western World• Literature  
09TT11  seq. 241361  
09MWF  seq. 241362  

DESCRIPTION: Out. of the endless possibilities suggested by the title, Mr. Huber has chosen works that provide some kind of·continuity, butat the same lime deserve study as independent works of art. The readings all deal in some Wily wilh two central themes: the problems of freedom and fate, and the lot of women in Man's world and Man's literature. Despite these common themes, the readings shall be discussed primarily to understand literary form, not to ad­vance philosophical or sociological theory. Presentation is mostly discussion with occasional background lectures. 
REA:DINGS: _(All readings in English translation>. The Epic of Gilgamesh, The l\ook of Job (any translation), Homer, Iliad, Euripides, Ten Pl~ys; Ovid, Love Poems, Beowulf, Song of Roland; Chretien de Troyes, Arthurian Romances (Dutton}; gottfried von Strassburg, Tristan and Isolde (Penguin); The_White Pony, Chinese poems; The Tale of Genji, Part I (Doubleday);.Cer­
vantes, Don Quixote. · ~T.Y _DENT WORK: Frequent open-book quizzes, class reports where possible, mid-term, essay in criticism and final exam. COMMENT: ~r. Huber is an honest, fair and reasonably. flexible teacher, willi)19 to devote his tim~ to the individual student~ Yet, his courses are by no means easy or "iock," and the student must show himself sincere in his work to e~~•.1 Mr. Huber's respect. To a greater degree than in the Lit course, the quality of l\i_s Writing course will be determined greatly by the character of the class; N:.r-Huber could very well carry the Literature class by himself, working from his vast knowledge and interest in the material. The classes are not limited, and Mr:J-iuber is lwping for an interesting mixture of intents. .. J)l.~..Literature ~ourse considers the, classical, medieval, and Renaissance ppri~C!s of Europe; a continuation in th~-second semester will reach the modern ,1gc. Works from Chinese and Japanese_will be offered for comparison. 
context. · · -'Gutierrez En.gt 322 Th
STUDENTWORK: Theworkloadforthiscourseisthesameasmost English -e Novel -courses,amid-termandfinalaswellasoneresearchpaper. ...,:,,._,:~:.. · · '09 ~W.F,_:.;-, seq 241861 
READINGS: A complete booklist was unavailable at this time. Islamic Lit. ,~nii. !~.--03 MWfi"· -· The Koran, Firdausi, _Shaknama; Khayyan, Rubaiyat; A~~•n Nigh_!!:. ;,_,: !~•:':.. __ ,,-,:1·~_.~.: seq. 241862 lndiai:i Lit. Ahagavad-Gita,; Kalidasa, Shakuntala; Ghandi, Autobiography.•_ ·:;);2:.oESCRIPTION:··Thiswill not be·a novel survey course in the usual sense, but 
,-,:, -ii~rvcy in the novel of the polarizedisocial co concepts of communalism and rollectivirntion (or to put it in Martin ~0t?er's language, Humans as a !hou tci one 0 1,other, c1s c1gc1inst man regarding man as an It). The (good) novel posits, even if only implicitly, an idea of retatingness in terms of the novelists's sovereig11ty over the lives and situatioris in hi~ novel. The novel es the Beloved Community, then, either as a vision in the'narrative or as an accomplishment of the c1rt, will be one pole the cpurse will strive towards. The other pole, is for this course, lhe do:k one, the world of GeseHschaft, of human beings either being subordinated lo, or even destroyed by·r their society, or defining their humanity c1nd integrity in opposition to, or in isolation from their society. In this con• ception of the "Beloved" and the "Community" have separated and even 
become wc1rri11q forces. ·-.. ,. 
READINGS: Of the book titles listed below, probably one will be changed or dropped. It is essential that the e~itions cited below be used for the course so as to correlate our readings. Cervantes, Don·Quixote (Mentor abridged edition); Dickens, .Great Expectations (Washington Square Press); Twain, Huck Finn (Signet); Hardy, Jude the Obscure (Signet); "B. Traven", The Death Ship (Collier),· Hemingway, The Sun Also Rises (Scribner); Conrad, Under Western Eyes (Anchor l; Ksrka, The Castle (Modern Library-hardback); Lawrence, Lady Chatterly's Love ((Bantam); Barth, The End of the Road (Bantam); or 
Amis Take a Girl Like You (Berkely Medallion). · 
STUDENT WORK: The course mechanics will most likely consist of a mid­term, c1 final exam, either a paper of moderate length or several mini-papers two to three pages lonq, and a quiz or two. There will be opportunity for discussions. 
Gutierrez Engl. 591 Mod. English Lit. 09TTll seq. 248260 
DESCRIPTION: This course will consist of a selection of representative British dramc1, poetry, and fiction from the 1890's through World War I. We begin with drak comedy in an early Shaw play (so "dark" that it was banned for years l c1nd end with dark comedy in the symbolic murk in Conrad's ·novella The Shadow Line. Symbolic places, "dark" relationships, rotting institutions are scrutinized, cauterized (where thought necessary), or (where possible) celectrated. Dubliners offers the possibilities of a Joycean symposium, a sharing by <1II in the Dubliners stories and spirit. The Howe text, a fine collection of essays, will define the modernist temper so characteristic of some· of the writers in this course, and help to relate these authors to their comrades in Europe and America. 
READINGS: The list of titles is subject to minor change. Shaw, Mrs. Warren's Profession; Joyce, Dubliners; Shaw, Hearbreak House; Lawrence, Sons and Lovers; Conrad, Under Western Eyes, The Shadow Line, the Secret Sharer; Forster, Howard's End; Synge, The Playboy of the Western World; Howe, ·Literary Modernism; Saunders, Poetry Anthology. 
STUDENT WORK: The course will proceed by lecture and discussion. There will be a midterm, final exam, and one or two moderate length papers. 
COMMENT: Mr. Gutierrez's teaching reflects his wide knowledge of English literature and literary criticism. He creates a diversity in his lectures by references to contemporary and historical thought particularly in psychological theory. The works studied are thus seen in the light of the world experienced by the author as well as the world the-student experiences Joday. Mr. Gutierrez tries to elic;it as much student response as possible. The class is very much dependant on student input in discussions. One will find Mr. Gutierrez very willing to answer questions and very respectful of student opinions. His grading is quite fair. Much depends upon student interest as reflected in class discussion. Optional papers allow the shy talker to boost his (her) grade. · 
Krier Engl. 322 The Novel l0MWF seq. 241863. 
DESCRIPTION: A study of the novel ·as a relatively well-sustained art form. Hence, there will be a minimum emphasis on historical considerations, a maximum on theoretical questions. Those questions will be raised by means of a close study of the following books. 
READINGS: This list is highly tentative: Don Quixote, The Scarlet Letter, Trout Fishing in America, · Pigeon Feathers, Slaughterhouse-Five, David Copperfield and Lost in the Funhouse. · 
The last part of the semester will then be given to a study,·first of the development of a novelist, probably F. Scott Fitzgerald (This Side of Paradise, The Great Gatsby, Tender is the·lllight, selected sho·rt stories) and then, of the novelistic treatment of a human problem, probably, the problem of love. A tenative list for this problem would include in addition to the pr:evious novels, Women in Love, The Moviegoer,· Wuth'ering Heights, Bimini. 
STUDENT WORK: There will be two exams, one extensive research paper and perhaps quizzes (depending on class size.) Students wjll be el(pected to have read the Viking Portable abridgerr,ent of Cervantes' Don Quixote before the first class Cthere will be copies in the tfookstore within the next few weeks). ·· · 
Jemielity Enql. 328 Satire ,.·r ,-01 TT3 seq~i~~~360
._, 'r: 
DESCR IPTION: A survey of the Sdrlric tradition from Horace and Juvenal to if3eckett and Vonnegut. The focus wilrbe on the intention of the satirist and the techniques of the art form; for example, what is the difference between satire ~nd invectire or lampoon? and wnat, are the different types of irony? ·Basically '"Satire" is a lecture course, ~'=!ft-Mr. Jemiellty invariably provokes, and welcomes, questions a·t any timea ;•,,, •.. • 

Authors to be covered inc.lud_e: Horace, Juvenal, Dryden, Pope, Swift, Jonnson, 
Voltaire, Waugh, Brecht, Beckett and Vonnegut. 
STUDENT WQR K: In all likelihood there will be three papers (5-7 pages} and 

at least two tests, probably in class, consisting of not more than two essay 
•_auestions each. 
Jemielity Engl. 549 18th c. English Prose 03MWF seq.-247360 
. DESCRIPTION: An examination of major Eighteenth Century prose writers concerned with the art of statecraft or with rendering the facts of history and piography into art. The course will probably combine student class presen­tations with Mr. Jemielity's lectures. Though English 549 is a "graduate" 
. course, Mr. Jemielity enthusiasitcially welcomes undergraduates. Tnere are no prerequisites. 
READINGS: Again, a list of specific texts will be available in Mr. Jemielity's office. Students can look forward to Hume, Gibbon, Johnson, Boswell, Burke, and, perhaps, Addison, Steele and Reynolds. 
STUDENT WORK: This will be determined by the size of the class and the quality of the presentations and discussions. Mr. Jemielity's current upper­division course requires two major essays Cl0-12 pages) and two class presen­:ations that are later submitted in written form C6-7 P.ages). There are no tests in 
f 

this semester's course. COMMENT: Hearing Jemielity lecture on Satire is like hearing Moshe Dayan lecture on the Six Days War--the presentations are definitely opinionated, but 
'importantly, they are almost always compelling. His reputation c!S a first rate lecturer is well-deserved. Though a minority of students have complained about the in class tests, most found them fair and some, even imaginative. His selection of topics for essay is likewise applauded. His main strengths as a teacher are the intellectual's precision and the sceptic's,· wit. His main weakness may be a sometimes too steady devotion to the 18th Century. 
Both courses come with the highest possible· recommendation. The upper division course should be a joy. The genuine "enthusiasm" which Jemielity brings to the study of Johnson· and Gibbon is particularly infectious. As a sidelight:. one cannot pass through any of Mr. Jemielity's courses without act­ding lo 'his-he~ knowledge of the Bible and Mozart. Both are referred to religious! \l: 
Krier Engl. 420A Literary Criticism 01TT3 seq. 244560 
DE~CR I PTION =. This course will focus its critical concerns on the novel as described ~Y no_v_elists themselves. Their Prefaces and Postscripts to their own novels, lheir c~1tIques of the works of fellow novelists, as well as their journals a~,d let_ters w,11 serve as the basic sources of our inquiry. Lecture and 
d1scuss1on. READINGS: The following is a tentative list of books: Don Quixote, Moll Flanders, Tom Jones, Emma, Wuthering Heights, David Copperfield, The S~arlet Let~er, the Ambassadors, Lord Jim, The Great Gatsby, Slaughterhouse-F,ve, Lost ,n the Funhouse, Labyrinths. · STUDENT WORK: There will be two short papers and one extensive research paper. S!ude:11s will b~ expected to have read the Viking Portable abridgement of Cervantes Don Quixote before the first class (there will be copies in the bookstorP within the next few week). 
' ­

Krier-McDonald Engl 525A Hawthorne-James 02 MWF seq. 246960 
DESCRIPTION: Henry James was so intrigued by Nathaniel Hawthorne that h~ wrote a short biography of the earlier American in 1879. Although that biography suggests a considerable interest, it does not betray the extent to which Jc1mcs used the fictional concerns of Hawthorne to construct his own more commodious house of fiction. This course will examine large parts of both authors' writing in an attempt to discover numerous ways in which they are. related and how they reflect one current in the developing mainstream of American consciousness. The emphasis, though not exclusive, for this study will -~eon their r1°vetoome11t nf ii lhPnrv nf fiction. Such an emohasis is ,..,ade easier 
~Y !he centripetal nature of their fiction, a questioning or Th~ very nature of frctron occurring simultaneous with their writing of it. In fact, if time permits our study of the emphasis will be extended into the 20th Century through 
readings of Nabokov's Ada and Barth's Sot-Weed Factory. 
Further, since the course is team-taught, it will allow a richness of inquiry based on the contrasting but complementary modes of sholarship represented. Mr• McDonald will assume primary responsibility for Hawthorne and Mr. Krier will have simil~r. responsibility for James. Both instructors, however, will be fully engaged wrth both authors, and class discussion will include everyone. 
READINGS: The following is a tentative list of readings: Hawth6rne's Selected Tales and Sketches, The Scarlet Letter, the Blithsdale Romance, the Marble Faun and James's Selected Tales, the Portrait of a Lady, The Spoils of Poynton, The Awkward Age, The Ambassadors, The Golden Bowl, The Art of the Novel. 
STUDENT WORK: There will be two short papers required along with one extensive research paper. 
COMMENT: How Mr. Krier conducts his courses depends primarily on the students in the class and how they respond on a day to day basis to the books. In other words, if many of the students are willing to discuss topics and questions about the novels which he raises in class, Mr. Krier is happy to let the discussion proceed. His classes are informal and he makes his presence as a teacher known not simply by correcting his students' mistakes but by offering, not authoritatively, his own insights into the works. His understanding of the novels is comprehensive, intelligent and well-expressed by him. When Mr. Krier must lecture, his words evidence his own thorough preparation.. 
Werge Engl 322 The Novel 10TT12 seq. 241864 
DESCRIPTION: This course will entail a study of significant European, English, and American novels in the light of the history of ideas and certain persistent philosophical and religious concerns. Presentation is an ineffable blend of lecture and socratic dialogue. 
READINGS: Defoe; Robinson Crusoe (Signet); Bronte, Wuthering Heights (Riverside); Dickens, Great Expectations (Harper); Hardy, Jude the Obscure (Harper); Dostoyevsky. The Brothers Karamazov; Camus, The Stranger (Vintage); Greene, The Heart of the Matter (Viking); Faulkner, Light in August (Modern-Library};Harris, Mark, either Th'e Southpaw or Bang the Orum Slowly; Agee, A Death in the Family (Bantam). 
STUDENT WORK: Midterm, Final, 2 three-page papers. COMMENT: Professor Werge combint!::. crt!ar intelligence, a rare spon­taneous wit. and an infectious enthusiasm for the course material and his students to provide a most worthwhile and excellent course. His lectures are always interesting and often enamoring. He is always open to.student's 
questions and varying points of view. · In fact. if students ask no questions and express· i1o'opinions, Professor Werge will ask his own or probe students for their opinions:. A well-defended philosophical, literary or religious opinion is never 
ignored or villified because it is inconsistent with Professor Werge's own position. Professor Werge is also quite sensitive and understanding of individual students' problems, -academic or otherwise. He is very generous with his own time and· is most willing to spend it with those who wish to see him. Professor Werge almost unavoidably gives one a strong incentive to perform well because of his many rare personal qualities and the fine example he conveys both as a man and a teacher. 
Herring Engl. 325 Afro-Amer Lit I 01TT3 seq. 242060 
DESCRIPTION: This course devotes itself to the broad study of Afro­American literature from the Eighteenth Century to the 1940's. Examining the works of several authors, this course will attempt to introduce the student to a more acute comprehension of the literature, the authors, and their cir­cumsta_nces. Ther'e will hp .:i certain emohS-sis wan.the a~st~tic-QllilJities found 
in the readings. The course is open toall sophomores, juniors, and seniors, and there are no strict prerequisites; however, Mrs. Herring recommends that. · students have read either Franklin's From Slavery to Freedom or Bennett's 
--Before the 'Mayflower. Classes follow a lecture-discussion format, with some variation, e.g. student presentations. The course can be credited to Black Studies a·s well as English. 
READINGS: Blassingame', The Slave Community; Three Negro Classics; Early Black American Prose; Brown, Clotel; Dunbar, The Sport of the Gods; Toomer, Cane; Attaway, Blood on the Forge; Schuyler, Black No More; Griggs, lmperium en Imperio. Approximate price of the books--fifteen dollars. 
STUDENT WORK: Students are expected to do all of th~ reading and to write two short papers in addition to a midterm and a final. Class participation is very important in making this course a success. Mrs. Herring will employ some variation of. the contract grading system, thus granting flexibility and freedom to learn as ?tudents_select their own assignments within a carefully controlled framework. 
COMMENT: Mrs. Herring exhibits a great deal of enthusiasm for this course and puts fo,:th much time and effort in the hope of bringing the class to a correct perspectiye of the material. The old stereotypes dissolye and.a new reality can be discovered by students who transcend the faulty black-white dichotomy in viewing literature. .You'll find that "protest" is only a small part of Ille readings, and that a vibrant tradition and art exists in an area sorely neglected in American education. Not a heavy workload, the course will challenge old cqncept!or,'-' and present a new basis for appreciation of Black Literature an­
• d,implicitly, the Black experience. 
Herring Engl. 588 Afro American Writers 07M9 seQ. 248060 
DESCRIPTION: This is a similar, but more intensive study of Afro-American literature than English 325. Some background in the writings of Black authors is generally assumed and Mrs. Herring recommends that students have previously read Meier, From Plantation to Ghetto, and if not that, at least two books from the Ei1glish 325 list. Like her other course, there is a lecture-discussion type 
'format ·and students are heartily encouraged to interact in the classroom. ,Emphasis is placed on the Black aesthetic and it is this tradition tt)at will be .keenly explored in the writings. And like the English 325 course, t!'i~ course 
uncovers and exalts literature that has unfor_tunately been shro~ded over in American education. 
. ' 

READING!>: Mrs. Herring has not yet decided which books will be assigned 
for the course, l1owever, she has selected the writers from whom the works shall 
be chosen. These writers are: Jean Toomer, Langston Hughes, LeRoi Jones, 
Richard Wright, Ralph Ellison and James Bladwin. 
. SUTDNET WORK: The format for ~x~rris, papers and-or other assignment!; 
has not yet been decided upon by Mr~:--Hirring, 
I 'J"" -

Slabey Engl. 392 ,-American Fiction (1900-39) 
OlMWF seq. 243661 
02MWF-seq. 243662 

DESCRIPTION: English 392 (in two s'ections) will survey the forms in fictions 
of American reality from 1900to the present. The first semester will explore the renovations in the house of fiction necessitated by new possibilities in per­-.:eption, philosophy, and politics. In a decade-by-decade progress from 1900 to 1939, fiction will be located in culture and conversely. Constant concerns will be images of self and society, and formal responses to changes in reallity. The 
!ormat of the course will consist of both lectures and discussions. 
READINGS: A tentative reading list includes: Dreiser, Sister Carrie; 
Wharton, The House of Mirth; Stein, Three Lives; Cather, My Antonia; An­
derson, Winesburg, Ohio; Lewis, Babbitt; Hemingway, In Our Time; Fit­
fgerald, The Great Gatsby; Wolfe, Look Homeward, Angel; Faulkner, The 
Sound' and the Fury; West, Miss Lonely hearts; Dos Passos, The Big Money; 
Steinbeck, The Grapes of Wrath. Mr. Sia bey assures that all of the books wilI be 
ordered in their cheapest paperback editions. 
STUDENT WORK: There will be a mid-term and a final examination, and a 
few short papers will also be assigned. 
COMMENT: The extent of Mr. Slabey's knowledge on American literature is 
great, and his insights into works of fiction are often fascinating. While his 
lectures are often extremely penetr~ting, his tests are not nearly so demanding, 
and a non-major is not at any type of disadvantage in his class. 
Slabey Engl 487 Southern Lit Trad seq. 245860

10 MWF 

DESCRIPTION: One course in American Literature before 1900 is a 
•lbrerequisite in taking this course. Since Southern literature is distinguished _not oy material alone but by tone and attitude, this course will be an excursion into a ¢ountry of the imagination rather than a survey of regional writing. The .cultural, historical, and aesthetic bases will be set in Cash's The Mind of the South, especially Book I (which should be rea'd during the summer), Jefferson's j'Notes on the State of Virginia," and Tate's "S Southern Mode of the loagination." The course will then progress from the Frontier and the Plan­
tation to the present. -READINGS: The texts will probably include Cash's The Mind of the South· (Vintage, kTurner's Southern Short Stories (Rinehart), Guild's 19th Century Souther Fiction, Nsarrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, Mark 'Twain's Pudd'nhead Wilson, The Portable Fulkner (Viking) and Absalom, Absalom! Pratt's The Fugitive Poets, Wirhgt's Uncle Tom's Chi!dren, Williams' A Streetcar Named Desire, and Styron's The Confes~ions of Nat Turner. Sup­plementary readings will include selections from Swallow Barn, Life on the Mississippi, I'll Take My Stand, and the poetry of Timrod, Lanier, and James 
rnc~Y-­
STUDENT WORK: Students will write mid-term and final examinations and 
a substantial critical essay of about teri pages. The course will consist of lec­
tures, discussions, and class reports.. 
'COMMENT: Mr. Slabey's extensive knowledge and his penetrating insight 
into American literature make this course a necessity for anyone who has a 
special concern_ for the Southern tra~ition ofour literary heritage. 
Garvick Engl. 399 Mod. Brit. Poetry lOMWF seq. 244060 ­
DESCRIPTION: Professor Garvick, as a gratuitous gesture, was tempted to 
teach a course wholly on Swinburne;for he senses the imminence of a Swinburne 
revival on the campuses of higher education. However, thinking it over, he 
decided to disband the idea, for ttie time being at least, ~,because the 
world and Notre Dame are not ready for such· ari-..academ ic endeavor. Hence, 
Modern Britisn Poetry will be offered, but, by no means do I mean to be 
patronizing.' With poets like Owen, Eliot, Pouiid; Yeats, Thomas, Auden and 
Lawrence, the course should be nothing less·0ttian electrifying for serious 
students of poetry. Professor Garvick, along with his men and women of 
knowledge, will give considerable attention to 1Fe 'means by which poems are 
n,ede, apart from historic considerations. _Tfie student will concentrate on 
appreciating images, rhythms and narrative personality for their own sake and 
will ultimately discover the unique integrity of many modern British poems. 
Format is.mostly lecture. However, Professor Garvick is intent on finding out .._ 
who's o~( there. He is always more than '!"'iij\ii~tto encourage and entertain 
questions and responses which arise during'ciass. 
READING_S: The student will read an adequate number of poems by Wilfred 
Owen-<~~(poet--1 heard that membersof th~?f~i~ will re-enact famous b~ttles 
while ,Professor Garvie reads appropriate poems-with appropriate sound ef­
... ' • } I ~ ,-• i ~ I\ 4 
fects), T.S. Eliot, Ezra Pound, W.8. Yeats (W(th"considerable attention to "The 
Waste Land," '~Fo_l!_r Quartets_,:• "Hugh Selwfo¾lauberley" and "Byzanfi'um," 
,,,_ 
respectively), D.H. Lawrence, W.H. Auoen, ;iT~µm::11 "1-'"'"u~,, ---·---·-­
C. Day Lewis Dvlan _Thomas and Charles Thomlinson (He will "end" the course with "Renge," a remarkable achievement in the Japanese form, in four languages that will be translated. The poem succeeds in turning Eliot's theories of tradition and the individual talent into practice, thus giving the course an inherent sense of unity.) The main texts: Chief Modern Poets of Britain, ed. by Sanders Nelson and Rosenthal, 5th Edition, published by Macmillan; other assorted collections. . 
STUDENT WORK: There will be at least two writing exercises accomplsshed in class and possibly a paper, depending, of course, on human resources in the class. (Note: subject to revision--after all, September is a long way off, yes?) 
COMMENT: Mr. Garvick considers his class a process of inquiry. It is not for a communication of the finished products of reflection, but, rather, for an un­folding of awareness with a fresh, spontaneous approach. He sustains an enormous amount of energy and enthusiasm throughout, and values the same measure of intesity on the part of the student. In every way, a "Garvick" course demands that the students exert a sensitive effort in the hopes of becoming men and women· of knowledge. 
Martin Engl. 452 Manners Comedy 09TTll seq. 245360 
DESCRIPTION: Manners comedy is a term used to describe a broad range of materials written in-different genres. All of the readings orient themselves in one way or another around human social conduct, bot in its comic dimension and in terms of our propensity to use "manners"--the customs, totems, and accepted usages which Congreve called "the way of the world"--as rituals, whether verbal or kinetic. So the course will study the ritualized existence of people in fiction as an analogue to the comic rituals of life. 
READINGS: Whycherly: The Country Wife, Congreve: The Way of the World, Sheridan: The School for Scandal, Wilde: The Importance of Being Earnest, Shaw Major Barbara, Arms and the Man, O'Casey: The Plough and the Stars, Synge: The Playboy of the Western World, Wilder: The Matchmaker, Fielding: Tom Jones, Austen: Pride and Prejudice, Edgeworth: Castle Rackrent, Trollope: Barchester Towers, Thackery: Vanity Fair, James: The American and the Spoils of Poynton, Wharton: The Custom of the Country, and Fitzgerald: The Great Gatsby. 
STUDENT WORK: Each student will be asked to keep a journal (anonymously) in which he or she records observations provoked by the sen­sibility for the texture of life and the realiyt behind it which the readings seek to develop. Occasioonal short papers (4-5) pages and e examinations, together with the usual final exam comprise the written requirements. 
COMMENT: Though there is more than enough work to keep a student busy throughout the semester one will certainly not regret taking a class by D~. Marlin. There is ample time for consultation with him about the material assigned. The quality of the readings is for the most part excellent. One will fidd Dr. Martin to be quite knowledgeable--not only about the books assigned but about literature in general. His propensity for being witty and urbane is well­known. In short, this course is good for those who want to learn about Manners Comedy, c1bout English. 
Engl. 502 20th c. Criticism
McDonald 
07T1J.'l. seq. 246260 

DESCRIPTION: This course, intended as a survey oftwentieth century literary criticism; will begin with the study of Ezra Pound, T.S. Eliot, and I .A. Richards. In c1ddition, the course will include an examiniation of the Freudian and Jungian 
1 
psychological methods, the New Humanism, the New Criticism," the Chicago Critics, Marxist Criticism, Historicism, F .R. Leavis, the criticism of fiction, and Northrup Frye. Ctc1sses, for the most part, will be condu"cted in a lecture format, although Professor McDonald makes generous allowance for class discussion wthin the structure of the course. 
READINGS: Litz, A. Wlaton, and Lawrence I. Lipkins, Eds. Modern .Literary 
Criticism: 1900-1970. New York: Atheneum, 1971. Wellek, Rene, and Austin 
wc1rr-en. Theory of Literature. New York: Harcourt, Brace and World, }95~. 
(paper) Frye, Northrup. Anato~y of Criticism. New York: Atheneum, 1969;. 
(paper) . , , · STUDENT WORK: Two hour examinations will be given during the course of the semesster, and a paper of approxi~ately fifteen pages will be required at th! end of the term. ,·. . , .. COMMENTS: Professor McDonald conducts a carefully structured and well-organized course. His lectures clearly.elucidate what is often difficult material., Despite the formal lecture format of_fhe course, Professor McDonald ~el~omes stude,,t. questions within the couirs~.~f hi~ lecture. 
c, 

Robinson ::; )
Engl. 445 Theater of the Absurd 0lMWF seq. 245060 

DESCRIPTION: This most recent movement in modern drama is a personal interest of Mr. Robinson. It is, briefly, an examination of theater which recognizes the inadequacies of language, the breakdown of human relationships, the perils c1nd indistinguishability of illusion and reality. The recogniition of these problems and the attempt to deal with them in the dramatic art form necessitated the development of a whole new genre, one wh-ich is continuing to develop today. Mr. Robinson begins the course with an examination of Medieval dromc1 c1nd early satire in which Absurd drama has its root, then examines elements of Abi:urd drama in Shakespeare, finally concentrating on this movement in contemporary theater. Mr. Robinson's own ideas about this trend in dramc1 are still in flux, he explores with the class; this semester he has added -·; lo his rec1dings_several plays which have been described as "post-absurdist," a number of very experimental, "off off-Broadway" pieces. 
READINGS: Hopper and Lahey: Medieval Mysteries, Moralities and In­terludes; Shc1kespeare: King Lear, Troilus and Cressida, Timon of Athens; Pirandello: Nakes Masks: Five f'lyas; Beckett: Waiting for Godot, Endgame, Krapp's Last Tape and Other· Dramatic Pieces, Happy Days; Ionesco: Rhinoceros and Other Plyas, Four Plays, Exit the King; Genet: The Balcony, the Screens; Grass: Four Plays; Arrabal: Guernica and Other Plays; Pinter: The Birthday Party and the Room, the Caretaker and the Dumb Waiter, Old Times, The Homecoming; Albee: Two Plays: The American Dream and The Zoo Story, Tiny Alice; Stoppard: Rosencrantz and Guildenstein Are Dead. This rei.'tdii'lg, list like that of English 345, will be flexible and subject to change as the semester progresses. An excellent critical work, Martin Esslin's Theatre of the Absurd, is essential supplementary reading. Total cost of works will run S30-35. 
STUDENT WORK: Primarily same format '15 that on English 345; in ad­dition, Mr. Robinson may ask, as he did this year, that sudents keep a "Journal of the Absurd," in which they regularly record their responses to the Absurd--in dramc1, in life, etc. 
COMMENT: One's immediate reaction in examining the above course descriptions would undoubtedly be to quake at such prohibitive readings lists. The readings are demandings as far as quantity, for both courses, and ·is im­perative that the student not fall behind. However, the plays are not so time­consuming as novels, and keeping pace is not impossible. The quality of the Shc1kespeare readings speaks for itself. The Absurd plays are challenging, exciting, puzzling and most enjoyable. Mr. Robinson's biggest weakenss is his less lhan sparkling lecture style but his genuine, consuming interest in the subject matter is unmistakable and contagious. Both courses will be communal explorc1tions of the plays: Mr. Robinson is obviously excited when he has his o~n insights lo share and makes no pretenses when he himself is searching for insights. A solid course in Shakespeare is an essential for an English major and c1nyone interested in literature in general; and for me the Theater of the Absurd was without doubt one of the most exciting English courses I have taken. Both courses come highly recommended. 
Schoen Engl. 449 Milt~n 03MWF seq. 245160 
DESCRIPTION: Mr. Schoen covers five or six of Milton's shorter poems in the first several weeks of the seoester, devotes six weeks to Paradise Lost, and conlucdes with Paradise Regained. and Samson Agonistes. The Aeneid is considered primarily·for its structural relation to Paradise Lost. The course moves en,tirley by discussioln except for Mr. Schoen's lecture on The Aeneid. Schoen is interested in the chronological development of Milton's thought, the structure of his poetry, and the comprehensive emanation of single images. 
READINGS: John Milton, Complete Poems and Major Prose, and The 

~eneid. 
STUDENT WORK: Four short "insights" about three pages each; one longer "insight," about eight pages; and a final examination, usually take-home. 
COMMENT: Mr. Schoen's knowledge of Milton is excellent. He moves slowly c1nd intensively. Though Mr. Schoen provides direction for the discussion, the student must c1ssume a large responsibility for participation. This does not mena that the grade reflects how much you have said that the the course happens the in the classroom and can only work if the student is daily prepared. One often wishes that Mr. Schoen would offer more of his own sophisticated thoughts but that is not hiu style. The course is not extremeJy reigoro~s, and Mr. Schoen is.c1 most accessible teacher. 
Collins  ··Engl. 482  Melville  
02Th5  seq. 245661  
07Th10  seq. 245662  

DESCRIPTION: The work of Herman Melville will be examined extensively 

with heavy accent placed upon the workings of his mind In reatmttton to the 
themes developed throughout his works. Influences on his thinking (i.e. 
Nathaniel Hawthorne) will be explored and carefully examined for thler 
possible effects. Seminar presentation. Much discusssion will be ably led by 
Prof. Collins. . 
READINGS: Typee, Redburn, Whitejacket, Moby Dick, Pierre and Billy 

Budd. Also to be read: selected poems and short stories by Melville as well as a 
few short stories by Hawthorne. 
STUDENT WORK: Each student will be expected to submit one paper-­

interesting and of adequate length--as well as give a twenty to twenty-five 
minute presentation on on·eof the works. Participation is discussion is weigMed . most heavily. · COMMENT: Melville? Interesting. Essential. Collins: Interesting; Essential; Take Him! 
Garvick Engl. 427 T.S. Eliot and Tradition 02MWF seq. 244660 
There are essentially three ways ot ordering the study ot poetry--by historical 

periods, by genres or by concentrating on the work of a single poet. The third 
way is the least common occurence in undergraduate programs. Professor 
Garvick began this experiment two years ago and found the experience 
unusually worthwhile and rewarding. Once again, the study of the works of an 
individual poet will be offered to those students who exhibit the passionate desire 
to emerse themselves wholly in the poetry of T.S. Eliot. The course will' con­
centrate on Eliot's main theory concerning tradition and the individual talent, 
and will trace his development of a certain poetic continuity. The central idea of 
order·will concern itself with Eliot's place.in the IJli_dst of this process. Eliot, 
though a demanding poet, is capable of teaching us how to deal with the self. 
Since we are forced to deal with selves, others as-well-as our own, we ought to 
welcome good advice. Eliot proves to be very sound, and Professor Garvick 
offers the course precisely for this reason so that we may better learn to live with 
self. 
Since the class should be no more than twenty students, there will be an op­

portunity for a more intimate form of communication. Professor Garvick will 
have much to !iaY, but the student will be encouraged not to hide his talents under 
a bush. The presentation will precipitate a greater interaction of selves. 
READINGS: Complete Poems & Plays of T.S. Eliot 1909-1950, Murder in the 

Cathedral, The Cocktail Party, Christianity and Cultulre (publ. by Harvest), 
Essays ( agathering l; also Samuel Johnson's Rasselas; possibly, Borges' 
Labyrinths, Baudelaire's Flowers of Evil, Donn'es Collected Poems, and C.G. 
Jung's ''\emories, Dreams and Reflections; with allusions, mainly to make 
associauons and to draw comparisons and contrasts, to the works of Camus, 
Kafka, Becket and Henry Miller. Finally, recordings: Some of the String 
Quartet.!i of Beethoven and Bartok Cto be done either in class or in the Listening 
Center of the library). 
STUDENT WORK: One substantial paper and a final examination that might 

very well invite the student to experience almost total! recall of Eliot's works. 
COMMENT: Professor Garvick as able to live and breathe Eliot and expects 

an equal measure of intensity on the part of his students. One might easily feel 
intimidated by Eliot. However, ifone is truly dedicated to the study of poetry, 
and atall interested in learning how to live so that he-may shape the inevitable 
recognition oJ his own ignorance, his mere humanity, the experience will prove 
to be unforgettable. But,h~ must be willing to put up with the demands of Eliot 
before-an exchange can begin. The student is urged to know poems by heart, as· 
he must veritably live with the stuff until he knows Eliot well. (Rumor has it that 
any st.udent who is able to speak to Professor Garvick in the voice or one of 
Eliot'~ persona will be rewarded!) Dr. Garvick's style of interaction will in­
tensify the experience to somumental proportiona and he only hopes that the 
process of inquiry will culminate with Eliot's words: "The only widsom we can . 
hopefo acauire is the wisdom of h11mili1Y." Sti~ 
Sniegowski Engl. 567 Romantic Poetry 10TT12 seq~ 247~ 
DESCRIPTION: :There are no prerequisites for Professor Sneigowskt's course, which means that anyone who would be interested in discovering the wide and diverse range of literary achievements produced during the turbulent years fiom 1798 to 1832 has the opportunity to do so. The text for the course will be Perkins' Anthology, in Which Professor Sniegowski will emphasize the works of Wordsworth, Q;,leridge, Keats and Byron, with some attention given to Blake and Shelley. 
The course is open to undergraduate and well as graduate students, all of 

whom will feel reiaxed as well as stimulated by the instructor's classroom en­
vironment. The method of presentation is largely lecture, but it is an-informal, 
sharing kind of lecture which welcomesstudents' questions and insights. ­
COMMENTS: Any course taUQht by Professor SniegowsKi is sure to be an .enjoyable academic experience. The work load is reasonable,• yet challenging. 
Students will find•in the instructor a man willing to aid them in overcoming 
problemsof a,f!'\Prehension, either privately or in the classroom. , 
s:. 

Walton Engl. 371 . Private Exp. in the Novel ·, :, , seq. 243060
OlMWF 

DESCRIPTION: A study of the·,ways In which soclal experience Is represented c1s personal myth by novellsts,from Defoe to Doris Lessing. Lec­ture. No prerequisites. ,. ·,, ·, • 
READINGS: Defoe, Robinson Crusoe; Hogg, Provate Memoirs andiCon­fessions of a Justified Sinner; Dickens, Oliver Twist; C. Bronte, Jane Eyre; James, The Turn of the Screw; Conrad, Lord Jim; Mann, Death in Venice; Joyce, A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man; Kafka, The castle; Lessing, The Golden Notebook. 
STUDENT WORK: Two short papers of the student's choice and a final take-' home exam. 
Engl. 460 Eng. Novel to 1845Walton 

seq. 245560


09MWF 

DESCRIPTION: A study of the early development of the English novel. No prerequisites. Open to English majors. 
READINGS: Bunyan, Pilgrim's Progress Defoe, Robinson Crusoe; Richardson_. Clarissa; Fielding, Tom Jones; Sterne, Tristam Snady; Godwin, Caleb Williams; Austen, Emma; Scott, Old Mortality; Hogg, Private Meoirs and Confessions of a Justified Sinner. 
STUDENT WORK: A take-home exam on Pilgrim's Progress, two short papers of student's choice, and a final take-home exam. 
COMMENT: Mr. Walton's courses and lectures are high-geared and sophosticated. He approaches the novel with a synthesistic ken, and con­sequently his lectures touch areas as diverse as psychology, anthopology, physics, theology, and White Sox spring training. But despite this broad knowledge and encompas_sing vision, Mr. Walton is admittedly a critic of the "old school." His lectures persistently return to achtypal figures in literature and paradigmatic patterns or myths in art (Jung, Eliade, Freud, Frye, etc.>. However, this is by no means a detriment. 
Undoubtedly, Mr. Walton's one fault is that non-English majors and Englist majors alike tend to be sacrified .on a block of literary intellectualism; i.e., hi~ lectures are often brilliantly de~tructive to the bright young people, hoping to be ween,ed on "plot" and "theme". Bu, then, this is college, kids. 1 
Even at his erudite level of delivery, Mr. Walton is overwhelmingly en tertaining. If one does not quite grasp Joyce's use of Vico, Mr. Walton's en­thusiasm and wit still captures your interest and attention. (Analogue: Dick Cavett and Northrop Frye leading a symposium consisting of Franz Kafka, James Joyce, Gustave Fraubert, Immanuel Kant, Richie Allen, Billy Williams, and maybe John Hawkes.) Hence, it is Mr. Walton's style which makes him invaluable as a lecturer and teacher. For, if one can not quite follow Mr. Walton into his lierary depths and abstractions, there still remains a great deal of knowledge to be gleaned from the enthusaistic surface of his lectures. In brief, Mr. Walton's courses -~ill indubitably be very valuable, sophisticated, and en­joyable; but possibly frustrating. 
His work-load is definitely not heavy, yet substantial. Grading? 
Robinson  Engl. 345  Shakespeare  
10TT12  seq. 241861  
02TT4  . seq. 242862  
DESCRIPTION:  The fall  semester wilf mark Mr. Robinsons's return  to  

teaching Shakespeare, a course he taught regularly until two years ago. The course is intended, first of all, to be an extensive coverage of the majority of Shakespeare's plays. The presentation will consist of both lecture and class discussion: the balance of the two depending on the size of the lcass and on the 
.enthusiasm of the students (a maximum of 40 students has been set, and it is likely that the actual number will be somewhat less than this). Mr. Robinson has indicated that he will attempt a "two-dimensional" approach to the plays: ;ources of the plays, historical perspectives, and discussion of the larger cultural themes will be provided in the lecture material, while more problematic concerns, such as time and place in the dramas, illusion and reality, and the characters; notion of their relationship to tf1e_ ·~9rld, will be explored in class discussion: · · ·•·· 
READINGS: The plays will be covered in toJr''genre" groups: Richard 11, Richard 111;·Henry IV (parts I and 11), and Henr'y'v of the histories; The Taming of a Shrew, A Midsummer Night's Dream, The'M'erchant of Venice and Twelfth Night of the ·comedies; the tragedi'es, Romeo·'ahd{Juliet, Julius Caesar, Hamlet, Lear; Mac~eth, Antony and Cleopatra and Corj~(~nus; and the "problem plays," Troilus and Cressida, Measure for Measure; Timon of Athens, Cymbeline, The 
1

Winte's Tale, and The Tempest. Most of these i,'1ays will be covered in class, others wilt be the subject of out-of-class research. The readings list will remain flexible c1nd will undoubtedly be adjusted as the semester progresses. The most economical way to buy the.plays is in a "complete" Shakespeare, which should run from S8.00 to S15.00, depending on the edition. Otherwise, paperback copi_es will cost in the area of Sl.00 each., 
STUDENT WORK: Obviously, the readings will constitute the bulk of the work load for English 345. There will be two or three short (3-5) pages) papers and perhaps an oral presentation required of each student, the• presentations being done by a team of three or four. There will also be either a fi al exam or a final "course summary" paper.. 
Phil of Lit
Engl 416

O'Malley english smc
seq. 244360


~04 ~AWF 
COMMENT: So few people seem to be concerned with the pursuit of eternal values any longer, that when a person with a genuine predilection for Truth, Beauty and Brotherhood is discerned-whose nature is imbued with a zealous love for those ideal realities-he will invariably be neglected (often even despised) by many, disproportionately idolized by those sti.11 searching for fathers, and, hopefully, esteemed by at least a few people. Professor O'Malley is such a person. Long recognized as one of Notre Dame's most loyal sons, he has striven to remain constant alongside life's eternal .verities with a tenaciousness that few men will ever approximate. . 
Drawing from a reading list that is extensive (He has said, "You will have until the end of the century to read these literary works"}, he delivers lectures 
· which have a natural exquisiteness about them because they are motivated by his instinctual reverence for life and all that it contains. His lectures probe profound spiritual realities within literary works, and often transmute such realities into a contemporary dimension-because Professor O'Malley always wishes to engage his students' sensibilities in a pursuit of those realities. An understcfnding of Frank O'Malley's genius might perhaps show that in him thought and deed are welded in a fervid consistency. Certainly, since he is dedicated to resurrecting and sustaining the Word as It is manifest in creative literature, this genius extends through the classroom and beyond it-to wherever his students carry within themselves a veneration for the Word, for the sanctity of suffering, and for the ultimateholiness of life. 
-. 

Davis Engl 303 Prac Lit Criticism 
09 MWF seq. 240761 11 MWF seq. 240762 
DESCRIPTION: An introduction. to literature, devoted to developing the 

student's abllity to read literature with reasonably full understanding and sen­
sitivity, and introducing basic theoretical and technical problems of literature, 
the course will proceed through the three types of literature, alternating exer­
cise in detailed reading (which will receive most attention} and critical 
problems (which will receive briefer treatment), in a rhythm from practicality 
toward theo.ry: now to read poems, problems in poetry, how to read fiction, 
techniques of fiction, how to read plays, theory of drama, theory of literature: 
The course will proceed entirely by discussion and because o.f this, enrollment 
will be limited to twenty five students per section. , 
READINGS: Booth and Burhans, 31 Stories (Prentice Hall l; A book on theory 
of fiction; G.B. Shaw, Arms and the Man (Penguin}; Anton Chekov, Six Plays 
(Penguin); Francis Fergusson, The Idea of a Theater (Princeton); S.J. Ken­
nedy, Introduction to Poetry (Little Brown); A book on theory of literature. 
STUDENT WORK: Eight (8) short papers and a final exam. 
COMMENT: Mr. Davis is one of the most knowledgeable professors in the 
department. It is very obvious in his lectures, if his discussions can be called 
that, that he has a vast storehouse of knowledge and he is very willing to share it 
with his students. He is very open with his students, both in and out of the 
classroom, and his classes are usually very stimulating. Mr. Davis is not an 
easy grader: estudent must worlc. very hard to get an A in his class. Also, some 
students found difficulty in writing papers as it is sometimes not clear what he is 
looking for and expecting. 

Kline Engl 515 Linguistic Thy 1TT3 seq. 246460 
DESCRIPTION: As the title implies, English 515 is a survey of current 
Linguistictheories. As such it should not be confused with English orammar or for that matter English literature. The course traces the formal constituents of .Janguage and how each of these has developed historically. In this regard the course investigates the writings on language• as language by the leading philosophers, theQ!Qgjans, grammarians, sociologists and psychologists. The bulk of the course centers around Dr. Kline's lectures. There are some cl~sses devoted to discussion during the latter parts of the semester. (These lectures 
are highly informative and entertaining.) · . 
READINGS: Dineen, F., S.J. An lnti:~ucti~.!1 to General Linguistics; Salus, 
P.J. On Language, from Plato to·Von Humboldt: STUDENT WORK: There are Jshort papers, Jhourlyexams, and a final. . 

•COMMENT: students .who decide to take this course will find it, without doubt, one of the best. Although taught under the title of Engli~!t, as a Theoretical Linguistic course it is highly germaine to students ~n Englis~, · teacher preparation, linguistics, psychology, anthropology, and sociology. This course is highly recommended. · 
Sokolowski Enlt 373 Women in Amer Lit 09 TT 3 seq. 8558u0 
DESCRIPTION: This course will examine the image of women in American literature written by men and women. Women writers such as Kate Chopin, Emily Dickinson and Mary McCarthy will be surveyed for the relationship 
between femininity and literature and their consciousness of themselves as women as it m·anifests itself in their works. Readings will be in the novel, the short story and poetry, and will follow a quasi-chronological development from the beginning of the nineteenth century to present times. The class format will be lecture-discussion with a strong emphasis on student participation. READINGS: Specific works have not yet been assigned. Major writers such as Twain, James, Hmingway, Fitzgerald and Roth will be read to trace the image of women as created by men writers. The womenwriters who will be studied will be: Chopin, Dickinson, and McCarthy. STUDENT WORK: The student will be required to take a midsemester and final exam as well as write two papers. One reading report will also be given by each student. In addition to class assignments, students will be expected to do outside readings in recent and current feminist publications. · COMMENT: This is a new course being offered at St. Mary's Mrs. Sokolowski has a vivid and concerned under.stanBing of the treatmentof women in the course of American literature that can be noted form her_other coui;ses. She is an in­teresting and friendly teacher; and I'm sure this would help to make this course a_ valuable experience !Or any interested student. 

Kane  Enlt 3~2  Dante  
01  TT 3  seq. 856260  
DESCRIPTION:  This course is a seminar which offers the student an op­ 

portunity to concentrate on one poet-Dante, whose poetry deals with the 
desires and experiences of men at their very core. The chief prerequisite is simply the desire tost~dy Dan re. The course is not a requirement for any specific. major; and is open· to -those who have asked to have the course taught and to others by arrangement with the professor. The enrollment is to be kept to seminar-size. 
READINGS: Mark Musa, ed. Dante's Vita. Nuova. Indiana Univ., paper­back; D. Sayers, ed. Dante's Inferno. Penguin Ed. paperback;D. Sayers, ed. Dante's Purgatorio. Penguin Ed. paperback; John Sinclair, tr_ Dante's Pardiso. Italian text and trans. Oxford Univ. paperback. 
STUDENT WORK: Student work will involve a careful study of the readings resulting in seminar participation. There will be no papers or t1:sts other than the final exam. 
COMME/'JT: Sr. Franzita is an experienced English_P:_ofessor whose com­
ments and ideas would be rewarding and enriching. This is a new course being 0°ffered so'that little comment can be given at this time. Sister maintains that the course will deal with Dante's narrative patterns and power, his poetic craftsmanship, the mystery of freedom, the relation of free will and justice with room to expand in a philosophic vein. 

Kane Enlt 312 Neo-Classical Lit ll MWF seq. 853260 
DESCRIPTION: Neo-Classical Literature covers the period of writing after ·the Renaissance Age in England, from about 1650to 1800. Four main writers are studied-=-John Dryden, Samuel Johnson, Alexander Pope, a:id Jonathan Swift. It is suggested that other courses covering literatur~ before this age be ,taken 
before taking this course for better background. Sr. Franzita uncovers the 
power of satire against the setting of historic happenings i~ the neo-ctass.ic age'" 
·england. The course1s required for allSMC English majors, and open to anyone 
else. This course is not offered as freshman English 

READINGS: "Dryden: Threl Plays, Selected Poetry and Prose of John Dryden; Samuel Johnson: Selected Writings; Alexander Pope: Selected Poetry ~nd Prose; Jonathan Swift: Selected Prose and Poetry · STUDENT WORK: The course has a fair, yet extensive amount of readings_ There is a mid-ierm and final examination as well as two or three short papers, and quizzes. 
COMMENT: Sr. Franzita offers a disciplined and vivid study of the~e masters of satire within· the histor'ical context of an explosive age of political and religious conflicts. One learns the skills and potentialities of satire more quickly by marking her own unique deliverance of the material. The course is recom­mend~d for hard workers wishing to study the clever and witty satirists of the . 
· -.t.Lea.-Qas~ical_Qeriod 
Michaud. Enif 357 Romantic Movement. 07 TT 9 seq. 854660 
!lES.CR!e.JlQ.li.; To~ ~gr~e~s.s1t a stui;!:J! nf ~w!~th's ooetry! inc_;l_!Jding the Prelude, to establish a conceprion of the Romantic sp,r,t. The ma1or w~rks of 
Blake, Coleridge, Shelley and Keats will be investigated in light of this concepr. The courseis basically class discussion, with occasional lectures. . ' 
READINGS: Selections from works of Wordsworth,. Blake, Shelley, Keats, Coleridge, and the German poets Novalis and Holderlin. Naive and Sentimental Poetry, Fredrich von Schiller 
STUDENT WORK: Students will be required to write one paper (5-7 pages), and take a midterm (take-home) and final exam. 
COMMENT: Be prepared for in-class discussion, which occasionally rises beyond the material at hand. The work load is relatively light and ample time is given for preparation of papers and tests. Keeping Mr. Michaud on a topic is difficult, but h-is digressions are interesting and often humorous. The readings are carefully selected and provide an excellent basis for the investigation of the 
· RolT'antic mind. Mr. Michaud is always available and willing to help. The key to the course is to leave reality at the door. It's an experience. 
Sokolowski Enlt 253 American Literature I 11 MWF seq. 851461 01 MWF seq. 851462 
DESCRIPTION: This course will trace chronologically the development of American literature-from the colonial period through the Romantic Movement of the nineteenth century. Emphasis will be placed on the themes, traits and characteristics of distinctly American literature. A variety of genres-novel, short story, essay and poetry will be covered. In addition to selections from an anthology, students will be required to read four novels. The format for this course will consist of lecture with comments of the students also desired. 
READINGS: Norton Antholcgy of American Literature; The Last of the Mahicans; The Scarlet Letter; Moby Dick; Walden 
STUDENT WORK: The students are to be responsible for two papers between three a~d five pages. There will also be two hour exams (essay), and a two hour final exam. . COMM~N:r: Mrs. ~kolowski is _a wami and interesting personality whose lectures often include numerous anecdotes about the authors and poets beint:; studied. She has a mor-e than sufficient undersfanding of the American en­vironment during the periods studied. She is more than willing to listen to her students, and always available for additional help if required. A course from Mrs. Sokolowski would prove a fun, interesting, and valuable experience. 
Vacca Enlt 354 Modern Drama 04 MW 6 seq. 854260 
DESCRIPTION: There are no prerequisites and the course is open to nayone. The_ subjects are representative plays by major European, English and A111erican playwrights from the mi.d-eighteenth centrury to the present; coupled with more intensive study of Ibsen and Brecht. Emphasis is on the plays themselves, although topics in the developmentot modern drama will be broached. Method of presentation will depend upon class size; in a small group, sem"inar techniQlieS will be possible. In general, there will be a mixture.of lec­ture and discuSSlQn. 
READINGS: Twelve MOderr. Plays (Dodsen, $4.95) A ~umber of selections from Ibsen and Brecht will also be required. STUDENT WORK: Four brief (3-5 pages) papers, with or without seminar presentation, midterm, and a final exam. COMMENT: The nature of the readings invites interesting, provocative discussion and Mrs. Vacca is not adverse to letting the class direct itself. 

• .Workload is moderate with paper topics bein9 left open to individual interests. Although an elective tor the department, tne last c1ass wd::. u111y aoout one-half English majors.. Modern Drama comes highly recommended to any ·student of any discipline Who enjoys reading and disc;ussing dramatic literature. 
-Bosco EnWr. 313 Journalism and Media 04MW6 -seq. 857460 
pESCRIPTION: There are no prerequisites for this course. Its goals and themes areto question and analyze the theories and practices of journalism and other media; such as, TV, radio and film. J"he method of presentation is lecture and discussion. The course is open to all students and.is counted as an elective related to the major in the English and Secondary Education departments. 
READINGS: This semester the course involved readings from Radio and Television, and Journalism:-both books by Allen and Linda Kirschner. The Price of the books is $4.3Seach.' From time to time students are asked to read selec­tions from the New York Times and The Village Voicel,ewspapers. 
STUDEfJT WORK: Written work consists of writing assignments Which deal with theory; and practical problems discussed in class and the readings. Writing assignment~ average one per week and _are graded according to imagination, 

originality, honesty and intelligence. Mr. Bosco hopes, next fall, to spend about onethird of class time producing a weekly review-magazine paper. Exams are . n~tgiv~ as such, but t~ke the form of in-class writings. 
COMMENT: Mr. Bosco is seriously concerned with forming a critical and analytical attitude twoard journalism and media in his students. His lectures which may seem based against journalism are geared to make one consider the responsibilities. of this form of mass communication. 
The quality of the readings is generally good. A difficulty this semester was that not enough people participated in the discussion. · 
Mr. Bosco's class does not concern itself specifically with the mechanics of constructing~ newspaper. However, bibliographies are availahle Which provide such information. 
The work load is comparatively light in terms of time. What is stressed is the quality of thought which accompanies the readings. · This course could be very valuable to the student seriously interested in a critical study of journalistic writing and the media. 
Bosco EnWr. 316 Fiction Writing02TT4 seq. 857860 
DESCRIPTION: This is a course for people interested in writing fiction (obviously). There are classes in both introductory and advanced fiction, although introductory is not a prerequisite for advanced. The class is run in workshop form, with students submitting stories on dittos to be passed out to and• discussed by the class. The course is offered by the SMC writing department and is open to anyone. ­
READINGS: The readings for this semester were On Creative wr;ltiJg; Paul, Engle, ed. Sl.55; and Ulysses, James Joyce S2.95. Mr. Boco has not finally decided on the readings for next semester. 
STUDENT WORK: This semester students were required to write six pieces of fiction due over the semester. Students were also required to read Ulysses in order to participate in a discussion of the book in class. Next semester students may be required to write critiques of some of the work. Mr. Bosco has not decided if he is going to work with Ulysses next semester. There are no exams. 
COMMENT: The course is very loosely structured; in this, like in all wri(ing classes, most of what you get outof it depends on what you are willing to put into it. Mr. Bosco is a talented writer and a sympathetic person, and can be a great deal of help. This is not a jock course and should be taken only by those seriously· interested in writing for although the work load is comparatively light (i.e., worlc to be turned in), the potential is great and to realize that potential requires that the student put forth individual effort and participation, and feel a responsibility to himself and the other people in the class as writers. 
general program 

STUDENT ADVISORS: Mike Sherrod, 327 Grace, 1741· Burt Brenner 438 Morrissey, 3665; Dennis Clark, 915 Grace,·6726~ Bill Kane, 333 Za~m. 8995; Diane McDonnell, 424 Walsh, 8155; John Moskop,·241 
Sorin, 6550. 

.Hunt GP 241 Poetry 09 MWF ~eq. 261061 
DESCRIPTION: This course will deal with pqetry in English from the time of Shakespeare to the prsent day in a roughly chronological order. Brn,trger,Hunt will display bott, English and American poetr:y with about 50 per cent of the time spent on the latter, since he happen·~ to like it. Besides this overall survey there will be time spent in an effort to familiarize the student with the raw mechanics 
of poetry. READINGS: Louis Simpson's An Introduction to Poetry (2nd Edition); PC'rrine and Reid, 100 American Poems of the Twentieth Century; and a great many dittoed hand outs of important works. STUDENT WORK: There will be several tests spread out over the semester and a lot of what Brother Hunt calls "worksheets". These are designed to force the student to think of a poem not just in terms of its general meaning but to go into it in some depth, usually by having him answer a limited number of relatively specfic questions about the technical devices used in the poem. At the same time he does den:iand that the student make a statement about the overall meaning of the work.' Brother Hunt would like the student to write and submft poetry of his own, but it is not required. _ _ · COMMENT: This is a good introductory course. If you are already into poetry, this is not the course for you, but if you like poetry and just want to learn nio~e about it, thi~ is a good course. In the past it has been at the very early hour' of n!ne and has still been well attended. Bro~her H_unt is very low-keyed, but not bormg and he knows his material. The work load is not at all hard and is well wnrlh the effort for what on~ gets out of it.. 
~ 

Rogers GP 241 . Poetry1 MWF 
seq. 261062 

DE;_SCRIPTION: (?r. Roberrs hopes in this course to acquaint' students with poctric langu_age, developing aps,reciation of such language as it is used by recognized writers and giving every individual a chance to work with it himself. 
Emphasis will be placed not on ·the structural elements of poetry but on what poetry is and how it serves as a vehicle of communication. 
READINGS: Selections will be from Blake,"-Keats, Eliot, Yeats, G.M. Hopkins, and Wallace Stevens. Supplementary readings, perhaps in ultra­contemporary work and the poetry of rock, may be required. 
STUDENT WORK: Students·wm probably write one substantial paper, and may be given a midterm. Original poetry of different sorts will be required throughout the-semester. 
COMMENTS: This is a course in which -students must assume some responsibility. Dr. Roberts pr~pares each class well, but he is convinced of the value of studei1t discussion and takes it for granted that everyone will express interest in· the topic at hand. Dr. Roberts' valuable insights are usually for. 
· thcoming, but students should press him when he se~ms reluctant to stop discussion to voice an idea of his own. Dr. Robe-ts' great interest in and respect for his students' opinions are well-known, as is the phenomenal amount of time he is willing to spend with th<?._Se desiring it. 
Hunt GP 247 Fine Arts I 9 TT· seq. 2~1500 
DESCRIPTION: This is the first semester·of a two semester course sur­veying western art and music. The fall semester cov~rs the period from cave painting and Greek music through the Baroque. Brother Hunt concentrates heavily on painting in his survey of the visual arts. The treatment of music in the fall semester will concentrate on principles or "ingredients." Note: each semester course is independent of the other and can be taken separately. 
The course is a pleasing mixture of slides;lectures, and music. Brother Hunt distributes copious handouts of his own notes. Classes start with a short lecture introducing the material and then proceeds to slides or music {as the occasion warranls) with commentary by Brother Hunt. 
READINGS: John Gillespie, The Musical Experience, $9.95 and Gardner History of Art, (Price ?) STUDENT WORK: There are either three tests or two tests and some take­home worksheets. A paper is voluntary. COMMENT: Brother Hunt's course is a joy. He "knows his stuff" and oresents it in a nianner which makes it very interesting and enjoyable. 
Nicgorski,Moore,Tillman GP 281 Gt Bks -Sem I Various times 
DESCRIPTION: This course is the first in a sequence of six seminars which form the heart of the General Program, and aim at the intellectual development of each student by requiring-him to form, express, and defend his views in a dialogue with others: Classes of 15-20 students lead by a faculty member meet twice weekly to discuss a part of a great book and the general issues which it treats. The readings in this first semester are primarily classics of ancient Greece, an era.of special importance in the rise of Western culture. The seminar sequence is required for GP students and open to others only with special per­
mission. READINGS: Epic of Gilgamesh; Homer Odyssey; Plato, Apology, ~rito and Phaedo, Republic; Sophocles, Oedipus Rex, Oedipus at Colon':JS, Antigone; Aristotle, Poetics, Ethics; Herodotus, Histories; .Aristophanes, Clouds; Epic­tetus, Enchiridion; Augustine; Confessions. STUDENT WORK:' A half-hour oral final examination is required·; in ad­dition, a paper will probably be assigned and individual students may be asked to lead the discussion on a paritucular issue. COMMENT: In a very real sense, the quality of the seminar depends not on the tacully leader but on the participation and enthusiasm of the students themselves. Extensive· comments on the individual leaders are therefore inapprop~iate. It should be sufficient to note that both Dr. Moore and Dr. Nicgorski are well equipped to guide seminar discussion. Both men_ are especially•insighlful in their specialities; Dr. Moore in the philosophy of science and Dr. Nicgorsk,i°in political philosophy. Dr. Tilfman, a new addition to the Gp faculty, has_been preceded by her reputation for excellent teaching ability. 
/ 

Rogers GP 341 Origins of Christianity 1 9TTll seq. 263061 
DES CR I PT ION: This course is intended to engage the student with the Bible, to make it important and interesting to him as a literary and philosophical work. 

, READINGS:'Readings chosen'· thematically from the Bible will be sup­plemented by interpretive essays. Historical critics will probably include Augustine, Kierkegaard, and various twentieth century comment.ators. . STUDENT WORK: Undetermined. 
COMMENTS: Students will definitely profit from this course in proportion to the effort they expend on it. Although Dr. Rogers is not a Biblical scholar, his work in myth and his back~iround in comparative literature stand behind' his acute analysis of literary and philosophical aspects of the Bible. 
Thomas GP 341 Origins of Chri~tianity 10TT12 seq. 263062 
OESCR t PTION: Judean and Near Eastern influences on.the beginnings of the ,..liristian Church are explored. Intelligent reading of the Bible is stressed, with 
emphasis on the historical and literary background. The aim is to see now we have arrived trom what starting points. READINGS:' Secondary sources will be suggest~ci on occasion. Noriewill be 
required. .., -,,, •. ·i STUDENT WORK: To be determined. f•"--·., COMMENT: This writer has found Mr. Thomas to be a lecturer ·whose 
reflections are usually captivating and often englightening. Others have found him to be unexciting. Most would agree that he is very generous with his time. 
Thibodeau GP 343 Hist of Sci 11 10 MWF seq. 263261 11 MWF seq. 263262. 
DESCRIPTION: History of Science I. deals with early modern science and its emergence from lhe medieval tradition of natural philosophy. Professor Thibodeau will examine the role played in the Middle Ages by magical and "common sense" explanations, and will trace the subsequent development-and triumph of the quantitative, experimental method of modern science. Because he is particularly concernedihat students should be familiar with great ideas in sicnece, Professor Thibodeau will consider his subject largely from a philosophical point of view, attemptring to relate the history of science. to general trends in social, cultural, and intellectual history. He will also stress lace-to-face contact with scientific thinkers through the medium of important original works. 
READINGS: Although the reading list is not as yet fully determined, Profess9r Thibodeau will probably begin the course 'hith a book which proved to be very popular last semester, Thomas Brown's Religio Medici. Other possible readings are The Discoverices and Opinions of Galileo, Isaac Newton's Natural Philosophy, Science and Civic Life in the Italian Renaissance, and Physical Science in the Middle Ages. 
STUDENT WORK: Students themselves will partially determine assign­,ments~:wilh possibilities being one long or-a number of short papers, -and a midterm. Professor Thibodeau plans to make extensive use of the new General Program telescope and may also acquire other experimental equipment 
_lacilitati!:!9Yirect student involvement with crucial scienctific problems. 
COMMENTS: Professor Thibodeau stresses that this course is not a survey, but will cover a limited number of topics in depth. The readings seem well-planned, and will probably be adequately supplemented by Professor Thibodeau's engaging, though somewhat erratic lecture style. The history of the time period .covered is without a doubt fascinating, involv[ng a radical change in mefholodologies and world views. Detailed looks at the.thought of particular scientsts can, however, prove somewhat tedious. Professor Thibodeau's 9rading policies are not overly rigorous and he welcomes orioinal papers. _ 
Nicgorski GP 345-443 f'"olitics 9 MWF seq. 263461 10 MWF seq. 264862 
DESCRIPTION: This is a course requirement for junior and senior GP students, but there should be some openings available to any student in a·riother n1ajor. There are no prerequisites. In the first part of the course, teacher and students attempt to uncover and make explicit basic political problems a~ they appear in the American political experience. In the second part of the course, Aristotle, Rousseau and a group of contemporary political theorists are evaluated lo find what they say about the basic problems of political life. Classroo111 procedure will consist in a mixture of lectures, commentaries on the text and discussion. Generally, every third meeting will be a discussion on the 'previous lectures are readings. 
READINGS: Goldwin, R. How Democratic is America? Lippman, W. The Puglic Philosophy,· Lowi, T. The Politics of Disorder, Aristotle, The Politics of Aristotle, (oreferred ed. is Oxford U. Press), Rousseau The Social Contract, If time permist at the end of the course, Joh·. Rawls, A Theory of Justice and Jacques Maritain's Man and the State will be read and discussed. Cost without Lowi's book: S13-15, with Lowi add S7. 
STUDENT WORK: There isa fifty minutemidterm and a two hour final exam in the course. The average grade is B and the test material comes from the lecture notes and main points of discussion. There is also a paper required of approximat~ 10-12 pages in length. 
· COMMENT: There is much to recommend this course: it has excellent readings a,id the work ioad is not overb~aring. Dr. Nicgorski is well versed in the material and i? open to all points of discussion and criticism. Outside of class, he makes himself avai!able to student interests. The problem most often met iun the course is lack of student interest and participation. The possibilities of receiving and giving insights are manifest in the discussion periods but often fall below expectation. My feeling is blame lies with lack of student preparation as much as Dr. Nicgorski's somewhat dry lecture style. But for the interested t sludent, the i11siCJhts are there for the.?skini:i and readiQ.9. _ 
GP 347 Fine Arts· 111Kinsey 

2W4 seq. 263660 
DESCRIPTION: This course centers around a sensual appreciation and creative approach to art, rather than an academic or hi~torical approach. There are 110 prerequisites. The course is generally limited to GP majors. other 

;, _19 

t,; 
students interested in taking the course must obtain permission from the department chairman. The course is offered on a pass-fail ~asis and Mr. K~nsey adds that all of the assigned projects must be completed rn order to receive a 
passing grade. . READINGS:• There is a possibility that some supplementary readings may be assigned in order to orient the student to a particuiar problem in design or color theory. The readings will be brief and kept to a minimum. There is no assigned text. STUDENT WORK: The first semester of this two semester program con­centrates on drawing, and the construction of an environment in the University Arts Center. Several different techniques in drawing are presented, and the student is given ample time in clas·s to complete the related assignments under Mr. Kinsey's direction. In addition each student is required to maintain a sketch b.ook of drawings_ done outside the classroom. _ COMMENT: Though th~l.La _Qne credit pass-fail course the student is not permitted to slough off on the work. Mr. Kinsey stimulates and enc~urages a participatory interest in the arts. He is an excellent adviser and offers !he student an overview of the arts that is not limited to the usual verbal formation in the classroom. In short this course offers an opportunity to break away fl'om the intellectual approach of most GP courses and to experience aesthetic ex­pression first hand. 
Thomas,Lyon,Cronin GP 381 Gt. Bks Sem Ill Various tirr.~s 
DESCRIPTION: This is the third seminar in the GP Great Books Seminar 
. sequence. The readings in the first half of this semester ~re all classics of Eastern· philosophy and religion. They provide an interesting change of pace trom the General Programs' major focus on Western thought. 
READt NGS: Flhagavad Gita; Selections from Japanese Classical Literature; Selections.on Fluddhism; Lau Tzu, Tao Te Ching; Confucius, Analects; Chuang Tzu flasic Writings; Mencius, Sayings; Gandhi, Autogriography; Homer Iliad; Aes~twlus, Oresteia, Plato, Symposium; Lucretius, On the Nature of Things; Dante, Purgatorio; Burckhard!, Civilization of the Renaissance in Italy. 
STUDENT WORK: One or more papers will be assigned in addition to a half hour oral final PXnmina!ion. _ 
COMMENT: In everv GP seminar, the effort of the students them·selves is of' primary importance. Each fac·ulty leader, however, adds special insights to the discussion. Dr. Thomas's understanding of Eastern, and especially Janapese culture is sure to prove helpful in discussion the Eastern writings. Dr. Cronin~s interest in the writing ability of each of his students provides an excellent op­portunity for the improvement of thathuseful art. pr. Lyon shares with his students valuable insights drawn from a wealth of historical knowledge. 

GP 441 The Novel various times 
DESCRIPTION: The course entails the study of four or five novels selected, not for their..diftic.u~ b.L!t tor.their rjchness and the quality of ttieir techl'\iqu~, u~. Cronin feels that if a student can understand these chailenging works, then 
T1e can read any novel profitably. An emphasis is placed on the development of the student's writ:ng skills--considered by Dr. Cronin to be an essential element in any Arts and Letters course, particularly in literature. 
,The course is taught through a blend of lecture and discussion. Time is also spent in reading aloud from the works in class. Note-taking is.definitely not required, while active oarticioation is encouraa~d.. 
: READINGS: The first half otthe course wI11 oe :,µem in covering three or tour 11o~els, which vary each time the course is offered. Past readings include Henry 
· James's The Wings of the Dove, Charles Dickens' Bleak House and a.ru:t Virginia Woolf's The Waves. The last half of the semester is occupied with a chapter oy. · chapter analysis ·of.james Joyce's Ulysses, using extra sessions to cover the whole book of necessary. . 
STUDENT WORK: A paper is required on every novel after it is covered in class. A•Jeast one will be required on Ulysses. Dr. Cronin_stresses quality, not 
quantity, in the student's written work. Each paper is corrected by Dr. Cronin, and retorrected by the student. If necessary, a private "confession" is held to iron out any problems the student may have. The final grade is determined by how well a student.'writes and the degree of improvement in the writing. The final level of writing, not an arithmetical average, is the key;to Dr. Cronins' grading policy. The contribution a student makes to the class is also a factor. There are no exams. 
COMMENTS: The course is excellent. The quality of the readings, especially Ulysses, alone makes the course attractive. Dr. Crbnins' devision tne en­thusiasm for his work are an important factor in,the success of the course. He is willing to spend a great deal of time in working with his student's. It should be noted that ·or. Cronin is not known for for his generosity in grading papers. His insistence on quality in the student's work,· and his dogmatic approach. to everything from Ireland and the Democratic Party to his interpretation of a novel tends to make him aP.pear a big heavy-handed. Despite Utis.; or more likely because of it, the student will find the course has a lot to offer for anyone willing to work for it. 
Lyon GP 445 Intel Cul Hist I 9TTll seq. 265~62 
DESCRIPTION: This is the first semester of a two-semester course in in­teilectual history required of all GP seniors. There are no prerequisites, but GP majors who have been introduced to the maincurrents of Western thought in the Great Books seminars may have an advantage over any non-majors, enrolled. Dr. Lvon's presentation consists primarily of lectures; however, class par­ticipation in the form of questions and discussion of the readings is both welcomed and required.· The course covers the period from Augstine to the beginning of 1he French Revolution and thus can hardly attempt a com­prehensive study of European intellectual history. Dr. Lyon instead selects topics illustrating central themes in Weste,n thought; these include the impact of the Teutonic and Celtic cultures on the development of Christianity, the Reformation, the phenomena of courtly love, and the idea of exploration. If one overall theme may be said to govern the selection of readings and topics, it is the problem of the tension between reason and revelation and the working out of the implications of the Christian idea of free will in a world and discipline (history) which both seem to be controlled by chance or necessity. 
READINGS: Since Dr. Lyon never teaches the course twice in the same manner, the book list is not stable. However, Helen Waddell's ~eter Abelard, 
H.R. Niebuhr's Christ and Culture and R. G. Collingwood's The Idea of History will almost certainly be used. Probable readings are Understanding Media by Marshall McLuhan and The Origins of Totalitarian Democracy by J.L. Talmon, as is Friedrich Heer's Intellectual History of Europe depending up_on its availability in print. 
STUDENT WORK: The basic requirement is a careful reading of assigned books before the lectures in order to facilitate discussion. Two 3-5 page essays on assigned topics are also required. Mid-term and final examinations are given, and consist of both objective identifications and essay questions. · COMMENT: Dr. Lyon is without a doubt an extremely interesting lecturer, often supplementing his classroom presentation historical anecdotes about the personalities or topics under study. Apt to digress at the slightest prod of a student's harmless question, he will at times range far afield in bringing his apparently limitless knowledge of detail and theory to bear on all rele~ant--and often unforseen--aspects of the question. He makes only the merest pretense of offering logically ordered, step-by-step textbook lectures and feels that the students gain most when required by his deliberate obscurity to analyze and" reflect upon his lectures after class. Should this task prove too formi~able, he is easily approachable for help outside of class. 
LaPorte  GP 445  Intel Cul Hist I  
11 MWF  seq. 265061  
DESCRIPTION:  This course will attempt  an  historical and thematic in­ 

vestigation of the evolution and differentiation of the Western tradition from the fall of Rome and the rise of Christianity to the Enlightenment. The principal developments will be traced, not only in the f~r_m of ideas, but in their more palpaole.cultural and institutional repercussions. L~ctures and readings will be designed to coordinate and supplement the Great Books Seminars. Texts will include both primary and secondary sources. Contemporaneous sources will include expressions of the popular culture as well as theoretical tracts, while the modem· works will be interpretive rather than merely factual. Class par­ticipation in the form of questions will ·be expected. Original rese~rch will be sugmilted to the class in either oral or written form. There will be a final 
examination. 
COMMENTS:' Dr. LaPorte's truly encyclopdeic knowledge is sure to impress students. Her lecture style, though at times rather dry, is concise and thought provoking.·Her background in history of science accounts for the unique insights which she often brings to an interpretation of intellectual history. 
LaPorte,Hunt,Rogers GP 481 Gt Bks Sem V various times 
DESCRIPTION: The readings in this fifth General Program seminar range from Thucydides to Milton and deal especially with the concept of human nature and the various kinds of religious knowledge. 
REACINGS: Thucydides, Peloponnesian Wars; Euripides, Tojan Women; Plato, Phaedrus; Virgil, Aeriieid; Gibbon, Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire; Medieval Romances; Thomas Aquinas, Active and Contemplative Life; Dante, Par;1diso; Chaucer, Canterbury Tales; Pico, Oration on the Dignity of Mani . .tThomas More, Utopia; Cervantes, Don Quixote; Julian of Norwich, Revelations of Divine Love; Pascal, Pensees; Milton, Areopagitica. 
STUDENT WORK: ·A paper is usualiy required in addition to the final oral examination. Students may also be asked to lead the seminar on a p~rticular work. 
COMMENT: For seniors, already familiar with seminar reading and discussion; the faculty member becomes more a guide and fellow participant than a discussion leader. Cpntributing valuable insights from their special fields of study•. Doctors LaPorte, Hunt and Rogers take active part in the ongoing dialogue. 
available for consultation. This course is definitely challenging, but Dr. Kom­mers'_dynamic lecture style, rapport wifh students, and general approach to

government nd 
American government makes it an excellent cour$e for any serious student of 
STUDENT ADVISORS: Larry Johnston, 1112 Grace, 1802· Walt Spack_, 39 Sorin, 8452; Chris Waite, Allen St. 232-9828; G_uy R~ndles, 201 ~1sher, 1943; Paul" Dziedzic, 801 Park Ave., 234-2334; Don Ferns, 426 Farley, 6887; Tom Long, 364 Morrissey, 3636· William White, 232-0841; Dick Williams, 2301 S. Williams, 287-4069. 

Francis Govt 341 lnternatl's Relations 9 TT 11 seq. 270962 10 TT 12 270963 
READINGS: Professor Francis is currently in Mexico, and this list of readings is the only information available on his courses. All texts, for both courses, are paperbacks. International Relations texts will cost about $17.00 and include the following: Coplin and Kegley, eds., Multi-Method Introduction in International Politics; Stoessinger, Nations in Darkness; Art and Waltz, eds.,. The Use of Force; George, Hall and Simons, The Limits of Coercive 

Arnold Govt 340 American Government l TT 3 seq. 270863 
DESCRIPTION: American Government is an introductory course and.one of the "Big Four" for Gmter..l'}ment majors. Mr. Arnold hopes to present to the student not only the basic factual information he needs to understand the American political process, but also more sophisticated· theoretical models of the American polity. Mr. Arnold's courses are tightly organized and this one should be no exception. Lectures will ~upplement the readings, which should be completed before the attendant lecture. 
READINGS: The reading list is not ready at this time but it definitely will consist of a short text and several supplemntal paperbacks and articles. The text will provide the factual background, while the supplementary readings will present the theoretical constucts. 
STUDENT WORK: The reading list will not be oppressive nor shall an overwhelming amount of memorization be necessary. Some factual detail will probably demand careful study. Grades will be based on two exams and a short paper. Any change from such a policy will not be significant. 
COMMENT: This section of American Government will be offered for the first ti01e. Mr. Arnold plans a detailed examination of the basics, while keeping a bruaaer, more sophisticated view in mind. The basic topics will be examined. Mt:Arnold is a stiroufati,,g and scholrly teacher. His courses are universally well-organized, integrating readings and lectures in a way more professors fail to 1•1atch. It must be borne in mind, however, that this is his first semester teact,in!J an introductory course and whether or not the quality will suffer for 

Kommers Govt 340 American Government 10 TT 12 seq. 270~62 
DESCRIPTION: American government is one of four courses required for a government major, and will be open to sophomores next semester. Dr. Kom­mer's treatment of this subject centers around American Democracy in both theory and practice, with special emphasis on the areas of public policy and the process of decision making. His method of presentation is that of formal lec­tures, but questions and discussions on relevant topics are encouraged at any time. The course is composed largely of government majors, and there are no prerequisites. ­
READINGS: The readings for this course consist of ten paperback books, with an approximate total cost of $25. The following books were read this semester; Smith, The Convention and the Constitution; Tocqueville, Democracy in A_meri~a; ae.11.S,Pl.1._ The Politics of Urbanism; Schattsneider, -The 
semi-Sovereign People; Key, The Responsible Electorate; B_urns,~ Ibe Deadlock of Democracy; Harris, Congress and the Legislative Process: Neustadt, Presidential Power; Lew~s, j;id~on's Trumpet; Eliff, Crime, Dissent and_the Attorn~v Ge~Pral: Jhe Justiceoepart111entin the 1960'" 
STUDENT WORK: one paper {15-;,u pages) is required for this course, and each student must defend his work in a half-hour session with Dr. Kommers. There ·;s a mid-term and a final. Tests are usually comprised of short-answer identifications and a choice of essays. 
COMMENT: The quality of lect1Jres and discussion in this class is excellent, due to Dr. Kommers' own enthusiasm for the subject matter, and to student interest in current problems in American government. Questions are always welcomed, but at times they tend to take away from the continuity of the lecture. 
The readings for this course are quite long and generally difficult. Although the work load is heavy, Dr. Kommers' tests are very fair in that they allow the student to express what he has learned in various areas of American govern­ment, and require him to make constructive and critical use of that knowledge. Dr. Kommers attaches a great deal of weight to the paper, and he is readily ~overnment. 

Bartholomew Govt 340 American Government 9TT11 seq. 270861 
DESCRIPTION: A study of the fundamental principles in American 
Government, this course provides the student with a basic-knowledge of the 
organization and function of the Federal system. The material is presented in 
lecture form, and also covers basic Constitutional questions involving 
separation of pwers, interstate commerce, and civil liberties. This course is one · 
of the four basic courses required ·of all government majors, and there are no 
prerequisites. 
READINGS: One textbook is required, Government by the People. The 
student is also responsible for selected readings in U.S. News and World Report 
and required Supreme Court cases. Recommended for this case work is 
Professor Bartholomew's Summaries of Leading Cases on the Constitution. 
STUDENT WORK: There are three quizzes, covering material given in the 

_text, the lectures, Court cases, and magazine.-·articles. In addition there are· 
lour papers of medium length. The four reports and three quizzes ~omprise 75 
per cent of the final grade, with the cumulative final worth the remaining 25 per 
cent. 
COMMENT: Professor Bartholomew presents his material .in a well-
nrq;mizen ;mn interesJi.DSl !POD l:iis \las.1 experience aod k.cowJ~ of 
American e:.overnment provides the student with a clear and accurate un­
derstanding of the basic principles. Though the course material could become 
dull, Professor Bartholomew's personal anecdotes and dry wit keep the lectures 
lively and interesting. He encourages questions, and is readily available for 
consultation. Due to the course's fundamental approach and Professor Bar­
tholomew's rewnowned reputation, this course is highly recommended for the 
serious student, and especially to the student interested in law school. 

Goerner Govt 342 Comp Govt 10 MWF seq. 271061 11 MWF 271062 
DESCRIPTION: This is a course designed to give students a firm un­
derstanding of the various ways men have come to grips with the issues of 
government and political authority both historically and presently. Looking to 
prol"flinent political and human issues, the goal of the course is to stress methods 
of inquiry into comparative politics. Questions such as war, nature and 
economics will be dealt with as concrete human realities and fundamental 
probiems of mankind. Ways of human heroism will be seen in light of th~se 
pressing concerns of political association. · 
READINGS: Mr. Goerner has not yet decided between either a set of 
paperbacks or a text entitled Patterns of Government by Beer.and Ulam. 
STUDENT WORK: A midterm and final are required and "students who wish 
to be taken seriously" are advised to write a paper on a selected topic. 
COM/Vlr:NT:' It would be wrong to term any course taught by Mr. Goerner as 
less than oursrandmg. Problems of human inquiry into the political are seriously 
considered while the approch to these perplexities is animated and enlightening. 
Once having taken a course from Mr. Goerner, the student will always find in­
spiration in the thoughts that he found ser!ous while studying with Mr. Goerner. 

Roos Govt 405 Congress 10 TT 12 seq. 271860 
DESCRIPTION: U.S. Congress" concerns itself with the birth of Congress, its 
historical relafionships with the Executive, its present, and its future. The 
course is not required for majors and has no prerequisites. If the course is 
taught b~th semesters, it might become open to a limited number of no~-~aj~rs•. 
· Dr. Roos lectures every class. His lectures are quite informative~nd prove 
essential when tests are given. Dr. Roos knows the material well ·and does 
produce a number of excellent lectures throughout the semester. However, his 
occasional pre-occupation with statistics and semi-private discussions with 
students (during class) damage the overall effectiveness of some lectures. 
Questions are encouraged. 
READINGS: The Federalist Papers by Hamilton, Madison and Jay, 
Harris'Congress and the Legislative Process, Riselbach's The Congressionar 
System, Lowi's The End of Liberalism, Moe's Congress and the President, and 
possibly Ripley's Power in the Senate. The list is not definite, but probably. The 
total cost is approximately S22.00. . 
STUDENT WORK: It is important that the student keep up on the readings or 
the lectures tend lo mean little. The grade is determined by one or two exams, 
one paper of medium length, and a final. 
COMMENT: With the present crisis in Eseucfive-Congresslonal relations this 
course becomes more relevant daily. The course_is amust for students truly 
interested in the top levels of American Government. Dr. Roos is very available 
to students and very easy to talk to. 

~are usually quite interesting. Although one may walk out of a class un­certain of the basic outline of the material presenteed that day, the usual reveiw 

psychology smc

ofone·s notes before an exam· shou"ld make that evident. The lectures-are spiced 
with relevant examples from Dr. Taub's personal exper;c?nce. This will be ~~ue.next..semesrer., for shP-Plans to speQc/ !he summer working il'l a. state mental hosp.i1~Jr Questions ar~ always ~el~om~ an_d are an~wered ef­fectivetv. Tests are difficult, but are graded on a curve. Knowledge of the m~terial is important, for time goes quickly during one of Dr. ,::aub's exams. She does, however, want her students to do well and, as mentioned above, en­courages those worried about the course to see her to obtain extra work. The 
·content material for this course is slightly more-difficult and the work load is a littleheavier than that-of General Psych. Especially considering the topic of-the course-namely, the oersonalitv d~velopment of human heinas-Psychology of 
P~r~ality is,on the whole, interesting and often quite thought provoking. 
Farrow Psych. 356 Psychological Testing 04TT6 seq. 432160 
DESCRIPTION,: This course is-open to all students provided they ha~e hact the prerequisites of General . ?sycholo.gy /and Experiemtal Psychology ((Statistics). This course is aimed at providing the student with a thorough survey of psychological testing theory as wel!'as the practical applications of testing such as development, standardization,r administration, scoring, and evaluation-interpretation. Personality and I.Q. testing are partiCL•larly em­phasized. The first half of the course emphasizes theory and priRc-tf}¼s of test­construction with the latter half emphasizing the adminsitration, evaluation, and interpretaion of selected tests such as th Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, Reitan Test Battery for Brain Oamage, and others. 
READINGS: The text used was Principles of Educational and Psychological Testing by Brown. Dr. Farrow has stated that there is apossibility that the third edition of Psycholgoical Testing by Anastasi will be used in the future. Various handouts will alsn hP.. distributed. -STUDENT WORK: Graaes w111 be determined on the basis of a midterm exam, a final exaq, four short evaluative reports on tests administered by the students, and on class performance. A test development project, consisting of an. outline ol the development of a test of any psychological construct that the student desires, is also req_ui_red. 
COMMENT:.This course is recommended-to all Psychology Majors, as well as other studens, who desire to obtain a working knowledge of psychological . testing frorraev~1opmenf through interpretation. The first half of the course tends to be dfv.=_d4e to the.nature of the statisti~al concepts involed, however, D.r. 
Farrow is a very personable lecturer and tries to illuminate mcm:r,a1 That would · otherwise be boring. The second half of th course involves a seminar-laboratory · experience which enables the student to apply what he has learned and is quite 'interesting. Throughout this seg1T1ent audio-visual materials are ued. The text tends to be boring and cursory atI times.: The tests are taken pr_imarily from the text and rPCJuire a thorough knolwedge of the material. The te~ts are difficult, but if onestudies·conscientiously he will do well. Dr. Farrow takes a personal. interest in his studens and is readily available for consultation. The work load ·for.this course is moderate. Overall, the students find the course interesting and 
.ta)nable CffSYroablY <iue t~=-11 number of_~tug!!nts in the class and th~ fact that the student gains pracnca1 experience {n testing as well as the theory behind it. . . 
Snyder ·Psych 4738N Comparative Psych ·07TT9 seq. 432960 
DESCRIPT!ON: Prerequisites:. General Psychology~ This course will be basically a lec:ture course presenting a broad survey of animal behavior (sen­sory to·social), its functional analysis by psychological experimental methods, and its basis and significance in physiology, genetics; evolution, and ecology. 
·Topics'to be covered are animals· in research, the uniqueness of humans, -comparison of Americi!n _and f:urope.in psychological, eth~rogicali, and ,other approaches; example of psychological research, evolutionary concepts and principles·, reserach tech.!'iques, ecology'...~iological <:l_ocks, sensory processe~ perceptual · organizati9n and. programm!.!tg, the nervQY._s_svs~m, _i.nn~te. bef1av1or, 1nsf!nctual ·.behavior, ·conditioning· and learning, reproductive behavior, social behavtm-, and aggression. The classs will be limited to 30 
students. · • . · READINGS: Dewsbury g; Rethlinasl)after's Comparative psychology: A MOCle,:tt'Approacn l 1973) $13.9!1 a~d probabryaoookor readin~:•. 
STUDENT WORK': There.will be·two•exams plus·a final (objective type). Since thls is expected to be the Stu.dent's first co_urse in this area, the profes~r , does ·not plan on assigning any paper: _ · 
·coMM~N~: Dr. Snyder 1edtures in_an informal, low-keyed style. He is not reluctant to talk about areas in which he has done research himself (when ap­propriate). He appears to have a more than passin~nterest in this area, and 5"'fie~fenthusiastic about teaching it next se~ester. This is the first Jime this course has been offered. 
/ 
General Psychology

Scrivner Psyc 156 
09 MWF seq. 941060 

DESCRIPTION: An introduction to·the study of human and animal behavior. Primary emphasis will be given to the understanding as well as explanation of ·numari behavior. · ~ READINGS: An introductry text will be used but it has not been chosen yet.
, 

The cost will not exceed S15. 
STU DENT WORK: The general format of the class has nofbeen decided yet, however once a week the class will' break down~ into small discussion groups to discuss the previous material. 
COMMENT: Dr. Scrivner is a young and interesting professor who has many 
. progressive ,ideas.. His lectur.es. are informative, however,. as y.,ifh all in.­troductory courses, nothing is pursued in depth. Th_e tests are difficult but fair and Dr. Scrivner is always available for students who wiSh additional help_or
1 

information. He has changed his approach to this course several tin:ies .i.n the 
past, and· each ~pproach has succeeded better t~·an the p_revious one_: He wili tie, work:ing on a new appraoch over the summer and this course will probably improve again. 
Scrivner PSYC 201 Statistics 11 MWF seq. 941861 
DESCRIPTION: Concepts. of probability and statistical inference fo, psychological research. Topics will include correlation, linear regression, sampling, Chi Square, and analysis of variance. 
READINGS: No text has been chosen yet. The text will not exceed $15. STUDENT WORK: The format of the course will vary from that of last ·semester. Dr. Scrivener v.?ill determine this over the summer. COMMENT: Thiscourse is a difficult one due to th~ nature of the material 
· presented. This was the first time St. Mary's offered such a course in p~cl_:iq!ogy. Sgme.Jllt.M styd~ts_!h~r_!!f~re ha~_trp!Jble with it, but.Dr. Scrivner was generous with his time and sought to give the students as much time as they needed to understand the material. The tests were difficult but again the feeling 
.isthat this was duito the mat~ial itself: As a result this course is recommended for majors only. 
--Matthews Psyc 312 Individual Differences 08 TT 10 seq. 942800 
DESCRIPTION: Development and current status of mental testing and psychological measurement·processes. Content includes the basic principles ofpsychological testing, the selection and critical evaluation of ~sts of in­telligence, personality, aptitude, interest and achievement. · 
READINGS: Theory and Practice_of Psychology, Freeman. STUDENT WORK: Multiple choice tests are given and also student evaluations of different psychological tests. 
COMMENT: Although Dr. Matthews displayed a considerable knowledge of the subject when aksed a direct question by the students, he rarely lectured. Most of the time was spent in taking various persor:iality· and I.Q. tests or in listening to student reports. These reports were not highly beneficial. The text was adequate but the students devised all the items for the multiple choice tests which resulted in many items being contradictory to the text. This course could have been more valuable than it was. Dr. Matthews has, students contract for grades this semester and this procedure may eliminate some of the confusion if 
implemented next semester. . 
McDona·gh ·Psyc 371 Existential Psychology 02 TT 4 seq. 944060 
DESCRIPTION: The philosophical and clinical toundations of the "Third Froce" movement in psycholbgy will be discussed. The role of existential phenomenology (Hussert, Heidegger) in giving rise to new outlooks· in psychology will be discussed. Particular _attention \viii be given to the writings of Binswanger, Jung, Laing, M~y, Rogers, and Maslow. Prerequisite: 
' Psycholog.y 156. ­READ_INGS: The professor is investigating the possibilities of using one basic text.however, tl;is has not been decided yet. In Jhe past, several paperbacks, have beeen used. · · 
STUDENT,W0RK: Class presentations and discussion will form the basis of this course. Any tests will consist of short essay questions and there will probably be two term pap_ers, however,_this is tentative at this time. 
COMMENT: Dr. McDonagh is especially knowledgable In' the field of existential psychology.· In the past1his course was held as more of a seminar,· ~owever this professor lectured quite extensively. He expects the students to. gain a good background In beginnings of existentialism and a good deal to time was spent on this. ~e allows the stu~~ts muct, leew~v.in choosing their tern\ 
Kertesz Govt 425 Peace Through Diplomacy Brinkley 
Govt 447 Soviet Unign . 
l TT 3 seq. 273160 
10 MWF seq. 274160 
DESCRIPTION: The course will present an historical analysis of the development of diplomacy from ancient usage t_hrough current practice. Various modern organizations (U.S., NATO, EEC etc.) will also be considered, as well as contrasts among British, French, Soviet and American displomatic methods. The course will examine the priorities, alternatives, and opporunities for American diplomacy in the ppst-Vietnam era. A clecture format will be employed, but questions and discussion are encouraged. 
READINGS: The·readings have not yet been decided. However, the course will follow the outline of Dr. Kertesz's book, The Quest for Peace Through Diplomacy (Spectrum Paperback, S2._45). Four other paperbacks will probably be assigned. Total price should be between Sl0-15. 
STUDENT WORK: Besides a midterm and a final, students will be required to write reports on each of the four books. A term paper, 15-25 pages in length, is not required but very highly recommended. 
COMMENTS: Professor Kertesz brings to the course a wide range of ex­periences in world diplomacy, gathered through his work inhe Hungarian foreign service as well as contacts with diplomats and international relations scholars worldwide. These experiences broaded the course and increase the 
..stu~ent's gr:asp of inter:national relation_s in the_"real world." 

Moody Govt 457 Government and Pol of Asia 11 MWF seq. 274660 
DESCRIPTION: Professor Moody hopes to cover government and politics in China, Japan and Korea. Stress will be on political order and decay, traditional cultures, and modernization. The class will be primarily lectures, with discussion when possible. 
READINGS: Not yet determined, but will be different from those used in previous courses. STUDENT WORK: A midterm and a final will be given. No papers are planned.a! 1bi:: lime. 
Moody Govt 459 Asian Communist Movements l TT 3 seq. 274860 
DESCRIPTION: Professor Moody will use a seminar format for this course and thus requires a limited enrollment. Discussions will center on adaptations of Marxist-Leninst theory to the Asian environment, a study of the Peoples War and its applications in China and Vietnam, a comparative analysis of communist regimes in Asia and of non-guerilla Asian communist parties. 
READINGS: The tentative reading list for the course includes: Robert Scalapino, The Communist Revolution in Asia; Douglas Pike, Viet Cong; Robert Thompson, Defeating Communist Insurgency; Fichard Lowenthal, World Communism; The Distintegration of a Secular Faith; and Donald Zagoria, Vietnam Triangle. This list will probably be expanded. 
STU DENT WORK: There are no papers. A midterm and a final will be given. 
Sem on Afro-Americans
Che-Mponda Govt 419 
seq. 27296010 TT 12 
OESCR IPTION:: An interdisciplinary study and literature review on Africa ~ Black A~erica especially in the fields of politics, history, economics, an­thropology, sociology, et al., culminating in the preparation of annotated 
oi61iographies. 

Walshe Govt 439 Eco Dev Pol Mod 9 TT 11 seq. 273760 
DESCRIPTION: After drawing on economic and political history to clarify the present predicament of the third world areas, the course focuses on major issues in economic and political modernization, for example, ·capital ac­cumulation, agricultural reform, ideology and party development, to show the in~rac!Jon. '1f .e~nomics and Qolitics. 

Walshe Govt 451 Tropical Africa 1 TT 3. seq. 274460 
OESCR I PTION~ Following an introduction to traditional political in• stitutions, the colonial inheritance and the rise of African nationalism, the course concenk'ates on political organizations, ideologies and government 111­stitutions withi~:the newly independent countries of tropical Africa. 
COMMENTS: Professor Walshe is originally from South Africa-and is a specialist in African political and economic development. He was an economist initially and later shifted his attention to politics. His courses focus primarily on economic development, political development, modernization, and the in­teraction between these three. As he is currently in Africa, book lists and exam 
schedules are unavailable. 

DESCRIPTION: A study of the Russaln background, the ideology and the totalitarian government of the Soviet state, concentrating on an analysis of its one-party system of controls, and political and social insl'itutions. The course is open to all students, with Comparative Government as a prerequisite. (This requirement could be waived for non-majors, and, under certain cur­cumstances, for majors.) This course can be counted for credit for students in the Program for Soviet and East European Studies. · READINGS: The main text is J.S. Reshetar's The Soviet Polity: Government and Politics in the USSR. There are three other books for additional readings: 
R. L.IBrham, ed., Soviet Politics and Govenment; R. J. Osborn, Soviet Social Policies: Welfare, Equality and Community; DD. R. Little, ed., Liberalization in the USSR: Facade or Reality? All are paperbacks, with the most expensive costing S6.50. 
STUDENT WORK: Following Dr. Brinkley's usual format, there will be four non-cumulative, essay tests (including the final). There are no term papers r~quired. Howev~, Dr. Brink]ey will acc.ept extra-c_redit reports or_ proiect£. 
initiated by the student. An extensive reading list is distriouted a1 the start of the semester, with two or three 'outside readings recommended for each topic discussed. 
COMMENTS: Dr. Brinkley's lectures are extremely informative, with much emphasis on lecture material in the exams,. While the texts are generally good, it is up to the individual as the the emphasis he desires in the outside readings. Dr. Brinkley makes every effort to be available for consultation, and the student can feel at ease when talking to him. The work load is reasonable, with plentyof time allowed to do the required readings. This course would be very valuable to any student in Government, Soviet Area Studies, as well as any non-Government n,a jor who has an interest in America's greatest rival. 

lvanus Govt-437 International Communism 
3M6 seq. 273660 
DESCRIPTION: This course will be. primarily concerned with tracing the developmentof Marxist doctrine into a concept of global conquest; thus SO!'Tie previous knowledge of Marxist theory will be helpful, but not essential.· Leninism, Stalinism, Maoism, Titoism, Castroism, and National Socialism will be considered, as well as the contrast between pure theory and the concrete requirements of power, statehood and a changing political milieu. Format will be primarily lecture. 
READINGS: The readings will consist of a number of inexpensive paper­backs. titles to be chosen later. STUDENT WORK: There will be a midterm and final. No papers are assigned, but abibiliographic report on four books is required. 
F-rancis Govt 449 Lat-in Am Pol 2TT4 seq. ~74260 
READINGS: The texts for Latin American Politics are: Denton and Lawrence, Latin American Politics: A Functional Approach; Tomasek, ·ed., 
·Latin American Politics: Studies of the Contemporary Scene; Jol)nson. Mexican Democracy: A Critical View; Snow, Political Forces in Argentina; Lewis, Five Families; Bonachea and Waldes (eds.) Cuba in Revolution:· The cost of the Latin American texts ia S17.85. 

Che-Mponda Govt 480 Black Political Thought 11 MWF seq. 275460 
DESCRIPTION: A general survey of black political thought from ancient times to the present both in Africa and among Afro-Americans and West-Indians including the politics of race relations throughout the ages. Subtitled: "ln­te_rpretive Politics and the Blackman's experience." 
ADDITIONAL COMMENTS FOR GOVT 419, 431 and 480: 
READINGS: If available at that time, Prof. Che-Mponda may use two of his own works, soon to be published, for the above courses: Soul Powe~ by Name and The Anatomy of African Politics. Other readings are yet to be decided. 
STUDENT WORK: All three courses wfll require on~ term paper, from 8 to 15 papges in length. Each course will have a midterm ,and a fi~al exam, bot~ ~f which will be essay. Prof. Che-Mponda plans to take all his_ classes to ~1s1t Johnson Publications in Chicago (Publishers of Ebony, Jet., etc.,) sometime 
during the semester. ,coMMEN'T: There are no prerequisites for any of the three coureses, and the .courses are open to all students. Govt 419 will be a seminar format, while Govt 431 and 480 will be lecture courses. All three courses are cross-listed (and count for credit) in both the Government Department and the Black Studies Proa~am•• 

COMMENT: This course is basically simjlar to an;independent study so that
Pol Afro-Amer P~oples

Che-Mponda Govt 431 the key to learning will depend greatly on the amount of individual effort the· 10 MWF seq. 273360 student will give. It is a very flexible arrangement and an extremely worthwhile E!Xperience. I . ' DE.SCR I PTION: Deals with the role of African~ an_d of !hose of African ·an­
cestry in international relations. Particular attention I_s paid to th_e p~rt P!ayed by black peoples all over the world in utilizing international organizations in the liberation struggles of their black brothers. .. . . READINGS: Probable text--James N. Rosenaus' Linkage Poht1cs. 


political science smc 

Bohan POSC 206 I nternationa I Politics
• 
01 MWF seq. 931800 
DESCRIPTION: International Politics studies the sources, applications and regulation of power in world politics. Lecture format will be followed. READINGS: A number of paperback books will be used, but the list has not yet been decided. STUDENT WORK: Grading will be based on two very difficult tests and an equally difficult final as well as a short papP.r. 
COMMENT: Dr. Bohan is a fantastic lecturer_, but the student will probably find the work load much heavier and the tests much harder than in other cour­c:es. 

Tondreau POSC 325 Urban Studies Sem 02 MWF seq. 932400 
DESCR I PTJON: Urban Studies Seminar is ar upper-division Political Science Course which investigates various aspects of urban living.-There is aparticular focus on problems of crime, race, and discrimination. Credit granted for the 

· Urban Studies Seminar may be applied to the Urban Studies Certificate. 
READINGS: The basis for class discussion is The Unheavenly City by Edward Banfield which gives a one-sided picture of urban life: To supplement Banfield's views, handouts are presented to the students. Ttiese handouts are free of charge. 
STUDENT WORK: Each class period one student prepares an article and leads a discussion. A midterm is scheduled at a time convenient for the class. No papers are required. 
COMMENT: In this course, the burden of discussion falls on the student, but the work load_is relat!vely light in compc;i~ison to other cou~ses. 

Tondreau POSC 333 Modern Pol Thought 02 TT 4 seq. 932800 
DESCRIPTION: Modern Political Thought studies Western political thought and movements in the modern period through analysis of the writings of the foremost thinkers of the period and through the analysis of contemporary ideology. Providrng the class is small enough, seminar format will be followed with an emphasis on discussion. 
READINGS: No booklist has yet been selected. STUDENT WORK: A midterm and a final will provide the basis for grading. 

~enry POSC 355 Public Administration time undecided seq. 933200 
DESCRIPTION: Public Administration is structured so as to emphasize politics of agency survival and growth in a democratic system. The dynamics of agency participation in politics and the relation·of agencies of the bureaucrac,. to the legislative, executive, and judicial branches are also stressed.-Various aspects of Public Administration are discussed op federal, state, and local levels. The class is taught in lecture form using a· cultural rather than an organizational approach. Lecutres will be supplemented by case studies. 
READINGS: Three or four paperbacks will be used as the basis for discussion. STUDENT WORK: In addition to a midterm and a final, there wili be on~ research report assigned. I 
I ondreau POSC 499 Internship in Gbv seq. ·93~00 
--I 
1 

DESCRIPTION: Internship in Governm~nt is a three-credit pass-fail course which is offered to any student who has a desire to learn more about city government. The only requirement is approval from the Chairman bf ·the Political Science department. I · 
The student is placed in an office. Her duties vary according to the office in Whi,ch placement occurs. Hours are determined between the student and the assigned supervisor. _ ; 
· STUDENT WORK: The student is required to spend 8-12hours at her ~ssigned office. At the end of the semester, the student writes a summary of the· working experience which is given to the Chairman'of the Political Science1department for gradin_?· · /
• 
f • 
I • 


history _rid 
'
. . 

STUDENT ADVISORS: Rose Lennon,· 239 Badin, 6941; Richard Bostwock, 254 Farley, 6797; Will~am Dasso,_1527; Leo Meirose, 6934; Peter Romanski, 435 Stanford, 8769; Mark Serville, 324 Breen-Phillips, 1322; Rob Sprot~: 309 Lyons, 79~5. 
i 

O'Connell Hist 3·1 J-511 Ren.aissance 10TT12' . .seq. 282000 
DESCRIPTION: The Rensiassan~e is an upper division history course which holh majors and nonmajors will find rewarding and beneficial. The main thrust
. -.,
, . 

,1i ihe course traces the unfolding,'of the Renaissance as the emergence of ir.­uIvIaua11sm in Western Europe. The'°ebirth of capitalism, the emergency of the cC'ntralized state, and the development of social individualism are the primary lopics for Father O'Connell's lectures. The personalities and historical im­
porlance of such figures as Lorenzo d'Medici, Charles V, Erasmus ~nd Petrarch .1re also discussed. , 
READINGS: As of this time, a· book list for The Renaissance is not definite. However. the reading list will consist of approximately four original works' by RC'llaissance authors. More'.s Utopia, Machiavell's The Prince, and D<!nte's La Vita Nuova .1re prospective candidates. All of these work? are available in pr1perback editions. There is no textbook for ttie course. • . : 
STUDENT WORK: Each student will be required to read th'e assigned books. Either an essay exam, or: a short paper covering each of .the books \viii also be m.1ndatory. Two objecti_:~e exams covering Father O'Connell's lectures will also 
~Q~OO. . 
COMMENT: Father-'O'Connell's course is a thorough and perceptive study of this era. F.1ther O'Connell's lectures are well prepared, easy tQ follow, and 1•xtrem<'IY interesting. The work load for the.course is moderate, and it consists pri111.1rily of reading the historical works of various ~enaissance authors·. F,1ther O'Connell's iests are fair, but constructed to reflect the student's com­plet~ understandir;ig of the material. All te~ts and papers are gr3!ded with a -;crutinizing eye, and the student is required to prepare his best work at all timf'S. 
Norling ,,Hist 316-516 Eur-Arm and War After 1400 1 11 MWF seq. 282·100 
/. 

DESCR I PTiON: No prerequisites are required for this course ... tt is an upper division history course and is open to all colleges. The course wil cover European armies and warfare since 1400. The ·Iectures will be complemented by the readings. · 
READINGS: There will be approximately six to ten books reqU-ired for this course. As it is a new course, th·e reading list is still tenative, but Jhe following most likely will be included on the_Jist. B.H. Liddle Hart, ,Strategy; J.F.C. Fuller, .The Conduct of War 1789-1961; (S2.95); J:F.C. Fuller, 'lecisive Battles of the Western World; T. Ropp, Evolution of Modern WartarerA. Vagts, History of Militarism; E.M. Earle, Makers of Modern Strategy. 
STODENT WORK: There are many quizzes on the readings, at least one a WPl'f The quizzes are usually one question essay and are _given during the last ll'n,lnlnutcs of class. There is also a midterm and a final. Dr. Norling has ten­t,,t.ively dec:ided not to have a paper assignment for this course. Since this is an up'.-~.. division history course and is not required, Dr. Norling feels that ifone has y·•:-rted it then one should attend it. He allows four cuts without penalty. ' '-JMMENT: Many people feet that the readings are excessive, but then go on 
/··;say lhat these are compensated by the excellence of Or. Norling's treatment of hi::..Jry. He is the supreme cynic. Everything and everyone is at fault, no ·,olds barred. It will be an enjoyable class, findihg which side blundered more thar. fhe other; for according to Dr. Norling, that is the only way·wars are won. 
' ' . 

Bernard Hist 320:520 ,Age.of Louis XIV 02 MWF seq. -~82200 
DESCRIPTION: Dr. Bernard's course will try to give a roundea view of life in lhe Golden Age of French history, dealing with society and culture' as weli as politics. The format ':"'ill include lectures and slide sessions, and questions-are ,~lw,,ys more than welcome. This is not a required course for history majors, 
,1nd lhere are no pr_erequisites. : · · · 
READINGS: There will be eight books required•. They 1nclude· Richelieu bY. W<'dgewood, Political Testament of Richelieu, Louis XIV by Wolf, Frenchme~hv Goubcrt,_ Selected Plays of Moliere, Life In France Under Louis.xiv by J. L. 
C.1rr, ilnd !The Impact of Absolutism in France by W.F. Church. The·books ..,hould cost around S20 in total. COMMENT: Professor Bern_ard has a superb knowtedge'of French History, ,,nd rw·instills in his_classes a:c~ntagious warmth and vit~lity for the subject. Th<' lectures arc well structured and interestin!J;· the: ~iscussions open but 
llirr.cted, and ttie slides add to the development of events and personalities. The rP.idings ;i~e _of excellent quality and are closely tied to the movement of ·the rnurse. Dr.,Bernard is generally available in his office. The work load is par for lfr;~ory co~_rses, and the effort is very rewarding. 

,•ss;iy questions. A "major" paper will also be required of each student. 13,,gular class attendance is essential for doing well in this course. 
COMMENT: :me course is an excellent one, though the subject matter may prove to be dry for those without a true interest. The lectures, however, are rwver dry as Professor Kritzeck continually amazes with his knowledge and ,·xpertise. He is, in the opinion of this reviewer, one of the finest professors on this campus and I highly recommend the course to those who woulq,,share in his _love tor this topic and the zea! of his scholarship. 
Ward Hist 323-523 
19th Century France
09TT11. 
seq. 282300 
DESCRIPTION: · ·T11is course is an examination of the political, social, .rC'li9ious and culturai aspects of French life from 1789 to 1900. Emphasis in this rourse is not on ,detailed !_<nowledge, although the student must be well 
·,,cquainted with names, date?,'etc., but ratheron an understanding of the French national spirit in the 19th Century. There is no prerequisite for this course which ,1ttraqs bolh history and non-history majors alike. 
READINGS: The,t~xtbook for this course is Paul Gagnon' France Since 1789 i~ hich is ilVililiibte in paperback. In addition to this, the student will be required 10 rC'ad six or seven other works all of which are aavailable in paperback. In the p.ist, these trnve included Duff Cooper's Talleyrand, Jean Renoir's Renoir, My Father. Flaubert's Madame Bovary, Bury's Napoleon II, Zola's Germinal and Hugo's· Les Miserables among others. The cost of the books for this course runs ,1round S20. _ 
STUDENT WORK: Compared with other history courses, the work load for 191h Ct'nlury France is moderate. Prof. Ward gives a quiz on each of the ,1ssi9ned readings as well as an ciptional quiz which can be susted for another. There is·a mid-term and a final examination as well. Both quizzes and exams 
·,1re ,;traighl forward and fair. ­
COMMENT: In the opinion of most of the people who have taken a course.with Prof. W.ird, his style and method of teaching is enjoyable as well as scholarly ,ind rewarding. Prof. Ward does not lecture. His classes alternate between informative discussions of the readings and slide-illustrated talks. Prof; Ward puts out every effort to bring as much audio-visual material into his courses as possible. The readings are of top quality and are intended to cover different .ispects of French life in the 19th Century. Both the readings and classes are quar.inteed 16 c1ttract and to hold the student's attention. Prof. Ward is readily .w~il;ohlp tor c-onsultr1tion. This course c_omes hiQhly recommended. 
Flood Hist 327 Germany 1648-1870 01 MWF seq. 282400 

DESCRIPTION: This course will focus upon the political and social _; ,,-development of Central Europe from the Thirty Years' War to the establishment 
•. ot the Ger.man empire. It will be followed in the second semester by a course ·which will consider the political and social development of Central Europe, pc1rticularly Germany, from t!;Je establishment of the German empire to the . contemporary period. Among the topics which will be considered in the first ,;cmester are: the origins of #noi:1erri Germany, the age of absolutism in Central · Europe, the rise of German dualism, the era of enlightened despotism, the years ol Fren·ch hegemony, reform and liberation, the reconstruction of Central 
. Europe, the Restoration, the revolutions of 1848, the triumph of reaction, the new 1'ra and the constitutional conflicts, the struggle for supremacy in Central Europe, and lhe achievement of.national unification. 
READINGS: The two textbooks used in this course (both semesters) will be Koppel' S. Pinson, Modern Germany and Hajo Holborn, A History of Modern Germany_ (two volumes). These texts will be supplemented by a series of 

··regular required readings on reserve in the university library. In addition to the · final examination,· one hour examination and one research paper will be reciu.ired: · 
-COMMENT: This will be the first semestf!rJhat..Ms. Elaod ~ta_y.9.'1t~t_Nl2tre .-Dari,~. Sl1e is in her-mid-20's and IS currently working on her Ph.D at the Univ. of · Wisconsin.-· Slie is spending the 1972-73 school year at the lnstitut fur 
·-europaische Geschichte, Mainz, Germany. 
~ritzecl<'. Hist 336-536 The Crusades 09TTll seq. 282600 · 
DES!=R IPTION: This course will focus upon the social, political, and religious traditions of two major medieval civilizations, Islam and Christendom, which 

• ·,ontendeci" tor·-~o~_trol_of the Holy Land over 800 years ago. Typically, Dr. .:· , Kritzec;k will not narrow_ly confine the subject matter to the era commonly construed to. be "The Crusades;" he will illumine causes leading up .to the ..military confrontat'ions, some aspects of the concept of Holy War, and the effects ~ _ot ll~e ilflermath.on both Islam and Christianity. Indeed, Professor.Kritzeck will ,;how ll1~t. at least_ in-on·e sense, the Crusades are not yet over today! Though th_e , , class will.lie a checkmark cour~e and undoubtedly will be comprised primarily -o( junior and sel'!ior history majors, non-majors will suffer no disadvantage 
sin~e 1)1e only P.rerequisite is a sincre interest in this topic. . READINGS:: Required readings consist of a three volume History of the .'crusades l)y Sir Stephen Rundman. This can be purchased in paperback or ,_llhtaine(! on reserve·from the liQrary. A supplemer.tary reading list will be -distributed.early in the semester--these short readings will be on reserve and 
. : will· prove ·rather helpful. · 'STU.DENT WORK: fwl, one-ho~r examinations _will be given, covering the ·rPc1din9s .ind te~tures. They witfronsist of both short-answer identifications and 
Shaw Hist 339 Hist Mod China I 0lTTJ seq. 282800 . 
This will be the first course that Mr. Shaw will teach at ·Notre Dame. Re is currently working on his Ph. D. at the University of Chica, !o. Mr. Shaw was born i!1 T,1iw.in but he speaks fluent English. 
Moore  Hist 351  Ancient Greece  
03 MWF  sea. 283000  
DESCRIPTION:  This course  covers ancien~ Greek civilization  from the  

hC'ginning civilization of Crete up to the periodrof Alexander the Great, with 
1'111phasis on philosophy and culture of Classical Greece. 
READINGS: At present, no texts have beenielected; however, the required !looks will probably be edited collections of ancient Greek historians, ancient Greek literature (poetry, comedies, trc:Wedies, etc.) and philsophy; a basic text lllil'y illSO be included. 
STU DENT WORK: Each student has the option of doing a project (last year's projects included two slide shows) on a subje,ct-related to the course matter, or writing ., short (about 10 pages) paper on a similar topic. Exams include a midterm and a final. . 
COMMENT: The workload isn't too demanding, and the course material is interesting; Ms. Moore's lectures and discussions are informative, and refrain lrorn being merely lists of dry facts. Students are encouraged to learn, not rPgurgitate bits of crammed knowledge. If any of you jocks think this is an A, A­rourse, forget it; if you're interested in finding something out about the Greeks ,ind the value of their civilization to you, by all means takethis course. 
Flood Hist 352 Repub Rome 09 MWF seq. 283100 
DESCRIPTION: This will be a lecture course offering a view of Roma11 history from the beginnings of the Roman .state to the fall of the Republic. The consilutional, economic, and social development of the Roman· republic will be considered, ;is well as Roman expansion in the Italian · peninsula and overseas. This course i,,}ill be followed in the second semester oy a history of the Roman Pmpire from its foundation to the dissolution of the empire in the west. In ad­dition to the linnl examination. there will be two one-hour examinations. These ,,xaminations will consist of specific essays on broati aspects of Roman history ,ind of identifications of key institutions and persona1:ties. There will be no term p;iper. 
READINGS: The following books and articles are required readings: Max Cary, History of Rome, N. Lewis and M. Reeinhold, Roman Civilization, Sour­cebook I., Livy, The War with Hannibal, W.W. Tarn and M. Charleworth, Oc­tavian, Antony and Cleopatra, E. Badian, "Forschungsbericht: From the Gracchi to Sulla", Badian "Rome and Antiochus the Great: A Study in Cold w,,r", P.A. Brunt, "The Army and the Land in the Roman· Revolution,", A.H. McDonald and F. W. Walbank, "The Origins of the Second Macedonian War." A 
_"horl ,idditional list of books to be read in part will be on reserve in the library. 
Smelser Hist 360-560 British New World Empire ll MWF seq. 283200 
DESCR.I PTION: Dr. Smelser is offering this course on a single-semester hilsis for the first time and the second semester will concern the American Rl'Volution, also previously offered as a two-semester course. British New Wl>rld Empire will cover the period of colonial expansion and settlement up to the Great War tor Empire in 1763. There is no prerequisite for the course. Dr. Snwlser is Notre Dame's foremost scholar on U.S. colenial history and indeed one ot the most knowledgeable scholars on the subject in the U.S. The course, therefore, will be primarily lecture oriented but the friendly atmosphere of the cl;iss encourages questions. The organization of the course is simple and well planned, following the Barnes and Noble College Outline Series for American Colonial and Revolutionary History. This manual was written by Professor ,Snwlser himself. 
READINGS: Other than Smelser'sAmerican Colonial and ~evolutionary History, there is no basic text. Instead, students are asked to read [up­plenwntar-,. works. These include: Colbourn's The Colonial Experience: Readings in Early American History, Hawke's U.S. Colonial History, Readings and Documents; Walsh's The Mind and Spirit of Early America, and Morison's Sources and Documents Illustrating the American Revolution. The readings are importc1nt tor broadening the dimension of the lectures and are enoyable. STUDENT WORK: Smelser's manual contains an extensive bibliography on 
lht' scholarship concerning the period. Students are required to provide one ·p,,gl' hook ;inalyses on five or six (the number is tenative at this time) of these ,Wl>rk.s. D1'c1dlines for submission of the analyses (the form of which Dr. Smelser 
Hist 401-601 New Deal Era

Kerby Hist 362-562 Jefferson and Jackson Blantz 
09TTll seq. 283360 
. ·DESCRIPTION: This course will begin with a review of the Federalist period and then concentrate on the period 1800-1832, ranging from Jefferson's ad­ministration to the first term of Jackson. The focus is political, with the em­phasis on the rise and fall of the Federalists, the rise of'the Jacksonian· political system,_ the develapn:ient of the. 2-(?~rt_y_ systel'!l, and t!'Je ,dev~lo_pm_~t. 9! American nationalism. The course is straiqht 1,cture. However.· Professor Kerby will answer questions at any time during the lecture. 
READINGS: The reading list is one of the longer ones for a history course . .' '.welve books will be required this semester. A90ut half wijl be from a required list; the other half are chosen by the student from a list ofi "topical readings". The required books will be selected from the New American Nation ·series, all 
available in paperback. These readings will include: The Federalist Era by John 
C. Miller, The Uemocratic Republic by Marshall Smel~r, The Awakening of American Nationalism by George Dangerfield, The Cultural Life of the New Nation by Russel B. Nye, The Jacksonian Era by Glydon van Duesen and The Growth of Southern Civilization by Clement Eaton. The cost of the required books runs about S16; the topical books are availble in th~ bookstore and are on reserve in the library. 
STUDENT WORK: There are 2 exams--a midterm and a final--conSisting of one or two essay questions and 5 identifications. Undergrads must either write one 10 page paper on a topic of the student's choice or two book reports of 750­words eai:;h. The graduate students must do two book reports of 1ooo'words eaeh ,ind a 15 page paper. . ' · 
COMMENT: The student should anticipate reading/a book almost every· week. These readings average about 300 pages each. However, the books were chosen in part for their smooth readability. The lectures rla:£ '5 'llinutes, yet
1 
they are well-organized and the professor has no trouble ho1uing _the class's interest. The class was offered for the first time last .f;lll,._-and was very well­rcceived. Professor Kerby's tests are very fair; he is .avaifablet9-students for consultation. No prerequisite--highly recommended for -History majors. 
Moore Hist 36S Women in Amer Hist 01 MWF seq. 283460 
DESCRIPTION: This course will deal in .12 chronological stages with the repurcussions of a male-oi:iented American society with which American women have had to deal with through the r;ourse of American history. The course is open to all students regardless of ma1or. Ms. Moore presents lectures twice a week on the material covering ttie current stage. The final period of the \y<'ek is devoted to a discussion on the week's lecture and the reading assignin-ent for Iha! week. 
R~ADI NGS: Most of the texts will be the same as this semester. They include Morgan, The Purtian Family; Stowe, ~n.cle Tom's Cabin; Rolvaag, Giants in the Earth; Wharton, The House of Mirth O'Neil, The Women Movement; 
Robinson, The Power of Sexual Surrender; Plath, The Bell Jar; and Friedan, 'Fhe Feminine Mystique. News books include The Sbn Also Rises, Black Woman in White Society and The Female Eunuch. Eleanor Flexner's Cent~ry of ~truggle is on reserve at the library and contains optional, but useful readings. 
s:rUDENT WORK_: The criteria for evaluation is determined by the student's daily participation (particularly in the period for discussion ever week.) There is no mid-term and pthe final is a take home. The major assignment is the leading of a discussion grouP. during one of the 12chronological stages, as well as ,, 10-15 page paper relating to the role of American women under one of these slc1ges. 
COMMENT: To describe Ms. Moore's course, two evaluations were elicited. The first one is fr;_om a male ND student, and the ~econd one by a female. Mali;!: This course is informative, interesting,and like all ol Ms. Moore's classes, never becomes stagnant and jaded. While the readings are large in quanti~y, they rarely bog one clown, and the lectures and discussions rate above most of those given by .:,ther_profs. However, chauvinists are_warned on two co_un\s; lhis isn't an A, A-course for jocks, nor VJill unsupported Archie Bunker "-tyl~ comments get you v_ery far. Some students find Ms. Moore to opinionated or outspoken, but if you're willing to approach the.course with an open mind, lake.lhis course. As a male, I found the course enlightening, refreshing, and c-njoyable, since an exposure to the women's view of thing·s if beneficial to every co~cerncd male student. · Female: Ms. Moore's course should definitely not be considered as "a filler co_urse." Her course is one of hard work. yet also one of·satisfaction and en-" 
_ioy_ment. She is _a fine lect~rer, both interesting· knowledg~ble concerning lhcJpast and present role of women,_ as well as the possibilities for·the future. Ms. Moor~ i_s definitely enliqhtened toward tQ.dav•~ current -'tttitudes of and_for 
won \.0. The course req17irf;!S i'! C!,Uestioning _o!. <.>r:ie's own atUtudes r~arding wo1!1en, regardless of the student s sex, and 1t 1s in this.area Where one is con­fronted with possible falla_cies or discrepancies in one's previous indoctrination• 
. , .. .. ' . . 

I 26 
04 MWF seq. 284360 

DESCRIPTION: This course covers the period from the election of Warren G • Haromg in 1920 through the early years of the Second World War, stressing the programs of New_ Deal and the presidency of Franklin ,Delano Roosev~lt: It ,,, designed to give the student a good idea of what was behind the New Deal, and the events and personalities that affected its route fhrough the 1930's. The depressi.ao is ~xarnined very clos~ly. 
The format nf th_i~ cq_ur_se is lecture, with Fr. Blantz adhering very closely to the syllaous. He alwc1ys ends each lecture with a ?'llnimary and a br'ief wor'd on what will be covered in the next class, giving the course valuable continuity. The New Deal Er<1 is open to all students, but the majority of the class is made up of Juniors and Seniors, including many History majors who t;1ke the course for majo_r credit. However, it ls a general inruest subject, and always attracts a good many ·student from all areas of study. 
READINGS: The readings for this course all are p~erbacks, except for two hooks put on reserve in the library. lwo books by William Leuchlenburg·head Ille list. Franklin D. Roosevelt and The New Deal and The Coming of the New Deal, S2.65, The Politics of Upheaval, S3.95, and The Crisis of the Old Order, on reserve in the library. Morton Keller's The New Deal: What Was It? is also found in the reserve book room. STUDENT WORK: Two exams and a paper are-required during the semester, the exams counting for 20 per cent of the grade each, and the paper counting for 
30 PE'r cent of the _final grad.e. The f!D.?tl e1<a~ ~ounts the remaining 30 per cent. The exams are allot the essay type, general enough to allow the student to relate jyhilt J1e koows~.bvt specific enough to test his preparation for ttie e.x~un. The 
paper is done on a subject of the student's choosing, with approval by Fr: Blantz, ,ind should be from 10-15 pages in length. The student is expected to put a good .,mount of time and effort into the paper. COMMENT: Fr. Blantz is a very interesting lecturer, and it is a fact that the period of 11,e-New Deal is his specialty. Attention always runs higfl·during his 
lectures, ,ind student questions are welcomed. If Fr. Blantz doesn't know the .,nswcr tp ii ~turtPnt's question, he will always look it up and recite it later, no nrnller J1ow minufe. 
. A quality students have found unique with Fr. Blantz is his ability to stick very· · closely to the syllabus. This is a great asset to the student in his preparatory work tor the lectures. Over-all, Fr._ Blantz has proven to be a very ·sincere c;fudent of Ille New Deal Era and Frnaklin Roosevelt, and he is quite apt in lrc1nsferring his interest in this period to his students, who have doubtless heard '-O much about the era from those who lived through it that it becomes a pleasure 
lo study ii. 
Burns. Hist 433 18th Cent Engrand 03 MWF. seq. 284S00 
DESCRIPTION: Thi's course will cover ,the political history, constitutional developme~t, and Anglo-Irish relations of England in the 18th Century. Some of lhe main lopics will include the American. Revolution, French Revolution, and the Industrial Revolution.· In the past, Dr. Burns has used a straight lecture melhod, but next semester he hopes to have ·a open discussion ,class meeting c1pproximatel y once every two weeks. There are no prerequisites and the course is open to students althoug~ history and English students usually m~ke up the hulk. 
READINGS: In the past alarge number of books were required, but it was.left up to the·student-to decide when they could be read. With the introduction of discussion m~etings a moresr'igid schedule for readings will be set up. The basic text is Derek Jarrett's Britain 1688-1815. In the past, works of J.C. Beckett, T.B. Macaulay, P. Mantoux, LB. Mairier, R. Pares, T.S. Ashton, Dorothy George, E. Halevy, E.P. Thompson, C.G. Robinson, P. Spear, and A. S. Tuberville,thave been used. At the time of the interview, Dr. Burns had not made his final decision of exactly which texts would be used. · 
-·sTUDENT WORK: There will be two tests given during the semester, as well as c1 final.. Tests are essay with a choice of questions. In addition, a problem ori~oted_!Prm [\~aer.ls. as.simJ..ed.. T~_st!Jdepi ~ai.ltel:l-a ~ 0,.1 w-vernment papers, surveys, sram.11~·,., .::-· dnd tn~ :,rudent must reconstruct ·,he siruanuo and milke a iudg~ment as to the cause of the problem. The only research necessary will be included in the packet. Length_ is '!_0-15 pages.~­
t OMMENT: The ledures are well organized anq. in depth. An abundanc~f mc1terial is given out at each class. Straight lectures do tend to oe dry, a.ctd lf one h,1s had c1 long night or Weekend they can_ be conducive to·.sleep. ·:,This ·is probably the biggest weakne!?S but one should not avoid ;this course for this reason.-.-Dr. Burns has a superlath~e.knowledge of eiiglish history and· a knowledge of Irish history that is above superior. The introduction of disct1$sion 
_classes, will definitely help the course. U_nlike his lectures, his explanation and insight into·the times are far from dry. : -· · • Tt'Sts have covered major issues_,and proble~s_ot'the !ime period. Or. ·eu~ns rorrccts Ille tests himself_ af'!d th~refore, it_takes,beJwee~ ·1-3.weeks b!!fo·re u;ey 
.ire returned. .  Average grades are B; B-: . . -. ~· ,_;:. -,-•" ' .•­ :.-._:  ·:··~  ·  ·  --;  · · ,::{!::  
• t.  ;, ••  ;•·r  
... _. ..  ,'  



Pilger Jameson Soc 374 (Psyc 305) Socio of Child Dev 12MW seq. 964660 
DESCRIPTION: Child Development will be a new interdisciplinary course to be·Ieam-laught by a psychologist and a sociologist. There will be a Monday and Wednesday lecture series, and a Friday intensive lab in the methodology of the student's discipline. Non-majors may participate in more general small group of discussions on Friday. The.course is open to anyone, require~ of no one, however, some background in Sociology or Psychology is helpful. It will be two­
·semC'sler sequence covering the development of' the child from conception through c1dolescence. . 
READINGS: Undecided. Probably different books will be sued depending on the background of the individual student. The cost of a basic test plus a few assorted paperbacks should run around $15.00 total. 
STUDENT WORK: Sociology and psychology majors will have separate, fairly flexible structures. The non-majors will have objective tests (3-4) and possibly a paper. 
COMMENT: Since this will be the first time these two teachers have worked together in the classroom, no comment can be given concerning the course load .ind method of teaching. Since both ~f these professors are enthusiastic and knowledgeable about the subject matter, the course should prove to be as popular as their own individual course have been in the past. 
STUDEN'r WORK: One m.idtirm and a final; atteridance at major produc-· lions of the ND-SMC Theatre; and a final project consisting of a portfolio por­traying your personal conception of a play production. ; 
COM~ENT: At times the course goes into areas of theatre in detail. The student should therefore have at least a healthy interest in theatre. Attenctance­at the lectures is not required but will help greatly. Mrs. Adams' lectures have a tendency to be dry but are always moving and informative. 
Adams SPDR 245 Cinema 03 TT 5 seq. 972460 
DESCRIPTION: This course deals with the history.of and is a critical ,,pproach to film as an art form: Seven films will be shown during the semester, one every other week. Study will be done in relation to classic film, with c0;,,. parisons and contrasts with related arts, and criticism of the film art. ·The works to be vie\~ed will be classic films that the viewer seldom has the opportunity to see, c1nd films that have made a particular point in the film medium. Depending 
. on the num~er i_n the cl_as_s, it will be broken down into small discussion groups ,ifter each _vr:wmg. _Thrs rs.not a course in film-making: it is to !;Jive the student an apprecratron of frlm as an art medium and to enable him to evaluate films as·. ,,n audience member. This course will fulfill the Fine Arts requirement and is 
open lo all. READINGS: Text-Th~ Liveliest Art by Knight, paperback-S1.25; S10.00lab f<'e lo cover the cost of the films ST~DENT WORK: Not finally decided at this time. Papers seem unlikely it there rs a large class enrollment; tests will likely be essay. · COMMENT: New course in the department. 
Brumm Soc 377 Collective Behavior l0TTl'.2 seq. 965460 
DESCRIPTION: This course acquaints the student .with the scope of the subject's concerns and theories. Particular attention is given to social movem....,1ts. •This course is taught in a seminar form with lectures, discussions, and ·student papers. Sociology 153 is a pre-requisite for the course. 
READINGS: Collective Behavior by Turner and Killian. 

STUDENT WORK: A term paper, the length of which '-'!ill be determined by lhe topic chosen, and an oral final, which is comprehensive, are the two course­requirements._ -· 
speech Btnd drama 

Sommer  SPDR 190  Speh Communication  
02 MWF  seq. 970262  
l0TT12·  seq. 970263 ·  

DE.SCR I PTION: Principles of rhetoric and public address,including familia­
rization with basic speech tvoes and classroom practice. The couse is d~~ign~g 
to gi've the student an opporruQrty to pr~sent ~;,er, 1selves in many different types 
of situations: Stress is given to organization, posture, and the overall presen­
tation of ideas. A lecture is given for the first three weeks, then the student is on 
l1is own. Prerequisite for speech majors, elective for all. 
READ'INGS: None~,­
. STUDENT WORK: Five speeches are required. Grading is based on 
prepared speeches. Impromptu speeches are used as an exercise, frequently in 
class: No outside readings or exams are given. ­
COMMENT: Mr. somm~r h~s ha"d.28 years-of experi.ence at Notre DalJle. The · 
class is in a very relaxed atmosphere. It is a delight to attend. Expect the 
unexpected always! In every walk of life, no matter what profession, 011,e must . 
always_ be able to present oneself well. The etas~ gives you· an opportur;i!tY to 
speak under many circumstances. It's a learning experience as well as an ex-. 
perience of·life 
Adams SPDR 135 lntto to Theatre 10 MWF. seq. 970861 
. · DESCRIPTION: This co~rse is, as its title sugg-ests, actually an introduction to theatre. It assumes the student knows nothing ~bout the theatre and proceeds to expose.tb.elWldaro.e.11!...al.s.~.Tb.e.course is presPflted in a series of lectures with ari occasional aiscuss,on or a movie. ms. Adams explains tneatre in te~ms_ ot -"rt.-jtc;. im_Rortant genres, its traditions a_nd the actu_al p_rogyction. This is a .,>rerequisit; ,ur many SPDI<course~ dnd ,~ required ot all n,ajors. -· . 
READINGS: Aristophanes' Lysistrata, Shakespeare's King Lear, Roberts' The Nature of. the ,Theatre ($7.95), International Theatre lns~itute'.s Theatre 4 
-~$4.95) 
• 

Ballinger SPDR 257 Oral lnterp 11 MWF seq~ 972860' 
DESCR1PTION: This is a course in developing skill irrthe oral presentation of literature. Stress is'placed on both the analysis of the litereary work and the development of vocal and bodily techniques to .express the intellectual, <'motional, and aesthetic content of the work. The bulk of the course is in this practical application of oral interpretation through readings-in prose, poetry, ,ind drama. Aiming for an appreciation of the written work as a means of ex.:. pression, lhe course is designed to give the student an awareness of his won voice instrument as a medium of expression. An elective for all, this is a check­marked course. 
,,_ . 

READING~: Text unsure at this time, but therewiH be one. 
STUDENT WORK:' Grading will be a.combination of the student's oral presentations to the class and a m-idterm and final exam. A critique oy the clss ~11c_l instructor will follow each presentation. The numb~r of readings a student-­will perform will depend on the number enrolled in the class. The final exam will ilu;9_iru:lud~ a fiQal_ nrc!I Qresentation to the.clc!SS. · 
COMMENT: N,r. Ballinger rs excell~nt in the field of acting, and this.· knowledge carries over very well into an·oral interpretation course. He is readily availa\>Je for help in preparing the readinqs. His sense of hum.or Shines.­
through in all of his lectures_ and discussions. The critiques that follow eaeh pr~sentation are helpful not only to the student giving the ri:!ading, but also tQ the · other students in.the' cl ass as well. An excellent course for improving your ·own · voc~I _?bilities an~ learning new techniques~. ­
.Syburg SPDR 371 Dev of Drama I 02 MWF · seq." 9742~·-/ ~­
DESCRIPTION: This course is a stµdy of the development ofthe 9'rania fr~m ­the Greeks to the eighteenth century. Emphasis is placed on the th~atrical arts· in lhe woc!u~tio11 of ttie dra..lilih.iJs_seen ip the c-ontext of the modern theatre, · Tnis is a_ lecture course, but discussions of fhe plays are free to develop at"alJ •· times. l'he_students are expected to develop mature critical responses to the' theatre of our time. A requirement for drama majors, tliis course is an elective . 
·for juniors and seniors. READINGS: Text:-A Tr.easuryoftheTheatreby John Cassner; hard cover-. S13.50 -. . STUDEl<IT WORK: One play is read for each.dass. ·Examination·s· inc:tude:· 
·midterm, fil'\al and one-other test that are objective)nd essay. five two-page: papers are required, either on the productions of the,pepartment or on. listening· to recordings of the plays srua,ea> · ' 
COMMENT: Mr, Syburg's lectures are interesting and spiced with bits of·his1. · dry humor·; class par-ticipatlon and comments are always '~t!lcome-. The·ptays \ · to be read are excellent examples of their periods in drama. t~-work load may 
' be heavier than for other courses:· but this course is,in,re r~ Oe'{erop_·,,tn a~---~ pr_eciation for drama as a literary grt. An excellent coursefor·non-m.;iors. . . 
.. . . . ·.--· ' 

READINGS: The readings for the course include the text Westward· Movell)ent by Billington and other outside readings. 
history sm_c 
Poinsatte Hist 201 U.S. History to 1865 10 MWF seQ. 861261 
OESCRI PTION: The purpose of this course is to give the student a clear and · penetrating view of U.S. History up to the Civil War. It will consist of lectures with fair amount of discussion. It is required of the History Major. It will also be expected of the students to become aware of the various views of historians. 
READINGS: Since Dr. Poinsatte has not taught this course for the past two years, he has not yet decided on the reading list. 
STUDENT WORK: here will either be two tests consisting of a midterm and a cumulative final, or there will be two tests and a cumulative final. There will probably be one paper. 
COMMENT: Dr. Poinsatte is a very good and fair teacher with a nice lecture style. Since his tests come from the notes and the outside readings, this makes the students' job easier. Compared to other courses, many students consider his outside readings to go towards the heavy side than the easy side. The paper is generally a little more demanding, since the footnotes will be checked, and the paper gets Dr. Poinsatte's personal attention. Regular attendance is expected and necessary. This is not an easy course for someone merely looking for an easy course, but will definitely be worthwhile. 
Donahoe Hist 201 U.S. History to 1865 02 MWF S~Q. 861262 
DESCRIPTION: This course is set up to give the student a complete and clear. knowledge of United States up to the Civil War. The material is presented in lecture form with very little discussion. It is open to all students but is required for the History major. 
READINGS: There will be one text book with assigned readings from a syllabus, and four outside readings. 
STUDENT WORK: The student is expected to read the material before class. There will be four tests, of v.rhich none will be cumulative. As of now, there will be no paper. 
COMMENTS: This is an excellent course, taught by one of the best teachers that St. Mary's offers, according to most of Brother Donahue's students. However, none recommend it as a course for students seeking an easy history course, or one that should be taken without some history background. The lec­tures are fantastic and contain a subtle wit. The readings are not impossible. The tests incurred a variety of opinion. They generally will consist of map questions, identificatior,s and essa'f.S. Most students consider the map questions falrly hard, but they do not appear to question the fairness of the tests or grades. Regular attendance is necessary. 

Pullapilly  Hist 103  The World of Man  
11  MWF  seq. 860461  
02 MWF  seq. 860462  

15Esc·~IPTl9N: This is a new introduction to history course being taught in place of Western Civilization. It was conceived y.,ith the purpose of presenting . lhe entire cultural development of mankind, instead of merely the historical development of Western man as was taught in the past. Although the approach will still be historical, there will be a much greater emphasis on the.artistic and !,()Cial points of mankind. The emphasis will also be on the general evolution of man and not on trivial historical details. 
READINGS: The mai!1 text will be entitled Civilization which is a paperback. STUDENT WORK: In this course the student will be required to make one oral presentation and to write one book report in addition to a take home midterm 
· arid final. · 
COMMENT: Because this is a new course, the way it is handled by Dr. Pullapilly will most likely be somewhat contingent on student desires. Dr. Pullapilly is very con.cerned with his students as individuals and is very sen-c;ifive lo their difficulties. · 
Donahoe Hist 319 Westward Movement. 01 MWF seq. 862600 
DESCR I P:J"ION: The goal of this course is to understand the impact of the 

-~rsJward movement in ~merican history, through its study of.t~e development of the West, on present-day Amer.ca. The course is cor1sidered aii elective for hfstory mai&s but there are no prerequisites and it is open to all students. The tAC!hod of presentation 9f the subject material is through class iectures·and required readir.Qs. 
·. 2e· 
STUDENT WORK: There are four hourly, equally weighted examinations, ,ncluding lhe final exam. All exams are non-cumulative. There are daily reading .issignments given from the text and outside reading requirements that correspond with the class lectures. A 10-15 page term paper will also be assigned. 
COMMENT: Brother Donahoe's lectures are extremely informative and very inleresling. The lectures are well-organized and throught out and greatly add to lhe required reqding material. Brother Donahoe's knowledge of the subject­maller is constantly in evidence throughout each class. He is receptive to questions and available for consultation during office hours and upon request. Rl"ildings ilre considered very worthwhile and extremely interesting. Assign­mmts are clear and tests are considered challenging but fair and are returned to lhe studenls promptly. The final grade is based on the percentage of the four t'xaminali·ons. His courses are extremely well-organized and well-prepared and ,,re kept on schedule. In general, then, a Brother Donahoe course is excellent, ver;, worthwhile, and extremely interesting for the history major and the non­history major alike. Students who have taken a course from Brother Donahoe have taken more courses from him and strongly recommend him to others. 
Zatko . Hist 331 Ancient History 09 MWF seq. 863600 
DESCRIPTION: No prerequisites. The goal of this course is to stress the ideas of Greek and Latin civilization which have continued to influence man right down to loday. The course is open to anyone. It will include a trip to the Oriental Institute in Chicago. This course is presented in lecture form and questions are 1.vl"lcome. 
READINGS: The Persian Wars by Herodotus. Peloponesian Wars by Thucydidis. Gaelic Wars by Julius Caesar. The above are paperbac'j(s_ There will also be several handouts by Gr::eek and Latin poets·. · 
STUDENT WORK: There will be two exams; a midterm and a final. These t'xams will consist of identifications and essay. Besides the readings there will be one outside book on which the student must report. This book will be chosen from an extensive reading list. 
COMMENT: The course promises to cover some interesting aspects of ancient history. Father Zatko holds very informal lectures which, at the same time,, manage lo be informative. His is an expert on Eastern Europe and the Mediterranean ~rea. 
Pullapilly Hist. 323 Men and Ideas 03 MWF seq. 863200 
DESCRIPTION: The intellectual history of man from the 18th century to modern limes will be the subject matter for this course. Such periods as Romanlicism and the Enlightenment will be discussed according to their impact on man, his life styles and his value systems. This course will also explore the ideological development of man through historical events and in depth studies of importan I men such as Churchill and Hitler. The class will be small in number so lhal logether the students and the professor can delve into the material. 
READINGS: The readings depend on the individual student for every student is held responsible for on~ famous person in the time period specified. STUDENT WORK: There will be no tests, but ~ major paper and 2 oral 
COMMENl S: Dr. Pullapilly is an enjoyable lecturer ~fter the students adjust lo his accM1i. At first, it is a bit difficult to understand his lectures-, but those with sharp cars will be repaid by his keen wit. He is a knowledgeable scholar which is 
0 

nol limilcd lo topics on his native country of India. A visit to his office will provide the student with innume.r.able historical reference books. 
Zatko Hist 375 History of Russia 09TT11 seq. 865600 
DESCRIPTION: No prerequisites. This course is open to anyone. The theme is the development of the Russian state and society, with a stress on the factors which lead to the diversification of the peoples of the area. This covers the origin of the Russian state to 1613. Course is presented !n lecture form ·and questions 
c1re wl"lcomc. R~ADINGS: Textbook: Russia by ·Florinsky. There will be several monographic and biblical handouts. In addition, there will be a Russian historiography handout..· · _ STUDENT WORK: T~ere will be two exams: a midterm 'and a final. These exams will consist of essay and identification questions. Two book reports and a small len page terrr paper are also required. ~OMMENTS: Father Zatko gives life to a rather unknown period of history in 
11~,s co~rse. Father Zatko's_ lectu~es are informative and filled with many in­sights 11110 the nature of the Rus~ian people and the area, both of which he is · fami~iar. Father's,t_ales o_f th~ Rus~ians are very amusing. Eastern Europe and 
Russia are Father s spec1alt1es. Th.e w~rk load for this course i;; moderate. This cou~se is recommended for anyone who is tire~ of cuMmd dry history. 
Hist 341 19th Century Europe

Black Schlesinger HUST 461 Age of the Baroque
02 MWF. seq. 864400 
02 MWF seq. 873860 
DESCRIPTION: The theme of the course is suggested by its title--19th Century European History. Beginning with the French Revolu!ion in 1789 and running. through 1899, the course covers predominant themes in 19th century Europe-­trom · Nilpoleon Bonaparte through the European lndu~trial Revolution and snciill Dilrwinism to Metternich's Concert System. Stress Is placed on the r;s~lt 0 1 rilch of these "themes" in each European country and on ea~h_country sin­trrilclion with one another. The course ends with the 19th century s influence and ,•fleet upon the 20th century. No prerequisites are required for this ~ours~ but a l1i1ckground in Western Civilization is suggested. The course itself 1~ not rrquircd for any major although it fulfills part of the Europea~ History rrquircmcnl for History majors. The course is open to anyone interested 
,1llhough. . READINGS: There are two textbooks, each moderate length, and two outside rcildimi books required. The Age of Revolution and Reaction: 1789-18S0 by Chilrlc~ Breunig and The Age of Nationalism and Reform: 1850-189~ by Norman Rich ,,re the two textbooks; Karl Marx ·by Isaiah Berlm and Bismarck and Modern Germany by w.N. Medlicott are'the two outside reading books. STU DENT WORK: There are two tests and a final exam given in this course. The two tests occur about 6 and 12 weeks into the semester. Compo~ed of ~ap questions, identification and essay questions, they include one outside r~adm_g llook on each test and are approximately 60 minutes i~ length. The fm~I is comprehensive with minimal emphasis placed on material up to the pr~w1o~s trst and is of the same format as the tests only 2 hours in length. A_lso required 1s one 10-p;ige paper on any topic related to 19th century European History. COMMENT: This course is interesting and Dr. Black's lectur~s ar~ alw~ys qood. Hr can ilnswer· jsut about any questions that come up during d_1scuss1on which can occur at any time during the class period. The work load 1s ~ot too hCilVY but if one gets behind in the readings, it is easy to become l~st during !he lectures. The texts are also good--they have enough information without getting too ctctalied vet they are not too gen_eral. For Hist~ry majors, the course t_en~s to tic in with other requirements; this can prove useful. For anyone else it gives ti1scinc1ting insights into how European stat1:craft and diplomacy _differ from Ihilt of the.United Stc1tes and how Europe has developed the way that 1t has. 


humanistic studies smc 
Schlesinger HUST 321 Medieval Culture 11 MV,/F seq. 8~1060 
DESCR I1:'TION: This course has no prerequisites and is open to sqphomores, juniors and seniors. It is required for all Humanistic mairos andmost of the students are majors.in their first semester of the program. The course syn­thesizes Medieval Culfure by exploring cultural and.social trends and events ot the period. This isctone t°hrdugh lectures which are linked with discussion. 
READINGS: Although the book list has not been definitely decided at this liem, there will probably be three or four books and will include Medieval Europe by Hollister (S4.25), The Middle Ages by Strayer and Munro ($9.95), and possibly The Medieval World: 300-1300 by Cantor (4.25). 
STUDENT WORK: The daily a_ssignments given in this class are readings of reasonable length. The lecture!-, nnd discussions are related to these radings, which average 15-20 pages per class. T'1._e_r.e..a.re two exams in the course, a one. hour mid-term and a two hour'" final which include short identifications and longer essay.s In addition, during the semester each student chooses a book from a reading Iist and writes a 6-8 page report on it. · COMMENT: This student enjoyed the course very much and probably would. havP t;ilcpn it P.ven if it had not been re.Q.Y.iu.d, Cl(_. SchJ,e.sjoger, tnroug~ presentation, his manner, his personality and of course his knowledge, reallw 
-•• -• -• • • I 
makes the course worthwhile. The emphasis is not on grades in this class, rather, the_professnr is conrP.rnerl that_~ sl!J"eot_'-can~ ~e_Jpform~ ,1nd tie ii all together in the end. Not only does he desire this, but ai:;o he does, Pverything he can to help the student achieve this end. In my opinion, this is one­
. ,1f lhc hes! teac~er-course co_rr,bfnations !have held at St. Mary's. 

-HUST 328 Baroque Ari 09 MWF seq.-872200 
DESCRIPTION: This course will take a close loo·k at the most infliJenlra1 artisliimovements of th Baroque Age. A familiarity with European art during the sixteentth and seventeenth centuries may serve to promote_ a g_reater ap­µri;crafion c1nd enjoyment of this course, but this prerequisite is not mandatory. The class is c1 mixture of both lectur..e..antl diJ?!:=USsion. It is open to all and is counted for credit in both the Art and Hum,,nistic Studies LJepartments .. 
READINGS: 'Boo.ks have not yet been selected,but reading a!.signments for Miss O'Brien's course are usually minimal. 
STUDENT WORK: There will be a ten page paper, a mid-term and a final exam. Attendance is not required, but there will be several unannounced quizz. cs. 
COMMENT: Miss O'Brien provides an atmosphere which allows much student participation and expression of opinion. For this reason, students learn how to constructively criticize and appreciate great works of art. 

DESCRIPTION: Cultural History II is designed primarily for first semester seniors, although it is open to anyone. The course will involve such events.as the Br1roqu Age, the rise of absolutism, the Puritan Revolution, the Enlightenment, and lhe French Revolution, all to be discussed in some depth. 
READINGS: The booklist will include five to six paperbacks. Readings are usually minimal, as Dr. Schlesinger believes in qualitative ratherthan quan­titative assignments. . 
COMMENTS: This is a good course for anyone interested in the topics mentioned above. Dr. Schlesinger can mr1ke just about anything ~eem in-• !cresting c1nd he has a knack for correlating past events with current ones. This class is highly recommended. So is Dr. Schlesinger. 
Schlesinger-O'Brien HUST 463 Colloqu.ium 111 
02Tu4 seq. 874261 
02Th4 · seq. 874262 
DESCRIPTION: This course is a two credit seminar emeeting on Tuesdays or 

Thursdays. It is required for Humanistic Studies majors and is designe(to 
compliment Dr. Schlesinger's Cultural History course. However, itis good in its 
own right and open to toehr students. Grades received depend largely upon_lcass 
participation as well as the final exam. The course is conducted by Miss O'Brien 
,ind R. Schlesinger, but guest lecturers participate as wll. Authors such as· 
Trevor-Roper, Brecht, Pascal, Voltaire and Burke will be discussed. 
COMMENT: Although Colloquium 111 is an informal and enjoyable cou~se!_ Miss OBrien ad Dr. Schlesinger expect very active participation and ,consistent · work. 
O'Brien HUST 323 Colloquium I 
10 Th 12 seq. 87146l 
10 Tu 12 seq. 871462 

DESCRIPTION: Colloquium I is a two-credit hour course designed to com­plement and enhance the work ocovered in Cultural Histcry I. It is a requir­ement for _all Humanistic Studies majors, but because the ,course is simu­ltaneously designed, it is not recommended for non-majors. The class meets once a week and each session covers a major work of or pertaining to the Middle Ages. In contrast to the customary lecture method of may classes, Collquium I emphasizes discussion and dialogue. 
READINGS: Saint Augustine's Confessions, Tristan and iseult, and T. S. Eli­ot's Murder in the Cathedral, along with presentations of Roman and Gothic art and music, are among th works chosen for thi course: Usually.one non-western work is dealt with during the semester. ,, 
STUDENT WORK: There is one final examinaion,essay in form, at the end of lhe semester. COMMENT: Miss O'Brien, an enjoyable teacher, with the readings and the informal set-up_of the class lend toward a definite learninq atmosphere. . . 




language nd 

STUDENT ADVISORS: ]lobert Goyette (linguistics), 287-4888; William Loughran (French), 1332; Raymond Pauspack (German), 232-5336; Tim Herrick (Classics), 1779; Sally Fischer (Russian), 
523-1051. 

Hunt COML 400 Compa Literature Seminar 
04MW6 seq. 443400 

DESCRIPTION: This course make~ up the central seminar for those who wish to major in comparative literature, but is open to all students. Considering .!h~t.Jl)i$_~.off.ecec1 oo..an uruier.w:ac;Lu9te ~~~ it would be difficult if 11Dt im­possible to deal directly with theory ana metnoo of literary analysis. On this basis, Mr. Hunt centers this course on the study and discussfon of concrete works of literature before dealing in depth with the manner of literary criticism. The format is that of a seminar and emphasizes discussion of the works considered. The central core of the course involves the study of works according to the categories of genre, period and theme; in which works of Iiterature are chosen to cross national lines, tradition and time periods. The course is divided in two halves: the first largest part deals with achieving the basic knowledge of the tools of comparative criticism through investigation of concrete works of · literature, chosen mainly by ·the students, in the three above-mentioned categories. This half is subdivided into five studies, each of two weeks duration, 
in Which two genre studies are done, e.g. epic and tragedy, two period studies, 
e.g. 19th and 20th centqury, and a theme study. The works considered are flexible, usually decid.ed upon the the students in their first seesions. The second halfol,.the course consists of the last three weeks of the semester, during which the-~ltiss is visited by other professors on the comparative literature.staf_f who discus~ their views of the field and their current work in it. The a,m of this course is a wider understanding of central literary issues common to different national traditions, ano thereby definition of major form of literary art. ,-he focus_ is on transcendence of single periods or regions. to see literature as a unified whole, and to see this unity in relation to other fields in Arts and Hum·anities. 
RREADINGS: As mentioned above, the readings are determined by the students inthe first seesions. Tis semester the readings included: genre, Epic of Gilgamesh, ed. N.K. Snadars; Magister Ludi, Hermann Hesse; Othello, Shakespeare; and Long Day's Journey Into Night, O'Neill; theme: Inferno, canto 26; Dante; The Original History of Dr. Johann Faustus, Spies; The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus, Marlowe; Faust I and II, Goethe; Ulysses, dramatic monologue, Tennyson; Doctor Faustus, Thomas Mann; Mon Faust, Valery; period; 19th centrury--powma od Xolweridge, Wordsworth, Keats,.pnd Shelley, and A Hero of Our Time, Lermontov; 20th century--poems of E."liot, Owne, Pound, Stevens, Yeats, Cummins, Thomas, and Joyce's Portrait of the Artist; also included were two books on criticism, Theory of Literature, Rene Wellek and An Essay on Criticism. by Graham Hough. 
STUDENT WORK: Class participation and discussion are essential as most of the class is discussion. A paper of 7-10 pages is required, to be taken from the class syUabus. Oral reports will be assigned three times per semester as the material is covered. The structure of the final is determined through discussion between-student and teacher at the end of the term. 
COMMENT: Mr. Hunt is a very capable instructor, always full of ideas, and open,1QJ1ew interpretations. Tte course is quite fluid and flexible,. At times the ..reading may seem overwhelming, but Mr. Hunt is very understanding and is willing to give more time for the larger works. Mr. Hunt is quite open andhKes 
to·develop contact with the student outside the classroom as well as in. This all , adds up to a very worthwhile course for the student who is indeed the focal point of the course. Have Mr. Hunt and get to know him--it is a very satisfying ex­perince. 
Hunt CLGR 400 Greek Classics in Translation 03MW5 seq. 142200 
OESCRIPTI0N: This one-semester cours~. designed primarily for literature or h·umanities majors, seeks to acquint the stud~nt with tile central Greek 
· classics at the source of Western tradition he is studying. Considered are_basic probtems rel'ated to the,following six disciplines: epic poetry, tragic drama, satirical comedy, historical analysis, philosophical essay, and literary crit.icism. The aim of the course is an in:rinsic understanding of the eight -write.=-s under review: Tht.1s, presentation ofnistorical background is kept to tll,e necessary minimum. The course WQU!d be of value even to the non-literature studen't Who welcomes an encounter with the works which have come to form the< roots.of Western thought. There are no pre-requisites. . 
READINGS: The texts are: The llliad·of Homer (Lattimore), Aeschylus: Oresteia I (Wash. Sq. Press), Sophocles I (Wash. Sq. Press), Euripides I (Wash. sq. ·Press), Aristotle's Poetics (Fergusson), Thucydides Peloponnesian War (Finley), Aristophanes' The Clouds (Arrowsmith), Plato: Last Days of Socrates (Tredenrlick);The Greeks (Kitto). 
STUDENT WORK: While student discussion forms an integral part of each class: a substantial portion of tl!e,.Period often consists on inspired ·lecture by 
·Professor.Hunt, espetially when he has been provoked by an apt question or remark. T'here will be a 7-10 page term paper required on a relevant topic of the student's choice, in addition to the final exam. Since each class is a "one Of it's kind" treat, attendance is a needless consideration. Brief oral reports are per-iodically assigned. In view of the discussion-oriented nature of the course, a close reading of-lll the works is "de rigeur." · 
· COMMENT:. This•course is Professor Hunt par excellence. The nature of the( works permits him not only to rl?veal his detailed knowledge of Greek literature, but .also to treat this materia! by _yarie~ approaches. These might ·include discussing the elements of tragedy in several of the plays, or the mechanics of the Greek stage. Professor Hunt's mc!stery of th·e subject is matched oniy by his desire for the student to grasp the ideas firmly enough to formulate his own judgement. Ever-growing class lists indicate th~t Professor Hunt is gaining the esteem of all Who come to know him. 
Hunt· COML 450 Classical and Renaissance Epic 01 TT3 seq. 444600 
DESCRIPTION:·This is a comparative literature course open to all students in which the epic genre is studied in a chronological fashion f~om its _b~i~ings with ·Homer up to Milton. Through a_process of close anal~s1s, the ind1v1du~I meaning of each poem as well as its int_egratio~ in the orga!",~ str~cture ~f this genre will be considred; but t_t,e class wil~ remain largely within th~ ~ra~ew~rk 
ofNch>oem as a workof aesthetic expression~ through a process of 1nvest1g~t1on
. . 
through the poem, and the viewing of the separ'atE; parts· in relation to the ~hole. The main purpose of the course is a process of enrichment of tI1e student's awareriess from study of these works, whose theme and figures reappear in much of western liter~ture. The emphasis rests in the search through each poetic form--t10pefylly in such a way as to help the student in his search for himself. For this reason the student plays a large role in the structure of the. course, which consists of approximately 3 to 4 class periods spent on e.-ch work, followed by a review of the work and its regulation to the previously discussed works. The periods are 75 minutes, Tuesdays and Thursdays••Each class period operr-s with an introguction by Mr. Hunt giving basic information foc..2.nalysis of 
· ihe work, though the true analysis comes out in the discussions which generally take up most otttie time in the classroom 
READINGS: The Iliad of Homer, Richard Lattimpre (ed.); The Odyssey: Homer, Robert Fitzgerald (ed.); Virgil's Aeneid, LR. Lind (ed.); Dante: Divine Comedy, H.R. Huse (ed.); Milton: Paradise Lost, Merrit Y. Hughes (ed.); f\eowulf, Burton Raffel (ed.); and The Epic of Gilgamesh, N.K. Sandars (ed.). There is also a list of critical works on the epics though none are required and all books can be found in paperback. 
STUDENT WORK: Class preparation and participation are essential in this class, especially as the class siie tends to be small. The ~tudent should come to class with a good knowlege of the material and prepared to discuss. In addition to this, a term paper will be required on one of the maior epics, as well as a short oral report to be presented in class prepared by the student on one of the poems. GeneraII y ·there is no final, outside of the term paper. . 
COMMENTS: The readings are what might be called the staples of our western literature and interesting on the whole--and if you do not find it that way, vou will after hearing Mr. Hunt. T,e study of this genre appears to manv to be. obso1ete in this age, but itis very basic, and those ~ho have·taken it feel it has been worthwhile and of value. 
Rubulis MLRU 537 East ~uropean Lit. 03MWF seq. 357000 
DESCRIPTION: The literature of the various peoples in the Communist' Bloc countries are studied in this course. Ancient folk songs, epics, and general mentality of the Baits, Croats, and Bulgars, among others, are compared with those of Western culture. The course consists of lectures which are well prepared by Professor Rubulis. A short background of the social, historical, and cultural situation of the nation is given, and then the class reads selections from representative authors. Mr. Rubulis gives an interpretation of the work and encourages class discussion. From time to time slides of the various countries are shown. 
READINGS: The textbook Baltic Literature, prepared by Mr. Rubulis himself, covers the first part of the course. The rest of the material consists of selections on mimeographed sheets. Usually one or two novels are also listed as 
required readings. · STUDENT WORK: There are three tests including the final. Th'ey consist of three Short essay questions and ten to twelve quotations for Which the student must identify the work and author. Mr. Rubulis is a fair grader. COMMENTS: This course is very worthwhile for those who are interested in comparative ·literature. The classes are usually quite interesting, and Mr. Rubulis transmits his enthusiasm to his students.. 
Klawiter MLGR 400 Scientific German, llMWF seq. 324000 
DESCRIPTION: The prerequisite for this course is at least two semesters of basic German (MLGR 11l.ai:u:U12J. Tb~ @.iedill.e of tbe course is to oive thP.: 
· stuaenr a basic unaerstanding of scientific writing, i.e., ot reading scientific articles in all fields of science; to understand how a German scientist._thinks, to ·Nork witi'i·the preciseness of the language as to convey-a particular meaning (actually lhe student should know this from previous German courses, but this one gives him a great.deal of practice and insight), anq to obtain a facility to handle the German science literature. The method of presentation involves the students readings the assignment (a particular article) in class and then ac­curately interpreting what they read. This may seem primitive to some but it was found that many of the students could not pronounce correctly. The course is not necessatily required--it is a third semester language· option. , READINGS: These included Ubungen (about $1.50) and a scientific reader which· consisted of Freshman-level science articles. STUDENT WORK: The work load depends on the student's oriQinal ability to understand the German mind and-the techniques of '"translating.·· The load_ n,ay be hea'lL,v ~t.lirst, but as the student becomes more adept the load seems to deci:,easP.:. 0uts1_!:fe? assignments occur occasionally (last year there were·2r. These consist ot assigned a,:ticles from other books and-or encyclopedia articles of your own choice. Exams are taken in class and may consist of a standard te-st so tnat rne Prof.knows the·student's general ability to understand the language.. COMMENT: Last semester this course was a piiot course. Consequently, plen.ty of experimenting was done by the Prof in order to find a satisfactory method of teaching. Any part of the course. as taught could be changed' (the scientific reader especially). The articles in the reader if written in English· would be awfully easy and dry, but In German they are rather difficult but still dry. Whoever takes this course should have a sincr desire to understand the lanouoe..as it c1ooe{lrs in science.).it.er.ature arid....a witlingness to work to obtain rn1s unaerstanding. or. Klawiter is an excellent teacher; this does no, r:neaif'ne is easy. Expect to wo:-k. . 
Lanzing~r Mlgr 494 Contemp German Novel I 01TT3 seq. 325000 
DESCRIPTION: This course deals with the late works of the four major contemporary Ge~man novelists. It is toe second part of a course which last fall handled theearly.yorksof the same authors. ~rofessor Lanzinger will draw some 
•·. compari_s~ns with the first part of the, cour:se but the first part is not a prerequ1s1te. The course is designed for those students with a reading/, spcciki119, r111ct writing knowledge of German. All lectures, readings, and papers will be in Germon. 
READINGS: Four •}ovels will be assigned. All a.re paperbacks and·_a;J.are relnively lengthy. _Der 'Zauberberg b'! Thomas Mann; Das Glasperlenlspeil by Hernrn,_111 Hes!ie Das ~c'!loss by Franz Kafka; and Die Blechtrommel by Gunter· Gross. 
STUDENT WORK: Ther.e will be a mid-term examination and a com­prehensive tina~. P~ofessor Lanzinger's examinations are well known for being all-comprehensive; ,.e., one must take notes with the knowlege that he may have lo reproduce them verbatim on the tests. Two "literarische Aufsatze" of S-10 pciges ectch handling a literary theme of two of the works studied will also be required. Each student will also be expected to give at least one "Referat" Corn~ l pertaining I~ one section of a work being studied. Professor Lanzinger cons1derntely provides the students with a reading schedule of each work in which he breaks clown each work into digestible doses. If this schedule is followed, the student will not find the intimidating novels at all hard to conquer. 
COMMENT: "Gemutlichkeit" characterizes the lectures of Professor Lan­zinger. His lectures are conducted with ease and charm but are at the same time extremely organized. He accomplishes exactly what he sets out to do. His tests are dem,,nding but ~od note taking will be a great help. The two secrets to success are good note taking and keeping up with the reading schedule. It is a worthwhile course and.the feeling of accomplishment will be great as one begins to master Ihegreatest works of contemporary German prose. 
Lazenby Class 450 Greek & Roman Myth 09 MWF seq. 135061 10 MWF seq. 135062 02 MWF= seq. 135063 
DESCRIPTION: The course is designed to offer the student insight into the basic themes cinct elementsof classical mythology. The mode of presentaton is that of cin open lecture. 
READINGS: Classical Mythology by Mark P.O. Morford and Robert J. 
Lenardon; New YOrk: Dctvid McKay Company, 1971. STU DENT WORK: 5 lengthy quizzes and a final examination. :OMMENT: Professor Lazenby is very much the gentleman scholar who 
se1::ms lo enjoy teaching ctnd exhibits a geniune.concern for his students. He brings ct wide range of experience and learning to his field. His well-organized Then to give a panoramic view o-f the development of the picaresque novel, 
portions of the works of Mateo Aleman, Vicente· Espinel, Quevedo, Cervantes, 
Pio Baroja, and Zunzunegui will be considered. (The extent to which these 
authors will be determined by the general level of the students' facility with the· 
languag·e1. The last work to be covered will be Cela's Nuevas andanras y 
aventuras de Lazarillo de Tormes. 
STUDENT WORK: There will be two tests (mid-term and final) and each 
student•will be required to write a term paper 
Renaldi MLSP 485 Latin American Theatre 01 MWF seq. 365400 
DESCRIPTION: This course, which will cover 19th and 20th century Spanish­American Theatre, will be offered for the first time this fall. The student can expect to read 8 or ten ""1orks. including plays of Florencia Sanchez, Joe Cleme11te Gorostiza, Javier Villaurrutia and others. Professor Renaldi and students will undertake together a textual examination of the works, and all lectures ctnd class discussion will be be held in Spanish. Alongside the con­sideration of the plays themselves will be a gernal survey of the history of the Southern American theatre. . 
STUDENT WORK: There will be one, one-hour exam during the semester, and a final. Ectch student will be re~uired to write a term paper. The works to be covered are rather lengthy but not impossible to haldle. 
COMMENTS: Professor Renaldi's classes have proved in the past to be demanding, and at limes his lectures can be rather dry; however, he "really knows his stuff" and most of his past students will tell you that his courses are 
Columbus Ling 517 Generative Grammar 01TT3 seq. 456600 
D_ESCR IPTION: Thi~5~~e is th~s1udy of language from a rationalist point of view. It stresses the innateness I hypothesis and seeks language universals.· This is done through a generative transformational approach and although English language transformations are emphasized, the course does cite many 11011-lnctoeuropean langues (e.g. Swahili). Some knowledge of a foreign language is very helpful for th is course but not required 
READINGS: There are two texts: An Introductory Transformational Grammar by Liles and Language and its Structure by Longacker. Cost, less th
an SS.OO. 
STUDENT WORK: The student is expected to keep up with the readings and 
the assignments, although he is not pressured to do so. Readings are a bit confusing at first as they present an entirely new approach to language but this isn't O problem for long. The work load is about average. Only one test will be given, 0 final which covers the entire semester's work. The grading is very fair. 
COMMENTS: This course could be verv uc;eful to manv students, among_ those, students of English, Language, Anthropology, Psycno,ogy, ana Mathematics. A knowledge of ~.enerativegrammar would aid in the construction•· 

lectures. which elucidate and expand on the readings from the text, are full of· oflhe grammars of languages without having to understand them; it could be· 
odd little antecdotes and usually prove to be quite interesting. In short the couse is well run and would be very worthwhile to the student who has a basic interest in Ille subject matter. Although there is a good deal of memorization involved in preparntion for Ille examinations, ·prof. Lazenby is not a particularly harsh 
rader.
9 

Lazenby Class. 455 Classical Archaeology 10TT12 seq. 135 ~60 
·DESCRIPTION: This·cours~ gives the student an appreciation and better understanding of the history and culture of ancient Greece and the surrounding areas through the study of the Archaeological finds. The presentations consist mainly of slides narrated by the professor. There are no prerequisites. · READINGS: One general text js used as a reference to supplement the lec­
tures. STUDENT WORK: No papers are required. There are usually two examinations and a final (essay questions and slide identification l. COMMENTS: Dr. Lazenby's narratives and slides are very enjoyable, for he . Is excellently versed in his field. Li'itle outside work is required; however, class attendance is essential since the lectures are the main source of information to ;us the examinations. 
Richardson MLSP 467 The Picaresque Novel . 03MWF seq. 365000 
DESCRIPTION: This is a new course. Professor Richardson plans to trace the development of the Spanish picaresque novel from its beginnning in the 16th century up until the present time, relating the works'covered to the conditions of the times, and showing the effect of the Spanish picaresque novel on world literature. Classes will be held in Spanish in the form of lectures and class discussions. , . . . 
.R,EADJ°~GS_":,'. "The ,r,e~dlng·s· Will coyer the "picaro" in SpaniSh literature­"'<!in'nlng with 0i(detailed-sfudy of.the anonymous work Lazarillo de Tormes. 
related to 1he development of child language and to the understanding of dialects. Mathematics majors would find it interesting because much is based 011 symbolic logic. Unfortunately, Dr. Columbus tends to be disorganized in his presentation, resulting in confusion for the students at the outset nf thP coursP 
As the course progresses, however, the pieces begin to fit together. Fr. Columbus• knowledge of linguistics is excellent and much can be gained from individual conferences with him and from the subject matter of the course itself. The material is very intersting, and in the long run the course will have been very 
· worthwhile for-the student. 
Columbus 
Lirig. 419 Hist. LinguisticsOlMWF seq. 455000 
DESCRIPTION: Historical linguistics is the study of the history of languages of the world._ how_they evolve, what changes occur, why these changes occur, a'.1d lhe relallo•~hU2 Qf l_anguages to each other. This includes also the study of d_1alect,:i and their re1at1on~h•Ptip to the parent language. Prior to sfodying4 phon_etic change ctnd comparative reconstruction, one studies phonetics in· ~etciil. All the knowledge acquired is used in assignments and in the classroom m the form of lctnguage problems. Dr. Columbus utilizes both lecture and class discussion of readings and problems in teaching this course. The course is required for Linguistics majors and isopen to anyone who is interested in it. It is cilso counted for credit by the Departments of Modern Languages, English and 
Anthropology. READINGS: Introduction to Historical Linguistics--Anthony Arlotta, S6.00, and Phonetics--Bcrnard Malmberg, Sl.25 . . ~TU_DEll{T WORK: There is only a final consisting of three parts: iden­t1!1cations , problems, discussion. The other work is in the form of problems, at 9111 phonefic change and at 10 in comparative reconstruction. COMMENT: This course, as in the majority· of Or. Columbus' classes, has a 
fairly light wo~k load. There is also little pressure to complete he assignments, therefore leav1119 much of the responsibility of learning up the students. The readings cire good, but can also be difficult. However, both these facts arenot a -hindrance· to understanding Historical linguistics as Dr. Columbus disccusses 

each chpater and each problem in detail in his lectures. One of Dr. Columb11S' most distincitve features is his great interest in the field of linguistics, anci" therefore, being anxious for people to understand, he is always available for· consultation. The course is extremely valuable for any major in English, languages or anthropology. It also has value for anyone interested in gaining a knowledge of language history. 
Hritzu CLLA 36l Roman Comedy 09MWF '15220Q 
DESCRIPTION: The aim of this course is to define the comica vis of Plautus and Terrence and their effect on Shakespeare in his Comedy of Errors. A facility of Latin is required. 
STUDENT WORK: Grade is based on.classroom recitation, a midterm and a final exam. The tests include sight translations and questions about the author's style. · 
COMMENT: Dr. Hritzu is obviously well acquainted wi.th the subject matter and enthusiastic. However, his willingness to help _the student is often taken au\'autage ot and this beco·mes a majordrawback, the course is not demanding' 
enough. -
Bayhouse MLFR 303 _Suvey of -French Lit 09TT11 · •seq.. 892400 
DESCRIPTION: A sequential study of trends in the evolution of French literature from its beginning to the present. This course is designed to provide 
•'ssential background for the advanced literature courses for which it is a prerequisite. The class format is divided equally between lecture on history and h;ickground material, readng analysis, and class disucssion. 
REA~INGS: The text is undecided, but there will be a great deal of films and tilpes to worK with. STUDENT WORK: There are no papers and several short tests none of which ,1re cumulative. 
Corbett MLFR 306 Advanced French Conversation 02MWF seq. 892660 
GENERAL DESCRIPTION: This course is designed to develop fluency ar:id . ,iccuracy in the spoken language. The course is designed for those who can -;pe,1k French well. Mrs. Corbett mentioned that the majority of her students are returnees from the French program abroad. ' · . READINGS: There is one book for the course which deals with contemporary 
issues and French essays. 
STUDENT WORK: Class is conducted completely on a discussion basis· with very few written assignments._ Grades are based on daily performances and _ there ;ire not tests or a final. 

language smc 
' . 

Marcy MLFR 451 Non-Dramatic -17th. c. Lit. 0lMWF seq. 892800 · 
DESCRIPTION: A study of the 17th century with specific emphasis on: 1­P,,scal and Jansenism, La Rochefoucald, La Bruyere:· God.and men; 2-Madame d<' Scvigne: portrait of a woman; 3-Madam de Lafayette: a portrait of iove; 4-. Boileau LaFontaine: poetry and human nature. The class format Is lecturfj)nd disucssion of equal y.,eiqht.-· ·. · · · ·. · 
READINGS: Therewm be one test book with various works to beri,;id. 

STUDENT WORK: Thetestsaregenerallytakehome (Jorso) atidfhefinal Is cornprchcnsive. There is a five'page minimum term paper requiremerft from the tooks ni,;;c:ussed in class. , 
COMMEN f: M;.. l\(l_a~qisextrerriely dedicated and demands consider~ble work from his studem:., but he gives so inuch during the course of the· semeste·r that -,.ou almost feel guilty i:;ot giving as much back in return by doing the reading and parti!=ipating.iri the discussiof'!. His tests are.fair and he respects 
DESCRiPTiON This course is designed to-intorduce the student to literature!. 

·.o~•r opinion.  •  '  ·  ,•  
De la Torr:e · · .  . .  -MLSP 205 -TT _-_19  El Cue·nto Espanol&98.600 . seg.. . ·  

~ 

through _the reading of: modern short stories o_f Spanish and Latin ·~merican1 
·STUDENT WORK: There.will be a·few· tests in class, a short and simple paper .-on tlne ol lhe discussed issues and a final. 
COMMENT: Mrs. De la Torre is quite demanding and very particular about l11'r course. She <'n.joyes leaching and' it shows her enthusiasm, but she can be cliflicull fll Iimi's in lhe details and trivia she expects the student to know. 
Laita MLSP 304 Adv.-Comp and Syntax llMWF seq. _898800 
DESCRIPTION: An abundance of original compositions with a review of the mosI difficult points of Spanish grammar. Oral participation is also stressed. READINGS: There are two basic texts--one for grammar and the other a 
paperback on contemporary issues.. 
STU.DENT WORK:•Many compositions on various topics, most of which were tree lo the students' choice, are required. There are 3 class tests, impromptu compositions in class, and three-part final consisting of a paper, a composition IIH' lasl class day. and a composition as the fin.al .. The grades.are based on all the m,11erials handed in and general performance in· class. 
'COMMENT: Mr. Laila is extremely dedicated and very sympathetic to the ,;;fudenl's needs. The course is no·, very demanding despite the daily papers (a , pilp<'r could consist of a paragraph if, desired) and could be considered easy. 
De la Torre MLS.P 313 . Survey of Lat Am Lit l0MWF seq. 899000 
DESCRIPTION: The development of Spanish American Literature is traced from its origin through the contemporary_ period. READINGS: · Selected readings from the most important works will be rcQuircd. 
STUDENT WORK:, This pr·oressor has no idea how she will run this course at this point. However, chances are that the work required will be detailed and involved. 
COMMENT: Mrs. De la Torre is an e~tremely demanding teacher. 
Smith Mlgr 305 Survey of Germ Lit ­. 03TT5 seq. 894800 
DESCRIPTION: The important literary_;"movements--Enlightenment, Storm ,,nd Stress. Classicism, Romanticism, Realism, Poetic Realism, Naturalism, E,pressionism, and the New. Reality--are read and discus~ed with typical and CJr<'al examples given from almost every movement. The class is designed as a -;pminar so that each movement has a lecture introduction on the historical and tactual material and discussion-analysis predominates thereafter. ' 
,READINGS:_ There is one major text, tw0 very short books, and several hand out -;heels on poetry for the course. STUDENT WORK: IWlLlll'.al paprs, one written paper, and a gen~ral com­·~cnsive final are rl'auireg.. . 
Quinteros -MLSP 452 Spanish Lit of 16th c . . i1MWF seq. 899200 
DESCRIPTION: A study of poetry, picaresque nov~I, La comedia, and the 
lll'yStiCS of the· Golden Age. . . ' . READINGS: Unavailable at this time.. , STUDENT WORK: No comment available on the course. COMMENT:-•Miss Quinteros is extremely demandiing and hard to-please 
without making an enormous effort. She requires ~_great 1ieal of work and_ ex­pects the student to be as_involved in•the subject as she..She is an excellent t<',,chcr in her preparations for class and her lectures dominate the course time. H,;r lcsls are difficult and coinpqihensive and are usually done_in cl?ss. 
Barrallat --MLSP-458 . Cervantes--Don Quixote 03TT5 seq. 899400 
DESCRIPTION: An analytical study of Cervantes'· masterpeice from· a structural,."ll1ematic, and Sl'yliStrc viewpoint, taking into consideration the 1'volulion of its critical in_terpretations. 
READINGS: Unavailable at this time. = s·TUDENT WORK: Required tests are usually take home and very general; h~ ,1dd_ition, 1t1ere is a paper requirement of considerablelength, but this is not to· 
.difficult lo do·wc;II on·.. . COMMENT: Miss Barrallat is a wonderful person and 'delightful teacher, .,11though proi:ic to _boredom as a lecturer at times. She is very enthusiastic and• ,.,,iors disc·ussion,but'.·does.not demand any particiption from her students. She .· i,s ,,n c;isy. marker due to the fact that she is more 'co·n_cerned with the learning · 
wrile~s. Conversation· is stressed. The_ cl~ss is designed for sophomores~ who,_ t .. 1•xpcrie!1.ce of the student than regurgitation of.text _material. . · . ,.. ·int<'nd on 111aking Spanish their major and who d~ not yet have complete com-: ·· ·, •... · · ·. ' · ·' · · · .. __ · _ . , :·. 111,111d of.the language. The 'format is lecture·with,discussion on·assigned· B'erberi .·· MLI.T..461 Special-Studies (Ital} m,11<'rials: , .. ~ . . ' . . . . ,.. . . ,.. ,i: ., C : • se . 895960 
. READINGS:·The books for the course.have n_~t-~et_t?een decided. . DESCRIPTION': Tl~e-subject. matt~~ is chosen ~f~er· ~~nsu.ltat~~ With the 
I 32 ·_-" :·,;, ': :llld(•j~~S .~OfiCC~~c~/.c _:':'.::_\"?-:;t =~::• ' '; ·..·,~ ('J/ :~---. . . 
.. --, 

Berberi MLIT 463 · Honors Reading ( Ital) seq. 896069 
DESCRIPTION: The course provides a qualified advanced student with the. ,,pportunity tor independent study. This course is exa'ctly what it implies-­indrpcndcnl study of Italian literature. The class consists of a weekly meeting in 
whkh cliscussion lakes place. . ' . READINGS: The materials are basically chosen by the professor but have not .,s ·• cl hccn decided. STUDENT WORK: There are no tests. Grades are based on the effort and pcrlormilnce shown by the student. COMMENT: Dr. Berberi is a delightful man with humor and enthusiasm for hi~ ,;ubjccts. He is demanding, but an excellent teachE!r and a brilliant -:nan. 

. 
.

music nd 
Music 104 Sacred Heart Chapel Choir ~ 
07 Th Su 10 seq. 390560 

(?ESCR I PTION: A vocal ensemble that will sing weekly on Sunday morning for the 10:45 A.M. Mass. Literature covered will include serious sacred and devotional compositions appropriate to the weekly readings and seasonal ob­servance. Open to all students upan audition. Rehearsals will be held on Thur­sday evenings ana Sunday mornings prior to the Mass. . 
No required readings, or examinations. Dependable attendance at rehearsals and Sunday morning Mass necessary. 
Leahy _Music 241 Music History 11 MWF seq. 393260 
DESCRIPTION: This is the first semester of a two semester course. The material covered will be from the time of the ancient Greeks to the time ofBach. The course is meant for music majors, but a non-major with some musical background should find the course rewarding. The format of the course is lec­ture, supplemented by recorded examples. 
READINGS: The text is A History of Western Music, by Donald J. Grout. Priced at SlO, it is the pre-eminent book in its field. 
STUDENT WORK: Dr. Leahy's plan of exams and papers is not yet known. There will probably be 9 medium-length term paper, a final exam, and two or th_ree exams during the semester. Some outside listening will probably be 
_necessary. , 
· COMMENT: Dr. Leahy is a noted music historian who brings to the class a wide backg_round in this field and an enthusiasm for the material which proves to be somewhat contagious. Dr. Leahy can be demanding at times, but an enlightening musical experience. 
Seid Music -231. Theory 1 09 MWTF seq. 392860 
DESCRIPTION: A creative approach to the understanding and manipulation of the basic materials' of music. Open to all students who reveal requisite musical background and training. The first. semester of basic theory in ,the curriculum of ll)USit;: -majors. Continuous written and aural assignments to deveop theJundamental techniques qf musical construction and musicianship. 
lsele  Music 233­10 MWTF:  Theory 3 seq. 393060  
'  
.  

DESCRIPTION: A more advanced approach·to the creative ·1reatment • of 
conventional and contemporary musical form, harmony, melody and rhythm. , Prerequisite is first year basic theo~y oi: special approval of !_hP instryct~r.I · Continuous written and aural assignments to further perfect the· ,.mdamentdlsOfk, musicianship and the basics of the musical language.
{ . 
\ 
Maloney Music.205 Polyphonic Chamber Choir seq. 391060
. 05 TT 

DESCRIPTION: Prerequisites: audition to determine vocal quality and muskal flexibility of individual and'the balance of the ensen,htP.. Goals: study and actual performance of sacred and secular vocal music su1taote for. small choral ensemble. The music is not confined to, but is primarily drawn from, the . repertoire of the 15th and 16th centuries. The course is open to any student or 
staff m'ernber . 
. ~·EADI NGS: The Penguin Books of English 'Madrigals, S2.45. All other music · will be suppli.ed by the music department. . ' ...STUC>,ENT WORK: Rehearsal, analysis, and performance of mus~c. At0 ·_1tendance at ·rehearsals is of primary importance. 
Cerny Music 345 Tl1e Romantic. Era 10 MWF seq. 395060_ 
DESCR1_PTION: A study of the romanti.c music written during the 19th cen­tury as an artistic expression of the cultural climate that characterized ~urope . of that era. Attention is given to the literary and philosophical articulations of romanticism as a background for musical underst~nding. The <;0tirse will consider the most significant media of romantic musical expression such as program music, songs, choral works, opera, symphonies and piano com­positions, written by the major composers of the period. Prior study of music or 
· musical training is required. 
READINGS: Klaus, Kenneth B., The Romantic Period in Music; Longyear, Rey M.; Nineteenth Century Romanticism in Music; Barzum, Jacques, Berlioz and His Century; Hugo, Howard E. (ed.) The Romantic Reader. 
STUDENT WORK: Term paper,mid-term exam, final exam,occasional short aSSiJ!rl!_TlentS.· 
lsele Music 347 The Music of Bach 03 MWF seq. 395260 
·DESCRIPTION: A consideration of Bach.'s music as the culmination of the entire Baroque period that preceded this master of the 18th century. Open to all students. Special emphasis will be given to Bach's masterworks in the area of organ, clavier, chamber, choral and orchestral composition. 
READINGS: List not yet available. STUDENT WORK: Term paper, final exam, occasional short assignments. 

music• smc 

Stevens Mus 104 Class Voice seq. 900460 
DESCRIPTION: No prerequisites, study of the rules of pronunciation in 
llillian. German. and French for singers. Meets one hour a week for one credit. READINGS: Diction for Singers, John Moriarty STUDENT WORK: Dictionate songs in Italian, French, German; oral quizzes 
on pronunciation. take-home examination after each language examination ,pctioi, is co.molelai. 
McCray Mus 161 Theory 09 MWF seq. 992660 
~DESCRIPTION: Full year course with four credit hours persemester. Study ot ,;calcs, 'intervals, triads, elements of four-part harmony, extensive sight'­rc;iding ;ind sight-singing drill.· 
READINGS: Elementary Harmony, Ottoman. New Approach to sight­singing, Bc-rkowitz. New Approach to ear-training, Leo Kraft. 
STUDENT WORK: Class participation, several assignments per week, prriodic Quizzes on keyboard harmony, sight-singing, and ear training, as well ,,s trsts .ind l?rojects dealing with the principles of four part harmony. Final 
l'Xalll. 
COMMENT: Very difficult and demanding course; but the stu~nt leari:)s-·a lri'llH'lldOUS amount. 
Lawrence. Mus 205 MadrigaI ·Singers 06TT8 seq. 904060 
DESCRIPTION: Audition required, performing ensemble for• 1 credit per· ~C'mcstcr, singing and performing in concert works of the renaissance. Meets ,,nee ,, week. M;idrigan Dinner.: ·· · .. ' 
READINGS: Song material supplied•. STUDENT WORK: Required attendance at all pra<;tices and rehearsals as w,,11 as concerts. . COMMENTS: Fun; .only demands are atten_danct: and knowledge of the I.L'•'raturc practiced! good opportunity to work in_c~ora~ ~rouo. 
McCray Mus 201 Colleg.iat~ Choir 07MW9 seq. 903260 
DESCRIPTION: Audition required. St. Mary's students combined with Notre.. P,1nw. T\;O rehearsals per week for two !lours each, l credit per semester. 3 n1ncrrts ;it least a yea'r as well as special .concerts and_-mass. Oppartunity to tr;ivcl with' group during breaks• 
.READINGS: Sorui Mciteri;il suoolied 
• STUDENT WOR.K: Attendance requir~-at all rehearsals, concerts, hearing ·;11 .-ncf ol ,;c1iwstcr. Mark ba~~d on attendance and hearing and knowled_ge of· .•11,1 tPri,,I cove-reef. 
-roMMEN 1: Dt'manding 'much t)me, but excellent instruction. 
Lawrence Mus 271 Music History 10 MWF seq. 906660 
DESCRIPTION: Conclusive in-depth study of the history of music from its i,.nown beginnings to the present. It covers two semesters, 3 credit .hours for <'ilch. Required tistenings, recorded examples. · READINGS: History of Western Music, Grout, about S10.00. 
STUDENT WORK: Ustening--identification quizzes, mid-semester and final t'xam. semester project. COMMENT: Course is based on class notes, so attendance is required on a regular basis. Demands great deal of study. 
Hennessey et al Mus 241 Music Lit 11 MWF seq. 905800 
DESCR t PTION: No prerequisites, 3 credit hours for non-music majors. Gives introduction lo basics of music, general analysis of the different styleS-·· llaroque, classical, romantic, modern. Recorded examples, required listenings. 
READING: Introduction to Music, Machlis. STUDENT WORK: 3 tests, final exam, required attendance at some concerts. COMMENT: Comprehensive and interesting, however, time consuming and 
dilticull. Must be able to distinguish between all musical styles. 
Stevens Mus 314 Voice seq. 907050 

DESCRIPTION: Audition required, taken for 1, 2or 3 credit hours which in­volve .s hour and hour lessons. Private instruction on voice techniques, hreathing, and diction. 
READING: On Studying ~inging, Kagen. 

STUDENT WORK: Memorization of songs, mandatory attendance and per­formance at voice repertoire class, recital class, and, for music majors, jury of lhc faculty members at the end of the semester. 
COMMENT: Good teacher, demanding but interesting. 

Stevens Mus 204 Opera workshop 02 TT seq. 903860 
DESCRIPTION: Audition required, study and performance of different skits 1rom operas. 2 credit hours. · STUDENT WORK: Memorization of songs and practice rehearsal attendance r<'quirccl. COMMENT: Good; gives theatrical experience in preformance. 


philosophy· nd 

STUDENT ADVISORS: Fred Antczac, 204 Farley 6752· Thomas Filiak. 7735. ' ' 
Loux Phil ·201 

Intro to Phil 02MWF seq. 410861 · lOMWF 410862· 
DESCRIPTION: This course is an introduction to philosophical thinking, based on an examination of 4perennial questions: 1) the problem of free will,~)· the problem of political authority, 3) the problem of religious belief, and 4) the naturalism-dualism controversy. 
READINGS: The texts used will,,combine a number of classical works. Some philosophers considered will be Plato, Descartes, Hobbes, etc. STUDENT WORK: A number of 1-page papers and 2 medium sized (3-5 pages) essays. 2 exams. 
COMMENT: This course operates on the presupposition that the student has not had any previous contact with the methods of philosophical inquiry. Professor Loux is a very. intelligent man and is generally well liked by his 
. students. The frequent assignments serve as an aid to the student in grasping an :.-·-·inirociuctoh• approach to important philosophical problems. 
-~ • > • • • • • -

Bobik Phil 201 Intro to Phil 11 MWF seq~ 410863 10 MWF 410864 
·. ~DE~~ii,~;~O~-~ ~ ~:is ::c~~~~ ·~iii:•con~ider a question that has atwavs 
intrigued and challenged man: whether or not he is immortal. The course has two aims: 1) to clarify t_he nature and methodology of philosophy by contrasting philosophy with theology, on one hand, and with the natural sciences, on the. other; and 2) to present a concrete example of philosophizing by e~amining .irguments for and against conscious survival after death. 
READINGS: (tentative list) Plato: Phaedo. Aristotle: De Anima, Book Ill, ch . .s Cciitlo ). Aquinas: Comment~ry on Aristotle's De Anima, Book 111, lecture 7 (ditto); Summa Theologica, I, q. 75, a. 2 and 6 (ditto). Descartes: Discourse and Meditations. Campbell: Body and Mind. Flew: Body, Mind and Death. Myers: Self: An Introduction to Philosophical Psychology. 
STUDENT WORK: 3 exams and an optional paper, the topic of which is -;elected by the student and approved by the professor. Final exam to be decided upon. 
COMMENT: Mr. Bobik is a well organized and intelligent professor. His main philosophical interests are the problems of God and of human immortality. Although often criticized for his inability to show a great enthusiasm for the lopics considered in class, Professor Bobik interested in elucidating the dif­ficulties involved in these problems. Those interested in these problems should carefully consider this class. 
Pahi Phil 213 Intro to Sym Logic 09 MWF • seq. 411061 01 MWF 411062 
DESCRIPTION: The purpose of this course is to introduce the student to the basic concepts and methods of formal logic and their applications in day to day problems. The· emphasis of this course will be directed towards application rather than theory whenever possible. The student will be intorduced to a number of specific topics: 11 Propositional Logic: a consideration of propositional connectives and truth functions and their relevance in the use of everyday langl '3ge. The analytic labteau method will be introduced in conjunction with this. 
2) Predicate Logic: A consideration of qualifiers and identities and their use in translating from natural to formal languages. Dr. Pahi also hopes to introduce the student to the application of logic as the foundation of apriori disciplines. 
READINGS: Richard Jeffrey: Formal Logic: Its Scope and Limits. The book will be supplemented by handout notes. 
REQUIREMENTS: Weekly assignments of problems. 2exams and a final. 
COMMENT: The course does not presuppose a logical or mathematical 
hackground. Dr. Pahi is very thorough and careful in his preparation for class. Ht' lries very hard to clarify any point the student has difficulties with and is qenuinely concerned with the progress of his students. Although the reading load is not heavy, the weekly assignments should make the course a demanding one. Rut this. should not frighten anyone who is interested in a good introductory 
~ourse lo logic.  ·  
Brennan  Phil 245  Existentialism  
10 MWF  seq.· 412261  
11 MWF  412262.  

DESCRIPTION: This course presents three existentialist views on what it m<'ans lo be a human being. It will focus on such topics as: subjectivity and the sell, freedom and responsibility, values, the Other, and the individual in mass -;ociety. 
READINGS: (tentative list) Barrett: Irrational Man. Bretall: A Kierkegaard Anthology. Sartre: Being and Nothingness; No Exit and Three Other Plays; and Nausea. Marcel: The Philosophy of Existentialism. 
STUDENT WORK: 2-Jexams and a final. Possibly a medium sized (5-6 pages) pnper due also. · COMMENT: Dr. Brennan's lecture~ are well organized and well prepared. She encourages the student to ask questions and allots a liberal amount of class lime in answering them. The reading toad is light but difficult. However; Dr. Brennan rnakes herself very accessible to any question the student may have co­1,cerning the readings. The course and teacher· are excellent and anyone in­terested in Existentialism would do well to takethis course. 

Mahoney Phil 245. Existentialism
J 
ol.MWF. seq. 412263 02 MWF 412264 
DE~CR I PTION: A survey of existentialist thinkers, with an emphasis on the lhoµght of-Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Marcel and Sartre. The course will elaborate on _the ~en_tral themes of these thinkers, i.e. fr~dom, individuality, anguish, etc. The u~•tying problem of the course will be'an examination of the existentialists' 

descr,pt1on of the condition of man. • RE_J~!)INGS: The list may be shortened after Mr. Mahoney re-evaluates the course t1t the ':"d of the current semester. The following is a very tentative list. Bt1rrell: lrr~ti~nal Man. ~ilde·and Kimmel ·(ed.): The Search for Being. Auden C•·d.): The L,v,n~ Thoughts of Kierkegaard. Nietzsche: Beyond GoOd and Evil. Mt1rcet: The Philosophy of Existentialism. Camus: The Myth of Sisyphus. Sartre: The Wall; and Existentialism and Human Emotions. · . STU[?ENT.WORK: 3-4short reaction essays (3pages) and a final.. . COA-'.'MEN,,:: Mr• Mahon~y is-well organized and has a mastery of -the material. He ,s very accessible to the student and is particularly interested in. 
·. 

the student's reaction to the philosophers studied. There are a lot of books for 
this course· and a lot of material is covered. But the course is well worth the time of a person interested in one of the ma jcir movements of modern philosophy. 
Boyle Phil 252 Phil of Being 09 MWF seq...4125611 11 MWF 412562 
DESCRIPTION: This course attempts to give a knowledge of the fundamental principles of all reality. The !ilUQCQJ will be intorduced to such l;)asic concepts a~ being, cause, person, good, evil, nature, substance, law, freedom, etc. The course considered the point of departure for the philosophy of being: the initial experience and peculiar nature of being. It examines the fact of the diversity of being and the internal structure of a particular being in the order of being and of activity. Finally, there will be a consideration of the causal explanation for the order of partucular beings. 
READINGS: Kreche: First Philosophy. Maritain: A Preface to Metaphysics; and Existence and the Existent. Hawkins: Being and Becoming. Gilson: Being and some Philosophers. Owens: An ll'llterpretation of Existence. Drennan: A Modern Introduction to Metaphysics. 
STUDENT WORK: 3 essay exams and a final. 
COMMENT: Professor Boyte has taught this course for a number of years and 

is extremely well versed in his field. He tries very hard to explain things 
carefully and makes rather frequent use of diagrams in order to clear up dif­
ficulties. This course is recommended to those who are interested in a solid in­
troduction to ontology. 
Brennan Phil 251 Metaphysics 02TT4 seq. 412462 
DESCRIPTION: The aim of the course will be to achieve an understanding of lhe nature of metaphysical inquiry and the type of problems metaphysics deals. with. This will be accomplished through a study of tl;lree major philosophers: Plato and Aristotle, the founders of the western metaphysical tradition, together· with the 20th century philosopher, Alfred North Whitehead. 
READINGS: Plato: Phaedo, and selections from The Republic. Aristotle: paperback selections. Whitehead: paperback selections. There will possibly be ~me or two paperbacks on specific metaphysical problef!l.s oi-on one or more of the philosophers considered. 
·. STUDENT WORK: 3 exams or short papers and one long Cl0-12 pages) paper. 
COMMENT: Dr.' Brennan has not taught this course· recently so it is im­possible to make a substantial comment. However, she is an excellent professor and if this course is anything like her course in Existentialism, it should be highly recommended. 
Bobik Phil 257, Na_ture of Phil lnq . 02 MWF seq. 412960 
DESCRIPTION: A discussion of several different views concerning the nature .of philosophical inquiry. Specific topics considered are: ' 
1) the·purpose of philosophy--ls it ~o investigate the ultimate causes of reality? Does it cfarify the meanings of terms and the theoretical backgroynd of propositions? · . · 
2) The scope of philosophy--Can it tell us anything about the world? 
3) The methods of philosophY--•Do they yeild certainty? ·4) A consideration of the underlying question:' How does philosophy relate to and differ from other sorts of inquiry? · • 
READINGS: Professor Bobik has not yet decided upon the books that will be required for this cours~-The last time he taught the course (Fall, 1970) he used ·one bQQk: Bnbik .(Pd. l The Nature of Philosophic_al lnauirv -STU.DENT WORK: 3exams to be taken in class and a final to be decided upon 
An optional paper can be written on a topic tha.tlnterests the stu_dent. · · COMMENT: Professor Bobik has not taught this course for several years and this fact makes it very difficult to make any comment concerning the course. 
,Mr. Bobik is a very competent professor and undoubtedly will try to make the course interesting. A few students have said that his lectures were rather dry but that could be due as much to the material as to the professor. 
Johnston Phil 271 Business Ethics various times 
I . • 

DESCRIPTION: This course deals wlth·a number of very relevant topics such as: The purpose of economic life. 'business manaae!!'ent as a profession. coll"• petition, private ow~ership, ethics, rights, expense accounts, management rrarnrng programs, equality of opportunity in employment, conflicts of irfferest,_ labor unions, income, pricing and profits, adyertising, bu·siness, government ,ind 
'the society and business in regard to the international community. lndividulll ·st.udents are assigned particular cases and lead class discussions. • :. -READINGS: Walton : Ethos anci the Exucutive. Baumbert, Purcel I and Roets: 
Cases in f\us_lness Ethics; On library reserve: Steiner (ed.) Issues in B4siness and Society: Readings and Cases. 
STUDENT WORK: 3 cumulative exams and a final. 
COMMENT: Mr. Johnston feels that his job is to provide his students with the moral principles to apply to business problems. For the most part, he is suc­cessful. But many times the class discussion gets bogged down when the issue is not of particular interest to the studnets. The work load is not particularly heavy but the ultimate benefit of the course lies in students' ability to relate the discussions to everyday life. 
. 

Goodpaster Phil 274 Moral Problems 09 MWF seq. 413361 10 MWF 413362 
DESCRIPTION: This course will be an attempt to come to grips critically (and to some extent, systematically) with some of the cruc!al moral problems of our-day: abortion, -sexual relations, women's rights,. eugenics, political authority, etc. Before embarking upon philosophical disc·ussions of these issues, an attempt will be made to acquaint the student with the main lines of ethical theory. in an effort to provice critical tools for dialogue. 
READINGS: Frankena: Ethics. 2other texts yet to be determined. STU DENT WORK: 2 exams, 2 medium-length essays and regular disi:usssion­preparation assignments. .j 
COMMENT:.Although this course presupposes no background in philosophy, the student who takes this course merely to fulfill a philosophy requirement had better carefully recc,nsider his motives. This should not, however, discourage a student interested in ethics. Some of the reading material is difficult but Professor Goodpaster's expertise compensates for the difficulty. Discussions grow out of an understanding of the material and can be extremely beneficial to 
the student. 
Evans Phil 275 Bas. Concepts Pol Phii. 10 MWF seq. 413460 
DESCRIPTION: This course begins with a reading of Antonine de Saint­Exupery's The Little Prince and Josef Pieper's Leisure and Basis of Culture and Apology and Crito, and proceeds to a discussion of the"basic concepts of political. philosophy. Some topics considered are: ma.n's vocation as "see-er"; the nature of lhe "philosophical act," of the "aes''1etic ace" and of the "religious act" as modes of "transcending the workaday world; man's need for community; nature of political community; relatior:iship between man and the body politic; the political common good; authority, etc. 
READINGS: Plato: Apology, Crito, The Republic. Aristotle: Politics, Ethics. Antonine de Saint-Exupery: The Little Prince. Pieper: Leisure the Basis of Culture. Capon: The Supper of the Lamb. Mounier: Personahsm. Maritain: The Social and Political Philosophy, Man and the Stat_e. Simon: Philosophy of Democratic Government. Maciver: The Web of Government. Huxley: Grey Eminence. Hopkins: Selected Poems. P,ope John: Pacem in Terris. Pope Paul: Populorum e.rofressi.o, · 
STUDENT WORK:· 3 essay exams . 
COMMENT: Although some students dislike the way Professar Evans gradually unfolds his ideas, the vast majority regard th~ course as a very enriching experience. The readings are excellent and carefully chosen ta correlate with the material of the course. Personal contact with Professor Evans is an uplifting experience for many students but it would be a mistake to de, emphasize the content of the course in favor of the character Of the l!lan. T_~ course offers a real challenge to the student to do some serious thinking about the basic questiol}s of political philosophy. 
Manier  Phil 281  Sci and· Hum Va!ues  
01  MWF  seq. 41376-1  
·01 TT3  · 413762"  

DESCRIPTION: This course will be an exploration of the relation of selected themes from current work in the history, philosophy and..sos:iology of science with the moral, political and religious concerns of the students,. The lectures Will deal with 4 major areas: ­
1) How can the layman establish adeuqate communication with the scientiffc community? 
2) Tentative conclusions will be applied to selected contemporar'/ problems (abortion, genetic manipulation; etc.) ' 
3) What sociological modes best describe-the bot{l\daries of the scientific con nunity? " 
4) An attmept to restore the relation between scie:1ce and wisdom. 
READINGS: Kuhn: The Structure of Scientific Revolutions. Toulmin: Human Understanding. Ben-David: The Scientist's Rate in Society. Bernal: The Socjal Function of Science. Habernas: Toward a Rational Society. 
STUDENJ WORK: 2research oapers (Z-lll1)ages) and a final. Also one turn as discussion leader. COMMENT: Dr. Manier prans a lecture sequence interspersed witt. discussion periods during the first part of tt,e semester which will then be 
35 

followed by as~minar sequence dur.ing which students will help lead the discussion. The course presupposes no specific scientific background. Although some students find the material difficult at first, Dr. Manier's expertise and frequent discussion groups clear up tt,e initial problems. Dr. Manier has a mastery over the material and very int'erested in correlating science with other disciplines. Prospective students should not let the scientific content of the cou_rse frjghten_them from what could be a very rewarding experience. 
Mcinerny Phil 301 Ancient Phi I 09 TTll · seq. 414200 
DESCRIPTION: In the past, this course has concentrated on the important historical figures of the philosophy of this period. This coming semester Professor Mcinerny hopes to place the mephasis on the major philosophical pro­blems. He hopes to move historically via a thematic presentation. There will be c1n effort made to unify ancient and medieval philosophical considerations such ilS: language-meaning, universals, nature of science, possibility of a super­sensory being, faith-reason, etc. 
READINGS: Sten: Problem of Universals. Plato: (paperback selection). Aristotle: (paperback selection). Wippel and Wolter Ced.): Medieval Philosophy. 
STUDENT WORK: 3 take home exams. A student may do a long research pciper in place of 2exams, if he wishes. 
COMMENT: Professor Mcinerny is very knowledgeable man and conveys this knowledge with ease and interest. A few past students, while expressing a sincere respect for Professor Mcinerny, criticized the course for the disjoin­tedness of topics caused by the emphasis on historical figures. Professor. Mcinerny hopes to correct this deficiency in the coming semester which should -;erve to improve an already good course. It should be noted that Wh!le majors <1rc in the majorifY, the course is a survey and an interested non-major will not find himself at a disadvantage. 

Loux Phil 303 Plato and Aristotle 01 TT3 seq. 414460 
DESCRIPTION: This course will attempt to analyze amf comprehend,the methods and concepts at work in certain basic works of Plato and Aristotle. The course will begin with a reading of the Meno, Phaedo, Republic, Symposium, Thaetetus and the Sophist by Plato and then move on to consider selections from Aristotle's Categories, Posterior, Anc1lytics,~Physics, De Anima, and the Metaphysics. · 
READINGS: McKean: Basic Works of Aristotle. Hamjlton and Cairns: Dialogu~s of Plato. STUDENT WORK 2 exams and 2 medium length (5 pages) papers.on topics of the student's choice. 
COMM~NT: Professor Loux says the purpose of this course is to acquaint the students with the basic philosophical concepts of Plato and Aristotle. All non­mc1iors are welcome and they will not find themselves at a disadvantage due to the introductory nature of this course. Dr. Loux is a competent and forceful l<'cturer and is readily accessible to the needs and questions of the student. 

Evans Phi.I 351 Phil of Maritain 10TT12 . seq. 4i5O6O 
DESCRIPTION: Tbis course will be to a great extent directed readings and will generally be seminar in character. Some of the major topics considered will be: the nqture of philosophy; the different ways of knowing reality; approaches _lo God; notion of "integral h·umanism,~• the philosophy of education; social and political philosophy·; and the philosophy of History. 
READINGS: Introduction to Philosophy; On the Use of Philosophy; Education.anhe Crossrads; The Range of Reason; Existence and the Existent; Approaches to God; Integral Humanism; Man and the State; Philosophy of History; Creative Intuition in Art and.Poetry. , 
STUDENT WORK: One paper and 2 exams. 
COMMENT: Mr. E~ans is one of the most popular philosophy teachers for good reasons. He is a very inspiring man and the seminar character of this course will acquaint the student with the character of the man. The ·discussions get random at times but are nearly always interesting and informative. 

Manier Phil 385 His and Phil of Bi~ 10TT12 seq. 415260 
~ESCRIPTION:. This cour~ deals with the history of biology from Darwin's death to the present._ This essentially philosophical analysis will be directed toward. the theories and work of important figures in genetics, behavioral 
• biology and evolutionary theory. The biological models to be examin~ include: 
1) the one.gene, one-enzyme hypothesis; 2) the computer and ethological models of animal communication and of the bioneural basis of language; 3) the ex­_plications of "progress" i~ current evolutionary literature. In addition, the 
_36_ 
lectures i;v111 attempt to show that poetic, political and religious channels are Ic1tent in the literature of 20th century biology. · :; 
READINGS: Car1son: The Gene: A Critical History; Beckner: The Biological Way of Thought; Simon: The Matter of Life: Philosophical Problems; Watson: ' The Double Helix; Monad: Chance and Necessity. . 
STUDENT WORK: 2research papers {10-20pages each Janda final exam. 
COMMENT: The prerequisite for this course is both a solid background and a 'i lively interest in both biolog.y and philosophy. This course will assume the same ~ formc11 cis Philosophy 281, hoping that the lecture-discussion sequence will prove fruitful in the seminar sequence that follows it. :! 
~ 
-.:;
,,
,; ·"' j 
Weiher Phil 386 Pere and Thinking i 02 MWF seq. 415360 zl :;N 
DESCRIPTION: This course will be unified on one central proposal: that ,• there is a continuity from the stimuli affecting organisms through the perception :~ of those stimuli to the most abstract levels of thought. There will be a number of % theories considered and developed, such as the· sense-datum theory, but the i; major emphasis of the course will concern the symbolic character of perception and thinking. Part of the readings will psychological in character but the core of ~ the course will consist in an investigation into the basis and· grounds of our ~ knowledge. 
READINGS: Yolton: Thinking and Perceiving; Arnheim: Visual Thinking; ;i Price: Experience and Thinking. There will also be selections from an anthology 

. on perception and the sense-datum problem,.as well as two other paperbacks. STUDENT WORK: l large research pap~ror Jproblem essays. COMMENT: Although there are no specific prerequisites for this course, Fr. 
WC'iher cissumes that the student has had at least a general introtluction to philosophy. The reading load will be moderate to heavy and due to the seminar nature of the course the student will ,be expected to come to class with the reading done in preparation for a discussion. Fr. Weiher can be a very in: tormcilive professor provided that students prepare sufficiently for class. Due to the nature of the course, Fr. Weiher thinks it would particularly inter.est majors in Philosophy, Psychology and the sciences but this does not meantthat other -;tudents will be at a disadvantage. 
Loux Phil 404 Aristotle 04TT6 seq. 415860 
DESCRIPTION: This course· will be an examination of the basic themes of 

Aristotle's philosophy. The course will focus on the methodolog·y at work in the 
~U!~~_ri~s, Posterior, Analytics, Physics, De Anima and Metaphysics. Selected 
recidings from other sources will supplement and help explicate Aristotle's basic 
ideas. 
READINGS: McKean: The Basic Works of Aristotle. 
STUDENT WORK: A number of short papers on assigned topics and 2 exams. 

COMMENTS: This course is offered with the idea that Philosophy majors will predominate. The course will examine Aristotle's philosophy in depth and in this context a non-major may find hirriself at a disadvantage. However, this should 'not hinder c1 student with an interest in Aristotle and at least a basic 
phil_osophical background. 
Goodpaster Phil 423 Ethical Theory 3MW5 seq. 416060 
DESCRIPTION: This course will be an attempt to come to grips with problems in both meta-ethics and normative.ethics. The inquiry will draw upon classical sour.ces, such as Plato and Aristotle, as well as-the modern sources, especicilly Ka11t and Mill. But the emphasis of the course will be· on con­temporary sources and. issues. 
READINGS: Davis: Introduction to Moral Philosophy. STUDENT WORK: 2-3medium length papers and 2exams. c6MMENT: Although Philosophy 274 is not a prerequisite for this course, ·it 

would not hurt to have had an ethics course before enrolling in this one. Professor Goodpaster is a capable lecturer an!1 emphasizes student par­t:cipation in his class. But the course will be a demanding one and a student without il good background may find himself lost. However, this should not discourage ·c1ny student who i.s interested in contemporary ethics: For such a ;;Judcnt. this course could serve as the occas!on for a number of en'lightening 
-insiqhts. · 
Pahi. Phil 431 lnterm Sym Log
11 .MWF 
seq. 416260 

DESCRIPTION: The purpose.of this course is to cover·,in a rigorous manner lhc different possible approaches to formal logic. Unlike his introductory level course, Dr. Pahi w,ill stress· theory arid logical methods. The topics considered 
. will include: the semantics of propositional logic; natural deduction techniques, ,millylic lilbleau techniques and axiomatic_ techniques as. applied to propositional and predicate Logic. The theorems of Post and .Godel wilJ be rnnc;idered and. proved. 
READINGS: Thomason: Symbolic Logic. Dr. Pahi will also distribute his own notes on Basic Logic. STU!)ENT WORK: Approximately 10 problem sets, a midterm and a final. There·will also be one or two research papers. 
COMMENTS: This course is usually composed of Math majors and Philosop'rw grad students. Those students without a broad mathematical b.ickground are strongly adivsed not to take this course. The course is a very leclmical and demanding one and the student with just a pa~sing interest in S·, mbolic Logic could get lost in the details. But to those interested in 111,,thematics the size of the class and br. Pahi's own expertise offer a unique opportunity to grasp the elements of this difficult discipline. 
·philos<)phy smc 

Fle'ck 
Phil 205 18th c. Phil 01 TT 3 seq. 912060 

DESCRIPTION: This course will c,:msist of an inquiry into the philosophical thought of three major 18th century philosophers: Berkeley, Hume, and Kant. It is to be, essentially, a course in understanding the philosophical issues faced by the above three men, rather than a survey course of the 18th century. However, the course will also examine the cultural framework of the times. Because it will deal mainly with philosophical problems, a background in Intro. to Phil. is required of each student. 
READINGS: Berkeley's Three Dialogues and Principles of Human Knowledge, Hume's Treatise on Human Nature, and selections from Kant's 
Critique of Pure Reason. 
STU DENT WORK: There will be no exams. There will be one paper about eight to ten pages in length. The main written work will be a philosophy 
·notebook, which will consist of two parts: 1) the main conclusions and the arguments for these conclusions, of each of the men studied, 2) comparisons of the men cllld of the movements, critical attitudes towards this, and any reflec­t ions of the student. 
COMMENT: If you are attracted to challenging, analytical, philosophical .irguments, take this course, However, it's an easy requirement to get out of the ·way. 
Fleck Phil 495 . Sem: William James 2 MWF seq. 914260 
DESCRIPTION: This course will be pri1J1arily a study of the pragmatism of 

_ William James. His basic pragmatic philosophy will be grounded in an historical 
:: context, and will be compared to the philosophies of John Dewey and C.S. Pierce. The course will also cover James' phenomenological psychology and its consequences. for later developments in phenomenological psychology manifested in the 20th century. This ratter aspect will also be discussed in relationship to the social beha;,,ioralism of George H. Mead. A study of James' volantarism in his religious writings and its consequences will also be stressed. In view of the above, this course should be considered interdisciplinary, good for theology, psychology, sociology, and other majors. READINGS:. James' Pragmatism, Varieties of Religious Experience, Essays in Radical Empiricism, Principles of Psychology (a briefer course). ... s·TUDENTWORK: There will b~no exams. Written work will include a paper _or something comparable to the notebook in the above mentioned_ evaulation. 
The remaining philosophy courses include: 1) Medieval Phil (Phil 202), 2) Philosophy of Art (Phil 360). These will be taught by Ann Clark who rs coming back lo SMC after a year inTexas during which time she received her PhD in Aesthetics. Ann is an excellent teacher and is highly recommended. 
Professor J. Ringen will be teaching a seminar, Philosophy of Psychology (PhH-496°). Mr. Ringen·is from IUSB·and will be at St. Mary's on the Exchange_ Program. · . 
·John McDcmag!l will be teaching· Existential Psychology I (Pil 371) which is · cross listed as Psych. 371. (Refer to Psych evaluations). . 
A semii,ar entitled Myth, Svmbol, and Society (Phil 496) will be team taught by six professors: Fleck (Philosophy), Pullapilly and Cassidy (History).,. Brumm (Sociology), Michaud (English), and Wernz. This course, however, will. not fulfill any core or major requirements. 
Detailed ·information ·on .the above courses is not available at this time. However; information will be circulated by the department some time before registration. 

psychology nd 

STUDENT ADVISORS: Larry Carr, 820 Notre Dame Ave.; Mike Lilienthal 7838· Donald Olek, 1100; Nancy Parker; Greg Vsonder, 269 Dillon', 1758; Frank Viehman, 922 South Bend Ave.; Dennis Willson, 517 Leland, 234-4259. 
Staff Psych 211 Genera I Psychology llMWF seq. 430601 OlMWF seq. 430602 02fv\WF seq. 430603 
DESCRIPTION: In contrast with past years, the emphasis in general psychology th is year will be more of a soft sell orentation to the· basic models in psychology. The areas of Language, Verbal Learning and Information Processing, Computer Models of Thinking, Physiology, Operant Conditioning, Personality, and Perceptual Learning will be covered. In every regard, this course is directed at the interests of the students. Entrance into this course requires no prerequisites and is'open to all undergraduates. The class is always large which necessitatesJecture"presentation. However, class is usually always interesting since the term is splirlnto thirds with each third guaranteeinganew lectl\rer. Occasional movies which are both entertaining and educational also break the lecture routine. Questions are willingly answered durin·g the lectures. 
READINGS: One text is required, Psychology of Life, Ruch & Zimbardo, (Sll.50). Other readings, which are supplemenlary, are on reserve at the library. 
STUDENT WORK: There will be 3 tests, one at the end of each teacher's lecture series. They usually consist of 60-70 multiple choice questions with the grades being curved (the highest gradeobtained is given a l00percent). 
COMMENT: The course is extremely interesting and educational witt, "' myriad of topics being covered:·Time and effort on the stud~nt;s part should lead to B's and A's. The tests do require the student to think, yet with proper preparation, they present few-problems. Each 'student is also allowed 5 extra points Cif he can beat everyone else to the sign-up sheets) for taking part in graduate psychology experiments. It's the simplest way on campus to· raise your final mark a half of a grade. · 
Farrow Psych. 341 Statistical Experiments I l0TT12· seq. 431260 
DESCRIPTION: This course is required for all psychology majors. The only prerequisite is General Psychology. The course is aimed at presenting the fu!1damentals of statistics need to provide a working knowledge of the subject fo_rus_e in t~e_c;!esjgn and.ioterw:et.a.tion..Jlf experim_,.otal data. The presentation. 
s_ons,sts of a lecture format with one lab per week. The fabs·involveihe working of_assi.9nment? 9iyen in class,. READINGS: Statistics for the Behavioral Sciences, 2nd Editton-Revised, by Young and Veldman is the only text used in the course. 
STlJDEN.T WORK: There are threee rn.,fFe exams given during the semester. Also, lab work is to be handed in and will figure in the grading. The comi:,o~te lab _grade w/11 count as one exam grade. There are no papers and no· spe,:i.;i 
pro1ects. 
COMMENT: This course is Dr. Farr~w•s specialty, hence the lectures will be good ones. Dr. Farrow will attempt to clarify difficult points encountered in the material, which otherwise would tend to be highly perplexing. The course material tends to be difficult due to the mathematical concepts involved. However, the sta!istical concepts areof prime importance. Dr'. Farrow takes a personal interestin the students and is easily ·available for consultation. The work load for the course is.comparatively high. The course is a valuable, ifnot necessary one, and is for Psychology majors only because of the difficuity of the material. 
Taub Psych. 353 Psych. of Personality 0lMWF seq. 431860 
DESCRIPTION: Psychology of Personality covers differnt ·theoretical and research-oriented points of view and studies the ramifications of the vari~us schools of thooght on psychometric testing, therapy, and past and· future research. This l_ecturP r.ourse deaJ? with both normal and abnromal persor,.litv development. It is open to any stuaent and, although it is not _required,· it is recommended to any psychology major plan(ling to ·attend graduate school. General psych is a prerequisite, · 
READINGS: The text will probably be Personality: An Introduction to TheOU .a.w, Research. mtJ.iel:lert _ancl c;ni~ler. Approximate cost is Sll.00 Supplementary handouts are also expected. STU DENT WORK: Two mid-term·s and a final. Exams include both objective ad subjective auestions. -Any student who· is concerned about his grade can do a 
. .. paper on a topic of hlS cnoice_tor extra credit. ­COMMENT: Dr. Taub's lectures, although to• some st!.ldents difficult to 
Govt 407 Amer Political Partie~

Beitzinger Govt 343 Pol Theory Reiter 
2 TT 4 seq. 272060

1 MWF seq. 271162 
DESCRIPTION: This is a course designed for beginning students of Political Theory. Open to all government majors, this course provides a firm foundation vpon which students proceed to examine fundamental political, hence ethical, problems confronting man thoughout history. The student gains not only factual information concerning classical medieval and modern systems, but realizes the integrity that theory has in his personal approach to decision making. 
READINGS: Readings include Plato, Republic; selections from Aristotle,_ Ettiics and Politics; selections from St. Augustine, City of God; selections from SL Thomas, Treatise on Law;' Hobbes, Leviathan; Locke, Second treatise on Civil Government; and selections from Rousseau's Soci Social Contract. 
.. 'i ST_UDENT WORK: The class will meet twice a week in lecture format and 
~ pnce per week in free discussion. One short paper will be required every 1--½ wee~s and there will be a mid-term with a final. COMMENT: Mr. Seitzinger has the unique ability to remove the complexity from political theory. Always, his lectures are crisp and precise and pertain specifically to the question at hand: His frequent comments on the current political scene, make for interesting and often humorous breaks in the lecture. Mr. Seitzinger is very available and maintains his professional standards for both himself and his students. The course requires a good deal of effort but the rewards are always commensurate with the work. 
,,. 

Niemeyer Govt 343 Pol Theory 
9 MWF seq. 271161 
DESCRIPTION: In Political Theory,·or. Niemeyer leads the students along a 
~ chronologically ordered path through major concepts of political thought. Starting with the very beginnings of political philsophy, the student moves on to Plato, Aristotle, Augustine, Aquinas, Machiavelli, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Burke, Marx and Mill. This is a required course for all government majors and ~ has no prerequisites. Composition of the usually large class is mainly Juniors and Seniors. . Dr. Niemeyer lectures twice each week and the student is assigned to a discussion group led by a T.A. for the third hour each week. ·. READINGS: The reading list will be Henri Franfort's Before Philosophy, Arist9t1e's Ethics c!nd Politics, Augustine's City of God, and Hobbe's ·Leviathan. The total cost of the books was under Sl3.00 as of September 1972; but is subject to rise if the _.Bookstore deems necessary. STUDENT ·woRK: -Besides atte_!ldance, weekly half page papers are required. The.student expresses his understanding of the readings through these concise papers; hence, they are not as easy as one might think. Two 1-½ page "term" papers on specific topics are also required. The greatest difficulties encountered in ·~rjting these oapers a!:_e _knowledgP oJ t_h_~ material and e~­presstng tnis know1eage in a short, coherent ,:,aper. ·rhere is also a m~a--term and a final. Jhe exams are difficult, but legitimate. The.final grade is based on ttie weekly papers, the mid-term, the two term papers and the final. COMMENT:. Not Dr. Niemeyer, but his T.A.'s are usually criticized. Un­fortunately, due to class·size and his busy schedule, Dr. Niemeyer11eeds T.A.'s. Anotl_ler.~ommon compalint is that in _order to do the course justice, one should not be·taking any ot:ier courses. Alas, the woes of an undergrad. It is an ex­tremely valuable. course for any students who enters it with an open mind. 
Pomerleau Govt 444 Pol of Spain and Italy ·10 MWF seq: 273960 
DESC_RI PTION~ "J!,. study of the political culture and the.constitutional order of these rwo Mediterranean countries; special emphasis will be placed on the development and -transformation of the political system. Pressure groups, ethnic minorit ~s, unions, military and business elites will be examined in a comparative framework wherever.possible. Particular at~ntion will be paid to the politicaf-role of-the.church in Jtaly and the ideology of Spain's technocratic· Catholocism. Comparative government, or some introductory course to gover:nment or political systems is presumed. Themes will be introduced by lectures, and the seminar approach used as much as possible. 
READINGS: Galli and Prandi, Patterns of,f>olitical Participation in Italy; Wiskeman, ltitlY Since 194S; F. Roy Willis, Italy Chooses Europe; Other readings selected from journals and news media; Brenan, The Spanish Labrynth; Anderson, the Political Economy of Modern Spain: Policy-Making in ·an Ai)thoritarian System. . -. . 
STUDENT WORK: There.will be one medium-length paper, on_e test, and one class p~esentation. (Subject to change.) . · . • ·: ':OMMENT: Professor:.Pomerleau's lectures _are well-organized and -to the 
·point. His especial fondness for Italy should make this course a pleasant as well as enlightening .enaeayor. Besides being an engaging spe~ker, Professor Pomerleau is]mowledq_eable in CQ(nQgrativP onvernmen! systems and current changing circumstances!. His enthisiasm extends to both n,s· sub1ect and his students; he is:readlly ·available to students who are confused or •in need of 
., ~ . ­

DESCRIPTION: Professor Reiter's course will be the same as in the past. The history and role of the American political parties will be considered, as well as a.nor~ative consideration of the parties' fulfillment of their.,role." Party organization and leadership, the national power structure, and a prognosis for the party system will also be considered. 
READINGS: Required readings include the following books, and various articles on reserve. The required books are: The American Political Science As~_ociatton's Report on Responsible Parties, James Q. Wilson, The Amateur Democrat; Everett Ladd, American Political Parties; Angus Campbell et. al., The American Voter; Alexander Bickel, Reform and Continuity.' 
STUDENT WORK: A midterm and a final wi'II be given. The student is also required to e'ither wr_ite a series of six short (three-page) papers, or a twenty page research paper. 
Reiter Govt 408 Amer Public Opinion 
lO MWF seq. 272160 
DESCRIPTION: The formation, measurement, manipulation, and rq~ _Qf public opinion in the Arnerican political system is the major theme ofthe7course. 
The impact and structure of public opinion, theories of public opinion, its rationality, and psychological, sociological and political roots of American public opinion will also be considered. Discussion is encouraged, although the 
class is primarily lecture. ' 
READINGS: V. o. Key Public OP.inion and American Democracy and Backstrum and Hirsch, Survey Research are the only two books required for purchase. The bulk of the readings are on reserve--journal articles and chapters from various books. 
STUDENT WORK: A midterm and a final will be given. Besides these, students are required to formulate and conduct a poll, and write a ten-page commentary and analysis of their results. Class participation is counted in formulating the final grade. 
Arnold' Govt 411 American Bureaucracy -9 TT 11 seq. 272360 
DESCRIPTION: The first part of the course takes an historical approach to the phenome,ion o}e.drn.i.n.i_stration in America today.fhe seccnd half,of'ftie course deals with thecharacterof the modern American bu·reaucracy. Govenment 340 is a prerequisite·for this c;:ourse. The course has an open format with informal lecture the rule. Due to the relatively small size of the class (usually under 25) questions are encouraged and discussion is usually quite enlightening. The course is open to all Government and American Studies majors. · 
READING:S (Note: all prices are based on 1972 listings). Cordon and Paul, Men Near. the Top (S3.00); Davis and Dolbeare, Little Groups of Neighbors. (S4.50); Herber:t Kaufman, The Forest·Ranger ($2.95); Louis Kohlmeier, The Regulators (S3.95); Gabriel Kolko, The Triumph of Conservatism-($2.95); Woodrow Wilson, "The Sudy of Administration" ($.60); Peter Woll, American Bureaucracy ($4.25); In addition there a handful of reserve articles as well as an 
~-=xtensive suggested readings list. 
STUDENT WORK: Grades are based on two exams asking specific answer questions, and a short paper. <;areful studv and doc,umentation of answers ,are required for an "A" grade on the exams. 
COMMENT: American Bur.eaucracy implies a more specific interest in America_11 governl!lent than do Mr. Arnold's other' courses. The course is ex­tremelyj well-organized and despite its potentially tedious subject matter Mr. Arnold maii1tainsstudent interest. The reading list looks longer than it actually is and is far fro·m overwhelming. This co_urse: is highly irecommended for American Gbvernm~nt concentration as it deals with that most lmportant, "Fourth· E?rf'nch" of Government. 

Pomerleau Govt 450 Rel and Pol Devel 11.MWF seq. 274360 
_DESCRIPTION: A comparative study of contemporary Catholic ideology and social transformation in selected countries of Europe and Latin America. The purpose of this c?urse ;viii be to st!,Jdy·the relative influence of religious struc­tures on different po!itic;al systems where the Catholic Church exercises a nionopoly on religious· values or is the dominant source of religious-social va!!Je_!i_.. ~eJi.91Ql!,~ gli.t~~-Will,-bf:.stud~..and tbeUQl&. in.Jiac:iaU!_nd· politi.£.aj 
change ~xamined. The major· countries studi~ wilr be Italy, Brazil.and1 
Argentina._ Any introductory or basic course in the social sciences will be! 
helpful, but r,ot _necess~rily_ ess~ntiat ~ ~minar format will be employed. 
, READINGS: Poggi, Cathohc Action ,n Italy, The Sociology of a Sponsored Organization; Berger, T~e Sacred Canopy; Donald Smith, Religion and Political Development; Ivan Valli~r, CatlJolicism, S~cial Control and Modernization in Latin ~m~rica; Emanuel de Kadt, Catholic Radicals in Brazil Book on Spain, to 
be chosen later. · · paper topics, but the student should be prepared ro put quite a bit ot time fnto these papers. For a very good background in existential psychology take this course. 

Scrivner Psyc 366 Persona I ity 10 MWF seq. 943860 
DESCRIPTION: Discussion of the major contemporary theories of personality including the psychoanalytic, behaviorist, and cognitive theories, and the research emerging from each of these theories. 
READINGS: Non-Freudian Theories of Personality, Varieties of Personality Theories, Primer of Freudian Psychology, Call paperbacks), and Personality by· Mischel. 
STUDENT WORK: There will be a final and a mid-term. No papers will be assigned. Any other organization is yet to be determined by Dr. Scrivner. 
COMMENT: This course is a valuable one for those interested in psychology. Previous.tests by Dr. Scrivner have been creative and the student must apply what he has learned to particular stiduation. Personality is approached from all viewpoints, with no particular apijroach emphasized. Since this is Dr. Scriv­ner's specialty, students should avail themselves of the opportunity to take this course. Besides, you may learn something aobut your own personality. 
Sheehan Psyc 450 Community Psych 7 Tu seq. -944851 
DESCRIPTION: The aims of the course ;ire toJrain st.JJdents to improve their ihterpersonal skills. After such training, students ~hould be able to function better in interpersonal helping relationships. In the latter part of the semester, itudents will become involved in couseling in community mental helth facilities fn South Bend area. Prerequisite: permission of the instructor. 
: READINGS:. T~is semester there were no readin9s or text. ~tUDENT WUt<r<,.:· This course w,=>c offered on an experimental basis this ~~ster. There l'fere no tests, howev~r the students were expected to _tiave type of project that concerned a community, either the class itself as a com­munity or South Bend as a community. The format however, may be changed next semester and Dr. Sheehan has yet to determine that. COMMENT: The atmosphere in this class -.yas very relaxed which afforded ,i!•'1l·students with excellent possibilities for learning experiences. It is a (!ifficult course to evaluate because students worked as individuals which is different from the competitive classsroom situation. To cite an old cliche: The students , get out_of it what they themselves put into it. 
McDonagh Psyc 450 Community Psychology 04 MWTh seq. 944850 
DESCRIPTION: There are several aspects of community mental health on which the students mav concentrate: · a) providing companionship for ~psychiatric patien-ts c:1,;d ex-patients :n South Bend. b) running a Free Clinic for migraine headache sufferers. Clients would come from surrounding area as well as from campus. "Clinics" to be located in SMC psychology department. Metho·d of treatment: temperature control by means of biofeedback. c) other involvement in the community is available on a very limited basis. Students should have either Abnormal or Experimental Psychology before taking this· 
i'cour_~e READINGS: There are no required readings for this course. ­STUDENT WORK: Each student is required to take part in some type of 
:ommunity mental health program: for example, joining a volunteer program of the South Bend Mental Health Association, wo!kiog in a Day Care Center, etc. A journal must be kept on the student's client or clients. One 12-15 page paper on .SOQ'lP a~ec! of community health is also required. There are no exams. This course has been oas,cally unstructured in the past, however Dr. McDonagl]Jeels that the course will function better if it is mo-r'"tfrigidly strucfuredand intends to design it as such for next semester, . 
.COMMENT: This tvoP nf course has great ootential value for osvchnloQV majors or tor anyone interested in gahJinQ exr;>erience in t_he field of community community health. However, at the present time, the course is too unstructured to be on optimal educational experience. The addition of lectures, readings, and a broader choice of community health projects would make this course much 'more worthwhile. Dr. McDonagh is quite capable in the· area of clinical psychology and this course would surely benefit from a greater amount of lclirei::tion from him. · ­
Nutting Psyc 481 Seminar in Psych 10 MWF seq. 945~1 · 10 TT 1:! seq. 945662 
OESCR I PTION: The seminar Is is primarily for advanced psychology 
-students.· ·Possible seminar topics will be chosen from: William James, Freud, Skinner, A.S. Neill, Piaget, reading problems in childhood, drug addiction, clinical _psychology, parei_,t effectiveness training, personality research, se~­
. , 

sation and the psychology of "meaning. Prerequisite: permission of d~rt­
ment chairman. READINGS: James, Freud, Neill and Skinner. These are all paperbacks. STUDENT WORK: There are no papers,onetest Which is the final. COMMENT: Dr. Nutting is a well educated and 1Jl9f'!ly intellectual man. He is 
very sensitive to his students·and stimulating to listen to and t~lk with. Dr. 
Nutting's philosophy is to "take the pressure off the students." As a result, the 
·work load is light. However, the students do themselves and the professor a 
disservice if they take this course because they think it will be easy. Dr. Nutting, his philosophy, and method of instruction make this a valuable learning ~x­perience. 
Pangrac Psyc 481 E Exceptional Child 5:30 MTh 7 seq. 946000 
DESCRIPTION: This course will introduce the student to the special needs f\f exceptional children, methods of evaluation and classification, and pro01ems of remediation and prevention. Emphasis will be given to the intellectually superior, mentally sub-normal, slow' learner and learning disabled, including the emotionally disturbed, sensory handicapped, brain injured, and en­vironmentally disadvantaged. 
McDonagh Pscy 481 I Biofeedback _03 MW s~. 946460 
DESCRIPTION: This two-credit course will be presented in seminar form•. Students will have experience with biofeedback temperature trainer_ and the opportunity to do an original project, perhaps with the useof brainwavefeed,back. 
READINGS: No text will be used but readings in journals will be done In­stead. · STUDENT-WORK: The students will be expect~d to give a class presentation on selected topics in some area of biofeedback. 
Jameson Psyc 485 Prad in Early Childh 08 r= seq. 946850 
DESCRIPTION: This course focuses on relating work experience to child development theory, particulary as it relates to the young child (ages 2 to 4). 
READINGS: Fraberg: The Magic Years or Wicks: The Inner World of Childhood;Pines: Revolution in Learning; Montessori: TheAbsorbantMindor The Secret of Childhood; Sharp: Thinking is Child's Play 
STUDENT WORK: Students are required to work in a day-care center for one day of two half-days per week; they meet once each week for discussion-The discussion serves the purpose of a consulting hour, during which studens will be guided in their work with the children. Students will do readings an a journal. Prerequisite: permission of the instructor. 
. COMMENT: This course is a completely unstructured course and is ideal for the p~rson who wants to co-ordinate work experience with academics. It offers the student a ch;ipce tQ_ djscus!' _wha! he ic:. drinp i:_!ri,:f why he is doina it. It is 
typica;fy thOUf!ht of as c1 rype of Day-Care work exper-ience, however, some students work at the Mental Health Center and other places. Before registering for this cours~ it would be a good idea to talk with Mrs. Jameson about What you want to do. In the .past the course has been tailor-made to suit the students needs, and it is a valuable·experlencefor those truly interested. 
39 
Criminology
Soc 371
Vasoli 
seq. 483061


10 MWF 
seq. 483062

so_ciology nd 
11 MWF 
·sTUDENT ADVISORS: Dan Kogovsek, 712 Flanner, 1436; Bill Mat­thews, 361 Cavanaugh, 1535. 

Lamana Soc 320 Sociology of Poverty l0iT12 seq. 481660 
DESCRIPTION: There are no prerequisite1 for this course which will d~al with lhree basic questions: 1) What is poverfy? (the nature and concept of its measurement). 2) Who is poor and why? and 3) How has society responded to the 

problem of poverty and with what results? _ . READINGS: On Understanding Poverty by Daniel Moynihan, The State of Welfare by Sleiner. 
~~ Smith Soc 340 Conflict Resolution 
09TT11 seq. 482160 
DESCRIPTION: The emphasis of this course centers around the process of conflict and how it may be resolved. The course is conducted in·a lecture format and is open to any student who has had some background in sociology or psychology. This course may be taken as an elective in sociology and it may also be taken for credit as part of the "Non-Violence Program" as well. 
READINGS: Only one text is used in this course. Its title is Conflict Resoluti:Jn and its cost of S7.50. STUDENT WORK: There are no papers required. Grades are determined solely by two take home exams which average between 5 and 12 pages in length. 
COMMENT: This course is relatively undemanding. The work load is very light and it will present no burden to the student. The lectures are clear and relevant. extraneous material being left out. Prof. Smith is competent in this 
· field and is available for those students who need help. In essence, this course is easy and uncomplicated though interesting.. 

Sasaki Soc 362 Medical Sociology 08TT10 seq. 482460 
DESCRIPTION: The goal of this course is· to provide the student with an un­derstanding of the sociology of health and health-related phenomena. Among the specific topics covered are: sociocultural variables which affect the incidence c1nd prevalence of disease; sickness as a social role; the sociology of social in­stilutions which are geared to handling the ill in society, with special emphasis on !he genberal c111d the mental hospital; socialization into the relevant helping roles, such as physician and nurse; social interaction among the helping roles; and cross-cultural differentials in.illness experience. . · 
.Emphasis throughout is on the social and the cultural in health and illness. 
DESCRIPTION:_ If you're looking for an introduction to crime solving, complete with l_essons in fingerprinting, look elsewhere. Prof.· Vasoli's in­lroduc·lion to criminology is divided into three areas: 1) Criminal Law, 2) Eliology (crime causation), and 3) Penology (corrections). The idea is to give Ille student an overall working knowledge of the causes of crime, the operation of Ille cri111inc1I justice system, and society's reaction to crime. The course is mostly leclure, with opportunity for discussion and outside research. 
READINGS: Prof. Vc1soli has not completed next semester's reading list yet, bul ljo&ks which hc1ve been used in the past and will probably return include: Morris & . f::lawkins, The Honest Politician's Guide to Crime Control; Sykes, Society of Captives; Cressey;Theft of the Nation; and possibly Shrag, Justice-­America~'style. . 
STUDENT WORK: In the past there have been 2 exams during the semester ;ind a final, ec1ch counting rougl'\1.Y c1 third of the final mark. A student may, for exfri! credit, visit c1 prison, criminal court, etc., and prepare a paper sum­marizing his observations. 
COMMENT: Prof. Vc1soli is extremely knowledgeable .in the field of c_rin,inology, ,md his lectures are genero'usly sprinkled with personal anecdotes ;iboul the criminc1ls he has come in contact with during his extensive research work in prisons.-These personal reflections c1dd a w_elcome levity to ·1ectures that otherwise tend to be dry at times. The work load is very reasonable; though Prof. Vasoli's c-xc1ms are known.to be tough. For those genuinely interested in the subject (,rnd not just looking for a fifth course). Prof. Vasoli's course can be a rew;irding ;ind even enjoyable experience.. 

<  t  
:,  
Samora  Soc .380  Sociological Anal  
09TT11  seq. 483760  

DESCRIPTION: Tl;is course is recommended as an introductory course for non-sociology mc1jors.·The goc1I of this course is to provide the student with an 

,'oper;itional understc1nding of contemporary·sociology. As an initial step in the development of such u11derstai1ding, the class starts with an extended discussion of the basic sociological co11cepts, somewhat like a.principles course but, in view of the requirements of junior standing c1nd mc1jor in the field, the discussion is at ;in ;ippropric1lely higher level. . 
0,1ee lhe students ·ilre fc1miliar with the basic concepts of the discipline, the course is d~voted 10· an exam.i11c1tion of the works of contemporary sociologists by going lo primary sources. Individual sociological works studied are chosen on the bc1sis of lheir r,epresentativeness of the "full-range" of the discipline. Especic111y: important· in the selection process is a distinct attempt to make 

. cerlain thc1! there is c1 ·fc1ir representation of both theoretica'lly and empirically ori~nted _prim<1ry mono'graphs. . · · 
· Upon.:,completion. of ,this ·cour~e each student should have a first-hand :~~ciuaintc1i1~e with·the-nc1ture of sociology intradisciplinary trends, and present .. 'da{.coi1lroversies\.vithin the discipline.. furthermore, the student .should be familiar with some of ihe outstanding contemporary monographs in the field. 
Topics covered include: The.sociological perspective; the individual and the 9roup; Cullure ·and values; social organization; ·stratification and mobility; rncc relii lions in urbai, America; social order and social change. 

Rather lhan viewing sickness as a condition of the individual, illriess is perceived . · 
c1nd interpreted as a role within the social system. Individual reaction to the system, and the systematic reaction to illness and the sick indivi'duat'set the framework for the course. · . · · 
Bc1sica.lly, the course is a reading-lecture one in which a basic text is used, 
alo1ig _with s_upplementary ou!side ~aterial. Relevant discus:i~_n is enc~uraged, nd
~specially smce students taking th,s course represent a yanety of ma1ors a interests. 
Soc 367 C . ·t A I .
Lamana­
. ·.. . . 

'''Bar'retf -:..·t \ Soc 3n The Family 
· ·· ··.' ··,•.· '· 
· seq. 483360 

. ;; ·.. '· ·: · · ··.. ' · 10 MWF . . . DE0SCR IF!TION ~-Tl~ is a basic and' gen-~ral c~urse in family studies. The sires~ is upon.t!1~ p~rson~l involvement in courtship, marriage, and parent-child . relc1lionsh_ips.-~o .Sociology courses are prerequisites, but may be useful. Prof: Bc1rreff's objectives in the course ar~: ll to present a liberal education ..c~perie_nce !1_i_ o_rd~r l_o_help the student .develop his ability to reason and argue; 
2) the develoP•l)f;lll of person~! insights and decisions on one's life goals; and 3) 

lo develop critical appraisal of societal values, behaviors, programs, agencies, . lc1ws, etc.. 
ommunt Y na YSIS .. ,The course is pri,,',arily c1 lecture course, although the Prof. does allow 02TT 4 seq. 482660 ... ~uestionsc One class period per week. is devoted to smaller disucssion groups, ., ... h~a_d_ed _by ,9/c1d students, students who,!1ave had this course previously; arid also 
.DESCRIPTION: This is an introduction ·to the study of residential com­munities_ (small towns, suburban areas, and urban neighborhoods) in terms of their'function and social integration. The approach will be comparative and practicc1l. The emphasis will be on grasping the empirical reality of ~ommunity by actuc1lly studying a particular community. The course will be organized· 
•;_--·around the following questions: What is a community? What significance does 
;~-one's community have on one's soi:ial life and life chances? How does one study a community or sub-community? How do communities differ from one another? There are no prerequisites for the course. 
_, . READINGS: Studying Your Community by Warren; The Community, by 

·-by.Prot:·earrett. · REAtflNGS: Tiiere are two required books in this course: The Family Bond 
by :Leonard Benson {S9.50) and Family in Transition by Arlene and Jerome . Skoh1i(k ($5.95). The sec9_nd is a p_aperback b~ok of readings on the topics · di~cussed, in~luding such things as dating, marriage, abortion, divorce, etc. 
STUDENT WORK: In addition to a short final, there are two other tests during lhe s_emester. The tests c1re open book but some study· is necessary as the tests c1re fairly long, ~•1d cover most-of the m~terial. Also a book report (10 page 

-. •·limill must· be.done· on a book s~lected from a bibliography Prof. Barrett .-distribut_es. Two or three short papers are.also required during the semester. 
Warren. · ·-•~·,COMMENT: Prof. Barrett's lectures are very informative.,Hi_s style is not the . -~; best but h_e doe~ hold_your atte.i:itioQ. He does his best to preserit,both sides of;an ...... ..:issue, but his ownbias is·apt to often show through. The readings are relatively , ··• ec1sy, but rather dry;:lf one·clttends class, and is.willing to take a firm stand on 
, •.~ the issues i1'l the tests and papers a good grade can ~e expected. 


Dodge Soc 406 Social Demography 09 MWF _seq._ 484460 
DESCRIPTION: This course is open to all ·students and there are no prerequisite~. 
Populatio1i as a subject of national and international concern is of recent vil1tage a11d demography, the science of population, is g,:owing rapidly. ·The -,ronlinuing urgency of the "population explosion" requires more than cas'-!al and -;egmc-nlal appreciation. All major universities now offer this type of basic ,_-course which examines the historical, sociological, economic.and political facets ,,1 the issues. Lectures and candid discus~ions yield deeper insight into such ·, mallers as the revolutions in death control, the trends and controversies on birth ro11trol, the radical changes in human lives and communities by reason of , ,niigration. Quite central are the segregation of fact 'arid fiction, science and ,pbpular speculation, humane and purely technical understanding~ ·special at­lC'nlion is given to the problems of developing nations of the world (in Latin t J\1111'rica, Africa, Asia) in terms of food, resources, social and economic 
a.' ,,rganizalion in relation to rapid p,:ipulation growth. 
Fink Soc 402. Social -Psychology 02TT4 · seq.:.:484160 
DESCRIPTION: This is an examination·and analysis of the major theories, research, problems and recent developments in social psychology. Though in­troductory in nature, the course is very comprehens_ive in s_cope. A ·general working knowledge of sociology is therefore helpful, though there are no official prerequisites. II is restricted to Sociology and Anthropology majors (exceptions are sometimes 111ade with the professor's consent). The course is usually a mixture of lecture and discussion, depending on the size of the class. Prof. Fink usually prefers to decide structural aspects of the course with the students at the beginning of the semester. 
READINGS: Prof. Fink has not yet finalized next semester's book list, but it usually includes one or two basic introductory texts and a number of smaller "Specialty" books and assigned readings which deal with specific topics of social psychology_. 
STUDENT WOR k: This, too, is usually subject to discussion at the beginning of the semester. A normal load isl or 2research papers and a final exam. 
COMMENT: Professor Fink's enthusiasm for the course is abundant, as is his knowledge pl, the field. This comes across in his lectures, which are always animated and lull of facts and anecdotes, though occasionally a bit confusing. His style; in class and outside,_is casual and friendly. The readings are very carefully integrated into the course. They are sometimes dry and technical, but Ihey succeed in illuminating some of the more confusing and complex aspects of ihe course. The reading assignment usually runs about 75 pages a week. Prof. Fink, is highly enthusiastic about his subject, and demands a large amount of response and interest in return. Therefore, this course is not for anyone merely looking to fill a requirement. However, for those looking for a stimulating an·d interesting learning experience, this course and Prof. Fink are both highly re-commended. 
Barrett Soc 419 World Urbanism 01MW3 seq.· ~84860 
DESCRIPTION: There are no prerequisites for this course. The basic goal is ­lo give the student a view of how and why various cities developed as they did. Th~ course also provides for a background of the .work done in basic urban planning. Concentration will be placed on cities outside the U.S. 
READINGS: There is one required text for the course: Urbanism in World Perspective, S6.00. ­
STU DENT WORK: Work for the course consists basically of a term project in which you will be required to research a city outside the U.S. In addition, there will be an occasional quiz usually announced. 
· COMMENT: This course provides a wide range of interesting materials on cities outside the U.S. However, because of the volume of materials covered at times, the lectures tend to become tedious. But there is much to be learned from· 
. the materials. wh_ich Prof. Barrett supplements with anecdotes from his 
··traveling ·experience. 
Lamana ·Soc 435 Intergroup Relations 02MW.4 seq. 485160 
. DESC~ IPTION: Thi§ course was previously taught Uflder the title of Rac_e a~d Minority_ Groups. There are no prerequisited _but .an introductory course 111 . ~ocio)ogy -would_ be helpful. . 
Tliis course consists of an analysis cf past, present, and projected patterns of minority-dominant relations in the United States. The major topics covered: Significnace of Minority groups in the modern world; race and ethnicity in Ame~ican society; sources of racism; intergroup conflict; segregation; dif­ference, disadvantages and discrimination; assimilation; minority reactions; planned and unplanned social change; and corporative minority group ex­perience (comparison of 12 ethnic groups). 
. READINGS James Vanderzanpen, American Minority Relations: The Sociology of Race and Ethnic Groups, 3rd ed.; Bernard Segal {ed.}, Racial and Ethnic Relations, 2nd ed.; packet of 15 handouts. 
Kurtz·. 
Soc 434-534 Health and Medicine 09TT11 seq. 485060 

~ESCR IPTION: This is an intensified version of the Medical Sociology course which Professor Kurtz has taught in the past as well. All students were un­dergraduate or graduate sociology majors with one pre-med major in the class. The course covered mental health and the different approaches taken toward it in practice and research, the many different occupations within the profession of medi~ine. with emphasis placed on the nursing aspect and a thorough exa_mmat1on o: the doctor's role and practice in medicine. The process of ap­plying to medical .schools and the study done by a medical student was also emphasized. The social system of the hospital was covered along ~ith the social and economic implications of the medical system in the United States. The class is a seri~s of lectures given by Professor Kurtz with questions and comments welcomed, with most of the lecture material coming from sources other than the assigned readings. There was one film shown outside of class time and required 
of the students. · .READINGS: Patients, Physicians, and Illness edited by E. Gartly Jaco, S12.95. STUDENT WORK: Three 75-minute tests and a final with almost all of the questions coming from the material presented in the class lectures. Professor Ku~tz mentioned the possibility of students doing a paper instead of a test if they desire.and consult with him concerning it (graduate students are required to do a paper). 
COMMENT: A high recommendation is deserved both for the interesting material covered in the course and the professional and more interesting way in which the material is presented by Professor Kurtz. His knowledge of the sub­ject matter seemed to be extensive with the readings in the Jaco volume. He is not expecially demanding in work load but close attention in class is necessary for good performance 011 the tests. Approximately 80 percent of the test questions were taken from the lecture material. He encourages students to see him for consultation and carries his warm personality in the classroom as well 
as outside. 
Scott Soc 437 • Black Man in Amer 10TT12 seq. 485360 
DESCRIPTION: The course surveys the white strategies for developing, 
maintaining, and changing institutional racism and the black strategies for 
resisting, nullifying, and changing tre white strategies. It is a sociologicaf study 
of the history of black people in America. The strategies of litigation, legislation, 
destruction, reconstruction and assimilation are examined. 
READINGS The following books are required reading for the course: Richard 
c: Wade, Slavery in the Cities; Lerone Bennett, Jr., Confrontation: Black and White; Arnold Rose, The Negro in America; Herbert Aptheker, American Negro Slave Revolts. 
Vasoli  Soc 445  Sociology of Law  
02MW4  seq. 485560  
··•  

D.ESCRIPTION: Sociological analysis of the interdependence between law and society, .between legal rules and behavior. One of the new directions in contemporary sociology, the sociology of law deals with such matters as: class factors in the administration of justice, the socialization of the lawyer and his role in society, justice in mass society, the relation between legal and moral norms, justice in private legal systems (e.g., the corporation}, and the law as an agent of social control. These topics will be considered in the light of sociological 
theory and research. Utility of course: The course should have value for sociology majors in­tere~ted in the study of deviance, social control and political sociology. Itshould be useful to any student planning on a law career. · 
' . _41.· 
Prerequisites: Course rP.stricted to Sociology majors and to law and pre-law students. Anyone not in these categories must obtain instructor's permission before signing up for th~ course. -­
Form of course: Seminar style, class size permitting• 

.READINGS: Crime and the Legal Process, Chambliss; The Enforcement of Morals, Devlin; The Anatomy of the Law,,Fuller; Law, Liberty and Morality, Hart; The American Jury, Kalven and Zeise!; Justice without Trial, Skolnick; Walt°Street Lawyer, Smigel; Law, Liberty and Psychiatry: An Inquiry into the Social Uses of Mental Health Practices. 
-Weigert Soc 451 Religion and Society 02MW4 seq. 485760 
D:SCR IPTION: Ma.jor theoretit;al approaches to the explanation of religion considered as a social phenomenon· are discussed. Particular reference is made to such topics as science, magic, alienation, and secularization. Recent research is presented to illustrate the relationship among various dimensions of religion (belief, practice, experience) and social factors such as class, urbanism, age 
and sex. ; READINGS: Sociology of Religion, O'Dea; The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism, Weber; The Sacred Canopy, Peter Berger; The Invisible Religion, Luckmann; Religion and Society in Tension, Glock and Stark; The Gatheri~g Storm in the Churches, Hadden; Islam Observed, Geertz. 
sociology· smc 
Terzola Soc 203 

Social Problems 
09TTll seq. 961261 
10TT12 seq.. 961262 , 
DESCRIPTION: This course is designed as an examination and l!va1uat1on ot 
(1) the nature of social problems and the sociological perspec,,ves used to cxpla~n suc,ti; (21 th_e ri~ture and e~tentqf se_vei:a~ttilLe so£i.2l)>r:Q12lemi-and. ,ypes of deviant behav,or--homosexuality, mental illness, and criminality; (3) the15ocietal response to problem-behavior. -,...READINGS: The main text for this course is Sociology of De\liant Behavior by Marshall B. Clinard. Additional books will be required, but have not as yet been decided. ~utside readings may be placed in the reserve book room of the library 
from time tQ time. STUDENT WORK: There are three exams, including a final. Each will be· worth one third of the final grade~ · 
COMMENT: Professor Terzola's lectures are interesting ~nd informative. The tests are challengicg, but the grading is fair~ The.readings are generally good and like the lectures, very informative. 
Brumm Soc 209 {P~yc 327) Social Psychology -01TT3 seq. 961661 · 02TT4 seq. 961662 
DESCRIPTION: This c~urse will acquaint th~ student with the wide anc:f• varied issues, perspectives, and theories of social psychology. It. us~s a ~~m­parative theoretical approach in order to encourage the student to be a cnt,cal thinker'and to recognize the effect of presuppositions-in considering the course content. The class format is basically lecture, It is open to all students who have previollsly taken either Sociology 153 or Psychology 156. 1-• • • 
READINGS: Social P-sychology by Lindesmith and Strauss,_, heories 1n . social Psychology by. Deutsch and Krauss. After a summer r~~iew o! this course. the boolts may change. --. 
STUDENT WORK: There will be a term paper with the length determin~ by the scope of the-topic and one exam which is oral and inclusive of the course material. Tuis°too may be altered somewhat after a summer review. · · ­COMMENT: Or. Brumm is always enthusiastic about his subject so_ don't_be put off at first if his lectures sl!e!" v~y abstra~. He i_s very OJ?en _t~ discussion and i's willing to helpanyne When a problem arises. His oral tests .are excellent . methods tor judging'inr comprehension of_the materia_l_in. this-type of _cou~-~­
-~ r • -• • • ~~ • 
Brumm Soc 319 Classical Soc Theory 04TT6 seq. 962862 
DESCRIPTION: This-course is required for sociology majors in all four curricular options, but is open to all who have alreadY, taken Sociology 153. This course aims at revealing the nature of a theory, indicating the relation_ of sociological lheories to philosophical concerns and making the student an in­dependent and critical thinker. ­
READINGS: Main currents in Sociological Thougnt by Raymond Aron. 
STUD.ENT WORK: There·wm be one oral fin;/1 exam which is inclusive of course material. (This as well as the readings ·ilre subject to change after a summer review.)· 
·COMMENT: Dr. Brumm· is·a thorough professor and knows his subject wel_l. His lectures are interesting, but tend to contuse the student by their ab­stractions.· Class participation is encouraged which allows the student to view her opinions and alleviate her mind of some of t~e confusion. 
Horning Soc 340 Soc of Work and Leisure 09 MWF seq. 963860 
DESCRIPTION: This is a new course which will focus upon the con­ceptualization and philosophical bases of work and leisure rn past and present societies with particular emphasis upon the relationship of these and the nature of the society. It will attempt to analyze the work and I~~~~e systems in various societies at various times as they relate to thetechnological°developments of the society. Current views of work and the changes occurring.,n our approach to and fOnceptualization of work will be covered ..The organiz?ti_on and di.?.tril;?l}tjon o_t work and leisur~ in our society_ will also be covered, as will the futurologists conceptions of work, especially as they relate Jo.tb.P._nr:obable inver$.io_n ofworl<,: and leisure that will _be evaluated. The course will be presented in lecture form with student reports on key materials selected from the literature. Sociology 153 is a pre-requisite for this course. 
READINGS: Unavailable at this time. . 
STUDEN! WORK: Grades will be determined by a inidsemester exam consisting of an oral _conference with the 'professor, by an evaluation of student reports in which -all students will receive a written evaluation of their report, and by a fin.al exam. being a take home comprehensive. 
Horning Soc 357 Marriage and FamilylOMWF seq. 9~4260 
DESCRIPTION: This course analyzes the American family from a social systems and cross cultural perspective. As a social system, parallels between the family. and other social systems are noted. As a cultural phenomenon, parallels with other societies are drawn. It focuses particular attention upon the three interrelated institutions which constitute the family network: courtship, marriage, and the family. Each of these is analyzed in detail from a historical to a future perspective. The course terminates with a speculative analysis of the family of the future, concentrating on the topic "Is the family dead as a social ioc:mutioo.~• em12!oying_Cgo~r's 9J1alysis_ Th~Q!b.of j!!_e Btmjly._ JM g_qals 
at'e numerous, but foremost is t~e goal of enhancing the students' understanding of the family, its dynamics, and its problems in contemporary American Socie,Y.-Secondly, it:is intend~d. to prepare the students to cope with the family of the tut.ure--!heir own. The course will be presented in lecture form with student reports on key materials sleected· from.the literature interspersed throughout 
the sef'!'lester. · _., --READINGS: Two texts i,'lre used in this course; one haroboudn book -acne paperback.(pr.iced between SlOto S12~. Other materials are used, but these are library-reserve materials. -. _ . STUDE~T:.~o.RK_: S~udent evaluation.is based upon the following: (1) midsemester exam~ orai "conference with pr~fessor, (2) evaluation of Student Reports: All students present a report and all. receive a written evaluation­crif!que; and_(3) final exam: take home comprehensive . . COM_M_E~T: Dr. Homing's class is well organized and he is open to discussions. ·He :was ~nee a m-:trri'age counselor so there are many real situations to be discussed. The work load is heavy, hut he is willing to give any outside help that might be needed. -· 
... --,·'
' . , . '~ -;-~'-• ' :-:-l", >' 
. ­
Hist 371-571 American Pol Hist 10TT12 seq. 283560 

_ DESfRIP!l<?N: This course.will de~I lt,'jt~ the .'Tl~i~r_pQlitical figu~e;-_a.fld issues in the United States from the end of the Civil War to the First World Warr with ernph_asis upon Reconstruction, the,Gilded Age, arid the Profressives Era. II is the first part of a two-semester· course dealing_ with American political ·11istory. r. READINGS: Reading assignments viill include Vincent P. Desantis The Shaping of.Modern War; Jqhn A. Garratv, The New Commonwealth-·1877-1890; George E. Mowry, The Era of Theodore R,oosevelt 1900-1912; and Arthur S. Link, Woodrow Wilson ;;1nd the Progressive Er.a. STU DENT WO~ K:. Instruction will be by reading assignments, lectures; 
class discussions and reports, and possibly some films: There will be some one pc1ge hook reports and there-could tie two one-hour examinations ·in addition to lhe final exam. · 
COMMENT: •It ishard to get an A from Dr. Desantis, and B's tend to be more common. The professor tends to like smaller classes: along the lines of a seminar. The, class size will be limited to 50 :;tudents, which althougll not small, is c1t least better than the 150 students that Dr. DeSantiS has been known to teach in N_ieuwland Science Hall. _History and American Studies students will ,;,a)<e up the bulk of the class, but those students interested in the topic should make an .-lfort to lake the course. The lectures may tend to drag at times, and un­tortunately class discussion will be minimal due to the s}ze of the class. 
Hist 375-575 Amer Intel & Cul Hist 10 MWF seq: 283660 
DESCRIPTION: This will be a quick one-semester survey, compressed from what has formerly been given as a two-semester course. It is designed to be followed by a "Problem in Intellectual History" course which would explore in greater depth a few selected issues touched upon in the survey. The chronological span will extend from the colonial period to the present. The lectures will pay a good deal of attention to social history, the nnnections bet­ween popular thought and "high culture," and the ~elationshi1,, oetween social 
change and shifts in thinking. READINGS: There wtll be one basic textbook--prot>ably Stow Persons' American Minds and a half-dozen or so paperbacks or library books related to specific problems or periods covered. STUDENT WORK: Both brief one-page reports of outside readings arid !he two or th.ree more elaborate book reviews will be re~uired. There will also be a
' . midterm and a final. COMMENT: Professor Gleason is very knowledgable in his fiel~. and his. lectures demonstrate precise thinking.. Discussions depend primarily upon the students preparation and responses. The work load for previous courses has Geen fairly heavy, and the tests demand close attention to detail. Papers must hg-precisely written. Overa1' Dr. Gleason is a demanding !Jut rewarding in-
Hist 385-585 Spain and Span._Amer 03 MWF· seq. 283900 
DESCRIPTION: This course deals with SpanJsh history during the period when Spain_ was the greatest and most powerful nation in Europe. It begins in 1469_with the union of the Kingdoms of Castill,e and Aragon and the formation of the Spanish· monarchy. After 'reaching the year 1492 the course becomes schizophrenic; jumping 1back and forth between Spain's fortunes in Europe, tnt:! history_of her colonial empire and the effect of the Iberian background upon ir. The Spanish-Hapsburgh hegemony in Europe in the Sixteenth Century is studied c1nd followed by the catastrophic e_conomi.c and military collapse of Spain in the S"venteenth Century. In the Americas, the colonization of the 1Carribbean, th~ conq~est of the great Indian empires in Mexico and Peru, the e'stablishment ano · :-conomics of the Spanish mercanlist empire, the great missionary ~ra,.<11.Ja~nt:!. 
·1m1J1ense racial mis~egenation and cultural mi~ing, unparalleJ.ecUn.lJistory, are all ~overed. T13e c~urse closes with the establishment Qf the Bourbons upon me Spanish throne at the beginning of the Eighteenth Century and the p6rterits of ftie 11ew Bourbon centralism for the far flung, loosely organized empire. · 

· R~ADINGS: The~e are two basic texts fqr the course, both paperbacks, Cl!ar:les· Gibson, Spain:in America; and J. H. Elliott, Imperial Spain 1469-1.J,16. The_se works are to be consulted throughout the course. In the early part 9t rhe semester a report paper of approximately six pages will QP_nue :QD the next 1'!VO;__.books, Lewis· Hanke, The Spanish Struggle for Justice In the '-onquest ot America and Charles Gibson_,ed. The Black Legend: Anti-Spanish· Attitudes in the Old World and the New. Shortly after the middle of the semesler a·report papen of. about lour pages is due on gJtt.e twxJUfi! JJ1.fhe Histor·v _of.J.,atin ~~erica by_~agnus Morner. Two 01 her wc,rks are to b~ a<;j'uir~ and .read bY The ent,re class, Ramon Menendez Pidal, The Spaniards in their History ancf R.C. Padden, The Hummingbird a~d the Hawk: Conquestrind Sovereignty in the 
·-; 

Valley of Mexico 1503-1541. Two additional books are to be read by each st'Udent; chosen at his discretion from a list provided by the professor. The approxjmate cost of these books should run about S20.00. 
Both the final and the mid-term will be take-homes. They will be the most important basis for .dPterminina the qrade_..E_rnPh/lS.i~ is_alijced on intelligenth uncterstanding and interpretinr. ·material from the lectures_ana the reamngs 
The course is straight lecture though comments, criticisms and qu,estions are welcom~. · : _ 
.C00M~NTS: Frederick Pike is not a terribly exciting.teacher our he is a very good one. He is one of the finest hispanic and hispaoic: America scholars c1round. In my experience of history professors-at Notre Dame, he covered his c1rea -i:vith more thoroughness, depth and understanding. Professor Pike's 
lectures are usually interesting though they can occasJonally be dry: THey a.,e .; usually perforated with stataco pronounced Spanish names. A lecture outline i:!' usually handed out at the beginning of the semester, which among other things, c1ids greatly in following the Spanish names. • · 
The readings in my experience ranged from fair toexefellent. 
-The course on U.S.-Latin American relations will probably entail a bit-1ess work than the Spain and Spanish Am·erica couse if only because most students already know much about the UnitP.c(States and little about Spain. · 
Pike Hist 387-587 U.S. Lat Amer Relations 0lMWF seq~ 284000 
DESCR PITION: This course deals with U.S.-Latin American relations from 
lhe early 1800's through the World War II period.. The complexity of U.S.' 
molil1ation. in its relations with Latin America will be·stressed, with con­
sideration,•being given to economic factors and security.considerations in ad­
dition to idealism in shaping U.S. attitudes and points of view. 
This is bascially a straight lecture course but students.are.welcome to rai~e 
qu~stions and criticisms. There are no pre-requisites. _ 
READINGS: The readings for the course are divided into two parts. There 
wilI be six paperbacks required for the entire class. The basic text for the course 
is by Frederico _Gil, Latin American-United States Relations; -~;irofd 
Blakemore, Latin America; George Pendle, A History of Latin Am1:nca; c. 
Neal Ronning, ed.1ntervention in Latin America. Two more paperbacks will be 
added over the summer. The net cost of these books should run about SlS.00. 
Four additional books focusing on a single topic or on U.S. relations with a 
single Latin American country will be chosen by each individual student -'in 
conjunction with the professor_ Thus, a grant total of ten books to be ready the 
sl uden I. 
. STUDENT WORK: The mid-term will be a lake-home. ·rhe final exam ;:s a 
combination exam. term paper and readings"report. It will consist of a ten to 
fifteen page paper on the four books chosen by the student that· focus on a 
particular topic. This final exam-report-term paper should analyze the books 
,,gainst the background of the lecture material,.drawing attention to :agr.e-ement 
c1nd or disagreement and presenting also the student's viewpoint and per­
spective. · 
Shapiro Hist 390-590 Mexico ar.d Mex Amer 10 MWF 
seq. 284100· 

DESCRIPTION: Thi~ will be the first part of a two ·;emest~ course. 'Dr. 
Shc1piro will cover Mexican History from pre-historic times to the mid­
nineteenth centory in the first semesteF. Topics covered are: Indian cultures; 
lhe Conquest; New Spain 1521-1821; the Wars of lnd.:pendence; Santa Anna and 
the war with the United States. ­
READINGS: There will be seven assigned books. ·They include: Vaillant, 
The Aztecs of Mexico, Leonard, Baroque Tim~s in Old Mexico, Von Hagen, The 
Maya, Mexico ( Natura!-History) Bernal Diazsdel CastiJlo, The Conquest of 
Mexico, S_churz, The Manila Galleon, andsLeslie B. Simpson, Many Mexico's. 
STUDENT WORK: Dr. Shairo gives a midterm and a final. Th~ tests 
generally includet multiple choice, shc,:-t answer, map questions, and a teJshort 
essay questions. ­
COMMENT: P.rofessor Shapiro has a nc -' undeserved reputati9n for being dis~rganlzed, which has bothered many of his students' in the past. His discussion groups can prove interesting_to the student, who may en joy bantering with Dr. Shapiro about some point.· The course is supplemented with many handouts, which often make notetaking almost unnecessary. If you are.after a· jock course, then this class is not for you. _The tests are demanding, but graded fairly. Shapiro knows his,material, but his presentation sometimes suffers from lack of organization. · 
Bergman SPDR 373 Tech Theatre Praci Amen Theo 202 Myth and Religic:i 02 TT 4 Seq. 974460 09 TT 11 seq. 491961 
==~::~. ?7:C.,•-i: 7-.:~ C:....Z-Y-O:a!S ..,rim ~!2~ :-::-~:--,; ~~1:2: -,.-:,,;-~_ i:-~~ 
;_~::~t/~-; ~;;~:/:;; _~:~~\:~~~n~~1a:1~\:::·: ~~-;~~;,:\~~;:~ 
:~,;:; :.-;-·,::.~ ::.#~ =':""~=~;.xs ;.:, !":-r=-~m~-:-Q,."l : ~~a:r.r:~ =a;;:., ;i~...~,g ~am -~~; -~~ ~ ::..... ~_~;,:~! ~:,-.::e""i::--r-€ i:i ,ea,cn.~ ~='=' !~.r?? C."":"::-2.S_ T-e, d:.S -.,":u -: . .,~ ;;. --:" ~~ c7;~,:..::~ .;·-:.sc-:-er:: ~rxof~~ ~.,,'Jr'.;. ~-.,c..;"•:-:: .. S·?:=~Ef:.. ;:::[i::: 1;1: ; ~ =--=-...:"=E-C-::~:J!-?,. :e; :-::a,-:~~ ~a--=-cl~ 7~::e"' ~;as ::,=,_sic 7?.j";:-;­

~7t,;i:;::;•, -:.#c,~ /..; ~.c ·~~;. c '5-t.Y-n, t.-..r. J"atr:~ ~2:.7~:.V~ss~;rh-'71::1;-s 'ti";a! _.,, ·• -:.~ -::'~::~. 7.-= :.::~;; ,.-r1 1~ •n:: rur:n~ ere-,,-= fcir ::1:: 'Er-c,,-~,. s.:. :-:1:~ =~~a ,:-_,....=: Jl # -~ :~ c:.r:s.~~ of~-=-..-: aouaf das.s ;,~ir.:-;s..
~,-.~-: ·:. ~--~ 
C':J*'/_•/=••7: !;=:,.n :.o!...~s=? ~n ~:":€ ~anrr-,~:.. !.•~-Ser;~e:'1 c:t1=t.~ his -~:~ .~. >~t;C-!"r-:.~"~-.# .a~c :;. r-:=diJ·f a.vcila~e fO!'"' o:.-ns-u-!;c:i+Xt an.c ne--l:;-~:-id;-:"--= •e=~,...!"",-::.; ~;~!~~~~ :)':J'.<~ uni'l~!y !ri~a-7!"4? rr.2~ic-s ~:i ,,,r=::i v,'CriC11 ---~.;:•!"'= ::... a~!:c.;-;. 7-;~ a:--ca! :Y.JHoin-;, pa;;"t:i::~, Er-r-rmaJ ~s;-rt..~a; carr -r.:.-, ',:.~~ .. "':2!:"':: ,*t:-t""~ c~-c ~c!nf OOt.T.5, b-'~ ~h-: ~c :"'=-'-:.ir-:;s !s-:?H -,,~·~:1 ;~t:"T .-a:...! .. -::--'. !')C::: is r~~ r:"":av~,.-ac~ic.aUy,t;..11~ ?: amS~icsHy_
-Jo-',~ .• 
Bain SPDR 385 History of Theatre 10 MWF seq. 975460 
:JESC~ 1?TiO!it: Tn:; courY-is a study of the ~ysiccr th:arr:, 1n: p:-odu4:7ion -=-~ a:1=2-r:=~.. en=: ?hi: cuI~t:YaJ rr.iiie-u of majo-r !h:?trical P€f"io-=s in ;h: hisiory of ~r:~ •:;~c~rE !r.. ;r,~ i.•i'3-:t:"::'n .i~-orlc from rhe.Gr~rtrot.."9h rne Ro-:ncn, /l~ie"'. C:1,­""•r:,: =?~a:ssanc~ ~as~ Tr;~ efenaits of theatr€ Yliil "oe ssocfi=?::, !hrou;h IECiure, 
4
:;r-;.:ussf~-,n.. ~n== -S~!.>::€nt !""€""..Jf""J!S, cs th&-r€/atP :o eaa,: :J.an-rcufar p-eriOC.. _Th:
( 
~tY..!rS= ..•.-iii ~ coor-ctnar~ v,:rn :nc OeJeiopm~t of the Drama r:ao,ng list 10 ;nsLJre as!ir7!e overlao:>ing as possible. Th-!: snid€1ltS .-.-m discover the :;ar.icu!ar s:;;iri: cf eac. .;e-iod am: r':la:e it :o the theatre of :ocay. Tnis courSE: is ar, eI~1i-.': for {t.f>fli~r-s enc seniors. 
~Et-Dlt,GS: Text unsure at rnis Hrr..e. STUDE~:T ~,,.'0~ K: TnE-r: ~...ill be a minimum of :v10 t~s-a micnerm anc. a 
!ir;:.~ Rnc c,,tJSsi:;1-l more Each sJuo~; Ylil.f gh!.~ rtla !!!3.l.r.::J!Jrt.S. t9J._he ~•a~::.. ~ s,;~ial fc;cus on a par.icular aspect of the pa-iod 0€ing studieo, .wi,h an an­:,;:.:lioqrapn,. Eaeh srude-n will compile a "theatrical history" noteboo~, using ,.-;~ c:!rHn€' ci".''?.l ~fi tr.e ins1ruoor, ano then from various outside sources gather ... ,,•c-rial on rr.aior tnea:rical ;>erioos. These omside sources will inch.Ide the p:,ssible •ex!bock anc a number of boolr.s that will be -,)lit on r~•.re in ,he 
ftbr;;riE"Sr COtM/,EP:T: Dr. Bain m~k.es ttiis ipT_!;r~Subi~ matter ev_en more in: 
:erl:Srim::. He.;,.no.,,,:s v,nat he is talking about and paSS-.<>S oo his €1lthus,asm to hie: ~:uc::?n:i. He 1;;,.es "coing" classes and encourages class participation and a,;;.n,s-=:ion =-t all times. He is oc= of lh_e most ~thusi;;stic .::,,d eneq:ietic in.=­

s:ruoors on in,s campus. ;:..,n excellent course, for both ma1ors and non-majors.· alii-.e. 
·theology nd 
STUDENT ADVISORS: James Back~, 339 Holy Cross, 3211; Theresa Dellemano, 1009 Lawrence, 233-8766; James Schellman, 329 St. Joe 3875· Thomas Wtlbehn, 9_Lyons, 7832.
' , -
Mertensotto Theo 200 

God and Secular 2 TT4 seq. 491860 
01 TT 3 seq. 491962 
D=SC~ l?T!OH: Through a consideration of the works of Mircea Eliade, John ~ v_r.-;:: :=--..ri Ca-In:: Castan<>da th<> interrelationship of myth arid re-ligion will ;~ e-..::=.-:,.;;:;,;::-?=-:-~;;s :hougha ~ell;r understanding of the myth sand religion cf "::r.ir::ti~I..-e" P=Ooles and of cultures other than our ovm, ·11e can come to a =e~e-•..r..=~s:e:-,ding of our own religious myths. Le::;..::-e roL':"Se. 2 5:dions-i?ach meets TT in 75 minute classes. Open only to ~=r::•:imo:-es ,,,,,o :.avenot had a previous theology course at Notre Dame. 
?.=,:.,DrnGS: {all available in paperback) Mircea Eliade! Myth and Reality i.75; Rites and Symbols of Initiation 1.45; Joseph Campbell, The Hero with a Tr.oux:nci Faces 2.95; .John S. Dunne, The City of the Gods 2.95; A Search for God in Timean-d Memory 1.95; The Way of aJI the Earth 2.95; Carlos Castaneda, The Teachings of Don Juan .95; A Separated Reality 1.25; Journey to lxtlan 
STUD=HT WO?.K: Midsemester and fianl examinations (factual and rei!:ei·.-= :,:;:-;1e b:-i:f essay questions). Most probably one paper (3 pp) on each o::;;e au;:.c-rs-.! :;.a=e-s,oron reflective considerations about myth-religion. 
COM},'.EN1: i,•.c.-i::-y t.men is a very dynamic personality and an excellent lec:...-r~. T .. e suojec; matter is unusual but interesting. The readings, ;:s:;-eciai1·,-Jxn D-~,:-,.ne's books, are rather difficult. It can be frustrating that the rea::::r--9s i=..-.d .t.e leaures are n;it well integrated. The papers re;umed with m~men~s se; u;, a channel of communication that in a sense replaces class :::isct!"'-Sion. The·1.-.::-rkloed is woderate. The course can become a very personal ,hing as -me ca;::-ers c-eal with rhe study and interpretation of dreams. 
CYConnor Theo 204 Church as Community 
OB MWF seq. 492161'_ 
09 MWF. seq. 49216Z 
DESC?.l?TION: This isnot a survey of the history or doctrines of the Olurch, our an artemc; ,0 crasp the very meaning of Church itself, as a community of 6-irisrians, whose ~tan~us assembly is transmuted into a mysterious unity ­by the S;:>iri, of Jesus. Toe primitive community of Jesus' followers will be taken asa oaracfigm for ;he univa-sal Olurch. Contemporary problems about Olurch renewal will be co,,sidered. Discussion of readings and current problems, ai:,erna:iing wirh Jecures. Each student will be required to study some other church along wi.n :he Roman Catholic, and report on it. No prerequisites; open ;o all uncergraauates. 
?.Et..DINGS: _Not yet determined. 
STUDENT WORK: Tnree tests besidesjhg_ fin;:il. _Term papers optional. 
COMt/,ENT: In presenting this course, Fathe~ O'Connor should be ~xpected to 
cominue his abilit;, to insert enthusiasm into what normally tends to appear as dry material. A good lecturer, he both welcomes participation by students and insens his views on topics covered in class. While the work is not very bur­ncns.-im<>. it must oe keot uo with in order to cooe with the exams wtiich are baSed on rhe notes andthe daily readings; probably in the form of shorfessays. 
Hoffman Theo 221 Christian Ethics 11 MWF seq. 492460 
DESCRIPTION: -An inquiry into various formulations of a Christian Ethic, (Roma., Catholic-Protestant; historical and contemporary) by elaborating the conceptual framework within which the ethical issues arise and solutions are sought. 
i RE.e.DINGS: Sin, Liberty, and the Law, Monden; Deeds and ~ules in Christian Ethics, P. Ramsey; Theological Ethics, J. Sellers; One other text to be chosen. Total cost: Sl0.00 
COMMENT: Olristian Ethics is a lecture course With three books of sup­
plementary reading. The Rumor of A~g~ls, Escape from Phoniness, and Deeds 
and Rules in Christian Ethics are the required readings. Escape from Phoniness
DESCRIPTION: -Man's quest for God _in the secular world and his religious 
is the only understandable book of the three. The other,two books use language

experienceas a man of faith and reason. This course is intended for sophomores -_ 
and concepts completely above the student's level. There are not tests in the 
only. Format will be seminar as much as possible. 
course-and exercises consisting of short papers, two or three pages in length, are
READINGS: Altizer, Hamilton, J.C. Murray, MacQuarrie,_ Richard, Eliade 
assigned intermitently. Basically, the course allows you to express yourself on 
and Cox. . _ _ 
subjects you might never have thought about. Everything taken into con­
STUDENT WORK: A mid-term and a final which are evaluative essay~­
sideration, the course is worthWhile and teaches you much about yourself. 
Theo 227 Meaning of Ritual 01 MWF seq. 492661 02 MWF s~q. 492662 


DESCRIPTION: An investigation of the meaning of ritual and worship in the life of man, especially within the western Christian tradition. The origin and development of Christian rituals, particularly sacrifice and initiation, and their relevance, or lack of it, in America of the 1970's., 
Bouyer, Rite and Man; Micks, The Future Present; David, Liturgy and Doctrine; Constitution on the Sacred Liturgy. STUDENT WORK: A short paper on each of the books, a mid-term and a final. 
Theo 249 Biblical Themes 03WF5 seq. 493260 : 

~~ 
DESCRIPTION: A study of the most basic themes in the Old Testament with:i an emphasis on the theme of human destiny. This is compared to the concept of '!, human destiny as found in ancient and modern religious and secular thinkers. ff The Biblical conceptions of God, man, the world, sin, suffering and death are .1, examined. A comparison is made between Old Testament and New Testament ,1 concepts. A comparison is made between Biblical thems and the same themesi as found in contemporary literature. There are no prerequisites. A lengthy 
'~ historical introduction to the Biblical literature precedes the consideration of1 themes. The class format follows the lecture method with time for questions and 
answers. A few discussion sessions follow the outside readings in contemporary:1 literature. ·; READINGS: Students are required to read the following books of the Bible: ,': Genesis, Exodus, Deuteronomy, Joshua, Judges, 1 and 2 Samuel, 1 and 2 Kings, -~ Ezra, Nehemiah, Ruth, Esther, Job, Ecclesiastes, Daniel, Joel, Amos, Jonah, -~ haggai, Aechariah, Malachi, 1 and 2 Maccabees, Ecclesiasticus, selections from -~ Isaiah and the Pslms and St. Matthew's Gospel. The Bible is the only required ~ text. Book lists, maps and some notes are issued. Slides are usually shown once :.; or twice. The required reading from the contemporary book list amounts to six ·: books. Titles vary from semester to semester. The following three books are ) usually required: Barve New World, Aldous Huxley, 1984, George Orwell and i The Power and the Glory~raham Qreene. . J STUDENT WORK: Mark is based on six papers (opinion papers, on cooks 1read, usually one maior test on the Biblical reading and the final which covers 
~; the· iecture material. J COMMENT: Fr. Miceli has a thorough knowledge of the subject matter, but 
3. his strict lecture format makes for rather dry classes. He prefers to cover a few :~ topics in depth rather than present several scattered ideas. The assigned papers j are returened 2 to 3 weeks after the due date. The work load is about averagel with the average grade a B or B-. The three cut policy is adhered to. 
'3 \ 
1
I 
i 
McNeil! Theo 313 Theo and Comm ,Service 07 W 10· seq. 493760 
DESCRIPTION: The main purpose of the course is to learn different r 
spectives through working with older adults in the South Bend area. There 
concentration on experiential learning from interpersonal relationships. 
development of a comprehensive case study near the end of the seme 
challenges the student to describe, share, analyze, evaluate, and research i1 
interdisciolinar1t. way ~me of the g_uestions.andJssues_whlth . .!!~r9.ed _du 
tJ:i.~ w.~~kl_,: visits and discussions. fhe·goal of significant leamin~ with other 
facilitated by a teaching team with small and large groups 2 hours every 
Wednesday, two workshops (Sunday afternoons), field education projects and 
weekly visits with senior citizens. 
READINGS: During the first·eight weeks thre are required readings con­
ce·rning the dynamics of helping, aging, ·and dying from psycho-social and 
theological perspectives: Virginia Axline, Dibs, Gordon Allport, Letters Fr?m 
Jenny, Elisabeth Kubler-Ross On ~~,i'l_tl!_ and Dying, Henri Nouwen Creative 
Ministry, The wounded Healer etc. Then each student is encouraged to select 
readings from a comprehensive bibliography on Aging, Dying, Theology etc. 
STU DENT WORK: In order to assure a variety of interests and backgrounds 
and to clarify expectations for the course, students are required to sign an . "agreement for learning" (available in Theology office). During th~ cour~e students are encouraged to make a written self evaluations concerning their seminar participation, logs etc. a few times during the semester and to discuss 
them with a member of the teaching team. 
COMMENT: Some people have trouble in this course because they have 
difficulty establishing a relationship with an older person. Some cannot get 
beyond the "forced" situation of having to visit. Theology is not imposed but 
reflection is required. That is hard. This course is not for everybody, but if one 
is willing good things can happen, as is evidenced in many student logs. 
Amen Theo 315 Masks of God 10 MWF seq. -493960 
DESCRIPTION: The works of Joseph Campbell will be used to explor~ the 
mythical dimension of man's awareness of himself and of his religious ·pos-· 
sibilities. 
Lecture course-1 section. Meets TT in 75 minute classes_ O2en to juniors and 
seniors. 
READINGS: Heinrich Zimmer, The King and the Corpse 2.95; Joseph 
Campbell, The Flight of the Wild Gander, The Masks of God: Primitive 
Mythology 3.25, The Masks of God: Oriental Mythology 3.75, The Masks of God: 
Occidental Mythology 3.75, The Masks of God: Creative Mythology· 4.50, The 
Hero with a Thousand Faces 2.95 
STUDENT WORK: Midsemester and fianl examinations. (factual and 
reflective) 3 or 4 short papers. 
I 01TT3 seq. 493560 
I 
DESCRIPTION: Students will read selected autobiographies in an effort to determine those patterns operative in "making sense" out of life. Autobiographies will also be considered as genre, in particular its claims !o 
truth telling, with special attentior:t to questions of re~igi?us trut~. Stud~nts will be urged to form smaller groups to follow their special interest m certam types of autobiography. 
Fiorenza-Broe Theo 314 Images of Woman l TT 3 seq. 49.3860 
DESCRIPTION: The governing question of the course will be: Does the image of woman in theology and literature reflect her real situation and her own reaction to it? or is it an imitation and iu.§.tification of accep_ted c~tural values 
( t r e·1 Thi:! reaaings ·in theolo9y w111 ransie from ut!nesis to moaern 
. ~eo~:gi~~; a·uthors and in literature from Grimm's fairy tales to Shaw's plays · and Plath's poetry.i STUDENT WORK: Three projects and a final. Admittance. to the course is 
Qsubject to.an interview.with one of the professors . 
.. 
~ ~ 
Burrel 1-Hauerwas-Mol its Theo 311 Autobio & Revel Girardot ·Theo 316 
Religions of China 9 MWF seq. 494061 01 MWF seq. 494062 

DESCRIPTION: Introduction to major religious traditions of China from the perspective of the history of religions. Particular movements to be considered will-be Confucianism, Taoism, Chinec;e ·euddhism (especially Ch'an or Zen Buddhism) and Neo Confucianism. 
Girardot Theo 317 ·Alchemy: East and Wesi 9 TT 11 seq. 494160 
DESCRIPTION: A consideration of alchemy as a "science of salvation" as seen in Chinese, Arabic, and European traditions. Of special concern will be correlative approaches offered by the history of religions (primarily Mirces Eliade), the history of science, and Jungian psyctlology. 
' . 
.. 
Fiorenza  Theo 318  American  Religious Thought  
8 TT 10  seq. 494261  
10 TT 121  seq. 494262  

DESCRIPTION: An historical survey of the principle developments in American religious thought fro·m Purifanism to Neci-Orthc,cioxy. 
READING'S: Selected readings from Edwards, BuShnell, James, Rauschenbausch, and the Nieburhs. Basic text: Theology in America Sydney Ahlstrom, editor. 
Kapacinskas Theo 319 Jung & Theology 03 MWF -seq. 494360 
DESCRIPTION: In this course it is hoped that the student will develop an awareness of Jungian thought in psychology and theology and its implicatons on tradition. The semester will focus on the oroblem of the missing fourth in the Trinity, rne role of evil and the feminine in theoloav as well as the individuation process and the nature of God. The class meets once a w~ek for 2½ hrs, to ereserve the continuity of the lectures and resulting seminars. 
READINGS: Jung's Psychology and Religion West and East (Sl5.00) aAm-EI. Jl:OSSibly tw::> paperbacks: von Franz' Introduction to the lnerpretation of Fairy Tales and Jacobi's Psycholgy of C.G. Jung. _ 
STUDENT WORK: Probably a mid-term in class and definitely a -final. It is recommended that each student do either a project (paper or free, expressive medium) or keep a journal. 
COMMENT: Dr. Kapacinskas concentrates heavily on Jungian psychology for the first part of th semester TO gain the foundation.· From there he guides the class into· Jungian thought on major theological phenomena. He welcomes and encouraaes·questions and comments from the students and tries to keeo himself 
anunea to their-feelings ~n the material. The readings are an integral part of th~ course, and while not lengthy, they are heavy and time-consuming as weil as fas_cmating. Dr. Kapacinskas might be considered an avara!!_e g_fader and due to 
the length of his lectures, the material is occasionally tedious, but What he has to 
offer (Jung) as an approach to theology is well worth listening to. · 
Rosenstock Theo 321 Jewish Theology ·-02 TT 4 seq. 494560 
DESCRIPTION: The aim of this co~rse is to present the development of the essenrial thought patterns and life styles of the Jewish people from Biblical times to the present. The course develops along.three major dh{isions; a) The·.. origins of the Jewish people.and its religion in time and space, b) From ·Hebrew . religion to Judaism, and c) Jewish lifetoday. The format co~sists of lecture·a-nd .. discussion, which is encouraged.· The course is open to anyone.with a sincere interest in learning more about Judaism and himself.-. -· 
READINGS: The Bible (selected readings); The Way_of Torah:-.:An.In­troduction to Judaism, Neusner S2.95; The Source, James Michener Sl.95; Basic Judaism, Milton Steinberg Sl.65; The Chosen, Chaim Potok S ~95 · · 0 · STUDENT WORK: There will be one paper due around mid-t~r~ ~f ap­proximately five to ten pages in length and a final examination. · 
COMME~T: · Rabbi Rosenstock brinas to th,!s c-nurse a ~eplth of knowledge of the material and a deep concern for the student. His lectures··are -;ft~ 
sti_mulat_ing and he ~oes not hesitate to devote an· entire period to a problem; raised by a student m class. While not an overly:demanding professor, he doits expect the students to read the assignments and often refers to them in his le~ur.,;, ~ilet~E:_readi.ngi; t:n<!V he l}eaviP!: tt,r1n in·c;nme courses, due mostly tQ The Source, they are Well worth the time and effort. The course grade consists of _a paper, the final, and the_grade which the student assigns himself. The rabbi is fair in gr.ading and is alwa'ys willing to give the.student a chance to rewrite his paper ifhe feels tie can improve upon it. I recomrriend this course to anyone Who ytnats to learn about the Jewish experience and how it can relat~ to one's own life. Young and energetic, the rabbi doesn't hesitate· to share his-·views·on contemporary issues as to how they affect Judaism arid our lives. ' · • · 
-loffman·· Th~o 324 -_ :'· · · . Sex :and Marriage· 
,· 09:n _11 ._·.. :-·__ . ~-·_:: ',. . ·seq.. -494860­
# ~ ~ • ~ --' 'I, 

· DESCR;PTION:. The aim of the ~o~r~e ·is t;,:~d~~;ify -~nd clarify. one;s i:i_-· pectations of marri~ge, s_J:>ecifically: the search for marital roles, intimacy, 
r:rtrSrtffl ·-•~ 
:t 

personal and sexual fulfillment and continued vitality. There is a mixture oi lecture and discussion· with small, unsupervised group meetings once a week. The material to be discussed is unstructured~ Fr: Hoffman may ·suggest topics, but the content of the discussions are, for the msot part, left up to the student. 
READINGS: There are.about seven required_paperbacks and a list of abut .,ine recommended books. They are interesting and enjoyable readings'for a dateless Friday or Saturday night. _ . . . 
_STUDE,NT WORK: Minimal. There will be a mid-term and a·final exam. COMMENT: Because the work load:itmin;°;;,ai ·and th~r~ is little pressure· placed upon the student, Fr. Hoffman's class provides a free and relaxed at­mosphere: _ · · 
.. ' 

Verweyen Theo 328 -S_MWF .9 MWF 
DESCRIPTION,: _Religion is the reflex.of economic conditions, ac·cording to Karl Marx. But he course of social developments seems often to be influenced by religious revolutions in. turn. Astructuraranalysis of the development of 
. w~stern consciousness with the aim to more adequat.eJy grasp the contemporary problems regarding self-world.god agaipst_ the background from which they· have arisen. 
READINGS: From Anselm, Aquinas, Descartes, Feuerbach, Marx, Camus; further suggested-Hobbes, Locke, Hume, Rousseau. and Kant. 
. Mertensotto Theo 330 Medical Ethics ·· 11 MWF seq. 495360 
DESCRIPTION: Brief introduction to ethicaJ _QotjQnS..CW,!;:~i:ni_!}g c_cip~cJ~ce, . 

freedom. value and law; followed by a discussion of moral issues encountered in the medical profession· in regard to preseryation of life and its integrity; sexuality and marriage: , euthanasia, abortion,· human experiimentation, 
organic transplantation, birth control, genetic control; etc. . . . . 
R.EADINGS: Each student selects a problem with pertinent bibliography,· writes a paper which is distributed to the class before its presentation and discussion; hence the-class writes its own text. · ~ 
STUDENT WORK; In addition to paper, class·exer·cis·es on concrete~s ~ are given regularly and_ discussed in class; mid-term and final are reflective· :1 essays instead of exam question a ires. Objective is the_ ability to rTiake ethical• ~ . decisions, not tcnnemorize' rea·dy-made solutions. l COM_I\IIENT: ·, This course exposes upperclass premegical students to. the "' man•/ medical.pro'cedures requiring moral and ethical considerations. The, in-~ depth treatment of each topic-is informative and thoght-provoking. The clasc;·is ~ -inforrilat._and'discussion. is welcomed. The formaf of the ~ourse provides a • ~ r-elaxed atmosphere, with a minmum amount of pressure placed on the student. ,, ·The aim of the course is to have all thd facts on each topic presented then have ~ 
9

each student analyze the problem and formulate an opinion. This course is very 
~ 

wort~while for any student contemplating a career i!} medicine. e 
a 
a 
i ~ 

Sheedy Theo 444 _·-Hope· and Despair § ~ 
'
10 ,:T·12 · ·.. seq. 49~60 

DESCRIPTION:__ Despair is studied as:a sickness unto death and·as· sin, perhaps the only sin. Hope is seen as a difficult emergence toward resurrection. 
READ~NGS: ~eadings in Kant, Kirkegaard, Kafkat Weil, and perha.ps Anne 

Frank and other.s. _ 
Dunne.-· --Theo 445 ·Religi_on· •a.nd Mysticism 11 MWF seq. 496160 
DESCRIPTION: A study of Enlightenment and.revelation experiences in the lives of certain religious figures of ·East and West: Gandhi's method of "ex­perimenting with the truth"of.religion; patterns of.withdrawal and return in the lives of mystics and prophets; the process of self-realization and· union with God in mystical_ literature, the questi_on as to WhP.ther experiences of Enlighten"ment and revelation are corpmunicable. 
.. . 
< -~ I.. ~ ... • :-.,. ... 


religious studies smc 

Neiss RISt 101 Biblical Theology 08 TT 10 seq. 951061 03 MW 5 seq. 951062 
..., 

DESCRIPTION: Thi~ is a "first" course·in Religious Studies--a prerequisite for other Rist courses. It is intended to open up the mental and spiritual ways of the Bible by means of extensive readings and historical explanations. 
READINGS: Besides portions of the Biblical text, students will read essays on Biblical themes (paperbacks). STUDENT WORK: One short paper and two exams will provide the basis for evaluating the students' engagement wit!'! the course. 
Malits RISt 111 Religious Attitude 09 MWF seq. 951461 10 MWF · seq. 951462 
DESCRIPTION: This course deals with the understanding of and posture toward self, world, and God in the writings of four religious persons from dif-· ferent historical periods: Thomas Merton, Soren Kierkegaard, Dante, and St. Augustine. Attention is ·given to their expression of a religious attitude in their lives as well as their work. Although the basic course structure is lecture, one class period every two weeks is given to small group discussion; the conclusions of the groups are reported back to the class for open discussion and further questions. • · READINGS: Reading selections will be taken from Thomas Merton, 
.Kierkegaard, Dante's Divine Comedy, and· St. Augustine's Confessions. In addition to these literary writings, required readings include some biographical or au'tobi.ographical material about each man. 
STU DENT WORK: At the end of each unit, the student is required to do a short reflective essay. Afinal will be given at the end of the semester. 
-COMMENT: Sr:Malits is highly proficient in her field, and brings to the class constructive criticism and co~ment. She provides the dominant part of the discussion which often imposes on the student's opportunity to contribute. This is so~etimes frustrating to interested students. Sr. Malits does, however, make rpom 'for so~e signi~icant thinking:. . 
~al its RISt 201 Autobiog. & Revelation _ 01 TT 3 seq. 952060 
DESCRIPTION: This is the same course as that which is being taught by Burrell and ·Hauerwas on the. Notre Dame ca~pus. 
Wernz RISt 233 Contemp Moral Issues 10 TT 12 seq. 952861 01 TT 3 seq. 952862 
DESCRIPTION: .Contemporary Nioral Issues examines different ethical approaches to several current moral issues. Such topics as abortion Can em­phasis will be placed on this subject) and political ethics will be discussed • Lecture and discussion will be balanced, as the subject material and the students' interest dictate. This course is required of no one andopen to all. 
. READINGS: The professor plans to use the Calahan book on abortion and The Politics of Jesus by Yoder among others as yet undecided. STUDENT WORK: Course assignments will include article critiques and a few tests, essay in form. 
Weiss RISt 302 Christian Scriptures 
11 MWF seq. 953261 
01 MWF seq. 953262 

DESCRIPTION: Christian Scriptures is a critical ~xamination of the 
literature and theology of the New Testament in a first century setting. It is 
required of all Rist-Theo majors and open to others by approval of the instructor. 
· READINGS: Besides the text of the New Testament, the students will read 
several paperbacks that will introduce them to the world of modern critical 
scholarship. 
STUDENT WORK: One paper and two exams arerequired. 
COMMENT: Dr. Weiss is excellent in his field and provides a vivid survey of the material to be covered. His lectures.can become tiresome, but he definitely has a keen interest in his courses. 
Wernz 
RISt 352 
World Religions
11 MWF 
seq. ·953861 
12 MWF 
seq. 953862 

DESCRIPTION: This theology course wili deal with Buddhism, Judaism, 
Christianity, and religion in India upon which there will be a slight emphasis. 
Lectures will provide the basic structure of the class, but discussions of the 
readings will most definitely be incorporated. 
READINGS: Seven or eight readings will be used among which will include selections from The Bible, Augustine's works, Gandhi's works, and the Gita. · STUDEr,tT WORK: Although the number of essay tests is undecided at this time, no papers will be required. 
COMMENT: Dr. Wernz's course consists of a fairly large aniount of reading 
assigl"!ed during the semester. However, the material covered on the tests is 
taken directly from the lectures, discussions, and readings. If the student reads 
the assigned material and participates in class discussions, the course Should 
prove to be interesting and informative. 
tt=er:;;•~ 









Business 

accounting nd 

Staff Acct 221 Prin of Acct various times 
DESCRIPTION: Accounting 221-222 is an introductory accounting course 
required of all sophomores who enroll in the College of Business Administration. 

Accounting 221 is basically a lecture course; however, the small size of the 
classes does allow for interaction between the professor and students. The 
emphasis of this course is directed toward how management and others makes 
use of accounting data. The course is a two semester course, and is r:iot . 
generally recommended as an elective to non-BA students w~o might need. 
accounting for Pre-Law, etc. 
READINGS: The text for the course will be Using Accounting Information: 

An lnfroduction· . .:ertig, Istvan, and Mattice, 2nd ed. There will also be a·sup­
plemental book for the course--Business Game; Work Papers, Fertig, 1st.van and 
Mattice. 

STUDENT WORK: Homework geneally consists of short problems taken 
from the text due each class. There are four examinations each semester, in­
cludkng the final. All exams are· departmental. . 
COMMENT: On Lullather---Hls styie of teaching is a very informal one. He is 

always open to questions from the class. In case the student should need help 
outside the classroom, he does a good job of trying to be available to the student. 

There is no doubt that Prof. Cullather is competent in his field, but his method 
of presentation is less than stimulating. That would be his major shortcoming. 

It you can listen care{uljy_Jor the flfty minute duration. vou Should have .l'JO problem with tne material, but his voice and presentation more often act the soft lullaby than the elixer of enthusiasm. · 
On·severly---Basica11y this course is taught in the same manner as all sec­
tions of Acct. 221. Prof. Beveryly does a good job explaining the mysteries of 
dclli~ 9Qd credits in a faJrlY io!erestinc and often lively style. He has a very good knowledge.of accounting and is able to answer questions well. 
On Aranowski--Prof. AranoWski has not taught this course before. He has 
taught the basic accounting course for non-BA majors. Students find that he has 
a very wide knowledge of business and accounting. He presents the material 
thoroughly and logically, but in a somewhat dry manner. Profes_sor Aranowski 
does keep the class alive with his anecdotes and experiences that all seem f(? 
have happen~d last week. Outside contact with Prof. Aranowski was limited but 
definitehours:-were established. 

On Wittenback--Prof. Wittenbach has not taught this course before. Students 
who have had him in other courses not~ that he is well prepared for class and 
covers the material comprehensively. He is described as effective, thorough, .easily understandable, and a fair grader. 
Viger  Acct 261  Basic Acct  
0BTT9 09TT11 01TT3  seq. 511261 seq. 511262 seq. 511263  
DESCRIPTION:  This  course  is  an  introduction  to  the terminology  and  

techniques involved in the basic accounting processes. Designed for non­Business majors, the course is a one semester overview of general accounting principles and practices. There are no prerequisites. Class time is devoted almost entirely to discussion and explanation of problems assigned for homework. There is ampleopportunity for the student to ask questions. 
READINGS~ The basic text is Fertig, Istvan and Moltice's Using Accounting Information, 2nd ed. The text is not overbearing or difficult since the maferial convered is well explained'and numerous examples are provided. The cost of the text is Sll.95. 
STUDENT WORK: A syllabus is provided to the student to serve as a guide for the chapters and homework required for each class. Since the class meets twice a week for 75 minutes, the student is expected to read two chapters per class period. There are 4 in-class non-cumulative tests counting two-thirds of the ar~de and a comprehen_sive final which counts one-third of the_fipal grade. Tests 
.will be of a problem solving nature. Thests are graded fairly. There is no 
-required class attendance policy, however, homework is weighted both to the . help and detriment of the student so if you cut class, make sure you get a friend .. to-~turn in \our homework ---· · · · ··• 
· COMMENT: For those non-BA students who would like to take a busJness course but are unsure of which one to select, this one is highl_y recommended by those who have taken it. The tec1cher is good, easy-going, and sure to crack up everyone with his comments about his experiences with women in the business 
area. The text will be covered in one semester, while BA students have the benefit of covering the text in two semesters. A student's GP will not suffer from having taken· this course. 
Lynch Acct 334 / Cost Control ; 08TT10 seq. 512263 ,i 
DESCRIPTION: Accounting 334 is concerned with th~ ma~agement uses of the end products of accounting analysis. Topics covere~ in this course are co:t behavior under • various conditions; budget planning, cost-volume-profit relationships, standard and variable costs, and practic~I _uses of measures_ of return on capital. The course would prove most benef1c1al to ~n Accounting major or any Business major planning on taking management:anen:ed courses in the future. The method of presentation lends itself to d1scuss1on and he ,, 
"encourages" students to fully participate. . . ~ READINGS: Accounting for Management: Planning and Control by Lynch, . McGraw-Hill, S7.DO. . STUDENT WORK: In addition to daily problem assignments there ~re two exams, a final exam, and a term project. These exams a~e not too tax!ng _n~r very lengthy, demanding only a solid understanding of basic concepts taught m the course. The professor downplays the importance of the exams ,n th_a! 50 ·. percent of the course grade is based on class participation. The ter~ _pro1ect consists of a lengthy case study assigned by the professor-requiring the application of some concept(s) covered during.the semester. _ . . COMMENT: Because of the emphasis placed upon class part1c1pat1on by Prof. Lynch, daily preparation of the oroblem material is highly r!co~menc:d. '! It is most disconcerting to compile a respectable test average and receive a final _ ~ourse grade of "C." 
Rueschoff, Williamson Acct 371 Thy & Prac I, · various times 
DESCRIPTION: Acct. 371 is a detai_led study-of current accounting theory and practice. The student considers Financial Statement preparation and analysis, funds flow, and consolidations. Principles of Accounting is a prerequisite so most members of the class are in the School of Business and primarily Accounting majors. The course will be three hours credit next year, so material could be covered at a more rapid pace than last year. Classes will consist of 3 lectures at week covering both texts. All homework is discussed in class in· order for questions to be raised and ocorretions made. 
READINGS: Kieso, Mautz and Moyer, Intermediate Principles of Ac­counting, S12.75 and APB Accounting Principles, Current Text, S4.DO. 
STUDENT WORK: The student's grade is determined on the basis of 4 tests counting 100 points each, a one-page paper due at the end of the semester worth 50 points, and homework, also valued at 50 points. 
Tests are composed of problems similar to the homework and short essays based on the APB ·text. The tests are departmental and quite fair. Daily homework is assigned consisting of problems from the Kieso text and Eeadings 
from the APB• 
COMMENT: Professor Rueschoff possesses an excellent knowledge of the subject. matter but has dif!ifUlty presenting the material in an interesting manner.-By the nature and P,r:esentation of the course material, the classes tend to be a bit tedious. Visual aids facilitate discussion of the problems and help to break the monotony through the humorous (?) interjections, characteristic of 
Professor Rueschoff. '1 
Professor Williamson has been on leave the past se~ester working with a CPA firm. He is energetic and effective in his teaching and demonstrates extreme competence in both accounting principles and practices. He is well prepared for his classes_ and ·takes time to answer any student's question before continuing 
with new mat~i:ra1:, ·· . · · . · . _ ·i 
Rueschoff 
Acct 473 
Adyanced Acct
10 MWF .. 
s~q. _51430( 
DESCRIPTION: The course is concerned with partnership and corpor.:1tion -accounting at the advanced level as well as accounting for international operations. Actuarial accounting, estates and trust accounting, and institutional '] and social accounting are also covered. The major emphasis will be on cor· ;~ porate accounting, both foreign and domestic, with an expanded analysis of j cOnsofidation statements.. _ ~1 
READINGS: ~dvanced Accounting. by Griffin, Williams, and Carson, and :J 
A.R.S. no. 12--Reporting Flireign Operations of U.S. Corporations in U_.s. ;) Dollars. 

\:i, . , 
;;;-1; STUDENTWORK: Daily homework problems will be required. Two or three 
;f} exams will be given plus a final. A short term paper m_ay be required. \J COMMENT: Prof. Rueschoff has not taught this course before, but has taught:Ji. Intermediate Theory. The course format Is being revised. The professor feels 'j that the course will strengthen the student's background In financial accounting.'~J Students in the past have also seen It as a help for the CPA exam. 
Brady Acct 477 Data Processin·gri ··.· 10 MWF seq. 514761 11 MWF .seq; 514762
I 
3s'>I DESCRIPTION: ~This data processing course is broken into two parts. In tlie /Milani Acct 474 initial part of the course, the professor explains the hardware and software used
Managerial Ctl 

~ in EDP systems along with a study and comparison of the various num~ering
09TT11

.~ seq. 514401 systems used by computers. The second portion of the course involves the 10TT12 seq. 514402 solving of four accounting problems using Touche Ross', a public accounting
~ 
:(~ ' firm, computer program entitled STRATA. The class is all lecture and is aimed ~ DESCRIPTION: This course pulls together five basic functions in business at giving the student an idea of how the accountant uses the computer.ji administration--management, marketing, finance, economics, and accounting. READINGS: Used in the course are Bohl's l_nformation Processing costing ~ A case approach is used, concentrating on management control, but also in­$7.95 and the STRATA manual which Prof. Brady arranges for himself costing 
r, traducing strategic planning, long range.planning, and operations control. Also $2.50. 
lf studied ar~ pr?fit a~ an evalu~tion technique,_prici~g, responsibility centers, STUDENT WORK: There are two tests given which cover the separate S~f· -~ decentral I zat 10n, inter-profit center rel at 1onsh 1ps, programming, and tions of the course along with a final. The only other work involves the, proper ,1j budgeting. completion of four STRATA problems. These problems are tackled by teams' of j READINGS: Management Control Systems-~case and Readings by Dearde11 · about three and involve no more than the punching ofcards. ~~ and Vancil and Divisional Permanence: Performance and Control by Solomons. COMMENT: The major value of the course lies with its fulfillment of the ] Also a business economics text. Keep your cost accounting and marketing texts quantitiative requirement for Accounting majors. Much of the material com­
~ for outside readings. posing the initial part of the course seems irrelevant (e.g. the conversion of the 'j STU DENT WORK: The use of three e~ams and preparation of assigned cases binary systems into other computer-oriented systems). The completion of the 'i will be the basis for student grades. . STRATA problems tends to be moreof a grinding-out experience than a learning1 COMMENT: Prof.. Milani has not taught this course before, but three years one_: Prof. Brady's technical excellence in the field is not enough to save the 
-~ work in corporate accounting and doctoral study in management areas give him course. ;}; a good background. He feels that a course in managerial control offers the ~! student an opportunity to integrate and use the ininformation and knowledge. '.~ acquired in several business courses. Use of accounting information is em­Slowey Acct 479 Govt AcctJ phasized along with a stress on an overall view of a business organization. 
01TT3 seq. 514900

"' 
~ 
DESCRIPTION: Prof. Slowey's course exposes the student to the study of
~~Vfrlani, Wittenbach Acct. 476 
Fed Inc Tax governmental accounting. · His interest is ·to emphasize the practice of ac­:J 09 MWF seq. 514661 counting for hospitals and government municipalities. The class consists of ~-~ 10 MWF coverage of CPA problems assigned as homeworf$ and of lectures by Prof.
seq. 514662 

Slowey covering aspects of governmental accounting not covered in the text. 
, 
11 MWF. 

~ seq. 514663 Large class size in the past has limited class discussion to a great extent. ;1 DESCRIPTION: Though classified as a 400 level Accounting course, Federal READINGS: The text for the course is Governmental Accounting by Mikesell ~e11 Income Taxes can be handled by anyone desiring it as an elective provided he is and Hay. . 
~ not adverse to ler:ning some rudimentary computations in addition to a con­STUDENT WvRK: The workload for this course i~ f.iqht. The homework ~N siderable amot;0 of pretty dry readings. However the course provides com­consists mostly of CPA problems either from the text or nanded out in class. i_· prehensive coverage of individual and corporate income tax problems with· 
Two or three tests are given during th~ smester. While they are usually quite . severe, the final grades are fairlv hiCJh .
1 emphasis on the concepts of gross income, capital gains and losses, and the 1l;r various deducations av<!ilabte to the taxpayer. Though it may prove helpful, cotv,MENT: fh1s course 1s highly recommended to junior and senior ac­1l previous accounting courses are not required as basic accounting concepts a_nd counting majors who are interested in "non-profit" organization accounting. 
!'! 
computations are reviewed. Prof. Slowey's experience with a major accounting firm allows him to enlighten~i READINGS: The text for the course is the Federal Tax Course text by the interested student in many aspects ofhospital and governmenta! accounting. J Commerce Clearing House which is revised yearly ($10.00). It is not recommended, however, to the accounting major strictly as
1 . , 
STUDENT WORK: For Milani's course there will be three tests, a final, a preparation for the usual governmental problems on the ePA exam. In the past, 
series of quizzes (5 or 6), and a series of research case briefs. Tests,-but not students seeking solely this preparation have been disappointed with the course.I quizzes, are open book, but long enough to preclude. scoring high by "look-up" -~ alone. The quizzes and case briefs will.be totaled and count as one test each. 1 Homework problems are assigned but not alwass collected, but the quizzes and ~ tests will show if you've done them. .. 1 For Wittenbach 's course, inaddition to daily problem assignments, ,10 Bever I y 
1
Acct 483 Edp Bus AppHctn 

! 
reserach problems, 2-3 pages in length, ~re qrequired. The daily problem1assignments from the text are not collected, but in lieu of the quantity of 09TTll seq. 515200I material covered inthe course, it is adv(sable to keep current on them. There : ,are two regular exams and .a final. All,e~ams are open book, and though the DESCRIPTION: This is a new course. :.Students should have taken Staristics problems aren't exceedinly difficult, th~ ~xams are long 02-13 problems) so the . and it is recommended that either a course in Cost Accounting or Operations 
student has I ittle time to peruse through the book during the examination period. Research has been taken. There is an emph·asis on use of the computer in 
COMMENT: Prof. Milani present thf course in a surprisingly interesting business data processing. There will be four main sections: 1) explanation ofI lectur~ format tha.t makts the cl~ss period ~em ·sho.-ter than the material migh! .already written systems for inventory control, receivables, and transaction i suggein. ·t-.1.T. has a lot to offer to the BA and non-BA major. No one wno pu'(S• processing; 2) some oroqramming study of programming languages and a 
any effort into the course should ever have to consult H&R Block, and the In-·: report program generator; 3) decision and analytical problems; and 4)
. -~ -' ,
terestect student can build a foundation for: future tax study or work. .. , .. ."-s\mulations. The professor will not teach STRATA. 
Prof. Wittenbach gives a very orderJV: ptesentation of the course material, , . READINGS:' A basic computer reference text, a statistical analy~ text, and making extensive use of an outline form ?t~l~~-~board .prnsentation. Thus,.thf: ... , . probably a paperback on operations research and analytical technique. student can compile vast notes which_ P,fp_ve valuable at exam time. Prof.,,. ,, STUDENT WORK: There will be assigned class homework problems and Wittenbach is genuinely interested in getfin1;f to know his students and he i~ :-,individual projects. Class performance wit be heavily graded and equal weight usually available for consultation.· ..: ' ·· : .,-given to two examinations and projects. . 
.)-1l• ­


... . COMMENT: Prof. Beverly has taught both data processing and quantitative ,-,..',analysis previously. His dissertation was on re~eivable_ analysis using the :;?-r .:computer. The class stress will be on solutions to linear. systems problems 
• : ; 1.0.-.Yh!ch Prof. Beverly fef:IS will be essential to graduates i~ the business world• 
... ::t:1n:r, 
1
,•t .-IQ 0-~ 
__-;<, lo t· ,ff ·, .· 

I lr::er::r5f5e'5'~jqt~ 

C:onway Fin.370 Invest Analysis
finance nd seq. 532662
09MWF 

. 
Trubac Fin 361 Bus Cond Anal 01TT3 s~q. 532161 02TT4 seq. 532162 
DESCRIPTION: This course deals with the analysis of national income ac­counting_ This includes theories of investmennt, consumption, income, monetary and fiscal policies. Principles of Economics is a prerequisite. 
READINGS: The Theory of Macroeconomic Policy by Barrett and Political Economy of Prosperity by Okun are the two texts used.· The total cost is about 
S13. 
STU~ENTWORK: There are two non-cumulative tests and a non-cumulative final. 
COMMENT: Professor Trubac is an excellent lecturer. The student will have diffi~ttyl~ doin·g-wei(uniess-he attends~la-ss. The texts are good and Trubac is a lair grader. This course is recommended for any business or economics m~jor: 

Kent Fin 362 Money, Bk, Monet Pol l0MWF seq. 532261 llMWF seq. 532262 
DESCRIPTION: This course deals with the financial str~cture and monetary policy of the American economy. Emphasis is placed on "financial in• termediaries," international financing, credit theory, and historical hackgrounds. Principles of Economics 223-224 is a prerequisite. Professor Kent lectures and uses his own text for the course (which is currently in its 6th 
•'diton ). Because of the frequent changes in international situation, current 
problem~ are used as examples. READINGS: Professor Kent's own, Money and Banking, 6th edition. STUDENT WORK: There are four exams throughout the semester each 
0 
covering about five or six chapters from the text and the lecture notes. The test· ,1restraigh,t'forwa.rd; usually an option to answer four of five qu_estions is given. Professor Kent corrects the exams himself. 
COMMENTS: Whatever happened to gold for S35 an ounce? How does your trip to the Bahamas over spring break affect the U.S. balance of payments? Whilf is P_hase_!_!!._?_ For the answ!:.'.: ~2._!_!les~-2_nq_m~IJ~sJiQn~, Fin1;1nce 
-360 is recommended. Professor Kent's knowledge of the subject matter is vast. The class is usually composed entirelyof junior business majors. 

Fin 363 Gov Fin and Fiscal Pol· 01TT3 seq. 532360 
DESCRIPTION: There are no prerequisites for this course. The course can he divided into three parts: determinig and evaluating government e?(­penditure, the reasons, needs and benefits of government finance and finally the consequences of government expenditures and finance. It is presented in a lcclure fC>rm. It isopen to all business majors. 
READINGS: The book used this semester was Government Finance: Economics of the Public Sector by John Due. The· cost is S12.50. 
STUDENT WORK: There are three tests ciiven: throughout the 'semester one .11 the end of each secti:>n. The tests consist of afew essay questions graspting lhf'! overall ideas and facts exoressed in class. Nn Pv~m is cumulative, and the 
tinal grades consist of!:'" average of the letter grades. There are no pape_rs or QUiZ1PS. 
. COM~ENT: The <'~am•;primarily consist ·of the· material given .in class as nolCS. F<ir"this reason•<:iass· attendance, although not required, is essential in order io s·uccessfully-eomplete the course. The lectures tend to be dry, but there is a greaf deal to be gained from them. Mr. Sim is always available to the "itudcnts and provides answers to any questions the students might have. The work load is relatively light as long as the person goes to class and takes good 
'notes. · · ' 

lOMWF seq. 532663 seq. 532664

llNff!f:c 
DESCRIPTION: Professor Conway's lectures are designed to give a general overview of the investment world. Though analysis of financial institutions and lheir functions, securities market and securities investment, the student is !'Quipped lo make a personal inv~stment portfolio designed to S!3tisfy his in­vestment needs.· There are no· prerequisites but some business background is -;uggested in order to keep up wi_th a· class comprised predominantly of business m.ijors. 
READINGS: Introduction to Investments by Clendenin and Christy, Sl0.70. There is also one paperback chosen by the student. 
STUDENT WORK: Two predominantly objective non-cumulative tests as well as an objective non-cumulative final.· There is also one book report, two journal article critiques as well as a group report of about 15 pages. . . 
COMMENT: The workload is moderately hevy but.the course is informative and helpful to anyone planning a personal investment portfolio. The lectures are sometimes dry and unexcit.ing, but Professor Conway frequently injects humorous comments to break the routine and revitalize interest.. 
Farragher Fin 371 Real Estate -0BMWF s~q. 532761 09MWF seq. 532762 OlMWF seq. 532663 
DESCRIPTION: This course can be divided into two parts. In the first part' the student becomes acquainted with the basic terminlogy used in real estate .ind the second part deals with ivestment analysis and tax aspects., This is only open 10 business majors and a,-working kn~wledge of investments is recom-. n11'nded. ­
READINGS: Professor Farragher_hastiotdecidedwhattexthevyill u~e,. · STUDENT WORK: There will P[Obably be two or three tests and a paper where the siudent is expected to thoroughly analyze a piece of real e_state. COMMENT: Professor Farragher is a well organized lecturer. He seems_ to 
he quite knowledgeable and he makes use o(examples in· order to clarify any points. He always welcomes questions and comments.. This is one of the most w,,rlhwhilecourses in the finance department and it is highly recommended for 
iln'tone who wants to get a taste of what real estate is all about. . 
·' 
F~rragher Fin 376 Fin Mgt·)oMWF seq. 533060 

DESCRIPTION: Th~ pr-~requisit~s fo~ the course are Fin.231 and BA 234, 235. . The main topics covered_are ccpaital ~udgeting and leasing. The·course is only ,wailable lo business majors·. . 
READINGS: The books cost about S20.00•. They are Financial Management and Policy by James Van ,H~rne and Readings in Mana~erial Finance, by lkigham. 
> • -• • • ; • . 
STUDENT WORK: There is a midterm and a final. Both are lengthy and luvolve problems jl_nd ~xplanations. The professor informs the students before Ihe.tests what will be on them.. However don't expect to cram for it. There are• 
-~rso a few announced quizzes. In addition to this, there are three short "think" papers· that help to prepare the studen! for the two tests,. They are usuaHy 2-3 p,,ges and ungraded. · . -. ·: •: -, 
COMMENT: This is not the jock course you've been looking for. The t'7Cher is very.interesting ·the.the course is most informative. This is a good course if you w.int to tr.am something, though you can't put it off. You have to do something in ii all 1i1e lime. Although statistics is required, it is not used the entire course. The professor is always willing to help the _students. I would recommend this course as worthwhile. Last but no least, the pr;ofessor is a very fair grader.· 
Kent .·_Fin· 473;/~-. Mgmt Fin lnsts 

·09MW_F::~..:;·:_ 
seq. 534260 
DESCRIPTION": This course,··as •aptly described in the. Bulletin _.of ln­lorrn'aiion, is'a ''.sur~ey of the types of financial institutions; their importance in ~he ccononiy," aild their financial opfr~t~ons, incfuding sources of funds, credit 
•-;1andc1rds and analysis, and investrrler_:tf P.()licies. The prerequisite for the course i, Finance 362-Money Banking ancfMo~etary Policy--also taught by Prof. Kent. ;rotcssor Kent has used'two dif!~~l7!J>re~en_!a!)~n. appr~~ches ov~r Jh~_ l~~t.' iw_11 scnwstcrs. For the cu_rrent_,~SC'}~,ter, ttJP. c-ourse employs d recture and 
1
discussion approach with four eX~i;lJ!n.~t.ions. :In the past, he has lectured for the fir"it qu.irtcr. ·.The.second quatter would then be devot~d to 15 minute class
. . , -.,,,. 

-~resenrn11ons oy rne sru~enrs. une exam was the!1 el!minated by a 10 page paper 5)11 the student's research topic. The number·and make-up of the class will diclate the design of the course in Fall '73: ::1,.fl !,_:; '. . 
j READI N~S: Other than several reserve list as~iSJp_n:ients, there is no required Appelr;.cc1ding nmaterial. .._ 'J.,,_ Mark 374 Marketing Research ,;j STUDENT WOR.K: The 3-4 examinations arr•1~dfinistered in class. The 10 TT 12 
seq. 5:42061 

:4corn1c1t is generally 4 of 5 questions. If require9_, thl:,!~r.m paper and oral report. 
02 1"T 04 seq. 542062

"c1re weighted equally with the exaos. . ...,,. 0 · ~, COMMENT:. ·Prof. KenHs to becommend~d f~r,hiS.knowledge in this field and 
DESCRIPTION: Basic Marketing is required and statistics isrecommended:~is interest in the students' ideas. Class particip<!t}_on js encouraged. Although c1s prerequisites. Open to all students but required for marketing majors.For­i)he lectures cire at times rather dry, they are informativeand sprinkled with wit. 
mat is bcisically lecture with some discussion. The course hopes to familiarize jme exams are not difficutl if adequate notes are. t_a~~en.-The course contributes 
the student with-the techniques of research as it is conducted and used by the ~qrecitly to the students background in understanding the various classes of 
mc1rketing manager. By the end of the course each student should be an intelli­~inc1ncial institutions. Finance 473 is, recommen~e~ :for sernior and second qent resecirch user and evaluator. ,icmester ju_nior Finance majors·and other business majors_ interested in the READINGS: Not available at this time. 
r~ck;ngs o I ban ks, sav;ngs and loans, ;nman<e compan;es, and the Hke. 
STUDENT WORK: Shortansweroressay mid-term and fina1and,asemester project. . COMMENT: Professor Appel does an excelle11t job of co_vering the subjec;:t matter. His lectures are packed with important material and class attendance is
'·!Conway Fin 476 Cases in Fin Mgt 
almost essential for an adequate understanding. Tests and grading are regarded
i 09TT1 l seq. 534400 as fair. · · 
'.~ DESCR t PTION: This course_dea!s wit~ solving ~rob~e~s_of corporate fina~ce Jby the case method. It dea1s·w1th financial analysis, 1lqu1d1ty needs, managing ',"l¥<1ssets, cost of.capital, debt management and investmei;it decisions. Finance 231 .1is c1 required prequisite and it is only open to business majors.:! READINGS: case Problems in Finance by Butters, Fruhan and Piper and Appel J,iTechniques of Financial Analysis by Helfert. . · Mark 382 Retailing·j STUDENT WORK: The student must present one case to the·class. He must 
02 TT 4 seq. 542360

::~1so submit four cases which have been prese11ted by other students. He must ·1a1s0 write critiques on two journal articles. DESCRIPTION: The prerequisite to the course is basic marketing. It is open.;J COMMENT: This course is very worthwhile for the student interested in to c1nyone who wishes to take it, but preferenceis given to rn..1=ketin majors. The 
;solving complex financial problems. Tt~e student is exp,ected to have a_ thorough lormc1t of the course is generally lecture with discussion, and case discussion. 
t'knowledge of finance. Class participation is important and the final is usually a The student is provided with an overview of reatiling and retailing management ?'case presented by the entir_e class--if c~nditions permit. Professor Conway do~s in the American economic system. Pimary emphasis will be on the uncont­)hot do too much lecturing,_he mainly stimulates the discussions and adds his rollableenvironmental aspects confrontina the retailer and the managerial ~valuable comments. c1spects of the reatailing mix. 
READINGS: Not available at this.time.
-~j 
STUDENT WORK: Short answer or essay mid-term and final as well as 1 .inciJyses of cases. 1 COMMENT: Professor Appel combines lecture and di~cussion for an inte­





,marketin;g nd

.j 
resting class. He gives the student excellent insightsinto the intricacies of reta-­
t 
4
-~ iling. The tests arf: comprehensive but fair, as·is the grading. This course is recommended f'1r boh marketing majors and other studnts interested in reta­
·.Staff Mark 231 Prine of Market 
iling.

iDESCR IPTION , Thecouc~~:~:~:,o:::: lo the vac;ousaspects and pc­
.~oblems involved with marketing management. This course is required of all -!Business maj_ors and is u~ually ta~en durin~ the ~o_phomore year. There will be }"ections open to non-busin_ess ma1ors. Bern~ an rntro_ductory course, the en:i­Mayo Mark 471. Distribution Pol tphasis is on an overall view of the marketing funcJ1<?n of today's economic 10 MWF seq. 5.Q261
·to;ociety. · 
11 MWF seq. 543262

·j READINGS: E.J. McCarthy Basic M_arketing: A Manag·erial Ap~roach _is the :1hc1sic text (ob~ used by the staff. Th!S text may be supplemen~ed with add1tonal DESCRIPTION: This courseis a requirement for all marketing majors and is $milferial. The cost of the text is around $12.00. 
generally offered to first semester seniors. It is open to all business students but :} STUDENT WORK: This will be up to the individual staff member. General 
strict priorities are given to those in marketing. The goal of the course is to pre­.Jpoloc-y of the departmerit•is to give a mid-term, a·final, and a project of some
-'I!:. . ' . ' sent the students with the importance of selecting the proper market for a parti­
,~type. · 
cular outlet of a firm, the number of stores to place in the chosen market, the p­' COMMENT: _This cC>urse is ex!=ellent background for any student. It no only
f 
recise site selection, and the necessary size and characteristics. Methods of dis­-~provides him with the basic· knowledge of the marketing funciton but will 
tribution and other logistics systems are emphasized int their role of cost ~sharpen his skill of being.an intelligent consumer. It will make him aware of 
reduction. : tow one sells and is sold. This-course would be excellent business background· 
READINGS: The book used this year was Physical Distribution Managing, by 
cfhe non-business ma ;o, w;hl business onh;, ~ Ind. . · Bowersox, S11.95. This will most likely be changed. STUDENT WORK: There are two strictly objectve tests, a mid-term and a linat. There is a group paper required at the end ofthe course. COMMENT: The work load is relatively light, however, attendance is essent­ic1I, though not obligatory, because the exams are taken from the class notes. Th
·.~ayo Mark 323· 
Travel Mgt lectures c1re interesting and ·enjoyable to listen to. The course is highly ­; 01 MWF seq. ~41760. recommended. 
,: DESC::R IPTION: There are no prerequisit,es. The goal of:the -~?ur~e-fs pr,esent 
. pgint pf view. The course hopes to trace the if~ortance of sta,sfy!P? :he rncr,•,r2-): ,. asing'demand for leisure.activities through v~1ous travel opportunities. The _: course is l~angl~il in..a v.er-)I teLa>cP.d...QDen-OJ.iD~ed fashion. . Kennedy 
Mark 472 Quant Methods in Mark

ii 
l(t::ADINGS: The text used this year was Tourism, Principles, Practices, ': Philosophies by·w. McIntosh, S10.50. •This may change. There are handouts 09 TT 11 seq. ~440~1 : throughout the semester. · ,'. • ,.'. .·,-;, 10 TT 12 
seq. 544062 

l 
f STUPENT WORK: There are two objec~i:V,~,Ctrue-false, one problem) test~, a,,, mid-term and a final. The tests cover t~,E11,~~t, notes and ~andouts;_ howevei:-t,, DESCRIPTION: This course is a study of operations research techniques and• • notes are most important. There are no papf,?r:s but there ,s a possible group ,, their-,19_plicatin111> in thP. in_akinq of rnar~t'.ng geric;ions. The course is required
-..:ii:'1,i, •' ' 

-.J report. , 1, · , . of all marketing majors. This is the only course of its type in-the business de# ·1 COMMENT: The lectures are conducted-in arelaxed atmosphere which adds . pc1rtment and will be open to all business majors., The purpose of the course is to , to th_e int~rest o~ the subject matter. Th~_1y~?.!k load i~ rela~~vel~ light_. ~~e",' 
: course is recommended by any business student who w1sheses to increase nis 
. 51

I
awaceness of'the tcavOI ;nsustcv. ·, ,.,, ' ' 
;;J 
. ,l -• • 

provide themarketing student with sufficient knowledge such that he may be an intelligent user of modern mathematical tools. 
READINGS: The text for this course will probably be, Quantitative Approa­ches to M.1nagem~n! ..~Y. 1-evin adnd Kirkp.atrick. The cost of the text is S12.50. -STUDENT WORK: The course Is taught in a lecture-workshop manner. Or. 
J<~ned_y prefers to lecture and then follow_th!!_lecture with a_s!udent workshop on assigned problems (which incidentally must be handed in periodically.) The probiem load will be heavy, but he-encouragess group work on them. There wm· be a mid-term and a final. A project on the use of oprations research techniques and their application in business decision making is required. Also required are periodic synopses of journal articles from the literalure"in the field. 
COMMENT: This will only be the second time this course has been taught and it is still in its experimental stages. A major problem·with the course as seen by 111e students is the quality of the text. It is rather difficult to teach a quantitative cours.e. to a 'ii1<£erse..grQYp of !itµdents. sorn .. of whom are not particularly quant­nauvely oriented. The course will seel'T'!_easv to some and ·to otliers, it may seem impossible. The overall work load is not heavy, but at times demanding in cont­<'nt. The major criticism of Or. Kennedy is that he did not spend enough time explaining material but rather left the problem solving up to student i11itiative._ · 
, This course is not the most interesting one, by far, in the department, but the exposure to the topic may prove to be invaluable to the business student. 
Weber Mark 484 International Bus 11 MWF seq. 545060 
DESCRIPTION: The course familiarizes the student with the major externa! variables of the fnternationa·I en·vironment and their interrelationships Which bear on the decision-making and managerial processes of multinational firms. Dr. Weber's purpose is to expose students to and familiarize them with basic co­ncepts and decisions which are peculiar to International Busiensss as opposed to Domestic Business operations. It's basically a lecture course with student pres­ntations at various intervals. The corse is open to all undergraduate business m­ajors. 
R_~ADI NGS: I. Qtoo~ \iY,... MYltiDltiOIJill llu.iine.n.i!r.it@gy~ .Mt..Graw:Hill~ 1972, $3.95. 2. Baker-, J.C., and Bates, Financing International ·Business .Operations, 1971, SS.00 (optional) and 3. Terpstra, v., lnterHtional Marketing, Holt, 1972, ~12._g()._ STU DENT WORK: Emphasis will be placed upon pragmatics. The.professor will lecture most of the time for the first part of the cour~e. "Thereafter, student ., 
presentations."!"ill ~e blended into fhe cour!.e in order to he~p build·al'!d !!!i:!lnJain· class-enthusiasm, in order to expose the class to the findings of individual reams. a11d .12: q1_v_1: -imli~lnie.rn!;)ers_of ttie class aci ..QllDW"..tiroi1i to furt!le.r. develop their business communication skills. Grading is. divided into three 
areas: 1) Team Projects, this Includes a Research Paper and an International Business Dialogue; 2) Environmental Analysts and General Class Par­ticJpatjon ._anQ...~)_MJ.d-term and final exam. 
COMMENT:_ The course-i.&tructured so that the student learns as much as he, t1im~t..»rants..to. Jeam. -~t1ak.ell as.~. h9Wf!?V_er,_atte11.dance~t cne stuaent pr~tattons is_ required. Dr. Weber's room is in 246 Hayes-Hea1y 'Center an~ he is available for consultation on Mondays ·and Wednesdays from 2­5 an_d<il) f:ridc!~aU.am~ :rt;i_.e 1ftor.k.laag Usfe~endent UDOn hnw much work tl}_e • student is willing' to put Into the course. Certain ·aeadllnes must be met; however, t~_e pressure Is not th_at gr,at. 






management nd 

Starcevich -'Mgt·371 ·organization Theory-, 01 MWF seq: 521661 02 MWF seq. 521662 
t>ESCR I PTION: Analysis o, tne development and operation of social_institut­ions according to the classical, humanistic, and moderrjschools of organization. theory. Objective: fusion of various ideologies toward' •f uni_fied theory of organization. 
READINGS: Not available at this time. -~Tll,Qf:Jll.,T WC:,R K: Two t~~ct.enfUUfil(!r Q,:oup proiect. . , . COMMEN r: This req,.nrea collrse is hedvy in nieory. and therefore can·:::.-. 
become· tiresome. Its greatest merit is that it summarizes past and current-.~-' 
.,
., Sexton Mgt 372 Manufactur and Mgt _-{:( 10 TT 12 seq. 521860 t 
~~ 
DESCRIPTION: _Manufacturtng from a systems point of view. ~ncludes -J capital equipment investment, plant location, research development, facilities .:j layout. inventory and quality control, and ti1rc~~sti•ng alltf' sfand'clrai"zaffoh. ~ READINGS: Production-Concepts Analysis Control by Hopeman. There are :,:;
,_;;; 
h.indouts every week. .:-1 STUDENTWqRK: Oneci:!~e·c1riaiysis3weekwhichisgraded. Twotests. 
.j 
. COMMENT 'This course is.· considered most worthwhile. Dr. Sexton is a more :~ than competent teacher. H~·requires steady work in case analysis,iut this is not ;:J loo demanding for interested students. Dr. Sexton is a fair person .and liberal ,j qrcider. One complaint is that he is not often available-for personal help or 1J 
<0nsu1talion. 
t 
,i 
-ii
Bella Mgt 373 Union-Mgt Relalf 01 TT 3. seq. 522061 f 02 TT 4 seq. 522O6f~ 
a 
' 
DESCRIPTION: Development ,·structure and admini~tration of labor unions, " with emphasis on the impact of union behavior on management decision mak--: ing. Focus on labor law as it affects union-management relations. 
READINGS: A new text will be used. 
STU DENT WORK: Two tests. ,A union-management relations simulation will 
lake place among small groups of students. 
COMMENT: Prof. aella's dynamic teaching style makes this course more ;, cnfoyable l11crn one would think possible. Prof. Beila uses handouts of actuai" ~ union-management cases, and a union-management simulation which brought a diterent dimension to the course. This course is an excellent one for everyone today because of the wide scope of unionization. Or. Bella presents both the. management nd the union's viewpoint. No one shouid have any trouble with the. : 
rests or assignments. 
Houck-Mgt 461 02 MWF 03 MWF 
DESCRIPTION: This c'?urse. is not designed to 
LegaI Aspts of Bua'i seq. 523061 .": seq . .'.i23062-J 
cover the "impersonal" : 
aspects of business, such as contracts etc. Rather it is an inquiry into how these : 
c1spccts have affectged management-labor relations. Professor Houck traces ? 
lhe development of this realtionship and how it has been influenced by economic, ' 
ideological and legislative forces. Also covered are the proper methods of in-.: 
vestigation and litigation necessary to secure social justice. The format is quasi~ 
lecture, as Houck gladly participates in open discussion Qf his ideas in order to '.' 
rnsure .if1'1ivid11i;!_I under_stand..in9. • ­
READINGS: The text last term was The Legal Process oy Auerback,-;: ·Garrisor_i, Hurst. ~nQ ~.ermlJ'.'I_ · · i -·., ,-up§Ni -;,;JOK K: "Three .. r four Qapers on relevant topics to be a,scussed and ; ·;;vritten by a four or five membergroup. The course final is a group project. No'3 tests. • . . -~ 
COMM~NT: Professor Houckh~s a superb insight and belief in the righteous-: 
ness of his subject and a knack for'motivating his students. The student should-.; 
l'Xpcct to dev"elop a fresh consc;ious·ness of the plight of the working man. "i 
' "-:'. r; 
~-; 
-" 

-

philosophies of management and organization. Grading is generally fair but ,, . · sometimes severe. 
·s2 


McMichael Mgt 465 ···. 
Business Law 111 09 TT 11 seq. 523761 02 TT 4 ,•.·· 
seq. ~23762 03 TT 5 seq. 523763 

DESSR I PTION: Deals with trust,estate a~d gift taxes, and estate planning. 
v,,rious t\' pes of Irust funds and their ta>: liabilities are discussed. The format is. IC'cturc but questions are welcome. Professor _McMichael shares many of his • personal experiences from his background in-the subject. 
READINGS: A sixty pa-ge booklet prepared by Professor McMichael in outl­ii1e form. Notes can be taken in this booklet. 
STUDENT WORK: Four tests based on the booklet and class notes. Class ,11tcndance is not mandatory but is strongly recommended. There is a 2500-5000 \•·nrd paper due toward the end of the semester. 
COMMENT: Class can tend to drag but Professor McMichael's interjection of pPrsonal experiences help to liven ti up. It is a course which the student will find inll'r<'sting and of greater value in later life. 
Houck Mgt 488. Innovation_. Technol Mgt ·10 MWF seq. 524860 
DESCRIPTION: The course examines the fundamental dichotomy between 
thC' industrial technology which dominates society and the student's view of the 
-;ocial order. This is a seminar type course. Students and teacher share the, 
n'sponsibilily for the discussions and direction of the class. The general theme is 
lh<' choice with which the United States is presented at this stage of its 
ct,•vrlonm"nt ..m;ixirnum technnlnnir-;iJ development vs. humanistic growth. 
READINGS: The Greening of America, The Pursuit of froneliness, The Ma­king of a Counter-Culture, The Age of Aquarius, Daedalus; Toward the Year 2000, The Student as Nigger. · 
STU DENT WORK: The grades are reflections of thequal-Hy of class particip­.,lion. Al lendance is not required but most students attend r~ularly. A diary is to 11,, kept, no tests and no long papers. 
COMMENT: The loose organization of this course differs greatly from that of the normal business course. The exposure to different and challenging thoughts i,; ,111 1•xcellent vehicle to broadening the education of the business student. The course has been in great demand and remains highly recommended. 
Yeandel Mgt 482 
Small Bus Management08 TT 10 seq. 524561 09 TT,11 seq. 524562 

DE'SCR I PTION: PrQblems and policies peculiar to the management of small 
business firms and the analysis of the role of small business in the economy. · READINGS: Unavailable at this time. STUDENT WORK: Two tests. An individual project relating to small 
businesses. . COMMEN"t: This course is a mixture of a few class lectures and ni.111,,. trips to local business rslablishments (both successful an·d unsuccessfu°i>. It gives the 
-;fudm~ practical experience in pin-pointing proolems in the operations and procedurPs,01 small businesses.__ Prof. Yeandel's past business experi~nce_s_ 111,lkC' ., ctood framework for the class. This course is "h"i'ghly recommended tor ,,110 who feels that the large corporation is not.for him or would eventually like to -.tart their own business. 
Heisler Mgt 489 Human Behavior 01 TT 3 seq. 525060 
DESCRIPTION: A study of the determinants of human behavior in organiza­tions: individual and organizational goats; interpersonal process; group d­·, 11,1111ics; impact of social climate and new life styles; conflict resolution. Emphasis on developing executive skills. . 
READINGS: l'ehavioral Decis_ions in Organizations, by Elbing. STUDENT WORK: Two tests, a research project, a personna1·1or-. and in class cxercieses. This work is not overbearing. COMMENT: The material covered in this course is very_ helpful in un­
:icrstandiruJ twniln behavior ;., b!§ine..s.s :situatiQD.?• . Qr.....!:iliSlgr.Jg]Qws _the rn,,terial well ar.1.1 ,:; competenr rn transmitting this knowledge to the student. Except for a lengthy research project, I found this course enjoyable, and I recommend it as a good elective for any student. 
business-economics smc 
BuEc 452 Business Law 08TT9 seq. 836060 
DESCRIPTION: B~siness Law is a general introduction to the basic aspects of Jaw as applied to everyday life. l(att~mpts to ~kim t_he areas_ of busi~ess in­volvements of both businessmen and the general public. A basic meaning and history of law is given. Although it is a requirement for all business majors it is usefuJ to anyone who comes in coritact with the business world in any way. Everyone is assum~d to kno..y th~ "~a-~"-and this course he.lps to fulfill this un­derstanding in a general manner. The method of teaching is a mixture of lect.ure and personal experience; it is Jaught by a lawyer. Class discussion is en-· couraged and there is atways plenty of time for questions. · 
READINGS: Principles of Busin~~ Law by Dillavous and Howard. · • STUDENT WORK: The student'.ii'ionstantly kept on his toes during class. A 
-~~•.. :v 

chapter or.more is covered during:·~~l}:£_~ass period. At the end of each chi\pt~r there are several cases pertaining t?,~,~)~bject r:iatter whi:h mu~t be prep_ared . for. each class for recitation. Two.·t~~i:and a f1~al are grven wrth occasional 
unannounced quizzes. There are no,J~~,p~rs required. 
COMMENT: The text is volumino·ust~bd the reading can get bogged down at times. Consider:ing this is just a pr:J[~jples course, too many complicated con­cepts are pufb~fore the student in td<fshort a time. The book is just too much to cover in a one semester course. If the subject matter could be dwelled upon a little more it might be more fulfilling. All in all though, it is a worthwhile course . 
.. 

BuEc 360 Finance Lecture S-eries 07 Tu seq. 834800 
DESCRIPTION: The finance lecture series is an elective in the Economics and Business Dept. open to all students in the school for one credit. The lectures are given on varied financial subjects to give the student a basic, practical view of s~ch topics as insurance, budgeting, stocks and bonds, and other investments. The presentations are made by guest lecturers from related businesses and indsutries in the area. 
READINGS: No text for the course. STUDENT WORK: The only. requirements for the course are to attend ten of the twelve lectures and to write a summary paper at the end of the series. 
STUDENT WORK: Two to three homework problems-are as.signed for each class period. There are three to four e~xams during the semester and the final is not accumulative. ?:-"""-• ­
COMMENT: The class is usually veryJsinall so there is a great deal of student-
Muwakki BuEc 201 Prin of Acct I 
teacher interaction.
10 MWF seq. 831261 01 MWF seq. 831262 

DESCRIPTION: This course is an introduction to the basic principles of 
acc;_9unting as encountered in the business world today, The c~ass period_ is spent 
in discussing assigned homework problems. Although this course 1s not a 
requirement for the business major, it is a prerequisite for many of the required 
courses. 
READINGS: \Accounting Principles by Niswonger and Fess as well as the 
accompanying workbook. 
STUDENT WORK: There are three periodic exams and a cumulative final. 
Usually two problems are assigned for each class day. 
COMMENT: This is a good course which gives the student the general 
background she needs going into business. The grading policy is very fair and 
Dr. Muwakki is always ~wailable for consultation if you are having any dif­
ficulties. 
Muwakki BuEc 252 Prin of Econ 11 
DESCRIPTION: Principles of Economics 11 is a continuation of Principles of Economics I. The second semester course deals with the study of 
1 I •
microeconomics. This aspect of economics is concerned with specific economic 
units and a detailed consideration of the behavior of these individual units. Here 
we talk in terms of the individual industry, firm, or household and concentrate 
~pon such magnitudes as the output of a specific product, the number of workers 
employed by a single firm, the revenue or income arui the expenditures of a 
particular firm or household, and the price of a particular product. 
READINGS: Economics by Campbell R._ McConnell, fifth edition. 
STUDENT WORK: There are approximately three tests and a comprehensive 
final. There are no outside projects or papers. The work load consists merely of 
keeping up with the readings. 
COMMENT: Dr. Muwakki is very fair in his grading policies and is always 
available for help and counseling. 
BuEc 303 Cost Accounting 08 MWF seq. 833060 
DESCRIPTION: Cost Accounting is a required course for.. B.B.A. can­
didates. It's a more indepth study of the firm from the accounting view point. 
Different operations of the firm are discussed including cost accounting prin­
ciples and multiple purpose systems for management control. Prerequisites: 
Accounting I and II. 
READll'-!GS: • Cost Accc;unting: A Managerial Emphasis by Charles T. 
Horngren, 3rd Edition. 
',' ,_ 

Jackson BuEc.307 Prin of Managmt
lOTTi2· . · seq. 833461 01TT3 seq. 833462 

DESCRIPTION: This course introduces the student to the subject of ·management. It deals mainly with the three schools of management: classical, 
behavioral, and scientific. This course is predominantly lecture but also in­
cludes discussions on-caseptudies. This course·is a requirement for both 
Economic-Business-inajors and Business Administration majors. 
READINGS: Fundamentals· of Management and Fundamentals of Management: Selected Readings by Donnelly, Gibson, and lvancevich. 
S~UDENT WORK: There will probably be two essay exams and a non­
comprehensive essay final. There are no papers or other types of outside class 
projects required. ,. 
COMMENT: Because of the book Mr. Jackson was restricted from giving the 
students a more dynamic concept of management., Perhaps a different selec­
tion of books would yield more pot.ential to the course. The case studies used 
were very helpful. Grading policies are fair. Mr. Jacksin is always available fo_r 
individual help. 
BuEc 310 Bus and Econ Stat 06TTB seq. 833860 
DESCRIPTION: This course introduces the student to the study of statistics. It covers such topics as frequency distributions, statistical descriptions, index numbers, probability, expectation, regression and correlation and time series analysis. The class time is equally divided between lecture and problem solving. Prerequisite for this course is Finite Math ofthe teacher's approval. 
READINGS: Elementary Business Statistics--The Modern Approach by Freund and Williams. 
STUDENT WORK: There is usually a daily assignment but very rarely are they lengthy. Three tests·are given as well as a comprehensive final but there are no projects or papers required. 
Engineering 
t 


electrical nd 
Henry EE 451 Computer Simulation ·.Jl MWF seq. 783600 
DESCRIPTION: The-~cours_e has several requisites: Logic Design, Dif­tcrential Equations, anq some background in tl')e use of computers. There were '-01111' however that had r?bl had the specific courses. For further questions rnnlacl the instructor. -The.basic goal of the course is the solution of dynamic ..,..,stems using both analog and digital computer techniques. ·The course is not required for an_y department, yet is quite essential fo_r the· person specializing in 
the comp'\Jting field. · • . · READINGS:· Analog-Logic programming and Simulation--S14.00. STUDENT WORK: Most work involves laboratory work. There are.2 tests 
,1nd a term problem. Tests are one period type, and comprehensive: The term · 
•problem is lengthy and requires a good understanding of the material cov·ered in ·. lcclur~ and lab. · · · ·· · · · . , · ' 
COMMENT:; Dr. Henry is an excellent lecturer and fs.wai.l.iblr! for quest1~i1s or problems. He is always mor~ than willing to help•. The course requires.more work lhari_ nrnny, yet it is very'informatives. ' · · · · 
EE-347 
_Electr:-ophysics

09·MWF 
· s_eq. 782501 
10 ·MWF. .-__:.·:1 
seq. 782502 
· 

DESC:R I PTION: A physical approach to some of the devices an engineer must use. The, cour!.e is broken up into three parfs. The first concentrates on the . tundamcnlals of semiconductor physics. The second applies this basis to the PN junction-diode. The lhird studies the bipolar:and field effect transistor. Junior ·· ; rar slanding is "required anJ a basic kn_owledge of electrical devices is sup­
posed.--• · -':·l -:. 
READINGS: There is no text. Appro~imately 150 pages of typed notes were 
distributed-tor· S2.00. .a UflR • ' STUDENT WORK: Th~r_e are two_'or three tests and a final. A weekly problc11i sci forms an integral parfof thecourse. 
·'COMMENT: .This_.is:a·very"_good.co~rse;·for anyone in the College ot' Enqinccri1_1g or Department_of Physics.'· _or'f=Gajda, who is presently teaching lhC' colirsc, clocs· ari excellent job•. One cannofhelp but to learn: Finally, if'is ncv1•r dillicull lo'!ind extra help, if one isffaving trouble. . 
• . . ,_... . '. . ·. ·.· · .,., .. ~rH '· · 
J ~ :_ -r • 
,: ?,~fct-::-~.., ..,--''.·P-~fs,t:-· ­




nd. ~echanical nd 
Singer 
CE 213 
Man and His .Environ 
01 MWF, 
. seq. 770700 

DESCRIPTION: No prerequisites, students from all colleges a;e in the class. C,rnrse _covers .air and water pollution,· envi~onmental law, environmental 1·co110111,cs, energy, and solid waste recycling and disposal. Technical basis of lh~·-our~e='is easily understood, so don't worry. Guest Ie·ctures have 2 or 3 lee ... 
tun's lo.discuss their specialty: , ·. , READINGS: Goldm;m, · Controlling Pollution. Turk,· Turk and Wittes, Ecology, Pollution, Environment. About S6. · 
STUDENT WORK: Two tests and a final. Fiel_d observations, ~nd Field trips. A IPrn1 paper which enables students to investigate an area which interests him. Opportunity in this paper to bring in your.major, so the paper can embrace more 
lhan one discipline. 
COMMENT: Most m~mbers of the c;lass thought that tests w.ere fair anti that 1•11gi11eering students had no real advantage.·Tests were about 75 percent ·from l<'ctures so class att~ndance is advisable. This course is a necessity; it equips \OU lo deal with the environmental problems which the U.S. faces, now and in 
lhe future.' ·' 
Linger CE 4_40 Planning_ of Trans Sys 09 MWF seq. 773800 
DESCRIPTION: The purpose of the course is to give civil engineering -..tudent~ ~ background in transportation planning. However, there are no prerequ,s,tes and therefore students from other departments are welcome to lake the course. II is presented in lecture form and deals mainly with various lvp_es of ~lanr:iing model~. Al<?ng this line trip generation and distributiOl\,lllOdnl splat, a_ss,gnment: land use, and the systems approach are discussed. Through · 
the ,1 ss1gned readings one also gets a good idea of the affect the development of the ,,utomobile has had on life in the U.S. READINGS: Transportation Engineering, Paquette, Ashford, and. Wright. the Road and the Car in American Life, Rae. . . 
STU DENT WORK: A few short assignments dealing with the lecture material. A lerm ilpper covering the transportation system in a tow of the student's choice ,ind il final examina!ion o"! The ~oad and t~e Cai: in American Life.. _' C?MMENTS: :nie lectur~s generaqy tended to be somewhat boring although ,,t t1111C's ilccounts of personal experience by Dr. Linger were quite interesting. ~olh of the books were considered very worthwhile by the students who took lame 10_ read_ lhem.·Th_ w_ork· load for the course 1r_1as ·comparatively-light com• pilred to most CE courses and could be handled easily by engineering or science st_udent~. The student who desires help outside class must remember that Dr. Lange~ ,s chairman of the CE department and as such has little time for con• ·-ultat,on. However, when time· pl'rmit~;-"he is always Willing to talk with the 
. ..;tudent. In all, lhe course itself was of little value to the student who wants.the n1<iterial handed to him. The student ~ho wish.es to learn from this course must clo o;o on his own. ' · 
Graves, CE 450 Bus, Legal and Profess Relat ·,11 MWF seq. 774000 
DESCRIPTION :-:This course is readily open to all Engineering students as the only prer~quisile is senior standing in the college of Engineering. The purpose of the course is to.introduce the student to the ·legal, professional and business .ispccts of the practice of engineering. This introduction centers upon a study of the various·construction contracts, preparation and awarding of those contracts ,ind of the necessary insurance and bonds required in construction work. The ­l'thics which pervade all engineering practice are studied through the presen­lation of n·umerous cases, during which the student is requested to make the l'thical decision. A study of engineering economics is also included at the con• clusion of. the course. , •,,· , 
· READINGS: Engineering Contracts and Specifications, Robert W. Abbott-­S12.25. . . . .-. ·,r'' . · STUDENT WORK: Three SO-minute tests and a final. Possibility of several other light assignments during the sem~~te_r. . COMMENT: The course is instrumental,in introducing the student to some of 
,:. . ·-,
the practicalities of the practice of engineer.ing. As now taught, the course is a well,-rounded blend of the information g~~r,i'~r.ed from the reading and that ob­tained from the frequent relating of·the reacher's personal practical ex­periences. The tests, consisting of 50 true-false and 1or 2 short essay questions, are straightforward and are not meant to trap the student. Overall the course is well.worth taking for those considering practicing engineering upon graduation. 
Lucey 
ME 213 
Nuclear . Energy·~~ 
02 MWF 
seq. 740100,;~, 

.DESCRIPTION: There are no prerequisites· for ME 213, and two grading •·v~ ,;cales ilre used, one for arts and letters and business majors, and one for science" ,ind Pngineering majors. Goal of the course is to survey the many uses and ap-·~:,r· plications of nuclear energy on a level only sufficiently technical to build a "· CJr1wrc1I understanding. Several films are used, and a trip to the Donald C. Cook ."v nuclear plilnl is il regularly.planned part of the course. -_J 
READINGS: Class notes, Atomic Energy Commissions Understanding the•;,' Atom Series (free), and Samuel Glasstone's Sourcebook on Atomic Energy ·.c; (S10). " 1 
STUDENT WORK: 2-3onehourtests, l0pageterm paper. 
COMMENT: Nuclear energy is a highly informativecourse which should be of pilrticular interest to the non-technical student, as well as to the technical. Dr. Lucev 's milnner is easy-going and his knowledge and personal insights are quite. • ..
1 inleresting. :Oiscussion of controversial environmental aspects is factual and ~•''•~ 1111\>iased. Work load of the course is comparatively light, personal value of the course can be great. · ·• 
....--,_'! 
J '"ii 
,. .. ·n; 
-_.... " 

Ackert ME 240 Graphic Communic:o-; 01MWF3 seq. 740501 :•~~ 03MWF5· seq. -740502. 9 .. 
DESCRIPTION: Graphical Communications with Professor Ac;kert is a -=,,•• course designed to teach the basic techniques of sketching and mechanical·,.=,-. drafting.· The equipment needed for this course are a 30-60-90 and a 45-45-90 :··. triangl'c, ilSSorted pencil leads, and one good eraser. Although the course is not ... o sC'emingly difficult, it does require a degree of skill, neatness, and imagination. The first 10 weeks are spent in class learning the drawing skills. All work is done in clilss! ! ! The last 4 weeks are spent applying these reamed techinques to a ~.;~ design project (,t weeks is plenty of time) which is turned in before the last class period. 
. READINGS: nasic Graphics, Robert Hammond. Price S9.50. STUDENT WORK: Test (about 2 or 3) are given at random and cover only,,_,,:; ClilSS lllilterial. _••::1 
COMMENT: If you show up for class like you should, you will find.the tests,:.:-t.., quilc elementary. On the whole, the class is very enjoyable and run in a· very:<~" informill manner. · 
Decicco 
ME 440 Environ Syn I 11 MWF seq. 741900 

DESCRIPTION: The purpose of the course is to inrroduce rhe student to a cicneral understanding of the principles necessary to desiQn a mechanical '-YSlcm tor a building. More emphasis is placed on an understanding of how to , . fulfill lhe environmental design cirteria in a building rather than the actual Si"! computations. Although at times computations are necessary. The course for-mill is primarily lecture by Professor Decicco as well as some class days devoted to touring local mechanical plants and facilities for a visual ap-. •·· precialion of the size of machinery and the systems layout. The course is·,··• required for Architecture Majors and has no prerequisites. , • ., 
READINGS: Mechanical and Electrical Equipment for Buildings, William J. ',,·, McGuinness and Benjamin Stein; Fifth Edition, $20.00. . 
STUDENT WORK: Schedule varies throughout semester, generally two or .. ~, three exams. There are also other assignments at times during the semester in . "" particular on mechanical systems data. The length of assignments vary from-:,' short to somewhat involved and comprehensive. • ' : 
COMMENT: Professor Decicco appears consistently for class. His lectures , ·,l. are not extremely technically orientated, but he does strive to ensure that each·'"·-,,,•. student understands the material. He is easily accesslble for outside con-·,.:·,·, su1tation an assistance, but to.insure a meeting, an appointment Should be made :·, in advance. The readings in most cases supplement the lectures. The workload -., , " . of the course is average. For students outsi~e the engineering college and non-..-,, ·, architecture majors, the course is not highly recommended. 
55 . 
:-l 
..'·-

Cullity Met 36S Mech Porp of ·Eng Mats

·che nii cal 
·-10_1T12V'S~(· .. : · _ ·. ·. · seq. 763000 
·-: ·-.L. 
Cheg 250 ·ut ·of ·chem Eng 03M 
~eq. 751400 
DESCRIPTION: The purpose of this one credit course is to familiarize the ..j~;acnt wilh the location of the literature of ~rial engineering and cJ1cniistry. There is one lecture a week, with frequent guest lecturers from-the 

· .;-1;·gincering c'lnd science library staffs. This is a completely open course--it is not re"quircd for anyone, not restricted to anyone, and there are no prerequisites. . . , READINGS: The,:e is no text for this course. All necessary material is.given:,\·11· in class. 
-°STUDENT WORK: The final grade is based,on a final exam and a semester pr~iect consisting of a set of library problems designed to give actual experience i~;o,e use of the literatureof chemical engineering. -. . . 
··coMMENT: For those who have one hour a week to throw away, here'a <10tdcn oppor.tur,ity. For one credit, you can spend 14 hours listening to someone · oc'scribe t),e layout of the engineering library, ptus 6 hours in.the science library paging through Chemi~al Abstracts. Or, for no credit, you can spend a grand total of one hour in the library and-+eeeEM yourself the same material. 


·-metall_urgic~l nd 

Fiore Met 225 Build Mat and Tech 08TT9 seq. 762400 
OESCR t PTION: This is a lecture demonstration course •for architecture 

,tud<'nts and non-engineering students interested in metallic, ceramic and 
pot{m,•ric building materials. The course establishes a classification system for 
.111 111,,rcrials, relates their properties to micro and macrostructure, and shows 
ho\v·111eir behavior may be controlled through appropriate processing. -,Dt. f=iore•~ lectures are very well prepared and hold the interest of the ,rudents. His classroom demonstrations and visual-aids give.the lectures an ,1ddcd qualily missing in a straight lecture course. A few field trips and about 111rce guest lectures also help to break the regular class routine. Even though the 'class· is comparatively large (60 students) questions and discussion are r•ncouraged. · ·. READINGS: No official textbook is used but the architectural students are ,·ncouraged · to buy Construction Lending Guide (S15.00). 
. STU DENT WORK: There are a random number of pop quizzes, two tests and ., final c·xam. The ·,est questions require the student to demonstrate an un­clcr$1anding of. the principles presented in the lectures. The questions are 1,,rgely essay, involving the use of matter in real-world situat.ions. The pop qui.zzes arc ·rather straight forward and used prim.arily _to keep attendance records. The grading policy foilows a curve which is set up to give a distribution ,11 qrades wilh an average grade .,hoi,1 B-. · · 
COMMENTS: This course is a requirement for architecture students but is I.iught at a level where anyone interested in materials can ta_ke witt:iout any rrs~rvalions. The background knowledge necessary for the course only entails a h,1sic understanding of high school ~1~:1-111 and chemistry. The ·course· is· well n Arts and Letters or Business student Who wants a course in some useful techn ,,l0C1icat field without the cumbersome load of any high-powered mathematics or -.cicnlific principles. . . ' ' ' ' · 
'.
' 
. if 
•· . 
., 

DESCRlPT ION: This.course is intended to provide the engineering student 
wifh ,111 11ndcrslc1nding of the relationships between the structure of metals and 
1111' r<'sponse of metals lo forces of loads..The cour~e-is roughly divided into two 
p,1rIs. The first considers matallurgic~l.f.undamentals such as crystal systesm, 
di..,location' theory, deformation mechanisms,· etc. The second part consists. 
chil'flY in i'lpplying fhese f_undamentals to materials testing with an emphasis on 
how 11wt;illurgicc1I variables affect the results of these tests and how test results 
rl'l,1Ic to service performance.·-' Met. 225 provides a move than sufficient 
11,,ckground tor the material presentecf in this course: 
Ttiis is., lecture course·but classes are usually quite small and questions and 
discussion ,,re· c-ncouraged. 
REI\DINGS: •The text is Machanical Metallurgy by George Dieter which costs 
S17.50.. In' ilddition ·a pamphlet,. "How Components Fail", costing S1.25 is 
r«'QUirC'cf.. . ,' 
STUDENT WOR IC: These are two class tests and a final. The tests are not the 
1; picaI plug in models generally encountered by engineering 'students. Rather, 
1111'\ consist ot several qualitative, descriptive questions. The emphasis is put on 
lhc uncfcrstanding of concepts rather than memori,z~tion of facts and equations. 
11. 11rc-c11 ctcal of material is covered in the course, but the exams are very ..Iraiqht torward and fairly general. Grading policies follow the old University curvc-ilncf ,,re somewhat inflexible:· " . ' 
COMMENT: or~ Cullity has an excellent knowledge and understanding of the m,ll<'ri;il prcsenlcd in this course and this is reflected in his clear, well organi_zed I,,c111r<'s.· The value of this course lies in its practicality. The information 
·pr-csentc-d is not obscured.by a flurry of mathematics, while at the same time, it i,; vrry useful, ii ,iot vital; to any engineer who must spceify or: work with load­h1'.1ri119 materials in cithe~ static or dynamic load applic_ations. 
Cullity i..J\et ;415 Consum Mats and Pro Liab. 09TT11 seq. 763400 
. DESCRIPTION: This Is a lecture-dell}onstration course emphasizing m,1ti•rial properties, fabrication methods and causes of failure most frequently involved in cases ot product liability._The course furnishes the law and business -..fucfenl with a vocabulary of words;and more• importantly, a vocabulary of ic!<',"lS that will enable him to interact more effectively with ·engineering con­,ull.inls. expert witnesses, ·and·manufactu.ring personnel. . 
Dr~ Cullity's lectures are very straight-forward emphasizing the practical ,1spcc1s ol lhe course material. His lectures in conjugation with the laboratory ch•monslralions present the.basic engineering concepts in a clear matter. Since 1111' class is quit'c small, questi,ms and discussion areencouraged. 
READINGS: ·There is no formal-textbook but short readings are assigned Iro111 outside sources. _ 
STUDENT WORK: Tliere are two tests and a final. The tests are taken clirccll"v from the lectures and require a complete,understanding of tl;le concepts presented· in class. The.-questions. are of. an essay nature and· require no 111.1them.ilical solutions or manipulations. The grading policy follows the old UnivPrSity curve very close1·,. . , . . 
· COMMENT: The course content is a fresh and.novel change from the required husiness ,ind iaw courses, thereby promoting a lot of inter.est and questions ,111111nq 111c students. Dr. Cullity assumes zero science background but has the ,1hilit/1.o,p,rcsent the 1ilaterial at the right te~nical level for his students. The course is:cxcellent for one who wants to know how things work and often enough ti'lil. ll~gives tt,e bu~iness maior a_n in_siSiJht,}.nto manufacturing problems. and .•,,I<'Q11ards. whlle giving the lawyer .an .und~rstanding of materials which is ,11•<'drctto.work in the field of product liability.~~• -_ _ _ 
;:::½qf, 
... _. ivu:: '"·: 
,;:,:) D:11> 'F ... ~~ l_Gtns:-:. ­, .•; ~ l!l;>;.;:: 
~-r:c ·noi!;,t .:.:::,:le~,~. 
~-,·iJ~: .92~u.-_ ~9t~uur, :~: r!liw .br.: 
. _.:-;-:~ri?9l !:If!.. 
;-1,l'i~ZS'I ~'•. . r;; Z6rl 9;:; . 

.· ~r;.~-+ .... -: "'N'{nG 2,~:-~ ·
:: -~ 

.... \..::::-;,,, :: -;: .....~ ...-=.....• .: ~ •.,.·: ·-·-~_. ~rlt _o:,u;, ­
.,.. .:.:::"'":'• f. "'~ ·•" •. : :. .. . f~ 19_ni6:~,__ ­
.. 

·_.....;j . ..:_, .. ~~.,_: .·:; --~.~ --~ · ; ,_,,:;m 2i '"!')r:• ..,·,nuo:> zi r· 
·Science biology\:, ::11d. 
.:.: I•' 

-Tihen Biol 405 .. E~olution 11 MWF seq. 603460 
DESCRIPTION: ·The first part of the cours.e deals with the basic mechanisms ,,1 ,·vo!ution ,ind their interactions to produce .changes in a population. Next a di.;cussion ol lhe wc1ys in which these changes.car, lead to diversificatio~. After lhi-. h,1ckground, lhere is a discussion of the evolutionary aspects of develop: n1,·nt ,1cl,1pl.1tion, etc. Finally a brief review of,major 'historical evolutionary ,·vmts \\'._ilh emphasis on the evolution of-vertebrates and man. -This course is ,,p.-11 10 ,111 and haveing had General Biology 201 would help.' There are three 1­hnur lrcturcs ·,md no lab. · ' 
REJ\DINGS: The main text in 1973 will probably be: Evolution: Concepts and Consequences, by Lawrence_ s. Dillon. This may be supplemented by an ,1clcliti.111,1t paperback or by appropriate outside readings. 1 
• 
STUDENT WORK: Normally there would be 2or 3 tests during the term plus ,1 1in,11. Onr very short outside paper myay be required.· C"OMM'ENT: Dr. Tihen is ge~erally not reputed to be the world's most en­
t,•rl,1i11inq tcclurer, but his knowledge of the subject mater!al ,makes the course .1 ,, 11r1i1whilc •'xperience. He is always willing to field any questions_which might .,ri.;,,. Dr. Tihen spends class ti'!le efficiently and textbook material will not n,,rm,111·, ll<' covered during'the lecture. The tests are quite fair and extre_mely ,•hjrclivr. Anv non-biologist with sufficient background will not be overwhelmed J\\ 1/11' course's content. A year of general biology will normally suffice as pn•n-quisill' tor the course and a background in genetics might also be useful. 

McIntosh  -Biol 412  General Ecology  
11  MWF  seq. 604160  
• ~ <  •  
DESCRIPTION:  A  study of organisms  and their  relation  to  their  e~­ 

viro11irn·111, including concepts pertaininq to populations, communjties, and ,•co,;v,;trm'-. Aoolied ecology is also taught. Using a habitat approach. students will consider fresh-water, marine and terrestrial systems. Although this course ;.; ,,pen 10 .,11 students, the student should h~ve a b1;1sic understanding olhiology. fhrre one hour lectures and one three hour lab per week. Labs include intere­
-.Jinq tield trips to the sand dunes, Warrren Woods and a bog. · READINGS: Indefinite at this 1inw. STUDENT WORK: Two hour e~ams and a final, all essay type questions. 3-4 
1,1b rl'ports will be rurned in throughout the year. Outside readings are assigned. · COMMENT: Ecology is a topic of current interest and well it should be. L,·ct ure,; ,111d lab should leave the student with a good knowledge of the functions 
,ind complexities of our world._ Labs are interesting. Despite a bland lecture ·-t·,h', Dr. McIntosh is i:me of the most knowledgeable persons in his field: The rt',1din9s .1rc helpful in understan<;ling the lecture material. Again, this course is ,,pen lo ,,11. 
Cassidy Biol ·so7 ·1 Dvlpmentl Cytology 
11 TT 1f:: seq. 604760 

DESCRIPTION: An c1nalysis ~f developmenr rracing intercellular and nucleo-­cvtoplasmic interrelationships during oo~~n.esis and e~rly embryogenesi~. Also covered ilre: stereologic principles, 3-dimensional reconstruction _ of ullrastructure. rationale and research applications of correlated cytochem1cal n'ilCtions during cell cycles. Three one hour lectures and a threee hour la~ per. 
\\'t'ek. READINGS: Oogenesis, 1972; Origin and Continuity of Cell Organell~s, 1971; Fertilization 1& 11, 1967, 1969; Develop~ental Asp~~ts of the Cell Cy~l_e. _ s, u oEr,fr·woR K·: Quizzes are trequent, written or oral, at the start of the. , class. Students give one class presentation on a topic of their own choice and qive., 15 min. report to the class on their research problem. COMMENT: Although a 500-level course, this subject is designed to meet the_­,11,cds 0 1 interested advanced undergradu_ate~•.Twelve _to. fifteen..students..ace \IS\lilll'{ t•11roilcd ~1llow11\\J tor Close contact with the prof. The laboratory section i-. vrrv important as ii is here that all the techniques are applied. Each student ,lt'votrs much of the lab lime to a private research project chosen by the student ilim,;elf. The student enrolled in this course ~as the opportunity to work,with one 11 the most likeable and friendly teachers c1nywhere. The persona~ knowledge ~aincd though, is a function of ho\V much the stud~nt teaches himself. Fr. c,issidy is present as a clarifier and explainer and his lectures are often ra~­:,lin!-'I: Personal conversation with Father is much more helpful. Students 1n­erc'stect in this area should not pass up this course. 
Morgan _Bio( 101 Survey of Biology08 MWF _,: ·: :·: seq. 600160 
. . 

DESCRIPTION: This is a basic biology course pr.esenting the concepts and 
processes of biology in relation to human health and survival. This cotlrse also 
,tressses scientific thinking and application of principles to new situations. • 
Biology 101 is organized around the concept of et}'ergy flow and stresses celfto:; 
,,rganism levels of organization. This class ha9'no prerequisites and is open to 
,1 nv non biology major in the university. This class is comprised of three 1-hour 
h'ctures per week. . 
READ! NGS: The texts for this class have yet to be dtermined but last year's 
IPXI cost .ipprox. S14. ' 
STUDENT WORK: There are 3 one hour tests {60 percent) and a final (40 
p.-rcent >. The tests are all objective. Each hour test covers the new materi'at 
prPvious to ·it and the inal is cumulative. -. · 
COMMENT: This is a very general courseand Prof. Morgan does a very good ' 
ioh in covering a wide range of material. The student Should try to attend tile~ 
lt'clures .is the tests are pulled mainly from lecture material. The student must 
n'illize that this is a survy course and the amount of materi~I covered preven~a' 
ll•'1'p inspection of any one topic. Prof. Morgan tries hald to keep the student 
interestccf ,ind hoeps that ezch student will find something of per~nal value: · 
F,1r ,111 YOU non-biology science majors, this is an easy course. •Fpr'anyone else> 
urt1in9 ,, Bqrade requires a good understnding of the lecture material. . . -· 
! .. ~ ... 

Thorson-McGrath Biol 201 · General Biology_ Various times 
DESCRIPTION: Introduction to living organisms, with emphasis or •­
hiologicc1I principles and processes. This is a two semester course. PrerequisifE . 
i~ Chemistry 115-116. Threeone hour lectures and hone three hour lab per week.,, 
r,ucst lecturers from biology department faculty appear both semesters. Living • 
n1,1frrial:slides and experimental material areobserved and used in lab. ., ,. :-~~ 
--R EAOI_NGS; t\iology Today is the text at a cost of Sl-4.9S I .:.. . ~ 
STUDENT WORK: Three tests (40 percent of grade); lab quizzes weekly and · 
h,1nd ins (30 percent} and final (30 percent}. Tests are cumulative emphasizing· . ­
i11,, most recently covered material. ,•·­
COMMENT: H_c1rd wor,.k is encouraged in this course. Or. Thorson is a good: ,1i1c1 dem,,nding lecturer. arid the guest speakers add variety, differnt viewpoint~. -r1n ct personal expertise to this part of the course. The labs are good and improve 
•'very vear. A side range of topics,including genetics, physiology reproduction... pl.1nts ,ind .1natomy are ~onsidered. After this course tl]e student should have a'.~ tinn gr~sp of the basics of Biology and should do wen otli the MCAT's. The tests_ .ire tricky a~d sometimes ambiguous and require to a certain extent.. , n11'morirntion of the text. The professor has NO favorites. If a student ap: . proaches Dr: Thorson with a question concerning exams or a disagreement ,•• ,,houl an ilnswer. they Should be ready for a rough time. 
Billy Ruben Biol 2_69 
Human Bodily Functions .-. 12 MWF seq. 666666 -· 

DESCRIPTION: Just as the title implies, this course will cover the ten bodily··:::· 
tunclions, with emphasis on excretion and reproduction. Prerequisites are, . 
GPnrral Biology and enrollment in the University. There will be three one-hour .. 
h•clurcs ili1d an integrated lavatory that meets right after lunch. 
READINGS: There are three texts required: Excretions I Have Known. E •. _.· 
C"oli. Reproduction, Ways and Mea9s, A.S. Smith, and The Body, Jack Lalanne. 
STUDENT WORK: There will be three one-hour tests, each rovering one oL -, 
Ille above texts ~nd a Marvel c;mic book (60 per~e~fl-The final will c~ver the-··, 
•unction ol the student's choice (30 percent>. There will be one lavatory quiz per. •. • 
11w<'lin9 { 10 percent) and the papers will be collected. . •, :•. 
COMMENT: Dr. Ruben is one of the most elusive and incoherent teachers 
111,,t you will ever have the displeasure of meeting. Abnormal bodilY.c!c;!.i.~s •. 
will be ignored,,but the student is encouraged to use his creativity· in tavator,h 
prrform,,nce. No c1ttendance is taken, but students who fail to show up for more 
th,111 ., few consecutive classses may find it hard to pass. This course is 
rrcomnwnded for all students striving to earn a B.S. degree. 
Twedell Biol 301 Fund of Embryology 10 TT 12 seq. 602160 
DESCRIPTION: This course will study and sicusss such topics of general ,·mhrvology as early development, principles and mechanisms of early dif­h'rnliation•. reproductive physiology, coordinators of reproduction and dNelo-pnwnt. and organogenesis. Prerequisite is General Biology 201. Two t-hour lrctures c1nd two 2-hour labs. :c--.: 
READINGS: The books used in this course are: Foundations of Embryology (Piltton, Interacting Systems in Development (Ebert & Sussex 2nd. ed. 1970). For. lab: Laboratory Studies of Chck, Pig and Frog Embryos (Watter.son & 

·swreny) and Embryology Manual (Twedell). · 
. STUDENT WORK: Three 1-hour practical exams (30 percent), three ~-hour • ii~vritten exams (30 percent) short quizzes (5 percent) embryological te:hnique ;-..{10 percent) final (25-30 perc_ent). The practical exams are not cumulat1_ve. t~e .'t,,nuen exams cover the period between then and the last thest, the final is,. 
cumulative. . -~!:• · COMMENT: This is a fast·-paced course with a more than average reading 
~•'.foad. Or. Twedell's lectures are also tast paced and many students tape hi~ I··:';\:~ctures. His rectur e style is quite effective and thorough with emphasis C\n :l"·,-ocrn11. 111e terminology often seems excessive. Dr. TwedelL pc-rsonally "'"C...upervises all his labs. Although there are two lab sections, it is often IH'CeSSilP{ S"',10 soend extra time in the lab. The lab practicals are difficult and the material, t-..., '.i\'hi~h arc primarily microscopic studies, must be known in detail. Overall, this 
is an excellent course, but one requiring much time and memorization. 

,b~reene 
Biol 403 Invertebrate Biology 10 MWF seq. 603160 
DESCRIPTION: An intermediat_ecourse in which all lower animal P~Y!a are 

2i funsidered. Emphasis is upon taxonomy, morphology, natural history, 
'?:r'phys·iology and sytematic relationships of invertebrate _animals. ':urrent 
ri-:~olutionary concepts are included. The prerequisites for this class are B10I 201, 
-:.->~02or Biol 141, 1-42. There are three one hour lectures and one three hour lab. 
E-_,..., READINGS: The text will be Biology of the Invertebrates by Hickman and· 
~1£-tlie lab manual will be Invertebrates: Function and Form by Sherman and 
h;.Sherman. The total cost ofthese two books is S21.95. . 
;c:;·sTUDENT WORK: There are two midterms (25 percent each) covering in­
formation derived from both lecture (including reading) and laboratory parts of 
the course. The final exam (50 percent) will be comprehensive. · . 
COMMENT: Students taking this course generally agree that it is one of the 
best they've had. Dr. Greene is a likeable teacher whose lectures are cohesive, 
interesteing and cover the material well. The course moves along at a good pace 

I since ihere is a lot of material to cover. The.tests are fair an_d are a good in­
••~cation of what vouktlow. Labs are excellent with !ive _mate~ial cover_ing t_he 
••~cture topics. The lab studies are usually physiological mnature. Dr. Gre~Qe 
doesn't qo in for tearing something apart and Iust drawing a p1cTUreot it. Overall 

,:;:i,~is cla~s should not be missed. · -· :
.,,}J. 
chemistry .·nd 


Chem 223 Elem Org Chem 08 MWF · _seq. 641400 

-:.'OESCR IPTION: This two semester course deals witfl the fundamentals of 1-6fganic chemistry and is open to all members of the university who have taken :,Ft'cshmiln Chemistry. The class meets three days a week and the lab o~e ~f­
tcrnoon a week. The course is composed of sophomore and I~nior <lpfcprofessional and Biology majors. The usual forma\ ~as be~n weekly quizzes :-\\,ffit Jor J evening departmental tests. A final exam i$ given. There are several 
Qlc1;ts given in the lab portion of the course. . . . · . READINGS: The text used this year was Organic Chemistry by Allinger et a., price S15.00.. A copy of Morrison and Boyd's text would also be-of great help. . . , COMMENT:: Dr. Danehy will take Dr. Freeman's posi!ion as lecturer next ,·car and so the format and selection of the text may cha!lge. Dr. O.,nehy h_as hen teaching Organic Chemistry for many years and his competence and in­

Chem·23s Org Chemistry -· seq. ·641800

10 MWF. 

:,11:;r ,• · -. . 
...,,DESCRIPTION: Chemistry 235 is the first semester. ef a two semester course .J11;Qrganic 01erpistrv. -Tbe cailr.se.is.r.e:auic.ea. fQr au Chemistry maiors and is , 
• f\)!9ilable lo all students. The only prerequisite is Chem. 1,16. The presentatio~ is mainly lecture and the course is intended to cover,.in detail, the str~ctures and 
reactions of organic compounds. , ::-:,}i!.EADI NGS: _The text is a book Dr. Pasto co-authored entitl~d Fundamentals 
,ptprg_anic Chemistry. · . . STUDENT WORK: Three one-hour exams and a final ~ill be given and· d~meworkproblems will be collected on an intermittent basis. . . 
.r,1COMMENT: Dr. Pasto is a very_able lecturer and one never loses.attention. ,.~ring the class periods. The course is quite difficult from the standpoint ~f the :~wk load but if ~ne is able to get on top of the material early in the s~mester, he --~\~Uld. h~ve no problem.. Dr. Pasto breaks-away from-the traditional 

'nH'n{orization game' of organic chemistry and eng~ges in a thinking game in \~hich the lheory is presented with examples and the student is.to formulate his own c1nswers lo the problem_s .. ·r~~,co_urse is extremely thorough and always interesting. ·11 is recommended.to a~yone who has any interest in che·mistry. 
Walter Chem 329 Quant Analy~is il TT seq. 642500 
. DESCRIPTION: The course covers the following topics: Equilibrium, Solubility, Acid-Base Chemistry, Gravimetric Analysis, and basic procedures in chemical analysis. -several lectures deal with_the qualitative aspects of spec­troscopy. The course is open to all members of the university although the 111c1iorily of the class are senior preprofessional-or giolpgy majors. General Chemistry is c1 prerequisite: -­
L1'ctures t_wo days per week (Tues. and Thurs.i labs two days per week (Mon. ,lnd Wed.). . 
STUDENT WORK: Three or four tests dealing only with basic oncepts and which c1re usually not cumul_ative. A final exam is given. The questions are .;laightforward and the grading is fair. There are weekly.practice problems Ic1ken from the.text. The work load is relatively light (~or a Notre Dame Science Coursel. Although the labs will take most of the afternoon two days a week each .;tudcnt goes at his own pace and the wor:k itself is not that difficult. Prep?ration ,ind lc1b calculations will take about l hour per week outside the lab (an elec­tronic calculc1tor is provided). There are no lab reports for the first 8 weeks or ...o. Home-work problems play an important role in the learning of the material c1nd one should expect to spend sever a! hours per week on them:_ 
COMMENT: Since the course is ·taught by Fattier W,1111~1'. to a class of seniors mosl of whom already know him through applying to professional schools the ,,tmosphcre is very congenial. There is little pressure, the lectures are .;froighlforwc1rd, and ·Father usually knows each member of the class c!S an individual. The text is excellent and cont_ains much more material than covered in the course: Outlines of the lectures are presented using an overhead projector c.,_ lc1 Freshmc1n Chemistry) and several copies are found in the preprofessional 
· ,~lficc. This re'{iewer strongly recommends the lecture portion of the cou"rse to ,lll\Oncwith an interest in chemistry who does not wish the depth covered in the Chc-mistry Mc1jor course. · · 
Duncan ·chem ·335 ·organic Chemistry ·09 MTWF-seq. 643000· 
DESCRIPTION: This course, designed primarily for chemical engineers for whom ii is a requirement, is open to ·any .interested student. This is an in­
, troduction to organic chemistry, meant to cov~r )h-e basic theory without going into involved applications of the theory, such-~as •biochemistry and polymer chistry. There are nci formal prerequisites, although previous exposure to in­troductorv chemistry~ sugg_ested.. 
READINGS:·The. text used last year was Orqanic Chemistrv-~Methane to Macromolecules.by Roberts, Steward a·nd Caerio. Cost is $15.95. ·· · ·STUDENT WORK: The final grade is based on four hour tests and a final. The 
Ic-~-ts c1re of mixed format-some problems, some short essays, a' few multiple choice c1nd fill-in-the-blank. Homework does not count toward the final grade, hut is suggested for a good understi:!nding of the material. ­
COMMENT: The lectures are run in .a manner similar to Introductory 
'Chemistry (Chem 125-126), w_ith the notes·projecte~ on an overhead projector. Mimeographs of the_ notes are also handed out, ·so there's no excuse for not knowing what material is covered: · · · . 
The course is good for those who are interested in the subject, but don't want to pul in lwo Se8lCSters. The best thing about itis there is no lab associated with it. Vc1lue ·01 this course .f.or,chemical engineers.ts questionable, since .it ends before ,1nv useful material ·is covered (such ·as 'poiymers). · .· · · 
·-i•i: ... ~ . ­

Thomas· --Chem 337 Phys__ Chem life Sciences -.: 09 MWF seq. 643200 -bcs·cifi'PTION: Th~·cciurse_deals mainly wit~ t_he basic concepts in Chemical Therniodvnamics and Kineti,s and is open to all members orthe university with 1,ackgrou~d in ~eneral chemistry. 1her~ arc lectures three days per week. Three tests per semester with a final 
•'Xcl 0 1ll. The; tests ·were not cu·mulative this year. READi NGS:·1ntroductory.Physical Chemistry by Andrews, price S15.50. STUDENT WORK: Thewbrk load was moderate (much less than required for 
· organ.ic c:11cmislry). There are occasional practice problem sets·whose only real clifliculty lies in.the fact that the questions are often typed incorrectly. Many of 1hr problems and the lectures ar:e taken from the test used two years ago. 
·coMMEN·-rs·: .Dr: Thomas is a reasonable man whose only fault as a teacher mi-iy he llrnt he is ,~~ considerate of the Wh)mS of his class. Unfortunately it is ,·~S\' 10 do ·rather.'wcll without learning physical:chemistry..Th·e value of the cour-;c lies in the fact that it pres~nts the basic oncepts of physical chemistry in· 

,111 1'ilsily digestible form. The concepts·covered are of great importance t~ ,,nyone. desi~ing-to do even minimal work'.in biological scien!=eS. Some people \· ill find lhe course much more difficult'.than others. Although the present texff presc-nls il clearer explanation of Themodynamics the ·availability of the text 111,11 used lo he required often aicis in clarification of the material. 
Chem 443 lnorg ChemCurr~n 

seq. 644300
09-MWF 
DESCRIPTION: The course is a one semester survey of inorganic chemistry­hilling illl of theniqh -;pols.along the way. Emphasis is placed on the general 1n'nds which is one_is to find in the study of inorganic substances. Bonaing and 

. •.lruclure of the inorganic compounds is handled .in· depth as are the otherr pin sicill properties. . 
Course work is very reasonable. There are three hourly exams and periodic .issignments. The readings supplement the IE:ctures which--are the source of most ot the information in the course. Jhere is also afinal. 
READINGS: Inorganic Chemistry: Principles of StructurE1 and Reactivity by Huheey. 
COMMENT: This three hour course is definitely a good rounding out course for the Chem 111,1ior or concentrate. The class is usually small and Bro. Columba is very adept_at handling the group and keep_ing interest high. 



earth sciences 

Rigert EASC.351 Geostatistics 10TT12 seq. 653000 
.DESC.RIPTION: Geostatistics will be concerned with the application of 111o1lhenrnlics to geologic problems. Statistics and computer programming will 111' fought as 11iey apply to such problems. Prerequisites include Math 125 and 126 (lir Millh 105, 106 and 206), and GeoI. 141 and 142. 
COMMENT: Fr. Rigert will be joining the Earth Sciences department faculty for the first time next semester. Presently, he is finishing advanced studies in cicophysics. Because of this, the work load for the course and quality of teaching ,,re-unknown. This is the first time the course has been offered. 

Winkler 
EASC 459 Natural Resources 02 MWF seq. 654000 

DESCRIPTION: The course is designed to give the student an appreciation fo m,1i1's mvironment and an understanding of the environmental problems facing him today. Although primarily a lecture course, the lectures are frequently suppl_emenfod with slides and a few moyies. )"he course is open to anyone in• leresled. . _ 
READINGS: Earth Resources, by Brian J. Skinner. Man's Impact on En­vironment, by T.R: Detwyler. The above'are tentative and will_ be supr>le~ented with handouts of recent articles pertinent to the topics covered. 
STUDENT WORK: There will be weekly quizzes, a midterm and a final. No l<'rm paper. · · : ­
COMMENT: This course is strongly recommended for science majors and non science majors alike who are interested in acquiring an overview of today's environmental situation from a practical and geologic viewpoint. The work load i_~ ciuile reasonable, the m_aterial coyered up-to-date, the lectures inf?rmative, and the use of slides effective. Quest1ons_are encouraged. Tests are fair and not 
· too difficult for the student y.,ho has read the material and attended class. 
-, ·->
,J , •.
: ·,~.1'1 2,: :, -·,q !s11:-.,· •· ·? 2noi1:i ;n-:•·!l 't J; 
•_.· !:, ) 
_h3Gn0<.o!! ~ 
,:/:1../,f ~H,'" ,. 
\ ,io gnit1 1 
·•,-(! 9rll Z: 
,.


mathe·maties 

Chapin Math 205 Elem of Cale 111 02 ·MWF seq. 67120.0 
,, 

DESCRIPTION: This course is a one-semester extension ofMathematics 105­
106: Its purpose is to broaden the student's comprehension of what mathematics is about, and to increase the student's skills in applying mathematics to real world situations. Topics covered in this course include functions of several 
_variables, series and approximations, and various topics in statistics and algebra. ,:he classes will be lecture, with the time divided between. the presentation of material· inroduced to broaded the students' understanding of mathematics, and the working of mustrative examples. 
READINGS: Not yet determined. 
STUDENT WORK: Three tests, a final, and some quizzes (all annour(ced} determine the final grade, with homework performances entering into con­sideration to a limited extent. Professor Chapin encourages students to collaborate on homework ,1ssig11n1ents, since the purposeof these assignments is to increase the students' understanding oft~~ subject material. 
COMMENT: This course is required for Arts and Letters pre-meds and is open to anyone who has completed the Mathematics 105-106 sequence. -This course is recommended for any business or economics student; they will learn basic mathematic techniques of analysis which will be invaluable to them:for 
.making predictions in the business world. Professor Chapin does not enfor~'e a rigorous class-cut policy, but the course relies heavily on class notes rather than a text, so attendance is encouraged. Chapin's courses tend to move rapialy,and cover quite a bit of material, but Chapin usually employs a very generous grading policy. 
Goodhue Math 211 Comp Prog I 09TTll seq. 6713.()0 
DESCRIPTION: This is an introductory course in computer programming. This semester, Fortran IV time sharing was USE1d, and next semester it will ,•ilher be Fortran or PL1. In any C"ase, the student will learn how to program by ctoing problems which are practic~I applications of the theory taught in class. There ore no prerequisites for th~ course. 
READINGS: If PLl is used, one of the texts will be Elementary Computer Applications by Barrodale, Roberts, and Ehle (SS.95}. The other is not kno~~ ~t this tim<'. For Fortran, the Barrodale book will be used along with Computer Programming: Techniques, Analysis and Mathematics by Andree, Andreww ,1nd Andreww. . 
STUDENT WORK: The classroom lectures are the basis of the course. H0mcwork, ossigned once a week, comes out of the material taught in class ~.d ii is by doing the homework that the programming principles are learned. Ther,e ,,re iwo tests and a final plus a term project due at the end ofthe semester. , ,, 
COMMENT: Professor Goodhue emphasizes that no higher mathematics.;s needed to take the course. It is a very interesting course for anyone interested.in the computer and the teacher makes it well worth your while. The lectures-ar.e lively ilnd all-in-all it is a very enjoyable course. ·1 
.·, 

Vuckovic Math 235 Cale 11 Enrich· 10 MWF seq. 671800­
DESCRIPTION: This course will cover the same topics as Mathematics !2.S.,· hut will place increased emphasis on theory and proofs. The course is intendect· 
• ilS il medium between the problem solving of Math 225 and the rigorous theory of Millh 265. 11 is not designed for any specific major, but is rather for the student interested in both the problem solving and the theorietical aspects of Calct11us,• ,ind desiring a course somewhat more challenging than Math 225. Most of'the students, in the course are physics or engine~ring majors, or math ·con• 
) • l• •et

centrators. , READINGS: Calculus and Analytic Geometry by Thomas , -·~•,: STUDENT WORK: Ttiere will be two or three tests during the semester a_rong, 
with a final. Homework will be assigned regularly, and ~ay be considered>i!iN, c,radinq factor in borderline cases. ·· c 
COMMENTS: Students who experienced difficulty in Math 126 r ,ath?t~ls· ..,hould not take this _course.· However, any student wlio des(res a :.1rei'.lter' tm­dC'rstanding of the theories of mathematics, and found himself doing weH'1m 
. A,·,.,11, 126;.or who wishes to continuet the sequnce that he began in Math 136-~~ find this course very worthwhile. Many students find that the increasect1etn­phasis placed on theory here leads them to a much better unc!erstanding ii"! their tulure science ilnd engineering cpurses. And for any non-math major wbo ~ a 
-59_ 
true interest ·in mathematics beyond the simple U!v.e,, this opportunity to study rigorous mathematics under Professor Vuckovic is one which should not be missed. 
Matsushima Math 265 Hon Cale I11 1 10 MWF seq. 672200 

COMMENT: In the classroom,,Dr..; Nagano is an interesting person but very reserved and softspoken. However: ne•is very happy to spend lengthy amounts 01 timr helping and talking with· stoaents on an individual basis during office hours when he is discovered to reallYbe quite personal. His further concern for the ,;tudent is shown in his flexible (and peculiarly democratic) scheduling of tC'sts to tit test schedules of other classes. 
If \our interest rests in the structures underlying the study of differential ,,qu;itions, look no· further; however, if you are mainly interested in thoroughly understilnding how to solve differential equations, Math 325. is your better choice. 
DESCRIPTION: This course is open to any student with the prerequisite of Vlath 136, 164 or 166. Professor Matsushima suggests that students take a linear algebra course concurrently. Honors Calculus 3is required for Math majors. As professor Matsushima explains, the goal of this course is "a natural and necessary extension of the calculus of one variable to several variables." The presentation will be the usual math-le.cture method with the professor following :,;s own outline and referring to the book. 
READINGS: The text will probably be Calculus of Vector Functions, third edition, Williamson, Crowell and Trotter (Sl4). This is subject to change, however, as Professor Matsushima has not yet decided for certain. 
STUDENT WORK: There will be two hour-exams and a final exam. Homework will not be weighted heavily, but will be taken into account in bor­derline cases. 
COMMENT: Don't kid yourself. If you are not serious about math, this course isn't for you." Even if you breezed your way through Calculus 1and 2 because you 11,,d it in high school, this course will challenge you. Professor Matsushima is 0ne of tbe finesLrn~thernaticians on campus, so the presentation will be ex­cellent. The homework problems wilfdetihffefy require more time than Calculus 1;ind 2. However, Honors Calculus 3 will give you a perspective on calculus in 
relation to other areas of mathematics. 
Huckleberry Math 323 Probabi I ity c.. 11 MWF seq. 672600 

Smyth  Math 437 03 MWF  Topics in Geometry seq. 674000  
DESCRIPTION:  This  course ·will  be  ,;tudv  of -the  three-dimensional  

Euclidean. Hyperbolic and· Elliptic (Projective) spaces. Each'of these spaces hi1S a nc1tural distance function, and maps which preserve distances are called isometrics. Specifically, the course will deal with the classification of 111_c_i~Q!]._1C'lriesof the above spaces and with the peoperties of the groups of these . i_s_o111£Jrif!s. Thus amonc:i other things, it is a mixture of linear: algebra, analysis, ,1nd qroup theory. The course is open to all junior and senior Math·maiors and 
concentrators. 
READINGS: There is no textbook. 

STU DENT WORK: The usual homework, two tests and a final will count tow;ird the final grade. COMMENT: Dr. Smyth is clear and concise in his lectures, for he is always 
roncerneci fhM rii!,""~futients understand the material being presented. He is easy ,•c1sy to talk to and always available to any of his students. Dr. Smyth is en­thusic1stic r1bout teaching the course, and, while it does fulfill an elective requirement, he hopes that the student will bring his own interest and willingness to work to the class. 
DESCRIPTION: The course introduces the student to the concepts of Random Variables, Conditional Probability, Independence, Generating Functions, Distributions, and Integrating Density Functions as covered in the first nine chapers of Dwass. Dr. Huckleberry uses a lecture format combined with a seemingly constant availability for consultation. At least one full year of calculus is a necessary prerequisite. · 
READINGS: The text is Probability and Statistics by Dwass, S14.95, and is also used in Dr. Huckleberi:y's spring semester Statistics course. 
STUDENT WORK: Dr. Huckleberry presents the student with the bulk of the responsibility to maintain a homewtirk notebook. There are several out-of-class exams taking equal weight with the homework. 
COMMENT: Dr. Huckleberry has mentioned that if there is any change in the philosophy of the course, it is that the course will be directed more toward ability to do the problems. The course is valuable to those interested in Probability Theory in general and especially to those interested in the actuarial field. Dr. Huckleberry will offer a course in Statistics in the spring semester to which this course serves as an introduction. ,0 But, Dr. Huckleberry has said, for those students interested in Mathematics, Dr. Otter's Probability course could also serve as the introduction. 
Dr. Huckleberry is a professor who can treat the course so that both majors and non-majors can enjoy and appreciate the subject. He is, in the best sense, a both-feet-on-the.ground professor; who communicates his own thrill with the subject. 

Pollak Math 461 Alg and Anal Num Th 02 MWF s~q. 674300 
D ESCR I PTION: 1 he purpose of this course is to form an introduction to the discipline of number theory. Both algebraic0 and analytic methods will be studied. Highlights will include the· theory of quadratic forms up to the Hasse­Minkowski theorem over the rationals and Dirichlet's theorem on primes in c1rithmetic progressions. If time permits, the basic results in the theory of ,1l9ebrc1ic numbers will be developed. 
READINGS: The lectures will be based upon two texts: P. Samuel's Theory of Algebraic Numbers and J.P. Serre's Course in Arithmetic. The only editions ,wc1ilable of both are in French but.are presumably to be translated into English this summer. Incidentally, the French versions are in paperback form. 
STUDENT WORK: The required work and grade determination will be -;imilar lo lheolher major's courses in that homework will be assigned regularly ,ind two to four in class tests and a final are to be given to decide the semester 
qrade. COMMENT: This course ~hould serve as a fine step into number theory. It is designed primarily as a senior elective for math majors and ~o-isexpected to be quite rigorous and highly theoretical. Because Dr. Pollak lectures in a solid and direct mr1nner, it is believed that h·e will give a sound presentation of the ab­,;tract lllillerial embodied by ·,he discipline here outlined. 
Hon Anal I Math 0.463" __.-Porbability
Nagano Math 365 Otter 
seq. 673500 01 MWFf,,,>~--,' _seq. 674500
.10 MWF 

DESCRIPTION: The first semester of this two-semester sequence involves DESCRfPTION: This is not a cook~Otk-Course. Math 463 emphasizes the the study of ordinary differential equations. Although many methods of solving '"why" as well as the "how to" of probabilffy. Dr. Otter will cover essentially the ·differential equations are covered af the outset of the course, emphasis quickly same topics as Mafti 323 (prob.ability spaces, random variables, independence, shifts to theorems of .existence and uniqueness of solutions for general dif-·.Iaws of large numbers. approximations, confidence levels, and so forth) but in a ferential equations given varied types of initial conditions. Also covered are more rigorous manner. Dr. Ottter will also treat measure theory and Lebesgue boundar·y value problems, including discussion of the application of the Green's : i~tegration (probably during the second semester). Math 366, while not exactly function: Laplace transforms are not expected to be studied in this course. __ a prerequisite, is a good course to have had in preparation, although Dr. Otter Because this is a math major's course, Math 266 is the normal prerequisite. ·does feel that a good student willing to work should be able to do well in this 
· READING: The only text used this year for the first semester was Brauer and · course without having had Math -3~. Nohel's Ordinary Differential Equations.· However, Dr. Nagano has wisely -~ "'~READINGS:' Dr. Otter isn't sure what book he will use although he thinks decided to change to a new text ifa satisfactory one is available. Flier's Introduction to Probability Theory Volume 1 is a good book for the first 
STUDENT WORK: The amount of work involved in this course is left largely · ts~mester and Krickeberg's Probabiljff.. Theory is a good book for the second 
1 

up to the student. Weekly assignments giyen this year averaged in length from .;-_ -'~emester. ·, ,r ::~: ~--• • 2-5 hours which, along with 2 or 3 one-hour exams and a non-comprehensive·,..,_,,-STUDENT WORK: In addition. tcLw.e)ikly homework assignments, there will final, determined the final grade. In conclusion, the work load is typical of that hr ,.,,.· ,e~ts · and a final. Eacti te~t,,fi1t~~obably have two parts--one part done, of any 111ath major's course. ciuring the class hour and the oth~r,._Pffi°!ia closed book take ~me, of about an 
hour in length, due th,e next claS!?,,:Je111~;!=~ver both the theory ~definit~6ns and theorems) c1nd pra~trcal probl!!':"fr.r 10 r.;;. · 
4 
,";, 
.i!coMMENT: If you want a good ·theoretical probability cour!-&, this is the course to take. Dr. Otter is a good lecturer and his tests deman~ Knowledge of · [!le theory as well as the techniques. Virtually everything important is covered o·n the tests--which is why the tests are two hours long. If, on the other hand, you
~-S. ' -. . . 
· don t care for theory and you.would rather have a course that ju~t teaches you 1;"'! tp do.the pr:pblems, you should take Math 323 but you should bP. forewarned 
• :i.i'at Math 323 is not entirely devoid of theory either-. 
·f 
~j 
{1
JA
..,, 
•~Benham Math 465 Complex Analysis o-;..J 11 MWF seq. 674700
·J 
!J 
] DESCRIPTION: Dr. Benham plans to do all the standard one ·, variable-:_'c:omplex analysis first semester and Riemann surfaces second sem­. ster. Topics to be covered first semester include analytic (i.e. complex dif­,· ferentiable) functions, power series, complex integration and applcations : (applications to number theory, for example). Dr. Benham wants to model thP
.,,. . 
course on the sophomore analvsis course--you do the analysis and applications ··first semester and generalize your results to surfaces the second semester. In ·' this case, the surfaces involved will be Riemann surfaces which are a type of .: complex manifolds. < READINGS: Dr. Benham isn't._ure \oet which book he will use first semester, but he thinks he will proqably know by registration time. ' 'sTUDENT WORK: Tl'Sting wili consist of weekly quizzes and a final. ·Hq111ework will be assigned weekly but it will not count towards the gratle. _··J=OM~ENT: There are some amazing results in complex analysis--function ,ipc1l'f tic;_ c1nd bounded in the plane must ~e constant--and some toolsJl]at i;a!l be · l!s.ed to evaluate certain real definite integrals that occur in probability ancf ·pl1ysics. The material is hard, but no impossible, and the ~ourse itself is fun. 
.q 
·:-1 
;~ 
_,'.Mast Math 513 Math Methods '.i 10 MWF seq. 675600 
·-:{'./i 
tDESCR IPTION: Math 513 will consist of tensor analysis and a,discussion of -J~ijear algebra, and their applications in mechanics, electromarnetic theory, -.-:i1ci rP.lativitv. In the s~ond semefiler: JM~!h ~l4) real 9nd comi;:tex poerator.i.. · calculus on infinite dimensional spaces, the Calculus of Variations and the 
•Hllbert space will be studied ·. ip. knowledge of calcu1us 9.l)d acfl.ianced calculus (/functions of several -;~a'r_iables) is necessary ·1or·111,s course. A previous cour~Jn linear algebra, 
-)16\Vcver, is not presumed. · ­·: JDr. Mast wishes to communicate the ideasof tensors and linear algebra in this 
· •:::11urse as well as their applications in.geometry and physfcs. This idea of ap­·,:>li.cability is greatly stressed. -; ;~br. Mast intends to present the material in an informal way making the . :o}irse a sort of seminar. Within this setting, dialogue and student participation 
i"f~I be established as much as possible. In this manner, Dr. Mast hopes to ,-:tfilte a relaxed atmosphere and thus lessen the longstanding emphasis on the ·-;1i:,ade. ~ :seniors sometimes take thi!\ course· a few graduate students usually do. 
,Vittth and engineering majors mainly ni.,ke.up the class. ; -1,FEADI NGS: The book to be used is Tensor Analysis by Sokolnikoff, at a price ·_ >~S12.75. Handouts will be occasionally distributed. ; 2STUDENT WORK: Homework, sometimes demanding outside reading, will . 1!~phct'ize the applications of tensors anti linear algebra. One oral test will be 
·,1Rten at the enc1of the semester, with its length to be Ja'ter determined. .­
~ . . 
-fOMMENT: Dr. MasJ recect.edl¥.asserts.~.~J!lQ!1Strates the appl~cations ., ,~11,e subjects studies. It is'this side of the ~aterial in which the student must 
•,nore often work, in a sense, on his own--and a measure of the student's progress ,t~Jtound here. For this reason, students who_h,ay~ taken this course comment 
di_at much insight is presented. ;1nrt nr;1rtir;1l. ""':'hlP kranwledoe is 9iven. ·J,1Une liability of the co•1rse is that it does not _encourage the independent for JllUlation of questions l>v the studenrs-, , .. 
, ..: t. 







,lser 
1\1\ath 521 Part Diff Equations I .f.'', ,. seq. 676000

·1 08 MWF ·,·'))!: 
~ ,. ,,., •. f. ­
-lJ)ESCRIPTION: This is a year long course abo'ut physical problems which , ;~~uire the solution of partial differential equa~~~~ ~.nd the numerical methods :,~~f~ to so/ve these equations. The second se_m:es{~r s,f the course is listed as ,1~•1gineering 522. Both professors teach at each~~l.iss ,meeting with Dr. Haaser ~~_pdling·the mathematical theory and numeri~~1,,~~•~~•vo;1s ,ind· Dr. Szewczyk .;c_reloping the physical applications, including ~so.me current engineering 1cr9blems. The course begins with the derivation of th·e heat, Laplace and wave 0qtations which is followed by the classification of 2nd order partial differential
1 . 
-J 
c... 

l'quations and an investigation-into the classh;al methods of solution. Further 
Jopics for the year jnclude th.e solution of s_ystems of ~lgel;>i:-aic. lii:i~ar equations. ;ind eigenvalues, parabolic equations, examples of hyperbolic and ellip•i_c problems, and iterative methods. The course is open to all advanced science and c>ngineP--ing undergraduatec; and grad11,3te students. 
·READINGS: The reference ·text used is Numericai Solution of Partial Dif­ferential Equations by G.D. Smith, Oxford Univ. Press. 
STUDENT WORK: The student will be required to do regular homr assignments and a· project. Due to the nature of the course, the horn• requires working knowledge of a computer language. 
COMMENO: This course was last taught two years ago, and so modification in the material is possible. The course is especially recomm, ·1ec tor those .whose po_ssib!e field. of graduate study demands a knowleci(' 1 numerical analysis. 
mathematics smc 

Dull Math 221 Linear Alg 10 MWF seq. 882260 
DESCRIPTION: Linear Algebra is a sophomore math majors· course. The semester contains an introduction to theory of vectors, matrices, and deter­minants as applied to various disciplines: economics, physics, etc. Emphasis is .} placed on Euclidean n-space. 
READINGS: Moore, Elements of Linear Algebra and Matrix Theory, (Sl0.00). STUDENT WORK: There is daily homework; three hour-long tests; and a final exam. 
COMMENT: Dr. Martin Dull will be a newaddition to the Saint Mary's faculty in September, 1973. Dr. Dull obtained his Ph.D. from the University of Notre Dame. He comes to Saint Mary's from the University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh·, Pennsylvania. 
Prullage Math 281 Math Prob in Scienc 09 Tu seq. 88266< 
DESCRIPTION: Math 281 is designed as an extra hour course in cont.unction with Math 331. Only chemistry and physics majors are required to take it_. Subjects covered will be matrices, vectors and vector calculus. Any student registering for Math 281 must also enroll in Math 331. Math 281 is supposed to provide the science student with a background in linear algebra. This course will be presented in a lecture format. 
READINGS: No text has been picked for Math 281 yet• STUDENT WORK: There will be a midterm and a final. Homework assign­ments are turned in and graded. 
COMMENT: Dr. Prullage's lectures. are informal and sometimes hard to understand, but he is open to questions and will work out any difficult problems in class. He encourages extra help sessions for the class or for any student with individual problems. 
,.

. · Jeglic Math 302 ~ Math for EJty Tead 
' 
10TT12 seq. 883260 

DESCRIPTION: Foundations of arithmatic and geometry. Main Concerns: 
--"why and not how, we do it." (not techniques but why) Prerequisite is one full year of freshman math. Reqµested by Education Department for Math teachers under Math Department. 
READINGS: The text is Mathematical Ideas (An Introduction) by C.D. Miller · and V.E. Heeren (S8.95). STUDENT WORK: During the regular week there will be problems from text 
·and problem sheets assigned. There will be 3 exams, one which is a take-home, and one final. Each exam will consist of SO points. Th~ take-home will consist of 5 papers during the semester in a run of 2-3 weeks. 
COMMENT: Teacher is picky. Clear lectures. Doesn't like to be interrupted but prefers to answer questions and help students during individual con­suitations. Heavy work load. Class work geared not on textbook, but on hand-out notes. In general students find the course valuable and Interesting. 
Prullage Math 331 Cale II J , 
09 MWF seq. 883660 
D!=SCRIPTION: Calculus Ill is a requirement for all math, chemistry, and physics majors. The only prerequisite is Math 132. Topics to be covered in the course include vectors in three-dimensions, vector valued functions and their derivatives,'partial derivatives, multiple integrals, infinite series, power series, fndeterminate forms and improper integrals. This course will be presented in a lecture format. ­
READINGS: The required text is The Calcul(is ,with Analytic Geometry Vol.· 
II. . 

STUDENT WORK: There will· be three exams and a final. Homework assignments will be turned in and graded. 
COMMENT: Dr. Prullage's lectures are informal and sometimes hard to understand, but he is open to questions and will work out any difficult problems in class. He encourages extra help sessions for ·the class or for any student with individual problems. 
Smith  ...  Math 341  Analysis I  
09TT11  seq. 883860  
' 
.  

DESCRIPTION: This course will aim to put the ideas learped in calculus on a sound mathematical foundation. There is a prerequisite of Calculus 111. The material will be presented through lectures and pro~!f!11 sessions. 
READINGS: Although Apostol's Math Analysis has oeen used'in the past, Dr. Smitl:i plans next year .to use Rudin's Principies of Mathematical Analysis (S9.95). 
STUDENT WORK: There will be two in class exams consisting of problems and proofs. These have no time limit. There will also be one take home exam and a final. Homeworkwill be assigned daily and any problems on these will be gone' over in the next class. 
COMM:.NT: One will find that it is necessary in this course to keep up with the daily work that is given. Dr. Smith, however, is always willing to help when problems are encountered, either through personal or group problem sessions outside of class. He is very competent in his field and is a very personable man that always has the student in mind. As one of his senior students said, "No.one should have a semester ~ithout a course taught by Dr. Smith." 
Cooney Math 353 Abst Alg I 01 MWF . seq. 8842~0 
DESCR I PT!ON: The course is an abstract development of the ideas presented in Mathematics 221 and 222. There is-emphasis on transformations and proofs. The classroom part of the course follows the text closely'. It ls hoped t_hat during 
renrNT1M:CSTE'i':i:GPiHS::ceNf~ 
the semester the sections of the text on fields, extensions, and Galois Theory will · 
be reached. ~-} tf'f> . . . ····~· .·. .' 
READINGS: Herstein,.JTopics in Algebra ($12.00). •-_: 
STUDENT WORK: There are daily homework assignments; th·ree tests, one of which is atake-home; and a final exam. It is hoped that late in the course·. students will be able to takeover the presentation of the text material. ·; 
COMMENT: Sister knows her material well and presents a rigorous, highly j abstract course. The work.load is a little greater than some of the other courses j in the department. Sister:is available, though, for help at many convenient times-~ during the week.· : , " · ,.· • '.; 
:~ 
/~
--b. 
:,~< 
Smith Cpsc 118 Intro to Comt,.. 01 MWF seq. 88626Ji 
,c 
DESC_R IPTION: With no prerequisites, the goal of this course is a general·.~ familiarity with computers and th.eir uses in society. A lecture presentation with ·. several sessions on terminals will be the format. It is not required for anyone, is-:: open to everyone with a limit of 40 students, and will count as Math credit. · · 
READINGS: Intro. to Computers and Computer Science, by Dorf, $12.00. STUDENT WORK: Two written exams (multiple choice) of no definite length,.' and a final. 3-Sprograms to be turned in. ·­
COMMENT:.This is a new course so comments are limited. But, having Dr.:· Smith before, his lectures are very ambitious--you are busy the whole time. He _, always supplies background information so you know why you're doing Whal ·· you're doing and he is ever willing to answer questions inside _as well as outside : class. 
Smith Cpsc 218 Comp Prag t 01Tu3 seq. 886860'} 
DISCUSSION: A strong interest in programming is required for this course. II _,; .will consist of concentrated programming training, with a half lecture, half lab · format. Consent of instructor is necessary for admission and Math and Science ~ 
majors will have pre~rence. It will count as Math credit.  ):  
READINGS: Manuals and handouts--SS.00. (possible lab fee, $10-25)  ,,  
STUDENT WORK: 5-8 programs, final.  5i  

COMMENTS: This course is being offered for the first time next year. In his °f : other courses·, Dr._ Smith supplies a lot of information ~nd expects it to be Iear-~; ned. He is very fair in his grading, regular in style, open to questions in class, :~ 
and ey~r-~illing to give of-his tirrie. 


physics rid ···.· · 
Tomasch Physics 345 . Atomic Pl:lysics John·son,:Haaser .. Physics 333 08 MWF seq. 693900 _ 10TT12
'
. . 
-, a. ~'-, ' --~~: ," , 
;-; 
~ 
l 
·" 

-~ ~ 
j J 
;1~ 
~ 'i 
Prog and Num Me-:~ · · seq. 69350(~ 
• -ll'~ 

DESCRIPTION: This is a r~quired cou~se in the physics maior·s sequence. At_.omic Physics attempts to familiarize the student with the early atomic views o4 matter, the wave-particle-duality of light, and wave mechanics (use of 
-. S~hro~di!lger's equ~ation to describe various atoms).-It is a standard lecture co­urse., . _ READINGS: Last year Introduction to Atomic Physics by Enge, Wehr, and Richards (S14.50) was used. . 
STUDENT WORK: There are two or ·three "quizzes" and a final: Oc­cassionallv. problems are assigned to be handed in a week later (homework 1J~ually counts in th_e final grade about as much as a quiz.} . 
COMMENT: Dr. Tomasch is a meticulous lecturer who uses the blackboard .-· '\~c-11 ;· the student has every opportunityto keeP, a com.plete set of notes. The tests stress.the lecture heavily, and usualiy one of th~ test questions is similar to_one · -of 11ieifomework problems. The dates of the tests are set by mutuafagreement of Or. Tomasch and the students; it would be a good idea to SElt the dates eariy in . the semester, so that the students will know beforehand exactly.when the tests 
: ... ,. 1:, 
are. 
:. ·. ·-DESCRi"PTION: This is a course intended to familiarize the student with the~ ~-,p~esenfcom1Juting· syste'm on c.ampus and to introduce elementary numerical ~ ;,.~tcctiriiques so tliat physics. prob_le!l}s.that can be handled on ·the computer. It is:ii .. , open lo all pfwsidmajors and;COl}~~trated of junior or senior level, but is not a_~ ., ~rcquir_ed course: The class .ses~\O!'l~ are divided into ,two parts: a lecture on~ i1:,-c ,il!)ncrical _techniques, ~nd a lectf.!!",~ ~n_computer programming (FORTRAN IV~1· ..,.. .lang~age). . .,r. f.1'.:.'.l: · · ·: 
.,,, RE_I\DINGS:. IRM System.,~~~.,r•nd Sy~tem 370 FORTRAN IV Language,:· --_ . . Elementary Numerici\1Anii1Ysis, 2nd Edition, by Conte and de Boor. -~ '' . STUDENT WORK: There_'cire'.n·o·~xams, but two or three problems (to be done i -:-•on ·1he computer) are assigned each ·week. A final term paper (25 percent of i 
grade) is due toward the end ofJhe course, and take~ the pla~e Qf the final exam.-~ 
· COMMENT: For the physics' student with little or no experience with the ~ 
computer, this course· can be extremely valuable. The lectures on numerical-~ 
techniques are detailed enough so that the student can grasp the mathematical -~ 
basis of the various methods; and the lecutres on FORTRAN progra~min9,) 
enable the student to write programsrather quickly. Both teachers are available 13 
tor consultation three-four.days a week, if needed. Problems can be worked on :4 
all night in the Keypunch Roo~.in the Math Buil~ing, if the student so desi_res; -~ 
however it is advisable to b~m-the weekly assignment as soon as possible, l 
because the computer' has·:a_ habit of breaking_:down the night before_ the~ 
problems are due. · " , } 
~ 
. Bio 205 Wild America

Bick 10 MWF seq. 812460 
DESCRIPTION: This is a survey course covering territorial segments of North America. Lectures and discussion include flora, fauna, and basic ecology ,,1 these varying areas. The aim of the course is to bring America to the student 1·hrough discussion, slides, projects and outings. the professor has traveled thoughout lhe U.S., and his interest, knowledge, and enthusiasm add much to the ,·ducat ion gained from the course. The only prerequisite is that this course, ~101 he counted as the science requirement for liberal arts majors. The course is ,,pen I~ ,myone, it is two credits, and may be taken pass-fail. 
READINGS: The readings are simple and.-,enjoyable. North with the Spring--Teale S7.95 . Wild America--Peterson $2.85 North America--Life library $6.60 
STUDENT WORK: Class attendance is required because most classes:are .;Jide programs convering different areas of th~ country. Lectures by students ,,i,;o ,1dd lo lhe enjoyment of the class. Students are required to read one·ad-:­dilionill hook on their own, as well as research some are of North America with which lhev have iln interest. From this, a research paper is required. Finally, an ,•x;iminc1tion is given ;it the end o·f the sem_i:!~ter. · · • 
COMMENT: Dr. Bick is a highly <'njovablrauthorityon ecology and America. 
His lectures and comments are stimulaing and interesting._ The course covers IHilllV arec1s of the country of which many people are unfamiliar. The readfngs.­,lrt' simple, fast. and enjoyable. Dr. Bick is available for consultation in r~ lo .;ubject ilnd course matter, and always open to ideas and inno~ations in nature rcsC'arch for the course. The work loac;I is not heavy. 
If -. ou trnve an interest in ttie land and country of ·America, in the beauty of !1illurc on this continent, in the ecology of many parts of this country, you will lind !his-course a highly rewardlng experience. 
Bick Bio 323 -.:,-Prin of Ecology and Cons OlTT seq. 815060 
D_E-SCR IPTION: rhis is ii 3credit course which is required of all SMC biology 111,1,ors. The course presents a study of the living ·envlro~ent with the em­_Phasis oii populations and communities of organisms. The class meets twice a wrek; Ihere is also a weekly three hour lab. In addition, there are five or six .rcguiw wcekeru:.t fi~9. tri.DS. ·.These are balanced by tlie fact that the weekly 
labs ,ire in mid-November.. 
READINGS: -.-Bick, G. Ecology Laboratory Exercises Billings, W.D. Plants, Man and the Ecosystem Ruch~bau,TJ, R. nasic Ecology 
· Lorens, K. King Solomon's Ring · W,11ts, M. Reading the Landscape ·STUDENT WORK: There are two tests Cone at mid-term and one towards the l'nd of lhe semester) and. a final exam: "These are obrective, multiple choice 
•~xams based almost entirly on the lecture·material. ·In _addition, there are also short lil_b quizzes given--usually once a week. Assignments consist of readings ,1nd work in the laboratory manual. One formal lab report is also assigned. 
COMMENT: This· course is both informative and enjoyable. It is differnt 
· trom other biology courses in that it allows the student to participate in actual _field work. Most students enjoyed this aspect of the course. The subject matter ·ot the course deals more with "natural h·istbry" than with the matter the title ~niglil sug~esf. Some·teel there is too rn~cftiixonomy and not enogh theory in_ 
the course. Though it involves a good sh~1rc of work, it is a highly recom­mended course. . .-'',•: :., 
• ... l ::.i. , • I~ • 

Brambel Chem. 422 Biochemistry · 
lOMWF seq. 824460 

DESCRIPTION: Biochemstitry is a one-semester, non-lab course. In­troductory Organic Chemistry· Ii is a prerequisite. A0 physica1 chemistry.cour:.e is also listed as a prerequisite but is not essential, t!'tough the student would find_ ii h~lpful. The course itself coversthe important compounds arid fhe cfiemicai reilctions cllilrilcleristic of the living systems. This course is not required by rither the chemistry or biology departments, but is strongly recommended. 
· READINGS: Lehninger, Albert I. Biochemistry S18.00 STUDENT WORK: One ho(!r exams given approximately once a month out of clilSS. COMMENT: Biochemistry with Dr. Brilmbel is an enjoyable course ·thaf doesn't seem to have the pressure involved with other courses of its type. The · lrxt though expensive is excellent. Dr. Brambel is always willing t~-go .ovpr difficulties with studetns, and encourages questio"s. 
Bambenek Chem 461 Anal lntermed Chem 08 MWF. seq. 824860 
_ DESCRIPTION: The only prerequisite is Chemistry 151. This course treats chemical equilibria. ·· The lab consists mainly of separation techniques and titrem ~tiric analysis. The course is required for chemistry majors, and recommended. but not required for biology and med. tP.ch. maiors. It is­presentect in lecture form. Gradi11g is based on 1000 points: 3 n'.,ajor exam~JOO, ­quizzes-100, final-200, lab-400. 
READINGS: Unavailable at this time. 
STUDENT WORK: There are 3 exams and a final. There is one quiz a week, 1'xcept during weeks of exams. At least 2 quiz grades are dropped. There are 5 I;ib experiments to be done at one'sown pace throughout the semester. _ COMMENT: Dr. Bambenek lectures and is willing to stop at any time to rxplai11 material. Dr. Boyle is in every lab and is ·extremely helpful•.Both professors are always available to discuss either lab or lecture and they spend a qreill il·mount of time helping the students. The work load is about as much as­,,,w·science course. The course is worhwhile mainly because of ~professors teilching ii. 
Lichtman 
Phys 101 Intro to Physics I 01 MWF· seq.· 827200 

DESCRIPTION: There are no prerequisites for the cours! since it is aimed to qive the non-Physics and non-Chemistry major a general and practical look into Physics. It is'a straightforward lecture presentation which meets three times a wC'ek, supplemented by a lab, meeting once a week. Phys~s 101 is required only tor Biology majors. 
READINGS: Textbook--College Physics--the P.S.S.C. edition Supplementary paperbacks: The Conduct of Science 
.The Double Helix The Watershed STUDENT WORK: Examinations which are of a mixed type, including ob­
jective sections, essays and problem solving, are about one hour in lenqth and .. ,,re the primary basis for grading. "(here are about three tests. Also required is a~ -paper-each semester which is 5-10 pages in length and covers a topic of the 
.;tudent's choice. The readings consist of about one chapter a week with about·, Ien homework problems assigned along· with it. 
• COMMENT:' The lectures tend to become run-on with the professor covering · . only the topics from each chapter which the student's ....-explained. The 
_subject matter may be very repetitive for those who have had previous.Physics · 'course but for those who are encoutering Physcis for the first time it may be 
.:, 

challenging. Professor Licthman_ is r~adily available for consultation and is willing to give the students all the help he can, including ways to improve your 
"qrade. For lhose seriously interested in Physics this c:,urse is not for you, but, tor those w;inting only ii superfincial and practlcat look Into Physics the course nh1y be of some value. 
63 
\ 
.·' 7 '--~¥ .: 
~ .--, ;' 
• <~ 
~-=~::--::-:..:.:.L~~-_;=:~.-:.,;; ­

• ,--..... .-, --,, L O ---• 
--· f ·-· -­
} ,~ -,. ~ ........::· -.... 
--.._,. :'.' /';_;_,. 
,/. :­

, • , > ~ 
',!, . -., -­
• 
• J 
-..--­
~ ..: ·._'' t .. -, . -­
-: ' ­
----: ~ ;. ­
.. 
,:• L O -.... < • ..... ~~ • 
:::, ---A~ :. ­
.:;< :3': ·/\\\'..-: .-. 
' . ... ­
-· --_-. ,:_,,; ' . -·:~ . '.--.. 
,, ~.., .-·­
·--., ,.,""­
. _,. . ~ -· 

This,-semester~-.for "the first time, the :course Evali~ti~n B~idet '.was ,·P,repared under the: direction. of ·an editor approved-i?Y the .Arts -and Letters Advi_sory Council of Notre Dame.-· The produdion· and printing of the booklet was handled iointly"by, Scholasf.ic and The Observer-but the 
: . ', 

planning, writing and -editing was done .independent. of any campus 
pu_blic~ti_on or other· o_rg~nizatio~. · · 
The editdrs wish t9 express. their._gratitude to.a· greatJnany peopl~-:~ho -contributed their time and energy~ A ve.r,y special Jl<>t.e of thaa,ks_ to ·the ­staffs at both registrar's offices-who made it possi~leJo in(;lude,· for the first. time~ the dayi... time and seqiJfnce number. of ft,~ -~,a~ses.. And of 
.---course we-must aclcnowledge the:writi~g ·a_nd_ 'plan~ng efforts ,of the student volunteers-fr.Qm both campuses; without whorifthis booklet would 




.. 
.. 
• 






