THEM HU!
Philip Morris l >■
| HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF SMOKERS, who tried this test, report in signed statements that PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER!
1 Light up a phuip morris. Just take a puff— DON’T INHALE—and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose. Easy, isn’t it?
*
ji
H*

2 Light up your present brand. Do exactly the same thing—DON’T INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
Other brands merely make claims—but Philip MORRIS invites you to compare, to judge, to decide for yourself. Try this simple test. We believe that you, too, will agree . . . Philip Morris is America’s FINEST Cigarette!
NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER mom smokwo
i



‘•PHILIP MORRIS
2
The Scholastic
letferg-----------------------------
Hawaiian Error
Editor:
Congratulations on your fine coverage of the Mardi Gras and mahalo (thank you) for your kind words about the Hawaiian Club. I would like, however, to point out one discrepancy in your article on the Mardi Gras in the issue of Feb. 16.
The article stated that, “All their (the Hawaiian Club’s) prizes had been flown to the States and were donated by the Honolulu Chamber of Commerce.” The prizes were flown here by Pan-American and TWA but the majority of the prizes were donated by our parents and friends in the Notre Dame Club of Hawaii. The Hawaii Visitors Bureau also contributed. -
The Honolulu Senior Chambei’ of Commerce supplied us with maps and information that aided in the construction of our game and of the other decorative features in oui- booth.
Respectfully,
V. Roger Fernandes,
Publicity Chairman,
Kamaainas 0 Hawaii of Notre Dame
Auwe, ua minamina wau— zvhich, of course, means zee are sorry for this error and our face is as red as an Hawaiian sunset.—Editor
Junior's Problem
Editor:
Everyone around here seems to be griping about practically everything, so while we are all in the mood for it I would like to enter my horse in the next week’s race.
Glue, monetarily considered, is a reasonably cheap item. From what I am told all you have to do is buy a lot of expired horses, pile them up, and pretty soon you have glue.
Now, and I am serious about this, why don’t they put this stuff on the back of stamps in adequate quantity? I am not blaming our own little Post Office for this. I realize along with others that this matter is not under their jurisdiction. Somewhere • there are people in charge of slapping on that delicious stuff and I want to know who’s doing it.
Having investigated the matter fully I have discovered that the price of dead horses has not risen as sharply as the cost of living. But still I find that every time I buy stamps there is a less quantity of glue than there was the previous time.
There should be no need for people to have to tread repeatedly on a stamp to make it stay on a letter. This gets (Continued on Page 23)
Feb. 23, 1951
Make GILBERT’S
your ARROW headquarters
GILBERT’S
Open evenings until 9 o’clock
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
3

$ yooo*
TRIBUNE, TUESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 14,1950/
.....  ■...U?.........-....... ■	___	•	..	......... ■■.—■■■in ..
Efficient reading ability—important for business and professional men—is even more important for college students.
READ QUICK
GEORGE S. SPEER
w r
* If you read an average of four hours a day for 252 days, that’s over 1000 hours of reading. If you value your time at $2 an hour (many figure more), your reading time has a value of over $2000. Xo matter hate fast or well you are able to read now. by improving lOO^b you save half of this figure. Most important, you get more out of your college eduration, too.
v
SLOW READING ‘CUTS BUSINESS’
Chicagoan Informs A. of C. Luncheon Of Liability.
George S. Speer, director of psychological services of the Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago, said here Monday that slow reading is a liability which can cost a businessman $7 a day or more. He was talking at the Oliver hotel luncheon meeting "of the South Bend Association of * Commerce.
He revealed,statistics showing that in an average group of bust? nessmen,such as he was addressing, the .average reading rate, is' about 250 words a minute, seventh or. eighth grade level. He said reading skills can be . improved through training go. that this person can read at least twice as fast, up to 1,200 words a minute with diligence. The monetary . loss he cited, was based on time lost at the businessman's hourly wage rate, time lost’in slow, reading.	• /
Slow reading becomes more of a liability in view of the Increased demands for more and more reading in everyday living and understanding, he pointed out The training which Speer advocates is that given by the Foundation for Better Reading, which, established a center, injSputh Bend earlier $ s this' year. Stanley Gould, manager • of the cehter here, was introduced at the luncheon. *	‘ •
Find out how easily and quickly you too can double your reading capacity. A special tuition discount is available to Notre Dame faculty members and students who register for the course IMMEDIATELY.
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING
—<*	(next to Aquinas Bookstore)	Phone 3-0077
The Scholastic
4
b^
Top of the Week
Winter is almost over . . .
First in War, etc.
There is only one thing to do when you have a spade and you’d like to know what you should call it. We are sitting here with the Jack of spades and clubs trump waiting to be euchered and thinking about yesterday’s Washington’s Birthday celebration ceremonies in the campus hall named after the hero of cherry trees and the Potomac river, when Harry isn’t cruising down it in the Williamsburg.
The Senior class, attired in flowing black academic gowns and wearing mortar boards cocked slightly over one eye, was a sight that brought tears to the eyes of not a few of the faculty. They chanted in unison, between sobs: “To think that I am responsible for a part of this.”
The whole affair started when the graduating host picked up their graduating outfits in the campus pool hall. They then gathered in the hallway of the Administration Building to get last-minute instructions from their skipper and line up by colleges and alphabetically. The early hour, approximately 8:30 a.m., was too early for any self-respecting ND Senior to be anyplace, especially the Administration Building and the process of lining up caused a slight furor among the directors as well as the participants. We almost ended up with the Commerce graduates because of some noisy loose change clanging in our pockets.
The ceremonies were awe-inspiring, to say the least. If Washington were here on campus yesterday, he would have felt mighty proud of himself. Now all we’ll need is a MacArthur’s Birthday celebration with required attendance for all 1-A’s and Reservists.
Middle of the Week
. . . Wednesday . . .
The Hoop Story
Things basketball-wise have been in the limelight during the week and everyone is beginning to feel a little hoop-happy as a result.
The biggest news story of the week concerned certain Eastern college ball players and their “throwing” ball games to help gamblers. The whole problem of fixes could have been avoided if the schools were offering the players more than a chance to play basketball or if the alumni of certain schools stopped showing players the radiance of the old green stuff.
Our basketball team, while not
Avoid embarrassment . . . gain confidence
PRIVATE STUDIOS
SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST DANCE STUDIO
106 W. Monroe at Michigan
manned by game-fixers, did get in the news this week for completing their home season with a win and acquiring a new coach. From the looks of this season’s Freshman squad, Coach Jordan’s alibis for losing games should be few and far between next season.
Another segment of the cage world came to life this week when “Hoosier Hysteria” broke loose, the state high school tournament began. When this goes to press it’s too early to say who won the South Bend sectional crown, but we, with thousands of others, will be near our radios tomorrow to find out.
Next week there is going to be less sports, we hope.
Bottom of the Week
. . . that means at least a month of a snowy, slushy, perfectly awful Spring.
Dial 7-1517
Feb. 23, 1951
5


FEBRUARY 23
AVON (through Feb. 24)—Catt-se /or Alarm (Legion of Decency Rating A-2) is a glossy suspense thriller . . . the modest kind without too much on the ball. The denouement is as powerful as a kitten’s cry. Loretta Young and Barry Sullivan head a small and competent cast.
COLFAX (through Feb. 28)—If it’s not one thing, it’s the other. It it’s not a war film, it’s a western. This week it is another monotonous, technicolored, big-scale cowboy show. Dallas (A-2) is this one’s name. Gary Cooper, who must be getting close to Methusala’s age, and Ruth Roman team up to conquer the west this time. Texans are sure to love it.
PALACE (through Feb. 25)—George Kelly will always be remembered for his play, Craig’s Wife. It was as sharp a commentary on a certain type of American women as has ever been written. Joan Crawford’s pic, Harriet Craig (A-2), is the latest picturization of the play. And what a botched-up job it is! Instead of generating sympathy, the role of the husband as written for Wendell Corey is, instead, a grade A boob whom you can’t help but laugh at. Leave it to Hollywood to mess things up. Operation X is an English product with Edward G. Robinson and Peggy Cummins in the leading role and is proof that the California film makers aren’t the only ones capable of putting out celluloid tripe.
GRANADA (through March 1)—Prehistoric Women (B) and Two Lost Worlds (A-l)—movies are worse than ever.
FEBRUARY 24
WASHINGTON HALL—Kill the Umpire jumps the season a little but at any time of the year it would add up to the same score—'as far as laughs go this is practically a shutout. William Bendix plays the leading role.
FEBRUARY 25
PROGRESS CLUB—The Aquinas Lecture Series will present as its second program a talk by Dalma Hunyadi, a member of the staff of Cardinal Mindszenty’s newspaper, reporting on conditions behind the Iron Curtain. Tickets may be purchased at the door.
AVON (through Feb- 27)—Undercover Girl (A-2) is a much better picture than the title would lead you to believe. Starring Alexis Smith and Scott Brady, it is about the efforts made by the police to break up a drug gang. Realistic settings and good direction make it a far more interesting film than most of its big-budgeted brothers in crime.
FEBRUARY 26
PALACE (one performance)—Spike Jones , and his lunatics will blast the roof off the theater in their presentation of their Musical Depreciation show.
MARCH 1
LAW AUDITORIUM—The fourth session of the Marriage Institute will have Rev. Albert L. Schlitzer, C.S.C., and Dr. John J. Kane as the featured speakers. Their topics are respectively: Marriage as a Means of Strengthening and Increasing the Life of Grace, and The Family as the Basis of Social Living.
Vol. 92 February 23, 1951 No. 17
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor KENNETH A. THOREN '51
Associate Editors WALTON R. COLLINS '51 JOHN H. JANOWSKI '51
JOHN J. POWERS '52_________________News
ROBERT G. FINNEY '53_____Assistant News
ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE '51 Features
JOHN F. MEANEY '52_______________Sports
JACK R. VARLEY '52_______Assistant Sports
WILLIAM H. FRASER, '52______Photography
LEON GARDNER, '52____________.Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER_____________Advertising
WILLIAM J. HOSCHEIDT '51_____Advertising
ROBERT WILDEMAN '51___________Circulation
JAMES ROGERS '51 Circulation
DALE FRANCIS___________Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Roger Blatz, Justin Bolger, Don Carbone, Pat Carrico, Dick Cody, John Corrigan, Valentine Chun, Carl Eiberger, Tom Godfrey, Dave Hayes, John Kelly, R. O. Murphy, Walt Murphy, Pat O’Malley, John Quetsch, Dave Quinn, Bill Rady, Berry Reece, Neil Scarlett, Ken Stead, Paul Zalecki and Ron Zier.
SPORTS STAFF: Bill Brien, Jim Brislin. Bill Delaney, Joe Deiss, Jack Economou, Roger Fernandes, Bob Froelicher, Mort Kelly, Bill Londo, Fran Meaney, Bill Riley, Frank Ronnenberg, Bob Rust and Joe Straub.
FEATURE STAFF: Jack Bradshaw, Dan Brennan, John Chevanne, Jay Conlon, Frank Haendler, Harry Siemonsma, Bill Stapleton, Rudy Unger, Ed Vasta.
PHOTOGRAPHY STAFF: Gordon Brickson, Paul Fitzgerald, John Kinville, Charles Lenz, Harold Munger, Charles F. Murphy, Jr., Al Muth. C. Douglas Powers, Berry Reece, and Jerry Sheehan.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Datne, Indiana.
COVER: Every SCHOLASTIC cover is supposed to represent something, but this week’s has even us stumped. All we can figure out is that Jack Reece is comfortably looking at this week’s issue and appearing on it at the same time.—Photo by Jerry Sheehan, ’54.
6
'The Scholastic

A Flag Without a Pole
Yesterday morning the annual Washington Day exercises were held in the campus auditorium. During the program Jim Hennessy, president of the Senior Class, presented the traditional flag to the University. This presentation has been repeated for years and it is one of the finer traditions to be found at Notre Dame.
But the question is raised: where do these flags go?
When the flagpole in front of the Architecture Building was in use it was understandable how a flag could be ready to be burned within a year, if not less, thanks to Indiana weather. But that flagpole was dismantled two years ago.
There were plans at the time to erect a new pole — but nothing. has come of them. True, there is a pole hidden off behind the Drill Hall. There is also one down in front of Morrissey. Neither of these, however, can be called the official University flagpole.
An institution such as ours should definitely have some prominent place to display our country’s flag. Perhaps the plans for the new flagpole were temporarily put in a drawer in abeyance of final building at the University’s entrance. Even if that is the case, some temporary steps should be taken. If the reason for no flagpole at present is because of funds then some student club or organization should step forward and offer to sponsor one.
It is our patriotic duty to have our flag raised each morning over the campus. In regard to patriotism — there seems to be a general lack of fervor in it these days. .This doesn’t pertain to just this campus. But it was pointed up at a recent basketball game.
The band started the Star Spangled Banner. The crowd stood up and during the playing of the song there was shuffling and moving. A few weak voices murmured the lyrics buf the vast majority of the gathering kept their lips shut as if they had never heard of the song.
This kind of conduct would be viciously attacked in any other country. But in the United States everyone seems to be self-conscious about displaying their patriotism. Why this is so is hard to understand.
Here we have more to be thankful for than any other people in the world. Here we have something to cherish. But just let someone say how great and wonderful the good old U.S.A. is and immediately you have a pack of wolves on his back, tearing him apart for being a flag-waver.
It’s about time we started to appreciate the temporal
gifts God has given us in this country. To localize it— it’s about time we started displaying the flag, the symbol of the country to which we are all dedicated.
' •
Barn Doors Need Closing
The other day a Fine Arts major was musing about the loft in which he and his fellow artists work. They spend a good share of their waking hours on the fourth floor of the Main Building. And recently, when he wasn’t in the midst of an esthetic experience, he started to think what it would be like if a fire ever broke out in the hallowed halls beneath the dome.
Possibility of a fire breaking out in the Main Building is something none of us likes to dwell on. For if there is an academic heart to our campus it is that building. No one would like to see the revered structure crumbled in charred ruins.
But it is something which could happen. And if ir should, what are the chances of everyone in it getting out safely. All sorts of precautions have been taken in regard to possibility of fire. Exit signs are clearly designated.
■ Smoking is prohibited. Extinguishers are in strategic places.
Little consideration, however, has been given — at least so far as informing the students — as to how quickly the masses who attend classes in the Main Building can be gotten out. An old-fashioned fire drill would undoubtedly ease a lot of people’s minds.
These drills would admittedly eat up valuable class time. But it seems that the comparatively small amount of time taken up for say, one drill per semester, would be more than worth the confusion and perhaps even the panic that might be created in case of the real thing. True, every student who uses the Main Building would not be there at a given time. Still, if a core of students were there they’d get the hang of things and act as guides if possibility of a fire became a reality. These drills could be run off a few minutes before the end of a period which would make the waste of class time negligible.
The art student who brought this matter up has a legitimate cause for consternation. There are many other students who have worried about this problem at one time or another. One brief drill might allay a lot of fears.
There’s not an ND man alive who would like to see the grand old building go up in flames. But it is possible — and that’s something we should never forget. That worn cliche about locking the bam doors after the horses are stolen is something we never want to hear. So let’s lock those barn doors now.	.
Feb. 23, 1951
7

HURRY!
HURRY!
6^
75%
Call 2-3339
10 Hours
Arthur
Murray’s
Call 2-3339
$15.00
To enter Your Name for
DANCE LESSONS
ATTENTION: Notre Dame Men—An open letter to YOU!
V
Gentlemen,
In the past two years, since the ARTHUR MURRAY School of Dancing opened in South Bend, we have had numerous telephone calls, and many personal suggestions from many of you regarding special classes and special rates for Students! Mr. Murray has given me permission to arrange the three classes below at reduced rates! Miss Benbow, our Supervisor, will personally take charge of these NOTRE DAME Classes. Women Instructors are already reserved.
Best Wishes for Your Dancing Future,
Leila Gray Mgr.
Pay as little as $1.50 a week. Free Dances every week!
2 P. M.
Enroll—1-2 P. M.
Wednesday—February 28, 3 P. M. Enroll—2-3 P. M.
Also Special Parties
Thursday—March 1, 4 P. M.
Enroll—3-4 P. M.
Flash!
NEW CLASS — at If our Request Fridays — 4 P. M. Enroll 3 - 4 p. m.
Flash!
Think of it . . . for as little as $1.50 a week you can learn all the latest dances at the famous Arthur Murray Studios. Be sure to ask about the special pay-as-you-go plan when you come in to arrange about your dancing lessons.
We Teach All The Dances—You May Have Your Choice of:
•	FOX TROT • JITTERBUG	• WESTERN SWING • SAMBA	• RUMBA
•	WALTZ	• POLKA	• CHARLESTON	• TANGO	• MAMBO
P. S. If any six or more students want a class at a different Hour or on a different day—Our Women Instructors will be glad to arrange a special one to suit each group, on the day of your choice.
Call 2-3339 Now
OPEN
10 A. M. —10:30 P. M. Every Day
Arthur Murray
120 East Wayne St.
Above Copp Music Shop
Call 2-3339 Now
OPEN
10 A. M. — 10:30 P. M. Every Day
8
The Scholastic

VOLUME 92, NUMBER 17
FEBRUARY 23, 1951
Loyola's Jordan New Irish Cage Coach
Former ND Captain Succeeds Ed Krause
John Joseph (Johnny) Jordan, former Notre Dame basketball captain, currently coaching Loyola University in Chicago, will be the new Notre Dame Head Coach of Basketball, according to an announcement made earlier this week by Athletic Director Edward W. Krause. Jordan will succeed “the Moose,” who will confine his work to his duties as Athletic Director after the conclusion of the current cage season.
HEAD COACH JOHN JORDAN
Jordan and Krause were teammates on the Irish basketball teams of the early 1930’s, each serving as captain in his senior year. Krause graduated in 1934, Jordan in 1935.
Following his graduation, Jordan, a native Chicagoan who was graduated from Quigley High School, became head coach at Mount Cannel High in the (Continued on Page 28)
Engineering ROTC to Be Added in September; Current Training Program Totals 973 Men
A new Army Engineering unit in the senior division of the Reserve Officers Training Corps will be activated next September’ at Notre Dame, according to word received from Major General Edward F. Witsell, USA, Adjutant General.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, has been notified by General Witsell that the Department of the Army has approved the establishment of the senior unit of the R.O.T.C. at Notre Dame, effective for enrollment of students at the beginning of the 1951-52 schoolyear. The unit will be known as a “Corps of Engineers, Reserve Officers ■ Training Corps Unit.”
Establishment of the Army Engineering unit at. Notre Dame will bring to nearly 1,400 the total number of prospective military officers being trained at Notre Dame in all branches of the armed forces — Navy, Army, Air Force and Marines. If an expansion of the college R.O.T.C. programs now before Congress is approved the number of future officers being trained in the Notre Dame programs likely will be substantially increased.
In conjunction with the activation of the new R.O.T.C. unit at Notre Dame, the University will establish a new Department of Military Science and Tactics as an integral part of the College of Arts and Letters. The new military department will be in addition to the Department of Naval Science and Tactics and the Department of Air Science and Tactics already in operation.
A maximum quota for the new Notre Dame unit has been provisionally set at 400. The four-year program, which leads to a commission in the United States Army, will be open to Freshmen beginning in September, 1951.
Students with sufficient military training, such as World War II veterans, may be admitted to the advanced program in the unit, requiring a minimum of two years to complete.
With the addition of the new Army Engineering Unit at Notre Dame, the University will be operating training programs for all branches of the armed forces. Also represented on the Notre Dame campus are the Naval R.O.T.C., the Air Force R.O.T.C., and the Marine Platoon Leaders Class.
Currently enrolled in' these various training programs at Notre Dame are 973 prospective military officers, of whom • 269 are prospective Naval officers, 279 Marine Corps officers and 425 Air Force officers.
Notre Dame has had a Naval R.O.T.C. unit since 1941, and the unit presently is headed by Captain Thomas F. Conley, Jr., USN. A report announced last year by the Department of the Navy revealed that the 1949 Freshmen students of the Naval R.O.T.C. unit at Notre Dame were the best in the nation, based on examinations of the collegiate trainees’ study of naval science. In the same report, the 1949 sophomore class in the Notre Dame unit placed fifteenth among 51 units, while the Notre Dame Naval R.O.T.C. junior class finished eighth among 50 units.
The Air Force R.O.T.C. unit at Notre Dame, commanded by Colonel Melie J-Coutlee, USAF, was established after the end of World Wai- II, as was the Marine Platoon Leaders Class. The Air Force R.O.T.C. program leads to commissions as second lieutenants in the Air Force, while the Marine Platoon Leaders Class results in successful candidates being commissioned second lieutenants in the United States Marine Corps.
Feb. 23, 1951
9
Technical Improvements at WND Promise Improved Transmission, Clearer Reception
By JOE IMBRIACO, ’54
Installation of new equipment and remodeled technical facilities at the WND studios herald clearer hall reception and improved transmission of WND radio programs in the future. The comprehensive technical improvements, effected during the Christmas and midterm vacations, are the culmination of plans made early last year by designer-chief engineer Hawley Hall.
Operations on a new frequency of 1230 kilocycles, a rebuilt transmitter, crystal control, new hall tuning units, proposed heat-induction transmission, a new control board, and expanded and modernized studio equipment are among the improvements, comparable to an expenditure of about S2000.
Frequency 1230, the new dial spot of WND, besides being a better location, promises clearer reception. Since it is a low power frequency, 1230 kilocycles is used predominantly by small local stations, making it a relatively clear channel, free from other station interference.
Transmitter Rebuilt
A completely rebuilt transmitter, designed by Hall and installed by technicians John Saul and Ted Byrne, is now operating. The quality of transmission out of the Field House is comparable to high quality FM transmission being sent from any small good station, according to Hall. Crystal control will soon be installed. A new crystal enroute to the studio from the manufacturer will eliminate the frequent whistle heard over WND and insure sharper reception.
To bring reception up to the level of transmission, the engineers have installed new tuning units in several of the halls and are contemplating a radical change in the method of transmission. Although the current leaves the station as high-fidelity clear transmission, because of weaknesses in transmission wires to the halls, reception may show interference and static. At present current is carried from the Fieldhouse to each of the halls by a plastic-coated wire traveling through the heat pipes. Once at the hall, the current passes through a tuning unit. . The heat in the conduit wreaks havoc with the wires; the frayed cables cause disruption in the clarity of reception.
Under consideration is. a plan by
which current would reach the halls by heat-induction in the pipes, requiring no wires, therefore removing one of the causes of poor reception. The tentative heat-induction plan of transmission of radio programs, though theoretically possible according to Hall, is a big question mark as far as practicability goes.
New Control Board
A completely remodeled and expanded control board designed by Hall has been-installed. The chrome-trimmed “console” is a compact unit, containing the whole station in a desk-like affair approximately three by five feet. The “brain” of the station includes a
Catholic Reading
We’re all familiar with the old routine, so common during the depression years of the ’30’s, of the door-to-door salesman who was “working his way through college” by peddling magazines. Times haven’t changed much. During the next couple of weeks, some men will be knocking on your door and asking you to subscribe to one or more magazines.
But these men will be selling Catholic periodicals, with the purpose not of padding their own pockets—they have refused any financial remuneration—but of introducing every student, and every student’s family, to good Catholic writing, the perfect antidote to all the smut which' clogs today’s newsstands and the organs of secularism which dominate our reading. The subscription drive is being carried on by the NFCCS as part of a national campaign of Catholic Publications, Inc., an agency which offers the best in Catholic magazines.
Objections to long-term subscriptions for students are quite valid in these uncertain times. But why not have a magazine sent to your home? The wide selection, holds an appeal for every member of the family. And it is an appalling fact that in Catholic homes secular magazines outnumber Catholic publications seven to one.
The men who knock on your door are prepared to offer you a sizable discount, but they are also prepared to offer something much more valuable, truth itself. Hear them out.
“nerve-center,” from which every function of the station is controlled, the switchboard, three new turntables, requiring 39 tubes and over 400 feet of wiring.
Other improvements in the studio are: an intercommunication system between the three studios; six new microphones; and a new “remote line,” making possible broadcasts from off-campus locations like the Palais Royale, containing a built-in “inter-com” system. While regular programs are being broadcast now, another program can be simultaneously recorded in another studio for future transmission.
Referring to the many technical improvements made at WND, Hall said, “I believe that our transmitting equipment and technical set-up, though largely handmade, is comparable to that of any good local professional station.” The chief engineer- also revealed that extending WND across the lake to St. Mary’s is being tentatively considered for the future.
10
The Scholastic
HEADING PRESS DRIVE (l-r, rear) Bob Wallace and Al Zenz, promotion, (seated) Chairmen John Moran and Hank McCormack, and John Houck, subscriptions.
ND Joins Nationwide Catholic Press Drive
The idea that Catholics should read Catholic publications to get a Christian viewpoint on current problems is the basis for the Notre Dame NFCCS Press Drive starting Monday. This campus campaign is part of a nationwide drive by the Catholic Press Association.
The following magazines are among those the student may choose from: America, The Catholic World, The Sign, Commonweal, Holy Name Journal, The Ave Maria, The Catholic Boy, The Shield, Our Sunday Visitor, Don Bosco, Our Lady’s Digest, and Mission Digest. These will be shown to every student so he can see at first hand what he will be getting for his money.
The Catholic Press Association is at-’ tempting to get a Catholic magazine into every Catholic home. Therefore, the volunteer workers here on campus will urge that every student buy a subscription for his family. Of course, if he prefers, the student can have the magazine delivered to his room for the semester and then notify the publishers of his home address for the summer months.
All the religious organizations on campus are v supporting this drive. The Prefects of .Religion and the Student Council have endorsed it. Volunteer
workers from the YCS, the Liturgy Club, K of C’s, and the Third Order of St. Francis will solicit the halls to talk to individual students.
A booth will be set up in the dining Hall to enable the off-campus students, faculty members, and University employees to take advantage of this opportunity to do something positive to defeat secularism.
Hank McCormack and John Moran, both of Walsh Hall, are the general cochairmen of the drive. They will be assisted by John Osborne and John Houck, co-chairmen in charge of subscriptions. The Advertising Club has-volunteered through its president, Bob Wallace, and its vice-president, Al Zenz, to publicize the campaign.
Job Interviews Arranged For Technical Graduates
Additional job interviews will be arranged for certain technical majors who are to graduate at the end of the present semester, according to Mr. William R. Dooley, chief of the Job Placement Bureau.
From Monday to Friday of next week, representatives of the A. C. Spark Plug Division of Milwaukee, Wis., the American Wheelabrator Co. of Mishawaka, the Marathon Oil Corp, of Menasha, Wis., the Johns-Manville Corp, of Manville, N. J., the Philco
Corp, of South Bend, and the Signal Corps Center of Fort Monmouth, N. J., will be here.
The Signal Corps officers will interview Electrical Engineers, Mechanical Engineers and Physics and Chemistry Majors. The Johns-Manville Corp, is interested in Bachelors of Science in Chern. Engineering and Ph.D.’s in Engineering. Both of these corporations will interview the students Monday and Tuesday. The A. C. Spark Plug Division will also have representatives interviewing Electrical and Mechanical Engineers as well as Applied Math Majors Tuesday.
Wednesday, the American Wheelabrator Co. will interview Mechanical and Chemical Engineers interested in sales engineering. March 1 and 2, the Marathon Oil Corporation will see all Engineering grads and the Philco Corp., represented by Mr. Oliver of the South Bend Division, will speak to Bachelors and Masters in Mechanical and Electrical Engineering.
Fr. Sheedy to Conduct Junior Lenten Retreat
The second in the series of lenten retreats will be held this weekend in Alumni Hall chapel for members of the Junior Class. Retreat master will be Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C.
Tomorrow evening at 8:30, the retreat will open with a sermon by Father Sheedy, which will be followed by the saying of the rosary at the Grotto. Confessions will then be heard in Sacred Heart Church.
Mass on Sunday morning will be at 8 o’clock. A conference at 10 will be followed by a holy hour. After another conference at 1 p.m., the retreat will be concluded with outdoor Stations of the Cross and the papal blessing.
Graduate students and seniors who were not present at last week’s devotions may attend the junior retreat. On the two following week ends, the sophomore and freshman retreats will be conducted in Cavanaugh Hall'chapel.
Frosh Pick Dance Heads
The Freshman Class scheduled their dance for May. 4 at a general class meeting held last week. Either the Palais Royale or the Indiana Club will be utilized. - It will be semi-formal, the bids either §3.50 or §4.50. George Welsh and: Edward White will act as co-chairmen.* Another meeting will be held in the near future to decide on the band and other details.
Feb. 23, 1951
11
Debate Team Wins Eau Claire Tournament; Third Consecutive Victory Retires Trophy
Continuing their march of victories, the University debate team retired the Sweepstake Trophy at the Eau Claire State Teachers College Tourney last weekend. Notre Dame squads had twice previously won this tournament, which is annually held in Eau Claire, Wis.	’
This year’s trophy-bedecked aggregation breezed past all opposition in the 36-school, 120-team contest, losing only one debate to Minnesota University as they garnered ten points to take first place and permanently retire the trophy. Since embarking on their wrangling campaign the team has participated in 150 intercollegiate and exhibition matches, and in the past three weeks have copped ten trophies and three citations for superior debating.
The crack combination of Senior Bill Carey and Sophomore Al DeCrane gained eight of the ten ponits by tying Upper Iowa College in the discussion section of last week’s •‘meet. Carey also retired the extemporaneous speaking trophy there, having won it twice before.
Debate duo Tom Field, .Soph, and Don Dowden, Frosh, finished undefeated in that section over St. Thomas College, St. Paul, Minn., and Eau Claire, the place and show teams, re-spectviely. They thereby rounded out the ND total with their two-point contribution. The topic for discussion was “Social Welfare,” and the topic for
DR. JOHN J. KANE
debate was the national question used in all intercollegiate tourneys, “Resolved : That the non-Communist nations should form a new international organization.”
Besides Carey, DeCrane, Field, and Dowden, Freshman Bill Hank, Junior Paul Davis, Sophomore Hugh Brown, and Freshman Bill Fagan completed the eight-man squad for the Eau Claire tournament. Twenty-four wranglers have participated in the matches so far. Not only is the traveling squad rotated partially for each contest, but debate and discussion partners are switched for the sake of versatility and experience.
The team will attend the Georgetown University Invitation Debate Tournament the first week of March, the Tau Kappa Alpha National Debate Tournament at Harrowgate, Tenn., the second week of March, and a tourney at Texas University the third week of April. Notre Dame’s ’49-’5O aggregation tied for first position in last year’s Tau Kappa Alpha debate section, while Bill Carey took the extemp trophy.
Priest, Sociologist Talk At 4th Marriage Institute
Dr. John J. Kane and the Rev. Albert L. Schlitzer, C.S.C., will discuss “The Family as the Basis of Social Living” and “Marriage as a Means of Strengthening and Increasing the Life of Grace,” at the fourth session of the Marriage Institute next Thursday.
Dr. Kane received his B.A. from St. Joseph’s College, Philadelphia, Pa., his masters in sociology from Temple University, and his doctorate from the University of Pennsylvania. A contributor to the American Catholic Social Review, he currently is moderator of a radio panel for the South Bend youth program on sex education. His paper on “Catholics and Marriage Counseling” will be delivered before the National Catholic Conference on Family Relations in St. Louis, March 4.
Father Schlitzer, the author of the Junior religion text on sacramental life, received his doctorate and S.T.D. from the Gregorian University, Rome, Italy. At present Father Schlitzer is taking part in pre-cana work each Sunday at St. Joseph Parish. Some of his writings include extensive treatment of evolution.
Glee Club Concert Marks Singers' Return From Tour
The Notre Dame Glee -Club will present a concert next Tuesday evening at. 8 o’clock: in the- auditorium of the Progress .Club, jin South Bend.
This first ’ .local appearance of the singers since i‘ they completed their 3,700-mile tour of Florida and the Southwest is being sponsored by the Progress Club’s project committee for the St. Joseph County Mental Health clinic.® All proceeds will be used for work in the clinic.
Director Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the Department of Music, has planned a variety program of solo, ensemble, and group numbers for the concert.
Tickets may be purchased at Copp’s Music Store or Elbel’s Music Store, both in South Bend, or from any member of the sponsoring committee.
Biondo Announces Concert By Symphonette at Laporte
Miss Rosalie Schnewind of LaPorte, Ind., will be featured as soloist by the Notre Dame Symphonette in their next performance, to be given March 15 at LaPorte.
According to Mr. Charles A. Biondo, faculty director of the group, this concert will consist of typical symphonette music. These smaller selections will be played in preference to the more intricate symphony numbers which have been formerly executed by the Symphonette.
“Lalo” will be rendered on the violin by Miss Schnewind as her portion of the program.
REV. ALBERT SCHLITZER, C.S.C.
12
The Scholastic
Catholic Press Drive Approved by Council
At its meeting last Monday night, the Student Council gave its final stamp of approval to the Catholic magazine subscription drive, sponsored by the NFCCS, to begin next week. The Council approved the 20 per cent discount to be given to all magazine subscribers during the campaign. Of ।	the money	collected, 15	per	cent will
|	remain on	campus	to cover	expenses
?	of the drive with	any	surplus going
!	to charity.
;	At the same meeting, Tom Carroll,
president of the Blue Circle, reported that last Saturday’s showing of two afternoon movies in Washington . Hall j was a complete success. He said that approximately 1,000 students had attended the two movies, filling the hall to capacity for each. Because of last Saturday’s good attendance, the University intends to adopt the showing of two afternoon movies permanently.
Also the Student Council approved the budget for the student musical in the spring. The total expense of the musical will come to $882.
The architect’s annual spring ball was approved for March 30 in Erskine Country Club. This ball will be an informal costume affair which is open to the members of the Architecture Department. The Council also approved two other dances — a March 25 Met Club dance to be held in New York’s Biltmore Hotel . and the Law Ball' scheduled for April 27 in the Indiana Club.
The Council also made two $300 contributions from its Campus Charity Chest—'one for the March of Dimes and the other for Notre Dame’s Bengal Bouts. In these two contributions, as well as all others, the Charity Chest represents the entire student body.
Committee Heads Named For Junior Prom April 13
Although the Junior Prom is nearly two months away, the class is letting no grass grow under its collective feet. All committee heads have been named and preparations are under way.
,The men chosen are: for tickets, John Moran and Tony Critelli; hotel reservations, Hank McCormack and Bill Gorman; car rental, Pat Nevill and Brian Duff; tux rental, Dave Lajoie and Bill Lewis; publicity, Jack Hynes and Ray Earls; entertainment, Jack Lambert and Bob Beh; favors, Ed Goerner and Ernie Messini.
The Prom will be held in the Rockne Memorial on April 13. Arrangements for a band have not been completed.
Feb. 23, 1951
Talks on Major Fields Offered Sophomores
A “Choose Your Major” program is being offered next week by the Colleges of Commerce and Arts and Letters, under the sponsorship of the Sophomore Academic Council.
The program features a series of talks by representatives of the major departments in both Colleges. It is designed to acquaint Sophomores with the possible major fields open to them before pre-registration for next semester.
The “Choose Your Major” program, which has received the support of the Guidance Department of the Offices of Academic Affairs, will run from Monday through Friday of the coming week. The talks will take place according to the following schedule:
ARTS AND LETTERS
Monday, 7:15 p.m., Political Science, Room 1, Law Bldg.
Tuesday, 4:30 p.m., History, Room 102, Law Bldg.
'Moonlight Cruise' Dance Set by Seniors for May 11
Jim Hennessy and Hank Madden, co-chairmen of the Senior Ball, announced that the dance has been scheduled for May 11 between 10 pan. and 2 aan. at the Rockne Memorial. This year’s theme will be “Moonlight Cruise.”
Bill Whiteside will handle general arrangements, while tickets are under the control of Tom Wolff. Hotel accommodations will be supervised by Al Guamieri with Tom Digan in charge of favors. John O’Brien and Randy McNally are handling publicity • with Bob Moriarity and John Becker* - supervising decorations. Programs will be attended to by Bob Engel and Jim O’Donnell will handle patrons. Finance will be taken care of by Frank Mueller.
Peter C. Reilly Donates New Original to Collection
Peter C. Reilly, President of the Reilly Tar and Chemical Company, Indianapolis, Ind., has presented the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery at the University of Notre Dame with an original painting by Sassoferrato, noted Italian artist.
Mr. Reilly, a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees and of the Advisory Council for Science and Engineering at Notre Dame, added to the Notre Dame gallery Sassoferrato’s “Madonna and Child Adored by An-
Tuesday, 7:15 pan., Economics, Room 101, Law Bldg.
Wednesday, 4:30 pan., Philosophy, Room 102, Law Bldg.
Wednesday, 7:15 p.m., English, Room 1, Law Bldg.
Thursday, 4:30 pan., Sociology, Room 103, Law Bldg.
Thursday, 7:15 p.m., Journalism, Room 103, Law Bldg.
Friday, 4:15 p.m., Combination AB and Law, Law Auditorium.
COMMERCE
Monday, 7:15 pan., Accounting, Room 101, Law Bldg.
Tuesday, 7:15 pan., Finance, Room 1, Law Bldg.
Wednesday, 7:15 pan., Marketing, Room 103, Law Bldg.
Thursday, 7:15 pan., Business Administration, Room 101, Law Bldg.
Friday, 4:15 pan., Commerce-Law Combination, Law Auditorium.
gels.” Sassoferrato was a pupil of Raphael Dominichino.
Valued at $1,000, the Sassoferrato original will be added to the collection of other paintings donated to Notre Dame by Mr. Reilly and known as the “Peter C. Reilly Collection.”
Annual Bridge Meet Held at Vet Rec Hall
Two bridge tournaments combined into one, determined the campus bridge champions and also the top four undergraduate pairs who meet in the semifinals of the Intercollegiate Bridge Tournament. Over fifty card experts played in this annual affair held at the Veterans Recreation Hall last weekend.
The Tour undergraduate winning teams were composed of Jim Klink and Chuck Stimming, Ray Munsell and Bud Stuhldreher, Frank Beiter and Jack Boloday, and Dick Lorenz and Bill Stuhldreher. Beiter and Boloday are Seniors, Munsell is a Junior, and the other semi-finalists are Sophomores.
This year the Intercollegiate Bridge Association has changed the procedure somewhat. The top four undergraduate pairs determined last weekend .will play a set of specially prepared hands. The results will then be sent into the Association at Chicago. They will determine the twenty best pairs from all over the country who will then meet in the finals to be held in Chicago in April. ’
13
What's Wrong With ND Students?
TOUCHE... the irish honor at stake
By D. K. YEREX, '51
For the Notre Dame student hung back to read this Scholastic for nothing more than diversion, this is not intended. But for the few to whom the titles Catholic and American mean something, this may be a challenge — for the remaining majority, I realize, a Tarzan movie in Washington hall or a fire in a waste-basket down the hall is much more cause for action and con-cern. They, contented misologists, may go back to sleep, for this article is concerned with nothing more important than a criticism of Notre Dame and America.
Possibly, it’s an international sport. Even so I can find no valid justification for the innumerable criticisms made by foreigners against countries they viewed mainly from the window of a speeding trans-continental train. Secondly, too many criticisms of this nature are made in the seclusion of the author’s native country where adherence to fact is not necessary and where a sarcastic and exaggerated attitude is best received by the majority. Yet criticism is inevitable.
People of other nations are intent upon learning as much as they can about the United States, and in this respect they differ from Americans who are too often concerned solely with themselves. Quite obviously, America is the greatest nation in the world, but so long as this attitude exists, those who question the greatness of the U.S.A, have some ground for their doubt.
What others know about the United States of America has for the most part been derived from two totally unreliable sources •— Hollywood and the G.I. Practically anyone who has lived in and about America for more than six months can do better than the film or the soldier. Eulogistic comments go by the censor with a pat on their naive little heads, but the critics of the critics must be offered their chance. So — en garde — touche.
Chinks in the American Armor
Most of the particularized points of criticism which come to mind seem to derive from three basic faults evident in the American character. It must be
first admitted that this American character is not resident in the typical American citizen — for the latter- does not exist. But there are characteristics common to most Americans in degree, and Notre Dame men reveal them ad-mirablj7. They serve then, as my butt, and since they are so evidently nation-alistically inclined, they will no doubt be willing to offer themselves. The three basic faults, then, are Lethargy, Egotism and Idealism.
Attempting to instil co-operative effort into a group of Notre Dame students without pointing out the marvellous benefits to be gained — in the form of bank-depositable material — is as futile as . . . there is no simile. The fact that Notre Dame students do seem to be continually exerting themselves in some way or another, does not change my belief. Many activities without apparent consequent rewards are based on a long-range policy of ‘returns,’ while a great deal of the time and effort put out by Notre Dame men is wasted in undirected frenzy.
This violent motion on the part of many students here is one aspect of that Notre Dame spirit of lethargy. I call it lethargy because it is a form of activity which is unplanned and without a known end — it is indulged in either as a formality or as a release from boredom. But because of their inordinate indolence Notre Dame men too often refuse to exert themselves at all for something worthwhile.
The author of this article is a native of Lower Hutt, New Zealand. He is a Senior, majoring in English and is coeditor of “The Juggler.31 Scholastic feels his piece is not the work of a person who is merely criticizing for the sake of being critical. Yerex is not that type of person. His comments and conclusions have not been hastily drawn. He has lived in the United States for nearly four years. Whether or not the reader agrees with what the article has to say, it should be accepted as the work of an honest writer.—Editor
Activity, of itself, wtihout any aim, is no effort nor hardship. But activity which presupposes an object requires, in practically every case, some small amount of sacrifice. It is, then, simply ‘not worth it’ to most Notre Dame men. This is, I believe, the very best reason the administration and faculty can give for their all too evident failure at times to provide certain facilities for the student body. Although there is no doubt that the students would appreciate, to an extent, many new things provided for them, their failure to show any inclination to provide any of the necessary energy for the attainment of that desired end, negates the possibility of their deserving it. And the old idea that what is not earned is not really appreciated is still true in this respect.
The predominance of spectator sport over participatory sport in this country — and the parallel growth of professionalism— is a deplorable condition, but an excellent example of this aspect of lethargy. The belief that the enjoyment of sport can be obtained from merely watching it seems to have found a hold at Notre Dame as everywhere else in this country.
The subject of sports in this country is a large one with many sides to it, but the essential fact is that most students at Notre Dame simply do not want to put in the time and effort to gain the enjoyment derived from sporting activities.
14
The Scholastic
Quite boldly, I offer as an alternative example any high school or university in New Zealand. Teachers coach the teams — without extra pay — and in a school the size of Notre Dame there would be at least twenty teams. That is simply because everyone plays, and because sport is considered a practical aspect of student lifq — and during the summer season cricket teams (baseball’s cousin) are equally numerous. Admittedly such teams are not the machines the Irish squad is — and still is — but they do travel throughout the country — in America that might not be much better than the state — to play similarly classed teams from other schools.
The lower grade teams usually play without any audience at all. But in the final analysis, what is the game for? The gate rake-off? The record of win-lose results on the wall of the caf? If so, the sport situation at Notre Dame needs no improvement. If not, Notre Dame students cannot escape the consequences by inferring that they can do nothing about it.
A system has been unfortunately imposed upon them, but their own willingness to get into the game for the sake of the game, to play without cheering crowds, gate-profits, rides, tactician coaches, masses of equipment and all that paraphernalia that now goes to making up ‘camp followers’ of one football team; if they would set themselves to neglect these inconsequential things and think of the game, they would reduce the present restrictions to impotence and ‘big time’ sport to a mistake of the past.
Today the competitive spirit, which maybe made America what it is but may well also ruin it, leads in sports to the one-sport men who shine in their single field and never try another and which is, to them, as much a business as any other. This evil and the lethargy of students has given rise to a situation wherein the end sought originally— the enjoyment of the game — has been completely lost sight of.
Shoulders for Responsibility
But this is only the first aspect of the student lethargy. The second is that aspect primarily connoted by the term — downright laziness. Most of the work done on this campus is accomplished by a very small group. And while these few are willing to take responsibility for action on their own shoulders the herd is willing to merely ride along. As far as getting things accomplished, this is not particularly harmful, although the number willing to accept that responsibility is diminishing and a pernicious sterility is pervading America.
But what is worse is the fact that
Feb. 23, 1951	.
the riders are not learning to take responsibility on themselves at all, and they are thereby missing one of the greatest assets of extra-curricular university training. In addition, besides not learning to accept responsibility, these men of the majority are getting into a habit which they will not easily, if ever, drop. They are perhaps destined to ‘ride along’ for the rest of their lives. This is a waste of education and a waste of good Christian men trained for more important roles in the community. This same aspect of lethargy, I think, explains the despicably high rate of cheating that goes on at Notre Dame.
The second and third basic points of criticism, egotism and idealism, are perhaps not commonly attributed to Americans. Yet, as they are evident among the Notre Dame student body, they are similarly revealed by citizens of this nation. These two faults must be taken together because one often leads to the other.
“Special Cases”
Egotism is that attitude which is revealed in the student who thinks that his own situation is completely contrary to the class condition. Unfortunately, nearly all students are under this impression, and the result is a startling lack of unity in the student body. Individual consideration is primary in the Notre Dame student’s consciousness. But, contrary to the claims of some defenders of the ‘100%-American’ ideals, this does not make Americans self-reliant or independent.
The two points are not terms of a paradox but classifications deriving laterally from the same cause. Thus the egotism I refer to provides the individual with means for escape from restrictive customs and ideals of the group.
Notre Dame men, for example, have erected for themselves — if they have not discovered them already erected by their predecessors as a clause in an “everybody-does-it” code — excuses to cover individual action not in conformity with the ‘idealized’ performance of the ‘rest of them’ — an unfortunately mythical group, or at least a minority. Thus the relation between egotism and idealism may be formulated. The ideal — there are many in the Constitution — is established but is conceived of by everyone as a sort of metaphysical system of action having nothing whatever to do with reality for the individual.
And since the individual is all-important to the Notre Dame student — and the very system establishes that fact — he egotistically believes that the idealized dictates of what should be
done by everyone in the group, apply to everyone but himself. The divorce of the individual from the statement of the ideal, makes impassioned idealism very easy.
The Unrealized Spirit
At Notre Dame this means that one can claim that ‘the spirit of Notre Dame,’ which inspires all the students here, is a code of honour pervading the consciousness and molding the actions of everyone who has, or will, graduate from here. This is but one of the recognized aspects of ‘the spirit of Notre Dame,’ but the higher is lessened in strength in relation to the neglect of the lower.
The pitiful fact is that everyone can give only a vague and indistinct impression of this idealized ‘spirit of Notre Dame’ simply because they long ago decided that they could not live by it, and they are therefore entirely unfamiliar with it. They have not practised it. But always, the essential egotism of the Notre Dame student has satisfactorily and silently removed him from the necessity of applying it to himself. The worn-out answer that the ‘spirit of Notre Dame’ is an ‘intangible something,’ is unfortunately the only available one. And the rules of conduct of men are not intangible in that sense by any means.
These faults in the Notre Dame student body cannot be applied universally or individually — many students are absolutely free from taint of any of them, and it is doubtful whether any student completely evidences all of them. Yet I also feel that these flaws are apparent on this campus. They stem perhaps — and this is a supposition I make cautiously—from the false sense of values that perverts so much American thinking and damns many of the otherwise laudable aspects of American character. This tragic perversion of values is of course not confined to America — but its universality does not lessen the evil of it. Nor does this article deny the truth that there is a great deal to be admired and respected by a non-Ameri-can observer at Notre Dame.
But college life is more than a mere preparatory stage — it is part of the whole life. And the faults I believe exist ruin the student’s chance of gaining the infinite amount of good there is to be gained here. Also there are other faults, but until a bridge is erected over these chasms the lesser faults cannot properly be eradicated and the worthy aspects of American culture and the truth of the Church cannot be properly disseminated by those whose task it properly is to do so. And that’s you — so touche.
15
WASHINGTON DAY EXERCISES
For the first time since World War II, military uniforms were found alongside the traditional caps and gowns at • the University’s formal Washington Day exercises yesterday.
In the 102nd renewal of the annual ceremony, Seniors in Air and Naval R.O.T.C. units appeared in uniform while president of the Senior Class presented a large American flag to the University in the name of the graduates. The ritual represents the dedication of the June, 1951, class to the University’s threefold ideal of service: “For God, country, and Notre Dame.” Robert J. Nickodem, of Seymour, Wis., presided as chairman during the exercises. Nickodem, a student in the College of Commerce, holds the highest scholastic average in the Senior Class.
Another honor student, William T. Carey, of Pittsburgh, Pa., delivered the principal address. Also a student
in the College of Commerce, Carey has distinguished himself in debate and discussion competitions all over the country. Last year he was chosen as the nation’s outstanding collegiate debater at the Boston University Invitational Tournament.
The presentation of the flag was made by Senior President James C. Hennessy, a student in the College of Arts and Letters from Louisville, Ky. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, c.s.c., executive vice-president of Notre Dame, made the speech of acceptance on behalf of the University.
The flag will not be put in use immediately. It will be blessed after the Baccalaureate Mass in June and then flown for the first time during the commencement exercises.
The Value of Citizenship
By JIM HENNESSY, ’51
SOMETIMES I think that we do not fully realize the distinction of being Americans, American citizens. And yet our very presence here together in Washington Hall, assembled in a citizens’ ritual of honor to our country and its founders, reminds us clearly of the distinction of American citizenship: for the American is drawn from the various races and nations of the total human community, from different modes and manners and levels of life, from different political and economic beliefs — all to be compounded and unified into a new and great community of the free. We are just one generation, one group of Americans, but, in a real way, we mirror the whole race of Americans and we are proud to bear the name of American. As Washington put it in his Farewell Address, September 19, 1796, “The name of American, which belongs to you in your national capacity, must always exalt the just pride of patriotism more than any appelation derived from local discriminations. . . . The independence and liberty you possess are the work of joint councils and joint efforts, of common dangers, sufferings, and successes.”
I am sure that we know, as young
16
and patriotic Americans, the need today for our common effort to maintain “the independence and liberty” of which Washington speaks, the need to do everything possible to preserve these possessions. Indeed most of us are faced with just this task upon our not-far-distant graduation from Notre Dame, faced with the duty of accepting our extraordinary responsibilities as citizens, the duty of preserving the name and reality of the American.
As Americans,* we have pride in being part of Notre Dame. In turn, we should have pride in the fact that this institution is part of America, of what the term American stands for, and what Washington himself represents, a man, in Jefferson’s characterization, of “singular destiny,” of whom “it may truly be said that never did nature and fortune combine more perfectly to make a man great and to place him in the same constellation with whatever worthies have merited from man an everlasting remembrance.” We know, too, that our school, an eminent community within the community of America, has set up a challenge to us to be recognized as good Christians, and in being good Christians, good Americans, men, like Washington himself, of “singular destiny,” men in whom nature and fortune have truly combined to -merit from history “an everlasting remembrance.”
In presenting the flag of our country to the University through you, Father Hesburgh, we, the Seniors of the class of 1951, assert our pride of citizenship, our joy in bearing the name of American, our willingness to work and fight for the independence and freedom we possess, our hope that no darkness will ever fall, so dreadful as to deprive us of the sight of our flag flying over the place of Notre Dame and the land of America, of the sight of oui' flag flying through the ages as a sign of liberty to the lost, the enslaved, and the hopeless across the reaches of the world.
The Dialectic of Christianity
By BILL CAREY, ’51
I WOULD like to talk to you this morning about Marxism; about the threats it presents to the world, and especially to you and me. I would like to talk about what we will be fighting for, if we fight it, someday. I would, like to try to say what I believe men of our age are thinking about today whenever they give some thought to Communism in relation to theii* own future. This subject is not novel. It is talked about every day, everywhere, and particularly by people like me who have speeches to make. Many say Uiat as a platform topic it is trite, and that
The Scholastic

perhaps “people like me” should ■“change the subject.” But when they do so, it is largely because they are afraid of what they will come to know of it, and people would apparently rather be ignorant than afraid.
Whether that observation is true or not, it is a surprising fact that the free world, and especially Americans, knows very little about Marxism. “A spectre is haunting Europe,” are the opening words of Marx’s Manifesto, and perhaps its author was a keener psychologist than he dreamed. For Communism is known by us largely as a spectre; a mysterious, ever-growing force; a stark, bleak, self-propelling reality, moving blindly and with a religious fervor; as Toynbee so aptly put it.
It is a frightening thing, of which we are all aware, which we all apprehend, but which few of us really understand. That is a tragedy, for America’s survival today depends upon her knowing intimately what she is fighting; lacking such understanding, she cannot hope to fight it effectively.
It would be foolish of me to stand here and tell you that I completely understand Communism and the threat it presents to us. Of course I don’t. But much of this speech will be devoted to the impelling need for understanding this force in the world today. Much of what I have to say involves the paramount need for a penetrating analysis
JIM HENNESSY
of the doctrinaire of Communism, an analysis of the driving, relentless impetus which this way of life seems to generate; a way of life to which 800 millions owe allegiance today; 620 millions of whom have been called into the fold since 1940. All of us make a grave error, I think, in attributing the remarkable appeal of Marxism solely to the venomous clap-trap, the fanatical rabble-rousing cant of ‘ the present-day party members, the apostles of that disease-ridden little German whose fiery words have seared entire continents and burst them into flaming turmoil.
FOR that was not the master’s intention. Marx’s talking point was not one of emotion. With Machiavellian cunning he searched about for a common denominator, an intellectual lever with which to pry loose the fanaticism of the masses. Remember, he lived in the so-called “age of enlightenment,” the age of rationalism, where science was God, though God sometimes refused to act scientifically. Though the masses knew little of the philosophy of the age, they were deeply imbued with the belief that the “scientific exposition” was the first and last commandment of all rational activity. If it could be formalized, mathematically demonstrated, it had an irresistible fascination. The man in the street seldom understood the vast sociological changes which came on the heels of industrial revolution, but he longed for a scientific explanation, and, desirous of security, desperately hoped someone would take time out to give it to him.
Marx saw this, and had his answer — it took the form of the dialectic. He would solve all the problems and ills of the teeming legions of the oppressed, if only they would bow down before him in agreement on one principle; that from time immemorial, those same oppressed had been ordained to mortal combat with the oppressors. Grant him this, the inevitability of clash, and he will attempt to explain all; explain it, mind you, not in terms of vague assertions, but rather step by step, with mathematical’precision, in the true spirit ■ of the materialist, or rationalist if you prefer. '
He will patiently take time out to analyze the history of generations, past the feudal economy in particular. Here he will highlight the clash which gave rise to the petty bourgeoise in their death struggle with the lord of the manor. Then he will point to the struggle arising from the new division ■ of classes; the bourgeoise and the proletariat, i.e., the exploiter and the exploited. Carefully then, he postulates his theories of labor as a commodity, and as the sole determinant- of exchange value; even more precise are his formulas of surplus value, constant and variable capital, and his theories of concentration or accumulation of capital. Methodically, and with great attention to detail, he moves to his conclusion; clash is inevitable; the bourgeoise state, by its own action, is doomed to defeat; the dictatorship of the proletariat follows thereon, and eventually merges into the -classless society.
A brief digression at this point is necessary to establish the sources of his doctrine. Marx’s theory of class
V conflict is, of course, an adaption <yf* the famous Hegelian tenet of thesis and antithesis clashing to produce syn-’ thesis, which in turn generates its own antithesis, etc. His theory of surplus is largely that of Ricardo, although Marx interprets it somewhat differently.	.
BILL CAREY
BUT the important thing to remember is this, I would submit: Marx was the first to see that the exaggerated emphasis of the age of rationalism upon “the scientific method” could be employed to great advantage in reshaping society in the wake of the ‘ Industrial Revolution. .
He saw that when men cast -the divine aside, when they spurned : the idea of the hereafter, they were left without any semblance of an explanation for the “here and now.” Marx^ assumed the job of stepping into the gap. .He saw that men wanted an explanation of catastrophic change from farm to factory, that they demanded to know the “whys” of the social evils which had befallen them, the new landless class. So he gave them an explanation, specious as it was. It was all so simple, and- above all so certain, so mathematical. He explained everything in terms of one principle, clash, then elaborated it into tomes of formulas, all proving the inevitable overthrow of bourgeoise society by the working classes.
• He made the little man feel very important; now the worker was a cog in a very big wheel to be sure, but one turning in the right .direction. This life was all a great contest, and the worker was on the right side in this . struggle. Why? Karl Marx had not merely said so; he had proved it with numbers. Men who had thought they had no need of a Matthew or a Mark now searched wildly .for a gospel; they needed certainty; they begged for assurances from authority; and a pitifully inadequate Marx tried to be their
(Continued on Page 33)
Feb. 23, 1951
17
^^EN of ND spend four years around South Bend before they get their degrees. By that time they have learned to find their way from Adler’s to Gilbert’s, but ordinarily they haven’t learned much more about South Bend. There is at least one thing in South Bend that we all should know about. That is the Logan Street School for Retarded Children.
The kids who go to school there range in age from about 4 to 21. They’re not insane, but they are mentally retarded to varying degrees. They have certain limitations: there are some things they can’t do. It’s harder for them to co-ordinate, to talk, to tie their shoestrings, or to read. Imagine being the second of three children — unable to walk when your two sisters can, or button your sleepers, or be unable to talk. Suppose you were isolated almost completely; constantly frustrated because you are balked at almost anything you try to do, and anything at all that you do with anybody else — they do it better. The best way to sum it up is in two words: isolation and frustration. Frustration because there is so much that is beyond your power, and because you can’t even do these things that are within your power.
At Logan School the picture changes because of the help which the child is given. He learns to play, to work with others, to co-ordinate. The barriers of isolation are broken down. The teachers have found that the children must learn to play and work together. For instance, a child coming into the school may be able to read a 2B reader with his private tutor, but put him in kindergarten with a group and. at first he’ll have difficulty with kindergarten reading. The folk-dancing, occupational therapy, and even recess all go
Retarded Children
This Is Your Chance to Help Logan School Develop These Children Into Adult Citizens
Text by BILL RICH, ’51 Photos by AL MUTH, ’51
18
The Scholastic
together and help to socialize the child, and the speech therapist helps to break down the barriers caused by an inability to talk, or to speak at all distinctly. Meanwhile the child is learning in conjunction with some students more retarded than himself. Thus for* the first time in his life he’s in a situation where he can help somebody. This cooperation is illustrated in the picture in which Barbara’s being helped by having her crutches held for her while she climbs the stairs. This happens, every morning, and every night. All this is something new for her, for although she’s twenty-one, this is the first time she’s gone to school. Why? Because this is the first school open to her.
It’s more difficult to teach retarded children than it is to teach normal ones. They learn more slowly, and the teachei- must use the gifts they do have, rhythm for instance, to get al those they don’t have; but they are able to learn — to speak, to read, to write, to use their hands — in making toys, finger painting, etc. Thus they gain a feeling of achievement rather than frustration for they have learned something, and they have learned to do what they are able to do. In fact, about three-quarters of them can become self-supporting.
Having a retarded child really puts a burden on the parents, too. If your baby gets colic, your wife can talk it over with the neighbor next door, and share the problem. But you bear the weight of the problem of the defective child by yourself.
One mother put it this way: “To have a retarded child is to know a special kind of loneliness — a loneliness engendered by a thoroughly un-Chris-tian attitude toward the matter. Too many people think that mental deficiency is a disgrace — something to disguise — hide — bury — a family unmentionable.” Financially it’s a burden, too. How many parents can afford to pay the $200 or $400 a month necessary to keep their children in a private institution? Public institutions are inadequate; they can’t even attempt to help the number needing aid, and there are no public schools for these children in this area or for that matter in the majority of areas.
Such a child, isolated and frustrated, is a drag on the other children in the family. He’s different, he doesn’t go to school, he’s out of place in the home. But now he has a place. He goes to school, a station wagon picks him up each morning just like the parochial school bus picks up his two brothers. The cost to the parents is only $5 a week — and this is waived if the parents can't afford it.
Feb. 23, 1951
Logan School is of tremendous value to the community as a whole. “Mental retardation is a democratic affliction,” because about one out of every 100 children, whether black, white, rich, poor, Catholic or Jew, is mentally retarded, and any normal person can have a retarded child. Logan School is a democratic answer to this problem
in that it is a product of interested people’s voluntarily pitching in with time, money, or particular skill in order that they can help others and so help themselves. Working on it has broken down artificial barriers, too — when in a group of three men working together on Saturday morning there (Continued on Page 31)
19
THE HOUSE THAT "IFF" BUILT
THE LOCAL REC HALL (above) is one of the most popular spots of entertainment on the campus. Many of the students who spend their free moments there have perfected their ability to championship form. Shuffleboard tables (right) are a comparatively new innovation to the Washington Hall play room. Ping-pong is another indoor sport that is popular with the habitues of the Rec.
20
The Scholastic
WE’RE sitting in the back row of Washington Hall one Saturday afternoon. The movie isn’t so hot. One of the villains — there seemed to be a surplus of villains in this show — had just delivered a most dramatic five minute challenge to the cops, when a shattering “crack” welled up from the floor. Less than a minute later another blast floated up. My roommate stirred and picked up his coat. We left the show.
My roommate is one of these guys who knows all there is to know about the recreational facilities the campus has. That’s why we were at the movies. And that’s why we headed downstairs and into the “Rec Hall.” The kid is also something of a pool shark.
If somebody wanted to write a book on the Runyon style and had to start it off with a place description, that “Rec Hall” would be the perfect beginning. The ceiling seems lower than it actually is because the lights only shine on the green tables and nowhere else. What windows the place has are as opaque as the walls. Blue-gray smoke is everywhere. It’s typical.
Normally, getting a table is a hit-or-miss proposition. Usually the joint is pretty well filled, and sometimes the waiting list is four or five deep with guys standing around the desk holding their cues at parade rest.
But not this afternoon. Everybody was standing around the desk, laughing. The “Old Pro,” Dan Finn, was back from the Marines. It was old home week in Dan’s favorite hangout. Only a couple of the ten pool tables were in use. The lone billiard table was empty. So was the ping pong table and the twin shuffleboards. “Finner” was back, and the stories flowed.
In a little while Johnny Whaley broke up the conference. Johnny, the kid who finished second in the nationals at Case Institute last year, dragged the exLeatherneck, a veteran of some nine weeks at Parris Island, off for a game of straight.
This wasn’t the first time notables of the game had played under the sagging eves of Washington Hall. The ancient building, once the recreation room of old Brownson Hall, has hosted Willie Mosconi, the pocket billiards champ; Jim Caras, former champ; Ruth McGinnis, women's pocket billiards champion and Charlie Peterson, a trick shot artist who will return for another exhibition later this semester.
Some of the faces around the tables never change until graduation takes its toll. Finn and Whaley split their time between Sorin Hall, occasional classes and “Iffie’s Place.” Gene Renz and Jim Jacoby manage to drop in every so often, if not for a game on the six hole golf course, then at least for a game of bridge. The bridge is for free.
Though there aren’t any monogram sweaters about the campus sporting a cue rampant on a rack, Notre Dame does have such a thing as a pool team. It’s a small outfit, but one which ranks pretty well nationally. Fourth, to be exact, for the past two years.
Characteristically, Whaley and Finn are on the roster. The matches aren’t on the face-to-face variety, but are played instead at home with the results telephoned in to a district scoring point. Each team plays its innings and turns over the tally to its faculty
Text by AL LAPORTE, '51 Photos by AL MUTH. '51
moderator. The Notre Dame moderator is Brother Boniface, C.S.C., supervisor of the “rec” hall and his team. Now the boys are chalking for the March 6 tourney.
Running the hall is a four man job, handled by Whaley, Tom Krug, and Bill Toohey. The fourth man is an institution. He’s ten semester Al - “Iffie” If-flander, a graduate student who has actually labored ten semesters under the Hall. "Iffie” started cleaning tables and fixing cues sometime during his undergraduate days in the College of Com- . merce. He continued through a couple of semesters in Law School and now through his graduate work in Correctional Administration. It’s not certain whether his home, North Tonawanda, New York, has any pool halls, but “Iff” is at home in this one.
“Iffie’s Place” received a little publicity last semester when Dumont TV set up their cameras in the pool hall and shot a couple of scenes for the “Under the Golden Dome” series. Success hasn’t gone to the boys’ heads, though. The joint is still the same, providing a home for about 150 students a day and paying its own bills with the 30 bucks a day it takes in.
What happens to the old “Rec Hall” when the Student Union goes up isn’t certain. Maybe the handwriting is on the wall. The history-filled antique room where Johnny Lujack, Joe Gas-parella and Pat Filley used to relax and where Pete Pullman and Bill Shults have hung their blue service stars is about ready to pass on. Just for old time’s sake a chunk of plaster and a short cue for pipe shots may be transferred to the new building. When that happens the old gang, wherever we may be, will all pause in silent memory of “Iffie’s Place” and the eight balls we loved so well.
Feb. 23, 1951
21
| ‘Bull of the Ben gals’
By Jake “Killer" Janowski
You don’t have to be a Jake LaMotta or a “Sugar” Ray Robinson to fight in the annual Notre Dame Bengal Bouts, but it would help.
We weren’t doing anything the other day so we decided to excavate some shorts and sneakers from the depths of the dresser drawer and drop in on the Bengal workouts iri the Fieldhouse attic. This was the first time the sneakers and shorts and other athletic accoutrement had been exhumed since the days of Phy Ed 11 and 12, or
whatever those numbers were. The call to the athletic life reechoed in our ears and the dreams of glory that go with being a boxing champ stirred oui' spirits more than a little, as you have
probably discovered at one time or another.
So, to the Fieldhouse we flew. We didn’t exactly fly, but we sort of trotted — a practice which could be labeled “roadwork.” By the time we reached the yellow-brick gymnasium our legs felt like sponges, probably because it was raining at the time.
After doffing our .Gilbert slacks and other garments, we joined several other ND men busily pushing themselves up from the floor by their arms. This
unusual spectacle caused consternation on our part, for we were ready to box and not to do “pushups.” Everybody except us did 20, 30 or 40 of the aforementioned exercises, stood up sweatily
and began to “jump rope.” Seeing this was enough to make us retire quietly to look for the real Bengal workout room. Anybody with a college education knows that boxers don’t spend 15 minutes an afternoon “jumping rope”; they spend a lot more time than that.
A little, grey-haired fellow dressed in a grey sweatsuit started to give commands and call out names. All the Bengal aspirants, including ourself, put on 16-ounce gloves and paired up for punching drills. This exercise was brutal to say the least. Our partner, Johnny O’Brien, stood with his glove raised while we shot hooks, jabs, uppercuts, and other things toward it. Johnny must have been trying to foul us up, because we hit the glove approximately once out of every four punches.
When it was our turn to raise a glove for John to punch at, we very generously did so. What we failed to notice was that John and all the other fighters were not holding the raised glove in front of their physiognomies. We were lucky to get out of that exercise with just a bloody nose and a chipped tooth.
During the workout we found out that the little guy with the grey sweatsuit was “Nappy,” Dominic Napolitano. Since he was in charge of the whole training set-up we approached him with an air of ferociousness and asked for a couple of “live” rounds with a sparring partner.
Seven appeals later, “Nappy” pointed to a huge canvas bag hanging from the ceiling and said, “Work on that for a while.” .
We punched and punched with all the vigor our 155-pound frame could muster, but the bag wouldn’t give up. It just hung there, absorbing the punishment our piston-like fists dealt it. Only a stubbornness peculiar to punching bags enabled it to withstand the onslaught.
“Nappy” called us over shortly afterwards. We hopped gingerly over the ropes and fell flat on our face. Somebody pulled the top rope up during our pas de deux and started a new kind of game in which we are tripped, pushed, clobbered, or knocked to the canvas as often and as forcefully as possible.
It didn’t take long for “Nappy” to step into the ring and stop the round — just about 35 seconds, if we remember correctly. (This act was just 35 seconds too late for us. We threw off the gloves, threw on our street clothes, and threw ourself out of that training room faster than the Pacemaker between Toledo and South Bend.
Our fighting career was • nipped in the bud, so to speak. The hope of
22
The Scholastic
crowning us the new champion this March faded almost as hurriedly as it had appeared. The “Bull of the Ben-gals” hung up his gloves undefeated and unscored upon.
We leave to the Johnny and Joe O’Briens, the Aaron Dysons, the Joe Browns, etc., the glories of the ring.
SOONER OR LATER the end must come for every boxer. His came soon.
To these gladiators goes also the hard work, rigid training schedules, cuts, bruises, and aching muscles that go with it.
As we said earlier, you don’t have to be a Jake LaMotta or Ray Robinson to fight in the Bengals. What we do know is that any Bengal Bout fighter this year deserves a “championship” for the work he goes through to make the fights interesting and enjoyable for the fans and profitable for the Bengal Missionaries in Pakistan.
We hung up our gloves, but that athletic urge still seems to haunt us. Wonder if “Jake” Kline needs a good left-handed pitcher on this year’s diamond squad? Say, did we tell you how we fanned 17 batters in a row in that game against . . .
Audio-Visual Plans Series
For those with stars in their eyes on bright moonlight nights the Department of Audio-Visual in conjunction with the College of Science announced this week a series of four film-lectures on “Popular Astronomy.”
These stargazers will be entertained on Feb. 26 and March 5, 12 and 19 at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Lectures and movies on some of the more popular aspects of “Astronomy for the Layman” will be the main dish.
Mr. A. V. Shatzel, assistant director
of the Alder Planetarium in Chicago, will present on Feb. 26 “The Story of Polomar,” the story of the new 200-inch telescope at Polomar observatory in California. If enough interest is shown, lectures of a similar nature might be planned or such a course added to the regular curriculum.
Spring Semester Brings Latin American Colloquia
A series of Colloquia on various phases of Latin American life is being presented by the committee in charge of the Program of Latin American Studies during the Spring semester.
The second and next Colloquium of this series will be held on March 6, in Room 101 of the Law Building, at 4:15 p.m. It will be under the chairmanship of Professor- Walter Langford, head of the department of Modern Languages. The topic for this discussion will be “Social Aspects of the Contemporary Latin American Novel.”
Later Colloquia will be under the direction of the College of Commerce and the College of Law. All of the meetings will treat of those phases of Latin American civilization which are of special interest to those who are students of Latin American countries.
The first Colloquium was held last week under the chairmanship of Dr. Thomas E. Downey, of the department of History. The topic for the initial meeting was “Latin America and International Finance.” Dr. Downey sketched the historical background of the present international situation of the Latin American countries and the problem facing those countries at the present time.
The first Colloquium was attended by members of the faculty and students of the Departments of History, Political Science, Modern Languages, and of the Marketing Department of the College of Commerce.
Yves Simon to Give Talk on 'The Concept of Work1
Dr. Yves Simon, present professor of the Committee on Social Thought at the University of Chicago and former member of the Notre Dame Philosophy Department, -will speak tonight in the Law Auditorium on “The Concept of Work.” Dr. Simon, prominent speaker on international relations in national circles and a resident of South Bend, will present the lecture in conjunction with the General Program of Liberal Education at 8 p.m. Although it is one in a series of lectures by the General Program especially for the benefit of
students in that course, it is open to all students of the university.
At a panel discussion recently sponsored by the Committee on International Relations at Notre Dame, Dr. Simon was among eight prominent speakers who participated in the discussion. He spoke on “The Catholic Church and Democracy.”
The author of several books of which his “Nature of Authority” and “Community of the Free” are very well known, taught at Notre Dame from 1938 to 1948 and had the honor of presenting the Aquinas Lecture at the University of Marquette in 1939. A native Frenchman, Dr. Simon is also the author of the forthcoming “Philosophy of Democracy,” an interpretation of the essential factors of modern government.
Letters
(Continued from Page 3)
the envelope all dirty from the mud which has been tracked in from Badin Bog. What’s more, Scotch tape is too darned expensive to use to bind these insufficiently glued stamps to one’s correspondence. Brother Conan refused to lower the price even after he heard my story.
So now I am turning to you. I know that it is useless to start some kind of movement. Those big guns in Washington who run the Post Office are only qualified to run political campaigns anyway, so what’s the use? However, I feel much better in getting this thing off my chest, and I hope that if others agree with me they will give me the encouragement that I need to carry on.
Ray- Earls 422 Badin
Mr. Earls’ problem is -not one of not enough glue on the back of stamps, but too much saliva being used when licking the stamps.
From now on Mr. Earls, lick your stamps sparingly and stop making cracks about horses. Remember they can’t make glue out of you when you die and horses never hurt anybody except bookies.—Editor
Summer Courses
UNIVERSITY of MADRID
Study and Travel
A RARE opportunity to enjoy memorable ■F*. experiences in learning and living! For students, teachers, others yet to discover fascinating, historical Spain. Courses include Spanish language, art and culture. Interesting recreational program included.
For details, write now to
SPANISH STUDENT TOURS, INC.
500 Fifth Ave., New York 18, N. Y.
Feb. 23, 1951
23
------Hunch at	,r----------------
Choice of two delicious meals
70^
Daily from 11 to 1:30
No waiting
Free parking on
•	North side of building
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
.	601 North Niles
26 ■
The Scholastic
Courtmen Invade East for Three Games
Canisius, NYU, Penn To Oppose Net+ers
By JACK VARLEY, ’52
Notre Dame’s highly unpredictable basketball team, boasting only a 13-7 record and an upset victory over St. Louis, will inaugurate their annual Grand Tour of the East tomorrow night as they meet the Golden Griffins of Canisius at Buffalo. Two nights later, Coach Edward “Moose” Krause will watch one of his coached fives take the floor in Madison Square Garden for the last time as his eagers meet New York University. The following night the Quakers of Pennsylvania will play host to the Irish hoop-sters in Philadelphia.
ABE BECKER
Tomorrow night, the Irish will be out to avenge last year’s decision — an unpopular one — at the hands of Canisius. But, the Irish will have to do some hustling. Canisius has been fairly good this season and sports a 12-5 record.
Big gun in the Griffins’ attack will be a 6’1” forward, Don Hartnett, who so far this season has led his team’s
scoring with a 12.5 average. The other forward position will be handled by 6’5” Herm Hedderick who has a reputation as being the best rebounder on the club. The guard slots will be shared by captain and playmaker John DeLuca and sophomore Don Foreman. At center, the Griffiths will have the tallest man ever to play at Canisius — 6’9” Randy Sharp. Canisius will have height and a home court with them when the whistle blows tomorrow night; the Fighting Irish are liable to have a rough time stopping Coach Joe Niland’s powerful quintet from annexing their second win in the 10-game series between the two schools.
Looking for their fourteenth victory in the 19-game series between the two teams, the Irish will be out to avenge the 66-63 defeat NYU handed them last year in the Garden. How successful the Irish will be prompts a big question. The Violets boast an 11-3 record with losses only to Colgate, Cornell and Manhattan. Then they have height! — the 13-man squad averages 6’21^” with starting center Mel Seeman, top man at 6’6”. They abound in veterans. Last year’s top scorer, Abe Becker, is back as this year’s captain at his familiar guard spot. Demon of last year’s NYU-Notre Dame encounter with 21 points, Jim Brasco, will hold down the other guard slot. The forward positions will be held by a sophomore, Mark Soloman, and the fastest man on the squad, Dick Bunt. Incidentally, all of the five starters with the exception of Bunt played together at Brooklyn’s Lincoln high school.
When the Pennsylvania quintet takes the floor in Philadelphia against Krause’s charges they will be attempting to do what no other Quaker athletic squad has been able to do — defeat a Notre Dame team. This might be the chance for the Quakers to break that record. They have won 15 out of 20 of their tilts. In two of their victories — over Muhlenberg and Georgetown— they scored 92 points.
The Quaker attack will be led by Hugh Jefferies, captain and forward. He is a good dribbler and a fine set shot artist. The other forward will be (Continued on Page 29)
Bengals Draw Near; Four Champs Return
Just a week from Monday night the Bengal bouters, now in training, will step through the ropes and put their conditioning to the test. From the looks of his boys, and their past records, “Nappy” Napolitano expects to top last year’s matches.
In the 127-pound class last year’s champ, Sal Fiorella, is returning to defend his title. Last year’s challenger, Pat Ross, expects to get in shape in time to take the title away from Fiorella. Eugene 'Perry, who was a semifinalist in the ’50 version of the University Boxing Championships, will be back in the ring this year. Other contenders from last year include Pat Drew, Frank Orvan and Charles Sheerin. A newcomer for the 20th annual Bengal Bouts worth watching is Geary Becker. Another novice is Bill Balok.
George Chopp, who gained favor with the fans last year as he went to the finals in the 137-pound division, will be back in the same class. Along with him will be Leo Hickey who lost to John O’Brien in the semi-finals. O’Brien went on to be crowned as division champ.
This year John O’Brien has stepped into the next class —147 pounds. He will have to face promising fighters like Bernie Baute, Pat Lilly and Pat Quinn.
A semi-final casualty of ’50, Dick Windishar, will compete in the same 157-pound category. One of Vic Ro-blez’s victims last year, Tom Chisholm, will be back to get one of those trophies. Roblez was called into the Navy last summer and will not see any action in this year’s Bengals. A couple of freshmen “Nappy” has his eyes on are Ted Garland and Ignatius Moriarty.
A champ and a finalist are among the 167-pounders this year which should promise to make this an exciting department. Joe Brown was defeated by Roblez in the main bout in the 157-
(Continued on Page 29)
Feb. 23, 1951
25
i I
I
I i
ED POWELL AND LEO McKILLIP race over the timbers in low hurdles during last Saturday s Fieldhouse meet. McKillip (second from left) copped runnerup honors.
Other winners for Notre Dame were Al Kohanowicz and Hughes Wilcox who tied with a Marquette man for first in the high jump. Kohanowicz also scored in the broad jump with a fourth place. In the high jump Tom Hassinger tied with two Marquette men for fourth place. Though they didn’t win, Connie Tetrault and Harry Snyder both ran a terrific race in the mile where they took a third and fourth with times of 4:23 and 4:24 respectively, which normally will take almost any college dual or triangular meet.
The 440 and the 880 were the two events that really gave Notre Dame the edge over the opposition. Jim Bol-las and Bob Boyne took third and fourth behind Feltes to give the Irish a nice point bulge in the quarter, while Vai Muscato and Sam Hoover took second and fourth behind Mohar in the half.
Hurdlers Leo McKillip and Ed Powell both took seconds, Ed doing the job in the highs and Leo in the lows. Bob Toneff also garnered a second place in the shot put, and Phil Carnaggio, competing in the first track meet of his life, came through with a fourth place in the pole vault.
Irish Seek Third Straight Track Triumph;
Powerful Michigan Normal Here Tomorrow
By TED PRAHINSKI, ’51
Ben Almaguer was third in the two-mile. After a thrilling fight with Marquette’s John Stearns for most of the way, Stearns pulled away from Ben with four laps to go. Just short of the finish, Ben was surprised by the kick of a “forgotten” Marquette man and thus lost second place.
The Irish trackmen will try for their third straight win of the indoor season tomorrow against Michigan Normal in the campus fieldhouse. Last Saturday Notre Dame turned on the heat in the second from last event, the half-mile, to come from behind to win a triangular meet with 56% points to a stubborn Marquette team’s 47 and a fair Western Michigan’s 24%.
Tomorrow’s opponent, Michigan Normal, is traditionally far and away the strongest college team in these parts. In fact, there are very few university squads around that can beat them. In the Central Collegiate Championships over the past few years she has invariably given Notre Dame a rough fight, and has even beaten the Irish on occasion.
The Michigan State Relays three weeks ago gave a bit of a line on this year’s Michigan Normal trackmen, and on that night they looked on a par with Notre Dame. Their James Bibbs won the 75-yard dash in which no Notre Dame man placed. Their mile
26
relay team set a new meet record in winning the college division of the race in a time faster than Notre Dame did in the university division. They also placed men in the shot put, the 300-yard dash, and the two-mile run — a trick which Notre Dame wasn’t able, to duplicate.
On the other hand, thinks looked pretty encouraging last Saturday when Notre Dame won the triangular meet with Marquette and Western Michigan. Ten meet records were broken or tied, half of them by Notre Dame competitors.
The record-breakers for Notre Dame were Sophomore Norm Feltes, who won the 440 in 51.5 seconds; Junior John Mohar, who took the 880 in 1:57.2; John Worthington, who tied for first in the broad jump at 22’3%”; and the mile relay squad of Mike Begley, Feltes, John Hastings, and Jack Wagner, who hit 3:26.6. In addition, Buck Ewing won his second straight 60-yard dash with a 6.5 time that tied the old meet record.
Fencers Defeat Kentucky;
First Home Win for Irish
Notre Dame’s fencing team handed the Wildcats of Kentucky an 18-9 defeat at the fieldhouse Friday afternoon. It was the first home victory for the Irish after defeats at the hands of Northwestern and Illinois. Their record now stands at 3-2.
The scores were the same in all three events of the match, Notre Dame taking the sabre, epee, and foils by 6-3 margins. In the sabre, Paul Gibbons led the way for the winners by winning all three of his matches. Both Brian Duff and Jay Conlon scored two victories in the epee.
After the Irish had clinched the victory in the final event of the afternoon, Coach Walter Langford changed his lineup to give some of his foilmen more experience. Joe Oliveras, fencing in his first match, gave the small crowd some thrills before he bowed in a close 5-4 defeat.—Don Balinskas, ’54
The Scholastic
^ggg
iff MSE jMEMVgy
AU Hail to Larkins
Ohio State Athletic Director Richard Larkins made a few statements last week on the business he’s in, ranging from the situation in general to Ohio State in particular.
Larkins is one of the few men in the country who is aware of, or- concerned with, the present situation in college football. He calls it “a Frankenstein, a monster” and says that “football is being completely ruined. It’s getting completely out of hand . . . it’s killing itself.”
He expressed hope that football games will be universally televised in the near future because then the public may become so sick of football that it would “kill off college football as we have it today and we can start all over again without all this over-emphasis. This could be the best thing that could happen to college athletics.”
All this from a guy who took in a cool $1,112,000 last year for five home football games!
But that’s not all for Larkins. He was in the middle of the battle to choose a new football coach for the Buckeyes, and judging from the pressure that was brought to bear- on him and members of the selection committee, more people were interested in who was going to coach the Ohio State football team than were concerned about the last gubernatorial election.
Everybody, or so it seems, wanted Paul Brown of the Cleveland Browns ■— excluding Larkins, of course.
Now why would they want a man who has coached a professional team for the past five years? What would he know about handling amateur athletes?
Larkins’ crowning remark is one a few more educators would be wise to paste in their mental scrapbooks: • “We’re educational institutions; we’re not the Chicago Bears or the New York Yankees.”
It’s nice to know that we do have some missionaries in the - field spreading the word of truth to the infidels.
What Next?
But just as we are heartened at an attempt to clean up football, basketball is found to have mud behind its ears.
How much mud we don’t know at this writing, but just finding it is ap-
palling and a disgrace to intercollegiate athletics.
These players who accepted bribes for throwing games should be punished, but the fault doesn’t actually lie with them. Most of the students at NYU and City come right from one New York area and they didn’t have much choice in picking their school. It would be a tough thing for any one of them to resist making a small fortune fast, and in a way which could be excused as really not illegal.
The real criminals are those who took advantage of the situation to make an even bigger fortune for themselves. They’re the guilty ones — let their punishment fit their crime.
It’s Here
Hoosier Hysteria began sweeping across Indiana this past week and so far there have been no reports of games thrown. Hurray for the sterling character of Indiana schoolboys — or for the prudence of Gary gamblers.
At any rate, this mania will last for four weeks until the elimination process picks the state’s number one high school basketball team from the 763 that started play. And, more likely than not, the champ will be a high school from some small town.
Like last year, for instance, Madison (pop. 8000) won first prize after running up as many as 20.0 points in one day of tournament play. The year before it was Jasper- (pop. 6600) that won out over the field, which included South Bend Central until the final day.
Central’s performances of the past two years kept interest in the tournament high locally, but since they’ve had an off year, it’s unlikely that the hysteria will be as strong in this area as it has been (it says here).
Anyhow, there probably will be days when nothing will come out of your radio except “hysteria” and you’ll be forced to listen — might even catch the bug yourself. For high school kids they play a pretty fast game of basketball.
Finals are set for Butler Fieldhouse on March 17 where teams from the four quarters of Indiana will meet to determine the winner. Wonder if the leprechauns can guide Dublin (pop. 751) to the championship?
Ming Around the Halls
Relay Swim Crown to Morrissey
Despite the fact that only four halls were represented in the 1951 Novelty Relays last February 14 in the Rockne Memorial, the competition among the 72 swimmers who participated was very close and hard-fought. Morrissey Hall’s aquamen won the coveted first-place gold medals by amassing 80 points in the eight events.
Farley and Zahm Halls finished close behind with 76 digits apiece. Breen-Phillips was next with 56 markers. The relays were scored with 12 points for first place, ten for second place, eight for third, and six for fourth.
As in the past the members of the relay teams had plenty of fun while going all out to win. Among the races were such .novelties as the Sweat Shirt, Ping Pong, and Obstacle Relays. Most of the races were 200 yards long and some of the relay teams had as many as eight members.
Morrissey’s champs placed first in the 220-yard Crawl, Back and Butt relays. They also came in ahead in the 150-yard Medley. In the other four relays they gained one second place, two third places, and finished last in one.
Zahm Hall won the 200-yard Breast and Ping Pong relays and also came away with the top honors in the 400-yard Obstacles. They were second in two relays, third in another, and came in last in two more.
Farley outswam the others in the 200-yard Sweat Shirt relay. Although they' brought home only one first place victory the Farley team managed never to finish in the last spot in the seven other races. They gained four seconds and three third places. Breen-Phillips swam second in one race and third in two more.
Head Swimming Instructor Gil Burdick announced after the Relays that a regular interhall meet would be held Wednesday evening, February 28.
—Roger Fernandez, ’54
Basketball Tournament Nearing Finals
Round Robin play in the interhall basketball tournament is coming into the home stretch with five teams already named as winners of their section. Dillon, Alumni, and Morrissey Halls have emerged as victors in the evening league while Cavanaugh Hall and the Milwaukee Club are the only
Feb. 23, 1951
27
finalists so far in the afternoon bracket. However, Lyons, Badin, and Dillon, other afternoon teams, look like good bets to cop their divisions. The others are in doubt.
According to Mr. Ernie Szekely, league director and organizer, there has been a great number of forfeits so far in the tournament. And, since a forfeit automatically drops a team from the league, its size has dwindled considerably.
No definite date has been set for the finals because of the Bengal bouts, but all playoff games will be staged in the old gym.—Michael Long, ’54
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
Feb. 24—TRACK, Michigan State Normal, here
24—FENCING, Iowa at Iowa City
24—BASKETBALL, Canisius at Buffalo
26—BASKETBALL, NYU at Madison Sq. Garden
27—BASKETBALL, Pennsylvania at Philadelphia
Mar. 2—FENCING, Michigan State at East Lansing
Coach Jordan
(Continued from Page 9)
Windy City. During his tenure there, his teams won the Catholic League championship three times and the city championship twice. Altogether, his junior and senior quintets won a combined total of 28 titles during his reign as head coach.
Jordan, one of two brothers to star in basketball for Notre Dame, (his younger brother, Tom, was a monogram winner for three years, from 1936-38) moved up into the college ranks last April, succeeding Tom Haggerty at Loyola.
The naming of Jordan as coach climaxed several weeks of screening candidates, who at times numbered as many as 32. Says Athletic Director Krause: "I’ve known Johnny Jordan as an outstanding student of basketball for a good many years. He has done an excellent job this past season at Loyola, and prior to that achieved a reputation as one of the leading high school coaches in the country at Mt. Carmel. We are very happy that we will have him guiding our basketball destinies in the future.”
Jordan visited the Notre Dame campus Wednesday, but will not officially take up his duties here until about six weeks hence.
Said he: “I’m very happy and proud
to be able to return to Notre Dame as head coach of basketball. I think that it is the dream of every coach to return to his alma mater. I’m grateful to Loyola for their co-operation in releasing me so that I could come here. And although I'm sorry to leave them, it’s good to be back. I can assure you that next year’s Notre Dame team, like all Notre Dame teams, will be representative, and will be playing to uphold the Notre Dame tradition of winning.”
PROGNOSTICATION DEPT.
The Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co. next week will again sponsor a basketball scoring contest for Notre Dame students.
A carton of Chesterfield cigarettes will be awarded to the two Notre Danie students who pick the closest final scores of the Irish’s games against NYU, Pennsylvania, and Marquette. All entries must be • received before 6 p.m. on the night the games are played at 300 Howard Hall. Predictions for all three games may be mailed in on the same penny postcard.
Winners in last week’s contest were: Phil Toule, 310 Howard Hall, for the St. Louis game, and Clair Southgate, 131 Breen-Phillips, for the DePaul game.
Action Unfolds in Interhall Swim Relays
28
The Scholastic
Gymnasts Face Spartans, Indiana Tomorrow; First Intercollegiate Meeting at Bloomington
Notre Dame’s Gymnast Club will journey to Bloomington tomorrow to represent the University in a meet with Indiana and Michigan State. This will be the first time a Notre Dame gymnastic team has ever participated in an intercollegiate meet and it is hoped that this might be the birth of a new varsity sport at ND.
The club visited Illinois U. last weekend and witnessed a meet between the Ulini and Ohio State. They also had a short workout with the Illinois team, present National Collegiate Champs.
The Notre Dame gymnasts are an officially organized campus club under the Student Council. Their main objective is to promote gymnastics here at the University. The Athletic Association is at present studying the possibilities of making gymnastics a varsity sport on a level with fencing, golf, and tennis.
The President of the Gymnast Club and also the leading gymnast on the team is Jack Wenning. Other officers in the club are Neil Vascancellos, vicepresident; George McClancy, secretary; and Mal Wakin, business manager.
The main factor in the rapid development of the Gymnast Club has been the aid and encouragement given it by the club’s faculty advisor and able volunteer-coach Ray “Daddy” Runkle. Ray has an impressive record of his own in gymnastics: he held the Pennsylvania Interscholastic Gymnastic Championship for two years, then he was a three letterman in the sport at Penn State and captained the team in his senior year.
After the war he coached gymnastics for a year in a Pennsylvania high school and then went to Illinois U. where he turned out four Big Ten champs and two National Collegiate champs. In 1949 he came to Notre Dame and has been working with the gymnasts ever since he arrived; encouraging, correcting, and teaching his inexperienced squad for hours each day
• on his own free time.
This year the gymnasts performed between the halves of some of the home basketball games and they appeared twice at the Mardi Gras. In addition to this they also put on an exhibition for the March of Dimes in the John Adams auditorium downtown.
After tomorrow's meet the gymnasts have a tentative one with the South Bend Turners and they intend to go to the NCAA finals at Ann Arboz- later
in March. The club will also perform for the Michiana Sports Show which is to be held in the Drill Hall the weekend of March 9, and on April 2 they will go through their paces for the Holy Name Society of Holy Cross parish in South Bend.
A gymnastic meet is similar to a track meet in many respects. The events consist of a series of stunts which are performed on the various pieces of apparatus. In the Midwest there are six events included in a meet. They are the following: side horse, parallel bars, horizontal bar, travelling rings, trampoline, and tumbling. Each team enters three men in each event, but can have no more than ten men in all on the team.
The Notre Dame gymnasts and their specialties are as follows:
Side Horse: Bob Riley, Bill Santini and George McClancy.
Parallel Bars: Jack Wenning, Ed Graham and Bob Riley.
Horizontal Bar: Jack Wenning, Bob Riley and George McClancy.
Travelling Rings: Jack Wenning, Bill Santini and Neil Vascancellos. .
Tumbling: Bill Santini, George McClancy and Jack Wenning.
Trampoline: Jack Wenning, Bill Santini and Mike Perino.—Bill Delaney, ’52
Bengal Bouts
(Continued from Page 25) pound section last spring, but extra weight has pushed Brown in with Aaron Dyson, the junior middleweight champ in ’50. Ed Smith, the other champ in this split division last year, can’t fight because of a broken arm. But Frank Hamilton, who met Smith in the finals last year, will be around again. Bob Bichert, Cliff Collins and Dick Rampolla expect to make this section a roughly fought one.
Footballer Dick Cotter, who last saw the inside of a Bengal ring in ’48, looks good in the light-heavyweight class this year. He’ll have to meet Dan Finn, the boy who was defeated by Dyson in the other section of the 167-pound class in the 1950 Bengals. Other contenders are John Kramer, Pat Dunne, John Cronin and two neophytes, Jim Mac-Innis and Jim Kuber.
There are no ’50 titleholders among this year’s heavyweight hopefuls. Bill Flynn, of gridiron fame, is a new boy inside the ■ ropes. Joe O’Brien, last year’s light-heavyweight king, is now fighting with the big boys. Frank Tri-
podi, Charles King and Jerry Hageman of the 1950 edition are back for another try along with Freshman Fred Poehler. The heavyweights are expected by “Nappy” to be the surprise department of the 1951 Bengal Bouts.
Besides the boys mentioned, Napolitano believes he will be able to have enough fighters for 50 matches in this year’s tournament.—Carl Eifert, ’51
Eastern Tour
(Continued from Page 25) Thomas Davis whose specialty is the jump shot. Guard chores will be shared by Francis Gagnell and Donald Scanlon while the starting center will probably be sophomore Ernest Beck.
NEAL FICHTEL springs high for a layup bid as hapless DePaul trio looks on.
Last Friday, Notre Dame continued their victory surge as they downed DePaul, 61-55, in the fieldhouse. The Irish led, 34-29, at halftime, but they had to make up a nine-point deficit to do it. Again in the second half Notre Dame fell behind, but with some hot shooting by Jack Neumayr the Irish put the game on ice at the 12-minute mark and avenged the earlier Blue Demon victory in Chicago. Bato Gove-darica of DePaul was high for the night with 20 points. Leroy Leslie led the Irish scoring parade with 15.
The following Monday, Krause’s eagers extended their home string to 16 as they crumpled the tight defense of the Michigan State Spartans and won, 56-46. Notre Dame took a slight lead early in the first period and after some seesawing back and forth led, 21-17, at the half. Neumayr was high with 15 with Norb Lewinski right behind him with 14. Bower was high for the Spartans with 10.
Feb. ?3, 1951
29
sswsfc
By JERRY MORRIS, ’52
With the turn of the twentieth century, Union Square in New York City became the birthplace of a new and brilliant facet of American life, the popular song. It was here in the square that the first song-plugger was born. Each evening he would visit the many restaurants, theatres, beer gardens, cafes, with his hands and pockets full of the latest songs. The musicians, actors, singers were argued with, wheedled, pleaded with, and even bribed into headlining the new tunes.
Eventually, a new method of songplugging was introduced: the song slide. An electrician from Brooklyn developed a series of slides which could project the songs on a screen, and whereby new songs could be presented to large groups. Before long, tremendous companies had sprung up and established themselves on East 28th between Fifth and Sixth. A fortune-could be had in a new song hit.
Songs Become Big Business
Consequently the song business became a factory -which manufactured songs. Composers were specialists in type songs which were turned out en masse. Then the king of the business, the song plugger, would peddle the song to the outstanding performers of the day. It was during this period of Tin Pan Alley that millions of copies of a single tune became common. It has been estimated that between 1900 and 1910, there were forty to fifty smash hits each year. It was here that the popular songs became big business.
In 1911 Irving Berlin turned out Alexander’s Ragtime Band, and ragtime became ‘the word’ in the nation’s vocabulary. Actually, ragtime was only one of the minor traits of real New Orleans ragtime: syncopation. But it did bring a certain drive to the popular .melodies of the 1900’s. It represented a certain daring and carefree living, but more important, it represented a change in American life.
Begins With Ragtime
For the first time, people began to dance in a big way. Ragtime made feet restless and it was basically simple and easy to dance to. The exhausting dances of the previous era were gone now and the nation began to dance. Prominent hotels and restaurants recognized the craze by providing dancing with meals. The simple two step of ragtime brought variations like the Turkey Trot (“Everybody’s doing it— Doin’ what?—The Turkey Trot”), the
Grizzly Bear, and the Bunny Hug.
The dance madness was further accentuated by the fabulous Castles, Irene and Vernon, who brought a magic touch to the Castle Walk, the Hesitation, the Lame Duck, the Tango, the Maxixe, and lastly the Fox Trot. The whole country followed the Castles in such a frenzy that dancing was being banned as offensive morally. The courts actually tried some dancers and fined them because their Turkey Trots were wild enough to be called disturbing the peace.
YEARS AGO
------By PAUL ZALECKI, ’53------
Fifty Years Ago
From the Feb. 23, 1901, Scholastic: In interhall basketball Sorin defeated Carroll 17-14 . . . The University observed Washington’s birthday with a concert in Washington Hall . . . Tryouts were held to select a team which would represent Notre Dame at a track meet in Milwaukee next month . . . Taking all but two firsts and scoring two men in nearly every event, rhe Carroll Hall track team defeated South Bend Central. Carroll won the pole vault with a jump of eight feet and the 40-yard dash with a time of five seconds . . . During the week ■ the Law Society debated the question “Resolved, that trust combinations exercise a beneficial influence in stimulating commercial enterprise and promoting prosperity.”	‘
Twenty-Five Years Ago
From the Feb. 26, 1926, Scholastic: The Irish track team defeated the Hilltoppers of Marquette 57-37. Joe Boland, of Notre Dame, won the shot put with a toss of 44’3” . . . The University scheduled an interhall track meet for the first two weeks of March . . . The “Wonder Team” of Franklin from downstate Indiana was the next scheduled opponent for the Notre Dame basketball team. In their last game the Irish defeated Carnegie Tech 60-26; the team’s record was then 16 wins in 17 games . . . Three future opponents of the swimming team, City College of Detroit, Michigan State, and Indiana, were rated among the finest teams in the country . . . The boxing team left on a three-meet road trip with Penn State, Virginia, and Xavier . . . Count Byron Khun de Procok, who headed an expedition of American and European professors in excavating the ruins of Carthage, was to lecture at Washington Hall the following week.
Ten Years Ago
From the Feb. 21, 1941, Scholastic: Frank Leahy was chosen to succeed Elmer Layden as director of athletics and head football coach ... In the Illinois Relays last week Indiana defeated the Irish by two seconds in the four-mile relay with a time of 17:36.8. Keith O’Rourke, of Notre Dame, won the high jump with a record jump of 6’6 %” . . - Captain E. R. Keller, member of the Flying Cadets examining board for this area, was scheduled to give an illustrated lecture on the U. S. Army Flying Cadets . . . The fencing team defeated Marquette at Milwaukee 15%-11% • • • Monte Carlo was selected as the theme for the Junior Prom.
Booklet Is Published On Russia Symposium
“The Soviet Union: Background, Ideology, Reality,” is the title of a book just published by the University of Notre Dame Press.
The new book, edited by Dr. Waldemar Gurian, represents the proceedings of a symposium on Soviet Russia held here last year under the auspices of the Committee on International Relations. Dr. Gurian is Chairman of the Committee which is partially financed by a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation.
Contributors to the Notre Dame symposium and book on the Soviet Union include Dr. Gurian, on “The Development of the Soviet Regime from Lenin to Stalin”; Dr. Michael Karpovich, Chairman of the Slavic Department at Harvard University, on “Historical Background of Soviet Thought Control”; Dr. Naum Jasny, member of the Food Research Institute of Stanford University, on “Results of Soviet Five-Year Plans”; Dr. Philip E. Mosely, member of the Russian Institute at Columbia University, on “Soviet Exploitation of National Conflicts in Eastern Europe.”
Dr. Stephen Kertesz, Professor of Political Science at Notre Dame and former Hungarian Minister to Italy, treats “Methods of Soviet Penetration in Eastern Europe”; Dr. Vladimir-Petrov, of the Yale University faculty who escaped from a Soviet Siberian labor camp, “Aims and Methods of Soviet (Terrorism”; Dr. N. S. Timasheff, Professor of Sociology at Fordham University, “Religion in Russia, 19411950”; and Rev. Francis Dvornik, Professor at Dumbarton Oaks Research Center of Harvard University, “Church and State in Central Europe.”
30
The Scholastic
Logan School
(Continued from Page 19) would be an ND prof, a laborer from Studebakers, and a Negro who supports himself with his truck (all fathers of retarded children).
The parents of the children attending Logan School meet together once a month and go over their problems, business, etc. Then they break for refreshments and conversation. One mother referred to this meeting as being held in “our” school, and emphasized the value of these meetings. The parents, like all humans, need each other, particularly as it is only with each other that they can share their common problems.
These children are being trained, too, and many of them can be self-supporting. They will always require supervision, and the school cannot, by greater patience and effort, make them just like other children. They’re different and they always will be different, but many of them need not be an economic burden on the community if properly trained.
There is a further responsibility which must be considered — the responsibility of the strong for the weak. We are our brother’s keeper, particularly in a situation like this. For like the good Samaritan we must help ou?-injured brethren, even though, like the wounded Jew, they may not be able to repay' us. We can’t always give to get back. These children are children of God. They have a unique way of giving glory to God. Helping them to fulfill their capacities and thus be able to take their place in the work of redemption is clearly a work of great value. And they need this work on our part — they need our help.
The existence of Logan Street School testifies to the charity, the love which men and women show toward those who need their- help when they have been made aware of that. need. It is an example, too, which proves that the principles of Christianity can be incarnated in a community. The story of how it came to be illustrates what can be accomplished by Christian leadership in the community.
Five families formed a Christian Family Movement group. One of them had a retarded child, and thus they all became aware of the problem that this child created, and the barrier that it was to the achievement of a Christian family life — not because of the child’s retardation, but because of the fact that society made it rough on the family of the retarded child. They did
something about this, too. First they talked to Father James Smyth, Professor of Religion at Notre Dame, and he offered to give a series of lectures. At about the same time they heard of the Parents Council for Cerebral Palsied Children, and the Citizens Committee for Mental Health. These two groups, together with the CFM, sponsored the lectures.
It was very difficult to find out who had the problem, for ordinarily parents of retarded children were extremely reticent about their children because of the un-Christian attitude of society toward such children. Doctors mailed out about 75 announcements, to whom the sponsors didn’t know, for the doctors couldn’t violate their professional secrecy. Yet a surprisingly large crowd, about 150 people, came to the first meeting. After the third, Father Smyth proposed a program and a plan of action. Thus arose the St. Joseph County Council for Retarded Children, the organization behind the Logan Street School.
What the school accomplishes is enormous, but the need that it doesn’t meet is even more important. Fifty students attend it now; 50 more are waiting. It still lacks such essential equipment as a sufficient number- of small desks, chairs, tables, etc. For more pupils it would need more teachers, and a large part of its staff is composed of volunteers. Nor can the School by itself solve the whole problem; residential schools which parents can afford need to be established, state facilities need improvement, and additional facilities are needed for children able to do work a notch higher than that done at Logan School.
But what does this mean to men of Notre Dame? First, it means that here
is an example of the sort of Christian leadership that is our responsibility as educated Christians to give to our communities. Secondly, we can see running through this account a certain strain or unifying note; a Christian attitude embodying charity, hope, and faith.
Yet even this is not enough, merely to know what sort of leadership we must exercise, and to be able to deal with social problems as Christians. Every Tuesday afternoon St. Mary’s sends a contingent down to help with a folk-dancing class,, and on Fridays some girls go to work with the rhythm band and the group singing. One Saturday a group of students from Mr. Wallace’s class went down and painted, cleaned, moved, layed brick, and did carpentry. These are answers, ways that we can help.
Notre Dame students are needed at Logan Street School for different sorts of work. They have a chance to perform a real service. First of all — the boys at the school, because of their previous isolation, have had little contact with men, and all the teachers are women. Mere contact would thus be a help to them. Secondly, they do pretty well with their hands, but they need a teacher or teachers to help them with wood-working. If anybody is skilled with tools, he could certainly give them a hand. Thirdly, odd jobs like painting, washing, cleaning, puttying, are waiting for student volunteers. All kinds of help is welcome. To teach these youngsters you need not be an expert craftsman.
This is your chance to aid children who definitely need help, and are unable to help themselves. If interested, write Box 117 or drop down to room 3, Law Building and leave your name.
Feb. 23, 1951
31
The UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS
presents
SOVIET UNION
Background • Ideology • Reality
A Symposium
Edited by Waldemar Gurian
Hans Kohn says: “This volume represents the most up-to-date and reliable brief introduction to the complex problems of Soviet ideology and reality. It combines expert scholarship and considerate judgment with an awareness of the urgent issues facing all people in the non-communist countries today.”
Special Price for Limited Time for Notre Dame Students, Professors and Employees
Just $3
On sale today at the
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
GET YOUR COPY TODAY AT THIS SAVING
32
The Scholastic
New Yorkers' Easter Dance Slated for Biltmore March 25
Chairman Bob Fink has announced that the Metropolitan Club will hold its annual Easter- dance on Easter-Sunday night, March 25.
The Bowman Room of the Hotel Biltmore is to be the scene, and dancing will be from 9 to 1 o’clock to the music of Francis Walther and his orchestra. Tickets are priced at $3.25.
Final plans will be made and general club business discussed at the next meeting, scheduled for Wednesday night in the Law Auditorium.
Senior Address
(Continued from Page 17) authority; he gave them Das Kapital. And this brings us to the most amazing phenomena of all: those legions who had tried so desperately to disregard the true Ultimate now clung feverishly to a new Ultimate; clash, change, for to paraphrase Heroclitus, only “change remained constant.” Man found he could not do without an authority; his nature rebelled against the lack of one; he found he must have an intellectual standard; he could not believe that this world could wreak such economic havoc upon him indefinitely, for after all, this world was all he had. If there were no afterworld, this one must certainly improve — he would make it improve! And so his God became change, and Marx’s Das Kapital became the 19th century’s Paul and his Epistles.
The foregoing is not to assert that Marx’s Philosophy is sound; that his dialectic will withstand severe analysis. Many of our most capable economists have taken sharp issue with his tenets. They have challenged his basis of division of classes, pointing out that proletariats often become bourgeoisie without revolution! They censure him for failing to distinguish between skilled and unskilled labor; they deride his over-emphasis of technological unemployment. In short, they puncture his “Theology” on many points. But a full discussion of this is somewhat academic, whose presentation here is limited by both time and personal inadequacy.
In fact, the whole purpose of this brief examination of Marxist doctrine was to focus attention upon the basic demand of humanity for explanation of ultimates. Man wants a criterion, a standard of authority, and, if he chooses to reject the true standard, that of spiritual truth, he will seek another one, though it be both material and unsatisfying.
This is exactly what man had done
ATTENTION, WRESTLERS
The formation of a Notre Dame Wrestling Club will be held next Wednesday, Feb. 28, at 7:30 p.m. in room 2 of the Rockne Memorial. Any student interested is invited to attend.
by the middle of the 19th century. This is exactly the framework into which Marxism moved with its soothing, precise explanation of what it termed the “inevitable.” An age of rationalism, beset with festering economic questions demanding answers, could not resist the temptation, and the coupling of such factors largely explains Marxism’s astounding acceptance in the past century.
One might even ask if it has been meaningful, if it is of any significance to us. I think it is. As was previously mentioned, I believe that we must strive to know Marxism better, to learn “what makes it tick,” for where we find the successes of Communism, we also find the failures of the free world.
That free world is our world, for better or for worse. It is the world which we may very likely be called upon to defend, and I think we have a legitimate right to ask, Is it worth defending? Certainly the answer can be no other than: “It is very worthwhile defending, but it is even more worthwhile improving.” It cannot be denied that within that free world today are many of the same' signs of tottering, the same seeds of discontent, that have marked the large segment ’ of civilization which has fallen within the Communist orbit. There are problems, and sore ones, that must be settled. There are labor and management problems, there are problems of a just wage, better working conditions, and these are linked to other questions, i.e., “How many children can I have?” “When does profit become excessive and immoral?” etc.
I have highlighted these problems because I believe that for the past two and one-half centuries man has been living, essentially, in a “business climate,” a climate of mass-production, which has pigduced - as- many; problems as it has machines. Perhaps it would be better if James Watt had never invented the steam engine, if Cart-right and Arkwright had been cowherds instead of inventors. But that is escapism. We are here in the twentieth century, we’ve got a great many important questions to answer for a great many important people, and we’d better hurry up, because time" appears to be running out.
There is one great advantage left to our world. The people are still free to choose the answers to these questions for themselves; in accordance with what is human, they will judge and decide in the light of a standard, for it is natural to seek an authority. Here is the crux. Which authority shall mankind choose? He had a choice in the 18th and 19th centuries, and he made a horrendous mistake; he chose himself; he chose his intellect, only to find that his intellect was dissatisfied with the choice, and traded itself for a very bad bargain indeed; economic determination and moral slavery. A great portion of humanity has paid heavily for that mistake; a greater portion will pay; and that’s us, make no mistake about it, unless this free enterprise structure returns to the one criterion, the one authority in the light of whose truth the decision on these economic and moral questions must rest if there is to be true freedom.
READ Samuelson, read Schumpeter, read Keynes, America, and while we’re at it, let’s face facts and refer to the One Economist (for He is that, too), the One Labor-Mediator, the One Justice Department, whose teachings can solve these problems if put to work as they were first taught 2,000 years ago.
Disregard that authority and watch the world disintegrate.— it reads like a tourist ad. We’ve earned 100 years of unceasing misery by rejecting the truth; we have such a short time to return. We have such a . short time to demonstrate that obeisance to Supreme Authority does not stifle the intellect; rather,-it gives it its only justification for existence. Man must learn before it is too late that he cannot escape orthodoxy, as Chesterton put it, that he cannot escape conformity of reason with that Ultimate Authority if he would be sane, if he would be prosperous, both spiritually and temporally.
Will our civilization realize that freedom is Christianity’s hand-maiden; that slavery, intellectual and economic, is but the product of choice; a choice of the wrong authority? Most important, will it realize it while there is time to remedy the situation? I don’t know. I do know that if it will be done, it will be done by people like ourselves who have not only known. truth, but, in all probability, will largely control the economic and social structure in the future. I do know also that we must and will try to accomplish that end. That too is inevitable, for living, either here or hereafter, would be empty without that effort.
Feb. 23, 1951
33
Ay
But we do recommend those who can do so to give one or two of the magazines a try. We’re sure you’ll find one of them worthwhile.
The Last Word
Could it really he that Spring is creeping in, or is it a sadistic trick on some groundhog’s part?
Sophomores Take Note
We highly recommend the series of talks scheduled for Monday through Friday of next week by the Colleges of Commerce and Arts and Letters.
These talks are designed to acquaint Sophomores with the various majors offered by these two colleges. According to a schedule of days and times printed elsewhere in this issue, the Sophomores will be given an opportunity to hear talks by representatives of the departments they are eligible to enter for their major studies.
It is perhaps an unfortunate aspect of contemporary education that it is highly departmentalized. But the departmentalization exists and this presents some trying ‘'here and now” problems for the sophomores enrolled in Commerce and AB.
The Sophomores cannot know what each department offers until he is told. Even then, he cannot know enough about possible majors until he has had some experience in the department.
The talks to be given next week are a reasonable attempt to adjust to this unfortunate situation. Insofar as they do, they are worth while. The day may come when departmentalization is at least broken down somewhat. But until then, we heartily recommend that Sophomores take in as many of the talks as possible and use the information gained therein for a rational choice of a major.
Bows Here and There
We take occasion to give the nod and the smile to the following organizations and opportunities:
To the Geology Club, for having, to all appearances, more speakers than any other club on campus . . .
To - the Marriage Institute for continuing the fine work they are doing__
To WND for improved transmission and programming—which adds up to better listening ...	•
To the Concert and Lecture series for adding the excellent de Baur chorus to an already impressive list of presentations . . .
To St. Mary’s College for renewing the Lenten practice of opening the “rec” room for . Saturday evening dates . . .
To the Prefect of Religion and his practical program of Lenten Retreats . . .
To the Engineers, and to the men of the Freshman, Junior, and Senior classes for the big dances promised for after Lent . . .
Catholic Press Drive
The Catholic press of the nation has certain recognized drawbacks, as well as certain recognized hardships under which it must function.
We consider it a good sign that Notre Dame has, through the agency of the NFCCS, joined the current nationwide drive to boost readership in Catholic circles of the periodicals which should find some place in the reading habits of every Catholic.
There are periodicals in the Catholic orbit suited to almost every state. As Catholics in a Catholic University, we should make some attempt to keep abreast of cosmopolitan Catholic opinion.
Among the top magazines being “pushed” in the current drive, we would mention particularly America and Commonweal. We realize the indisputable fact that a subscription to one of the Catholic periodicals is a blow to the pocketbook and we don’t pretend to be fanatical on the subject.
S'pjecial 6^01 io-
NOTRE DAME MEN
$6.00 worth of Italian or American food for $5.00
Purchase your card from Rose Ann or Jimmy.
University identification required.
PAPANDREA’S Spaghetti House 415 N. Michigan	Phone 3-0903
------------------------------Dentist
DR. RALPH BERMAN 408 Platt Bldg., 105 W. Wayne St.
Hours'. Mon. 9-12 Thurs. 9-12 & 1:30-5	PHONE 7-1409
Fri. 1:30-5; Sat. 9-12	Res. ph. 2-6697
WHY PAY MORE!
Long Playing Records (33 1 /3 R.P.M.) 30% off
FREE COMPLETE CATALOGUE AND PRICE LIST.
Write to:
RECORD HAVEN. INC. (Dept. C) 520 West 48th Street New York. 19. N. Y.
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised
Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry, Gift Items
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
34
The Scholastic
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
TOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J. M. S. Bldg.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaw Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
So. Beno Uy appointment Ph. 4-5661
HEALTH SPOT
ro» MEN WOMEN MD CHILDREN
209 West Colfax Avenue Paul Whalen, Mgr.
—Whit** huttondown oxford, soft roll to the collar. Popular as a holiday with the fellows and the gals.
Aquinas Library and Bookstore
YOUR CATHOLIC SHOPPING CENTER IN SOUTH BEND
110 E. LaSalle
BLOCK BROS.
Comer Michigan & Washington
©
Jewelers to Notre Dame
for more than 25 years.
i
i i
I
I
I i i i
The Manhattan Shirt Company, makers of Manhattan shirts, neckwear, underwear, pajamas, sportshirts, beachwear and handkerchiefs.
— Fine white Broadcloth, extreme widespread collar. Sharpest shirt on the quadrangles this year.
C-VAY51
SEi’TY. WILLIAM
CIRCULATIONS
MAIN LIBRARY
NOIRE DAME IND
Virginia Mayo enjoys her coffee and a Chesterfield while the hairdresser arranges her hair between scenes in the shooting of "CAPTAIN HORATIO HORNBLOWER."
. Make the Tobacco Growers Mildness Test yourself. .."Tobaccos that smell milder smoke milder"
Now smoke Chesterfields-they do smoke milder, and they leave NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE
Jw VIRGINIA MAYO W GREGORY PECK r(jo-A(arriny tn "CAPTAIN HORATIO HORNBLOWER" t/i ^l^rner ^ro^-fProtfacdon by
Its the Easiest Test in the Book...
OPEN ’EM • SMELL ’EM SMOKE ’EM
Compare Chesterfield with the brand you’ve been smoking...Open a pack...smell that milder Chesterfield aroma. Prove-tobaccos that smell milder smoke milder.

Chesterfields make a hit with me.
They're Milder and leave no unpleasant after-taste

.	_ T Smells MILDER	MILDER ‘ Leaves no unpleasant after-taste
Copyright 1951, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.	——■	— ■ —



-5