
WORK OVERSEAS 
All trades, skills and professions Students and Graduates Male Female 

. Higher pay, no taxes,· travel to Australia, Europe, South and Central America, Africa and Southeast Asia. Write for our brochure: 
Worldwide Student Opportunities P.O. Box 1255 1075 Camino Flores Thousand Oaks, Calif. 91360 
11/ love you for what you are, but I love you yet more for what you are going to be ..." 
-Carl Sandburg 
Chosen but once and cherished forever, your engagement ~nd wedding ring; -'.viii reflect you~ love in their brilliance and beauty. Happily you can choose Keepsake with.complete confidence ' because the guarantee assures perfect clarity, precise cut and fine, .
.dNSJ 
white ~ol6r. There.is 


"ll;.l,W!l;]J£9 
no finer diamond _ring. -¦ Iii-•••~ 
T•M Reg. A.H. Pond Co, 
HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING 
S~nd new 20 pg. booklet, "Piannin·g Your Engagement and Wedding'; plus full color folder and 44 pg. Bride's Book gift offer all for only 25¢. s-1• 
Name ---------,IP"'"1e-,-as'""eP"'"ron'""1J_____;.,_____ 
Address-------------------­City ----------,--------------c/ 
Slale---------------Zip_____ 
KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, BOX·90, SYRACUSE, N:Y.13201 
Find your Keepsake Jewelers In lhe Yellow pages or dial free 800•243·6000. In Conn. 800·882·65o'o. 
At leo..st ·~ lejo.._l 

Editor 
Kerry McNamara Art Director Jim Purvis 
Production ~tanager 
Janet Cullen Assistant Editors Jim Gresser, Pat Roach, Joe Runde, Sally Stanton, Jack Wenke · 
Assistant Art Directors 
John Phelan, Tom Waldoch 
Sports Editor 
Tom Gora Business · ~fanager · Joe Meyer. ·Circulation Frank Zaletel 
Faculty Advisor 
Frank O'Malley 
Staff . -. . 
Paul Bolduc, Kevin Dockrell, Betsy Dwyer, Leo J. Mulcahey, Casey Pocius,".Mary Siegel, Steve Shea, Jean McQuillan, Eileen O'Grady, Tom Bursic, John Whalen, Katy Sullivan, Sean McLinden, Tara Carey, Jorge Lopez, Jack Hanzel, Fred Graver, Pat Fanning, Pat Dillon, Bill :Murray, Frank Coughlin, 
-T. J. Clinton, Mark Luppino,.John Moore, George Sibley, Craig Spengel, Pat Hanifin, Dave Dreyer 
Art & Photography Mike Budd, Ed Earle, Nan Smith; Joe Kus­pan, Bill Fogjia, Bob McMahon, Ted Kerin 
· The· opinions expressed in the. SCHOLASTIC . ·are those of the authors and editors of the · SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or the student body. 
Second-class postage paid at.Notre Dame; Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National. Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly during the school year except· during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back numbers are available from the SCHOLASTIC. Please address all manu­scripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre·Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC, , 
copyright© 1974 Scholastic . all rights reserved / none of the contents may· be re­produced without permission 


:Seholastie 
Volume 115, No. 9 February 15, 1974 Notre Dame, Indiana 
HEADLINERS 4 Academic Calendar -A question of student-adminis­tration relations. 
7 Dome '74 -"... to capture between the yearbook cov-_ ers the character of the University.'~ 
19 Bengal Bouts -"You know, get in shape, learn a little boxing, nothing too serious." 
FEATURES 
9 Satanic Chic -.Sorcery comes to the screen. 12 Cinema '74 -Films of three great masters. 13 -Marcel Marceau -Return of the silent poet. 16 -A Television Jones -A junkie of the airways. 
REGULARS 10 Coming Distractions 14 TheWeck in Distortion 18 Crooked Rook 22 The Last Word 
Illustrations: Photos on front cover, 14 by Jim Purvis / Photo on 8 by Chris Smith/ Photos on 7, 19 courtesy of The Dome / Photo -on 5 courtesy of The Observer / Artwork on 1 7 by Ted Kerin / Artwork on front and back cover by Jim Purvis / Photo on 22 from Scholastic files'. 

The Politics of. Calendar--Making 
On January 24, the Academic Council finally extin­guished (temporarily, at least) a controversy which had been the talk of the campus for weeks, by voting 30-27 to sustain its approval of the pre:Labor Day 1974 Aca­

i demic Calendar; Though the·· vote was, on the surface, · 
I.I,.,. 
: a defeat for the student body (which had been explicit­ly voicing its objections to the pre-Labor Day start), it. was, in a larger sense, a signal victory for student input into the University's decision-making processes -an input which had begun to seem nonexistent. 
The controversy has its roots in the November 1969 decision to end the first semester before the Christmas break. The Academic Council approved this move by a 21-15 vote; but, after seeing it in practice, Father 
· Burtchaell thought it had some problems. So in March of 1972 he persuaded the Academic Council to allow classes to begin before Labor Day. The decision was extremely unpopular with the students, who succeeded in having the vote reconsidered by means of a petition

I 
I signed by five faculty and five student members of th~ Council. The Council reversed its decision by a 33-1_5 vote, but then reversed itself again, 28-19, in December, at Burtchaell's request arid despite strong student op­position. 
. . . 
The Council then became involved.in other matters, particularly the revision of the Faculty Manual, and the matter was not revived until this year. · · 
Just reviving it was a battle. Chris Nedeau, whose 
. top priority as Student Government Academic Commis­sioner was to iead the fight against the calendar, found that after the first brief introductory: meeting of the Council, all the meetings were cancelled until December. At that time the Executive Committee was convened for the purpose of cancelling the December meeting of -the full Council, "for lack of business." Nedeau objected· that the students most definitely had business that they wanted to discuss -specifically~ the calendar. But Fr. Burtchaell convinced the other -Committee. members 
.that there was no point in reviving -the matter until the cal~dar had been'tried. The members, weary of a seemingly endless string of. debates over the calendar, agreed. The December meeting of the Academic Coun­cilwas cancelled by a 9-1 vote. . 

"The administration was not taking us seriously," --· said Nedeau. "They· didn't think the students lmew or cared about what they were talking about;'so our· first 
· job was to convince them of that.and get-them to· re­spond. Getting them to respond to us,.even if we didnit win, was the most important thing."· · · · 
THE SCHOLASTIC!
4 


Chris Nedeau 
To prove that the students really did oppose the new calendar, the HPC conducted a poll that showed 89% of the studenthody were opposed to the pre-Labor Day start. The principal objections were: the calendar would decrease opportunities for summer jobs ( 59% ) , decrease summer earnirigs ·(69%) and raise costs for people living off· campus (52%). 65% would stay to see the football game that came during the lengthy Octo­ber break, and 74% •would prefer the long break at Thanksgiving.· · · 
Burtchaell rejected the poll, claiming it was inac­curate and taken while the students were too angry to think· straight about the matter. He began a speaking campaign to convince the students, or at least to silence the growing opposition. Speaking before the HPC and an open meeting of the SLC, he presented the argu­ments he had used in the past. The University's accred­itation would · be jeopardized if there were less than 72 ·class days in the first semester. The University needed a long midsemester break to relieve tension. Many ·other' schools were starting before Labor Day. St. Mary's would have to· change their calendar again (whkh they· had changed to corresp.ond with Burt­chaell's new calendar). There was rio other'way to fit all the days in. The mobile home show liad been moved forward (after ·1engthy negotiations by Burtchaell and others) in order that the new calendar might be im­plemented. (This last argument left many suspecting that what was at hand here was as much a matter of saving face as anything else. The administration seemed determined not to Jose its calendar after long and difficult negotiations with the operators of the mobile home show.) 
. The· SLC meeting was . held in the. CCE, in order that students might attend. The crowd was hostile and unconvinced by Burtchaell's arguments. When HPC chairman Pat McLoughlin read a statement deriding the new calendar, the students cheered, and Burtchaell, for the first time in recent memory, appeared uncom­fortable and pressured. But he ·stood firm in his arguments.· Later that evening he jokingly said, "I put on quite a show for them this afternoon." Indeed he had. But the reviews weren't favorable. The Observer continued its series of editorials against the calendar, and students began to look for other ways out of the whole mess. 
It was at this point that a meeting was convened of all interested student groups, including Student Govern­ment, the HPC, the student SLC members and Aca­demic Council members, the Observer and the Scholas­tic. From this meeting emerged a basic course of student action to. continue the first. The first step agreed on was for Chris Nedeau personally to ask Father Hesburgh to convene the Council to reconsider the calendar. When this failed, the only recourse was a petition by 10 mem­bers of the· Council, . which · would force Hesburgh to convene a meeting. The petition, signed by Nedeau, three administrators, and six faculty members, was de­livered to Burtchaell, who promptly pointed out that the Council was only empowered to draw up guide­lines for calendar-making, not to consider specific calen­dars. The petition was· reworded to. conform to these limitations, and this time was· accepted by · Burtchaell. He and Nedeau agreed to hold the meeting off until second semester, since exams were. rapidly approaching. 
The 1914 calendar is, lYy Father Burtchaell's own admission, experimental. 
"That is one thing I want to stress," Nedeau said. 
"We kept on ·good terms with the administration even 
when we were fighting them. We have to deal with 
them every day, and we had to look beyond the current 
battle to other things that might come up later. We 

need a friendly or at least civil relationship with them." . But at th~ Executive · Committee meeting after break, Burtchaell wanted reconsideration delayed, and suggested that he would table consideration of the '74­'75 calendar because it had not been tried yet, and do the same for the '75-'76 calendar, since it was so far away. Nedeau convinced him that he would be doing serious damage to the good faith between students and administration, so the Committee agreed to reconsider the calendar in full session. By mutual agreement, :Nedeau would speak first, with Burtchaell to follow 
him. 
. 5

r~ . , . --..:-". -·--,., 
! ' ,• . 
i l f 
i 
Nedeau could use all of the old arguments and the evidence of the poll, but ahead _count showed that would get him no more than twenty votes. If he was to have any chance at all, he had to come up with a new attack. The break came when he discovered that there was no accreditation requirement of 72 days. A differ­ence of two ·or three days was no difference at all as far as the North Central Accreditation Association was concerned. "In no way could it conceivably endanger your accreditation," North Central's director said. 
Nedeau also had counterarguments to Burtchaell's points: Notre Dame. had. never let other schools set automa_tic precedents for it. St. Mary's did not like the new·calendar any more than the students did. Moving back the mobile home· show would just-make registra­tion easier. He offered a compromise calendar with a short midsemester break, a longer Thanksgiving. break and 70½ days to Burtchaell's 71½. 
After these arguments were presented, a series of straw votes showed the Council favored a short mid­semester break. and 70 days. Then. Burtchaell spoke. "His having th_e last word hurt us badly," Nedeau said, "but someone had to have it and it·turned out to be him." He brought up the arguments he had been using for the last couple of years, stressing the idea that it should be tried before it was rejected and that the ad­ministration could be trusted to reconsider it next year. "In effect, Burtchaell turned the issue into a vote of con­fidence in the administration," Nedeau pointed. out. 
"But still we came damn close." In fact, the hand vote was too close to call, so secret ballots were used. Burt­chaell won 30-27. 


After the.dust had cleared, Nedeau worked as hard as he had on the fight itself to keep students from be­coming vindictive over what he felt to be a disappoint­ing but not unfair loss. "It was a defeat, but_ that was,_ no reason to make it a disaster." · 
And thanks to-Nedeau and others, it .was -riot a . disaster. Quite to the contrary, it was a healthy and productive pooling of student resources which succeeded, at least in this one instance, in -reminding an often­forgetful administration that it cannot deal lightly with . the opinions and legitimate wishes of the student. body. It threw a spark oi life into Student Government, which up to that point (except for the work of Nedeau) had appeared disturbingly lackluster and complacent. And it can only be hoped that the fight succeeded in reminding an inactive but plaintive student body that it can exercise some amount of influence on administra­tive decisions. 
The question is far from dead. The 1974 calendar is, by Father Burtchaell's owri admission, experime~tal. · · It is conceivable that the student body and the faculty will eventually. find it to their liking. .Even so; this year's battle will not have been 'a waste of time. It served the more important function of leading the stu­dents to rediscover their voice in the affairs of this community. And, if the calendar proves undesirable, the administration's. credibility will lie in its wiiling­ness to reconsider the specifics of that calendar.· One can only trust and hope that ther _will pass the test~ 
~at hanifin & kerry mcnamara 


.THE SCHOLASTIC 

DQME·7.4yearbook of the university of notre dame 
Janet A. Huber • Associate Editor 
Susan M. Darin Business Manager 
Joseph Raymond · ' Photography Editor 
Kathleen M. Buckley · Student LIie 
William J. Delaney Thomas D. Paullus '' Sports 
Marlene A. Zloza . Organizations 
Betsy Fallon Claes ol 1974 
M. Diane McDonnell 
Edltorlal Consultant 
LaFortune Center Notre Dame. Ind. 46556 219/283-7524 


Among all the writers and publications who each year describe, dissect, and analyze the complexity that is· Notre Dame, there is none whose intent is more am­bitious than that' of the Notre Danie Dome. That intent is to capture between the yearbook covers the character of the University over a year of its life, in an image that. will last once the year is past. And it's not an easy job. 
But even though the suns of June are still months away, the job is almost done for the editors, photogra­phers, and writers who are attempting to capture 1973-· 74 at the University of Notre Dame. By. the beginning ofMarch, Dome '74 will be in the hands of the publish­er, to . be in the hands of the students by May. When it is, it will be the finished'product of a staff of nearly fifty students and· a budget of just under forty thousand dollars. With a circulation of almost seven thousand copies, it will be among the top twenty college year­books in the country in fotal_ readership. 
Editor-in~chief of the 1974 Dome is senior American Studies major Rod Braye. He heads one of the youngest editorial boards of any of the campus media, and is in charge of coordinating the work of the several section editors: sorting through the three or four thousand negatives submitted for possible use, writing the copy 

· to go with the ones that are selected, and laying out the pages as they will appear in the final book. "My job is as coordinator, not master planner," he says. "Each of the section editors has eighty to eighty-five percent control over his own part. This way you'll be much less able to see the marks of one personality through the finished book." 
Braye and the staff face some · problems different from those of the other student media. Without the feedback that characterizes the Observer, Scholastic, and WSND, whose contact with their audience is much more frequent than the Dome's, the problem of obtain­ing an objective view of the work is much more difficult. 


Dome Editor, Rod Braye 

And the very nature of much of the Dome's content (in particular the most popular Sports and Student Life sections)·. is so subjective as to make the· difficulties even. greater. How will the readers react to two pages of close-ups of the ducks on St. Mary's Lake? There is no way to tell until the finished books are. unloaded in May. 
Another problem is avoiding the cliches of the 

Notre Dame image in assembling the yearbook's por­
trait. "We're all aware of Notre Dame's image -beer-. 
drinking, football, and all that. Everybody likes cheer­
leaders, and so we get plenty of pictures of cheerlead­
ers. Everyone likes pictures of pretty girls down by 
the lake. The idea is to get beyond that and show the 
other sides as well, through copy· and through· pictures 
if you cari." 
Braye hopes that the '74 Dome will have some sur,: 

prises for the readers when it appears. Among the less 
definable (not only for the readers. but for the editors 
as well, who will see their finished product a little sooner 
than anyone else) will be the influences of the young 
editorial board members, and of the Notre Dame women 
on the staff, whose presence has beeri missing in pre­
vious years. More specifically, th_e yearbook will feature 
more use of natural color throughout the sections, less' 
graphics, and more copy than last year's Dome. 
"We think this may be the start of a departure from the style used in the last two books," said Braye, "which were both a reaction to the very traditional format and large amount . of copy used in the 1971 edition. The . cornerstone of a book is its copy, and although not re­turning to the style of the '71 book, we're using text in capsule forrri to follow the pictures. It's through the copy that you can really catch the mood of the place." 
The book will also include full-color spreads on the 

Southern Cal and UCLA gaIIl~s and, if all goes well, a 
several-page .cartoon view. of the University, as drawn 
by a "slightly offbeat" Architecture student. 
In any case the finished 1974 Dome. will be the 

product of months of hard work in an attempt to realize 
that difficult ambition -of catching, and holding, 
the character of the University this year.. 
-pat·roach 
THE . SCHOLASTIC 


It was, I think, Oscar Wilde who observed that 
there are some ..minds so open as to leave room for no 
more than a draft. That is a witticism, and as such it 
becomes somehow isolated..One need look only as far 
as NBC's Tomorrow Show, however, to find Wilde's 
generalization proven true. There is at least one such 
mind loose (very loose) in the desolate spaces provided 
and expanded by American television. It belongs to 
Tom Snyder, the show's host, and is at least as drafty 
as certain sections of Notre Dame's Oak Room. The 
disposition of this m_ind is made more and more evi­
dent'in each installment of the new program, and there 
is really somethi~g very pure and· fine about it. ·But 
one night last year,· Tomorrow moved quietly from the 
amusing to the absurd, from the absurd to the gro­
tesque, and from the· grotesque to the downright dan­
gerous. Sr:iyder's · typically indiscriminate enthusiasm 
inspired hini to present to his viewers a reenactment of 
a Satanic curse. Not a real curse, mind you, but merely 
something to . enable you "to sorta get the feel" of the 
experience'; a little something to help you sorta "re­
late" to the thing. Nobody's getting hurt around here, 
folks. 
Nobody's gettirig hurt around here, folks. 
One of the nice · things about a television set is a 
knob which, if turned sharply counterclockwise, makes 
the sound and the image of the tube go away. On some 
sets, it is not turned but pushed in toward a panel be­
low or beside the tube. On other sets there is a cord 
which .· exter:ids over distances of up to 30 feet at-. 

tached to a small box about the size and shape of an eight-transistor radio. There are buttons and knobs all over this mechanism, but I am not sure how one of · these is operated. I know of one remarkable television set in Peoria which orily goes off when it is unplugged. 
It is not the fault of technology, but of something 
deeper and far more mysterious, that there are too 
many times 'that one simply doesn't want to turn, 
push, unplug, or fumble· with whatever i_t is that'makes 
that big, cold, dim, blue eye close. · · · 
About the curse: 
By its inclusion in that show, it was presented as 

a trivial thing. A harmless thing. A boring thing. A . thing taken at random from that welter of trivial, harmless, boring things which makes up the world which much of nighttime· TV explores and propagates. It was presented as merely another one of those many things which, in our desperation, we must attempt to endow with significance by giving them our attention. The brands of shoes favored by most mailmen,. the sorts of tires preferred by~the California State Patrol, the schedules of Los Angeles milkmen, the size of tips lately given to Burbank bartenders, the late show. 
' ' '. 

Because nobody's getting hurt around here. Tom giggled and said "ouch" when the Satanist priest beseeched the Fiend to destroy his enemies and plunged a dagger into the neck of a wax doll. Ouch. I believe in devils. Even if one doesn't believe in devils,. however, no great amount of imagination is re­quired to understand that something crucially wrong · is going on here. If, for example, Roman Catholicism were a small sect in the Santa Cruz Mountains, a priest would probably be invited to the show. Tom Snyder would probably ask him to demonstrate the ceremony of the Eucharistbetweeri commercials. _. It would be far out. Nobody would be getting hurt. If one doesn't believe that there is a reason to believe anything, most .of the above will make no sense. Nor will this: This is really not .an article about the Tomorrow Show, but an article about The Exorcist. I have seen the Tomorrow Show. I have not seen The Exorcist. The Exorcist is coming to South Bend. It might even come to campus. I will want to· see it when it does; Here is why: 
1. It is a scary movie; I like scary movies. 
· 2. It is so scary that many psychiatrists are now swamped with calls from all sorts of people with all sorts of emotional and imaginative problems which can be traced directly to thl'!ir viewing of this big, ugly, frightening film. 
3. 
That is scary. .. 

4. 
It · would be fun to swagger out of the theatre like Paul Newman and say: That was about as scary as a peanut butter sandwich. Or th!;! Illinois. State Journal. Or the Dean of Students. I've seen scarier 

. things than that in Ob.server editorials. (I think I might have.) · 


5. 
I ·am young and American, with a gigantic capacity for boredom. The Exorcist, whatever else it might be, is apparently not boring.: 


The film is an alleviation of boredom which I hope that I, and the people I love, will not experience. It is grounded in and appeals to a fascination which is, simply, evil. · 
Evil. The erudite· and occasionally articulate Mr. Philip Lesh, a brilliant bass guitarist for the incomparable Grateful Dead, was once asked for his reaction to the troubles at the Altamont rock festival. Do you know what he said? "It just don't seem right." 
-michael garvey 

. 

('" ,-..:-. ......._ ., : •·--.-. <--,:-:: ' ·, : _--_ ·. :_~-C -=--.-.-:.: ... ._ _......··.·_·-,___ ;.:_ ., .... ·.-. ;· __ . ,..-_':--·:.::: .. :_--_ :. _-";,. .._ .. --· .. : ,;._ . .·: .:·. > ._-, ___ ._. :-· =:-:.~·-:_:.=:_;:.; '. :'.__ --~ -·;.,:-.-.:_-.,.-~_-=. v:_;:;. _-...__ ----.~-; ·. .'\ •:<:-'· ·..: :-;~·:. _-•. • 
.-:-:~_--.

j-,; ·. ..: .
> -•• -----..-••• 

( 
I 
I 
l-'•••.... , ... ,;:.'c: ...•••/ ·•••·• ,: {Jo~·1;;_~;;_.;;;~;.ciions
._ .. , .. ~> ••·· -+~s~ ·>a · ~•c=.. •<·-·~•~•-•• · -• J --•-·•·••••-••~•-•-•••-·•-· ace• .-·. ~· •••-.-. ••••·•· .J
~~· 



FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15 ... Joyce Carol Oates, Sophomore Literary Festival, · Library Aud., 8 :00 p.m. Speaking on Humanistic 
Psychology and Literature. ... South Bend Art Center, Film Series. . ... ShinboneAlley, Presbyterian Players.. . . . Lloyd Orrell Gospel Concert, Morris Civic Aud. 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 16 
... Shinbone Alley, Presbyterian Players. . . . A \Varm• December, ·O'Laughlin Aud., 7 :00 & 9 :00 
p.m. ­. . . Isaac Bashevis Singer, Sophomore Literary Festival, 
Library Aud., .. 8 :00 p.m..The Supernatural and Lit­. erature. 

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 17 
... The Crime of M. Lange (Renoir). Cinema '74, Engi­neering Aud., 8 :00 & 10:00 p.m., $1.00. Patrons free. . : . Gertrude Stein's Gertrude Stein, with Nancy Cole. Little Theater (SMC), 8:00 p.m. 
lUONDAY, FEBRUARY 18 
... Mexican American .. Lecture Series: Dr. Fernando Penal~sa (California State Univ., Long Beach). Li­brary Lounge, ·7:30 p.m. 
... A Day in the Country and French Can Can (Renoir). Cinema '74, Engineering Aud., 8:00 & 10:00 p.m., $1.00. Patrons free. _ ­
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 19 _ . . 
~ .. l\larcel Marceau, O'Laughlin Aud., 8 :00 p.m. 
• . •Spies (Lang). Cinema '74, Engineering Aud., 2:00 & 
4 :00 p.m., $1.00. Patrons free. ... AFROTC. Lecture Series, Library Aud., 4:~0 p.m. 

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20 ... Music Dept. Guest Artist Series: Roberta Bowers, . mezzo-soprano; Rhea Shelters, pianist. Library Aud., 8 :15 p.m., $1.00. 
. .•~ Shanghai Express (Von Sternberg). Cinema '74, Engineering Aud., 8:00 & 10:00 p.m. $1.00. Patrons free. 
. .. American Scene Series: Inflation and the U.S. Bal-­a.nee of Payments. Carroll Hall (Madeleva), 7 :30 p.m. 
. ' 
' . 

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21 . 
. . . Scarlet Empress (Von Sternberg). Cinema '74, Engi­·. neering Aud., 8:00 & 10:00 p.m., $1.00. Patrons free. ... Poetry: Chaos, Form and Tradition Series; ..Goethe: Poetry of Experience, Stapleton Lounge (Le,Mans), 
7:00 p.m. . . . Faculty Recital: Susan Stevens, soprano. Little The­
ater (SMC), 8:15 p.m.­; .. Shinbone Alley, Presoyterian Players. 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22 . . .. Philidor Trio, Music Dept. Guest Artists Series, Li­
brary Aud., 8 :15 p.m., $1.00. · 

... Shinbone Alley, Presbyterian Players. 
.. . 1\larx:Brothers, films 1 & 2, CAC, Engineering Aud., · 6:00 & 10:00 p.m. $.75, or $3~00 for all six films 
· (2 each, Friday, Saturday, Sunday). · · 

SATURDAY, .FEBRUARY 23 . .. -. . . . ; . Marx Brothers, films 3 & 4, CAC. Engineering Aud., 
6:00 & 10:00 p.m:'$.75, or $3.00 for all six films. ... Shinbone Alley, Presbyterian Players. · 
. I . 

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 24 . . , . , . Marx Brothers, films -5 & 6, CAC. Engineering Aud., , 
6:00 & 10:00 p.m. $.75, or $3.00 for· all ·six films. ( ... Deliverance, Washington Hall. · · 
: THE· SCHOLASTIC


l\lONDAY, FEBRUARY 25 ... La Strada (Fellini, 1954), Engineering Aud., 7 :00 & 
9:30 p.m. . . _· 

... Prof. Howard V. Malmstadt (Dept. of Chemistry, Univ. of Illinois). "A New Generation of Laboratory Instrumentation," 123 Nieuwland, 4 :30 p.m. 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26 
... Vienna Boys'. Choir, Elkharf Concert Club, Elkhart Memorial High School. ... AFROTC Lecture Series, Library Aud., 4:00 p.m.. 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27 
. . . Prof. Howard V. Malmstadt (Dept. of Chemistry, Univ.. of Illinois). "Automated Spectrophotometry," 123 Nieuwland, 4 :30 p.m. 
. . . Black Studies Film Series, Engineering -Aud., 7 :00 
p.m. . . 

. . . American Scene Series: Legal and Ethical Implica­tions of Behavioral Analysis, Carroll Hall (Made­leva), 7:30 p.m. · · 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY .28 . . 
... Latin American Black Poetry (Poetry: Chaos, Form and Tradition Series), Stapieton Lounge (Le Mans), 
7:00 p.m. · · ... Music Forum: Norman. Delio Joio, Little Theater (SMC), 4:30 p.m. 
. . . A Comedy of Errors, National Players, Union Aud., Goshen College. · 
FRIDAY, l\lARCH 1 
. ~ . Music, Dept. Guest Artist S_eries: Jeanne Traun, : soprano; Harriet Peacock Le Jeune, flute; Hilda · Freund, piano. Library Aud., ·8 :15 p.m., $1.00 . 
. . . Prof. Howard V. Malmstadt (Dept. of Chemistry, Univ. of Illinois). Reaction~Rate l\lethods of Analy~ sis. 123 Nieuwland,.4:39 p.m. ,. · 
... Two ·Gentlemen of Verona,.·· Morris Civic Aud. (Broadway Theater League of South Bend). 
. . . Sleeping Beauty, I.U.S.B. Theater. 
. . . Choral Concert: Dello_ Joio's l\lusic, O'Laughlin Aud., . 8:15 p.m:_ · 
OPENING: l\larch.1: Todd Walker, Pl_iotography. O'Shaughnessy Gallery, through March 31. 
l\larch 1: Graphics of Leonard Baskin, ;La.us Pictorum. 
Radecki Galleries, through March 31. · 

CONTINUING: 
Graphics in Architecture, Radecki Galleries, through February 28. Objects and Crafts 1973, Good Library, Goshen College, through February 24 . Northern Indiana Artists and St. Joseph Valley Water,. · color Society, South Bend Art Center, through February 24 . Indiana Printmakers' Traveling Show, Moreau Gallery (Lower), .through February 24. .Paintings by Suzanne Golubski, Moreau Gallery (Up­per), through February 24. Paintings by Harold Zisla, Hammes Gallery (SMC), through March 1. Baroque Worlis from the Permanent Collection, O'Shaughnessy Gallery, through February 24.. .Faculty of the University of l\linnesota, O'Shaughnessy Gallery, through February 24. Paintings by l\lrs. l\largaret l\loody, YWCA Art Gallery, through February 28. · 
Dorothy l\liner l\lemorial Exhibition. A selection of late Medieval and .Renaissance manuscripts from the McNear Collection, O'Shaughnessy Gallery, through 
April 14. . . . Don Vogl, Recent Graphic Works, O'Shaughnessy Gal~ · · · lery, through March 8. · 
-riclc'gering 



Cinema '74 

Foreign Masters Fest.iVal 
Cinema '74 presents five films by James Bond. but he is killed by Monsieur Lange. three great masters Feb. 17-21: on Orson Welles has singled out Jean French Can Can (Monday, Feb. Sunday, Feb. 17, at 2:00 p.m. Fritz Renoir's Grand Illusion as one of the 18 at 8:00 and 10:00 p.m.) -is one of ­;Lang's Spies and at 8:00 and 10:00 two films he would ha~e for poster-Renoir's recently unshelved fifties 
p.m. Jean Renoir's short "A Day in ity. Renoir has been recognized as movies.. It is a colorful and loving the Country" plus The Crime of one of the greatest, if not the great-portrait of shows and ·show people Monsieur Lange; on Monday, Feb. est, filmmakers of all time by hoth set in Paris in 1888. In order to 18 at 8:00 and 10:00 p.m. Renoir's audiences and critics. . save his dwindling finances, a night-French Can Can; on Wednesday, Born in 1894, the son of the great club ·owner, Danglar,' decides· to re­Feb. 20 at 8:00 and 10:00 p.m. Jo­Impressionist painter of the nine-vive the Can Can and present it _in a seph von Sternberg's Shanghai Ex­·teenth century, Auguste Renoir, spectacular cabaret_ which-he will press; and lastly on Thursday, Feb­Jean directed the first of his 35 films · build -the MouUn ·:a~uge. Dang­ruary 21 at 8:00 and 10:00 p.m. in 1924, La Fille de L'Eau. . Three lar's plans, ·relationships with .var­Sternberg's The Scarlet Empress. major creative periods ·divide his ious women and lavish rehearsal and . Admission is $1 and free to Cultural career: pr~World War II when he ·performance.scenes are detailed. · Arts Commission patron_s. All films · had classics such as BO'Udu Saved Joseph von Sternberg;s filmscom-will ·be shown in the Engineering. from Drowning (1932), Toni (1934), . plete the festival series.-His fore-· Auditorium. · · Les· Bas-Fonds (1936), La _Grande · most criterion for good filmmaking 
The main point of the festival is Illusion (1937), The Rules of the is style. Whereas critics of his time to expose a few of the lesser-known Game (1939). His -Am_erican ad-took style to mean sonie-sort of in­works of these three very great di­ventures encompass the years . be-terioi:_ decoration, Sternberg's ·defini­rectors. Jean Renoir {the· maker of tween 194i:-1954 during which he tion inextricably interwove the char.: Rules of the Game and Grand Illu,. made five movies in the States, one acter•s· personality with_ his . own. sion), Fritz Lang (the maker of M) in Italy and one in India. . Sternberg's fame is derived from his and Joseph · von · Sternbe.rg {the In 1956 Renoir abandoned film-association with actress Marlene maker of The Blue Angel) were all making, submerged himself_ in the Dietrich..His films have. everything far too good to have inade one, or ·theatre' for three years a~d then ·, ___.:_ social criticism,_ sex,. myth, ro.: possibly two_"masterpieces" only to · taught drama· at the· University of·· ma.nee-· which his pessimistic ·phi­have· spent the rest of their careers California at Berkeley. losophy can _ultimately .reduce to in the creation of "minor" ·works. . In "A Day.in.the Country" (1936) light arid shadow. ' -­Each of the films in the festival (Sunday, Feb. 17 at 8:00 and 10:00 Shanghai EX'JJ7"ess (Wednesday, bears the mark of the truly great p.m.) Renoir took a painting by his Feb> 20 ·at 8:00. and 10:00 p:m.) filmmaker. Each exhibits the vision, father and created a whole film casts Marlene Dietrich as Shanghai the technique, the overall artistry around its central tableau. An in-Lily, a.Woman Journeying from Pe­that is found only in the work of a nocent young girl comes of age in· king to Shanghai. ·The film· is dedi~ true master. To anyone at all inter:. this short film. In the late 1800's a . cated-to 'the proposition of uncondi~ ested in the film medium, at. all in­merchant takes his family for an', .tional love. . . . .. . . . . . c . terested in those men who define the outing on the banks of the Marne, • . : The. Scarkt-' Emyress (Thursday,_ standards of film art, to anyone in­where his wife.and his daughter are Feb. 21· at 8:00 and 10:00 p.m.) re­terested.even in the very broad idea seduced. Renoir appears as the Inn~ ·fleets· "sferritierg's shift fo a style of artistic expression itself, the fes­keeper. . more'harsh/crU:ei and. suicidally ex-. tival should be a fascinating event; The Crime of Monsieur·· Lange· travagant: · Dietrich . again' 'stars,.. and to those just looking for a few summarizes Renoir's belief during ; playing .Catherine.'the :Great.. Bar­good movies to see, any of these the thirties that the common man, riers between ·sex .and' politics, are films should be a joy to watch. by united action, could overcome · battered down, ,the decor is incred-· 
Spies, Fritz Lang's story of secret · tyranny. In it; the head of a print-· ible and insanity sweeps the orgy agents and master criminals (Sun­ing press steals all of the firm's and torture scenes. day, Feb. 17, at 2:00 · p.m.)° com­holdings. The employees organize, . _The directors' series pro_mises to bines · explosions, rooms filling with collect some capital and begin pub-· be a cqrnticopia oLcinematic talent water and mysterious Orientals with lishing popular: novelettes .of .their and artistry> It is a must· for all the avant-garde German film art to neighbor Monsieur Lange. The dis-movie buffs., create an . exciting and worthy· honest proprietor returns to confis--. . . jane thor:nton .· predecessor to Alfred Hitchcock and cate the now prosperous business, 
. , .THE 'SCHOLASTIC 
·The Poet :·of Silence 
"The action of the mime may be compared to that of a glass blower holding aloft a transparent mas­terpiece before the astonished eyes of the Sunday strollers, who burst into applause. The artist of the Mime throws. suspension dots into space, and the spectator writes his own letters on this curve.'' 
· ' -Etienne Decroux 

According. to, Jean Dorcy, chronicler and comrade· of the great French mimes of the 20th century, the first mime iri history was a certain Livius Andronicus. "Having lost ·his voice, he had a chorister speak his lines, while he, Livius, mimed to the piping of the flute and the rhythmic clash of cymbals: the Mime was born.'' . .. 
. it is a long road indeed; from our mute Livius and his narrator. to the . silent adventures of Bip, Marcel Marceau's man of a thousand attitudes. Pick­ing up fragments of style from the Chinese and Japanese ·theater. of Antiquity, the Mime of the dance, . the· Commedia dell'arte, and the circus clown, the art of Modern Mime ( on which the French· Ecole ·du Vieux-Colombier, which spawned Marceau, Barrault, ·.. Decroux and so. many others, seems to hold· a monop­oly) has attained an intricacy and purity of style and form· which, unfortunately, is rarely understood. Mar­
. eel Marceau, the best-known inheritor of this long tra­dition, arrives on the O'Laughlin stage this Tuesday evening. Those of us who were fortunate enough to see him here last February are waiting anxiously. · · 
In explaining just what Mime is, Dorcy undertakes to more carefully enumerate:what it is not .. A mimeis not an acrobat,· a clown, or an actor in a silent film. Rather, he is an· artist who, with his body as his only medium draws sustained images in space. He is a sculp­tor ·of human form; an architect of image, using only his· body for raw material. He is not (despite a ·con­fusion which even many dictionaries perpetrate) the same. as a· mimic. He does not imitate -he creates. _ 
· Marceau, the silent prince of the world's stages, while contributing significantly to the development arid popularization of Mime as an art form, has at the same time added to the confusion over the essence of Mime 
. by developing idiosyncrasies of style which have earned hiin the harsh'criticism of many of his fellow' artists. He is·. often {perhaps jealously) accused of overpop­ularizing and commercializing Mime for his own sake. Jean Dorcy himself, at tlie end of a laudatory chapter on Marceau, was led fo_warn: 
"For the survival of the Mime, we are inclined to rely. more on tlie school ·of Etienne-Decroux than on. Marcel Marceau's .spectacular successes." . 

F'EBRUARY 15, 1974 

Another serious complaint lodged against Marceau 

is his elaborate use of his face as an expressive medium. 
Dorcy, Decroux and others have complained that this 
not only serves to further confuse the audience ·about 
the difference between the art of Mime and the me­
anderings of Chaplin's Little Tramp; it furthermore 
draws attention away from the rest of the body, where · the expressive artistry of. the mime should lie. 
Even his . most severe critics,.· though (many of 

whom he has outlasted), cannot dispute Marceau's 
mastery of his' style. His sense of timing, his ability to 
invoke ·space and duration in a si~gle gesture, and his 
astonishing control ·are sufficient recompense for his 
supposed excesses. And his ability to draw upon sensa­
tion and. experience; to portray in asingle "attitude" 
what most of us require a page to say, is perhaps the 
most valuable contribution to the art of Mime in recent 
years. 
So we wait patiently for Tuesday evening. Even the · most vehement objections to particular aspects of Mar­
ceau's style melt away when Bip arrives on stage and 
announces with his first wide-eyed gesture that he· has -the world in his. pocket -and we had better watch carefully, for he is about _to let it:'out. And we will watch·.· ·And Bip won't.let us· down. ___ . . _ .'. ~7.'erry-~~~Ta ·. 
·13 
The 


C. 

A. 
P. 

Report_ 
The 
Committee on Reorganizing Academic Priorities 
Week in: Distortio_D: 
. ' -·several points should be made about this report: : 
1. We are not ·founding this' University. On the contrary, we're graduating. in a couple of months if we don't get kicked out" first for ·having those female . fruit flies from Biology in our rooms after parietal . c 
hours:.. . . 
2. ·According to Newton's .First Law ·of Motiqn, large institutions tend to be run as though they were . somebody's· hobby. . _ . · · · 
3; We're not going to name names. We reaily don't­have to; we're pretty good at innuendo. What.does .. slander mean anyhow? .Take that; Howie.Bath.on: 
4 •. Our task proved· staggering .. '!'he. only way out was plagiarism. · · · · · · 
-·m'scHowTic 



Catholic Character 

.· This University certainly has a lot of Catholic characters. . . 

Financial. 
Ain't looking.too· good. 
· All those protests a ,while. back convinced people 

that those universjt:y guys didn't know what was going 
on.. The Greeks ·used to kill messeng·ers bringing bad 
tidings..Of course we're more civilized; we only. cut·. 
off funds.. ·• . . . . . 
· .That.tax reform act in '69.made gener9sity more 

costly,. they. say. 'Taint so; less profitable, with smaller 
deductions is more like it". · . · . . ; . 
· There is also a lot of money to . be made through 
the Bookstore,. AC.C., etc. Since these are for. stu­
dents; they. should have a prudent price policy. "Pru­
dent" a~d "low" are not necessarily synonymous. 
.Enrollment 

· .. Notr~ Da:rne and SMC should explore symbiotic post­. ~erger academic relationships. Maybe that means. they 
shouldn't be enemies anymore. Maybe, too, they could 
share facilities and continue exchange program; any-· 
thing, that is, short of pushing the beds together. 
. Notre Dame should ·be sensitive to the injustice 
of-policies that discriminate against women. You can 
be sensitive to them, you see, without abolishing them. 
Hmm, do 'you know anybody wh9se promotion is being 
sat on?. (Hint: Theology) . 
Also, when all those women graduate, they shouldn't 

be spared the Alumni Fund dunning notes. Maybe they 
can have ·Sugar Bowl tickets,. too. 
We should aid graduate students more, but aid 

fewer of them. · We should treat them much the same · 
as,undergraduat_es; i.e., poorly. 

Residentiality 

Next to the academic mission and· those aforemen­tioned Catholic characters;·residentiality is the least dispensable of• Notre Dame's ha:llmarks. Bye-bye, hall­marks. What this has traditionally meant is that·. everyone ·at Notre Dame has 11?Sided ' somewhere. Seriously, though; the halls are overcrowded, which doesn't· look so good, -so we're reconini.ending ·getting rid of overcrowding. ~a:11 life will be better for the lucky people who get to stay. Since we're not about to build new dorms ... well! _tough luck, buddy. 
F.EBRUARY 15, 1974 
· Halls are designed for prayer, study and sleep, but the noise levels often make these impossible. The halls are not designed for normal living, though, which is also impossible at times. 
The hall rector is the chief "between classes" edu­cator. But you didn't know. this. . 
Rectors should be Congregation of Holy Cross mem­bers, who have had this and similar duties as their. work and· calling ever since the hardworking··Father Sorin blessed our fair shores with their presence. Addi­tional advertising space is available in ·this report for the nominal fee of $1 per line. · 

Physical .Environment 
We have a beautiful campus, although the build­ings to the east of Old Juniper Road were placed (and possibly .designed) by a random-number generator. We might ·even let somebody besides Ellerbe do a couple of buildings for a . change. 
·· We need long-range planning. This conclusion, a landmark one in Notre Dmne history, was arrived at after lengthy deliberation. ' 
· : No'tre · Dame is a great place. We have a wonder­ful tradition, a great community life, love of fellow · man evident at all hurry, last chance for advertising space at regular prices. 
We should make residentiality available to every­one who wants it, but we don't expect to do much more construction. We do expect an overall decrease in the consistency of· our statements. .. 
•We submit this report to the Notre Dame commu­nity at large in the expectation that, after extended · study and comment from various _constituencies of the University community, ·it will no doubt be ignored. Did· we ever expect more'! 
-t. J. clinton 
· 15 





ATelevision Jones~ 
It was the prime time of the Comet Kohoutek's coming. Radio talk shows, dinner conversations, tele­phone speculation, countless furtive glances at the sky and even prayers for visibility at dusk all heightened the expectation surrounding the unearthly wonder. It would be splendid. It would be chilling. It would be a cosmic entertainment spectacular, liberated from the incessant necessities of commercials, presented as free, worthwhile, non-discriminatory entertainment, rated "G" for "God's own," guaranteed finally to be unmatched for eons. In 1985, the arrival of Halley's Comet, regular as clockwork, would even be a dull testimony of the way things were back in January, 1974. Certainly, the week of January 6 promised a great celestial reward. 
And so, for five consecutive nights, impervious to the immoral sceptics-the scientific rogues and scoun­drels who disgustingly suggested that "it ain't like they said it would be"-I gazed ·for two twilight hours into the Southwest sky hoping for the wonder comet to show itself like an apocalypse. I waited and watched; watched and waited.. Once, at the edge of delirium boredom, I suspected I saw Venus sprout a tail and be­gin wiggling through the void. But was the comet's ab­sence disappointing? It certainly was not. Sometimes mistakes are made which even professionals cannot foresee and, since they are not foreseen, the blame must not be focused on anyone, since professionals are some­times· unforseen and they lose track of the inoperative truth factor of their cognitive input.. It was no big deal. 
In fact, over the vacation, I came to enjoy lethargy and lethargy catches. Prior to the Kohoutek vigil and continuing throughout the week, television could be relied upon to take up the slack. Those weeks of con­stant viewing trained me well for continuous nights of anticlimax. I didn't complain. It was very easy to sit and view and view and view some more. During one commercial, I remembered that I had not experienced such a complete immersion into the underworld since sophomore year of high school-the year in which my class rank slithered from the top 50 down to 267 out of 330..Recall to me the unsettling reminder that my 
initiation into study was tenuous, · coming at the heels 
of the network cancellation of such greats as "The Man 
From U.N.C.L.E." and "It Takes.a Thief." Subsequently, 
a privately enraged boycott ensued against the net­
works. 

During the break, therefore., tele\'.ision again became 
an easy entertainer. By ,refusing to watch death and 
dissolution on the news every night, I incubated my 
sensibilities so ·that I · cotµd still read the newspaper 
without depression. Mired i!J. such a rapturous bog, 
I even snickered to • myself · while calling to mind my 
parents' stories of their childhood nights as the family 
sprawled in front of the large radio listening to the 
likes of Jack Armstrong, the Shadow, and Jack Benny, 
primitively using their imaginations. 
But if soap operas can teach us anything at all, the 
message is clearly that oftentimes television .love affairs 
are short. My relationship ended abruptly by necessity 
the day before returning from the break. A Television 
Jones on a college campus is.·an •irr~eemably hooked 
cookie.. While driving south on the New Jersey Turn­
pike, after leaving Newark, I began suddenly to ponder. 
I thought primarily of hazardous · circumstances. On a 
Sunday, my thoughts _drifted from the real possibility 
of running out of gas to the more insidious and no less 
troubling proposition: what is television's nature? Why 
do people watch it? What is it good for? Is it no'inore 
than a saccharin-coated mind-wearier or is· it a bless~ 
ing of some kind? I wasn't quite sure. In my own e~­
perience, .it was so · easy to slip unconsciously into a comfortable addiction. Besides merely watching, for · · example, I _searched daily with great interest through 
the T. V. Guide to find out: a. who were Johnny Car­
son's guests .tha.t night; b:; was there a ''glitter-rock''. 
television concert scheduled; c. what was A.B.C.'s spe­
cial. on •~Wide World of-Entertainment"; d. what re­
formed saloon singer either. was hosting a special, or 
philosophizing as • a private eye who never. loses, or 
suffering as the witless and deadpan ,husband on .an· 
old west situation_ comedy set in Broken Nose;, Idaho. 
One need not tire the mind,to realize that. television is 
a medium which can very easily consume the viewer. 
16 

THE SCHOLASTIC 
Ii , 

Small wonder then that tomes are written on -the complexities of television, its socio-cultural effects, the specific inipact of T.V. on familial relationships, the current propensity of various advertisers to create and sustain certain consumer needs and, certainly, the pro­found ability·of the television medium to wage election campaigns in living rooms throughout the ·country (thereby creatini'.and sustaining the need for the ac~ ceptarice or the rejection of certain public servants). A bibliography ·would _prove too extensive for inclusion here.· · 
There are, nonetheless, certain broad categories un­der which many theoretical attempts to strip away the false tinsel~nly .to discover the real tinsel -'linder­neath!-might fall: television makes. human beings more civilized; or, television makes people less civilized; the tube breaks down the authority structureJn fam­ilies because the children might be more apt to listen · to Walter Cronkite than Dad; or, the tube strengthens the authority. structure in.families because the parents ultimately decide whether to watch professional wres­tling or "Hallmark Hall of Fame"; television·continually shrinks our world, transforming everyone into citizens of _a "global village," united by mass communications; or, television isolates societies because people can easily identify whole cultural, ethnic or natural groups inso­far as television presents, in effect, only stereotypes and mass caricatures. · 
No matter what an individual's theoretical :dish might be, it seems incontrovertible that commercial television, as it now stands, adequately treats a limited number of events or subjects well. It is strange that most of these presentations stem from sources inde­pendent of the studio _or a producer's whimsy. Hence; the prevailing higher "reality" factor tends to stimulate the viewers' interest more profoundly. Such presen~ tations include news coverage, weather forecasting, coverage of special events~assassinations, natural ca­tastrophes, elections, space shots and spo_rts-and var­ious theatrical productions which_ are transplanted. on­to T.V.-Ham7,et, Much Ado About Nothing, The Poet 

FEBRUARY 15; 1974 17 j 
~ I 
I 
Game. This is not to suggest, however, that all which television produces is unequivocally terrible. Rather, such exceptions as "F. Scott Fitzgerald and 'The Last of the Belles'," "Hallmark Hall of Fame," the Dick Cavett specials, some movies, and a few series help re­
-deem television markedly. Nonetheless, the greater-pro­portion of weekly air time contains lackluster· medio­crity, at best. It is a wonder as to how intelligent T.V. critics across the country-not to forget The Observer's Art Ferranti-survive and maintain sanity given the general redundancy of the offerings. Indeed, it would be unfair to focus the entjre blame for television's sloven posture on the general viewer. Insofar as personal experience indicates, television does easily addict. When one gets hooked on anything, the nature of the malady substantially increases· the ad­diet's toleration of inferior quality. Anything will do­beer is beer, wine is wine, dope is dope, smoke is smoke, situation comedy is situation comedy. It is also under­standable that television, unfruitful as it might appear to the passive observer, does relax people after a day's work. Given the demise of "old radio," the high prices of movies and the theater, the hellish proposition of playing cribbage every night, the near impossibility of organizing a citizen's revolt against the re-repackaging of old ideas, given all of this, there seems not much else to be done for entertainment on a mass cultural level. One could argue that "snuggling up with a good book" is a stimulating alternative to the dial. Yet a grand increase in the mass consumption of novels~ McLuhan, I think, refers to reading as a "cool," less seductive medium-shares the same chances of fruition as a new American revolution. In short, the problem plaguing the paucity of T.V. excellence resides not so much with the viewer as with the profound overemphasis on the system of commer-· cial broadcasting. Too often, T.V. shows seem merely 
to fill in time betw~n cmnmercials. It is less humorous 
to ·realize that commercials are generally better than 
the shows and they only last sixty seconds, too. The 
real taient-is undoubtedly manifest to the degree that 
commercial "constructors" can sell soap interestingly. 
Consider the evidep.ce. ' During one two-hour stretch -when I was plastere~ befo:r:e the tube, my four-year-old brother was, at times, more zealous about the com­mercials than some of the shows. He stopped legitimate play to stare transfixedly at. the advertisement . . . 
When writing about television. there is always so 
much to say. My outline tells me that I am going to 
write about the omnipresence of Dr. Joyce Brothers,· 
about how Dr. Joyce must never sleep-she must work 
so hard-about how splendidly cheerful she was when 
proctoring "The American Love Test." According to 
outline,. much needs -to be. said-about new theories of 
communication which will allow Johnny Carson to pur­
sue conversations coherently even with commercial 
breaks arriving after every few verbs. And there are 
always the "glitter-rock" concerts and Sonny and Cher 
to consider as well. There is so much to talk about but; 
in the end, it all comes out the· same: the problem with 
television is the problem·with Christmas-overly com.: 
mercial emphasis. 
At present, no solution seems-possible. The people watch and watch. Commercials will continue to con­vince Americans that they need a new laxative when prunes seldom fail. Yet things might change. Perhaps . even the Comet•Kohoutek_ will return .to shine like they said it would. Its chances-for a comeback will-not be realized, however, until tjle: networks resurrect the "Star Trek" team to go~ fetch that comet. If they sue­. ceed, it could mean millions. Mr.·spockwill make sure 
it works this time. · · · *"Jones''-A junkie of any kind. Refer to Cheeck and Chong's."Basketball Jones." -jack wenke 
The Crooked Rook 
ANSWER TO LAST PROBLEM 
1. R-KR4 P-Q4 2. Q-R8 mate CHARLES PROMISLO
P-Q3 2. Q-R3 mate 
First Honorable ·Mention Good Companions· February 22,.191? 
White mates in two moves 


SOLUTiON IN NEXT ISSUE 
. :THE SCHOLASTIC 




Paner Benual 
..Like any true.artist, Ali makes it look so easy. Within ·the confines of t~e ring that is his canvas he paints his special picture. He·is at once _a dancer and· a. matador·. . . gliding aro~nd .his opponent and peppering · him with swift arm movements until the victory is . carved out. By the w~~ie force of his character, Ali.ele­vates ~ox~ng• •to. a strange sort e>f poetry.that seduced me a long tim,e ago. And :here I am. at the mirror again; dancing. to the. left, flicking the left jab, . and_ looking and. feelirig like Ali.· 
glory. Easy! . Of course I'U. be my usual subtle self about it so I don't seem like · a deluded fool, which I may be. I'll talk to Samaniego; he won the 160-lb. division last year. I'll tell him I want to work out with him. You know, get in ·shape and learn a ~ittl~ boxing, nothing too serious. 
"Well, I haven't decided if I'm going out again, Greg," said Jerry when I sprung the good news on him 
last December. · ,. · . "What ·do you· mean? You're the 'champ. What about your fans?" 

So you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to fight in the Bengal 
.· Bouts. I !m no ·ceorge·Foreman, but. ·rm going to whip· this.body into the best shape ~ of its Ufe, · dance for three rounds·like Ali, and end my college caree~ in ·a blaze ·of athletic 
"If you come · otit' tliere with me maybe I will," he said; "And-if you do, why· don't you box?" ·· 
"I don't know about that. We'll have to see." 
Before Christmas break, then, our plan was set. Jerry. would fight again and I would be out there with him and doing it together would make it easier for both of us. Over the vacation I found myself cutting down on the.· Christmas . cookies, running, playing football,.basketball, and tennis, and thinking constantly about boxing. · 
Suddenly. my last . semester at Notre Dame became very structured, but I liked the idea. · I could relax into an orderly, · rewarding home stretch -an interesting course load on· the mi_nd side and boxing on the body side. How ... neat! The first wrinkle in· this scheme occurred when I found out that it wouldn't be so orderly. ·Boxing consumed me. I registered for classes and thought boxing, I read and thought boxing, I showered and ·hit the curtain with a left-right combination. This sport somehow inflamed the blood. 
Due to a 3:30 class on'·Monday arid Wednesday my workouts on those days were restricted to .run­ning. I began Wednesday, January 16 in the cool expanse of the ACC Fieldhouse. I ran· two miles; around and around that green Tartan sur­face, 20 times around, like a hamster on an exercise wheel, then· finished off the workout with a few· games of basketball. Feeling good . . . sound mind in sound body. 
Thursday at 3:30 was my· first workout with the team proper. Af­ter warming up by running • one mile, I'waited for the boxing room 
·to be opened when Samaniego finally 
showed up. He· just ran four miles 
outside. Four miles?· 
The boxing ·room is authentic. There is a ring·in the corner, heavy bags hanging from the ceiling,. speed bags and mirrors along the wall, and news clippings from old Bengal Bouts in glass cases all around the year for the Bengal Missions. Then at his fakes, threw half jabs, didn't room. There were about fifty guys he started talking about the sad counter, -got knocked off balance. I ­
.... 
there and most of them seemed to state of boxing in the United States. (·landed a few. light jabs, received a be my size. We were led through_ "It's not a sport here·· anymore. fat ·lip, and pondered-·the complexity 
__ a grueling round of calisthenics -Boxing used to be a great intercol-of this art. "Let me know what you ju~ping jacks, pushups, situps, legiate sport. Now the only schools decide,'' I told Samaniego as we left. jumping jacks, six count burpies, that have it even on our level are On Friday I found that my dedica­jumping jacks, arm lifts, neck ex-• the Service Academies and maybe . tion had already wavered. In those ercises, leg lifts, mountain climbers, : one~or two others," heSaid. --few short days I sen~ed the terrific toe touches, and jumping jacks. Af-· ''It's still a great sport in Europe. physical and emotional , ordeal in­ter a five-minute break we did it -They have boxing clubs -as we have volved in boxing. It is consuming. again, the whole painful, necessary golf clubs. We used to have clubs As I dressed in the locker room thing. And that was it. The. first but they're all gone now. Why? Be-someone said Samaniego had quit. week is always devoted to condition­cause boxing was saturated by I decided to work out anyway. I hit ing because that's half the game. money and TV and the abuses in the heavy bag and did the cals~ ·­
Friday was cold and gray, a good professional boxing came down and Then we put on the gloves and went day to run four miles. Four miles? affected all of boxing. There was through the jabbing and countering Bundled in sweats, with. a towel no distinction made between profes-drills, rotating partners. I hit my around my neck, Samaniego at my sicinal and amateur boxing. Pro box-first partner a few times and saw side, arid ·a question mark in my ing isn't a sport, it's 'a show. In box-his anger.. ·My . next partner was head I bolted out of the ACC ·and ing as a sport the rules a:,;e different. strong and pushed me around. Arid started jogging · north on Juniper. We'll never match·up boys who are this was only with the left hand. He It's good to be outside . -·. . in the far apart in ability. We try_ to get faked, I flinched, he landed, I burned air ...·running past cars ; ...seeing good, even competition. -If a man inside; We switched· partners :again the snowy fields ... watching your can't defend himself the bout is and this · time I landed · consistentiy breath . . . feeling the strength in stopped even ifit's only 15 seconds;'' and easily/He flinched and I struck your legs. We turned left at Doug­After Nappy's talk we put on the· and parried. his counters. I could las and headed towards 31._ gloves and drilled _ jab and parry see· his emotions bubble and some "My wind" feels great."· (block). Each drill was two minutes blood oi his iip arid it all welled up "How are the legs?" and the arms became heavy. It's inside me now and 'I felt badly. I "Not bad. Not bad." harder than it looks to get the took off 'my gloves, hung them -on 
. _ The pace was strong and· steady as mechanics right and to get within the _wall, and went· out looking for we turned ieft on 31.. There was no hitting range and -to ·keep 'from -Jerry to learn exactly what he went more talking. . Another left _onto flinching and tangling your feet ... __ through last year. 
· · "Jel'"M1,"·I:said, "I_ can see already_
Angela; all the way to Juniper, and Nobody ·has seen Saman_iego today;,_.-: -­
that this,T is so much more extrac:ir­
back to the ACC sprinting the last 
In the locker room before Thurs-. · · 
400 yards. It felt real good. We _day's practice· Samaniego. laid a dinary. than I·ever: imagined.-What joined everyone else for calisthenics bomb on me ... he' was thinking of was it like tp go through with the 
· · -· · whole thing7_." _ . _ · .,
and relentlessly pushed ourselves to 
quitting. "I want to dedicate more __ 

· the physical limit. · · t·m t th th· "h 'd "B "W_ell, I went ·out at first_to ge_t in ­
1 e o o er mgs, e sa1 . ox-Samaniego and I ran the four­ing is as much, if not more, mental-shape,''. he said. "If you ask anybody mile course again on Saturday morn­as physical. You have to warit•-ft there I think. the first thing they'll ing before the UCLA game and in and think about it and _sleep with it say. is they went out to get in shape. the shower afterwards I . suddenly and that takes ·much more -than I Then yoti go· through ·a· few· drills felt a sharp pain on the side of my want_ to give this year. As-a second-_--and all ·of a sudden· you're into· it. right foot. I was limping for· the•' semester_ senior there are a lot of. That's whaLhappened to me. Why? ­next three days and could do noth­things that are more important to·· Because . initially · you . don't know ing but rest. Although it was _my me -my girl friend and my friends · what it -is to· box, .the emotion in.­first boxing badge of courage, I felt and all the people I -haven't given volved. .. · ­I was losing valuable time. on· Tues­enough · time_ to. . Boxing . -requires "That's the ·route I went ~ from ­day the trainer told me to keep the total and complete dedication· .and just wanting to get in shape to blow­foot on ice and if it didn't heal. in my emotional_ involvement is else-•· ing mY, mind on boxing, not sleeping three days to have it x-rayed. I de­where. Besides that, i wouldn't want at night and boxing· the shower cur: · cided to work out anyway and just to go through itagain; I don't think, -tain and . the. mirror. -When I m,t stay off the foot as much as possible. because of . some· of the things it nervous and· tight -i'd "jump ·on the brought out in me; the violence. But ground and do 50 pushups." .
The· man who runs the Bengals, Dominick Napolitano, showed up of course I don't regret it. It was a _: -"You're kidding?" Tuesday at 4 o'clock to continue in­fantastic experience." . "No!· What happens.is-the more. 
struction. They say nobody knows He worked out Thursday· anyway -drills you go through the. more in­more about boxing than Nappy. and we went through the drills to-· vol\.'.ed, you become. You get hifa They also say · anyone who knows · gefu.er. We sparred for real but re­few times and then there's · a real him loves him. Nappy sat us down stricted it to. left jabs. Jerry was · sensation in hitting him a few times after cals and told -us about the pro­aggressive and threw heavy punches. And what happened· was I picked it gram and how $7500 was raised last My rhythm felt good, but I flinched up pretty good. -· I felt like I was 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
moving good and then the sensation 
tripled.· I went from a lackadaisical 
guy who wanted to get in shape to 
a completely . involved boxer. 
"If· there was anything more im­portant I couldn't have been out there. When those last three weeks came that's all I could think about. Then you're within a week and that's when Nappy begins his clos­ing talks and that gets you nervous. He gets up there and says, 'You've been using every ounce of energy for the last three weeks so you guys should be drained. For this last week all I want you to do is go· through the initial workout and work on your own. What you want to do is concentrate on regaining · all this . energy.' " · 
"Why were ycm ranked low in 
your division?" · · 
"Because I was an erratic boxer. 
I'd be in the ring sparring and learn­
ing all these things. You know, for 
example, that you have to parry and 
you know that when you parry you 
have to counter, and when you see 
an opening you have to learn to re­
act fast, but it's hard because you're 
concentrating on too many things at 
once. You're thinking about all this 
and all of a sudden you go into the 
ring and you do nothing right. You 
parry and ydu don't counter and all 
of a sudden here comes this right 
that smashes you in the head. That's 
what frustrates you. It looks easy 
to throw a punch or two. I mean, 
you watch Muhammad Ali and he's 
literally dancing. It's a beautiful 
thing to watch. But you can't ap­
preciate how complex it is until you 
try it. There's a real geometry, 
balance thing in boxing. 
"Anyway, this frustration made 
•me give up on thinking and. just go after ·the guy, sheer madness. And, man, you look like a spastic. Every­thing I learned· about boxing goes out the window and Nappy's having a croak on the side. 'No, no, get him out of there, ring the bell. You ain't boxing, you're going bananas.' That happened about five or six times. Those words stayed with me. Be­cal!,_se of that I wasn't picked to do very much in the division." 
"So what happened?" "It was the day before the first fight. I'm not supposed to do any­thing. I wanted to stay away from . the boxing , room, but I can't I jumped rope a little, jabbed a little. 
Then I went back to my room to think and try to study. I'd be studying and all of a sudden I'd find myself in a dead sweat. So I put my coat on and took a walk around Stepan Center. Back in .the room I was shaking and sweating and couldn't study. I was trying hard not to think of boxi~g, but I couldn't help it. I was dream­ing the whole fight in my · head. I couldn't eat dinner that night. Then I· went to a concert, came right · home, couldn't sleep, took warm 
milk, and went to bed." 
"Morning of the fight." 
''All the boxers eat breakfast to­
gether and you could feel the ten­
sion in the air. After breakfast I 
went back to my room and tried to 
take a nap, .but I couldn't sleep so , 
I walked around Stepan Center 
again, thinking and praying. I didn't 
even know what I was praying for.. 
I wasn't praying to win because it 
wasn't that.important. I just wanted 
to be able to hold my head high and · 
say at least I gave my best. 
"I remember walking over to the 
ACC with my roommate, Carl Mc­
Garvey, and he's saying, 'Well, 
Champ, how do you feel, Champ? .. .' 
And he said Champ so many times 
I told him to shut up. I was that 
nervous. I never, ever thought I 
would be that way about anything 
in my life. 
"Then it all happened. I got to the 
ACC and as I walked to the train­
ing room I got a few glances at the 
stadium, and I could see the ring 
at each glance.· My heart was throb­
bing, I was sweating like a pig. All. 
my senses were tremendously sharp. 
"After I got my hands taped I 
walked out to the empty arena and 
just sat ·. down and started rocking· 
and rocking. I got up and pissed 
about five times. Then all of a sud­
den the place was filled and I didn't 
even notice because I was reviewing 
in my head everything that had hap­
pened in connection with boxing. I 
relived the whole thing .and . when 

I woke up there were 5,000 people· 
there and the first flight was being 
announced. 
''Finall)' my fight came up and 
I got dressed very carefully. Every­
thing had to be right. Then a guy 
came in and, it was just like the 
stage, and he. said, 'OK you're on in 
five minutes.' Then all of a sudden 
I_ felt stiff _and started shaking. I was almost crying. Then Nappy calls us down the aisle. It was like en­tering the Roman Coliseum. Nappy's voice was cracking. He knew. the emotion we were going thro_ugh and he looked at us and said, 'Now you've worked awful hard for this. Let's go out and have a good showing. I love you both. You're both brave and worked hard.' I look back. on U and think if I ever had to go through that again I'd faint. 

"When I climbed through the ropes I heard a few friends call out my name, which helped me out, and I'm trying to get loose and think about what I have to do. Then when I least expect it the bell rings and after that I don't remember a punch I threw. I was like a computer. Any­way, I guess I hit him with a lot of left and a few rights because all I saw was blood squirting out and I really got into it. Then I started to loosen up and become aware of what I was doing, and how gross is.that? The more blood I saw the more feeling of success I had. "So I won pretty easily and in the locker room was happy and didn't know what to say and then he walked in crying. He walked over, blood coming down, threw his arms around me and said, 'You're a hell of a fighter, a hell of a guy, and I wish you all the luck.' I didn't know what to say. We both really tried and that's all that mattered. I didn't feel like I had defeated him, or was bet­
ter than him.'' "How did you feel?" "I felt good. I went home. And 
then the whole thing started all over again for two more fights. I didn't think I was going to win that sec­ond. fight but I did and I was emo­tionally drained. I had to force my­self back to another peak of emo­tional intensity for the third fight. I don't know how I did it. When I won· it was an unbelievable feeling. I never worked so hard at some­thing like that and then won. Not that it was important to win. It was just a new sensation to have done something like that and won. 
"When the fights were over and we got our awards in the ring I was crying. Why? Because Nappy· was crying, and Roland Chamblee was crying, and Mike Webb was crying. It was such a relief to have fought and won that you had to release it in tears.'' -greg aiello 
......:..._____ 
Jerry is four, Jimmy is three.• They live in an ancient colonial house in Northern New Jersey with their parents, friends whom, I visit whenever I'm home. Jerry and Jimmy have devel<Yped a simple ceremony of leaving a place at t.he dinner table for me, in case I should arrive for dinner. And they frequently check the guest bed to be sure I haven't suddenly ap­peared under the covers. 
* * * * 
The Urchins' Mass had ended. As people slowly ·filed out, I stood and spoke to Dave, who had just played the boy in The Giving Tree and was still wearing his clown makeup. As we talked, a little boy, his coat hanging precariously from his sh-Oulders, came over meekly and stood in front of us, looking at Dave with eyes that would have popped out if they had been opened any wider. Dave bent over to greet him, and slowly, cautiously, the little boy extended his hand. As they greeted, a smile the likes of which I have never seen exploded across his face. He scurried away, thrilled at having just met a real live clown. 
The. 
Last Word 
It.is late, I'm tired, and-this page is long overdue at the press.. My confused thoughts run to children. In our most beleaguered moments, we envy their sim­plicity, their contentment. We grow jealous of their world, where everything seems to' be so simple and calm. 
And now, pressured by deadlin~s and obligations, I let my thoughts run away.• I am determined to· speak of nothing more consequential today on this page than the simple joys of children. And,/in a sense, this is . something of great consequence. ;Children have much · more to teach us than we norm~lly wish to admit. The 
I 

most important lesson they offer to we who complicate our lives so, is the lesson of sjhlplicity. 
I

So now, as the phone rings with complaints about 
my tardiness, I sit here and envy Jerry and Jimmy.and 
the boy with the wide smile. f envy them not because 
they have an easier life (though I certainly wouldn't 
mind trading for a few daysj. · I envy them because 
they guard a secret which most of us seem to lose.sight 
of in our desperate attempts to grow up. · 
Jerry and Jimmy's insistence that I be left a place 
at the table is not the result;>as some would have it, of any elaborate childhood fant~sy. It stems from the · most basic human feelings -which children know far 
better than us. It stems from care, and from a 
knowledge of how very important we are to one 
another. 

• Itis to children, then, that I dedicate this page --=-to · thank them for secrets shared over story books, before . fireplaces on snowy December nights. 
-kerry mcnamara 

THE SCHOLASTIC 
Nott·e Dame Review 
' .-' 
Orf March I, the Scholastic will publish the pilot issue of the Notre Dame . Review, a· new journal of the arts co-sponsored by faculty and students. The format of the review will be a balanced selection of fiction, essays, poetry and interviews of a literary vein. Promised contributors for the first issue include Norman Mailer, Diane Wakoski, Sean Lucy, Jacques Maritain (trans­lated by Joseph Evans) and others. The Scholastic is sponsoring and funding the first issue in the hope that the Notre Dame Review will become a perma­nent part of Notre Dame's commitment to the arts. 
NOW ACCEPTING MANUSCRIPTS 
(Fiction, Drama, Poetry, Essays, or any work of literary genius) 
AND ARTWORK FOR SPRING ISSUE. OF 


·JUGGLER 
MAIL TO: Editor, Juggler Box 583 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

or BRING TO SCHOLASTIC OFFICE -4th Floor of La Fortune (Slide it under the door) · 
· DEADLINE:. March 7 


The 


Seholastie 
is accepting applications for: 
·Editor Art Director Production Manager Business Manager Circulation Manager 
If interested or if 
applying, please contact 
Kerry McNamara ··1;-:' 

.i ·~ 
· at 7569 or 7895. · 
All applications must be in by 5 :00 p.m. on Thursday, March 7. 





