
Notre Dame 
March 5, 1986 


As of 1983 women occupied 36.3 percent of all post-secondary teaching positions. As of 1986 women occupied 16.3 percent of all University of Notre Dame faculty teaching positions. This gap is appalling. 
The University's. Academic Affirmative Action CQmmittee examines the efforts of its recruitment policy and has recognized this problem. Its goal is to "encourage approximate equivalence between the representation of minority persons and women on the faculty and their availability for appointment." 
As of May 1985 the departments of anthropology, modern and classical languages, psychology, art, communication and theatre, English, sociology, music, philosophy, history, accountancy and earth sciences hired fewer than half of the women available in their respective graduate programs. 
The difficulties in recruitment of women are many. The competition among top schools for the best female candidates is intense. South Bend com­petes with Chicago; New York, Boston and San Francisco as a desirable loca­tion· for young single faculty. Relocation of spouses can be difficult in the depressed economy here. Even when women are hired, many do not stay at Notre Dame long enough to be eligible for tenure. 
Yet until the departments make the hiring and retaining of women a top priority, the overall academic environment will fall short of its potential. Female undergraduates would benefit from the example and attention of female faculty. More female gradt,iate students will be encouraged to come to Notre Dame if the numbers increase. Even the faculty atmosphere improves with normalized ratios. 
The psychology and sociology departments should be applauded for their efforts. Sociology has two women in endowed chairs and psychology.has indi­cated it will search for only women for its three available openings. 
Achieving equivalence between the number of female faculty and the number of women available in each field will only be possible when it becomes a top priority of each department. There are many defendablc rea­sons for the present deficiency. There are a lot better reasons for working harder to close the gap. 
-SCHOLASTIC 

contents-------_;_----------------, 
Editor-in-Chief James F. Basile 
General Manager Maher A. Mouasher 
Design Editor Jean O'Bryan 
Managing Editor Matthew H. Bradley 
Production Manager Barb Blanchette 
Administration 
Pete Cespedes/ Advertising Michael Setzer /Circulation 
Editorial 
Pete Butler /Copy John Dettling/Sports Mary Dolan/Departments Mary Hartney /Student Life Jeff Hayes/Survey Mike Hoffman/Notre Dame Ted Kelleher/Nat. Affairs Jim McGarry/Copy 
Layout 
Jim Doerfler 
Reem· Mouasher 
Alex Peltzer 
Sue Serrato 
Art & Photography 
Jim Butterfield Tom Falvey Emil McCauley 
Jan Neruda 
Mary Piersen 

The opinions expressed in SCHOLASTIC are those of the-kuthors and editors of SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of SCHOLASTIC or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or student body. Editorials, unless other­wise indicated, represent the opinion of the majority of the editorial board. 
SCHOLASTIC is represented for national advertising by CASS student advertising, Inc. 
Published bi-weekly. during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, SCHO­LASTIC is printed at The Papers Inc. Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $18.75 a year and back issues are available from SCHOLASTIC. Please address all manuscripts to SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, IN 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of SCHOLASTIC. Copy­right © 1985 SCHOLASTIC. All rights reserved. None of the contents may be reproduced without permission. 
Volume 127 Number 10 

SCHOLASTIC 
March 5, 1986 


FEATURES 
2/Backstage at the Keenan Revue 
by John Huebl 
6/Caught In A Rut 
by Gretchen M Froehlke 
8/Survey Samples Sexual Attitudes 
by Maher Mouasher 
10 /Survey Says ... 
Compiled by Mary Hartney 
13/The Notre Dame Men-tality 
·by Mary Dolan. 
18/A Woman's Options 
by Laura Temple 
22/Congress Adopts National Dad 
by Michael Vore 
24/Will Students Feel the Pinch? 
26/Back in the USSR 
by Jim Butterfield 

! 
30/A Hard Pill To Swallow 
by Gene Boes 


DEPARTMENTS 
16/Coming Distractions 
Compiled by Karen Dettling 
20/On Other Campuses 
by Paul Aiello 
21/Music: Groups From Nowhere 
by R. Shrader 
25/Technology: Scientific Storytellers 
by Sam Siewert 
32/The Final Word 
by Paul Aiello 
The Scholastic accepts letters from any interested reader. Please address all correspondence to: Letters, Scholastic Magazine, 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. 
Scholastic reserves the right to edit for clarity and space. 


Every year students lucky 
enough to see the Keenan Revue 
are amazed at how smoothly and 
efficiently the show is run. From 
the audience's perspective, every­
thing -. or· nearly everything -seems 
perfectly coordinated. From a 
backstage perspective, it's a dif­
ferent story. Duri_ng intermission on Thurs­day, February 6, the opening night of the Keenan Revue, I am stand­ing with my friend Jeff Chou at the back -of the lower level of O'Lauglilin auditorium, where the main sound system for the Revue is located. I have whh me the sound track for Indiana Vice, a skit in which I co-star with Terry Cross and Marty McNulty. In the three rehearsals prior to opening night, the music has not once been prop­erly synchronized with the action ·and dialogue of the act. So now, less than an hour before Indiana Vice's big debut in a last-ditch 
BACKSTAGE AT THE KEENAN 


REVUE 

effort to get it right, I have recruited Jeff to run the tape. 
"Terry and I are in the car," J tell Jeff. "The spotlight hits us. Start the tape! Play it fairly loud, and then, when it gets to 18 on the tape-counter, shut it off." 
Jeff nods. "Got it." 

I have previously written the tape numbers down, but the tape counter on my stereo back in Keenan is different from this one in O'Laughlin, so the segments of the tape must be measured again. As I explain the procedure to Jeff, I am writing additional instructions on a piece of paper. 
-"After Terry an_d I leave the stage for the first time, start the tape again. The song will be 'Cocaine'. But count to five before 
SCHOLASTIC 



you start it, because I have to run around behind the stage in order to enter from the opposite wing." Jeff and I listen as the tape plays its brief excerpt from "Cocaine" and watch the tape counter tickaway. "Cocaine" ends at thirty~two. · "Turn it off at thirty-two," I say. Jeff rolls his eyes. "Okay, okay, so I'm paranoid," I say. I can't resist being over-explanatory. "Terry and I bump into each other on that last 'Cocaine'. That can be a signal to you if for some reason the tap·e counter gets messed up or some­thing." 
"Right," Jeff says, patiently. 

"The next time you start the tape is when Terry and I leave the stage after !?lowing Marty away," I say, while again pushing the play button and writing some notes. "Play this soft, because Terry and I have to speak over this music." I write SOFT in big capital letters and underline it several times next to the caption "You Belong in the City." Two days · earlier, ·. in Tuesday's rehearsal, this part of the tape had been played loud, and even though Terry and I had tried to shout over It, no one had been able to hear us. "You Belong in the City" ends at 54, and I stop the tape. "Here," I tell Jeff, "you don't have to stop the tape, because Terry has the dialogue timed so that he'll be saying 'Indiana Vice ­Freeze!' just as the tape is rolling into the next:::, song." Actually, I have no idea whether Terry has yet managed to accomplish this timing or not -I'm just hoping that he has. "AU you do is turn up the volume so that the shots can be heard." 
"No problem," Jeff says·confi­

dently. Jeffs cool contrasts with 
my nervousness. I am wishing that 
he would show a little more con­
cern, but then I figure it is just as 
:well that at least one of us is stay­. ing calm. 
"Shut off the tape after the seventh shot," I tell Jeff. I note the number on the counter. "That's exactly at 70. The strobe light will 

MARCH 6, 1986 

go off and the lights will come up. I feel Marty's ankle for a pulse and then Terry and I talk back and forth while we're getting in the car. Start the tape again immediately after I deliver my last line, 'Best looking women on campus.' And turn it up loud!" I write LOUD on my sheet of instructions. 
Jeff assures me that he knows exactly what to do. I leave the tape with him and head backstage to get ready for the second act. Down­stairs, I put on a shirt, tie, and sports coat for the Keenan News skit. I check to make sure that I have my sports and weather notes in my pocket. As I'm heading back upstairs, I remember that I'm sup­posed to wear a hat which will sig­nal my change from sportscaster to weatherman (and hopefully, maybe, get a laugh). Throughout the 

Keenan Revue there is always 
someone looking for someone or 
something in the ridiculously over­
crowded dressing rooms downstairs 
(most theatres are not designed to 
accommodate a cast of over 200). 
Clothes and props are piled every­
where, covering every inch of 
counter space and a good deal of 
the floor. I start looking and calling 
around for a hat. I bump into Mick 
Lamberto who graciously offers me ·his corduroy Notre Dame baseball cap. "Perfect," I say. 
Mick tells me he needs the hat for his skit, Johnny, and shows me where to leave it for him. I promise to return it there right after the news. 
As I'm waiting in the wings before it is time to go on, I'm hop­ing that the news will get a good response because reaction to our jokes in rehearsal had been some­what · subdued. Also, I'm not sure that the audience enjoyed my first skit of the night, "Get Thee to a Punnery." 
Finally, it's time for the news, and I walk on stage with Tim Malone, who shares a desk with me; Marty McNulty and Bob Kaemmerlen, the anchor men, start the news. Happily, they are draw­ing laughs. The sports go smoothly, and then I _do the weather. When I finish I say, "And now back to you, Bob," but nothing happens. Bob sits in darkness. Uh-oh, a technical diffic~lty. Bob turns what could have been an awkward pause into a good laugh: "And over at this end, the weather is dark!" he cracks. The spotlight flashes to Bob and Marty. The audience loves it. Marty adds; ad-libbing, "That was a bright · idea." The audience's · response is one of both laughs ·and 
hisses. · · 
Immediately a pun comes to my mind~ for Marty and I belong to a quasi-cult of punsters in our section who practice our habit all the time, and who came up with the script for ~'Punnery" just the day before the audition. Hearing the hisses and . wishing to come to_ my roommate's aid, I want to say; "Hey,. he was only frying to shed some· light on· the subject. But I hesitate. Will the audience think it's funny? Do I dare deviate from the script? I hesitate too long, and the opportunity is lost 


· Nevertheless, ·_ .the spontaneity· looseris ·me up; "What the heck" I 
., . , think,· '!this is_ The Revue. There shouldn't be -any pressure here. You're out here .to have fun; I sit backand enjoy Tim Freehill's edi­torial on · Uranus · and Mark Runfola's blurb-about various solu­tions to Notre Dame women's weight problem. 
After the news, however, I start to get tense again. I run downstairs to change into my Don Johnson outfit. -As I listen to the speaker in the dressing room, I realize that I have overestimated the amount of ~e between the news and Indiana Vice. Two of the acts between are very short, and suddenly I'm hear~ ing "Cascade,"· the duet played by . Chris Barnabo_ and Keith Tadrowski, and I realize that Indi­ana Vice is next I slosh my hair in the bathroom sink and comb it· back Don Johnson style. Then I · start looking for my t-shirt but can't find it. The. only other' shirt I' have with me. is a button-down oxford, which wo~d · entirely _spoil _ 


\:,CHOLASTIC . 


the Don Johnson effect. I'm also looking for a gun. How can I be Don·. Johnson without a. gun? 

PANIC!! 
I find what I need . and get upstairs just in time. Assistant director Mark Boyle, whose job is to make sure that all actors are present and ready before the cur., tain goes up (so to speak) looks a little anxious; · "You ready?" he 
asks. "Yes," I lie. "Go right out. Good luck." 
Terry . and I walk onstage. The lights haven't come up yet, and I can't see anything with the dark glasses on. I have to lift them up in order to find the chairs. I'm saying to myself, "Relax, think positive, this is going to be fun," but also, I can't help remembering that never, not once, not in pre-audition rehearsals, not in the audition, and not in one of the three rehearsals at O'Laughlin had Indiana Vice been run· from beginning to end without a major technical difficulty of some sort--the music, the lights, or the props. -having invariably failed 
somehow~--· 
Jeff_ starts the music and_ we're off. · Soon I forget all my nervous­ness, for aftei all, it's a stupid, silly, skit~ arid besides, the audience seems· to enjoy it. Terry and I are enjoying the exposure "" we ham it up,· have a good time. As Terry and I exit the stage after the first scene I'm in for a second· dose of spon­taneity. BAM!! I hear a loud explo­sion frorri onstag_e. "Jeez, they blew up the phone!" I laugh while racing behind the curtain toward the other end of the stage. The first line of Indiana Vice was "Note from the chief -some-voodoo master tele­phoned to say that he's going to send ·us a telephone bomb." A few days earlier l had asked the special effects people if it would be possi­ble to blow up the phone (anything for a laugh) and they had said it wasn't possible. Later they had changed their minds without telling me. Opening night, I was as surprisecl as everyone else. 
The rest of the skit goes smoothly, until the final scene. 
MARCH 5, 1986 
Terry and I have just finished our thorough destruction of the Coke machine. While Terry is delivering a line, something catches my eye and I look down into the Coke box where Marty, shielded from the view of the audience, is gesturing and making faces at me, trying to make me laugh. It's hilarious. I manage not to laugh, but I do become distracted to the point where I start to deliver the wrong line, and not being an actor by trade, I can think of nothing else to do but simply stop abruptly half­way through and start the correct one. 
Marty kids me about it later. The next night, he has another surprise for me -he refuses to die. While I'm feeling his ankles for. a pulse, he continues to bounce his feet up and down, making my pro­nouncement of his death seem rather foolish. 
Saturday night, following an exceptionally potent telephone bomb explosion, Marty enters and asks those in the first row, ''Are you all right? Not that it matters or anything..." 
After Indiana Vice is over,. I breathe a sigh of relief. Finally it worked! I meet Jeff backstage and thank him for his help, and then I get dressed for my last skit, Instant Replay. After that, I sit down to relax, but not for long. I remember that I have to do the· senior song. I 

Pat Wenning dances in "Vortex." • 

change back into _casual clothes, and meet a group of seniors for a quick rehearsal. This rehearsal is important, since the senior song has just been completed the night before, and the seniors, as a group, have never even rehearsed it. Soon we are supposed to perform it! As I'm familiarizing myself with the lyrics and melody, I hear the call for Johnny. Mick's hat! I forgot! 
I can't even remember where I put it. I forget about the song for the . moment and go searching -for Mick's hat. I_t's not in the locker room. Not in the bathroom. Not in the make-up room. Finally, I find it on a desk backstage. I find Mick heading up the stairs toward the stage. "Thanks," he says as I hand him his hat. I'm figuring he's think­ing, "Where have you been?" 
I was privy to a couple of other interesting improvisations during the Revue. In "Get Thee to a Pun­nery" my cohorts and I had hoped for a comic effect from both witty dialogue and slapstick. Hence part of my job was to get knocked around on stage. Saturday night I'm lying supine on the stage after being thrown off one of the couches, · and suddenly I'm getting stepped on. All 190 pounds of Bill Rossiter balance momentarily on my stomach. It was entirely unplanned. Bill tells me later, "I was crossing the stage, and sud­denly I saw the opportunity. Then when· I stepped on you, I won­dered if I should be doing it. But I figured it would get a laugh." It sure did. · 
Nearly everyone who partici­pates in the Revue has stories of clever improvisations and humorous, impromptu solutions to unexpected technical· difficulties which occur during the show. To the audience, the Revue is a smoothly run, seemingly profes­sional, well-planned public joke. And to the men of Keenan, the most important consideration is that the audience enjoy the show. But for the actors and crew, the Revue -the f unnie?t part of it -is often an inside joke. • 
-5 

. ' 
, 

. -~---------------­


i • 


CAUGHT IN A. RUT 
A Psychoanalytical 
Most students agree that rela­tionships between the sexes are not all they could be. Explana­tions for the tensions that per­meate . these relationships vary. Some faculty members offer psychological and sociological explanations for the state of rela­tionships at Notre Dame. Dr. Wayne Pellegrini, a clinical psychologist from Counseling and Psychological Services, likes to call it "a unique situation." 
Now that we all know some­thing unusual exists here at ND, the question is "Why?" Why is it unique to Notre Dame? No, it's not because we all come from single-sex, Catholic high schools. To reach the answer we must delve deeper than that. The answer is two-fold, involving psychological factors as well as elements . particular to Notre Dame's history and traditions. 
First, the psychological analysis. College students are struggling to develop a sense of identity. Dr. Daniel Lapsley, a psychology professor specializing in human and adolescent develop­ment, stated that students need to realize that they can develop 

Look at ND Relationships 
thems(?lves as individuals within the context of others. Pellegrini echoed this, "Relating can help the student to grow, yet, students don't realize that." 
Pellegrini expiained that one reason relationships are difficult . for young adults is that males and females reach their sexual peaks at different ages. Males peak dur­ing college, ages 18-21, while females generally don't peak until 33-35. Pellegrini concluded that college males tend to look for a physical · type of relationship, whereas females seek intimate relationships. He added that young men need structure in their liv:es regarding social activities. If the structure is not there then a relationship may not develop. 
The issue of structure in dat­ing moves us to those sources of· 

tension indigenous to Notre 


by Gretchen M. Froehlke 
Dame. Pellegrini feels that SYR's are an asset to ND's social life. According to him,. they add the structure that Notre Dame males may need. On the other hand, Lapsley refers to SYR's as "sys­tematic blind dating;" Blind dates, he says, are the most difficult dat­ing forms because they cause so much anxiety. 
Young men need struc­ture in their · lives regarding social activi­ties. If the structure is 
not  there  then  a  rela­ 
tionship  may  not  
develop.  

Fr. Edward Malloy, associate provost, agrees that SYR's cause anxiety by compelling students to "invest themselves." This idea of self-investment may be the under­lying cause of problems with· rela­tionships. at Notre Dame. The academic competition at ·ND often means . that any self­

SCHO~TIC 



One reason relationships are difficult for young adults is that males and females . reach their sex­ual peaks at different ages. Males peak during 

·college, ages 18-21, while females · generally don't peak until 33-35. 
investment energy students can muster is devoted to academics and reaching that elusive career goal. "Relationships are risky and require time and energy," said Malloy. Given the fact that most ND students come from privileged backgrounds where things have come easily, they might not have the desire to try · and work something out. 
The academic atmosphere here 

fosters a sense of competition which is responsible for stifling many potential relationships. The women at ND are competitive and ."The men are conservative and are reactionary toward the role of women," said Lapsley. As many. ND. men were raised in a traditional hdusehold where the · mother stayed home and the father worked in the office, it is difficult for them to · consciously accept the changing role of 
women today. 
One last factor contributing to the relationship problems under the Golden Dome is the perennial problem of lack of social outlets. Both Lapsley and Pellegrini com­mented that if students wanted to go on dates they wouldn't know where to go. Kevin Dunay, a gra­duate student, emphatically agreed, "If I wanted to ask her out, I wouldn't know where to 

:MARCH 5, 1986 

take her." maybe the problem isn't with rela­"Campus tionships, but with attitudes. The constrained." problem lies in the idealization of the perfect relationship. If we 
Most people agree that there is can recognize our unrealistic a problem with relationships at expectations and stop our griping, Notre Dame. If we reflect on this, we'll be much closer to develop­however, we begin to realize that ing mature relationships. • 
LAMP SHADES• LAMP REPAIR• LAMP PARTS GLASS PARTS• LAMPS• LIGHTING FIXTURES 

Village Lamp Shoppe 
NORTH VILLAGE MALL 52577 US 31 NORTH . SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 (219) 272-0600 
Custom Lamp Shades 

a 
SURVEY SAMPLES SEXUAL ATTITUDES 
by Maher Mouasher 
Questions: 
I. I am able to act on my values and stand up for my beliefs. 
2. 
Men should be the dominant partner in heterosexual relation­ships. 

3. 
Abortion is a contraceptive option. 

4. 
Premarital sex is immoral. 




Graph I: Overall Response 
100 
0 
90 80 70 
E-< 
60
z 
µ,1 
u 
ii:: 50 
µ,1 
11, 
40 30 20 10 

0 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 12 13 QUESTION 
5. 
Homosexuality is genetic in its origins. 

6. 
One can be in love and not be sexually active. 

7. 
Sexual intercourse is part of every serious relationship with a member of the opposite sex. 

8. 
In sexual relationships it is the woman's responsibility to be con­cerned about birth control. 

9. 
Abortion is murder. 


I0. Homosexuality is· immoral. 
I I. Birth control is immoral. 
12. 
N.D.'s Catholic orientation provides for a healthy sexual atmosphere. 

13. 
I think parietals contribute to an unhealthy sexual atmosphere on campus. 




Graph 2: Sexually Active Graph 3: Sexually Inactive 
100 100 90 90 eo 80 70 70 60 60 
50 
40 

30 30 
20 20 
10 10 
0 0 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 
QUESTION 

g. SCHOLASTIC 


The recent survey conducted by Scholastic shows that 45 per­cent of the respondents consider 
. themselves sexually active. This figure was higher among the male respondents, with a 52 percent incidence of activity, than among the females, with only a 32 per­cent incidence of activity. Juniors were the most active sex­ually, with a 57 percent incidence, and Seniors were a close second, at 53 percent. 
A whopping 96 percent of all respondents agreed with the state­ment "I am able to act on my values and stand up for my 
beliefs", and strong disagreement was registered (74 percent) for the statement "Men should be the dominant partner in a heterosex­ual relationship." Respondents 
agreed  with  the  statement  "I  
think  parietals  contribute  to  an  
unhealthy  sexual  atmosphere  on  

campus", (52 percent to 34 per­cent). 
The' people who answered the survey also agreed that "Abortion is murder" with 68 percent exhibiting strong agree­ment or agreement; and only 22 percent expressing disagreement. Males were evenly split on the statement "Homosexuality is immoral" with 43 percent agree­ing and 44 percent disagreeing. Females were less agreeable to the statement, with 54 percent disagreeing to only 23 percent agreeing and 23 percent express­
100 90 80 70 
I­
~ 60 ffi 50 
0. 
40 
30 
20 
10 
0 
2 3 5 6 7 8 QUESTION 




MARCH 61 1986 
distinction by respondents 
between homosexuality and 
homosexual activity, a distinction 
that was not made in the question. 
The results for the statements· 

"One can be in love and not be sexually active" and "Sexual intercourse is part of every seri­ous relationship with a member of the opposite sex" reflected similar beliefs, with 91 percent of all respondents agreeing with the first statement and 86 percent disagreeing · with the St;!Cond. There was no significant differ­ence between the answers given ·by males and females, or by sexu­ally active and inactive people to 
the statements. 
Little agreement showed up 

for the statements "Homosexual­
ity is immoral" and "Birth control is immoral". Only 26 percent agreed with the first statement while 48 percent disagreed, and only 11 percent agreed with the second statement, while 83 per­cent disagreed. Few people agreed that "Premarital sex is immoral" as well, with 70 percent disagreeing and only 25 percent expressing agreement. 
93 percent of all respondents disagreed that "In sexual relation­ships it is the woman's responsi­bility to be concerned with birth control." Only 3 percent agreed, 
and those were evenly between males and females. 
~ DISAGREE 0 NO OPINION II· AGREE split 
• 

I 
9 


100 90 80 70 
tl 50
I' ro0: 
,ll."' 40 
30
I 
I 20 10 0 

Graph 5: Females 

9 10 11 12 13 
2 3 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 -•··12 
13 
QUESTION 

~----­





SURVEY 

The following is a compilation of some of the comments Scholastic received from its recent survey on 
-sexual attitudes. When possible, com­ments have been coded for sex and year. 
M=male; F =female; 1=freshman; 2=sophomore; 3=junior; 4=senior. 
COMMENTS ON BIRTH CON­TROL: 
"It's a McDonald's world and com­plicating sex with an arsenal of con­traceptive machinery can become_ tedious and unromantic." M2 
"Birth control in a marriage for the 
right purposes is moral." 

"Although 'natural family planning' is unreliable as a birth control method, it is the only form of birth con­trol which I would consider using." F4 
"The most favorable and most effective (forms of birth control) would actually be a combination of two contraceptives such as condom and foam or condom and diaphragm." F3 
10 

"Parietals may enforce Catholic thought by reducing temptation, but they don't teach respon­
. sibility".'' 

"The residents have a right to privacy." M2 
"Parietals may enforce Catholic thought by reducing temptation, but they don't teach responsibility." F4 
"They do not allow one to make the choice of when and where to interact, sexually or not, with the oppo­site sex...In life, outside of ND, you'll have to make 
SCHOLASTIC 
SAYS • • • 
On the IUD as a contraceptive: "...Form of abortion, therefore not truly a contraceptive; rather, an insi­dious weapon for murder." F 1 
"I have been convinced for a long time now that I would only conside1 natural means of birth ·control, if I consider them at all -my reasons go beyond the fact that ·the Church preaches against unnatural means -I also don't like anything· unnatural and man-made being a part of such a natural, special moment." F3 
On birth control in regards to which methods to use: "None with the exception of the methods approved of by the Church." F2 
ON PARIETALS: attitude is harmful to those homosex­those decisions. Now, in college, is uals who are struggling to come tothe time to develop that decision­terms with their own sexuality andmaking process. Parietals at ND sti­accept themselves." _,

fle this form of self-development on­making process. Parietals at ND sti­THE IMPACT OF NOTRE fle this form of self-development that DAME'S CATHOLICISM ON THE is essential to well-being." F2 DISCUSSION OF SEXUAL 
ISSUES 
Parietals "seem to say that a male and female together after a certain "I agree that ND is not open with 
bewitching hour are going to have the issue of sex at all, but I do not sex. If the two really want to have feel that this unopenness makes the sexual intercourse parietals are not i~sue of sex at ND unhealthy." M3 going to stop them. It seems to me to 
"Who discusses these things exceptbe a childish attitude/treatment in a joking way? I have yet to towards/of adults." Fl 
encounter an open, mature, non­"Can't do schoolwork together after dogmatic discussion on any of these midnight." M4 topics." 

"Not parietals in themselves, but single sex dorms greatly restrict healthy relationships." F3 
"By making a conscious and infarmed decision to attend Notre Dame, students are agreeing to abide by certain regulations, such as parietals. If they don't like it they should attend state universities. Notre Dame 
· has a responsibility to project Catholic values." Fl 
"They are . an inconvenience but do not create an unhealthy atmosphere." . 
"Yes, you found one 'fhO still follows the teachings of his Catholic Church. Not that there's anything wrong with me, but sex is as nature intended for the con­tinuatio::1 of the species." 
"I've never 'heard' much discussion about any of these 'things we're not supposed to talk ab0ut' here at · ND. I think it's time we all admitted we can be Catholic and hu,r,an at the same time." M3 
"...just because something is discussed openly doesn't imply that the discussion is healthy;" 

"Parietals need serious re-adjustment "The ND attitude towards sex is not and re-evaluation!!!" Ml only old fashioned but wrong. Sex seems to be something oh so wrong
"..Parietals imply that there is some­that even a mention of it is a mortalthing wrong · with being together sin. I really believe that where therewhich for some Jl)eople isn't so. I is openness, communication andthink parietal free dorms would be a understanding, good relationshipsgood idea -providirig choice for • can flourish."
both groups." "The Catholic part is good but the
HOMOSEXUALITY 
ND influence makes it unhealthy." On homosexuality as genetic in ori­
"ND is not open in its attitudegin: "For some; others use homosex­because the Church sees these issues uality as a way not to conform, · a basically only one way but that's notcuriosity." F2 to say that their attitude. is an 
"As for homosexuals, I believe them unhealthy one, either." F2 to have a disease; defining disease as meaning having any bodily function "Being Catholic is one thing, being 
deviate from normal. Man was meant stifling .and ·ignorant is another." F2 for woman." 
\ 
"I am active sexually but not here at Notre Dame ...it is extremely difficult to stand up for my beliefs as a homosexual in the homophobic atmosphere which the University fosters. I believe people here are ignorant of what homosexuality actually is and therefore look down or in some cases, even hate homosexuals. This 
MARCH 6, 1986 
"As a freshman I remember the talk given to the female freshmen about personal safety by Sister John. 'There has only been one case of rape in the past eight years, however there have been eight cases of men taking advantage ·of their guests' hospitality.' I was astounded by her attitude. Quite simply, rape. is rape whether it is by a stranger or your SYR date. I soon 
:u 

• 
II 
li 
i 
t 
:r; 
. ---~------ce"-­
. ~---------~ 

began to fear that her attitude was typical of the · administration and I'm sorry to say that my fears came true. 
My point is this -due to the attitude I perceive from this University -I do not feel I could go to any health officials or administrators for help or with questions. IfI decide to become sexually active while I'm at ND I would not seek information or help on campus. I would take the time to get outside help. I just hope others will/would do the same instead of taking an unnecessary risk and believing 'God would never let pregnancy happen to me."' F2 need to get drunk to decide they want the sex the University won't let them have.'' 
"Since the topic is avoided inclass discussion, forbid­-den in DuLac, and blustered as a macho, recreational sport in dorm conversations, most guys graduating from ND...probably had 5 kids before they figured out the limitations and -the realities _of sex....I've encoun­tered some of the inost disgusting attitudes about sex, often bordering on the sadistic, since my arrival here. These...mostly from guys who believed 'premarital sex is wrong' but still spoke in an incredibly depreciating manner about all members of the opposite sex, except, 
of course, their inothers and sis­

ters..." 

"I think any problems in male/female relationships are not 
"The mere existence of this survey is

t really sexual problems but rather 
a symptom of the root problem on
I 
non-sexual problems in relationships. 
the ND camp·us -people are all too The school's policies of single-sex concerned about sex. In the intro­

dorms and parietals inhibit genuine, ductory paragraph to the survey, it is platonic friendships between the called a study on 'male/female re_la­sexes." Ml tionships' at ND, when the questions
I 
I ON THE SURVEY are not about relationships, but the sexuality of relationships...the prob­
"Sex, gays, VD, birth control is not lem lies with · relationships as · a the major issue that you media types whole, and sexuality is just an here think it is. Please, enough is off shoot. Which leads to the question, enough already!" 

how do I make good friends, the "Thank you for giving me the kind that lead to any lasting relation­ship, with people of the opposite
chance to at last express myself on sex? The answer given...is all too
this issue." 
often the 'party.' Go to a party~ get"I don't know that sex should be the drunk...and go score with some chick main concern of a survey of male­if you're a guy, or wait for some guyfemale relationships at Notre Dame." 
to hit on you if you're a girl...The partying, drinking scene is exactly"I think its about time a survey was what promotes the temporary, super­mailed out. I wouldn't call myself ficial, and all too physical type ofpromiscuous but the sexual ·attitude relationship that is under study inconveyed on campus sometimes the survey. It fosters a bad attitud_emakes me feel like a sleaze. Thanks!" 
toward . the opposite sex...inste_ad ·_ bfF3 

developing the gradual healthy rela­'1 tionships that should exist in the
I 
I GENERAL C01\.1MENTS Christian community....So guys and 
"I think you'll find that· the great majority of people will mark 'strongly agree' to the statement 'Abortion is murder.' I agree. I don't think most people realize the depth of their statement, however. They are claiming that the life of an unborn child has the same impor­tance as a human being at any other stage of develop­ment Again, I agree. How would they react to a clinic that helped mothers exterminate their four-year olds? We're a little too tolerant because we don't believe what we're saying. That's too bad.'' M4 
"ND seems crowded with people who act 'morally' all the time, then get drunk and assault the nearest per­so_n. If the atmosphere were healthy people wouldn't 
12 

girls need to sper:.d casual, relaxed free timejust getting to know one another. Where do they do this?...The only place...is the dormitory. That is where students relax and spend their free time, and that's where they make true friendships...Co-ed dorms do not tum into orgy houses nor do they disallow a good stydying environment...At the very least, students here deserve a choice. If by the time we enter college our morals and values concerning sex aren't established enough to make single sex dorms and parietals utterly useless, then we don't belong here. It's time to let the children take on some responsibility on the ~oad to adulthood, and col~ lege is the perfect environment ...'' • 
SCHOLASTIC 







THE NOTRE DAME MEN-TALITY 
by Mary Dolan 
WOMEN IN A MALE ENVIRONMENT 
Notre Dame is no longer just a men's school with a football team. 
. It is also .not a completely well­rounded academic in_stitution fully responsive to the needs of its stu­dents. What can a female. student expect if she decides to spend the next four years of her life at Notre Dame? As it stands now, she can expect a ratio disparity,_ a lack of female role models and adversity. . 
After fourteen years, coeduca­tion at Notre Dame is a way of life. While the-· physical presence of women has been accepted, attitudes remain which demonstrate that ND must contiIJ.ue to make progress in order to achieve . equality between its men and women. 
·Sister John Miriam Jones, assis­tant provost, has experienced Notre Dame before, during and after the coeducational process. No doubt exists in· her mind that conditions for women have improved dramati­cally since the early difficult years. Jones feels that "although a residue of the all-m~le environment per­meates attitudes," she believes that women "don't get short-changed but benefit and prepare realistically foi;," aworld which is tainted with these values." 
. In -1972, coeducation involved 100 percent of Jones' time. Now it involves only the ongoing needs of normalization., According to Jones, the University's · goal is applicant : parity: · the percentage of women -' enro~led equal to the percentage of . women in · the applicant pool. Presently, women comprise 34 per­cent of the applicant pool and about 28 percent of an incoming 
~CH 6,1986 
class. Since housing limits space for women, the competition for admis­sion is stiffer for women. On the average 500 spaces are available for women, 1300 for men. The odds for those spots are 5:1 for women, 
3.5:1 for men. 
Parity can be achieved if two proposed women's dorms receive funding and are constructed. If the new dorms open 600 spots, Admis­sions predicts that in four years this will raise both the percentage of women in the applicant pool and in 
a class to 36 percent. This is a worthwhile goal yet it is evident that the University expects the number of female appli­cants to peak at approximately 40 percent. Thus, an equal ratio can never be expected at Notre Dame. Women wiil always remain a minor­ity. Many women claim that equality at Notre Dame will not come in numbers, but in spirit. They believe Notre Dame men must recognize that women's issues con­cern them as well and merit their support. · Consider a few of the ine­qualities: 


--The University automatically charges men for ~e St. Michael's laundry service. Some men might prefer to do it themselves, and some do, but without washers and dryers in their dorms, this is diffi­cult. 
--The Rockne Memorial pro­vides swimsuits for men, while women must bring their own. Equality dictates the abolishment of this tradition or the provision . of swimsuits for women. 
--Any movement to alter the words of the Notre Dame Victory March to include "loyal sons and daughters" is greeted ·with. strong resistance. Whether one agrees with the move or not, the vehement reaction such a small change pro­vokes is indicative of this m~le­dominated cainpus._ 
Even more important and subtly destructive to equality is. the pau­city of female role models. Notre Dame · women lack role models in student . government, the faculty and the administration. 
Since 1976, when the first class of women became seniors, women 
13 

------~-­
-


have held only 16 percent of campus leadership roles. No woman has even run for Student Body President. Jones recalls that she has known women more capa­ble than their running mates, but has found these women reluctant to assume the primary role of president. These same women were · high school student government. leaders, editors of newspapers and yearbooks and captains of high school athletic teams. 
Female role models are espe­cially important here as women choose professions which were pre­viously dominated by men. Of the regular -teaching and research faculty, 57 women (compared to 544 men) are on the tenure tract. Two-thirds of the female faculty in this group are assistant professors with less than the six years teaching 
14. 
required to be up for tenure. 382 men have tenure, only 14 women do. George Howard, psychology department chairman, reveals another facet of this problem: "Junior faculty are in need of role models just as much as the stu­
dents." 
Of the total faculty, 143 of 809 are women. Many students gra­duate from Notre Dame exposed to only four or five female professors. Too many students never encounter a female professor in their major --it's an impossibility -­there aren't any. Although appoint­ing women to the· faculty is a University priority, each depart­ment is responsible for its own hir­ing.
ND's philosophy department boasts 31 professors, one of the largest undergraduate philosophy departments in the nation. Only one 
professor is a woman and she is 
tenured. Philosophy Chairman Cor­
nelius F. Delaney recognizes this 
discrepancy but says that the scar­
city of female professors is not due 
to a lack of trying. "Almost every 
year we, have offered jobs to 
y,.romen.. ln th~ last six years, four 
have accepted and then left for 
better· jobs." 
Delaney explained that only 
about 10 percent of philosophy gra­
/ 

duate students are women and that 
. . 

these students are offered many attractive teaching offers. He ·n:6ted that ND is competing with the best departments in New York, Boston and Chicago. Given ND's locale, it becomes "very hard to recruit the very best...women. Two of the four female faculty members who.· left, left South Bend, Indiana," he said. 
The psychology department's faculty consists of I 7 men and 3 women. In the past ten years . the department has hired an . equal number of men and women. In that time the turn-over rate for men has been 6 percent; for women, 60 per­cent. Thus, the issue of female faculty is complicated by their low retention rate. · 
This year the department has made the hiring and retention of women a top priority. Its Report and Policy Statement by Department Committee on Women recommends that "the Department consider only women for the three positions currently open." The statement further suggests that the positions remain ·available for women until they are filled by "appropriate and acceptable" female candidates. Howard feels . this is important since it will provide a .better educa­tion for students. H¥ also cited evi­dence which suggests that women are more likely to pursue psychol­ogy and go on to become professors when exposed to female faculty .. 
The college which invokes the 

most criticism is the College of 
Engineering. It has no female 
faculty members. Roger Schmitz, 
the dean of engineering, stated: 
"The department is after the best 
people." With only 3-'5 percent of 
engineering graduate students 
women, the problem is intensified. 
In the nation, the number of female 
chemical engineering professors ·is 
so low, Schmitz says, he could 
probably count them on both 
hands. For many years, women 
with bachelor degrees in engineer­
ing accepted attractive offers from 
industry which kept them from 
seeking graduate degrees in 
engineering. 
SCHOLASTIC 



Schmitz says that the problem with recruiting women is two-fold. The outstanding women whom the department recruits are also sought by many other universities. The second problem reflects a growing trend in our society: with more husband and wives working, 
rec~uitment is involving the couple, not just the individual. Schmitz revealed that they have presented an attractive offer to one candidate, but that South Bend cannot off er a suitable position for her husband. 
The drought of women in administrative capacity is again detrimental to both men and women. No ~oman-is an officer of the University; no woman is a dean of any college; no woman is a department head. Only six women sit on the Board of Trustees. Perhaps the very fact that no woman can ever aspire to become president of this University is the most telling sign of the attitude that permeates · this campus. Women should see the example ·or success­ful female professors and men should realize that the likelihood of working for a woman is a real and natural possibility. 
More than once in discussions with people. on campus, the Notre 
MARCH 5, 1966 
to move in that direction;" Starrie speculates that men have felt threatened by this change and need to question what · their role · is. Rather than creating harmony and interdependence, -the _push toward equality fosters competition and estrangement instead. Over time, Starrie has seen women become "less inhibited about making their own statement." 
Dr. Allison Finn, staff psycholo­gist at Psych Services, says that women encounter conflicting mes­sages from society and this Univer­sity. Be successful have a career; get a husband, raise a family. The undergraduates see little example of this being possible. Only when the number of women who admin­ister and teach · at Notre Dame becomes larger_ will the undergra­
Dame woman was described as determined, hardy and a survivor. Although these will probably do her well in the long-run, the description also belies the fact that women still face adversity on this campus and must fight to achieve equality. 
Sister Marietta Starrie, asso­ciate director for service and learn­ing at the CSC, has seen many classes of men and worn.en progress through ND. "The women of Notre Dame are sensitive to the change of women's role in society and want duates benefit from the inspiration and insight these women can pro­vide. 
No cine believ_es equality in spirit is around the corner. Instead, women continue to make progress slowly. In_ a Notre Dame Magazine (May 1982) article chron­icling the atmosphere of women after ten years of coeducation, Kerry Temple states that "women are no longer strangers at Notre _ 
!

Dame, but many believe they are . 

FREE: PARKING 
FRONT & Rf.AR 
219 DIXalE WAY NO. IN RC!>-U,l.f,D 

272-7535 

not yet full colleagu·es." 
That feeling still prevails. • 
' 

ACE IS THE PLACE­WITH THE HELPfijL HARDWARE MAN 
• 
GARl>t:N SUl'PLIES 

• 
HC:'!SF:W ARES 

• 
HARDWARE 

• 
SPORflNG GOODS 

• 
PAINTS 

• 
TOOLS 

• 
PlUMBING & ELF:CTRICAL 


<;IIPPlll;S 
: 

'! 


. -.. 
I \ 

,-·.-.1\A 11,1~­n I ST.-R 6. i-•TI,-,1,1c
LtUI 111 lu U It.: 11 I \l_i I I U I h.l 
MARCH 5: 
FILM: "The Love.Parade" Social Concerns 7 pm FILM: "Volunteers" Engineering Auditorium, 7,9,11 pm, $1.50 
SPORTS -Club: Men's Volleyball -at Indiana -Purdue University 
7:30 pm 

ART: "Mauricio Lasansky : A Retrospective Exhibition" The Snite Museum of Art February 16 -Mar~h 30 
ART: "The Creative Process, Fiber Arts Exhibition" Moreau Gallery March 1-22 
ART: "Redbud Show" Hammes Gallery March 1-22 
ART: "Modern Drawings and Watercolors From the Permanent Collection" O'Shaughnessy Gallery East January 19 -April 20 
ART: "Urban America". O'Shaughnessy Gallery East January 26 -April 13 
ART: "Artists and Models : Portraits From the Hishhorn Museum" Print, Drawing and Photography Gallery February 2 -March 9 
ART: "Richard Stevens : Recent Photographs" O'Shaughnessy Gallery East February 23 -April 13 
Sophomore Literary Festival . Memorial Library Auditorium 
MARCH 8: 

FILM: "SPLASH" Engineering Auditorium 7,9:15,11:30 pm $1.50 
SPORTS -Varsity: Hockey -at Alambama -Huntsville Women's Basketball -at Dayton Men's Basketball -Dayton 
1pm 

Men's Swimming -at Midwest Invitational Fencing -at NIWFA (New York City) Track-Indoor -IC4A Championships 
(Princeton} March 8-9 SPORTS -Club: Gymnastics -Miami of Ohio . 

men and women PERFORMING ARTS: "The Tempest" Sophomore Literary Festival Indiana High School Basketball Sectionals JUNIORS: Class Formal 
SPORTS -Varsity: Baseball-at Indiana(2} 1pm 

Track-Indoor -IC4A Championships JUNIORS: Class Mass 
LECTURE: Jean Kilbourne on Women in Advertising Memorial Library Auditorium Sponsored by Junior Class 
Maple Syrup Public Tours Bendix Woods Park 

Chamber Concert featuring Sue Davids, harp soloist Concord High School, Elkhart 3:30pm 
Michiana Area Composers Recital IUSB Campus Auditorium 8:15 pm 
Indiana Women's Caucus Art Exhibition Warner Gallery March 9 -April 13 
I\A n 8'1 ~ 

IIUII~ 
·MARCH 10: 
FILM: "Marnie" Snite 7 pm FILM: '"Juliet of the Spirits" Snite 9:15 pm SPORTS -Club: Men's. Volleyball-at Ci 
7:30 pm 
N.D. Basketball Banquet ACC, Arena and Conco1 
TIICC'~ 

ILIC.t_l~ 
MARCH 11: 
FILM: "Palm Beach Story" Snite 7:30 pm 
DEBATE: Phyllis Schaflyvs Sari Lifestyles of Men and Washington Hall Sponsored by Junior C JUNIORS: Blood Drive Infirmary March 11-12 
MARCH 13: 
FILM: "Life of Brian" Engineering AuditoriL $1.00 SPORTS -Varsity: Wrestling -at NGAA (Iowa Gity, IA March 13-16 LECTURE: Gloria Steinem 
Men and Women in S, Angela Athletic Facili Sponsored by Junior 
SCHOLASTIC 
1.4


1pm Cavalcade of Wheels ·Sugar Camp Days & Breakfast Chester String Quartet with Karen Buranskas and Laura Klugherz · Annenberg Auditorium 4 pm 
MARCH 5, 1986 





A WOMAN'S OPTIONS 
by Laura Temple 
Coeducation has exposed Notre 
Dame to many of the problems 
faced by contemporary women. An 
unwanted pregnancy is one such 
problem. The Notre Dame woman 
facing this problem may find it dif­
ficult to seek help. At this Univer­
sity, services offered concerning 
contraception and pregnancy are 
limited at the Student Health 
Center. The Health Center, how­
ever, does off er some options for a 

woman needing a gynecological · examination: 
I). The University doctor will do a gynecological exam, including a pelvic and a Pap test, for free with a fee charged only for the lab work; 
2) A woman may request to be seen by the University's consult­ing gynecologist who sees four patients on Wednesday mornings. The exam costs $20 plus lab fees. Appointments are usually made several weeks in advance. 
Carol Seager, the director of the Student Health Center, says that as far as birth control, pregnancy test­ing and related information: are concerned, they will refer women . to local physicians. 
-Locally, there are a number of 

clinics offering various services at · moderate rates. Three of these, each representing a different philo­sophy and variety of services; are detailed below. 
The Women's PavOfon is a 

· privately owned clinic located at 425 North St. Louis, behind the St. Joseph_ Medical Center. Pavilion Administrator Marne Greening said 

Clinics on St. Louis Run the Gamut 
that the Pavilion, founded in 1978, is a "helping . agency for a person with an unplanned pregnancy" that also provides emotional support and birth control information. 

Pavilion services include U.C.G (Urinary Choronic Gonadotropins) and ICON (company trademark) pregnancy . testing, various forms of birth control, pelvic exams and Pap smears, pregnancy and -birth con­trol counseling. 
The U.C.G. pregnancy test and the counseling are · free. Other ser­vices carry charges ranging from $7 to $225. Most procedures require scheduling an appointment in advance. The Pavilion emphasizes the client's right to confidentiality. To enter, the door must be unlocked by a staff member and · visitors are not welcome on pro­cedure day. 

The Women's Care 
Center was established 
in 1984 by · ND profes­
sor Janet Smith and former ND · student · John May. They created it in response to a need they saw in the community for an alternative kind of counseling and care for pregnant women. 


Next door to the Women's Pavi­lion is the Women's Care Center, a small, blue house at 417 North St. Louis. The Care Center was esta­blished in 1984 by Notre Dame professor Janet Smith and former ND student John May. They created it in response to a need they saw in the community for an alternative kind of counseling and care for pregnant women. 
The Center is funded by dona­tions and is largely run by carefully . trained volunteers, many of whom , come from the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community. . Deb Rogers,· the director of the Center, says the 
.. Center is "geared for the conveni­ence of the person walking through the door." The free pregnancy tests offered are what initially brings most of the 150 clients per month to the Center. 
Women who come to the Center are asked only for their first names and the first initial of their last name. Since many of the volunteer counselors are students, the woman, especially if she is a stu­dent, has the choice of seeing a stu­dent or a different counselor with strict confidentiality being main­tained either way. 
Though the Center mainly pro­vides counseling for women who suspect they are pregnant or who are pregnant, they provide counsel­ing in many areas. Stressing "whole person" counseling, they are concerned with any problems related to an unplanned pregnancy including family, self-esteem, or relationship problems. Rogers noted that they are · interested in seeing more men either alone or with their partners when an unplanned pregnancy occurs. 
The Center also gives informa­tion on birth control, however, they have a definite Catholic/pro-life position and will only recommend natural family planning. The Center also tries to inform women who are considering abortion about the pro­cedure and all 'the possible risks. They will not refer or assist in 
· MARCH 5; 1986 

Planned Parenthood deals witha wide range of sexual health issues. 
"Planned Parenthood is a nationwide organi­zation that is •an advo­cate of reproductive rights for everyone 
regardless  of race,  age,  
sex,  disability  or  
economic  cir­ 
.cumstances. "'  

abortions but say that a woman could go there for counseling both before and after an abortion and not be judged, regardless of her decision. 
The Center is not a licensed adoption agency but will refer interested clients to the proper 

"The Pavilion emphasizes the client's right to confi­dentiality. To enter, the door must be 
unlocked  by  a  staff  
member  and  visitors  
are  not  welcome  on  

procedure day." 
agencies. They also provide infor­mation on pre-and post-natal care, parenting classes and government and non-government agencies and programs designed to help young unwed mothers. 
The St. Joseph County branch of Planned Parenthood is a little further • down the street at 121 South St. Louis in the Family Plan­ning Center. Planned Parenthood is a nationwide organization that is "an advocate of reproductive rights for everyone regardless of race, age, sex, disability or economic cir­cumstances." 
Barry Kasler, director of com­munity services, said that their phi­losophy is to "provide leadership for the implementation and preser­vation of reproductive health and choice in order to enhance the quality of family and community life." Planned Parenthood offers medical· examinations that test for sexually transmitted diseases, cancer, anemia, and diabetes. They have a nutritionist on staff who provides nutrition information and safe, low-cost, weight control pro­grams. They do pregnancy testing and off er information and counsel­ing on all options available to preg­nant women. They will refer clients to other doctors or agencies as needed on an individual basis. • 
19 


on other campuses 



Tension 
. Police 

auderdale public
Dartmouth students con-Fort L banned • n its · 


structed a shantytown· on campus recently to Protest the college's $63 million of investments in South Africa. Another student 
group, the Conservative Conlmit­tee To Beautify The Green Before Winter Carnival destroyed the shanties. Most of this group 
belonged to the staff of the Dart­. mouth Review, a conservative newspaper Which recently editori­
alized against the 

admission of ·Jewish students · claiming, "if standards have to be lowered it Would dilute the value of the degree." Reaction by other 
students eventually resulted in a day of cancelled classes to discuss racism, sexism and the toleration
of dissent. 
food 
."etsit)l stu­lJn1 yed a bli­
-srown r remo hall pu ink-

1'he directo dining ed St \ast 
yices f of a renarn halls o­
ser t spoo ¼pot, dining contt ,
den Stoc wn ·not th"i s 
uon, BtO a '['0.1 d ca rs 
ca from using ca\le reade pot, est« ~ featu!:n its gitated se1" on ·s1>-ed regur other
yetS"i• Wl ith e-corner. ces w varioUS 1\d seer n 
r1en d . ds a rma
"e~Pe an f\.Ul 'NO. p­
1 
-'s bod)' tor, . o 1na
i mea.i ant direc ad1no hall 
! 
unple~ -rhe felt this r~as an uons, 1and, the gh it w ditotS c\eaY\te to a\thOU..,,dent el from
Optl ent, " S~v ya S 
. pr n:tn: of e-o . t wa
·ro po · •t r .... 1
enYl nent s bout 1 s . tting 
••e~ce set a :1e adf0.1
uP whlJ.
... ere ·on • take. 
Y'f. u\at1 . f0.1S
clfC 
an ed1•tonal The ent hash ''Strip" i cous

artm. t e rau 
DeP . g along . t the . oners. drin\ollt to qUI~ege Vac•~r anY attemP_ of co . h beer d ·to
• ·ties ·wit · · ke 
act1Y1 found, ·11 be aslf Fort 
one 1 w1 t . . 
AnY . alcoho . he stree . ds it is other ·t onto t the crow break; dumP 1 dale spor~s spring ld be 
Lauder dunng ·w shou 
famous for of that c1 
Streetsthe 
flowing. 

China· has been the siglit of student demonstrations within the Past four months. Nine college student demonstrations occured 
'over issues such as nuclear '":''· ing, birth control and the quality
of cafeteria food. 
e cam­
·t colleg f new 

has h1 _....., o 1.~ch
·sm fo1,.. w1u. 
1' errot1 ill the c1asses rorism uses -..r'3Ja)'-tlona.i_, ter
an, .. e pOlJ.,:tics, P urses, ·ntern• and th 1>.no\ogY co dY l nderst d tee . . act. stu t to u an rronst ·mu­
attemP cho\og)' he te ts s1 A psY t t wden: 1' w. · 
the h affec ·t'1 s f a · ··sts
•C • etSl J O otl ' 
whi uni• .. c¼ing_ · terr ·sts,
-rutts the hll~•estinlan terrori nd
ted 1'a.i as a la e bY acted tiators yetY
p\andents t n~g:d at th~ hOW 
Stu nmen d gain d' ng o
yet an n 1 
go ters dersta . s. 
repor an un he issue l 
\east . ted t 
comphca 
SCHOLASTIC 


music ---:------------------------,----­
·  
.. by R. Shrader  
. Forget about R.E.M. about Husker Du. Forget thing you've read about in Rolling  
Stone. Many bands play throughout the country whose records you may have never heard who real rock and roll. That's rock and  
roll, you know, the stuff with spirit. No act, no mumbling, no statements or messages, just ·the aim to variety and keep music alive in self-destructive business. lowing seven bands· stand the strength of recent which provide the backbone for the music industry today. and brutal describe the majority of this group, so prepare to have your , musical tastes assaulted lenged. Naked Raygun: Heralding Chi~ago, Naked Ray best thing to They start  

··· 
Forget every­
are making 
add a The fol­out on releases 
Loud, fast 
and chal 
rhythm 

n . s •, 
t~)ir~t ye~s-old'-, chaii.'ges tfib'\n· · · · ·· ( dud\.any '\:f[{ -, ' . 

' into· sbpie-:r{ :~ne all adds:'u_p -t ~W fc , best band> P,J2f~o(mlsfach 
see them if you _-visit-Chic·ag . Th p d ~~, . '1 . · f th e. tan oras.~ .· e 0?e O ~ grea estf nhames rPJ-~1:?-P-',... 

Groups from Nowhere 
BANDS EMERGING IN 1986 . 

an. one O t e gr ¢t~!;UllerY tract on SST records they · should voices; the Pandoras h~ve weath-gain visibility. It definitely takes erect a 1ot . of ch~ng~s in the past gu_ts to love this band. 
few years, but their time has finally The Voodoo Kittens: Take the
come. Lead vocalist and guitarist Paula Pierce had to start trom scratch when three original members split after the first album, "It's About Time". Her new Pan­doras play with all of the convic­tion of their predecessors with the addition of a greater sense of pro­duction values. Basing their sound on the sixties' primal guitar and garage rock, they update the sound; just like the early Fleshtones. The new album, · "Stop Pretending," should propel this female foursome 
into the charts. 
Tex and the Horsehea · cala Jones has the onl 
L.A. to challenge wail and she uses · 
to plus d too. of a 

n on a 
that£s what
,, 
:« 
gme--·l'band so alty;ihtimidating ... ap€/4ecks to melt 
·1,/ •

tq;irun screammg from ?:9Ic Y out~, from New _er East Side, detunes :f!irives them into amps, with screwdrivers and into musical patterns. Moon Rising" is more album, it evokes the hich creep through your 'T en you pl?t destruction _and -murder. They will never reach the. Top 40, but with a new con-
Velvet Underground and add a twisted sense of pop sensibility and 
you  get  the  Voodoo  ns.  A  
Pennsylvania band fro  ddle  
of nowhere, they h  ed  
their  first  casse  ox  
One,"  which . r  , influ­ 
ences and tale  ~op songs  
and weird s  abound on  
this  sixty  ape,  as  well  as  

sical passages and 

g. Just to the skewed and roll, Kitten music big in t11e upcoming year. Asylum! A Minneapolis et, formerly called Loud Fast les, Soul Asy1Um .. play roaring guitar songs. The twin guitar work jumps all around )n this album, but not in the way you would expect. Playing few leads, they concentrate on the rhythmic possibilities· of musical interpla;y. . Strong vocals add to this to make their album debut, "Made to be Broken," a worthwhile addition to today's extensive underground music. Buy this record and go for a spin. · 
Volcano Suns: This Boston band's 1985 deout "The Bright Orange Years" scored with the cri­tics, but was almost impossible to find iri stores These guys are a noise fest unto themselves with drummer /vocalist Pete P~escott (formerly of Mission of Burma) writing. songs about the simple life with titles like "Stewtime," "Corn­field," and "Animals." · Less melodic and more. complicated than Husker Du,· this trio, using Mission of Burma's formula of strange musical structures and shouted vocals, could make the big time. 
These are the seven · bands to look out for in 1986. You won't find most of them in the Top 40, but a little legwork will reward you with great listening nonetheless.·• 
MARCH 5, 1986 


l:i 





CONGRESS ADOPTS
• 


NATIONAL DAD TO BATTLE DEFICITS 
BUT CAN HE GET THEM OFF THE HOOK? 
by Mike Vore 

In high school, when friends money. National Dad will invoke 
wanted to go out, and I didn't, I'd automatic spending cuts, and the 
sometimes ask my dad whether or · Congressmen will get . off the 
not he cared if I went out. He hook. 
always answered the same way, Our government runs on a 
regardless of weather or evening's budget. And for twenty-four out 
aim: "Oh, Mike, I get so. worried of the last twenty-five years, the 
when you go out. Why don't you government hasn't followed it's 
stay in tonight?" So, I'd tell my budgets. Of late -during the last 
friends I couldn't go out because five years -Congress hasn't even 
of Dad. He'd get me off the. come to grips with the budget 
hook. before the beginning of the fiscal 
President Reagan and year. Last vear, Congress passed 
Congress have the same problem. the 1985 budget just months 
They are-having a hard time say­before the 1985 fiscal year ended. 
ing "Ni:>" to big deficits. So, We are currently in fiscal year 
they've decided to use my old 1986, which started on October 1, 
trick: They're letting Dad get 1985. True to form, Congress has 
them off the hook. The funny yet to pass a budget for 1986. 
thing is that there is no National President Reagan just submitted 
Dad who can say "No" when his 1987 budget proposal on 
Congress and Reagan can't February 1st. They are really on 
decide something on their own. But such small matters never trouble Congress and Reagan. They got together, thought about their dilemma, and decided to set out to find an authority whose "No" tliey could borrow. Thus, Congress· adopted a National Dad; the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, the Gramm-Rudman­Hollings for short. 
Now,· when constituents call on their Congressmen to spend ­spend -spend, and the Congress­men want to cut -cut -cut, the Congressmen can call on National Dad. He'll tell those party-animal constituents that there is no top of things in Washington, aren't they? 

Thus, you can see what a mess 

the budget process has become. 
Congress knows it· will never be 
able to cut a program. as it actu­
ally ·comes up for approval, so it's 
decided to shift •. the burden. 
Rather than hand sculpting a 
budget which meets specific 
needs, Congress has found a 
National Dad who can invoke 
automatic cuts with the grace of a 
jack hammer. The aim: shrink the 
stone, shrink the budget. period. 
Gramm-Rudman-Hollings sets limits on the size of our deficits. We're not allowed to go over budget by more than a certain amount. Example: for fiscal 1986, the deficit ceiling is $171.9 billion. The. budget says we can spend x dollars. However, we're going over budget spending about $200 billion this · year. Gramm­Rudman-Hollings is the National Dad who can cut that $200 billion to $171.9 billion. 
If Congress and the President don't come to an agreement on how to cut the 1986 budget, Gramm-Rudman-Hollings man­dates that the set ceiling be met automatically. We need to get rid of $28.1 billion, half · from defense, half from social spend­
fag. No talk, no bargaining, no 
compromises, $13.55 billion gets 
lopped off domestic . programs~ $13.55 billion gets lopped off defense. That's National Dad in action. 

The man who puts National Dad into action lives in the Gen­eral Accounting Office, and is officially known as the Comp­troller General. He goes into action like this: .if Congress and the· President have not agreed on a budget which meets the deficit ceilings by a certain date, he cal­culates up-coming expenses and 
expected deficits. Then, he sends an order to the President mandat­ing spending cuts which meet the deficit ceilings. After receiving the order, the President tenta­tively imposes the cuts. Congress and the President then have one month before his cuts become final. 
The first order was sent to President Reagan on January 20 this year. President Reagan tenta­tively imposed the cuts on Febru­ary 1, and both he and Congress have until March 1 . before tlie cuts become final. Once final, the cuts will diminish each program's budget equally. There are some important exceptions to National Dad's axe, though. Social Secu­rity, Veterans pensions, Medicaid, Aid to Families with Dependent Children, the Children, Women and Infants Nutrition Program, Supplementary Security Income, food stamps, child nutrition, Veterans compensation · and interest on the national debt. 
One other large exception has been made this year. Currently, when cutting the military budget, spending cuts have to be met, yet each program is treated separately. After 1986, military spending will be cut as blindly as non-military spending. Gramm-Kudmari-Hollings plants the following · ceilings in National Dad's mind: 1986; $1 71.9 billion; 1987, $144 billion; 1988, $108 bil­lion; 1989, $82 billion; 1990~ $46 billion; 1991, zero. · The deficit ceilings can be waived in times of recession or war. You know what war means. Recession, according 
4 r 
~l 
I \ ' 
.. 1 . ·' 
... .-~ .~. 
~~N 
College Press Service 

to Gramm-Rudman-Hollings, means two consecutive quarters of less than one percent growth, or two forecasted years of a decline in economic growth, as reported by the Congressional Budget Office and the Office of Management and the Budget. 
Will the National Dad plan work? That may depend upon its survival. Twelve Democratic Congressmen and . a union of 
Gramm-Rudman­Hollings is National Dad's adoption agency. It sets limits on the size of our deficits. 
government employees (whose members would lose money under the plan) sued the Federal Government on February 7, a three-judge panel decided in favor of them. 
The court said that the Comp­troller General wasn't indepen­dent enough to act in an execu­tive fashion. The President can mandate spending cuts, as can his officials. But, the Comptroller General is not one of the President's officials. He can be removed from office by Congress, and is therefore undt!r it's power. In other words, he can't send those automatic deficit cuts to the President. 

I don't ask my Dad about going out with friends anymore. I've grown a little older, more secure in my own authority. These days, l get myself off the hook. If National Dad dies in the Supreme Court, Congress and the President may have to foam to do the same thing. 
National Dad hasn't died yet, though. The case must go before the Supreme Cour~ in June or July, and nobody knows how that Court will treat it. Even if the court should kill the Comptroller General's power, National Dad, alias Gramm-Rudman-Hollings, still provides a way for Congress to enact the cuts without his help. National Dad will still send an order to the President. But for it to be effective, it must be treated like a bill: Congress must pass it, and the President must sign it. Thus, authority is placed firmly back on their own shoulders, and National Dad falls into the back­ground again. In the mean time, he's living well in the General Accounting Office, awaiting March 1. • 
MARCH 5, 1986 




WILL STUDENTS FEEL THE\ PINCH? 
GRAMM RUDMAN COULD MEAN MASSIVE CUTS IN EDUCATIONAL AID 
Washington, D.C. (CPS) 
Colleges around the country still aren't sure how they will compensate for the federal fund­ing they're about to lose as a result of the Gramm-Rudman­Hollings bill. 
In unveiling his· proposal for the federal budget for the 1987 fiscal year, which must meet the new Gramm-Rudman-Hollings deficit ceilings, President Reagan announced he once again wanted to reduce the government's role in running and financing American higher education. 
The president proposed drastic cuts in every one of his past budget plans. Congress, while agreeing to cuts less severe than the president wanted in 1981 and 1982, let some college funding creep upward in subsequent years. 
· Among the suggestions in the president's proposal for the 1987 fiscal year, which stretches from . October 1, 1986 to September 30, 1987. were to: 
End interest-free student loans: 

· Students would begin paying 
. interest on their Guaranteed Stu­dent Loans from the day they got them. Under the Reagan plan, students would pay a rate tied to current interest on Treasury bonds -now seven percent ­while still in school, and then the Treasury bill rate plus three per­centage points after they leave school. Students could begin repaying the interest immediately, or borrow more to . cover the accumulating interest charges. 
Push students off aid: The pro­posal, passed, would cut off aid to one million students. 

Change the subsidy to the banks: While borrowing students are still in school, the government currently pays about 3.5 percent interest to banks that make the student loans. It would cut the subsidy to three percent if Congress approves the proposal. 
Cut Pell Grant funding: By cutting Pell Grant funding from $3-.4 billion to $3 billion, the administration hopes to stop sub­sidizing some 500,000 students each year. The administration also wants to make Pell Grants harder to get by tightening income need tests for them. 
Merge and cut various pro-: grams: The president proposed to cut the College Work-Study Pro­gram, which helps schools and nonprofit groups pay student employees, by about 40 percent, and merge it with the Supplemen­tal Education Opportunity Grants program. He wants to eliminate the State Student Incentive Grant and National Direct Student Loan programs altogether. 

Create a new teacher scholar­ship program: The department would funnel $ I million in scho­larships to prospective math and science teachers under a one­year-only Christa McAuliffe Scholarships program. 
Create a new loan program: A new program, run by colleges themselves, would loan up to $4,500 a year to undergraduates and $10,000 to graduate students. Repayment schedules would . be tied to how much students subse­quently earn after graduation, with each year's payments limited to 15 percent of annual income. 
Initial reaction on campuses around the country to the new proposal is less than calm. If Congress approves the plan, bankers say they they'll have to stop lending, students say they'll have to stop studying and colleges say that, once again, they'll have to raise tuition costs. • · 
Amount 
$5,5 
$5 BIWON_ 
$4,5 
$4 BIWON..• 53.5 S3 BIWON... 
525 
S2 BIWON... 
S1.5 BILLION 
* FEDERAL STUDENT AID FUNDING * 
FY 84.

FYSO · FY 81 FY 82 FY 83 FY85 FY86 
Actual Appropriations. Reagan Request. 
• Proposed February 5, 1986. 
000 . 00000 

.........  
0 .. 000000  000000000  0 .. 000000  
......... 0 . 0000000  ......... 000000 . 00  ......... .........  O . DDDOD .. .........  
0 . 0000000 00000000 .  ......... .........  000 . 00000 0 .. 000000••••••••• 0 .. 000000  

......... ......... 000 ...... .. 0000 ... 00000 .... o ...... oo 
,0000 .. 000 o ... o .... oo .... ooo o . o ...... 

0000 . 0000 0 . 0000000 0000 . 0000 0 . 0000000 0000 ..... 0 ... 00000 00000 . 000 0 .. 000000 0000 ..... 0 .. 000000 .... 00000 0000 .... 0 0 .. 000000 
. 00000 . 00 ......... ......... 000000 ... 00000 ... 0 o ..... ooo 
......... ••••••••• 0 .. 000000 
••••••••• ••••••••• 000000000 
FY 87" 
•••••a•m• 

¦•••••••••¦••••• ¦• ¦¦¦¦• ¦ a ¦¦¦¦• ¦•¦••¦ 
••••••••• ••••••••• •••••••••.••••••••• 
ggggggggg ggggggggg ::::::::: ggggggggg ::::::::: ::::::::: ::::::::: ::::::::: 
00000000 . 000000 . 00 ••••••••• ......... •••••••••.••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 0 .. 000000 ... 000000 ••••••••• 0 ... 00000 ·······••·••······· ••••••••••••••••••
0 . 000000 . 000000 .. 0 ••••••••• 0 . 000000 . •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
00000000 . 0000 . 0 .. 0 ••••••••• ·000000000 •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 0 . 0000000 .. 0000000 ••••••••• 0 .. 000000 ••••••••• ••••••••• ¦¦¦¦¦¦ a ¦ a ••••••••• o .. ooowo . ......... ••••••••• 00000000 . ••••••••• ••••••••• ••••••••• ••••••••• 
00000000 . .~... o .. o ••••••••• 00000000 . ••••••••• ••••••••• ••••••••• ••••••••• 
........ Ll DDGODD.DD ¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦ ODD......¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦ ¦¦¦•¦¦U¦ ¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦ 
ggggggggg ggggggggg ::::::::: ggggggggg ::::::::: ::::::::: ::::::::: ::::::::: 
......... 00~0 ..... ¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦ O ... DDOO . ¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦ ¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦ ¦¦¦¦•¦¦¦¦ ¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦ 
0 . 000000 . 000000 . 00 •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 00000000 . 000000 ... 
ggggggggg ggggggggg ::::=:::: ::::::::: -::::::::: ::::::::: ::::::::: ::::::::: 
SOI.JlCE: Al'nertxnCCU'd on Ed.lcafl0n caJ.1GE PIES EMC! 
SCHOLASTIC 



technology 
Scientific Story 
by Sam Siewert 

"The most beautiful thing we can experience is the mysterious. It is the source of all true art and science."-Albert Einstein 
Those who truly love science should indulge in its fiction. Sci­ence fiction expands the mind of the contemplative reader who explores the mysteries of existence. Science encompasses the smallest particle of subatomic physics as well as ,,,, the incomprehensible ;i'ijj~gpj' space. Writers of'§iw:T ,,,, artfully portray the'<,, . ,. ar{ mystery of science by''coin.1:iinin both the literary and scienti skill required by the gem;y Unfortunately, too frequently tliei, ideals of the literary population are alienated from the objective goals ·of science. Science fiction incorporates a full vision of the potential of man through the humanities and science. The range of science fiction should interest almost all. readers, even those who may have an aversion to science. Science provides a factual basis 'Cfrom which the author extrapolates an impres:,ion of man and his world with vivid imaginative, creativity. 
Buck Rogers, War of the lf:orlds, and 2001: A Space Odys­sey, involve the human drama interwoven with a scientific back­ground. These types of produc­tions which e·njoy a spotlight posi­tion amid the general public are referred to as mainstream science fiction, represent only a small portion of the range of science fiction. The phantasmagoria! spe­cial effects produced for science fiction films have awed many fans, but have also evoked criti­cism of it as only scientific thrill and chill. Although intrigue and entertainment were the intent of early science fiction writers like 

Tellers 
are being read by a population who greet the tech,nology explo­sion with increasing comprehen­sion and an eagerness to identify and gain perspective on the world. 
H.G. Wells' Whe,n Worlds, Collide,,,,/ The two major types of sci-and Jules Verne s J9y~lJfD1,;l,Q:lhtftic,, c fi ·t· I t t h · 
. ,, •;::; ·,,., '" 'tf' ,,,,.• -: ,,, ,:.,c;u,ence 1c 10n re a e o t e sciences 
C:nter of the ,· .·· ;, 11~ly~'.\~,SFH?l~,;S:}:i on which they are based. Hard with the s ,'.·,lil~e ·,Sta~ , · science fiction involves the physi-Trek and !.~[t.. ,S~1~g cal sciences, mathematics and cienceufi~~ technology, such as robotics, spacecraft and genetic engineer­ing. Soft science fiction portrays the interaction of life forms, with technology. The best science fic­tio11,.,.:fPp}.l?~e both types of sci­,e.1?~t't\¥tijpJJ; like Isaac Asimov, R:qp#f#:Fieinlein, and Arthur C. .. c1at~~;,;!:i~e accomplished scien­s s\whb have also demonstrated ij~jt;jJJerary talent in science fic­i§#]i'(I;i,ction in general has ,alyv~ys.~~en a medium where the .,,,. · :1 iufnor.Hs~ shape characters and :1t:,y;!1~f:\·;(\ ,,i,~JiµatJp~sforeating a vision of man '' ;< /,,*:liiq~i,I?f,Ovides a greater appreci­fa ;<,iatip~'iH~d understanding of life. 
§,~·; .. "9}e#G~)'fiction authors go one .':;r~~li61:µ:):'3 ti:lp':'further, creating a picture of . acter of scf, ·,, ···•·· ri:l~lity based on an extension of 
.. ·· 16f~d. Science '~¢tgl;c.i'."'rrom the low cie'nce fiction "fan-Jdden book sections and oiogies to appear now on best seller racks. Science fiction stories with a strong basis in the sciences 
Even the academic world is included among its fans and in the classrooms, the true scholarly and pro­voking character of sci­ence fiction is explored. 

.... stiexjce ,tp.rough the imagination, yieldingt1f;'s'ense of man's human­ity and his place in. the universe. Finally, science fiction does not predict the future, but discusses possibilities and speculates upon . the course of current scientific views. 
Science fiction may not predict the future, but the close relation between frontier science and science fiction often give that illusion. The technology age has just begun and as the effects become greater upon society, more people will be interested in the reflections of science fiction literature. • 
26

MARCH 6, 1986 


BACK IN THE USSR 
STUDENTS EXPERIENCE THE SOVIET UNION 

by Jim Butterfield 
The Soviet Union is a land of 

•paradoxes. People are aloof yet friendly, distrustful of foreigners yet innately fascinated with Western life. Cities that are not­able for their drabness possess a distinct, vibrant character at the same time. It is a society that is wholly politicized and at the same time almost completely apolitical. 
These are some of the conflict­ing impressions brought back by a group of students who travelled to the Soviet Union over Christmas break. Composed of eight Notre Dame students and four students from other universities, the group visited Leningrad, Moscow, Tbil­isi and Helsinki, Finland over a period of 13 days. In an informal poll of their reactions taken after the trip, I found very few cle.ar­cut impressions. I also found no one whose preconceptions about both the Soviet Union and espe­cially the Soviet people had not changed. 
We had many opportunities to 
meet with Soviet people during 
the trip. We made the most of the 
inordinate amount of freedom we 
· had and set out on our own in 
smaller groups to explore the cities. The people we met fell into one of two categories: the traders and average people. 
The traders were rampant in Leningrad, a cosmopolitan city that reflects its proximity to the West with a fascination in things 
26 

· · "He assured them there would be no problem with customs and presented them with a business card with the English inscription at the bottom; •Big Al, Entrepreneur Extraordinaire.''' 

Police and military uni/orms are omnipresent. 
Western. Most of the traders know just enough English, French and German to initiate a conver­sation and to propose a trade or outright purchase of tennis shoes, ski jackets, gloves or backpacks. Some are more sophisticated or highly skilled at identifying and bartering with Westerners. 
Part of our group met up with one .such entrepreneur, a charac­ter by the name of Alexei who 
was fluent in English. His atti­tude toward his trade was remarkably brazen; he showed much less caution than similar individuals in his dealings with our group members. He had everything imaginable to off er in barter: military uniforms, badges, lacquer boxes, Soviet flags, ivory tusks, icons, fur hats and more. He was mostly interested in get­ting clothing and radios from us. When the group asked about potential problems with customs on our exit from the country, he assured them it would be no problem and presented them with a business card written com­pletely in Russian, but with the English inscription at the bottom, "Big Al, Entrepreneur Extraordi­naire." We surmised that operat­ing with such blatancy in a coun­try that regularly prosecutes black marketeers with little mercy, he must have been the son of a high party official or had similar highly-placed connections to pro­tect him. 

Another meeting in Leningrad started out in a similar vein but quickly turned into one of the most interesting conversations we experienced. A young fellow by the name of Igor, dressed in an attractive Italian sweater and a London Fog jacket, attempted in broken English to buy the tennis shoes off the feet of one of the group. After assuring him that we were not interested in selling our clothes on the subway at the 60th parallel in the middle of January, he started querying us about our visit. He offered to meet us the next day and show us around town; we agreed and set up a meeting place somewhere in the bowels of the Leningrad subway system. When we arrived the fol­lowing afternoon, he was wai~ing with a friend who was a shoe fac­tory worker and who spoke not a word of English. They offered to show us some tourist attractions, but when we told them we had already seen most of them, they suggested we go to a local bar and 
SCHO~ASTIC 



talk instead. 
In the next few hours we learned several things: the Rus­sians have an unsurpassed capa-· city for hospitality; they have lit­tle of the obsession for cleanliness that Americans have (the bar was filthy); and the government con­trolled press is very effective in conveying to the Soviet people inaccurate and incomplete images about life outside of Russia 
Both of our hosts were extremely interested in American life. The tenor of their questions reflected a healthy inquisitiveness about us and our society. But the questions themselves reflected the effectiveness of media socializa­tion in the Soviet Union: Is there really a vast number of unem­ployed in America that are living in poverty? How bad is mafia crime? How bad is the treatment of blacks? Are American Indians a repressed minority in America? How much has the Ku Klux Klan infiltrated the American govern­ment? Other queries included the standard of living of American factory workers and the cost of consumer goods. They met each reply with thoughtful, interested looks. And at no time did they bring up the arms race. 
Two of our group who spoke no Russian met up with a fellow named Andre · in the same bar who spoke flu~~t English with a perfect British-accent. He had never been abroad, but listened regularly to BBC broadcasts. The composition of his questions was very. similar to those posed to us. He also imparted the . genuine warmth and hospitality that we experienced with our two friends. Despite the fact that these two conversations were separated by several tables, we all came away with very similar impressions about the effects of government­controlled media and about the Russian people themselves. 
It was easy to detect a genera-­t_ion gap · among the Russians in 

MARCH 6, 1986 
their ··attitudes towards life. The elderly, having lived through Stalinism and World War Two, give the impression of having compromised with life in exc_hange for survival. They seem to ask very little except to be able to go about their daily lives without undue interruption. They are particularly distrustful of out­siders; a fellow in Leningrad who was talking to two of us on the street was accosted by an old babushka for associating with foreigners. An elderly Muscovite turned tail and disappeared when asked by one girl if she could take a picture of his grandson. 
One case in particular illus­trates the fear of being photo­graphed by Westerners. While going up a mountainside tram in Tbilisi an old, toothless, wizened woman started babbling and kid­ding with us in Georgian and surprised us with her openness and friendliness. When_ one of the group pulled out his camera, how­ever, she immediately turned her back and refused to talk with us anymore. When I tried to explain to her in Russian (not knowing if she even understood Russian) that he had put the camera away and would not take her picture, she swung her bag around and nearly caught me flatfooted. She was willing to talk and tease with us as long as no one else -was around, but as soon as someone pulled out a camera, she quickly disassociated herself from us com­pletely. 

Despite the presence (almost omnipresence) of political slogans and banners, the Russians seem to pay little attention to them. In Leningrad, the signs were geared toward the Party Congress that was only a month away with slo­gans like, "All Leningraders Rise Up and Meet the 27th Party Congress with Open Arms!" Oth­ers reflected the most recent cam-
C 27 


JI 
I 
paign in the Soviet press with comments · such as "Increase Labor Productivity and Discipline in the Workplace!" The slogans in Moscow were more stridently pol­itical, including "Communism will be Victorious!" and "Glory to th~) Communist Party!" When I asked one Russian what her reaction to all the sloganeering and political proselytizing was, she · claimed that she never even noticed it. She likened it to Western billboard advertising (she had been in London for a short visit), and I could hardly but concede the 
point. · 
Our experience was that most 

Soviets reflected this apoliticism. If it was notable in Leningrad and Moscow, it was rampant in Soviet Georgia Georgia is a republic in the southern part of the Soviet Union that has no ethnic or cul­tural ties to Russia We found it very easy to forget that we were in the Soviet Union while in Tbil­isi (the capital of Georgia). The · people were outwardly emotional, exhibited an attitude of excite­ment toward life (there is no sanctity for the pedestrian in Tbilisi, a point which one of our group found out the hard way by nearly getting killed at a cross­walk), and made a point of speak,­ing their native Georgian unless they had to use Russian. The 
temperature was about 40 degrees warmer than in Moscow; except for the fact that street signs were dually in Russian and Georgian and the occasipnal mandatory sta­tue of Lenin,· we almost felt we hadleft the country. ·· · 

Most of us expected to find a dearth of consumer goods and grocery items, and still we were · surprised at the inavailability of many things. Fresh orange juice, 
..One of our group attended a Catholic mass. He was struck by the composition of the congregation; no youth, · no men and no . families, only elderly women." 
fresh milk (at least anything that looked or tasted like milk to us), fruits and vegetables were almost non-existent. The selection of goods in department stores was limited and very often of low quality. I never understood why Americans needed 23 different brands of deodorant; in the Soviet Union the problem was just the opposite. In order to find some band-aids for one girl who was developing a blister, I went into a drugstore. I stood in _one line to reach the counter to select the item l wanted. I found no band­. aids so selected some gauze wrap 
shoppers were quite willing to stand in line for it, even for several "hours. '· · · · 
Other impressions abound. We all missed color. The Soviets do not dress in colors; even our 
'friends 1n Western ·dress acquired clothes that were black, grey,· brown or dark blue. The cities are · a monotonous string of gray block . buildings. The . effect of this lack of color was gradually apparent to · us; it lends to the general drab­ness of Russian daily life. The contrast was notable when we left Leningrad for Helsinki, a Western city full of brightly-lit windows 

instead; I then went into another line to pay for it. After paying_ I re-entered the first line and upon showing the receipt to the sales clerk I received the gauze. In all the process took about 20 minutes and I came away with only a sub­

. stitute for what I wanted. Our 
general impression was. that this was the norm for Soviet shoppers, not the exception. 
The queues were not-as bad as we had heard, although the pur­chase of any item always requires going through three lines. Only once did we see a very long line, in the shoe · department of a large store. Evidently a new shipment of some highly sought-after style had just come in, and the 
. Soviets wait to visit Lenin's tomb. 
and very colorful clothing. 
The biggest exception to archi­

tectural conformity are the old 
Russian churches with their 
brightly colored cupolas. The 
Soviets have admirably preserved 
these historic buildings, yet very few of them operate as churches anymore. There · are'. only 21 . "working" churches in Len­ingrad, a city of 4 million. Most of the .other old churches and cathedrals have been turned into museums. 
One of our group attended a 

Catholic mass at the only Catholic 
church in Leningrad. Even though 
he understood no Russian he fol­
lowed most of the mass, although 
he recognized the mystical aspect . 
common to religion _in Russia. He 
was also struck by the composi­tion of the congregation; . there _ were no youth, no .men and .no families, only elderly women. · 
Several of us happened upon a 
-SCHOLAsTIC 



wedding outside of Tbilisi in a· Georgian Orthodox church. While operationally distinct from the Russian Orthodox church, the two religions are very similar. The priest who presided · over · the wedding wore thickly encrusted robes and conducted most of the proceedings in ceremonial chants. Occasionally ari elderly black­robed priest would step out of the back and join in the chants. The bride and groom each wore beads on their heads, and the bride also wore a shawl over hers. After 20 minutes of chants and praises the priest led the couple in three ceremonial trips around the altar, , kissed them both and excused 
them. At no time did the couple. 
utter a word. We were all 
crammed into a small room near . 
the side of the church, and the 
couple was surrounded by the 
wedding party, friends and a few 
curious foreigners .. 
Weddings are a cause for cele­bration in Russia, much the same . as in the United States; except the · celebrations are tied into Russian society and history in a· way dif­ferent from . us. In Moscow it is customary for a newly married couple to do three. things after the ceremony; visit one of the vista points overlooking the city; visit Lenin's mausoleum and . lay flowers at the tomb of the unk­nown soldier, as it was explained to us, "to thank those who died so that we mayci experience this happiness." 
This theme of Russian patrio­tism, especially. as related to the War and to Lenin, struck us again and again. A war memorial dedi­cated to the defenders of Len­ingrad during the 900 day siege was a sobering sight due. to its somber structure and evocative statue, but the freshly laid flowers, already frozen and lightly dusted with snow, were perhaps the most sobering. A march· through Lenin's tomb convinced us of the sincerity with which most· Russians revere . their 
MARCH 5, 1986 

Russian children are a magnet for photographers. 
national hero, as did the crowd of 
people that gathered around the tomb fate at night after .it was closed to pay their respects. The Russians are incessantly patriotic, 
despite their apoliticism, despite the hardships of Russian life and despite their fascination with things Western. 
For most of us our visit was summed up one evening on Red Square. In front of us stood St. · Basil's Cathe~al, a multi-colored, multi-cupolaed structure built by Ivan the Terrible that symbolized the history and the mysticism of Russia. Next to us was Lenin's mausoleum with its crowd of peo­ple laying flowers.. Behind it was the Kremlin, mysterious and almost forbidding in its presence. Around us people marched silently by, barely talking to each other and merging into one grey mess in the late evening mist. At one moment we felt the history, the mystique, the power and the pomp, the excitement and the drabness that characterize the Soviet Union. • 
BAKER'S BIKE SHOP 
Parts. Accessories & Service 
Schwinn Bicycles 
(le\e!Jnd Rd. 
Roseland 
Portage Realty Baker's Bike Shop 
RanJall Inn 
X 

j Notre Dame Campus 
Jan's Bouti4ut', 
~­
D!Ju~IJS Rd. 

Now offering winter and 277-8866 · summer bike storage. 


AS DRUG USE SPREADS THE NCAA BEGINS TO CRACK DOWN. 
bility to an NCAA committee. If the_ ·student-athlete tests positiveA HARD PILL TO SWALLOW after being restored to eligibility. 
In response to the drug prob­lem that has plagued professional sports, the National Collegiate Athletic Association has formu­lated a new policy on substance abuse. Any athlete found in -viola­tion of the new directive will suffer considerably more than a slap on the wrist -the NCAA has taken a hard-line stance in order to maintain the integrity of colle­giate competition. 
In the past, NCAA regulations required that: 
"the student athlete shall annu-· ally, prior to participation in inter­collegiate competition during the academic year in question, sign a statement in a form prescribed by the NCAA council in which the student-athlete submits information related to eligibility, recruitment, financial aid, amateur status, involvement in organized gambling activities..." 
The new drug policy has added one more stipulation to the signed statement. The student­athlete must also "consent to be tested for the use of drugs prohi­bited by NCAA legislation. Failure to complete and sign the statement annually shall result in the student-athlete's ineligibility in all intercollegiate competition." 
The actual testing conducted by the NCAA only takes place at the championship level, which includes only any NCAA sanc­tioned championship or certified post-season contest. That means individual schools are responsible for testing their athletes during the regular season. Only a handful of schools have any drug testing and counseling programs already in existence, so there are a great number of institutions working quickly to establish similar pro­grams. Thus, according to John 

by Gene Boes he will be charged with the loss of one entire season of eligibility in Toner, chairman of the Special all sports. · Committee for National Drug­
·. The list of banned drugs that · Testing Policy and director of 
the· NCAA has adopted covers athletics at the University of Con-. 
everything from psychomotornecticut, the new policy is already stimulants to diuretics to anabolic 
achieving success. 

steroids -over eighty-six drugs made the list.· Even high concen­
"The purpose of the new drug trations of caffeine can be
policy is four-pronged," accord­grounds for suspension. The les­ing to Toner. "We want to son is unmistakeably clear: If youprevent the abuse of drugs want to do drugs, you won't dothrough education, detection, sports. Period.

deterrence and rehabilitation. 

Our testing only takes place at the For certain drugs, it is possible 
championship level, so it is to test negative even if the traces · imperative that each conference of drugs are detected . in a or individual school establish a urinalysis. Three drugs that fall drug testing and rehabilitation into· this category are caffeine, program to insure that substance testosterone (an anabolic steroid), abuse is prevented during the reg­and marijuana. In order for an ular season." athlete to test positive for caf­
·­_(~=;;;.;·-:_;--...•·=---':.·_·-------=-'___···:·::==•==·•·•==-=··==..;_.=---::::::~?.~·-:' _,-;·:-~'. ... ,'",.:-.:--""''"" 
The NCAA does not specify the action that must be taken against any athlete who tests posi­tive during the regular season. However, any staff members of an athletic department or anyone employed by the intercollegiate athletics program who has knowledge of an athlete involved in substance abuse, and fails to follow institutional procedures dealing with drug abuse ."shall be subject to disciplinary or correc­tive action." 
Thus, coaches c_an no longer "look the other way." They mu,st deal with the problem or suffer sanctions themselves. Coaches definhely can't afford to ignore the problem if they plan ·to parti­cipate in any type of post-season competition for a minimum of ninety days. After ninety days, a penalized student-athlete may appeal for restoration of his eligi­feine, the concentration must exceed 15 micrograms/ml. For testosterone, the. ratio of . testos­terone to epitestosterone must exceed six. And for a suspension to result from marijuana, one must test positive on a repeat test­ing. 

Marijuana is handled dif­ferently for several reasons. First, an athlete c_an test positive in a passive sense, which means he may have been exposed to the drug without actually having used 

·-·-· 
30 
SCHOLASTIC 




it. Second, it is the most usea drug by far, so in dealing with it, one must be sensitive and cau­tious. In most cases, v.rhen a student-athlete tests positive for the first . time, the NCAA will issue a private warning to the_ university officials and the student-athlete, g1vmg the offender the opportunity to clean up his act. When a follow-up test is administered a positive out­come results in all sanctions being imposed. 
Although the NCAA only tests during championship competi­tions, Toner sees the new policy as "a strong incentive for schools and conferences to institute private testing programs during the regular and off-seasons." Su.ch programs would help to prevent "failures and the embarrassment that would necessarily follow for any athlete or. teams playing at the championship level." 
Of the few schools where drug . testing programs already exist,· many programs are grossly inade­quate. At one school, the athletic department announces the date on which the urinalysis was to be held -over three weeks before the · test! This is inadequate because most drugs leave the sys­tem after a few days. Cocaine leaves the the system in about forty-eight hours. Marijuana has the longest duration period for it 
Y., • . •

leaves the system m approxi­
mately twenty-eight days. 
The program established at 

Notre Dame is one of the better programs in the country. It is aimed at keeping the student­~thlete educated and aware of the perils of using drugs and main­taining eligibility. Urinalysis is taken randomly and. unan­nounced. For example, the foot­ball players are divided into groups. One week the linebackers, . running backs, and receivers are tested. The next week the offen­sive linemen, running backs, and defensive secondary are tested, 
MARCH &, 1986 
, ........_.,,,,.., 
11 

...ANO tr All E.LSt FA\LS..M CAN SAY W£ wrn£ ON t>RUGS..~ 
University's Psychological Ser­while . the following week could be vices or to an "off campus" coun­linebackers, defensive linemen, seling program. When the case is ·and speciality teams. Just a repeated offense, the athletebecause you're tested one week must then meet with Athleticdoesn't mean that you're off the Director Gene Corrigan and hishook -your number could come coach to discuss his future with
up the following week as well. the team. When an athlete has a
And drug testing is administered substance abuse problem, the
to all varsity teams and eyery var­main concern is to help the indi­
sity athlete. 
vidual evaluate his or her situa­tion and correct the· problem. If counseling doesn't help, dismissal frorri the team can be resorted to. In most cases,. the individual feels 


eligibility is more important than the drug and dismissal from the_ team is not necessary. 
. The program here at Notre Dame seems to be effective· and adequate in maintaining the integrity of each team. The. new 
NCAA regulation should have lit­tle if any impact on the present program here, but will greatly The moderator for Notre affect most other NCAA member Dame's program (until the last institutions. The new NCAA week in January when he left for drug regulations have established a position at Case Western a very high standard for behavior, University) was Dr. Richard · and rightly so. Athletic competi­Hubbard. The moderator's job is tion, whether on a professional or to align the tests with the training collegiate level, is not a play­staff. Also, he is the only person groµnd for drugs. As the saying notified when a student-athlete goes, "Get High On Sports, Not tests positive. In the event of a . Drugs." Collegiate athletes must· "first offense", the person is now make a serious decision and 
referred to counseling through the comm.it themselv~s to it.• 
31­

--------~ --~~ ---­

Come  
by Paul Aiello  
I woke up this morning with stuffed up nose and a scratchy throat, longing to return to the days when missing a day of school meant doing nothing but urging the defending champion of MatchGame, a portly middle-aged dental hygien­ist from San Fernando, to correctly match answers with Richard Daw­son for the big $10,000 grand prize. On those sacred days off, mom would storm into my room around seven, armed with a glass of Tropi­cana orange juice and a handful of horse pills. As I choked down the capsules, · she would refill the vaporizer, discuss the day's menu and caution· me about the risks involved in shooting baskets in the backyard while Dad and she were at work. I never really could under­stand mom on those mornings. was always a bit too disorientated... propelled into nirvana by a two inch thick layer of Vicks Vapor Rub that mom globbed under my nose the night before. At 7:55 a.m., dad would drive the old blue bomber out of the garage and begin putt-putting his way to the train station. By the fifth putt-putt, the television set was on and I was hooked for the day. The Bugs BunnyI Road Runner Hour was not my favorite program of the television viewing day. However, watching the Coyote blow himself up with devices supplied by the "Acme Co." was an amusing way of passing the time until the news programs ended and the waves game shows and serial reruns began.. What I loved ·most about the morning game shows was their  

predictability. Day in and day out, 
I couldn't wait for Gambit's Wink

i 
Ii 
Martindale to casually taunt his contestants for going over 21 in

11,I 
a blackjack. "Sorry Mr. and Mrs.
ti 
Jones, but you just didn't count

:1 
1! 
your cards very well, did

!I 
you?...Wave good-bye to the studio

,1 
audience." With The Price is Right, I never could understand why the contestants acted like lunatics when Johnny Olsen "called them all down." After all, everybody knew that the grocery store ·game was fixed in favor of those who bought Turtle Wax. As for Hollywood Squares, even today I still can hear distant voices calling out "Paul Lynde to block!" Jonathan Winters. Dolly Parton. Charo. Betty White. The entire old Laugh-In cast par­took in Hollywood Squares. They supported the theory that television celebrities never die but live on in game show heaven. 

I Sometime between 12:30 and 1:00, the game shows and Rice-A­Roni commercials would give way to boring soap operas and Midol commercials. During this time of day, my mom was always happy to see me "get away from that darn boob-tube for a while." During the dr.y spell, I usually ate my first sub­stantial meal of the day or took a 
of. 

final word-------------~-------­
On Down! 
Fond memories of daytime television 
short nap. Yet, without fail, at 2:29 I was back in front of the T.V. anticipating the onslaught of after­noon reruns. 
Usually, the afternoon line-up of reruns brought me up to a viewing frenzy. At first, things would start off quite innocently with Get Smart and agent 86's "Would you believe's"; however, about half-way through the next show, The Adam's Family, I would be well on my way to becoming a full TN. junkie, yearning to hang out with Uncle Fester, Cousin It. Later, The Mun­sters and The Partridge Family would continue to keep me glued to the tube. Agreeably, every now and then Herman's "Darn, Darn, Darn's" and Danny Partridge would get on my nerves; however, Granpa Munster's crazy inventions and a mom that played in a rock'n roll band more than made up for those deficiencies. In any event, at 
6:00 the madness would finally end with Batman's spokesman asking all viewers to return tomorrow "at this same Bat time...on this same Bat channel." 
Ahh, those were the days. I knew Batman wasn't going to die, but it was worth playing sick for one more day to find out. • 

SCHOLASTIC 





a different kind of don1e 
-:,
\i, < 
._·,, 
·' '. '. .. 
;•, 
.. •. . ... -j,·; 


students tour USSR 





