GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight
Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
Established 30 Years
LEMONTREES
OPTOMETRISTS 222^ South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
The success of your school year will largely depend on the efficiency of your eyes.
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
Patronize SCHOLASTIC Advertisers
*
They patronize us !
FOR RECREATION, SWIM AT THE
Natatorium
1044 West Washington Ave.
For Ladies and Gentlemen
One of the finest Swimming Pools in the country. Week days, 12 to 9 p. m. Sundays, 2 to 6 p. m.
Admission Fee includes suit, towel, locker, sunlamps and plunge.
One Low, One High Springboard.
Private Parties can be arranged.
Phone 3-8611
133 S. Lafayette Blvd. Phone: 3-8283
GREYHOUND
SAVE dollars on your Thanksgiving trip home—or to the big game. Comfortable, heated coaches. Conveniently-timed departures.
Duke university
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
DURHAM. uST. C.
Four terms of eleven weeks are given each year. These may be taken consecutively (graduation in three years) or three terms may be taken each year (graduation in four years). The entrance requirements are intelligence, character and at least two years of college work, including the subjects specified for Grade A Medical Schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.
CAN’T SMOKE A PIPE?
THEN YOU NEVER SMOKED A
FILTER-COOLED
IDEAL GIFT!
■ECOMMENDED DY
LATEST CHAPES
lowplicftf —FINEST V ■ BRIAR
■ HONEY CANBUY
UNHEARD OF VALUE
MILLIONS
OFUSEM
MEDICO
(PATENTED)
This simple appearing yet amazing absorbent filter invention with Cellophane exterior and cooling mesh screen interiorkeepsiuices and flakes in Filter and out of mouth. Prevents tongue bite, raw mouth, (wet heel, bad ■ odor, frequent expectoration.
No breaking in. Improves thetasteand

Two
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
By Robert L. Grogan
The Colgate Maroon makes an interesting observation in its editorial columns. The students of a class in economics were given their choice of one of three methods of taking their examinations throughout the semester: first, fifteen-minute weekly quizzes; second, three one-hour quizzes during the semester; or third, final exam only. The students selected the weekly quiz.
The point is, however, that the students feel the need of frequent examinations to keep them from falling behind in their studies. Why is it that students need such an incentive to force them into studying, and vote in favor of frequent examinations to act as whip in keeping them from wasting time and money?
—o—
We read of a music student Ohio State who, on an examination paper, referred frequently to Low and Grin’s Wedding March.
Two freshmen, assigned to the same room at Dartmouth, got off to a bad start when they discovered that one was distantly related to General Grant and the other to General Lee, the boys bearing the names of their illustrious ancestors. They should become proficient students of American History in arguing the merits of the famed opposition parties in the Civil War.
' —o—
Headline of article telling of mellow drama:
DARING DRAMA DEPICTS
DESERVED DEFEAT DEALT DASTARDLY DEGENERATE
—Exponent.
—o—
They ask for pamphlets; we don’t even read them. Numerous students have wondered when and if the pamphlet rack will be filled, Father Luther announced.—Varsity News, University of Detroit.
—o—
Our Campus Opinion Sides With Columbia: — The Yale Daily News recently printed an editorial favoring United States participation in the German Olympics. Roger E. Chase, editor of the Columbia Spectator, then challenged the News editor Jonathan B. Bingham to debate hte question in a series of articles running simultaneously in their respective papers. Bingham refused to debate the issue.
—o—
A student at Vanderbilt University received a card which read: “Sir, Please send without delay for the case of books directed to you which is lying at this station and leaking badly.”
November 2 2, 1935
Peace of mind in knowing that your evening attire is unassailably correct, adds much to • the suavity of your appearance. Whether you are wearing tails or tuxedo — turn to Arrow for the dress shirt, collar, handkerchief and tie, and be assured of quality haberdashery in the latest style.
Ellsworth's is headquarters for
Arrow Dress Shirts for the holiday season
Kirk Ti is perhaps the most famous of Arrow Dress shirts $^"V50 priced at________
Arrow Chevy Collars.25c
Ellawiirilfs
Three
The University Library
The Notre Dame Scholastic
t Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing-] at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXIX	November 22, 1935	No. 8
UNIVERSITY AWAITS ROOSEVELT VISIT DEC. 9TH
Knights of Columbus to Dance Tomorrow at Plaza
The Southern California Football Dance wll be held tomorrow night’ in the Jefferson Plaza. Dancing will extend from 8:30 until 11:30 p.m., and 12:00 o’clock permissions will be in effect. The music will be furnished by Andy Riddle and his orchestra.
This dance is being sponsored by the Knights of Columbus, Notre Dame council. The proceeds are to be turned over to the Gibault Home Tor wayward Catholic boys.
At the regular council meeting last Monday night, the knights heard Rev. Eugene Moriarty outline the religious situation in Mexico, and the attitude of the Knights of Columbus concerning this situation. Father- Moriarty said, “Mexico is the only country in the world in which a priest cannot wear a Roman collar with perfect safety.”
The first group of candidates this
Grand Knight John Coyne “It will be a grand night.”
year will be initiated into the first degree next Monday night in the council chambers in Walsh Hall. The candidates will receive the second and third degrees on December 8.
DOME PICTURES
The closing date for the taking of Senior photographs for this year’s Dome has been set for Nov. 30, Editor Delancey Davis announced this week.
All Seniors who have not yet made appointments, and those who have broken them, are requested to make arrangements for photographs as early as possible at the studios.
Program to Be Arranged
By John A. Gillespie
Definite plans are being outlined for the program honoring President Franklin D. Roosevelt in his visit to
Carlos P. Romulo Will receive degree.
the University on Dec. 9. The President will be awarded an honorary degree of Doctor of Laws and Letters.
The occasion is the observance of the first. Philippine day; Carlos P. Romulo, prominent in securing Philippine independence and owner of an island newspaper syndicate, will be honored with a similar degree. The ceremony will mark the close relations between the University and the Spanish speaking nations of the world. More than 50 natives of South America have been graduated from Notre Dame. The University gymnasium will be the scene of the activities.
The visit of President Roosevelt was arranged by the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., on a visit to the White House. The President will come to Notre Dame directly from Chicago, where he is to speak at the (Continued, on Page 7)
Theatre Group Works On
Initial Vehicle of Year
Regular rehearsals are being held by the University Theatre Group in preparation for their first production “The World Waits,” which will be presented in Washington Hall next month.
Professor A. L. Doyle, director of the group, has introduced a new system in campus theatricals in not choosing a definite cast early in the rehearsal stage. Professor Doyle says of the innovation, “Although I am rather certain as to the final make-up of the cast, I am going to postpone definite selection of the students who are to take part as long as I can.
“By doing this I believe that the students will maintain their interest and enthusiasm for the play. Whereas, if I announce the men who are to compose the cast, those who are not fortunate enough to be chosen will be discouraged.”
Richard Baker This Baker also acts.
Several veterans of the campus stage are being groomed for parts in the production. Richard Baker who held various roles in last year’s productions, is again trying for a part. Thomas Proctor, also a consistent performer, is rehearsing for the new season. Joe Mansfield is a candidate for the role of Captain Heartly, while Thomas Kelly aspires to be Howard McKenzie.
Director Doyle announced this week that Professor Frank W. Kelley will be in charge of choosing and training property men, electricians, and designers. A call will be issued for backstage assistants early next week.
November 2 2, 1935
Five
"OLD TIMERS" TO BE FETED TOMORROW,• MONOGRAM WINNERS BACK FOR RALLY
First Issue of "Lawyer" To Be Distributed Soon
Large Turnout Is Expected
■ By Lindsay Phoebus
Four hundred former Notre Dame athletes are expected to return to the campus for the celebration of “Old Timers” week-end which is being sponsored by the Notre Dame Monogram Club, under the supervision of President Francis L. (Mike) Layden. As guests of the University,
Monogram President Layden This is Mike, not Elmer.
the Old Timers were given a dinner in the dining hall this afternoon. The Hon. John W. Eggeman, of Fort Wayne, Indiana, Monogram man from 1896 to 1901, is Chairman of the Committee on arrangements for the celebration of the week-end.
o Tomorrow the Old Timers will be honored by the University when the Notre Dame football team meets the University of Southern California squad at Notre Dame. They will then . be introduced before the start of the game in the stadium. The highlight of the week-end program will come between the halves of the game, when . the Rev. Michael Shea, composer of the music of the “Victory March,” will be presented with a Notre Dame monogram as recognition of his contribution in the composition of this truly great college song. Father Shea will also lead the University Band in the rendition of the victory song at the game.
Among the oldest of the Old Timers who are here for -the celebration are Edward A. Sawkins of Detroit, Michigan, Football ’87-’89; Judge Patrick Nelson of Dubuque, Iowa, Football ’87-’88; Colonel Frank Fehr of Louisville, Kentucky, Foot-, ball ’87-’9O; Frank E. Hering of South Bend, Football ’96-’97, Captain; J. M. Studebaker, Jr. of South Bend, Football ’93-’S4; J. Fred Powers of Worcester, Massachusetts, Basketball ’97-’99, Captain; the Rev. John'Farley, C.S.C., Football ’97-’Ol, Captain; and the ’ Rev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., Basketball ’97-’98.
Six
TEAM RECEPTION
Fifteen hundred students were on hand early Monday morning at the Union station in South Bend, to welcome members of the football team on their return from the Army game in New York City.
Street car transportation provided by the S. A., C. left the campus at 6:15 a.m. About twelve cars made the trip. The reception march was made without the University band since they were still en route from New York.
Cheerleader Robert Siegfried was in charge of organized cheering at the’ station when the team members arrived. Bill Shakespeare, who has been a weekly star all fall, made a brief statement to the assembled students. Shakespeare was acting captain for Notre Dame during the Army game. Lawrence Danbom, who scored the winning touchdown was also presented.
After the brief ceremonies the students returned to the campus where the first two classes of the day were dismissed in favor of late breakfast.
MISS.-LA. CLUB
On Saturday, November 9, members of the Mississippi - Louisiana Club held a banquet in the Rose Marie Tea Room in South Bend. Previous to this, on October 30, the following officers were elected at a meeting held in 400 Lyons Hall where Arthur C. Davidson, a member of the club, resides: President, Joseph F. Drolla; Vice-president, John W. Hopkins; Secretary, Pierre D. de. da Vergne; and Treasurer, William S. Schwartz.	•
FRENCH CLUB
At a meeting of the Cercle Fran-cais held November 13, George Ber-langer was appointed secretary of the club until the annual elections which will take place at the beginning of the second semester of the school year. A discussion of Rene Bazin as a novelist was led by John T. McGee, C.S.C., who gave a thorough analysis of the author’s thought in his work entitled Les Oberles. Vernon A. Tetrault, vice-president of the organization, delivered a paper comparing the significance of the word “civilization” as conceived by the French with its significance as regarded by the people of England and of Germany. Fifty members were present at the meeting. The next meeting will be held November 27.
The Fall issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer, the quarterly publication of the College of Law, is now being printed and will soon be ready for distribution^ This issue will be dedicated to St. Thomas More and will feature an article on St. Thomas as a lawyer. This article is the work of Leo J. Hassenaur, an alumnus who is now an Assistant United States District Attorney in Chicago.
The Lawyer, this year is being
Co-Editor John Locher These are not his working clothes.
edited by John Locher, Richard Mo-lique, and Robert Devine.
Another noteworthy contribution is that of Professor William D. Rollison of the College of Law. It is entitled, “Succession to Intestate Property” and is concerned with the general principles and historical development of those laws which govern the inheriting of the property of people who die without making a will.
Outstanding among the student articles is that giving a restatement of . the Law of Agency and in which 25 sections of this law are annotated with respect to the laws of the state of Indiana. The students who prepared these annotations under the supervision of the faculty are E. Spencer Walton, Harry Grube, and Arthur Gregory.
Another section of the Lawyer deals with student papers and consists of notes and comments on decisions and book reports. Students whose work is published are: John J. Locher, James R. Osgood, Howard Jeffers, Richard A. Molique, and George S. Keller.
Though not generally distributed on the campus, the Notre Dame Lawyer has a high place in Law College publications and its circulation list includes almost every college in North and South America as well as many in Europe. '
The Scholastic
Varsity Debate Trials
Held Early This Week
CAMPUS DECORATIONS ADD COLOR TO STUDENT PEP MEETING TONIGHT
By John Hurley
The results of the tryouts for the University debating team held Monday and Tuesday evenings, Nov. 18 and 19, were announced Wednesday by Professor William J. Coyne, director of the team. The winning men in Wednesday’s tryouts, however, have not as yet been announced.
Those who suiwived on Monday and Tuesday are Dave Flynn, John Marbach, Ed Boyle, John Heywood, Robert Schmelzle, John Schemmer, Robert Heywood, Tom Riordan, Richard Meier, Charles McDonaugh, and Paul Thompson.
The judges who selected the men were Professors Kelly, Moran, Ronay, Apodaca, O’Grady, Corbett, and Langwell. These men also acted as judges for Wednesday’s tryouts.
Professor Coyne announced that the final tryouts will be held Monday and Tuesday, Dec. 2 and 3, when a squad of ten or twelve will be selected from those who survived the initial cut. Lists of the successful men in the tryouts this week will be posted Friday or Saturday on the campus bulletin boards.
The interhall debating league / swung into full stride with two de- / bates being held. Walsh defeated/ Sorin Thursday evening, Nov. 14, and Morrissey defeated Brownson, Monday, Nov. 17. The judges were Robert Schmelzle and Richard Meier. In the debates held Wednesday, Nov. 13, the results of which were announced too late for publication in last week’s Scholastic, Corby defeated Alumni, and Badin defeated Carroll. The schedule of debates for this week has not yet been released.
ROOSEVELT VISIT
(Continued from Page 5)
American Farm Federation the morn
ing of Dec. 9.
Notre Dame has had only two special convocations; Gilbert K. Chesterton was honored in 1931, and Guglielmo Marconi, the Italian inventor received a degree in 1933.
The ceremonies were originally scheduled for Nov. 15, the date on which Manuel L. Quezon was inaugurated first president of the newly-formed Philippine Republic. Because President Roosevelt indicated a desire to take part in the celebration, however, the date was changed.
Famous figures in both the political and religious field will be present. His Eminence, George Cardinal Mundelein, of Chicago, has signified his intention to attend the celebration.
SCHOLARSHIPS
Four scholarships in the form of flying, technical, and semi-technical courses, with a total tuition value of $9,600.00, will be offered by W. E. Boeing School of Aeronautics, it was
announced recently. ’
This year marks the sixth year that the awards have been offered to university, college, and junior college students in the United States and Canada.-
The scholarships will be awarded on the basis of a thesis competition which will be judged by a National Committee of Award composed of men prominent in aeronautical and engineering circles under the chairmanship of Dr. Baldwin M. Woods, of the University of California.
Winners of first prize in the contest will receive a complete Boeing Airplane Pilot and Operations Course, covering 250 hours of flight instruction and over 3500 hours of ground school.
A circular giving detailed information on the scholarship awards may be obtained by writing the Boeing School of Aeronautics, Oakland, California.
SPECIAL TRAIN RATES
A special round trip rate to Chicago will be in effect on the South Shore Line for the Thanksgiving week-end, according to the announcement of C. W. Veach, city passenger agent. The special rate is $2.60 round trip, a substantial reduction from the regular round trip fare.
Tickets at the reduced rate will be on sale Nov. 27 and 28, and are good returning at any time before midnight Dec. 2.
Will Award Prize Monday
With final touches being made this morning and afternoon, the twelve halls have practically completed their displays for the S. A. C. hall decoration contest which is one of the features of the “Old-Timers’ ” week-end.
The halls this year tend to feature tributes to the “Old-Timers,” Coach Elmer Layden and Southern California.
The decorations will be judged this evening by a committee consisting of James E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretary; John S. Moran, editor of the Scholastic; Delancey Davis, editor of the Dome; Maurice Tombragel, editor of Scrip; and Edward Donoghue, S.A.C. chairman of hall decorations. The hall having the best ex-
Eugene Tobin
For the best hall, a cup. ' hibit will be awarded the S.A.C. cup Monday by Gene Tobin, S.A.C. representative.
To improve the decorations of other years, the S.A.C. arranged to have students of the Department of Architecture assist the hall committees. These hall committees will be supervised by S.A.C. men. Representatives for the halls are: Chuck Boyle and George Lynch, Sorin; Thomas Murphy, Howard; John Kelley, Badin; Thomas Mulligan, Morrissey; John Cavanaugh, Lyons; Hal Miller, Corby; Howard Cusack, Carroll; Ed Don-(Copfinued on Page 11)
Alumni Hall
“All lit zip” For the Purdue Game in 1934.
Seven
November 2 2, 1935
What's Wrong. With the
S. A. C. Organization?
This is the seventh in a series of snap-shot interviews with students on matters of campus interest. This week the question is, appropriately enough:
“What specific plans of activity would you suggest for the S.A.C.?”
Bob Gartland, Corby: “I was very much disappointed with the way the S.A.C. conducted the meeting of the team on their return from New York. Before attempting any new plans I think the organization should first strive to conduct more satisfactorily pep meetings and other events which they now have charge of.”
Walter Barth, Morrissey Hall: “I think that although the S.A.C.’s activities are extant enough they should comply more with the wishes of the student body and not so much with those of individual members.”
Ralph Hruska, Alumni: “It seems to me that the S.A.C. would do well to promote class smokers and to organize leagues composed of the various regional and city clubs on the campus. I think this would increase the interest of the fellows in their own particular ‘ club as well as give them an -.outlet for their desire to compete in athletics.”
John Sullivan, Alumni: “I think the S.A.C. should be more representative. I am in favor of them attempting to stimulate more interest in clubs now organized on the campus. I also think that they should publicly encourage campus organizations to hold communion breakfasts.”
Francis Joyce Favors the S. A. C.
Francis Joyce, Walsh Hall: “I think they are. doing fine and are working . hard. In consideration of this work they' should be given more controF; over typical, student activities.” .
Raymond Longstreth, Badin: “All I’ve seen them do is print signs for the Pitt and Ohio State games. Do they do anything else?”
William • Woerner, Morrissey: “I ’• don’t think much of the S.A.C. .'It seems to me to. be merely -an organization'. with a- name. The principle 1 with -which it came into existence was good but the principle seems to have been miscarried.”
George Miller Mallet, Esq., of Cincinnati, Ohio, is the only campus figure holding a candle to Baron Munchausen . . . Would like to be a publicity agent for Myrna Loy since he knows all the. adjectives describing her . . . Also aspires to novel-writing and could probably fill a book with his own experiences. . . .
Raises Irish setters, collects pipes, and stuns the librarian with his unannounced raids on the popular book rack . . . Works way on ships to European countries . . . Hopes to study at the Sorbonne, in Paris and then settle in London . . . Instead of matriculating in Switzerland this year as planned, he went to India. . . .
Fencing, archery and swimming advocate and along with roomie Vernon Tetrault reduces girth with rowing machine exercises . . . Both have moustaches, fence, and write to Mallet’s Cotillion date . . . Attends for-mals with a monocle and red sash. . . .
Has a pair of Caracas from Havana, voo doo witch charm from Africa, Irish shilealeh, grass mat from Panama, palm-fibre robe from Japan, camera from Germany which records his travels; sports a rifle from India and at present, is hoping to sail a schooner to Tahiti and Pitcairns Island, scene of the “Mutiny on the Bounty.” . . . All he lacks is a backer. . .
■ Been in best hotels on all continents. and has' a collection of ash trays, to substantiate the claim. . . . Acquired one once after much maneuvering only to find printed on the
Thomas A. Daly Lectures to Enthusiastic Audience
By Louis Da Pra
Thomas Augustine Daly, philosopher-poet, lecturer, and journalist, won his way into the hearts of present generation of Notre Dame, in Washington hall, November 18, with his homely jests, keen Irish wit, and simple poems, as no humorist has done since the late Will Rogers made his last appearance here. •
Speaking from a stage where twenty-five years ago he first appeared at Notre Dame, Mr. Daly celebrated his silver jubilee visit with the continuance of his long-sustained crusade against free verse writers in general, and Amy Lowell in particular, whom he accused of having encouraged so-called poets to litter modern periodicals with pseudo-poetry which looks like prose, sounds like prose, but is intended to be poetry — and sometimes is.
Affectionately known as the “Dago Poet,” the Philadelphia humorist again bared the simple hearts of the Italian immigrants in heart-tugging sentimental dialects poems, and brought out their love for the beautiful.
Recitation of “Kitty Casey in Her Graduation Clothes,” was a prelude to a half hour of Gaelic jokes and stories told in an irresistable Irish brogue.
O'GRADY REELECTED
Professor Daniel O’Grady, of the philosophy department, has been re-
Professor Daniel O’Grady Delegate to Council
elected as delegate from the College of Arts and Letters to the Academic Council.
Professor O’Grady will fill this position during the school year 1935-36. He held this post on the council during the past academic year.
bottom, ‘Take one for a souvenir.’ . . .
His brother refuses to come to N. D. because the bells keep him awake ... If you haven’t met M. M. drop down to 13 Morrissey and.spend an enjoyable evening with N. D.’s own Haliburton. ...
The Scholastic
Eight
Roosevelt First to Visit
Campus While President
Brady Donates Volumes for University Library
New Economics Forum
Adopts Constitution
By Louis Da Pra
The visit to the University of President Franklin D. Roosevelt on December 9, to participate in the observance of Philippine Day, will mark the first appearance at Notre Dame of an occupant of the White House.
In its 93 years of existence, the University has been host to a long list of illustrious men from the Americas, Europe, and Asia, but with the exception of a purported visit here of Vice-president Thomas F. Marshall, 1913-21, in 1917, no executive officer’ has stood beneath the dome.
National figures during the Wilson administrations continually found time to stop here either to visit or to lecture. A frequent visitor to the campus was Josephus Daniels, former Secretary of Navy in the Wilson regime, as well as Newton D. Baker, Secretary of War.
William Gibbs McAdoo, then Secretary of State, now United States Senator from California, lectured here on the Federal Reserve System, Oct. 21, 1916. Samuel • Gompers, organizer and foi' many years president of the American Federation of Labor, lectured here October 26, 1916.
In 1919, the fiery and able Eamon de Valera, present president of the Irish Free State, planted a tree on the quadrangle, but unfortunately the tree died the following year.
From Canada came Sir Charles Fitzpatrick, Chief Justice of the Dominion of Canada, who delivered the commencement address June 12, 1911.
Most interesting of all visitors was Wu Ting Fang, Minister* Plenipotentiary to the United States from China, who was here June 15, 1908 to observe the commencement exercises.
A vivid historical figure because of his family background was Jerome Bonaparte, 1903 Laetare medalist, Secretary of Navy and later Attor- • ney-General in the Theodore Roosevelt administration, and Catholic philanthropist, who addressed the student body in 1903.
Another Laetare medalist was Admiral William S. Benson, 1917, who was chairman of the Shipping Board during Wilson’s time and who discussed the merchant marine before the University, October 18, 1920.
United States Senator Thomas C. Carter from Montana delivered the commencement address on June 16, 1909.
In recent years the University has been host to a group of intemational-. ly known men in their respective fields such as Gilbert K. Chesterton, writer and lecturer at Notre Dame in 1931; Guglielmo Marconi, world-wide (Continued in 3rd column)
Three valuable additions to the University collection of rare volumes, were presented to Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., during the past week by Mrs. Nicholas Brady of New York City, winner of the Laetare Medal in 1934.
The gift contained a first edition of Charles Dickens’ Christmas Carol, along with a letter written by Dickens to Charles Knight, and two first edition volumes of The Vicar of Wakefield by Oliver Goldsmith. -
The Dickens volume is dated 1843, while the letter, which appears in the
Mrs. Nicholas Brady Donates rare volumes.
front of the book was written by Dickens in 1848, and is a personal note to Charles Knight confirming a dining appointment. A later appendage, also by Dickens, reads: “I wish I had given this book to F. Locker and Eleanor Bertha Mary Locker: Witness my hand, thirty-first of May, 1869.” The last annotation was made when Dickens found the book in the collection of Frederick Locker.
The Goldsmith volumes were printed in Salisbury in 1766, even before they were produced in London. Volumes of this edition are extremely . rare and considered priceless by collectors.
All three of the volumes were chosen by Mrs. Brady from the collection of the late Nicholas Brady, and are now in the safe of the University library.
CONDOLENCES
The SCHOLASTIC wishes to extend the sympathy of the student body to Professor and Mrs. William F. Roemer on the loss cr their youngest son, Walter, aged seven months, who died of accidental suffocation Tuesday afternoon.
Last Monday night, at a dinner held in South Bend, The Round Table, recently formed campus Economics Club, formally adopted its constitution. Several weeks ago, in accordance with a suggestion made by Professor William H. Downey, Bernard M. Neizer, Charles F. Meyers, Richard J. Meier, James A. Waldron, James T. O’Connell, and Albert J. Schwartz took up the task of organizing a campus group-in which current problems in economics, politics, and sociology might be discussed. The constitution was recently approved by the Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline.
Meetings each Monday will follow upon dinners in South Bend at 6 o’clock. The Round Table’s only dues are for these dinners, and are to be paid in advance.
Last Monday night, the first meeting of the club was held under the Chairmanship of John A. O’Leary. A committee for standing membership was chosen. Bernard Niezer delivered a paper on “The Economic Phases of the Constitution of the United States.”
ST. VINCENT DE PAUL
The Notre Dame Society of St. Vincent de Paul was the recent recipient of two generous contributions by the Senior and Sophomore classes. Together these gifts total approximately §200. These gifts were from the profits made by both classes in the Cotillion and Senior Football Dances. -
The Society will use these contributions for the purpose of continuing the work of human-rehabilitation in South Bend and vicinity. Through the medium of The Scholastic the Vincentians wish to make public acknowledgment of their gratitude to the two classes.
NOTABLES VISIT •
.(Continued from column 1)
known Italian inventor of the wireless. recipient of an honorary degree in 1934; Owen D. Young, president of General Electric; Alfred E. Smith, ex-govemor of New York and former Democratic candidate for President, here in 1933; and John McCormack, world-famed Irish tenor and concert singer, awarded Laetare medal in 1933.
But on December 9, a President who in one administration has set more precedents than any other President in the same length of time, sets another precedent and becomes the first President ever to visit Notre and to add his name to the list of gtiat men honored by the University.	'
November 2 2, 1935
Nine
YAS SUH! REAL KENTUCKY COLONELS ROAM CAMPUS LOOKING FOR ARMIES
Glee Club Will Give
Nation-Wide Broadcast
By J. Albert Torribio
In our midst, maybe as close as next door, are gentlemen of the well known mint julep battalion. Kentucky Colonels! The name immediately strikes a responsive cord in the reader, as he visualizes those fine old men of the South as interpreted by the silver screen and present day novelists.
On our own campus at present are two of the more common type of colonel. Robert James Burke and Howard Clune Cusack, although not
Colonel Burke
Who y’all picking ....
sporting goatees, canes, or sipping mint juleps under the expansive trees in front of Walsh, are nevertheless true Kentucky Colonels. Neither has taken part in any warfare, but Howie did survive a gruelling political campaign and Bob was a member of the fighting Interhall champs of the gridiron a couple of years ago. Maybe they were colonelized for these accomplishments.
It seems that in order to be a colonel it is necessary to know somebody who knows somebody who voted for the present governor. Since the governor of Kentucky cannot succeed himself, each inauguration sees a new army of colonels marching about the country. The last governor made no less than two thousand, but even with this army it is, in our mind, still a distinct honor to be in a class with Sally Rand, Shirley Temple, Mae West, Eddie Cantor, and our former coach, “Hunk” Anderson. On Derby Day all good colonels get together and talk over this or that horse and, we can picture Burke and Cusack sipping mint juleps with that crowd. We visualize it with a little envy.
The Burke family, incidentally, seems to be right in the front ranks, as Bob’s sister across the Lake also sports the blue-ribbon certificate signifying that she may be addressed as Miss Colonel Burke. On the other hand we can’t quite understand the method, underhand or otherwise, that
made a Brooklyn boy like Cusack a colonel. Evidently Howie made a big hit with the Burke colonel-maker.
This colonel manufacturing idea was so prevalent for a while that the governor had to devise other means of distinction. Shortly after, four girls were designated as “able-bodied canoeists of Rough and Green Rivers” because of the fact that they made an excursion down the said rivers. Another enterprising young man went so far as to be made admiral of Brushy Ford Creek.
A rumpus was raised by the members of the old guard at this wholesale turnout of titles since only ten are supposed to be appointed to the governor’s staff. The good governor, however, seeing the possibilities in making every one a colonel, started putting them on the market in lots. The cost is around 14 cents apiece which includes printing, stamping, packing and mailing the necessary ■ credentials.
While on ..the subject of manufacturing colonels, why not start a Colonel Pilney movement? After his great exhibition against Ohio State some different method, of distinction should be given to him. •
In further scanning our candidates we stop rather suddenly on that great traveler and man of the world, Miller Mallet. Why not Colonel Mallet? Isn’t there a Major Hoople? Already possessing a monocle, it would be a simple matter to pass him off for a colonel and then, too, think of the prestige he would add to the ranks.
Further consideration shows us that we lack a real Southern candidate; Joseph Connor Foley will rectify
Colonel Cusack
. . . in the darby, Colonel?
this oversight. Coming as he does, “From Texas, suh,” he is the true breath of the old south. He is a close friend of Colonel Cusack and should not experience much difficulty in receiving the coveted honor. He may
Tomorrow morning at eleven o’clock the coast-to-coast network of the Columbia Broadcasting system will carry a special progi'am featuring the entire Notre Dame glee club. The campus studio will be the point of origin for this broadcast. This is the third time that Notre Dame programs originating in the local studio have been broadcast on national networks. -
For the past few weeks the radio group in its regular Wednesday night meetings has been addressed by a well known authority in some field of radio work. On November 6, Mr. Harold Isbel, production manager foi' the western division of the Columbia Broadcasting system talked to the members of the club regarding the intricacies of network productions.
For the beginner without experience the radio field is almost as’difficult to break into as is that of the movies” said Mr. Isbel before taking up his discussion of the many problems that confront those engaged in network production.
On November 13 the speaker was Mr. Hal Hudson, chief of continuity for Station WBBM in Chicago. Mr. Hudson discussed the work of the continuity writer. He is a former student of the University.
even , get out of paying the introductory fee. If, and when, he- does become Colonel Foley, some of his “down south”- folk-tales will probably carry much more flavor than they have in the past. -
We pause and reflect over the possibilities offered by our lakes; if “able-bodied canoeists” can be made of some creek we ought to have an admiral of the lakes. We are reminded of William P. Gillespie who broke all existing records for year around lake-plunges. Credit must be given for his determination and constitution, because many of his adversaries will admit that at times it was almost necessary to break the ice before launching the redoubtable William on one of his lake crusades. His perfect health always kept him ready for the next.	'
Since he has explored more of dear old St. Mary’s lake than the ordinary student, we feel justified in nominating Bill for an admiralship of the lake.
. If the plan works well our campus will sport as many commissions as any other region. Now that Burke and Cusack have started their own regiments we may as well swell it to any anny. '	’
Ten
The Scholastic
CALENDAR
Friday, November 22
Scholastic Radio Broadcast 3:15, Campus Radio Station, Engineering Building; Pep Meeting immediately after supper. ’
Saturday, November 23
Football, Notre Dame versus Southern California, 2:00, Notre Dame stadium; Campus Movie, “Roberta,” starring Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire 6:45 and 8:30 p.m., Washington Hall; Football Dance, Jeiferson Plaza, 9:00 p.m., Glee Club Broadcast, 11:00 a.m., Campus Radio Station.
Sunday, November 2U
Student Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a.m., Sacred Heart Church Officers’ meeting, Knights of Columbus, 10:30 a.m., Walsh Hall Club Rooms.
Monday, November 25
Meeting Economic Round Table, South Bend, 6:00 p.m.; University Broadcast from campus station over WSBT, 3:15 p.m.; Aeronautical club meeting, 7:45 p.m., Engineering Bldg.
Tuesday, November 26
Broadcast from Campus Radio Station, 7:30 p.m. over WSBT; Lecture by Christopher Hollis, “The Founding of the Bank of England,” Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Wednesday, November 27
Meeting, Charles Phillips Cracow Club, Law Bldg., 6:30 p.m.; Meeting Campus Radio Group, 6:30, radio station, Engineering Building; Meeting German club, 7:45 p.m., Carroll Hall Rec.
Thursday, November 28
Thanksgiving Day, holiday, no classes.
HALL DECORATIONS (Continued from Page 7)
ahue, Brownson; Robert Cavanaugh, Walsh; Philip Bondi, Dillon; Albert Smith and Martin Bums, Alumni; Hal Stine, Freshman.
Immediately after supper tonight the student body will march to Brownson field where a fireworks display will be held. After the fireworks the final pep meeting of the year will take place in the gymnasium. Speakers at the rally will include Elmer Layden, Joe Boland, Tom Conley, and several Old Timers of the Monogram Club. The graduating men of the football team will also give short talks. Since the Notre Dame band is scheduled to appear at the smoker of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley in South Bend, the pep meeting will be shorter than usual. Martin Burns is chairman of arrangements for the rally.
November 2 2, 1935
By Andrew D. Hufnagel
It is Saturday night at St. Mary’s College across the lake. All is quiet and subdued, and the girls are serenely concentrating on their work. Suddenly the tranquil atmosphere is shocked out of existence by the rumbling of a bus which has entered the portals of the campus. The vehicle comes to a noisy stop outside the dormitory, and presently a man is
heard talking to someone.
“This is Earl Burtnett’s orchestra. Will you please tell us where we’re supposed to dispose of our things and where the dance is to be held?”
•For a second or two the only thing capable of answering this seemingly sane request is silence. Then a perplexed feminine voice is heard to say: “Dance! What dance?”
“Why, your junior prom! We’ve been hired to come down here and play.”
“Well,” he was assured, “we had a dance last night, but we’re holding no such affair this evening. Aren’t you making some mistake? Aren’t you at the wrong place?”
“No, of course not!” came the quick reply. “We’ve come to play at St. Mary’s of the Woods, and here we are.”
■ What Mr. Burtnett said, when he was informed that at that moment he should have been hundreds of miles away at Terre Haute, has no place in this column.
Among those who weren’t going to miss this year’s Army game for anything in the world was Felix “Butch to you” Zaczek. Every detail had been taken care of, and Butch was all prepared last Friday to take the student special, train to New York. But Butch never got on that train for the very good reason that he didn’t have the price of transportation. Butch, though didn’t mind missing the students’ special. No doubt the money for which he had written home would come soon, and he might be able to catch a later train which would get him into New York in time to see the game. His hopes ended in disappointment, however, when all through Friday afternoon and evening no money or word from home was forthcoming. Then • bright and early Saturday morning Felix received word from the Postal Telegraph Company in South Bend that they had been holding a fifty
dollar check for him ever since Friday morning. The messenger boy scurried out of Butch’s room and stumbled down the stairs with a scared look on his face.
Is there a man who has quaffed from the foaming stein who has not at least once sung that great, old, German drinking song the “Schnitzelbank?” If so, Hank Johantgen, first year man from Dillon Hall, wants to lenow. To his mother and his granddad goes the credit of having revised, . about 1904, the words and music of the Schnitzelbank and of having popularized the song in this country. Let’s all drink long and hearty to Hank, his mother and his grandad.
Pat Malloy was late for class. In fact he was very late. Across the campus he sped, his coat tails whipping in the wind, hair all dishevelled, and long legs reaching far ahead of his straining body. Up to the class room door he clattered, slammed it open, threw his top coat on an empty front seat as he entered, and stumbled to a place in the rear of the room. The startled professor and students, craning their necks, stared strangely at the perspiring, heavily-breathing Pat. Malloy blankly returned their stares for a second and then started in confusion. He was in the wrong class.	’
•
One never knows to what ends a Notre Dame man will go. once he has set his mind on doing a certain thing. Well, Johnny Hopkins is a Notre Dame man. And, in spite of all that his intimate friends can do to persuade him against it, some one of these fatal days he’s going to satisfy. the most urgent of his present ambitions; that of using his mammoth wash bowl for a bath tub.
Rosary College held a dance last week, and of course Herb Venables and Joe Foley were there in full regalia: Smartly resplendent in formal dress, they swept onto the dance floor with their hostesses and immediately found themselves the cynosure of all eyes. Their confusion was complete when they realized that they were the only ones to make the mistake of wearing soup and fish to a strictly informal affair.
El even
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAF SMOKE
Table 100 in the West Dining Hall seats Walsh’s “KNIGHTS OF A HUNDRED TALES.” Best to date are BUD MARCY’S explanation of the bout in which he followed his opponent’s advice and bent down to see if his shoelace was untied, and BILL SMITH’S account of the first time he tried to loop an airplane and completed fourteen circles before he fi
Siamese Twins break through for three points each.
nally straightened the machine out. . . . The recent purge of Alumni walls by Father Glueckert has sorely perplexed JIM O’DONNELL, for no longer has he any space to hang his “ROUGE GALLERY” of JULIE . . .
For three long years SEBASTIAN BONET has been firm in his stand not to attend any dances across the lake but last Friday night his stand sorta collapsed . . . For fast thinking we recommend BILL MYER’S answer to Father Cunningham’s question in Educational Principles. When queried as to what put an end to the Chival-ric Period, Bill instantly replied: “Gunpowder.” . . . Our sympathy to those half dozen enterprising juniors, who, after managing to secure official permission to leave for the Army game on Thursday found out that the Grand Trunk’s single daily train from South Bend had left an hour BEFORE they secured said permission.
The best selling pamphlet in South Bend is entitled “HOW TO GET
YOUR MAN” . . . HUGH CORRELL of Morrissey showed up at the NU game in riding boots claiming that he just came for the ride ... Joe Dineen, MORRISSEY VIA UTICA, is fast becoming a critic of fine arts: he had this to say of a certain lady at a certain dance, “She has a lovely posture.” . . . BOB EGAN, ’38, is a bit worried about that personal in a
South Bend evening gazette: “DEAR BOB, please come home, I still love you, SOPHIE.”
Jack Deane, “DIZ OF THE “B” squad, is buying compacts again; this one is for KATHARINE, — the last was for SONYA (neither are cousins from Milwaukee) . . . Bill Fallon has yet to be under his tray as it fell (which is very commendable considering all the food distributed over the dining hall floors recently). . . .
JOE ENGLISH of Corby, although not a member of the organization, displays some real S.A.C. spirit. Starting with the Kansas game he has taken it upon himself to wake up all his friends on the second and third floors which means that practically every door on each of the floors has been weakly massaged by vigorous knuckles at 6:15 . . . THESE LAST MINUTE THRILL GAMES ARE GETTING US DOWN, SO HERE’S FOR A LONG WINTER’S NAP	 —The Funny Fellows.	-
FOOTBALL IN 1950
It is time for the big game. Thousands of people crowd the great stadium. Suddenly there is a great cheer. Six white-clad cheerleaders have come racing out onto the field, turning cartwheels as they run. Capable and enthusiastic are they, although they cannot help knowing that their positions are being threatened by rumors that they are receiving salaries and free tuition. They lead the first cheer. They prove beyond a doubt that they are the best cheerleaders in- the country; ten years on RKO as the Six Bounding Brown Brothers saw to that.
Just as the cheer- finishes, another great roar goes up. The band has come on the field. Two hundred pieces it is, followed by a parade of elephants, camels, zebras and giraffes. Every season the OLD SCHOOL hired the best circus in the country to come to all the home games with its band and animals.
Suddenly silence falls over the mob. The team files out on the field. Twenty-two puny men, they quickly run through one or two plays and then FILE UP INTO THE STANDS TO WATCH THE FUN!
Dedicated to the Editor
The day was warm, the hour was late, But the Editor’s work all had to wait, With nervous steps he paced the floor And looked askance at the card he bore—
Then, suddenly, quickly—a timorous rap!
With puzzled expression he answered the tap.
It was a frosh, with face scared and wet:
“I—sent you a joke—did vou get it, yet?”
The editor groaned, as he looked at the card—
‘.‘Not yet,” he shrieked — “but I’m trying hard!”
Only the brave deserve the fare.
A tenor and a shortstop are synonymous for they both play between second and third base.
Someone said that silent cheering was originated by the correspondence schools.	•_
Twelve
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during: the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 421 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
hall players taught how to care for themselves properly in as bruising a conflict as an interhall football game?
The future of interhall football rests on the findings of the investigators on these questions and whether they believe they will be able to rectify the present evils, or at least reduce them to the lowest possible minimum. —J. A. W.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C...............Faculty Adviser
JOHN S. MORAN .........................  Editor-in-Chief
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST................... Managing-Editor
Departmental Editors
Andrew D. Hufnagei______________________________The Week
Irwin L. Goldman_________________________In the Juggler Pein
William V. Ellis--------------------------------Art Editor
Notes Staff
Paul Foley____________________________________Notes Editor
Robert L. Grogan_________________________Assistant Notes Editor
Clifford F. Brown________________________Anthony O’Boyle
Lindsay Phoebus--------------------------Gregory Byrnes
Joseph Ratigan--------------------------------Louis DaPra
John A. Gillespie------------------------Bertram Smith
Harold A. Williams John Hurley
Robert F. Ervin e
Sports Staff
Cyril F. Stroker Co-Sports Editor
James A. AValdron Co-Sports Editor
John Cackley-------------------------James M. McMullen
Eugene Vaslett---------------------------Michael Crowe
Allen Bride_____________________________________Arch Gott
John Glanzner
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT'S VISIT
P
RESIDENT FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT’S visit to Notre Dame, December ninth, to take an active part in the ceremonies commemorating the granting of independence to the Philippines has caused more discussion on the campus than the arrival of any other dignitary in the past.
The appearance of the Chief Executive will be the first time that Notre Dame has been honored by an official visit from a president. In conferring the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws on Mr. Roosevelt, the University will show the high regard its‘members hold for the nation’s leader. On the other hand, the President will be paying tribute to an institution which has given many of its graduates to the defense of the country and to the direction of its affairs.
If the interest aroused on the campus is a dependable index, Mr. Roosevelt is assured of a sincere and enthusiastic reception. We extend to you a hearty welcome, Mr. President!
^Villiam R. Dooley, ’26________________________Business Manager
Member Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest
November 22, 1935
INTERHALL FOOTBALL
InTERHALL football has been called off for the year. After the unfortunate accident to Dick Sullivan, Athletic Director Elmer Layden ordered the cessation of hall football activity for the balance of the schedule. For ninety-three years student recreational activity has existed with maior casualties few and far between. From this inauspicious cradle have come the great Notre Dame teams which have endeared themselves in the sporting hearts of millions. From its ranks have arisen the Gipps, Elders, Robinsons and Hoffmanns.
Every precaution was taken to care for injuries occurring in these spirited rivalries. First-aid men were stationed on the scene of every game with all possible equipment to care for the injured. Layden has ordered an investigation to see whether improvement can be introduced into the interhall organization to reduce the possibility of another regrettable incident. Whether radical changes will take place depends entirely on this investigation. Did the officials act incompetently and permit the play to become too rough? Did the equipment give sufficient protection against injuries? Were the players themselves in proper physical condition? Did the halls have coaches capable of properly instructing uninitiated men in the fundamental rules of football—in other words are our inter-
NOT ALL TURKEY . . .
N
x ” EXT Thursday is Thanksgiving Day ... or did we need to remind you? While we have our share of ill fortune, with the Indiana weather continuing as rainy as ever, let’s not overlook the significance behind this occasion. Those who can’t see beyond the holiday turkey are missing completely the spirit which induced the New England pioneers, in 1829, to set aside a special day for thanksgiving to God.
THE SPIRIT IS WILLING —
Q
^KIP this if you were one of those threatened with ducking in the lake for not getting up to welcome the team back from Army. Your lack of spirit was in part responsible for the excessive display on the part of some who let their emotions run away with their common sense.
This is aimed at a few whose spirits were willing enough last Monday morning, but whose minds were weak. These individuals labeled themselves vandals, not Notre Dame gentlemen, by their conduct in disregarding the property of others.
The great majority must have recognized by now that “Notre Dame Man” is not a fancy, meaningless phrase, comparable to the politician’s “My illustrious countrymen.” It signifies certain attributes of fairness and uprightness in conduct . . . qualities which are found in the representative Notre Dame undergraduate.—J. S. M.
November 2 2, 1935 a
Thirteen
ATHLETICS
IRISH BATTLE WITH TROJANS IN FINAL GAME
NOTRE DAME POINTS FOR SEVENTH WIN AS INJURED PLAYERS REJOIN SQUAD
So. California Coach
Issues Game Statement
17 Irishers End Their Careers
By Cy Stroker
When the battling sons of Troy march out on the field tomorrow to meet Notre Dame in the last game of the season for the Irish, spectators will see in action another of those teams that is primed for thdSr encounter with Notre Dame. For Southern California is a member in good standing of the Beat-Notre-Dame-No-Matter-What club which is made up of teams like Army, Northwestern, Pittsburgh and others. It seems to make little difference to these teams how poor a showing they make in other games. If they win over the Irish they have had a successful season.
Southern Cal’s record to date is not very impressive. They opened the season by defeating Montana and College of the Pacific, but in the next four weeks lost to Illinois, Oregon State, California, and Stanford. Last week, they apparently made a comeback to defeat Washington State 20-10.
But this is not a true picture of the Trojan outfit. In reality they have been like Northwestern in imitating a snowball rolling down hill, gathering speed, power, and size at every turn. Their worst defeat was the first—that with Illinois. Stanford, recognized as the strongest team on the Pacific coast, barely eked out a 3-0 victory over the inspired Los Angeles team when the latter stopped the far-famed Bobby Grayson at every turn. The Washington State victory was in fact no upset at all, for Jones’ men outplayed the lumbermen from start to finish.
Southern California has been growing all season into an irresistable force and when it meets the immovable object tomorrow we hope that Notre Dame will be immovable. Ever since the Ohio State game, the Irish seem to have been lulled into a sense of security by the assurance that something will turn up in the last five minutes. It happened in Columbus, it happened in New York. But there is a very good possibility that it won’t happen tomorrow. The Trojans are
Fourteen
TROJAN WAR LORD
Coach Howard H- Jones
here for one purpose, to win, and if they once get the edge on Notre Dame they will hold it with every ounce of energy in their collective system.	’
Injuries still stalk Notre Dame as week after week the toll grows larger. There is hardly a man on the squad who has been immune with the exception of the invulnerable Millner. Fred Carideo was back in the game last week but within a few minutes injuries again forced him to leave. Dick Pfefferle, after an absence of two weeks will play in tomorrow’s* game and his will be a welcome return to the Irish line. It is doubtful if Andy Pilney will have a chance to perform, as his injury is not fully healed. . .
To hope for an Irish performance of the type played in the last quarter of the Ohio State game is expecting the impossible. That was the game that Notre Dame pointed for, and the inevitable reaction has evidently set (Continued on Page 21)	’
Following is the statement by Howard Jones concerning Saturday’s football game, between Notre Dame and the University of Southern California :	•
“The Notre Dame game is looked forward to eagerly each year by the University of Southern California since it has become not only a traditional contest but also the# leading intersectional game on our schedule. The keenest and friendliest of rivalry has always existed between the two-institutions. Notre Dame has always been a gracious winner and a good loser. It looks as though it will be the former this time, but we will be trying hard for a victory in order to make the score in games tied at five all. Our boys got off to a shaky start this season but they have'shown much improvement in the last two games. Saturday’s contest should be one of the best of the year.”
The “men of Trby”’are now in Chicago and will work out at Stagg Field at the University of Chicago today. They will arrive at Notre Dame just prior to game time tomorrow.
Coach and Scout Tom Conley
•Witnesses N. D. in action, second time
The Scholastic
GlFNN THOMPSON-QUARTERBACK
Light Workouts Given
Grid Squad In Last Week
Determined to finish the season with a victory, the Irish warriors resumed practice Tuesday afternoon after being excused from the usual Monday drill.
Coach Layden, in preparing his team for what promises to be a difficult game with Southern California tomorrow, stressed fundamentals, particularly blocking which was especially poor in the Army game last Saturday. A good deal of time was also spent in perfecting a defense for the Trojan’s famed passing attack.
With the return of left tackle Dick Pfefferle from- the injured list, the Irish forward wall promises to return to its early season strength. Bill Steinkemper and Johnny Lautar, both ■ of whom were injured in the Army game, are expected to be in condition t to play. Although Andy Pilney appeared in uniform on Cartier field, he took no actual part in the. work, confining himself chiefly to loosening the muscles in his -injured knee. It is probable that Andy will appear in one' play in tomorrow’s game in which he ends his college football career.
The first three teams received an idea of what to expect tomorrow afternoon when the freshmen, us-. . ing Trojan formations scrimmaged against them. The Irish encountered (Continued on Page 23)
*
November 2 2, 1935
NOTRE DAME SO. CALIFORNIA RIVALRY
IS SHORT BUT INTENSELY THRILLING
INTERHALL .. .
N. D. Has Won Five Games
Richard' Sullivan, sophomore of St. Edward’s Hall, was severly injured in an interhall game between St. Ed’s and Freshman Hall last Sunday. Sullivan at present is in St. Joseph Hospital suffering from a broken seventh cervicle located at the top of the spinal cord. Contrary to rumors circulated about the campus interhall football will. be continued next year according to a statement issued from the Athletic Office.
The Interhall Football race terminated last week in a turmoil. Teams that had been lagging behind all season came to the fore and registered decisive victories that radically changed the final standings in the league. When the final game had been finished it was found that St. Edward’s Hall was the decisive winner of the Group H league but Group I had a three-way tie for first place between Corby, Walsh, and Howard.
Howard was the only undefeated team of the group but had been tied three times. Corby and Walsh had each lost one game and tied one but had the same point score as Howard. Each team tallying nine points for the season. The Physical Education department has stated that no playoffs or final game will be played but that the championship will be decided by a toss of the coin between the teams involved.
The games last Sunday were in the majority, routs. St. Ed’s conquered Freshman 20-6 in the game that saw the injury of Sullivan. Carroll trounced Brownson 20-0, and Off-Campus finished their season strongly by turning Dillon back by a 32-0 score. In Group I Alumni and Lyons battled to a scoreless tie and Corby and Walsh registered victories over Sorin and Badin by default. The Sorin default was the incident that caused the muddle in Group I standings;
. The surprise victory of the day was the Off-Campus rout of Dillon. The town boys in past years had been presenting rather weak teams, but this year they offered a team that would have won the championship of Group II if it had not encountered some bad breaks at the beginning of the season. To all appearances it look's as though the town boys have finally come to life and will be a serious threat in interhall competition from this point on.
1926—Notre Dame, 13; So. California 12. 1927—Notre Dame, 7; So. California 6. 1928—Notre Dame, 14; So. California 27. 1929—Notre Dame, 13; So. California 12. 1930—Notre Dame, 27; So. California 0. 1931—Notre Dame, 14; So. California 16. 1932—Notre Dame, 0; So. California 13. 1933—Notre Dame, 0; So. California 19. 1934—Notre Dame, 14; So. California 0.
By John Cackley
The Trojan horse has been captured by the Irish, and the Trojan horse has corralled the Irish. The whole thing is that this home and home arrangement between Southern California and Notre Dame has been one of the most colorful and closest rivalries in modem football. Past records reveal that the men of Troy have had their weaker moments, and the Irish have trailed to the locker
room after Trojan contests with a bit of a tear.
Three of the five Irish victories fall into the one-point category, while two of S.C.’s wins are shown to be rather decisive.
The fireworks began back in 1926, when Knute Rockne took the Irish out to Los Angeles a week after they suffered a surprise defeat at the hands of Carnegie Tech’s Skibos. The Jones’ aggregation was nursing a 12 to 7 lead in the last period, when Rock sent in a left-handed Art Parisien and two plays later Johnny Niemic caught the pass that gave Notre Dame its initial triumph over the Trojans.
Headed by Morley Drury, sensational halfback, the Californians fought the Green at Soldier Field in Chicago before a record - breaking audience of 117,000 fans in ’27, After 60 minutes of furious battle (Continued on Page 23)
Fifteen
INTRODUCING
Irish Football Wars
Inspire Poetic Fans
By Cy Stroker
One of the highlights of the present Notre Dame football team is the work being done by the ends, and brightest of stars in this field is Wayne Millner, regular Irish left end for three seasons. In powers of endurance, in stopping enemy sallies around his flank, in running down under punts,
and in snaring passes, Millner has few equals throughout the country. In the Army games of 1933 and 1935, and in the Ohio State game of this year, it was Millner as much as anyone else who saved the day for Notre Dame.
This 190 pound six-footer was born in Roxbury, Mass., twenty-three years ago and got his start in athletics while going to school there. He came to Notre Dame in 1932 and became a member of what was perhaps the most promising freshman squad Notre
Dame has ever had. His work that year assured for him a regular berth on the Irish varsity in years to come.
The season of 1933 gave Wayne a chance to show his powers of endurance. In that year he played the full sixty minutes of the Army, Navy, and Purdue games and started in eight
out of the nine games played. In the Army game of that year he won the battle for Notre Dame 13-12. After a sustained drive in the last quarter by Nick Lukats which put the Cadets back on their heels, Millner blocked a kick over the Army goal line and fell on it for the deciding score.
His blocking last year paved the way for many Notre Dame scores when the right halfbacks carried the ball through his side of the line. It was last year, too, that he caused the (Continued on Page 22)
William D. O’Toole of Syracuse, New York has contributed two poems to The Scholastic concerning Notre Dame’s football warriors. They are interesting and well written. .
THEY HIKE TO THE RIGHT
They “hike to the right” with the old-time fight.
And-the line drives low and hard.
And the sidelines thrill to the well-timed drill As the fullback rips through guard.
They “hike to the right” to the crowd’s delight, (The ball’s to the inside back)
It’S a' fake reverse—but good night nurse! He’s away—and leading the pack.
They “hike to the right” and the sun gleams bright
On the blue and gold they sport.
It’s a short side buck and the foe is stuck As the Irish near their port.
They “hike to the right” as the Buckeyes’ height
Looms over the Irish wall.
And the backs close in to prevent that spin— But the spinner is just a stall.
They “hike to the right” as the shades of night Fall over the gridiron sward.
And the shadows blend as a speeding end
• goes down—and the pass has scored.
L’Envoi
They “hike to the right” with a last good night As each man leaves the field.
For victory’s sweet when the rout’s complete And the weapons are tough they wield.
SOMEWHERE ROCKNE SMILES
First Eichenlaub, and then upon his way The daring Gipp careens above the turf,
A flaring comet none might hold at bay As his great line drove forward like the surf.
I see Four Horsemen ride across the plain Destruction bent, a treat to mortal eye. And then at last I see a flaming plane,
A fiery meteor, ride down the western sky.
The passing dream retreats into the maze. The Gipper’s gone and trailing in his wake
Is Rockne—with the smile time can’t erase— And Sullivan and Young have crossed the lake.
Then once again a wildly surging pine
Strains forward in the tenseness of the fight;
The last long pass is good, and Rockne’s smile Is beaming on the Irish team tonight.
—Bill O’Toole.
LONG RUNS IN ARMY GAME
Don Elser the 220-pound giant playing in the second Notre Dame backfield, made the longest individual run. from scrimmage for the Irish. On a short-side play in the fourth period he slipped inside tackle and went 34 yards before being pulled down. Shakespeare’s longest dashes from scrimmage were for 16, 15, and 11 yards, respectively.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
SO THEY SAY
NOTRE DAME PLAYERS OF OTHER YEARS
RETURN TO CAMPUS FOR TROJAN GAME
William Valentine Shakespeare, of Staten Island, New York and Charley R. Meyer of Fort Sheridan, Ill., called “Monk,” engaged in a long distance football firing duel at Yankee Stadium yesterday afternoon which winds up in an astonishing 6 to 6 draw.
William Valentine Shakespeare represents the University of Notre Dame, of South Bend, Ind., in this
matter, and Charles R. Meyer is a delegate from West Point, New York, the home of the United States Military Academy, which incidentally happens to be Charles R. Meyer’s birth-place.
But Charles R. Meyer is handier with a football than a chimpanzee with a cocoanut, as he demonstrates early in the game between Notre Dame and the Army this afternoon by firing a 35 yard pass that is good for a touchdown.
It is the opening gun, so to speak, of the duel with William Valentine Shakespeare, who waits until the very last minute to put on a typical Shakespeare finish to a Notre Dame football tale by pitching a 44 yard curve to his old receiving pal, Wayne Vernal Millner, of Salem, Mass, that eventually results in the tying tally. —By Damon Runyon, the New York American.
The flaming resurgence of the Notre Dame spirit that made history at Columbus, Ohio asserted itself again yesterday to earn the never-say-die Ramblers a 6-6 tie with Army in the closing 45 second of an uproariously waged battle at the Yankee Stadium.
Turned back repeatedly by discouraging breaks, as well as by the valiant work of the Cadet forwards and the vigilance of the Army secondaries against passes, the Ramblers, to all appearances, were fated to know the frustration of an eleven that establishes its superiority in everything but the final score after holding command from the second quarter on.
But with the curtain thus about to fall on a great Army victory and the corps of 1600 deliriously happy Cadets preparing to rush down to carry Meyer and their other 60 minute heroes off on their shoulders, this brave, indomitable team of Elmer Layden’s turned the stadium into a (Continued on Page 21)
November 2 2, 1935
By Gene Vaslett
Tomorrow will find a small group of men returning to Notre Dame. Men who once held the same position in the eyes of their fellow students as the popular athletic luminaries of
John Eggeman
To meet team mates tomorrow.
today hold with the modern student. These men are what is termed today as the Old Timers and tomorrow will be their “day” at Notre Dame. They will be the guests of the school and will revive memories of their student days at the University while they watch their athletic descendants play Southern California in a modern game of football that is radically different from the game they played.
Back in the days when peg top pants and derbies were the prerequisite for successful college careers and football was a tussle instead of a science this group of men had discipline prefects, St. Mary’s, and rules in the same manner as we have today but a little more emphasis was placed on their rules. Notre Dame is a paradise compared to what the students had to undergo at the turn of the century.
The Old Timers had the distinct honor of forming the first football team and playing on subsequent football teams from 1887 to 1900. Two men who played on the first team of ’87 that engaged in but one game and lost it to Michigan will be present tomorrow. Edward A.* Sawkins and Colonel Frank Fehr of Detroit and Louisville respecttively fought for a lost cause with the strong Michigan
team of ’87 and returned to the campus to see the 47th edition of their team in action. Col. Fehr holds high favor with the student body of today as he is now a prominent Louisville brewer besides being a great national industrialist.
James R. Fittsgibbons and Stephen B. Flemming, teammates on the ’89 and ’90 elevens will also return and talk over old times tomorrow. In ’91 and ’92 Fitzgibbon left the football field in favor of the baseball team and starred on that group until he graduated.	‘
It is interesting to look back on what those old timers did and what they are doing today. Frank E. Hering of South Bend filled the dual role of captain and coach of the football team of 1896 and coached the team from ’97 to ’99. Today he is a member of the Board of Lay Trustees of this university and editor of the magazine of the Fraternal Order of Eagles. Mr. Hering was the founder of Mothers’ Day and is a nationally know orator having spoken over a nation wide radio hook-up from San Diego this past summer. Another football and baseball player of the 1897 and 1900 era, Angus D. McDonald, is now president of the Southern Pacific Railroad and member of the Board of Lay Trustees of Notre Dame. Mr. McDonald was one of the greatest baseball players Notre Dame has ever known. After graduation he
Frank E. Hering Coach and Player in 1896.
was signed by the Texas League but the story goes that his father persuaded him to abandon this and start in the railroad business at the bottom both in job and wage. •
Laymen were not the only athletic heroes of old Notre Dame. Few men will ever equal the athletic record of Rev. John F. Farley, C.S.C., present rector of Sorin Hall. Father Farley was on the football, track and baseball teams of ’97, ’98, ’99 and captain of 1901 football teams. Another priest famous in athletic annals of that time was the Rev. Thomas A.. Steiner, C.S.C., new dean of the College of Engineering and Assistant Provincial of the Congregation of
(Continued on Page 21)
Seventeen
AMBITIOUS IRISH BASKETBALL SCHEDULE
LISTS TWENTY-FIVE STRONG OPPONENTS
Interesting Sidelights
At N. D.—Army Encounter
A 25 game schedule, the most ambitious carded for Notre Dame since George E. Keogan became basketball coach here in 1925, was announced today by Athletic Director Elmer F. Layden.
Four of the games will be played on two nights in double headers which feature the early season card. Seven games with five Big Ten teams, and five intersectional contests, plus
George Keogan “We play them all.”
games with such traditionally strong rivals as Marquette and Butler make the card the most difficult ever attempted by a Notre Dame team.
The opener with Albion at Notre Dame Nov. 30 will be a clinic game.
Eight teams who were not on last year’s schedule are included this year. They are Purdue, Kentucky, Syracuse, Pennsylvania, St. Benedict’s, St. Joseph, St. Mary’s, and James Milliken.
The Big Ten opponents are Northwestern, two games; Minnesota, two games; Purdue, Illinois, and Ohio State on the card arranged by Coach Keogan.
Following is the complete card:
Nov. 30—Albion at Notre Dame (clinic game).	.
Dec. 4—St. Mary’s and Kalamazoo at Notre Dame.	’
Dec. 7—St. Joseph and James Milliken at Notre Dame.
Dec. 11—Washington IL at St. Louis.
Dec. 6—Northwestern here.
Dec. 23—Purdue at Lafayette.
Dec. 31—Northwestern at Evanston.
Jan. 4—Minnesota at Minneapolis.
Jan. 10—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh.
(Continued on Page 23)
Eighteen
CROSS COUNTRY
Coach John Nicholson’s cross-country squad climaxed its season last Saturday with a 30-26 win over the Wisconsin harriers on the three and a half mile lake course. Although the meet officially ended the regular schedule, the Irish nevertheless will journey to East Lansing, Michigan on Nov. 25, to participate in the Central Conference jamboree.
Fenske of the Badger’s copped first place in 18:15, but Francis, Gormley, and McFarlane of Notre Dame finished directly behind the leader. Francis came in one minute after Fenske had been checked over the line. The remaining men of both teams finished in this order: Cooke (W), Kenyon (ND), Bachoube (W), Pratt (W), Ruenzel (W), Kleinschmidt (W), McKenna (ND), Hennessey (ND), and Gott (ND).
The longwinded men wound up the card with a 50-50 percentage, having annexed two victories at the expense of Pitt and Wisconsin while losing to Michigan State and Illinois. The Irish are doped to make a creditable showing when they invade East Lansing the latter part of this month.
MAKING A LONG STORY SHORT
Notre Dame totaled 146 yards by rushing.
Army totaled 134 yards by rushing. Notre Dame avereaged 42 yards in punting.
Army averaged 41 yards in punting. Notre Dame totaled 110 yards by forward passing.
Army totaled 40 yards by forward passing.
Notre Dame penalized 15 yards. -Army penalized 15 yards.
Notre Dame made 14 first downs. Army made 4 first downs..
"B" TEAM DEFEATED '
The Irish reserves closed their season at Illinois with a defeat. The Illinois “B” gained revenge for a previous defeat handed to them by the Irish, by whipping Notre Dame’s “B” 14-13. Bad breaks played a big part in the Irish loss of the game. Fumbling and frequent penalties handicapped, the reserves considerably. Every “B” man turned in a good game, but Ed Crotty and McGuire were the standout performers. These two gridders accounted for the touchdowns scored by the Irish. The ability of the Illinois “B” to take advantage of breaks was largely responsible for the Illinois victory.
The crowd of 80,000 thrilled by the old yet ever-inspiring spectacle of the corps of cadets in long, gray overcoats with capes flung back from their square young soldiers marching in through the gates and forming a great square on the field.
—o—
The Notre Dame players in their bright green jerseys and golden trousers of silk made a gay and shiny appeaarnce. They looked more subdued in the warming-up practice when wearing black sweaters over their brilliant green jerseys..
—o—
Nobody lost track of Acting Captain Bill Shakespeare or No. 63 in the confusing replacing of whole
El.SE/Z.	STILLS'!
teams by Notre Dame. He was the leading ground-gainer for the Irish with a beautiful 25 yard dash on a
. kick-off among his activities. His forward passing finally saved his team from defeat while his kicking, with Bill Schuler and Preston of the Army practically patting him on the back on every attempt, was great.
The pacing-off of at least two penalties annoyed the Irish supporters. In one case the pacing resulted in a penalty of four and a half instead of five. On another occasion a Notre Dame pass was scooped off the ground by an Army player and the officials allowed it to stand as intercepted.
—o— .
The Notre Dame band making its first appearance in many years in , New York, performed many intricate evolutions between the halves. Somebody forgot to reserve seats for the Irish footers and as a last resort it was necessary to improvise seats for them at one corner of the field, to the annoyance of the holders of lower box seats.
—o—
An old, jinx which the cadets have been trying to run down and kill for a number of years escaped by the narrow margin of one minute yesterday. The army has never been able to-beat Yale and Notre Dame in the same ' season but almost brought it about.
The Scholastic
PLANTERS
_~tj| FROM THE
JBPRESS BOX
By Joe Prendergast
SWAN SINGING
Nineteen true fighting “sons of Erin” will sing their swan song to Notre Danie’s football followers to
morrow afternoon in our grid showplace. Their loss will be an Alpine-barrier for able and tactful Elmer
Layden to hurdle when the pigskin boom-booms beat again next fall.
These youths have played through three gruelling football seasons for Notre Dame and every minute anyone of them was in there he played his heart out and gave the best he had.
The following men will trod the replanted Cartier Field turf of the Stadium no more: Pilney, Shakespeare, Layden and Mazziotti, halfbacks; Ca-rideo and Elser, fullbacks; Fromhart, Gaul and Moriarity, quarterbacks; Millner, Peters and Themes, ends; Pfefferle, Michuta, Stilley and Belden, tackles; Church, guard; and Poj-man and Solari, centers. Also lest we forget another lad will finish his playing career on the morrow. Captain Joe Sullivan, whose spirit has dominated every last quarter drive staged by Notre Dame this season, would have and will close his active gridiron days for the Irish.
. o
POWERFUL REMARKS
Lieutenant Gar Davidson, coach of Army, must have been a raging furnace of anger after the ball game last Saturday. His statements after the rame taken from the South Bend News-Times strengthens this apparition.	'
“We were robbed; shamefully robbed ... If my men interfered with the pass then I never saw interference.”
More from the downtown NewsTimes: “On Friday night he (Davidson) addressed a pep meeting of the -Cadets at West Point and complained • of the fact that of the 83,000 people who would attend the game the following day, about nine-tenths of them would be rooting for Notre Dame, whereas, he said, the fans .of the nation should ‘adopt’ West Point as their favorite football team, not (Continued on Page 20)	■
NOTRE. DAME AND ARMY FIGHT TO TIE AS IRISH STAGE LAST MINUTE RALLY
OFFICIAL PROTEST...
In a letter written by the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C. to the New York Daily News, the University protested against an article appearing in that paper which suggested that the Notre Dame-Army games be “fixed.” Father O’Hara’s letter together with the article as it appeared in the News follows :
Nov. 20, 1935 To the Editor,
The New York Daily News, New York, N. Y.
Dear Sir:
Although Notre Dame seldom takes official notice of criticism, I feel it my duty to protest against the outrageous implications of the enclosed paragraph which appeared, I am informed, in the Daily Neivs of Nov. 18, 1935.
It is unthinkable that you should allow to go unpunished this flippant insinuation that the football players representing such fine institutions as the United States Military Academy and the University of Notre Dame could be “fixed.” I pass over the scurrilous references to drink, since the writer in question can easily say that he made no reference to Notre Dame but only to the “synthetic alumni.”
Respectfully,
(Rev.) John F. O’Hara, C.S.C. President.
New York Daily Neivs, Nov. 18, 1935.
“In a town like this, where practically every male citizen is an alumnus of Notre Dame during the football season, it is disappointing to have the Army-Notre Dame game a tie. It cuts down on the Saturday night drinking. If the Irish win, the town can celebrate; if they lose, it can take to hard liquor. But a tie is no incentive. New York’s liquor merchants will be smart if they up a collection for next year’s game — a huge fund with which to ‘fix’ the score.”
ORIGIN OF HUDDLE
Maybe this year’s Illinois-Michigan State game will give Robert Zuppke some satisfaction over Charley Bachman’s statement regarding the. origin of the huddle.
It has always been Zuppke’s boast that among his gifts to football was the huddle, now Mich. State’s Bachman says:	■
“Zuppke, Heisman, Dobie—None of them invented the huddle. It was not invented by any coach. The huddle came inot being on the sandlots by kids who had no signals—or, if they had, had forgotten them. They simply grouped to talk over what play to use.”
By Arch Gott
A wild screaming throng of 80,000 saw in Yankee Stadium last Saturday, a battle which left them gasping for air and limp in their seats at its conclusion. Only twice did the little scoring bug enter the conflict and he chose to land once on each team. After leading 6-0 for the first 59 minutes of the game, the Army was forced to yield a touchdown to an awakened Notre Dame Juggernaut that crashed relentlessly down the field 85 yards terminating in a shattering smash across the goal by Larry Danbom
Tony Mazziotti
Off side kicker deluxe.
with a scant ten seconds to play. The “greatest finish team in history” had unleashed its fury again and tied up the count in a game that appeared to be hopelessly lost but a few seconds before. With fire in their hearts and victory within their grasp the Irish under their valiant leader, Wally Fromhart, tried for the point after touchdown which meant so much, to them—but the scoring bug had flown and the kick was wide by inches ending the game at 6-6.
The first quarter began unevent- -fully with both teams exchanging punts for quite a few minutes. Bill Shakespeare, probably the outstanding player on the field, was booting them far and high for the Irish while the little 142 pound left half Monk Meyer was performing equally as the Army sparkplug. It was the latter’s kick which was lofted out of bounds on the Notre Dame two yard line that provided the opportunity for Army’s touchdown. Shakespeare immediately hoisted a beautiful kick to midfield which was run back by Grohs of the Army to Notre Dame’s 40-yard line. The stage now being set, Meyer tossed a long pass on the next play clear over the heads of the Irish secondary and into the arms of “Whitey” Grove who snared it on the dead run on the two yard line. Notre Dame’s Bill
November 2 2, 1935
Nineteen
Shakespeare made a last desperate attempt to prevent the score hut as he tackled Grove both players slid over the goal and Army had its six points. Grove’s try for point Hew to one side of the posts. Soon after saw the end of the first period and a whole new team was sent in by Coach Layden of Notre Dame.
With the second quarter still in its infancy Wojcihovski cheered Irish fans by recovering an Army fumble in midfield. Then Bob Wilke and Don Elser of Notre Dame began a series of plays which seemed to be leading to a possible Irish score. Joe O’Neill grabbed a long toss from Wilke and twisted his way to the Army’s 30-yard line. On an exchange of punts Notre Dame was back on Army’s 37 yard line and the Cadets here received their first break. Wilke heaved to Zwers of the Irish who appeared to have snatched the pigskin on the 11-yard line but after a wild scramble, Grove of the Army emerged with the ball to end all hopes for the Blue and Gold in the first half.
Notre Dame advanced into Army territory early in the third period but fumbled on Army’s 35 yard line and the Cadets recovered to conclude another Irish scoring thrust. Then began a series of attempted passes by Notre Dame but the soldiers were inspired in their defense and frustrated all Irish attempts. Shakespeare, with all the finesse of his famous namesake, carried the ball on a series of fast running plays and peeled off some great yardage. Finally he found a gaping hole at tackle and scooted through it speedily, sucking in the entire Army secondary. When he hit the turf the galloping Bard had carried the oval to the Cadet 32 yard stripe. Once again though, the Lay-demnen lost the ball and the Army • chose to kick. This was the advent of the last quarter and the Irish seemed to be possessed of a new fighting spirit as they began their final try to change the complexion of the game.
The revived Notre Dame spurted down the field in a group of plays featured by brilliant execution and spirited blocking, one of the plays finding the mammoth Don Elser faking a kick and running through his left tackle for 33 yards. At this point seeing an opportunity, Wilke passed to Gaul who was tackled hard and fumbled after the catch, the ball being recovered by Army on its own 30 yard marker. On the next play Meyer of Army ahnost frightened the scoring bug from the vicinity of the stadium when he tore off a 50 yard gain, Carideo grabbing him from behind. After this Army kicked out of bounds on Notre Dame’s 15 and the Irish began their startling 85-yard drive which terminated in the 6-6 tie.
T w en t y
ON DOWN THE LINE
By James A. Waldron
DID YOU KNOW:
After playing Notre Dame, Washington State, and Pittsburgh, in order HOWARD JONES will take his Trojans to Hawaii. They will no doubt be glad to go away to the South Seas where you do not have to win all the time to enjoy life. . . . The officiating in major games this year has brought forth much criticism. Besides the famous dribble catch of a Notre Dame forward pass in the game surprised even Army, it now comes out that St. Mary’s started an innovation in her game with Fordham, the five man backfield and six man line. On one occasion the left end hopped back but no backfield man went up on the line. . . . Down in North Carolina they are giving the credit for Duke’s surprising win over CARL SNAVELY’S undefeated North Carolina team to MR. R. K. COURTNEY, Duke’s one-man hoodoo, who was persuaded to remain home. It is rumored Duke will give him his letter. . . . During a time out period of the game in which the University of Washington went down to a 14 to 0 defeat at the hands of California, DAN LAZAREVICH, Huskie captain, went up to BOB HERWIG, California center. “Tell your quarterback not to yell so loud in the huddles,” he said to HERWIG. “We know your starting signals.”
. PAGE MR. KEOGAN:
WILLIE RUBENSTEIN, N.Y.U. basketball captain, forecasts a stronger quintet than ever, and a perfect season. Notre Dame is meeting the New York school in January and will certainly show Captain Rubenstein that he might have been just a little too confident. Incidentally, despite the non - Aryan character ‘ of the N.Y.U. squad, he admits the boys would like to make the Olympic team. “NO. 13”—LUCKY OR UNLUCKY!
“JUMPING JOE” WILLIAMS, - Ohio State’s sophomore sensation, is being heralded as the Buckeyes’ greatest halfback since CHICK HARLEY. One of his favorite tricks is to drift backwards after catching a punt to lure the linemen in oh him and then when he has them bunched . he turns on the speed, and scoots elsewhere. This five foot six, one hundred and’ sixty-five pound player wears number 13 on his jersey.
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX ,	(Continued from Page 19)
Notre Dame which he referred to as ‘a local college out in the midwest.’ The lieutenant was right about one thing anyhow. At least nine-tenths of the crowd Saturday was rooting for Notre Dame.”
Gar Davidson, perhaps, never made these caustic remarks but if he did they were on the spur of the moment and not as press quotations. There has never been any petty backbiting to stigmatize the traditional Army vs. Notre Dame gridiron series and this correspondent doesn’t believe there ever will be.
•
SHAKESPEARE YARN
Here’s a story gathered from New York secret operator No. 18 concerning Bill Shakespeare, sterling left halfback on Elmer Layden’s crew. When Bill was eleven years old he used to pal around with two youths named McKinley and Van Winkle. One afternoon the three boys were climbing up the framework of a new building when an officer appeared and ordered them down. The boys obeyed and the officer gave them a talk on the dangers of such a pastime after which he asked them their names. “McKinley, Van Winkle and Shakespeare” was the quick reply, whereupon the law stated “Oh three wise guys, eh?” He proceeded with his three law-breakers to the jail where everything was cleared up but only after much feverish anxiety on the part of the culprits.
SCORECASTS
Last week this punt-pray-pray-pray guesser really hit that old apple. It was the best set of choices that has been made all season by your forecaster. (Much to the chagrin of Jack DeGarmo of Niles, Ohio and offtimes Ohio U.) Georgetown, Purdue and Texas Christian went overboard while twenty-one survived the tempest and our own clash with the spirited Cadets ended in a deadlock. This week a radical step will be taken in selecting Wisconsin to overthrow Minnesota. This is a hunch and not forgetting what the Badgers did to the men of Illini late last season don’t be boisterous in your condemnations.
NOTRE DAME 20; SOUTHERN CALIF. 7.
Boston College 14; Boston U. 0.
Yale 21; Harvard 7.
Massachusets State 14; Tufts 12.
Columbia 13; Brown 0.
Detroit 6; Duquesne 0.
- Lehigh IO; Lafayette 7.
. Temple 19 ; Villanova 13.
Army 36; Vermont 0.
Penn State 13; Bucknell 7.
Princeton 14; Dartmouth 7.
Colgate 27 ; Rutgers 7.
' Purdue 13; Indiana.6.
Kansas 20; Iowa State 0.
Marquette 21; Creighton 6.
Ohio State 27 ; Michigan 0..
Illinois 14; Chicago 7.
Wisconsin 13; Minnesota 6.
Northwestern 12; Iowa 0.
The S c h dI a s t ic
OLD TIMERS
(Continued from Page 17)
Holy Cross. Father Steiner starred on the basketball teams of 1897 and ’98 and had as a teammate John W. Eggeman of Fort Wayne, Ind., who will also be present tomorrow.
The baseball teams of old Notre Dame came in for their share of glory and at times overshadowed the football elevens. The major league teams of that day would send their scouts out to investigate the calibre of the mid-westerners at Notre Dame and not a few Irishmen were signed to play for the big teams. Bert Inks of Ligonier, Indiana; Phillip O’Neill of Anderson, Indiana, and Robert Lynch of Green Bay, Wisconsin, all saw service with major league teams and will be here to-morrow. Inks played with the Pittsburgh Pirates, O’Neill with the Cincinnati Reds, and Lynch with the Philadelphia Nationals. Mr. Lynch was also a member of the Wisconsin Legislature.	'
The football team of ’99 will have five men and their coach at the reunion to-morrow. Frank E. Hering, coach, will talk over old battles with Father Farley, A. C. Fortin, John Eggeman, Frank Hanley, and Angus McDonald who were his charges in 1899.
The old athletes of other days at present occupy positions in life ranging from lawyers and doctors to railroad presidents and former mayors
but to-morrow they return not as figures in public life but as great athletes of a never to be forgotten era of Notre Dame. The era that saw the ascendancy of Notre Dame athletics and prestige among the universities of the nation.
IRISH TO BATTLE TROJANS (Continued from Page 14)
in. Although the last minute drive against Army saved the Irish from defeat, it was evident throughout the game that the Cadets were playing superior football.
But the outlook is not too gloomy for Notre Dame. Seventeen of Notre Dame’s lettermen will be playing for the Blue and Gold for the last time and will undoubtedly turn in a good showing. Since Notre Dame’s chief scoring threats are made via the air and since Southern Cal’s pass defense is decidedly weak, the combination of these two circumstances points for an Irish victory. In addition to this advantage one of the most valuable of the Southern Cal players, Thompson, will be lost for the game because of injuries. Thompson, regular Trojan quarterback, was a great asset to his team all season and made the only touchdown scored by Southern Cal in the Oregon State game. The reserve strength in the Notre Dame “second team” will play a major part in the game for the Irish. It is rare indeed that a coach can substitute a whole
new team without fearing that it will be crushed by the opponents.
The probable starting lineup will be, for Notre Dame, Millner and Peters ends; Pfefferle and Kopszak tackles; Lautar and Martin guards; Pojman center; Fromhart quarter, Shakespeare and Wocjihovski halfbacks; Elser fullback. For Southern California, Hibbs and Williams ends; Belko and Roberts tackles; Saunders and Shuey guards; Kulm center; Henderson quarter; Hansen and Langley halfbacks; and Probst fullback.
SO THEY SAY
(Continued from Page 17) roaring furnace of bedlam struck people.
Starting from their 15 after Meyer had followed up his 50 yard run with a kick out of bounds, those eleven green shirted giants from South Bend attacked like so many demons, to carry the ball 85 yards down the field for five successive first downs and the tying touchdown.—By Allison Danzig, in the New’ York Times.
A leprechaun which patrolled the Erin of Brian Boru and Finn McCool came to the rescue of Notre Dame’s fighting “Irish” on the battle-scarred turf of Yankee Stadium yesterday afternoon, giving them a 6-6 tie with Army’s great team before 80,000.— By Stanley Woodward, New York Herald Tribune.
MIKE LAYDEN SCORES TWICE AGAINST TROJANS IN 1934
N o.v ember 2 2, 1935
Twenty-one
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 15)
Irish opponents a great deal of embarrassment while he was playing dedefense. He was in the enemy’s back-field so soon after the ball was snapped that those unfortunate gentlemen at times thought they had twelve men on the field.
This year Wayne has been going like a tornado. Most spectacular of his feats to date are the two passes he caught against Ohio State and Army. With less than a minute to play in the Columbus game, Millner leaped high in the air to snare Shakespeare’s bullet toss, and dropped down into the Buckeye end zone for the winning touchdown. In the Army game he was about to catch another of Shakespeare’s passes on the two-yard line when he was interfered with by Grove. The resulting penalty gave Notre Dame a tie.
Off the football field as well as on, Wayne is noted for his self confidence. He is a senior in commerce where he is majoring in business administration. A favorite son of 01’ Sorin, his favorite receration is dancing at which indor sport he has won several cups. He now lives in Salem, Mass., and drives a truck in the summer to keep in condition. Another of his recreations is pool and billiards and in this he is quite successful as some of the South Bend sharks will testify.
ESSAY CONTEST
A second essay competition on “Why I Should See New York,” is being sponsored by the Panhellenic House Association, with competition open to all undergraduates in the colleges and universities of the country, it was announced from the Association headquarters recently.
The first contest, held last year, was won by Sylva Goodman, a student at Wayne University, Detroit, Mich. Her essay received considerable attention from the New York press.
The first prize winner is awarded §100 in cash, plus a week’s stay in New York. Second place winner receives §25.00 and a week’s stay; and third prize is §15.00 and a week’s stay; and third prize is §15.00 plus a week-end stay.
Entry blanks for the second contest may be obtained from Contest Headquarters, 3 Mitchell Place, New York City.
COLLEGIANA
The Rocking Horse, University of Wisconsin literary magazine, held a nation-wide contest last year to discover “America’s worst sonnet.”
Twelve American and five Canadian colleges have organized the Intercollegiate Ski Union to further com-, petition in ski jumping and racing.
Twenty-two
Jewelry Concessions Given Seven Students
The office of the comptroller has announced that the L. G. Balfour Co., of Attleboro, Mass., will again handle the sale of jewelry on the campus this year.
The University assumed resopnsi-bility for the jewelry concession on the campus two years ago to secure the best possible arrangements for the student body. To meet the demand for class pins, rings and novelty jewelry, it was deemed advisable to consolidate the buying and selling of these articles. Arrangements were
Comptroller Frank Lloyd Arranges jewelry concession.
completed with the L. G. Balfour Co., of Attleboro, Mass.
In view of the satisfaction indicated by the student body in the way of jewelry purchases during the past two years Mr. Frank Lloyd, the University comptroller, again willingly accepted the onerous task and responsibility of carrying the arrangements forward for the present school year.
“The experience of the past two years has made possible improvements in the jewelry line, in character and in quality, particularly in the university rings and senior class pins. These will be of even better quality, as new processes and methods of treating metals have been developed within the year. This year there is added an official Notre Dame ring in sterling silver at a very attractive price,” Mr. Lloyd stated.
Representatives this year are: Thomas P. Mulligan, Morrissey Hall ; J. R. Callahan, Lyons Hall; Charles M. Callahan, Morrissey Hall; Joe Mansfield, Howard Hall; Paul H. Anderson; Badin; Leonard J. Feeney, Freshman Hall; and John D. Heywood, Sorin Hall.
COLLEGE PROM
salutes
NOTRE DAME
and
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
A dazzling half-hour of Red Nichols rhythm and sports-thrills. Hear Elmer Layden, Notre Dame coach, give the highlights of tomorrow’s game. Listen to Les Quailey, as he picks the week’s winners.
Songs! Dance tunes! Excitement!
ELMER LAYDEN
Notre Dome Coach
Guest of honor at the College Prom
TONIGHT—WENR—WLS—7:30
Coast-to-Coast Network NBC
BEAUX ARTS AWARDS
The Beaux Arts Institute of New York recently notified the University that ten Notre Dame students in the School of Architecture were awarded half mentions in that Institution’s first contest for the present semester. The designs submitted were in Class “B” Project 1 and the subject was “An Artists Summer Colony.”
The ten Notre Dame architects so honored are: C. R. Campbell, J. W. Hackner, M. C. Hertet, J. M. Lee, R. T. Marre, F. S. McNeill, J. D. Murphy, C. C. Palmer, D. H. Smith, and J. R. VanNamee.
JOHNSON TALK
Mr. J. B. Johnson, Chief of the Materials Division of the United States Army Aircorps, was the guest speaker at the last meeting of the Notre Dame Group of the American Society for Metals, held Wednesday, Nov. 13, in the Engineering building.
Mr. Johnson spoke concerning the “Light Alloys Used in Aircraft.” His remarks were based on several years experience in the aeronautical field and several experiments of his own which have made him an authority of national importance on the subject.
The talk was open to interested outsiders as well as members of the society. About three hundred students and representatives of South Bend industrial plants attended the meeting.
The Science Society of China was founded 21 years ago by Chinese undergraduates at Cornell University.
The Scholastic
N. D.- SO. CAL SERIES (Continued from Page 15)
the Gold and Blue had chalked up their second consecutive one - point victory over Southern Cal 7-6.
The banner year for Irish opponents was 1928. That fall Howard Jones welcomed Notre Dame gridders to the coast for the third engagement between the two schools. This time U.S.C. scored their first of two decisive wins. The final count read 27 to 14, with the home team on top.
Notre Dame succeeded in trimming the Trojans 13-12, in 1929 in what proved to be another pigskin thriller. The following year the Green won rather easily by a 27 to 0 tally.
The fracas of 1931 will long be remembered by football fans. With slightly more than 60 seconds to play Johnny Baker split the uprights with a field goal that broke the Notre Dame winning streak of 26 games. The Trojans overcame a 14 point margin the last quarter in coming from behind to take the issue.
It was in 1932 that again the Gold and Blue treked westward only to be repulsed, 13-0. Cotton Warburton and Rosie Rosenberg performed brilliantly for Southern Cal in ’33, to enable the Trojans to crush the Green 19 to 0. Notre Dame climaxed a successful schedule last December when Mike Layden grabbed two touchdown passes from Shakespeare for an Irish victory. The Gold and Blue threw a powerful offense against the walls of Troy, and emerged with a 14-0 win.
ITALIAN CLUB
Rev. Eugene Moriarity, Professor of English, was the principal speaker at the last meeting of the Italian Club held Wednesday night, Nov. 13. Father Sloriarity’s talk was on the subject of "World Peace.” *
Daniel O’Brien furnished the feature bit of club activity on the part of a non-Italian member when he read a paper to the assembly in Italian.
Professor Frank Flynn, of the Graduate Curriculum in Social Work, will speak at the next meeting.
BASKETBALL (Continued from Page 18)
Jan. 14—Marquette at Notre Dame.
Jan. 18—Pennsylvania at Philadelphia Jan. 20—Syracuse at Syracuse.
Jan. 15—Butler at Notre Dame.
Feb. 1—St. Benedict at Notre Dame.
Feb. 5—Illinois at Notre Dame.’
Feb. 10—Kentucky at Notre Dame.
Feb. 14 New York U. at N. Y. (Madison Square Garden).
Feb. 22—Pittsburgh at Notre Dame.
Feb. 25—Minnesota at Notre Dame.
Feb. 29—Butler at Indianapolis.
Mar. 4—Ohio State at Notre Dame.
Mar. 7—Marquette at Milwaukee. Mar. 10—U. of Detroit at Detroit.
November 2 2, 1935
BOOKMEN
To fill the five vacancies in the limited membership of 15 the following were recently elected to the Bookmen: Robert McGrath, John Schemmer, Louis DaPra, John Broderick, and Harold A. Williams.
Fifteen books have been selected by the Bookmen to be read during this semester. Thomas Cassidy, secretary of the Bookmen, announces that the following books will be purchased by the society within a few days: The Pulitzer Prize play, Diaghileff, Seven Pillars of Wisdom, There Will Be Knowledge, The Beachcomber, Jews Without Money, After Such Pleasures, Royal Purple, The Theatre of Life, The Great American Parade, The Lees of Virginia, Paths of Glory, Burning City, Mussolini of Italy, and Achievements of T. S. Eliot.
AERONAUTICAL CLUB
Mr. C. V. Johnson, official of the Bendix Corporation in South Bend, will be the guest speaker at the next meeting of the Aeronautical Club, to be held Monday night, Nov. 25, at 7:45 p.m., in the Engineering building.
Mr. Johnson will address the members on the subject of “Shock Struts and Landing Gear.”
GERMAN CLUB
Der Deutsche Verein elected Peter Nemeth, a senior in the School of Arts and Letters, as its president; Emil Peter, a junior, as vice-president; Frank Murray, senior pre-med., as secretary and publicity representative; and Bernard Keffler as treasurer.
The meeting, the second of the year, was held in the basement of the Law Building. Mr. George J. Wack, associate professor of German, as in other years, will again act as moderator and adviser for the club. He gave a brief talk in which he proposed a program for the year and stressed the necessary cooperation of officers and members for a successful year.
FOOTBALL PRACTICE (Continued from Page 15)
some difficulty in solving the deceptive plays employed by the Jones’ boys.
As shown by last Saturday’s game with the Cadets, past records mean nothing in a game with a traditional rival, and it is expected that this will be borne out in tomorrow’s encounter. The Trojans, nearing the end of a most disastrous season, would like nothing better than to defeat Notre Dame and thus make their season a success. The game will be played before a near capacity crowd as the pre-game ticket sale has been especially brisk.
Let's Talk
TURKEY
• Assuming that all students thirst for facts, here are some unvarnished facts about transportation. It costs from 4c to 8c a mile to run an automobile. It costs only 2c a mile to ride South Shore electric trains.’ So what? Ride the South Shore Line whenever you go to Chicago and .you’ll be money ahead . . . and you’ll always get there “on time!”
Final Interhall Standings
Group 1.	W
Howard-------------------3
Corby 4
Walsh 3
Lyons 1
Sorin--------------------1
Alumni-------------------0
Badin 0
Group 2.	W
St. Edwards--------------5
Brownson-----------------4
Freshman-----------------3
Off-Campus---------------2
Carroll------------------1
Billon -----------------— 1
Morrissey---------------—■ 0
L	T Pts.
0	3	9
119 0	3	9
13	5
2	2	4
2	3	3
5	0	5
L T Pts. ■ 0	0	10
10	8
2	0	6
2	15
4	0-2
4	0	2
5	0	0
Twenty-three
© 1935, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.