

V 
the latest campus news and sports 
in-depth coverage of campus issues 
reviews of campus entertainment 
off-the-wall humor 

one step ahead since 1867 
L8STI
. . 

..: .· .. ; ..: _ ..-._-. 
-1lil is~ues '. ~ ;oL~ARS 
r : ---_---_ ---__ -----------• ---------------7< 
, --PL~.4.SE PLAC~ ME ON YOUR SUBS6RIPTION LIST. SENbTHIS FOFUVI AND ---_ j:. $35.00 PAYMENT=-T.O:: _ .. .. _..;· :_ :.~ ·: 
....· 



N U A R Y 

by Adam Aroian 
.~.;. . -· . ~ . , ...... ... : :
---• . -·--------.. 

COVER: American Eagle's exitfrom South Bend leaves the dty and its travelers in a lurch. 
· 1 
i 

· ,1:,'.' •·
Fourth .,Down ; 20 ' r --_. byGerard Meskill . I 
::-... __"C-_ --~-c;_::: _-:: __• .:_.·:. •• -:;;;-~---;--··-...:....::..-··_.:.::· ••• ··.-.:::.:-,.,,:·. -.--::••·:·. ____.,-:."'., 
After a much-improved 9-3 season, · the Irish hope to keep on winning_ in 2001. , 
i 

(E;~i~ Flavor byKaiZU.,:~12s 
: ta~~; o~ -;x~tic c~i~i~-e f~o~ the I South BendJestaurant scene. 
~--;~:::-::::. 
•.;l bn the Road Again 7 
jl, by Kimberly Blackwell r 
i , ·Downy Fresh 
8 

I: byKate Foster and Jacklyn Kiefer 
I: 

!j Seeing Double 
-:1 byKatie Freddoso 
, Goal Oriented 
18 

byChris,(opher: Hamilton 
i· j
I • ., . . . ·· 1i Against the Current _ · .. · 1 26
t byCarri~ Sweeney • . . .· _1 
''"' ......... --.. :.. ·: ·:'··'< .·-·, .....·.. --~---.....,_,..:.::,~ 
COURTESY OF SPORTS INFORMATION i 

thedepartments 
1 
From the Editor 2 Out of Bounds 25 
l-­

ND Notebook 4 Week in Distortion 30 Campus Watch 17 Calendar 31 Splinters 23 Final Word 32 

' ; -·-· 


Of Blizz8rds and Business Class 
Vol. 142, No. 8 • 25 JANUARY 200 
rr;Vr1Vr ---:7 I 

scholastJF2J OAOJj,_;is_ta_ff_______ 
Editor in Chief 
James J. Pastore Jr. 

Managing Editor Associate Editor Sarah E. Childress Michael P. Griffin 
News  Katie M. Caspersen, editor  
Matthew C. Ziegler, assistant  
Campus Life  Jacklyn D. Kiefer, editor  
Kristin A. Kramer, assistant  
Sports  Gerard J. Meskill, editor  
Jessica L. Daues, assistant  
Chris E. Hamilton, editor emeritus  
Entertainment  Kara S. Zuaro, editor  
Carrie E. Sweeney, assistant  
Departments  Cristin E. Fenzel, editor  
Design  Matthew B. Barr, editor  
Jessica A. Chamberlain, assistant  
Katie Browning, Brendan Condon,  
Mary Huigens, Crissy Manary,  
Katie Wales ·  
Photography  Katherine A. Foster, editor  
Graphic Arts  Caroline M. Wolf, editor  
Michael M. delaRosa, assistant  
Copy  Adam M. Aroian, editor  
Jessica L. Daues, assistant  
Jennifer L. Wahoske  
Distribution  Angela M. Polsinelli, manager  
Advertising  Kyle Zuaro, manager  
Jessica B. Potish, assistant  
Online  F. Brian Scofield, manager  
Jaime L. Moran, assistant  

Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic is Copyright© 2001. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced In any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic, 303 LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names.will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. The subscription rate, Is $35 peryear. Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed In Scholasticare not necessarily those ofthe University ofNotre Dame or the student body. Eat Snacky Smores. 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
I'm not a particularly savvy traveler. I don't usually get myselfbumped up to first class, and I probably overpay a bit for my tickets because I get sick ofbargain hunting and comparison shopping. That's why my trip to Tempe, Ariz., was such a surprise. My initial search for cheap tickets yielded disappointing results, so I decided to try Priceline.com. Awful William Shatner ads aside, Priceline delivered, and I bought tickets at half the price that I was expecting to pay. Auspicious beginnings, I thought. But then Mother Nature stepped in. As a blizzard bore down on the New York City area, I got a call from American Airlines the night before my departure informing me that I needed to switch to an earlier flight. In a stroke ofdumb luck, the only seats available were in the first-class cabin. I woke up early on the morning ofmy flight,just before the snow started falling. A half-hour later, as my cousin and I left the house, more than an inch ofthe white stuff had fallen. By the time we arrived at the airport, the flight was cancelled and the airport shut down. As frustrated passengers shuffled into long lines to re-book their flights, my cousin andI strode to the small line atthe first-class ticket counter. Withno first­class seats available for the next morning, we settled for the next best thing: business class. Fortunately, round two proved far more successful, and we soon found ourselves cruising at a comfortable 30,000 feet, enjoying the perks ofour $250 seats. As I sipped wines with exotic French names, I thought back to our experience at the airport. I realized how little most ofus -especially college students -,--know about our rights when traveling, about what airports and airlines are and are not required to do for us in the event of delays. Scholastic's Adam Aroian takes a look at American Eagle's decision to cancel service to South Bend and gives some insight on your rights as a ticket-holding customer. Matt Ziegler adds his advice on where to get the best travel deals. Check orit their work on page 12. 

New Faces 

As we kick off anew semester, I want to welcome some new staff members: Jessica Chamberlain, Kristin Kramer, Jessie Potish and Matt Ziegler. Jessica will handle assistant design editor responsibilities, Kristin will be assisting Jacki Kiefer in the campus life department, Jessie is our newest recruit in the advertising department and Matt will assume the assistantnews editor position. Congratulations and good luck to all ofour new staffers. A special congratu­lations to Jacki, who was recently promoted to campus life editor, and to Tina Zurcher, our former campus life editor who graduated this December. 
Correction: The article"Spreading the Love" in the November 30 issue :°!;'.'focorrect byline. Lisa Virani authored the p/.:&:: 
r C 
Jim Pastore Editor in Chief 
2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 


. ,_. ·_..... '. . . . 
BURG ER™*:·· 
..·· 

.. ·:. ·---··· . ·•-#---•----.. 

. TRY THE TASTE THE WHOLE COUNTRY LOVES, 
America's all about big, so America loves the delicious WHOPPER~ How could you not love a big, beefy burger, with gigantic amounts of delicious, flame-broiled taste? So if you're feeling patriotic-and really _hungry-come and get one. 


The Huddle LaFortune Student Center 
HAVE IT YOUR WAY! 



Just about every guy finds it inhis mail at least once. Buried in the stack ofcredit­card ads and CD-club promos, one flyer reads, "Jim, we're taking it off for you!" Unfortunately, it's not an announcement that the women's dorms on campus have finally decided to begin their ownstreaking traditions. No, the mailing that littered each of the men's dorms last week was the an­nual pitch for promotional subscriptions to none other than Playboy magazine. The postcard-sized flyers, each accom­panied by a detachable response card, raised a few eyebrows among campus postal staff. "Junk mail comes; junkmail always comes," one mailroom employee comments. She didn't seem surprised that the magazine would have invested in sending flyers to a Catholic school. "Sure, Playboy doesn't fit the Notre Dame image," she says, "but marketers know there will always bepeople interested in that sort ofproduct." Men and women on campus varied in 
·. ·--· · -'· with Notre< ; ., -Dtiiti~1s·craziesf :. -.
. ' ·-cheerleadet<".{ ... 
Playboy Bunnies hole up in Irish mailboxes 
Story by Jim Caruso 

"I definitely wouldn't want my girlfriend to know." Art by Mike delaRosa 
their estimates as to how popular the maga­dorm," freshman Matt Christ says. "I defi­zine offer would be. Girls' guesses ranged nitelywouldn'twantmygirlfriend to know. from a conservative 15 percent to a high Plus, I'd be insulted if she were getting the figure of50 percent. Senior Rachel Gallardo equivalent." 0 says: "I see my guy friends picking up girlie magazines from their mailboxes every once in a while. For them, 12 bucks for a sub­scription is nothing." Among those who actually received the offer, estimates were much lower. The high­est of the guys' guesses as to how many would subscribe was less than a quarter, and a cursory examination ofmen's-dorm hall­ways confirmed these guesses. Several days after they were received, a number of the 
. 0 promo cards could be found in trash cans or i"m
1/ 

tacked on bulletin boards along with the/"­other jokes of the week. . " ­
It's not that most Notre Dame guys have -·· --­no interest in the magazine, but most admit that it would be a compromising posses­sion. "It would be kind ofawkward having a magazine like Playboy delivered to your 
>> 

Senior John Taggart, better known as music, the pageantry, everything -it just 
"Psycho Cheerleader, "isan accountingmajor consumes me. It's all about the love. from Cincinnati. Scholasticsatdown with this crazy guy to discover the key to his psychosis. Does the "psycho" label ever get to you? 
No, I feed off ofit. I take it for what it's What were you like as a child?• worth. I reali_ze t~at this is m,y little spot in !couldn't sit still. We'dgo into a restaurant, the limelight, and wheri it's over, it's over . 
andI'dstart conversations with people I didn't People get into it-they see me letgo, and know. I was a nut. Ever since I was in third they can let go. They feel like they're a part grade, I've.just been gung-ho Notre Dame. ofsomething great, like I know that I am. 
Where do you get your energy, your How often did you experience a loss of motivation, to go so "psycho"? voice or strained neck after the games 
It comes from my love for the university­this year? it's all about the Notre Dame spirit. It's like an I've never strained my neck, and I lost my energyforcethatjustkindofflowsintomeand voice onetime in two years ofcheerleading­makes me go crazy. The surroundings, the at the Fiesta Bowl. M~ neck got hurt more in 



65Years Ago 
All Washed Up 
Cleanliness is next to ... impossible. 

The November 22, 1946 issue of Notre Dame Scholastic featured this dramatic tale oflaundry lore: 
We've been sitting here for the last two hours racking our brain (yes, we have one between the two of us) for something to gripe about. We finally hit upon it, the laund1y situation. Picture the poor fresh­man, far away from his loved ones, as he crawls up to the counter .... In his heart there's a glimmer ofhope as with quivering 
l 
lip he says, "Please, 0 Most Celestial High 
f! 
Potentate ... is my laundry in yet?" "Nol" snorts the female Mephistopheles as she reachesfor herwhip. Oscar Birdbrain drags his battered carcass back to his hovel. "Woe is me, " he snijjles as he wipes his nose with a -sheet of second-hand Kleenex, "dear, sweet Anastasia coming to see me this week­end and me without a clean T-shirt. " 
Lucky for us things have changed ­check out today's newer, friendlier laundry services on page eight. 
-Cristin Fenzel 
"I don't use NT@ND, which stands for 'No Technology at Notre Dame.' " 
-engineering professor 

"It's like putting your cat in a microwave -it just doesn't work." 
-chemistry professor 

"You'll have 10 lab grades, and only nine will count. We're going to drop your highest score." 
-physics professor 

"[She] withdrew from the class. [Laughs.] I hope she 
didn't have a brain tumor or something." -English professor 


"Hello. How are you? I would like to fertilize you." -chemistry professor, explaining V(hat a sperm might say to an egg 
' 

·, I i 
·.•! 
·' 

c:lomelig,_h_ts_~--1 
COMPILED BY CRISTIN FENZEL 
Let it snow. To clear the campus paths, roads and parking lots, Landscape Services uses: 
Source: Bill Thistlethwaite, superintendent a/Landscape Services. 

A private consulting meteorologist who also does forecasts for the Indiana Toll Road determines when to begin snow removal. 
Ice Ban: Notre Dame was one of the first colleges to start using this environ­mentally friendly product that melts ice without corroding as salt does. A recycled product comprising leftovers from breweries, it reportedly smells like old beer for about 20 minutes after you put it down. 
• ,. r 00 6 • ••, O

0: 0°;0.,•• ,:,I 
o DI O •:: '"t " •o

Hardest snow removal job on campus: 
student parking lots, since cars are .
. 

always there, except over winter break. 
10 Truck Plows 
5 Snow Brooms 






On the Road Again 
One Nashville man drove 15 hours each week to fulfill his dream ofearning a Notre Dame degree 

KIMBERLYBLACKWELL 
.s
ome people just never give up. 
Michael "Mickey" Miller grew up 
in Tennessee watching Notre Dame 
football on his round-screen, black-and­
white TV with his father, dreaming of at­
tending the university after high-school 
graduation. It wasn't to be, however -at 
least, not yet. 
Miller, whose Southern accent "immedi­
ately marks me as from New York," he 
jokes, earned his undergraduate degree from 
Middle Tennessee State. He joined the Nash­
ville police force, rising through the ranks 
during the past 25 years to a captain in the 
department's personal-crimes division. In 
the meantime, he also attended law school 
in Nashville. But all the while he continued 
to dream of coming to Notre Dame. 
"My daughters made fun ofme," Miller 
says. "I had dressed them up in Notre 
Dame clothes since they were little, but I don't think they wanted to come here. So I knew it was up to me!" Miller finally made his first visit to campus a few years ago. He loved it. "The 'sense of place' was for real," he says. "It was kind of emotional." He knew alf!lost immediately that, as unlikely as it might sound at age 44, he wanted to come to school here. "I told my girlfriend, and she said, 'You're nuts.' I wasn't so sure she wasn't right, but I had to try." 
Miller talked to administrators at the Mendoza College _ofBusiness to learn about his options. He eventually settled on the master of science in administration pro­gram. Getting the degree, however, was not go_ing to be easy. After all, he had a full-time job and his family to worry about in Tennes­see -seven and a half hours away from South Bend. 
Miller realized he had saved up enough vacation time to take classes during the summers, however, and he was able to start at Notre Dame in 1999. He drove from Nashville to South Bend on Sunday nights and returned home on Thursday nights to work long shifts during the weekend. He took one class on Monday night each se­mester between 1999 and December 2000. 

' 
For those classes, he made the pilgrimage to South Bend on Monday, took the class, re­turned home by 4:30 in the morning and was back at work by 7:30 a.m. 
The schedule was exhaust­ing, and though he wouldn't change anything, Miller admits that the 15 hours on the road each week took its toll. "Ifmy hair wasn't completely gray before I started this, it is now!" he says. 
His colleagues on the po­lice force also enjoyed ha­rassing him about his sched­ule. "I catch a lot offlak from 

· them, since everyone wears orange down here," says Miller, who was at the disap­pointing Tennessee game last 
November. "But they're on our schedule next year, so hopefully we'll remedy that, and they'll understand why I wanted to be at Notre Dame!" 
Miller thoroughly enjoyed making the sacrifice, though, as he has made the most of his time at Notre Dame. He has prayed at the Grotto before tests, climbed the in­side of the Dome and touched the "Play Like a Champion" sign. During the sum­mers, Miller decided he wanted to experi­ence the life that undergraduates lead in the dorm. After reading the book Domers, he settled on Morrissey Manor as his dorm of choice. "Morrissey wasn't a grad-school dorm, but I begged and pleaded. I wanted to be a Manorite," Miller says. His request was eventually granted. "I have the shirt and everything," he says. "Living there was a great experience." 
Father Bill Seetch, former rector of Morrissey, says that Miller sometimes at­tended Mass on Sunday nights ifhe drove up early for a test on Monday. One week­end last year, Seetch presented Miller with an imitation Oscar statue, which he occa­sionally hands out to those he considers "true Notre Dame men." "I gave a thumb-: nail sketch of everything Mickey does ­
MICKEYMILLER 
the nasty stuff he deals with in his job, seeking justice -and how he takes com­mitment to this place to a new level," Seetch recalls. "He got all choked up. It was the only time I've ever seen him speech­less." 
"I was as red as Alabama," Miller con­firms. Proud ofthe award, he placed it in a spot ofhonor in the "Notre Dame Room" in his house. 
Miller walked through his graduation ceremony in August with other members ofhis MSA class, and he officially gradu­ated in January. "It's been the most won­derful place," Miller says. As nostalgic as any senior, but perhaps offering a unique perspective, he adds: "I walk around, and I want to tell everyone to appreciate it while it lasts. But you know, I think they already do." 
As Miller made his last few trips to cam­pus, popping in CDs and lecture tapes in his car to stay awake on his 15-hour driving days, he reflected that the journey, though it's taken him a bit longer than most, has been worth it: "I feel like the luckiest guy in the world to have gone here." . 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 7 
. 

. . --~ --------~-. -. . ' . ~~-~--~ ---·--===~----=-~------:::=::--~----­
I INSIDE Sr. MICHAEL's LAUNDRY
·;----=-=--=-=--=-=c..='--==-'=-=---=--=-=-=--=-='-"=---"=='---"'=--==--=-="--"-'=-=-=-=--=----­

d 

BY JACKL YNKIEFER PHOTOS BY KATEFOSTER 
1n 1992, St. Michael's Laundry reopened on the 1101ih side of campus after a fire destroyed the original on-campus operation in 1989. Today, St. Michael's holds contracts with 1,486 students, rectors and other members of the Notre Dame community, who together have already provided 15,435 bundles for cleaning this year, each weighing an average of 11 pounds. St. Michael's not only cleans clothes for those with contracts, but also washes linens for the Morris Inn and the dining halls and uniforms for all of the sports teams. The laundry service also accepts items on a drop-off basis. Each year, its 57 employees-five in management and 52 paid by the hour -launder 1.5 million pounds, or approximately 3.5 million pieces, ofclothing and linen. Ofthese, student bundles represent about 500,000 pounds, or 1.75 million pieces. To process this volume, each year St. Michael's uses approxi­mately 5.5 million gallons of water, 8,600 gallons of soaps, sours, softeners and other chemicals, and 1,500 pounds of dry chemicals. Obviously, a lot ofwork goes into keeping the Notre Dame campus smelling fresh from the dryer Gust so long as everyone else does their laundry, too!). 
. 

washing and drying, Susan Labis, a 30-year veteran, irons students' pants. Bundles of dirty clothes are picked up weekly from each dorm. 
Gale Macon, a sorter, finds $9 in a student's pants pockets. Sorters find and return to students everything from cash to football tickets. 
8 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 


Cash found in pockets last year: 


$2,400 
Price to launder underwear: 

$0.21 
Price to launder large items: 


$0.95 

Cost to launder the average bundle: 

$8.00 


AIRING OUR DIRTY LAUNDRY: 
1. 
Every student has a personal laundry­identification number. Natalie Zoncick marks it on each item to be laundered. 

2. 
Gale Macon sorts laundry into lights and darks and sends them to the washers. 

3. 
Les Cox operates one of the 1 0 wash­ers at St. Michael's, which range in capac­ity from 35 to 200 pounds. 

4. 
The laundry is sent to Becky Singleton, who loads it into dryers of varying size. 

5. 
Jean Rinehart folds clean laundry, which will then be re-sorted into individual bundles and shipped back to campus. 


SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 9 

' . -. ~ . ' . ' ---~~---------------===­
. ·-~--------~ ----­

KATIEFREDDOSO 
Formost Notre Dame students, gradu­
ation means leaving the shadow of 
. the Dome and setting out to explore new cities, jobs and schools. But for some, graduation means sticking around for a few more years, receiving another degree from Notre Dame and becoming "Double Domers." 
Many students would love to have more time here, but if you think that graduate school at Notre Dame would be like a fifth year, think again. "There is as much a jump between undergraduate and graduate school as there is between high school and college, and that's a problem for students who ex­pect a continuum," says Dr. Terrence Akai, associate dean of the graduate school. Al­
10 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
though being familiar with the school might seem like an advantage, it can in fact be a psychological disadvantage, because such students often do not expect the changes they encounter. This can make the adjust­ment to graduate school more difficult. 
This is not the only challenge that stu­dents hoping to return to Notre Dame face. Depending on the program, being a Domer can actually hurt a student's chances of admission. Each program has its own admission standards, and, in gen­eral, it is more difficult for a Domer to get accepted into the university's graduate school than it is to get into its law school or master ofbusiness administration pro­gram. Akai notes that the difficulty aris.es because the academic community per­ceives going to the same school for both undergraduate and graduate work as lim­iting. "Ifthe community as a whole thinks you should broaden your base and get new perspectives, and you go to the same school, then you must be prepared to give a good reason for it," he says. "There are lots ofpeople to hire in academic profes­sions, and the choice to go to the same school for undergraduate and graduate studies can put you at a disadvantage." 
Individual circumstances and an applicant's area of study, however, can be reason enough to overlook the problems and admit the student into the grad1=1ate school. Most engineering and social-sci­ence departments, for instance, are more willing to accept their own undergraduates than are sciences and humanities depart­ments. Even in these cases, it is recom­mended that Double Domers spend at least a semester doing research at anotheruniver­sity in order to make contacts elsewhere. 
In the legal field, attending the same school twice is not generally perceived as a limita­tion, depending on the student's perfor­mance and the quality ofthe school. Notre Dame's law school is more likely to admit Domers than is the university's graduate school. According to Heather Moriconi, as­sistant director of admissions at the law school, "Each student needs to ask them­selves what they want out oflaw school ­location, ranking, mission, etc. -and if Notre Dame offers what you're looking for, there's no reason to leave." Admissions at the law school are done on an individual basis, and there are no quotas as to how many Domers it can admit. But Domers hold a definite advantage in that they are familiar with the university's Catholic char­acter and mission. 
The Mendoza College ofBusiness offers one-and two-year-MBA programs, and As­sistant Directpr ofAdmissions Brian Lohr says that the biggest advantage for Notre Dame graduates is the strength of the university's undergraduate business pro­gram. "In terms of grade-point average, a 
4.0 from some community college means less to us than, say, a 3.8 from Notre Dame, because we know it's a demanding pro­gram," he says: Returning to Notre Dame may or may not be an obstacle to employ­ment, depending on the company and on the individual's previous work experience. Lohr acknowle4ges that going to the same school twice can prevent a person from acquiring diverse experiences, but he notes that most students come into the MBA program with an average offour years inthe workforce, so 
"I wanted an experience that I felt would enrich those two years -and I knew I would have that at Notre Dame:' 
-Laurie Cosenza 
they have already seen a great deal in their field. 
Each graduate program has its own way ofdoing things, but Double Domers across the board agree that the second time around is different. Graduate students feel less con­nected to the university because of Notre Dame's focus on undergraduate education and a lack of interaction between graduate and undergraduate students. Laurie Cosenza '95, a first-year student in the two-year MBA program, says that although Notre Dame will always be like home for her,, things have definitely changed. "The sense offamily andcommunityandthe truly won­derful people I have met are still what make me love the place, but it doesn't belong to me like it did when I was an undergrad," she says. "This time around I'ma little bit onthe outside." Andrew Malahowski '98, a sec­ond-year law student, agrees: "I felt very connected to the Notre Dame community [ as an] undergrad. In grad school, I feel like people are more on their own. That's not a bad thing-it's just different." 
The biggest shock for many graduate students is the higher degree ofacademic difficulty. This change is perhaps more difficult for Double Domers, because they are us~q to easier courses with the same professors. The increased challenge is not all bad, though. According to Melissa Miksch '00, a first-year philosophy gradu­ate student, the coursework has become more interesting andworthwhile, because it affects her future career more directly. "As an undergrad, itdidn't really matterif I didn't read a particular article very care­fully so long as I wrote a decent paper, but now that I've decided to base a career on reading other philosophers' articles _and critiquing them, it's important to use ev­ery chance I get to practice doing so and improve,'_'. she says. "When I submit a paper, I'm submitting something that, in theory, is a candidate for publication in professional journals." 
For students in master and doctoral pro­grams in particular, the work is harder be­cause there is less structure, especially once the coursework is over and the research for a thesis begins. Denis Lynch '96 is currently a Ph.D. student in aerospace engineering. Graduate students in engineering receive a non-thesis master of science degree from Notre Dame as part ofthe Ph.D. program, so Lynch, who also attended the university as an undergraduate, is on his way to becom­ing a Triple Domer. "One of the hardest things about [graduate school] is that there is no foreseeable end," he says. "The more research you do, the more questions you have, and you and your advisor have to determine at what point you stop. At that point, you write your dissertation ... but until you get there, [your research] is your life. You don'treally gettime off, andyou have to push yourself on the day-to-day work." 
Aside from academic differences, gradu­ate students must adjust to major changes in their relationships with peers and profes­sors. In graduate school, there are few op­portunities to meet people outside one's area of study. Students say that although this limits their social lives, it can also be a great benefit. "Having the other grad stu­dents around is like having a support system 
BY THE 
NUMBERS 
Graduate School: 
Incoming doctoral students with Notre Dame undergraduate degrees from Fall 1996 to Fall 1998: 
Humanities: 2.0% Science: 2.6% Social Sciences: 7.4% 
Law School: Of graduating classes during the last four years, 16 to 21 % have been Double Darners. 
MBA: Only seven of this year's 131 (5.34%) second-year students in the two-year program are DoubleDomers. 
Figures are11 't 11ecessarily stable over eve,y three-year period. 
built in," Lynch says. "Wemay be research­ing different topics, but we're all going through the same thing." 
Graduate students also find that their pro­fessors tend to treat them more like friends and colleagues rather than just as students. In particular, graduate students doing re­search with a faculty advisor or working as a teaching assistant for a professor spend much more time with their professors out­side of class than they did as undergradu­ates. This allows them to get to know each other outside the classroom setting and de­velop a more social relationship. Their in­class interaction changes as well. "It seems that [my professors] take me a bit more seriously," Miksch says. "For example, when I ask a question in class, it seems that the professor is really considering what I've asked and not just how to an­swer it." 
MostDouble Domers seem satisfiedwith both of their Notre Dame experiences. "I came back to Notre Dame ... because of the professors and their commitment to teaching," Cosenza says. "I knew I wanted more from my time in an MBA program thanjust8:nother degree, I wanted an expe­rience that I felt would enrich those two years -and I knew that I would have that at Notre Dame." . 




Community leaders are unnerved as American Eagle pulls out of South Bend Regional Airport, and proposed airline mergers threaten to reduce service to the area. Local travelers may be the big losers. 

12 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 



The rumblin s started several ears 
ago, from deep beneath Tulsa, Okla. There, bunkered below the Heartland, a bank of 10 powerful IBM mainframe computers con­cluded that their owner, AMR Corp., was losing money on the six daily American Eagle commuter flights it operated between its hub at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport and South Bend Regional Airport. They smelled trouble -and shipped south­bound a warning. 

Flying many times faster than the fastest jet, the news arrived an instant later at the Fort Worth, Texas headquarters of AMR, the parent of both American Eagle and its big brother, American Airlines. Back then, though, the reaction was mild. American's profitability yardstick analyzes the finan­cial performance ofthe airline's routes over the prior 12 months. Most are profitable on an annual basis, but each month a few come back in the red. Executives prescribe reme­dial operational, pricing or marketing changes for these troublemakers. 
South Bend seemed to be a typical un­profitable city. There was no reason to panic. The flights were being operated with rela­tively inexpensive turboprop planes, and profits were fat from other operations. Plus, the route had just been introduced in 1989. American's executives would give up nei­ther so easily nor so soon, especially consid­ering the thousands of tickets booked each year by those headed to and from the area's biggest attraction, the University of Notre Dame, itself a holder ofa corporate account with the airline. 
The reply from Fort Worth to Tulsa was industry-standard. Let's tum South Bend around through more-aggressive use ofthat technique we invented, yield management. Dynamically change fares and seat avail­ability in response to each flight's supply and demand. Squeeze more passengers onto each plane, and at higher average fares, too. 
Raise prices gradually as seats sell out and the flight date nears. Ifthere's only one seat left on the plane, why waste it on a student hunting for a $200 spring-break getaway to New Orleans when you could sell it to the expense-account businessman whose final destination ofLondon will be reached in the first-class comfort that $3,000 can buy? 
Tulsa complied, and, for awhile, things were working out. The obnoxious array of airfare rules -or tariffs -confronting travelers was only further entrenched, but the South Bend service, ifnot exactly a cash cow, was viable for both American and even the bargain-hunting traveler. Mini­mum and maximum stays, advance-pur­chase requirements, capacity controls, black­out dates -inevery market, all ofthese are massaged to maximize American's bottom line. South Bend was no exception. Things were at least manageable for everyone. 
But this all changed a couple ofyears ago, when AMR saw that Elk Grove Township, Ill.-based UAL Corp., parent of United Air­lines and United Express, was flying on auto­pilot. 
Spurred in part by a spate ofhigh-profile turboprop crashes -including an Ameri­can Eagle flight brought down by an ice storm in Roselawn, Ind. in 1994, killing all 68 aboard -air travelers began to disdain these "propeller" planes as the sun set on the 20th century. The regional jet was the obvi­ous alternative. By using the same propul­sion technology as full-sized jetliners ­just scaled down -they sidestepped the noise, vibration, sJuggishness and unreliability characteristic of the 'props. Travelers love them. United Express, how­ever, seemed to be oblivious, sticking largely with non-jets from its O'Hare home base. According to AMR spokesman Mark Slitt, the barn door swung wide open for Ameri­can Eagle to gain an edge over its archrival. 
Salivating at the prospect of offering a product so obviously superior in its competitor's very back yard, American Eagle transitioned the 31 turboprop destina­tions it served from O'Hare to regional jets as quickly as the aircraft manufacturer, Brazil's Embraer SA, could deliver them. SouthBend's big day was October 23, 2000; the company's dowdy 42-passenger ATR­42 turboprops gave way to sleek 37-passen­ger ERJ-135 jets. Two weeks later, Ameri­can Eagle had phased out the last of the turboprops and was advertising "nothing butjets" at O'Hare. The mood was jubilant. "This new generation ofquieter aircraft has already had a remarkable impact on the industry while providing choices for the traveling public," said Thomas Walker, Chicago's aviation commissioner, in a celebratory press release. 
It wasn't long before that statement came into sharp doubt -at least for South Bend travelers. The alarms were coming again from American's computers buried under Tulsa, much more shrilly now: A river ofred ink at South Bend. Despite heavy-duty yield man­agement, the profitability meter was going crazy. What was going on? 
The regional jets, of course. In flying higher, faster and better than turboprops, they give better service -but they alsci bum more fuel. A lot more, especially dur­ing take-off and landing. With O'Hare and South Bend a scant 84 miles distant by air, American Eagle's regional jets spent rela­tively little time cruising, when they are most efficient, and a lot of time ascending and descending, when they are gas-guz­zlers. Meanwhile, the company was scroung­ing for regional jets to introduce new ser­vice from O'Hare to Richmond, Va.,amon­eyed city with existing flights to American hubs at Boston and New York's LaGuardia Airport. 
With the South Bend gas bill taking off andmcire-lucrative markets beckoning, the 
SCH0LASTICCOVER STORY 13 



TRAVEL ON THE CHEAP 
The advent oftravel Web sites means that flying cheap is no longer as simple as booking ahead and staying over a Saturday night. A quick check by Scholastic revealed wildly varying price quotes for two round-trips, both departing from South Bend February 7 and returning February 9. Win the airfare game -take the time to read the low-fare tips posted on every travel site. 
Agent To Newark To San Francisco The Catch 

Hotwire.com $207 $260 Must commit to purchase before knowing exact flight times, layovers and airline 



COMPILED BY MATT ZIEGLER 

decision was imminent. The announcement came on November 8, 2000: American Eagle would pull the plug on South Bend, effec­tive January 3, 2001. Until then, the carrier would reduce its schedule to the city to three daily round-trips. Its 14 local employees would be offered jobs at other AMR cities. "South Bend had been a financially underperforming market for us," Slitt says. "We could no longer sustain the.losses." 
Ironically, the customer-friendly regional jet was poised to harm. 
South Bend, Indiana. A gritty Rust Belt city struggling to retool itself for the Information Age. Civic leaders knew that a modern airport was a prerequisite to a suc­cessful effort. Airports attract development, and their passengers spend money at their destinations. According to statistics com­piled by Atlanta-based Delta Air Lines Inc., the annual household income of 92.3 per­cent of the jet set exceeds $75,000; 65.1 percent top $100,000. "It's hard to beat afflu­ent airline passengers when it comes to mar­keting your product or service," Delta tells its business partners. "People who can afford to fly spend more money for products that pro­vide them with convenience and quality." Hoping for an economic windfall, St. Joseph County citizens bet the farm, floating bonds to finance airport-construction projects com­pletedin 1977 and 1995 thattotalednearly $15 million. Gutsy moves, indeed, but ones needed to counteract vacating heavy industry, a de­
14 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 
clining population and a dwindling tax base. 
American Eagle's decision to cancel ser­vice thus came as a poignant slap to a city that had invested so much and yet still had suffered an estimated net outflow of7,l 14 residents during the 1990s. Civic leaders feared that the severance of South Bend's link to American's network, the world's second-largest, would lead other carriers to follow suit-and allow those that remained to raise ticket prices dramatically. At stake was potentially no less than the long-term business climate in the city. A full-blown campaign to keep the company flying here was warranted. 
The response was tremendous. Hundreds of South Bend community members em­barked on a spirited letter-writing campaign, taking inspiration from Bloomington, Ill., another medium-sized Midwestern city that had recently pressured American Eagle into staying. Rep. Tim Roemer and Sens. Rich­ard Lugar and Evan Bayh, the area's delega­tion in Washington, chimed in, too. As December's snow flew and the clock ticked towards termination, letters rained down on the Santa Claus in Fort Worth, asking for one simple wish: Please stay. 
Major fortification of the city's effort came from its neighbor to the north, the University of Notre Dame. Besides being the area's largest employer, its on-campus travel agency, Anthony Travel, alone booked more than 3,000 American Eagle tickets to South Bend last year for far-flung Darners. 
The university fought for -and won -a meeting in Chicago with American Eagle President Peter Bowler. "Michiana leaders can be expected to present a reasoned and persuasive argument that Michiana wants and needs American Eagle," the South Bend Tri­bune said in a December 3 editorial. "Let's 'hope those entrusted to make a final decision listen carefully, and conclude that American 
Eagle wants and needs Michiana, too." 
With this mandate, on December 22, uni­versity President Father Edward Malloy led to Chicago a group that included John An­thony, president of Anthony Travel; Greg Ayers, executive director of South Bend's visitors bureau; Joseph Kernan, Indiana's lieutenant governor; Steve Luecke, mayor of South Bend; Andrew McKenna, former chairman of the board of trustees at Notre Dame; and John Schalliol, director of the South Bend airport. The letters from the community had been sent; now the group was there to exchange ideas: 
"What was American's problem? What about service to more-distant American hubs, say Boston, New York's LaGuardia, or, especially, Dallas/Fort Worth? What about a reinstatement of turboprop service to Chicago? What about something?" 
The meeting's outcome, however, was forecasted by American's responses: 
"We weren't profitable in South Bend. Too much congestion at those airports. We got rid ofall the turboprops in the American Eagle system. We're really sorry." 




"The decision had already been made, 

and apparently was irrevocable," Schalliol .C" 
says. "The [regional] jets are not economical in the short haul, and they got rid of the turboprops in response to passenger demand. Wegotwhatweaskedfor, and paid the price!" According to Anthony, "Both sides were very professional in presenting their side of the story, but in the end, it was a numbers-driven . decision, and they already had their numbers." 
American would not change its mind; the 

effort had failed. And so, at the stroke of 
midnight, January 4, 2001, the earthquake 
came. AMR' s computers under Tulsa wiped 
South Bend right offofthe map. 
As far as American was concerned, the 
city and its 98,941 people no longer existed. 
Today,·the American E~gle counter at South Bend Regional Airport is dark and empty, and most trac.e.~ of its presence have been removed. The world-famous double-A logos are gone, the flight-status screen is dark, the overhead signs are blank. But a. few details ..:....., such as an exuberant announceme~t of'ihe then'.'new American Eagle regional~jet service on the airport authority's Web site-have·so far escaped erasure, sacl souvenirs ofanimportant pres­ence suddenly gone. More difficult than these physical remind­ers, however, will be easing the bitterness some feel towards . American, which re­cently reported earnings of $752 million during 2000. "I feel that American Eagle was profitable here at South Bend," Schalliol says, flatly contradicting the company's claims. "We are not privy to their numbers, so I can't prove it, but their local employees said that they were. I feel that they could make more money onlonger routes with the new jets, and that is why they left." 
Schalliol points out that American Eagle's South Bend load factor, or percentage of seats filled, was a healthy 65 to 70 percent, a figure that is well above American Eagle's 
57.2 percent system wide load factor in2000. According to him, American's refusal to institute service to Dallas/Fort Worth is odd considering that the airline services that hub from both Fort Wayne, Ind. and Grand Rap­ids, Mic,:h., two cities that are demographi­cally similar to South Bend. He also sug­gested that. American Eagle is staying in Bloomington simply because it had prom­ised the city at least a year of service. He expects service will end there as soon as that time is up. 
According to Anthony, at least some of American's decisions can be explained by studying the market's typical flye~. "They knew the problem," he says. "South Bend is considered a leisure market. As such, there isn't a lot oftop-line revenue." In other words, American 'sregionaljetsmay have been packed -but with starving college students, football tourists and families traveling on discounted fares. This is not a good thing in an industry that makes 50 percent ofits profits off of 10 percent of its customers -those flying on 
NOT COMING BACK An 
American Eagle-operated Embraer regional jet lifts off. The popularity of such planes comes in part from their ability to cruise at 519 mph at an altitude of 37,000 feet, a vast improvement over the turboprops they are quickly replacing in many small-to medium-sized communities across the United States. 
first-and business-class tickets. American simply wanted to chase higher profits else­where. Geographies dictated that the Chicago service had to go, he says; demographics prohibited flights to other hubs. 
The immediate aftershocks ofAmerican's departure have already been felt. Scores of Domers returning from break were among those left holding tickets for American Eagle flights to South Bend that would never take off. Thanks in part to pressure from An­thonyTravel, American rebooked these pas­sengers on United Express and, later, on United Limo, the bus service that runs be­tween O'Hare and northern Indiana. The airport's owner, the St. Joseph County Air­port Authority, is suddenly faced with meet­ing its $4 million annual budget without the revenue from airport taxes on American Eagle's 59,000 annual passengers, and from landing and rental fees on the airline's air­craft and equipment. Together, these amounted to hundreds ofthousands ofdol­lars annually. 
More important, of course, is the long­term: Is this the beginning of a pattern of steadily declining air service at South Bend? ''.I hope not,'' Anthony says, but with two mega-mergers in the wings-AMR's acqui­sition ofbankruptSt. Louis-based Trans World Airlines Inc. and UAL's purchase ofArling­ton, Va.-based US Airways Group Inc. -the airline industry is in turmoil, and it is easy to envisage South Bend being caught in the crossfire. The AMR-TWA proposal 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY· 15 




provides a case in point: Unlike AMR, which owns American Eagle outright, TWA's Trans World Express is nothing more than a service mark that is licensed to independent regional airlines, which aren't part of the buyout. Hence, ifthe deal goes through, South Bend will once again be at the mercy ofAMR, which will decide whether to reintroduce American Eagle service to replace the city's current five daily Trans World Express roundtrips to St. Louis. Neither AMR's Slitt nor TWA's Julia Cross would comment on this possibility. 
In the meantime, community leaders are determined to see that South Bend is not lost in the shuffle. Anthony says: "Did we learn some lessons from this? Yes. Are we mak­ing contact with [industry leaders] now, before anything is approved and they make their plans? You bet." He says that "nobody thought they had wasted their time" cam­paigning to keep American Eagle because, even though the effort was unsuccessful, the city created goodwill in the process. This may become important as wheeling­and-dealing airline executives decide the fate ofservice to the Bend. 
Schalliol has been busy, too. He recently spoke with FAA chair Jane Garvey at a West Coast conference for airport professionals, and he joined local travel agents last week at the South Bend airport to meet with market­ingrepresentatives from Houston-based Con­tinental Airlines Inc., Eagan, Minn.-based Northwest Airlines Corp., Delta and US Air­ways. The objective: Keeping the airport attractive for passenger and airline alike. 
For now, at least, things look secure. Indeed, Schalliol has publicly said that he expects an airline to expand here in the spring. American Eagle's problem seemed to be unique; other carriers at South Bend fly either to close hubs, but with cheaper turboprops, or with jets, but to distant hubs. They will get to divvy up the former South Bendpassengers ofAmerican Eagle, which had commanded a No. 4 market share here. Until then, though, the three runways at South Bend Regional Airport are a little less crowded, and travelers trying to stick to a budget have seen an option disappear. They can do little more than wait, watch andhope that American's announcement was an end, not a beginning. D 


Anyone who flies has a horror story. Delays, cancella­tions, bumpings -airlines' customer-service standards have slipped so badly that Congress has threatened to 
enact a "Passengers Bill ofRights." Hoping to avoid this, major 
U.S. airlines have promised better service. A recent U.S. Depart­-ment ofTransportation audit, however, revealed what air travel­ers already know -that customer service is still awful. 
A federal crackdown seems increasingly likely. But since noth­ing will happen anytime soon, the best thing you can do for now is arm yourself with information and know your rights. 
PLANNING 

• 
Join a frequent-flyer program. They're free. United Airlines' program, Mileage Plus, has a student program called College Plus (www.collegeplus.com) that gives miles for such non-flight activ­ity as updating your e-mail address and referring friends to the program. Free tickets on most airlines start at 25,000 miles. 

• 
Trans World Airlines offers a Youth Travel Pak, which for $548 offers students four one-way tickets within the lower 48 states, subject to availability and blackout dates. Tread to www.twa.com knowing that the company's proposed merger with American Airlines makes the fate ofthis offer uncertain. 


FLYING 

• 
No airline guarantees its schedule. Consequently, they are notrequiredto compensate passengers when flights are delayed or cancelled. Compensation is required by law only when you are "bumped" from a flight that is oversold. 

• 
In case ofproblems, a key distinction is whether or not the cause is controllable by the airline. Ifthe problem is outside the airline's control (e.g., problems stemming from air-traffic con­trol and weather), then your options may be limited to the next flight available on that airline. If the problem is within the airline's control (e.g., crew problems, mechanical problems, 


strikes), then you have greater leverage (and rights). 
• 
You may demand a refund -even on non-refundable tickets -if a flight is cancelled for any reason. 

• 
It is often possible to rebook over the phone by calling the airline oryour travel agent, especially ifyou holdan electronic ticket. This is true even when you're at the airport, where the rebooking line may be long and the time to grab remaining seats on other flights short. 

•
The first airline will have to endorse your ticket ifyou wish to transfer to another airline. There is no rule requiring an airline to do so, however, and some (notably Southwest) never do. Success is more likely ifthe airline caused the problem. 

• 
Ask the airline staff if they will pay for meals or phone calls. Again, airlines are not required to do this, and the cause ofthe problem may influence the decision. 

•
Ifyour trip has been particularly heinous, complain. Many will apologize with coupons for reduced airfare or free drinks. 


ARRIVING 

• Ifyour bags don't come offthe conveyor belt, report this to the airline before you leave the airport. Don't assume that the airline will deliver the bag without charge. Most will, however, if you have not voluntarily chosen to separate yourself from your bags. 
_ • Airlines are liable for provable consequential damages for loss ordamage to checked bags upto the amount oftheir liability limit, generally $2,500. Most carriers will disburse money at the airport for emergency purchases, depending on whether you're away from home and how long it takes to return your bags. The airline also may reimburse you later for ofl}ecessities bought in connection with the delay. For example, ifthe airline lost your golf clubs, it may pick up the tab for rental. 0 
Sources: Airlines, U.S. Department ofTransportation. 
16 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 
host an "Anything butClothes" party. Party­

TIP THE GIPP. GIPPER.l@ND.EDU 
goers had to derive creative ways to cover 


Welcome back .to the frozen tun­dra of South Bend. Less than a month into 2001 and the Gipp's already broken all ofhis New Year's resolu­tions: 1. Don't get angry at Bob Davie 2. Don't wish evil on Bob Davie 3. Don't bum Bob Davie in effigy 
The Gipp's looking forward to another five years of mediocrity. Since the Gipp doesn't want to appear completely cold­hearted, he won't even mention what hap­pened in Tempe. 
Business or Pleasure? 
After all, why would the Gipp talk about his trip to Arizona when he can talk about Assistant Vice President ofResidence Life Bill Kirk's trip to Tallahassee, Fla., in­stead? One alert tipster overheard Mr. Kirk talking about his visit to Doak Campbell Stadium this fall to watch the 
-:-Florida-Florida State match-up. The rea­son Kirk went to the game? He wanted to study how Florida State administrators handle large crowds. (Quick fact: Doak Campbell Stadium's capacity is 80,932; Notre Dame Stadium holds 80,232.) The 

TWIST 'N' SHOUT Assistant Vice President of Residence Life 
Bill Kirk, seen here playing Twister in 1984, recently visited _Florida State's campus to watch the Florida-Florida State 
football game. Hey, Bill ... are you promoting alcohol 
consumption with that hat? Tsk, tsk. 


Gipp would be hard­pressed to think ofanother school that could possibly out-performNotre Dame's crowd-control program, which includes surveil­lance cameras that pan the student section looking for troublemakers. Now, the Gipp's not sure, but this sounds suspiciously like a university-funded vaca­tion. Either that, or everyone's favorite admin­istrator takes his job very seriously. At least the Gipp knows where his tuition money is going: to research better methods of battling fun wherever it rears its ugly head.-
Birthdau (Suit) Partu 
Well, the Gipp's glad to see that some students won't let the man keep them down. Last weekend, a few inno­vative students decided to themselves up. Flags were a popular substi­tute for shorts and skirts, but there were more daring costumes as well. One guy wore nothing but bubble wrap, and another put a sombrero and a couch cushion to good use. The Gipp's favorite creative cover-up had to be the duo who dressed as Adam and Eve, using well-placed Frisbees to avoid breaking any laws. As the party wound down, a group ofthese revelers-including bubble-wrap man -decided to continue the fun ... at Fat Shirley's. Needless to say, the scantily clad group attracted some stares from restaurant patrons. In fact, the wait staff was less than eager to serve the hungry exhibition­ists. Eventually, they got their food and went on their way without much incident. 
Musteru Meat 
The Gipp's not sure if the dining-hall card swipers would have let the clothes­less group in, but he knows one thing: if you're reading this while you're eating, stop now. What the Gipp's about to tell you could make you lose your appetite. It seems that South Dining Hall's been hav­ing some mouse trouble recently. The Scholastic office -housed in the luxuri­ous basement of SDH -just got a visit from an exterminator, who placed some baited glue traps in the ceiling. Even as the Gipp is writing this, he can hear one of the not-so-little critters scurrying around above him. If that stir fry you're eating tastes a little funny, you might want to toss it in favor ofa sandwich. Oh, and stay away from the Toad in the Hole. 
God, Countru, Boat Club 
It appears that our sacred Basilica was profaned over the weekend. During Sun­day Mass, the celebrant mentioned that a pro-life demonstration would be taking place at St. Joseph's Church in South Bend. The priest gave the crossroads of the church and then paused before adding, "Some of you might know where this church is -it's right across from Boat Club." Ah, the Boat Club, a beacon for all Christians. The Gipp never thought he'd see the day when the Basilica would be tainted with the mention ofa seedy South Bend bar. Then again, he never thought he'dsee the day when a Catholic university would use sweat­shop labor to make a buck. 
Well, until next time, enjoy whatever it is you're eating, don't let the man keep you down and keep the tips coming. D 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 17 

GOAL 

After an undefeated 2000 regular season, the Irish set 
their sights on next years national title 
II . 
CHRISTOPHERHAMILTON 

After surrendering the game-winning goal with a little more than seven minutes to go in the 2000 NCAA Semifinal match-up against North Caro­lina, Irish followers could not help but feel frustrated with the season's outcome. Notre Dame's lone loss ofthe season came at the hands of the mighty Tar Heels, who once again staked claim to the national champi­onship. But ironically, this sense ofdisappointment seems to be a byproduct of the program's tremendous success during the past decade, as this season marked the Fighting Irish's sixth trip to the Final Four in the past seven years. Make no doubt about it, the Irish have firmly entrenched themselves as one ofthe handful ofupper-echelon soccer squads in the coun­try. The fact that they again came ever-so­clo_se to winning the national title obviously disheartened many, both inside and outside of the program. Andyet, one gets the sense ofthe extreme jubilation that would result if the university's most-publicized program found itself in a comparable position at season's end. Such is the world ofsports. · Athletic Director Kevin White perhaps 
. · . 
puts this season into perspective by describ­ing the squad's overall performance as be­ing, in a word, "brilliant." 
"I think they were well-coached, well­prepared, great ambassadors of the institu­tion [that] obviously competed at the high­est level," White says. "I'm very proud of the women's soccer program." 
And White has good reason to be pleased with the squad's efforts. That's because, at the start ofthe season, many thought it was impossible to better the 1999 team's 21-4-1 record, as a result ofthe loss ofseveral key seniors. 
Anne Makinen, a senior captain and win­ner ofthe 2000 Hermann Trophy, which is aw~dedannually to the nation's top player, reinforces how special and somewhat sur­prising the squad's regular season was. 
"I think the highlight of the season was going undefeated while playing some pretty good teams, and then getting to the semifi­nals," Makinen says. ''No one was really expecting it from us." 
And despite Notre Dame's perfect ledger during regular season play, some Irish play­ers felt that they never fully capitalized on their talents at any point throughout the season. 
· , , . 
"I don't think we ever peaked," says freshman forward Amy Warner. "Wedidn't have one game where everyone played 100 percent. It's disappointing that we had so many quality players and that we never came to our full potential." 
That's a pretty frightening notion for all Division-I women's soccer programs, in­cludingNorth Carolina's. However, the fact remains that, for the time being, the Tar Heels are still the team to beat. 
"We learned that we weren't quite there," says freshman forward Amanda Guertin. "We played so good the whole season and then going in there [against North Caro­lina], I think we thought we should have won. We should have played better, but we didn't give our best performance in the second half. Thus, I think we were more disappointed than anything." 
And while the team may justifiably be disappointed with the game's final score, the university's athletic director believes that they should not view the overall season in the same light. 
"I wouldn't see [this season] as a disap­pointment," White says. "I see it as another monumental step forward for women's soc­cer at the University of Notre Dame to be 


18 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 


,'-ANNE MAKINEN dribbles-up _tfie center of · the field. This season Makinen earned-the Hermann Trophy, which is given to the · _nation's best player ea~h yeac · 
·showcased at the Final Four once again, to be right there to play the defending national champion and the perennial power in a very close game: I was th~re. I don'tthink we have anything to be disappointed over. I think we have a great group ofstudent7athletes repre­senting us in women's soccer, and [they] gave us everything that they had." 
But as Irisli head coach Randy W aldrum points out, Notre Dame cannot rest on its laurels ifitwants to remain a fixture in Final Four play each season; 
"The evolution ofthe women's game has really changed, and there's probably, unlike five years ago, 10 to 12 teams now that are fully capable ofwinning a national champi­onship," Waldrum says. "So I think each year it gets a little more difficult than it's been in the past. I'm not sure how fair or realistic it is to expect to be there every year, although I think that's the standard that we've set for ourselves." 
Senior forward Meotis·Erikson agrees with Waldrum's assessment. 
"I think that we definitely have talent here to be in the Final Four every year;'' says Erikson. "But at the same time, I think programs across the country are getting stronger, so ... it's going to be harder and harder to get there." 

Looking ahead to the coming season, Notre Dame figures to once again contend for the national championship. However, like last year, the Irish must find a way to replace the loss of several key seniors, in­cluding Anne Makinen, Kelly Lindsay, Kerri Bakker, Meotis Erikson, Monica Gonzalez and Caroline Marino. 
"I really like our new class of recruits," Waldrum says. "I think the expectation is that ifthese players can step in like we think they can then I think we should have a shot at being very good again." 
But talent is just one part ofthe equation. Team chemistry, a Notre Dame hallmark, is also extremely vital to the team's succ~ss next year. 
"I don't think anyone in the country would have expected us to have done what we did ],,ecause ofthe talent we lost," Waldrum says. "I think they [the players] learned that this is a team sport and you play well as a team. It's not always about who has the most talent, it's about who plays the best as a team." 
White is a firm believer that Notre Dame's stellar team play and that improving talent will lead to a successful season next year and will continue to pay dividends in the near future. 
White stops just short of guaranteeing a title next year. He clearly believes the al­ready elite program is continually getting better. White even compares the program to the successful women's basketball team, which recently knocked once-invincible Connecticut off its top-ranked perch. 
"It was a long time before we were able to step up and be competitive, and, quite frankly, dismantle the UConn machine. I would suspect we're on the same path with women's soccer in relation to North Carolina,'~ he explains. "The outlook is very positive, and personally, I'll be very disappointed if our student-athletes don't have an opportunity to win a national championship." D 

-
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 19 



z 
0 
~ 
::;; 
a: 
0 
IJ.. 
~ 
FOURTH DOWN· 

In yearfive ofthe Davie Era, can the Irish maintain the momentum they 
built this season? 

T:e Fiesta Bowl is over. College foot­ball analysts and fanatics have turned their attention to next year, and one 
of the hot topics of debate is: "Has elite football returned to South Bend?" Those that bleed blue and gold insist that a national title is merely a year or two away, while the Irish haters point out that the 41-9 bludgeoning in the Fiesta Bowl indicates that Notre Dame is still riding a dying tradition. All eyes, both hateful and hopeful, rest on Bob Davie, whose tenure has been more serpentine than a coun­try road and more ofa roller-coasterride than Coney Island's Cyclone. 
Coming into the 2000 football season, head coach Bob Davie could not have imag­
20 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 
ined a more daunting scenario. The program was coming off its worst season in more than 30 years; Notre Dame's defense al­lowed more points than any in the history of the school (27 .6 ppg), and the kicking game was atrocious. The man who gave Davie his job, Athletic Director Mike Wadsworth, had been dismissed, and the projected start­ing quarterback, Arnaz Battle, had never started a collegiate football game in his career. Some experts projected that the Irish would have to win at least eight or nine games for Davie to even keep his job. To make matters worse, Notre Dame faced an opening schedule that would have fright­ened even Knute Rockne: No. 25 Texas 
BY 
GERARD MESKILL 
A&M, No. 1 Nebraska, No.15 Purdue, No. 24 Michigan State and Stanford. Add that Notre Dame failed to crack the top 25 in both major preseason polls for the first time in more than a decade, and you have your­self one ugly situation. More than a few writers across the nation projected the Irish to go 0-5 on this critical run, prophesying the end ofDavie's short tenure. On campus, students paraded in T-shirts reading, "Bob Davie's Farewell Tour 2000." Neverthe­less, Davie forced himself to remain fo­cused. 
"I kind of read something about those T-shirts, but I never actually saw one," Davie says. "I guess I'm glad I didn't. Certainly I was aware of all the things swirling around, but I plan on being in coaching for a long time, and I understand that that is all part of it. It was never that big an issue with me from the beginning because when you start worrying about things like that, I think your priorities get out of line." 
Looking at last season's struggles, Davie decided that defense was his top priority. In order to produce the com­plete turnaround necessary to be suc­cessful at containing the nation's top offenses, Davie decided early that he would spend the majority of his time drilling the defense. 
"Last January, I made the decision that I was going to be totally involved with the defense and the special teams," he says. "I just felt going into this season with the problems we had on defense last year, with who we played this year ... that it was in our best interests for me to spend the majority of my time with the defense and to call the defenses." 
However, the Irish defense was not the only part ofthe team that needed a serious overhaul: Notre Dame's 1999 kicking numbers were downright awful. The Irish were only 8-18 on field-goal attempts, and they missed five PATs. Worse yet, Notre Dame failed to sign any kickers to replace Jim Sanson, who graduated last spring. The position came down to a three­man race: Sanson's backup David Miller, former Irish soccer player Matt McNew and untested sophomore Nick Setta. The job appeared to be Miller's -until three days before the season opener against Texas A&M. Setta's performance in prac­tice caused Davie to name him the starting kicker against the Aggies. 
"People saw there were problems with the kicking game and wanted to make a change," Setta says. "The biggest thing for 


me was to get that first extra-point kick and 
then go out and have fun." 
It took some time before Setta got the 
opportunity to kick that PAT. Early in the 
second quarter, the Aggies took a 7-0 
lead, and Irish fans became very nervous. 
Battle was struggling to run the offense, 
and Texas A&M appeared in control. The 
second half of that game set tlie tone 
for the rest of Notre Dame's season. 
The defense held the Aggies to 10 
points, Battle gained momentum and 
Setfa proved he could kick.Notre Dame 
trampled a major football program and 
picked up its first win in 10 months, 
putting to rest the prophesy that Notre 
Dame would begin 0-5. 
"It's funny in retrospect looking back 
on comments at the beginning of the 
season, saying ND would go 0-5 and 
finish with a losing season," says de­
fensive end Grant Irons. "The only 
people who believed in us were us, and 
by that I mean the students, this team, 
the coaching staff, the alumni and ev­
eryone who makes up the Notre Dame 
family." 
Despite the victory, the Irish were 
far from over the hump. The top-ranked 
Cornhuskers rolled into town, and virtu­
ally no one thought Notre Dame had any 
chance ofvictory. Four quarters later, the 
Irish were tied at 21 with Nebraska. How­. ever, they were without Irons, whom they would later discover was lost for the sea­son. In addition, Battle was playing with 
an injured wrist. A day after the game, 
Notre Dame discovered that Battle was 
also done for the year. The eventual 27-24 
overtime loss was scarcely the worst news 
of the weekend. 
Davie immediately searched for the an­
swer to a question he had not anticipated: 
Who would replace Arnaz Battle? Listen­
ing to the plea of several members of the 
team, Davie chose Gary Godsey, a 6-foot­
7,. 240-pound sophomore, rather than 
handing the ball to one of his three fresh­
men recruits. 
The situation was a nightmare for 
Rogers. "We used Arnaz Battle almost 
like he was another tailback back there," 
he says. "We kinda designed the offense 
around him -in hindsight, probably too 
much. So when Arnaz Battle goes down, 
now we have Gary Godsey in hand, [and] 
the option game is essentially no aid. He's 
not really the accomplished passer he 
needs to be because of his inexperience, 
1
"I made the decision that I was going to be totally involved with the (iefense and the 
I 
special teams." 
and, consequently, the offense went into a shell." 
The team's only hope was to get to the open weekend following the Michigan State contest, since a single week was not enough time to completely revamp an offensive strategy. The campaign started well, with a narrow victory over Purdue in which the special teams supplied the ma­jority ofthe offense. However, the luck of the Irish ran dry a week later in East Lansing. Sparked by a late touchdown pass on fourth down, the Spartans de­feated Notre Dame, setting the Irish back to 2-2. 
"What we were trying to do was get to the open date," Rogers says. "We damn near made it. Other than the long pass Michigan State made, we had a chance ofcoming out ofthat 3-1." 
The offense was largely ineffective under Godsey, and the fate of the football team was handed to a freshman: Davie and Rogers chose Matt LoVecchio to lead the Irish down the homestretch. 
"We get to the open date and things have got to change," Rogers explains. "We have to get more production out of the quarterback position, so we kind of rolled bones. We go with Matt Lo Vecchio. 

. Matt LoVecchio was really chosen be­cause I felt he could manage a game better than the other two kids at this point in time." 
Lo Vecchio did not disappoint. In his first collegiate start, he threw two touch­down passes, both in the first half and 
both to David Givens, leading the Irish to a 20-14 victory over Stanford. Each of his next six starts yielded similar results. Lo Vecchio provided the charge the Irish needed, rattling off seven con­secutive victories and a 9-2 regular­season finish. 
"I think [LoVecchio] played a major role [in the Irish success]," Battle says. "I went down in the quarterback position. Matt stepped up as a freshman into a big role and showed character and how he could lead this team." 
Rogers was also impressed by Lo Vecchio' s performance. "Because of who he was, he handled the situation great," he says. "He's a guy who's calm, collected, really wasn't taken up with the idea that!oe Montana played the position or [that] we've got Southern Cal this week. That's not part ofhis makeup, and, conse­

quently, we were good enough with the other 10 people on the field to get things done for those seven games." 
Finally, it was what the other 10 people on the field did that caught the nation's atten­tion. Notre Dame tied the NCAA record for fewest turnovers in a season, relinquishing the ball only eight times. 
"In an era where people are more reckless with the football, to tie that record is really a feat," Davie says. 
The 9-2 effort also impressed the com­missioner ofthe Tostitos Fiesta Bowl, earn­ing the Irish its first Bowl Championship Series game appearance. Waiting for Notre Dame was upstart Oregon State University, a program that had recently broken a streak of28 consecutive losing seasons. Their hun­ger was plainly evident, as they pounded the Irish in Tempe, Ariz., posting a 41-9 vic­tory. The embarrassing loss caused many to conclude that Notre Dame did not belong in the game at all. Rogers was not among this crowd. 
"I certainly don't believe that if you play them again that that kind of thing is going to happen," he says. "Ifthey were better than us, they weren't that much better than us. That game is as disappoint­ing for me as any I've ever coached be-
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 21 

I "It's funny in retro­spect looking back on cdmments at the be­gifiming ofthe season, saying that ND would gd o~sandfinish with a '1osing season. 

I 
l,i I T;he only people who believed in us 
i 
w~re us, and by that I mean. the students, · th~s team, the coach­ing staff, the alumni, a~d everyone else wljo makes up the Notre Dame family." 
! . . 
-Grant Irons 

cause I think we're a hell of a lot better football team than we showed that night. We flat out got out-played, we got out­coached, and, essentially, we didn't block." 
Whether or not Notre Dame should have fared better is irrelevant now. The Irish completed a stunning turnaround, following a 5-7 season with an appear­ance in a BCS bowl. But Notre Dame is not out of the danger zone. Going into 2001, the Irish must fill major holes on the same defensive line that made 2000's success a possibility. Notre Dame's big­
gest loss is team MVP and captain Anthony Denman, who was the only 2000 Irish All-American (sec­ond team). However, the Irish must also replace Tony Driver, Lance Legree, B.J. Scott and Brock Williams, the latter opting last Friday to pass on his fifth year of eligi­bility in favor of entering the NFL draft. Irons's re­turn should bring some sta­bility to the defense, but without more help, the team could suffer. 
"It's going to be tough," Irons says. "[Driver,Legree, Scott and Williams] are spe­cial players and special people. You can't replace those players, those people. But we do have a great nucleus returning to the de­fensive line, and we're ex­cited to get to winter train­ing to see what we can do." 
The offensive situation presents an additional challenge. Rumors are swirling that freshman quarterback Jared Clark is considering leaving Notre Dame, since Lo Vecchio is established and the program is rapidly promoting Carlyle Holiday. Regardless, Notre Dame would once again be one injury away from a quarterback without a single collegiate game played. Davie denies any prospect ofClark considering a departure, although he failed to support his refutation. 
"There are always going to be rumors," Davie says, chuckling. "I fully expect Jared Clark to be here competing for a starting position." 
The wide receivers are without a coach. Shortly after the USC game, wide receivers 
coach Urban Meyer left Notre Dame to become the head coach at Bowling Green State University. The timing ofthis move is pivotal, as Davie only recently decided to convert Battle into a receiver. Both Rogers and Battle were disappointed, but not dis­couraged by Meyer's departure. 
"I was kind ofhoping he'd stay and help me [become a receiver]," Battle says. "He's such a great coach. Hopefully, coach Davie can go out and get a great coach, and he'll do just as great a job." 
"Anytime a coach leaves, it's never good," Rogers adds. "Stability in the staff is one of the things that makes you successful." 
However, other than Meyer, stability on staff has been Notre Dame's greatest strength this off-season. Davie signed a contact extension through 2005, Rogers turned down the opportunity to be head coach at Rutgers in order to remain offen­sive coordinator at Notre Dame and Kevin White's position as athletic director is secure. 
Stability will be crucial in 2001, as the Irish face one of the toughest schedules in school history, including the first contest in Lincoln, Neb. against the Comhuskers, who finished No. 8 in the AP poll after routing Northwestern 66-17 in the Alamo Bowl. Davie has an added concern for this contest. "I don't have the exact statistics, but I bet 
· Nebraska has lost one game out ofthe last 60 at home," he says. 
The Irish then have an open weekend before nine straight weeks without another bye week. They first travel to face Purdue in West Lafayette, Ind., another hostile col­lege football environment. Then, following a home date· against Michigan State, the Irish travel south to play Texas A&M under the September Texas sun: 
"Those games we played at home last year [Nebraska, Purdue and Texas A&M], now we have to go play those teams on the road," Davie says. "We have to be that much better next year than we were this year." 
"You're talking about playing nine straight games with no open date," Rogers adds. "You've got a hell of a schedule to 
play. . 

"Nine-and~two didn't just happen," he continues. "It was a concerted effort ofa lot of people in there [in the football depart­ment]. They've got the ability to take us from a 9-2 season and a BCS invitation back to a BCS invitation.and into a position where we 
·can win\t national championship inthe next couple ofyears. That's the goal." . 
22 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 



Senior Ryan Dolder, a marketing major from Hutchinson, Minn., was recently nominated for the 2001 Humanitarian Award, which is presented an­nually to a college hockey player who has made a significant.difference to his team, program, school and community. Dolder, a right wing and captain of the Irish squad, currently leads the team with 12 goals and is.tied for second in assists. 
' 
~  ,  .  ~  .  - 
....  .  ,  .  
.  .  '.  ~  -­ .  ''.  '.  
- ~  .  .  

I started playing hockey when: I was four years old, after a year of figure skating. I was extremely graceful! 
If I could play any other sport at Notre Dame, it would be: women's basketball, so I could battle Ruth Riley and Kelley Siemon in the low post. 
After my senior year, I will: hopefully continue playing hockey, or else I'll own my own bar in Cancun while lying on the beach all day. 
The team that will win the Stanley Cup this year is: the Minnesota Wild. I know they really have no chance, but I've got to root for my hometown team. If it can't be them, then I'll go with the Colorado Avalanche. 
If I could compare myself with any NHL player, it would be: the scrappy legend, Dennis Maruk. I always admired him for his grittiness when he played with the Minnesota North Stars. Now I get to play on the same team with his son, Jon. 
I think the movie Slap Shot is: probably the greatest movie ever made. I was a little disappointed it never won an Oscar. 
The hardest part of playing hockey is: getting beat up by bigger guys. 
The best part of playing hockey is: 
beating up the smaller guys and scoring goals. 
IfI could be any cartoon character, it would be: Homer Simpson, because the guy has the greatest lifestyle: he rarely works, has a loving wife and spends 95 percent of his time at Mo's Tavern. 
Between Britney Spears and Christina Aguilera, I would pick: Britney Spears by a long shot.Not only is she much better looking, but the frequent party-goers at Club 7 seem to appreciate her music much more. 
-Jessica Daues 
Jerry's Jabber 
Ruth Riley scored 29 points and had 12 rebounds in Notre Dame's monumental 92-76 victory over No. 1 Connecticut last Monday. Kelley Siemon added 15 points, despite playing with a broken wrist. The victory snapped the Huskies' streak of 30 consecutive weeks as the nation's top-rated team and made the Irish No. 1 in both polls for the first time in school history. Riding the momentum from the victory over Connecticut, Ericka Haney's 17-point effort led 

•1 

: j
the Irish to a 72-47 
pounding of Seton Hall on 
Sunday .... Troy Murphy 
scored 34 points and 
recorded 16 rebounds in a 
laughable 7 4-60 victory 
over No. 8 Syracuse on 
Tuesday night. The 
Orangemen shot just 36.9 
percent while turning the 
ball over 21 times. Preston 
Shumpert led Syracuse 
with 25 points, including six 
3-point baskets. The Irish 
are 10-2 at home this year 
. ... Matt Fabricant finished 
9-0 in sabre competition 
and foilist Ozren Debic 
finished 11-1 as Notre 
Dame fencing defeated 
Saint John's (15-12), Yale 
(18-9), NYU (18-9), and 
Columbia (16-11) in New 
York on Sunday. Freshman 


Jessie Filkins (7-1) led the 
women but had little 
support as the Irish went 1­
3 on the weekend stint .... 
Notre Dame track and field 
opened the 2001 indoor 
season with victories over 
Ball State and Western 
Michigan on both the men's 
and women's sides. On the . women's side, Tameisha 
King won the 60-meter 
high hurdles, 60-meter 
dash and the long jump, 
while Tom Gilbert 
captured the 200-meter run 
and the long jump for the 
men. Nick Setta placed 
second in the 500-meter 
run. 0 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 23 


1992 .·. -·_· · 
FROZE"N 
MOMENTS 

Lou Holtz's 1991 team under­achieved during the regular season, but Lou and the Irish stepped up for the 1992 Sugar Bowl, overcoming the odds and bad jokes to defeat Florida. 
NOTRE DAME: 39 UNIVERSTY OF FLORIDA.: 28 

Although Notre Dame's colors are officially blue and gold, Irish coaches have always reserved the right to change them when it fits the occa­sion. Knute Rockne himself was a master of the psychological ploy ofthe color-switch, using a navy-to-green transformation to un­nerve and defeat unsuspecting Navy teams in 1927 and '28. Since then, green jerseys have been resurrected for many important games, and, often, with the aid ofthe green jerseys, the Irish have come out on top. The 1992 Sugar Bowl, which pitted the 18th­ranked Irish against the third-ranked Florida Gators, was a prime example. 
Notre Dame came into the 1991 season with something to prove. The loss of a significant portion of the team's defense due to graduation had caused the media to doubt the squad's ability. Nevertheless, Notre Dame's first performance ofthe sea­son inspired confidence, as the Irish de­feated their cross-state rivals, the Indiana Hooisers, 49-27. 
The Irish lost their second game to Michi­gan but quickly bounced back to win their next four. Notre Dame then went on to win a tough game against Air Force, but not without paying a price. Notre Dame's al­ready-shallow defense suffered two casual­ties in the game: junior right tackle Eric Jones and sophomore nose tackle Bryant Young. "We won a football game tonight, but lost a team," head coach Lou Holtz said. 
After the Air Force game, Notre Dame went 3-2, finishing out its season with a near-collapse against Hawaii, defeating the Rainbows 48-42. With the pre-game spread favoring the Irish by 24 points, however, the victory was anything but sweet. 
While Notre Dame's 9-3 season earned ­
it an 18th ranking in the polls, the Irish's 
drawing power earned a spot in the 1992 
Sugar Bowl. Pitted against the heavily 
favored, No. 3-ranked Florida Gators, few 
believed the Irish could win this game after 
such alacklusterperformance against Hawaii. 
Jokes circulated around the New Orleans 
French Quarter. (What's the difference be­
tween Notre Dame and Cheerios? Cheerios 
belong in a bowl.) With the game still days 
away, it seemed the champion had already 
been crowned. 
The Irish arrived at the New Orleans 
Superdome on January 1 with little to lose. 
After warming up in their traditional navy and gold, the team emerged at kickoff in white jerseys with green letters and green socks. Although coaches Ara Parsegian and Dan Devine had found success in green, Holtz had yet to clothe one of his teams in green. "I just thought that it was a special occasion with the adversity we went through at the end of the season," Holtz explained after the game. "The shirts just seemed like a good idea, and I went with my gut feel­ing." 
Seemingly unfazed by Notre Dame's color change, the Gators came into the game ready to play, scoring a quick seven points in their first possession. The de­fense came together after the first Gator touchdown, using Holtz's defensive plan to hold the explosive Florida offense to 16 points at halftime while the struggling Irish offense managed to score seven points. 
Realizing that a running game might be more effective than the passing strategy he was using, Holtz changed his offensive plan at halftime. The Irish responded by driving 64 yards on their first possession. By the end of the third quarter, Notre Dame had scored a field goal and a touchdown to make the score 17-16. In the fourth quarter, the Irish continued their offensive explosion as sopho­more fullback Jerome Bettis rushed for 100 yards and scored three touchdowns. The Irish defense did their part as well, allowing the Gators only two field goals and a touchdown. As time expired, the scoreboard showedN otre Dame 39, Florida 28. 
Holtz and the team left the Superdome victorious, although few besides Holtz would have predicted it. "I had a feeling we would play very well," a smiling Holtz said after the game. "I plan on getting into Pat O'Brien's [ a popularnightspot in the French Quarter] tonight. I've been waiting to get in since we got here, but I haven't left the hotel yet!" Giving the reporters a wink, Lou went offto celebrate one ofthe biggest upsets in Notre Dame history. 0 


The Irish have run hot and 
cold this season, winning 
games against top-ranked 
teams only to drop matches 
against lesser opponents. Georgetown, on the other hand, has played consis­. tently well. Look for them to 
beat the Irish 92-86. 
-Jim Pastore 
Editor in Chief Riding a victory over No. 8 Syracuse, Notre Dame meets another highly regarded basketball team facing a midseason funk. The Irish expose the Hoyas as the overrated team they are, posting a convincing 84,72 victory. 

-Gerard Meskill 
Sports Editor Though Georgetown may be in the top 10, this weekend Notre Dame shows the Hoyas it takes more than two wins against Seton Hall to stay there. The game stays· close, however, and the 

Irish win 82-79. 
-Jessica Daues 
Assistant Sports Editor 
. ROCKY ROAD 

Rock at Your Own Risk 
4 look at some live entertainment that will be passing through the area 
When the music is so loud you feel as if it's playing inside ofyou; when the drummer is 
losing his mind but clingingto his sticks; 
·when ahigh-school girl hoists herselfup on the' stage for a kiss from the lead singer; when the magenta, red and blue stage lights flash upon shimmering gui-· tar strings; when the ground is vibrating beneath your feet to a degree that makes you wonder ifyou might be floating ­is there anyplace you'd ratherbe? As far as I can tell,· nothing quite equals the airborne electricity at a_ ·April ·6 at the Metro. Malkmus fronted the recently disbanded Pavement, and he is among the foxiest people in indie rock. (It's OOB policy to say that looks don't matter, but I've already got my ticket.) 
Since we don'thave any former Monkees visiting our school, you might want to trek to Moraine Valley Community College in Palos Hills, Ill. to spend the evening of January 27 with dreamy Davy Jones. And if you think you have what it takes to be just one degree from Kevin Bacon, don't miss The Bacon Brothers at the House OfBlues 
on February 16. 

good live show, so this Although he won't be edition of OOB will playing any music on his highlightsome upcom­current tour, Henry ing area performances. Rollins, former Black (All shows take place Flag frontman andleader in Chicago, unless oth­ofthe Rollins Band, will erwise noted.) be sharing some spoken 
I'm delighted to in­word. But leave your form you that Glen bongos athome, kids, be­Phillips, the former cause when Hank cel­lead singer of Toad ebrates his 40th birthday the Wet Sprocket, the atChicago's Vic Theatre now-disbandedfavor-· on February 13, his ven­ite band of my ~arly omouspoeticswill knock 

teenage years, will be playing at Schuba's on February 17. Butifsweet­voiced Glen isn't enough of an outlaw for your taste, check out Steve Earle at the Riviera Theatre on February 23. He's been married about six times, beat a heroin addiction and has done some jail time, so the least you could do is attend his show. . 
Get a head start on St. Patrick's Day 
• this year and catch The Irish Rovers at the Irish-American Heritage Center on March 8. Also, you won't want to miss Stephen Malkmus & The Jicks on the berets right off your heads. I haven't seen Rollins live before, but I've seen Weezerquiteafewtimes. OnFriday,March 9, they'll rock Chicago's Aragon Theatre, sans bassist Matt Sharp, who left the band to pursue his own projects. I have to admit that I've had a crush on Mr. Sharp since early high school, but I'm hoping that his absence from the band .will help me .to focus on the music, instead of his rock-star loveliness. Unfortunately, there aren't any tickets avail­able to either Rollins orWeezerrightnow, but don't lose hope-accordingto Ticketmaster, some seats mightopenup. D 


: . ' . ' . . . . 

• Ar~n~;R~ck:. ... ' . . 
·•· ~Fri 02/02 Kid · Rock{ Fu~! '~n'd BuckchE3rry, Afrstate Arena, •. Roserriont,IL ~Fri ·oa/02 Matchbox TvverJty,.··• Everclear and Lifehouse, Allstate • 
. Arena,d=fosemdrit, ii... ·. •· 
. Chicago. ' . . .. 
Loc°al Shows: !Suri02/11 Carrot Top, Morris P~r-' forming Arts Center. . . . 
•Sun 02/25 · George Carlin, Morris Performing Arts Center. · ~Tue. 03/20 Bela Fi°eck & The 
.Flecktoijes;· Morris Perfor,mir,g,:ArtSCenter:=-: ... . ' . . 
.. Also On.Tourf> ~Thu. 01/25 •. Everlast with Dexter Freebish,.Houslcit Blues, Chicago.. • 
·•Wed ,01/31> "ShoCore Rock" Boy Hits.Car, Fear Factory, Kittiei Slaves· . On.· Dope·.and. iJnion Underground,.·. 
. Riviera. Theatre,. Chicago: 
C • 
·•~at Q2(24 :1nterna.Ucmal Accordion ··• •-•Night, OldJq.wn.Scho.9l,Chiec1go; .. · 
·•···· •Si.Jn·o2i?S:Tlie New Porn.cigrapl1ers,: 
.The.Hide6ut/Ghicago, .· · ·.. . .. ' •• •S~t 03/0:i .Morbid Angel; Panterp. ..· anclSouiflY.',UIG Pavilion, Chis~gci. . . 
<•~Tue03/20,Wed03/21 DuranDui'ari; ' ..• Ho·use OfBil!eS; Chicago: : ... < •Fri 03/23 A Perteet Circle a~d Snake · 
River Conspira.cy, Aragon Theatre .· Chicago. .. . . · ·..· > . · 
•Frl .. 04/1~,sat4/1,4 Cowbciy.MouJh ·.•. 
ancfsoi.ithern Culture On The Skids, ..·· Hous~ OfBlues, Chicago: . 
. . . ' 
: -•,-·. -.·.:· :,_ . •-.., 




by Kara Zuaro 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 25 

.:.'. .. :...::' ..... _--~·:_. :-_·: ·~·:·-; ~ .._' _-:::· ,: ,· ·:·-. ,... . . :: '_: '·::. __..:_~_,_·,·;___,,-:,; .: _._,. ·;~ ::·: <-,~~:-~--:<\ _~::·: ·'._·<· ::> .· -_:·_>: '.,/· -~. J._· ­
_Spri_ngattheSriite ·_. __ .· _· :-< _-·_ ·;-_ -_ . .": _-::·., ..,_--__ ·· -··_.-_ ·_:··: .:-· •.-· :-'.~---_:_ ·: .. 
• < • -• ~ • ­
Against the Current 
The Snite Museum offers more than just mainstream films 

CARRIESWEENEY
Ifthe thought ofbeing. su.bjected to yet another commercial in which Tom Hanks battles the elements in Cast­away makes you nauseous (and not be­cause you're seasick), and you just can't bear another movie starring Mel Gibson, Helen Hunt or Matt Damon, the Snite Museum might be able to help. After a holiday season packed with blockbusters, the Snite offers a spring semester full of movies ofa different variety. On Monday, 
Friday and Saturday. nights, it will be showing everything from the macabre 1999 directorial debut of Sofia Coppola, The Virgin Suicides, to classics like Citi­zen Kane and Casablanca, as part of the Cinema at the Snite program, which has been providing students with non-main­stream films since the late 1970s. 
"The weekend titles are chosen by a group of film, television and theater fac­ulty members," says FTT professor Ted. Mandell. "The committee that chooses the films varies from semester to semes­ter, but our chairman, Don Crafton, who wasjust named one oftwo inaugural Acad­emy Film Scholars by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, over­sees the choices. We look for recent titles, both US and foreign, that perhaps weren't screened in South Bend, or have been overlooked by the mall megaplexes. The Snite series tends to be more 'art house,' including foreign titles, smaller indepen­dent films, etc. in nature, while the DeBartolo series generally is mainstream box-office hits." 
"We used to show many more films to the public -about six to eight films during the weekdays -but the prohibi­tive costs ofthe 16-mm film rentals, along with the increased access to higher-qual­ity screenings in DVD, have reduced our public Snite screenings to just Monday evenings and weekends," Mandell says. "Plus, the new stadium took away all our parking. However, there are many class­room film screenings during the week­nights for FTT film courses. So, we're actually showing more films than we ever have to our students, but not to the public at large." 
Mandell hopes to increase public show­ings with the improvement of sound and picture-projection quality at the Snite, as well as the opening of the new perform­ing-arts center, scheduled for the fall of 2003. The center will boast a state-of-the­art movie theater, which will show films every night ofthe week. "I think that'll be a cool place to go on campus," Mandell says. "The act of 'going to the movies' will definitely be back on campus." 
The result of such ambitious efforts is perhaps one of the best semesters of film in quite a while at Notre Dame. Movies include some that did receive some atten­tion from the mainstream press, such as Pleasantville and the darkly comic Ameri­can Psycho, as well as other highly ac­claimed, yet not widely distributed films like Dancer in the Dark, which took home the Palme d'Or award from the 2000 Cannes Film Festival. 
Although each ofthe carefully selected 
26 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 


movies raises thought-provoking questions, the Holocaust mov­ies showing from Thursday, March 22, to Saturday, March 24, demand particular attention. Sponsored by the Notre Dame Holocaust Project, the film series, "Through the Eyes ofStrang­ers: A Film Perspective of the Holocaust," features four films that explore human behavior during the terror of the Nazi regime. The stories tell ofsiblings who return to Europe to learn about the death of their parents at Auschwitz, of the only two Jewish survivors ofa Nazi-occupied town in France and ofother individuals that reacted to the Holocaust by questioning faith and society. 
"We're not showing films to make money, we're trying to educate and make the art of filmmaking -both domestic filmmaking and international filmmaking -accessible to the community," Mandell says. 
Yet another weekend that deserves special attention is the 12th annual Notre Dame Student Film Festival, which will be held from January 26 to 29. The festival features the best short films produced in FTT classes this year, which, in contrast to last year, will be "lighter and more on the humorous side," according to Mandell. "Last year was perceived as very heavy on the social, sexual and political issues side, whereas this year, my guess is that the students who come to laugh will be rewarded 10 times over," he says. ~ 
Although the bill offare may prove more lighthearted than in years past, the faculty and students agree that the films will be just as good, products ofjust as much dedication. Senior Rick Silvestrini, who will be showing his Blind Date #42 at the festival, goes so far as to say: "Making a good student film is one of the most difficult challenges Notre Dame has to offer. Film­making is so labor-intensive that it completely destroys your 
KNEE-DEEP Andrew McDonnell wades through philosophical issues and an ice-cold river with South Bend fishermen in Sean Daily's film Two in the Smoker. 
social life for weeks at a time. I've had a couple of 10-hour shoots over the past couple ofyears. And even if you pour your heart and soul into a film, that doesn't mean it's going to be any good." 
Nevertheless, he stresses that the satisfaction ofcompleting a film certainly merits the lost time and sleep. "Once you've spent the hundreds of hours and actually get something done, there is an incredible feeling of accomplishment," he says, "and if people actually like what you've made, it makes everything that much more worth it." D 
Tom Repetto writes this issue's "Final Word" on how he makes his films sexy, page 32. 

Ethnic 
KARAZUARO 

It's about that time of year, when your very favorite dining-hall dish is starting to seem anti-climactic. Much to my dis­may, even the Szechuan sauce at the stir-fry station is starting to taste a little bland. Perhaps this winter what we all need is a little change in seasonings. These gray­skied weeks are prime time to grab a friend or an adventurous acquaintance, hop in your car or call a cab and sample some of the exotic flavors that South Bend has to offer. 
'foyo Grill -Japanese 

When I left Long Island for Indiana, I left three of my favorite foods behind: pizza from Fortunato's Pizzeria, bagels from Ba­gel Boss and sushi from anywhere I could get it. I haven't yet found an equal to my favorite pizza and bagel shops, but the sushi at Toyo Grill is definitely up to par. It's so fresh and good that it almost makes you forget that you're miles from the ocean. 
I hitched a ride to Toyo with my friend Liam, a fellow sushi aficionado, though no more ofan expert than myself. We had a little bit of trouble settling on how much food to order, but we finally decided on a couple of rolls we both liked, along with a couple that only one ofus had tried before. The waitress laughed at our deliberations and mercifully handed us forks with our salads, correctly guessing that we're both rookies with the chopsticks. 
I had my first taste oftamago, a delicately sweet-tasting square offried egg rolled with some rice and wrapped in seaweed. I highly recommend it and have already made my dad try it at home. The spicy tuna roll that I picked out was a little too hot for Li~m's liking, but I thought it was just right. After we finished, though, we were still hungry, so our giggling waitress brought back the menus, and we ordered some shrimp dump­lings off the appetizer menu. Next time, we'll remember to order them first. 
28 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
The only thing I didn't love about Toyo Grill was the bright lights throughout the dining room. At home, I really enjoy a dim, romantically lit Japanese restaurant because eating sushi can get a little messy. At Toyo, you have nowhere to hide. For instance, Liam thought it was hilarious to watch while I tried to consume the biggest pieces ofsushi in one bite, especially if they had little clover-like garnishes poking out of them. This, I admit, was pretty funny, but the face-stuffing factor combined with the bright lighting might make Toyo a better pick for a meal with an old friend, rather than a first date. Getting There: Take Edison east. Toyo Grill will be on your left, in St. Andrew's Plaza, before you get to Grape Road. 
La Esperanza -Mexican 
Molly, one of my freshman year room­mates, and I decided to catch up on gossip over dinner at La Esperanza. It's a favorite restaurant for both ofus because it's close to campus, and the Mexican fare is both spicy and very reasonably priced. Translated as "hope," La Esperanza is family-owned and smaller and more intimate than Don Pablo's. Plus, there are some things that happen at family-owned eateries that just don't hap­pen at chain restaurants. 
For instance, the guy who refilled our water glasses would only speak to us in Spanish. I'm good at understanding Spanish, and Molly loves to speak the language, so we got a big kick out ofthis, especially when he asked us if we were hermanas. (We really don't look like sisters -I think he was just trying to start a conversation with the lowest-level Spanish vocabulary possible.). 

When it came time to order, I wanted to try something new, so I asked the waiter if he had a favorite dish. He recommended the breaded whitefish, and I went with it. Molly got some sort of seafood taco, which was . really good. Mine was good, too, but it was very mild, and I kind of wished that I had ordered the tried-and-true chicken enchi­lada. Ifyou're looking for something out of the ordinary, I'd recommend the horchata, a sweet, rice-milk flavored with cinnamon. It's bound to make your meal more interest­ing, but you can still order something you know you'll like for the main course. La Esperanza serves good-sized portions, and we both had enough leftovers to last for another meal, which is always a big plus. 
Getting There: Take Douglas east to Iron­wood. Go south on Ironwood. La Esperanza is on the left, next to Nick's Patio. 
Siam Thai Restaurant -Thai 
Siam is a really cute little restaurant. The decor is pretty; the lighting intimate and dim; and the waitresses wear brightly colored, tra­ditional-looking clothes. It's definitely fan­cier than any ofthe' other restaurants we vis­ited, so ifyou're going on a weekend evening, you will probably want to make reservations and dress up a little bit. Kate, Scholastic's photo editor; herroommate, Beth; and I showed up on a Friday night in jeans and without reservations, and they didn't seat us until a table opened up in the back comer. 
We were a little miffed because while we waited for a table, the hostess proceeded to seat the parties ofadults who came in after us, but our chagrin dispelled when they sent us to the adjacent coffee shop, Say Cheesecake, to wait. We were too excited about the brightly colored walls, the wide selection of teas and the hefty slices of tiramisu cheesecake to worry about our table at Siam. Just as I sug­gested getting dessert instead ofdinner, tl1ough, they called us into the restaurant. 
Kate was especially excited about the menu's vegetarian options, and Beth rec­ommended the wild-berry plum tea, so we ordered a pot with our meals. I ordered the Siam noodles, sauteed rice noodles with vegetables and chicken in what was sup­posed to be a very spicy sauce. Although it was tasty, I didn't think it was spicy at all. Normally, Thai food marked as spicy can really make you sweat, but this wasn't the case at Siam. Maybe they're toning things down for the Midwestern palette, or maybe I just didn't look like the sort of gal who could handle a five-alarm dinner. Whatever the case, I'd advise future diners to notify their server if they like their food hot. 


I should also mention that the three of us were very jealous ofa couple dressed in semi­formal attire at awindow-side table. Ifyou're looking to take your date for a pre-SYR din­ner, you might want to try Siam. As Beth said, "This totally beats T.G.I. Friday's." 
Betting There: Take 31 south. After the road curves to the right, Siam "ivill be on your right. 
Elia's -Mediterranean 
I was tipped offabout Elia's by a Palestin­ian security guard at the Snite. She said that they featured authentic Palestinian dishes and some Greek food as well as other Middle Eastern fare. My friend Bryce and I went on Saturday for lunch. At first glance, it's a no-
A TOYO 
GRILL 
chef prepares a sushi specialty 
frills sort of place. It's got the same booths you'd see at a basic comercoffee shop, the kind they have at my grandma's favorite breakfast place, which she af­fectionately refers to as the Greasy Spoon. But there's noth­ing grimy or basic about Elia's. 
The restaurant is small and tidy, but has a pretty extensive lunch menu, featuring a lot offoods I'd never even heard of before. We ordered hummus to start out with, but we decided to forego the 
_falafel since it was, after all, a Saturday, and we didn't want to spend our night suffering post­garbanzo bean angst. We were served salad with our meal, along with a couple ofbaskets offresh pita bread. For the main course, I opted for the grape leaves and a Turkish coffee, which is like espresso, but with spices mixed in. It had a very interesting flavor and made me feel like I was on a coffee commercial, reminiscing about adventures in a country I'd never visited. This is the best part about going to these specialty restaurants -you can, for an hour or so, escape to a faraway place where the skies are blue; the sun is warm; and the coffee, served in tiny cups, is intricately and inexplicably spicy. 
Getting There: Take 31 north. Pass the 
Howard Johnson and Elia's will be on your 
left, next door to Bruno's. 
So next time, instead ofthinking ofgoing out to eat as a time-consuming and expen­sive alternative to the dining hall, think ofit as a quick-and-cheap alternative to an excit­ing and exotic vacation. Even in South Bend, with the help ofgood food and good friends, the winter can be a time to savor. . 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 29 

. : -. --. -----------------------------------~­
' 

, ' . ' -' . .-. '' , . . . 
The Mad Blood Stirring 
Because the hook-up isn't justfor drunken O'Neill freshmen anymore 
JEFFEYERMAN 

In the radically diverse environment that all the brochures claim our fair univer­sity is, there seems to be little hope of 
stating an opinion around which all of the university can rally. Naturally, you could find strong sentiment for an idea or two: 70 percent of students rate their faith high on their list ofpriorities, while nearly 87 per­cent ofstudents say they "agree or strongly agree" with the statement that Sandra Bullock should stop making movies and construct a 
I_ 
crude, Kal-El-like Fortress ofSoli­tude in the bitter wastelands ofQue­bec. In his travels throughout the University ofOur Lady, however, this intrepid writer has found only one statementthat every single per­son interviewed has agreed with: the stir fry at South Dining Hall is far superior to that which they serve at North. 

Let us take a moment to examine the sweeping impact of such a bold statement. This claim may lead to a massive exodus ofall those poor, uninformed NDH-ers who have yet to learn about the wonder that is the South Stir Fry Team, caus­ing an even bigger clog in the line than those people who don't de­cide whatthey will be eating until they are asked. More likely, stu­dents sitting at North will read this column whilst in the middle of a bite of their perfectly pre­pared pasta stir fry (which, un­fortunately, SDH has neglected entirely) and pitch Scholastic into the recycling bin without a sec­ond thought. Whatever the upshot, those students in stir-fry limbo need to be aware ofthe dozens ofreasons forSouth Stir Fry Superiority (bumper stickers available in March). 
First, there is this "rice or wrap" business that North presents us with. Rather-than letting rice or lo mein be tossed in with your meat and vegetables (thus allowing the whole ofyour meal to soak up any combi­
. nation of the five delicious sauces you choose to slather all over it), North simply 
30 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 
places our prepared stir fry on a bed ofrice and hopes that some ofthe rice may absorb the flavor. I'll grant that the wrap idea is a nice feature that South lacks, but, as Bonaparte himself once said, "Rice tossed with sweet-and-sour sauce is good eatin' ." 
That entirely fictitious quote brings up the matter of the choice of sauces. Both places offer the opportunity to mix and match your sauces to achieve the desired 


blend of the Far East, but North adds the extra hurdle of a "base" sauce that is often entirely different from the sauce you wish your meal to be tossed with. I'm not quite sure what this base sauce does to enhance the flavor, but I do know that when my friend asked for no base sauce at all he was met with stares as blank as the checks Firestone is about to write for Ford Ex­plorer owners. Don't be surprised ifDen­nis Miller decides to use that one while calling his next game -it would cer­tainly be preferable to his trying to tell Al why the St. Louis defense reminds him of Kemal Ataturk capitulating to the Austro­Hungarian Empire. Someone should tell this man that his core audience hasn't the slightest idea who the Wife ofBath is, let alone why the Kansas City cheerleaders should bring her to mind. Maybe if he wasn't so damn obsessed with tossing his head back and forth and chuckling like the 
felis domesticus who swallowed the serinus canarius ... hey, was there a point to this paragraph? 
Stir-fry, of course. It all comes back to stir fry. We should not neglect the most important reason for South stir-fry superiority. The South stir-fry line houses one ofthe finest masters of the culinary arts ever to grace our university. He is known by many names-dude, LL Cool J, that guy who makes the really good stir fry -but all of these boil down to one simple fact: all the SDH women call him "treetop lover," all the men just call him "sir." He is in fact the baddest chef in the whole damn town and the inventor of a feast for both the body and the soul known simply as "the hook-up." I don't know what's in the hook­up. Frankly, I don't want to know. It's information I could do with­out. The bottom line is that the hook-up is what many imagine salvation must taste like -sweet, but with a hint ofspicy delicious­ness. The South Stir-Fry Guy: truly a king among men. 
This is not to say that North's 
stir-frycrewisn'talwaysreadywith a handshake and an open palm -every single member ofthe staff is friendly, cour­teous, brave, clean and reverent. Likewise, ifyou're overat Knott or the library, SDH is a long way to walk for the glory that is the stir-fry creations line. On the other hand, if you've decided to go with stir fry on a Friday night solely because you hope the rice and meat will be useful in absorbing the festivities ofthe evening, wouldn't you want to go with something that tastes as good going down as it does coming up? 


'e.ditor'schoice . . · .·_ . . · -,­
.· . . . Kudos to SUB for planning a weekendofrockmovies! I must admit that my lust for Beatles trivia abated slightly when I didn't get The Beatles Anthology for Christmas, but thanks to the promise of seeing Yel­low Submarine on the big screen, it's back in full force. My many attempts to make this column say "The Walrus was Paul" when read backwards were unsuccessful. Sure, maybe I'm just one of the millions fooled by a giant scam the Beatles created to boost record sales.There's also the story thatthe whole conspiracy was thought up by a bunch of bored students at a Midwestern college. Still, it's fun to lopk for death clues, and the movie is full of them, if you know where to look. A sampling: 
•
In the scene for "Only a Northern Song," George Harrison sings: "When you're listening late at night/You may think the band's not quite right." Just as he finishes the line, Paul's picture comes up on screen. 

• 
Just after the Beatles arrive in Pepperland, a funeral march slowly passes by in the background. Paul is the only Beatie to be shown fully in this scene. He is also the only one who is afraid. 

• 
At the end of"All You Need is Love," John Lennon supposedly says, "Yes, he's dead." Just at that moment, the word know appears on the screen and is transformed into now, which might suggest that Paul is dead now. 


-Cristin Fenzel 

These and other clues can be found in The Walrus Was Paul: the Great Beatles' Death Clues, by R. Gary Patterson. 
movies 
• 
Thu 25 Meet the Parents, 10:30 PM, 101 DeBartolo. 

• 
Thu 25 Yellow Submarine, 10:30 PM, 155 DeBartolo. 

• 
Fri 26 The Wall, 8:00 PM and 10:30 PM, 155 DeBartolo. 

• 
Fri 26 and Sat 27 Meet the Parents, 8:00 PM and 


10:30 PM, 101 DeBartolo. 
• 
Sat 27 Tommy, 8:00 PM and 10:30 PM, 155 DeBartolo. 

• 
Fri 02 American Psycho, 7:30 PM and 9:30 PM, Snite. 

• 
Fri 02 and Sat 03 Bring It On, 8:00 PM and 


10:30 PM, 155 DeBartolo. 
• Fri 02 and Sat 03 Charlie's Angels, 8:00 PM and 
10:30 PM, 101 DeBartolo. 
• Mon 05 Pleasantville, 7:00 PM, Snite Museum. 
the arts 
• 
Fri 26, Sat 27 arid Mon 29 Student Film Festival 2001, 7:30 and 9:30 PM, Snite Museum. 

• 
Sun 28 "How to Listen to a Bach Fugue," Professor Ethan Raimo, 2:00 PM, Faculty Lounge, Hesburgh Library. 


student life 
• Sat 27 Nine-Ball Billiard Tournament, 8:00 PM, ND Express, Lafortune. Sign-up 7: 15 to 
7:45 PM. 
• Sat 03 The Second Annual Multicultural Comedy Night with Owen Smith and Eric Nieves, 8:00 PM, Reckers. 
• 
Thu 25 Tennis: ND men vs. Indiana, 4:00 PM, Eck Tennis Pavillion. 

• 
Thu 25 Swimming: ND men vs. University of Wisconsin ­Milwaukee, 5:00 PM, Rolfs Aquatic Center. 

• 
Thu 25 Swimming: ND women vs. University of Michigan, 


5:00 PM, Rolfs Aquatic Center. 

• 
Fri 26 Track and Field: ND men and women vs. Michigan State, 6:00 PM, Loftus Sports Center. 

• 
Wed 31 Basketball: ND women vs. Providence, 7:00 PM, Joyce Center._ 


• 
Sun 04 Tennis: ND women vs. Illinois State, 9:00 AM, Eck Tennis Pavillion. 

• 
Sun 04 Tennis: ND women vs. Western Michigan, 2:00 PM, Eck Terinis Pavillion. 

• 
Mon 05 Basketball: ND men vs. St. John's, 7:00 PM, Joyce Center. 

• 
Wed 07 Basketball: ND women vs. Pittsburgh, 7:00 PM, Joyce Center. 


~ .·--. . ' ' ' -~ --_----.. -------.-_-------.. ~ ------_-:_----.-_---_---.-~-~---­
" , 
by Tom Repetto 

From Moments to Movies 
' 
i 
I 
I 
I 
i 
j 
i 
! 
j 
·I 
: ­
It was a Sunday, sometime in the afternoon: our last day ofshooting. Emily and I were coordinat­
ing our most difficult shoot. We stood on a street comer and attempted to stage a car accident in which a reckless driver strikes a pedestrian. For most ofthe shoot, Emily handled the camera while I acted like a traffic cop, waving the car through and telling the actor when to enter the street. When we had all the shots we needed, I got an idea. I turned to Emily and said, "Why don't I run through the street with the camera and do a hand-held shot as if it was on-the­scene footage?" 
Normally, this is a difficult shot to execute. It becameevenmoredifficultforusbecausewedidnot haveanyofthestreetsblockedoff. Contrary to what common sense would dictate, I did it anyway. While my friend kept his eye out for cars, I rolled the camera and sprinted diagonally through the intersection. 
In the final cut ofDougandSarah, that shot lasted about six seconds, yet it was the moment that made the film memorable for me. In student films, singu­lar,shortmomentsarethemostsignificant-andthe most rewarding-aspects ofthe process. It can be a line in the script, a shot composition, a lighting set­up or a creative edit, but whatever it is, it makes the student filmmaker feel good about the project be­
cause, even ifeverything 

Each film has its shining moments -else goes wrong, at least you have that moment. 
the few seconds here or there where 
. Film moments are the 

an amateur filmmaker takes a gamble 
highlights of a semes­or attempts a new twist. ter-long journey taken 
Repetto, a senior from Norwood Park Township, Ill., is double-majoring in film, television and theater and marketing. The aspiring fib11maker lives in O'Neill Hall and has been involved with film production since his sophomore year. 
by several students in­

terested in making films, including myself. Each semester we try to construct a few meaningful feet ofcelluloid, or tape. The end result lasts only a few minutes, but the process takes countless hours. 
As student filmmakers, we are in charge ofmost of the aspects of a film's production. In Hollywood, these jobs are petfornied by many different pe_ople, but here we write, produce, direct, photograph, cast and edit our own films and videos. Juggling the busy schedules ofthe students in our cast and crew with the limited times that our locations provide may be the most complex job. The student filmmaker and his partner find the job at which they excel and focus on that in order to make the best film possible. 
Film moments begin in the pre-production pro­cess. The idea is formed, and the script written. Certainlinesintentionallypunctuatethescript. Scenes that are drafted call for a special kind ofshot, like the one in Doug and Sarah in which we show Doug's life flashing before him by shooting in fast-motion and having the actor move at half-speed. Jokes or gags stand out among the dialogue that push the story forward. The filmmaker's No. 1 goal is to develop an overarching theme or to tell a story, but the next-best thing is creating those cool moments. 
The creation happens in the production phase. This is also the stage that spawns the most stories and tall tales. Any student filmmaker could tell · you at least a couple of legends about how a particular shot was made. Often, extraordinary circumstances -a light burning out, a missing actor, a roll offilm on its last few feet---: can make a shot last hours longer than expected. In many cases, the story ofhow a shot was made is more memorable to the filmmaker than the shot it­self. 
We get to see the fruits of our labor in the editing process. For films, we hand our footage over to a lab -the one aspect we don't control -and pray that it comes out all right. Then, the moments happen. Although some footage becomes unusable, a few shots come out as good as planned, or even better. In the car-accident scene, the diagonal sprint was one of the only shots that came out all right; the shots we had planned were overexposed. In the editing lab, we labor for hours, putting shots in order and making sense of all the footage. Every now and then, we sit back and roll through a scene we have constructed. Amid some disappointments, there is always that line, that reaction shot, that trivial thing in the back­ground that makes the film sexy. The film comes alive through these moments and makes the experi­ence worthwhile. 
Ifthere is one thing that I have learned in produc­tion classes, it is that the task of telling a story or expressing a theme in a short film or video is much more difficult than it sounds. Often, student films are exercises in futility, ambitious projects rooted in the assumption that the audience will comprehend the · filmmakers' intent. As a whole, the films become --problematic. However, each film has its shining moments -the few seconds here or ther~when an amateur filmmaker takes a gamble or attempts a new twist -which make student films worth watching. 
Ifyou know someone who is in production classes, · you have probably had these projects popped into your VCR. You probably would not be interested in reading your roommate's theology papers or listen­ing to a friend's Power Point presentation, butyou do want-to see a film your buddy made. And he or she wants to show it to you, so that you can see those moments that were so memorable to make. 
. 32 SCHOLASTICFll'IAL WORD 



, .~-' \ t ,:_,-• :• • ' I -• '. • ! "t ' l -• f 
•.s·;-.··.·u·:~·.· ·· ·1·s·,· · :: · · '.. · ¦
.. :,., :'":t:· 

. ' .. :,:, 
.. ¦
.. .,. ~ .. 
. • •' . . ·.,. ..··,,,•.. ,.. ·:-_:;, ;_,·._:>.~ . . ...-:. •' .. ~-. ,'. 
i-.. '

;,mOJi:e~, {/;t :,.-. at!otitticaie . • !, 
>tn.eet the parents··:· rocknroffmusic -~ ,.
, debartolo101 .: · · · · ~ · .: -.\·· ::.: > :_ ·;; . : , .... : . . . '
:. ... . . ... '.· ..:~(.:-;,:'·. ' 
• . I 
thursday.9:0Q. }:\/ ·
·f6:i~1irt>marim\ . .... ', :
the hudclle ··. free of.charge: · ·,··
:l~b~'!t'o~~s<.,,· :'> . ' : .~---' ' 
--~ "'. ,1. . • \ 
_. ,t, • • -' , ~-••. • . • • j ,.a 
tb.ursd~i.i6rs~_-·· ·. ?::<\·' .. 1 <. . 
=.--fr1day and·-~~turday 8:0Q.anqJ0:30 : . : 
2dolrars ·,:· ,-: ·· .. · · .... 
,·..

n\i{;;,t~----.-· -· , . · ·:''.: , • • ,l. t_
\)_":. I~, 
••. ~ .-.. , \ -,I,.~,,. . . . . ":1.. -• ·:. : 1 ' . ' ·: ~ 
.-.. ·.· '\, '.... : -.. ~ .. J\~.;-::_~.-~/i::•::>~:~.-_; ,: ', : '. / '. .. 





