I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
$3.00 THE YEAR	JANUARY 20
15 CTS. A COPY	1933
Does Your Budget Include This Important Market?
Now comes the new year and a new advertising budget. Probably yours isn’t going to be so large this time—and we can understand why. But before you slash appropriations look around you at the successful companies who continue their contacts with the public.
♦	♦ ♦ ♦
And when you have decided upon the correct amount, CAREFULLY select your medium. Now, more than ever, every dollar in your appropriation must pull more than its weight in returns.
♦	♦ ♦ ♦
We ask that you consider the SCHOLASTIC. Space in this live news weekly contacts a compact market of nearly three thousand students who depend upon South Bend merchants for their needs, and does it so economically that you can’t afford to leave us out of your budget. A call at 3-1121 will bring a representative to your store.
^he Scholastic
At The University	Notre Dame, Indiana
PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY		
		
Phone	4-5661	X-ray | Residence 3-4041 DR. E. S. LUCAS D entis t 702 J. M. S. Building '	South Bend, Opposite Oliver Hotel	Indiana		Expert Eye	Glasses Properly Fitted Service	at Moderate Prices J. BURKE, Inc. Optometrist and Manufacturing Opticians	' Established 1900	228 S. Michigan St.
Office Phone 3-3309	Res. Phone 5-1343 DR. B. A. KAMM Ear, Nose and Throat Suite 526 Sherland Building	, Jefferson and Michigan n (10 to 12 m. Hours	, |3 to 5 p. m.	South Bend, Indiana		DR. J. M. SINGLER DR. E. A. PROBST De ntists Phone 3-1254	405 Associates Building
		
Office Phone 3-2574	Corrective Shoes Residence Phone 4-6354 DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments 432-34 Associates Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.		Dr. E. J. Cain	Dr. H. H. Rogers ROGERS Eyesight Specialists Phone 4-8251	213 S. Michigan Street
-	Office 3-6978	Residence 2-6741 DR. LEO J. QUINLAN D e n t i s t 514 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Ind.		FRANK J. POWERS, M. D. University Physician Office at	Hours: University Infirmary	12:30 p. m. to 4 p. m.
			
	(10 to 11:30 a. m. Hours |2 to 4 p.m. DR. H. BOYD-SNEE Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat 716 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Indiana		Space Reserved
The Scholastic
Two
(Eliza Allen Starr)
(Cuts Courtesy
Dome of 1932)
“O Notre Dame
Thou Beauteous Place ...
^4
.T
“The purple air, the misty hills;
The meadotvs, green with hidden rills;
The grove, that screens from curious gaze Its sacred meditative zcays;
The lake beyond, its placid eye Blue as the arch of vernal sky;
The dome, and chapel spires, that claim Our Lady’s favor, with her name;
How, like a thought of peace, the ivhole Takes calm possession of the soul!”
January 20, 1933
Three.
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub- I	hk I '	I ■	Ent er ed as second-class
lished week y at the Un:vers-	I J	matter at Notre Dame, In-
ity of Notre Dame. Manu- I-I I	V^l I	Ciw wl	diana. Acceptance for mailscripts may be addressed to .	. ■	.	.	ing at special rate of postage.
the scholastic, Pubii- Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moritumis section 1103, October 3,1017. rations Office, Main Building. •	F O U N D E D 1 8 6 5	authorized June 25, 1018.
Edmund A. Stephan
Editor-in-Chief
James S. Kearns............  .	. Managing Editor
. Associate Editors F. GRANGER WEIL WALTER JOHNSON WILLIAM DREUX	LLOYD TESKE
News Staff
MITCHELL TACKLEY............News	Editor
JAMES BYRNE........Assistant News Editor THOMAS PROCTOR.. .Assistant News Editor EDWARD MANSFIELD RICHARD TOBIN JOSEPH BUCCI.......ROBERT ERVIN
JAMES A. HART . JOHN McELLIGOTT
MICHAEL WIEDL '
Desk Editors PATRICK CORCORAN JOHN CONLEY ROY SCHOLZ	ROBERT DILLON
Department Editors
TIGHE WOODS...'.............The Week
ROGER McGOVERN.........-...College Parade RICHARD PREZEBEL.......Staff Artist
Sports Staff
WILLIAM FLYNN JOSEPH KURTH PAUL HOST EDWARD VAN HUISSELING FRED MacBETH GEORGE BELTING JAMES F. McKEON NICHOLAS CONNOR JOHN CARBINE HOWARD WALDRON
Features Staff RAY WATERS...............Features Editor
LOUIS HRUBY EDWARD J. O’BRIEN WILLIAM KENNEDY BRYAN DEGNAN PAUL DOYLE	LOUIS GIRAGI
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD
Business Staff
JOHN F. STOECKLEY....Graduate Manager. J. ALBERT SMITH......Advertising Manager RAYMOND J. NABER.....Circulation Manager HARRY MCGOWAN JOSEPH SIMON
Volume LXVI.
■ JANUARY 20, 1933
No. 13
S UMMARY
.	’ ’	NEWS	■
Initial Meeting of Candidates for “Scholastic” Boxing
Tourney Held Monday........................ 5
Chairman Hoban Announces List of .Committees and
Further Plans for Junior Prom.............. 5
University Players Prepared for Opening of “Charley’s
Aunt” in Washington Hall Tomorrow Night.... 5
February Number of Notre Dame “Juggler” Will Be
Released This Evening by Funny Fellow McCabe.6
Highlights of St. Joseph Valley Civic Testimonial
Dinner for 1932 Football Team.............—	7
Dean Thomas F. Kondp of the Law School Speaks to
Economics Class on Labor Legislation......-..9
University Debating Team Will Meet Kent on February 11 .................—-...............-16
FEATURES
Regis MacNamara, Only Engineer To Receive A Monogram Interviewed for “Man-About”................... 8
Professor Charles Phillips, of the Department of English Writes Some Book Reviews....................-.......9
Knights of Columbus Will Hold Their Annual Formal This Evening at the Palais Royale.........:........13
“Voice of the Campus”..............................  14
The Inside Information of Why Europe Can Not Meet
the War Debt—Johnson...............................16
Washington Hall Steps, for Years a Tradition at Notre
Dame, Are Torn Down............-:........ .,....,..17
: 1. ‘	. SPORTS .	-
Cagers Beat Minnesota, 30" to 22........1.1..1...1....20	-
Basketball Tea’n Faces Pitt and Toledo on Road Trip....2O
Thirty-two Football Monograms Awarded by Athletic Board ........................  -..........v......-.21
Butler Stops Ed Krause and Beats Notre Dame, 27-25....21
Thirteen Track Meets Listed for Indoor and Outdoor
Season ........................................-...22
Introducing—Joe Voegele ...........................  23
A Notre Dame Immortal: Lou Salmon....................24
Splinters From The Press Box.........................25
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, Jan. 20.—Scholastic staff meeting, Editorial Board, 6:30 p. m., Editorial offices, Ave Maria Building; hews, sports, and features staffs, 7:00 p. m.; K. of C. Ball at the Palais Royale, 8:30 p. m.
SATURDAY, Jan. 21.—“Charley’s Aunt” to be presented by the University Players in Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.; Basketball: Varsity vs. Pittsburgh, at Pittsburgh.
SUNDAY, Jan. 22.—Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart Church; S. A. C. Meeting at 10:30 a. m., Library; “Charley’s Aunt,” Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.
MONDAY, Jan. 23.—Basketball: Varsity vs. University of Toledo, at Toledo.
TUESDAY, Jan. 24.—Patricians meeting, 7:45 p. m., Law Building.
WEDNESDAY, Jan. 25.—Wranglers meeting, 6:30 p. m., Law Building.
THURSDAY, Jan. 26.—Spectators meeting, 8:00 p. m., Law Building; semester examinations, classes taught at 8:00, 9:00, 10:00, 1:15. on Tuesday will be examined at those hours respectively today; the classes taught at 2:15 on Tuesday will be examined at 3:15 today.
Four
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
1 HE “Headless Herd” gave a good demonstration of the brain power that intelligently directs a mob at the movies Friday night. Some of our local bush and shrubbery jumpers have been passing Washington Hall five days a week and four times a day, but Friday night the one track minds could think of nothing but rushing to the front of Washington Hall to find the ancient steps gone. The herd pulled up sharply and gawked. Finally a thought pierced the adamant that perhaps there were other entrances to the hall and the night was saved as the leaders divided and bolted for the side doors.
- V
J. HE announcement Saturday night of the engagement of Paul Host marks the third direct hit scored on the 1932 Notre Dame football team by that little fellow whom most artists insist on embellishing with wings. That makes one end, a tackle, a quarterback and two guards who have either meekly given their, “I do’s,” or are about to do so. This spring Coach Anderson might vary the traditional Old Varsity-New Varsity game and in its place hold a Benedicts vs. Varsity game. With two more announcements, which will be out before the Senior Ball but which we mustn’t scoop, our money would go on the Benedicts.
V
7^.T last we have found the mecca of campus exponents of the forensic art. It is the cafeteria every week day morning from nine until eleven. It is there that the lawyers gather to sip and bite, quash indictments, proceed in equity, etc. Lawyer Herb Georgio is High Chancellor of the Coffee Urn. With all the pomp and ceremony of the opening of the King’s Bench, the High Chancellor pounds his coffee spoon on the table promptly at five minutes after nine, and the Eater’s Court is in session. Cases are argued with all the seriousness of the Supreme Court, the names of Brandeis,
Clark and Holmes are hurled about the room to the clatter of dishes and the scrape of sliding trays, and the great goddess Jurisprudence blushes to hear the reactionary statements of some of her young worshippers.
V
HIS week we celebrate the birthday of one of the greatest generals of modern warfare and one of America’s finest gentlemen, Robert E. Lee. The great confederate general is honored in the south as Abraham Lincoln is revered in the north. Nine states honor his birthday as a legal holiday. Last year one of our famous campus comedians (from Buffalo, New York) happened to sleep through an eight o’clock history class on the famous general’s birthday. When the professor informed him at the next class that he had cut out, he drew himself up his five feet four inches and with a perfect Virginia accent replied, “Suh, come to class on Gen’al Lee’s birthday? You insult the honoh of a south’un gentleman!” He was not cut out.
V
V V HEN Knute Rockne took Jimmy Crowley under his care he taught him a few things more than how to be a great halfback. One of those things was a method of capitalizing on a sense of humor. Jimmy has become one of the most picturesque figures in the American athletic world today. Somebody should write a book filled with. the incidents and anecdotes that have grown up around the most colorful of Notre Dame’s brilliant athletes. Some of these anecdotes are pure fiction and some of them are true but all of them show the true character of Crowley. One of the most famous was the story of the student manager who found Jimmy hidden in a corner of the lobby of a great New York hotel. It was only a half hour before the Army game but Rock’s famed horseman was blissfully unaware as he concentrated all his attention on a cowboy thriller in a western story magazine.
January 20, 193-
Five
CANDIDATES REPORT FOR “SCHOLASTIC” TOURNEY
Hoban Announces List of Committees For Junior
Prom, February 24
U. THEATER TO STAGE FARCE TOMORROW EVE
Official Training Will Begin After Examinations.
By Howard Waldron
On Monday, January 16, at a meeting in the Law Auditorium, Len Dunn, director of the Bengal Boxing
Len Dunn Outlined the Program.
Show, which will be conducted by The Scholastic some time early in March, outlined the plans for the approaching championships to some twenty individuals who have aspirations of winning one of the University boxing crowns.
Every Afternoon, 3 to 5
Dunn advised the candidates that active training would begin after the exams and that conditioning was not compulsory until that time. However, any candidate who so desires may start light workouts now. After the examinations, the workouts will be held every afternoon between three P. M. and five P. M. The men must furnish their own wearing apparel, and shoes, but The Scholastic will have on hand boxing gloves and a punching bag in the training quarters in the Gym.
AH Established Weights
The weights for the various divisions will be in the established classes used in amateur and professional bouts: 118 pound (flyweight); 126 pounds (featherweight); 135 lbs. (lightweight);	147 lbs. (welter-
weight) ; 160 lbs. (middleweight); 175 lbs. (light-heavyweight); and heavyweight. The men will be paired as evenly as possible acording to weight and experience. The bouts will be three rounds of two minutes length, with a one minute rest.
(Continued on Page 30)
By Mitchell Tackley
Plans are well under way for the 1933 Junior Prom to be held in the Palais Royale ball room, South Bend, on the evening of February 24. Committee heads and committeemen have been named, favors have been selected, a dinner dance arranged, and a song written under the supervision of Chairman John J. Hoban.
The program for the weekend has been completed by the class officials. It includes the Prom on Friday evening, the Ohio State track meet on Saturday afternoon, and a dinner dance Saturday evening, to be held at the Oliver Hotel, to climax the social activities of the weekend.
Sale Closes February 21
A prom song has been composed by Francis Lavengood, with lyrics by George Fanelli. Orchestral arrangements have been made so that the composition will be featured at the prom.
Chairman Hoban announces that the favors and programs have been selected, the nature of which will be made known at a later date. Tickets will go on sale February 6, and, to give ample time to all, will close February 21. Seniors who wish to attend the dance must purchase their tickets before the closing date of the sale.
The list of committees as announced by Chairman Hoban are as follows:
Reception—Chairman, Sturla Canale; Leo Crowe, and William Powell.
Program—Chairman, Robert McDonough : John Sescanaw, and Jack Egan.
Music—Chairman, James Moscow : Donald Dugan, and Arthur Sandusky.
Tickets—Chairman. James Cole; Tex Fitzsimmons, and Charles Litty.
Favors—Chairman, Harry Rockett: George Cole, and Vincent Reichman.
Patrons—Chariman, Harry Burchell: Bill Motsett, and John Conley.
Publicity—Chairman, Walter Kennedy : Mitchell Tackley, and William Dusch.
Inuvitations—Chariman, Marty Danlan ; William Veneeman and John Oytzinger.
Arrangements—Chairman, Bill Mackay : Frank Jehle, and Tom Dalton.
Hall—Chairman, Leonard Caccitori: Red Lyons, and Hugh O’Neil.
To do two things at once is to do neither.—Publius Syrus.
Cast Finishes Rehearsals For “Charley’s Aunt.”
By Robert Dillon
With the presentation of “Charley’s Aunt,” by the University Theatre Players, Oxford literally comes to Notre Dame. This frothy comedy, whose theme is familiar to all, will be enacted tomorrow and Sunday night at 8:00 in Washington Hall.
When the curtain is lifted upon the initial performance it will climax a long period of work and preparation upon the part of the assembled cast and Professor Frank Kelly, Department of Speech, whose able direction has rendered the production possible. Rehearsals began before the Christmas holidays, and, with the exception of the vacation period, has continued up until the present time. And if facts are to be considered at all, this year’s production will certainly measure up to standards set by past performances of the University Theatre.
Jugglers To Play
Selections of the members of the cast has been closely confined to type, and as a result a polished performance of spirited comedy is offered. Tighe Woods portrays Sir Francis Chesney, bearing his title with great suavity. John Finneran has the part of Jack Chesney, but connections with an English peerage does not disturb him. Dave Powers as Lord Fancourt-Babberly, or “Charley’s Aunt,” does his best to appear ladylike. Roger Beirne appears as Stephan Spittiguue, acting with his usual finesse. George Allingham successfully portrays Charles Wykeham, while Arthur Neumann will be seen as Brassert, a positively “no-smile” butler.
The feminine interest will be in the hands of: Dorothy Gustafson who appears as Amy Spittigue; Charlotte Mourer as Kitty Verdun; F. Theresa Chisholm as Dona Lucia D’Alluar-darez; and Mary Jane Tate as Ella Delahey.
The Jugglers’ orchestra, with its newly acquired personnel, will make their first appearance upon the opening night, with a selection of varied musical arrangements.
The mystery is not why lecturers come but why audiences come.—Sinclair Lewis.
Six
The Scholastic
February “Juggler” Due On Campus This Evening
HUMOR KEEPS UP
February Number is Another Good One; Written Work Done by Few; Becvar Cover.
If the printers are men of their words the February Number of the Juggler will be on the campus tonight. The Funny Fellow, with his
Joseph McCabe
If You Flunk, Go Home Happy.
usual considerateness, brought a form proof to The Scholastic offices early yesterday afternoon, not because he wanted any publicity but because he had promised to do so.
No Particular Theme
This month’s Juggler has no particular theme, although its Becvar cover w’ould lead one to believe that the issue is devoted to a serious national problem. The humor continues in the same vein, sophisticated, stimulating, sometimes a bit difficult for the naive.
The Scholastic liked the editor’s column “In The Old Juggler Vein,” without agreeing altogether with some’ of the remarks made therein. (“Strange Interlude” couldn’t have, been as bad as all that.)
Art honors go to Gerry Doyle, although Prezebel and Singson have some decidedly commendable drawings. Fran Werner and Jerry Roach crash “Keyhole Portraits,” with the Glee Clubber slightly off balance in Dick’s caricature. The written work (Continued on Page 30)
Chimney - of Old Power House is Torn Down by
Engineers During Week
Notre Dame witnessed the passing of a timeworn landmark last Wednesday when the smokestack on the old powerhouse was razed. All afternoon the workmen had been preparing the blast. Priests, students and some townspeople had gathered upon the scene, and were scattered about in small groups about the workmen.
At about 4 o’clock the weakening of the base had been completed. A laborer ignited the kerosene-soaked ties which formed the temporary support at the bottom of the stack on the eastern side.
Was 162 Feet High
The fire at the base burned for more than fifteen minutes causing a stream of smoke to curl from the soot-blackened mouth of the old chimney. Finally the shout of warning, the' temporary base gave away, the great stack tottered, seemed to linger, and then fell eastward with a great crash.
When the dust had cleared the former 162-foot length was a huge, disorderly mass of yellow brick. About 250-yards to the northeast another larger stack, more trim and modern in appearance continually emitted inky-black smoke; it is the old timer’s successor.
Students Warned Again About University Lawns
“Although improvement in the student attitude toward crossing the lawns of the main quadrangle has been noticed, there is still room for a decided change,” a University official stated this week.
Unless students refrain completely from the use of those very noticeable paths which have been cut through the lawns by careless feet this fall, the campus caretakers will find it almost impossible to bring the grass back to its former state in the spring.
ANDERSON STAYS ON AS HEAD GRID COACH
Irish Mentor Signed Contract For One Year Thursday.
Head Football Coach Heartly W. Anderson yesterday signed a one-year contract to continue in his present capacity with the Notre Dame gridiron organization.
Coach Anderson
Third consecutive one-year contract.
Announcement of the new contract was made by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University.
The contract signed yesterday is the third consecutive one-year pact signed by Coach Anderson since the death of Knute Rockne in the spring-of 1931.
No Announcement On Others
During his first year as “senior coach” at Notre Dame, Anderson was assisted by junior coach Jack Chev-igny, who this week signed as head coach and director of Athletics at St. Edward’s in Texas.
Last year Anderson was retained as head coach and a corps of young-assistants was signed to aid him in moulding the Irish varsity.
No action was taken in the matter of naming assistant coaches for next fall. Likewise, no announcement was forthcoming concerning the Director of Athletics position now filled by Jesse C. Harper whose contract expires May 1st of this year.
(Continued on Page 27)
January 20, 1933
Seven
WHITMAN LECTURES ON LAW SCHOOL RATING
Addresses Pre-Law Club at Regular Meet.
Professor John Whitman of the College of Law discussed the popular question in • a lecture this week: “How Is the Law School Rated?” at the regular- meeting of the Pre-Law club.
“Law Schools are rated by the American Bar Association, whose requirements are less stringent than those of the Associated American Law Schools.”
“Tire American Bar Association either recognizes a law school as Class A or refuses to approve the school’s standards. Notre Dame is a member of the American Bar Association.”
“The Harvard Law School,” Whitman explained, “admits only students who have received credit requirements for entrance at Harvard, or who have a degree from recognized universities.”
He stated that the A. A. L. S. differed inasmuch as only two years of pre-law study are necessary. “No credit is given for anything other than examinations, and the school’s library must contain at least ten thousand volumes.”
1200 Attend Testimonial Dinner For ’32 Grid Team
Mussolini—Roman Dinner— Basketball—Banquets— Is Italian Club Busy?
The Italian Club held its first meeting since the holidays last Tuesday evening at 6:30 in Room 2 of the Main Building. Future meetings, it was decided, will be held in the basement rooms of Walsh hall.
Plan Cage Team
Plans for another Roman dinner were submitted by Andrew Maffei, and the event will probably take place a few weeks hence. Other discussions were centered about the forma-. tion of a basketball team to represent the club and a formal banquet late in the second semester. The basketball team is to get under way soon and will be under the direction of Sabby Addonizio.
A short talk by Professor Pirchio, faculty adviser of the club, and a paper entitled “Benito Mussolini” read by Leonard Cacciatori brought the meeting to a close.
NOTABLES SPEAK
Jimmy Crowley Brilliant As Toastmaster; J. A. Farley Principal Speaker.
By Thomas Proctor
“In 1913 on the plains of West Point, Notre Dame became the recognized leader of new football; and since then the fame of your University has grown by leaps and bounds until now throughout the length and breadth of America the destinies of your elevens are followed each year by a gridiron fandom, the very ranks of which have been greatly swelled because of the genius shown by your football leadership.”
Fandom Praises N. D.
One thousand of this “fandom” heard Mr. James A. “Big Jim” Farley, national democratic chairman speak these words of tribute, while assembled at the 13th Annual Civic Testimonial Dinner given by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley in honor of the Notre Dame football team of 1932 and its coaches.
At Testimonial Grid Banquet: Left to right—Clarence Manion, Gov. Paul McNutt, Jimmy Croivley, James A. Farley, Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., Major John L. Griffith, Harry Kipke, Jesse Harper, and Mayor W. R. Hinkle.
Mr. Farley paused long enough in his strenuous schedule of duties to come to Soyith Bend and deliver his address at the banquet which began at seven o’clock on Monday evening, January 16, in the University Dining Hall.
With the exception of three addresses of serious theme and a speech of welcome by Mayor W. R. Hinkle of South Bend, good-natured bantering, humorous quips, marked the series of fine and varied talks presided over by Toastmaster Jimmie Crowley whose quick wit belied his nickname “Sleepy” as the audience and those who heard the banquet broadcast afterward affirmed. According to Warren Brown sports editor of the Chicago Herald and Examiner, who presented a completely humorous address, “Insult was the order of the evening.”
Band Entertains
Following an excellent full course dinner, musical selections by the Notre Dame Band directed by Joseph J. Casasanta, and continued migrations of alumni from table to table
(Continued on Pace 15)
Eight
The Scholastic
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
“DOME” PHOTOGRAPHY WORK TO BE CONTINUED
By Joseph Hanratty
Senior engineer, three years experience as a varsity tackle, one season as Assistant Freshman Football Coach, Monogram man, is the Notre Dame history of Regis C. McNamara,
Regis C. McNamara
The only monogrammed engineer.
resident of 249 Corby Hall, and one big proof that there are still Irish at Notre Dame.
The only monogrammed engineer in the University, McNamara is one of the few men in school who has found that football and engineering mix. In that combination may be found the intricacies of tackle play, chemistry, trigonometry, concrete, bridge work, calculus, and other subjects equally unknown to the majority of students. To prove that these mix, “Mac” won the medal for scholarship among Monogram men in his sophomore year.
Lives In Pittsburgh
Regis, a native of Pennsylvania’s Smoky City, Pittsburgh, still likes to recall the day he made his first appearance in the varsity line-up against college competition. It was the first game of his sophomore year, against Indiana.
“Rock” pulled the unexpected by starting the shock troops, and a sophomore sensation was in the line-up. He stumbled over his own feet that suddenly decided to act contrarily, fumbled with ten helmets before he finally found one to fit him (Oh yeah!) and tripped onto the field— as “Mac” always trips, with that lumbering step. It was his biggest thrill in a year that brought a homeless, wandering team the National Championship.
He was also a member of the 1930 National Championship team, but pressed by hard luck that has overshadowed so many football careers at Notre Dame—Mullins, Frank Leahy, Lukats, Banas. He was out almost
the entire two seasons, handicapped by injuries, and was not able to get in enough time required for a monogram. But “Mac” stayed out.
This year he returned to school and was named one of the Freshman assistant coaches. Now, after having taught his charges a new set of plays each week, which included everything from the Warner- to Notre Dame’s own system, he is “big brother” to some three score freshmen. All season he told them: “Tail down, bull neck, and eyes straight ahead.” They did it and liked it.
His table mates in the West dining hall profit by his popularity with big Don Elsor, one of the Freshmen fullbacks and juggler of trays. Anything “coach” wants he usually gets — and eleven wolves are ready to help him eat it.
Skating His Hobby
Skating is “Mac’s” hobby, but he can accustom himself even to the Indiana weather, he tells us, and has taken up the youthful art of “wading.” He is keeping in trim for a threatened beating by Spalding in tennis next spring (that’ll go on all winter!), by taking Matavovsky over the hurdles in hand ball. He diversifies his indulgences sometimes by practicing up his favorite dance steps on Saturday night. And can he dance! (Walter Winchell, rah-rah boy, has it confidentially). He likes Stephen Crane, but has decided leaning toward nonfiction of the wanderlust type—travelogues. He expects to write his own experiences after a trip to Kentucky next Easter.
Missing Breakfast An
Age-Old N. D. Tradition
Hearken, all ye late risers and be comforted. Missing breakfast is almost a tradition at Notre Dame. Just look at this original poem taken from The Scholastic files of 1904, away back when.
Ensconced between the blankets warm, Forgotten all the daily themes.
While I. a traveler of sleep. Am roaming in the land of dreams.
The warning bell sounds loud and clear.
Its hollow tones my ear oppress, But though a hundred W’arnings come— Ah breakfast! I shall miss you, yes.
Studio in Walsh Hall to Open Again After Exams.
By John Conley
Immediately after examinations the official photographer for the Dome will be present on the campus to finish the task in the usual place, namely, Walsh Hall basement, and announcements will be made concerning the hours.
Will Be Last Chance
This visit is primarily for the purpose of procuring pictures of the activity men and also those campus clubs which were not given an appointment on the previous schedule. All those engaged in activities will obtain a purchasing order from the Publications Office before presenting themselves for a sitting. As for the clubs, announcements will be sent to the presidents and bulletins will be posted around the campus. It might be noted that this is the last time any pictures will be taken, and if any appointments are broken at this late hour there will be no new ones doled out.
Work on the annual since the holiday recess has been progressing as rapidly as possible. Several visits have been paid the campus by the engravers.
Within the next two months it is expected that the Dome will take on a definite shape and begin to be the realisation of a determined effort to improve every department in the yearbook.
Knights Hold Communion Breakfast Last Sunday
The Honorable Judge Cain of the Notre Dame Law School addressed fifty Knights of Columbus last Sunday morning at a communion breakfast in the Lay Faculty dining hall. He commented on the condition of the United States and presented a reform remedies for the present depression.
Louis L. Buckley, District Deputy Knight, spoke briefly to the council.
The next regular meeting will be Monday, January 23. At that time a report of the Formal will be received from John F. Cary, General Chairman.
Nine
January 20, 1933
DEAN KONOP LECTURES ON LABOR LEGISLATION
BOOK REVIEWS
Economic Class Addressed On Timely Problem
Dean Konop of the College of Law addressed the members of Professor Louis Buckley’s 8 o’clock class in Economics on Monday, Jan. 16, in
Dean Konop
Told of his own experience.
. Room 219 of the Main Building. “The Administration of Labor. Legislation” was the subject of Dean Kon-op’s talk during which he related some of his experiences while a member for six years of the Industrial Commission of Wisconsin.
“In the enactment of a proposed order,” said the Dean, “a favorable decision can readily be reached if the men whom the laws affect are given the opportunity to present their arguments for or against the order. Thus, representatives of industrial commissions should inform manufacturers and employers as to the laws instead of pursuing an aggressive policy.”
Antiquated System
In referring to worker’s compensation, Mr. Konop pointed out that prior to 1911 the United States used an antiquated system of providing damages for injuries to laborers, a system which centered about common law. However, upon the enactment by the states of the Worker’s Compensation Act, only ten percent of
(Continued on Ease 10)
By Charles Phillips
“The Gospel in Action.” By Paul R. Martin, A.M. The Bruce Publishing Co., Milwaukee. (Science and Culture Series, Edited by Rev. Joseph Husslein, S.J., Ph.D.)
A letter from a friend the other day told of a personal call paid to a prominent business man, one of great wealth, but one whose business, like everyone’s business, suffers severely from the depression. What struck me most forcibly in the letter was this passage: “He seems ever so much kinder, gentler, more considerate, ever so much more approachable than he used to be. And this in spite of the depression.” In spite of! Actually because of; for there can be no question about it, what R. H. L. in the “Linotype” would call the “w. k.” depression is not all to the bad. It is doing good. It is opening the eyes of many people to human values, and better still to spiritual values. Dame Fortune is having some of her glitter dimmed by the modest garb of Lady Poverty.
Poverty And St. Francis
Lady Poverty was the first and only earthly love of St. Francis of Assisi. From her he learned many beautiful things — fortitude, endurance, heroism, cheerfulness, how to be happy. To spread her good fame, to let others share his joy of her, those great numbers who could not join him in his monastic regulation, he founded his Third Order Secular. This Third Order was the beginning of modern Catholic social action.
Beginning Of Catholic Reform
Mr. Martin’s book is one of the most interesting volumes I have read for years, interesting for two reasons: because it treats of a subject of vital concern, and because it is written in a style which holds and charms, even excites. For after all there is nothing more exciting in this world than the story of man and his efforts to solve the daily problems of life. That story, as The Gospel In Action sets it forth, shows us that if the Third Order Secular of St. Francis was the beginning of modern Catholic social reform, it took its heritage and inspiration from the earliest social workings of the Church, which, founded in the ideal of Christian
brotherhood, has from its inception been the greatest instrument of social betterment in the history of the world.
There are many points to this book which commend it to the reader. It is one of the first treatises we have had on Catholic social action from both the historical and the practical points of view; by which I mean, it not only tells us what Catholic social action has been, but what it can be and how. It leaves the reader with the conviction that if the ideal of Francis, as exemplified in the work of the Third Order, were adopted by the world at large, this would be a very different world indeed..
Characteristically Franciscan
There is a note of fairmindedness and charitableness—characteristically Franciscan—in Mr. Martin’s book that is refreshing. The thesis is, of course, that social reform can never succeed as mere humanitarianism; the materialistic ideal in social action cannot do more, ultimately, than complicate the problem. Yet Mr. Martin gives fullest credit to what has been done on this basis. In that he is wise. Catholic social action, keeping to its supernatural ideal, has much to learn from the world in the way of practical procedure.
The Broken Home
Nothing in the book exposes more convincingly the fundamental problem of social reform than its passages on the broken home. “Examine any number of social problems,” Mr. Martin writes in the course of his chapter on “Program,” “problems ranging from childish misdemeanor to major crime, and authorities will be found to agree that the broken home is a startling factor in them all. Yet the broken home is of itself only the result of a deeper and more fundamental cause.” It is this deeper cause which, as the author states, is “but little taken into account by modem materialists.” And it is here that the Christian social worker has his inning; he knows that “the broken home in nine cases out of ten is basically the result of man’s disregard for the sanctimony of matrimony.”
Mr. Martin has produced a valuable book, one which will prove of permanent value as a source of inspira-(Continued on Pase 32)
Ten
The Scholastic
GERALD COSGROVE TALKS TO JOURNALISM MAJORS
Semester Grades Will Be Issued Earlier This Year
GRAPHIC TRAVEL TALK ENTERTAINS WRANGLERS
South Bend Newspaper Man Heard Last Friday.
Mr. Gerald Cosgrove, editorial writer on the South Bend Tribune addressed the students majoring in Journalism in the Journalism room in the library last Friday. Mr. Cosgrove spoke of editorial writing as a profession and compared it with sports writing and reportorial work.
“The function of the editorial is to interpret the news and because of the volume of news appearing today, the editorial is an indispensable part of the newspaper,” Mr. Cosgrove said.
“News sources have changed so greatly in the past fifteen years that the newspapers themselves were forced to forego their local aspects and have taken on a national and international aspect,” he added.
“The reading public demands that editorials discuss only vital issues today and this makes the editorial writer a prophet whom the readers look to for their forecasts.”
Mary’s Name Closely
Heraldry is thought to have originated in the necessity for distinguishing, by some outward sign amidst the confusion of battle, the principal leaders during the expeditions for the recovery of the Holy Land. But nothing is absolutely known concerning it beyond the fact that the middle of the 12th century is the earliest period to which the bearing of the heraldic devices, properly so called, can be traced; and the commencement of the 13th, the time about which they became hereditary.
The name of the Blessed Virgin was closely associated with early English heraldry, and her image was displayed upon coat-of-arms, banners, or wherever it might indicate that the fortunes of its bearer were under her . protection. It is quaintly told of King Arthur, in language which we modernize: “This noble and mighty Prince King Arthur had great trust, so that he left his arms that he bore of dragons and over that another shield of crowns, and took to his arms a cross of silver in a field of vert, and
The Director of Studies of the University, Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., released information this week regarding examination Reports. Although definite reports as to dismissals from the University and the like may not be completed until February 10th or 15th, every effort is being made to -speed up the compilation of grades.
Semester reports to parents, rectors, and students will be out in half the time usually required. The various teachers have received instructions to hand in their grades earlier than usual and the marks should all come out within five days after the completion of the examinations.
However as regards dismissals from the University for failures, the decision rests in the hands of the Deans. This procedure, of course, will take more time.
If a student was on probation at the beginning of the year the change of system abolished his liability to expulsion at mid-semester. However, if he fails in one-third of his work in the semester examinations, he shall be liable to dismissal.
Related To Heraldry
on the right side an image of Our Blessed Lady, her Son in her arms.”
At the Battle of Agincourt, the English army carried five colors into action; one of them being the banner of Our Blessed Lady, this having the place of honor near the King.
Swords and breastplates were often adorned with Our Lady’s image; and the sword which was bestowed upon Richard the First when he became Duke or Normandy was first hallowed by being laid upon her altar.
Before the 16th century there were at least 11 foreign and two British ^ orders of chivalry founded, with Our Blessed Lady as patroness.
DEAN KONOP SPEAKS
(Continued from Page 9) •
compensation cases are filed for con-.test and of these, five percent are won by the contesting manufacturers and employers.
The speaker concluded his talk by answering questions submitted by members of the class.
Korzeneski Narrates “Good and Bad” About Paris.
By Louis Hruby
“Paris is a city of both Heaven and Hell, combined,” said Arthur Korzeneski, as he told the Wrangler society of his European adventures.
The organization, at its regular meeting, listened to him portray his impressions when he said, “the beautiful ■ side of Paris is most naturally the Louvre. Here is represented the work of masters in the fine arts profession. Paintings, sculpture, worked bronze and other things reflect the true spirit of former greatness of French artists.”
Sees Lourdes Miracle
Korzeneski then narrated of his visit to Lourdes, in southern France. He was extremely fortunate in having been present when an actual cure took place. “The sight was more than enough to strengthen the faith of any Catholic,” he said.
He traveled through Italy, visiting Rome and secured an audience with the Holy Father. He described the Pope’s entrance into the audienceroom as one that, “stopped my heartbeats!”
As the tour was quite extensive, the speaker passed over several details lightly, but spent much time in describing the Emperor Franz Joseph’s palace in Austria.
“It has seven hundred rooms, for the most part lavishly finished and decorated. The Palace occupies, literally, acres of ground, and flanking it on each side are gardens, beautifully kept, measuring a square mile in area!”
Korzeneski was in Berlin, Germany on the day that American newspapers were carrying the story of Hitler’s attack upon the Reichstag. In fact, he was viewing the locality at the exact time it was reported that Hitler was active. “I for one, can say that there wasn’t a Hitlerite within miles of the place,” said Korzeneski in conclusion.
The only good histories are those tha£ have been written by the persons themselves who commanded in the affairs whereof they write— Montaigne.
January 20, 1933
Eleven
DISCUSS IRISH DRAMA AND LEGAL SYSTEMS
White and Corcoran Present Papers to Gaelic Club.
“The Irish Dramatic Movement” and “Ancient Irish Law” were the topics of discussion at the last meeting of the Irish Club in papers given respectively by John P. White and Patrick V. Corcoran.
Abbey Theater Dsicussed
White, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, devoted a large part of his attention to the Abbey Theater of Dublin and its efforts to establish the Irish.drama. This subject was of especial interest following the lecture here last week of W. B. Yeats, one of the founders of the movement.
The history of the Irish theater was recounted, and interesting phases of the Abbey Company’s first American tour were given.
The Irish legal system which prevailed for 2,000 years until the imposition of English laws in Ireland four hundred years ago was described by Corcoran in his talk.
These laws, the speaker declared, furnish an unsurpassed source of information concerning the old Irish civilization and its social organization.
Crime Punishments
Among its interesting features were the common ownership of property by the clans and the lack of any provision for corporal punishment for crime.
Crimes were punished with material penalties, and reimbursement was made by payment of fines.
According to these laws, it -was pointed out, personal punishment was considered to be a second crime on account of the first, and the state recognized no duty to perform it.
It’s Good to be Young
Cardinal Gasparri, formerly secretary of State at the Vatican and now eighty years old, has just had published a treatise on Matrimony. He has another work in preparation which he hopes to have published as soon as he has completed the work of codification of Canon Law for the Eastern Churches.
Students Must Register February 1, or else—
The attention of students in all Colleges of the University is called to the fact that classes of the second semester will begin at 8:00 o’clock Wednesday morning, February 1. According to University regulation, absence from the first class in a subject in the second semester counts as three absences.
Five Dollars Fine
The purpose of the penalty is to keep students at the University and get them started promptly on their second half of the school year. For students in actual attendance at the University there will be one day, January 31, for registration of classes in the second semester.
Those students presenting themselves after that date will be considered as late registrants and subjected to a fine of five dollars.
Philosophy Seminar Notice!
The examination in Philosophy 113, Seminar in Philosophy taught every Monday evening at 7:00 o’clock in the Law Building, will be held Monday evening, January 23, from 7:00 to 8:30 o’clock.
Library Gets Additions In Numerous Fields
A list of the latest additions to the University library has just been released by Miss M. K. Lawrence of the Circulation Department. Outstanding among the new books are Titans of Literature, by Roscoe Burton, The Flying Carpet, by Richard Halliburton, and The March of Democracy, by James Truslow Adams.
The list follows :
The Ghetto—by Louis Wirth.
The Social Rights of Our Divine Lord, Jesus Christ—by A. Philippe, C.SS.R.
Vestments and Vesture, a Manual of Liturgical Art—by Eugene Augustine Roulin, O.S.B.
Hill Towns and Cities of Northern Italy—by Mrs. Dorothy Noyes Arms.
Red Mother—by Frank Bird Linderman.
Potomac Landings—by Paul Wil-stach.
Man’s Rough Road—by Albert Galloway Keller.
Criminals and Politicians—by Denis Tilden Lynch.
FOUR MEN PROMOTED TO EDITORSHIPS ON STAFF
Scholz, Dillon, Byrne and Proctor Boosted.
Four men on The Scholastic staff have been promoted to editorships within the past week. Roy Scholz, sophomore in the College of Science, and former assistant news editor, has been made a desk editor. Robert Dillon, news staff reporter, has been appointed to the same post.
James Byrne and Thomas Proctor, both sophomores in the College of Arts and Letters, and former reporters, have become assistant news editors to Mitchell Tackley.
The work of the four men during the past three months has been recognized by the editorial board as efficient and willingly done, and the promotions received unanimous approval.
The college undergraduate of today is taking life much more seriously and is showing a keener interest in public affairs than ever before, according to Dr. Frank Aydelotte, president of Swarthmore College.
Property has its duties as well as its rights.—Thos. Drummond.
The Life of William Bechford—by J. W. Oliver.
John Clare, a Life—by J. W. Tibble.
Selected Essays, 1917-1932 — by Thomas Stearns Eliot.
The Kingship of Christ—by Denis Fahey, C.S.Sp.
Cross Currents in English Literature of the 17th Century—by Herbert John Clifford Grierson.
A History of Early American Magazines—by Lyon Norman Richardson.
The Evolution of the French People
—by Charles Seignobos.
The Road to Good Advertising—by Kenneth Collins.
The Advertising Agency Looks at Radio—by Neville O’Neill.
World' War Debt Settlements—by Harold Glenn Moulton.
How to Write a Business Letter— by Marion G. Fottler.
Principles of Effective Letter Writing—by Lawrence Campbell Lakley.
The Jesuits and Education — by William Joseph McGucken, S.J.
(Continued on Page 15)
Twelve
The Scholastic
FR. CAVANAUGH SPEAKS TO ARCHITECTS’ CLUB
F ormer President Tells Of Early Life at N. D.
Contrary to superstition, the evening of Friday, January 13, was a most fortunate occasion for the members of “Le Cercle Des Bossus.” The Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former president of the University, entertained the members by relating incidents of early Notre Dame, some within his memory and others told to him by the colorful characters whom he found on the campus when he arrived, nearly forty-seven years ago.
Traces Ownership Of Campus
The purpose of the club this year is to collect and preserve some of the countless stories and legends of Notre Dame that have been neglected in recent years. Enough information was supplied by Father Cavanaugh to keep several historians busy for the next few weeks.
It would be difficult to single out a few of the incidents of Father Cavanaugh’s talk as being more important than others. Certainly Father Badin’s purchase of the present campus from the United States government for the sum of one dollar, cash, must be mentioned. After Father Badin the land belonged to Father de Seilies who gave it to the Bishop of Vincennes. Father Sorin acquired it a few years after his arrival in this country, and since then it has been the property of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Father Cavanaugh knew Father Sorin during the last seven years of his life and claims that the existing pictures and statues of the founder are “libelous.”
Mr. Shambleau, South Bend architech, and Mr. John E. Miller, who recently joined the faculty of the Architectural Department were also guests of the meeting.
Notice Sociology Majors!
There will be an important meeting of all students majoring in Sociology, Thursday, February 2nd, at 7 p. m., in the basement of Walsh Hall. All sociology majors, with the exception of seniors enrolled in the College of Law, are required to attend.
BLOOD AND COLDS ARE TOPICS AT MEET OF SCIENCE ACADEMY
“Some Interesting Aspects of the Morphology and Physiology of the Blood” was the title of a discussion presented by Hugh F. O’Neil, Science Junior, at the meeting of the Academy of Science last Monday evening.
The speaker confined his talk to the physiology, morphology, and the changes exhibited by the formed elements of the blood under pathogenic conditions, also to a general discussion of the technical methods employed.
Discussion Of Colds
The use of standard solutions in the case of animals, as well as the colorimetric procedure followed in the determination of the total amount of blood present in man, was discussed.
A chart of the case history of a patient under treatment for pernicious anaemia included in the paper proved of especial interest.
Thomas Paradise, also a junior in Science, spoke on the subject “Acute Coryza—Common Colds.”
The speaker stated that there is no satisfactory clinical definition of colds. He quoted Dr. Alphonse Dochez, most eminent student on the disease, as saying, “The more thorough study of the disease begins to indicate that it may be the keystone of that complex structure of ills, the causative agents of which gain entrance to the body by way of the respiratory tract.”
During the course of the address, the cause, symptoms, methods of study and prevention of the disease were entered into in detail.
Murray Ley, Former Editor of “Scholastic” is Engaged
Murray Hickey Ley, who was graduated from the University in 1930, is engaged to marry Miss Kathleen Conlon of Washington, D. C. Ley was the editor of The Scholastic in his senior year. At present he is general manager for the Hickey Brothers cigar stores in the Wardman Park, Carlton, and Annapolis hotels in Washington. No date is set for the wedding which, will be held during the coming summer in the Log Cabin chapel on the campus.
On what strange stuff ambition feeds!—Eliza Cook.
SECOND “LAWYER” ISSUE TO BE OUT NEXT WEEK
Prominent Lawyers Contribute To January Number.
The January issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer, a quarterly review published by the students of the College of Law, is expected to be ready for distribution at the end of the month. This second issue of the school year includes contributions of several prominent attorneys.
Thomas F. Konop, dean of the College of Law, writes on “A Great Opportunity for Lawyers”; the “Study of Bar Examinations in Indiana” is presented by Judge Lenn Oare of South Bend. Edward F. Streit of Aurora, Illinois, a young attorney connected with the same firm as Clarence Ruddy, first editor of the Lawyer, submits an explanatory article entitled “Conflicting Viewpoints of Psychiatry and the Law on the Matter of Criminal Responsibility.”
Prof. Rollison Writes
Professor W. D. Rollison will have a continuation of his discussion on “Priorities in the Law of Mortgages” which began in the November issue. Thomas E. Coughlan asks a popular question in his editorial styled “Are You Afraid to Go to Court?” while Aaron H. Huguenard, of South Bend, speaks of “Dr. Johnson on the Law and Lawyers.”
Other features of the January number are a review of the activities of the Law School and Law Club by Daniel C. Lencioni, present editor of the Lawyer, and “Comments and Notes” on recent cases prepared by Judge William M. Cain of the law faculty and students Herbert P. Giorgio, F. X. Kopinski and Arthur Duffy.
Daughter Born to Wife of University Registrar
A six and one-half pound girl was bom to Mrs. Robert Riordan, wife of the University Registrar, in St. Joseph’s Hospital, Sunday, January 15.
It has already been decided that the child will be christened Marcia Ellen. This new arrival increases the number of Mr. Riordan’s family to five.
January 20, 1933
Thirteen
K. of C. Hold Annual Ball Tonight
JOHN CAHILL
Grand Knight
MISS MARY CASS
Guest of Grand Knight
MISS REGINA HEGARTY
Guest of General Chairman
Ace Brigode Band to Play From 8:30 to 12, General Chairman Cary Expects 350 Couples
JOHN CARY
General Chairman
Tonight,, at eight-thirty o’clock, the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus will be host to about three hundred and fifty couples at its annual dance, which is to be held in the Palais Royale Ballroom. Those attending the K. of C. Ball will dance to the pleasing music of Ace Brigode and his Virginians, who are engaged to play until midnight. Twelve-thirty permission will be granted to those students attending the ball.
May Play New N. D. Song
John F. Cary, General Chairman of the Ball, says that he and his committee have made all possible arrangements to insure the success of the dance. “It will exceed all expectations,” stated Cary.
August von Boecklin, Chairman of the Program Committee, has selected favors which are of distinctive design. The programs may be procured from von Boecklin in Alumni Hall until eight o’clock this evening.
Arrangements are under way to have Ace Brigode and his orchestra
feature Walter Donaldson’s new number, “The Spirit of Notre Dame.” The song was played for the first time over the air by Vincent Lopez and his orchestra on KYW, Tuesday night, January 10. This will be its first presentation on a public dance program.
List Of Patrons
Dean and Mrs. James E. McCarthy, Judge and Mrs. Albert Doyle, Mr. and Mrs. Louis F. Buckley, Mr. and Mrs. Heartley W. Anderson, Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Bocskei, Mr. and Mrs. L. H. Baldinger, Mr. Cletus T. Chizek, Mr. Lee T. Flatley, and Mr. John A. Sullivan are patrons for the dance.
Guests Of Honor
Miss Regina Hegarty, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, is to be the guest of Chairman John F. Cary. Grand Knight John H. Cahill will have as his guest Miss Mary E. Cass of South Bend, Indiana. Many girls from St. Mary’s, Notre Dame, St. Mary-of-the-Woods, Pittsburgh, Chicago, and South Bend will be guests of the stu
dents attending the Formal.
The complete committee list for the formal is as follows:
Complete Committees
Tickets: W. Lawrence Sexton chairman; Raymond M. Gerend, Samuel E. West, Donald E. Lusardi, Raymond J. Naber, Frederick J. Fayette, William R. Murphy, John’V. Coyne. Stewart H. Osborn, Howard H. Flannery, James B. Quinland, James B. Lannon, and Eugene H. Bernhardt.
Music: Edmund L. Moriarty, chairman; Francis E. McGuire and Edward J. Roach.
Programs: August von Boecklin, chairman; Eugene R. Zinn and Paul E. Kreuz.
Publicity: F. Granger Weil, chairman; John G. Jaeger and Joseph J. Kurth.
Decorations: Frank W. Honerkamp. chairman; J. Warren Schwantes and Francis J. McGahren.
Patrons: Joseph D. Clark, chairman; Michael A. Santulli and Savino W. Cavender.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
EXAMINATION TO BEGIN
NEXT THURSDAY, JAN. 26
All letters to the Voice of the Campus must be addressed to the Editor of The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall. Names must be signed in full. Initials will be used upon request.
Complete Schedule Announced By Father Carrico.
SPLINTERS
Editor of The Scholastic
Dear Editor:
I believe that the primary purpose of interhall activities is to create friendly competition among the students of Notre Dame. With this view in mind can you explain why there is so much favoritism shown towards the big fellows? My bone of contention lies in the fact that the lightweight basketball teams must not only practice, but they are forced to play their games in the apparatus room. Not only is the floor too small, but it is in such a pitiful condition that it is dangerous to the players. The fellow is indeed fortunate who takes a spill and does not get a back full of dirty splinters for his efforts. I do not mean to be a “griper,” but I know that something must be done to remedy this condition.
I suggest, since time does not allow both the lights and heavies to play on the varsity floor Sunday mornings, that the light-weight games should be played on Saturday or Sunday afternoons. I believe that with a little cooperation this can and should be taken care of.
E. J. N.
ESTHETE
Dear Editor:
It is our good fortune to possess a bound volume of The Scholastic issues for 1903-1904. These issues we find to contain numerous excellent pieces of poetry and prose contributed by the students of that day in.addition to regular campus news.
Now there is no reason to believe that the students of today are less inclined toward intellectual pursuits or less gifted in forms of literature than our predecessors of past years. Notre Dame must never lose its prestige as a school where the higher things of life, such as prose and poetry, should be given great impetus because of the inspiring surroundings and the nature of student instruction.
Our point is this. The editor of Scrip has been asking for contribu-' tions of prose and poetry. Perhaps students of Notre Dame would rather
neglect these things in favor of the gross sensualities of the age, this wonderful and glorious “Age of Realism.” Even athletics should take a back seat in deference to the pursuit of culture. If we do not awaken to these things, all of the fine things of life, including religion, are apt to go the way of other “ancient” pursuits. Being “modern” is fine, but there are limits.
Sincerely,
A. B. C.
FRONTIER SPIRIT
Editor of The Scholastic,
Dear Sir:
For late relaxation the other night a few of us gathered in one of the more favored spots for a short session. It proved to be more than that eventually.
One of the boys happened to ask the question: why doesn’t the school have some sort of place for mental relaxation? He seemed to think that the cold atmosphere of the library is more repulsive than inviting to those students who want to spend an hour or so in casual reading.
Many schools provide rooms known as lounge rooms or browsing rooms for the benefit of the students. The purpose of these rooms is to create a quiet, restful atmosphere for light yet beneficial reading. They are designed to attract the student in his moments of lesiure.
The question caused a rather interesting discussion. A couple called the idea impractical for this place. Yes, it could be used in about e\e.-y other type of school in the country ■but not Notre Dame. The books of light reading that would have to be provided, the comfortable chairs, all these things would not last around here. What Professor O’Grady calls “the old frontier spirit” would make the thought of such a room a joke, according to this fellow.
But the other fellows didn’t agree. They were of the opinion that such a room would be thoroughly appreciated and properly used. Every type of student gets tired of the lonesome room now and then and feels the need (Continued on Page 31)
According to the announcement from Rev. J. L. Carrico, C.S.C., the semester examinations • will be held in all the colleges of the University on the Thursday, Friday, Saturday morning and Monday, of Jan. 26th to 30th, according to the following
schedule:
Classes taught at 8:00 on Monday 9:00 on Monday 10:00 on Monday 11:00 on Monday
1:15 on Monday 2:15 on Monday 3:15 on Monday
Classes taught at 8:00 on Tuesday 9:00 on Tuesday 10:00 on Tuesday 11:00 on Tuesday
1:15 on Tuesday 2:15 on Tuesday .3:15 on Tuesday
Will be examined at 8:00 on Friday 8:00 on Monday 10:00 on Friday 10:00 on Monday 1:15 on Friday 3:15 on Friday 1:15 on Monday
Will be examined at 8:00 on Thursday 8:00 on Saturday 10:00 on Thursday 10:00 on Saturday
1:15 on Thursday 3:15 on Thursday 3:15 on Monday
Classes taught any day at 4:15 are to be examined at 7:00 p. m. on Thursday.
Classes taught any evening at 7:00 are to be examined at 7:00 p. m. on Friday.
The time for the examination in any course not provided for in the schedule above will be fixed by the teacher of the course. The period for each of the semester examinations is one hour and 50 minutes. Any examination outside of these four days assigned in the University calendar will not be valid for credit.
Further, Father Carrico warns us that “a student who is on probation in the first quarter is liable to dismissal if he fails in one-third of his work.”
NOTICE!
All applications for membership in the Wranglers, the honorary forensic society of the University, must be in writing and postmarked not later than midnight Jan. 21. Address, John Hayes, 348 Alumni.
Varsity debaters and participants in Interhall debating, or any other forensic activity on the campus are eligibile.
a
Because of the semester examinations and the condition of the staff’s grades to date, there will be no issue of “The Scholastic” next week.
fl
January 20, 1933
Fifteen
JOHNSON, DOYLE ADDRESS SPECTATORS LAST NIGHT
Farm Problem and Liberal Education Are Topics.
The Spectators heard two talks last night of a varied nature, one by Walter Johnson on “Farm Problem Remedies,” the other by Gerry Doyle on ‘‘The True Meaning of Liberal Education.”
Johnson, in his discussion, showed the inadequacy of the McNary-Haugen bills and went into some detail in treating the present popular Roosevelt-supported “Domestic Allotment Plan. The club concluded after the talk to leave the solution of the problem to other hands.
Gerry Doyle substantiated many of his own remarks with those of Cardinal Newman, but went a bit further in his interpretation of “liberal.”
His more or less Utopian University brought forth considerable comment before the meeting ended.
Origin of “Adeste Fideles” Found to be Interesting
•As the “Adeste Fideles” is sung during the Christmas season until Candlemas Day, Feb. 2, this word about its origin may be interesting. Individual authorship the “Adeste Fideles” may not have had. The atmosphere of the monastic scriptorium breathes, however, through its melodious strophes. It is in many respects unique in Christian hymnol-ogy. More than any other Church song it blends prophesy, history, prayer, exultation, and praise. If it Were printed side by side wtih the Nicene Creed it would be found an astonishing versification of that august prose. Every line of the “Adeste” is a casket of faith and love. Upon its cadence many hours must have been spent, for the crystallization of sublime truth into crisp and dazzling syllables. Adeste: approach; fideles: ye faithful ;~-Taeti: joyful; trium-phantes: victorious; venite: come; adoremus: let us adore; Dominum: the’Tjord. The hymn in the Latin form is so musical that it is memorized almost without effort. It is found continuously from the middle of the seventeenth century.
Men are most apt to believe what they least understand. — Michael de Montaigne.
1200 Enjoy Brilliant Program of Speeches At 13th Annual Testimonial Grid Banquet
(Continued from Page 7)
for the purpose of greeting old friends and schoolmates, Presiding Officer Edward J. Meehan opened the program. Mr. Meehan introduced the toastmaster, who then took over the reins for the evening.
Crowley Presides
Toastmaster Crowley at once launched an offiensive of wit against the speakers on the program, who in most instances proceeded to give Mr. Crowley a taste of his own medicine. After the speech of welcome by Mayor Hinkle, Noble Kizer and Gus Dorais, football coach of Purdue and director of athletics at Detroit University respectively, both Notre Dame alumni, were introduced. Kizer concluded his remarks by saying, “May the best team win next November 11th,” referring to the Purdue-Notre Dame game of that day. The University’s versatile band aided in the introduction of the next speaker, James A. Farley, by playing “Happy Days Are Here Again” the Democratic Anthem. Toastmaster Crowley transformed himself into political character to give the famous manager of boxers and politicians a real political introduction, flowery and oratorical.
In his address Mr. Farley praised the team and coaching staff, the late Knute K. Rockne, his friends in the Middle West, the Fathers of the Holy Cross Congregation, and the system of Catholic education. He referred to himself often as one of the “subway alumnus” of Notre Dame. “Big Jim” concluded his remarks with a plea for support of his party in this time of distress, showing the importance of “blocking” obstacles in national affairs as well as in football.
Mr. McNutt Speaks
With the playing of “Indiana” by the band, Governor Paul Vi McNutt of Indiana was introduced. The impressive executive stressed the point that the “spirit of Notre Dame” should be carried into the world in this hour of its need. He then congratulated the team as a group of upstanding, fighting men.
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame, pointed out the present proper status of football as a game and nothing more, and the relation of college alumni to their football team. Using
Molokai, the leper colony as an example, Father O’Donnell told of the worldwide devotion toward Notre Dame and its representatives. The president interspersed his address with many humorous remarks and with expressions of gratitude to those who had managed the affair.
Harry Kipke, coach of Michigan University, national football champions, Warren Brown, Arch Ward, Chicago Tribune Sports Editor, Jesse Harper, director of athletics at Notre Dame, Patrick Manion, who paid a glowing tribute to Rockne, and Coach Heartley W. Anderson were on the speakers program. “Hunk” introduced the members of the 1933 Varsity and Coaching Staff.
Elaborate Decorations
Many notables, including Major John Griffith, commissioner of the Big Ten, Senator Frederick Van Nuys of Indiana, Frank Walker, democratic national treasurer, Charles Hand, Washington correspondent, and others were introduced in the course of the evening.
The hall was decorated with large pennants and flags, the speaker’s table being arranged in the form of a football field with yard markers and goal posts. At one time in the evening a bust of Rockne was illuminated by floodlight and the audience arose to pay silent respects, while the band played “Notre Dame Our Mother.” Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C. was winner of the autographed football drawing. The banquet concluded with the playing of the “Victory March.”
NEW BOOKS
(Continued from Page 11)
Wood-Engraving and Woodcuts— by Clare Veronica Hope Leighton.
Nicodemus, a Book of Poems—by Edwin Arlington Robinson.
Blessed Spinoza—by Lewis Browne.
The Healing Cults; a Study of Sectarian Medical Practice; its Extent, Causes and Control—by Louis Schultz Reed.
Making the Most of Books—Leal Aubrey Headley.
The 'Victorian Morality of Art— Henry Andrews Ladd.
Bernard Shaiv, Playboy and Prophet—by Archibald Henderson.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
U.S. Wants Europe to Pay;
Yet Keeps Tariff Walls
By Walter Johnson
DEBATE TEAM TO HOLD RADIO MEET WITH KENT
Oppose Chicago Law College February 11.'
Debt dilemma. Installment impasse. How can Europe pay?
The world supply of gold at the end of last October amounted to approximately $11,700,000. Of this the United States held almost four billions. Obviously, therefore, the amount of bullion outside this country, less than eight billions, would not satisfy our claims of some twice that sum. Were we to demand all the gold in the world war debts would still be unpaid. There is simply not enough gold.
Tariff Bars Goods
Having eliminated currency, there is left as a medium of payment only goods and services. Yet our present economic policy makes this form of settlement almost as impossible as the former. Our tariffs are a national institution—and their purpose, solely to protect American industries from an influx of foreign goods. By adding to the cost of imported products a sum sufficient to prevent their competing with domestic items, protective tariffs have succeeded in giving America a favorable balance of trade. Yet, were the debts to be paid in goods, these goods would have to enter the country through our regular channels of commerce.
In a word, the situation resolves to this: Debts can’t be paid in gold. We wont accept goods. Still the American public demands payment.
Possible Solutions
What will happen? There is a question which is costing both Mr. Hoover and Mr. Roosevelt a lot of lost sleep. Any attempt to answer it would be rather ambitious—however, the number of possibilities is limited, and we can easily, if superficially, consider the probable results.
First, cancellation is proposed. Such an action would definitely eliminate the problem. It would insure the good "will of Europe, and, so many economists claim, would facilitate a return of prosperity. The Allies have cancelled most of Germany’s reparation payments, those saddled on her after the war, and now they argue that the United States should be equally generous in cancelling their
debts. In this way, however, Europe would escape all payment, as would Germany, while we found ourselves with fifteen billion dollars worth of Liberty Bonds coming due, to be paid by means of increased taxation.
Cancellation Is Out
No, as far as America and the American people are concerned, cancellation is out. Such a policy is against every national tradition. We have never repudiated a debt, and therefore resent any such tendency on the part of another nation. President-elect Roosevelt has announced himself definitely against this policy.
Secondly, there is the possibility of demanding full payment, as provided in our agreement of 1922. But that would be almost as unfair to Europe as the former is to us. The debts were contracted during war times, when a price index showed money worth about 60 per cent less than it is today. Thus Europe is forced to pay her debts in money which she can obtain only ■with great difficulty, -money which is worth far more than when it was borrowed. True, in refunding, through reducing interest rates, we lowered the totals almost 50 per cent, but, at the present, even interest schedules have decreased to such an extent as to vitiate the value of that move. Now our government carries its own bonds at a rate so low as to allow it to make a profit on the exchange. Thus, under existing arrangements, the debtors are forced to pay, as a result of deflated money and decreased interest, much more in terms of goods than they borrowed.
Third Choice—Revision
Our third alternative, revision, is the perennial and generally successful compromise. For reasons already listed, it seems, moreover, the only just solution. Revision downward, certainly, but how far?
The Allies claim that all monies borrowed for war purposes, some billions, were used to fight an American war, that in a sense we furnished supplies rather than men. And their contention is substantiated by statements of many congressmen as (Continued on Page 30)
Although the schedule of debates on the question of taxation has not as yet been completed, Professor William Coyne, director of debating, recently released the information that
William Coyne His team meets Kent.
J
Notre Dame will debate Kent College of Law at Chicago, February 11th. The question to be debated is, “Resolved: that the federal government should own and operate all hydroelectric power.” This is the same question which was debated by William Kirby and Joseph Becek who won a decision over Purdue University shortly before vacation.
Station WLS, Chicago, will broadcast the speech fray with Kent. The time of debate and the men who will represent Notre Dame have not yet been determined.
Cathedral of Learning at Pitt Endangered by Fire
Pittsburgh, Pa. — The Cathedral of Learning of the University of Pittsburgh, 41-story class-room building which is costing the University $8,000,000 to construct, narrowly escaped complete destruction by fire when flames ate their way up and down eleven stories of the building’s areaway before firemen . brought it under control.,
Although the building is not yet complete, many of the class rooms and the university offices in the building already are in use.
The structure is an imposing educational monument, sitting on top of a hill overlooking the whole of Pittsburgh.
January 20, 1933
Seventeen
PILLSBURY WILL SHOW RARE FILMS IN LECTURE
San Francisco Fire Pictures Will be Used.
Mr. Arthur Pillsbury, who will show his wonder films here on January 30th, in Washington Hall, was photographer for the San Francisco Examiner at the time of the earthquake which was followed by a most destructive fire. He was the only professional photographer who made a set of photographs showing the city actually burning. One picture he made, a panorama ten by 44, was taken from the roof of the St. Francis hotel and shows the main part of the city in flames.
Photographic Plants
Shortly after the San Francisco catastrophe, Mr. Pillsbury turned to the photographing of plants and flowers, showing their growth by means of the movies. Many of his latest pictures in this field will be shown here in natural colors.
While not on a lecture tour, Mr. Pillsbury is constantly working in his large laboratory in Berkeley, Calif., in the field, or under the ocean, to secure new pictures of worthwhile subjects. Several movies made under the ocean along the California coast last .summer are said to be the finest under-sea movies ever produced. At least one reel of them will be shown by Mr. Pillsbury here next Friday.
Fr. Ryan Working On New History Text Book
Reverend John M. Ryan, C.S.C., Ph.D., head of the Department of History at Notre Dame, is making rapid progress on his new history book. Father Ryan has taken much painstaking research in gathering the information for this work which is to be a history of Western Europe. It is expected that the book will be finished and ready for publication sometime this year.
Randolph, Portsmouth Pro., Returns to N. D. Law School
Clair Randolph, center last year on the Portsmouth professional football team will return this January to the Notre Dame College of Law, to complete work for his LL.B. degree in June.
Washington Hall Steps Tell Their History of N.D.
By J. D. Porterfield
On north Michigan Avenue in Chicago is an old gray stone tower, that was once the home of Chicago’s water-works. It was there when Chicago was young, and it has seen the growth of a great city, and beneath it have passed famous personages of all nations and pursuits, and it has seen men in the greatness of their power and when their names were but a memory. All Chicagoans revere that tower, as the Egyptians their pyramids.
Steps And Memories
At the north end of the campus of Notre Dame was a set of stairs, merely stone stairs and a railing leading to the entrance of one of Notre Dame’s most famous halls. Only recently, they have felt the progress of time, and have given way to new interior stairways, that have replaced Bill’s Barber Shop and the telegraph office, stairways new and firm and practical. But with the passing of the old stone steps of Washington Hall many memories return unbidden to make us sorrow at their going. Memories of former glory and youthful greatness. Steps, as such, are merely utilitarian. But Washington Hall steps are stairways that, past usefulness, still hold an aura of romance that the years could not dim.
Braced By Celebrities
Up those stairs for many years have gone the sons. of Notre Dame. Side by side, the famous scientist and the eminent philosopher have climbed them. Through the years, great figures have grasped the railing and mounted to the auditorium. Knute Rockne, student, teacher and beloved coach. . . Professor M. J. McCue, late dean emeritus of the College of Engineering. . . G. K. Chesterton, Hil-laire Belloc, other famous writers and critics of old and modern times . . . Dr. James J. Walsh, Laetare Medalist, eminent surgeon and distinguished lecturer.... Joseph Scott, Laetare Medalist, Knight of the Order of St. Gregory. . . Frank Ward O’Malley, famed newspaper man. . . Etienne Gilson, noted French lecturer . . . S. P. Grace, chief engineer of the Bell Laboratories... W. B. Yeats, Irish dramatist and poet. . . Eamon
de Valera, president of the Irish Free State. . . . Dr. F. Payne, celebrated cytologist and research worker, president of the Indiana Academy of Science. . . Col Hoyne, dean emeritus of the Law School of Notre Dame. . . . Dr. H. H. Newman, zoologist and research worker of the University of Chicago. . . George Gipp, beloved AllAmerican. . . the Four Horsemen of immortal football fame. . . a score of All-Americans____The Abbey Players, renowned actors in the world. . . the Paulist Choir, of international fame . . . the Welsh Singers, their country’s foremost singing group___there is no end to them, these glorious figures of the past and the present. Many of them ure have climbed stairs with too, poet, chemist and philosopher. Sons of Notre Dame and friends of Notre Dame.
They have climbed the stairs, never noticing, perhaps the stone steps they trod upon; yet, from each has the stairs gained a little of fame, a little of the passing glory of each has attached itself to them. They are a monument to the passing show of life. And now they have passed. And the world goes on.
Bethel College to Close
Ruusselville, Ky. — In the 80 years that Bethel College has been training Kentucky students the institution has weathered a number of depressions. But this one has proved too much for the Baptist institution.
At the end of the present semester, Jan. 21, the college will close its doors, and the students must complete their educations elsewhere.
Officials said the school’s finances were completely depleted, and the college could not maintain its educational standard. Rather than lower it, it was decided to close the college doors.
Law Registration Completed
Pre-registration for the second semester in the College of Law has been practically completed. Ten students from the Arts and Letters, Commerce and Engineering schools are to begin their law studies the coming semester.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
AFTER COLLEGE—WHAT?
One question that we meet all too often for personal comfort is, “What do you intend to do when you have finished college?” The traditional answer, “Sell Bonds,” no longer seems to fit.
The college world has come tumbling down around our ears since the halycon days of 1928, when no college graduate worried about a job.
There are too many holders of Ph.D. degrees in the bread-lines for any student to feel sure of what may happen to him after he finishes college.
During the last three years, the world has seen development of something quite unknown previously, a college-trained proletariat, without jobs, and without much hope of getting a job.
It would be quite absurd to blame the colleges because their graduates are unable to obtain even common, ordinary “jobs.” In the old days, students could look forward to a “position.” But now they hunt jobs, and go through their soles, just like anybody else.
It would also be absurd to merely say that “times will get better,” and let it go at that.
The fact of the matter is that the system needs rejuvenating. College students of the future will make jobs, instead of merely receiving them.
There is no study more important to the average student than that of how we can bolster the system to eliminate depression, or how we can rebuild it without losing our cultural heritage.
That question will become, more and more important as more and more college graduates are forced to the bread-lines.—Silver and Gold, University of Colorado.	'
'	V
ANOTHER PIPE COURSE
After many complaints that college students were deficient in the knowledge of a furnace’s anatomy, the University of Iowa recently introduced a course in furnace tending. There will be no tuition charge.
WITH A HEY NONNY, NONNY!
“A hyper-critical and literary magazine, sedulously eschewing all traces of pseudointellectuality, and to be run independent of any campus organization,” is planned by a group of students at McGill university at Montreal.
V.
IT’S THE WOMAN WHO PAYS!
A new solution to the collegiate social problem has been offered by Tulane university which has formed a Gigolo club to provide “attractive, well-dressed dates” for all occasions for “small remuneration.” An escort to a formal party requiring a dinner jacket will collect two dollars, while informal dates will cost only one dollar. “Any expenses including taxies, shows, flowers, night clubs and checks will naturally be paid by the young woman,” a campus poster declares.
V ,
CAPONE-LY!
A questionnaire for the identification of 50 famous Americans was recently presented to a class in government at the University of Oklahoma. The name of Al Capone was the only one to be correctly identified by all the students.
V
ALWAYS BELITTLIN’
At Cornell students who fall asleep in the library are given warnings, after three of which they are fined.
V
MORE OF THE OFF-CAMPUS!
A culture test conducted at the Carnegie foundation recently might discourage the younger generation about to enter college. It was found that the average freshman knew more than the senior student, especially in mathematics and English.	.
January 20, 19-
Nineteen
EDITORIALS
SATIETY
Several things have been getting on our nerves this year, but the movie industry in general is certainly far in the lead. We have often heard it said in social pathology classes that a cinema producer aims at the ten year old mind. Such a remark seemed a bit out of place in the face of some mature bits of motion picture work during the last few years, but it applies unqualifiedly at the present time.
A critic of acknowledged rank recently made the statement that the movies are art in that they mirror the age, and that if we blame anything it should be the philosophy of the times and not the Hollywood producers.
It’s a nice way of getting out of it, but we can’t agree with him. If we have a steady flow of love-sick kittens along Main Street, that alone does not justify the continual presentation of the sex theme, or the constant portrayal of abnormal lives in such a way as to lead an audience to think that they are distinctly normal.
Real art is more discriminating and more fair. It sees the sordid, but doesn’t try to cloak it. It calls it for what it is. It never creates a platinum blonde goddess with a heavenly look in her eyes who innocently blows her husband’s head off some evening that she may trip west with the man waiting in the taxicab downstairs. Hasn’t she a right to happiness, she asks ? And she says it all so angelically that most of the people in the seats admit that she has a perfect right and that her husband was a rake for getting in the way.
True, they are only movies, and intelligent people forget about them when the curtain goes down. But there are not very many intelligent people. The majority of a typical movie audience is impressed, consciously or unconsciously, by the Gable-Harlow repartee and general outlook on life, and it goes home seeing itself doing the same things some day.
But it probably does little good to go on like this. There will be half-baked pictures as long as there are half-baked people, and there will be half-baked people until entropy, or St. Peter, or another big flood ends it all.
PATRONAGE
The Scholastic, while not wanting to discriminate in its news or editorial columns, feels obligated at this time to say something in favor of those people who hand in their check for advertising space in its pages. Other things being equal, there is no reason why we should not patronize our own subscribers to the fullest extent. Call it utilitarian or whatever you will, but the fact remains that we are living in a period when it is suicidal to be otherwise. And if that doesn’t satisfy you we can bring in the golden rule, sportsmanship, epigrams, and ten other things which justify our position.
V
CRIME AND EDUCATION
The Redbook for February carries an article that touches upon a subject we had never considered to any great extent. Written by a chaplain in Sing Sing it deals almost exclusively with the college men who are serving time in the New York penitentiary. Some of the biggest universities in the country are apparently well represented. “When a college glee club or choir sings here,” says the author, “there is almost certain to be some sort of alumni reunion.”
Crimes for which the university men have been convicted seldom involve force, intimidation, or extreme physical exertion. Forgery has sent the most students to Sing-Sing. Larceny is a close second. Crimes of the mind, rather than of the body, seem to be most prevalent among the collegians. No college professor is in Sing-Sing at the present time. The chaplain has never met a prisoner who has worked his way through college.
One would like to be able to conclude from the article that as education increases in a man, tendencies towards crime diminishes, but the facts presented do not admit of such a deduction.
After we finished reading, the only question which came to our mind was whether it is an advancement to have forgers instead of pickpockets, or stock-waterers instead of thieves on the streets.
Before saying anything more about the chaplain’s article we would like to know something further about the education that the men in question received before landing in prison. .
Twenty
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
Irish Beat Minnesota 30 to 22
Long Lead Amassed In First Half CAGERS ON ROAD FOR Brings Victory In Sloppy Contest TWO GAMES NEXT WEEK
Gopher Rally in Second Half Barely Fails; Robinson and Krause Outstanding.
By James F. McKeon
Holding a 21-6 advantage over the University of Minnesota as it left the floor at the end of the first half, the Notre Dame basketball team went into a slump once the second half got under way and it took everything that they had to win out in the end by the score of 30-22. Two baskets in the last half minute of the game put the game on ice for the Keoganmen when it appeared for a time that they might be overtaken by the visitors.
First Half Easy
Minnesota offered little resistance in the first half and Notre Dame appeared to be in for an easy win as it rolled up a commanding lead. But things changed once the second half got under way and the invaders crept up steadily until with a minute of the game remaining they trailed by only four points. Notre Dame scored but three times from the floor in the second half.
Seemingly inexperienced and lacking in all of the finer points of the game, Minnesota by sheer aggressiveness kept in the ball game. Led by Captain Brad Robinson who scored 15 of his team’s 22 points, they outscored Notre Dame 15 points to 9 in the second half. Robinson was just about one of the best basketeers to perform, here this year.	*
The game itself was one of the poorest played here, and throughout most of the evening the play of both teams, bordered on the high school type. Both teams handled the ball poorly and both missed numerous scoring chances.
, Minnesota tallied all of its points
in the first half on field goals. Weakness during this period in free throw shooting became all the more glaring when they were striving for victory,
Ed “Moose” Krause
Halted a Govher Threat.
as out of the seven chances that they were given to score from the free throw line in the first 20 minutes, they failed to capitilize on any of them. In the second half they made eight out of elevein good. Notre Dame converted six out of eleven during the game. A total of 24 personal fouls were called, 15 of them being on Notre Dame.
Krause opened the scoring for the evening when he sank a field goal after he was left unguarded down under the basket in the first minute of the game. Mitby evened it up (Continued on Page 26)
Play Pitt Tomorrow, Toledo Monday on Foreign Floors.
Facing a chance to raise their season record above the .500 plane, the Notre Dame basketball squad will leave tonight for a two-game trip involving clashes with Pittsburgh and the University of Toledo.
Tenth Pitt Game
The Pitt game, which will be played tomorrow night, is the tenth renewal of a rivalry which started during the 1926-’27 season. Monday night’s game at Toledo marks the opening of athletic relations between the Irish and the Ohio school.
Pittsburgh, long a power in basketball’s highest circles, will face the Keoganites with a young team, but one that has had considerable success during the first portion of their schedule. Among their victims is Butler, recent conquerors of the Irish, who lost to Pitt 38-30 in an overtime.
Captain Don Smith of the Panthers is a versatile eager. Three years ago he played center with one of Pitt’s greatest freshman teams. That frosh quintet went undefeated throughout their yearling period.
Smith Now A Forward
During his first two years on the varsity, Smith played guard but is operating at a forward post this season. He is probably the fastest dribbler on the squad. Whitey Wilson, a sophomore who stands a little over six feet, will team with Smith at the forward positions.
Wilson, who was the great high school star at New Kensington, led the freshman scorers at Pitt last year. Another member of last season's freshman team will be in the Panther lineup at center where Claire Cribbs performs. Cribbs is a tall, rugged (Continued' on Page 32)
■January 20, 1933
Twenty-one
THIRTY-TWO MEN TO RECEIVE GRID LETTERS
Butler Gains Revenge On Keoganites by 27-25 Score
Nine Players, Two Managers Get First Monograms.
A group of thirty Notre Dame football players and two grid managers were awarded major monograms by the Athletic Board of the University this week.
Included in the list of letter winners are eleven individuals who had never before won a major football award. Nine players, Dominic Vairo, Norbert Rascher, Thomas Roach, Richard Pfefferle, Michael Leding, Rocco Schiralli, John Robinson, Albert McGuff, and John Tobin, received their first letters as did Managers Anthony Winy and Frank Buhl.
Nine To Graduate
The same number of players, nine, received their last monogram for Irish grid play, as they will graduate in June. This group includes Captain Paul Host, Ed Kosky, Joe Kurth, Jim Harris, Norm Greeney, Charley Jask-which, Emmett-Murphy, Mike Koken and Joe Sheeketski. The remaining twenty-one lettermen are expected back next fall for further service.
Sixty minutes of actual competition is the playing requirement for a major monogram award in football.
The complete list of those receiving monograms is as follows:
Ends: Captain Paul Host, Edwin Kosky, Hugh Devore, Dominic Vairo, Norbert Rascher.
Tackles: Joseph Kurth, Edward Krause, Thomas Roach, Richard Pfefferle, Michael Leding.
Guards: James Harris, Norman Greeney, Harry Wunsch, Rocco Schiralli, Joseph Pivarnik.
Centers: John Robinson, Thomas Gorman, Benjamin Alexander.
Twelve Backs Named
Quarterbacks: Charles Jaskwhich, Emmett Murphy, Laurie Vejar.
Halfbacks: Michael Koken, Raymond Brancheau, Nicholas Lukats, Joseph Sheeketski, Albert McGuff, John Tobin.
Fullbacks: George Melinkovich, Stephen Banas, James Leonard.
Managers: Anthony Wirry, senior manager; Frank Buhl, associate manager.
TIP-OFFS
___________By Al McGufl _________
Saturday will bring the climax of the Notre Dame-Pitt games. To date our teams have won four games and dropped five. And you can take this tip, the only way we can beat that outfit in Pittsburgh is to battle for forty minutes without a slip. Ask Butler if you think I am wrong.
—We want more free-throws made—
At least one man on the Varsity can shoot free-throws. Eddie (Sliderule) Alberts made 47 in a row the other night at practice.
—We want placards for basketball—
Do you know that Ed (Moose) Krause will be 20 years old in February? He claims he is going to be a man when he grows up. But what’s one man’s opinion?
—Beat Pittsburgh—
Johnny Jordan stuudied for five years at Quigley Preparatory in Chicago before entering Notre Dame. Don’t embarrass him with this question, “How did you make out in games against the author’s Alma Mater.”
—Remember October 29—
Steve Banas, Mike Koken, Al Costello, Al (Snozzle) De Mora, and Fred Stabb make up the present Victory Five for Keogan. And believe me even Nick Kearns and Lane would have a tough time officiating their scrimmages.
—More fast passing—
Wonder what happened to our Frosh up in Gary ? Maybe they brought in the Steel Workers to play them. Yet I shouldn’t think Elser, Peters, Allen and a few other little fellows like that would mind.
—More Points—
The Crowe and Newbold tradition is still going strong. Leo Crowe is the third to be playing regular on the Varsity and there are several more to arrive later.
Jim Newbold is also in the third generation and he tells me that his younger brother in High School is a corker. Won’t be long now.
(Continued on Page 26)
STOP ED KRAUSE
Bulldogs Slow Up Pivot Play;
Outscore Irish From Field In Rough, Close Battle.
By John Carbine
Butler came, last Saturday night, to Notre Dame with the intention of defeating the Notre Dame basketball squad in the same manner that Purdue had conquered the Irish—by stoping Big Ed Krause. That they succeeded admirably is evidenced by the final score, Butler 27, Notre Dame 25. Butler’s defense held the Moose to a single field goal during the game; even this solitary goal came late in the final period.
Big Ed, however, could hardly have chosen a more opportune time to make his one field goal. It came with but forty seconds left to play and with a determined Butler, sensing victory, in a determined fast passing stall to protect a four point lead. Krause’s basket reduced the lead of Tony Hinkle’s Bulldogs to two points.
Parrish Ejected
Referee Frank Lane claimed that Parrish, star Butler guard had fouled Krause when he was shooting. This foul gave Parrish four and forced him out of the game on personals. Baird, the other Butler guard, protested that he, not Parrish, had committed the foul, and Coach Tony Hinkle joined him in his protests amid a wild uproar on the floor and in the stands.
Lane however, was adamant, and his decision stood. Parrish went out but Big Ed missed the foul shot, leaving Butler with a two point lead which it protected for the remainder of the game with its fast passing stall.
It was Krause who opened the scoring of the game with a free throw after a foul by Proffitt. Davis held Baldwin and the Irish captain made his toss from the charity lane. Then the Butler offense began to click. Davis tossed one in from the side and Baird scored on a perfect tipoff play. Proffitt made a free throw to give the Bulldogs a three point lead. ’
Play at this period in the game was particularly fast; first Notre
(Continued on Page 24)
Tzventy-tiuo
The Scholastic
Thirteen Meets Scheduled For Irish Harrier Squad
INTERHALL PRACTICE DRAWS LARGE TURNOUT

OPEN FEBRUARY 4
First Meet With Marquette In Milwaukee; C. I. C. Carnival Here March 10th and 11th.
By Edward Van Huisseling
Throwing superstition to the wind, the Athletic Board approved a schedule which calls for the dreadful number of thirteen public appearances of the Notre Dame track charges within the next three months.
Official action was taken early this week and the schedule released Wednesday morning.
Three Big Ten Teams
Three Big Ten squads have been carded. Purdue and Ohio State will bring strong teams here to face the Irish and the locals will travel to Urbana to meet Illinois. The annual clash with Illinois is one of the outstanding spots on the program. Notre Dame was victorious last year for the second time in 17 attempts.
Marquette will provide the opposition for a dual meet on Feb. 4th. Coach Nicholson holds little hope of coming out on top at Milwaukee because the races will be run on a board track, something which always severely handicaps the Irish because they are accustomed to digging their spikes in hard soil. This fracas will probably impede progress of the Blue and Gold temporarily. With Marquette out of the way things will look brighter.
C. I. C. Meet Here
March 10th and 11th have been set as the dates for the running of the Central Intercollegiate Conference meet here. This gala affair will provide the only opportunity to see Ralph Metcalfe, Marquette track sensation, and member of the United States 1931 Olympic team, in action here. Metcalfe is one of the many outstanding tracksters that will see action here.
Michigan State college, the only squad to defeat the Blue and Gold last spring, makes its appearance here, on May 6th. “Nick’s” men will be out to avenge the surprising 64% to 64% defeat by the Spartans. •
Army and Pittsburgh, two of the many victims of last year’s machine will offer stiff competition on May 13 and 20 respectively. The Panthers
Coach John P. Nicholson “I.j” couldn’t increase his worries.
will appear here and the Cadets will be met at West Point.
The schedule:
Feb.	4—Marquette at Milwaukee.
Feb. 10—Purdue, here.
Feb. 18—Illinois at Urbana.
Feb. 25—Ohio State, here. ■
Mar. 4—Open.
Mar. 10-11—Central Intercollegiate Confer-enence, here.
Mar. 18—Armour Relays at Chicago.
Apr. 28-29—Drake Relays
May 6—Michigan State, here.
May 13—Army at West Point.
May 20—Pittsburgh, here.
May 27—State meet at Indianapolis.
June 2—Central Intercollegiate Conference meet at Milwaukee.
June 9-10—National Collegiate A.A. at Chicago.
We can do without any article of luxury we have never had; but when once obtained, it is not in human nature to surrender it voluntarily.—Thomas Chandler Haliburton.
Fourteen Teams in Each Class Work Out Regularly.
Record numbers have turned out to the practice sessions of the various interhall teams during the past week and if the quality of the play is as good as the quantity of the men then there is no doubt but what the class of play will be higher and the competition keener than it has been in many years.
There will be a slight let-up in the practice sessions late next week as all of the aspirants to the various teams will be taking semester examinations. However once these are over the coaches will renew their efforts to place winning teams on the floor.
First Games Feb. 5
The first games are scheduled for Sunday, Feb. 5. The regular season will run through till March 19 with the championship games in each division being played March 21.
There will be 13 teams and Off-Campus entered in both the heavyweight and the lightweight divisions. Last year Lyons Hall was the winner in the heavyweight division, and the lightweight title went to Carroll.
Students in the Physical Education department will act as coaches of the teams. In some instances the one who coached the football team last fall will coach the basketball team of the same hall.
Officials will be picked from the varsity basketball squad and also the Physical Education department.
Anthony Wirry, senior manager, is in charge with Clyde Lewis and George Demetrio as his asssitants.
This week’s practice schedule:
Friday, January 20
St. Edwards 7:00 p.m. Morrissey Off-Campus	8:00	p.	m.	Sorin
Howard	9:00	p.	m.	Corby
Monday, January 23
Walsh	7:00	p.	m.	Carroll
Freshman	8:00	p.	m.	. Alumni
Brownson	9:00	p.	m.	Badin
Friday, February 3
Lyons	7:00	p.	m.	Off-Campus
Dillon	8:00	p.	m.	Howard
St. Edwards	9:00	p.	m.	Morrissey
January 20, 1933
Twenty-three
NICHOLSON PUTS MEN THROUGH HARD DRILLS
INTRODUCING	Joe Voegele
By William Flynn
Intensive Practice Produces Improvement; Squad Weak.
Intensive track practice during the past two weeks has had the desired effect in that it has caused the return to graceful form of the few returning veterans and the marked improvement of several new men.
Little time remains for practice prior to the initial meet of the season with Marquette on March 4th. The semester examinations will cut into preparations next week, so Coach John P. Nicholson has taken advantage of his last full week with the squad before the Marquette struggle and has ordered full steam ahead.
Vince Murphy Improves
A ray of light seems to have streaked down upon the thinlies because of the noticeable improvement of such men as MacBeth, Fagan, Porden, Finkel, and King. These lettermen form the nucleus around which “Nick” is building his team.
The loss of Roberts, who is recovering from a leg injury, is a severe blow to the running department of the squad. He will be unable to compete in earlier meets, but, as the season progresses, he should return to old form and account for many points in the Irish total.
Three new men are the cause of some delight for Coach Nicholson. “Vince” Murphy, sophomore high jump sensation, has been clearing the bar consistently at heights that mean points in competition.
Troy Looks Good
Troy, a new half miler, has done his share to lift the gloom that has hovered over the Blue and Gold camp. A bit of experience should turn him into a valuable man.
Jim Sullivan, sophomore hurdler, has served sufficient warning to opposing hurdlers that he will be pushing the Notre Dame score higher with his speed and hurdling ability. Although ailing with a sore leg at the present, this son of Erin will be raring to go in a week or two.
No outstanding men have been discovered in the sprints and pole vault. This latter group has been the cause of much concern because their progress seems to be very slow. All the dash men are about on an equal basis.
Joe Voegele, holder of the left forward berth on this year’s edition of George Keogan’s basketball team, lives in Badin. Climb those two
flights of stairs most any night, knock at room 357, enter as bidden, and you’ll find the tall basketball player discussing divers subjects with a quorum of the Irish club.
Pals Help Out
Butch O’Neil, Jimmy O’Brien, Jack Buckley, constitute the members of the organization that furnished facts for this interview about Peoria, Illinois’ contribution to Notre Dame basketball. Draped over the bed, several chairs and ably seconded by Johnny French and Ed Fisher, they did their share to make the undertaking successful.
According to their remarks, Voegele played two years of football and four years of basketball at Spaulding Hight school in Peoria. During the football season he was an end. In the court game he appeared in the role of center and guard.
Elected captain of the Spaulding basketball team his senior year, Voegele led his squad to the semi
finals of the Catholic National InterScholastic meet sponsored by Loyola. Although the Peoria entry lost at that stage of the tournament, their captain was selected All-American interscholastic center.
Realizing the possibility of Notre Dame basketball, Voegele enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters, department of Physical Education. Work in that scholastic division along with his basketball activities has been the only undertakings he has attempted during his two and a half years as a student here. But “do a few things but do them well” seems to be his motto.
Plays Center Or Forward
While limiting his activities to two fields—The Department of Physical Education and basketball — Voegele sub-divides the latter to some extent. He is apt at either of two positions— forward or center. With Ed Krause he divides the two assignments during various portions of each game. Which gives the scoreboard keepers headaches when they try to shift all those numbers back and forth.
According to his Irish informants, Voegele has had a few thrilling moments during his first years of basketball as a member of the Notre Dame varsity squad. He doesn’t seem to consider them as such, remarking when questioned regarding his “tensest moment in sport” that he didn’t remember any. But the remark is typical of the individual for he is that type of person who seems unruffled no matter what may happen.
But to get back to those “thrilling moments” as O’Neil, O’Brien, Buck-ley, et al, would say.
Led Irish Comeback
The first came during the Butler game played at the Fieldhouse in Indianapolis a year ago. Voegele got in for about half the game. With about seven minutes to play and Notre Dame trailing by more than seven points, the tall forward struck his stride. During the seven remaining minutes of play he scored more than double that number of points and Notre Dame emerged the victor.
The next big moment came against the same team that furnished opposi-
(Continued on Page 30)
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
The Story of Lou Salmon— Who Never Lost A Yard
By Nick Connor
How many times have you been asked this question?” Who among the football players of the past do you think has given the greatest individual performance for Notre Dame?” Perhaps you have said, “Bucky” O’Connor’s eighty yard run against Southern California, or Jack Elder’s interception of an Army pass and his 98-yard dash for a touchdown. Maybe some of you claim that George Gipp’s punting, passing and running in the Indiana game of 1919 was the greatest individual feat of any Notre Dame player. A Scholastic dated Oct. 28, 1902, however, reveals that a certain red-headed young man literally played his heart out for Notre Dame in a game against Michigan staged on a gridiron in Toledo, Ohio.
Greatest Fullback In West
The name of this young athlete was Louis J. Salmon. He wore the moleskins for Notre Dame during the years 1900-’01-’02, and he was unanimously elected captain of the team in his senior year. In this Michigan game his brilliant performance won for him the title of the greatest fullback in the West—for the year of 1902. It was in this game that Salmon forced Sweeley, the great kicking and running ace of the Wolverine team, out of the limelight. Salmon’s punts for the day averaged between 60 and 70 yards and during those hectic 60 minutes of play the Irish star was knocked completely out four different times, each time he re-entered the game and fought all the harder.
Left End In 1900
Notre Dame lost 23 to 6, but the playing of Salmon will always remain in the hearts of those who witnessed the game.
In 19C0 Salmon was at left end, teamed at the wing position with Hayes; the newspaper men of the Middle West claimed that they were the best defensive ends in the country. During the first year of the twentieth century there were two thrilling games in which Salmon played an important part. The first was on Cartier Field against Beloit; the game resulted in a 6 to 6 tie. Salmon made the only touchdown for
the Blue and Gold on a plunge through the center of the line for 37 yards in the closing minutes of the game. His kicks played a very major role as he averaged better than 50 yards on his punts during the course of the fray. The second breath taking game was staged with the Rush Medical eleven.
70-Yard Punt
In the Rush game there was but seven minutes left in the final period to play, and the young doctors had possession of the ball on the Notre Dame nine yard line. On the play Farragher the big Irish tackle fell on a fumbled ball for Notre Dame. Then on the first play Salmon standing under his own goal posts booted the ball for 70 yards. The Rush safety man fumbled the long kick and Quarterback John Pick fell on the oval for the Irish. After two unsuccessful thrusts at the line, Salmon plowed through the center of the line for a touchdown and five, points, thus averting a tie game.
Considering the fact that Salmon weighed but 165 pounds and was only-five feet ten inches tall, he had no great rival at fullback in the West. When Notre Dame played Purdue at Lafayette in 1902, he made the two and only touchdowns. Salmon added laurels to his name by a 55-yard run for a touchdown through a crowded field in a game against Indiana. By virtue of their 18 to 5 victory Notre Dame was declared State Champions of Indiana.
35-Yard Dropkick
In the Ohio Medic game of 1901 he punted the Notre Dame team to victory. His kicks were so well placed that he kept the Ohio team in their own territory most of the afternoon. He made the only touchdown and point after for Notre Dame who won the game 6 to 5. In the DePauw game of the same year his punts averaged 63 yards. He drop-kicked the pigskin from the 35 yard line and added three points to the Notre Dame victory column.
’ The final game of the year of 1902, was played against Knox College, whom they lost to 12 to 5. As a result (Continued on Page 31)
BUTLER BEATS IRISH
(Continued from Page 21)
Dame and then Butler would capture the rebound from the other’s basket and rush up the floor only to miss the basket, because of hurried passing. Finally Baldwin decided to try a long shot, rather than a pass, and he cut the twine for a double marker.
While Notre Dame was missing shots, Butler was making them and finally amassed a eight point lead bymaking use of a basketball trick that most coaches have sent to the graveyard — the pivot. Time and time again a Butler man would pivot away from a Notre Dame guard for a pot shot. Then Johnny Jordan sank two beautiful field goals from the side; Baldwin got a long shot from the center and Voegele scored from the pivot position to tie the score at fourteen all as the half ended.
Two Baskets In Half
In the second half, Notre Dame made just two field goals, one by Voegele and the other by Krause while Miller, Parrish, and Baird, with his phenominal one hand shots, were hitting the hoop from all angles. Butler’s centers, Proffitt and Dem-mary, however, were unable to keep Krause and Voegele, the Irish pivot men, from scoring without fouling them. These two pivot men collected nine points between them on free throws and it was only these points which kept the Irish in the running.
The game was hard fought and rough throughout. The score was tied no less than seven times. Notre Dame made forty-six attempts to score from the floor and was successful in seven of them while Butler registered in ten out of forty-eight.
The score:
BUTLER (27)	*FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Davis, f 			2	3	5	2	Y
Miller, f 			2	1	2	1	5
Proffitt, c 			0	1	2	4	1
Demmary, c 			2	1	1	4	5
Reissner, c 			0	0	0	1	0
Baird, g 			3	0	0	1	6
Parrish, g 			1	1	1	4	
Ch’ked'ntz, g 			0	0	0	0	0
	—	—-	——	—	—
Totals 			10	7	11	17	27
NOTRE DAME	(25) FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Voegele, fc 			2	6	9	2	10
Jordan, f 			2	0	1	1	4
Krause, c 			1	3	7	3	5
Crowe, g 			0	1	2	2	1
Baldwin, g 			2	1	1	2	5
Keating, g 			0	0	0	0	0
Alberts, f 			0	0	0	0	0
	—	—	—	—	—
Totals 		—;—7	11	20	10	25
Referee—Frank Lane (Detroit).
Umpire—John Schommer (Chicago).
January 20, 1933
Twenty-five
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
“BURNING OUT”
One of the hardest things for us to watch in any sport is the sight of a great athlete “burning out.” Little men and big men alike seem to be liable to this result of over-competition.
The early symptoms aren’t hard to recognize. A general slowing up, the failure of muscular coordination to respond to the commands of a player’s will, the disappearance of the zest for play and of the fine edge of tension all shout their warnings.
Cures have been effected for the condition, principally through com-» plete rest and a layoff from competition. That seems to be the only savior. It is a generous, and a high-minded coach who will run the risk of defeat by adopting such measures for an athlete’s good.
WHEN A MAN’S DOWN
We used to think an individual or a group pretty small who continually antagonized a weaker fellow, kicking him when he was down. We think even less of the indivdiual who won’t try to get up. And that situation exists at Iowa and in the Big Ten’s attitude toward the Hawkeye school.
The first blow-off came a few years back when the conference barred Mike Faroh, Nanny Pape, and a large group of Iowa athletes. Unquestionably the officials were right about some of the men, including Pape—his offense was professionalism, and despite protests by him and his friends, the fact remains that he was guilty.
The procedure, however, wasn’t exactly of the best. Iowa was hardly the only offending member, yet the other nine put on their best holier-than-thou fronts and trampled the Hawkeyes down to the lowest pos
sible limit. And Iowa knuckled down.
Now a new case, involving Blackmer and Break, two of Rol-lie Williams’ best basketball men, has split the Iowa athletic ranks. And this time the action came from within: a self-inflicted shake-up based on a technicality of the eligibility rules.
Head football coach Ossie Solem presented the whole affair in a highly sensible light this week when he stated it this way: “If our own people do not have courage to defend them, how could the Big Ten act otherwise ?”
A campaign launched in Iowa by some of the outstanding newspapers is intended to keep Iowa high school athletes at home for their college careers. How it can expect to succeed when the state university continues to bang its head on the Big Ten’s door step to the detriment of its own athletes, is mighty hard to fathom.
Ineligibility through technicalities is bound to make more than a little unrest among the people who support a team. Ineligibility through retroactive enforcement of a rule is just as bad.	.
SOUTH SHORE LINE Bargain Excursion Sunday! ROUND TRIP South Bend to CHICAGO
One day rate good going on trains leaving South Bend at 6, 6:50, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 a. m. and 12 noon. Tickets good returning any time up to 11:45 p. m. rhe same day.	.
Week-end Rate
4ft ROUND TRIP $ A *W	South Bend to
CHICAGO
Rate good going Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Good returning any time up to 11:45 p. m. Monday night.
See James McGrath, No. 1 Morrissey Hall for Complete Information.
EVERY HOUR ON THE HOUR
O. A. CLARK'S RESTAURANT 104-106 North Michigan Street
South Bend’s Oldest and Most Reliable Ealing House
(Catering to 5 NOTRE DAME MEN for over thirty years <
Complete Dinner - - 35c to 50c
For a Real Man’s Meal Drop in Any Time.
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
TIP-OFFS
(Continued from Page 21)
The student body should be congratulated for the wonderful way in which it has backed the team so far this season.
—More Testimonial Banquets—
Zip-zip, Charley Farris may not be able to hit the hoop on the hard wood, but fellows you should see Charley tap dance. Take the word of one who has practically lived with him. Hi, Charley.
You fellows can’t say that basketball does not give you plenty of thrills. That Butler and Minnesota games were filled with them. Keep coming men we have plenty more games like those remaining on our schedule.
—More Minnesota first halves—
Do you know that Robinson, the high point man of the Minnesota team, is signed up to be the assistant coach at Princeton next Fall? He is as good an end as he is a forward. Some lad.
—Bring on Pitt—and Toledo—
When the team leaves Pittsburgh it is going to stop over at Toledo and take on the University of Toledo. This is the first time this year that the basketball team has made an extensive road trip.
—Bigger training table stakes—
LEMONTREES
Optometrists
222% S. Michigan Street	102 W. Washington Street
GLASSES . . .
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
□
. Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately.
IRISH BEAT GOPHERS
(Continued from Page 20)
shortly after for Minnesota but Notre Dame broke through to gain nine points before the Gophers scored again. After Mitby’s goal, Krause scored a field goal and two free throws, in between which Leo Crowe scored a field goal. Jordan made it 9-2 with another field goal and Robinson sank one for Minnesota.
Baldwin, Jordan, McGuff and Krause scored baskets in that order as Notre Dame went into what seemed a safe lead. Mitby scored his second field goal of the evening but before the half came to a close Crowe scored two goals.
Robinson Starts
Wright sank a free throw for the invaders as the second half got under way and McGuff tallied a field goal for Notre Dame. Here Robinson scored a two-pointer, being fouled while so doing and he capitilized on his free chance. Krause made two free .throws and then left the game supposedly for the evening as Voeg-ele took his place.
Here Robinson went on a rampage and with seemingly little effort he put his team into the ball game. Given four chances within the space of two minutes to score from the free throw line he made good on all of them and he then added a field goal to put his team within seven points of
Notre Dame with approximately seven minutes of the game remaining.
Johnny Jordan stopped the rush of Robinson temporarily by making a free throw but Wright took up the Minnesota burden and made two free throws and the teams were separated by only six points. Notre Dame began getting worried and Krause was rushed back into the game.
Irish Clinch Game
Robinson, with a minute to play, scored another field goal, the prettiest of the entire game. Here, however, Krause and Baldwin broke away for two-pointers, Baldwin’s coming just as the final gun sounded.
With the exception of Robinson, Minnesota was held pretty well in check. Mitby with four points was the second high scorer for the MacMillan-coached five.
The lineups:
NOTRE DAME (30) -FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
McGuff, f 	2	0	0	2	4
Jordan, f 	1	9	o	2	4
Alberts, f 	0	0	0	0	0
Krause, c 	.4	4	4	3	12
Voegele, cf 	0	0	0	3	0
Baldwin, g	2	0	9	2	4
Crowe, g 	3	0	0	3	6
—	—	—	——	—
Totals 	1..—12	6	11	15	30
MINNESOTA (22) FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Robinson, f	5	5	9	3	15
	0	1	1	4
Wright, c 	0	1	. 4	1	1
Sochacki, c 	0	0	1	0	0
Light, g 	0	2	3	0	2
O’Connor, g 	0	0	0	3	0
Anderson, g 	0	0	0	0	0
Vojitsek 	—0	0	0	1	0
	—	—	——	——
	8	18	9	99
*FG—Field goals ; FT—	free i	throws	; FTA—	
free throws attempted; i	PF—]	personal fouls;		
PTS.—total points.				
Referee—Nick Kearns	(DePaul).			
Umpire—Warren ((Illinois).				
BULLETIN BOARD NOTICE STUDENTS CRUISES
Magazine subscription scholarship workers and crew managers write immediately for very best student scholarship offers of leading publishers. Can be worked there now., Permanent positions if experienced, also summer crews for U. S. and foreign territory. For full details write — THE COLLEGIATE SCHOLARSHIP INSTITUTE— 219 Republic Building, Miami, Fla.	.
January 20, 1933
Tzventy-seven
CHEVIGNY SIGNS TO COACH ST. EDWARDS
To Act as Athletic Director At College in Texas.
Jack Chevigny, former Notre Dame backfield star and later backfield coach, announced Wednesday that he had signed to coach football at St.
Jack Chevigny Notre Dame-Cardinals-St. Edward’s
Edward’s University, Austin, Texas. In addition to coaching the football team he will serve in the capacity of athletic director. The contract is for one year.
,	Chevigny was one of the greatest
backfield men to ever be turned out by the late Knute Rockne. He graduated from Hammond, Indiana high school and immediately entered Notre Dame where he at once entered the portals of stardom.
,	He was right halfback on the ’2G,
’27, and ’28 teams. In addition to being a valuable ball carrier he also was one of the best blocking backs ever to be turned out at this institution. He did his best work in the Army and Southern California games , of ’28.
Resigned A Year Ago
After graduating he returned here as one of Rockne’s assistants. When ’ Rockne died and Anderson was made Senior coach it was Chevigny who was made his first assistant.
'	Resigning from the coaching staff
about a year ago this time, Chevigny accepted the position as coach of the Chicago Cardinals in the Professional football league where he was extremely popular and where his team , was fairly successful. -
•	St. Edward’s has an enrollment. of
about 500 and is conducted by the Congregation of Holy Cross. Father Hugh O’Donnell, former prefect of discipline here at Notre Dame, is the president.
ANDERSON TO STAY
(Continued from Page 6)
In the past two fall campaigns the Anderson-coached Notre Dame grid-ders have won 13 games, lost four, and tied one. Two of the four defeats came at the hands of Southern California. Pittsburgh and Army collected the other two triumphs over the Irish. The tie was a scoreless affair with Northwestern a year ago.
“Hunk” Anderson’s first appearance in connection with Notre Dame football was in the role of player back in 1919. During that season and the two following years, he played guard on Rockne’s three great teams.
After his graduation in 1922, he returned to Notre Dame as an assistant coach. He remained at that position for several years until he left to become head coach at St. Louis University.
In 1929 he returned as an assistant to Rockne, acting in the capacity of line coach. The first evidence of his coaching- ability after his return was the great line of the 1930 National Championship eleven.
CARNEGIE CAGE TEAM
HERE FEBRUARY 1ST
Plaid Courtmen Make First Appearance Here.
After a brief layoff caused by semester exams, the Notre Dame basketball team will return to competition on the home floor Wednesday night, Feb. 1, with Carnegie Tech furnishing the opposition.
The game will be the first indoor invasion of the Skibo athletes who are annual features on the Irish grid card. Little is known concerning the strength of the Tech five.
This week, however, they lost their 16th consecutive game to Pittsburgh’s quintet which will meet the Irish in the Smoky City tomorrow night. The result of the Notre Dame-Pitt game should give some idea of the comparative strength of the Irish and the Carnegie fives.
MAGAZINES	PAPERS
University Cafeteria
and
Soda Grill
Daily Specials
Open 6:30 A. M. to 9:40 P. M.
CIGARS	CIGARETTES
was performed with a huge milk can filled with water. He invited persons of the audience to bring padlocks and lock him into the can. He got into the can, the lid was put on and fastened with several padlocks. A screen was placed in front of the can. Assistants stood by with stop watches and fire axes to save him from drowning after a certain time.
About a minute later, the screen was removed, Houdini was seen panting and dripping... the KKMeSpadlocks remaining intact!	A
Zu’s FUN TO FT ZoOZFD

d
EXPLANATION:
The usual method of escaping from a milk can is as follows: The lid of the can is apparently securely padlocked to the lower portion, but actually the metal band to which the staples are attached is the top of a short inner lining. The performer, after being locked into the can, pushes the lid upward with his head and the short inner lining is forced out of place, permitting his escape. The screen is then removed.

artificial flavoring...the blending of various tobaccos...and the quality of the tobaccos themselves. Quality is the most important. Artificial flavoring can never wholly disguise the poor flavor ofcheap tobaccos.
Copyright. 1933,11. J. Xtcynolds 1'obucco Couipuny
KO TRICKS
JUST COSTLIER
TOBACCOS
I» A MATCHLESS BLEND
KEPT FRESH
IN THE WELDED
HUMIDOR PACK


What exciting magic there is in cigarette advertising!
Let’s look at one of its greatest illusions ...that cigarettes can be mysteriously given superior "flavor."
the explanation: Just three factors control the flavor of a cigarette.The addition of
The blending of several cheap, raw tobaccos cannot improve the flavor of any of them. A fine cigarette is a cigarette blended from costly, ripe tobaccos.
I* is a factz well known by leaf tobacco experts, that Camels are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE tobaccos than any other popular brand.
This is why the Camel flavor has never been rivaled . . . why Camels have given more pleasure to more people than any other cigarette ever made.
In more costly tobaccos lies the secret of Camels’ delicate “bouquet”...of their rich, cool flavor—of their non-irritating mildness.
It’s the tobacco that counts.
All the natural goodness of Camel’s tobacco is kept fresh and rich for you by the air-tight, welded Humidor Pack. Don’t remove it. Its moisture-proof cellophane also protects your Camels from dust and germs. Put a pack in your pocket today.
Thirty
The Scholastic
EUROPE’S WAR DEBTS
(Continued from Page 16)
recorded at the time of passing the loans. Europe’s claims must be given serious consideration, for if she blandly refuses to pay at all, as France did recently, we should have absolutely no way, short of war itself, for enforcing payment.
To make possible this downward revision and ultimate satisfaction of at least a portion of the debts, two things will be required: first, a conference of the nations concerned to decide on a new schedule of payment, and secondly, arrangement of our tariff rates to permit importation of sufficient uncompetitive foreign goods to pay the sums involved. Both moves would be important steps toward international understanding and goodwill.
INTRODUCING VOEGELE
(Continued from Page 21)
tion for his first—Butler. But this time it was not field goals but cool persistency at the foul line that counted. Notre Dame was behind 2123 with less than four minutes to play. Voegele was fouled and awarded two shots. He made them and knotted the score.
Butler got another basket. In a mix-up Voegele was awarded two trys at the basket. Again he made them. Then Butler sank the winning basket and the game ended before Voegele had another chance.
Such is the introduction of Joe Voegele as directed by O’Neil, O’Brien and Buckley.
Ipre-lenten dance
Given By
Holy Name Society
St. Joseph’s Gym
Tuesday Eve, Jan. 31
Music By
AL. J AXON
and
His Royal Band
8:30 p. m. 25c per person
NEW JUGGLER
(Continued from Page 6)
throughout the book seems to be taken care of by just a few names. Why more people don’t write for the Juggler is something the editor cannot figure out.
Technocracy comes in for an expected beating, the effect that repeal will have on Capone’s life is explained in some detail, the shortcomings of New York life are laid bare. It’s another good Juggler. It’s too bad they come and go so readily.
Hoosier Salon To Be Held in Chicago Next Week
The Hoosier Salon Patrons’ Association, internationally known for its patronage of Indiana artists, has announced that its next Hoosier Salon will be held in the Marshall Field Picture Galleries, January 28 to February 11.
Among those actively interested in the forthcoming salon are Professor Emil Jacques, Stanley Sessler, a teacher in the Art Department, and Arthur Becvar, all of the University of Notre Dame.
No Movie This Week
Because of the presentation of “Charley's Aunt” tomorrow night, there will be no movie in Washington Hall this week.
VOEGELE MAINTAINS LEAD; KRAUSE GAINS (Including Minnesota Game)
Player	*FG	FT	FTA	PCT	PF	PTS.
Voegele, f			28	23	40	.575	25	79
Krause, c			25	20	49	.408	24	70
Jordan, f 			18	n <	15	.467	14	43
Baldwin, g			17	8	16	.500	18	42
Crowe, g			12	9	17	.529	15	33
Alberts, f			6 -	1	6	.167	6	13
McGuff, f-g			4	0	0	.000	5	8
O’Neil, g			2	0	0	.000	0	4
Keating, f			2	0	1	.000	0	4
Mettler, f-g			1	0	0	.000	1	2
Angsten, f 			1	0	0	.000	0	2
Newbold, g			0	0	0	.000	2	0
Holland, c			0	0	0	.000	1	0
Ferris, f-g			- 0	. 0	0	.000	1	0
Totals			116	68	144	.472	112	300
Opponents			93	73	134	.545	113	259
*.FG—field goals; FT—free throws; FTA—free throws attempted; PCT—percentage of free throws made; PF—personal fouls; PTS— total points.
BENGAL BOUTS
(Continued from Page 5)
If there should be too many contestants of one weight division, an elimination contest will be held about a week prior to the bouts. The winners of this elimination will meet on the night of the tourney for their respective championships. Also, about a week before the contest, each entrant will undergo a physical examination to forestall any last minute withdrawals by physician’s order.
Experience is not a requisite for entrance into this tournament. Any one who would like to enter but who is fearful that he lacks the ability may hand in his name and workout for a few days with the other men and compare his fitness.
And The Prizes
Outstanding among the developments in the coming show following the meeting was the approval by University authorities of the prizes to be offered the champions in the numerous weight divisions. Sweaters with an “N.. D.” worked on to a boxingglove background will be the prizes which The Schoolastic will hand over the winners.
It is not too late for any boxer to sign up for the Bengal Show. All those who have not yet entered and who desire to do so may report at 119 Sorin Hall, where they can procure the necessary entrance credentials.
January 20, 1933
Thirty-one
DR. EINSTEIN TO SPEAK OVER NBC JANUARY 23
Other Noted Scientists Will Appear on Program.
A nationwide broadcast over the National Broadcasting Company chain will carry the speeches of Dr. Albert Einstein, Dr. Wm. B. Munro, , and Mr. Henry M. Robinson to the four corners of the United States on the evening of January 23 at 7:45 p. m. when the combined colleges of Southern California present a pro-‘ gram in the interest of public opinion. The session, which will be cenk tered in the Civic Auditorium in Pasadena, California, will present the student’s point of view when H. Rawlins Overton, president of the associated students of the University of Redlands, speaks on “The American Student and His Relation to World
. Problems.” w
Sponsored By 11 Colleges
The sponsoring body of student body presidents from the eleven colleges and universities of Southern California is offering the program in order to stimulate an objective in-• terest in the big issues of current events and world interests.
Dr. Albert Einstein, who arrived in Southern California on January 9, is visiting the California Institute of Technology and the surrounding edu’ cational centers through the generosity of the Oberlaender Trust of the Carl Schurz Memorial Foundation which exists for the promotion of cultural relations between the Germanspeaking peoples and the people of the United States of America. Dr. Einstein, who has always addressed his American audiences in German, may speak in English for the first time, although it is not definitely known whether this will be possible.
Robinson To Speak
Henry M. Robinson, who is to fol* low Dr. Einstein on the speaking program, is the well known banker, former member of the Supreme Economic Council and the Dawes Plan Committee, and chairman of the American delegation to the International Economic Conference in 1927.
*	The symposium is to be concluded
by the consideration of the political aspects of the world situation by Dr. Wm. B. Munro, noted authority on history and government.
STORY OF SALMON
(Continued from Page 24)
of his playing the Chicago Daily Neivs named Salmon at the full-back position on their All-Western team. Many newspaper critics refrained from picking him on their mythical teams because of the fact that Notre Dame was not a member of the “Big Nine.”
During Salmon’s three years of playing for Notre Dame the highest score for one game was 92 to 0. This game was played in 1902 against the Michigan Medical college, and Salmon made five of the touchdowns.
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
(Continued from Page 14)
of relaxation that the Colfax, Palace, South Bend Inn or Palais can’t afford.
The use of leisure is something emphasized at Freshman convocations and then left for the consideration of the student. Nothing definite in the way of encouragement is done.
As for the abuse of such a room— well, even the prep school rascals can be taught.
Strangely enough, the men who favored this idea were not the “scholarly” type. None of us brilliant or literary, we just thought the atmosphere of such a place might arouse whatever interest we have in the way of light but beneficial reading.
We think a lot more of you feel the same way. How about some comments, suuggestions, or expressions of interest? We’d like to see them in print.
B. J. D.
Whoever has even once become notorious by base fraud, even if he speaks the truth, gains no belief.— Phaedrus.
MANY GROWING NEW HAIR
YOU. too. may have luxuriant hair of lustrous Quality by using HAIRMORE and GLO-MORE, perfected by professor of chemistry at
Gonzaga U. Spokane
HAIRMORE grows hair even on bald heads; stops dandruff and falling hair: relieves scalp ailments. It is unusually penetrating and con* tains natural hair food. Trial size. 25 treatments. 75 cents. More than 100 treatments in a $2 bottle, in plain wrapper.
GLO-MORE. an antiseptic and stimulant shampoo, is healing and non-astringent. Use it with HAIRMORE for complete treatment and results. $1 bottle.
Send to Gilmore-Burke, Inc., Seattle, Wash., who handle royalties for the University.
Check these points:
Workmanship
Service
Convenience
^And that’s about all you could ask for in your laun- ' dry and dry cleaning work.
flAt Notre Dame you’ll find superior workmanship. The service is as fast as is consistent with quality. And as for convenience—what could'be simpler than the Notre Dame system? Just leave your laundry at the appointed place in your own hall.
CfSo, we tell you frankly that you are missing a bet if you fail to patronize the
University of Notre Dame
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING DEPARTMENTS
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
TWO GAMES ON ROAD
(Continued from. Page 20)
player who uses a great pair of hands to advantage as a ball-handler.
Russ Ochsenhirt, a center converted into a guard, and Don McCamant, a holdover from last year’s regular five, will he at the guards. Charley Hughes, another junior, is the outstanding reserve guard on the squad.
The rest of the Pitt reserve group is composed largely of sophomores. Skippy Highes, brother to Charley, and Homer Wadsworth, a southpaw, are the leading forward aspirants.
Ken Kuno, a product of Scott High School’s state championship team, plays either forward or guard. Bill Bond, a six foot, two inch sophomore, substitutes at center.
The past record of the Notre Dame-Pittsburgh series is as follows:
1926-’27—Notre Dame 33. Pitt 17.
1927-’28—Pitt 24, Notre Dame 22. 1928-’29—Notre Dame 33, Pitt 23. 1929-’3O—Pitt 33, Notre Dame 13.
Pitt 25, Notre Dame 16.
1930-’31—Pitt 28, Notre Dame 20.
Pitt 35, Notre Dame 32.
1931-’32—Notre Dame 25, Pitt 12.
Notre Dame 26, Pitt 19.
BOOK REVIEWS
(Continued from Page 9)
tion to the Catholic layman, not alone the Catholic social worker, but the everyday man who interests himself in his own, if not in the world’s, problems. And the everyday Catholic needs books like this especially for the inspiration which they give in acquainting him with the proud and beautiful background of Catholic action. Too many of us are not aware of, or forget, how rich is the history of the Church in activities devoted to simple human welfare and betterment. The book should especially interest Notre Dame men, for the author is an alumnus, one who got his literary training here at the University. He is an old-time Scholastic staff man.
I began this review with a remark about the rich business man who, “in spite” of the depression, has grown “kinder, gentler, more considerate, ever so much more approachable and thoughtful.” I can conclude it in no better way than by saying that The Gospel in Action, though anything but “depressing,” is well designed to have the same effect on its readers, making them not only “kinder, gentler, -more thoughtful,” but likewise wiser and more active in handling the problems which their own lives and the lives of their fellowmen present.
On Down The Line
—^By Fred
During ANDY KERR’S four years at COLGATE the MAROON team has scored 1,889 points, against 67 for its opponents . . . has been blanked but once and has scored 30 shutouts . . . COACH “NIBS” PRICE of CALIFORNIA has coached basketball teams that have won 102 out of 142 games for him in the past EIGHT YEARS . . . that includes FIVE CONFERENCE CHAMPIONSHIPS . . . JOCKEY EARL SANDE may return to the saddle in the spring ... he is about 15 pounds too heavy at present.
SAMMY BYRD YANKEE OUTFIELDER, is by far the best golfer among baseball players . . . BILL TILDEN IS OF THE OPINION THAT HENRI COCHET, at his peak, was the FINEST TENNIS PLAYER EVER PRODUCED . . . there are 53 championship titles in tennis . . . and swimming records are made and broken every week . . . especially in the feminine division . . . jockeys on NEW YORK tracks are required to wear heavy fiber skull protectors under their colored caps.
BABE RUTH has earned $785,900 in salary since he started in baseball in 1914 ... he and JIMMY FOXX are the only players ever to knock a ball out of COMISKEY PARK (Chi.) . . . in the early days of baseball batters had the right to call for a low ball or a high ball . . . KNUTE HANSEN, once a trial horse for heavyweight boxing championship aspirants, is now a painter in PARIS ... he quit the ring under a barrage of punches and now classes himself as a “NEO-REALIST” . . .
❖
HARRY SHELDON of the ST. GEORGE’S BASKETBALL TEAM (Hamilton, Ont.) is 18 years old and stands SEVEN FEET THREE INCHES TALL ... he is about one foot taller than NOTRE DAME’S ALL-AMERICAN ED KRAUSE . . . it costs about $1500 a head to take the RYDER CUP GOLF TEAM to England . . . JACK JOHNSON rates SAM LONGFORD as the greatest fighter that ever lived . . . JOHNNY CLARK, goalie for the DETROIT OLYMPICS of the INTERNATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE, recently WEIGHED HIS EQUIPMENT and found it totalled 35 POUNDS . . . CLARK WEIGHS 135 POUNDS.
After College WHAT?
Insurance ?
Julian S. Myrick, famous New York general agent, says: "Selling life insurance is the best paid hard work there is. No capital required other than a good character, an active mind and perseverance. Any young man with these qualifications will find a great future in insurance.”
NO OTHER BUSINESS offers greater rewards for hard work. But insurance offers some pretty tough problems. Perhaps that explains why in this business, as in college, a pipe is the most popular smoke.
While you "cram” for that exam ... or later when you figure out the best way to sell a ^100,000 policy, just light up a pipeful of Edgeworth Smoking Tobacco.
Edgeworth is the favorite college smoke.* And only in Edgeworth can you find that distinctive blend of fine old hurley tobacco. If you would like to try before you buy, just write Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va., for a free sample package.
• A recent investigation showed Edgeworth the favorite smoke at 42 out of 54 leading colleges EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms—Edgeworth Ready-Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. AU sizes—15^ pocket package to pound humidor tin. Some sizes in vacuum sealed tins.
F YOU FLUNK
GO HOME HAPPY— Fix It Up with the Folks
GET A EEBRUARY
JUGGLER
COVER by Becvar HUMOR by the Staff and LAUGHS by the Hour
usually smoke more; and when I smoke more, I usually work harder—and that's why I want
erfield are used in the right pro* portions—that's a very important matter.
a cigarette that's milder."
We use in Chesterfield Cigarettes mild, ripe Domestic and Turkish tobaccos which have been aged and re-aged.
These good tobaccos in Chesterfield are blended and crossblended—welded together; that, too, helps to make a milder cigarette with better taste.