
February 14, 1975 

REFLECTIONS-­SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 
James Ward· ·Memorial .Events 
Saturday, February _ts ---Memorial Con~ert; featuring' campus talent; _• .. 
9:00 p.m. W~shingtonHall; do!}ation $.50. 
Sunday, February 16 -··-st.Mary's C~llegfate·Choir;. ­
. . . ' . . 
8_:00p.m. Moreau Little Theater; admission free. 

¦ 
-Interested Ill Advertising? 
Scholastic. is 109kirtg for an advertising manager.. 
If interested-contact:
. ..
' 

-. James Gresser 1693 John Phelan 3207 Scholasfici office 7569 

Editor ' 
James Gresser 

Art Director. 
Bill Weyland 


Production Manager 

· John Phelan 

Managing ·Editor 
Sally Stanton 
News Editor 
Jane Thornton 

Arts Editor· , 
Katy Sullivan 
Sports· Editor 
Bill Delaney 
Business Manager, 
Sarah . Bartzen 

Circulation Manager 
Paul Di:Bacco 

Advisory Board, . 
Ronald Weber, Carl Magel, 
Madonna Kolbenschlag · · 
Staff . . . . . 
Mike Karels, Steve Slater, Thomas J. Waldoch; Dave Beno, Annemarie Sullivan, Peter Fitzgerald, Ron Rundstedt, Tara Carey, Mark Luppino, John Kenward, Mark Ondash, Davi: Dreyer, John Harding, Tom Birsic, , . Jack Pizzolato, Leo J. Mulcahey, Don Reimer, Kathy McElroy, Dave Miller, Mike Sarahan, Nick Strittmatter, John M. Murphy, Mary Digan, Chris Meehan, Lonnie Luna, Mike Feord, Patrick Smid, Mark Hopkins; Bethann McGregor, Bob Gilroy, Rich Odioso, Tom . · McHale, Gregg Bangs, Eileen O'Grady, Paul Hess, John Vincent, Tom Moskow, Mike Towle, Rich Nugent. · · Art & Photography Ed Brower, Bill Weyland, Bill Foglia, . Joe ·Kuspin. 
The opinions expressed ln. the SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of the SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or the student body. Second class·postage paid at Notre Dame, · Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by .National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly during tlie school year except during vacation and examination· periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. and back numbers are available from the SCHOLASTIC. Please address all manu• scripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. ·All unsolicited material becomes the 

Volume 116, No. 10 February 14, 1975 Notre Dame, Indiana 

HEADLINER 
6 Sophomore Literary Festival -Tennessee · Williams, Lawrence Ferlinghetti and others headline the annual celebration of the literary arts. · · 

FEATURES 
.4 Abstract Art·-· A review of the. abstract religious works of Vaclav Vytlacil on show at .the Notre Dame Art _Gallery. 
10 Steve Goodman T~e Chicago folk singer discusses music. 
12 Accounting -Problems caused . by the . tremendous student enrollment in the School of Business. · 
. . .
~ 
14 Glee Club-A ~ew look at much misunderstood Notre 
• I . 
Dame organization.. 
16 . A.Letter· from an Editor·_.._ Thoughts on attitudes en-· gendered in pre~med ~y aformer &holastic editor~ 
18 ND-SMC Drama Dept. -Getting into the theatre is notas hard as one may think. 
22 Government Conference·-. -Di~cussions ~n. separation of power in the wake of Watergate sponsored by the Aca­. demic Commission. 
26 .. The Blue Team -The faces you don't. always . see on tlie court contribute much to_ tlie ND basketball program. 
29 · Adrian Dantley .-A · look' at the· personality· of· ND's super sophomore. · 


REGULARS 
17. .. People Behind ND~ 
20  Perspectives.  
21  Week in Distortion.  :;:...  
24  . People at ND.  
25  Coming Distractions.  
30  Irish Sports Shorts.  


property·of the SCHOLASTIC. Illustrations: Photos on cover, 6, 7, 8, 9 courtesy of Sophomore Literary copyright (!) 1975 Scholastic / all rights Festival / Photos on 4, 5 Notre Dame Art Gallery / Photos on 10, 11, 12, 14, reserved / none of the contents may be re­17, 18, 19, 24, 26, 28, 29, 30 by Ed Brower / Photo on 15 courtesy of Glee produced without permission. Club / Photo on 30 by Chris Smith / Cover by Weyland. 



On Abstraction 
When I think of all the times I've been in an art gallery and listened as someone looked at an abstract work of art and said, "He got fifty thousand dollars for that!!!_____or "My eight~year-old brother could do bet­ter than that," it makes me wonder at the ignorance of the American public and the sterile view· which it brings into the galleries and other places where cultural objects are dis­played. The simple truth is that one's eight-year~old brother could_ not do what his older sibling be-·· lieves he can, for if ·he could, he would be at some place other than Longfellow Elementary School. As far as the fifty thousand dollars is concerned, it is a truism that those things which are limited in number and in great demand go up in price. They call it supply and demand. 
The poirit of this article, however, is not to discuss the talent of one's eight-year-old broth_er or the supply and demand aspects of _the art mar­ket, but rather to take aclose look at the meaning ofabstract art. It is generally accepted that art reflects in some way the culture from which it comes. This being the case,· it is likely that the abstract art which many Americans deride does in fact reflect the time and constellation of the culture from which it comes. The last hundred years has seen great changes in the nature of society. The rise of America as a world power has wrought changes of the most drastic sort on current culture. We are a nation of facts, figures, and an unceasing belief in the upward ascent of progress. The current reac­tions in art are varied but the two primary ones are to two different ex­tremes: extreme distortion of reality and extreme exaggeration of reality. 
In either the case of extreme dis­.tortion or exaggeration the mind-set 
that demands art that "looks just 
like the real thing" has been left be­
hind. Photography has been in part 

,-··.•--~:··
:·,, {~:.
4':.-:.r• 4"' , .... ,. 
--..(_ 
.......­responsible for this but even now sees itself moving away from the straight depiction of reality. The simple fact is that reality is all around and if one wishes to see what really is all he has to do is lift up his head and look around.. . Abstract art should really be ap­preciated by the large majority of Americans because it certainly does not . give them simple, mundane scenes which they-see every day. Modern art should actually soothe the attitude which says, "If I wanted to see misery or the same old every­day stuff, I'd stay at home," which I have heard more than one unhappy moviegoer say as he left the theater. Abstract art is ·-two things: it is a reaction· to a world 'view which sees everything in terms of a space-time­energy plane with everything acting in accord ,,with immutable natural laws, and it is an outgrowth of a new view of man's creative capaci­ties as discovered in depth psychol­ogy. The rationality of the Enlight­enment and the simple action-reac­tion mentality of Newtonian me­chanics have been turned back. 


In our everyday lives, we get only half of the story about the nature of things, and modern art attempts to give the other half. The problem is that to understand abstract art, or modern art in general, one must abandon the two-dimensional con­ceptions which he uses in his. prag­matic dealings in reality. One must begin to recognize another portion of truth. This is ·painful and difficult because it requires ·that one step away from his rigidity and start to recognize different kinds of relation­ships both inside himself and be­tween himself and that which is without. 


And Reality 
The current show of abstract reli­gious paintings by Vaclav Vytlacil in the Notre Dame Art Gallery is a case in point: These paintings are essen­tially emotional and distortive and if one cannot pick up on these. ele­ments then the statements which began ·this article are likely to re­sult. Vaclav Vytlacil is one of a group of artists that gained promi­nence in the later thirties and forties with a type of art that pulls out the 
"Abstract art • • . does not give ' the simple, 
mundane scenes such as we see everyday." 

essences from things in reality ·and then proceeds to set them down· vi­sually in a very rugged, shorthand way. Speed of execution is empha­sized so that initial impressions are captured. In this art only the salient points, 'as the artist sees them, are captured. Reality is only a starting point for a venture into another world, a world where absolutes have no place. 
The emotional .import of these works is great and Vytlacil himself admitted that he did a great .deal of reflecting before he set· about paint­ing them. The question which he· asked of himself and had difficulty in answering for a number of years was, quite simply, "Is one worthy?" To enter ·the spiritual and consider oneself in touch enough to depict some of its greatest themes is quite an undertaking. The . prohibitions against depicting the Godhead ·in primitive religions are quite well known, ·for to depict the Deity im­plies that .one has power over Him. To go forward even when the prohi­bitions do not apply to one's own society or beliefs is quite an act of faith. 
The answer which Vytlacil even­tually. got to his question concerning his worthiness was obviously. affir­mative, but these are first attempts that betray a great deal of caution. Despite the speed involved in execu-·. tion, a great deal of contemplation is 
..

revealed. The colors are muted, mainly . blacks, whites and flesh tones, but where the pastel breaks through in a· burst ·of color the ef­fect is devastating, In. the work there is revealed a great deal of emo­tion and· brightness that the artist has declined to express. The hope here is that he will continue to-work 

on these themes and evolve the 
ideas, emotions, colors, strokes. 
It would be advisable that ·every person who. wishes to view the work of Vaclav Vytlacil do some serious reflecting on the state of his own 

•belief and, if he is a Christian, have some deep thought on the meaning of our Lord's life and. death. There is a wealth of experience to be had in this world and beyond it, but we must make a leap of faith that is firmly grounded on an understanding that reality, as we daily use the term, is only a portion of a much bigger truth that our society rejects and makes us callous to. · 
FEBRUARY 14, 1975 
Reflections­
sopnomore L_iterary Fes~ival 
. . :.. ~ ; . . ... : . . . ... '. . .. -· ; . 
There'll be no cheerleaders. 

There'li be no national championship 
at stake._ There won't even hitcov­
erage of k by the T.V. media. I've 
been told that there won•-t· even be 
any· half-time tributes, to . anyone. 
In fact they say there won't be any 
half-time. No half-times?. · 
There will be h~wever, timeouts. 

Timeouts· to reflect. Timeouts ·•to 
watch: not the_ constant parade of 
"beautiful" people, but rather, time~ 
outs .to . meet, to talk with, and to 
socialize with7 some of today's most 
significant literati: Naturally, this :event won't be held in the ACC, nor in the . less . important Stepan Center, rior the stadium. Most likely, "it will be secluded.to the comfortable . ·confines of -the· auditoriums, to vari­
ous classrooms·, and per_haps the· liv~ 
ing rooms of· some faculty members · and of those· few·that ,truly under~ 
stand what this event is all about. 
The event is the Sophomore Liter­
ary Festival; and it is ,not just for 

the euphoric sophomore class. This 
festival is for all that know and for 
those that want to know more about 
that form of art, which-has shaped 
minds, shaped governments, pro­
moted order, sought anarchy, 

sketched poetic peace, ·and/or ques­
tioned our basic existence: writing. 
Poets will be there. Novelists and 
playwrights will. be thE!re.. And for 
those that attend this year's Sopho­
more Literary Festival (SLF), there · 
will most certainly be dramatic en­
tertainment, ._as they will be able to 
witness the artist alongside his art: 
Much .the saine•effect one would feel when he attends a concert and: sees .the composer conduct his own score. 


Truly thrilling .. 

· The chairman for 1975 SLF, Chris Mahon, is very comparable.· to -· this composer-conductor, and he· too is very thrilling to watch in his per­formance. He has been working on this project since his appointment to the position in April of last year. At that time he was selected from a host of: candidates that were sub~ jected to a battery of interviews, which inevitably determined who was the most suitable to chair the festival. Chris Mahon was ·a wise choice. 
The workload-involved in an 
undertaking such .as -this is enor-_ 
mous, as Chris attested 'to in a recent 
interview. But Chris•, immediately 
assembled his friends and volunteers, 

who amounted to approximately 
thirty last Aprn; ··and· began: some 
extensive . brainstorming · that . was 
concerned with whom should be writ­
ten to and -invited. Besides those 
that have already accepted, which 
is by itself a highly impressive list, 
Chris and· his associates sent letters 
to Eugene Ionesco, the .late · Anne 
Sexton, and the·very successful play­
wright Neil Simon. It was obvious 
from this point on _that the· Arts 
Commission had appointed the right ­
man, and that the SLF for 1975 was 
shaping up ,.to be a_ good one._ . · • ­
._But the effort didn't come to a halt 
there. During· the · summer . between 
his freshman and sophomore years, 
Chris, _an -English major from the 
suburbs of Detroit, read of and about 
those he expected to be coming to the 
festival. When talking to Chris about 
the "lit-fest" and his position, J.:le ap­
peared at ease with the task before 
him and familiar with every phase 
of the festival operation. He ·was 
even · prepared, at that · time, a 
month before the "lit-fest," to dis­
cuss and illustrate his intentions and 

Tennessee Williams frustrations.· 
. ·• THE . SCHOLASTIC . 

_,f 
Notably; 1thefrustrations are min­imal, while his intentions are basi­cally sound, with plenty of room for spontaneity.. Chris noted that this year's · festival wiH be nothing short of enlightening. The funda­mental purpose, ·and therefore Chris' fundamental goal, of· the overall event is to expand the Notre Dame's community awareness of the writ­ten word. He hoped that the SLF would provide the opportunity for both the informed and the un~ informed .to experience .what, per~ haps, they might be· 'missing in their lives in order to be whole persons'. In other words, Chris and his com­mittee have, in the tradition of the past seven festivals, fashioned an art form in itself. As Chris likes to 

Lawrence Ferlinghetti 

putit: "a type of literary creation!" 
"At first," Chris explained, "the Sophomore Literary Festival Coun­cil had no plan to thematically state their. tapestry of varied artists, as last year's was 'Insight into the Human Condition/ Instead, it was by accidental 'design' that the coun­cil came upon the . ambiguous one­word capsulation-'Reflections.' ". 
In discussing the'theme, Chris felt thafit was ambiguous only because · "Reflections" can be taken in either of two ways. It can be interpreted as the mirroring of our human condi-· tions by the writer, or the' brooding upon air insight by a reader. There~ fore, ·this ambiguity is not to be thought of as detrimental/ but rath­er as a contributing characteristic 
FEBRUARY 14; 1975 
to the literary creation. 
We went on to extensively discuss the resulting imagery that is drawn from the juxtaposing· of these two polar interpretations. I ' mentioned the fact that together these two ex­planations resembled the product expressed by two mirrors · facing each other: infinity. Chris sort of laughed at that and pointed out that the emphasis should not 'be placed on the theme but on the event. 
Accordingly, Chris and his staff have concentrated on the event. They have feverishly sought and at­tained some of ·the most relevant talent available. To date; in atten­dance there will· be Tennessee Wil­liams, Robert Bly, Lawrence Fer-· linghetti, Tillie Olsen, James Purdy, John Logan, James Farrell, Joseph Brodsky; and Michael Ryan -a Notre Dame graduate.·· 
. Tennessee Williams is a · highly respected. playwright and is consid­ered to be the festival's main at­traction. Appropriately, he will open the SLF · with an appearance · in Washington. Hall, March 2. It had been rumo~ed for a long time that Williams would come'fo this year's "lit-fest," but it wasn't untiFFebru­ary 4 that it was publicly confirmed. The visit by Williams has been at­tributed to the efforts of Professor Ken Moore of· the Department of Sociology and · Anthropology. · 
· Williams, who is considered to be a major influence ori American the­atre, has written 'such award-win-. ning plays as The Glass Menagerie (1945); · Streetcar Named Desire (1948), Cat on a Hot Tin Roof (1955), and,Night of-the Iguana (1962). The overriding ·theme· in most of these works has been the evidence of fantasy being incorpo­rated into everyday life, and the re­sulting sadness from it. Because of this very attainable theme, many of Williams' plays have been adapted for the cinema and have become successful in their own right.' 
.Michael Ryan will also be an im­portant figure appearing at the SLF, but not so much:due:to his re­cent success, but more so due to his "affiliation"• with• Notre• Dame,', as was previously mentioned. Ryan, whose book' of poetry;· Threats In:­stead of Trees; enabled him to win the coveted Yale Series of"Younger 
". : . the Sophomore 
' . . . 
.Literary Festival ··. Council had no plan to :. thematically state · · their tapestry of varied artists ..." 
Poets award, is· still in his twenties. 

Ryan's _poetry has been described symbolically as "the hard edge beauty of abstraction." His poetry therefore demands of his . readers, and listeners, the_ full utilization of their intellectual reasoning capacity. In commenting upon Ryan's book, "Threats ...," Stanley Kunitz men­tions, in the introduction, that ·u is an. "obsessive" collection• of poems that has: "intermittent sensations of vertigo and claustrophobia, but : . . is redeemed from· narrowness and made strangely exhilarating by the mqbility of Ryan's mind.,. 
The distinctive Jmportance of Ryan's and Williams' coming to the SLF should not, needless to say, overshadow ,the contributions ·that will be made._by the other visiting authors. Lawrence .Ferlinghetti, .for example,-is also a: highly· praised poet., He is .known as "one of the 

. oldestmembers of the surviving beat generation," and has traveled widely with the likes of Allen Ginsberg, who attended the "lit-fest" a few years ago. His poetry, as a result of this, and· because of his familiarity· with the French culture (he spent a considerable part of• his childhood in France) and his political observa­tions, has been categorized as an "exhorting, protesting adaptation of 

Michael Ryan 
the methods" used by the French left-wing surrealists and the Ameri­ican radical populists. 

Equally important will be the presentation by the poet Robert Bly. Bly, besides being just a poet, • is fervently interested in providing the means, the medium so to speak, by which both the founded poets-arid the struggling ories can find print. He is editor of the Seventies maga­zine (originally the Fifties, etc.) and founding father of the Minne­sota Cooperative Publishing House, which usually accepts only manu­scripts from those who have· had no luck in getting their · material published. · 
As a poet, Bly has been known to write with a simple and pure style. Of course, it really goes be­yond that simple statement. The mannered intensity that Bly creates with his poems is truly attributable to his ability to concretely relate his impressions of the universe and nature to the reader. To the listener, Ely's poetry is like listening to someone state a simple fact that usually ends up being not so simple. Examine, for instance, the lines from 
Ely's anthology poem, '!Snowfall in the Afternoon": 
IV 
...•· 
The barn if ~ull of corn, and mov­ing toward us now, Like a hulk blown toward us in a storm at sea; All the sailors on deck have been blind for many years. 
.Another poet that will be coming 
to the SLF . in early . March who, 
along with Ryan, . has. som~ associa­
tion with Notre Dame is John Logan. 
Logan · was -an associate professor 
here from 1951to 1963. He present­
ly is an editor for Choice magazine, 
while at the same time teaching •at 
the State University of New York. 
Logan's earlier work was generally 
ignored because of his deliberate 
concern with ,religious .topics _that 
were not. so easily_ comprehended -by 
the masses, with their Catholic sym­
bology, et al. His more recent poetry 
has, however, ·broken away from 
this. theological concentration and 
has become, in a different . sense, 
more sacred. This latter material can 
be expected ·to be the crux of his ex­
position, •yet somethi_ng .. from his 
works that· were published when he 
was teaching here, like Ghosts of the 
Heart, or S-pring of the Thief, might 
also be expected. 

Joseph Brodsky, also a poet, will lend a special. interest to the "lit­fest" as well, in light of the similar episode that just occurred to another writer, Alexander Solzhenitsyn. Like Solzhenitsyn, .·Brodsky. was exiled from his mother country, the USSR. Not. as much consternation arose in 1972 ..when Brodsky was de­ported because ·he was. not, and still is not, · a public person. By his own admission Brodsky is a deeply personal being and his poetry reflects this, as ·. well as the · sentiment, or ·rather the· memories, that he retains of his Russian en­
vironment. 

Some of the novelists that will be attending the upcoming SLF are the aforementioned Farrell, Olsen, and Purdy.· James Farrell was born in 1904 and has become famous not only for his Studs Lanigan trilogy, which he wrote in 1937, but by the same token for the obscenity charges .that were brought against him that same year for his quite explicit A World I Never Made. Today, natural­
ly, Farrell is no longer considered obscene, yet,c since most of his novels are derived. from his Chi­
. . . '.-, 
cago slum, . early-life experiences, they are rather blunt in their nature. And for some, a little vulgar. De­spite this false "pornographic" label­ing, Farrell's J!OVels . and shorter works remain startling and inter­esting documentation of what the Great Depression era ( of the Thir­ties, that is) was like. · ­
. Tillie Olsen on the other hand is not as controversial as Farrell, but she has written about that same era in a book that was just published, Yonnondio: from, the. Thirties, but was written when she was only 19 years old and completed some time during the late 1930's. Unfortunate­ly, Ms. Olsen's published works are few and far between, but what she has written, and wha~ she has been rec.ognized for, have been powerful stories of people -people that have cared and because these people have bothered to care, they usually ex­perience some sort of suffering. Her works are full of this kind of pain, ·a. pain · she obviously under­stands well, as she was awarded the 
0. Heriry Award in 1961, for the title 


story from the first _collection of all her fiction up to that point, entitled 
Tell Me a Riddle. 
And finally, the last, but definitely not the least of these novelists, is James Purdy. Purdy, who also writes short stories, has been publishing his material since 1953 when· he was only thirty years old. Some of his more famous novels are: Malcolm 
THE ·sCHOLASTIC 

(1959), The Nephew (1960), Eu­stace Chisholm and the Works 
(1967), and the most recent I Am Elijali Thrush (1972). Some of these have occasionally been dramatized with much success, notably Malcolm, and Purdy has .on occasion specifi­cally written for the theater. 
Over the years, Purdy's themes have been centralized around the concepts of alienation, the individu­al, and iphumanity. These concepts are usually situated in a "reality" that is strangely desolate or peculiar­ly disassociated and barren. As a result his final products are complex and relate a confused, compressed experience. The reading sessions will provide an excellent opportuni­ty for those who have read Purdy, but have missed the powerful em­phasis his works display. 
But the reading sessions are not the only concerns of the SLF. This is why Chris · Mahon and friends have been emphasizing their plan to "expand this University's aware­ness of the written word." They have realized the importance of meeting the author and not just his work. In the· interview with Chris he men­tioned that "you could read all about a person, or by that person; but you 

John Logan 
still don't really know him or her until you meet them and talk with them. That's important!" 
And because that aspect is so im­portant, Chris has tirelessly obli­gated himself to bring the writers to as many people as possible. There 

Calendar of Events 
Stinda.y, l\larch 2 Joseph Brodsky, 3:00 P.M., Library Auditorium Tennessee Williams, 8:00 P.M.; Washington Hall 
l\Ionda.y, l\larch 3 James Purdy, 8:00 P.M., Library Auditorium 
Tuesday, l\larch 4 

James T. Farrell, 8:00 P.M., Washington Hall 

Wednesday, l\Iarch 5 

John Logan, Jr., 8:00 P.M., Library Auditorium Thursday, l\larch 6 
Michael Ryan, 3 :30 P.M., Library Auditorium Tillie Olsen, 8:00 P.M., Library Auditorium 
Friday, March 7 Robert Bly, 8:00 P.M., Library Auditorium 
Saturday, l\larch 8 _. LawrenceFerlinghetti, 8:00 P.M., Library Auditorium 
will be the readings, but there' will also be the classroom visits by some of the writers as well as the private engagements that· take place at fac­ulty residences and at a few other locations. For me, it has been these les~ structured events -the extem­poraneous lectures and the parties -that have been the most_ influen­tial. These situations, in most in­stances,·strip away the author's per­sona and leave behind the human being. This, at times, often provides for some amazing revelations. 
Besides these . basic revelations. there is ·another function of the SLF and it was alluded to in the opening of this article. In a much clearer statement: the festival sus­tains a balance at Notre Dame. A balance between the "sport"· and, if you please, the "soul." When talk­ing over this subject matter with Chris during the interview, he hoped· that there would be no mis­construction of his "purpose." He said, "There must be some kind of balance! This University is gen­erally ·about learning. Learning about things you don't know. And we (the SLF) are simply pro­viding ··. them (the students and others) with the chance to appreci­ate literature. To learn about it! I hope they take this opportunity." 
What more can be said? 
-Bill ·Smith ­

FEBRUARY 14, 1975 
Steve Goodman: Trying to· be.. the-Best 
(Following his concert January 6, Steve Goodman talked with Scholas­tic reporter L. Patrick Burns and WSND-FM reporter Patrick Smid. WSND will air the entire interview on their Nocturne Night Flight show.) 
Scholastic: How long have you been playing the guitar?· 

Goodman: I've been · playing for 13 ' 
'! or 14 years now ... the thing that started me . off was. an . incident in high school. I had a friend who hap­pened to be my best friend, along with, being a juvenile delinquent, who told me one day that my hands 
• were too small to play the guitar. ·Tei make a long story short, I made some reference about his mother and went out and bought a guitar. . .. Later things began to happen. I was playing one night on a bill with Kris Kristofferson at the Quiet Knight in Chicago and· Paul Anka heard us. One thing led to another and soon after, he flew. us to New York, and, as I said, ·, things just began to happen. 
Scholastic: Do you still spend a lot of time in Chicago? 

· Goodman: Yea, I live there near my family .and friends. I'm not about to move. Chicago is a nice place to 
hide from the music business. : 
Scholastic: . You · think the record companies are missing out on a lot of the things going on there? . 
Goodman: There are people in Chi­
cago doing so~e really fine music. In 
other towns, ·"folk" may. be a . dis­
appearing word, but it exists in Chi­
cago in some good bars along. Lin­
coln Ave., at the Earl of. Old Town, 
and other places. These places have 
good music going on at this moment. 
If the record · companies went in 

there right now,.they could grab a, . handful of great artists.· 

It may be good though that the' -times l don't, b~t it isn't because I· -flf for the prison. Now anybody that 
record companies are missing out. didn't. take a shot atit. I'm basically takes:a pass at that much money is 
Chicago gets to be something of a trying to be the best -kind of ~nter-either doing someone a favor or is a 
haven for musicians. ·Without ·the tainer that I can possibly be-what-fool. John Denver is doing well these 
record companies, there's no back-ever that means-that's on, a num-_days, so I assume he's no fool. He 
biting going on as there is in Nash-. ber ·of criteria. Mostly it's out of pro-:_ definitely did. a good thing.· 
ville or New York. · fessional pride; hell, this· is what I The toughest act to follow that 
Every now and then though I do. . night was the Nitty Gritty Dirt 
think the record people ought to Band. I wish them nothing but good 
come in and skim off ~ome of that things. Those guys have worked 
talent in Chicago. hard for ten years. They're tough, 
man . . _. they ar1; I"eally good. 
Scholastic: How much time do you __ 
spend on the road? 
Scho~tic: What ~an you say about 
the ne~ album you're working on? 
Goodman: I can't remember all the 
days I played last year -. . . but Good.man: On. the new album there 
counting traveling time, I would say are six songs that I either wrote or 
about 50%-maybe 200 days. co-wrote. To describe it.-.. actually, 
it's apretty good mix of what I do
" 

Scholastic: Anything special about on,sfage; now that I think about it. 
touring that yoti like? . I do . one ·song that I like" a .lot 
based on the Spoon River Anthology~ Goodman: I like it because it's al­It's areally pretty song. Then there ways different. I like playing halls as ~re a few of the, older . songs like well as clubs. . . . There's nothing "It's a. Sin. to Tell .. a . Lie," . ."Door like having to look somebody right Number· 3,'' and "The Hotel Song." in the eye when he's a few feet away There's an instrumental that I like from you and to .sing a so:rig and alot called "Jessie's Jig." It's named find out if it is something good. It's Scholastic; D~ you and Arlo Guthrie after my.little girl. Bill Swafford -like the acid. test for -a performer ·. get ·together much? · · · and I wrote it. He used to be Oliver with his music. Sometimes· ittakes a -.. -~ everybody at this school should 
little while because you have to do Goodman: We had a good time doing knovv thaf after the-benefit last year. 
certain things to geta successful set a show -called Soundstage a while I think thetitle will be, "Jessie's Jig 
going. There are.compensations you. -back. This·was on the PBS rietwork~ and Otlier Favorites." __ 
make with the guitar. I really like -.Everyone always asks me why Ario's 
what I'm doing: It's what I know version· of-"City of New Orleans" Scholastic:; Do you have any par­
how to -do. ---. made it and mine didn't; I know why.• ticular-direction for _the ·future in 
mind? · · · · I like to play and sing. _There are .He .did a .terrific job with it. He 
no particular favorites, there might slowed it down so everybody could 
be ~ne on a certain day ... but you hear, the w.ords, I stili°do it the way I Goodman£ Well, I want to keep 
never know. I generaliy stick with originally. did_ it,_but he did a great growing._ People. have this concep­
the: stuff ·_ that's holding . up; but job on_ it: Fie 'read it"as the disap:: tion that once you have a certain 
again, you never know until you pearirig railroad blues, .rather: tha:ri amount of. knowledge about a trade 
play it. You can't-have the slightest as a ·train song. It wa~ playing all . that that's where the iearning stops. 
idea._ You think it might be. good~ . over the. radio.' frs payin,:Lthe rerit They say that now I know how to do 
but. • • · · · ' · · ..:_it's great.__ . • _· -•-_ · _ this, a,nd they do it, but it gets more. 
when I si~g a song of social 'com-. . -' ' . . · · -·. •·. and.mo~e-boring each day. Soon it 
mentary, I'm definitely exercising Scholastic: Wha?~ere·•·;oiir r~~~ \Vill \\'.ither and.die. I _look at things · 
a privilege because a.lot of :people tioris _-to doing tlie Prisori Benefit' at differently.. _The· truth -.-is to _find . 
don't get the opportunity to stand on Notre.Dame last year?' , . -• ,__ ' .-. -som.etlling that,no matter:,how long 
a stage 'and ·say· what's on';their , -·... '' -' . . ·. ·.. . ­
you do it you'llnever·lmow allthere minds. My· concern is to flt it in,at Goodman: John Denvei did \is all a is.to.know about iLAnd no.·orie.has the' x:ig~t time, get it ·off:·my'·chest _ great fayor ·by':<1rawiiig _that_ big a· ~:rio\Vball's:~han·ce.in.helfoffinding' arid then get back to. having a" good crowd. We can taik aboufhow every,; out all there is to' know about play­time. The basic business is to have body is in it for· the money and all ing the guitar. I know there are only a good time;; You pay your. money to that, but Denver could have sold out -so many frets on it and all that, ·but have a good time. I try to play the the hall with his reputation and I get staggered every time I look at kind of sets that I would pay to see. ·_ taken home a· lot of money. Instead the thing. It's a real challenge to me. Sometimes I get it right and some-he decided to show up and do a bene--L. Patrick Burns 
n:BRUARY' 14, 1975 11· 



Overcrowding i_n 
the· School of Busirless
• .--..,:i• • 

As the United States economic sit­uation appears more. dismal each year, there has been a renewed inter-= est among college students for busi­ness and economic courses nation­ally. So, too, at Notre Dame the trend is showing but with results of a more unfortunate circumstance than would be· expected. With re­spect to the College of Business Ad~ ministration, and more · specifically to the Accountancy Department, the number of students is getting higher; but, with deeper investiga_tion into the study of other important statis­tics, we may come· to realize that the Accountancy major may be in· for some unexpected results if he/she does not already feel them. 

According to Professor Powell, chairman of the Accountancy De­partment, enrollmentin accounting and the College of Business Admin­istration is certainly ·booming, but with some unintended results. "In 1968, we had 120 seniors in accmin~ tancy. In September, 1975, we will have 240 seniors." he reports: The figures have been rising steadily every year so that in seven years either accountancy, economics or fi­among which is: .with the prob­(1968-75), the number of graduat­nance as majors in which to pursue lems presented by the overload, why ing seniors in accounting has in­business careers. Furthermore, out are students· becoming more inter­creased almost 100%. This spring of' over 1,500' students in BA, grad­ested in this area, and more impor­there are 400 accountancy majors, uate included, alinost 40% are ac­tantly, what are the consequences if the juniors are included. ·Mr. countancy majors, making it one of for the Accountancy Department as Powell ·admits that not only is the largest if not the largest under­it attempts to cope with. the situa­this presently an overload, but graduate areas of study at Notre ti~? ' ' ,· next year there is a calculated Dame. On the whole university The largest problem, says . Mr. projection of 500 majors in account­level, 1 out of every 8 juniors and Powell, is in classroom size and the ancy. He goes on to cite a 'columbia seniors, or 12%, says Mr.,_Powell, is student-teacher · ratio. Out of 34 University study that indicates .in accountancy. class sections in accountancy last. on a national · level that Catholic This· boom in enrollment for ac­fall; only 3 had less than 40 students students are primarily choosing countancy brings up m~ny questions (26, 35; 28). In fact, the average 

,, 

class size was over 50 and one was as large as 115. This may not seem very alarming but it becomes more im­portant when it is noted that there are only 12 teaching professors in accountancy·-for 400 majors, 500 sophomores ·and 200. MBA's. Mr. Powell states, "What do you do when you've· got 115 good, capable .kids, with 2.9 ·cumula_tive aver:ages, in a classroom for accounting? By com­parison in the College of Engi~ neering .a recerit · Observer article in.:. dicated there are 88 teachers for ~00 students, or a ratio of about 1:10. In the College of Business Administra~ tion, there.are only.47 teachers for 1,569 students· or an overall ratio of 1:33." This rat}o,)s borne out as well within the accountancy majors. Mr. Powell's· question is agoc:id one;.what do you do? "I've asked various leveis of the University administration for permission to. screen entrants into th'e major .·and .their policy is open admission. As wen, the College of Business. Administration;s p'olicy is open admission. So, we may not have any control over .the number of students we enroll and we neither can nor desire to stop the free choice of majors in this University/' As the dilemma of faculty iii ·accounting goes, the' situation begins to look more grave. There has been practi­cally the same ·faculty personnel since the overload commenced. "You are about three years too late in try­ing to ·cover_ the boom of students,'' claims Mr. P()well, who cites the fact that his department has been over­loaded for that long. "1974 was the third year in arow," he continues, "the University has refused to allow the Departrri'ent to hire any new fac­ulty." Eve'n _worse, to get a research faculty member, the Department last year had to retire one full.:.time pro­fessor and hire one half-time teacher and halUime researcher; So, in effect, there was less faculty as the enrollment continued to . boom. In 
addition, · in 1975, there will be four new MBA courses that must b~ covered. To top all this off, the University only allows $80 per professor per year for developmental purposes; seemingly insignificant, this fact carries weight when it be­comes a question of improving. ex­isting faculty and the Department as well. 
In fact, Mr. Powell says that it is 

.a "very real possibility" that the College could lose its accreditation because of its inadequate teacher­student ratio, overloaded classes, and. lack of faculty development. He adds that for meeting accreditation stan­dards at the MBA:BBA levels next year, assuming no increase or de­crease . in enrollment, "We would need· 4 additional teachers in Ac­countancy alorie. Our teachers are rapidly aging because ofas many as 115 kids in a class and an average of four classes with at least fifty a class are making them age.. Things are pretty rough and we don't mind that. We do _mind when no one per­mits us to do anything about it." .·. Why do students go into account­ancy? According to Mr. Powell, "Be­cause they believe the jobs are there." But even this not· assured anymore. Last year, only· 60% of Notre Dame graduating accountancy majors were employed in public ac­counting.. But this year, the number seeking jobs has gone up ·from 135 to 160 graduating seniors and next year will rise to 240, itself, an in~ crease ·of 50%. As Mr. Powell said, "There is no way we can increase professionally prepared graduates in one year by 50% and hope to employ them." What does he foresee? ·"Stu­dents are going to have to go· ·in greater .numbers into govern_men.tal accounting, which means the Inter­rial Revenue . Service or General . Accounting Office, or some state and local governmental units. In addi­tion, there are. going to have to be 
"The largest problem, says Mr. Powell, is in classroom size and the . student-teacher ratio." · 

mor~ students going into industrial . accounting, that is, accounting for a· business firm." 
· So, obviously, the Accountancy De­partment is in a bind, as well as the ~ollege of Business Administration, 
·to almost the same extent.They have a booming enrollment but no author­ity to control it nor permission to increase faculty to handle it: · As a result, the College's faculty ·is nu­merically inadequate to the task and may cost them their accreditation. Finally, they · cannot · realistically claim to employ over 60% of their seniors in public accounting: "It is a major problem," says Mr. Ppwell, 
."and the University is not helping us face up to it.J' 
< • 

Even though the jobs may seem to be increasing and the salaries remain high, the gigantic.influx of students into accountancy has possibly erase_d the advantage of that increase and may in the long run, ·cause-serious damage to the Accountancy Depart­ment and.· should be attended to by the University before it causes ir~ revocable harm to the students, the program which th~y study and the faculty who teach them. 
-Dave .Dreyer 

FEBRUARY 14, 1975 
The Glee Club: New·Characteristics; 

Dr. David Clark Isele 
. ,. . 
"Our Glee Club is an organization of which we may be proud: a source of unequalled entertainment to the cities which it favors with engage­ments and a credit to . the Univer­sity_;, Although .this. description of the Notre DameGlee Club appeared in a 1916 issue of the· Scholastic, it remains· valid today. Since its be­ginning as an informal. group of 12 under the direction of a. law stu­dent,. the Glee Club, with a present membership of 68, has n9t sacrificed its traditional spirit of fraternity for the air of professionalism . which now characterizes the group. 
Presently under the direction of Dr. David Clark Isele, an assistant professor in the Music Department, the group's musical program is lean­ing towards a more varied and lighter sound. It was customary in 
the past, for instance, to begin the 
program with the "Ave Maria." Now 
it is·. not '. uncommon for drinking 
songs to open the concerts,.with the 
heavier and more religious numbers 
interspersed. · 
"One . of. o·ur chief concerns," says 
Dr.· Isele, "is 'to devise a, package 
which will sell to all. We.have quite 
a cross section to please, . and one 
cannot be _too esoteric or the audi­
ence will lose interest." Their reper­
toire has tripled since last year and 
although the crowds demand a taste 
of the old-time favorites, the. group 
is moving' into new and dynamic 
areas of musical endeavor. 

Dr. Isele's credentials include rec­. ognition of his cultivated abilities as 
an organist and vocalist, as well as 
a reputation as a gifted composer. 
Known as "Coach" to club members, 
' , ; ~ ; ' . 
Isele earried aB.A:'ofMusic in vocal education at Oberlin Colleg~; master of music and master of sacred music degrees· at· Southern Methodist Uni­versity, and the doctor. of musical arts degree In composition. at East­man . School of Music. _He tool{ over direction. of ·the . Glee Club, . along with. his roles as Choral and Chapel Choir director after Professor Daniel 
H. Pedtke retired two years ago. 
The club felt a great loss at 
"Dean" Pedtke's retirement after 35 
years as director. Rev. Robert Grif­
fin, the club's chaplain; says. of him, 
"He is a unique man who could take 
the.· boys' singularity arid make it 
into something rnuch . bigger than 
themselves ...:.... something. of which 
they could be proud." Reis a living 
legend to the club, even to those new 
members' who did not work with 
him. According to Fr. Griffm, ''The 
group's -continuity and ability to 
pass on to each other more than the 
tails they wear on stage will keep 
Dean's name apart o_f the group." 
·with regard to the. club's role in public . relations for.. Notre. Dame, Isele says, "The Glee Club is one of the_ least expensive and. most effec­tive P. R. gestures operating for _the University.'' Fr.. Griffin· feels, "Other clubs do. nofhave the vehicle which the Glee Club has arid few are so artkulate. in their message... To many of the people they sing for .the boys are a. glossy image. of what they would· like their own chHdren to be. They are some\Vhat embar­rassed by the clean-cut image they . project of a· 'better hope' and.Notre Dame's answer to . a po'.t smoking, 
grungy, hippy~type world, yet an-· 
other side of. theni shows. that. they 
share· much with their generation." 
This year's president of the· Glee Club; Michael Savino, sees the club as the center of many of the mem­bers' lives on campus. "Much like a fraternity," says Savino, "it acts as an · outlet allowing students to meet friends they will keep for years 
THE. SCHOLASTIC 
e 

to come. There is no typical Glee Club member, but they hold in com­mon a love for singing and socializ­ing." Senior member, John Murphy, looked upon by many in . the group as •the father figure of the club, notes, "Participation is the minimum involvement one may opt for, but for many the group is a core from which stem other interests." . · 
Social activities, handled _by Vice President Craig Spengel, are ari im­portant dimension of the club. "They have a discipline and feel for show biz," says Fr. Griffin, "which tells them when it is time to work and when they; canJetJoose." Agreeing with. this, Dr. Isele· says, "The boys seem to realize. that. the harder one works t~e harder one may,play/' 
· The business and. paper work . of the club are almost entirely student. run; A chai~ of six senior officers 

, :t.

including Jeff Brunner as Business 'J\ Manager, Charlie Kay as Publicity "I ! Manager, Bill Hillstrom as Secretary •-·· ; 
and Paul Shay as• Treasurer, handle '.Ii_n 
the _operatJon of .fhei_r. bureaucracy . , ,1 along with,Savino:and Spengel. This t? ?,· 
includes finding ·sponsors for con-. ~ i.J 
certs, ·keeping in contact _with,cl,u~. ·-· h·. ---, · · --· 0: n'camp·u.'sin the fall.and a(Christ_~·
alumni and -setting-tip. accounts ·to '.['aking a ~lance at t e g~ups itmer­f d. t 'd -t·· ·t· · ary for this year and their Past en-m. as, mariy organizations on camptiii
un ou si e ac ivi ies. '" -· -• -· . hm h 11 h 1 b t f Th y
. --. · gagements and accomphs ents, t e ca upon t e c u o per orm. e 
T?ere does exist a sense of ~emo~-impressive opportunities which the have appeared ,at an Alumni Senate ity m the Glee Club, but mamly m club affords its members ·can be ap-meeting, faculty. meetings, . Dean the, context of ~h!sical limitati?ns preciated. . . ... . .· . . Hofman's freshman barbecues, . ~e 
on tour. Describing their pohcy, Thi°s past fall the Glee Club made Charlie' Brown· Christmas Mass and Mike _Savino says, "We try to take a tour to the East Coast ~nd up into · · Saturday Morning Review ·on horn~ advantage 0~ as many of our me~-New England. Included were stops. game footbaH,,wre,kends. A recent_ bers as possible, b~t ~hen a choice in Buffalo, Boston,· P_hiladelp_hia, appearance at .the u;c.L.A. game must be made_ ~emority and atten-Scranton, Williamsport and. a con:. marked 'the third time that the Glee dance ar~ deciding factors.• In the eluding performance on November Club has sung and charmed the· teain past, durmg the days of the Fresh-11 back home in Washington Hall. on to victory against the Bruins. "It man quad, it -was perh~ps more The club's chaplain describes· each . was also the third time,''. says Mur.;. structured, but now there is less em-tour as an anticipated ._ conquest. . phy,· "that the . cameras ~witched phasis in distinguish~ng between 1;he "Entering the city _1as strangers," from us to a commercial. This time classes! .and I am• impressed ":!th says Fr. Griffin, "they lea:ve having Ban roli~on won out for top billing." the ability of our new members. made friends who are impressed and -The ..Notre .'i:>ame community;s 
John Murphy cites another way charmed by their ability as .per-reaction towards the· Glee Club in which seniority is evident in the formers and ambassadors." · varies from the apathetic to those Glee Club. ·"Senior m~mbers take This spring the club; .which usual--the club members describe as "rah, responsibility for the freshmen..we ly travels with 40 of _i_ts members, rahs" who follow their news and are expected to help them with ad-will appear in California and pl~ns, ~nti~ipate their. plans. Isele feels justment and share the club's sense are now being finalized for a Euro-that the Glee Club has a vital role i of fraternity." Parties. held at the pean tour following commencement to play as a harbinger for the grow'.'. I beginning of semester, well termed weekend. Although the members.are ..ing Music Department. -"The Glee "screame_rs,'' are designed to intro-expected to pay for part of the· ex-Club," says Isele,. "is the forerunner duce new members to the lyrics .of penses,-profits· from_ this• year's·•--for making music, a .paramount. cul~ their songs as well as to their social Christmas album and contributions tural event on the campus. It is an atmosphere. from the alumni will be important excellent envoy_ for the Music De­
"The . experience of being in the in financing the tour.' partment in their efforts to incor-Glee Club," ·says Fr. Griffin, "does But the group does not. spend :all porate music as an important aspect much more than fill a gap. It offers of its time entertaining away .from of the Notre Dame community." enrichment in many .capacities." -home. Besides the open concerts ~eld ..:...Kathy McElroy , : 
FEBRUARY 14, .1975 
15. 

i: 
A Letter .from an Editor. 
-~ 

(Greg Stidham is a medical student at the Univer­sity of Toledo. He served as editor of Scholastic during the year 1912-13.) · 
(Toledo, Ohio, December 4, 1914.)-The gap which 
spreads so unbridgeably between Notre Dame and this 
second year of medical school dizzies me with its many­
sided distortions of time and inevitable clouding of · 
memories. So ·much has happened. So much_ has 
changed. But I am not sure even of that: perhaps the 
events and changes are only more illusions created by 
that magical gap in, time and distance. 
It is a cold night in early December. The remnants of the worst blizzard in 50 years cover the streets and the lawns of Toledo. Last night, too, was cold, so that my breath was a ghost in the moonlight as I walked . to my car. A man had just died, right under the frantic fingertips of those who were working feverishly · to save him. I was on the team. It was the first time. It · · will not be the last. 
I had imagined that scene in the emergency room for some time, or one like it. I had wondered what I· would feel. I was surprised last night to find that I felt very little. And tonight, thinking about that, I am hor-· rifled.• I am also caused to wonder. 
I think about pre-med at Notre Dame, hopelessly and . ruthlessly competitive, cutthroating, grade-grubbing­
i, all the old terms, repeated over and over by pre-meds in their frustration. Old terms,· boring after so· many repetitions, but so accurate. I can remember well the ­problem:· how to get into medical school and still stay afeeling person. And r remember many who· sacrificed one or the other, a few who were lucky and survived with both. I had thought that I had survived with both. 

The relief after that survival was brief. I soon dis­covered, and am still discovering, that medical school is very little different. Some of the situations are dif­
16 

from Greg Stidham 

ferent, but the problem is the same: how to survive with one's feelings and sensitivity still intact. And I have no answers. I am holding my breath and trying to survive, and I won't know for some years if• I have succeeded. 
I am afraid that the beginning of this writing was misleading, for it may have seemed that the piece had some point, soon to be revealed. I have no point to make, only a plea. While we occupy ourselves with drinking regulations, parietals and football ratings, people are living and people are dying. Some people are suffering terribly. Let us think of that often and never fail to be moved by it. Never. 
Tonight, in my mind, _I am marking the passing of 
a.man I knew only by his struggling face: 
. 


To Assist the· Student Acti.vities 
The Office of Student Activities is rectangle of a building that used to located ._in the ·~a· Fortu~e Student. · · house the Tailor Shop. This room is 

Center off the main entrance to the left. A cheery: girl named Maureen sits at a desk in the reception room. She tells you when it is your turn ' to see the Director ·of Student Activ­.ities, who is Rev. David E. Schlaver; . 
C.S.C. It ·is Father Schlaver's job · to assist each ·of the many student ·. clubs and organizations in whatever way·they need help, be it help with forming realistic goals, determiniQg · student interest; projecting student response, . raising .· funds,· planning. budgets, or lining up activities. This is a large and multi-faceted job, cori­sidering there are, in addition to ·the·· student government and · student union bureaucracies, a great num­ber of· special interest clubs; student . volunteer community help organ­izations, and the student radio and publications~ . . . 
·.-Father Schlaver does riot see .the Office of Student Activities as a shackle of restrictions for students. -~e says, ''I tryto approach this of-flee as· a direct· contact with the students, where I can be a service to them. I try to help them get what they need. I want students to know· to come· to Student Activities to get things done." 
Father sm.okes as he talks: There is · a good-looking · metal sculpture made of a wrench, a hammer head, and other metals on. a table on one side of his desk; it is Don; Quixote, . upon Rocinante, lance in harid. · On the wall on the other side of· the desk is a black and white' photo­graph with the heads of John :and Robert Kennedy in it. The desk is in' an alcove of a large, high~ceil­inged room.. There is also a stout wood tabie with eight or nine chairs arounci it in one part of the room. . The windows of the alcove behind the desk look out towards that small 
.a. place to bring plans -and watch 
them become facts. 
Planning and cooperation of the students · are . necessary for the smooth running of Student Activi­ties. · Father talked about the La Fortun_e .renovations i_n light of a · problem he encounters: . "These plans were drawn up two years ago. Most. of the students. who helped start this thing are gone now, and . there's a new crop of students _who'll want everything changed all over again. Consulting the files that this office keeps helps me to decide what long-range plans are best for each 
club or project." 
· A yearly event _sponsored by Stu~ 

dent Activities is Ac_tiyities Night~ 
during which all the dubs and orga­
nizations invite students to La For­
tune, where the clubs make avail­
able information about. what the 
club is about, what activities it en­
gages in, and how to join. Through­
out ·the year, each club,. as well as 
the Student Union, registers its activ­
ities with Father Schlaver so that 
conflicts can be avoided. · 
. .There are other concerns. besides 
Student Activities for the thirty­
two-year-old Father Schlaver. He 
~s the rector of Dillon Hall, and this 
semester has. started to teach a· col­
legiate seminar class. He also inter­
views incoming · freshmen on Satur~ 
days. 
Father was born in . Kewariee, 

Illinois, and moved from there to 
Mount Prospect in the same state, 
where he attended Notre Dame High 
School. Next, he majored in History 
and Philosophy at the University of 
Notre Dame. Here, Schlaver joined 
the band, and played the oboe and 
the saxophone. About this experi­
ence, Father says, "The closest ties 
I have to the University are the ties 
· David. Sch1.aver, a.s.a. 
that I developed with the people who were in the band with me. The last­ing friendships are with those . I worked with in the band. We didn't have stay halls theri, but I think this is still true now." 
Father went on and earned his Master of Theology . in 1969 after two years of work at Holy Cross College in Washington, p.c_., and summer sessions at Harvard· Divin­ity School and the Goethe Institute i~ Germany. He was also an · assis­tant editor for the Ave Maria Maga­zine during this time. The next two years were spent in the Netherlands, at the University of Utrecht, as a special student in pastoral theology. Father says .. of this time .in . the 
Netherlands, "I enjoyed it, but I was . anxious' ·to . come back here,. to Notre Danie/•' , . 

Father returned to South Bend in 1971, and became the:assistant pas­tor at Christ. the King Parish; The following . year, Father was · named Director of Volunteer Services for Notre Dame students involved in corrununity help projects. . Appoint.: ril.ents as the Assistant Director of Campus Ministry and as the rector of Dillori H~ll · came in the same year. And in' 1973, Father ·took on the job of Director of · Student Ac­tivities, and has· retired from his two other directorship.-posts. ·• It seems as though Father Schlaver has always been_· arid will continue to be a very busy person. His wil­lingness to· tackle the hard jobs is characteristic : of the people who make Notre Dame most worthwhile. 
Father admits what is already ap­parent, "I like to· work." In that respect, Notre Dame and Student Activities have not disappointed him. 
·-Dan Adler 

FEBRUARY ·14, 1975 



ND~SMC Drama Department 
. Undoubtedly, some teacher some­where along the academic line has made you (or required you to) read Oedipus Rex. If you're like a great number of students, you probably tried to avoid reading it, and, if you couldn't, you .· probably waded through the nume1;ous .strophes and antistrophes packed with invocations of gods and woe-is-us's, and came out feeling a little bored or lost or both. Therefore, when you find out that the first ND-SMC .Theatre pro­duction of the semester is Medea, originally .written by Euripides of Athens in about 431 B.C., you might let some secret distrust of Greek drama that lurks deep within you dissuade you .from seeing it. Don't let that happen; this play is power­ful drama in an appreciable, modern form. 
The version of Medea opening on 

February 20 in O'Laughlin Audito­rium . is a "free adaptation" by seeing Greek plays, so many.students Courses dealing with the areas of Robinson Jeffers, a modern Amer­might view the theatre department actual .theatrical productions, such ican poet, of· Euripides' play. In it, as something far off and inaccessible. as acting, . directing, stagecraft, 
the ancient legend is unchanged, but Many do not know how. the ND-SMC mime,. or costume design, are avail­it is in the form of a. modern play Theatre is organized, how to get into able · after taking, the prerequisite written in free verse. Medea, fo be productions, or what theatre courses Intro to Theatre. Intro is aninter­played by Kathy Burke, is· a sorcer­are available. As a result, they may esting (at times bizarre) course ess who is married to Jason, to be stifle ,whatever interest_ they have, which starts. with the students re­played by Bill McGlinn. When Jason and deny themselves a wonderful op­creating a prehistoric fertility ritual divorces her to ·make a more polit­portunity.. The fact is that the -,-the origin of. theatre... There are ically advantageous marriage, her Theatre is not the.sole possession of also courses which deal _\Vith dra-: 
faithful devotion sours into. hatred. drama majors, and auditions are not matic literature and dramatic forms: Using her magical powers, Medea secret, painful. rituals.. oral interpretation,. ,development' of murders Jason's fiancee and her The Theatre is run by the Depart­dr_ama; dramatic theory and 'criti­
father, the king. Then, to wipe out ment of Speech and Drama, a co­cism, and others.. · . . ., _, , any immortality .which she might operative department of both ~otre Of course, •. the department also have given Jason, Medea slaughters Dame and St. Mary's. Because. it is offers the opportunity for participa­
her own two sons. Only Jason.is left equally . part of both schools, the tion in a wide range of· theatrical in the end-broken,·lost and helpless. department can offer ND and SMC productions. The ND-SMC Theatre . Just as being a different form of students .alike· a full range , of offers two. large, conventional pro-

;j 
I 18 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

:i 
: 
V 

ductions each semester, this se­mester's offerings being Medea and Man of La Mancha. The lab theater is a large, totally black room on the third floor of Washington Hall which 
. is used for smaller, experimental productions. Last semester :the lab was used for George Buchner's Woyzeck. The only props were two large, yellow blocks, and the audi­ences. (limited to 50 per show) sat on ;the floor while the show went on around them. There will also be a series of seven. full-length produc­tions, including the musical I Do! I Do! during April. and May. These shows are the final exams for •the students in· Advanced· Directing, and will be fully cast and directed by those students. . 
When and .where are these shows, and how can students get involved in them? Man . of La Mancha opens April 25 in O'Laughlin Auditorium, and tryouts for those• interested in_ performing in the show •are on March.7 at .6:00 p.m. at O'Laughlin. The audition will -last _all evening, and will cover singing,· dancing and acting. Anyone interested, in trying out should pick up a packet of audi­tion material from the Speech and Drama office on the ground floor of Moreau Hall at SMC. Everyone will audition with ._the same material; everyone will sing, dance and act. However, if your voice cracks, or you have two left feet, or you can't act, don't be scared off (unless all three apply) because there are roles which don't ,require all three, ·and you're · certainly not-going to be laughed at •for trying. Call-backs will be March 9. at 1:00 p.m; 


The plans for the lab theater and the directing finals are not definite yet, but the information should be available in the near future. Anyone interested can find out, more by calling or stopping by at the de­partment office in. Moreau..These productions need people, especially males, and the department is anxi­ous to encourage students to par..­ticipate. 
However, participation in the de­partment's activities need not be limited to performing. There· are people who are -interested in work on the technical end of productions, light crew, costuming, prop con­struction, etc. and they, too, are en­couraged to get involved. Janet Wil­son, herself a studerit, '. is 'technical coordinator and ·. is responsible for assigning. and scheduling the various crews for different shows. -To work on a crew, one need only contact lier through the -drama office. . 
There' is; then, nothing mysterious ab~ut the Speech and Drama depart­ment. It is as open a,_s ariy otl~er de­partment to non-majors,, and has as much or rriore to offer. them'. ... 
FEBRUARY 14, 1975 

'----.(.-..._<,.~,_,_--~----•........,_ • --•~• .O~ ........... _...__~.. •----·-,--•• '• • .•...... •. ~ •--' ·:·~--'--•'•"• ------.--•-~ • , __,.-~ ·•--~ ,..•. •• •'-' _J' '•·••-~•••; '•-·•~ ·•~ --•, ... ,·-• 
Sharing Cultures in Yllc~tan 
• . 4 
(Betsy CareiJ is presently in .the SO'phomore Year Abroad Program in Mexico City. She sent Scholastic the following account of two weeks she and a number of other Notre Dame students spent in the Yucatan Peninsula.) 
All they said was, "Come work with the Mayans." So, we five repre­sented Notre Dame as playground­building; classroom-instructing stu­dents in the Mexican state of Quin­tana Roo.. 
The Mexican. faction of Notre Dame sophomores-abroad, 74-75, consists of eleven students incorpo­rating Spanish studies with Mexican adventures in subjective proportions. Five Notre Dame kids working in the Yucatan· Peninsula for fifteen days is not the subject of this recollection. We are only the base of a story con-· cerning the people we experienced and their life we shared. 
Ideas for the work excursion were formulated by the social action group at our adopted university, La Universidad Anahuac. Traveling to the southern limits of the country from its capital· was a twenty-hour trip by bus and cars. We.disembarked -the guys into huts and hammocks, the girls into convents and bunga­lows. 
. Huts served· as the center of all activity within the four small pu­eblos we had chosen: .Each pueblo fostered. a unique set of in.dividuals and circumstances. The generaliza­tion of . Mexican pueblo life• is in­correctly assumed. · Radical varia­tions can be found within language and architecture to religion and marriage customs. 
We were unaware of the respon­sibilities awaiting. The extent of our knowledge encompassed the fact that we would be working "over there." These responsibilities · de­veloped into materially constructive projects of building safe and func­tional swing sets with trees, wire and twine, or socially constructive conversations concerning· cock­roaches and tortillas. '1 
Within the pueblo the main ob­jective was to approach the·inhabi­tants on a level they would accept. We were not offering them salva­tion; they need no saving. We were not building hospitals for the birth of their babies; they take care of tha't in their hammocks. We wanted to bridge an economical/social/cul­tural valley by our presence which symbolized some attempt at com­munication. 
These particular villages were re­cently established as people · mi­grated from surrounding. states in order to form a state from the for­mer territory of Quintana Roo. · Only two distinct age groups were evident in these particular. towns. While specific ages are . difficult ·. to estimate, there were multitudes of children who appeared to range be­tween .two and thirteen, and the adults: men thirty who look twenty, women twenty-five .who look forty. Families generally consisted of three to seven kids, with another inevi­tably on the way. · 
Often the . towns · are centered around one dirt road which even­tually winds itself down to the cen­ti-al highway. Along the main street are the wooden huts of. palm leaf roofs. >Each hut has its . own per­sonality. Men took pride in de­veloping a new style of thatch roof­ing, while the women experimented in the frontiers of horticulture, growing a greener flower garden than the Chan's next door. 
Main street often boasts a small 
store where soap can be bought with an egg, and as the sun sinks, the male population congregates for warm beer and jungle stories. The evening social life is not extensive. 
· La~k of electricity ·instigates earlier sleeping .habits which are compen­sated by earlier rising habits. Roost­ers begin serenading at 4 a.m. 

Daytime activities are role-ori­ented as the wife cleans corn and washes clothes.· Men leave at dawn for the. cornfields. Children study and play. One-room classrooms sup~ ply knowledge of numbers and word.s to a fifth-grade IeveL The grade · level has • slowly been · in­creasing within ,the last ten years and is open to both boys• and girls. Most of the settlements are Spanish­·. speaking, but the Mayan language is also common. Often the two are meshed into· a dialect of the pueblo. Within the people themselves is a normality which overwhelms the ·. innocent" observer. A culture as far . removed from .the · familiarities of city. living should possess a. people removed from a recognizable simi­larity-was the thinking of this ig.: norant observer. However, the over­riding resemblance in human nature 
· brought us all to a· congenial me­dium. Kids play-as. all kids play. Their instruments are different, but the availability of instrumentation is also quite different. A cherry tomato makes a most• adequate marble in the sam~ manner as a rock and string become a yo-yo of amazing maneuverability: The mind of a vil­lage child needs to be more creative than that of the kid receiving Tonka trucks and 450 Hondas in a Christ­mas stocking. Physically we are worlds apart concerning the details of living. Armadillos are eaten as delicacies, something• I never considered very 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
u 

delicate; a plastic plate is eyed in awe as a miracle created in another world; marriage is an agreement of compatibility, no ceremony, no di­vorce. 
Actual work we did cannot be chalked up as an insurmountable achievement.· We took as much as was given. The women learned to make sweaters, we learned to make tortillas... During a 15~day ·stint, little more than the conveyance of a feel­ing can be accomplished. We felt. 
Time galloped oy as two weeks quickly passed into the last treks over muddy dirt roads. Each village had a different idea of a good-bye. One pueblo held a fiesta with a bat­tery operated record player and Coleman lanterns. The little boys slicked down their .hair and but-

L:'.: ...... · · 
toned-to-the-chin their shirts. Every­one wore shoes, a rare occurence. 
We were given farewell gifts. One carpenter gave a Notre Dame girl a tortilla press of solid cedar to show her friends back in the States. A hand-embroidered dress was given to another girl and someone else received two live chickens. These were gifts of time, soul arid love. A chicken is the prized possession; to embroider a dress involves two to three months. 
Mexico City is a utopia somewhere North in the minds of these peopie. The ultimate desire in most small Mexican settlements is to work in a factory in the Mexican capital someday. Any attempt to explain that some of us came from the United States was always met with 

J. . :• ., .. • .L. ,.,.• _: ... , ...,.,.••••-••••····••· ~ _., ••-· •• ---•--•• < • -.• , . , ·. , . .-. ,.. , •• :j 
The famous of the world certainly have the life! Honors • and distinc­tions are always being conferred upon. notable persons, places, and things. .The prominent have build­ings erected in their ,honor, are im-· mortalized in bronze, go down in · the annals of history and become household words. However, only the truly great are honored by having drinks named ·after them. By the power invested in us we feel duty­bound to administer these long-de­served accolades to the outstanding. In the interest of libation literature and posterity we haverecorded these beverages below, along with their secret recipes. Cheers! 
Ford Presidential Punch . 
4 parts rhetoric 

3 parts indecision _ _ a pinch of blandness _ serve iri a big empty vesseL 
Edmund Price Kitchen Kocktail 
5 parts dirty dishwater 
2 parts all-purpose yellow gravy 
assorted hairs and unidentified 

· floating· objects serve in a dirty glass. 
Arthur Pears Security Stinger 3 parts incompetence 
FEBRUARY 14, 1975 
questions like "What kind of animals do you keep in your house?", "Why don't you make tortillas in your pueblo?" I tried to explain that the States are another country further North than Mexico City. This didn't make it. Most of them had heard of Texas so I finally told them, "It's · up around Texas." 
To these people, college kids com­ing to their village from the dream­like Mexico City was a sentiment in itself...They continually thanked us for our suffering. Suffering! Most of us had approached this as a serious attempt to contribute something, but also as an adventure. Two weeks with wild boars, seven flat tires and 4 a.m. roosters are an interesting diversion for the city born ai:id bred. 
.•• ·; 


2 parts sloe gin garnish with a tin badge serve in an old-fashioned glass. 
Campus Ministry Mixer 3 parts relevance 1 part tea and sympathy 2 parts nonviolence 
garnish with United Farm Workers' lettuce. 
Senior Screwdriver 4 parts rejection.letters 4 parts rejection letters 4 parts rejection letters 
served in the unemployment line. 
Administration Aphrodisia 4 parts gall and nerve · 3 -parts coffee break and lunch 2 parts student inconvenience 
add a dash of bitters. 
Griffin Grog 5 parts Darby 2 parts insomnia 3 parts pun and humor 
to be drunk in a clean, well-lighted place with a lonely God. 
SMC Bloody Mary 3 parts parietal hours 4 parts ND "parties" 1 part MRS. degree add a pinch of unavailability and .· aloofness. 
Digger's Delight 
· 4 parts perspiration 3 parts inspiration 1 part resignation 
Yield: Uncertain. 
Infirmary ·Fizz 2 parts codeine 3 parts vaseline 2 parts insurance poHcies. 
Burtchaell Mickey 1 part pomposity 2 parts verbosity 1 part. calendar 
consumption limited to frequenters of 14th floor Memorial Library.· 
Emil T. Wallbanger · 5 parts hydroxide 4 parts anhydride 2 parts cyanide· 
served to anyone willing to pay. ·. 
Observer Sizzler 0 parts fact 10 parts yellow journalism 25 parts erratum 
serve with constant irregularity. 
-John M. Murphy 



l;xamining our 
----.-­


Government·
' . ' . ' . ' } . . 
·The Student Union Academic Commission will sponsor a confer­ence from Monday, Febr~ary 17, through Thursday, February 20, that will bring four distinguished speak­ers to the campus to discuss the "Separation of Powers in· the Wake of Watergate." Each of the evening sessions will feature one of the visit­ing speakers along with. twci mem­bers of the Notre Dame faculty. · 
The · series will begin with an overview of the topic by Dr. Martin Diamond, currently a Woodrow Wil­son Fellow in Washington, D.C., and the remaining three lecturers will consider in turn the specific branches of government. Dr. Samuel Patter­son," Chairman of the.. Political Sci­ence Department at the University of Iowa, -. will analyze the role of Congress on Tuesday; Dr. Herbert Storing, Professor 9f. Political Sci­ence at the University of. Chicago, will discuss the Presidency on Wednesday; and Dr. David Fellman, Vilas Professor of Political Science at the University of Wisconsin, will close the conference on Thursday with his view of the Supreme Court and its function in .the . federal system. 
In discussing the. purpose of the conference, its chairman, John Con­roy of the , Academic Commission, stressed that the problem of separa­tion of powers has been a critical one for the nation throughout American history..He sees the four-day series as an ·attempt to "put the current political crisis resulting from Water­gate in an historical perspective. We must especially examine what the .. Founders conceived the separation of . powers' to be and how they intended it to work. Hopefully, the insights we gain into the rich . political 
. . . . 
volved·at various levels of American 
. . 
politics.· For example, Dr. Diamond currently serves as an advisor· to President Ford, and Dr. Fellman has served·both as a director 1of the Wis­consin branch of the American Civil Liberties Union and as past presi­dent of the Amer-ican Association of University Professors. In light of 


thought of the Founders will shed considerable light upon the current struggles among the major branches of American Government." . 
Of course,. the principal emphasis of the. discussions wiH be upon the contemporary political setting, and each of the speakers has been in­
. ' .· . . ' : . 
their impressi_ve qualifi1:ations, Con­roy anticipates that the speakers will be ·able to '.'provide thoughtful and practicable ;_solutions to the. root problems that have. most ,.acutely confronted us in .Watergate."• 
B_ut the. conference. will also call upon our own faculty, with. :tw:o pro­
(/ 

fessors taking part in• each session as "co-discussant.''_ In this capacity, they will be able both to comment on the guest. speaker's "diagnosis" and to:propose their own interpretations and remedies. _-_ _ _ •-_ 
And .Conroy emphasized-the role that the. students will be able to' play. ·"We· are expecting members of the audience ·fo challenge the speakers ~nd_ offer their own sug­

•·Samuel Patterson · ....: 

gestions. While Watergate has pro­voked the latest encounters between the President and Congress, ques­tions about the proper roles for the Executive, for -the Legislature and for the Court have been recurring questions in American . history. It seems that as informed citizens we have an obligation to these issues." He also expressed his hope that many stud~nts would take advantage of this excellent opportunity to ex­pand their :u_nderstanding of Amer­ican government. . 
: Conroy ac~nowledged the _help of many in developing.and staging the conference: ''Of course; I would like to thank the following students who will serve as _campus. hosts for the guest speakers _and as .. moderators during the evening sessions: Marlene A.: Zloza, David J .•Hayes, and Brian J.: Meginnes. Student .Union Aca-_ demic_ Commissioner . Andrew,· G. Bury has been extremely helpful in the overall arrangement and financ­ing of the conference. The thought­ful suggestions and general services 

David Fellman 

of the .faculty , co-discussants have been immensely appreciated:· A spe­cial word of thanks· must be. ex­tended. to Dr. Walter J. Nicgorski whose patient advice. and _direction have. been very valuable from the very inception of this conference."_ · The conference schedule.will·be as 
follows: .. ­
·• SEPARATION OF POWERS IN.THE WAKE OF WATERGATE , . Mon~a.y, Febr~i~y 17; -. opening, general session~Library Auditorium-8:00 ·P.M:· · · -._-:• _. _guest speaker: Dr. Martin'Diamond-Woodrow Wilson Fellow, Washington, D.C. ." co--0iscussants: Dr: Walter J. Nicgorski....:.:Assoc. ·Professor of General ·Program'' · -··-and Liberal Studies, · . · ·· · · . Dr>Alfons J. Beitziriger~Professor of Government . _ · ·-. ·· moderator: John J. Conroy · Tuesday,·February18: :-,·.;·ses~ion ori·the·congres~Library Auditorium:.._8:00 P.M. 
-·  ·  ·  ·  ,: guest speaker:· Dr. Samuel' C. Patterson-Chairman and Professor of Political  
Science at the University of Iowa  .  
·· •:·:·  · ·· Co-discussants:-Dr.-•John Roog..:....Asst. Professor of Government,  
.. ­,,  __  .  .  Dr., Paul C. Bartholomew-:-Professor Emeritus_of Government  
moderator: Marlene A. Zloza  .  

Wednesday, February 19:. -session on_ the• Presidencl-,-Architemture Audiitorium-8:00 P.M. . .,-,... · .. _guest speaker_:: Dr. Herbert J.. Storing-Professor of Political Science at the , University of Chicago . . · . · · ·,:, _co~discussants: Dr. Peri E. Arnold-Asst. Professor of. Government," . .. -. Dr: -Donald P. Kommers...:..Professor of Government --­·moderator:' David!· Hayes. ...-_ . Thursday, F'ebruary 20: session on the ·court-:-Library ·Auditorium~:00 P.M: -_ . .. > --­guest speaker: Dr: David Fellman:..::.:..vnas Professor of Politic'al Science. at'..the ­
.·.:· ... · 
·' ·university of Wisconsin'. co-discuss·ants: Fr; Rayµiond F. Cour, C.S.C., Professor of Governmerit, ·· -·' · ----Dr. Charles E. Rice-Professor of Law (Notre Dame Law School) moderator: Brian·J. Meginnes · 
FEBRUARY. 14, ·1975 
l: -.. . -·.-,. . •.·---,-_,:· ,. ...--. .·. . --_ 
(._People at ND 

Students planning on eloping in Maine or breaching that state's traf­fic laws may find that the justice of the peace performing the ceremony or presiding over their violation ap­peal is a fellow student named John O'Connor. For John, a personable government major, happens to be a duly appointed, full-fledged justice of the peace in the state of Maine. John's appointment came about in 1970 when .the state legislature passed a bill giving eighteen-year­olds full legal .rights. Seizing the opportunity, John applied for.. the· justice position and shortly there­after received the appointment by the governor and the executive coun­
cil. An amendment was passed later that year requiring all justices to be twenty-one, thus leaving ·John the first and only eighteen-year-old jus­tice of the peace in the state. John's interest in government has always been well demonstrated:. During his senior year at high school he was a campaign worker in Senator Hatha­way's successful attempt to unseat Margaret Chase Smith. He spent last summer in Washington workingwith Hathaway and there met Congress­man john.:i3rademas, for whom John currently works as a member of the district office staff. John, a• junior · resident in Grace Hall, has three years ·remaining of his . seven-year term as justice of the peace; so if you're planning on doing any speed­

ing through Maine it might be a portunity to test their talents at 
good idea to look him up. earning their fortunes. From Febru­
ary 10 to March 14,.the N.D. Finance 

A trip to battlegrounds of the Club will sponsor its annual Mock 
Spanish Civil War may be on the · Stock Market, under the direction of 
agenda· for Notre Dame Asst. Pro-Chairman Jed ·.·Curtis. Its purpose 
fessor J. D. Garvick. Prof. Garvick is to. provide. an educational ex­
is currently working on the biogra-perience in the mechanics · of 
phy of Oliver Law, the first black stock investments, such as in 
officer to command white troops, how transactions are. made. By in­
who fought during the Spanish Civil vesting one dollar, the student or 
War and was killed at the battle of faculty member is given an account 
Brunete in 1937. Law was an ex-of ten thousand mock dollars which 
tremely cont_roversial figure whose he may invest in any number of 
characteristics ar·e seen by Prof. · stocks in the N.Y. or American Ex­
Garvick to represent much of· the . changes. At the end of the trading 
atmosphere which . made ·the nine-· -period, the person with the largest 
teen-thirties such an interesting . account will receive a $50 prize with 
period. Prof. Garvick, who teaches $25 and $10 going to the second and 
the extremely popular Hemingway third place winners, respectively. 
course, has had a longtime desire · Curtis is a senior finance major to write the book and just recently from Fargo, North Dakota, and is· was extended an invitation by Carlos hoping to enter law school upon his Baker, Hemingway's biographer, to graduation from N.D. He has been visit Princeton and review Heming~ in the Finance Club since he was a way's correspondence. Hemingway sophomore and knows well the risks and Oliver Law both supported the. of investment. In his three years of · Spanish Republic during the war and -participation in the Mock Stock Mar­
the correspondence . material. may ket, Jed has yet to break even. 
contain important references to Law. _Prof. Garvick hopes to make a trip Even the dea_th · of Ignatius A. 
to Spain next year with.. the. inten-• O'Shaughnessy in· November, 1973, 
tion of examining the battlefields of was a tribute to his philanthropic 
selected encounters involving Oliver lifestyle; The greatest of N.D.'s 
Law and his Abraham Lincoln bat­many benefactors cited Notre Dame 
talion.· in his will as. the recipient of an ap~ 
proximately $2.2 million gift for 

N.D. students will be given the op-which we are, again, very grateful. -Tom Birsic 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
-----. 

-· .... -__ .-.-. -_. .. ·-­
. . . 


-Coming Dist'ra·ctions· . 1 
• : --~··: .... ··,.,I. ----· ..-··' ~ :_ ·•• _·;; .-·,'.,_~:___ __:_, ..,_:_,_ ·-----·-'---~-'-·~" ___;·.... ,' ·-~_.,. 
l\lUSIC 
Feb. 19-Harpsichord and Dance: Ken & Frances Brugger, Library Auditorium and Lounge, 8 :15 pm. Feb. 20-Herbie Hancock in Concert, Stepan Center, 8 :00 pm. Tickets $4.00. Feb. 23-Becky.Stauffer,· soprano; William Cerny, .. piano, Li.prary Auditorium and Lounge, 8 :15 pm. Feb. 26-Ed Druzinski, harp; Katherine Gaser, piano, .. Library Auditorium and Lounge; 8 :15 pm. 

SPORTS 
Feb. 15-Basketball: LaSalle at Notre Dame, ACC, 
2:00 pm. Feb. 17-Basketball: St. Joe (Ind.) at Notre Dame, ACC, 8:10 pm. Feb. 21-'-Hockey: Minnesota (Duluth) at Notre Dame, ACC, 7 :30 pm. Feb. 22_.:._Hockey: Minnesota (Duluth) at Notre Dame, 
ACC, 7 :30 pm. • Feb. 25-Basketball: Fordham at Notre Dame, ACC, 
8:10 pm. Feb. 28-'-Hockey: Wisconsin at Notre Dame, ACC, 
7:30 pm. . . . . Mar. 1-Hockey: Wisconsin at Notre Dame, ACC, 
7:30 pm. 


ATHLETIC AND CONVOCATION CENTER 
Feb. 19-23-lce CaPades, ACC, for more information call 283-3824. 

MORRIS. CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
Feb. 15-South Bend Symphony Orchestra, featuring Catilena trio, 8:00 pm. 

FILMS 

Feb. 16-Collegiate Seminar Film, presented by Collegiate Seminar, 4, 7, 10:00 pm., Engineering Auditorium. 
Feb. 23-27-Festival of Literary Adaptations. 23rd~The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter 24th-To Have and Have Not 25th-The Last Hurrah 26th-The Loved One· 27th-Don't Look Now 
Presented by Cultural Arts Commission, 8 & 10 pm., Engineering Auditorium. · · 
ART 

Notre Dame Art Gallery 
Th~oughFeb.· 23-British Drawings and Watercolors, from the J. F. McCrindle Collection on indefinite loan to the William Benton Museum of Art, Long wall of East Gallery. 
Through Feb. 23-Vaclav Vytlacil, twenty religious paintings recently given to the University, Gallery 3. Through Feb. 23-Joe Jachna, images by a major · midwestern photographer and member of the Department of Art at the University of Chicago, . Gallery 2. · . ·. ·· Through Feb. 25-Dougias Kinsey, one-man show of . recent paintings by a member of the Notre Dame ,Art Department, Gallery 1, Reception. 

OTHER DIVERSIONS 
Feb. 11, 18, 25-AFROTC Lecture Series, Library Auditoriwn and Lounge, 4:00 pm. Feb. 20, 22, 23, 26, 27, 28-'-"Medea," O'Laughlin 
Auditorium, SMC, 8:00 pm. (Feb. 23, 2:30 pm.) Feb. 21-'-Wacky Winter Weekend, SMC, 7:00 pm. Feb. 22-Wacky Winter Weekend, ND, 12 :00 noon.· Feb~ 22...:...Pre-Law Society Meeting, Library Auditorium 
and Lounge, 1 :00 pm. · Feb~ 25-McAvoy Lecture Series, Library Auditorium and Lounge, 7 :00 pm. · 
~teve Slater-

FEBRUARY -14, 1975 
The Blue Team 
They sit on the last five seats at Phelps has to be very glad that his 
the end of the bench. They practice hopes have finally paid off in vie~­
wearing the blue shirt of their re­tories. Wins over UCLA, Kansas and 
versible practice jerseys. They're out South Carolina have made many 
on the court the entire practice ses­forget about the loss of the former 
sions for critical game preparations. Irish stars, ·and now an NCAA invi-
While their names may not .bring tation bid is certainly a definite pos­
fear to the campus and American sibility. _ 
college basketball circles, they are Behind those wins (as well as 
there, and they'd like to be noticed. losses) is a thorough scouting and 
They are the Blue Team of the Notre planning process where assistant 
Dame basketball program. coaches Frank McLaughlin and Dick 
There always will be situations DiBiaso as well as assistant (and 
where everyone who participates will former Notre Dame All-American) 
not play, whether it occurs ori the Bob Whitmore watch their opposi­
athletic fields or in offices. Eleven tion's games. With their plays and 
men represent Notre Dame on the coaching · techniques reviewed, a 
football field at one time (although · scouting report is presented, and in 
many wish there could've been twen­the upcoming practices before the 
ty or so at Southern Cal); six for contest, the starting team (referred 
the Irish Hockey Team, and five for to as the "Gold" team)· ruris through 
Notre .Dame's golfers. While over the offenses and defenses needed to 
one hundred student-athletes are stop therri and win. 
football 'players, and thirty others To present a profile of the opposi­
are part·of the hockey program, only tion is the responsibility of the Blue· 
fifteen make up the basketball team. . team. Junior center Roger Anderson .In this situation, there are eight to .has been Bill Walton, Kent Benson, ten that normaliy get the. oppor­Bo Ems ·and Lennie Elmore for the tunity to contribute in the games; Irish preparation of their opponent's 
while the other five must wait for 
their "chance." 
Everyone knows Coach Digger 
Phelps' stars this season. With the 
losses of John Shumate and Gary 
Brokaw to the professional ranks, 

the burden of responsibility fell to ­
Adrian Dantley and Billy Paterno . 
for the_continuance of Irish respecta-· 
bility in the roundball game. 
. To say that the super sophomores. 
have. done their job is one of the 
understatements of the basketball 
season: Dantley was the nation's. 
leading scorer until a broken. nose 
and nine stitches over his eye cut 

down his scoring output, .making. · 
him only the nation's second-leading 
scorer. Paterno has been a wild man 
around the basket, leading the team 
in rebounds and overall hustle. 
big men. ''I could say that I'm niad 
. at not playing much, but that wouldn't be true," said Anderson; "I consider it an honor representing Notre Dame, and if helping the team as a member of the Blue group leads us to victories, then it is well worth the effort." Senior Tom Varga, junior Myron Schuckman, sophomore Bill Drew and freshman Randy -Haefner are teammates of Anderson on the Blue team. All were standout players on their high school teams,· were re­cruited by many schools, and de­cided to come here to play ball. Roger Anderson and Myron Schuckman were -the two recruits brought into thelrish program after the miserable 6-20 season Phelps en­dured in his first year as head coach. Shumate had missed the entire sea­. son with his blood clot, and big men were needed to step into, the pro­gram if Shumate·couldn't make it. Unfortunately, Anderson -was in­jured after the first week of fall practice,· and by the time he was 
. ready the season was already two 


games 0 old. "The injury definitely 
hurt me freshman year, but since 
then, I've been working at my game, 
and anything I can do to the pro­
gram really makes me happy. When~ 
ever I see one of the starters take 
advantage of something he's learned 
in game prep, then I know that we 
on the Blue were successful;· UCLA 
was the key result of that situation 
for us-we felt that we had done a 
great job all week, and the victory 
had a special meaning for all of us." 
For Myron Schuckman, South 

Bend's · sprawling metropolis was 
quite different than the plains of 
McCracken, Kansas. ''Whenever we 
played, my· family and friends were 
around, and· everyone knew each 
other. We had a great time playing 
ball. Notre Dame represented an op­
portunity for a fine education as well 
as a ·good. program to play for. I 
don't think that I was awed at the 
place when I came-I was just plain 
scared." 
Myron ..suffered severe · ankle 

sprains during his freshman year, 
and reinjured them when he tried to 
come back too early. He still has 
problems with· them, and always 
wilL"The injuries got me down, but 
the. patience of the staff and· the 
team really helped me get over the 
problem. With Shu going great guns, 
it really· .didn't ,hurt. the program 
that we weren't up to full strength; 
whic~ also took a good deal of. pres­
sure off of us." . 
After the second-place finish in 

the NIT that season, Phelps went re­
cruiting for guards and forwards; 
and. came up with Paterno, Dantley, 
Martin, Kuzmicz and Bill Drew. 
A quiet sort of person, Drew was 

recruited for his shot,. considered by 
many as .the best pure-shooter in a 
long time. "Last year was all new 
for me-it was all different, and I 
was impressed with everything.. I'm 
not .. a 'rah-rah' type of guy, .but 
many of the .things about Notre 
Dame really made an impression on 
me.,The academics.and the program 
really helped me choose Notre Dame 
above all the others." 
· The . :single member of the Blue 
team to earn a monogram jacket, . Bill' felt that his shooting helped Phelps in some key situations last year. "There were a few times when my job was to break open the oppo­sition's zone, and in most of the 
FEBRUARY• 14,-1975 
cases, I came through. I guess earn­ing the jacket was a reward of the confidence the coaches had in me. This year, my major responsibility has been in'prepping the Gold team to be aware •Of the shooting guard that could give them trouble. But this all ties together with the confi­dence, thing-if the coaches have it in me, I know I'll do better both on the court and in class. With the Blue team, we've always got to be phys­ically ready to keep the others con­scious of what's happening or what 
could be expected. I know that I can contribute to the program, and now I guess that it's only going to be a matter of time before I gef a shot." 
While there is stiU a great deal of time left for Drew, for the eldest spokesman of the group, time is just about up. Tom Varga, senior finance· major from South Bend, originally came to Notre• Dame as an ordi­nary undergraduate. "I was re­cruited by a few small schools down in southern Indiana, but I wanted a good. education, and Notre Dame seemed like the place to go." 
One of the things that makes every coach's hair· turn grey is to miss a player capable of contributing to your program. Such was the case in Varga. "I came here without the notion of trying ·out for the fresh­man team, but I went out for it, and made it. I also started all 17 games for Notre Dame, and I was. really pleased that the coaching staff con­sidered me as a returner for my sophomore year." 
Varga's sophomore year turned out to be one of endurance as well as joy. "The year started out with me as sixth man behind Dwight, and everything was going great.· Then two days before the UCLA game during practice, someone fell on my knee, and it was diagnosed as a torn ligament. I really didn't know what to· do, but Coach Phelps gave me a scholarship that semester, and for 
my junior. year also, which really 
· helped me out." Coming off an inj~ry as serious as Varga's will make many stop and think if it's worth the work. With Varga, playing was· important, but not everything. "I figured that I was going to let the chips fall as they would, and with the recruits Digger brought in my junior year, .even ·making the team would be great/' Varga made. the team again, and has been a member of the Blue team . for the past two seasons. "On .the Blue team, we're not in the : iime­light, and we· know it. Digger has asked us to work hard and help · make the· program work. We've all accepted the roles that he's given us -starter or not. I've never· com­plained, and neither has anyone else. I set a goal when I first came here to graduate with honors, and I will. I've also felt that because ·r haven't 

played as much as the others hasn't put me down. I'm proud to be a part of the Notre Dame program; and I'll always be." 
The final member ·of the squad hasn't been here long enough to come away with a -noticeable im­pression of Notre Da~ as has Varga or Anderson, but he's-work­ing on it. Freshman Randy Haefner from Cincinnati, has brought a style of play to Notre· Dame that is _as new and refreshing as he is. "I was recruited ·as a 'swing forward' for Dantley and ·Paterno, and was counted on to spell them an.d also to put some offensive punch when it was needed. The entire program has been quite a change from high school, where there were kids· that weren't as good as you. But here, the· strength and quickness on every-one's, part have really• impressed me." _ . 
Haefner has a lot to say about the Blue team that only a few can un­derstand. "We always take pride irr ourselves, and . try to compliment each other when we· make a goo_d play. We're always up-we have to be, for our play inspires the starters. 
Coach Phelps has asked us for our loyalty and our support, and what~ ever I can do to help him and us to win, I'll do." 
The head . coach of. the Irish team has nothing but praise for the five men he· calls ·his men in blue." -"To have the successful program we're used to here at Notre Dame, every­one has to contribute to get the job done. Actually, they make us or break us-they make us what we are. I know that there's the problem of not being able to play everybody, but in accepting their role, they help us get going. Our ranking iri the top 

· ·twenty is due to them, bringing us up for every game. With Varga lead­ing them, the timing and examples· they give to the Gold team are para­. mount to our success." · · · Perhaps the best example of hard < work and determination paying off has been in the situation of Dave Kuzmicz, a sophomore from South Bend, who came·to Notre Dame hav­ing to learn the strange position of being a guard. "The first few weeks · here were really toughwith the tran­sition and all that. I'm not a .super­player, or agood one at that, but con­

centration on the basi~s made me a better all-around , player. Trying to learn an offense that was basically a onecon~one ·type was strange, and I really needed help with my offense. Fortunately,· ·this • season; --Coach Phelps has given me the opportuni­
~to to play;'' 
"Kuz" has appeared in thirteen games this season, abandoning the Blue team· after his 20-point out­burst against . Holy Cross. His re­ward for that .performance was a starting nod for the UCLA game, no less. "Dave is· the . classic . case where hard work paid off. He, did a super jo!J against Holy Cross, and he deserved the starting. role with UCLA. This is what I mean. about 
·the team-there is always -the situa­tion where anyone could be called upon to go out against any team and 
. play. Dave has done it, and I'm sure the-others will get their chance." .That "chance,". that opportunity 
,to :sho~ to everyone your· capa­bilities, is what we all wait for, no matter who.: you are; '.'The · whole story is confidence,JJ, explains Dave Kuzmicz. "I've got to have the confi.:. dence in myself to play, to represent 
the program; Coach has put the con­
fidence in us to do our job in help­
ing the team· accomplish otir goals. 
We know what we have ·to do, and 
if we win, then we know that we've 
had an integral part in that ·victory. 
If we ioset' then we: know that we 
have -to·work to try to psyche our­
selves up again; So, it's really up to 
us;":·· 
Dantley may score his : thirty 
points each gaine, and Paterno will 
kill you from the outside, but look 
down Notre' .Dame's bench · occa:­
sionally; You'll find five or six guys 
who seldom: take their warm-ups off 
to.<get into,action. But they're al~ 
ways·~there; and because· of theni, .we're where we' are in. college bas­.ketbalt -Thanks·to the Blue· team'. 
., ..·. 
. . 


:·:·~Bill;~ela~ey 


close to his mother. Mrs. Virginia Dantley has raised her only son by herself since he was one. She phones 
frequently and is often mentioned in Adrian's conversation. She suc­cessfully steered him through the · pitfalls of recruiting and will be an





A. D. 
integral part of any · professional 
"The Living Conditions for the Maryland Student -Athlete Are Among the Best. in the Nation. There Are Spacious Dormitory Rooms in Ellicott Hall, an Eight­story Hi-rise That'Js One of the Most Modern on Campus" -Mary­land Basketball Year book 
Cinder-block walls, metal ·doors· and narrow halls are not appealing when new, littered and dented Fisher Hall is no longer new. The off-white door has no number or nameplate. The room inside,0resembles a phone booth at Newark Airport. A. bed with two green pillows takes nearly all of one wall._ A portable. TV and 
a. shelved stereo occupy the other. A small .bulletin board arid a can of Pringles comprise the decorations in the room of Adrian Dantley, super sophomore of Digger Phelps' . Fighting Irish BasketballTeam.· . .' 
"I Left Him Alone, That's Probably
. . . 

Why. WeGot Him"-Digger Phelps 
Over two hundred schools _ ap-·-• proached . Adrian,._ and some. with more .than room, tuition, books and board were coming to his house in Washington. Some such as former encyclopedia salesman Lefty Dreisell of the University of Maryland were insistent, but ''I didn't want to be b_ugged during my senior year in high school. I just wanted to have . a good·· season, finish school, and then make my decision. I didn't want any· schools bothering me, and Coach Phelps didn't." 
.The Washington tradition of Aus-. tin Carr, Collis Jones, Sid Catlett, and Bob Whitmore, the publicity, the exposure, the schedule and the pres­tige:of the school -these were. all factors .in .Notre Dame's favor. Sev­eral other schools were close, but as Adrian put it, "I just wanted to go to Notre Dame." 
"He's .Very Shy"-,-Pete .Crotty, Ron Goodman, et al. 
Some have accused Dantley of 
FEBRUARY 14, 1975 
being conceited, but Digger quickly dismisses this with his <;>wn thought on the subject of his superstar. "It's a bum rap. He's very_ introverted. Some . people probably think he's snubbing them, but he's just ·quiet." 
Afriend of Adrian remarks, "He's very shy, especially last year. Like a lot of freshmen he spent a• lot of time in his room. He seems-to be coming out of it more this year:•• 
Adrian-agrees, "Yes, I am a shy person and basically quiet. I'm not outgoing but if someone talks to me, I'm very. nice to them. ·n•s just a matter of me getting to knowsome­
, one."_ 
t;,4-t.L ,/ ;:;;t\;1,sJ .r:1-::.r::.!f!f::~~:~~::;:; 
"Mrs. Dantley is a wonderful per-· · leaving."· . son who has definite goals for her • "Adrian Dantley is in one word~ son;''-Digger Phelps · Dedication."--'--Digger Phelps 
It is obvious Adrian is extremely -Rich Odioso negotiations. 
One _of -Mrs. Dantley's goals for her son is a college degree. Toward that goal Adrian is nine credit hours ahead of schedule, thanks to a sum­mer school session during which .he says, "I did nothing but go to class, study and·. play basketball." If he goes to school again this summer as he is currently planning, he can com­plete the departmental requirements for his economics degree before many members of his class have selected a major. 
-·Another goal of the Dantleys is his development into the best basket­
.ball player possible in all phases of the. game. From conversation, it's obvious that Adrian is a keen stu­dent of the game as well as perform­er. Confronted with the following questions, Adrian provided thought­ful answers: . 
·best individual opponent-Keith Wilkes 
most physical team -Butler (be­fore Michigan State and Xavier) bestopposing team-Indiana (defi­
nitely) . favorite pro player~Walt Frazier players Dantley patterns his .play 
after -George McGinnis, Chet Waiker._ or Jim McMillan-only if they were 6'5 

-_ Adrian feels that he's making progress _on both. goals at Notre Dame, and shrugs off talk of a po­tential abdication to the pros. "I can go pro this year. I've had offers from lawyers and teams that' have con­, tacted my mother. We're. going to ,talk about my future at the end of the season-what.we want to do, and what's best for me. I can't leave this year, but eyery reporter I talk to 
•continually asks methat. That's been another pressure .this year that I've 


(, . .. 
; ·\ 
,] 
l~t:-t;-?:r··',:•:=~. ,. , t"; 
,,1~.J~~r '\, · ;
,;J{":~ ,..~._,,-, ,. l 
~ !"~~.:.. ''t 

--~~i:~::il\.·. ·. , ·.,_: 

• ·_. ';. _·: ·_· -<, ·-••• ·-~ 1 
-. _. . ~ . j 
,_._. :·, -·.. ' i 
,' •'. • ·, ' • ~::, "• • _I 
·: ; . ,,__ ; ·:.--.. 
-. •• > 
i ~~_;;,~, .-. ~-'.: ___ ,;~-.~_: 
,~__:.~~-... 
·, ; ' ~ ... ~-'. ' J ; : ! ' • 

Cold weather or not, the Iri~h baseball team is forum in a le~rning experience. . . ,.. currently preparing for the upcoming spring schedule. . Among those attending theforu·ni are Jim Finks, The fact that the Irish have to do their practicing in the general manager of the Chicago Bears Football Club; fieldhouse of the vast plant is the major concern of John Mackey, former Baltimore Colts tight end; and Kline, now in his 42nd year as coach. For it won't be Robert Woolf, a representative of some of the big-name too long before he journeys to Texas for an eighteen­professional athletes.• · · ' · · · · · game schedule in nine days, against teains the caliber Information about the forum can be found by'stop­of the University of Dallas. Southern trips in past years ping at the Law School. Theforum, scheduled for have included stops in New Orleans, Miami and Cali­March 6, 7, and 8, wil(be 'in· the CCE, with a regis­fornia. tration fee mandatory for_attendance. 
An opUmistic Kline feels that his pitching staff will be the key fo the team's fortunes durin'g the 40-game Tom Pagna, former backfield coach for eleven sea­schedule. He will be counting on the arms of Bob sons under Ara Parseghian, and a· regular contributor Stratta,. Mitch Stoltz, Jim Scholl and freshman Joe to the Scholastic. and the Scholastic Football Review Karpowicz to keep the Irish rolling. Hitting power is this year, has .been named· executive· director of 'the expected to be provided by captain M_ark Schmitz, ~otre Dame Alumni Assodation. Saying that his love Ronnie Goodman, Pat Coleman and· Jim Smith. With .for Notre Dame and its people was one of the keys in the southern trip• and a regular schedule featuring his decision, Pagna turned down coaching offers from 
Bradley and the Big Ten _schools, Kline's corps have · Cleveland and Detroit of the profei;slonal ranks. their work cut out for them, but if past records mean The first non-alumnus to hold the executive director~ anything, the Irish baseball team will provide the ship, Pagna hopes his stay here again will be as fruitful special kind of excitement it .has displayed over the as his first position. With the record he• amassed with years. the Fighting Irish, his days ·as·executive director should 
be just as prosperous. · 
In the age of big bonuses in professional sports, the importance of a good lawyer representing his clients in The Notre Dame women's ski tearri is· competing the area of labor negotiations· is· critical. Realizing the . . once again _this year~ The team, coached by0 Notre Dame importance ·of this situation, the Notre Dame Law '74 graduate Peter Bartzeri, started its season Jan.. 18 School is holding a forum on the law involved in these ·.· · ·with. a meet scheduled .for'. every weekend till March 1. areas of sport and entertainment. · · Ann Ijawkins/Nora Grace,' Sarah Bartzen, and Mary 
According to the draft of the forum, there is an Carmel Burke comprise the ·basic traveling team for increasing need in· law schools· to develop· specific : the ~orrien, and_ all are veteran racers. The Notre Dame course work in· this area of law, due to the .. relative team is. the onlY. Indiana .team in the:Midwestern Col-spontaneity.. of this law on the scene, and the develop-legiate Ski Association, and: competes mostly against · mental aspects still in theory·. In resporise to that need, Michigan and Wisconsin teams. The women this year the Law Sc~ool is attempting. to bring together profes-race in the slalom and giant slalom races and so far 
-sionals who have displayed outstanding expertise in this placed third. as a. team· at· the ·Detroit News Cup in field, to share their many and . varied skills with the Alpine Valley. ­
:: 'l'HE ·SCHOLASTIC
30 



Love is a giving thing. 
A perfect Keepsake 
diamond says it all, reflecting your love in its brilliance and beauty.
,;;. .t~~·, And you can c_hoose with confidence because the Keepsake guararitee assures perfect clarity, fine white · color and precise modern cut. There is no finer diamond ring .. · 

· Box 90, Syracuse, N. Y. 13201 Please send new 20 pg. booklet, "Planning Your Engagement and Wedding" plus full color folder and 44 pg. Bride's Book gift offer all for only 25¢. 
Nam~----------------------­

Join the 

third biggest
lamil)'in the 
world.·· 

lmagin·e an order of 22,000 priests and brothers in 73 countries around the world. (That's a pre!ty big family.) 
But that's what the Salesians of SI. John Bosco are all about -a large family of community-minded men dedicated to the service of· 

youth. (And no one gets lost.) In Italy in the 1800's a chance meeting between a poor priest and a street urchin served to create a movement of such success that ii is still growing today. Don Bosco became the priest who brou_ght youth back from the streets -and back lo God. He reasoned that a program of play, learn and pray would make useful citizens of the world. He crowded out evil with reason, religion and kindness in a (what was then unheard of) atmosphere of family; · The ideals of St.John Scisco are still with us today. His work goes on in boys clubs, technical and academic schools, . guidance centers, summer camps and missions. And his very humar:i approach is very evident in the family spirit of the Salesians. This is the way he wanted it. This is the way it is. The Salesian' experience isn't learned -it's lived. 
. 

.--~-----,-----,
I I
For more information about Salesian Priests and 
Brothers, mail this coupon to:
I Fsathaer IJoese;•,Maaffenl~ss..D.:~ :;o;o:-N BOSCO .
I . I
11 Box 639, New Rochelle, N.Y. 10802 
I 
_I am Interested in the Priesthood O Brotherhood O 
I 
Nam.,________________Age ____
I I
·Street Address__________________ 
I City State____Zfp ____ 
I 
Phone ____________________
I I
Education ), 
.... Your Current Job-----------------, 
~-------------­
.Address-----------------------Ciry_________________________ 
Stat______________ Zip•--------­Find Keepsake Jewelers in the Yellow Pages or dial free 800-243-6000. 
~ , , , 
-·international Harvester has unmatched opportunitiesfor people_ mc1joring in: ; _· · 
Accounting .. Agricultural·Engine~ring ·Business· Administration Business Management. . Civil Engineering Computer Science 
. Economics Electrical Engineering -Engineering Technology Finance. Industrial•En:gineering Marketing Mathematics· Mechanical Engineering­Metallurgy Metallurgical Engineering, 
March· 6 is your chance to take a look at them. 
Make an appointment at the Placement-Office t~ . see the International Harvester Qollege Relations . Representative. He'll be here tc:i tell you what · kind of people we're looking for, how we work 
_arid more about th_e opportunities we have to 'offer. In the meantime, stop by ¦ · the Placement Office and 


111 · 
pick up a copy of our new · · • _ recruitment brochure. INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER 










