
For a Limited Time Only: 1988 Football Review Issues 
$3 with student i.d. $5 for non-students 
Mail checks to: Scholastic 3rd Floor LaFortune Student Center University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 

239-7569 
They're Going Fast! 


cholastic 
.. ·.....,, v()E11:ri',No. 






· AprU6, 1989
Aces The addition of a hot shot freshman and a transfer from Austin Peay have given Irish men's 
··••'·piJcepuas[pemp
tennis national credibility 
i!iF\livi:? QuastCrasi 
By Kevin T. Kerns/ Page 14 
Sportsweek A weekly roundup of varsity sports/ Page17 

111Pi,~.II, tij,
1----------------------------------------1 An
News 
<'::; .··. ···· ' •· ···· 
·;;,:• Mclnl~l~iiEdHo:: 
It All Adds Up Micl'iii~fQiWieberT? ' Notre Dame's Accounting DeparLment has been named sixth in the nation and number one among Catholic schools 
Editorial Staff: U: ·, 
2
i-:-:-:-:-:-:-m_z_:-:-:-'-P_a_g_e_i__________________________





I,~if!ifi&~~:; 

<>·>••' Wl~Wction: •· <

Week in Distortion : / Page 3 
Syste111i... Ma11ager: Jqs€3..•Perez··• On Other Campuses: / Page 4 Graj,tHc:Arts Mariager: Vivienne . Music: / Page 5 Movies: / Page 11 Coming Distractions: / Page 20 

"~itl1~1::~tt::111~1i

Final Word: / Page 22 
' ,.: .... ~

Life in Hell / Inside Back Cover 
.··•····.,.)

Editorial/ Page 23 
Scholastic is published weekly during the school year except during examinations and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 
and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, .IN 46542. The subscription rate is $20.00/year and back issues are available at $1.00/copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its .administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited materials become the propeny of Scholastic. 
Copyright 1989 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reseived. Reproduction in whole or in pan without permission is prohibited. 
April 13, 1989 
Scholastic is looking forthe following: 
News Editor SMC Editor Student Comic 
Contact Andy Hilger at 239-7569 for details. 


Please send_ years of Scholastic to: 
Name:.________ 
Address:._______ 
City:.____State_Zip:_ , 




Week in Distortion/ Chris Fillio 



Take the SAT... Again 
But don't worry about this one... It's easy. 
Imagine this, if you will. The ephem­eral light, now faintly visible at the end of the tunnel. Significant of various things for different people. Either you're coming out of the woods, or else you 're just now entering eternal hellfire and damnation. Nonetheless, semester's end shouldn't come as a surprise to anyone in particular. To see the future, examine the past, evaluate the present, project the time that is yet to be. What best typifies your past year and what's in store? Curve buster and overachiever? The consummate resume man? Apathetic goof-off? Immense beer sponge? Just score yourself on this simple SAT (summer apti­tude test) to see what the end of the school year means to you. 
1) My proudest moment in the past year was: 
a. 
high score on the microbiology mid­term 

b. 
getting a summer internship in the big city 

c. 
changing the bedsheets twice 

d. 
outdrinking my formal date 




2) I became more socially aware because I: 
a. 
worked in Appalachia for a week over break 

b. bought Easter Seals 

c. 
worked 250 community service hours 


d. went to see the Grateful Dead 
3) I came face-to-face with reality when: 
a. 
a close friend was hurt in a car accident 

b. I took the LSAT and GRE exams 

c. 
my Sports Illustrated subscription ran out in January 

d. 
Journey and Asia didn't put out any new albums 


4) I am more enriched because: 
a. I met so many great new people 
b. 
I soldified my future career plans in my own mind 

c. 
I had Michigan in the NCAA pool in my hall 

d. 
I had Seton Hall +2 in the NCAA pool at Alumni Hall 


5) The songs of the year for me would be: 
a. 
"We are the Champions"f'Eye of the Tiger" 

b. 
"Dancin' in the Streets"f'Twist and Shout" 

c. 
"Highway to Hell"f'Comfortably Numb" 

d. 
"Lay Down Sally"f'Love the One You're With" 


6) My latest resume includes: 
a. 
hall president; varsity football; 3.6 GPA 

b. 
College Republicans; intramural soccer; 3.2 GPA 

c. 
dining hall worker; section ping­pong; 2.6 GPA 

d. 
dorm "case race" champ; NVA woos hockey; academic probation 


7) I can't wait until An Tostal weekend because of: 
a. good food, good friends, good times 
b. 
mud volleyball and the mattress race! 

c. spring specials at the liquor store 


d. 
the road trip I'm planning to the Little 500 at LU. 


8) My perspective of the opposite sex has been established as: 
a. 
both a peer and an equal 

b. 
someone you can really talk to 

c. 
the ultimate enemy 



d. chicks and babes; bohunks and babes 
9) I'm looking forward to next year because of: 
a. 
working hard, playing hard 

b. 
seeing old friends and teachers 


c. 
new freshmen to toy with 

d. 
apathetic weekends, roadtrips 



10) My parents: 
a. 
are taking the family to the Baha­mas after finals 

b. 
sent me money for the plane ride home 

c. 
can't wait for me to mow the lawn 

d. 
moved without telling me 




11) I've lined up a summer job at: 
a. 
Street & Smith Law Offices 

b. 
Chase-Manhattan Bank 

c. 
Shakey's Restaurant 

d. 
the Peek-a-Boo Cinema 



12) I plan to spend a lot of my leisure time this summer with: 
a. 
the family and other relatives 

b. 
my close friends _ 

c. 
members of the opposite sex 



d. Crazy Horse Lou and the other regulars at the local bar 
13) I'll really be in shape this summer because of: 
a. 
Nautilus and daily five-mile runs 

b. 
100-lb concrete bags and oak beams 



c. 
the pit-bull at my girlfriend's/ boyfriend's house 

d. 
the first annual family reunion basketball tournament 


14) I'm definitely going to read more this summer, including: 
a. 
Catcher in the Rye and Great Expectations 

b. 
War and Peace and The Brothers Karamazov 


c. Saint Paul's letters to the Ephesians 

d. every inch of the Budweiser label and Frosted Flakes box 
15) My motto for this summer is: 
a. 
Never stop reaching for the stars 

b. 
No pain, no gain 

c. 
Sleep, drink and be merry 



d. Summer hummer, big train a comin' 


On Other Campuses 

Can't Wait To Graduate 
Barry Morrow gets a college degree for writing "Rain Man" 
J 

EDITED BY MARK FLAHARTY 
Better late than never. Barry Morrow, the Oscar-win­ning script writer for the highly acclaimed filrnRainman, might just get the college degree he could have received nineteen years ago. In 1970 Morrow left St Olaf College, in Northfield, Minn., just one credit short of earning his bachelor's degree. Now, according to The Chronicle ofHigher Education.he has taken up the college's suggestion that he submit his script as an independent-study project to earn his final credit. Ra:lph Haugen, a professor of theater, will grade the project and he has hinted that the script will pass. The student, Morrow, will finally graduate. "It'll please my mother," Morrow told college officials. 
. Do you remember Bill Berry? (February 16 issue, "I Get the Feeling I'm Not Wanted Here'') He is (was) thebasketball coach at San Jose State University. Three months ago ten of Berry's basketball players quit the team in an effort to get their coach fired for'verbalabuse' and 'mental cruelty.' Well, they finally got their wish. Recently Berry was frred, the Daily Californian reported. Randy Hoffman, the athletic director, said he fired Berry because of his poor relationship with his players, and also because his teams had a dismal graduation rate. In the 10 years Berry coached at the university, 8 of 63 players received degrees. Hoffman also said, however, even though Berry is gone, he will not permit the players that quit the team to return in the fall. "IfI allowed them to return it would look like the kids are making coaching decisions around here," he said. 
Economics 235: Product Distribution. A federal grand jury has indicted a West Virginia Wesleyan College professor and two stu­dents on charges that they distributed cocaine on the campus, The Chronicle ofHigher Education reports. Ben E. Young, an eco­nomics professor at the college, was indicted on eight counts of 
--~,·~ 

cocaine distribution, one count of conspiracy to distribute the drug, and two counts of tampering with a witness. Young was suspended indefinitely by thecollege. 
Money hungry. "Quarters," the ever popular student drinking game, may be hazardous to your health. Michael Gluck, a Seattle physician affiliated with the University of Washington, writes about the game and its dangers in the March issue of the Western Journal of Medicine. Gluck states that, in the game, players attempt to bounce a quarter into a glass of beer. Those who are successful challenge the other players to "pound" the beer and catch the coin in their teeth. Gluck observes that coins have been discovered in students' esophagi and, in some cases, their diges­tive tract ... places where a quarter will not do you much good. 
Snowball fights banned. The presidents of Amherst College and the University of Massachusetts have joined forces to condemn an annual snowball fight that nearly blinded a student in one eye and caused thousands of dollars of building damage earlier this year. The two school leaders released a statement last month blasting the December 14 snowball fight even as Amherst prepared to sue its neighbor, UMass, for building damages and medical costs in­curred by the injured student. The College Press Service reported the leaders promised to counter the annual event by educating the students about the dangers of such activity and plan other meas­urwes to deter students from participating. The fights usually occur during the first significant snowfall of the year when UMass students march to the Amherst campus, a mile away, to engage in battle. These battles also have been very costly in the past. In 1987, UMass paid more than $3000 to Amherst for damages and it still owes close to $2000 from last year. Although many feel that snowball fights are flaky, harmless occurrences, they have been a concern at many other campuses as well ... watch out Dillon! II 
Music/ Scott Sullivan 



Controlled Di tortion 
Dinosaur 11:,JIREHOSE and Grant Hart ring in spring with a collection ofnew music. 
Ithink I've been waiting for the likes of Dinosaur Jr. ever since Husker Du called it quits a couple years ago. The controlled (for the most part) distortion on their third albumB ug (SST) is an earful offun from this East Coast band that gets back to basics. Also on SST comes flREHOSE's latest offering, fROMOH/0. Grant Hart, . erstwhile Husker Du drummer/songwriter, has a single out called "2541" b/w "Come, Come" from a yet to be released album that should be out any time now. DinosaurJr.'sBug has one weak spot out of nine songs, and the discerning listener would know by it's title, "Don't," to exercise some caution before calling ita favorite song. It's a lot like, and at times, worse than Soul Asylum's "Whoa!" The same type of abu­sive, excessive guitar noise is prevalent in "Don't," only it's more grating in some spots. I think even the Jesus and Mary Chain would be taken aback by this little number. And, oh, the screaming. It's about as comforting as a horny, rabid pit bull with herpes. Luckily for now, until it succeeds in endearing itself to me, it's at the end of side one and easily avoided'forus throwback turntable stalwarts. The remainder of the album melodiously chugs right along a bit more prudently on the feedback. Bug opens up with "Freak Scene" which, along with "Pond Song," are the album's best songs because of the blend of light and hard guitars. Mascier's vocals are almost like Gordon Gano's of the Violent Femmes but not quite as whining. He sings in "Freak Scene": "Don't let me f-up will you/when! need a friend it's still you." A feel good type of song. In both songs, the lyrics give way to that lovely haranguing guitar. "The Post" has lyrics, if read a capella with justa foot stomp, that remind me ofa country song: "She's my post to lean on/But I just cut her down." It could hit the Nashville Net­work with a few steel guitars, a harp and Hank Williams Jr. Wishful thinking, I guess. Worth mentioning are "They Al ways Come" and "Yeah We Know." Mostofthesongson 

Bug are about relationships and dealing with people. I guess ifthey don't want to deal with anyone they turn up the distortion and play "Don't." 
Firehose (or as they prefer to spell it, fIREHOSE) goes one up on their last effort, Ifn, withrecently-releasedfROMOH/0. It's more of the same but a little bit better. A lot of bass (to them it's a thunder broom) and a syncopated snare lead to a lot of very catchy tunes. These former Minutemen (remember 
D. Boon and Double Nickels on the Dime?) have produced two previous and just as jazzy albums asfROMOH/0. And when they put out an album, they give you more for your money. 1987's Ifn had 15 songs on it and this one has 11 offerings. fROMOH/0 starts and finishes very strong with immediately likeable and original songs. "Riddle of the Eighties" is an ode to a memorable decade: 'Tm screamin' about/what the eighties mean to me." "In My Mind" is a kind of calypso­ish song with appropriate cymbals and guitar. 
From there,JROMOH/0 gets a bit more quirky, but stays interesting. "Mas Cojones" is an acoustic solo. "What Gets Heard" uses spoken words and a bass, but it gets long on my ears. "Liberty for My Friend" is a chorale effort with a snare and a bass. "The Softest Hammer" is, for all intents and purposes, a drum solo. flREHOSE strips some of their songs to the bare minimum in the middle of the album; but toward the end they revert to what brung 'em, namely that catchy guitar and some continuity to each song. "Time with You" has an introduction that sounds like an ESPN theme to a highlight film. Overall, flREHOSE has retained a Minute­men tinge, but they've expanded a lot on it. . 
Wrapping things up, Grant Hart's kicked the drugs and is back in the studio. His single is called "2541." No, it's not a weird Van Halen concept song, but an acoustic number about his former girlfriend's house: "2541 -bigwindows to let in the sun." On the back side of that is "Come, Come," more of the same acoustic sound. Hart sounds like he's not planning on working·at a restaurant like the third Husker, Greg Norton is. 
Dinosaur Jr. has their distortion working 

for them and flREHOSE is telling America 
what the eighties means to them. Hopefully, 
Grant Hart is back in the swing of things. 
Spring has brought a bit of good news from 
SST. Or maybe the pit bulls are mating. II 
Features 
Th N me f th 

While the contentders ofbookstore basketball show their stuff on the court, the pretenders let their team names do the talking 
BY ED KROMER 

T 
he rain fell from the sky and the air 
chilled the bones ofhearty specta­
tors who gathered to watch the Hall ofFame basketball game. As usual, it quickly turned into a comedy show, the annual foppish opening to Bookstore Bas­ketball, a tournament that becomes more popular and tightly contested every year. 
One team was called the Hall of Fame, and for good reason: quarterback Tony Rice, football coach Lou Holtz, ticket man­ager Bubba Cunningham, Athletic Direc­tor Dick Rosenthal and President Edward "Monk" Malloy laced up the hightops and threw on the sweats. 
Their opponents were the Primitive Bushmen, a bunch at least as appropriately named as the Hall of Famers. Averaging 5'5" in height, the littleB ushmen had a big show planned. The crowd was entertained to 21 points ofsatire, slapstick comedy and primitve dance, all performed with the pre­cision and drama of a professional wres-

Pat Bruks of James and the Highway Robbers goes airborne for the shot as Jay Jimenez of Four Putzes and a Puke de­fends. Mari Okuda 


tling tag team match. The Bushmen ter­rorizedRice's throwing arm,Holtz's fame and Cunningham 'sFiesta Bowl ticket pol­icy. They savagely attacked the Hall of Famers with a human force field -what they called their "circle ofpower" offense. They am used everyone with their tottering "John Tower" defense. 
Of course they lost, 21-12. The Bush­men had it tough from the start. "Sure we were trying to look bad," said Dan Izzo, "George Bush" of the Bushmen. "But if we had tried, we couldn't have even given them a run for their money." There's a reason why most Bushmen stay out ofbas­ketball. 
But if it was not a close contest, it was a fitting first game for this year's edition of Bookstore Basketball, a tournament that traditionally supplies healthy doses of basketball tempered with a spoonful of fluff. A record 672 teams began battling for the title two weeks ago. Hundreds are still in the hunt for the championship. 
While some may choose to usher in spring by laying in the cool grass, nibbling cheese, sipping wine and listening to po­etry or sweet music, students at Notre Dame play hoops. 
The gym rats have already poked their heads out ofthe Rockne, J ACC and Stepan courts long enough to see that the seasons are changing. The outdoor courts are packed in good and bad weather, as stu­dents practice for and play in the tourna­ment. About half the school has come out for what amounts to playground basket­ball: first to 21, win by two and call your own fouls until the fourth round, when officials are provided. 
Thousands of undergrads, graduates, teachers, university employees and bush­men are signed up this year. Between the twin towers of Grace and Flanner, the round mound ofStepan Center and all over campus, teams with their own towers, round mounds, sharp-shooters and silky runners make their bid for greatness in the tourney. Motives, however, vary from 



, ' I • I ,-/ ..._ ---, • • ' • ' , • • • • ,, 

team to team. 
"Some just play to win," said Book­
store commissioner Mike Manning. 
"Then there ..are others who play to sec 
how far they can go. Another group of 
people play just to get their name in this 
thing." 
What's in a name? Everything and 
nothing at all. In Bookstore Basketball, 
team names are traditionally campus 
commentary; a mix of comedy, satire, 
criticism and poetry. 
Many teams have turned heads by causing laughter. The members ofFletch Lives dress as their favorite Fletch charac­ter and play what team member Bill Sulli­van calls "joke basketball." They're not alone; it doesn't take much imagination to picture the brand of hoops played by 5 · Guys Who Aren't AfraidTo Wear Tutus While Playing Basketball and the 
Screaming Midgets From Hell. 
Before the finals on Sunday of An 
Tosta! week, there will be plenty more 
pranks and jokes, but also plenty oftough 
playground hoops. And while the tourney is still young and the dream is still alive for many, for oth­ers the dream was dead from the start. Many team names proclaim de­featism like a scarlet "D." 

We Got The Tools But Not The Talent; Spot Us 19; We May Not Win But We Get 
Chicks; and Football coach Lou Holtz dribbles through the lake that was a court 
DOA may re­ally be dead on arrival. Five Guys: No Height, No Talent, No Chance; If This Were Nintendo We'd Kick Your Butt; Next Best Thing To A Bye; and Short, Slow And Stupid may not exactly be fa­vorites to win it all. Some teams, like 4 Guys And A Chick With Less Chance Of Survival Than Salman Rushdie, mix de­featism with morbid satire. One team's name evalu­ates itself even more suc­cinctly: Not A Chance In Hell. 
But . in many cases, team names are not in­tended to describe basket­ball ability at all. The devi­ous creativity of entertain­ment-starved college stu­dents can result in some outlandish titles. Of that large percentage that just plays "to get their name in this thing," many Jonathan Swifts take their shots against the establishment. Bookstore Basketball may be a student's most acces­sible forum for social criti­cism. 
Dan Quayle, Jane Fonda And 3 Other Guys Who Did Nothing For The Vietnam War seem to have some gripe with high-profile figures. The same goes for Kitty Dukakis And 4Others Destined To Enter The Betty Ford Clinic. 

Dan Quayle, Digger Phelps, And Three Other Guys With The Wrong Job move from the political to the athletic realm of criticism. Notre Dame basket­ball has taken it on the chin this year. Digger Phelps And Four Other Guys Who Can't Win A Big Game; We Can't Play But We Can Coach Better Than Digger; Joey Can't Pass: The Joe Frederick Story; and Keith Tower, Scott Paddock And 3 Other Brick-layers, all reveal some dis­contentment in spite of another 20-win season. 
Another Tower, this time President Bush's nominee for defense secretary, also was the target of a few jabs: John Tower, Keith Tower And 3 Other Guys With No Shot; and John Tower, Frank Bruno And 3 Other Guys Who Aren't Standing At The End Of The Night, to which John Tower's Drinking Buddies could probably testify. A final Towerput­down manages to insult members of both parties and executed criminals: John Tower, Kitty Dukakis, Ted Bundy And 2 Other People Who Got Juiced Once Too Often. The pen can be sharper than the sword. 
Political. and athletic kidding aside, there are other kinds of names in Book-
~---·~---~ --~--~-------------~­

Features 
store Basketball. Many serve no purpose but to be weird, and many do that well enough to garner a chuckle. 
Picture the Products Of Three Genera­tions Of Incest, or imagine the drama of a battle of the bodily fluids between Team Phlegm and Team Saliva. Equally unex­pected are You 'II Be Glad We Don'tWear Speedos; Activated Sludge; and Axe­wi,elding Maniacs. More complex humor led to names like Jerry Atric, AI Zymcrs, And ... I Forget; while dining hall doubts are aired in the eternal question: What The Heck Is A Meatless Cheeseburger? There is even somehumor in the understated Five Non-descript Guys, a generic team. 
Some teams go for the brevity of the one-word title, making a powerful, ifterse, statement in this world ofwords. Freak, X, Sex, No!, Anything and Beer say it all. And if they don't, the team called "Auughffff' does. 
A few gifted squads have enti tied them­selves with rhythmic verse that rolls offthe tongue like a Shakespearean sonnet, or at least a good limerick. The Horny Harlots From Hell, the Traveling Diggerberries, and the Dribbling Dingleberries might be from some twisted ballad. A team called "Should I, The Queen Of Love Refuse BecauseShcRoscFrom Stinking Ooze?" asks the question on none of our minds, but in pseudo-brilliant verse. But the real laureatesofthe tournament are clearly the 5DriedBoogersOnAShowerStall Wall. It's comforting to know that poetry is alive and well and playing in Bookstore Basketball. 
In this contest of humorists, satirists and poets, it seems that the really talented teams have lilllc to say at all with their names. Theychoose to do their talking on the court. 
The tournament's early top 16, formed from educated guesswork on the part of the Bookstore commissioners, includes many long-time competitors and repeat contenders. Touch n Go, Kent's Gelling Married, Rainmakers, Naked Guns, and No "I" In Team all stand 
a chance to make the fi­nals. MaliciousProstitu­tion, a team oflaw school students, could be in it until the end as well. 
But look for Sean Connnor's Minahoonies, Coach's or Adworks to be on Bookstore's center court April 30. "I'd be surprised if one of those three aren't in the finals," said Ray Flannery of Touch n Go. 
Minahoonies should be tough behind the play of Connor; and Coach's features Holtz, former football player John McCabe, Cunningham, and Notre Dame basket­ball assistant Jim Dolan. 
Adworks will defend last year's championship with physical talent and a balanced attack. Kevin Keyes, Derrick Johnson and John "Booger" Buscher are joined by footballers Tony Rice and Derck Brown. After practicing with two of his teammates, Rice was opti­mistic about his team's chances. "Derek Brown looks really good," said Rice. "Derrick Johnson looks really, really good. I think I'm the weak link of the team." Most would do anything to have 

that kind of weak link. 
But it's a wide open tournament; the weather sees to that. It is spring after all. In South Bend, that could mean sun, rain, snow or wind, potentially all in the same game. Dribbling gets tough after a rain shower, when the ball splashes down into the lake that was a dry basketball court a few minutes earlier. Shooting percent­ages tend to fall when the north wind howls over the lakes and across the Lyons courts. "That's what Bookstore is," said Manning. "You can walk out in sunshine and halfway into the game it's pouring rain." 
Fletch Lives may not stand a chance against Malicious Prostitution, nor the Screaming Midgets against Minahoonies. But the mix of humor and a competive spirit have drawn 672 teams to have a go at it anyway. 
Some teams are in the tournament so that they can make up a name while others arc on the court trying to make a name for themselves. So what's in a name? Every­thing if you're the Primitive Bushmen. And if you're Adworks, nothing at all. II



Features 

All Ashore 
Who Are Going Ashore 
The Fisher Regatta sets sail for the third year this Saturday 
BY IAN MITCHELL 

s 
ome campus traditions arc almost 
as old as the Univeristy of Notre 
Dame itself. Notre Dame football 
has been around for over a century, Bengal 
Bouts for several decades and even 
younger student traditions like Bookstore 
Basketball and the Keenan Revue are now 
well into their second decade. One fairly 
recent addition to Notre Dame tradition is 
the Fisher Regatta; it was created just three 
years ago by then-freshman Jay Farraher. 
"I was walking over the hill behind the 
Architecture building and I was thinking: 
Wouldn't it be nice ifour dorm could do 
something like Keenan (which sponsors 
the Revue)," said Farraher. "As I went 
over the hill and saw the lake the idea of a 
boat race popped into my head." 
The idea caught on, and the Fisher Re­
gatta was born. "The first year we ran (the 
regatta) the weather was bad," said Farra­
her. "It was kind ofa disappointment after 
all the work. But it went off as scheduled 
-10 boats ran." That year, Fisher won its 
own Regatta, defeating nine other teams 
from several male dorms. The first year 
there was no division for female dorms. 
Today, Jay Farraher, now a junior, 
heads theRegattacommitee,a group ofsix 
Fisher residents who organize the race, create the rules and support the event. None of the proceeds from the $20 per-boat entry fee are kept by Fisher Hall. "We support a charity-Andre House," said Farraher. "It's a food shelter in Oakland, California and Phoenix, Arizona sponsored by preists at the CSC." Last year the Regatta raised almost $500 to feed the poor. 
In its second year the Regatta grew to twenty entrants as a division for female dorms was added. The univeristy now holds 
Regatta rules allow almost any type of homemade, human-powered craft. 
a cookout on the shores of St. Mary's Lake for spectators of the races. A live band and celebrity judges from local television sta­tions also help to draw crowds; last year almost 2000 people watched as Cavanaugh and Lewis won the male and female divi­sions. 
Not only do students race their boats, the rules require that they must build them as well. The boats must be made "from scratch;" as Farraher explains, "You can't just talce a canoe and build a boat on top of it." The crafts cannot use any type of motor for power, only sails or oars, and, since the boat lanes are only so wide, the ships can be no bigger than twenty by six feet. To pre­vent the use of long crew-style oars, which would sitck out of the racing lanes, oars or paddles can be no longer than five feet. All crewmembers must be entirely on the boat, not swimming alongside or, as the case may be, towing it. The regatta is divided into several groups in which a few boats race. "The boats are randomly divided into heats," said Farrraher. "The winner of each 


Boat designs are often chosen more for display than seaworthyness. 
heat gets to move on into the finals." 

The teams compete for the year-long custody of two large rotating regatta cups (one in each division) on which the winning dorm's name is engraved. Additional prizes for the winning teams are donated by businesses in the South Bend area, so that all of the proceeds from the entry fees can go to directly to the Andre House charity. 
Among competitors, attitudes toward the race differ; some talce the contest fairly seriously, others less so. Boat design varies widely too. The team from Pasquerilla East used an unusual design in last year's race. 
"It was inner tubes with a pink construction on top of it," said PE team captain Christie Palmer, who said she ended up in the race mainly because "our athletic director hap­pens to live across the hall from me." 
Other teams are slightly more motivated and intense about the competition. "Our boat last year was made out of 50 gallon drums," said Alan Lim, captain of the Holy Cross team. "This year we're using a new design. We're using plywood this year." While last year Holy Cross' two teams fell short of winning it all, confidence and hope arc high. "Holy Cross is looking pretty good this year," Lim said. 
As of prcsstimc, thirteen women's dorms had registered for the race, and a total of ten men's dorms were expected to be in the contest. In fact, the race may end up being much larger, since teams in the past have registered on the very day of the race. "Last year we had five boats register (in advance)," said Farrahcr.<'But we (eventu­ally) had close to 20 boats in the race." Already the early entries this year have surpassed last year's total. 
On raceday,_Saturday, April 15th, thou­sands of Notre Dame students will be gath­ered on the shore ofthe lake, either watching their dorm compete in the race or sailing a ship themselves. The Fisher Regatta ap­pears to be here to stay. Another campus tradition may be dropping anchor at Notre Dame. II 

10 Scholastic 

Movies/ Jason Winslade 
Summer Flicks 
Theatres and video stores are ready for the soon-to-be hot weather months 
In these upcoming months ofspring and early summer, an urge may come upon you to visit those two icons of modern American culture, the movie theatre and video stores. Ifyou' re like me, you arc tired of the usual boring fare that usually breeds in these two environments lately. If the bizarre, wild, or slightly offthe wal Iappeals to you in any way, then you will certainly benefit from my little compilation of new and semi-new things soon to be found at a theatre or video store near you. First, here is a list of some recent and not-so-recent videos: 
The Moderns: An incredibly arty flick about (what else?) art! Keith Carradine stars as a talented art forger caught up in a scandal in 1920s Paris, the art mecca of the world at the time. Great subtle touches of color, bizarre imagery and characters fill this movie about a group ofpeople trying to struggle with their time period and location. Also stars John Leone (The Last Emperor) as a loveably evil business maganate and Linda Fiorentino (After Hours) as his beau­tiful but unfaithful wife. Also look for a great portrayal of Ernest Hemingway. 
Gothic and Lair of the White Worm: These are two films by the baron of bizarre, Ken Russell, director of "Altered States." The first deals with the frightening mental experiences of a certain weekend in the Byron household. The free-spirited minds of Mary Godwin, Percy Shelley, Claire Clairmont, Lord Byron and Dr. Polidori get together for the weirdest weekend-long party in history, when Mary Godwin (later to become Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley) supposedly gets the idea to write the classic Gothic novel, Frankenstein. Be prepared for a roller-coaster ride into the psychotic, horrific and psychedelic with great per­formances by Julian Sands (Room with a View) as the vulnerable yet powerfully poetic Shelley, and Gabriel Byrne as Lord Byron, the poet laureate of hell. 
The second film deals camp with a heavy hand in a juicy adaptation of Bram Stoker's not-so-classic novel ofvampirism with snakes. The viewer is hit with a barrage of sexual and Christian images (sometimes together) and some blatant refcrances to other genres and movies. Strange fun! 
Liquid Sky: Probably the most bizarre of the lot. Imagine a plot concerning a lesbian perfonnance artist on the Mondo New York underground club scene, a sexually am­biguous couple -one more or less female, one more or less male -a naive scientist in the Fritz Weaver mold, and unseen aliens in a saucer "no bigger than a plate," which live off certain opiates released in the brain at a certain point during S-E-X! With an out-of­this-world soundtrack and camera angles from hell, this movie is a must see for all the strange individuals in the world. It's even weirder than you think! 
Now here's a little preview of some of the bizarre flicks coming your way in the next few months: 
Ofcourse, the most celebrated films are sequels and this summer will have plenty. Among these are Ghostbusters II: The Last ofthe Ghostbusters (due in July) with all the old gang back busting them ghosts. Star Trek V: The Final Frontier, William Shatncr's directorial debut will be released July 9, with a little more serious tone than the last Star Trek film. Robocop II and Halloween Varedueoutnextfall. On May 24, Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade will be released with Sean Connery along for the ride as Indy's dad. 
Some interesting book adaptations will be produced this summer. Fred Gwynne, old Herman Munster himself, will star in Stephen King's gruesome Pet Cemetery. An adaptation of Joan Aiken's classic children's novel, The Wolves of Willoughby Chase, is due, along with Ronald Dahl's Witches. Comic book adap­tations also abound. Boris and Natasha (with Sally Kellerman) of Rocky and Bullwinkle fame, Spider-Man, Captain America and ofcourse Batman (starring, of all people, Michael Keaton, as the caped crusader, Jack Nic~olson as the J okcr, and Kim BasSinger) are all due for July release. The Swamp Thing and Masters of the Universe will also return as sequels. 
Some other interesting films include Young Einstein, a strange comedy written, directed, and starred by Australian comic, Yahoo Serious; Warlock, about a time­traveling 17th century villain played by Julian Sands (Gothic) and also starring Lori Singer (Footloose), due in May. In addi­tion, former Pythonian Terry Gilliam, di­rector of such classics as Time Bandits and Brazil,has finally released one of the most expensive epics ever, The Adventures of Baron Munchausen, starring fellow Py­thonian Eric Idle. This one definitely should be checked out! 
So get ready for the summer in the only way you know how! Raid movie theatres and video stores and watch weird movies! 
News 

It All Adds Up 
Notre Dame's Accounting Department has been named sixth in the nation and nuniber one among Catholic schools 
BY JOHN ZALLER 

The Notre Dame Department of Ac­countancy awoke to a pleasant sur­prise at the beginning of the semes­ter. The department ranked as the sixth-best undergraduate accounting program in the country according to the Public Accounting Report's eighth annual survey of accounting schools. About 400 professors from business colleges were asked to name the five best accounting schools. The ranked schools re­ceived five points for first place, four points for second place, etc., with Illinois receiving the top spot and 114 points. Notre Dame and Northern Illinois tied for sixth with 26 points. Ranking is awarded on the basis of students passing the Certified Public Accountant (CPA) exam, the standardized test used to judge a prospective accountant's skills. "I'm impressed with the ranking," associ­ate dean of the College of Business, Vincent Raymond said. "It says we have a good faculty and a bright student body. In recent years thedepartmenthasn 'tgottcn the recog­nition it deserves." Raymond pointed to the fact that many accounting students at Notre Dame do very well on the parts the CPA exam they take for practice before the actual test. "I'm always amazed at the results, they're a wonderful indicator." The man behind the impressive showing, chairman of the Department of Accountancy, Leonard Savoie, has been at the helm for six years. The kind-faced Savoie has seen his department rise from an unranked position to one of high status during his relatively short term. Professionals in the field have spoken highly of him and Raymond has given Savoie much credit for the growth of accountancy at Notre Dame. 
When asked of the recent success Savoie can only point the credit elsewhere, "We have 

an excellent faculty, bright students and a sound program." 
The program's success can be measured by the amount of students that are hired by the Big Eight firms according to Savoie. The Big Eight represents the largest accounting firms in the United States and, to some extent, the worIcl and includes Price Waterhouse, Arthur Anderson, Deloitte, Haskins & Sells, Pete Marwicke, Earnest & Whinney, Touche Ross, Arthur Young and Coopers & Lyb­amd. "There are well over 100 Notre Dame graduates in each of the Big Eight Firms." 
Although enrollment declined slightly for a few years, the Department of Account­ancy at Notre Dame represents the largest major at the university. 75-80 percent of its graduates are hired immediately by one of the Big Eight firms. These firms look for a well-rounded accountant -one who knows the intricacies of accounting but can also deal with people effectively. 
Accountancy represents the only depart­ment within the field of business that consti­tutes a separate profession. The profession is governed by a very organized body and a very structured framework. Beginning with the CPA exam, an accountant is placed under several different rules and regulations by the government and each state. The job of an accounting department is to prepare its students for the exam and these rules. Senior accountancy major Monte Henige indicated that the job did not end there. 
"I am pleased with the ranking of sixth," Henigesaid. "You arc always going to have a school like Illinois getting the top ranking. Illinois is a machine, they crank out students with the main goal of passing the CPA. At Notre Dame the program is more geared towards developing a well-rounded ac­countant -one who can not only pass the exam, but can also be a CPA as well. Here we learn not only about numbers but also how to effectively deal with people, which is 
News 

what an accountant must do in order to be good. You need to learn a great deal of personal skills ~swell, and you develop those here." ' 
"Many people aren't exactly aware of what an account does," said Savoie. In the field of accounting graduates can follow three different routes: Public Accounting, Auditing, and Management Advisory Serv­ices (MAS). A public accountant helps indi­viduals with their taxes, an auditor works for a large firm and helps cor­porations examine their financial statements to add credibility to their yearly reports, and an MAS con­ducts consulting on a wide range for both corporations and individuals. 
Upon entering an ac­counting firm, a person will first receive the posi­tion ofstaffaccountant. At this level, the accountant will deal with smaller fi­nancial matters. As the accountant climbs the cor­porate ladder he will re­ceive positions with more responsibility and more involved work, eventually resulting in the highest position in the finn, that of part­ner. 
Accounting has been tagged with the label of boring by many outsiders. This is undeserved, contends Savoie. "People think of accountants as bookkeepers and clerks, daily sorting through detailed drudgery. The college level accountant does not do clerical work. College level accountants have many opportunities before them when they gradu­ate." Although the entry level positions may be less than spectacular, the work soon can become fascinating according to Savoie. "Many accountants advise clients about their finances, many go into induslry, many stay with their firm and expand their positions 

rapidly, and some are hired by clients of a firm to be that business' accountant. countants aren't here to simply work with a calcu­lator." 
With reference to accounting's boring nature, 
search is a

Savioe is chairman of the accounting department. 
Hcnigc sided with Savoie. "Accounting can be very dry in theory, in the classroom, but when it's applied in the real world it is much more interesting. The field is very sLruc­turcd; however, there are many opportunities where creativity can be expressed. Account­ants deal much more with people than is probably believed; there arc many opportu­nities for travel and to learn how a business is run as well." 
The Department of Accountancy is not only popular with business students. In the academic year 1986-1987, the department opened its doors to non-business students and has accepted about 550 students from outside the college each year. "I am de­lighted at this development, for I believe that every educated petson should know some­thing about accounting in to cope with an increasingly business-oriented world," said Savoie in a letter, shortly after opening the accounting school to the rest of university. 
The interest and excitement generated about the accounting department must be due in part to the faculty here. "We have an excellent faculty and we pay a competitive salary. In order to get the best we have to pay top dollar." 
The faculty devote much time to research as well. The analysis is not done in a labora­tory pouring chemicals as is often connotated by the word research. The researchers collect data about business trends, analyze it and question how and why these Lrends hap­pened. From the analysis, the faculty re­searchers fonn hypotheses about certain 
trends ­for ex­amp I e, how to predict them and how to a v o i d them -and then test their theo­ries by examin­ing statis­tics. 
"The re­
nne-aria 

very highly technical process and one that requires much time," said Savoie. 
After research is done, the faculty mem­ber puts his findings together in a paper. The success of an accounting department can be measured somewhat by the number of re­search papers published in accounting jour­nals each year. Lastyearover30NoLreDame faculty research papers were published. · 
"Accounting is really the liberal arts of business, it teaches you the fundamentals of business and how to deal with people. I think there is a very good program here that does both those things," grinned Henige. 




The addition ofa hot­shotfreshnian and a trans/erfrom Austin Peay havegiven Irish men's tennis national credibility 

Marl Okuda
Dllucla ls 20-4 at the number one singles slot. 
W 
BY KEVIN T. KERNS 

hen Coach Bob Bayliss ar­
rived at Notre Dame two years 
ago, he was determined to build a national power in tennis. As he sees it, such a task requires a demanding schedule, strong administrati vesupport, great facilities and the signing of blue-chip recruits. 
Sure enough, seven top-20 teams appear . on this year's Irish schedule, including per­ennial powers UCLA and Southern Califor­nia. They now have the NCAA limit of five tennis scholarships in use as well, thanks to the commitment io the program shown by Notre Dame Athletic Director Dick Rosen­thal and the rest of the administration. 
This commitment was manifested in no uncertain tenns by the construction of the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Dedicated in June of 1987, the Eck received the United States Tennis Association Facilities Award for 1988, given to the outstanding tennis facility in the nation. When asked what the building has meant to the program, Bayliss minced no words. "Everything," he responded. "Abso­lutely everything." 



The recruitment of blue-chip players, however, seems at first glance tO' be a more difficult proposition. When the top high school football players in America consider prospective col­leges, Notre Dame usually appears on the list of choices. But when a national­caliber tennis player contemplates his collegiate future, household names such as Stanford, Southern Cal and UCLA usually pop up._ In recent years, Notre Dame's name has been nowhere to be seen. 
Leave it to Dave DiLucia to break the 
mold. The Norristown, PA native is one of the top freshman tennis players in America. The winner of the 1988 Easter Bow I tourna­ment in Florida and a member of the 1987 
U.S. Junior Davis Cup team, DiLucia could have written his own ticket to any of the aforementioned schools. Instead, he opted to 
Bayliss (left) feels his team should be favored to wi_n the MCC tournament. 
play for Bayliss and the Fig~ting Irish. 
"First of all, I heard so many good things about Coach Bayliss," said DiLucia in ex­plaining his choice of schools. "Also, Notre Dame has committed to tennis with a larger budget and the construction of the Eck Pavil­ion. Finally, Notre Dame offered me the best hare has made us more solid all the way down the line." 
The Irish have posted a 16-9 record this year despite the demanding schedule, an improvement over last year's 17-13 slate. Dolhare, a transfer from Austin Peay, has played a large role in the Irish resurgence. In 
Sports 
collegiate tennis world that Notre Dame is serious about its commit­ment to tennis." 
"He (DiLucia) is an incredible athlete and person," added senior captain Brian Kalbas. "He shows tremendous leader­ship for a freshman, on and off the court Dave has brought Notre Dame tennis to the next level, and it's going to keep on rising." 
Junior Mike Wal­lace is as pleased as Kalbas with the freshman. "He has given us a viable number one player," he said. "The addi­tion of Dave and Gunior) Walter Doi­
Sports 


Mari Okuda 

Kalbas Is a "class Individual" at the number three singles. 
his coach's eyes, the Buenos Aires, Argen­tina native "is an impact player with interna­tional experience." 
Dolhare has compiled a 19-6 singles match record, mostly at the number two position. At the number three singles posi­tion, the Irish have a solid performer in Kal­bas. 
"Brian is a class individual," said Bayliss. 

"I can't say enough nice things about him." Kalbas will remain with the Irish next year as a valu­able member of the coaching staff. 
Wallace has made a significant contributiqn this year. He started the season at number four singles, but a rotator cuff injury has limited his action to number one doubles where he teams with DiLucia. The pair is currently ranked 25th in the nation. 
W~Ilace, who missed a portion of the season with a strep throat infection, likes what he sees in this year's team. "We're playing with a lot more intensity than in the past," he said. "There is a strong team concept among this group." 
Sophomores Ryan Wenger and Paul Odland have performed admi­rably at the number four and five singles, respectively. Senior Dave Reiter, primarily a doubles player, has been forced to play some 
singles due to the injuries to Wallace. He has responded well, compiling a 5-1 mark at the number six singles. Freshmen John Ehrling, John Silk and Mike Brown have each stepped in on occasion and done the job as well. 
Bayliss is pleased to a degree with the performance ofthis year's team. "I would have been elated had you told me at the beginning of the year that we'd be 16-9 at this point," he said. 
Bayliss is somewhat disap­pointed, however; at the letdown the Irish have experienced after their fast start Notre Dame got out of the gate quickly, winning on the road against Ohio State and upset­ting the nationally-ranked North Carolina Tar Heels. They played well in California, losing competi­tive matches to UCLA and South­ern Cal. The Irish have gone 4-3 since then, losing to Wisconsin, Miami (Ohio) and Ball State. 
"We were worn out," explained Bayliss. "We had scratched the national scene to a degree and didn't play well against our re­cuse. Good teams overcome that." Notre Dame will get the chance to prove them­selves once again in the Midwestern Colle­giate Conference tournament this Saturday, a tournament that Bayliss feels his team is favored to win. 


DiLucia represents the best Irish hope in post-season play. He is currently ranked 51st in the collegiate rankings and has a good chance to make the 64-man singles field in the NCAA tournament. 32 players are cho­sen from eight regions, with the remaining .players receiving at-large bids. 
Regardless ofDiLucia' s post-season itin­erary in 1989, Bayliss is confident that his top player can succeed on the professional circuit after his playing days at Notre Dame. "I expect David to be playing tennis for a living sometime in the future," said Bayliss. "However, he needs to improve and become physically stronger." 
As far as the future of Notre Dame tennis is concerned, though, Bayliss makes no bold promises or predictions. "I'd like to compete for the national title, but we're nowhere near that," he said. "It would be presumptuous to shoot off lofty goals. 
"Next year I'd like to be in the top 20. I don't know if that's wishful thinking ornot" 
II 
gional opponents. That's no ex­

Dolhare's International experience has proven valuable to the Irish. 
Mart Okuda 
Sports 

COMPILED BY DAVE TYNDALL 
p rt 
e k 
The Irish picked up their third straight win over Kenyon College, 14-7, to raise their record to 5-3. JOHN OLMSTEAD recorded two goals and five assists while BRIAN MCHUGH and MIKE SULLIVAN scored four goals each Lo lead the Irish. Goaltender TIM DUANE re­corded 16 saves in only his second start of the season. 
The Irish travel to Denison on Saturday to avenge a 14-6 defeat to the Big Red last year. 
The softball team took third place in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference tournament this past weekend with a 3-2 record. Freshman MELISSA LINN earned all five decisions for the Irish. LAURIE SOMMERLAD drove in one game-winning run as the team showed a balanced attack throughout the tournament. The team earned victories over Butler 8-7, Loyola4­3,andDayton2-0whilelosingtoDetroitl-0and st. Louis 3-1. 
The women complete a week offive double­headers by traveling to Valparaiso on Thursday and to the University of Illinois-Chicago on Monday, with home games on Saturday against the College of Lake County. 
rience as they competed in the Indiana Invitational 
· this past weekend, finishing 14th out of 15 teams. KRIS LAZAR led the women with a two-round total of 182 while freshman ALLISON WOJNAS made the most other first action with a 185. 
The Irish fmish out their inaugural season at the Lady Buckeye Tournament at Ohio State this weekend. 
~============-==---"""-1 
~== 
The men's team will try to come off a week 
I===::::::::::::=======================~ 
layoff with strong pcrfromances as they travel to 
CaliforniafortheStanfordlnvitational. Lastyear, 1'---======-==------.;..;_-----------------1 
senior DAN GARRETT qualified for NCAA' s at this meet in the 5,000 meters. The Irish will gain another taste of national competition after corn­peting at Georgetown a week ago and hope to use this meet as a springboard into the outdoor season. 
The Irish sent a small contingent of athletes to the Manchester Relays this past weekend. Fresh­man SHEILA STEW ART took top honors in the shot put while teammate MARIA RHOMBURG fmished third in the 800 meters and anchored the fifth place 4x400 meter relay team. 
The women's team will travel to Hillsdale College on April 15. 
The men's team(Seestory,page14)split their matches thispastweek, losing at Ball State 7-2 and winning at Purdue 5-4. WALTER DOLHARE led the Irish with two singles wins this week while DA VE DILUCIA, BRIAN KALBAS, PAUL ODLAND, and JOHN SILK each picked up one victory. Odland teamed with RYAN WENGER to pick up the only doubles victory during the week. 
The Irish compete in the Midwestern Colle­giate Conference Championship this weekend in St. Louis. 
The women's tennis team extended its win­ning streak to ten with a 6-3 win over Ohio State and a 5-4 win over Michigan State. CeCe CAHILL and TRACY BARTON led the first win with their strong singles performances and then combined with ease on a two-set doubles win. .Cahill, KA TIE CLARK, and CA THY BRADSHAW all earned singles victories against the Spartans, while the teams of Cahill and Barton and Bradshaw and NAT ALIE ILLIG combined for doubles victories. 
The 14-4 Irish play their fmal home match this Saturday against Michigan and roundoutthe season against Northwestern on the 18th, Indi­ana on the 22nd, and Toledo on the 27th. 
The Irish started out the week splitting a pair with Illinois-Chicago, then swept two double­headers from Xavier. DAN PELTIER became Notre Dame's career.RBI leader with 136 and still leads the Irish hitters with a .429 batting average. JOE BINKIEWICZ led the team against Xavier Monday with three doubles and three RBI's while MIKE MOSIDER recorded two hits in both games. Pitchers BRIAN CON­WAY and ERIK MADSEN earned the wins. 
The Irish host Butler today for a twin-bill and travel to Dayton for a pair of doubleheaders this weekend. 

Send to: 
Life in Hell 
P.O. Box 36E64 
LA, CA 90036 

Include ad, Indicating size & style. 
Allow 4-6 wks. delivery. Free catalog 
with order, or send $1. and an S.A.S.E. 
Essay 

Guppies in the Gutter 
A Notre Dame grad, Joe Mathews, relives his initial moments in the real world as an architect 
Havingjust launched my own archi­
tectural practice in the late fifties at 
the young age of 28, and being 
little more than just a "Who's he?" in the 
industry, I felt it was important that I start 
attending meetings hosted by local contrac­
tors, subcontractors, and material suppliers 
to the construction field. 
Not far removed from my graduation day 
from the University ofNotre Dame School of 
Architecture and with a couple of years of 
experience under my belt, I confidently 
waltzed into one of the get-togerthers that 
was being staged at one of the area's fancier 
restaurants where food and drink were plen­
tiful. It was, I felt, a great way to introduce 
myself while the men were relaxed (and 
slightly inebriated). It was a memorable 
meeting. 
Flushed with a new-found confidence, I 
was preparing to sit down to the meal and listen to the guest speaker's presentation, when a voice paged me to answer a phone call. I was stunned that anybody would . actually call me, and moreover perplexed as to why. anybody would call. After all, my phone at the office didn't exactly ring off the 
wall with business. 
Picking up the receiver with some trepida­
tion, I listened in shock as the fellow on the 
other end of the line alerted me to a situation 
which had never been covered by my instruc­
tors at Notre Dame. "Better get your car 
down here right away, Joe," said the voice. 
"The building next door to the new building 
you designed has collapsed! It's that damned 
pet shop! Birds are flying all over the sky, • 
snakes are slithering on the sidewalk, and 
there are goldfish and guppies in the gutter. 
It's a mess!" 
My blood pressure shot so high it rang a bell on the meter, perspiration broke out all over my suddenly weakened body and my breath­ing became as difficult as a steam locomotive laboring to belch its way up a steep mountain grade. I was in trouble. My entire career flashed in front of me. Ofcourse, that didn't take long based on the rather brief stature of that career. 
The building I had designed represented my first commission of any significance. The design had been awarded me by an old friend and prominent area businessman. It was a simple, one-story structure located between two existing buildings, one ofwhich was the pet shop. Merciful God, why me? I don't even like guppies. 
In order to pour concrete for the building's new settings, it had been necessary for the contractor to excavate on each side of the edifice. Once that task had been completed, he planned to pour concrete the next morn­ing. The pet shop building had been built with its side-bearing walls supported only by the floor slab. My contractor was aware of this seemingly insignificant detail. But after all, what could happen overnight? 
I literally dropped the phone, ran from the restaurant and raced to the scene of the disas­ter. Less than a block away from the "what­used-to-be-a-pet-shop" site, I saw the blink­ing lights of police squad cars, ambulances and fire engines as well as a huge crowd of onlookers. 
"Oh, my God," I thought. "People are dead, hundreds are injured, the lead article in tomorrow'spaperwillread, 'Crazy Architect Jailed,' and my career will have to flourish in prison." 
Well, it is true that a rather nice picture of the collapsed building did appear in the next day'seditionofthenewspaper-somewhere in the second section not far from the classi­fied ad section. Nowhere did it mention my heroic efforts to round up the snakes and birds. And nowhere did it mention my grief at finding guppies in the gutter floating eyes­up on the surface. And nowhere did it even mention that I was "THE ARCHITECT' for the building next door. 
The following day I met with the contrac­tor. His insurance covered all expenses and he was prepared to pour the concrete. The building was erected right on schedule and turned out to be a launching pad of sorts to success in the architectural field for me. 
By the way, there is no lesson to be learned from this little recollection. It's just some­thing that happened more than thirty years ago and taught me to hang in there when things look their bleakest. I'll never forget it. 
I might add a bit of advice for you Notre Dame students who are pursuing degrees in Architecture-try to locate your first project next to a pet shop. And you guys and gals involved inother fields ... buy a pet shop. You can't go wrong. II 
Joe Mathews, A.I.A., is president and founder of the highly successful architec­tural firm of Mathews-Purucker-Anella, Architects, Inc. of South Bend. A 1952 graduate of Notre Dame's school of archi­tecture, he and his partners, all Notre Dame graduates, have been responsible for some of the most highly lauded building design and renovation projects in northwestern Indiana and southwestern lower Michigan. 
THURSDAY, APR.13 
Hospitality Lunch Lunch for the benefit of Women United for Justice and Peace. At the Center for Social Concerns from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. Call 239-5293 for further information. 
Lectures Thomas J. White Center lecture, Ira Schwartz, Professor and director, Center for Study ofYouth Policy at the University of Michigan. Topic: Serious Juvenile Crime. In the Law School Courtroom at 12 noon. 
ND Aerospace and Mechanical Engineer­ing lecture "A Shot Through Rocket Plumes, NASP and All That," Dr. Paul 0. Marrone, Calspan Corp. At 3:30 p.m. in 325 Cushing. 
Kellogg Institue and Department of An­thropology lecture, "The Political Culture of the PRI (Prtido Revolucionario Insti­tucional): A study of the 1988 Mexican Presidential Campaign," Oaudia Lomnitz, Department of Anthropology at New York University. 131 Decio at 4 p.m. 
Snite Museum of Art lecture "Hollywood and the Heartland," Maxine Fleckner Ducey, director of the film archives at the Wisconsin Center for Film and Theater Research. At 4:15 p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium. 
Justice of Education Parables of Diversity, 
Diversityat SMC "Hispanic Catholics: The Implications for U.S. Catholicism," Olga Villa-Parra, Executive Director, Midwest Spanish-speaking Catholic Commission. In the Carroll Auditorium at Madeleva Hall at 7:30 p.m. 
Notre Dame vs. Butler University at 1 p.m. at Jake Klein Field. 
Colloquium ND Department of Mathematics ,"Recent Advances in Algebraic K-Theory ," Dr. Manfred Kolster, MacMaster University. Room 326 Computing Center at 4:30 p.m. Coffee at 4 p.m. in room 201. 
Faculty Senate Meeting At 7:30 p.m. in room 202 of the Center for Continuing Education .. 
Student/Faculty Evening ND Program of Liberal Stu dies "Shakespeare and the Heritage of Greek Tragedy," Donald Stump, Virginia Polytechnical Institute. At 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
Banquet Women's Basketball Banquet in the JACC Monogram Room at 6:30 p.m. 
Movie Cry Freedom at 8 and 10: 15 p.m. in Cush­ing Engineering Auditorium. Cost is $2. Sponsored by the Student Union Board. 
ND Department ofPhilosophy Prospective Series in Philosophy: The Place of Lan­guage, "Language and Society," Charles Taylor,McGill University. At3:30p.m.in the Hesburgli Library Auditorium. 
ND Department of Black Studies and De­partment of Anthropology lecture, "Africa Revisited," Papa Sosso, Gambian Oral Historian. Co-sponsored by the Year of Cultural Diversity, Office of Undergradu­ate Admissions, Department of History, Department of Communication and Thea­ter, Department of Music and the Office of Minority Affairs. At 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
Dinner Sorin Society Dinner in the JACC Arena. Reception begins at 7 p.m. and the dinner at 8p.m. 
Films Standand Deliver at 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium. A true sleeper oflast year, this compelling, gripping story of educational success highlights Edward James Olmos as the high school teacher who raises a group ofunmotivated east Los Angeles students to incredible ~cademic heights. Based on a true story. 
She's Having A Baby at 8 and 10:15 p.m. in Cushing Engineering Auditorium. Cost is $2. 

1/tl~============:d
SATURDAY, APR. 15 

"Cross Cultural Diversity," Catherinetm::=======:;:========~ilin 
Shoupe, assistant professor of sociology, 
TennisSaint Mary's College. In the Stapleton FRIDAY, APR.14 

Notre Dame· Women vs. Michigan at 11Lounge ofLeMans Hall at 7 p.m. 
a.m. on the Courtney Courts. 

AA Meeting Open Meeting of Alcoholics
Snite Museum of Art "The Cleaning of the 
Anonymous from 7:30 to 8:30 a.m. in the 
Sistine Ceiling: An Ecological Problem," Holy Cross House. Notre Dame vs. College of Lake County at Prof. James Beck, Columbia University. 
lp.m.

At 7:30 p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium. 

Presentation Sorin Society presentation at 2: 15 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. Call 239­5293 for further infonnation. 
Movie Die Hard at 8 and 10:15 p.m. in Cushing Engineering Auditorium. 
SUNDAY,APR. 16 
Breakfast , Sorin Society Breakfast Arena at 7 a.m. Lunch at 12:30 p.m. 
POWWOW POW WOW with Native American Stu­dent Organization at 12 noon in Stepan Center. 
Swap Meet Auto Parts Swap Meet in the J ACC Field­house/ Arena from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Concert ND Department of Music Newberry Consort Guest Ensemble. At 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
MONDAY,APR. 17 
Films The Conformist at 7 p.m. in the An­nenburg Auditorium. A young follower of Mussolini must demonstrate his loy­alty to the fascist state by assassinating his fonner professor. Director Bernardo Berolucci equates Italian fascism with the psychological life of his protagonist, for whom confonnity becomes an obseesion. 
Black Orpheus at 9 p.m. in the An­
nenburg Auditorium. Winner ofthe Acad­emy Award for Best Foreign Film, Black Orpheus retells the legend of Orpheus and Eurydice in a modem setting with some of the mosty magnificent music and color photography ever put on film. 
TUESDAY, APR.18 

Une Femme Douce at 7 p.m. in the An­nenburg Auditorium. Based on a Dos­toyevsky short story, Bresson's first color film tells the story ofa gentle young woman who marries an introspective pawnbroker and enters a domestic world of unbearable 
The Shop on Main Street at 9 p.m. in the Anncnburg Auditorium. The first film from Eastern Europe to win an Academy Award, this is a story of a relationship between a simple carpenter and a woman who runs a Jewish-owned button shop in a sleep Slovak town. The characters provide a moving counterpoint to thew horror ofthe holocaust. 
South Bend Area Movies 
Forum Theater The Rescuers 7, 9 Cyborg 7:30, 9:30 Leviathan 7:45, 9:45 
100 Center Twins 7:30, 9:30 Mississippi Burning• 7, 9: 15 
Scottsdale Bill and Ted's ExcellentAdventure 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 9:45 Skin Deep 2, 4:30, 7, 9:30 
Town and Country The Dream Team 2, 4:30, 7, 9:30 Major League 2: 10, 4:40 7: 10, 9:40 "1969" 1:50, 3:50, 5:50, 7:50, 9:50 
University Park West Dead Bang 1:30, 3:35, 5:40, 7:45, 9:50 Dangerous Liasons 2, 4:30, 7, 9:30 Fletch Lives 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 
Final Word 


Cultural Diversity 
Recognition ofdifferent groups leads to appreciation and respect 
BY MARY FELIZ 




.. 

Continue Proposition 48 Policy 
Recently, Notre Dame junior Tony Rice, spoke out against Notre Dame's policy of not recruiting students whose SAT scores fall below 700, minimum required to participate in a sport as a freshman. Rice, a proposition 48 success story, urged the university to give others the same chance that he received. For Notre Dame to follow Rice's advice would be a grave error. Academic excellence cannot be set aside in favor of athletics. One may point to Rice as an example of an individual who as excelled despite the prop-48 tag. He certainly has done a lot for Notre Dame, both on the football field and off. Rice argues that these people have the chance to contribute to the university in a similar fashion. What must be adressed is the risk factor involved. Although a person with an SAT score of 1300 may also fail out, the risk factor involved is certainly greater for the sub-700 people. Another argument involves the possibly discriminatory nature of the SAT tests. This may be as valid as any argument but, for the time being, it is the only nationwide standard for admissions to examine. High School grades are crucial but favoritism must be recognized as a possibility in this instance as well. Furthennore, by admitting a student that does not meet the requirements of Proposition 48, negative publicity is generated for the institution from the per­spectiveofboth academics and athletics. BecauseofNotre Dame's committrnent to both of these areas they cannot be addressed as mutually exclusive. Another valid point is made when Rice states that many of these athletes need to be given the chance to excel academically. For the time being, this is not a problem. Notre Dame need not justify its acceptance of Proposition 48 athletes by "giving them a chance." Proposition 42 aside, there are certainly a multitude of other schools that are willing to provide that chance for an individual. In essence, Notre Dame does not need Proposition 48 casualties to succeed athletically. The past few recruiting classes of the football and basketball teams will attest to that fact. These same students don't need Notre Dame to succeed academically. Other schools are more than willing to admit a proposition 48 individual. Notre Dame, therefore, does not need to jeapordize its academic reputation by admitting such students. 
-Scholastic 

Ernie Pook's Comeek 

, \ \ I I I I I I j I I J I / I I ·1 . t I / I 1 1 1 1 / _ 
::, I I., \ \•\, \ \' '\ I t \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \, \ \ \ \ •" 
1 · EIJJ0Y THE E'L.£6ANT SN\OK°ING PI.EftSll~ES OF fl.AW SPAGHEITI, SVT WATUt OIIT 8fCAU{E IT S~EAKS cl\S'J ANP IF You GET T00.l't\W,H SPIT ON llle eNO, IT TUllN' WIIIT& AWD 
.&eN~£., 1 I/,,,_
\ ,..
\',,
,, \ ,. 
24 
Scholastic 
®'Ci8~ 8~
L\f~ 1rJ 

MAii G~o€t.Jlt.JG,HE.t,\---(W\°ti\ JAMIE AlJGEll-) 
µ_f.~ !:'.louf2.. o S {-\£ WlU.,. 
E.t,E..P \-\.ANT 
Q... OlrJN~ 


1Re.EFu,ABl-f 
1Bo PR.0vE~5 

The Student Union Board Welcomes the 1989-90 Board 
Board Manager -Raja Singh Dir. of Programming -Michael Hough ·Dir. of Relations -Mike Cyrs Dir. of Marketing -Debbie Disbro Controller -Rick Condon 
Programming Consultant -Kelly Ruffner Campus Entertainment -Kerrie Shannon, Alison Kelly, Mary Ritter Ideas and_ Issues -Tony Lang, Mark Rueter, Julie Scharfenberg 
Movies -Jim Corr, Joni Martin, Julie Palmer Music -Dave Temeles, Scott Harris, Erin Lavelle Performing Arts -Carmina Perez, Paul Broderick Services -Kara Lenahan Special Events -Mike Manning, Beth Wittman, Kris Hughes 
Assistant Controllers -Triana Byrne, Elizabeth Crisp, Mike Jillson and Dan Orie Publicity -Colleen Scanlan, Val Paletta Research -Christopher Frausto Relations -Frank Timmons, Suzy Auyer, Tom Rask, Susan Kaiser, Maria Milano, Rich Saldana 
Good Luck for a Simply Incredible Year! 
SUB would also like to thank J. Christopher Murphy, the world's biggest Hooters fan!!! 





