Che Moure ©ame Scholastic AdCeptisements
© ea
I
to
quickens your
makes it easier and better. It is a'friend in deed and at
g
r
3 tn <?
Sold by leading stationers—at school and in town.
a S
I
s
0 S
Frank Mayr & Sons JEWELERS iij SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
Kable’s Restaurants
tn W. Washington Ave. ;
it 19 W. Jdfenimi BvME 206 So.Michigan St.
EYES EXAMINED
Glasses Fitted at Moderate Prices .
Satisfaction Guaranteed ’ -
DR. J. BURKE & CO.,
Optometrists and Manufacturing Opticians ■
Notice: We duplicate any lens the same day. no	sr- — C.
matter who fitted them. Brine the pieces.	' 2^0 S. Michigan bt .
. » — —— , , ■ , , ■ , ■ - ■ ■ ■ . ,
The Ellsworth-Store
ALL KINDS OF FURNITURE AND ROOM FURNISHINGS AT SPECIAL PRICES FOR
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS '
N. V.P. TRUNKS
Made by the makers of “Indestructo" and selling at a moder* •	ate price. Luggage section—and floor	:
_ GEO. WYMAK & CO. . ■ :
| MAKE THIS YOUR MEETING PLACE •
JIMMIE & GOATS ;
|	- "WHERE THE CARS LEAVE" .
« ■■ - - -.. . ......- - — ,
J. J. KREUZBERGER
MERCHANT TAILOR
a 16 W. Jefferson Blvd	Arnold Building
National Grocer Company
I	WHOLESALE GROCERS
I	402-8 South St. Joseph Street South Bend. Indiana :
|	"LIGHT HOUSE BRANDS" “
~ - - -----------■ ■ ■ ■
Pure Drugs. Careful Compounding.	Prompt Service '
_ . . Always at	..	-
The Eliel Pharmacy '
230 W. Washington Ave.
Emil Reyer. Plv G..- Mgr.
Tie
Gift
Special
: -> thi-g:



the Hour? Same Scholastic AdfepcisemenCs
“SOCIETY BRAND"
This brand of clothes stands for everything that is well tailored and fashioned, and insures the purchaser that he is buying all-wool fabrics, made up by skilled workmen, and to give perfect satisfaction in fit, wear and looks.
When we sell you a “Society Brand” Suit or * Overcoat, we know we are doing all these things for you.
Xmas will soon be here and you will be thinking of going home for vacation, also a Xmas present. Call at ‘‘The Athletic Store,” arid Jook over the new things—N. D. Jewelery, Pillow Covers, Pennants, Memory Books, etc.
ADLER BROTHERS
107—109 So. Michigan St.	108 W. Washington Ave.
Conductors'of	■ .
• The Athletic Store.	7 . - On the Campus	_
.	. Hany E.~ Poulin., Mgr.	—
the Notre Same Scholastic Advertisements
Dr. Walter A. Hager
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT
Telephone Bdl 52
N. W. Cor. Lafayette St.	, '
and Washington Ave.	South Bend, Ind.
- - - - -.....— .....................- ,
Mike’s Restaurant
and Lunch Room
H. E. GROSS & SON. Props.
105 E. Jefferson Ave., South Bend Home Phone'6183
nnton / Home Phone. 5789	Res Bell 1162
ufficb } BeU Phone> egg
DR. R. F. LUCAS
DENTIST
.	611-612 J. M. S. Bldg. -	.	, T j
Cor. Main St. and Wash. Ave.	South Bend, Ind.
<— - - - ----- , - - - ■■■■—■♦
Nobile’s College Inn
HEADQUARTERS FOR CANDIES FRUITS AND ICE CREAM
STUDENTS’ ORDERS FILLED PROMPTLY
. 108 South Michigan Street
Phone*: Bell, 602; Home, 965
Omot:	PHONES ■ Rxsidsncx:
Bell 886. Home, 5842.	Bell, 3561. Home, 5702
DR. JOHN A. STOECKLEY
DENTIST
No. sir. Corner Suite	Wash. Ave. and Main St.
J. M. S. Building	South Bend. InA ''
—< >
DR. F. W. VAUGHN
SURGEON DENTIST and ORTHODONTIST
608 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Ind.
Bell Phone 581	Will call al UMftnitf
Home Phone 3451	by appoialauai
Chiropodist L. L. ROBERTS Office and Beaidence, 323 S. Taylor Street, South Bend, Ind.
With the Largest and Best Equipped Printing Plant in. Northern Indiana, and the most skillful workmen, we are prepared to meet your most electing requirements. -
L. P. HARDY CO.
417-423S. St. Joseph St.	South Bend.Indiana
Klingel & Kuehn
SHOES OF QUALITY
Between Oliver Opera House and J. M. S. Bldg.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
1__ at Reasonable Prices. Special attention
Bicycles
Anderson Brothers & Bultinck .
109 West Colfax Avenue . ' South Bend. Indiana

Baker’s Shoes
“FOR MBH WHO CARET \
EXCLUSIVE IN STYLE ~ PERFECT IN FIT 114 W. Wtdnniton, Ave. South Bend, Indiana . • _ •. ' - - -
THE LIGHT OF THE VISION
CHRISTIAN REID 362 pp.—Price $1.25
THE AVE MARIA
NOIRE DAME. IND.


DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER- VICTURVS - VIVE- QUASI- CRASMORITVRVS
Vol. LUI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, November 29, 1919. No. 10.
Yells for Notre Dame.
him: “His services have been of a kind that
YOUR name a thousand roaring throats give out, A thousand hearts beat like a battle drum, .
- A jocund tumult that but leaves me dumb And dim-eyed as the universal shout Thrills to the sky. And now the marching rout .
That down the field with pride of victory come,—
Is it for you the airs of evening hum, O Lady with the stars your brow about?	.
This wild sweet chivalry of college days . That has your name forever in its song
Goes up, I think, to very Paradise
And mingles with your Soring termless praise
Where stands he in your knighthood’s radiant throng With grave eyes lifted to your shining eyes.
-	:	’06.
General Leonard Wood—A Country’s Doctor, v able, by virtue of his rugged physique and
BY WILLIAM HENRY ROBINSON, *20.
THERE is in the shops of Uncle Sam a titanic task to be performed—nothing less than rewelding the units that . go to make up the national life. And in the front windows of the factory hang great placards, which, however variously worded, bear the same message: “Wanted, big men for a big job.”	__
In looking around to see who looms'high enough above the political horizon to answer such a call, we behold'the usual number of little big men, but very few real big men, of the type of leader which has shaped the destinies of our nation from its feeble beginning to its mighty present. The purpose of this article is to point out such a man in one whose past has been replete with* splendid success and whose future has the potency of equally great achieve-inents, General Leonard Wood. His life has been spent in serving his country and teaching misgoverned people that there are attainable in this world such things as good government and fair play. As Theodore Roosevelt said of
if performed three thousand years ago would have made him a hero mixed up with the sun god in various ways.”
The product of sturdy old New England stock, the boyhood and youth of Leonard Wood were spent on Cape Cod, until, following in his father’s footsteps, he entered the Harvard School of Surgery. After practising medicine for a short time in the slums of Boston, he applied for the position of surgeon in the army and, having passed the examination, was accepted. In compliance with his request for action, he was ordered to join General Crook’s forces, engaged’ in subduing the Apaches along the Mexican border. Despite his inexperience and utter ignorance of the life, he was shortly
willingness, to endure hardship and * danger with the stoutest regular of the force. Not * satisfied with only the duties oD surgeon, he was constantly requesting and doing the work of a line officer. He speedily won the commendation of his superiors and was rewarded with promotion. He was Lawton’s chief aide, throughout the racking campaign which persevered until the surrender of the Indians under their wily leaders, Geronimo and Natchez. Incidentally, the trail led through the same country which Pershing’s “punitive” expedition traversed in pursuit of Villa. In his report of the expedition, Lawton spoke of Wood’s conduct as follows: “I desire particularly to ■ call attention to Assistant Surgeon Leonard Wood, the only officer who has been with me through the whole campaign. His courage, energy, and loyal support; his encouraging example to the command when the work was hardest and the prospects darkest, have placed me under obligations sb great that I cannot even express them.” In consequence of this citation, the young surgeon was awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor. ~
During the nine years following, from 1887

146	,	^fieHocre dome ddtdasdc
' to 1896, he was shifted from post to post, being finally summoned to Washington to act as assistant attending surgeon during, the last s year of Cleveland^ administration. It was at this time that he met Theodore Roosevelt, one memorable evening at a social function in the Lowndes House. Having many things in common, they speedily became close friends. The inactive life of his new post palled on him, however, and he was about to resign from the army, when the long-expected war with Spain' ■ began.	-
It was decided by the war department to raise a regiment from the skilled riders and unerring shots of the adventurous West. Roosevelt, as being the man most popular in that section of the country, was chosen for the _ command, but he declined and asked to be given the lieutenant-colonelcy with Leonard Wood as colonel. His suggestion was followed, and the “Rough Riders” began to be. Everything at Washington was in turmoil. Everybody was shouting to everybody else to do something and little was being done. Some days later at the height of the disorder, Colonel Wood stepped into Secretary-of-War Alger’s office with a thick sheaf of papers under his arm and said, “Sign these,, sir.” “These” included telegrams to governors calling for volunteers, requisitions for uniforms, equipment, supplies, and transportation. Alger, beset by incompetence and confusion, gazed dumfounded at him, but signed the papers. In twenty-one days the “Rough Riders” were mobilized at San Antonio, equipped with the light army working clothes, Krag rifles, machetes—all of which were eminently suited for the country in which they were to fight. Six weeks later they won at Las Guasimas their first engagement against heavy odds. Such was the ability of their organizer. On June 13, 1898, Wood sailed out of Tampa Harbor an unknown man. In a month’s time he had-been made a brigadier-
. general, placed in command of captured San” tiago, and his name had become a household word throughout the land. .
Leading such a command as the “Rough ■	Riders”,to victory was child’s play, compared
with the task that confronted Wood at Santiago.
- The city was infested with malaria and yellow fever; the water supply was bad and insufficient; ■ . starvation was rife as a result of the siege; the streets were impassable with filth and ghastly with death; the people, crushed by
centuries of blind despotism, were lacking in knowledge, courage, energy. Such was the task given this surgeon, thirty-seven years old, fresh from the swivel-chair of Washington officialdom. And such was the task performed. ~ He forced the well to care for the sick and bury or burn the dead. He requisitioned all the civil vehicles to bring supplies into the city. Everyone was made to work, but everyone received pay for his work. He emptied the x jails of political prisoners, tested in person the inmates of insane asylums, cleansed and multiplied the hospitals, established a native constabulary, regulated prices and supplies. Almost before the wretched population knew it, Santiago was a place fit to live in—all in consequence of this silent omnipresent figure, dad not in the gold and lace of their old officials but in the drab uniform of the great Republic that had reached forth her hand in rescue. He reopened schools, built highways, increased the water supply; all, at a cost miraculously low to the poor Cubans, who had known only unrestrained-corruption theretofore.
In consequence of his success at, Santiago, he was made Governor of the whole island. , And now his administrative ability was tested in another way. At Santiago the job had been small enough to enable him to keep tab on everything, but now he was obliged to let inferiors attend to the details. His choice of efficient men, his willingness to give them responsible backing, his unerring acceptance or r rejection of plans proposed were new proofs of his versatile ability.	-
Chief among his gifts to the Cubans were their / new judiciary; the school system, and best of ‘ all, freedom from disease. It is true that he did . not accomplish this last great benefit by personal effort, but he made it possible by his willingness to accept the responsibility and to provide the means for the heroic experiments by which the world was "rid of that •terrible scourge, the yellow fever. It is sufficient .praise of his work to say that he took a colony of slaves, and in less than, three years gave forth ' a republic of freedmen, self-governed and selfsupported. In 1902 when the Cuban Flag _ was raised over the island and Wood stepped . ' ~ ~ down from his chair of absolute authority, he • .	.
was accompanied by the love and admiration of all factions. Lord Cromer, the great English. , ■. . -Viceroy .ofEgypt, calledhis administration in Cuba “the .finest., bit of .colonial government'in?.
*- '.	• I-' ■ * ‘ •**	"*• *■'" ■ '	' ••• --•- ’7 \ -
v 7- • 7	— IS4 -	,7 '* ,•	7’"' '* >, i-- 4”<,“ *
Moure domeSdiolcrede	147
history.” Later in life, when Lord Cromer was asked to suggest a man as his successor, he said: “Unfortunately, the best man is not available, for he is an American citizen, named Leonard Wood.” •
In this country General Wood’s fame was such that on his return, one big corporation offered him forty thousand, a year for his services. In view of his known friendship with the new President, however, he thought _ it best to refuse; and in order to be out of reach of political muck-slingers, he asked to be sent to the trying post of the Moro Islands.
, The Moros were a half-civilized people, never really subjugated by Spain. They were fanatic Mohammedans, blood-thirsty head-hunters, treacherous pirates. At home in the impenetrable jungle, they had hitherto escaped punishment for their depredations. To add to these difficulties. Wood had to contend with the distrust and jealousy of his subordinates. ' The intimate of three successive presidents, he was thought by his new command to have made his way to the position by political “pull,” and it was remembered against him that before the war he had been simply a. medical man. But when Wood had begun his work all this antipathy was changed to respect. He out-fought, out-marched, out-endured the hardiest regular in his command, just as in the old days when as a “tenderfoot” he had shone forth as a leader among the rugged riders of the plains. He never asked anyone to do any thing he was not willing to do himself, and his motto was always, “Do things and don’t talk about them.” He went about his hew undertaking with the same cool system and indomitable persistence that had won success before. His vigorous campaigns accomplished the impossible. He not only subdued the Moros; he civilized them. He raised woman from her position as a mere chattel to her proper plane. He abolished slavery, polygamy, feuds- and outlawry, built schools and established trade.
When this great work was finished he was made Commander of the Department of the Philippines, and with his usual vim set to work on what needed to be done. He rearranged the defenses, increased the efficiency of the troops to a remarkable degree, and by his tact prevented trouble with Japan.
In 1908, he was called to take command of the Department of theEast. There his work continued to show the same careful efficiency.
even though great opportunities were lacking. He was subsequently made Chief of Sta:", after having served his country for twenty-two years. He was then in a position to begin his preparedness campaign, an ambition that had been growing with his experience.
"General Wood was not a militarist. But long experience in public and military life had shown him that despite our boasted strength we should be in serious danger were we to be suddenly attacked by a great power. , He did not believe that we should pour all our wealth and resources into the insatiable maw of gigantic armaments, but advocated the moderate Swiss system of regular training for school boys and a year of intensive military life for every healthy youth between the ages of eighteen and twenty-one. He stated his doctrine. thus: “We are not contemplating an army which will be trained-for a war of aggression or conquest. What we want is a citizen force back of our regular establishment, organized and trained so as to command the respect of the world sufficiently to make it certain that an attack on us would be costly and doubtful of outcome; an organization which would insure our voice in the world’s affairs receiving consideration; one which would enable us to pursue our just policies without threat of interference.” In practical application of his plan he established in igii4 the Gettysburg Camp for college students and in 1915 the Plattsburg camps for business men. These camps laid the foundation on which the great cantonments and officer schools of the War were constructed.
Concerning General Wood’s part in the Great War, it is hard, for anyone who knows the value of his past services to the nation, to say anything without saying too much. It is sufficient to say that he did well the duties assigned him without unmanly whimpering or unpatriotic criticism. And^he is all the greater in the sight of unprejudiced Americans for such conduct. -
General Wood is soon to honor Notre Dame with a visit. It will then- be our pleasurable duty to extend the hospitality of the University, and to show our appreciation of his accomplishments. Hats off then to General Wood, the greatness of whose achievements is' to he equalled only by his modest and disinterested patriotism. God speed the day when his countrymen shall give the highest reward in their power to their “Country’s Doctor.”

S
$fie Nocre dame Sdidascic
Varsity Verse.
Does This Mean You?
Some poor boobs Or, as the Classics say, ।	Boneheads who' are non compos mentis,
I	Somehow manage to get into every school.
This place has its share of them. You know the kind. . . . ।	When the bell rings
They shuffle their feet in class. . . .
That’s their crippled idea of a square deal i	To the Prof, and the students.
।	And when they get tired
I	Listening to a good lecture,
f ~	Or watching a movie,
j	Or hearing a classical concert,
j	They say something inane
And some other lame-brain snickers Like a Minim, And then decides he can say something Side-splittingly funnier, So he pulls an ancient wheeze like ' “Ain’t Nature grand?” And, because nobody sees any point, Or any sense to it, some nobody laughs. Then They decide it is time to go, So they get up, After they have nearly driven the lecturer, -	Or even the pictures and the concert crazy,
And they go out. Thank's to them!
They show more brains,	1
And more politeness, t	And more common decency,
?	By going to sleep,
[	_	Or by staying away,
|	Or even by leaving
j	(If they leave quietly)
|	Than they do when they stay
|	And Fidget, and Squirm,
i	And Talk!
. . . The pitiful part of the whole story Is that some fine Mother has probably Lain awake nights, Trying to figure out How she could endow her son with the Elementary principles of Ordinary Gentility.
And when the soij reaches college Where he is supposed to Know Something And to Learn More, He acts like an untamed coyote. And expects everyone to make allowances For his Ignorance.
If he doesn’t like an entertainment, -. He whistles, and howls, and cat-calls— He is Goofing the entertainer then.
If he does like it, _
He does the same thing because
He doesn’t know any better.
It-is too bad he can’t have his face
Altered occasionally
By contact with a Mule’s Heel.	-
That might penetrate.
. . . No, of course, you aren’t like that.
If you were you would be a
Poor Boob also, or as the Classics say, A B.onehead, non compos mentis.
--UNKNOWN ERESHMAN.
Nights of Autumn.
When its night-time in the Autumn, and the harvest moon comes out, '
And the golden mellow piercing rays shed their radiancy about,
I’ve wandered off in wayside hills, where a little river flows
Beside the silvery stacks of wheat; I’ve sought to find repose,
Where twinkling through the purple leaves the pale far stars on high
Kept watch on all my actions as the night passed slowly by.
The little river gurgled and flowed on with delight, And the trailing wind watched over it and kept it in its sight.
For though the day be beautiful and filled with happiness,
Give me the nights of Autumn with their melancholy bliss.	—k. w. K.
Coquette.
Maurice has hair that is black, Eyes that are blue,
She has red cheeks, and lips That smile at you.
Maurice has a habit of rolling
Eyes'that are blue
And of rouging her cheeks and the lips That smile at you.
Maurice has a family flooded
With blood that is blue. But'she smiles at the chauffeur sometimes
And she laughs at you.	—r. e. o’h. .
A Retrospect.
I think I blight have loved you
■- Afterwhile,
Though now our parted ways no speech " Can reconcile.
If I had been more patient.
With your pride, .
You might have grown the world to me
And much bqside.	c
And what I might have been to you
Is likewise hid;—-
I think I might haye loved you
. - / For I did. ' - .	:	—d. H. P.; .


$fie Nocre tameSchokwcicr
149
Hermes Enters the Business World.
BY GERALD J. HAGAN, ’23.
“Phoebe, you and me we done been married an’ we done went on de honeymoon an’ now we ain’ got no money an’ we got to hab some. What we gwine to do?”	'
“Ah dunno, Hermes, Ah dunno. Ah think you-all take care ob de money makin’.”
From these remarks the. state of Hennes’ finances can be judged. After paying his account with the hotel Hermes found the amount of his capital reduced to fifty dollars. This, he reflected, must be invested immediately and at profit if he expected to support himself and his bride in a decent manner. Hermes settled deeper into his chair, lit a cigar and 'began to concentrate on the problem which confronted him. After a few moments of silent meditation Hermes laid down his^cigar^and frowned.	.
_ “Phoebe, Ah done got it. Ah got a plan!” “Ah knowed you-all was bright. Jes’ like Ananias an’ de other college perfessers. Let’s
' heah de plan.” - .	•
“Phoebe, you an’ me, we pow’ful good dancers.”	• •	' -
“Uh-huh.”	-
- “Well, we keep twenty, dollars for pervisions an’ room.”	?
“Uh-huh.”
“An’ we take thirty dollars an’ rent dat hall where de Trocadero Gran’ Theatre was, before dey forgot to pay de war tax, an’ we staht a dancin’ school.”
“Uh-huh.” '
“Well, Ah gwine to see Mister Johnson, which owns de hall to-morrow an’ fix things up. We call de place Mistah Jones’ and Miss
Farnam’s Dancin' School. Dat am a name.” '	.
.‘‘Dat sound pow’ful fine, Hermes; we’s married an’ Ah ain’t Miss Farnam more?’ "
nice
but any
:	“Well, dis is how it am. You am pretty
good lookin’ an’ if de niggahs think you am single all de fellahs come to dance. Ah’s pow’ful smaht appearin’ an’ all de girls fall foah me if dey don’t know Ah’m married.”
“Dat am good figgeratin’, Hermes. Ah . said you-all was pow’ful smaht.”
~ Two weeks later Hermes’ infant enterprise
was in full operation and was proving a success. -The Dancing School was the delight of all the young colored people and the horror of all the clergymen in the city. AH day long the two instructors guided their pupils through the intricacies of every modern dance; and all day long the smiling Hermes gathered in the money. However, his prosperity seemed destined to be short lived, for Mr. Johnson, the owner of the hall, became religiously inclined and notified Hermes that his conscience forbade him to rent his property for so diabolical a purpose and that inside of two weeks the ' Dancing School must be removed.
“Phoebe,” said Hermes on hearing the sad news, “we up agin’ it now. We doin’ good business until ol’ man Johnson get religified.” *
“Uh-huh. You all pow’ful smaht. You do de thinkin’.”
“Yes, Ah’s smaht, but dis am ar hard problem. Moses, Phoebe, Ah things Ah sees a light. . You know Angelina, Mistah Johnson’s daugh- -
“Uh-huh.”
“Well, she like dancin’ an’ she come here ebbery day an’ she pow’ful stuck on me ’cause she don’t know ,Ah’s married. Well, Ah’ll persuade her to elope with me an’ we git married. Then we hab a fight an’ if Ah makes her mad enough, she want a divorce. Then Ah’ll git mah cousin, Proximo, to act like a billionaire an’ visit her at de house. Then de ol’ man , think she hab a chance to marry a billionaire an’ he do anything to get a divorce.” -
“Yes, but you-all married to me. You-all can’t marry nobody else.”
' “No, Ah don’t really marry her. You know Cousin Phosphorus, him dat used to be a actor in de plays at de church?” .
“Uh-huh.”
“Well, in one.ob de plays he was a preacher.
You remembah dat?”	. - '
“Uh-huh.”	.
“Well, dis am de plan. He put on deminustrial uniform an’ when Angelina an’ me elope, he marry us. Then Ah make her madx an’ she want a divorce an’ if Cousin Proximo, play his part, de of man want her to hair a divorce. Then Ah gets firm like asphalt an’ won’t hab no divorce unless he gib us a nine hundred ninety-nine year lease on de haH.”
“Hermes, what am a lease?” . .
“It am a business document which women ~ don’t understand, but as Ah was sayin’ befoah


150
'Sfe Nocre dame $diok»ric
f

r
t
1
&

Ah was interrupted, Ah gets de lease an’ then all the ol’ man Johnsons an’ all the preachers in the world ain’t gwine to bother us.”
“Uh-huh.”	'
The next day Anjelina came, as usual, for her dancing lesson in defiance of a paternal command to ‘ ‘ stay home.” Hermes immediately directed all his energies to winning her affections and, as he had expected, the task was not very difficult. In a few days he had persuaded her to elope with him to Springdale for a wedding on the coming Sunday. Sunday found the saintly Mr. Johnson in church and the plotting Hermes on the train with nis “fiancee.” Hermes had made all the necessary preparations and Cousin Phosphorus was waiting to perform the ceremony on their arrival in Springdale. Hermes hastened to the house of Phosphorus and the wedding was begun.
“Niggah,” growled Phosphorus, “does you-all take dis here woman for your wife until you part?”
“Yep.”	.	-
“All right; you-all is married.”	'
Hermes and his “wife” returned to the station and,took the next train home. For a while they rode"in silence, Hermes wondering how he should proceed to anger his bride and Anjelina contemplating the excitement which ' her sudden marriage would cause. /
“Hennes, is we gwine to take a honeymoon sometime?”
Here was the opening for which Hermes had been waiting and, without looking up, he grumbled, “Aw shet up, cain’t you-all see that Ah’s thinkin’?”	-	-	’
After a few moments of silence her courage revived.	.	_
“Hermes, do Ah come foah mah dancin’ '
■
I I
lesson to-morrow?”
“Holy lub ob Moses, woman! Cain’t you-all keep still a minute? You-all couldn’t learn to dance if you took lessons foah fifty years.”
“kooky here, Hermes, if—”
“Aw shet up; Ah’s thinkin’.” - '	-
“Dat am e—”	_
“Woman, Ah done told you to . shet up.
That evening a large automobile which bore a great resemblance to a limousine rolled. .. luxuriously up tothe home of Mr. Johnson and a colored man of distinguished appearance, . after instructing 'his chauffeur to retum in ~ two hours,: entered the - house. On. being 1 admitted.he handed Mr.; Johnson a cardwhich introduced the visitor as Proximo Brown, vice- T _	president of the Colored People’s Trust-and
ob me. Ah done killed one wife for.disobeying SavingsBankofMobile. ;	' J- 1/
mah edik.”	'	<?. ?	. “MistafiJohnson,” beganProximoihhis
“Hermes.Jones, has you-all been married most, pompousmaimer,“ Ahbelievesy^ birfoah?”?' Sv.--,.. -
Now you-all do what you is told.” .
“Ahain’t scared ob no man, Hennes Jones.”
“Shet up Ah .said. You-all better be scared
“Twice, woman, twice. All de gals fall foah me. You is the third an’ homeliest.”
“Dat am enough. Ah’s gwine to separate.” “You is not. You cain’t. Ah ain’t did nothin.”
“Jes wait an’ see.”
' These amiable remarks concluded the conversation and Hermes remained sullenly silent until he had conducted Anjelina to her home.,
“ Git ’your ol’ divorce^ woman. Ah don’t believe Ah could stand it with -you always jabberin’. Git your ol’ divorce.”
Seven o’clock on Monday morning found Hermes at the Dancing School, relating the story of his initial success. *	•
“Phoebe,” he said, “de first episode am finished. Now Ah’s gwine down to see Proximo about de second episode.”
“Hermes, what am a episode?”
“Aw git. edjicated, woman,” cried Hennes, as he snatched up his hat and hurried out the door. “Ah’s, gwine to see Proximo now.”
Proximo was found in the office of the Cab Company which employed him and he willingly listened to Hermes’ plan.
“Proximo, if Ah promises to make you a real, high-class dancer do you think you would do me a favor?” .	.
“Yes, sah! Betcha!”	.
/‘Well, dis am de plan. You-all take one ob -dem taxis which ain’t yet got de insignium ob . de company an’ you get foah a chauffeur dat little niggah which-you got out ob Jail last week an’ put on youah best clothes an’—”
“Yep, Ah’ll wear mah purple suit.”
“Shet up! You put on youah best clothes an’ go to Mistati: Johnson’s house an’ interduce yourself as de man on dis cahd here an’ den you-all try to win de.afflictions ob Angelina.”
“ Dat ain’t wuk. Dat am fun. Yes sah, Ah’ll
do that.” .	' .	.


/'U.', iRiiiiiS



'5fie Nocre dame Scholastic
“Yep. Him which-works in de government building.”	_
“Yes. Ah’s met him an’ he told me to look "
you-all up. He .said you-all had a pow’ful good-lookin’ daughter which ain’t obverse to marryin’ de right man.”
“Yep,” answered Johnson, reflecting that the troublesome Hermes must be disposed of at all costs, for here was Anjelina’s chance
to many into a wealthy family, “dat am so. he perceived that affairs were in an entirely
Ah’ll call her.”
. Mr. Johnson hurriedly ascended the stairs. “Anjelina,” he called, “where is you?”
. “Here, Paw.”	-
. “Listen, chile,” his voice sank to a whisper;
. “does you-all hate dat pesky Hermes Jones.” “’Deed Ah does; he been—”
“Not so loud, chile. Down stairs am a bil-- lionaire an’ he think probably he like to marry you-all._ Ef you acts nice he marry you an’ -then you an’ yer paw kin hab chicken an’ .. watermelon three times a day an’ yer maw
kin quit washin’. Does you-all think you wants to marry him?”	1
“Guess Ah might as well.”
“All-right, yer paw fix dis Hermes niggah.” < Mr. Johnson left Anjelina with her “mil. lionaire” and departed iiv search of Hermes, whom he found in the Dancing School.
“Hermes, you sinful niggah, you has got to divorce mah daughter.” .	, -
“Uh. Nuffin doin’. Ah hears dat some trillionaire am callin’ on her.”	_
“Nope. No'millionaire. But she don’t like you-all.” .
- “Mistah Johnson, will you-all gib me a contrak in which you-all promises that you ‘ ~ . am gwine to rent me dis hall for nine-hundred ninety-nine years?”
“Ndpe, dat am bribery.”
- “It am not bribery. Anyway Ah expects you means black-mail.”
~ " “Yep. .Dat am it. It am blackmail.”
“Dat make no difference? Does you-all sign?” .
-“Nope. Dancin’ am sinful. Besides we ain’t got no contrak papers.”
> “Ah got de papers. Does you sign if Ah '•? .-/’'does?” -■ - ;	' >:	"
/ -/V “Nope! It am—•” .	x.
' “Mistah Johnson, somethin’ tells me you is-entertainin’ a billionaire at your home. Is ; -ia;,'	■ ■	- _ - - _ -	■. ,
“Nope. But Ah come here to see about de divorce;” .	-	....
“Will you-all sign if Ah gets a divorce?” .
“Ah guess Ah’ll have to. Yep. Ah’ll do.
that.” _	~
Mr.' Johnson signed the contract, received' Hennes’ promise to free Anjelina, and returned gleefully home to tell the glad news to his daughter. As soon as, he entered, however,
different state than was to be expected. Poor Proximo had let slip a -few words about his Cousin Hermes and was vainly trying to explain himself.	.
“For de lub ob Moses, Anjelina,” cried the surprised Mr. Johnson, “dat am no way to treat a billionaire!”	.
“Billionaire? Pis niggah am Hermes Jones’ cousin.”	•	_	.
Amid exclamations of surprise and anger ■ from the elder Johnson the unfortunate suitor was violently escorted to the door.
“Holy Smoke,” wailed Proximo from his uncomfortable position on the hard sidewalk, “dat Hermes got me into a mess ob trouble. Ah gets chased out ob de house an’ Ah gets all shook up an’ Ah gets, mah new purple pants tore. Ah bet dat niggah played a trick on me. Ah’ll fix him! Ah’ll burn de Dancin’ School.”	.
When an alarm was turned in a few hours later from the vicinity of the Dancing School, . Proximo was among the, first spectators on the scene. He had done his work well and Hermes’ . business establishment was doomed. Hermes and Phoebe salt disconsolately on the " curb and watched their hopes buried with the falling waifs.	' <•	'	“7	>
“Ah fooled ol’ man Johnson at first,” mumbled Hermes, “but when I rent de building for nine hundred ninety-mhe years and then there am no building what good am the contract? Phoebe, what we gwine to do?” '
“Ah dunno. You-all pow’ful smaht. You-all -do de figgerin’.”	. \
“Uh-huh. Dat am right? Ah got to do some figgerin’.”	,	~
The flames died down until there was little more than a dull glow. The crowd which had gathered departed and left Hennes, and Phoebe ?' brooding gloomily, over the ruinsipf the once, -prosperous “Mr. Jones and Miss. Farnum’s Dancing School/’ ' .	: A	?
; “Phoebe,” spoke Hennes, “for;.once Ah’s J



152	Nocre dame ©chdasdc
stumped. Mah business am ruined. Ah guess that you-all will have to do some washin’ for a while.”
“Yep. Ah guess so. But not foah long. You-all will Agger out something pretty soon, won’t you?”
“Ah dunno, Phoebe, but jes’ the same, mah figgerin’ was pretty good even if it didn’t work out. Well, lets leave de ruins ob de Dancin’ School an’ may dey rest in peace.”
After Seeing “The Thirteenth Chair.”
BY J. FRANK WALLACE, ’23.
This ride home on the cars is always more tiresome on Saturday night, because of the shoppers. I saw a great number of these fellow passengers of mine at the theatre tonight. I ,will wager that some of them wish it were daylight, as it was certainly a show to frighten . anyone susceptible to nervousness or timidity.
I never had faith in spiritism, and the medium tonight was admittedly faking in most of her work. Nevertheless that was a weird scene in which she really called on her spirit for help! And when the window shade went up, throwing a halo on just the spot in the ceiling where the knife was stuck, well, though a sceptic in regard to such phenomena, I did feel a certain dread.
And when the murderer visioned the body ©this victim walking through the door, and ran across the room to a table, and when the knife fell from the ceiling and stuck in the wood before his very eyes, I almost rose in my seat to protest, “You can’t fight the dead.”
The two girls in front of me were much frightened by the murder in the seance scene. The house was entirely dark at the time, and when a scream rent the silence a sudden terror overcame them and the black-haired girl threw her arms around the other’s neck. Being steady and resolute myself, I pressed a moist little hand in both of mine. I do not know how I came to be out of my own seat at the time. The young lady must have misunderstood my action, for when the lights came on, she gasped: “Oh! didn’t that frighten you just terribly?” I dropped her hand in disgust. But I have never yet seen a pretty girl with brains!
Well, this is my comer. I wonder if aiiyone is going up my way!' It is always rather dark at that alley ^corner. Of course I am not afraid, but that other fellow may want company. He
looks timid. I will just trail along behind him.
Gee! No light in the house. Just that little reflection from the street light on the hall ceiling. I suppose if I looked I should see a knife there, but I won’t look. That would- imply that I have been affected by that darned show. Girls may be, but I will just leave my coat and hat down here and walk right up those stairs and think of—I’ll bet I have a sling shot for those cats tomorrow night—sure they are cats—I won’t look at that ceiling. There is no one else^ in this room, you fool; it is your imagination. But what makes me breathe so? What is the matter with me, anyhow. I seem to feel—if I could just turn! I’m not afraid; but something seems to paralyze me. And I can feel a malignant glare penetrating my very spine—a table—I’ll have to look for that knife!
Ah! Nobody here, no kflife. I knew that that stuff could not bother me. But I am going out of this room and up the steps and to bed. I fought that feeling, didn’t I? Think I shall go canoeing tomorrow afternoon and call up my— if I didn’t know better, I would swear some one was stalking at my heels. Well, I'm nearly half way up these steps, anyhow. It is so dark here and a fellow can’t be sure. I’ll.tum here, quickly, at the landing. But why turn quickly? How do I get that way anyhow? If my girl ever knew that I—there it is again. And I can hear a*sneer. Was that a sni:ff? Oh! It’s all wrong, I know, but I can’t be sure. And that man tonight was stabbed—in the back—in the dark. Yes, there is some one behind me and I x can’t turn. He’s got me'where he wants me! Brace up now old top; there is the door to your room. See! The door—but who is that coming out? Back, help, away — oh, mercy—You can't fight the dead!
Why did I nqt think of praying long ago? I can make it now, I guess; four steps, three, two—	t
It is rather cold tonight—think I shall pull these covers over my head. I bet those girls had a fine time getting to bed tonight. B.ut that stuff doesn’t bother me.
If International Charity is the guiding star of the League of Nations then the League is for some higher world than this, for it is certain that some European countries have not yet been reached by the starlight of international charity. ..
Noure dame Schokreuic
J53
D1SCEQVASISE'\PER-V1CTVRUS VIVE- QUASI-CRAS MORITVHVS
Entered as. Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME. '
VOL. LUX.	NOVEMBER 29. 1919. NO. 10.
Board of Editors.
Francis Farrington. ’20
William C. Havey, ’20 Charles A. Grimes, ’20 Cornelius Palmer, ’20 Thomas H. Beacom, *20 Alfred N. Slaggert, ’21 Arthur B. Hope, ’20 William Robinson, ’20 WalterM. O’Keefe, ’21
Robert E. O’Hara, ’20 Paul Scofield, ’20 Thomas J. Tobin, *20 J. Sinnott Meyers, ’20 Paul R. Conaghan, ’20 Leo L. Ward, ’20 J ENNINGS VuRPILLAT, ’20 M. Joseph Tierney, ’21
Thrift helped to win the x war. Our government, profiting by the experience of the earlier belligerent nations, realized its tremendous importance and made every A Drive for Thrift, effort to have the American people ^economizef Pleas and exhortations to save met with hearty response from the nation as a whole, and especially from college students. Everyone realized that the success of our army on the battlefield was seriously dependent upon the disposition of those at home to conserve. The country did conserve and its efforts were well rewarded. Since the end of the war however, 'the whole nation has plunged headlong into prewar extravagance and wild buying, which has been partly responsible for the present inflation of prices. The high prices have become disastrously oppressive to the great mass of toilers, which fact has contributed more to the economic crises now threatening the stability of industry than most of us understand. Realizing that the welfare of our nation is endangered by the continual soaring of prices and that steps must be taken immediately to check them, the thoughtful advisors of the Treasury Department’s Saving Division have launched a new^drive for thrift. They urge college students especially to refrain from excessive indulgence in luxuries in order to increase the volume of the necessary commodities of life and thereby act as a means
of reducing the expanded credit and bringing about the liquidation of debt. There is no reason why eveiy student should not get behind this drive. As a practical assurance of his cooperation let him draw up a personal budget of his expenditures which will include the buying of Thrift Stamps, War Savings Stamps, and Treasury Saving Certificates, in accordance with his means. Let us show our prompt loyalty to the counsel of the government in this matter, and thus prove ourselves 100% Americans in peace as well as in war.—c. r. p.
Announcement has been made this week that a new publication, sponsored by three upper-classmen, is to be issued at the University.
“The Juggler” will be a Welcome “Juggler”! humorous monthly, the first issue of which will appear before Christmas. The Scholastic heartily welcomes this addition to the jour-
. nalistic activity of Notre Dame. For many years the Scholastic has been the sole periodical of the students and we have been unable to cover the humorous side of student life as intensively as was possible. The filling of this gap is the purpose of “The Juggler.” We extend to him the friendly hand of journalism in wishing him success.—J. s. m.	X
Notre Dame, Indiana* November 25, 1919-Editors of the Scholastic:
I think that the Notre Dame Service Club appreciates the editorial advertisement' given ns in last Saturday’s issue of the Scholastic. We enjoy publicity and hope that you will give us more. It will, ' however, be impossible to alter the stand taken on the subject of the S. A. T. C. The Club has been organized by the men in regular service Tor two purposes: the x, erection of a suitable memorial to the memory;of the dead, and the social alliance of those, who. have come back. The desire to exclude the S. A. T. C. was abso^ lute and unanimous at every meeting called. There is no necessity for entering into thie’ motives which prompted this decision. The members' of’ the local student army corps have an equal right to form a society and exclude us. It might, however, not be amiss to state that, as the chief object of the Club is to commemorate the men who left Notre' Dame to give their lives for country, it has been felt that only those who went out entirely from their civilian.surroundings are entitled to direct the “fitting.,and proper” task which Notre Danie feels.is so necessary.. We have every respect fo^ the “scrubbing, hiking and crabbing” of the S. A. T. C.» butfwe believe’ that reflection will teach them that a soldier had toseek ambition elsewhere.—h. E- d.	’ r- ..
>54
Noure dame Scholastic
The Sorin Smoker.
Personals.

Notre Dame traditions of former years were revived on Sunday evening of November 23rd, when the upperclassmen of the University gathered in the recreation room of Sorin Hall to express grateful appreciation to Coaches Rockne and Dorias and to the football team of 1919. The entertainment took the form of a smoker at which the Varsity “gridders” were guests of honor. Walter O’Keefe was the first on the program with “A Mouthful of Blarney.” Paul- Barry next evoked hearty applause in “Random Ramblings of a Circus Barker.” The Oo-la-la Quartette won more fame by delivering some new songs, among which “My Little Gypsy Sweetheart,” with Ralph Domke, ’22, as soloist, was of a high order. Harry Denny, ’22, accompanied by “Charlie” Davis, ’21, was next on the program in a violin number which bespoke the artist. Harry McCormack, ’21, billed as the “Merry Little Mixing Maid,” kept the house in an uproar with some original parodies and songs. Before introducing the speakers, Thomas Beacom, President of the Senior Class, awarded prizes to the holders of the lucky numbers, which unexpected perform-
ance served to increase the good humor of the
men. The most novel thing in smokers was carriage on Oct. 23 to Miss M. Cruz of that city, introduced by Sinnott Meyers, who conducted * ^r‘ Pe(^ro a^so a graduate of the University
a “bar” and lunch counter, over which refreshments were served. The decorations were in keeping with the rail along the front of the bar. Father Walsh, Vice-President of the University, next entertained the boys with some-amusing anecdotes of Notre Dame football achievements in the past. In introducing Colonel Hoynes, ' Father Walsh said that one of the oldest traditions of Sorin Hall was a love for Colonel Hoynes, .and the wholehearted cheer which greeted the Colonel confirmed his statement. The boys were then, favored by a few remarks from Colonel Hoynes, who spoke on the traditions of Sorin Hall, even to the story of his own “High Hat.” In beautiful language, interspersed with poetic quotations, he exhorted the boys to lay here at Notre Dame the foundation of their future life that they may better extend the fame of their Alma Mater after graduation. Father Marr, Rector of Sorin, next emphasized the fact that all student activities should emanate from . Sorin Hall. That social. gatherings of this nature will be a more common occurance in Sorin Hall is the prediction ot all present. -
—Ed. O’Connor (E. E., ’19) is now associated with the Western Mining Co. of Denver, Colo. .
—Howard Breitung, former student of Notre Dame, is now a student at the United States Military Academy, West Point, N. Y. .
—Frank Fehr, student of the late nineties and former star in football, is now president of the Central Consumers Co., Distillers, Louisville,
—Bert C. Randall, student 1906-07, after ten years on the leading vaudeville circuits, is now associated' with the House of Hubbell, advertising agents of Cleveland.
—A. A. Gloeckner (A. B., ’16) is employed as field engineer for the Morgan Engineering Co. in the construction of a drainage pumping station and sluiceway at Percy, Miss.
—The University has received an announcement of the marriage of Miss Eda Brauer to Mr. James Francis Odem (LL. B., ’16), which took place at Beeville, Texas, on the nineteenth of November. The Scholastic extends its felicitations to Mr. Odem and his bride.
—Dr. Jorge Rodriquez San Pedro (Ph. G., ’16), of Consolation del Sur, Cuba, was united in
of Havana..His many friends join the Scholastic '
in wishing the newly wedded couple hearty congratulations.	- o
—John J. Smith, former student of Cadillac Hall, has been sent on a. special mission to Russia in the interests of ‘ the Intelligence Department. John spent twelve months as Captain in the Infantry with the American forces in Russia and is well informed as to the7 present conditions there.
—The marriage of Walter P. McCourt (LL.B., ’16) to Miss Helen Veronica Shepard, was solemnized recently at Cleveland, Ohio. Mr. and Mrs. McCourt will be “at home” after December 1, at 1369^ Brown St., Akron, Ohio. The Scholastic extends the newly married*. couple hearty congratulations.	1
—Rev. J. Leo Sharp, Our Lady of Solace Church, Chicago; Rev. James Coleman, St. Bonaventure’s Church, Chicago; and Rev, Fr. Griffin, Rector of St. Philip’s High School, Chicago, attended the Michigan Aggies-Notre Dame game Saturday, and renewed acquaint- * ’anceship with their friends of the faculty. -
a
i , - ■	•' ”	"	;	‘ '	-	’ '	.	.
'SfieNocre domeScfaiarcic	155
—Byron Kanaley (A. B., ’04), Harold Fisher .	Local News.	*
i (C. E., ’06) and William Uffandel, former student, were visitors at the University recently in the interests of Old Students’ Hall. The three . Chicago alumni have always maintained the keenest interest in everything that pertains to
. -Notre Dame and their loyalty will always be commended. “Billie” Uffandel was a prominent athlete during his days at Notre Dame and at one time was holder of the national record for the indoor half-mile event.
—In a reception speech recently delivered by ''Maj. Gen. C. R. Edwards, commander of the famous 26th division, before the citizens of Milford, Mass., the following was said of Sergt.
■	Phillip J. Callery, former student of Notre Dame,
.	who was killed in the war: “In the entire
American Army there was no brighter boy, no one more expert with a bayonet, no one more skilled in disarming his opponent, than Phillip J. Callery of your city. He was teaching a young soldier the methods used in ‘lunging’ at a Hun, with orders for his pupil to go at, Callery with all his strength. The pupil obeyed. Callery slipped as he started to jump, and the bayonet plunged into his side. _ At the hospital, ■ with the heart-broken pupil at his side, Callery said to his captain, ‘Don’t blame this lad; no
. other man in the Yankee division could get me.’”
—John C. Shea (LL. M., ’17) is a probable - candidate next year for congressman from the
third Ohio district. The Dayton News says of him:
-	-During the last several weeks the name of Attorney
John C, Shea of. this city has been mentioned in various ’	circles in connection with the congressional nomination
-	on the’ Democratic • Ticket in the third Ohio district
i	next year, This agitation has been inaugurated without
I	the knowledge or sanction of Attorney Shea, who,
!	though he has not said he would refuse the honor
should it'come to him, has not signified his willingness
*	to accept it. He has, however, declared that he will
r	not give his consent to the use of his name, if Congress.	man Guard can be prevailed upon to enter the cam-
~	paign for re-election as his own successor. Despite
.	the fact’ that Attorney Shea has been a staunch sup-
-	porter of Democratic principles,' he has not been
J	especially active in politics for several years, his time
having been fully occupied in tile practice of his
. profession. That he would become a splendid repre-- .	sentative in the lower national legislative body of the
;	people in this district, were he elected, no one familiar
-	. • with his qualifications and personal worth will attempt
to deny. In the event he .finally consents to the use . . - of his name in this connection, he will, it is conceded;
:	: become an important and forceful factor in the race.
/ ......	,	—P. R. CONAGHAN. -
—Lost.—Vol. I. of the works of Francis	\
Thompson (set of 4 vols. de luxe edition).	/
Please return to Rev. C. Hagerty, and receive	.
reward. _	-
. —Coach Rockne, anticipating a dearth of varsity material next year urgently requests -all Freshmen pole-vaulters to report to him on Monday, December 1st, at the ’ Gymnasium -	.
office.	.	.
—Father Gallaghan, Disciplinarian, requests , of all students living in the city that they inform his office or the Students’ Office of their address, as soon as possible, and likewise of any change of address that may be made at	-
any time.	*	.	*
—The University Quartette, accompanied by “Charlie” Davis, were the guests of the Indiana Club ata banquet on the evening of .	:
November 20th where they won the hearty ■ applause of the clubmen by the manner in . which they rendered their latest specialties. President O’Brien expressed the appreciation ; of the club by inviting the boys to be their guests at a dinner-dance on the night of Thanksgiving.
—The newest organization on the campus,	.
the Notre Dame Players’ Club, convened in	'
the'Library last Monday to elect officers and. adopt, a constitution. The meeting, presided .	' T
over by Father Bernard Ill, C. S. C., developed	:
a heated discussion regarding a certain clause x	=
in the constitution relative to the election of officers. With the issue still undecided a motion	>
for adjournment was made, which was carried . X against stormy protest.	s'	-	.
—The Freshmen held their first social meet-	'■
ing in the recreation room of Brownson Hall	-
on Monday evening, November 24th. Three -	, i
hundred underclassmen attended the smoker < and an interesting program of entertainment ~ was offered. Musical selections followed the ~ Li X introductory remarks of President- Castner,	/is
and were well received. Father Gallagan’s * L/X address was followed by a speech by Mr. George ’	. J?- X
Shuster, who praised the men highly for their quick grasp of Notre Dame spirit. The fresh- ' mex expect to contribute materially to the /// social life of the campus this year.	'X..X
—On Thursday evening, November 20th,	~XX
the students from New England gathered in	'Xi/

156	Nocre (borne SdTokwnc
the Badin Hall “Rec” Room for a business session and a smoker. To the men from the land of the Pilgrims the feast of Thanksgiving |	has a special significance and the club has
planned to celebrate the day with fitting dignity. Arrangements have been made for a dinner at the Mishawaka Hotel, and the program of entertainment promises to be as good as the meal. Faculty members who claim New Eng-i	land as their birthplaces will be the guests of
i _	the dub and will deliver the post-prandial
I	remarks.
:	—The Notre Dame Service Club at their
j	meeting on Monday evening, November 24th,
dected officers and ratified a constitution. Harry Denny, ’22, a lieutenant in the 73rd
I	Infantry, was elected president; George Murphy
i	’20, who was stationed at Portland,’Oregon, in
charge of an Aviation Squadron, was chosen vice-president; for the office of reporter-
•	treasurer Mr. George Shuster, *21, who served
j	overseas in the Intelligence Department, was
chosen. William Voss, a former member of the |	coast Artillery with the A. E. F., was elected
;	Sergeant-at-Arms. Father O’Brien outlined
plans for the celebration at St. Mary’s on Sunday, November 30th.	,
'	’	z
. —The Notre Dame chapter of the Friends of Irish Freedom, acting in cooperation with j the American Commission-on Irish Independence, has appointed a committee to raise a quota in the $10,000,000 loan of the Irish Republic. The purpose of the organization ;	is “to aid and support the republic of Irdand
j	in every manner possible ... to assist Ireland
j	in establishing its national industries . . . and
i	to raise and disburse all money needed for the
j	support of the commission.” As assistants to
।	Thomas J. Tobin, chairman of the local council,
j z	John J. Buckley, Alfred N. Slaggert, Walter
Douglas, and Thomas Beacqm. have been named. President Tobin has named as members of the executive committee, John Balfe, |	James Connerton, Leo Ward, W. S. Allen, J.
. Readington, Thomas Waters, Francis S. Far-|	rington, John Cavanaugh, Harry Denny, and
|	James H. Ryan.
—Last week’s meeting of the Agriculture Club was an important one, in which the future farmer learned, from a very interesting talk by Brother Leo, who is prominent in the organization in Indiana, the purposes and the phenomenal progress of the new American Federation of
Farmers. The speaker told the club that there could be no doubt that the American farmer would within the next few months take a leading role in the settlement of the country’s troubles,-because of the swift steps being taken in that direction by this new organization. The election of officers at last week’s meeting resulted in the re-election of Edward'DeCoursey, as president and the election of J. C. Powers as vice-president; J. H. Tuasma as secretary, J. K. Hoyne as treasurer, T. B. Ward as publicity man, and W. W. White as sergeant-at-arms. ‘ ‘ The apples appropriately concluded the pleasant evening for the “Ag” men.
. —Mishawaka lovers of music were afforded an exceptional treat on Tuesday evening, November 25th, when the University Glee Club, under the direction of Professor John Becker, head of the Department of Music, opened the season in the High School Audi- -torium. To the director, the executives, and the personnel of the Glee Club much'credit is due for the quality of this opening performance. The chorus numbers were rendered with a finesse rarely found in amateur organizations, and the specialties were of unusual merit. “The Triumphal March from Aida,” and Elgar’s “The Land of Hope and Glory” were in the more serious vein, and the club gave a rollicking rendition of “Swing Along.” Harry ' Denny’s violin specialty illustrated the musician’s technique and .splendid interpretation. Charlie Davis’ Jazz Band struck a balance by a spirited delivery of popular musical numbers, and Walter O’Keefe gave some Irish songs and stories.	-
—On December 3rd the local council of the. Knights of Columbus will inaugurate the social season at the Oliver Hotel with a. dance for members and candidates. Sixty-five candidates will be initiated in the first degree in the council chambers on December 5th. On Sunday, December 7th, the second and third degrees will be exemplified at Place Hall. Following the initiation will be a banquet at the Oliver, at which Father Thomas Burke, C. S. C., will ( act as toastmaster. Dr. Thomas P. Irving will speak oh “The Knight and Social Catholicism.” The Council will be honored in having as guest Judge James Deery, National President of the A. O. H„ who will address the members on the subject “Ireland, a Nation.” At the regular meeting on Monday, November 24th,

'fefie Noure dame ScholaKcie	157
Father Charles O’Donnell, C. S. C., spoke to the council'on “ Joyce Kilmer,” and his appreciation of the soldier-poet was of great interest to the Knights. With such a program of entertainment, it is evident that the Knights will continue their reputation as the livest organization on the campus.
—From the moment that “Paddy” Granfield introduced ‘Bill’ Hayes as timer and Malachi Gooley as referee until the whistle terminated the last wrestling bout, the Walsh Hall ‘Rec’ room rang with cheers and applause at the annual smoker of the Walsh men last Thursday evening. When the gong clanged at the end of the first three rounds Walter Sheridan was awarded the decision over Martin Sullivan. “Red” McGivney came out the victor in his bout with “Jumbo” Jarrett after three fast periods. Long defeated Thomas C. Mahoney in the next ‘go’, and Charles Smith won the decision over Kuntz. The audience was given an unexpected thrill when “Midget” McNeT, a former Leatherneck, challenged anyone in the house at one hundred and twenty-five pounds. “Bingo” Binyon, heralded as “The Texas Tornado”, staged a whirlwind scrap with the featherweight Marine and was returned the winner. Granfield’s pupils then gave a Pyrotechnic Drill, which was followed by Arthur Garvey in a “Madman’s Monologue.” James -A. Bartlett furnished a few songs which were well received, and these were followed by Harry Moynihan and his man, Friday, in a skit entitled, “On Zee Bee, On Zee Bou, On Zee Boulevard.” James Sergeant appeared in a monologue billed as, “Sargeant’s My Name! U. S. Navy.” Cavanaugh and Abbott appeared in a ukalele and Saxophone specialty which made even the feet of the prefects move in syncopated time. Before the grand finale of the evening Fred Keenan pinned Strunk to the mat for two out of three falls and Hagenbarth duplicated this feat with Charlie Parker as his antagonist. Judging from the applause, first honors must be accorded Dave; Sullivan and Bernard Morgan, who outclassed Ringling clowns in their Blindfold Boxing act. Father Farley, in a short talk, complimented the boys on the excellence and variety of their program, and after refreshments had been served the Walsh Hallers were unanimous in their decision that the evening was by far the most'successful of the year.
—w- m. o’keefe.
Athletic Notes.
' Notre Dame, 33; Purdue, 13.
In her game with Purdue University at Lafayette last Saturday Notre Dame won her eighth consecutive victory of the season in football:* The Gold and Blue stands alone as the one undefeated and untied major football eleven of the country. The triumph over Purdue gave Rockne’s men the undisputed championship of Indiana, and their overwelming score along with the defeat of Ohio by Illinois makes them strong favorites for the Western-championship honors. Indiana’s victory over Syracuse, favorites for the pastern honors, enhanced greatly the record of the Gold and Blue. Excess of confidence and carelessness marked Notre Dame’s playing in the battle for the state title on Stuart Field, and it was late in the second half before Rockne’s men were sufficiently convinced that they were battling a rebuilt Purdue team worthy of their best effort. Scanlon’s men started their offense with a success that fairly dazed the Irish. Critics who have watched the Boilermakers closely for several seasons declared that the offense of the first half had never been equalled by a Gold and Black eleven and that Purdue’s form throughout the game was by far the best of the season. Too much credit cannot be given to the work of Captain Huffine, Church, and . Birk. On the defense Birk seemed to keep the entire left side of the Notre Dame line busy, breaking up play after play for loses by his deadly tackling, and on the offense holding up well his end of the game. Purdue’s fight never ceased, and when the last whistle blew they were still hammering for a touchdown. Their shift’formation of line and backfield was used to great advantage; with it they hammered Notre Dame’s weakened left side for five first downs and the first score early in the first period. The interference developed for the wing attacks was also powerful. Purdue’s excellent band* of one hundred and twenty-five pieces, added much to the delight of the occasion.
Notre Dame’s exhibition was by no means of the quality shown in the other big games, Coach Rockne characterizing it as being on a par with, that in the dash with the Michigan Aggies. 'At no time did the line work with the effective precision it showed in the Army game, nor did the backfield carry the ball in scrimmage with the punch( that beat Nebraska, although Stuart
■ \
158	Hocre dameSchokwcie
Field was in prime condition for the fastest work. Only in the aerial attack did Notre Dame show her proper form. Shortly after Purdue had scored, Kirk replaced Hayes at end and the “aviation circus” was on. Gipp hurled an even score of passes to Kirk, Bergman, and Coughlin, twelve of which were good for a total of 162 yards; only one or two were wild and the others that failed were missed because of the speed at which they were hurled. The Purdue defense, drilled for weeks against the attack, managed to stop but one pass. The Notre Dame passing record at Lafayette will, no doubt, stand for i	some time. In contrast, the . Boilermakers
i	attempted five passes, with two successful for a
1	gain of thirty-five yards. Purdue’s only consist-
I	ent aggressive advance came in the first period
|	and resulted in a touchdown. In this quarter
1	Notre Dame lost by	fumbles two chances to
I	score. Purdue was on	the defensive fully three-
|	quarters of the game,	and the kicking which
;	resulted gave Degree	the edge over Huffine.
I	He punted in three instances, for an average of
forty-one yards; Huffine was forced to kick six I	times, averaging thirty-six yards. The summary
j	figures show for Notre Dame twenty-nine first
I	downs against Purdue’s eight, nearly three times
the yardage from scrimmage—adding the aerial •	gains, about four times as much. Notre Dame
penalties totaled seventy yards while the Boilermakers lost nothing by penalty. The back-field did more than their share of the work in ■	bearing the brunt'of the fierce attack hurled
through our forwards in the early minutes of the 4	game. Slackford’s line-bucks and defensive
J 4	playing were invaluable. Captain Bahan was in
the thick of every play, and with Bergman shared the defensive honors. Bergman speeded around

the wings in easy style despite his ailing knee. The spectators will never forget the line work of Maurice Smith, or how Trafton, as substitute for Madigan, crashed through the- Purdue formations on several occasions, and finally nipped a pass and galloped over several Boilermakers for a marker. Hereupon the line came to its old life; Smith narrrowly missed a chance like Trafton’s, and a few seconds later Hartley Anderson took a forward from Huffine for twenty yards and the fifth touchdown, mowing down, several opponents on the way. To complete the story . of the line, Coughlin mystified the opposition as he tore down the field and grabbed two of the three passes hurled at him and carried them for gains that ~ soon
spelled a touchdown. Miller, Brandyand Shaw each in turn carried on the work when . they were rushed in as relief.
Notre Dame did not show any of the brilliant form which has so consistently carried her through a hard season; still she played the steady, brainy game which of a sudden in the last half accumulated a total of points far 'greater than that effected by the Ohio wreckers against the Boilermakers. Their is little doubt in the minds of the critics who have seen both Ohio State and Notre Dame in action as to which is the better. Every man in the press . box voted the “Fighting Irish” the best seen on Stewart Field this season even though the Hibernians were going at only half speed during the greater part of the contest.
At the opening of the battle, Gipp kicked-off to Quast, who returned the ball ten yards; Wagner made five, and Huffine punted to Notre Dame’s fifteen-yard line. Bergman then took the ball for twenty-three and Slackford for seven-yards. Gipp lost five, and Degree punted forty yards out of bounds. Wagner made five, Madigan was injured and Trafton substituted. Meeker and' Macklin skirted the ends for twenty-five and two first downs; Wagner made twelve, Huffine ten to Notre Dame’s ten-yard line, Wagner got seven more, and a penalty put the ball on the three-yard mark; Purdue in three attempts took it over and kicked goal, making the score: Notre Dame, o; Purdue, 7. On the kick-off Bergman ran back fifteen yards, but fumbled, Purdue recovering. Passes failed, place kick failed, and N. D. had the ball, with forty-five yards to go. Gipp and Kirk did two aerials for twenty yards, Slackford fumbled, and Purdue tried again; Trafton threw Huffine-for a loss, and the Tatter kicked to Bergman. Gipp, Bergman, and Bahan carried the ball twenty yards; Purdue held and Degree kicked, and the ball was dead on Purdue’s seven-yard line The period closed, Notre Dame, o; Purdue 7.
Huffine punted at the start of the next quarter; Gipp and Kirk tried two favorites, with result that the ball was back on Purdue’s seven-line;. Bergman chased around for the score; the kick for goal failed, leaving Notre Dame, 6, and Purdue, 7. After the kick-off to Purdue, Huffine had to punt, the ball going to our forty-seven; Slackford made ten, Coughlin slipped along for twenty-five, with ten to go for a score; Slackford and Bergman each got three yards, but N. D. was penalized fifteen. Gipp, being in a bad .humor, knocked Bergman over with a seven-yard pass, and then heaved one to Kirk behind the goal line, -making the count, Notre Dame, 13, and Purdue, 7. We made the kick-off and three passes to Bergman and Coughlin netted forty yards. Gipp’s drop-kick failed, and Purdue punted out as the half ended. Notre Dame, 13; Purdue, 7-	.
\ Beginning the third period, Coughlin ran the kick-off ten yards, Bergman and Bahan made first downs, and a pass to Eddie Anderson put the ball within scoring -
t
Noure dame Schokwrie	: 159
distance; Notre Dame was fined fifteen yards, but Gipp and Kirk brought the ball right back. Slackford tore through for twelve, and the “Aerial Twins” then forwarded for the third marker. Bahan missed the goal; score 19-7. In conclusion of the quarter, Bergman received the kick-off, ran it back twenty yards, but ^on a fumble lost it to Purdue. Notre Dame held, and Huffine punted over the -goal line. From the twentyyard line Notre Dame failed to gain. _	__
Brandy relieved Bahan at the beginning of the last period. Degree kicked; Purdue in eight successive plays, including one forward pass, rushed the ball to the Irish foot-line, Huffine took it over, but missed the goal; Notre Dame, 19; Purdue, 13. The Irish warmed up. Bahan went back in place of Brandy; behind the wedge formation Miller tore off thirty-five yards from kick-off. Miller made eight yards, Bergman three, Gipp carried it for ten, and then threw the ball into Mitchell’s arms. Huffine made eight, and first down; Church fumbled in shooting a pass; Trafton picked it off and raced for a tally. Bahan registered the goal. Purdue received the. kick-off, and Notre Dame held. Just before the game ended Anderson of Notre Dame crashed through the Purdue line, intercepted a second fumbled pass, and went for the final touchdown,.which raised Notre Dame to 33 points against Purdue’s 13.
Lineup and summary:
NOTRE DAME (33).		PURDUE (13).
Kirk	L. E.	Smith
Coughlin	L. T.	Birk
H. Anderson	l: g.	.	Cooley
Madigan	C.	Mitchell
Smith	R. G.	'	Haigis
Degree	R. T.	Miller
E. Anderson	R. E.	Quast
Bahan	Q. B.	Macklin
Gipp	L. H.	, Meeker
Bergman	R. H.	Wagner
Slackford	F. B.	Huffine
Score by Periods:		
Notre Dame.			...0 13 6 14-33 '
Purdue			...7 0 0	6-13
Touchdowns: Bergman, Kirk; 2.
Anderson, Meeker, Huffine. Goals from touchdowns: Stanwood, Bahan 2, Gipp.
' Yardage Gained: First downs, Notre Dame 29; Purdue 8. Scrimmage gains, Notre Dame, 335 yards; - Purdue, 149 yards. Forward pass gains, Notre Dame, 12 out of 20 for 162 yards; Purdue, 2 out of 5 for 35
• yards. Total yards gained, Notre Dame, 497 yards; Purdue 184 yards. Punts exchanged, Notre Dame, 3 for an average of 41 yards; Purdue 6 for an average of 36 yards. Penalties, Notre Dame 69 yards, Purdue o. Substitutions: Notre Dame—Trafton for Madigan, - Brandy for Bahan, Miller for Slackford Bahan for - Brandy, Shaw for Coughlin. Purdue—Stanwood for Haigis, Church for Macklin, Macklin for Church, Daly for Macklin, Gribsby for Stanwood, Stanwood ; for Mitchell, Church for Daly, Geyer for Cooley. Officials: Referee, Lipski (Chicago); Umpire, St. John (Notre Dame): field judge, Coffin (Cornell): head-linesman, Knight (Michigan). . -
/■ _ Time of Periods: Fifteen minutes each.
1	-	—dg.’ M. STARRETT.
Corby Wins Interhall Title. .
Displaying wonderful defensive and offensive tactics in a battle replete with thrills, Corby Hall - appropriated the title to the Interhall Championship last Sunday by defeating the fast Walsh eleven, 12 to 6. With the ball in their territory during the greater part of the first quarter, the Walsh backs resorted to, a punting game, but foiled by a strong wind, the -their boots fell short, and Corby scored the first marker by a series of straight line-plunges. The goal failed. Buoyed up by their success, Corby continued their scrappy aggression. During the final minutes of the first quarter Walsh held with determination on their own twelveyard, but Desch, the big right half for Corby, circled right and in sensational style registered six more points for his team. The goal failed. Throughout • the remaining quarters, Walsh valiantly stood off the consistent hammering of the down-campus catapults. The injection of “Bill” Hayes, the varsity sprint star, in the second quarter, aided greatly in bolstering up the gritty Walsh defense. During this period Father Farley V men succeeded in eluding the Corby formation long enough to annex six points. Smith, Hayes, and Riley played brilliant football for the Walshmen. Blievernicht, Desch, and Ward starred consistently for the Corbyites.
Trafton, H.
CORBY, 12		_ WALSH, 6. .
Raub -	L. E.	Smith
Conway	L. T.	Hagenbarth*
Ward	L. G.	Giddings
Atkinson	C.	Daley
Martin	R. G.	_	Keenan
Hart	R. T. .	Sargeant
Blievernicht	R. E.	Riley
Sexton x	Q- B.	'	Driscoll
Foley	L. H.	\ Winniger, Hayes
Desch	R. H.	McGuire
Moore	F. B.	McGivney
Touchdowns: Corby—Desch, Blievernicht; Walsh— Smith. Referee: Kiley; Umpire: Coughlin; Headlinesman: McNamara.—a-, n. slaggERT.
*** '
Cross Country.
Coach Rockne’s “harriers” will participate in the State cross country meet which is to be staged at Crawfordsville on the 6th of December. The men who will make the trip are: Captain Meehan, W. Surke, “Hie” Sweeny, Schuler, Culhane, the winner of This year’s local marathon, Bannan, and Shanahan. “Judge” Murphy will accompany the regular .squad as an alternate.	'
—A. N. slaggert,
1
i6o
. I’ll Say So.
' I sure have respect for the “light-fingered” man Who delves, so to speak, in my purse,
I greet with a smile every confidence man
Who sells me the skyline or worse;
I’ve almost a love for a thug—but alas!
Words will not sufficiently <slam
That sneaking, cadaverous, double-faced foe— The man who invented Exam.
The man who with questions digs into my brain . To find if the concrete is deep,
Who will not accept the veneer we call bluff, But under its surface must peep. .
He usually finds what he looks for, but who
Has aught else but curses and damns
For the wily, uncanny, unprincipled foe—
The man who invented Exams?
Have yotrheard the football team eat?
The Story of a Poor Child.
Poor Margaret had no white kitten nor dumbells nor electric heater nor anything, so she couldn’t be a stenographer or soprano because she had no instruments. "She wanted to steal instruments from a band, but when she tip-toed through the long, dark corridor and up the steep unwinding stairs the band was not at home. She shuddered as she stood alone in the band house. Then she thought of becoming a shop-lifter, but one of her brothers had strained his back from lifting a box and she really didn’t think she could be a shop lifter. She went out and wept on the cement walk—they were hard tears, but hardly any one noticed her. Suddenly, like a bolt out of a pig sty, a young man appeared. “You are weeping little one,” he said.
“Ah,” she surmised as the hot tears splashed like broken eggs on the pavement, “this man must be a mind reader.”
. “Have you ever tried putting a key down your
I have heard so often it quiets
back? ” he suggested. 'r all sorrow and stops gout. “Whose key is it?”
she wailed, as she lifted her
watercress face and looked at him like a gold fish.
-As he moved toward her she noticed something familiar in .his face—it was a crooked nose. "Ah,” she moaned, “it has followed its natural bent.” Then she threw her two arms furiously everywhere and'her mind rushed in all directions.
-‘ “What does.it all mean,” spoke a voice out of the darkness. '
There was something that told the maid that the
owner was either-a policeman or a locksmith or an icewagon driver.	.
Her companion hearing the voice of another man fled off across the sand. It was like a sand flea.
She gave a sigh for she knew her sire had come, and as she fled upstairs she stepped on the back of her neck and tripped softly across the room.
- “Were you at the student vaudeville,” she queried, as she dipped her thumb in the lemon cream pie and placed it deliberately in her mouth.	,
"Was I at the vaudeville?” he asked in amazement. "Why, of course.”
“Ah, she said, “your last word describes it admirably.
I might have known you were there.” - * * ♦
~ " A Christmas Thought.
When Santa 'Claus was but a boy
He never had a single toy
And so he was so dogon mad
He pawned the clothes his father had—
Now he gives children toys and “sich” Provided that their dads are rich.
_ No Steam? And Why?
A few days ago it was discovered by a plumber from Chicago that the Badin Hall steam pipes were solid.
Sung by the Choir.
(Wait til1, the Cows come Home.}
I’m afraid when my grades go home . I’m afraid when my grades go home Dad will in his fury rise.
There’ll be wrath in mother’s, eyes, . And they won’-t send me any kale Just because I have chanced to fail— Things are fine to-day, But I cannot say	.
What will happen soon, Some fine afternoon, When those confounded grades reach home.
You Know ’Em.
There are students who are lazy.
There are students who are crazy,
There are students who have neither heart nor soul;
There are students who are shirkers, ’
There are students who are workers, *	.
There are students who are worth their weight - in coal.,	:	”	.
T
the Moure Same Scholastic Advertisements
Yellow Taxi Cab and Transfer Co. Main Office, Cor. Mich; and Colfax Ave.
BELL 514 HOME 5515
CAB AND BAGGAGE SERVICE
One or two passengers, - - -	$1.00
Each additional passenger, - - -	.50
Special trip for Baggage, - - - - $1.00 Each additional Trunk, - - - - .50
Suit Case,......................... .25
The Oliver Hotel
European Plan
BEST IN THE WEST
300 Rooms	Fireproof
THIS HOTEL OPERATES PERFECTLY APPOINTED
CAFES
CIGAR AND NEWS STAND BILLARD HALL
BAKE SHOP BARBER SHOP HAIR DRESSING AND . MANICURING PARLORS
CARS FOR ALL OCCASIONS 7-passenger cars for parties, touring, etc. RATES REASONABLE
SELF SERVICE DINING ROOM (OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
Waiter service after 9 o’clock P. M. if desired.
Auditorium ’ Hotel CHICAGO
CAPT JACK ' 0/ Low Coinportable Col-■ lar ofwide reputation
. OLDEST BRAND M AMERICA fl sown	- __
MAX ADLER CO. SOUTH BEND, IND.
On the comer of Michigan Boulevard and Congress Street, in the theatre and business center.
Special attention shown students and alumni of Notre Dame.
JOHN J. CALVEY, Manager
the Noupe Same Scholastic AiCeptisements
No. 126
The First National Bank . South Bend, Indiana
(Oliver Hotel Building)
Capital, $ 105,000 Surplus and Profit, $ 145,000
• — - - - - —— ■■ ■* Mechanics Tools	Draughtman’s Tools
G. E. Meyer & Son Hardware Merchants 115-117 West Jefferson Boulevard ' -	- (Opposite Postoffice)
Fine Cutlery	South Bbnd, Ind.
A. L. HUBBARD, President.
J. M. STUDEBAKER, JR., Vice-Prest.
C. L. ZIGLER, Cashier.
C. J. WHITMER, Ass’t Cashier.
SAFETY DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT AT REASONABLE PRICES
Wb Issue FOREIGN EXCHANGE at Lowest Market Rates and Lbttbrs of Credit Payable Throughout the World
Try Our Traveler’s Cheques
. The Dome
Official Portrait Photographer
McDonald
2x1 South Main St _ ... _ . T . opp.p»stofHco	South Bend, Ind.
Spalding
Foot Ball Goods
BALLS, GOALS, GUARDS, PADS, SHOES, ETC.
In_addition of course—
Spalding Equipment for every other Athletic Sport
' SESD FOB CATALOGUE	'
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
air STATE STREET, CHICAGO
Ideal LaUndry Company
“Get the Ideal Habit"
Three collections a week at Notre Dame... Leave your packages at the	,
Notre Dame NeWs Stand5	*
Cox Sons & Vining
72 Madison Ave., New York
CAPS AND°G0WNS
Silk. Faculty Gowns and Hoods. Lowest Prices. Best Workmanship.. Gowns for Judiciary, Pulpit and Choir
Schuler, Kllngel & Co. Wholesale Fruit* and Product
Citizens National Bank and Trust Go.
112-14 W. Jefferson Blvd. South Bend, Ind.
t

m

\
' ■. ■ ■ . ,.■ ' \
JlWrp’si (College anb axabemp
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Church '
Academy
College
Gymnasium
NOTRE DAME P. O„ INDIANA
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY
I,
the Notre Same Scholastic Advertisements
1
Recognition by the Indiana State Board of Education
College—Standard; Normal Department—Accredited; Academy . (High School)—Commissioned;
’	. Credits accepted by the leading Universities
An institution where your daughter is assured of all the benefits of an exclusive school, while surrounded with all the comforts and protection of home life. St. Mary’s is devoted to the development of the highest type of womanhood in the girls entrusted to her care.
Many features of this school of high ideals, its broad campus and well equipped commodious, buildings, cannot be touched upon in the* limited space of this announcement. The President, therefore, cordially invites correspondence from parents having daughters to educate, and will take pleasure in mailing an illustrated catalog and descriptive literature. Address the President. -	.
'	ST. MARY’S COLLEGE AND ACADEMY

l
si



»
llnibcrsitp of Jlotrc 0ame
x NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
College of Sris anb letters!.
Departments of Ancient Classics, Modem Literature, History, Political Economy, Sociology, Domestic Commerce, Foreign Commerce, Journalism, Library Science.
College of Science.
Departments of Chemistry, Physics, Biology, Pharmacy, Agriculture. •
College of Srcfjiterture.
Departments of Construction, Design.
College of engineering. ✓
Departments of Civil Engineering, Me- _ chanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Mining Engineering, Industrial'Engineering.

College of Xato.
J
College of Jfine Sttb.,
Departments of Artistic Drawing, Painting, Cartooning, Instrumental Music, Vocal Music.	"
Preparatory &rfjooL
Variant Courses.
&t Ctynarb JiaU.
For Young Boys. .
Notre Dame is recognized by all educators, by die press and by the public as a college whose work is of the same grade as that of the most highly endowed colleges or the best state universities. Its atmosphere is strongly Catholic and no young man who has ever attended the University of. Notre Dame can escape its influence in after life.
i
The discipline is paternal, and aims at giving young men the fullest liberty consistant with earnest study and manly Christian character. Rooms at reasonable rates. Catalogue sent on application.
Address:
THE REGISTRAR
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA