TRY THIS GREAT-TASTING, NEW AND DIFFERENT CIGARETTE TODAY!
K. J. KejnoWs Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.
Today's the day to try this new and different king size cigarette! Ca\alier is a great-lasting cigarette — and the smoke feels good to von, too . . . smoke after smoke!
on draw plenty of fresh, nalnrallv rich ta^le through the cooling extra length of Caxalier s top-crop tobaccos. Sure it s the king size .-moke with the king size taste. The flavor's
all there! And so is tin* pleasure of smooth, easv-going >moke that jeels good Io you. I he smoke feels as good as il tastes! Enjoy new Cavaliers today.
The king size smoke with the king size taste!
• NEVER UNDERESTIMATE THE POWER OF A COED
No, these coeds aren’t on the wei^ht-liftinsj team. The freight car above rolls so easily on Timken® bearings that those gals can actually pull it.
Most freight car axles turn on bearings that are just plain metal shoes. When lubrication fails, as it often does, metal slides against metal causing a hot box—the No. 1 cause of freight train delays.
Timken tapered roller bearings end the hot box problem because they roll the load instead of sliding it. "Roller Freight”—freight cars mounted on roller bearings—is the next great step in railroading. A step that the Timken Company has pioneered to speed the nation’s freight and save America’s railroads an estimated Si90 million a year in operating costs. And a step that’s already under wav as
more and more railroads are making the big switch to "Roller Freight”.
"Roller Freight” is the latest example of how the Timken Company works hand-in-hand with all industry to keep America on the go—by pioneering improvements in machines and machinery that increase speed and precision, decrease wear and maintenance. We’re the world’s largest manufacturer of tapered roller bearings and removable rock bits and a leading producer of fine alloy steel.
Because the best place to keep going—up—is with a company that’s on the go, vou may be interested in what lies ahead at the Timken Company for college graduates. For details, write for our booklet: "This is Timken”. The Timken Roller Bearing Company. Canton 6. Ohio.
Timken bearings keep America on the GO...
and you keep going—up when you go
with the TIMKEN company
March 9, 1956
3

s
I
3
Pay 1-3 August Pay 1-3 September Pay 1-3 October
OPEN A CAMPUS SHOP
JUNIOR EXECUTIVE
CHARGE ACCOUNT
If you haven’t already done so, open a handy Junior Executive Charge Account at the Campus Shop. This offers you a convenient way to build up a good wardrobe without a strain on the budget. Here’s how it works: buy what you need now, pay one-third in August, one-third in September and one-third in October. No carrying charge, of course.
GILBERT'S
Ji
I
i
On the Campus—Notre Dame
$ i
The Scholastic

S'
£
1
EXPERTLY TAILORED


f
BEHIND THE CAMPUS SHOP IS
NEARLY A HALF CENTURY
OF CLOTHING ACHIEVEMENT
Behind whatever you buy at the Campus Shop is nearly a half century of men’s clothing know, how . . . know-how that has given us the reputation for selecting and selling only clothing of individuality and good taste. That is another reason why so many Notre Dame men have been numbered among the thousands of Gilbert customers, long before we were privileged to serve you from the Campus Shop.

^GILBERT'S
I
On the Campus—Notre Dame

&
g r?
March 9, 1956
Here’s the best in filtered smoking—Filter Tip Tareyton, the filter cigarette that gives you true tobacco taste and Activated Charcoal filtration. And Filter Tip Tareyton smokes milder, smokes smoother, draws easier. All the pleasure comes thru... the taste is great!
PRODUCT OF
FILTER TIP
TAREYTON
AMERICA’S LEADING MANUFACTURER OF CIGARETTES ©A. T. CO.
6
The Scholastic
CONVAIR
(SAN DIEGO)
MARCH 20
REPRESENTATIVE
TO INTERVIEW
ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, AERONAUTICAL
ENGINEERS ABOUT TO GRADUATE
At Convair, in beautiful, smog-free San Diego, California, you will find the diversity of challenging, far-reaching projects that offers you the unlimited career opportunity you seek.
This is young country, beautiful, exciting country —the very heart of the busy, vital aircraft and missile industries. And good, young engineers are needed now to grow with new, long-range aircraft and missile programs.	■
You will find the Convair Engineering Department a genuine "engineer’s” engineering department —imaginative, energetic, explorative. You will discover the very latest engineering equipment, excellent working conditions, salary, personal job advantages, and opportunities for continuing education.
Remember these facts about Convair. Convair was awarded the Nation’s first production missile contract and the first production contract for supersonic all-weather interceptors.
Convair has the greatest diversity of aircraft engineering projects in the country, including high performance fighters, heavy bombers, large flying boats, transports, trainers, seaplane fighters, vertical takeoff aircraft and guided missiles.
Convair has a completely integrated electronic development program devoted to advanced development and design on missile guidance, avionic projects, radar systems and special cathode ray tubes.
Note you are invited to ger full information about your career at Convair. Talk it over with our Convair Engineers on your campus soon. GRADUATING CIVIL ENGINEERS interested in the field of aircraft structure are also invited to apply.
Graduate degree candidates in Engineering, Mathematics or Physics are invited to discuss Convair opportunities in the general field of advanced engineering analysis and design.
CONVAIR ENGINEERS WILL INTERVIEW ON YOUR CAMPUS MARCH 20 — Apply for Appointment NOW!
CONVAIR
A Division of General Dynamics Corporation
onnny, smog-free San Diego on the coast of Southern California offers you a way of life judged by most as the Nation’s finest for year-round climate, beauty and indoor-outdoor living. Sailing, fishing, swimming, golf, skiing, mountain and desert resorts, Hollywood and Old Mexico are all within minutes.
March 9, 1956
NORTH AMERICAN HAS BUILT MORE AIRPLANES THAN ANY OTHER COMPANY IN THE WORLD
engineers, scientists, physicists, mathematicians...
CAN YOU THINK
BEYOND MACH 2?
Designing Airborne Vehicles of the Future travelling at speeds so great that thin air becomes a blazing, solid wall... is the challenge that North American offers to aeronautical engineers and to specialists in most other sciences.
Join North American’s engineering operations at Los Angeles. Here’s where the F-100 SUPER
SABRE*—holder of the world’s first supersonic speed record—was designed and built. Share the knowledge and experience that has led to North American’s supersonic supremacy. Be a part of a compact team of top engineers and scientists. Work on the most advanced projects right from the start. Enjoy personal rewards and recognition from challenging assignments.
See your Placement Office for an appointment with the North American Representative, or Write:
Bill Nance, Dept 56C0L, Engineering Personnel Office, North American Aviation, Inc., Los Angeles 45, Calif.
Engineering Ahead for a Better Tomorrow
NORTH AMERICAN AVIATION, INC.
’Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.

clubs j
Should membership restrictions for campus geographical clubs, as imposed by the Student Senate Constitution, be lifted?
A motion supporting the abolition of such requirements was introduced recently on the floor of the Senate, and defeated by a narrow margin. Because this question affects a large segment of the student body, it undoubtedly will be raised at some future meeting and additional consideration should be given to the matter.
Proponents of the motion to abolish include the following points in the statement of their case: 1) Geographical clubs have a campus social function (movies, smokers, etc.) which is an important secondary activity in addition to their home or away-from-campus functions; 2) The present restriction on membership is supposedly aimed at the protection of the smaller clubs; however, these smaller groups don’t want restricted membership, since many would wel-^come “outside” members; 3) Why limit a student’s friendships and contacts merely because of his home town’s geographical location? 4) Enforcement of this restriction, if strictly executed, would be impracticable; 5) The Senate statute, as it now reads, seems inconsistent insofar as geo-i graphical clubs’ campus astivities are limited to members <	only, while vacation dances away from campus are open
i	to all ND students; 6) A large club can offer social func-
(	tions, e.g., smokers and dinners, which are unavailable to
1	the members of smaller clubs; 7) Students living in “iso-
! lated” areas, i.e., where no geographical club exists, should »not be barred from the social contacts derived from club "membership.
Opponents of the proposed Constitutional change argue along these lines: 1) Unrestricted membership would benefit the larger clubs in the long run, due to the increased quantity and quality of activities that would result from additional membership revenue, organization and efficiency; eventually the larger clubs would succeed the smaller ones; 2) Geographical clubs cooperate with regional alumni groups in many activities; such cooperation would be seriously impaired if geographical club officers were not residents of the area, if members were not really interested in the area itself.
0 It’s difficult to visualize the future effect of the proposed abolition if it were passed. Such unrestricted membership could lead to a situation where East would be West, and West would be East—a situation that would destroy the geographical club idea, per se.
On the other hand, a modified proposal might work to the advantage of these clubs. For instance, membership could be “open,” but club charters might stipulate that all club officers must be residents of the area which the group represents. This would eliminate the possibility of a Chicagoan becoming president of the California Club, or vice versa.
We feel that the proposal merits additional consideration on the part of the student body. Alternative solutions to the problem should be weighed carefully before final action is taken.—P. L.
March 9, 1956
issues
It won’t be long before the candidates for office are out pounding on doors. Students studying at their desks will be caught unaware as one, two, three and sometimes four candidates swarm into their rooms with a fairly pat spiel to reel off. As the elections draw nearer the student may be confronted with as many as four or five spiels in one night, and the question will invariably. arise, “Who should I vote for? I don’t know a single one of these guvs personally.”
This is a definite problem in a university the size of Notre Dame. Even the members of the Junior Class, in electing their officers for the coming year, will have a lot of trouble, in spite of the fact that they have been together for three years. How much more confusion will exist in choosing a college senator or the Student Body President?
Much talk is made in civil elections about being a responsible voter—it seems to me that the very same responsibility exists at Notre Dame, but it is taken lightly, to say the least. Voters in civil elections usually don’t know the candidates personally either, but if they are going to vote, they arc expected to acquaint themselves with the issues and what the candidates stand for. All too many of the Notre Dame men, though, just take wild stabs, or vote for friends, or vote for someone who they “heard is a great guy.”
It is true that there has been a real dearth of “issues” at Notre Dame, especially on certain levels. This year, however, with the growth of student government, more and varied stands have been taken on situations that have arisen, factions of a sort have been formed, and “issues” have automatically come alive. It seems to me that there should be little excuse for blind stabbing in the voting boxes on the 26th when there are questions at hand that affect the entire student body—needless to say, the candidates will vary considerably at times in their attitude toward these questions.	•
It is not my purpose here to mention any specific platform of a college senatorial candidate, a class presidential candidate, or a student body presidential candidate, rather I want to list a few questions these men will be voting on for you next year.
Try asking some of the men who come around to your room how they feel about: the student senate taxing you twice a year, with a penalty if you don’t pay; the Senate making capital investments with its funds; the social program; our membership in the National Students Association and the National Federation of Catholic College Students; the Blue Circle, its activities and relationship with the Senate; the role of senators and officers as representatives of the student body; the Student Court and its rulings; the honor system; membership in campus clubs by those living outside the region; more honorary societies at Notre Dame; and so on with anything you are interested in.
Officers at Notre Dame can do a lot to make your life at Notre Dame much, much better if they are the right men. Some of them are called upon to represent you off the campus —take a look at the guy you’re planning to vote for—will he embarrass the University or will he be a leader with sound ideas, willing and able to work to bring them about.— J.A.	■
9
Cover Up
Editor:
Congratulations on Scholastic’s cover of March 2. We think that a cover of this type, depicting a particular event occurring on campus concurrent with the issue, is more appropriate for a student weekly than what has been appearing in the past.
We feel that modem art has its place, all right, but is not nearly as effective on the cover of a magazine, as it is in the art gallery.
We do not wish to tear down your artists’ work, but we would like you to know that not all of us find it so easy to interpret or appreciate.
Wayne Faist
332 Breen-Phillips Bill Reiser
341 Breen-Phillips
Open Letter to Student Body
Editor:
Tomorrow afternoon, we are host to the nation. The Harlem Globetrotters will meet the Toledo Mercuries in a basketball game in our Fieldhouse. This game is being played for the benefit of the U.S. Olympic Fund and will be nationally televised. Notre Dame has been selected as the site for this game because of our reputation for sportsmanship and spirit.
This is quite an honor but it is an important responsibility as well. The camera will be on us often, and even when it is not, we will be heard by millions of viewers. They are going to see great basketball; it is up to us to see that they see, and hear, good sportsmanship.
Our reputation is on the line. The actions and appearance of one man will reflect on all. It is squarely up to each individual to see that nothing happens to damage our reputation for sportsmanship. Crazy antics and sloppy dress will not help it, nor will booing of any kind. To millions of people, we are Notre Dame; let’s see that they get the right impression.
Tom Crehan
Student Body President.
INVENTORY
THE
NEW HOLY WEEK MISSAL
is now available
Notre Dame Bookstore on the campus
Joe Nabicht’s Restaurant
213 N. Main Open Sunday
Our Specialty
"Chicken In the Rough" % Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
01.15
FISH, STEAKS, CHOPS At Prices You Will Appreciate
View	9
Repercussion .................   10
Entree ........................  11
Campus Scene ....................13
At a Glance ...................  17
Basketball Review______________  20
Irish Scene .................    31
Bade Page ...................    42
D*RWTURB0W \OPTOMETRIST
--- OPTICAL REPAIRS -
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces” --- EYES EXAMINED ---
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
1
The Metre Deme
Scholastic
Vol. 97 March 9, 1956 No. 17
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
JOHN ADAMS Editor
PAUL LaFRENIERE
Associate Editor
CHARLES McKENDRICK ....News Editor
ED JOYCE......................Copy	Editor
BOB KAUFMAN___________Production Manager DAVE KUBAL ___________Assistant	News
DAVE THOMPSON_____________Assistant	News
JAMES McDONALD ...........Assistant	News1
JIM STEINTRAGER .......... Assistant	News
JIM O’BRIEN ..............Feature Editor
JOHN GUEGUEN ....Feature Co-ordinator RICHARD NAVIN..................Art	Editor
HARRY CONLON ...........Business Manager NORB RADZIWON ..Circulation Manager JIM FITZGERALD ....Photo Co-ordinator JOE NORTON .............Sports	Editor
JOHN GLAVIN......................Assistant	Sports
RAY LESCHER ..............Assistant Sports
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Frank Biedka, R. Lee Brand, Jim Carroll, George Clements, Thomas Clifton, Andrew Connelly, Jim Dulan, John Hailey, Joe Heimoski, Greg Kilduff, Jim Lenox, Jim Loeffler, Harry McKee, John McMahon, Joe Mo-carski, Dave Noland, Bob Plante, Terry Plunkett, Marsh Pidgeon, Joe Schaefer, Mike Schofield, David Schwartz, Louis Stettler, Bob Vondrasek, Ray Walsh. SPORT STAFF: John Barthel, Andrew Carnazola, Patrick DeFoe, Robert Early, John Grady, Russell Hopkins, James Langford, James Merz, Brian Moran, Robert Parnell, Edward Rohrbach, James Short, Carl Skiff.
BUSINESS STAFF: Loran Sheffer.
a
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Al- I sociated Collegiate Press. Represented for national t advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., ; 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.	•
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the f school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Ad- [ dress all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, r Notre Dame. Indiana.	t
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per year. Single copies 25c.
ON THE COVER: Artist Dick Navin indicates something of the irregularityU j of the Irish basketball team in the
most topsy-turvy season of all time.

10
The Scholastic
7
I
•a little
righteous anger
£m/*m
by William M. Malley
The First Thing
The first thing we have to complain about is that Les Elgart is going to play for the Senior Ball. “You can’t please everyone,” Jim Kramer and committee might say, to which we might answer in the words of J. S. Bach, “If you can’t please everyone, please not the many W but the few who know.” We know. Why weren’t we consulted? Intelligent people go to dances to listen. It is only a retarded, insecure, Arthur Murray complex-type that resorts to ballroom dancing, doubtless the crudest form of selfexpression.
“Be popular, learn to dance,” promise the ads and of the two commands we don’t know which is the more useless. If to be “well liked” is to be appreciated by the majority, then, young man, if you are so you are value-judged by the same standards that acclaim television, Cinema Scope, Gillette Razor Blade programs, baseball, beer, steak, Cadillacs, Chicago Tribune, Dungaree Doll, Bill Haley, Romance, progress, and Eddie Fisher. (Apologia pro “Entree” sua.)
With All the . . .
With all the ado about college humor, or lack of it, doesn’t it seem strange that the teacher is usually considered the object of—not the contributor to— humor? We are of the opinion that there is an amazing amount of talent among the faculty, and lest their wit fall into desuetude, we make bold to print some of the recent guffawables. And if anyone would care to send in such teacher talent we would be glad to laugh. Perhaps this might develop into a workable blackmail system.
Mr. Frank Moran, in Survey of English Literature: “Come, come, gentlemen, now’s your chance to use that book called the dictionary—words arranged in alphabetical order—no need to rely upon the inspiration of the Holy Ghost.”
Father Quinlan, in Sacraments: “The Irish are a dying race because too many girls have to take care of old mothers.”
Dr. Bird, in symbolic logic: “In English the bee buzzes, in Gei-man it summen, but in French it BOURDOON-NENT.”
Mr. Logan, in poetry, when asked what he thought of “Entree:” “I try not to.”
Frank Leahy: “Football builds character.”
Mr. Tom Wageman, in fundamentals of business: “You '-must always buy sheep and sell deer.”
Mr. A. H. Schrynemakers, in psychology: “Everyone is trying to be psychological today, that’s why so many are writing for the SCHOLASTIC.”
Found on the billboard of third floor of O’Shaughnessy at 2:30 p.m.:
GOOD RUNNING CAR FOR SALE
Found at 4:40:
WELL RUNNING CAR FOR SALE
Jo-Jo Bill, vice president of the Senior Class: “I’ll never make another speech.”
We’re still waiting for Prof. Thomas Dettling in physics class.
And in philosophy class:
Student: “Well I think I’m right.” Prof. R. Thomson: “Well I think you’re wrong.”
Student: “Well I think I’m right.”
Mr. Thomson: “Well you are wrong.”
Mr. E. Cronin, in the novel: “Never quote a teacher outside of class.”
Without A Doubt
Without a doubt the most disturbing, insulting, hateful attempts at functional creation are the three triangles cut defyingly in the kitchen door of the Casino Restaurant. Never have holes been so offensive to an artistic sense of proportion, unnaturally and undirectedly pierced in what might be taken for a
dirty gray undershirt. GAD, but they’re unreasonable.
We Suppose Something
We suppose something should be said about the “Repercussion” of last week and its demanding complaint that we humble ourselves, i.e. . . .
The “mob of arms, legs and lungs” which you so described leading a “Ke-fauver for President” banner was led not by Spike Daly in the least, but by our illustrious and clever campaign manager, Sil Resciniti . . . everything led on behalf of Senator Kefauver will be led by Sil. The rest of us shall follow him, and ice’ll be gloriously led to victory in the April Convention.
Sorry, Sil, we hearby acclaim you undisputed leader- of the mob of arms, legs, and lungs.
The Fifth Gripe
The fifth gripe to be taken up is that we are constantly and unfairly criticized in the mail by a Mr. Robert Hect (who thinks he is getting away with something by not signing his name) at Holy Cross University, and Mr. Peat Mooney of John Carroll University. Shame on you two for bringing such discredit to two fine institutions.
In Years Past
In years past when the writers of “The Week” were plagued by the distractions of spring, the diminishment of material for their column, and the insistence of voices crying, “Put my name on your page,” they solved the problem by doing the latter. We will neither break this tradition nor pass up its advantages. Anyone wishing his or her name to appear in “Entree” may have it there by sending it to same, c/o Scholastic ALONG with 25 cents (reading charge). We guarantee that it will appear in a surprising context.
March 9, 1956
11
A Campus-to-Career Case History
On the left, William Nock Colonna, B.S. in Business Administration, Virginia Polytechnic Institute, ’52.
"Sales results...and something more”
Two and a half months after he began training with The Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Company of Maryland. Bill Colonna went into the army, spending a year in Korea.
“While in the service,” Bill says, “I never thought of having to look for another job. I resumed my career in the telephone business as soon as I got back. What’s more, my rate of pay was increased by crediting my time in the army.
“After training, I was promoted to Sales Manager in Salisbury, Md. I’m responsible for initiating, planning and coordinating sales activities in an area serving 50,000 customers in nine counties
Bill Colonna is typical of the many young men who have interesting jobs in the telephone business. Career opportunities of many kinds exist in other Bell Telephone Companies, and in Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and the Sandia Corporation. Your placement officer has more information about these companies.
Bell Telephone System
on the Eastern Shore of Maryland. 1 select and train men for my sales force, and help business office managers with their sales problems.
“Sales and marketing in the telephone business are growing more important every day. We’ve many new and different services to offer people. It’s a job with scope, variety and challenge.
“Arranging for customers’ communications requirements keeps me in touch with all departments of the company. These contacts add valuable experience that will always prove useful. I wanted a career that was broad and full of opportunities, and that’s what I’ve got.”
HiiiiiiiiiiHiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiittiiiiiiiinHiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiitiiuitiiiutiittiitnitiittiiiiitiitittiititiittHiittniiiiiiiiwiiiiniiiiiiiHt niiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii tiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiH tiiiHHiiiiiitiiiii^
The Scholastic
DEBATERS VIE IN NATIONAL TOURNEY HERE
| Top Teams Compete For Bolger Trophy
by DAVE NOLAND
The fourth annual Notre Dame National 'Invitational Debate Tournament gets under way today in the Stu-^dent Center and will continue until tomorrow afternoon’s finals in the Nieuw-land Science Hall.
Twenty-four teams from throughout the nation are battling for the Rev. William A. Bolger rotating trophy.
Topic for this year’s debate is: “Resolved: That the non-agricultural industries of the United States should guarantee then- employees an annual wage.”
O This topic has been picked to be used in all official debates this year because of the recent national controversies on the subject.
! Four rounds today and two Saturday I	morning in the Student Center will de;	termine the four two-man teams to enter
the semi-finals Saturday afternoon. The , semi-finals will be held at 1:30 p.m. in Rooms 123 and 127 of the Nieuwland Science Hall and the finals will take' place at 3:30 p.m. in Room 127. The public is invited to all the rounds.
All teams will have to debate both the affirmative and negative sides of the argument. For example, in one round a team may be defending the topic while in the next, they may be attempting to disprove it. In every round each team member will give a ten minute constructive argument and a five minute rebuttal.
Judges for the rounds will be the team coaches. Teams will advance on a won-lost record. In case of ties the scoring will be broken down into team points.
Along with the trophy the winning team, and the second and third place teams, will receive a Notre Dame and a Tau Kappa Alpha Debate Fraternity plaque. The awards will be made immediately after the finals. Tournament winners in previous years have been Dartmouth College in 1953, United States Military Academy in 1954, and Wilkes College last year.
A Notre Dame plaque will also be presented to the outstanding individual debater of the tournament. In 1954 Don
Dowden of Louisville, Ky., won this award for- Notre Dame. Certificates of excellence will be presented to the next nine debaters.
GLOBETROTTERS TOMORROW
The Harlem Globetrotters will play an exhibition game tomorrow afternoon at 2 p.m. in the Fieldhouse for the benefit of the Olympic fund. Tickets for the nationally televised game will cost students $.25, with the general admission seats selling for $1.
Because of the senior retreat and the various individual hall retreats there will be no social activities scheduled for Saturday night.
This year Notre Dame is being represented by Richard Schiller of Aurora, Ill., and Rick Ninneman of Tomah, Wis.
The Irish record for this year stands at approximately 275 wins and 50 losses. Their two latest wins have been at Mobile, Ala., with 12 wins and no losses, and Boston, Mass., with eight wins and no losses.
Twenty-two of the 23 visiting teams have already been in various tournaments and meets this year where Notre Dame has appeared. Kansas State is the only exception.
FATHER NORTON COMMENDS DEBATERS SCHILLER, NINNEMAN Irish display Mobile, Boston trophies.
As an indication of the caliber of the teams in the tournament, Schiller predicts that half of them will wind up in the National Debate Finals at West
Point. Only the top 36 teams in the nation make it to West Point.
Representatives of several teams will appear on WNDU-TV tonight at 10:15 p.m. The program will be a short, informal discussion of the tournament and its topic.
Teams participating in this year’s tournament are: Alabama State College for Negroes, Augustana, Boston Univer-isty, Bradley, Butler, Case Institute, University of Chicago, Dartmouth, University of Illinois at Chicago, Kansas State, Kentucky, Loyola of Chicago, Millsaps, Notre Dame, Purdue, Spring Hill College, St. Joseph’s of Philadelphia, Pa., St. Mary’s of Winona, Minn., United States Military Academy, United States Naval Academy, Utah, Wilkes, William and Mary, and Wisconsin State.
Working under Prof. Leonard F. Sommer, director of forensics and debate team coach, are: Paul Coffey, tournament chairman; Jack Martzell, reception and registration; John Hirschfeld, tabulation committee; Joe Slade, room reservations; Brendan Fagan, awards committee; and Jack Conroy, timekeeper committee.
March 9, 1956
13
Blue Circle Changes Elections to March 26; Committee Announces Revised Regulations
Annual Retreat Begins ForSeniorsTomorrow
by GEORGE CLEMENTS
At a meeting of the Blue Circle last Monday evening, Vic Clesi, chairman of the Foundation Week Committee, moved that the campus election date be changed from Thursday, March 22 to Monday, March 26. The Blue Circle approved his motion.
Clesi stated that the reason for the change was the fact that the election publicity would conflict with that of the Foundation Committee. Plans for the Week were made approximately six weeks ago and preparations were already underway. Clesi pointed out that the hall presidents would be unable to devote their full time to the Foundation activities, which would greatly hamper the eifectiveness of the Week.
Other Changes
The Student Senate had previously given the Circle the authority to pick any date between March 22 and 26. With this power, the Circle decided to follow Clesi’s recommendation and choose the latest date possible in order to devote more time to the Foundation activities.
i Besides the election date change, several other changes in the operation of the elections have been announced by Dick Lewis, chairman of the Blue Circle elections committee.
Approximately 70 candidates are expected to vie for student body president, class offices, and college senator posts. March 26 has been set as the election date.
Last Sunday afternoon, a special Senate committee on elections, composed of John Gschwind, Bob O’Malley, Bud Toepp, and Lewis met to discuss proposed changes and insert them in the Senate Constitution. Most of the changes had been made by the Senate last fall while the remainder were approved within the past week.
One major change concerns the academic requirement of a candidate for college senator. An average of 80% is now sufficient, a drop from the previous required 85%. Lewis explained that a college senator need not necessarily be an academic leader to be a member of the Senate.
New regulations have been made as to the size of campaign posters and the amount of money allowed to be spent by or on behalf of the candidates. Poster Sizes are not to exceed 11 by 14 inches for one candidate; 13 by 16 inches for two; 15 by 18 inches for three; and 17 by 20 inches for a party of four.
14
Class office candidates are limited to a maximum expenditure of $30 while college senators are allowed $35. Nominees for student body president are alloted a maximum of $50. Parties have been given limits of $40, $50, and $60 for groups of two, three, and four persons, respectively.
The Senate has purchased easel-type bulletin boards that will be set up in the residence halls for the exclusive use of campaign publicity. Emphasis was made that posters should be placed, one per candidate, on these bulletin board areas only.
Lewis also pointed out minor revisions made concerning petitions. The 50 signatures and addresses required for each petition must come from the electorate concerned. Petitions are due by 6 p.m., March 22.
These petitions can he turned in to the Blue Circle elections committee, the senate secretary, or his representative. Order of receipt of the petitions will determine the order of names on the ballot.
Candidates are responsible for their own disciplinary and scholastic eligibility and they will be expected to see that they are qualified although the Circle committee checks on each candidate.
The preferential ballot system is used in the student elections. Chairman Lewis emphasized that marking a two, three, or four in front of another candidate does not in any ■way hurt the first-choice nominee.
Tabulation of Ballots
When the ballots are tabulated, they are first counted as to the number of first place votes. The lowest candidate is then out of the race and his ballots are redistributed to the remaining candidates according to the second place choices. Another recount is made and the student with the lowest number of ballots is declared out of the i-ace. His accumulated ballots are redistributed according to his third place votes. This process continues until one student receives a majority of the ballots.
Students should remember that their first place vote is not taken away from a nominee until he has been declared officially out of the race.
All ballots will be counted in the Student Center by the Blue Circle on the night of elections. Students may watch the tabulating.
The Senior Retreat will begin to- ; morrow morning at 7:15 a.m. in Sacred >; Heart Church. Five conferences have t been scheduled throughout the day at > 9 and 11 a.m., and 2:30 and 5 p.m. with i a final conference at 7:30 p.m.	9 |
The retreat will continue with 7 a.m. ; Mass in Sacred Heart Church on Sun- ; day. Sunday conferences will be held

REV. FERRER SMITH, O.P.
Senior Retreatmaster.
in Washington Hall at 9 and 11:15 a.m. followed by a question period at 2 p.m. £ The retreat will close with a Holy Hour at 4 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church.
The Rev. Ferrer Smith, O.P., from the Dominican House of Studies in Washington, D.C., will preach the retreat to the seniors.
Since his ordination in 1939, Father Smith has engaged in a wide variety of activities from serving as chaplain for a CCC camp to assuming the duties of Regent of Studies in the Dominican Province of St. Joseph.
He received his doctorate in theology in 1944 and is currently on the faculty of two colleges in Washington in addition to being president of the Pontifical Faculty of Theology of the Immaculate Conception. His work also includes membership in the Ford Foundation and lectures and retreats throughout the country.
In deference to the Seniors, all residence halls have arranged to hold their day of recollection on this weekend so that the spirit of the retreat may prevail as much as possible throughout the campus.


a
■
R
The Scholastic

Glee Club Goes Informal for Eastern Trip; Concert Tour of Nine Cities Begins March 27
Blue blazers with gold seals will be sported by 36 members of the Notre Dame Glee Club when they embark on the ’56 tour of the East.
“It’s something we’ve wanted for some time, and so the tie and tails will have to bow out to the informal wear, at least for the last part of the program,” stated Publicity Manager John Goedecke.
The eastern tour will include concerts in nine cities during Easter vacation. The club will leave the campus March 27 and return April 11. The itinerary includes Patchogue, L.I., N. Y., April 1; Perth Amboy, N. J., April 2; Pittsfield, Mass., April 3; Uxbridge, Mass., April
Med Students Speak Before Aesculapians
Two junior medical students from the Stritch School of Medicine of Loyola University of Chicago, spoke last night, at the weekly meeting of the Aesculapians, on the schedule of studies that premeds will face in medical school. After the talk, questions from the audience were answered.
The Aesculapian Club has planned a
party with St. Joseph’s Nurses Home on March 16, from 7:30 to 11:30 p.m. in the Rathskeller of the Student Center. As an innovation, the movie, April in Paris, will be shown. Records and refreshments will be provided after the movie. Admission will be $.35 per person, and only club members will be admitted.
Hypnosis will be the title of the movie shown by the Club at its meeting on April 12. Following the movie there will be an open forum in which the seniors will give their personal experiences and suggestions to the underclassmen, especially those who have registered for a Medical College Admission test. Ways to prepare for these tests and for the personal interviews of medical schools will be stressed.
Another club party is to be held on April 20. The last of the six noted speakers of the year, Dr. Harry M. Weber, M.D., from Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn., will speak to the club on April 26. Club elections are to be held on May 3. The spring banquet is set for May 9.
A new Aesculapian Advisory Program has been set up. The Aesculapians plan to take over the advising of freshman pre-meds. This program has been modeled after the College of Science advisory system, and will go into effect next fall.
4; Holyoke, Mass., April 6; New Rochelle, N. Y., April 7; Wilmington, Del., April 8; Pittsburgh, Pa., April 9; and Youngstown, Ohio, April 10.
The informal wear in place of the characteristic tails stems from something new in the Glee Club’s program. Into their repertoire for the trip, along with Ave Maria, Were You There? and Mozart’s Lacrymosa, will be Gerard Pottebaum, John Goedecke, and James Cremins’ original story of the student’s four years at Notre Dame in song.
This informal addition to the program will spotlight James Cremins as Jud, who wanders through his four years here and finishes with the linking of God, country, and Notre Dame.
A warm-up for audience reaction to the Glee Club’s new look will be staged at a Goshen, Ind., concert and two performances here. The program for these presentations will correspond to the criteria set up for the tour. The concerts will consist of four parts, the first of which climaxes with Robert Ogburn, tenor soloist, singing Danny Boy. The second part brings forth the light simplicity of the Irish folk song and Negro spiritual.
Following the intermission, Hills of
Home and Gnomeureigen, with Rudolph Pruden and Edward Neylon, respective soloists, will make up pai-t three. The fourth and final phase will offer the Glee Club’s new addition of a student’s four years at Notre Dame: studies, extra-curricular" activities, new acquaintances, and dances.
The club, directed by Prof. Daniel Pedtke, ''.rill be featured in an album of sacred music soon to be released by MGM Records. Release of the album entitled: “The Notre Dame Glee Club” is expected to coincide with the eastern tour. Among the selections included are: Ave Maria, Halleluia Chorus from Handel’s Messiah, The Creation, and Were You There?
BRIDGE GAMES
The monthly Master Point duplicate bridge game will be played Sunday at 7 p.m. instead of the usual 2 p.m. Postponement was made necessary by the student retreat. Partners will be furnished for those who are unable to find one. See the game director in Room 4-D at the Student Center.
Last Sunday’s winners, in both directions, were as follows: NorthSouth, Jack Steinthal-Lew Solomon, .577. For East-West, Steve Barrett-Charles Armbruster, .542.
March 9, 1956
15
SENATE PRESIDENT CANDIDATES CONWAY, CUSACK . . .
Four juniors take to soap boxes . . .
Student Body President Nominees Discuss Qualifications as Campus Campaign Opens
mind, the best job I can do in studentp government and for the student body in I general through experience received both 1 in the hall councils and from sitting in I. the Senate where I have expressed my | views on legislation. I know the social I aspect as well, and therefore have a 1 broad viewpoint.” Logan is an NROTC | regular from Dayton, 0., majoring in | general science.
Jerry Murphy, treasurer of the Student Senate, announced he will cam- | paign for the presidency. He is a po- r litical science major from Peoria, Ill. |
From his freshman year, Murphy | served in a variety of campus activities I ranging from freshman hall councilman | to Morrissey Hall senator to Senate treasurer. He was also NSA delegate to [ the National and Regional Conventions.
He is a member of the Academy of Po-^g litical Science and the NROTC unit. 5:
When asked why he decided to run, Murphy replied: “I believe I know student government because of my past ; record in campus activities. At the same time, I realize this is a job of utmost importance. I sincerely believe I can carry it out for my fellow students.”
Four students have announced intentions to run for Student Body president in the March 26 campus elections. The Scholastic interviewed these candidates and asked each to state briefly his reasons for seeking Notre Dame’s highest student government position.
Terry Conway is the first candidate for the nomination. Conway has served on the Hall Council for three years. He was the president of his class as a freshman. At the present he is the president of the Cleveland Club, spiritual commissioner of Sorin Hall, and a member of the Commerce Forum. He is also serving as assistant chairman and promoter of the Bengal Bouts this year.
Conway is a business administration major from Cleveland, 0., and is a member of the Marine Platoon Leaders’ Class.
“I believe that it is the duty of the president to direct the legislative body of student government in a manner to promote sincere representation and cooperation in the Senate,” Conway said. "If I should be given the opportunity to preside over the Senate, I intend to initiate a closer bond between the body and the students that it serves. In devoting my best efforts to this office, I plan to reaffirm a system of leadership which will command both the respect and confidence of a unified student body.”
Dillon Hall Senator, John Cusack, a second candidate, is a political science major and makes his home in River Forest, Ill.
Cusack has been prominent in campus government in his present capacity as senator for Dillon Hall. He is a member
16
of the International Relations Club, the Academy of Political Science, the Knights of Columbus, the Third Order of St. Francis, and is on the dean’s list.
“I know what the students want,” Senator Cusack said in reference to his motives for running, “and I don’t think that they’re getting it. I’d like to try to give it to them. I think I have enough experience in the mechanics of student government, but more important in the job of really representing the students.”
Despite debate concerning his eligibility, Senate Social Commissioner Pat Logan has affirmed his intentions to run. He stated that the presidency is “in my
Philosophy Dept. Announces Dockweiller Essay Contest
The philosophy department announced that again it will sponsor competition for the Dockweiller Medal, awarded each year to the senior in the College of Arts and Letters who submits the best essay on a philosophical subject.
No specifications are given as to the length or the subject of the essay. The essays must be turned in at the department office, Room 327 O’Shaughnessy Hall, not later than April 16.
At a Qlatice
AVON
The Bottom of the Bottle. (Ends Tuesday); A psychological type thing with Van Johnson playing an escaped convict—alcoholic. Joseph Cotten on the other hand plays the mean big brother who has been a big success in life, and has deserted his poor little brother. With Ruth Roman.
Doctor at Sea (Begins Wednesday). ND men who enjoyed Doctor in the House will get a kick out of this sequel. Like it’s predecessor, not much plot, but plenty of zany situations. Dick Bogarde is again the doctor, only this time he has signed on a cargo steamer to avoid an unwanted romance. With French actress, Brigitte Bardot, Brenda De Banzie, and James Robertson Justice.
COLFAX
Court Jester (Ends tomorrow). A-l; Many critics have acclaimed Danny Kaye’s performance in this one as the peak of his career. There was a time when Kaye relied mostly on nonsensical double-talk for his laughs, but in Court Jester he shows he has developed into a top-flight comedian. He is cast opposite British acress Glynis Johns, and is ably supported by Basil Rathbone, Angela Lansbury, and Cecil Parker.
Never Say Goodbye (Begins Sunday) ; A-l. This is a remake of an oldie entitled: This Love of Ours. This time the remake happens to be better than the original. Rock Hudson is billed as the star, following up his successes in Magnificent Obsession and All that Heaven Allows, but it is German-bom Cornell Borchers who does the real acting.
GRANADA
Picnic (Ends Wednesday) B. If anyone has yet to see this one they still have another week. Nominated for six academy awards, with Willaim Holden, Kim Novak, Rosalind Russell and Susan Strasburg.
I’ll Cry Tomorrow (Begins Thursday) A-2. A very controversial picture, with a wide range of comments aimed it around campus by those who “snuck” into Chicago to see it. Susan Hayward has been nominated for an academy award for her cinebiography of former alcoholic Lillian Roth. With Ricard Conte, Eddie Albert and Jo Van Fleet.
PALACE
Invasion of the Body Snatchers (ends next Tuesday). A so called chiller with Kevin McCarthy and Dana Wynter; also Indestructible Man with Lon Chaney.
The Houston Story (Begins Wednesday). Another “expose” gangster film reminiscent, of Miami Story, Inside Detroit, etc. With Gene Barry and Edward Arnold. Also: The Crooked Web, Another second rater saved from oblivion by competent Frank Lovejoy. With Mara Corday for ornamentation.
RIVER PARK
Ma and Pa Kettle at Home (Ends tomorrow); is teamed with Francis Joins the Wacs in a double bill supposed to make you laugh. The only trouble is there have been about two dozen Kettle shows and the same number of Francis films. This stuff gets a little old after a while.
Saskatchewan (Begins Sunday, ends Wednesday). An oldtime tale of the north woods, brought back to thrill (?) audiences once more. With Stewart Granger and Jean Peters. Also: Garden of Evil. A second run Gary Cooper western with Susan Hayward.
Interrupted Melody (Begins next Thursday). Eleanor Parker turns in a fine job in this one as she portrays songstress Marjorie Lawrence. Glenn Ford plays her doctor-husband. Also: The Outcast.
STATE
Tarantula (Ends tomorrow). This weird science-fiction farce has no evil scientist, but rather a kindly old scientist who accidentally causes a Tarantula to grow to the size of a couple of houses. With John Agar, Mara Corday, and Leo O. Carrol. Also: Running Wild; a low-budget film on juvenile delinquency with Mamie Van Doren, William Campbell and Keenan Wynn.
The Spoilers (Sunday through Tuesday). This Rex Beach story is being made a movie for the fifth time and seems destined to be a box-office success for the fifth time. A western set in Alaska it stars Jeff Chandler, Rory Calhoun and Anne Baxter. Also: The Private War of Major Benson, makes this an entertaining and diverse double bill. Charlton Heston handles himself creditably in a humorous role. Julie Adams supplies the love interest, but little Tim Hovey steals the show.
Aida (Next Wednesday and Thursday). This one should attract a large and varied audience. Opera lovers will naturally want to see it and those who have been hearing all about Sophia Loren will now get a chance to see her. Also: The Naked Sea.
—Revietvs by Harry Blanton.
WASHINGTON HALL
King Richard III by the Touring Players, 8:15 p.m. tonight. Tickets for ND students and faculty members are 75c and a dollar.
Wednesday night at 8:15 a concert by the Notre Dame. Symphonette under the direction of Charles Biondo. Admission, free.
WSND
Sunday night, 9:55, Insights into Music. Sunday from 3 to 4, Adventures in Sound. Tuesday at 8:30 it’s Campus Quiz. Monday through Friday, Just Music from 1:30 to 3:30.
STUDENT CENTER
About Face; Sunday March 11; admission free. Shows at 1, 2, 3, 4, 6:30, 7:30, 8:30. A slapstick comedy of Army life with William Tracy and Joe Sawyer in much the same situation as in Yanks Ahoy which appeared in the Center last Sunday.	..
March 9, 1956
17
AB Gallery Displays Chinese Art Works
An exhibit of three dimensional Chi- F nese art from the Leo collection con-tinues on display in the O’Shaughnessy >' Art Gallery until March 20.	|
Among the works being shown is a i . stone Bodhasatlva, a statue of a minor figure in the Buddhist religion. It dates F from a period when a great deal of reli- : gious work was done.	V
Other works in the exhibit are a * horseman, camel and a bronze container F known as a “Chia” vessel.
£
CHINESE BUDDHIST
From another world?

There are two important reasons why the Martin Star is rising...and why your career can rise along with it:
...The finest aircraft plant, engineering, electronic, nuclear physics and research facilities on the eastern seaboard.
...An entirely new management concept in Advanced Design and weapons systems development, embracing creative engineering ranging upward from nuclear powered aircraft to anti-gravity research and tomorrow’s satellite vehicle.
There are exceptional opportunities for dynamic young engineering talent at the Glenn L. Martin Company in Baltimore, Maryland.
See the Martin representative visiting this campus Contact your placement office for appointment and further details.
MARCH 14th
BALTIMORE - MARYLAND
The vessel is very rare and is the
only one in the Loo collection. It stands on three frame-shaped legs and is orna^ men ted with two tongue handles on the rim. The vessel was designed for use in burning incense.	A
Many of the pieces are delicately ; formed daggers and instruments of war. : According to Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., who brought the exhibit to the campus, the workmanship in the display would be considered a feat because I j of its age.	j ;
The metal pieces are covered with a |j greenish-blue coating called patina. It is actually a deposit which forms on 1 certain metals as they age.	I;.
Also on display are several stone and bronze mirrors. Though the reflection p is worn, the backs of the mirrors show distinct carvings.	S
18
The Scholastic

I	Clubs Announce Trips
!	During Coming Week
Two clubs will sponsor field trips next |	Tuesday and Wednesday. The Market-
ing Club will be travelling to Indianapolis while the Commerce Forum will | be going to Chicago.
I A Arriving at Indianapolis next Tues-s w day morning, two professors and 48 members of the Marketing Club will '	spend the	day at the Western Electric
■	Co. plant.	That night they will be given
,	a critique	of marketing by the Larken,
Cadwell, Sidener, Van Ripen Advertising & Research Co. at a dinner- in the Hotel Washington.
Wednesday morning will be spent at ; Eli Lily Co., manufacturer of phar-।	maceutical products.
; The Commerce Forum will spend |	Tuesday morning touring the plant	and
।	offices of Combustion Engineering	Inc.
{	in East Chicago, Ind. There (Mr.	An-
thony Schreiner, a former Commerce Forum member, will serve as host.
After an afternoon tour of a steel mill at Inland Steel Corp., the tour will proceed to Chicago. While there, they will stay at the Sheraton Hotel.
A Wednesday morning the group will watch the opening of the Midwest Stock Exchange and then tour the Armour Meat Packing Plant.
Assistant Dean Edmund A. Smith of the College of Commerce will accompany the 27 members of the Commerce Forum on the trip.
Details of this tour have been handled by Walter Peeney, John O’Drobinak, and Thomas Coleman.
® Schedule April Opening For Stadium Rifle Range
i The University is now in the process of constructing a new rifle range beneath the Stadium with the completion
■ date set for April 1.
The new range is situated towards the South end of the Stadium, occupying what was the interhall equipment room and the President’s room.
A one-fourth inch steel back-plate iP which was obtained by the ROTC units is now installed. Placed at an angle, it will deflect any bullets not stopped by the target traps.
Instead of the system of platforms used at the old range, mats will be used. The floor will be cement, which will cut down on the amount of dust and dirt. Direct lighting will focus on the targets from overhead.
The target arrangement will be entirely different. Pull-type targets will ^be installed which permit changing tar-^gets from the firing points by the use of a chain arrangement. This will speed up the firing.
Sacred Doctrine Teachers To Hold Convention April 2-3
More than 250 members of the Society of Catholic College Teachers of Sacred Doctrine are expected to attend the organization’s second annual meeting here April 2-3, according to Rev. Roland Simonitsch, C.S.C., head of the University’s religion department.
The Most Rev. Leo A. Pursley, apostolic administrator of the Diocese of Fort Wayne, Ind., will address the opening session. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame president, will welcome the delegates, all of whom teach religion in the nation’s Catholic colleges and universities.
General topics to be discussed during the two-day meeting include “The Finality of the College Course in Sacred Doctrine,” “The Responsibility of the Sacred Doctrine Teacher for the Catholic Formation of the Student,” and “The Responsibility for the Catholic Formation of the Student as Applied to the Marriage Course.”
“RICHARD III” TONIGHT
Shakespeare’s tragedy, Richard III, will be presented tonight at 8:15 p.m. in Washington Hall by Touring Players, Inc.
The group, sponsored by the American National Theatre and Academy, includes Margaret and Lisbeth Blake, co-founders of the troupe, and John High,' a familiar face to the audiences of the stage and legitimate theatre. He has appeared with Mary Martin on the Broadway stage in the Lute Song. All of the members of the cast have also appeared on “Omnibus” television program.
Tickets can still be purchased today at the Washington Hall box office from 3:30 to 7:30 p.m. General admission is $1 and $1.50 for the public, and $.75 and $1 for students and faculty.
GOOD DANCBIS
ALWAYS HAVE FUN
And you con be a good dancer overnight Enroll NOW at Arthur Murray’s
• Are you having as much fun as you should? Don't let good times pass you by. Come in to Arthur Murray’s now and learn all the latest steps. Then you’ll agree that good dancers have the most fun. Learning to dance the Arthur Murray Way is so easy, too, thanks to his tested methods. So come in or phone now before the winter season gets under way.
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. Wayne St
CE 2-3339
■■■ ■>.
March 9, 1956
19
Season's Road a Rocky One for the Irish
?
:	This year’s edition of the Fighting
;	Irish basketball team opened on the road
!	in Detroit and suffered a loss to a team
|	which had never beaten them before.
|	The game was perhaps a forecast of
!	the tough season which lay ahead. At
i	any rate, the Irish eagers were to find
i	success a scarce quantity as they pro-
| gressed through the season.
I	On Dec. 1, the Irish made their 1955!	56 debut an inauspicious one as they
dropped a 77-71 decision to Detroit. It
;	was the Silver Anniversary of the Irish-
\	22
by JOHN GLAVIN AND RAY LESCHER
Titan basketball series and a crowd of nearly 8,000 screaming fans in Detroit’s new gym saw their charges win their first game in this 25 game series.
The Irish trailed 48-33 at halftime and slipped to 21 point deficit with about ten minutes left to play. The cold-shooting visitors finally got moving and with two minutes remaining trailed by only six, but this was as close as they could get.
Lloyd Aubrey tallied 22 and Bill Wei-man garnered 16 for the Irish. Bill Ebben led Detroit with 32 points. The Titans hit on almost 45 per cent of their
&
shots while the losers could cash in on I only 27 out of 77.	i
Wisconsin moved into the Fieldhouse : on the 5th to spoil the Jordanmen’s ' home opener, taking away a 70-66 de- j cision.	J
Without Aubrey’s 25 point first half, the Irish might never have come close j to the Badgers. Wisconsin led 14-2 early ‘ in the first half but the big senior center i scored 22 out of the locals first 27 points. Trailing 41-40 at halftime, the Irish j moved to 44-41 lead but at this point g sophomore guard Bob Devine fouled out 4
The Scholastic J
^and Wisconsin took the lead, never to be headed. Aubrey wound up with 35 points, tying the Fieldhouse record. Forward, John McCarthy netted 16 for the losers.
On the Sth, the local hoopsters won their first game of the season as they beat Loyola of Chicago 85-84 in a spine tingling overtime thriller. Jordan’s revamped lineup of Sophomores Ed Gleason, McCarthy, and Devine, along with veterans Bill Weiman and Aubrey could not catch the Ramblers in the first half as they trailed 43-39. In the first five minutes of the second half, the Irish were sparked by Capt. John Fannon who rammed home four quick ones and Notre Dame took the lead. From there on, the lead changed hands numerous times j with neither team having a lead of more • than five points.
Fannon tied the score with 59 seconds left to play in regulation time but Devine’s free throw with one second left went awry.
With 23 seconds remaining in the overtime and Loyola leading 84-83, Weiman dribbled to the left of the lane and let loose with a wide sweeping hook shot which hit and the Irish were home free. Aubrey wound up the night with a 25 point total.
Three days later, Fannon & Co. moved up to Evanston to face the Wildcats of Northwestern. The sluggish type play of both teams gave the 6,000 fans little to cheer about as the Irish moved to a 34-27 halftime lead and then stalled off
The beginning of the best one.
a late Northwestern rally to win 71-61. For the fourth consecutive game, Aubrey, with 26, led the Notre Dame scorers.
Illini Break Record
On Dec. 13, Illinois’ high flying quintet coached by Harry Combes, visited the Fieldhouse and put on one of the most dazzling displays of offense seen in a long while as they broke the Fieldhouse scoring record in defeating the Irish 103-93. The previous high was 99 garnered by Notre Dame against NYU in 1954.
When Harv Schmidt wasn’t jumping, center George BonSalle was hooking or guard Paul Judson was driving. Playmaker Billy Ridley was shackled by Bob Devine from the field as he got only two field goals but his passes continuously caught one of his teammates moving for a score.
The Irish played brilliantly themselves as they fought to a 46-46 tie at halftime. John Smyth broke out of his scoring slump to lead the losers with 22 points. Devine and Gleason scored 17 and 18 points respectively besides sticking with the Illini backcourt aces.
With 15 minutes left to play, the score was tied at 54 all but an Illinois three point play put them ahead to stay. Notre Dame narrowed the score to 95-88 late in the game but that was as close as they could come.
Besides the game, the Irish also lost the services of their captain, John Fan-
Bobby Devine lays one up.
non, who suffered a severe ankle sprain with only three minutes gone in the game. Fannon was out for six games.
On the 16th, Notre Dame visited Minnesota for an engagement with the Gophers, who proved to be poor hosts as they came out on the long end of an 83-75 score. With their shooting eyes back at the Fieldhouse, the Irish tried desperately'to catch the home club after trailing 34-28 at the half.
With two minutes and 37 seconds to go, the visitors came within two points, 75-73, thanks to consecutive baskets by Devine, Aubrey and Weiman. Tucker’s fieldgoal with 30 seconds made it 79-75 for the Gophers and that was the end for Notre Dame.
Aubrey led the scoring with 23, followed by Devine with 16. Dommeyer led the winners with 26.
On the 22nd, Michigan State proved as unhospitable as Minnesota as they nipped the Irish in overtime, 84-78. For the Jordanites, it was just too much McCoy. The big forward threw everything through the nets but the scorer’s table as he came up with 45 points.
Notre Dame trailed 37-34 at the half but took a 7 point lead midway through the second half. It was the Irish though who had to fight back to send the game into overtime. Smyth’s basket with 36 seconds left made the score 76 all as the buzzer sounded. Devine fouled out and Weiman pulled a muscle in his leg early in the extra stanza, and the Irish offense came to a standstill. John McCarthy’s basket was all the visitors had to show for the extra five minutes of play. Devine had 24 and Smyth 19 for the losers.
March 9, 1956
23
Scoring leader Aubrey tries his luck.
Irish Win Sugar Bowl Title
Whatever had stymied the Irish during the early season disappeared somewhere during the Christmas Holidays for the green clad troops from South Bend looked like world beaters in the Sugar Bowl, the 29th and 30th.
No one rated the Irish any higher than fourth in the four team tourney but they were not to be denied as they became the first team to successfully defend their Sugar Bowl crown.
On opening night, Alabama, coached by a former Jordan assistant, Johnny Dee provided the opposition. Except in the early minutes of the game, Notre Dame never trailed. Lloyd Aubrey’s 35 points along with Smyth’s 21, plus some tremendous rebounding, overwhelmed the Crimson Tide. Smyth’s rebounding was the prime factor in keeping starcenter Jerry Harper away from the boards.
Notre Dame moved to a 44-39 halftime edge but Alabama narrowed it to 58-57 before Smyth and Aubrey caught fire and made it 65-57. With two minutes to play, the score was 77-75 as Divine drove in to score. ’Barna came right back to make it 79-77. McCarthy came through with a three point play and moments later teamed up with substitute center Jack Bedan to make the final score read 86-80.
Nobody gave the Irish a chance the following night against the seventh ranked Utah quintet which had defeated Marquette the previous night. Southern basketball followers though, were soon to get a glimpse of the “Fighting Irish” spirit in action.
Notre Dame won 70-65 and the headline over the boxscore of a New Orleans paper the following morning read, “Simply Devine.” The scrappy Irish Soph did everything but make the ball disappear
24
as he netted 21 points besides setting up play after play. Coming into his own and playing his best floor game of the year, Devine, along with Smyth, led the Irish from a 37-32 deficit at halftime to a 61-59 lead with 6:52 remaining in the game.
Credit must also go to Aubrey for his fine defensive job on Utah’s center Art Bunte who fouled out with ten minutes still left in the contest.
For his stellar play on both nights, Smyth was awarded the Most Valuable Player award and placed on the AllTournament team along with Devine and Aubrey.
Aubrey Sets Game Record
On Jan. 4, the elated basketball troops returned to the confines of the Fieldhouse to face an undermanned Butler five. Aubrey set the new Notre Dame single game scoring record as he tallied 43 points in this loosely played contest. The previous record of 35 had been held by Joe Bertrand, Jack Stephens and Aubrey himself. The Irish won 83-69 but everyone seemed more intent on seeing Aubrey set the record than the actual outcome.
The 6-5 senior also set a new field goal mark with 16. He hit eleven for thirteen from the free throw line and 24 of his total came in the second half.
On the 7th, Notre Dame blew a ten point lead with only six and a half minutes left and bowed to DePaul in overtime, 77-74. The Irish were just as cold in the second half as they were hot in the first half. They hit 20 out of 47 in the first but could only make eight out of 36 in the second.
Smyth fouled out with only six minutes gone in the second half and it evidently hurt the rebounding and scoring as he had totalled 16 points up to this point.
Warriors make things tough.
%
Easy does it.
Bill Robinzine, a thorn in the side of the locals all night, sparked the Demons in the last seven minutes as they scored ten points in a row and then took the lead with two minutes remaining. Going into the overtime it was 71-71. only twelve seconds gone, Weiman hit^ on a hook but Robinzine knotted the score again. At this point a disputed tap-in of a missed free throw sent De Paul into a 76-73 lead. Two more free throws iced the game for the Demons who won their first game in the Fieldhouse since 1949.
Ken Jasky led the winners with 25 but Robinzine was right behind with 24. Devine led the locals with 17.
Four days later, Louisville made it(^ two overtime losses in a row for Notre Dame as they dumped the luckless Irish in the Fieldhouse, 80-75. The win was number twelve in 13 games and the seventh loss against five wins for the Jordanmen.
Fannon returned to the lineup and the Irish battled the visitors point for point and rebound for rebound throughout the first half. At one point in the second half the locals looked to be home free as they produced an eight point margin but Louisville put on a last minute rally to send the game into overtime.
Notre Dame controlled • the ball for the final minute but Devine missed with 24 seconds remaining.
In the overtime, Jim Morgan and burly center Charlie Tyra got the winners away with two quick baskets. Devine -and McCarthy evened things up again but that was the best they could do.
The one-two scoring punch of guards . Jim Morgan and Phil Rollins was too much for the Irish to handle. Morgan wound up with 20 points while Rollins f had 17. Tyra scored most of his 21 points in the second half and was in- ?
The Scholastic
Aubrey eases in two more toward the record total.
valuable off the boards. Aubrey netted 21 and Smyth came up with 18. The two overtime losses had demoralized the Irish with the toughest part of the schedule still to come.
On Jan. 16 the Irish dumped Northwestern for the second time this season 86-72 in the fieldhouse for victory No. 6.
Smyth’s 21 points highlighted a ragged and loosely-played first half that saw the Irish emerge with a slim 37-36 lead.
Successive baskets by Devine, Aubrey, and Smyth started the Irish out fast in the second half, but the Wildcats led by the outside shooting of guard Dick Mast and forward Glen Lose tied the score at 56-56 with 11:20 remaining. From here on Aubrey personally saw to it that the Irish would stay on top as he hit for nine straight points without a return from the stunned Wildcats. .
The Irish held their 10-point lead
until the final two minutes when two jump shots by Smyth and a pair of free throws by Devine closed the scoring. Smyth and Aubrey carried the Irish offensive attack with 36 and 22 points respectively.
Indiana’s triple attack of Wally Choice and Archie Dees with 24 points each and Hallie Bryant with 20 proved too much for the Irish to handle as they dropped their eighth game of the year 81-76 at Indiana on Jan. 30.
Smyth’s 15 points in the first half enabled the Irish to stay within reach of the fast-breaking Hoosiers, 37-36. However, two quick baskets by Dees and others by Choice, Bryant, and Ray Ball sent Indiana into a comfortable 11-point lead. The Irish really showed the effects of their semester break by hitting on only 24 of 95 field goal attempts, a cold 25 percent. Smyth led the losing effort with 19 points.
Loyola Finally Does It
On Feb. 4 Loyola proved that persistence pays off by defeating the Irish 71-65 in the Chicago Stadium for their first victory in the 17-game series dating-back to 1914.
The Irish got off to a fast 26-19 lead in the first half, mostly on Devine’s outside sets, and then hung on until a last-second hook by Jim DeWulf tied the score 39-39 at halftime.
Smyth’s jump shots and four free throws kept the Irish even in the early stages of the second half until some phenomenal shooting by center Bob Carpenter and guard Gerry Lyne sparked the Ramblers to a 58-49 lead. The Irish rallied to within three points 62-59, before Carpenter connected on two hooks and a free throw, and Lyne hit on a lay-up and a pair of free throws to kill all Irish hopes. Carpenter led all scorers with 29 points while Smyth led the Irish with 19.
A scrappy Butler five, led by Ted Guzek’s 37 points and John Peterman’s 20, guided the Bulldogs to an upset 81-74 licking over the Irish in the Butler fieldhouse on Feb.-7.
The Irish ran up a quick 21-12 lead only to see Guzek and Peterman pull Butler in front with their drive-ins and set shots, 26-25, a lead which was never relinquished. Butler won the game at the free throw line by cashing in on 29 of 37 attempts. Aubrey and Devine paced the Irish attack with 34 and 16 points, respectively.
Irish Go East
The Irish broke their three-game losing streak by beating Navy at Annapolis 70-63 on the afternoon of Feb. 11.
The Irish jumped into a 4-2 lead within the first minute of play and using
One we didn’t get.
March 9, 1956
25
Smitty battles the lilini.
their height to advantage they were never headed. Capt. Fannon’s four field goals and Smyth’s tip-ins led the Irish to pile up a 38-26 lead at the half.
Aubrey’s 25 points and Smyth's 24 proved the big guns against the Middies, as this pair scored all but six of Notre Dame’s second half points.
Two days later the Irish gave NCAA tourney-bound Holy Cross a rough battle before the Crusaders managed to pull away in the last five minutes to an 84-72 victory in the Boston Garden.
Behind 43-37 at the half, the Irish tied the score at 64-64 behind some hot shooting by Aubrey, Smyth, and Weiman. But five straight Crusader field goals by Joe Liebier, Bill Ryan, Jim Hughes, and two hooks by Tom Heinsohn shot Holy Cross into a commanding 10-point lead. Aubrey led the Irish with 25 points, three more than his rival center, All-American Heinsohn could gather.
The following night a last-second halfcourt shot by forward Gordon Holmes gave Providence a thrilling 85-83 overtime victory over Notre Dame.
The loss was especially heartbreaking for the Irish who fought back from a 16-point deficit in the second half to tie the game at 73-73 in the last 30 seconds on a tip-in by Smyth.
Devine paced the balanced Irish attack with 24 points, followed by Smyth with 20 and Aubrey with 16.
The Irish returned home on Feb. 18 but Purdue wasn’t very obliging and handed Notre Dame their 13th loss, 80-68, as the home fans saw the Boilermakers hit at a torrid .534 clip.
Morelli sparked a brief second-half rally with five quick points to give the Irish a 47-44 lead with 12 minutes remaining. But from here on in the Irish defense collapsed at its seams. The Boilermakers hit for six straight field goals without return and led 59-49 with 7:40
left. Lundy, Sexton, and Thornburg continued to riddle the Irish with easy drive-ins and short pop shots to build up a 21-point lead before they retired.
Some consolation was gained in this loss however as Morelli proved his ability to function in the starting forward slot by leading all scorers with 25 points.
Irish Dump Warriors
The Irish eagers, behind some sensational shooting by Aubrey and play patterns by Weiman, played inspired ball in their final home game and defeated a highly touted Marquette five 88-85 on Feb. 20.
The Irish grabbed a 27-20 lead in the first 11 minutes of play, but the Warriors battled back, led by Terry Rand and Bob Walzack, to take a 46-41 lead at halftime.
Marquette had steam-rocketed to a
74-62 margin with seven minutes remaining when the Irish made their winning move. Two left-handed hooks by Weiman, lay-ups by Smyth and Aubrey, and Fannon’s five free throws cut Marquette’s lead to 78-76 with 3:32 remaining. Smitty’s free throw, followed by a pair by Devine sent the Irish into the lead 79-78 with 2:56 left. Aubrey’s pair of field goals and three free throws by Devine iced a well-deserved victory.
Aubrey’s 36 points led the scoring parade, two more than Marquette’s Rand. Morelli chipped in with 19 points before fouling out late in the fourth quarter.
DePaul’s inspired Blue Demons squeezed out their second victory this season over the Irish 80-74 in the Chicago Stadium on Feb. 25.	.
DePaul broke away on the hooks of center Ken Jasky in the early stages of
the second half only to see the Irish rall^^ again mostly on Fannon’s four jump ; shots to pull within one point 56-55 with > five minutes to play.	r |
However, DePaul found another , [ sparkplug, this time in Ron Sobieszczyk, , whose three field goals sent the Blue Demons into a comfortable seven-point J lead which they held for the remainder ;. of the game. Jasky led all scorers with^ 25 points, while Aubrey’s 18 was high® J for the Irish.	.
The Irish really pulled themselves together as they soundly thrashed Mar- : quette 87-69 for their second victory of the year over the N.I.T.-bound Hilltoppers on Feb. 29.	>
Leading 37-32 at the half, the Irish r quickly boosted this margin on two bas- ’ kets by Devine, and Marquette never came within seven points of the leadf^ -again.	\
Aubrey’s 22 points led the balanced ;> Irish attack followed by Smyth’s 20, De- 1 vine’s 18, and Morelli’s 13. Aubrey’s 22 ’ points enabled him to establish a new all-time Notre Dame single season scoring record of 520, breaking. the old mark of 506 set by Dick Rosenthal in the 1953-54 season.
Bradley brought down the curtain on the worst basketball season in Notre^ Dame history by whipping the Irish® 69-63 in the Peoria fieldhouse on March 3.
The Irish fell behind 37-31 at halftime, and were never able to see daylight again. With 5:54 to play a jump shot by Smyth closed the gap to 56-54, but the Braves stormed right back and opened up a five-point lead on baskets by Chuck Sedgwick and Lee Utt to end any Irish hopes.
Aubrey, as usual, led the Irish scorers^ with 19 points, boosting his all-time Notre Dame scoring record to 539 for one season.
Devins again—sneaking it by.
The Scholastic
&
26
I •
; Qaacfted.
'J
’ John Jordan
j
I Head Coach
s
; COACH JOHNNY JORDAN ... has been basketball !	mentor at Notre Dame for five seasons. In these five years
'	Jordan’s teams have won 80 games while losing:	43 and
twice he has taken the Irish to the semi-finals	of the
‘	N.C.A.A. tournament. He was named Coach	of the
<Year by the New York Basketball Writers Association in 1954.
; Jordan has completed his 17th year of coaching, and it is a tribute to him that this is the first year he has ever had a losing season. Following his graduation from Notre Dame in 1935, Jordan became head coach at Mt. Carmel High School in Chicago. During his tenure there his teams won the Catholic League championship three times and the City Championship twice. Altogether, his junior and ^senior quintets won a combined total of 28 titles during his reign as head coach. In 1951 he accepted the' head basketball coaching position- at Loyola University in Chicago. He was appointed to the coaching reins at Notre Dame in the following year succeeding Ed (Moose) Krause who moved into the position of Athletic Director.
In his first three seasons. Jordan succeeded in bringing Notre Dame basketball back to the lofty position it held previously under the famed George Keogan who coached ^at Notre Dame for twenty years until his death in 1943.
Jordan was captain on Keogan’s 1934-35 team. In his


five year tenure at Notre Dame, Jordan has turned out such brilliant performers as Norbert (Gooch) Lewinski, Leroy Leslie, Dick Rosenthal, Joe Bertrand, Jack Stephens, and Lloyd Aubrey.
In his own playing days Jordan achieved top recognition on the Irish court. He played on the teams of 193334-35 and was captain of the 34-35 team.
doha Castellani
Assistant Coach
JOHN CASTELLANI . . . assisted Coach Jordan again this year working with the individual players, especially the freshman squad. Castellani also handled the scouting, following Notre Dame opponents throughout the country. He rates Tom Heinsohn of Holy Cross as the best all-around ball player he has seen this season.	. ।
John graduated from Notre Dame in 1952 and has done graduate work since then in addition to his coaching duties.	•
March 9, 1956
27
1955-95G
All-Opponent Team
Tom Heinsohn, Holy Cross
All-American Tom Heinsohn of Holy Cross, headed this year’s Irish all-opponent squad which also included Julius McCoy of Michigan State, Paul Judson of Illinois, and Charley Tyra and Phil Rollins from Louisville.
Heinsohn, the sixth leading scorer in the nation with a 26-point average and an almost unanimous choice on every 1956 All-American team, led Holy Cross to an 84-72 victory over the Irish with 22 points. After Notre Dame had fought back to tie the score at 64-64, the 6’ 8” center ended all Irish hope by hooking in three straight field goals to pull the Crusaders into a comfortable lead.
Julius McCoy, Michigan State
McCoy turned in the most brilliant offensive exhibition of the season by scoring 45 points against the Irish in Michigan State’s 84-78 overtime victory. McCoy put on a one-man show with his drive-ins and jump shots from all over
the court. Julius scored 35 points in the regulation time, and then really went on a hot streak as he bagged four field goals in the overtime period.
Paul Judson, Illinois
Judson’s fine defensive floor game and 22 points were a major factor in Illinois’ 103-93 victory over the Irish as the Illini broke the Notre Dame fieldhouse team scoring record. The rangy 6’ 5” hard-driving guard set up play after play, and exhibited an accurate set shot from beyond the key.
Charley Tyra, Louisville
Charley Tyra’s 21 points, 19 coming in a crucial second half, highlighted Louisville’s overtime 80-75 victory over the Irish last Jan. 11. The monstrous 6’ 7” center’s rebounding in the second half showed why he ranks among the top five rebounders in the nation.
Phil Rollins, Louisville
Tyra’s cohort in crime, guard Phil Rollins rounds out this power-packed
TOM HEINSOHN
Holy Cross, All-American
lineup. Rollins played a terrific floor game against the Irish and scored 17 points besides before an injury forced him out of the game early in the second^ half. Opposing coaches have ranked Rollins as one of the quickest and surest back courtmen in the nation.
1955-'56 Notre Dame Basketball Statistics
	Games	FIELD GOALS			Atts.	FREE THROWS		FOULS POINTS			
		Atts.	Scored	Pct.		Scored	Pct.	No.	No.	■'Avg.	
Aubrey			24	466	197	.422	201	145	.721	88	539	22.4	
Smyth			24	419	155	.370	123	78	.634	90	388	16.1	
Devine			24	284	115	.404	121	88	.727	62	318	13.2	
Weiman			24	201	60	.298	72	41	.569	87	161	6.8	-
McCarthy			20	154	48	.311	44	25	.568	32	121	5.0	<
Morelli				  14	115	40	.347	47	29	.617	29	107	7.0	r
Fannon			15	108	34	.314	37	22	.595	48	90	6.0	l'-
Gleason			15	46	14	.304	47	31	.660	17	59	3.9	y '
Ayotte			 16	42	13	.310	17	8	.471	19	34	2.1	LT
Bedan			 8	20	5	.250	9	4	.444	9	14	1.8	F.'
Higgins			 1	0	0	.000	0	0	.000	0	0	0	r
Wittenberg			 1	0	0	.000	0	0.	.000	0	0	0	
Notre Dame Totals			24	1855	681	.367	718	471	.656	481	.J833	76.2	
Opponents’ Totals			24	1649	657	.398	804	539	.670	434	1853	77.2	
28									■The Scholastic		
I *
! Determination and Potential
i As the 1955-’56 basketball season I wcomes to a close and the big seniors are !	retiring from the college game, attention
:	focuses on the freshman ballplayers, the
’	lads who will be up with the varsity next
■	season. This year’s frosh quintet is a
1	big club and they can run on occasion.
|	They play better than average defense
and are progressing very well in the shooting department. In the words of assistant varsity coach John Castellani, ^“With a little more determination and hustle they could have been ranked with the best teams of the past. Lack of ' overall finesse prevented them from being ranked with last year’s squad.”
Tough Under the Boards
Rebounding was the highlight of the season. Tom Hawkins uses his six feet six inches to great advantage under the boards. He has powerful legs and tre-^jmendous spring which helps him rebound " against much taller boys.
Another big man under the boards is six-foot five-inch Tom Reinhart. He works for a good position and usually outmaneuvers the opponents in going after the rebound.
The third stalwart under the hoop is Mike Ireland. He stands six feet seven inches and jumps well for his height. Among the three of them they build a
REINHART, IRELAND, DUFFY, HAWKINS, AND OWINGS Anxious yearlings await November.
by BOB EARLY
strong rebounding front wall.
The guards are somewhat smaller but make up for it with speed, dribbling accuracy, and ball handling skill. They direct the offense, setting up the plays and feeding the big boys.
Individually, Gene Duffy is at one guard. At five feet seven inches he is the smallest scholarship basketball player in the history of the sport at Notre Dame. In high school the little southpaw acquired great prominence as an all-around athlete at Saint Ambrose Academy in Davenport, Iowa. He is considered an excellent basketball prospect and was a standout quarterback.
His shooting could be classified as good to better with great improvement coming in the final weeks of the season. His best shot is a set from outside. He drives very well with either hand, but being a lefty, is exceptionally dangerous from the southpaw side.
He has quick speed, alert reflexes, and is probably the best ball handler on the squad. He is sound in fundamentals and functions as the playmaker of the squad.
He attended the same high school as Bill Weiman, another versatile Irish guard.
At the other guard Coach Castellani
has six-foot three-inch Jerry Owings. Jerry has been switched to the guard slot from a forward position and has improved steadily in his new assignment. He also is a better than average shooter. In the words of Castellani, “He has improved greatly and given speed and determination could be a strong contender next season.”
The jump shot he uses is probably the best on the squad and although his left hand is a little weak, he can be depended upon to fulfill his share of the scoring. Defensively he is better than average.
Jerry is from Richmond, Va., where he played for Benedictine High School.
Hawkins, Most Versatile
At right forward is Hawkins, the AllArea athlete from Parker High School in Chicago. He has a good jump shot which was very much improved late in the season. He can drive from the left or right with equal versatility and effectiveness. He can also be. a threat from the outside with a deadly one-handed push shot. Right now he is the most likely replacement for graduating captain John Fannon.
His speed and reflexes are very good and his defense is probably the best on the team. His great spring gives him an uncanny ability to knock shots right out of the air.
Backing up the Irish at the other forward is Reinhart. Tom has quick speed and drives well to the right. The right handed jump shot is probably his most potent offensive weapon. This jump shot has improved constantly throughout the year.
Defense is probably his major asset.
Tom went to high school in Minneapolis, Minn., where he played basketball under his father at De La Salle High School.
The big man in the pivot is six-foot seven-inch Mike Ireland. He is the son of Loyola University basketball coach and former great at Notre Dame, George Ireland. He was elected to the AllCatholic Area All-Star team in Chicago while playing for Saint George.
Big Mike relies mainly on effective right and left hand hook shots. He also sets a good post in the middle working the handoffs with reliable efficiency.
Lacking some of the grace of the smaller boys, he makes up for it with spirit, hustling all the time. He has a good attitude and is probably the hardest worker on the team.
March 9, 1956
29
Rec&p,
. Consistently Inconsistent^
“Consistently inconsistent” is perhaps the best description of the 1955-56 Notre Dame basketball team. Charlie Callahan coined the term in one of his mid-season publicity releases on the eagers and as the season progressed, the team made it sound more true with each game they played.
On the credit side, Coach Johnny Jordan’s boys won the Sugar Bowl title for the second successive year and defeated two nationally ranked teams in the process. They knocked off another highly rated quintet in Marquette’s Warriors in the last home game of the season and to prove it wasn’t an accident, they followed the Warriors to Milwaukee and ran over them again.
Records Fall to Aubrey
Besides that, Centex- Lloyd Aubrey led the team in scoring and broke both the single game and season total records and set a new average of 22.4 points pei- game.
None of this sounds indicative of a team which just finished the worst season in Notre Dame history, but when all the totals were in, the Irish had only managed to win nine out of 24 contests. The 15 losses went into the books as the poorest record of all time, edging the 14 defeats suffered by the 1920-21 team.
It is small consolation to note that the great majority of the games were very close. Five of the 24 contests went into overtime periods. But the Irish had little, luck with extra time as they dropped four of the five.
Even the usual cinch victories of past years jumped out of the bag this season. Detroit won its first game in 25 years against the Irish and Loyola jumped on the bandwagon to notch theix- first victory since the series began in 1914. DePaul managed to dump the Irish twice in one season, a feat they had been unable to accomplish in many years of competition.
For a team that had. four out of five starters, returning from the previous year this kind of a season was unusual, to say the least. The one factox- that possibly throws some light on the picture is that the one regulax- who graduated from last year’s squad was Jack Stephens.
Stephens wasn’t a one-man ball club by any means but he always could be counted on to pick up the slack in a faltering Notre Dame game. He was
the scoring leader and playmaker- of last season’s squad, and when he left, a big hole remained to be filled.
It would be nonsense to think that the loss of Stephens doomed the team to failure; the case was fax- from it, as evidenced by the several brilliant pex-fonn-ances the team turned in against Illinois, ixx the Sugax- Bowl Tournament, etc. But it was evident throughout the season that the team suffered greatly from not having a teanx leadex- of Stephens’ ability.
Lloyd Aubrey broke three scoring records and was consistent in his offensive game fox- the majority of the contests. Bill Weiman showed signs of greatness on particular nights as he handled the ball like a magician. John Smyth threw his burly shoulders aftex- every rebound he could see, leaving no doubt that he is one of the toughest rebounders in the college game. Bob Devine played admirably for his first year of competition and at times gave the team the spark it needed. The fifth spot on' the team caused considerable weakness after Captain John Fannon sprained his ankle and season-long experimenting failed to come up with a solid replacement. Fannon’s failure to retux-n to form aftex- his ankle healed added to Coach Jordan’s woes. ’
Team Leader Lacking
But in spite of the many brilliant individual performances, the team could not put together a good season. Having the benefit of hindsight, it seems to me that this lack of a team leader might have been the reason for that inconsistency. The most evident failing of the team throughout the season was that they were not consciously playing together. However, the ability to do this isn’t something that can be achieved easily.
Last year, and the two years before, it was Stephens who directed this intangible into reality. This year Notre Dame had no one to do it. The patterned offense used by the Irish worked well enough when the openings were there, and it worked well enough when one of the individual ball players was hot enough to make his own openings. But there was no one to make them for the team when they weren’t so easy to find.
The inability to play together as a well-functioning unit was the biggest
cause of those 15 losses on the Irish rec-' ord. The few good games in which ’ they did play togethex- supports this fact because it was a type of play they couldn’t retain. And they couldn’t retain it because they lacked a teanx floox- gen- .-eral to direct it.
If the Irish had beexx able to find -themselves and stay there, things might have been different. The best game -, they played at home was in DecembexW . against Illinois. It was also one of the : best games played by Illinois all year. ' The Illini hit on an amazing percentage of theix- shots but Notre Dame stayed in the game until the very end. And Illinois, despite the late seasoix foldup, was one of the top teams in the country this season.
Not Really the Worst
So it looks like the Irish didn’t have’ the worst team in history; the poorest record maybe, but not the worst team. As individual ball players the Notre Dame eagers were definitely up to pax-with their opponents. If this were not the case, Aubrey would hardly have been able to score 539 points in a season and Notre Dame wouldn’t have three players averaging over 13 points a game.
The prospects fox- next season are< puzzling. Big juniox- fonvard John Smyth will captain the team and he well desexwes to. And sophomore Bob Devine will be back to hold down a guard spot. Aubrey, Fannon, and Weiman will graduate from this year’s original starting five.
Junior Joe Morelli showed flashes of ability in the last few games of the sea- . son. Morelli can play guard ox- fox-ward so he has a good chance to become a	;
starter. Two more juniors, Jack Bedan,	I
a center, and Lee Ayotte, a forward, saw about the same amount of action as f Gleason and McCarthy but likewise, i-their play wasn’t impressive. Sopho- ;; mores John McCarthy and Ed Gleason, g foiward and guard, respectively, showed £ up pretty well in the early part of the i season but, like the team, were incon- k sistent.	r
So it looks as if Coach Jordan will S have to do quite a job of rebuilding next V season. Not only will he have to replace ’
his top scorer and a valuable playmaker, £ but he will have to develop a floor general if Notre Dame is to do better than
nine and fifteen.—Joe Norton.

30
The Scholastic
I f
I e
;	Uliik Sum
I	—
SQUIRES AND LEWIS SHOULDER RELAY HOPES
S	JOHN SMYTH
Takes over the captaincy.
Name Smyth Captain For '56-'57 Campaign
John Smyth, veteran Irish forward for the past two years will captain the 1956-1957 edition of the Notre Dame basketball team. The announcement ^came last night at the annual Basketball Banquet sponsored by the Villagers Club.
The burly 6-5 Junior ranked second to Lloyd Aubrey in the scoring column this year. His 390 points were good enough for a 16.3 average. In his Sophomore year, he tallied 314 points for a 13.1 average, third highest average on the club.
All of Smyth’s value cannot be tabulated in the scoring column. As many an opposing player will tell you, there W isn’t any tougher player in the country off the boards.
A good indication of Smyth’s ’55-’56 season was his selection as The Most Valuable Player in the Sugar Bowl Tournament. He rebounded, scored and rebounded again as he had Southern basketball followers holding onto their collective seats. Centers Jerry Harper of Alabama and Art Bunte of Utah expressed their relief after the two-night tourney that they had seen the last £ of “Smitty.”
John hails from Chicago, HL, where he played his high school ball at DePaul Academy.
Thinclads Run to Third Straight CCC Crown; Ten Will Enter Marquette Relays Tomorrow
The Notre Dame track team, fresh from an impressive victory in the Central Collegiate indoor track meet last Saturday, will travel to Milwaukee tomorrow for the Milwaukee Relays. Coach Alex Wilson’s squad -will participate in three events: the one mile relay, the two mile relay, and the high jump.
Running in the one mile relay for the Irish will be Bill Keegan, Joe Foreman, Aubrey Lewis, and Bill Squires with Alex Pestrichella and Bill Copeland as spares. Running in the two mile relay will be Squires, Al Porter, Dale Vanden-burg, and Dick DiCamillo with Bill Newell, Pete Maroney and John Linehan as spares. Bernie Allard and Tom San-facon will compete in the high jump.
In last Saturday’s meet Squires broke the CCC mile record with a 4:14.9 clocking as Notre Dame ran away with the team championship in the conference’s 29th indoor track meet at Michigan Normal College.
The Irish totaled 72 points to van their third straight CCC crown and the fourth in six seasons under Coach Wilson. Western Michigan and Marquette tied for second with 28% points.
Notre Dame’s Bernie Allard was the only double winner, taking the high jump with a leap of 6 feet 6% inches
BYRON BEAMS
Top Irish weight man.
and the 6-5-yard high hurdles in 8.1 seconds. Jack Cote won the broad jump with a leap of 22 feet 2% inches.
Speedy Aubrey Lewis was the 60-yard dash winner in 6.1 seconds, the fastest time ever posted by an Irish runner.
Dick DiCamillo set a new Michigan Normal fieldhouse record in the two mile run, breaking the tape in 9:30.2. The Irish relay team of Keegan, Foreman, Porter, and Squires also set a new fieldhouse record by winning the mile relay in 3:24.1.
Big Byron Beams captured the shot put with a heave of 51 feet 9% inches. Frank Kauffman and Ben Zajeski finished third and fourth respectively. Joe Foreman won the 440-yard dash with Bill Keegan finishing second.
Sorin Romps to Hall Track Win Beating Cavanaugh, Dillon, B-P
Sorin Hall romped to the Interhall Track Championship, Tuesday, Feb. 28, scoring 32% points to 26 for second place Cavanaugh. Breen-Phillips took third with 20 points.
In the 60-yard dash, Pete Keyes of Sorin broke the tape at 6.7, followed by Cavanaugh’s Chip Jost. Cavanaugh then counted with a first place finish in the 60-yard hurdles, as Ron Parker finished the event in -7.2 with Steve Dornback of Breen-Phillips placing-second.
Freshman Bob Hassenger also of Breen-Phillips led the pack in the 440, rounding the cinders in 55 seconds.
In the 880-yard run, Bob House of Badin, currently battling for a starting berth on the varsity was clocked in 2:04 while out-running eleven participants. In the 880-yard relay, Cavanaugh gained another- first on a time of 1:40.
Al Zurewich representing the Off-campus entry high jumped 5’ 9" to gain first place honors. Dillon’s Sam Rizzo won the shot put with a heave of 40 feet, 4 inches.
John Henderson’s broad jump of 18'8" gave Alumni its only score for the evening. In the pole vault event, John McDonnell cleared the bar at 9' 6", scoring a first for Sorin and virtually clinching the meet.
March 9, 1956
31
Swimming Club Ends Season at Naperville
Tomorrow afternoon the Notre Dame Swimming Club will conclude their first season of intercollegiate competition. Coach Burdick’s finmen will compete in the Seventh Annual Midwest Invitational Swimming Meet to be held at Naperville, Ill. Fifteen schools, representing the top swimming clubs in the Midwest, will be on hand. Among these are: North Central College (host team), Loyola, University of Chicago, Beloit, Knox, Grinell, and Illinois Tech. Those making the trip for the Irish will be Paul Kerwin, Mike Regan, Dick Nagle, Mike Connelly, Thomas Londrigan, Jim Swaim, Bill Scanlon, Jack Moynahan, Richard Katis, George May, Ed Healy, Dick Breuner, George Handley, Bill Holland, and Jim Hilliard.
Last Saturday, the Irish lost their second meet of the season to a strong Miami of Ohio team. However, the afternoon was not a complete failure for Notre Dame as they were able to beat Xavier in the triple meet. Final scores for the day were Miami 47, Notre Dame 30, and Xavier 17.
Paul Kerwin was the only individual winner for the Irish as he established a new Notre Dame 50-yard free style record. Also taking a first place for the Irish was the relay team which has been undefeated in seven meets. Mike Connelly and Jim Swaim were able to take second and third, respectively, in the 440-yard free style. The Irish lost two other first places by disqualification.
Notre Dame’s record to date shows
FATHER PELTON, COACH BURDICK, AND THE TEAM
Swimmers travel to Invitational.
five wins and two losses, the only other loss being at the hands of Loyola earlier in the season.
A tentative date of March 21 has been set for the Annual Interhall Swim Meet. The meet will be open to all halls on campus which are able to compose a team. A total of 39 medals will be awarded to individual standouts. No member of the Notre Dame Swimming Club is eligible to compete.
Volleyball Title Captured By Undefeated Badinites
Badin Hall, under the student direction of Ed Likar, captured this year’s Interhall Volleyball title, rolling up seven straight victories in league play. The clincher came last week as they whipped once beaten Sorin Hall, their closest rival. A Sorin victory would have thrown the race into a three way tie, but the sophomores from Badin rose to the occasion to hand Sorin its second defeat in seven matches.
Off-Campus finished in the runner-up spot with but one loss, that to champion Badin. In other matches last week, Badin was victorious in its three outings, Off-Campus also won three, and Sorin came through with two wins but lost the crucial Badin tilt.
Because of the increase in interest towards the end of the tournament, student-director Tom Sheehan and interhall athletics director Dominic Napolitano hope to hold an outdoor tournament in the spring.
ED BANKS
Rocking the tenpins.
Keglers Into Stretch; Chicago, Toledo Lead
The Chicago Club and the Toledo Club continue to pace the early and late Wednesday groupings of the KampusO Keglers, with the Irish Air Society and Met Club locked in a tie for the leader’s position in the Blue Division, which rolls late Thursday night. Although Dick Torda’s average dropped two points to 175, he still paces the individual leaders, as he has done for most of the campaign.
In the respective leagues Toledo heads the late Wednesday division with a record of 37-11, followed closely by Cleveland and the Chern Engineers who are^ tied for the second spot with 32-16. Mr. Torda’s 168 paces the individual scorers.
California, New Jersey, and the Accountants are tied for second place in the early Wednesday pairings while the Windy City boys continue to dominate the loop with a record of 46-18. The fight for second spot, which is proving more interesting than the race for the league honors, involves the above mentioned three with a .517 mark, the Indus
trial Engineers with a .500 percentage, and the Detroit Club with .516.
Lou Solomon of the Cal Club holds the high three-game mark of 579, while the high single of 225 belongs to Jim Nieuland. Solomon also holds the individual honors with a 161 average.
The Detroit Club has fallen into third spot in the late Thursday division, leav- : ing the Irish Air Society and the Met	:
Club sharing the leader’s position with	i
logs of 47%-24% to Detroit’s 45%--26/a.	:
In the individual statistics Ray Nelson ; took over the high three and high singles a,; spots last week when he rolled a 253^ game along with a total score for the ? night of 634.
I

32
The Scholastic
^Three Matmen at Case After Dropping Finale
Notre Dame’s wrestling team completed its first season of intercollegiate varsity wrestling last week as they defeated Marquette 24-8 on Wednesday and then lost 18-6 to Wheaton College ^ast Saturday. By splitting these last two matches, the Irish matmen posted a creditable 6-4 record for the season.
Irish Coach Tom Fallon’s charges copped six of eight bouts in downing Marquette 24-8, at Milwaukee, Wis.
In their closing match of the season the Irish absorbed a 18-6 defeat at the hands of a very powerful Wheaton College squad. Wheaton opened the scoring „as Chuck Stuber decisioned Irish 123-®pound ace, Buddy Day, 5-2. Gene Taylor increased the Wheaton score as he defeated Bob Calabrese of Notre Dame in the 130-pound division. Bob Pivonka broke into the scoring column for the Irish as he won the 137-pound contest.
Wheaton came back as Harold Nuss at 147-pounds defeated Irish Captain Terry Crowley. Dave Lindberg continued the Wheaton scoring as he posted a close 1-0 decision over Chuck Henzy at 154 pounds.
In the 177-pound class, Jack Armstrong of Notre Dame finished the season unbeaten as he copped his tenth straight win, an easy 4-0 decision over Byron Hulburt of Wheaton. Winston Hulburt closed the match for Wheaton as he won the Heavyweight contest from Bob Salvino of Notre Dame.
Coach Fallon has chosen Bob Pivonka, Jack Armstrong, and Captain Terry Crowley to represent the Irish at the Case Tech 44 Tournament in Cleveland today and tomorrow. Coach Fallon pointed out that since many of the nations finest collegiate wrestlers will be on hand for the tournament, “it will provide tough competition” for his Irish stars. And he added, “The tournament should prove good experience for them.”
Since all of the 'Irish starters will be
returning next year, it looks like a bright future for wrestling at Notre Dame.
Inexperienced Tennis Squad In South for Easter Vacation
The Notre Dame tennis team may be in for a rugged season this spring said Coach Charlie Samson in an interview last Sunday. “The team is young and comparatively inexperienced,” explained Samson. “There are no seniors on the team; it’s composed of about 50 per cent juniors and 50 per cent sophomores.”
Among the returning lettermen this year are: Capt. Harry Smith, Dean Richards, Jim Rich, and Tom Guilfoile. Up from last year’s freshman squad are: John Metz, Duane Van Dyke, Tony Gonzales, and Chuck Vanonsini.
The varsity will open its season during the Easter vacation when it travels South to meet Marshall, North Carolina, N. C. State, V.PJ., Wake Forest, Duke, and Cincinnati.
I ■
IKORSKY AIRCRAFT
I “““'JI'S:
WEDNESDAY
MARCH 21
March 9, 1956
33
PLAY THE RIGHT SPALDING BALL!
The new DOT® is made to give maximum distance for the long-hitting golfer. And its dura-thin* cover keeps the dot uncut, unscuffed and perfectly round far longer. Priced at $14.75 a dozen, 3 for $3.75.
New tough Spalding top-flite® has an extra-strong cover that takes far more punishment than any ordinary ball . . . yet gives the maximum in long-distance performance. Priced at $14.75 a dozen, 3 for $3.75.
The popular-priced par-flite® gives an unbeatable combination of playability and durability. Its tough, resilient cover makes it an outstanding long-service ball. Priced at $11.40 a dozen, 3 for $2.85.
Spalding’s economy-priced tru-flite®, like all other popular Spalding golf balls, is made with True-Tension winding for a longer, more active game. tru-FLITES are priced at $9.00 a dozen or 3 for $2.25.
•Trade-mark
Sold only through golf professionals.
Spalding
SETS THE PACE IN SPORTS
Engineering and Science Students!
Representatives of the world’s largest aircraft manufacturer
Douglas Aircraft Co.
will be on campus to interview for positions in design, development and testing of aircraft and missiles. Openings in Santa Monica, Long Beach, or El Segundo, Calif., and Tulsa, Okla.
See the Placement Bureau for Interview Appointment on March 12 and 13
Music Dept. Series \ ■ To Honor Composer
The music department will sponsor a ’ series of lectures and concerts on campus , in connection with the 200th anniversary 1 of the birth of the composer, Wolfgang | Mozart, Rev. G. C. Hager, C.S.C., head j of the music department, announced® I recently.	.
On Sunday at 2 p.m. in the O’Shaugh- i nessy Art Gallery, Notre Dame and St. j Mary’s students will give a Mozart con- | cert. Among the selections to be offered ’ will be piano works by Edward Neylon, j John Guinn, Rosalie Reigle and Barbara ' Geary; clarinet selections by Robert , Jones and Robert Brown; and vocal se- 1 lections by Nancy Brozovich, Patrici^^ Morris, and Le Anna Swartzbaugh.^ Following the concert there will be a mixer in the Student Center sponsored 1 by the Student Senate. No admission 1 will be charged.
Dr. Eugene J. Leahy, D.F.A., Notre Dame graduate and now an instructor of music here, will give a lecture on the opera Don Giovanni in Room 242 O’Shaughnessy Building Monday, March 12, at 8 p.m.
The Notre Dame Symphonette, undei^ the direction of Prof. Charles Biondo, will give a Mozart concert Wednesday at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall.
In the O’Shaughnessy Art Gallery March 20 at 8 p.m., a Mozart concert of chamber music will be presented by students and members of the faculty. The program includes: Mozart’s Piano Quartet in G Minor with Edward Neylon, piano; Mrs. Arnold McKee, cello; Mr. Leo Michuda, violin; Dr.®, Biondo, viola. Mrs. McKee will also do Mozart’s Concerto in D Major for Cello and a duet with Mr. McKee.
Three to Take Examination For Annapolis Appointments
Three underclassmen of the NROTC unit have been recommended by the University administration to take the_ i examination on March 28, for appoint-^ s ment to the U. S. Naval Academy, at s„ Annapolis, Md. The three students ? nominated are: Merle M. Smith, Vincent ? J. Naimoli, and Don C. Gillies.	,
NROTC officials also announced the : Convair Aircraft Corp, will provide an i. annual Convair NROTC Award for each i NROTC unit. The award consists of a mounted miniature of a Convair air- f plane, and an appropriate certificate.
This award is to be presented to the I senior writing the best paper on “Avia-^1 i tion.” The purpose of the award is to / act as a means of stimulating interest in flight training.

34
The Scholastic
?lane Tickets to Europe Offered for U.N. Essay
Two round-trip plane tickets to Europe will be the first prize in a contest sponsored by the United World Federalists, Inc. The prize will be -awarded to the person who best answers the question, “How Can the United Nations Be Strengthened to Maintain a Just and Durable Peace?”
Second and third prizes of $400 and $200 will be awarded. The contest will end June 22.
Judges for the contest are: Laird Bell, lawyer and chairman of the board of the National Merit Scholarship, Inc.; |Norman Cousins, editor of The Saturday
Review; John Cowles, president, Minneapolis Star and Tribune; William O. Douglas, associate justice of the U.S. Supreme Court; Judge Sarah T. Hughes of the 14th District court in Dallas; Dr. Ralph Lapp, director. Nuclear Science Service; and General Carlos P. Romulo, ambassador to the U.S. from the Philippines.
United World Federalists, Inc., is an organization of 20,000 members throughout the United States dedicated to the support and strengthening of the United Nations.
Entry blanks and detailed instructions may be obtained from Prof. Ernest Eliel, of the chemistry department, local chairman of the United World Federalists.
Everyday ... a special prepared to suit your taste, yours at .. .
CE 3-OiU
CONVAIR
A DIVISION OF GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION
POMONA, CALIFORNIA
Announces
Tue. & Wed., March 13th & 14th, 1956
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS FOR ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES
offered to persons trained in ... .
CONVAIR-POMONA, (California) offers challenging opportunities in one of the most modern air-conditioned engineering departments in the country.
The division, located in Southern California, is engaged in research design and production of special weapon systems for the U.S. Navy Bureau of Ordnance. The well-known guided MISSILE, "TERRIER’' is a product of this division.
ELECTRONICS • MECHANICS AERODYNAMICS • THERMODYNAMICS MATHEMATICS • PHYSICS
CONVAfR
A DIVISION Of GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION
The training program for engineers with no previous experience generally includes an orientation to the department and division, product familiarization, and first work assignment in the test laboratories or design groups working with. experienced engineers.
Contact your Placement Office for time and place of interviews.
March 9, 1956
...and get a better shave! Old Spice Pre-Electric Shave Lotion sets up your beard—tunes up your shaver. Stops dragging, dogging and over-heating. The new, non-oily lubricant, “Isophyl”,* prepares the skin for easy gliding... lubricates the shaver cutting edges for greatest efficiency.	100 No federal tax
±	*Trade Mark
Detroit Club to Decide On SMC Membership
The Detroit Club will vote in midMarch on admitting 30 students of St. Mary’s College to the club. The Detroit club, third largest geographical club on campus, is the first organization to bring up the question of admittance of St. Mary’s students from their ge<^ graphical region.
At a recent meeting officers were elected. The new officers are: Burke Cueny, president; Bob Bogg, vice president; Pat Kiley, treasurer; Gerry Pas-tula, recording secretary; and Jim Fitzgerald, corresponding secretary.
SHULTON New York • Toronto
Friendship Photos
Silk Finish Photos 2*4 x 3’/2 in. 20 photos from your picture, or 25 photos from your negative. Minimum order $1.00
WALLET PHOTOS, Box 470, Fostoria, Ohio
Sunny Italy Cafe A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 North Niles Avenue
BLUE CIRCLE MEMBERSHIP
The Blue Circle Honor Society ~ recently announced that it is accepting applications for new members for the 1956-57 school term.
Students who wish to apply must have the following requirements: have an accumulative academic average of at least 80 per cent at the time of application; have completed one semester at Notre Dame; have a satisfactory disciplinary record here; have shown interest in -the activities promoted by the Blue Circle; and be approved by the organization.
Applications are to be sent to the Blue Circle Honor Society, Committee on Memberships, c/o 232 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana. Applications will be accepted through March 21.
Fr. Nealy to Talk at Institute On 'Morality in Marriage'
Rev. Francis D. Nealy, O.P., will speak on “Morality in Marriage” at the Marriage Institute next Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall.	(
Bom in Chatam, N. B., Canada, Father Nealy was educated at the University of St. Mary, Halifax, where he graduated in 1932. After graduation, he entered the Dominican Order at St^ ■ Rose’s Priory, Springfield, Ky. He wasT; ordained at St. Joseph’s Priory, Somerset, O.	1
Following ordination, Father Nealy taught at Aquinas High School, Columbus, O., and at Providence College, Providence, R. I. He served in Europe ■ as an army chaplain during World War II.	j
Besides his M.A. in education from Notre Dame, Father Nealy has an M.A. in philosophy from the Dominican College of St. Thomas Aquinas, River For-^t | est, Ill., and a S.T.Lr. in theology from the Dominican College of the Immacu-late Conception, Washington, D. C.
The Scholastic |
I-
36
^Caine Mutiny' Travels ^or Chicago Area Trial
The University Theater will give its first road production when it presents The Caine Mutiny Court Martial before faculty, students and guests of Notre Dame High School at Niles, Ill., on Sunday, according to Rev. Arthur S. Har-^Jzey, C.S.C., moderator of University Theater and director of the recent campus production. Court Martial will be the initial presentation at the newly
opened suburban high school.
Father Harvey and the stage crew will travel to Niles tomorrow to establish the setting which was transported along with uniforms and properties early this morning. The cast will board the New York Central Sunday morning at 11:15. An afternoon run-through of the play will be the only other preparation Sunday for the 8:30 p.m. performance. The entire troupe will return on Monday. Father Harvey stated that he hoped the University Theater will be able to go on tour in future years.
SENATE CONCESSION NDS
Bids for Student Senate concessions are being accepted now in 331 Walsh Hall. Concessions included are: photo, summer storage, flower, cake, dance manager, center manager and other concessions. Bid should include all the plans of the bidder, describing exactly how the bidder plans to operate the concession. Bids must be submitted before March 27.
■>
Graduating Engineers
Research, development and production activities at Northrop Aircraft, Inc., create a continuous demand for young men who are building careers in the fields of engineering and science.
If you have had training that qualifies you for:
Aeronautical Engineering Mechanical Engineering Electrical Engineering Electronic Engineering
Boundary Layer Research Aerodynamics Thermodynamics Stress and Structures
... if you want to build a permanent, successful career in one of America’s foremost research, development and production centers.. .if you want to locate in the Los Angeles Metropolitan area, please contact your school’s placement office.
Interviews
Campus interviews will be conducted by Q. D. Poe and Frank Meyer, Engineering Personnel Representatives of Northrop Aircraft, Inc., on Wed., •	March 14th, at Notre Dame University Engineering Placement Office.
Please make appointment in advance so your interview may be scheduled for your convenience.
NORTHROP AIRCRAFT, Inc
HAWTHORNE, CALIFORNIA
5-A-SI
March 9, 1956
37
sc
March 16
could be the most important day in this year...
With the kind cooperation of your faculty, a representative of our company will be at your college on that date, to interview graduate and undergraduate students of Engineering.
Stromberg-Carlson, a division of General Dynamics Corporation, is currently engaged in a five-year expansion plan which requires the DOUBLING of our current technical staff. Opportunity is literally unlimited for the man with engineering know-how and a desire to start his career in a company where he and his ideas can both flourish.
Rochester, N. Y., is also a very important factor of consideration. Located in the beautiful Finger Lakes district, it is a city of scientific industries, well-renowned schools, beautiful residential areas and unusual recreational and cultural facilities.
Our representative will conduct interviews on campus on Friday, March 16. Please arrange appointments now with your engineering placement office.
STROMBERG-CARLSON COMPANY
A DIVISION OF GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION
Rochester 3, N. Y.
for the very finest
STEAKS and CHOPS
EDDIE'S STEAK HOUSE
602 S. WALNUT
AQUINAS LIBRARY ad BOOK SHOP
We SeU Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Sendee
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
We thank you for the wonderful patronage you have shown us by reading our last ad in the SCHOLASTIC. We are sorry we are unable to serve you all at one time. We are going to continue these Bargains for Students Only.
Albano Restaurant
415 N. Michigan St.
Robinson to Deliver Key Convention Talk f
Edward Robinson, an AB junior from Dearborn, Mich., will deliver the keynote speech at the mock Democratic f national convention in April, the Acad- I emy of Political Science announced re- ■ cently. Robinson was selected by Judges A Rev. Stanley J. Parry, C.S.C., and Dr. V
ED ROBINSON
Kicks off convention.
Paul C. Bartholomew, members of the ; ' department of political science, and Mr. John D. Tumpane of the department of speech for presenting the best stage appearance, style, delivery, and content^ speech at auditions held in the Engineering Auditorium on March 1.
Ran for Mayor
The 22 year-old political science and economics major entered the mayoralty primary of Sept. 26, 1955 in Dearborn, a city of 90,000 people, and campaigned by advocating a new youth center for	-
his home town area. Robinson, empha-	:
sizing a need for new and young bloody j in City Hall, stressed a pro-labor at-"' | titude, three new fire stations, and a new health center.
At present a platoon leader in the U. S. Marine Corps Reserve, Robinson has distinguished himself as freshman oratory champion and winner in the Notre Dame Peace Oratory Contest, finishing third in statewide competition. Robinson plans to study for his law degree at the University of Michigan upon graduation from the College of^ Arts and Letters and “get into politics for life.”

38
The Scholastic
A
ANNOUNCING
The Opening of a 4
New Source for
CAMPUS FASHIONS
at Low Factory Prices
,r,v~
ALL WOOL SUITS $36-95
All Wool Sport Coats $23-95
All Wool Slacks $10.50
Pleated and plain
WEBSTER CLOTHES
Stores in Principal Cities
112 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
South Bend, Indiana
America’s Outstanding Clothing Values
1—
March 9, 1956
39
JACOBY’S
BBIBGE
offers career opportunities for the
MEN OF ’56
NORTH
Spades K Q J 2
Hearts A Q 8 7 6
Diamonds K 2
Clubs K 7
ENGINEERS
CHEMISTS PHYSICISTS
Ceramic • Chemical • Civil Electrical • Industrial Mechanical * Metallurgical
WEST
Spades - 9 8 7
Hearts 10 9
Diamonds 10 8 6
Clubs J 10 9 6 5
EAST
Spades	6 5	4
Hearts	K J	3	2
Diamonds	15	4	3
Clubs	3 2
America’s foremost manufacturer of carbon and graphite electrodes and anodes, impervious graphite, brushes for motors and generators, dry cells and flashlights, arc carbons and a wide variety of other industrial products offers positions to B.S. and M.S. graduates in the fields listed above.
Positions are available at National Carbon Company’s 15 factories, located in the following states: Iowa, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Tennessee, West Virginia and Vermont and throughout the country in our sales organization.
Interesting, rewarding careers in research, process and product development, production and methods engineering, product and process control, machine development, plant engineering and sales. A National Carbon representative will be on campus —
MONDAY, March 12
NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY
A Division of
Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation
SOUTH Spades A 10 3 Hearts 5 4 Diamonds A Q 9 7 Clubs A Q 8 4
BIDDING:
NORTH EAST SOUTH WEST ....	....	ID	P
2H	P	3NT	P
4NT	P	5S	P
5NT	P	6C	P
6NT	PPP
Opening lead: Jack of clubs.
BRAND IMPERVIOUS GRAPHITE
evereaoy
TRADE-MARKS
BATTERIES
PRESTONE
BRAND ANTI-FREEZE
ROCCO'S
South Bend’s Original House of Pizza
Still the Best—serving Italian and American Dishes
Special Noon Lunches 11 _ 1 -30
537 N. St. Louis
Open—11 ajn. — 12 Midnight
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
Order a full year’s subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
To make 12 tricks on the above hand, declarer had to make use of the advanced play known as the squeeze. Don’t be frightened by the word advanced. All plays at bridge are simple. The difficulty lies in envisioning and executing them in actual play.	‘W
South won the King of clubs, came to his own hand with the 10 of spades, and then took the losing heart finesse. East returned another spade which South won with the Ace. South now cashed the Ace and Queen of clubs, discarding a heart from the dummy. On the third club, East discarded a heart. South played a spade to the dummy. Now, as he led the last spade, the position was this:
NORTH
Spades—J	Hearts—A 8 7	Diamonds—K 2
WEST	EAST
Hearts 10	Hearts J	3
Diamonds 10 8	6	Diamonds J	5	4 3
Clubs 10 9
SOUTH
Hearts—5	Diamonds—A Q 9 7	Clubs—8
When the last spade is led, if East discards a diamond, South’s nine of diamonds will eventually be good. If Easrt ; discards a heart, after the heart Ace i® t played the other low hearts in the dum- ; my will be good. East is squeezed, but 3 he does have a chance to set the hand if £ he throws a diamond quickly. Here is > why: From South’s point of view, the j hearts in the opponents’ hands may j have been originally divided three-three, g If that were the case, South must dis- i card his fourth diamond, keeping the t eight of clubs in his hand as a threat | card, and then squeeze West between | hearts and clubs by leading out the Ace^j i King, and Queen of diamonds. In the^j actual play South discarded the eight of | clubs and made six no-trump.	|
The Scholastic i
40
r
A frank message to graduating electronic and mechanical
ENGINEERS
rcr-

You know it ... we know it'. . . so let's be frank about it.	/
The demand for engineers—experienced or graduate —far exceeds the supply/And, from now on in, you are going to be sought after more than a triple threat halfback for next year's varsity.
You will be promised many things (including the moon with a fenc^/around it), and for a young man just getting started these things are pretty hard to resist. / So, again, lets be frank. We at Farnsworth won't promise you/the moon. (Although we are working on some ideas that may eventually get you there and back.)zWe are an old, young organization. O/d, in the sense of being pioneers in the field of elec* tronics./(Our technical director, Dr. Philo Farnsworth invented electronic television.) Young, by being the newest division of the world-wide International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation, devoting our efforts exclusively to research, development and production of military and industrial electronics, and atomic energy.	'
All of which makes Farnsworth big enough for stability and technical perspective, yet small enough for mobility, flexibility and recognition of the individual. Here you will be associated with and encouraged by a team of eminent scientists and engineers with many "firsts" to their credit in the ' field of electronics. Here you will be heard . . . not just one of the herd.
We earnestly invite you to hear the whole fascinating Farnsworth story. We're pretty certain it will make the decision for your future easier.
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
MARCH 22
■issues . lUM.MiEaiss.iicimns.iMUiEi-sun sun ■ rest nnriiat. laaasiaui t. a.
FARNSWORTH ELECTRONICS CO., FORT WAYNE, INOIANA
March 9,1956
41
Pa^
by Curt Matthews
kind words. For poor slobs
William Holden, who is having a picnic with Picnic, is currently tops among the Hollywood press agents’ latest galaxy of tailor-made stars. A recent issue of Time magazine quoted a description of Mr. Holden given by one of his directors. This director called Holden “the typical American boy who wanted to become a slob but couldn’t make the grade.”
I don’t know whether that description actually fits William Holden or not, and I can’t see that it really makes much difference anyway. But, I do think there is some truth in the way that director described “the typical American boy.”
I think a good many of us, (as long as we remain boys and if we don’t mind being called typical) are sort of slob-bishly inclined.
Now before someone starts writing a letter to the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals because I called the typical American boy a slob, let me first explain what I mean by the term. From the tone and context of the Time article, I don’t think the movie director meant to imply that America’s young men are inclined to dress sloppily, be ill-mannered and in need of a bath.
What I think he meant, and what I’m sure I mean, by the word slob is someone whose motto is “I don’t give a damn.” Someone who would prefer not to be bothered with too much responsibility and worry. He’s someone who likes to live without tensions of any kind. Someone whose end is complete relaxedness and whose means is impulsive living—doing what he wants when he wants.
So you see that this definition doesn’t completely exclude the man in the sports coat lounging in a country club game room, anymore than it does the gentleman in sweat shirt and loafers squatting on a bar stool. The distinction between these two slobs is simply one of economics, not of personality.
There are just as many well-to-do slobs as there are poor ones, if not more.
In fact, to be a really outstanding slob you either have to be exceedingly wealthy or depressingly poor. That’s exactly why the typical American boy makes such a second-rate slob—he’s usually somewhere in the middle.
This at first may seem fortunate. “You’ve got to have that sense of responsibility,” everyone says. But, as I reflected on the failure of the typical American boy to become a slob I found it kind of sad. Slobs are what keeps the world from taking itself too seriously— they make it interesting in an uninteresting sort of way.
Their contribution to civilization is a sort of carefree humor and casualness that can make the “normal” people sometimes recognize the trivialness of so many of their everyday worries and apprehensions.
Ever since the typical American family moved from the city to the suburbs there have been fewer real slobs. Suburban living, with more cars in the garage and more chickens in the pot has too much propriety to produce good slobs. Its climate is just too proper, too prim.
Most of us who come from the suburbs are usually not so economically secure that we can devote all our time to being slobs, and yet we’re not so completely unresponsible to our society that we can adopt the “I don’t give a damn” motto all the time, or even when we feel like it.
And so most of us fail at being slobs regardless of how readily we work at it. We’re kept from this success by economics on the one hand and our sense of social responsibility on the other.
However, we often grow just a little tired of the monotony of the well-trimmed lawns, the nine - to - five jobs, the orderly security and the choir-boy innocence of suburban life.
Everyone, even the man in the grey flannel suit and his family, needs just a little excitement of one sort now and then. Some find this need for diversion filled by a game of bridge. Others pre
fer the local race track. Still other^ polish the bumpers on the Jaguar. I.. • all depends on how much jack can be > found in the pockets of that grey flannel i suit.
The typical American boy who lacks imagination in his attempts to be a slob usually becomes what authorities term “delinquent.” This is not being a slob but rather (to filch another Twieism) | a “schnook.”
The average college student who tries^ to be a slob has some imagination anu ■ his efforts are easily recognizable. When the typical American boy gets as far as i college—which in itself would make him I typical today, I guess—and still has the j suburban-born desire to be a slob he is | distinguished by certain common ear-	I
marks.	|
He’s fanatically dis—(it says more)	3
concerned about grades (which is	I
certainly commendable). He spends as	j
little time on the campus as he possibh^ / can. He’s the first to accept an invitation or a suggestion to go somewhere— anywhere—and the further the better, Bermuda or Jamaica if possible. When , he makes such a trip his only luggage is a toothbrush, usually. He prides himself on his resourcefulness which to the slob is known as “operating.” He drinks, but enjoys a fifteen cent beer which he sponged off someone else rather than a ninety-cent drink he has paid for. The practical joke, the impromptu party, and^ the quick talk are three of his mainstays. ■ ,
The typical American boy who enters j college and still wants to be a slob f really tries hard. But he can’t make it. t By the time he gets that far he has : surely developed an awfully demanding f sense of responsibility. It just won’t • let him do all the things he would l like to when he would like to and that’s • just what a good slob has to do.	I
Most of us, like Holden, can’t make j the grade as slobs. But I think we gain ; by trying. There’s nothing basically^; j wrong with trying to be a slob. It’s / trying to be one without knowing it | that’s bad.	1
42
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
YOUR SLIDE RULE CAN'T
ANSWER THESE QUESTIONS
Determining the direction of your career will take more than a "slip-stick”. You’ll need facts on how to use your engineering education to the best advantage.
Our representatives can give you these facts on a career with Bell Aircraft... show you the many benefits of associating with the ■ foremost engineering development team in the country.
Pioneers of aviation progress, Bell engineers continually introduce revolutionary concepts ... most recently in the rocket powered
XIA and X2 research aircraft, the jet-powered VTOL (Vertical Take-off and Landing) and the GAM-63 Rascal missile. Here is an unrivaled opportunity in a diversified program for career engineers.
Our representative will be on campus:
March 12 and 13
p
BUFFALO 5, N.Y.
or Address Inquiries to: Manager, Engineering Personnel
Your Bachelor Degree can earn career opportunities in these technical areas:—
ELECTRONIC ENGINEERS
ELECTRONICS
Guidance Systems Instrumentation Telemetering
SERVOMECHANISMS
Electronic Design
Analogue Simulation
TESTING
Missile Acceptance Testing
Test Equipment Design
•	Flight Test
Instrumentation
Installation
•	Service & Training	■
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS
Rocket Development
Research Laboratories
Servomechanisms Hydraulic and Valve Development
Structural Test
MATHEMATICIANS and PHYSICISTS
Dynamics Analysis Aerodynamics
Electronic Development
Servomechanisms Development
Rockets Research
To holders of a Blaster or PhD Degree, Bell offers exceptional opportunities in advanced research on a variety of projects.
N
EFFECTIVE FILTRATION
th
So Quick on the DRW’


1. SUPERIOR TASTE. L&M is good to your taste — its superior tobaccos, rich yet light and mild, are especially selected for filter smoking. For the flavor you want, here’s the filter you need.
2. SUPERIOR FILTER. The flavor comes clean! Only L&M has the Miracle Tip—pure white inside, pure white outside, as a filter should be for cleaner, better smoking. L&M is quick on the draw, actually improves your enjoyment.
Enjoy
if 3
KING SIZE
<-
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.
America's Best Filter Cigarette
© Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.