Vol. XXI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 12, 18S7.	No. 10.
Winter Moonlight.
BY ELIZA ALLEN STARR.
O’er two pale stones, placed side by side, Upon the prairie’s lonely height,
The winter moon, sublime, doth glide To touch each name with glistering white.
O’er two dear souls that meekly bend
Before Heaven’s vision—blinding sight!— Pour, O Thou, being’s Source and End, Calm floods of beatific light!
Ampere.*
AndrdMarie Ampere wasbornin Lyons,January 20, 1775- His father, Jean Jacques Ampere, was a merchant of wealth, highly esteemed by his fellow-citizens for his business integrity, and he was also distinguished for his refined tastes and varied acquirements. Andrd’s mother, who before her marriage with M. Ampere had been a Mademoiselle Antoinette Sarcey de Sutieres, was an accomplished woman, of an amiable disposition, and was fond of doing good among the suffering poor. Shortly after Andrd’s birth, M. Ampere retired' from business, and removed to a little property which he had purchased at Poleymieux-les-Mont-d’Or, in the suburbs of Lyons. There Andre passed his boyhood, and there he first displayed that genius which was to make him the pride and the glory of scientific France. The faculty which he first developed was that of arithmetical calculation. Before he had learned to make the Arabic numerals, he used to work out long arithmetical problems by means of a few, pebbles, or white beans. Once, while the little fellow was confined to his bed by some childish ailment, his mother, desiring to keep his mind at rest, took away the pebbles which he had arrayed on the bed beside
* From an article by T. G, Galwey in the Ave 'Maria of October 1.
him; but she had no sooner left the room than he broke a biscuit into pieces, and by means of them went on with his calculations.
Young Ampere as soon as he was able to read took up the Encyclopaedia, and went through it deliberately from the first page t o the last, without skipping an article or a sentence He was all his life fond of poetry, and while still a mere lad had read all the French poets of eminence, besides having familiarized himself through translations ~	__ o
with Dante, Shakspeare, Tasso, and the Greek, and Latin poets. But in his youth his greatest predilection was for mathematics. Having read or heard of certain authors who had treated of its more abstruse branches, he one day inquired for their works at a bookstore in Lyons. The bookseller smiled and answered: “But, my boy, the books you ask for are in Latin!” Andrd reflected a moment, then went home, and after a few weeks’ solitary study had fortified himself with sufficient Latin to read these treatises without difficulty. It was then that he for the first time felt the usefulness of a universal language for science, and determined to create one himself. One evening afterwards, when a collegian at Lyons, he recited before an assembly of his friends a poem which he had composed in this language of his own, and the verses are said to have rolled out rich and harmonious.
The Revolution meantime was disturbing France. M. Ampere, therefore, in order to obtain greater security for his little household, gave up his mountain seat, and moved his family—consisting of Madame Ampere and two children, Andr6 and Josephine—to Lyons, where he was quickly made a justice of the peace. When the Jacobins, under Collot d’Herbois and Fouchd, entered Lyons, a general massacre of the inhabitants took place, and M. Ampere, on the charge of being an aristocrat, was sent with other honorable citizens to the guillotine. It was a terrible blow to Madame Ampere and her children.	-
In some respects Andre Marie Ampere may be likened to the great Italian, poet and novelist Manzoni. The two were brought up in childhood to call themselves Catholics. ;The families of both were Catholics, of. virtuous life and excellent, rep
146	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
utation. Both families, however, from the circumstances of the time and of their social circles, were somewhat penetrated with that false philosophical spirit, the tincture .of deism transplanted from Protestant England, diluted with the pagan humanitarianism of Epictetus and Marcus Aurelius. The fact that Andre, not yet twelve years of age, was permitted and even encouraged by his father to devour the French Encyclopedic—a work edited and almost exclusively written by the “philosophers”—is highly significant.
So that if both Ampere and Manzoni when in the prime of their manhood and genius were models of simple Christian faith and piety, the explanation is, not that their minds when young had been “cramped within superstitious moulds,” but that their great intellects, undimmed by vice, and loving the truth for itself, enabled them to work out for themselves the problem of human existence. Had these men been less intellectual than they were, or corrupted by vicious habits, the probability is that they would have lived and died indifferent to religion, like so many of their contemporaries. They became sincere in spite of the circumstances of their youth.
One of Ampere’s earliest published essays ( 1802) was in a line of study to which Pascal had been among the first to give definite scientific form: the calculation of probabilities. It was the geometer Legendre who spoke of this science as “common sense reduced to calculation.” Ampere’s treatise was named Considerations sur la Eheorie Malhetnatigue du Jeu (Considerations on the Mathematical Theory of Gaming), and it attracted the attention of the learned, resulting in his appointment to a place in the faculty at Lyons. In 1805 he was assigned to a mathematical chair in the Ecole Polytechnique at Paris. Before going to Paris he had married an excellent young lady of Lyons, and the fruit of this marriage was one son—-Jean Jacques Antoine, better known as A.m-pere the Younger, who in his day became distinguished as an eminent critic and historian of classical literature.
While Ampere, now settled at Paris, was discovering the principles of electro-dynamics, establishing the identity of electricity and magnetism, and achieving great things in. physics generally, he was deep in the study of metaphysics also. The scholastic.system was sadly out of fashion. It was identified by the greater number of thinkers then with the “Dark Ages” and the “ignorant monks.” The philosophers of the period had a supreme contempt for scholasticism, of which they knew next to nothing, except through hearsay or a prejudiced tradition. It was a system, they supposed, which concerned itself with problems such as the determination of how many angels could balance themselves at the same time bn the point of a needle; evidently a very absurd system.
- Ampere went through the .whole range of eighteenth century philosophy, from the materialists of England and France to the idealists of Germany. His vast intellect was able to exhaust all these contrary or contradictory systems, and to
summarize in clear propositions their doctrines on the most obscure or recondite points. The catalogue of treatises, essays, and pamphlets which issued from his pen during his thirty-one years at Paris would fill a large page, most of the subjects which he chose by preference being those which were the source of perplexity to the learned world. In the midst of all this he found delight in the Latin poets. The immense variety of his learning made his a universal mind, but a mind that was as profound as it was broad. Still, he had ceased to be a Catholic in belief not long after his arrival in Paris, and had, of course, abandoned the use of the Sacraments.
In 1814 Ampere was elected a member of the Institute. It was then that his old friend Bredin wrote of him: “At last he has attained to the highest honors that a scientist can win; and among all those men whose colleague he now is, not one has so large or so mighty a brain as his. The greatest difficulties of science are mere sport for him; heights which others try to climb only with painful efforts are reached by him naturally, and apparently at his ease. He is not affected by the desire of succeeding, as he loves science purely and for itself alone.” That was the truth, and not a pretty saying; Ampere loved science for itself, and it was now, when approaching the summit of his fame, that he found the emptiness of a philosophy that refuses to look towards God.
Having ascertained this, he set himself to study out the difficult problem of religion in the same serious scientific way that he had entered upon the study of other difficult problems. He read all that was written on the subject, and he thought over what he had read, and he worked out the problem in detail, section by section. He had never denied the being of God, and an intelligent God; he was too wise for that. He worked out the problem he had before him, and arrived at a Divine Providence, a revelation, and an authoritative deposit for that revelation. He went through the tloly Scriptures and through the Fathers of the Church, he examined the claims of the sects, and finally he found , the visible Church of God, one, holy, Catholic and apostolic. In 1817 this great and therefore simple man wrote to Bredin: “My dear friend, this morning I have received the great grace of absolution. . . . To-day it is in the Catholic Church only that I can find the faith, as well as the gradual accomplishment of the promises which God has made, and made to her only.”
The University of France was the work of Napoleon. The ancient University of Paris, which in the days when it was Catholic in spirit had numbered as many as thirty thousand students, had gone into decay, and finally had collapsed like many other institutions, valuable or otherwise, of France. The old University was a'true university in its organization—a free assemblage of lovers of learning, with its faculties of theology, letters, and law. The University of France is merely a bureau of the Government—a sort of Government super; intendence of the various .educational houses of France—a development of that centralizing ten
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	147
dency which has destroyed the independence of the provinces, and has blighted the career of all the other cities in order to build up Paris and to strengthen a civil-service tyranny of red-tape.
Napoleon was bent on making his University a success, and therefore took all suitable measures to put it in charge of scholars whose own fame would be reflected upon it. Among these there was none for whom he had a greater admiration than for Ampere, though Ampere, patriotic Frenchman as he was, always regarded Napoleon’s methods of government as disastrous to France. Napoleon’s fall, however, produced no effect on Ampere’s life. In 1824, after an interval of metaphysical and literary labors, he accepted the professorship of experimental physics in the College de France, and later was appointed Inspector-General of the University. He was at this time a member of almost every learned society of note, both on the Continent and England.
Amid all his engagements, Ampere nevertheless found time for prayer and meditation. He received into his household as a boarder a young man from the provinces who was making his university studies, and with whose family he was united in very warm friendship. This was Frederic Ozanam, himself destined to make a mark in French literature, and to be always remembered as the founder of the Conferences of St. Vincent de Paul. At this time young Ozanam was beset with religious doubts; many of the students whom he daily met at the lectures were inclined to be skeptical, and not a few of the professors were open infidels. One afternoon Ozanam went into the Church of St. Etienne du Mont, and sat down to think over the perplexities of his soul., He descried a man past middle life kneeling in an obscure corner near an altar, peacefully fingering a rosary. The man’s back was turned, but soon, crossing himself and rising - to his feet, he walked down the aisle and out into the street. Ozanam never forgot the impression he then received. His doubts almost instantly disappeared. It was Ampere, the giant of scholars!
In 1836 Ampere set out for Marseilles on a tour of inspection of the various colleges on the way. He caught cold in the journey, and when he arrived at Marseilles he was prostrated under an attack of lung fever, from which he died June 9, 1836, after having most devoutly received the last rites of the Church. It was another great scientist, Arago, who related as of his own knowledge that when a priest, M. Deschamps, chaplain of the College of Marseilles, offered to comfort Ampere on his sick bed by reading to him the “Imitation of Christ,” Ampere gently made answer: “I know it by heart!”
Against slander there is no defense. Hell cannot boast so foul a fiend; nor man deplore so fell a foe. It stabs with a word, with a nod, with a shrug, with a look, with a smile. It is the pestilence walking in darkness, spreading contagion far and wide, which the most wary traveller cannot avoid; murder its employment, innocence its prey, and ruin its sport.—Columbian.
Negligence.
BY B. T. BECKER (LAW), ’87.
Cooley (Torts, 630) defines the term as follows: “The failure to observe, for the protection of the interests of another person, that degree of care, precaution and vigilance, which the circumstances justly demand, whereby such other person suffers injury.” And an examination of old and late cases will show the principle to be that, if the failure of the party to observe the proper care, precaution and vigilance be the immediate cause of the injury, though it happen by ill luck or accidentally, yet the party is answerable in trespass. Thus, where a balloon accidentally descended upon the plaintiff’s land, an action was held to be maintainable for'the injury. However, the jury will not be allowed to infer from the simple fact of an accident, that there was negligence or unskilfulness.
When the accident is inevitable, i. e., the result of circumstances over which the defendant had no control, no action for negligence will lie. Thus it was held,in Searles vs. Manhattan Ry. Co. 5 N.W., Rep. 66, that the mere fact that a cinder from a passing train lodged in the plaintiff’s eye gives no right of action, if the appliances upon such locomotive to prevent the escape of sparks and cinders were skilfully made, and the best known. So, also, where a horse took fright without any default n the driver, or any known propensity in the animal, and the plaintiff was injured. Otherwise when the falling of the tide caused a vessel to strand, as this could have been foreseen.
The principle, that a man is liable for all the injuries caused by his wrongful act, unless some new act, not incidental to, but independent of, the first, shall intervene, is of frequent application in cases of injuries sustained in consequence of negligence. Thus it was held in Powell vs. Devenny, 3 Cush. 300, that the defendant, who wrongfully left a truck standing in the street, where it was accidentally struck and hurled against the plaintiff, breaking her leg, was liable for the injury. In this case the injury, though directly and immediately brought about by an intervening act, was the legal consequence of the defendant’s original wrongful act, and as such left him liable.
The degree of care to be examined depends, to a large extent, upon the injury the want of care may cause to others. Thus, a person driving on the improper side of a street is bound to be more circumspect and careful than if he were on the regular side; , though he is not legally bound to keep on the regular side of the street. And it is held that a railroad company is not bound to exercise so high a degree of care in regard to the condition of the station grounds, as it is in regard to the condition and management of its engines and cars.
The degree of care required by the party injured is merely ordinary care and prudence, the peiils to be encountered, and all other circumstances under
148
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
which the injury was inflicted and received, being considered. Thus a greater degree of care is due from a traveller who has knowledge of the defects of a road than when he is ignorant of it; and where the party injured is an adult of ordinary mental capacity, but partially deaf, his infirmity, not being known to the defendants, will not increase their responsibility; nor will it excuse him from the full measure of care which prudent persons, partially deaf^ but conscious of their infirmity, would ordinarily observe under similar circumstances.
An employer is liable for. the negligence of his employes if such negligence occurred strictly in doing that which they were employed to do, or in acting within the scope of their authority. However, when the employer is not the proximate cause of the damage done, he is not responsible; so that a contractor and his servant are re'-ponsible, andj in general, not the person who employed the contractor. And where a contractor employs a subcontractor, the latter becomes responsible for the injuries caused by the negligence of those whom he employs himself; the contractor is not responsible.
When an employer lends’or hires his employe to another person, he is not responsible for- the consequences of his negligence, so long as he is under the orders and control of the person to whom he is so lent or hired. Another common exception to the general rule, that those who employ others are liable for their negligence, is where the injury has arisen from the wilful, .malicious, or negligent act of the servant not done in the execution of his duty. . A master is not in general responsible for any injury sustained by his servant, nor that caused by defective machinery, the dangerous nature of the employment, or by the negligence of a fellowservant. This principle rests upon the ground that the servant impliedly contemplates and undertakes the risks as incident to his employment. However, the master is bound to use due diligence rn the selection of competent and trusty servants, and must furnish them with suitable means to perform the service in which he employs them. If the ser-; vant knows that his machinery is .defective, but nevertheless continues to use it, he cannot recover. But the burden of proving contributory negligence devolves on the .master. Where a servant'gives notice to the master of the defective state of the machinery , used by him, but. continues his work on the strength of the promise that it would. be remedied, the master is amenable to him for an injury received in consequence of such defective machinery. /	. ■	-	-	/
In respect to the liability of an employer for the negligence of an employe, whether agent, ser--vant, or independent contractor,.the law makes no distinction between natural persons and corporations. A stranger who \;olunteers ?his services is. in the.same position as a servantr; -Thus the Su-, preme Court of Pennsylvania held that where a fireman, in the absence of the engineer,-stopped the train to take in water, and requested a boy standing by to put in the hose and: turn .on the water, and the boy was killed by an accident, there could be no recovery against the company,
It may not be improper to mention in this connection that the application of the principle with respect to servants in a common employ suffering by the negligence of each other, should be kept within reasonable bounds, and that the leaning should be against extending it.
. The general principle of law defining the civil responsibilities of physicians and surgeons are the same as those that apply to and govern the conduct of other classes of men whose employment requires them to transact business demanding special skill and knowledge. Physicians and surgeons impliedly contract with their employers to bring to the exercise of their profession a reasonable, fair, and competent , degree of skill. This degree of skill is what is commonly termed ordinary. It may differ according to locality and the means of information. It is never enough that, there has been a less degree of skill than some other members of the same profession might have shown, or. a less degree of care than they themselves might have bestowed. There must be a want of ordinary care, and it- must have led to a bad result. The responsibility of physicians and surgeons is the same where they are negligent as where, they lack ordinary skill. The measure of indemnity and damages, however, may be different.
The utmost care is required by those who prepare medicine or sell drugs, as the least carelessness may prove injurious or even fatal. Any mistake made by them, if the result of carelessness or ignorance, renders them liable to the injured party. The gravamen of the charge against them is, as in the case of physicians and surgeons, want of ordinary skill and care. An apothecary, if guilty, of criminal negligence, and fatal results follow, may be convicted of manslaughter. “The attorney is liable for the consequences of ignorance or nonobservance of the rules of practice of the court, . for the want of care in the preparation of the cause for trial, or of attendance thereon with his witnesses, and for the management of so much of the conduct of a cause as is usually and ordinarily allotted to his department of the profession.” An attorney is not, however, liable for errors in judgment, whether in matters of law or discretion. The negligence must be great to.make the attorney liable to an action by his client. .
The question of negligence is generally one of fact for the jury, and every case ought to. depend upon its own peculiar circumstances. Liabilities as regards negligence attaching to bailments depend greatly upon the character-of the bailment. The best general division of bailments, for practical purposes, is into three kinds: . 1st, those which are for the benefit of the bailor, or of some person _ whom he represents; 2d, those for the benefit of the bailee, or. some : person represented by him; 3d, those which are. for the benefit of both parties. . There are three-degrees of negligence for which the bailee is responsible according to the purpose arid object Jof, the-bailment, as shown in. the above three classes. Thus, in the first, case the bailee isonly answerable for. great neglect. And he will not even be: answerable for great or •-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
gross negligence, if the bailor knew him to be O	Oct/
such a person that ordinary care could not reasonably be expected from him. As to the second class, the bailee is answerable even for slierht ne?-• ______	o	**
lect. The bailee, however, is not answerable for reasonable wear and tear, or for robbery, or unavoidable casualty, unless he improperly keeps it after its return is requested. As to the third class, the bailee is required to use ordinary care—such care as men of common prudence ordinarily exercise upon their own affairs—and is responsible for ordinary neglect. The owner must stand all risks to which the thing bailed is naturally liable. Thus, if a horse should die on the road by the injudicious treatment of a farrier called by the bailee, the latter would not be responsible. There is a supplementary class, founded upon'the policy of the law, in which the bailee is answerable at all events, subject to certain exceptions. In these cases the bailee is considered as an insurer of the safety of the thing bailed. As this class of bailments applies mainly to common carriers and innkeepers, it will be more fully considered under these headings.
When a person derives no benefit from the bailment, as when he receives the goods of another to keep without recompense, he is responsible only for bad faith or gross negligence. However, if he spontaneously offer to keep the goods of another, a greater amount of care is required of him. - In general, a common carrier .is one who, for a pecuniary remuneration, regularly transports from place to place, whether by land or water, the chattels of all such as choose to employ him.
The definition includes stage-coach proprietors, railroad companies, truckmen, wagoners, teamsters, carmen, and porters; also the owners of barges, lighters, and merchantships, and of any kind of vessels used to carry freight of any kind for all who choose to employ them.
At common law the carrier is in the nature of an insurer of the chattels he transports until they reach the place to which they are consigned; and he is consequently responsible for all loss or damage during transportation, from any cause, except from the shipper’s carelessness, or from natural causes, such as fermentation, frost, evaporation,. decay, unavoidable wear and tear, or from the act: of God or the public enemy. With the exceptions just given, a common carrier is liable for loss even though there may have been no negligence on his part, or though the danger or accident may have been unavoidable. Pirates are considered as enemies of all mankind, and are ranked with what is commonly understood by public enemies.
The responsibility of the carrier, as such, terminates as soon as he has given notice of the arrival of the chattels at the place to which they were consigned, and has waited a reasonable time for, the consignee to fetch them. After that the car-; rier becomes an ordinary bailee, and- is only responsible for ordinary care. So, also, where the goods are refused at the consignee’s address.
The common carrier must be treated in good ■ faith, and any concealment, artifice, or suppression of the.truth will relieve: him from liability. Thus,.
where a man hid a hundred pounds of money in some hay in an old mail bag, and consigned it to a common carrier, to be carried to a banker, and the money was lost, it was held that the carrier was not responsible for the loss, as the consigner had neglected to inform him of the exceeding value of the bag, and had thereby prevented him from taking proper care of it. . It may happen, however, that the consigner for reason refuses to disclose the contents of a package, and in such a case the carrier is neither absolved from liability for negligence, nor can.he refuse to_carry.it. If a person agrees to have his goods carried at a lower rate “at owner’s risk,’’the carrier is not thereby exempted from liability for negligence resulting in loss, but only from accidents in going along the . rail.	.
In America, where goods are so addressed as to necessitate their transportation by successive, railroads, or other transportation, the different carriers are only liable for damage or loss occurring through negligence during the time the goods are on their respective lines. ‘ It isbtherwise in England. There the courts hold the first carrier who accepted the goods addressed to a place beyond, his route responsible for the whole distance, unless he .expressly limit his responsibility to the extent of his own route only. .	.
In England a common carrier may contract, in express and unambiguous terms, against his own negligence, or that of his employe or agent, in cases where the goods are not such as he publicly professes to carry, or such as are attended with special trouble or risk. It is otherwise, in this country.	’
(to be continued.)	.
Art, Music and Literature.
—A unique manuscript has been sold at the Rue Drouot in Paris for 5^500. francs. It is an autograph by the First Napoleon of a history of Corsica, which he wrote at Ajaccio in 1790. .
—Three of the forty “Immortals” have lately died in Paris in rapid succession—Caro,Viel-Castel, . and Cuvillier-Fleury. Lesseps is now, at 81, the oldest academician, while the historian, Nisard, who was elected in 1850, is the oldest member. -
—A diplomatic history of the civil war is to be the next contribution to that siibject. W.C.Tisch- ' man, of-St. Louis, is collecting material for it in the shape of lettersand details of the relations of the southern confederacy with England and France.
—A poetical address delivered by Tom Hood to a.literary society, of which he was president, is.to -be published in the next.number of Murray's ■ Magazine. The MS.—in the poet’s handwriting —was discovered among the papers of the secretary ; many years after Hood recited it. -
:—“Le Bourgeois- Gentilhomme,” the second of '. M. Cotte’s “ Contes Tires de Moliere,” has justbeen issued by William R. Jenkins, New York.; The T author has made a delightful little romance out of ‘
15°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Moliere’s delightful comedy, and the series promises to be an excellent prototype of Charles Lamb’s “ Tales of Shakspeare.”
—An international art exhibition is to be held at Munich next year, which will have the character of a centennial jubilee—the first art exhibition ever made in Munich having taken place in 1788. Almost all the European art corporations have already expressed their intention to contribute largely. Special measures are to be taken in order to assure a good representation of the United States.
—The ballad which Robert Louis Stevenson, the author of “Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde,” who is now in this country, will contribute to the Christmas Scribner's is the first which he has ever published, and those who have read it say that it will surprise the most ardent admirers of his versatility by its vigor and stirring movement combined with delicate imagery. It has an American title— “ Ticonderoga.” '
—The Shakspeare memorial fountain at Stratford-upon-Avon presented by George W. Childs, combines drinking- fountains for man, cattle and dogs, and a four-dial clock, to be illuminated at night and furnished with musical chimes. It is built of polished Scotch granite and Yorkshire freestone, and is about fifty feet in height. The design is bold and significant, the carving profuse and rich. In the base are the troughs and basins of the fountain in polished Peterhead granite. Over these on the four sides are pointed marble arches on columns with carved capitals. In the four rectangular spaces beneath the springing lines of the arches are inscriptions, selected and arranged by Dr. Macaulay. In the second story are arcades of three arches, with circular turrets at the corners, and in the upper stories the four dials of the clock under enriched gables, with finals representing Mustard Seed, Cobweb, Moth, Pea Blossom. The buttresses of the lower story terminate in lions and eagles alternately, bearing shields with the arms of Great Britain and with the Stars and Stripes of the.United States. The entire cost of the memorial was sixty thousand dollars.—Home Journal.
Scientific Notes.
—The latest feature of ballooning is a steam balloon..- One is now promised from Paris. It is shaped like,a fish, and is about 200 feet in length. The engine is suspended in a car beneath. It weighs 3,300 pounds, and is connected with a propelling screw. The inventor expects to make about fourteen miles per hour.
—On the 4th inst., Moses Gunn, an eminent physician and surgeon, died at his residence in Chicago. He had for a long time been in charge of St. Joseph’s Hospital, and was well known in medical circles throughout the country. In surgery he was especially skilful, and the list of operations performed by him under circumstances of doubtful issue attracted wide attention.	.	’
—It is stated that the height of the human body
is generally ten times the length of the face. When the arms are extended horizontally, the distance between the points of the middle fingers equals the length of the body. The face is as long as the hand. The arm is four times the length of the face. The sole is one-sixth the .length of the body and six times the thickness of the hand equals the thickness of the body. ,
—At the Newcastle exhibition can be seen a new locomotive, run by compressed air. It is intended for underground work especially, and has already been employed in several of the Durham mines. It has a weight of about two tons and runs on a narrow-gauge, 33^-inch track. The maximum load which the engine will draw is twelve tons. The air is at 400 pounds’ pressure, and, with a load of five tons on an ordinary road, a single air-charge will last one mile.
—M. Faye, the well-known French astronomer, has drawn attention, at a recent meeting of the French Academy of Sciences, to the apparent geological law that the cooling of the terrestrial crust goes on more rapidly under the sea than with a land surface. Hence he argues that the crust must thicken under oceans at a more rapid rate, and so give rise to a swelling up and distortion of the thinner portions of the crust; in other words, to the formation of mountain chains.	.
—The famous floating island of the Derwent-water, England, has come to the surface again after a long disappearance. This is a mass of decaying vegetation forming a layer of peat, on top of which is a thin covering of clay bound together by the roots of vegetation. It rests on the clay bottom of the lake, but sometimes some force, supposed to be in the gases generated by the decaying matter, causes it to rise to the surface. Its extent sometimes reaches half an acre, and it rises and falls with the water, until, finally, it sinks out of sight again, to be gone probably for several years.
—Various methods have been introduced for the accomplishment of nocturnal photography, and some of the most beautiful landscape views taken at night by the light of the full moon have been produced in France, the time of exposure of the plate being one hour; the clearness of the photograph is described as being wonderful; and, except for the lights in the buildings and on the bridges, and their reflection in the -water, the picture could hardly be distinguished from one taken in the daytime., Another photographer obtains very excellent views of his library at night by ordinary gas light; in this case the time of exposure was only thirty minutes, an achievement somewhat remarkable, in view of the fact that the old-fashioned wet collodion plates were almost entirely unaffected by the light from such a source.	•
—An editorial in the Popular Science Hews recites some of the curiosities of names of chemical compounds, which, when their inappropriateness is considered, appear extremely ludicrous. Thus: Oil of vitriol is no oil, neither are oil of turpentine and kerosene. -! Copperas is ah iron compound, and contains no copper. Salts of lemon is the extremely
THE WOTRE DAME SCHOEASTiL.	151
poisonous oxalic acid. Carbolic acid is not an acid, but an alcohol. Cobalt contains none of that metal, but arsenic. Soda-water has no trace of soda, nor does sulphuric cither contain any sulphur. Sugar of lead has no sugar, cream of tartar has nothing of cream, nor milk of lime any milk. Oxygen means the acidmaker: but hydrogen is the essential element of all acids, and many contain no oxygen. German silver contains no silver, and black lead no lead. Mosaic gold is simph' a sulphide of tin. This list might readily be extended, both in chemistry and other natural sciences; and it is only fair to state that these terms all come from the older writers, and have given way to a more scientific nomenclature.
—It has long been known that all fabrics, even the most delicate gauzes and muslins, may be rendered uninflammable by chemical treatment, and in view of the recent terrible disaster, and of many preceding ones, says the London Lancet, it would surely not be too much to insist that all dresses, hangings, side scenes, and the like, worn or used on the stage, should be thus treated. Fires almost always begin on the stage, or near it, and'no one who has been behind the scenes before or during a performance can wonder at it. It is not too much to say that there is always an imminent risk of fire, and every cause which can lead to it should, as far as possible, be removed. Of course, other reforms are necessary, especially means for the prevention, of.panic—electric lighting, the fire-proof curtain, the smoke exit, the fireman always ready with his hose, and greater facilities for escape. But if any or all of these were adopted, and insisted on, it would still be most desirable that as many as possible of the articles which commonly lead to the disasters should be rendered fire-proof. It would be a feather in the cap of any of our managers on this side who should adopt this suggestion.
College Gossip.
—Dr. William Goddard, of Charlestown, Mass., is the oldest living graduate of Harvard College. He was born in 1796, graduated in 1815, and is the only living member of his class.
—Volapuk, the universal language invented by a German priest, the Rev. C. Schleyer, though but eight years old as a language, has gained more or less currency in Syria, Arabia, Russia, America, Asia, and North Africa, as well as in the countries of central Europe. Its .vocabulary fills several hundred pages.
—A New England school teacher put a list of nouns on the blackboard, with a written direction to add “s or es” to make the plural. One little fellow looked at the list a long time and then said, sadly, when asked if his lesson was prepared: « No’m. I can’t add sores to those words and make them mean more than one.”
—The Hon. Benjamin Harris Brewster sold his great law library to the University of Pennsyl-. vania because it was too large for private use, and
he wanted to have it where it would do the most good. He did not dispose of it for financial reasons, or because of any intention of retiring from the practice of his profession.	-
—Prof. Maria Mitchell commencement-day at Vassar gives a breakfast party in the dome of her observatory. The guests are those who have been students in astronomy. After breakfast, which is served on little tables in the dome and in the meridian room, come poems, sonnets, epigrams, and other rhymes, chiefly anonymous, most of them from the pen of Prof. Mitchell herself. Each student has a rhyme addressed to her, and each student in turn has one for Prof. Mitchell.
—How the use of tobacco was regarded in New England in the early days, two laws show. One was made at Harvard, soon after the foundation of the institution, and read: “No scholars shall take tobacco unless permitted by the President, with the consent of their parents and guardians, and on good reason first given by a physician, and then in a sober and private manner.” The other is in the Old Massachusetts Colony laws, and prescribes the punishment for any one “ who shall smoke tobacco within twenty poles of any house, or who shall take tobacco in any inn or common victualling house, except in a private room, so as that neither the innster of said house nor any other guest shall take offence thereat.”
—The Mayor of New York is a clear-headed, outspoken and competent official, and he looks after the public interests of the community with the same methods that he conducts his vast private business. Acting as a member of the Board of Apportionment the other day, he examined, one after another, the items of proposed expenditure. When he came to the sum of $76,000, asked by the Normal College, he frankly said that, in his opinion, it was not the function of the Government to furnish the higher education that is supplied by the Normal College and the College of the City of New York. His Honor is correct—it is an injustice to the taxpayers of this town to compel them to give a training in the ornamental branches of study to the children of the rich.— Catholic Revie-w.
—“ So your sons are all through college, are they? ” asked Mrs. Smiley of Mrs. Lofty.—“ Yes, indeed,” replied Mrs. Lofty. “ The dear fellows! I am so proud of them! Each of them made his mark. Only think of it! George won the gold medal for being the bestpolo player in his class!”— “Indeed!”—“ O, yes; and Harry was never beaten once at lawn-tennis.during the last two years he was in college. He has ever so many badges and medals.”—“How gratifying to you!”—“Indeed it is! And my son Will went ahead of his whole class at baseball and is regarded as the most promising first base the college ever turned out! We o	. c? -■	_ ,
are all so proud of him! But all our hopes are centered in our son Leo, who graduated two years ago. He has come out winner in every boat-race-he has. rowed; and, only think of it, we used to really fear that it was a waste of time and money to send him to college at all.”—Free Press.
i52
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
WHM SCHOUSTE
Notre Dame, November 12, 1887.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Twenty-First year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Sr.^o per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Our Staff.
G. H. Craig, ’88,	P.VD. Brownson, ’88,
James Burns, ’88,	Chas, P. Neill, ’89.
—We hope every student realizes the necessity or at least the duty of joining one of the literary or dramatic societies of the University. Beside the enjoyment to be had in attending the society meetings,1 and the pleasure of occasionally being able tq, vary the tediousness of the study-hall, the societies prepare students in a great measure for public life. In the society is required a good knowledge of parliamentary law. In appearing before his fellow-students in debate or declamation, essay or oration, the speaker obtains self-control and the courage requisite to face an audience. After leaving college we are often placed in those positions where it is necessary for us to make a few remarks in public, and this cannot be successfully done without some previous training which is best procured in a good literary or dramatic association.
—The following short extract will be found to contain much that is instructive to the student:
“ The author urges the student to ‘ make a collection in writing of all those matters which he has found most striking or best adapted for his object as a preacher, in the course of his reading. Locos sibi com parabit, says the great St. Charles, quibus audiiorum animi commoveri solcnt ad amo-rem Dei?. This ‘ making of notes,’ supposes a very considerable amount of labor and systematic . industry, and hence, perhaps, these remarks may not bear much practical fruit. At the same time, let the young reader be convinced that if he is to attain any degree of excellence as a preacher it
will be only by the same means by which excellence is attained in every other science or art—a good deal of hard study and of hard labor. If he is to reach the goal, he must fit himself for the running. If he is to carry off the prize, he must be content to pay the price. We have the authority of many learned and holy men on this point. The learned Pope St. Damasus regarded as so much lost time that which he spent in reading of which he did not take notes. Lectioncm sine stylo somnium puta. The great St. Charles, the example of all that is holy and becoming in an ecclesiastic, had an immense collection of ‘notes’; and in the preface to his homilies he confesses that they were of the greatest assistance to him in helping him to write and vary his instructions. The rules of the Society of Jesus, so full of the deepest and most practical wisdom, prescribe this collecting of matter to preachers. St. Francis Xavier, one of the most illustrious members of the order, thus speaks on this point: ‘Be assured that what we commit to paper is imprinted more deeply on the mind. The very trouble of writing it and the time which is spent in doing so engrave the matter on the memory. Be assured too,’ he continues, ‘ that even those matters which move us most deeply are very soon forgotten. They will leave no lasting fruit behind them if we do not, whikt our ideas are still fresh, make a note of them, so that we can refresh our memory with them when necessity' requires. The fruit which we derive from a perusal of our notebooks is like that of miners who come again upon some vein of precious metal which they had lost, and which, now that they have found it again, they work with the greatest profit and advantage.’ Words as full of practical wisdom as they are of truth. One of the most remarkable things in the late illustrious and gifted Cardinal Wiseman, and one which caused most astonishment, was the facility with which he could, at a very short notice, and with an amount of information and depth of thought truly surprising, lecture upon almost any given subject, upon any branch of science or art, sacred or profane. The fact is not so very wonderful, or, to speak more correctly, it is more easily understood, if what was related to us be true, viz., that from his earliest years he was accustomed to read with a pencil in hand, making notes as he went along, no matter what might be the subject of his reading, of everything that struck him as worthy of being remembered.”
Address to the Holy Father.
Following we give the text and translation of the address from the Catholic Total Abstinence Union of America to His Holiness Pope Leo XIII on the occasion of his sacerdotal Golden Jubilee:
Beatissime Pater:
Quacquidem litteras Romae apud S. Petrum die XXVII Martii datas atque ad Reyerendissiinum Johannem Ireland a S. Paulo Episcopum mittendas curasti, ere nobis Perfect® Abstinentia: sociis, in Foederatis America: Statibus vitam agitantibus, maximam certe laetitiam, nec non singulare incitamentum attulere. Qiiippe quum in nostra hac regione
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	153
ad extirpandum teterrimum istud Intemperantite vitium per varias fortume vices lot annos e.aboraverimus, nobile hoc consilium per grandiloquam Summi Pontificis vocem tandem probation esse ac confirmatum videmus. Nihil enim nobis jucundius, nihil cunctis orbis terrarum fidelibus elncacius esse potuit, quam ut opportunam sanctissimam-que Temperanliie causam suprema Christi Vicarii auctoritas patrocinaretur.
Nunc vero, quum Sanctitatis Vestrie ingenium ac vir-tutes orbis uterque celebrando conjuugatur, nos quoque, licet omnium humillimos, in tanto laudum concentu silere nefas esset. Dies enim nos deficiat, si enumerare velimus quot et quanta per decern Pontificatus annos Leo perfece-rit. Nonne firmiter cogitando, smviterque cunc a dispo-nendo magis perfectam reddidit Ecclesue Cathobcie di»-ciplinam? Nonne \eterem Apos’olorum Fidem etiam per Slavonicas gentes restauravit, novosque populos a 1 ultimos u-que mundi fines unius Pastoris ovili restituit? Nonne per indefessam patientiam artesque callidissimas superbum ferrei Cancellarii caput repre>sit, atque arbiter integerrimus certamini Germanium inter et HLpaniam ingravescent! pacificum finem imposuit? Hie prot’ecto vir ma**nas em-icat, cui contigit ut non solum phiiosophicas Aquinalis doctrinas novo decore adornaret, ac sapientissima de civ ili-bus politicisque rebus documenta ipsa manu exararet, verum etiam privalis simul ac publicis calamitalibus salu-berriina proponens remedia, Civiltatem cum Revelatione, modernasque scientias cum divina Fide reconciliaret. Ecce nunc immobili Petri saxo innixus, piscatoris cymba infal-libdis stat Leo, facie nitidus, fronteque serenus, qui, dum sexce itte circum mugiunt procelke, totque minitantur hostes, benignissimatn Verbi Divini lucem Urbi et Orbi spar-gere non dubitat, qua regibus populisque recta agendi via ubique monstretur!
Grande quidem nobis ante oculos obversatur spectacu-lum! Quicumque enim per orbem universum existant Catholici, imo Hasretici atque etiam Infideles, omnes uno ore talem ac tantum Pontificem salutant; omnes Leoni Victori, Pontifici Maximo, publice congratulantur, quod ipse quinquagesimum Sacerdutii annum feliciter comple-verit; omnes summo exultant gaudio, quod antiqua Petri Cathedra tanta scientiie, prudentiie ac pietatis gloria circum fulserit.
Quod igitur mirum si. in die hujusce Aurei Jubiliei Anniversario, omnes orbis totius principes ac fideles Au-guslissimo Leoni XIII summam admirationem, fiiialemque venerationem exprimere, Roime Regi atque Episcoporum Episcopo vota prolundere, nec non amplis^ima munera deferre icmulentur? Nos, quoque, Beatissimo Patri semper addictissimi gratissimoque corde moti, Deo O. M. per Im-maculatam Virgmeni Mariam, regionis hujus Patronam. ad Leonis salutem et felicitatem, ferventissimas preces oft’erre festinabimus. Insuper, quotquot per Fcederatos Status sancto Perfects Ab-tinentiie feedere conjunct! simus, in Generali Conventu hoc anno nuper habito ad tuenda pro-movendaque Religionis ac Civitatis jura, statuimus ut Unionis nostrie ConsLitutiones ac Decreta Romain mitter-entur, Summoque Pontifici humillime subjicerentur. Hie nempe nobis inest animus, luce est firmissima omnium convictio, ut, ducibus Ecclesite Pastoribus ac ministris ne-fandam ebriositatis pestem ab ovili Christi depellamus, horrendasque calamitates ex tanto vitio animabus hominum impendentes omni ope atque opera avertcre contendamus. Hine innumeras condidimus societates, quibus pauperes praesertim atque magnarum urbium operatores ad servan-dam Temperantiam excitarentur: hinc maxime omnium juvenes in gvmnasiis atque Uni versitalibus educandos bonis Christianisque moribus imbuere magis magisque conamur, quo tutius ab omnibus, quicumque fuerint, fermentatis liquoribus abhorrerent. Quum vero “ vis unita fortior ” sit, en quinquaginta millia hominum, priesidentibus epis-copis ac sacerdotibus, solemni vinculo publicaque promis-sione sese obstrinxerunt, utadversus grassantem ebriositatis labem bellum indicerent, ipsique omnibus abstinentiie ex-emplo prielucentes, Diem. Dominicam sanctificare, Sacra-menta pie recipere, Romano Pontifici amorem obedienti-amque pnestare cunctas denique' Christianas virtutes colere niterentur.
Hiec dona, ad Sanctitatis Vestrie pedes provoluti, sincero corde et animo volenti eft'undimus; hisce promissis nos stricte adhtesuros pollicemur, quo melius acerbos Papie
dolores solari possimus, fortior Respublica nostra evadat, Calholica Fides magis in dies crescat, latius floreat per nostram hanc verte libertatis terrain aurea pietatis tetas, uberioresque sanctitatis fructus America producat. Hiec, ' precor, Bcatissiine Pater, vota benigno animo excipias, his tuorum filiorum conatibus faveas, atque omnibus Perfeclte Abstinentiie sociis Apostolicam Benedictionem impertias.
LonGUM, LOXGUM V1VAT PAPA, LEO, REX'.
[Translation.]
Most Holy Father:
The letter which your Holiness wrote from St. Peter’s, Rome, March 27 and caused to be sent to the Rt. Rev. John Ireland, Bishop of St. Paul, brought great joy and unusual encouragement to us, the members of the Total Abstinence SocielL-s of .America. For, after naving labored for so many years with varying success, to extirpate this terrible vice of Intemperance from our country, we now see this grand undertaking approved and confirmed by the noble words o! the Sovereign Pontiff'. Nothing could give us greater joy; nothing could be more efficacious with the people of the whole world, than that the authority of the Vicar of Christ shouid sanction this timely and most sacred cause of Temperance.
Now, when the whole world is joined in honoring the genius anil virtue of your Holiness, it would be unbecoming in us, although the least of all, to he silent in such a concert of praise. Time would fail us if we sought to enumerate how many and great things during the ten years of his Pontificate Leo has effected. Has he not by his decisive judgment, and by sweetly disposing all things, rendired the discipline of the Church more perfect? Has he not also revived the primitive faith of the Apostles among the Sclavic nations, and brought into the Fold of the one Shepherd peoples in the uttermost parts of the world? Has he not, with unwearying patience and the most skilful diplomacy, boweJ the proud head of the Iron Chancellor; and, honestly exercising the office of mediator, brought to a peaceful i.-sue the threatened conflict between Germany and Spiin? In all this there shines forth the man truly great, who has not only added new lustre to the philosophical doctrines of Aquinas, and, with his own hand written most wise documents on civil and political matters, but also while suggesting most salutary remedies for private and public evils has admirably joined together civil polity and divine revelation, modern science and divine faith. Behold now firmly standing upon the immovable rock of Peter the infallible Leo with beaming countenance and serene brow and, while storms without number howl around and so many enemies threaten, he shrinks not from spreading the benign light of the Divine Word throughout the world, by which governments and peoples everywhere are shown the right course of action.	-
Grand, indeed, is the spectacle presented before our eyes! For Catholics everywhere throughout the world, even heretics and infidels, too, all join in greetings to such and so great a Pontiff’; all publicly congratulate the victorious Leo, the Supreme Pontiff’, that he has happily- completed the fiftieth year of his priesthood; all exult with joy- that the ancient Chair of Peter is surrounded by such a halo of learning, prudence and piety-.
What wonder, then, that on the Golden anniversary, the rulers and faithful throughout the world should vie wi’h one another in expressing their admiration and filial reverence towards the most august Leo XIII, and bringing their best gifts to the King of Rome and the Bishop of Bishops? We, also, ever devoted and grateful to our most Holv Father, hasten to offer our most fervent pray-ers to Almighty God, through the intercession of the Immaculate Virgin Mary, the patron of this our country, for the 'health and happiness of Leo. Moreover, we, who have banded throughout the United States in a sacred bond of Total Abstinence, having assembled in general Convention during the year in order to foster and promote the rights of Religion and State, have decided to send to Rome the Constitution and By-Laws of our Union, and with all humility submit the same for the approbation of the Sovereign Pontiff. For the grand aim of all our efforts is, under the guidance of the pastors and ministers of the Church, to

i54
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
eradicate from the Fold of Christ this terrible plague of drunkenness, and by all means possible ward off the fright ful evils which lesultfrom this vice, and i hi eaten the .-ouls of men. To this end we have established many societies by which the poor and the laboring classes in our large cities nwv be i/7ciled to the practice of Temperance: to this end. in our colleges and Universities, we have especially striven to instil into the minds of the young the true principles of Chi istian morality, that they may learn the better to abhor fermented liquor ol any kind whatsoever, inasmuch as “in union there is strength,” fifty thousand men, with bishops and priests at their head have publicly' bound themselves by a solemn and sacred promise to wage unceasing war against the evil of drunkenness, and thus making themselves an example among men, they’ strive to keep holy' the Lord’s Day; to devoutly frequent the S cra-ments; to give proof of their love and obedience to the Sovereign Pontiff, and, in a word, to practise all Christian virtues.
Prostrate at the feet of your Holiness, we offer these gifts with sincere hearts and willing souls. What we have promised we herewith pledge ourselves to stand by, that we may’ the better console the Pope in his bitter afflictions; that our Republic may’ increase in strength; that the Catholicfaith may, day by’ day, flouri-h more and more; that the golden age of piety may’ more widely prosper through this land of true libeny; that America may more abu dantly’ produce fruits of holiness. We beseech you, Holy’ Father, benignantly to receive these our supplications, and favor the work of your children, and to bestow the Apostolic Benediction on all the members of Total Abstinence Societies.
Long, long live Leo, Our Pope, Our King!
The address is beautifully printed on white satin in blue and gold colots, and artistically illuminated by Signor Gregori, of the University.
The New Catholic University.
[The following we printfrom advance sheets of the Catholic World for December, being part of Bishop Keane’s second article on the Catholic University:]
Thanks to the noble labors of our predecessors, our country is blessed with many excellent seminaries for the training of young ecclesiastics, just as with many excellent colleges for the education of our lay youth. But our seminaries can no more take the place of a university course of divinity than our colleges can suppl}' for the superior education given in its other faculties. The young ecclesiastic who, by the time of his ordination, has gained sufficient acquaintance with divinity studies to fit him for starting in the ordinary work of the ministry, knows well, if he understands his situation at all, that he is but a novice in the divine science; that he has but climbed the lower heights of the mountain of.sacred learning, and attained to but a rudimentary development of the intellectual capabilities for which the vast field of the holy ministry gives scope. Many a young man feels keenly the disadvantage of having to lay aside systematic study, and to be removed from educational helps just at the time when the advance which he has been able to make during his seminary term has only opened up to his intellectual eyes heights and vistas yet unreached,and for which 'his soul must yearn in vain. Many a young priest who, perhaps, did not feel this so keenly at the time of his ordination, who may have been glad to .lay aside class-work for the .work of the ministry,.
learns in after-years, from contact with the world and better acquaintance with its needs, how many and how great arc still his intellectual deficiencies, and can only sigh with regret that means and aids for further study, in directions which he would long to advance in, are not within his reach.
Why should the Church in America lack any educational advantage which any other country possesses? If our country’s providential vocation, or that of the Church in our New World, were humbler and less important than that of other nations, we might be content to hold a lower educational position than theirs. But the testimonies of great minds adduced in our last article are quite to the contrary. Hence whatever means of higher education any other country possesses America need', and, with God’s help, must have. We need facilities for students of exceptional ability to advance higher and farther than the limits of the ordinary seminary course. We need a home of sacred science where priests who have had some experience in the practical ministry, and have thence learned to appreciate better what they might be and are not, may come to stay awhile in order to burnish the learning they already have, and to take a course in some specialty in which they wish to perfect themselves. We need an arsenal of learning to which the priests of our country, and its laity too, may at any time have recourse for all the offensive and defensive armor of which they may stand in need amid the thousand piercing questions that press upon them. We need an institution whose watch-towers shall scan the farthest.horizon of the learning of the day, and whose spires shall lift the cross of. Christ so high that it will be a beacon guide to the loftiest intellects in our land. We need a true university, which will show to our doubting age all knowledge meeting in the divine truth and radiating from it. We need a nursery and training ground for the scholars of the future —scholars whose genius will be like that of our country, the freest and boldest and noblest, yet the safest and most conservative of all.
Such is the great need which the Catholic University of America must aim at supplying.- .No matter how gradual may be its beginnings, that must be its purpose, the goal of its endeavor. Surely its establishment must be a joy to all who have felt the need and the craving for what it is meant to supply, and to all who, with generous hearts, for the greater glory of the Church and the higher welfare of our people, desire that others should have more abundant educational facilities than themselves were ever blessed with.
The halls of the university are to be wide open to every one, without limit or distinction, who is able and anxious to profit by the superior courses taught in them. As the professorial chairs are to be open to the whole world, to laymen and clerics, to seculars and regulars, with no distinction save that of merit, so the students’ benches are to have no conditions save’those of fitness for higher studies and zeal to profit by them. We look forward with glad expectancy to the day when our divinity college will be.surrounded with homes in which

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	155
students not only of various dioceses or provinces, but also of the various religious congregations, will live and study under such discipline as their superiors may determine, and at the same time attend the university courses, thus imbibing- at once the spirit of their institute and the noblest streams of sacred learning, and building up a real republic of letters.
Nor can the establishment of the university be less a joy to the laity than to the clergy. Nowhere in the world can a body of Catholics be found who are more devoted to their clergy, more proud of their excellence, more sensitive about the Church’s honor and the intellectual standing of her ministers, than the Catholics of America. Far from grudging that the clergy should have the first-fruits of this institution of higher learning, they will assuredly consider it eminently proper, and would regret to see it otherwise. Besides, it need not be long, please God, before the faculties for lay students will be gradually added to the faculty of divinity. As the growth of a central life-germ begins as soon as it finds the needed environment and temperature, so from this central life-giving sacred science will grow forth, we trust, with little if any delay, all the other branches of study that will gradually complete the full roundness of university education. Then the clergy will share with the laity, and the laity with the clergy, in all the rich abundance of the intellectual feast. Thus the studies of each order in the university will be enlightened and broadened and polished by intelligent and judicious contact with the studies of every other, and the best minds in our clergy arid our laity will be drawn and bound together in closer ties of intellectual brotherhood. How this development may go on we will inquire in our next article.
John J. Keane.
Letter from Very Rev. Father General.
The following letter, from the Verv Rev. Foun-O'	J
der of Notre Dame, was received during the week, and explains itself:
Neuilly-sur-Seine, October 22, 18S7.
To the Juniors of Notre Dame.
My Dear Young Friends:—Yesterday morning I received a delightful letter from your Pi esident. Among the many pleasant informations it contained, there was one which, in itself, rejoiced me more than I can express. “You will remember,” he says, “ that you promised the J un-• iors a grand Parisian dinner, when they reached the num* ber 200. They intend to keep you to the promise strictly, and are making anxious inquiries about you, as they now have about 190 in their department. “I must say,” he adds, “ that we aie pleased, not only with their number, but even more with their quality.” And, finally, he concludes by saying: “I do not think that we ever had in the department better boys, in every sense of the term.” Before such glowing eulogium I hasten to say: I will keep my promise, and I will see that the banquet itself may also prove a delight to all in quantity, and above all, in quality.
It is a common saying here, in the little village of Paris, that les sucreries and les bonbons, and all the new inventions that go to make a finished desert, never before reached the perfection they now possess. The thought alone of the J un-xors’ dinner would make me doubly regret the recent loss of
my old teeth, were it not for the new set I expect to get next Monday morning, just before leavirigfor Rome. Mavyouall enjoy the privilege of Moses! It is a terrible affair to sit at table for three weeks without a tooth! Take good care of yours, physically and morally. Teeth are often mentioned and signify much, even in the Holy Bible. But we speak of a banquet and not of the sad dungeon of the wicked, ubi crit Jlelus el stridor dentium.
In haste for the mail,
Your old friend,
E. Sorin, C. S. C.
Personal.
—D. Byrne, (Law) ’86, has a lucrative practice in Minneapolis, Minn.
—L.~ Mathers, ’86, is now located near Monica, Ill., busily engaged cum rebus rusticis.
—Rev. T. O’Sullivan, ’58, of Chicago, paid a pleasant visit to the College during the week, and was warmly greeted by hosts of friends.
—Among the recent arrivals at the University is Prof. Krug who will have charge of the Band, Orchestra and the classes of vocal music. Prof. Krug is from Pennsylvania, and comes here well recommended. He will undoubtedly be a valuable addition to the musical faculty.
—Vincent Padilla, of ’87, writing to an old friend here, says he is now engaged in “ teaching the young idea how to shoot.” He was unanimously elected by the board of Directors to fill the chair of English, in the college of his native city, Lagos, Mexico. The “Count” has not forgotten his college home, and expects to visit and see all his old friends and Professors here next vacation.
—Rt. Rev. Monsignore Straniero, in a recent letter addressed to one of the Professors at Notre Dame, desires to be remembered to each of his friends in the University and the Academy. He lately returned to Rome after making an extended trip through Egypt, Palestine and the Southwestern part of Europe, and he is now stationed at the Vatican in the office of the Papal Secretary of State.
—Among the visitors during the week were: S. R. Stanwood, Brooklyn, N. Y.; Mrs. H. M. Young, Albany, N. Y.; Mrs. E. B. Dunning, Paw Paw, Mich.; Mrs. J. Paquette, Detroit, Mich.; A. Henquenet, Hope, Kansas; Mr. and Mrs. Dr. L. J. Willien and daughter, Terre Haute, Ind.; H. B. Leehman, Nappnee, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. Wooster, Mrs. Marchael, Milton, Mich.; Mrs. M. Booersox, McAllister, Penn.; Mrs. D. A. Nags, Benton Harbor, Mich.; Hon. R. M. Murray, Piqua, Ohio; Jacob Voelm, Canal Dover, Ohio; W. E. Riddel, Omaha,Neb.; Mrs. W.Brinckman,Michigan City, Ind.; Miss A. Salo w, Erie, Penn.; Mrs. B. Solomon, Homer, Ill.; Mrs. A.and Mr. W. Cartier, Luddington, Mich.; J. Davis,Niles,Mich.; Miss P.Schrack, Salt Lake, Utah; Mrs. B. Albright and Miss E. Albright, Plymouth, Ind.; Mrs. L. and the Misses Schmaiiss, Rockford, III.; Mr. and Mrs. M. B. Violette, Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Violette, Goshen, Ind.; Miss F. Barnes, Coldwater, Mich.; Miss M. E. Garroutte, Woodland, Cal.; Miss R. Darragh, St; Paul, Minn. - .
156
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Local Items.
—Democracy forever!
—The “Grads” did nobly.
—“It was very bad for me!”
—’Twas a cold day for “ rec.”
—And the Boat Club was there.
—The boat house should be insured.
—“Look not upon the cider when it is hard.”
—“ Ah! that is noble soup,” said our friend John.
—The fire caused a brisk demand for new hats.
—Literature is waging relentless war on Science.
—Everyone should secure a chance on the Boat Club watch.
—It was a great throw to second, but “Pat!” O where was he?
—An unusual activity is manifested in literary studies this year.
—The football boom seems to have subsided. What’s the matter?
—Brother Marcellinus did able work as became an able-bodied man.
—The first Greek class is busily engaged in ripping up old Euripides.
—Brother Emmanuel can’t be beat when it comes to organizing a watei line.
—The usual number of “I told you so’s” and “if’s” was heard at the fire.
—The advice given to the musical students is: “5ce sharj), or you will beflaty
—Professors Musgrave and Zahm now have charge of the Chemistry classes.
—The Water Works Joint Stock Co. has failed, liabilities unknown. The boat club still mourncth.
—Bro. Leopold has placed for sale in the “ stoi e ” a small hand-book on etiquette. A large sale is expected.
—The “awkward squad” -in Company “A,” Hoynes’ Light Guards, have begun to drill with the rifles.	.
—A member of the Faculty offers a premium for the best explanation of the old saying: “ I have no time.”	-
—The Directors of the Christian Doctrine courses are more than pleased with the efforts of their pupils this session.
—Mr. M.White, of the Senior study-hall faculty, hurried to his Iowa home last Tuesday to cast his vote for Democracy.	-
—It is proposed to fit up a special dormitory for the use of a few of the older and larger students of the Senior department.
—Col. Hoynes is endeavoring to secure lighter rifles and better accoutrements from Washington for the military companies.
—The painters have been wrestling with the steam-house, and it presents a very neat, if not artistically handsome appearance.
—The Wednesday morning papers were eagerly
seized and read by those who had staked their reputation and cigars upon the elections.
—The putting up of storm windows and the frequent requests from students to visit South Bend for the purpose of procuring overcoats remind us that Winter is at hand.
—The South Bend Fire Company started for the scene of the conflagration as soon as they heard the news, and covered the ground in just fourteen minutes. Beat this, if you can.
—A correspondent has asked us “ what are the college colors”? Many years ago, Madonna blue and Papal.yellow were adopted, in honor of the patron of the University and the head of the Catholic Church.
—The beautiful fresco painting of St. Joseph and the Child Jesus that adorned the upper portion of the Novitiate tower stands untouched, although the cornice bordering just above and beneath was burnt aw7ay.
—We were privileged the other evening to assist at a delightful concert given by a rising young musician, who does not play wholly by ear. The talent and industry displayed give indications of future greatness.
—The elocution classes are unusually large this year, and the reverberating echoes of “Boat Ahoy!” “Man the life boat,” “John Maynard,” “Fire,” and “Forward the Light Brigade,” resound daily through our classic halls.	•
—Mr. C. Inderrieden, of the Junior department, gave a spread last Monday evening complimentary to his BB. friends. The best to be found in the Chicago markets graced the table, and the boys enjoyed the evening hugely.
—Several hundred volumes have just been received for the Library. Persons who are permitted to take books from the Library should return them as promptly as possible so as to permit of a more general circulation of the volumes, o
—An interesting game of football was played on the Senior campus Thursday afternoon. The contest was prolonged for nearly two hours, and as neither side was able to secure a goal in that time, the game was declared a draw.
—The other evening Rosinante fell into an open well, and was with great difficulty extricated from a perilous position by the aid of mules and derricks. The noise and cries of lamentation were great, and altogether the event wiis a memorable one.
—Brother Justinian arrived on Wednesday, after an ^bsence of five months, part of which were spent in Ireland, whither he had gone for the benefit of his health. His many friends were pleased to note the great improvement wrought by his vacation.
—The boat club had a full delegation at the fire, who rendered most valuable assistance in removing things from the burning building and saving the adjoining structures from destruction. The boys ought to organize a fire brigade so as to keep up their muscle for Spring.
—The fifth and sixth regular meetings of the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. '	157
St. Stanislaus’ Philopatrian Society were held on the 2d and 9th insts. Master H. Silver was elected to membership. Recitationsand historical sketches were given by Masters Quinlan, Schloss, Ryan, Bronson, Ramsey and Schenks.
—The 7th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held on the 9th inst. Declamations were given by C. Burger, W. O’Brien, W. McPhee, S. Backiack and J. Rhinehart. In the debate which followed, Masters McPhee, Adelsperger, M. O’Kane and Blake distinguished themselves.
—Among the visitors at the College last Sunday were the members of the Ligonier (Ind.) Band, who gave a concert in Turner Hall, South Bend, in the evening. The Band has just returned from Chicago where it captured a valuable prize in a band contest. Mr. Frank Sack, a former student of Notre Dame, is one of the leading players in the organization.
—The Moot-court will hold forth in the St. Cecilia Hall this evening. The case on the docket is that of Donaldson vs. the State, which was appealed from a lower court, and involves the constitutionality of an act. parsed some time ago by the Indiana State Legislature. The attorneys for the plaintiff are Messis. Stubbs and Kelly, while the State is represented by the Messrs. Griffin and Pollock.
—The Director of the Historical Department acknowledges, with gratitude, the receipt of a collection of more than two hundred copper coins issued during the late war, presented by Mr. M. I. J. Griffin, of Philadelphia. From Mr.Joseph Rend, of Chicago, has been received a Roman coin of the third century. From Masters W. Willson and J. O’Neill, specimens of French and Confederate script. From Rev. Father Kirsch a Swiss coin, and from E. Raymond a silver dollar, 1883.
— Now, that the baseball season isover, and even the most rabid of the “ fiends” have had their fill, why not stir up a little more enthusiasm for handball? Each department is possessed of suitable alleys; there is plenty of good material among the players, and with the organization in each department of two or more teams which should play a regular championship series, handball would, ere long, regain the hold which it possessed in former years as a popular sport among the students.
—The Pansophical and Conversational Societies have been merged into one, and the new association will be known by the name of the Pansophical Conversational Society. The first mentioned organization was formed last year for the purpose of creating a healthier interest in aesthetic studies. The original members were: F. Fehr, D. Marx, J. Waixel, P. Nelson, S. Craft, B. Prudhomme, O. Bolton, F. Jewett, J. Kleiber and T. McKeon. The club had a flourishing year, but on,account of but few of the old members returning, and the members of the Conversational Society being willing, it was decided to unite the two clubs.
—The following subjects for Prize Essays are
to be treated during the present session: In Literary Criticism—(1) The Rank of Wordsworth Among English Poets; (2) The Relation of Poetry, to Morality. In English Literature—(1 ) On Sir Thomas More: hL life, character, and influs ence upon literature; (2) On the relative position-held by prose and poetry in the development of a national literature, embracing the following considerations: Which (prose or poetry) is earliest to appear? Does each keep pace with the advancing culture of the nation? What themes are best treated in each? What exceptional cases have occurred in which fit subjects for poetry have been treated in prose, and vice versa?
Essays should make in length not less than two, nor more than four, columns of the Scholastic, and should be handed in to the D.rector of Studies; one by December 8, the other before the end of the session.
—The second of the series of lectures for the higher English classes, by Prof. J. Fearnley, was delivered on last Wednesday evening, and proved even more instructive and delightful than the previous one. His subject was “ Poetry,” a theme ever a favorite one to the student, and one which, on this occasion, created a double interest from the fact of its being treated by so skilled and learned a master of letters as the Piofessor. He resolved the treatment of the subject into four main divisions: (1) The object or material with which the poet deals; (2) the special power he brings to bear on this object or material; (3) the method by which he works; and, lastly, his true aim, and the function which he fulfils in human society. To say that each of these points was handled in an able and scholarly manner would, indeed, be saying very little. The lecturer not only entered deeply into the spirit of his subject and by numerous and strikingly beautiful examples illustrated his remarks, but, moreover, he succeeded, by force of philosophical reasoning, aided by a skilful and masterly use of the rhetorician’s art, in convincing his hearers of the superiority and divine nature of the poet’s genius, as compared with that of any other artist. Prof. Fearnley himself possesses, in no small degree, as was frequently evinced, the poetic imagination. The lecturer, at his conclusion, was greeted with a storm of applause, which bore ample testimony to the high appreciation of the audience for the intellectual treat which had been afforded them.
—Last Sunday afternoon, -as the church bells were summoning the students and members of the , Community to Vespers, smoke was seen issuing from the southwest dormitory of St. Joseph’s Novitiate, and the novices who were then on their way to church were hastily recalled. A few moments later, a breathless and excited Junior gave the alarm at the College, just as the students were entering the church. A number of the Senior students, together with members of the Community at once hastened to the burning building. On their arrival,the fire was still confined to the dormitory, but owing to the dense smoke which filled the apartment it was impossible for any one to
?
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	?
enter. There was no fire apparatus of any kind available, and as it soon became evident that nothing could be done, with the limited means at hand, towards checking the progress of the flames, all turned their attenion to saving the movable effects. They worked with such energy and coolness that in a short time nearly every movable article on the first and second floors had been removed to a place of safety. Attention was then turned towards saving theoufbuildings, which was accomplished only after the most strenuous exertions. A line was formed extending from the lake to the rear of the burning building, and such a steady supply of water was passed along, in the buckets, which had by this time been secured from the college, that even the new recreation hall, a wooden building situated only a few yards behind the Novitiate, was saved from the flames that at times almost enveloped it.
The Novitiate was a large, three story brick building, situated at the northeast corner of St. Joseph’s Lake. It was erected in 1S69, and valued at $25,000. At the time of the fire there were about forty-five occupants, who were under the care of the Rev. M. Robinson, C. S. C. The usual number of theories were advanced concerning the origin of the fire, but there is scarcely a doubt that it was caused by some defective flue. The building itself is a total loss, unless the outside walls, which are still standing, can be again used for a new building. There being no seeming probability of fire in that quarter it was not deemed necessary to have the structure insured. The question of rebuilding is now being discussed, and will be definitely settled as soon as Very Rev. Father General Sorin returns from Europe.
.	Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of thoce students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty ]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Albright, Akin, Beckman, P. Burke, Barrett, J. Burke, Barnes, Beckwith, Bombeck, Bronson, Ball, Barnard, Blessington. J. Burns. Bush', Brownson, Brewer, Britt, Becker, Baca, E Burns. Boldrick, Boland, Cosgrove, M. Cassidv, Campbell, J. Cassidy, Chacon. Cusack. Cooke, G. Craig, Crill, Carlier, Chute, T. Coady, Donahue, Donelson, Dempsey, Desimoni. Dore, Dulaney. Ewing. Eyanson, Frz-harris, Francka, Finckh. Fenton, Fisher, Fehr, Franklin, Fink, Goebel, Gallardo. Gibbs, Henderson, Heinemann. M. Howard, Hummer. Hughes. Houck, Hart, Jennings. Jacobs, Jewett, Johnson, Keating, L. Earkin, W. Larkin, Lappin, ' Luhn, A. Longmire, L. Longmire, Langan, W. McDermott, Meehan. Mulkern, L. Meagher, J. Meagher, McWilliams, J. McDermott, Mackey, Munroe, V. Morrison, W. Morrison, Maloney, Mithen, McAllister, McCart,. Mack, McAuliffe, McGrath, McCune, Nations, Andrew N choll, Alfred Nicholl, Norton, Neill, R. Newton, Nelson, Orr, Pollock, Pears, Plato, P. Prudhomme, Prichard, Preston, Pender, Roper, Rochford, Reynolds, Rothert, Russell, G. Rudd, Ruebsamen, Reedy, Stubbs, Scholfield, Sullivan, Schang, Short, Stephenson, Suing, Spencer, H. Smith, M. Smith, Tiernan, Tivnen, Velasco, Webb, Welch, Wagoner, White, Wilkin, Wilson.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
' Masters Adelsperger, Allen; Adams, Anfender, Berry, Bombeck, Bronson, Boyd, Backrack, Beaudry, Blake, Bur-
_ger, Brown, Brady, Cunningham, Cauthorn, Campbell, J. Connors, Carelton, Case, Chacon, F. Connors, Cavanagh, Ciarcoschi, Carney, D. Cartier, W. Cartier, Chute, J. Doherty, J. S. Dohert', Delaney, Duffield, Daniels, Davis, Darragh, Devine, Ebner, Elder, Fitzgerald, Ealvey, Fleming, French, J. Flynn, F. Flynn, Freeman, Frei, Galbreth, Gray, J. Greene, T. Greene, Gale, Gonzales, Garrity, Houlihan, Henderson, Hoffman, Hoerr, Howard, R. Healy, Heller, Hillas, Hackett, Hughes, Hake, C. V. Inderrieden, Jewett, Josselyn, Kinsella, Kellner, Lane, Lahey, Leona d, Merkle, McCartney, W. Martin, McGuire, McMahon, John McIntosh, W. Mallay, McIvers. McPhee, Miner, McGrath. McKenzie, Mulqueen, Neef, Nichols, Noud, O’Neill, O’Hara, O’Hearn, W. O’Brien, G. O’Brien, M. O’Kane, Priestly, Paquette, Powers, Pritchard, Pecheux, J. Peck, Plan, Patterson, Quinlan, Roth, Ricrdon, Reinhard, I. Rose, S. Rose, Reidinger, Rowsey, C. Schillo, F. Schillo, Stephens, R. Spalding, C. Spalding, Senn, L. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, Schloss, Silver, Talbot, Tewkesbury, Thome, Wile, Walsh, Wageman.
„ MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ayer, Ackerman, H. Backrack, S. Backrack: A. Backrack, Bloomhuff, Blumenthal, Beckham, Barbour? G. Black, L. Black, Blake, Beerman, Boettcher, Bates, D-Burns. Bradley, C. Connor, W. Connor, Collins, Connelly? Cummings. Carlile, Cudahy, Cohn, Crane, Durand, J. Dunn, F. Dunn, Jessie Dungan, Jas. Dungan, Davidson? D ?ss, L. Dempsey, J. Dempsey, F. Dempsey, Dench, G-Franche, C- Franch?-, Flannery. F. Falvev, E. Falvey, Fer-kel. Grant, Goldmann, Griffin, Greene, Hind->, Hagus, Harlan. Healy, Halthusen, Jaramillo, Johns, Kerwin, Kutsche, Kehoe, Klaner, Koester, Keefe, Kinsella, Kane, Kaye, A. Lonergan, H. Lonergan, Mooney, Marx, Morgen week, Ma-ternes, A. Mayer, L. Mayer, G. Mayer, McPhee, Mott, J. Marre, A. Marre, Neef, Neenan, Nichols, O’Neill. Oppenheimer, O’Mara, Perry, L Paul, C. Paul, Plautz. Parker, Quill, Rogers. Ricks cker, Sweet, Savage, Seerey, F Smith, E. Smith, Stone. Stephens, Speir. Tomkins, J. Toolen, F. Toolen, Taft, Trujillo, Thornto •, W. Williamson, J. Walsh, Wm. Williamson, Welch. W. Walsh, Witkowsky, Wilson, W. Willien, Young, Zieman.
Class Honors.
[In the following list will be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in'all their classes during the month past.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
E. Blessington, E. Berry, W. Boland, C. Bush, G. Cartier, J. Clarke, R. Fraim A. Hake, J. Henry, N. Jacobs, F. Lane, W. O’Brien, C. Paquette, J. Pfau, J. Reinhart, B. Stephens, C. Senn, F. Suing, H. Wageman, J. Whelan, [. Brady, F. Car? ey, J. Cooney, H. Cauthorn. H. Can oil, R. Dulaney, S. Eyanson, N. Franklin, M. Fenton, T. Greene, F. Jewett, A. Leonard, H. Miner, J. McIntosh, V. Morri-on, L McGrath, W. McDermott, F. Nester, J. Russell, F. Schenk, J. Welch, H. Woods, A. Plato.

List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the courses named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of studies.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Book Keeping—AV. Boland, J. Clarke, C. Paquette, S. Backrack, J Brady, F. Carney, H. Miner, V. Morrison, W. Walsh; Arithmetic—W. Boland, J. Clarke, S. Campbell, J. Brady, J. Henry, A. Hake, J. Pfau, J. Reinhart, F. Schenk; Grammar—R. Bronson, D. Brewer, W. O’Brien, J. O’shea; Geography—C. Bush, H. Leonard; United States History— C. Bush, E. Campbell, G. Frei, S. Fleming, T. Greene, P. Houlihan, L. Kehoe, H. Leonard, C. Paquette, L. Reidinger, L. Reardon, C.Ramsey, H. Wageman; Penmanship —F. Baca, W. Mathews, S. Ciarcoschi, L. Hoerr; Beading—C. Bush. E. Clarke, R. Quigley, F. Barnard, M. Kirvin, W. Mathews, J. Cosgrove; Orthography—W. Me Den mott.	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint fflary's Academy.
x59
One Alite IKest of Notre Dame University.
—Some choice roses beautified the altar on Adoration Sunday. They were the gift of Miss C. McFadden.
—Miss M. Allen is worthy of praise for the skill shown in the drawing of figures on the blackboard, for the philosophy class.
—Miss Mary Burton translated the Second Book of the “yEneid ” in a few weeks, and is now reviewing that interesting and graphic account of the fall of Troy.
—At the regular Academic meeting, Miss K. Hughes read an essay on “ Ridicule,” and Miss McNamara recited a beautiful selection, which taught the old truth—“ Charity begins at home.” Needless to say, both young ladies gave entire satisfaction. Rev. Father Saulnier presided at the meeting.
—The Third Seniors held a competition lately in spelling, and Miss F. Moore proved herself the best acquainted with the dictionarv. The textbook used in the class is called “The Scholar’s Companion,” and roots, prefixes and suffixes are learned, as well as the spelling and definition.
—The first Sunday of the month was, as usual, the one set apart for the Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament. The angels must have rejoiced to see so many young hearts around the altar in earnest prayer. The month of the holy souls is a special incentive to prayer for all true children of Mary.
—The ist of May is generally considered the regular “moving day”; but the month of November answered just as well for the moving at St. Mary’s. The old chapel is now a general studyhall, and gives much more room to the students, though many a thought is given to the old hall which is rich in associations.
—-The members of the First Senior Botany Class believe in practical knowledge; so last week they had a walk through the orchard and woods during the time assigned for the botany lesson. The young ladies proved conclusively that they knew how to analyze apples. ’They say they had a ride, too; but class secrets should not be made public.
—Among the welcome visitors to St. Mary’s during the past week were: W. H. Simons, Warsaw, Ind.; Mrs. E. B. Dunning, Paw Paw, Mich.; Mrs. H. M. Young, Albany, N. Y.; Mrs. L. H. Schmauss, Miss F. Schmauss, Rockville, III.; Mrs. F. C. Tyler, Chicago; Dr. and Mrs. L.J. William, Terre Haute, Ind.; Mrs. E; A. Ireland, South Bend, Ind.; Mrs. B. Albright, Plymouth, Ind.; Mrs. M. Hellman, Omaha, Neb.; Mrs. S. Lewis, San Fran-cisco, Cal.; W. A-Cartier, Luddington, Mich.
—Those who have distinguished themselves in the private classes of Harmony and Thorough Bass are: the Misses Horn, Murphy, Guise-and Rend. In the general classes, for prompt answers and black-board exercises, the following voting ladies deserve mention; Misses Dillon, McFadden,
p, Kearns, Ducey, M.
ggett, Stapleton, Knauer, Hoffman, McEwen, McCormick, N. Morse, T. Balch, E. Regan, C. Dempsey, C. Hurley, Stadtler, Sheehan,Hertzog, Heffron,L. Meehan, H. Meehan, Prudhomme, Kron, English, K.Hurley, Robinson,
Thompson, Blaine, Connors, Rogers, Simons, Wyatt and M. Morse. The importance of the study of Music in Theory cannot be overestimated. Each week there is a special hour set apart for it, and every month an instructive and highly interesting lecture on music and musicians, is delivered as an incentive to renewed efforts on the part of all.
Money.
There is no power in the land greater than that of money; it is recognized everywhere as a necessary element in the advancement of science, art and religion; in public life, as well as in the home circle, in every clime and among all people its influence is felt. Bacon says: “Seek not proud riches; but such as thou mayst get justly, use soberly, distribute cheerfully, and leave contentedly, yet have no friarly contempt for them.” The last part of advice contained in the above extract would, seem superfluous in this age of money-making; but there are some who would have men believe that riches have no charm for them.*
Agassiz once said he had no time to waste in making money, and seemed to hold it in contempt; and yet his researches and his travels depended largely upon it. Many of those who affect to condemn its possession are mere deciaimers and, not unfrequemly, have a comfortable bank account of their own.
The desire to acquire wealth is the greatest incentive to labor. Few labor for labor’s sake; the majority to attain a state of affluence, when work is thrown aside to be taken up by some other needy person, just starting out on the road to riches. Money-making is, in a measure, an educator; for in its pursuit a man must develop the powers God has given him—his energy, his intelligence, his talents—all, are directed to one end; and in the struggle many traits that otheiwise would have remained undeveloped, are brought out strongly*, and often manhood is perfected in the school of labor.
No one can fail to see the power of money in America; it is now, as it was in the days of Alexander the Great, the key which opens all doors; everywhere is deference, or, at least outward deference, shown to him who is rich in this world’s goods. While it cannot be denied that the possession of wealth is desirable, neither can it be denied that there are grave dangers attendant upon too ' much eagerness in its acquisition and an inordinate attachment to it.
From the remotest times, the question of excessive wealth and excessive poverty has been a matter of deep moment to rulers. In Sparta, as early as during the reign of Lycurgus, the. use of gold and silver coin was prohibited; and, side by
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
side with such accounts, we read in history that man has always rebelled against any law that tended to restraint in the acquisition of wealth. How often was not a revival of the Agrarian law attempted only to prove a failure! Just now the world is agitated by the efforts made by secret societies and labor unions to secure equality of possessions among men. The question is discussed everywhere, and upon the issue much depends, as may be learned from the anxiety felt regarding its settlement by business men. Irving must have been in a prophetic mood when he gave to the Dollar, the epithet ‘-almighty and never has the title seemed more appropriate than in this age.
Happiness is one of the objects to the attainment of which most of our effoits tend; so, naturally, one questions whether wealth is a source of peace and contentment or not. Let us take Stephen Girard’s answer to the query; in writing to a friend, he says: “As to myself, I live like a galley slave, constantly employed and often passing the night without sleeping. When I rise in the morning my only effort is to labor so hard during the day, that I may sleep soundly at night.” The anxiety occasioned by over-eagerness in the pursuit of wealth and the fear of losing it when it has been acquired, have added many to the number now inhabiting insane asylums, and have sent others in the prime of life to the grave.	'
The sentence, “ The love of money is the root of all evil,” points out the source of the danger attendant upon wealth; it is not the possession that harms, but the love of money that brings about evil results; and while striving to obtain a moderate competence, all should remember the words of Him who is Wisdom and Truth: “What doth it profit a man if he gain the whole world and suffer the loss of his soul ”; and these others, “ Be ye rich towards God.”
Maud Clifford (First Senior Class').
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, COR-
RECT DEPORTMENT, AND EXACT OBSERVANCE OF
RULES. -
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Allen, Andree, Arpin, Brady, Balch, Bub, Burton, Barry, Barth, Bloom, Brewer, Boyer, Beschameng, Bourn , Butler, Bates, Blacklock, Beck, Car-mien, Clifford, Claggett, Carey, Conners, Clore, E Coll, M. Coll, H. Dempsey, C. Dempsey, Ducey, M. Desmond, C. Desmond, Davis, Dunkin, Daube, English, Early, Flannery, Fitzpatrick, Gavan, Geer, Guise, Gordon, Hummer, Hughes, Hertzog, Hellmann, Hyland, M.Horner, I. Horner, Henke, Hinz, Harlen, Heffron. C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Hillas, Hoffmann, Hutchinson, Hepburn, Johnson, Kearns, Kennedy, Kohler, Kron, Keyes, Latta, Leonard, La Berge, M. F. Murphy, L. Meehan, N. Meehan. McCormick, McEwen, .McNamara, Moore, E. McCarthy, Marsh, Moran, McFadden, Mitchell, Marley. E. Nichola*, Neff, O’Brien, Orr, Piper. Prudhomme, Papin; Quill, Quealey, G. Regan, Rend, Riedinger, E. Regan, Richardson, Robinson, Rowsey, Rannells, Reen, Snowhook, Sullivan, Stadtler, Sheehan, Saviers, M. Smith. Sloman. B. Smith, Spier, Studebaker, Thompson, Van Mourick, Wright, Waterbury, Wagner, Wiesenbach, Wehr, Young, Zahm.	.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses T. Balch, E. Blaine, F. Burdick, Butler, E. Burns, Campbell, Crane, Churchill, N. Davis, Dolan, E. Dempsey, Dryer, Farwell, Fritz, Foster, Hake, Hull, Hughes, Knamr, Kloth, Lewis, Longmire, Loonie, Lauth, Mercer, Miller, McCune. B McCormick, M. Morse, N. Morse, Newman, G. Papin, Pugsley, Quealey, Rose, Rogers, Simons, Stapleton, Wyatt.	,
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	‘
Par Excellence—Misses E. Burns, A. O’Mara, A. Papin, S. Smith, L. Reeves.
SCHOOL OF ART AND DESIGN.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
ELEMENTARY PERSPECTIVE.	'
2D Class—Misses McNamara, Sloman. N. Morse.
30 Class—Misses Wright, Stapleton, Andree, I. Horner, Burton, Hoffmann, Kohler, L. Nicholas, E. Nicholas, N. Davis, Campbell, S. Dempsey.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
Misses Wehr, Henke, Hutchinson.	.
PAINTING ON CHINA.
Miss Grace Stadtler.
WORKING IN CRAYON.
Misses E. Coll, L. Hillas.
OIL-PAINTING.
Misses N. Meehan, Bub, Neff, Robinson, Hull, Fitzpatrick, Hellmann.
General Drawing.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Allen, Heffion, O’Brien, Hillas, Barth, Bray, C. Hurley. K. Hurley, Rannells, Richardson, G. Murphy, Mitchel. Dunkin, C. McCarthy, C. Quealey, Bourne, Spier, Reen, Studebaker, Young, Marsh, Brewer, Kohler, Boyer, Quill, Clore, Hughes, Geer, Weisenbach.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. ‘
Misses M. Morse, N. Morse. Hull, Farwell. Reed. Simons, Foster, Hagus, Butler, M. Burns, Campbell, B. McCormick, O’Mara, E. Burns, Burdick, Smith,Churchill, Longmire.
Elocution.	‘
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
ist Class—Misses Carmien, Hertzog, Schmauss, G. Stadtler, L. Meehan. McNamara.
2D Div.—Misses Clifford. Bub, Hummer.
2D Class—Misses Prudhomme, Claggett, Hoffmann, Kron, Neff.
2D Div.—Misses Hellmann, Wehr, McCormick, Hutchinson, Boyer.
3d Class—Misses M. Papin, Gordon, Hillas, Robinson, Fitzpatrick, La Berge, Daube, Saviers, Hepburn.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
ist Class—Miss Farwell.
2D Div.—Misses Stapleton, Campbell.
2D Class—Misses Newman, Dryer. *	*■
2D Div.—Misses Davis, Fritz.
3D Class—Misses Crane, Pugsley, Simons.
BOOK-KEEPING.
2D Class—Misses E. Regan, Henke Thompson, Arpin.
3D Class—Misses Allen, K. Hurley, C. Hurley, Orr, Marsh, Spier, I. Haney..
TYPE WRITING.	.
Misses K. Desmond, M. Desmond, Blaine, Kron, Waterbury', M. Coll, B. Haney, M. Beck. . .
.	PHONOGRAPHY.	.
ist Class—Misses Kearns, Reidinger, Rend, C. Dempsey.	.
2D Class— Misses Ducey, Haney, Henke.
3d- Class—Misses K. Desmond, M. Desmond, Hyland, Hoffmann.	.	.
4TH Class—Misses Claggett, K. Hurley, M. Arpin, Gordon, Kron, Beck.	'
