
December, 1981 

J 

SOCIAL CONCERNS SEMINAR 
Washington, D.C. 
Spring Break 
See: Marcia LeMay Center for Experiential Learning 1110 Memorial Library 283-2788 

. . 

Community for the International Lay Apostolate 
(219) 283-7308 University of Notre Dame Volunteer Services STOP BY THE LAFORTUNE OFFICE 
AND ORDER YOUR CHRISTMAS CARDS! 5 FOR $1.00 
Merry Christmas! 

SCHOLASTIC 


SCHOLASTIC 
Vol. 123, No. 4, December 1981 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

FEATURES 

6 Dignity Vanquishes Tyranny 

The "enemy" in flesh and the Polish victory 'in spirit . . . Lynn Vanhousen 
8 Understanding Ulster ­Bobby Sands and Ireland's Historical Tragedy . . . Jason Joyce. 
10 Martha Jimenez: Affirming the CILA Ideal Education, 'Service and Celebration . . . LuAnn Duesterberg 
14 Pasquerilla Halls-Dedication in More Ways Than One? 
Women at N.D.: Reevaluating Potential and Possibility . . . Beth Healy 18 A Saint Mary's Woman Sixty-two years with Saint Mary's ... Elizabeth Bradley 

22 What's the Buzz? Tell Me What's Happening 

The Arrival of Performance Art ... V. Robie, E. Lyons, 
A. Michielutti, C. Zufelt 28 Photo Essay/Workers 
Man, Muscle, and Matter at Notre Dame . . . Ramon Rivera 
30 Whatever Happened to James Danehy? This controversial professor is anything but retired . . . Jim McClure 


REGULARS 

4 Up Front Clay Malaker 12 Perspective/Some Thoughts on Berrigan 
Whimsy or realism -over nuclear arms? . . . John Murphy 13 Poetry John McGillvray, Kraig Culbertson 16 Gallery Ellen Margaret Hackl 20 Fiction/October Day 
A dog's life cycle in life's cycle ... Greg Bachhuber 21 Poetry Mary Powel Jabley 24 Fiction/Harry's World 
A cop's life: the failure in success . .. Greg Swiercz 27 Poetry Dan Bell, Susy Roesger 31 In Retrospect 31 Last Word Chutk Wood 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty,_ or the student body. · 
The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published monthly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $7.00 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. copyright © 1981 Scholastic / all rights reserved / none of the contents may be repro­duced without permission. · 
DECEMBER, 1981 
. . ~. 

------------~ 


page 6 

page 24 
3 
--~
--~----. ­

Up Front 
'Twas the night of p:roductibn · And it still was not clear, ... . If a topic for this column, '. \Vas a~ywhere n~ar; 
• When all of a sudden .·• 
; There aro~e in my mind 
. A way to get me ... Out of this bind. 
Original or elegant 
,. It, surely was not,. But I new for this season 'Twas right onthe spot; · 
To proceed with the idea It surely is time, . Before you die from this Crummy e>ld rhyme.·::·:··.. ·. 
What could: be. more valuable 
: than a gift from the heart? ::Why, the answer is simple.. It's a gift from the. heart published in . 
. by Clay Mala.ker 

blistering speed with which you. · lay out articles: · ·· · To Mark Bustamante and Dan . McGr~th; Copy Editors: A_n· un-· .. . abridged dictionary, ·so we won't look like t~e l'Obse~er," 1:1.nd one. ·. .••free semester of Spell~rig ,101. · To Pat James, Business Manager: . A petty cash .fund .that balances 'at the end of the month. To Brian Graham, Advertising Manager: Your own 1>et.of wheels -·so you can·_obtain more advertising. · · To Mike Mulligan, Layout . Editor: The new title of Associate . •Art/Photo Editor;: and one mile's 
worth of rules and borders. .·, . To Eileen O'Mea:ra; Photo Editor: ;iYour very e>Wn Xerox machine; .· 
_and a trip to .the sixties; To Randy Raciti; Distribution .­Manager: The first Scholastic van. 
l 

To Tamera Mains, Art Editor: . Unrestricted space. for art in the 
Scholastic. Here is my giftJfst ·for: issue of your choice; and the option . 
Scholastic personnel, .· and other miscellaneous .and sundry persons; 
•. . To Chuck Wood; Edifor-iii~Chief: 
•· Aspirin, Valium, a Pulitzer Prize; ·. 
and something :i'eaily,,foterestirlg ' for. your upcoming:·I]~s'tiWord.:: : : . -To ~d . Kelly, }ll'ew~/~ports . . . ·.· 

; ·-Eg_itor_:_-. A pre~s_\P.~~~}9/1:h~~f~8.t-\.': 'to take o:ver: sonie :of these 'editoriid i ~epubhcan. N~t.10nal 9().nVe~tion so . positions n'ext year;::thirty pieces . : , youtoo c~nbe_partof)her~glJ,t, .. .\of-silver:: · · · .,: ... ·:.... ·.•: 
:ta~J~J: Z~ememari YcuiiJ~;::-:.. ' . ,To.'~otr.~, J?arne :i.thletfos: Reher.. : ·,Fiction Editor: An ori~campus: :·_ : luck next tiille. . . . .. '. -.pa,rking pass, a,1:'ld yp4r ovvriiprf'-...·.· ". :::But_:_seriously folk:~,rte(~hroll~:t1,­: :vate collection::o.f::reco:rds and books .· <finals • jn cm~ piece} enjoy yo.ur:·: ·: -.·.: : to review.at your liesure. • : : brea~; and come b~pk, ready to go 


1;:Ed~~of·~t·s~t;::ti\~:·:~#lihe::·•:/;::;:·::.:iz::~!;;~_:;~~~~~Ii~~s.• 
t.o be my boss for a night · : . To. Angie Ada:m~bn, Ex~Photo.. . : Editor: A.personal atiswedng ser~ vice arid one year's supply of No, :-. Doz.>.. .. . . .': >A, . . . 
. To: 'und~rclasiriitk· hii~b~~s. -~i>:: the Staff and Board: As a bribe , 
by Sven Johnson

Frods 
lH11Jc.-1 :501/E HME CIWJ6EI) 
A~OOIJI) /JERE ~iJCE. NAN'S· 
LJ\ST /,)UC.Lf/\'R \.)~. 
Nor HVCJ/ ' Aco~&.1', I 1/EA'RJ) WE HFRE. IN Tt/E US. (joT HIT illf t/lli{Df.~T! 

I WOIIQfR WHAT Tl/£ ~1>1­Ano,J Hit') Dl>JE: To 111£ OTHER /IN IH}/L-S? 
EDITORIAL BOARD 1981-1982 EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Chuck Wood GENERAL MANAGER Clay Malaker Culture/Fiction Editor Jane Zwerneman News/Sports Editor Ed Kelly St. Mary's Editor Elizabeth Bradley Copy Editors Dan McGrath Mark Bustamante Advertising Manager Brian Graham Distribution Manager Randy Raciti Business Manager Pat James Layout Editor Mike Mulligan Photo Editor (Interim) Eileen O'Meara Art Editor Tamera Mams Staff Beth Healy, Alyson Hritz, Barbara Stevens, Bryan Cashman, Jim Wasilak, Joe Hildener, Karen Trappen, Beth DeSchryver, Ducan Meyers, Jim Rickert, Allen Brenzel, Scott Rappold, Bill Muffer, Julie Wodarcyk, Mary Sloan, Greg Bachhuber, Tim Judge, Bill Mans, Bob Vanderheide, Mark Boennigh­hausen, Donna-Teevan, Charles Van Rav­enswaay, Tom Wrobel, Dan Bell, Michael Meeks, Michael Marz, Daniel Ferris  
CREDITS lflustrations: p. 4 Sven Johnson; p. 5 Lisa Ruhe; p. 13, 21, 27 Jeff Ripple; p. 20, 27 Delia Thomas; p. 25, 26 Twila Kitchen · Photos: p. 7 Lynn Van Housen; p. 6, 10, 30 Eileen O'Meara; p. 8, 9 Jason Joyce; p. 5, 28, 29 Ramon Rivera; p. 14, 15, 16, 17 Bob Wade; p. 19 Paul Stone; p. 19 Priddy; p. 31 Tim Pingel Cover: Chuck Wood and Clay Malaker Adivsor: Fr. Mario Pedi, O.S.B. SCHOLASTIC  '! i  






Merry Christmas, 
Scholastic Board 
P.S. Take a break during finals and vacation and relax with this Scholastic. 


G!1&=:Jf€®wt®l§t@l&4m?UfflFor Information, contact Mary Ann Roemer at Volunteer Services, 1.5 Lafortune (7308) 


HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES~ 
Domestic Deadline -Feb. 12 
DECEMBER, 1981 


Dignity 

Vanquishes 

Tyranny 
by Lynn Vanhousen 
Writing in November about what 
you did over the summer seems a lot 
like pardoning yourself at dinner for 
burping at breakfast, · often, how­
ever, something doesn't hit you until 
much later, and then the need to 
finish the matter is far greater than 
any sense of time. 
In order to recapture my summer experience, I have to go back to mid­July. What's more, I have to re­travel many miles, 4,000 I think, to return to that land which had once been only an ethnic joke to me: Poland. 

Lublin is a medium-sized city in southeastern Poland. It is the home of the Catholic University of Lublin, a university which claims the rather awesome distinction of being the only Catholic or private university in Poland, and one of the few behind media assurances, there were a num­an ideology and the means of main­the Iron Curtain. It has recently ac­ber of Soviet soldiers in town. Their taining that ideology which soughtquired another mark of distinction: only duty, as far as I could see, was an effective quelling of these human Pope John Paul II studied and taught to guard a saw this foe
WWII monument which assertions. Initially, I there. had fallen victim to an "anti-Soviet" as an intangible one. In order to This university was where I would attack only weeks before my arrival. shroud him in reality, I located him be for the next six weeks. Ostensibly, There was, however, another rea­
in a building I passed every day on I would study 'Polish and absorb as son behind my decision to go to my way to class: the local Com-­

much as I could from lectures on his­Poland. I find it very attractive to munist Party Headquarters. Yet, as tory, culture and socioeconomics. My live in a society, even temporarily, I began to see, the enemy had inte­
real motives, however, were more where right and wrong are clearly grated everyday life far more than I covert. I wanted to witness the evo­delineated. Such seems to be the case . had imagined. I found him .in the lution of Solidarity. I wanted to be­in Poland, at least with respect to 
taxi with me-an inherent part of come a part of this historical move­Solidarity and the issues it pursues. the food coupons the driver clutched ment, even if it meant falling victim At the core of this 10-million-mem­
and shook as he bitterly related that to a Russian invasion. ber union are matters pertaining to food had been more plentiful during
And should there have been an in­human rights. This ,movement is de­WWII. I saw him in the words of the 
vasion, I was certainly in a vulnera­claring to the world that it values women, all usually looking 15 years
ble location. Lublin is only 70 miles a truthful press, an elected govern­older tllan they were, who stoppedfrom the Russian border and as a 
ment, and the freedom to determine me in the street to ask where I had 
Catholic stronghold already has a its country's place and course in the bought my cans of fruit juice. And history of ideological clashes with world. 
then I recognized him in my replythe Party. Though the invasion 

Thus I came to label "wrong" as as I told each of-them that I had never occurred, despite American the "enemy" and identified him as bought the juice at the PEWEX, a 
6 
SCHOLASTIC 



store which accepts only U.S. dollars. 
I then began to realize that the enemy had so pervaded the lives of these people that he• had in some cases become personified. It was he, for instance, in one of the few wait­ers with food or beer, who refused to serve my Polish friends because they couldn't return the "favor." It was he who began shoving in a queue for washing powder, causing a young woman to suffer broken ribs. Suddenly I began seeing him in me, as I bargained for an even more ad­vantageous exchange on the black market; as I haggl~d with taxi driv­ers, explaining that the reason we could afford to visit Poland was be­cause the costs were so low; and as I dined on pheasant and champagne in private restaurants in Warsaw, the bill rarely amounted to more than $2.00. 
But little by little I ,came across unmistakable signs that the enemy could be indeed vanquished. These were the times when friends and strangers alike invited me into their homes and served cookies, cakes, and coffee-all things which had become valuable commodities. Or the time the caretaker of a synagogue in Krakow proudly showed us his temple -one of the few not de­stroyed in the destruction of WWII. And the vanquisher was there when a young Pole gave us a personal tour of the ethnographic museum he worked in, even though it was closed for the . day, as he carefully de­lineated authentic Polish culture from the Soviet-imposed transgres­sions. 


This same young Pole considered it his duty to take us to Nowa Ruta, a town outside of Krakow con­structed by Stalin as a model indus­trial community. Though an impos­ing statue of Lenin dominates the plaza, the real tribute to the town lies a .few blocks away in the form of a Catholic church. Though the authorities had decided there was no 
Jewish cemetery in Krakow 
need for a new church and thus re­fused to allocate funds or materials for its construction, the church was built nevertheless-'by the hands of determined men and women, without the use of sophisticated machinery or the state. Because of and in spite of that fact, this church is one of the greatest pieces of modern architec­ture I have ever seen. 
Now, as the gray day reminds me once again that it's November and that I've been home for over 2 months, I realize that my impres­sions are indelible. I will never shop in a grocery store here without thinking of the Polish shops which looked like they had just had a suc­cessful going-out-of-business sale. I still can't look at expectant mothers without thinking of their Polish equivalents who worried whether there would be milk and food for their babies. And I'll never be able to read the news reports of ever­worsening conditions in Poland with­out thinking of the people who had been part of my life for 6 weeks, and whom I had to leave behind. 
Other Americans who had also studied in Poland this summer often expressed their thankfulness for be­ing from America, the land of ease and plenty. I felt the same way ·as I drove to MacDonald's my first day back in this country. 
But now the words of one Polish friend came back to me: Why did you abandon us in WWTI? Should I have explained to him the ways of politics, the mechanics of peacemak­ing, or the delicacies involved in maintaining a balance of power? In­stead I recalled the anxious inquiries as to American attitudes toward Polish events and the smiles and warm acknowledgments those times I wore my Solidarity T-shirt. And rather than answer him, I could only murmur, "I hope you'll never have to ask me why we abandoned you now." D 
Lynn Vanhou.sen is a Senior Arts and Letters major. 
7 
Statue of Lenin in Nowa Huta 





U1dersta1di10 Ulster­





~00~ 

~~~~~00~ 0 ~ 00~~~®~~~~~ 


by Jason Joyce 

On May 5, 1981, Bobby Sands died in Maze Prison, which is better known as H-Block, 13 miles south of Belfast, Northern Ireland. Sands had been fasting for 66 days in the hope that the British government would again allow imprisoned mem­bers of the Irish Republican Army to wear street clothes and be exempt from prison work. By granting these privileges, the IRA captives would in effect be granted the status of politi­cal prisoners. The American press regularly publicized the demands that Sands_ was striking for, but at the same time did an injustice to him by not accurately representing the complexity of the issues. The IRA had existed since the Easter Rising of 1916, and the problem in the North for 300 years before that.. 
In 1603, James I ascended to the English throne after the death of Queen Elizabeth. Ulster had always put up strong resistance to the English, and it was felt that by up­rooting a great many Scottish and placing them in Ulster, the recalci­trant Irish could be replaced by others loyal to the Crown. The Irish were thrown off their land and be­came tenants to the new Scottish landlords and farms. The conquest of Ireland was made complete in July 1690 when William of Orange, then the Protestant king of England, de­
8 

feated James II, the last English Catholic monarch, at the Battle of the Boyne. This day has since be­come one of the greatest holidays in Protestant Ulster. 
Once the subjugation of the native Irish was complete, the British, who were always wary of creeds other than those of the Anglican_ Church, instituted a series of acts, the Penal Laws. These included not allowing Catholics to be educated abroad, dis­arming the natives, and banishing all Roman Catholic bishops and clergy. The Catholics, now stripped of much of their land and right to practice religion, continued to resist the Crown covertly by practicing Ca­tholicism in private or congregated in secret meeting places. Over the next 200 years, the Irish spirit of nationalism manifested itself in ris­ings of 1798, 1848, 1867 and 1916. This patriotism was not merely re­vealed in the Catholics. The 1798 ris­ing was led by Belfast Protestant Wolfe Tone. The struggle for Catho­lic emancipation in 1827 was di­rected by the Irish Protestant and patriot Daniel O'Connell. Autonomy from England was a goal shared by many Irishmen, both Catholic and Protestant. 
The Easter Rising of 1916 created a watershed in Irish history as the Divided Free State can be directly 
drawn from it. In 1921 a treaty was made which separated the 26 south­ern counties from direct British rule. Only the 26 were included because at the time there was a Protestant majority in the Ulster region. The Protestants in the north felt that if they were included in the south, the total Catholic majority would op­press the Protestants. But the goal of the IRA was a Republic of Ire­land, not a divided one. This split in the treaty caused the Irish Civil War, fought mainly in the South between protreaty Catholics and anti-treaty Catholics. The implications of this war remained clear: Ireland was a nation, and this revolutionary spirit would not cease until a unified Ire­land became a reality. 
All of the violence and direct ideo­logical oppression over the states of Ulster made the Protestants even more wary of the South. They trained a militia in the event that they·would someday have to fight to preserve their ties with Britain. Un­fortunately this _wariness also ex­tended itself into the governing of the Ulster population that remained Catholic. Legislation was passed that discriminated against Catholics in housing, jobs and other areas of civil rights. Such discrimination remained legal because of the disproportion­ately small representation that the 
SCHOLASTIC 


Catholics received in government. Because of the gerrymandering of the election districts, . even in some areas where Catholics had the ma­jority population, they received only a minority in representation. In the late 1960s a Civil Rights movement began which attempted to redress the wrongs. From these peaceful civil rights marchers grew the "troubles" of today. 
In 1969, a Civil Rights March was attacked by a Protestant mob led by Reverend Ian Paisley. Violence erupted, and the Catholics found themselves largely defenseless. The British Military were brought in, originally to protect the Catholics. This soon deteriorated from both ac­cusations that the soldiers were anti­Catholic and with the emergence of the Provisional IRA. By 1972, Ulster was guarded by 20,000 British sol­diers, and the IRA was planting bombs daily. During this period the British army was being attacked from both sides. The situation be­came more hopeless as the Provincial government fell and London gained direct rule of Northern Ireland. 
The violence from both sides has 
polarized the political climate where­
by all attempts to find a moderate 
solution have been sabotaged from 
both sides. Ian Paisley is as un­
yielding in his aggressive Protestant 
Unionist stance as is the Provisional 
IRA with their Militant Republican 
stand. The IRA contends that they 
are at war with the British govern­
ment. They point out that they now 
direct their attacks to mainly mili­
tary personnel and targets. They 
also take their war into Britain itself 
where military assassinations are 
not uncommon. 

It is unlikely that Britain will ever be able to solve a complex issue by merely military means: the IRA will always have a certain mass appeal that will not be stamped out. To ex­pect might to crush tradition is un­realistic. The conflict then cannot be viewed as simplistically as Catholics shooting at Protestants and vice versa. The struggle is for national­ism between Unionists and Republi­cans; a struggle for equal civil rights; and of course, a struggle be­tween Irish Catholics that have been oppressed for 300 years and Anglo­Irish Protestants who for the past 300 years have called Ireland their home. The mixture of religion, poli­
tics, and civil rights creates an emo­tional atmosphere which leaves little 

room for rationality and unfortu­nately, for peace. 
Bobby Sands demanded clothing and freedom from prison work, manifestations of the war situation. PrimeMinisterThatcher, when stand­ing firm on the issue, proclaimed, "Crime is crime is crime." She must have been referring to ordinary street crime for she couldn't have been speaking of Bobby Sands. Sands was a gunman and should not be de­fended under humanitarian dogmas. He was arrested for arms' possession. But, he was not granted a trial by jury, nor allowed a writ of habeus corpus. Instead he was held under the "Special Powers -Act" and con­victed in a special court. The British used unorthodox means to convict Sands however, once convicted he lost his special status. There is good reason for not having the trial by jury, for the IRA would threaten to kill jurors and/or their families. But this does not justify the revocation of his special status, rather it em­phasizes the complexity and the gravity of the situation. 
Three hundred years of violence cannot be terminated with semantic arguments. Understanding the his­tory behind such violence in the North does not imply complete com­prehension, but it does help. D 
Jason Joyce is a Senior American Studies rn,ajor who spent his sopho­more year in rnaynooth, Ireland. This is his first contribution to Scholastic. 
9 


. ' . . -~. -·~ . -------~~-­. -­




Marty Jimenez: 

Affirming The CILA Ideal 

by Luann Duesterberg 
In the rustic meeting room of the old lodge in the center of Camp Tamarack, a summer Boy Scout camp where the Community for the Inter­national Lay Apostolate (CILA) holds its orientation weekend, a tra­dition since 1973, members gathered around the fireplace as chairperson Martha Jimenez began to light the traditional candles. "We light candles because they are a symbol of light in the darkness," she explained. "A sign that teaches us to be lights for our fellow human beings in the dark­ness of an unjust society, just as Christ teaches us." 
Then, she picked up her guitar and began to sing a song -one she had written herself. 
Look around you ... What do you see? There are people dying so needlessly. They've got hunger -ah! to spare, And all they ask is that you share -if you dare -to show some 
Love and hope and charity, all we need to set us free. No more hunger, no more pain, no more poverty. 
10 


C/LA Chairperson Martha Jimenez 

See the years go -oh so fast, As our tomorrows become our past. As for the future, what has it to bring? Only our present offering ... 
Martha Jimenez, a junior Pro­gram of Liberal Studies major, is this year's chairperson for CILA. "As chairperson, Marty reflects what CILA is all about," says Mary Ann Roemer from the Volunteer Services Office. "CILA is committed to ser­vice, to learning, to sharing, and to celebration. To know Marty is to see these commitments in action." 
"I see my position in CILA as one 
in  which I  can  discover  more  and  
more  about  myself  and  about  the  
questions  and  challenges  of  the  

world," Jimenez reflects. "The com­munity service aspect of CILA, for example, serves as an excellent base for learning, sharing, celebrating, and serving." 
Jimenez was unanimously elected chairperson last spring. Though CILA changes with each new chair­person and group, Jimenez said, it still retains its overall commitment to Christian values. 
CILA began in 1960 when Father Larry Murphey, M.M., in his gradu­ate course, "Church and the World," 
extended his philosophy of Christian 
service beyond the borders of the 
local community, increased aware­
ness, and raised consciousness to the 
group of interested students. 
These students then developed 
"summer projects," a summer of ser­
vice in places like Peru, Puerto Rico, 
and Mexico. Though the groups en­
countered many difficulties in fund­
ing, language barriers, and trans­
portation in the early years, Fr. 
Murphey was most-impressed by the 
personal and lasting relationships 
the groups developed with the people 
they served. 
Students returning from these 
projects began to look for other out-_ lets and soon brought their service to the community of South Bend. The need to stress education of social justice issues sparked the develop­ment of the education committee and as the group grew sharing of ex­periences and celebration also be­came standard CILA functions. 
Today, CILA has such depth and scope that Jimenez has trouble de­fining it. "All summer, I was frus­trated because I couldn't define CILA -I was going to be chairperson and I couldn't even express what it meant! All I knew was that I cared for people and people here cared for people. And I believe that if you let 
SCHOLASTIC 

---.· . . . . -. ' . . . ., . , ... 

people know there is a need to serve 
and provide a means of meeting that 
need, they will respond. CILA is that 
vehicle for response." 
Cecilia Schickel, a close friend and 
fellow CILA member, said that 
Jimenez gets her warmth and love 
for people from her family. "When 
I visited them in San Antonio in 
October, I left with an armload of 
gifts-something from each member 
of the family." 
Jimenez, her dark hair and eyes 
and her brown skin revealing her 
Mexican descent, calls her family an 
extended family. "It's part of the 
Mexican culture for all the family 
members and relatives to live to­
gether, or in the same vicinity. My 
being at Notre Dame is actually a 
break with this tradition." Her par­
ents, Rogelio and Enriqueta; a sis­
ter, niece, and grandmother live in 
the "family house" in their neighbor­
hood in San Antonio. Cousins, aunts, 
uncles, and brother Roger and his 
family live nearby. 
A great part of her home life is spent in bridging the gap between her Mexican and American heri­tages. "I used to spend my summers as a child in Allende, Coahuila, near the Mexican border," she describes, pronouncing the Spanish name with an accent. "It's a different experi­ence living in that culture. It's more relaxed, less mechanized. We would invent our own fun -often a mix of both cultures. My brother and sister and I would bring our 'give-a-show projector' and charge a nickel for the children to come see the shows. Then we would go to the market and buy strawberries and tamarindos (candies) from the vendedores (ven­ders) for everyone. 
Her love for her family and her pride in her culture are major in­fluences in her life she said. "It was very hard for me to decide to come to Notre Dame -away from my family and my culture. My parents wanted me to go to college near our home, and I almost decided to do so. But my grandmother encouraged me to come here, to learn to ·stand on my own and experience a new cul­ture, and when I visited the campus that winter, I knew I would accept the challenge." 

She admits that she often longs for a taste of her culture here and will frequently cook Mexican delica­cies in her popcorn popper for her roommates and friends. And it is not uncommon to see her conversing in rapid Spanish with the Mexican lawn-keepers between classes, or with the dining-hall workers at din-
DECEMBER, 1981 
ner. "In a small way, it keeps our culture alive," she says. 
Her major in the Liberal Studies Program has also challenged her. This major includes many required classes, a lot of reading and writing on a variety of subjects, and semi­nar/discussion classes that encour­age the interaction of ideas. Said Jimenez, "It is a major that makes you think and question: 'What is life all about? What am I doing here? What is the purpose of my educa­tion?'" 
In the same vein, CILA's strong­est attribute is that it invites people to question, claims Jimenez. "We want to question why there are inner-city problems and inconsis­tencies. We want to question what social justice is. CILA doesn't pre­tend to give any answers, but the important thing is to question, to make people aware, to educate." 

EDUCATION 
CILA's education committee, led this year by Mary Ann Fenwick and Mary Soule, sponsors an annual edu­cation workshop on a controversial issue to promote community· aware­ness. Group discussions on a variety of topics are held regularly and newsletters go out to the 300 mem­bers once a month in an effort to inform the community. And general meetings in the Memorial Library lounge on alternate Sundays provide the opportunity for the group to meet and discuss issues and plans. 
Jimenez, at the general meetings, will enthusiastically divide the group into smaller groups to discuss topics on a personal level. "I want to see more interaction at the meetings," she emphasizes -with an enthusi­asm that Beth Dominick, CILA Com­munity Service director, describes as "incredible excitement and energy in facing new challenges." Jimenez added, "I want to draw in the experi­enced members of CILA to tap their knowledge and to generate their questions. If they begin to question, then new members will question, and this energy and awareness will spread to the rest of the campus." 
Jimenez also sends newsletters to the 26 other social concerns groups on campus in an effort to coordinate their efforts. Smiling, she recalls her first impressions of CILA -the mo­tivation for this task. "I had the preconceived notion that CILA was some elite society with a franchise on goodness. And just to get in, you had to do something called an 'Ur­ban Plunge!' I thought that CILA thought it was the only group with potential for serving others. This view changed quickly as I came to know more about CILA, or rather, the people that comprise CILA. There is much diversity in CILA, and even though it is a community of stu­dents sharing similar concerns, the members do not alienate themselves from other service organizations on campus." 
Jimenez affirms the ideal that CILA promotes sharing and caring among the group with each warm embrace with which she greets her friends and CILA members at each meeting (hugs have become her trademark, members say). "She is a very huggable person," says Steve Mangine, CILA Summer Project di­rector. "Her dedication and sin­cerity make CILA very special for me. Even though she is very busy, she always takes time to express concern and care for the other mem­bers of the group." 


SHARING 
Sharing in community life is an essential dimension of CILA. Every September, in order to enhance this sharing and to introduce new mem­bers, CILA holds an Orientation Weekend. Sixty to 70 students and faculty meet at Camp Tamarack to share presentations of summer proj­ects, goals for the year, a:1d ways of serving through CILA. 
In expressing CILA goals, Jimenez replied thoughtfully: "CILA does not have a franchise on goodness any more than it can claim to solve the world's problems. More impor­tant, it attempts to make a state­ment. It says here is an organization that teaches something vital; some­thing lasting -the need to care for people, the awareness of a world outside the University, and the pos­sible responses of a concerned Chris­tian. If we can get one person to question and then take that aware­ness with him after graduation, CILA's existence will have made a difference." 


SERVICE 
The core of CILA is service. It began with a small group of men whose international concerns led them to Latin America for summer projects, and grew to include a wide range of service functions. Projects 
(cont'd on page 15) 
11 








Perspective 

Some Thoughts On Berrigan 


After hearing Father Dan Berri­gan speak and celebrate Mass and discussing his subject matter with friends and acquaintances, for some strange reason I felt the call to put pen to paper for the first time in my Notre Dame career. What I feel the need to offer here is possibly not so much a rabid defense of Berrigan as an attempt at explanation, and I modestly elect myself for the job. 
When I tried to give a quick sum­mary of Berrigan's work to a friend, ("He smashes nuclear weapons with a hammer.") I was answered with a puzzled "How absurd!" The feelings of much of the audience for his talk was that he could be more effective if his "escapades" weren't so extrav­agant, and even Fr.. Hesburgh pro­claimed his admiration for those who were really doing something about arms control rather than in the whimsical fashion of a caveman fighting a dinosaur with a wooden spear. 
Well, in literally following the gospel message to beat swords into ploughshares, though the conse­quences be imprisonment, I don't think Berrigan is really being whim­sical. He might better be compared to the small boy fighting the giant Philistine armed only with a small slingshot and stones-an equally pre­posterous proposition. Berrigan has been to Latin America and seen poverty and hunger. He's been to Vietnam and toured the war museum to see the horrors of battle. He's pondered the spectre of nuclear war with the prospect of millions dead and untold suffering. The question is, compared to such injustice, what 

by John Murphy 
else could possibly be called· absurd? When the best and the brightest use the most money to create machinery whose actual function· is to kill, how can we call someone who takes any steps to end this absurdity absurd? 
During their trial for burning draft records at Catonsville, the Berrigans' defense rested consistent­ly on the statement "Burning paper is not as bad as burning children." Surely none of us would dispute the value of children over the value of paper. But we have distanced our­selves from the consequences of our 

"He is probably more realistic than anyone you will ever know" 
actions. The tax-payer no longer connects his signature on a check to the buying and use of weapons which kill children. The engineer no longer connects the work he performs on missiles to the destruction they might wreak. The ROTC student no longer connects his service to the call to kill which may someday come. 
We have rationalized and evaded and disguised. We have masked our actions and created an illusion of scenarios and enemies and threats. We have twisted our values and priorities to the point where our representatives in a far-off land could burn children and yet some of us could still refer to this as a "noble venture." If any of us really knew the truth of what we are doing-the actual disaster possible from our attempts at "defense"-then in that moment of enlightenment there could be no more rational act than to beat upon missiles with a hammer. 
Berrigan was asked frequently "What can we do?" and much of the audience felt he did not answer. But he came to Notre Dame to issue a call to conscience as much as to pro­duce a concrete result. Development of conscience is not always served by statements of "Do A, B and C and you will be right."· And when he did mention actual steps (such as tax evasion, protests at local military installations and working for uni­lateral disarmament motions), his reception was cool at best. One ques­tioner asked, "If we were to disarm tomorrow, wouldn't we be· left vul­nerable?" 
Berrigan answered this best the next day at Mass when he spoke of the scandal that Christ on the cross is to His Church. Christ said turn the other cheek, forgive 7 times 70 times, give up your life to save it. And in the end He offered Himself to be murdered without resistance. But today His followers place their faith in extremely precarious sys­tems of national defense, attempting a fragile hope in unreliable ma­chines rather than in Him. A Tower of Babel is built on every military base by those who would convince themselves of their own greatness. In the garden, did Christ request His apostles to hide Him, lest He be vul­nerable to the approaching soldiers? Yet we proclaim Him as our God. Of course, many would say, "Yes, but we must be realistic.'' I know, it's fine to be idealistic, but Russian tanks are .extremely practical. 
But who is being realistic here? Generals and politicians and profes­sors and journalists sit in their ivory towers and lecture on the "price which must be paid for our way of life" and other noble and honorable ideas which appeal to patriotic senti­ment. But those who have paid are_ the dead of Vietnam, the widows, the fathers without sons, the permanent­ly disabled, the deformed children of Agent Orange. Those who will pay are the countless innocent victims possible in a nuclear war. For the price of war is paid in life, and that is reality. Berrigan does not speak from any ideology or lofty concept other than his belief in life, life in Christ. He is probably more realistic than anyone you will ever know. D 
John Murphy is a senior in the Col­lege of Engineering. 


SCHOLASTIC






Madness Made Clear 

by Kraig Culbertson 
As shadows cross my face, The fear of the Truth, Of the certainty of the unseen Which evades, On me doth try. 
Passion and crystalline pictures Pierce into hungry darkness And cries are slowly stilled By that very despair From whence they came. 
And as sovereign eyelashes Rush through the thickest of air, Light is born. For she is there. 





Poetry 

I Saw 
I saw a house between two hills the wind is blowing yet it stills if winters warbler 'ere found out that would be the end of me 
I saw a line between two others 
the ruler grows but not as brothers 'ere they reach, but never touch the celts and us apart from such 
I saw a two between two twos calendar fool, this brings no news but ifYou look down rows of four a different thought, but little more 
I saw a space between two eyes the connection not; I realize a feeble hope for second view the christian ethics from the jew I saw a bird, I think it's you please tell me what it's like to be. 
Anonymous 

The Fist 
by John McGillvray 

r 
--t~>/f .­
J 

_Until only a few grai~s 
Remain on an open palm, 
An7 are wast?~ away by the rain. 

r -7/ -: -'-. '< 
. / / \ 
'.:--} 1 

Dedication in More Ways Than One? 

tn 
a 
J J 
<c: 
D  J  
n  J  
z  Ill  






0::: 

LJ.J ::J 0 
tn 
~ 
14 

The weekend of November 13-14, the University of Notre Dame cele­brated the dedication of Pasquerilla East and West and the generosity of Mr. and Mrs. Frank Pasquerilla's donation of the necessary funds for the construction of the new dorms. The Pasquerilla family and friends joined University trustees and hall residents in recognition and grati­tude for their donation. Now that the dust and excitement have some­what settled, it is interesting to ex­amine the implications of such a donation. The Pasquerilla's contribu­tion far exceeds dollars and cents. The halls have and will continue to have an impact on the University of Notre Dame. Just what the new dorms will add to life at Notre Dame and the image of the Notre Dame graduate in society remains largely unrealized. What will this new place and these women contribute to the Notre Dame "Family"? 
The immediate reaction to the new dorms revolves around the increase of the Notre Dame female popula­tion by 500. The Pasquerilla Halls create places for these women. Be­yond the actual numbers, it should be noted that many of the Pasque­rilla residents are transfer students and freshmen. They bring to the University varied backgrounds and experiences. In another sense, they remain ignorant of the powerful Notre Dame tradition and the stereo­types which surround the University. By all indications of the personality, desire to learn and wealth of talent among these women, both the Uni­versity and they are enriched by the chance to make their homes at Notre Dame. They are fresh blood to be added to the University circulatory system. Yet isn't this the case with all admitted students? Is this the creed behind Notre Dame admis­sions? However, one questions, based on past experience, whether or not these students can guard their in­dividuality. 
The potential is great. An upswing in numbers cannot go without alter­ing the awareness of women at the University. The Pasquerilla Halls break Notre Dame tradition in their by Beth Healy 
very foundation. The donation was dedicated solely for the construction of women's residences. For the first time in their ten-year history, a place was designed for women. There was no remodeling of bathroom fa­cilities, nor added laundry rooms. No alumni will ever be able to enter Pasquerilla East or West proclaim­ing the "good ole days" when the hall abounded with men: before flowered curtains. and knickknacks tainted the rooms. 
Often, the female identity at Notre Dame becomes entangled in a web of stereotypic images. The Notre Dame woman is supposedly highly competitive, career-oriented, femi­nistic, independent. She is everything the charming, frilly, coquettish, hus­band-hunting Saint Mary's woman is not. What rubbish. Be it at N.D. 
o.r SMC, such stereotypes are equally pejorative and reveal the deep lack of respect and understanding about women. This can be evidenced by the strained male/female relationships that persist. Indeed any woman ac­cepted at Notre Dame is competitive. Algebra tells us that only X number of women can occupy Y number of places. But by the same token, the 

~---~ 
SCHOLASTIC 

------~~------, 
. . . . ·; . . 
. . ' 
. -. . 
. . . . . . 


X's are still women. Ideally, some sort of synthesis between the images and relationships among students should result from the influx. 
Increased numbers should also ex­tend the female influence at Notre Dame. In terms of administrative politics, for example, we should be able to move towards diminishing the apparent bias that exists against women faculty members in the ad­ministration. Might the Notre Dame student body expect more than just two tenured women professors dur­ing the next decade? 
Harnessing such potential is an­other problem. In the .comfortable blanket of university life, Notre Dame women appear to have nestled into a passive routine. They fail to react to any sexual discrimination which operates. How can Notre Dame justify the fact that women are not even entitled to University Laundry Service, whereas men drop off their clothes on Wednesday and pick them up all clean and folded. Frankly, I get sick and tired of going for change, buying soap and folding socks in the suffocating laundry room. When it comes down to funda­mental inequalities, where has that "competitive drive" gone? 
One would think that increased numbers will increase female in­volvement and interest at Notre Dame. Ideally, if the female popula­tion is on the rise in the classroom and dining hall, so will their influ­ence be felt in all aspects of student participation, i.e., the tenure board, student government, varsity athlet­ics. 

In this tenth anniversary of wom­en at Notre Dame, Pasquerilla East and West stand as milestones in the development of coeducation at Notre Dame. Five hundred more women will make a difference. However, the type and importance of that influ­ence depend upon how those women accept the opportunity. The dedica­tion of Pasquerilla East and West and the tenth anniversary can mark a renewed dedication to the identity and development of women at Notre Dame. D 
I 
I 


Marty Jimenez 
(Cont'd from page 11) 
now range from visits to community nursing homes to workshops on Nu­clear Disarmament. 
For Jimenez, service is an impor­tant dimension of life. After college, she would like to do a year or two of volunteer service and then per­haps go to law school. Knowledge gained from continuing education, she claims, is the power to help others in need, the power to change unjust situations. "I'd like to work in my own community of San An­tonio," she continues. "When you work where people know you per­sonally, where they know your fam­ily, it is important that you believe in the statement you make." 
In service, the danger of apathy and frustration in awaiting results is present. "I know for myself," ad­mits Jimenez, "that when I see a powerful movie on nuclear war or hear an impressive lecture on Latin America, I'm ready to change the 
DECEMBER, 1981 

world, then after about a week when I see that no progress can be made, my enthusiasm begins to wear off. I've worked this year to prevent ex­perienced CILA members from get­ting burnt out and losing enthusiasm. We try to get together socially to build trust and friendship and to dis­cuss common problems." 
CELEBRATION 
Celebration has become an inte­gral part of CILA. Throughout its history, CILA has built up a tradi­tion of gathering to celebrate, pro­viding everything from hayrides and square dancing to Masses, singing,­and prayer. 
"Marty is wonderful in supporting social activities," relates Beth Dom­inick. "And always when we are to­gether, Marty will take out her guitar and everyone will sing-and usually join in with homemade in­struments like a spoon and ash tray," she quips. Mary Ann Roemer adds, "It is through her music that Marty brings out the depth of her character. Her guitar and her songs will always be an important part of her life." 
Whether celebrating or sharing, questioning or serving, she is, Steve Mangine claims, "the type of Chris­·tian leader that Christ taught us to be. She strives to lead others by serving them and not by dominating over them." 
"CILA is like a little bee that stings you every once in a while," Jimenez concludes, "to remind you to look at your life, to look at your world and ask, 'Can I be happy with it? and if I can't, what should I do about it?'" D 
Luann Duesterberg is a senior Amer­ican Studies rnajor frorn South Bend. She has written for the yearbook and is currently working for the Office of Information Services on an academic internship. 
15 

~ ' . , . . ..·.. . . . . . . . . ' . . -, 
. . ' -. 




Gallery 

PORTRAIT OF AN ARTIST 
Ellen Margaret Hackl Ellen Hackl is as major at Saint fv 




Rock Around the Croc; 

oil and latex on canvas; 41/2 ft. Strictly Two-Toned; ink and watercoloring; 9½ in. X 11 in.; 1981. 
SCHOLASTIC 


;enior fine arts tary's College. 
As an artist and musician, contemporary music plays a major part in my life and my work. In my paintings I try to express how contemporary music sounds to me and how it affects me. I want people to hear this music when they view my paintings. 
My colors are used in their purest hues to shock and stimulate the viewers' eyes in an effort to relate the similar effect that modern music has on the listener. 
In anticipating the content of my future work, I intend to continue working with the theme of musical instruments "as long as the music never stops." · 

diameter, 1981. 
DECEMBER, 1981 


by Elizabeth Bradley St. Mary's Editor 
Let me introduce you to a real Saint Mary's woman. Hildegarde Vargyas has been associated with Saint Mary's for about sixty-one years. Her life at Saint Mary's began when she started in kindergarten in 1919. Her mother worked as a maid for the school and the con­vent. Before Hildegard was born, the nuns told her mother that they would provide Hildegarde with strong academic and spiritual guidance as soon as she could start school. Since there were no day students, Hilde­garde moved away from home and into the dormitories with children her same age but in a completely different income bracket. There were no scholarships at that time, so Hildegarde became one of only three student aids at the school in order to help her parents pay for her educa­tion. Even when she was very young, she worked three hours a. day, every day, dusting the dressers in the dor­mitories. Hildegarde was a member of the "Lifers Club." These members were the students who spent their entire academic life at Saint Mary's. 
Hildegarde graduated from prepara­tory school in 1928; from the acad­emy in 1932; and from the college in 1937. In the 1930s there were about 800 students and all were re­quired to take the classes "they" thought you should take. Since Hil­degarde was not from a well-to-do family, the sisters wanted to pre­pare her for the future. They re­quired her to take 22 credit hours each semester. Hildegarde majored in Sociology and minored in French, Math and Commerce. Her education also included eight years of French, six years of Latin, one year in Greek and her parents taught her her na­tive tongue, Hungarian, when she was home on breaks. (She can still speak them to this day.) 
Mass, eating, and sleeping were tightly regulated. Every morning 

Hildegarde in prep school 
everybody got up for church, regard­less what faith they were. The din­ing hall was set up with many dif­ferent tables, and each table spoke a different language. The students were only allowed to speak the lan­guage designated at their table. When she sat at the French table, she -lived on bread and butter for a long time until she learned how to ask for the other foods. The meals began with an inspection of the cuffs and collars before they ate . . . if they were dirty, the uniform had to be changed. The din,ner routine was run by a series of ~;bells. The first bell rang when Sister Madeleva came in. After grace the second bell rang and the students were allowed to sit down. The third bell signified com­mence talking; the fourth bell de­manded silence; the fifth bell meant to rise; and the sixth bell started the final grace. They left the dining hall in rank, table by table. Hildegarde referred to Saint Mary's as a West 
Point Girls' School: "time was not your own." Lights went out at 9:00 and the nuns made their rounds to make sure everyone was in bed. 
It sounds like Hildegarde was a little robot for 17 years, but nothing could be further from the truth. To put it another way, the nuns knew 
SCHOLASTIC 


Hildegarde very well. Hildegarde and her friends liked to see how much they could get away with without getting caught. They would occa­sionally "skive to town" and get hamburgers, pies and so on to have a feast or party after hours in their rooms. They had to constantly listen for the nuns making their rounds in order to turn off the flashlight and hide the extra girls. They could not listen for footsteps because the nun's shoes were padded, but their beads were a dead giveaway. When the alarm was sounded, the girls darted to their hiding places. Some girls would hide in the closet, (but they could not stand because their feet could be seen, so they hung onto the bar and lifted their feet up), and the remaining girls would hide under 

-Photo by Priddy
Miss Hildegard!'l Vargyas, daugh­ter of Mr, and Mrs. A. Vargyas, 809 W,. Jefferson ·boulevard, was gra:du• ated June 2 from St. Mary's Aca• deniy, Miss Vapgyas was class poet for 1932.!I and vice president of the Rosary·-Sodality, She was also ac• tive'1n athletics, and served as pub• llcity niana.ger for th~ school paper during lier senior year. 
Hildegarde graduated from high school second in her class 

the beds. Some of these get-togethers did not go unnoticed, but the sister was usually "a softy" and left the room saying, "the one under the bed should hide her leg." At times the nuns were subject to some of Hilde­garde and her friends' pranks. The nuns usually got up at around 4:30 or 5:00 in the morning when a big bell was rung outside. One night Hil­degarde and her friends went out­side at 1:00 in the morning and rang the bell. They ran away and watched the nuns from a distance get up and scurry around getting ready for the new day. "I was a holy terror, I really was . . . especially in prep school." Hildegarde told me about a Sunday, right before she was al­lowed to go home for a weekly dinner, when she sat down at the piano and played "Home Sweet Home" to make all the other girls homesick and cry. "I didn't care, I was going home at 1:00" . . . but she did not go home at all that Sun­day. The nuns told her parents when they arrived to pick her up, that she would not be going home for dinner that week. Her parents agreed with the nuns: "If you hadn't done any­thing wrong, they wouldn't have punished you." 
The social scene has changed tre­mendously since Hildegarde attended Saint Mary's. The students were al­lowed to go to the Notre Dame games, but they had to be back by 
5: 
00 or be campused. To be cam­pused meant that the next weekend the violator had to stay on campus and report every hour, on the hour, to the library. Another big difference was that there was no regular dat­ing. The guys were allowed to visit Sunday afternoon and to sit in the parlor with their dates and talk until 

5: 
00. Every once in a while, a guy would bring playing cards, but as soon as "the beads" were heard, they were quickly hidden. You know how it is -no lady would play card games! 


After Hildegarde left Saint Mary's, she was faced with the problem of finding a job -during the Depres­sion. She went to the Studebaker · Company and applied for a job. Be­cause of her excellent background in foreign language, clerical work and so on·; she got a job translating in the· export parts division the same day she applied. She was gradually promoted to administration and ad­vertising where she had to learn to speak Portuguese. In 1955, she and her parents moved to California, 

Hildegarde in 1937 
where she got a job at The Bank of America. "My education was so var­ied, I could step in anywhere." In 1958, her family moved back to South Bend where Hildegarde held different positions around town, in­cluding Notre Dame. After Hilde­garde's parents died in 1975, she de­cided she would stop working and live off the money she had earned and her parents had left her. When the vice-president of Saint Mary's, Brian Reagan at that time, found out she quit working, he half-repri­manded her for not using all the knowledge she had attained and asked her to come to work for Saint Mary's part-time. 
A couple weeks passed and Hilde­garde was working a full forty-hour week. Hildegarde has worked in about twenty to twenty-five different departments in six years. She worked in the Education Department and got it accredited, assisted the Nursing Department in obtain!ng its accred­itation, and has just finished working on the Sociology Department's ac­creditation and expects to get it soon. One of her favorite depart­ments is the Alumnae Office because she works with many of her class­mates' and friends' names and con­tributions to the college. Hildegarde feels she is still continuing her edu­cation at Saint Mary's. Since she has been back, she has kept up on the advances in the field of sociology 
(her major), by working in that de­partment, and learned how to work with the Memorex and computers. Hildegarde's relationship with Saint Mary's is a unique one. Her staff ID card sums it all up: Instead of the year of employment on the card, "indefinite" is written . . . "that means 'till death do us part.'" D 
jT .
ffltl()Il
An October :Dau 

by Greg Bachhuber 
October is a time of preparation on a Wisconsin farm. Harvest is over, and the lorig ordeal of winter looms on the horizon like the Canadian cold fronts shoving down from Hudson Bay. The grain must be stored, the machinery oiled and lubed, and the endless lines of rust-colored snowfence must be secured like World War I barbed wire. All these arduous tasks are done with an air of demoralization, for they signal the inevitable. Wisconsin winters are cruel and cold as death grips the countryside of rolling, wooded hills. 
One late October afternoon I stepped out of the breezeway door and sounded a shrill whistle. The sky was clear, holding only the high cirrus clouds in the north that were the heralds of the months to come. It was brisk outside, sweat-shirt weather, but the wind 
. was calm and the sun warmed my face. From the barn, the milk cows were mooing as they rambled into the parlor, and hearing my call, Pepper came trotting from around the barnyard, ears perked high. He was caked with mud from helping Dad with the chores. Tongue always hanging sideways and tail always wagging wildly, Pepper was the perfect farm dog. Half of him was German shepherd. The other looked collie, but we were never quite sure. For seventeen years his brown-spotted white form had herded cows and chased birds until I had automatically made Pepper and the farm into a single thought, always linked in my mirid. He was more than a dog. With me· from my first days, he was family, another brother. Pepper ran stiffly and slowly that day. Arthritis had turned his muscular stride into a painful, jerky hobble. He was blind in one eye and had stopped eating the week before. Sadly, I picked up my case leaning on the house and headed up the path through the buildings to the top of the hill. Our farm is nestled on the edge of one of the largest marshes in the United States, the Horicon National Wildlife Refuge. The marsh sits in a basin like a giant bathtub, ringed by gentle bluffs overlooking its sea of cattails. The farm is on one of these bluffs, and from the hill Pepper and I were heading to, one could see for dozens of miles the vast refuge where each fall Canadian geese in the hundreds of thousands stop on their way south. I slowly walked the path, staying in one of the brown tracks made by the tractors on the way to the fields. In his younger days, Pepper would have roamed the hay looking for pheasants as I walked, but now he trotted by my side, nuzzling my hand with his mouth to be petted. His wiry fur was grimy. Pepper had never been bathed or even let in the house, but all farm dogs were like that. Whispering in our ears, a breeze cooled our faces. High above, a "V" of geese veered towards the marsh, and sparrows in the fence­line sputtered nervously from tree to tree, always keeping ten feet ahead of us. I sighed and looked down at my friend. I scratched his ears and spoke dog-talk to him. The sun was low on the rim of the marsh. 
Alfalfa grew on the hill that year. It was lush and green, knee-deep and smelling like summer rain even in October. Pepper was immersed in it as the road ended in the field, and I had to lift my feet as I walked so that my boots would not get tangled in the grass. Eventually we reached the lone tree at the crest of the hill, a stark oak that seemed to always watch over the farm like a guardian. Being as dark and powerful as it was, the oak was never cleared from the field. The tractors just plowed around it respect­fully. The oak stood there, framed in the west by the sun as I rested my case against its trunk. The hole that I had dug the day before remained next to the big tree. · 

I knelt down beside my dog in the sweet hay. He nuzzled my hand and licked my face, and I held him close. The sun was sinking now, and its reflection on the marsh below danced and shimmered in the channels. The wind grew calm. The farm became quiet, antici­pating. Only the light from the sun spoke, bathing the valley and the bluffs on its sides with golden whispers, and I knew the time had come. 
I always thought there was something evil about a veterinary hospital. Maybe it was because of the antiseptic smell-the place reeked of chloroform, and the stacked cages of sick dogs and cats seemed like prisoners on death row, just waiting to die. Pepper had never been to that place. Doc Neal had always given the dog his shots when he came out.Jo inoculate the herd. It seemed right and dignified that my Pepper would never have to go there, never leave the farm. 
Rising, I took the length of rope from my coat and tied Pepper to the tr2e. He looked at me quizzically by turning his head sideways, like when he was a puppy, and then he sat down. I unzipped my case and removed the steel-blue Remington, at the same time saying to myself, "He's seventeen and the winter will be so cold. He's seventeen. He's seventeen . . . . " I raised my rifle to 'my shoulder as I cranked in a shell, but I had trouble seeing. Since the time I was seve:n, I had been taught to squeeze the trigger, but as I lined the barrel up with my dog's ears, I yanked it. My shoulder jerked, smoke and fire flew out of the · barrel, and my oldest friend turned a bloody cartwheel into the sweet alfalfa hay. The report thundered off the bluffs and rolled into the marsh below. 
SCHOLASTIC 

Mixed Marriage 
.by Mary Powel Jabaley 
No plate is broken so hard 
It will not be mended-she thought. 
What we love is the cabinet above the sink 
Where we keep the broken pieces 
That we hide away with plans to do 
So much of everything someday. 
But even if the glue would stick, there would always be that scar. 
So maybe I'll create remembered 
Happiness from things that never were ­
A flower of Susan's, and Mother's gold band, 
And the solid white that Father gave to John 
For his bride, when Lily found outside 
A piece of colored china, and brought it to our cabinet 
Bec.ause she likes the color blue. 

Poetry 
Extinction 
by Mary Powel Jabaley 

Hurl guilt-bombs at yourself: The unicorn is only killed by deceit. You are covered with the muddiness of guilt And the treacherous blood in the lap of the virgin Wash with opaque but crystalline droplets of guilt As the trees converge to hide the forest 
The guilty metallic cover of winter clouds ­
Armored knights with fatal steel flashing through 
mist And striking the grey-blue-blue-grey of the unicorn 
Both now sink into the ground. 
Who once was king shall never be king again. 
.7>­
t . , 
.· .
1 
/!" 


October Day 
(cont'd from page 20) 
I buried Pepper in that shallow pit and walked by myself, for the first time, down the path to the barn­yard, silent in the setting sun. The farm seemed less for Pepper's passing. After that day I never felt the same about the farm, my family, or my childhood again. The next year I would leave for college and nothing would ever be the same. Yet today, as I run through the memories of green Wisconsin hayfields, or remember the times I spent exploring autumn woods and secluded clearings, a large white dog with a tattered ear and a hoarse bark always runs with me. 
. 

In the sun that is young once only, Time let me play and be Golden in the mercy of his means . ... -Dylan Thomas 

; I 
"Sometimes we feel overlooked on campus as an important contributing department. This piece enabled us to be visible to a large portion of the student body and the response was both interesting and beneficial to all of us." 
-Colleen Zufelt 


22 
SCHOLASTIC 

~  .  .,  ,t  . •  '  'r'·. ,  •  .  ',,  
•  •  •  '>  •  
.  .  
.  '  .  .  




On September 24, 1981 something "happened" within the environs of the Saint.Mary's College community.... 
Referred to as a "happening" by those who witnessed it, Veronica Robie, Eileen Lyons, Angie Michielutti, and Colleen Zufelt created art before their viewers' very eyes. 
Tell me what's happening • '' 

"This sculpture is about a direct interaction with the environment and especially with the viewers. We, as human sculptural forms, dressed completely in white, were able to see and hear the reactions to our endeavors. We danced separately for a time then created forms together over a great deal of the campus. Our poses lasted up to a minute at a time." 
-Angie Michielutti 
DECEMBER, 1981 


' , --0 ' • :_ • 0 • 0 • A • • \ 
~ 

. . . . ,. ­
\ . ' -. . . 


let:l()fl Harry's "\Vorld 
Harry lay motionless in his sofa bed, wondering why in the hell he was up so early. Sunlight poured into his one-room apartment through the south window, forcing him to squint his bloodshot eyes. Scents of cheap perfume, stale whiskey, and flatulence blended to produce a membrane-irritating haze that hung stagnant in the still air. With considerable effort Harry reached over and yanked the crinkled blanket across his shoulders. A pair of panty hose flipped up and hit him in the face.. Julia's, he thought. She had a habit of forgetting things in Harry's apartment. It gave her sufficient reason to return and claim her lost articles. Harry didn't mind. In the three months since Holly had left him, Julia proved to be an adequate substitute, and was a lot of fun for Harry. Through his grogginess, Harry then realized why he had awakened at such an early hour. 
The travel alarm suddenly performed its morning duty. Harry snatched the ringing timepiece and hurled it at the wall. The glass and metal pieces scattered in many directions. He was. meeting Holly for lunch today. 

The station house seemed unusually busy as Harry strolled past the groups of blue-shirted men. He always attracted stray comments and digs, for his uniform consisted of worn-out jeans, a green fatigue jacket, and a Yankee baseball cap. 
"Hey, Ruskin, I hear you're gonna bust some 13-year­olds today." 
Harry never allowed remarks to go unanswered. "Yeah, Saulk, I'm just goin' after that punk that outran you last week from that liquor store holdup." 
"Aw shit, that bum knew every passageway in the neighborhood." 
"Go back to helping old ladies across the street." Harry ignored his reply and headed for the locker bay. . 

Chico was sitting hunched over by his open locker as Harry approached. The two had worked together for nearly four years. Chico was about the only friend Harry had on the force. Harry's violent and unpredictable temper never allowed for many people to get close to him. His choices of friends were strictly his own, which alienated many of his former partners. He was a good cop and he was "street smart," having grown up in the streets he now patrolled. He didn't tolerate anyone above his own rank, but always got the job done; his way. Chico understood this. 
"Hey Harry, how's it goin', man?" 
"Okay." 
"Why don't you come by the house tonight, man. 
Rosalita is making some of her world-famous chili, and, ay chihauhua, there's always so much of it left over that I'm forced to eat it for the next FOUR DAYS! And man, you want to know what that does to my insides, man?" 
-----------~ ---­
. ,, 
by Greg Swiercz 

"Nah, but thanks anyway." 
Chico was taken aback by Harry's indifferent attitude. "What's the matter? You sick or something? Last time you came over for chili you ate half the damn pot!" Chico, realizing what he had just said, wished he had been born mute. 
"Last time I came over with Holly." "Hey, man, I'm sorry I brought it up, but jt's been quite a while since you two split up, and I-" 
"And you what? You thought I was through with her?" 
"Well, sure man." 
"How can I be when she won't let me?" 
Chico was becoming confused. "What do you mean?" "She called me last night to let me know she's in town. She wants to talk to me." 
"Talk to you?" Chico mocked with a resounding belly laugh. "She said a lot when she walked out on you. She didn't even have the guts to tell you she was calling it quits." 
. 
. 
SCHOLASTIC 

,i ' ' • • 
''Aw, GO TO HELL!!" 
"Hey Harry, cool down, man. Tell you something. I think you still feel for her." Chico waited for Harry to violently react, but he remained seated on the bench in front of his locker, clutching his mind. 
"You know, Chico, you may be right." 
The two undercover cops silently finished dressing. Chico was finished minutes ahead of Harry and ran to the nearest locker room exit and shouted, "Harry, LET'S GO!" He began flickering the lights, making it difficult for Harry to strap his snub-nosed .38 to his calf. 
Harry couldn't help but chuckle at his insane partner. "Keep your pants on, you greasy Puerto Rican!" Harry appreciated the friendship of Chico. Chico was all Harry had. 
Mornings on the East Side were tranquil and gen­erally the safest times of the day, and this particular one was no exception. Harry didn't seem to notice the peaceful day, for visions of Holly dominated his thought processes. Chico let Harry have this time to himself, and drove the unmarked squad car to the stake-out apartment. The lookout had been set up to monitor a fencing operation going on in a local tele­vision repair shop. Harry and Chico had supposedly rented the apartment they were now entering, where, dressed in plain clothes, they acted as if they lived there. To further the room's credibility, Harry had even gone as far as to escort Holly up to the third floor. The following morning, he sent Holly home, and continued the watch on the shop. Harry was ingenious, as well as practical. 
Harry anxiously paced the floor all morning. By eleven o'clock, Chico had taken all he was going to take. "GO ON! Get out of here! Get this thing over with." 
Harry didn't want to face Holly. "I think I'll wait awhile, if you don't mind." Holly had a way of erasing Harry's gripes with her smile, and Harry was totally aware of this. He considered seeing her in an altered state, but dismissed the notion on account of his extreme honesty in an inebriated mood. She might find out Harry's true feelings toward her. She would have to work for that, Harry thought. 
Harry arrived at Chez Jacques earlier than the planned time, so he sat down at the bar and ordered a Manhattan. His clothes poorly suited the sur­roundings of the fine restaurant, but Harry never­theless frequented the place. The manager and Harry had come to terms concerning proper attire. Chez Jacques served him in his work clothes as long as Harry didn't cite the management for housing violations and the use of cheap foreign labor. Harry and Holly had often spent quiet evenings sipping wine and dining there, a custom that Harry missed deeply. Their three years living together had ended on a night after they returned from eating at Chez Jacques. Harry thought it appropriate to be meeting Holly here. It was only fitting. 
The noon crowd was in full swing when Holly entered the restaurant. Harry couldn't help but spot her fur-lined camel coat with her golden hair cascading over the collar. She instinctively walked towards Harry's table, for Harry always sat at the same one. Her swanky strut was still sexy by Harry's standards. She approached with a cautious grin on her face. 
"Hi, Harry." 
"Hello." Pause. 
"So, how've you been?" 

"Okay." Pause. "My, my. Aren't we talkative today?" "Maybe because it's that I don't have much to 
say to you, did you ever think of that?" 
"Damn it, Harry! Stop making this harder than it already is ... I thought we could talk this through sensibly and-" 
"Sensibly? You call walking out on me a sensible move? How am I supposed to act? You seem to think our relationship is on a revolving door!" 
"Harry, I HAD to leave. Don't you see? I was struggling on account of you. We'd spend beautiful weekends together at the lake, or just in town, and Monday morning would come and I'd wonder if I'd see you walk in the door that night. I was at the point of wondering if I possibly could be in love with a self­destructive man that someday would get killed and leave me totally alone. I got scared and ran." 
"Why didn't you talk to me about this? Maybe I-" 
"Oh, sure. I'm supposed to come up to you and say 'Harry, guess what? I can't take you being a cop any longer, so what do you think of that?' I'm not that way." 
Harry began fighting with the napkin under his drink. His reflections on Holly's words unnerved him to the point that he didn't know if he should scream or offer her another chance. In his anguish, he blurted out, "Why did you come back? Just to patronize me?" He stood up and flipped a five-dollar bill on the table. "Why don't you just go back where you were? I have nothing else to say to you!" Holly dumbfoundedly stared at Harry as he sped for the exit. The hostess, upon witnessing the scene along with the other patrons, quickly went over to console the sobbing woman.. 
Harry was already driving back to join Chico when he realized the extent of his outburst. His actions began to gnaw on his stomach. It was Holly. She had that effect on him. She left me and that should be final Harry thought. She's gone, and I must accept that. Harry pulled up to the curb and nearly flung the car door off its hinges. He couldn't accept Holly being out of his life. His job wasn't so important that it could separate him from the only person he ever cared for. He couldn't live with that, or without her. 
Chico was agitated when Harry stomped into the apartment. 
"Harry, glad you're back, man. I think somethin's going down. The traffic in the shop has been heavy. I mean all kinds of stuff. Almost like the last-minute shoppers on Christmas Eve, man." 
"Sure sounds like it's going to happen soon." "How did it go with Holly, man?" "Aw, hell, I lost my head and yelled at her like a 
damn fool! She came crawling back and I kicked her 
away." "Do you love her, Harry?" "Yeah, more than I ever realized. Tell me, Chico, 
how does Rosalita put up with being married to a cop?" 
"Well, we talked about it before we got hitched and decided that we wouldn't worry about the future, since the time we could share together was worth the risk. Sure, she gets shook when the TV shows cops getting wasted, but our love goes beyond worry. I can't 
· picture my life without Rosalita.'.' "That makes a lot of sense.'' "It does? Then start calling me 'Chico the Philosopher!' " They both laughed long and loud. Harry then decided that he must talk to Holly. His 
feelings were too strong to ignore, and he had some important things to speak to her about. 

Harry dialed the number-of Holly's Aunt Marie, who lived just outside the city. She should know where Holly ·is, Harry reasoned. 
"Hello? Aunt Marie?·This is Harry." "Oh, how are you, Harry? It's been a long time since-" "Yes, it's been quite a while. Do you know where I can get in touch with Holly?" 
"You sound worried. Is anything wrong?" 
"No, I think everything is going to be just fine." 

"She told me not to tell you, but she is in room 413 at the Grace Hotel." "Thanks a lot, Aunt Marie. Bye." "Good-bye Harry." Harry tore off a piece of paper from an old grocery 
bag, wrote down the hotel name and room, and 
stuffed it into the breast pocket of his shirt. I'll straighten this out after work, Harry mumbled to 
himself. 

At that instant Chico jumped to his feet, "It's going down! The truck and the goods are all there. I'll call for a backup." 
Harry reached down to his calf and removed his revolver from its holster and placed it in his coat pocket. He and Chico met at the door and Harry whispered, "Nice and easy, you go to the passenger side of the car, and I'll act like I'm looking for the keys, and when I act like I drop them, I'll circle around the back of the car and we'll take them. OK?" 
Chico nodded. He knew Harry always was smooth and levelheaded in a pressure situation. "Let's do it." 
The panel truck sat squarely in front of the repair shop. It worked out that Chico would get a clear view into the truck as he moved towards it. Harry would follow Chico and go around to the shop front and take the men loading the goods. Harry's only worry was at what time the backup squad would get there. Not knowing how many men he would have to apprehend made Harry more anxious to see more cops around. 
The two approached their car. Harry faked his lost key act and darted around the back of the car, towards the men coming out of the store. Chico pulled out his service revolver and shouted to the loaders on the truck, "POLICE, FREEZE ! " Harry stopped two men trying to run by barking out "Hold it, or you're dead!" At quick count Harry tallied six men. Harry yelled to Chico, "Where the hell are those backups!" 
Chico never got a chance to answer him. A seventh man appeared from the other side of the truck and fired. Chico spun around and let out a small yelp, and fell to the pavement. 
Harry impulsively pumped four slugs into the man 
that shot his partner. At that moment, a black-and­
white screeched up and two blue uniforms streaked 
towards Harry. 

"It's about time, you deadbeats! Take care of these 
guys." 
Harry went over to check Chico. 
"Hey Chico, are you alright?" 
Chico attempted to turn over from his face-down 
position, but his wounded shoulder wouldn't allow it. 
"I think I'm gonna make it, man. Could you tell 
Rosalita that I'm gonna make it?" 
"Sure, pal. You just relax 'til the ambulance gets 
here." 
Harry sat with his wounded partner until the 
paramedics carted him away. Harry thought about how he was going to tell Rosalita. Moreover, he wondered how hard she would take the news. Harry then thought of his own situation, and became depressed. 


Rosalita was shocked to see Harry without Chico. 
"Where's Chico?'' 
"Rose, it's not serious, but Chico was wounded today when the stakeout came down. I came over to take you to him." 
Harry listened closely to Rosalita's cries and worried thoughts of losing Chico. She feared for herself and her children. Her love for her husband made the fear of losing him more unbearable. Harry could detect frustration in Rosalita's words. He wasn't sure he could live with himself if he became the cause of grief towards someone he cared for so much. 
* 
·i:­

It was nearly ten-thirty when Harry returned to his apartment. After taking Rosalita home, he stopped to have a few drinks at the tavern down the street from his place. He was trying to cope with the decision he was helplessly forced to make. After a few hours of unsatisfactory justification, he headed home. 
He removed his coat and pulled out his sofa bed. While unbuttoning his shirt, he came across his grocery bag note. With a slow, tedious motion, he wadded it up and tossed it into the trash can. Harry then grabbed his whiskey bottle, reclined on his bed, and waited for Julia to come searching for her panty hose. 
At the same time in her hotel room, Holly dried her tears and prepared herself for bed. She had to try to get a good night's rest, for tomorrow was a new beginning, and she hoped she would have the strength to face a new day. D 
SCHOLASTIC 

, . . . . 
.Poetry 
·.Explqring 
byDan Bell 
She knows butdoes not know 
She cannot show 
For then would come 
Wllat must not come 
The w'orld is much too' young. 
Too young this newfound world of hers; So much to see .· •. . . . Too .much to choose For choices mean A thousand roads riot taken. 
And yet his eyes 
Theytell no lies· 
She knows he cries . 
Butshe mustnotknow 
She cannot show. 
The pressures of this newfound world · Must they tag along? This Midas Touch It hurts too much Too many turn to gold. 
And when she knows 
And if he shows ...· . 
Arid when he knows she knows 
WilLhe insist .. 
She knows he knows she knows? 
For if he does 
The choice will fall 
And his will be one of the thousand 
Not taken after all. 

DECEMBER, 1981 


Youth and Beauty 
by Susy Roesger 

I hated to come for you when you worked the late shift. You'd be leaning against a garbage bin in the dark and I ;had to strain to see your profile, so pale in the yellow buzz of the neon light. And though it was cold, we'd drive home with the 
windows down because you stank of french fries and grease. 
You were always older than the rest, sucking a Winston, wanting to look aloof instead of lonely, in the bitter wind of a crisp October 
night when we could hear the anthem played over the 
crackling speakers of the stadium as we drove past the school. There my friends huddled together in the bleachers, laughing behind mittened hands. Without you, I could join them. 
Sometimes I'd come for you early, and you'd be embarrassed to have me watch you flip burgers, as deftly as Joe Lindsey could toss that short, bobbing pass to win the game. Almost a smile, over the sputtering hiss of the grill, you, in the blue-striped cap that you hated to wear and those black, pointy-toed shoes, when everyone else wore Adidas. 
Your silence bored me, so I'd take you home and fly off again to find my friends, and you'd be left alone, to smoke a little doobie behind the house while Jimi Hendrix picked it out for you through the window of your ba~ement room. 
You never went to a high school dance, or necked at a drive-in, or made the winning pass. Like my love for you, you went unknown. Your loss was then but mine is now, my brother. 
. . 
-~-----~ ·---------­


-Workers----------­



28 
SCHOLASTIC 

--_----~~-~--~---:-· . ~1 ~ . .... ~ .,. ' -·. , 
. . . ' . 
. . . . . . . ­
. . 



What Ever Happened to James Danehv? by Jim McClure He works full-time as an industrial 400 students up to the year of his been hurt financially by the career consultant for a firm in Chicago. He retirement. The petition and a law­change. "I'm making double what I goes on regular trips to the East suit filed by Danehy failed to rein­could have been earning as a pro­Coast as part of his work and works state the instructor. fessor." Danehy smiled and added, part-time as a radio announcer and Danehy pointed out that Notre "plus I get a Social Security check programmer. When he has the time, Dame has never had a mandatory every month!" he studies two languages as a hobby. retirement policy and emphasized Danehy's consulting work takes He is also officially retired. that the University's idea of retire­him to Chicago every week and some­James P. Danehy, a former chem­ment differed considerably from his. times involves visiting businesses in istry professor at Notre Dame, re­"I refuse to accept the word 'retired.' Pennsylvania, Connecticut, and New tired from the University in 1977 at I was simply terminated. That's it, York. Other than the one day a week the age of 65 even though he had no pure and simple." he spends in Chicago, Danehy stays wish to retire. at his South Bend home with his Back in 1977, Danehy started a wife of 47 years, Margaret. The campus-wide furor which received "I ref use to accept former professor works and re­national news coverage when he re­searches in his Notre Dame office fused to retire from active teaching the word 'retired.' located at the old Chemistry Hall, at Notre Dame. Danehy contended where he was Father Nieuwland's that age makes no difference if, as I was simply terminated." last Ph.D. in 1936. The University the Faculty Handbook states, "Ten­provides office space to retired pro­ure is permanence of appointment." fessors.Only one-third of the professorsArticle III, Section 10, of the It is interesting to note thatemeritis from 1967 to 1976 wereFaculty Handbook states, however, Danehy also obtained his undergrad­kept on for year-to-year employ­that "A member of the faculty ordi­uate and master's degrees at Notrement. Danehy called this "sheerlynarily retires and becomes emeritus Dame in 1933-34. "I'm a triplecapricious" and described the emeri­on the first day of July following the domer," Danehy said.tus designation as "a Kentuckyfaculty member's 65th birthday.... Danehy is host of WSND-FM'sColonel pin on your collar. ThatWhen a member is permitted to con­"Sunday Morning Concert'' and[ designation] doesn't mean any­tinue in active service beyond the "Opera from Shakespeare," a pro­thing."date prescribed for retirement, ser­gram which airs in the evening.Today, Danehy is anything but in­vice beyond that date will be on the Danehy does both three-hour showsactive. He is employed as an indus­basis of a year-to-year appointment, live, in addition to programming thetrial research chemist, a job he per­and the member will retire at the "Tuesday Afternoon _Concert."formed for sixteen years prior toend of any service year unless reap­Danehy, who ea,sJly looks ten yearsjoining the Notre Dame faculty inpointed for another year." The for­younger than his current age of-69,1951. Although he misses the per­mer professor said in an interview listed languages as a favorite hobby.sonal contact with students he en­that the school's retirement policy is "I'm studying Greek now, and I tryjoyed as an instructor, he has not"completely contradictory to the of­to read something in French every ficial definition [of tenure]. If day." Danehy and his wife also en­tenure is terminated by a birthday, joy visiting their twelve grandchil­there is nothing permanent about it." dren and one great-grandson, when More than 1,900 students signed a the "retired" professor has the time, petition asking the University to con­that is. D tinue Danehy's employment past July 1, 1977. The petition was the Jim McClure is a senior American idea of the students and not Danehy, Studies majo1·. This is his first con­which indicated the professor's popu­tribution to Scholastic. larity with students, a popularity he gained teaching chemistry classes of  

30  SCHOLASTIC  
--~-­ ' 
-­ - ~  
..  •  ..  ..J  ..  .  "  ~  .,. '  •  •  
.  .  .  .  .  
.  .  .  
.  . .  .  


"Write about anything you want to" and did not give us a clue?
The Last Word 

Now when I told the other editors about the 
by Chuck Wood 

Then one day it struck me. It came like an urgent call at dawn, a telegram in the middle of the night, a sudden tap on the shoulder that sends you six feet off the ground because you thought you were alone. It was a revelation which was awe-inspiring in its pure, indefatigable, and compelling simplicity (actually it was a suggestion from Dan Keusal which he mentioned while deciding what sort of not-at-all-inspiring meat was buried under the gravy at dinner once, and the suggestion lent support to an idea I had already been playing with in the back of my mind). 
The message's power was its straightforwardness. It contained merely six words: "going," "try," "for," "themeless," "change," and "a"! I guess you had to be there; it was much more powerful when the words were in the right order: "Try going themeless for a change." 
Themeless? What a concept! What would that mean for the structure of the magazine. Would it become a jumble? What would give focus to the first part of the magazine? Would student writers cringe as we all used to (and still do) when an English teacher said, idea, none of my questions seemed to occur to them. They treated the "themeless revelation'' as if it were an early Christmas present. They were probably thinking, "We're not losing a focus, we're gaining a little freedom." 

On the other hand, the freedom to write about anything may expose some facets of the identity crisis of the University. I've been thinking about this lately because I know what I would like to see both with themes and without them; Scholastic could be a place for people to feel free to bring out the Christian dimension in the ordinary happenings and the "big issues.'' 
If we are supposed to become the well-rounded Catholics who are sensitive to the intellectual and practical aspects of our faith that this place talks about, why don't we put some flesh on the bones of that rhetoric? Maybe it is because there is no marrow inside those bones, no weight to that rhetoric to bring it down out of the clouds. 
I have said this before, though less bluntly: the teachings that we students receive here do not neces­sarily encourage seeing our faith simply as childish games or nice stories that need demythologizing (though they seem to do even this from time to time), but neither do they discourage a merely adequate legalism or lukewarm faith (apostasy from indifference is more tragic than from cynicism). 
I know there are some people here who are glad to see students liberated from what they see as im­mature; uninformed, superstitious faith. But there are certainly even more, myself included, who agree it is ludicrous and sad when students leave this place, less interested in fleshing out the gospel and having the courage to meet Jesus' challenge (in other words, "worse Catholics") than when they started. 
There are people here, at all levels, working to com­bat the kind of trend I am talking about, and they need to continue and be more bold about it. Everybody takes this place so seriously, we should make sure we do so for truly serious reasons. And the true, serious commitments that people in this Christian place begin and pursue should be those which flow from the Life whose human beginning we celebrate on December twenty-fifth. 
~=============================================~ 
1Jn l\etrospect 

Excerpts from Scho/astic's Past . .. Jan., '81 
Change Rears Its Ineluctable Head* 
~ Scholastic needs an -=-: Editor for the '81-'82 year If interested in applying for this esteemed position, contact Chuck Wood. 
¥It's true this year: Chuck is really leaving this time. APPLICATION DEADLINE FOR EDITOR, SCHOLASTIC '82-'83: FRIDAY, JAN. 22. CALL 8624, 3408,. OR LEA VE NOTE IN STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE. 
31

. . . . . . . 
. . • #' •. . -~ . ~ • , • 
. ' ' . -. . . . 
' ­
e11tt11re Update 
MUSIC 
at Notre Dame 

Dec. 11 -Glee Club Christmas Concert -Carl Stam, director, Washington Hall -8: 15 p.m. 
at Saint Mary's 

Dec. 13 -"Lessons and Corals" Concert -Raymond Sprague, conductor, Church of Loretta, SMC ­
8:00 p.m. 
ART 

at the Isis Gallery ... at the Saint Mary's Galleries 
Jan. 18-31 -"Graduate Thesis Shaw: Tony Martin -Until Dec. 11 -"Christmas Show" -Ham mas· & Little Ratter" -Opening 7:30 p.m., Jan. 18 Theatre Galleries (Tentative) · 
Until Dec. 11 -"Redbud Shaw" -Moreau Galleryat the 15nite Museum ·of Art (Tentative) 
Jan. 13-27 -"Barbara Rogers Visiting Artist"-Hammes nessy Galleries 
Until Dec. 27 -"Life -The First Decade"--' O'Shaugh­Gallery (Tentative) 
Jan. 29-Feb. 24-"Marilyn Bock-Tobolski Paintings" maker" -O'Shaughnessy Galleries -Hammes Gallery 
Until Dec. 31 -"Bruce Onobrokpeya: Nigerian Print­
Jan. 29-Feb. 24 -"Hicks Etch Print Exhibition" ­Until Dec. 27 -"Everett McNeor: Drawings and Water­Moreau Gallery colors" -O'Shaughnessy Galleries 
Until Dec. 31 -"Christmas Show" -O'Shaughnessy Galleries 
L ·oN l!WJ8d eue1pu1 'awea eJJON 
0 IV d 
30'v'.lSOd ·s·n '0l:IO .11.:IOl:ld-NON 








