This book is not tc be taken fron the Library
THE SCHOLASTIC is published 26 times during' the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1865
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
James S. Kearns..................
Mitchell C. Tackley..............
....Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor
Associate Editors
Netvs Staff
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD________________EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
RICHARD B. TOBIN...__________________JOHN E. CONLEY
EDWARD F. MANSFIELD.................MICHAEL	F. WIEDL
Departmental Editors
THOMAS J. STRITCH___________________________The Week
JAMES T. FITZPATRICK.____________________College Parade
RICHARD P. PREZEBEL....................   Staff	Artist
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY.
Graduate Manager
THOMAS G. PROCTOR) JOSEPH A. BUCCI J ROY O. SCHOLZ______ WILLIAM A. KENNEDY. GEORGE P. LEYES.___ FRANK KELLY
.......Metes	Editors
.ROBERT F. ERVIN JOHN W. WALKER —LOUIS R. HRUBY
Sports Staff
JOHN D. CARBINE____________ >	„
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING___£-----------Sports Editors
NICHOLAS J. CONNOR-------------HOWARD T. WALDRON
CYRIL F. STROKER
Volume LXVII
March 2, 1934
No. 17
ECHOES FROM THE PALACE
Some fifty or sixty students had a highly successful evening last Sunday. They were splendidly, if unwillingly, entertained: anger and frustration can be very amusing; they certainly were not required to spend much money; and the chances are that they accomplished the measure of retaliation that was their aim. But their performance was indicative of at least two other important developments.
In the first place it appears that the student body is at last ready to do its South Bend spending with those merchants who are prepared to render back good service, cheerfully, or at least civilly given. If Sunday’s demonstration is to mean anything, it is almost imperative that the place in question be avoided by all students in the future. That sort of action will put teeth into the student protest. It is entirely probable that the student body will follow just such a course. And it is completely reasonable that it should.
Notre Dame students spend, each year, a considerable amount of money in South Bend. No merchant in the city has such a complete monopoly in his field that the students need stand for anything bordering on incivility. The students do not ask for or want discrimination; but neither should they countenance discrimination made against them because they are students. The protest that is simple to effect, and most pointed in results is a transfer of trading locale.
The second important indication is that the student body can effectively work out at least some of its own problems. The fact that more than fifty students could and did work quietly and conservatively toward a prearranged goal should be enough guarantee of ability and good faith to procure further chances at self-governing under student leadership whenever opportunities arise in the future. The same good judgement and disciplined execution will be necessary. The display of these on Sunday evening demonstrates that they can be attained on student initiative. In many ways such cooperative administration of rules would be a good and a pleasant innovation in student life.
A BOUQUET FOR THE A. A.
A rising vote of thanks seems in order on the part of the student body to the Notre Dame Athletic Association for its maintenance of Notre Dame’s tradition of courtesy. A recent example, called to public attention by a visiting athletic official, causes us to take this opportunity to point to the excellencies of the A. A.
In the St. Paul Daily News of February 22, Coach Dave McMillen of the University of Minnesota basketball team answered this question put to him by the sports editor of the Daily News: “Where do the Gophers like best to play?”
Coach McMillen answered: “The boys love to play at Notre Dame. That is the spot they like. The treatment given to a visiting team there is wonderful. Coaches and student managers meet you at the train, escort you to the hotel, look after the baggage. They have attendants galore at the dressing rooms.
“The crowd at the game cheers every good play you make. The^v gave the boys a great hand when the score was close and every point counted. They do not get on the officials only on close decisions given against the home team, but also on close ones given against the visiting club.”
In the phrasing of the St. Paul paper, “that is some tribute.” Notre Dame appreciates it and thanks Coach McMillen. The student body thanks the N.D.A.A. also, for its efficiency in the art of being a good host.
GOLDEN GLOVES
Certain shadings of the radio and newspaper publicity for the recent Golden Gloves boxing tournament would seem to imply an official sponsorship on the part of Notre Dame. The Scholastic is in a position to say that such is not the case. The participants from Notre Dame, as in fact from any other university of which we have knowledge, were entered only in their own capacity as boxers or as representatives of some local newspaper tournament. This is as it should be, and The Scholastic is happy to give this assurance to the many who have expressed concern in the matter.
M a r c h 2, 19 3 4
One
THE WEEK
By Thomas J. Stritch
Croivded Life
It was some time ago that we started to trace the story of the airplane that uses the parking field behind the Law Building for airport and hangar. It wasn’t difficult to find out whose it was—probably everybody on the campus knows that by .now— but his story is so interesting and colorful that we think it’s worth while to shoot the works.
The plane belongs to Max Conrad, and the saga of this athlete-aviator is a thing kids dream about. He’s thirty-one now, and having packed more into his life already than most people do at ninety-five, he has registered here for the second semester to complete his education. Complete, that is, in a sense; for in some sense he begins it, since there is a period of three years in his life about which he remembers nothing: the result of an accident received while he was trying to save the life of a woman who had entangled herself in the whirling propeller of his plane. A small section of his brain was removed following the skull fracture which ensued, and with it went the memory of three years.
With the loss of memory, Conrad forgot how to talk, and had to learn all over again. He still has trouble pronouncing words he used to know, but which he has not used since the accident. This is one of the reasons he has enrolled here for the second semester as a special student. He will carry several hours in Speech to re-leam talking. Other courses are planned to stead him in the Engineering School, to which he will transfer as soon as he is ready.
His coming here centers around that accident; but otherwise his life has not been empty. He started flying in 1927, with instructions in Denver and St. Paul, and since then has 6,000 hours in the air to his credit. He early saw the necessity for intermediate flying fields if transcontinental air service were to amount to anything, and established one in his home city, Winona, Minn. There he has an aviation school now, conducted by two fellow transport flyers. He plans to establish one in South Bend and to work his way through on the take. Meanwhile, he will commute to Winona every two or three weeks.
He will be around for the summerschool session as well, since he wants to be eligible for track next season to do his high-jumping specialty. Conrad the high-jumper is better known, perhaps, than Conrad the flyer: he has done 6 feet, 7J4 inches, no mean height. It was this effort that pushed
Two
George Spitz to his indoor record of 6 feet, 8J4 inches. Otherwise, he has done 6 feet, 6% inches, his best outdoors.	'
Seniors will recall the thrill given them by Bert Nelson, the Butler jumper, who set a world indoor record here three years ago; him Conrad has beaten no less than five times, and has never been beaten by him.
Other interests: his wife and his eighteen months’ old baby, who fly back and forth with him in the six-place Ryan cabin plane; and his music. He plans to study cello and banjo in the music school here. It was his interest in music that led him to begin flying; he had an orchestra, and he wanted it to be a flying orchestra: so he learned to fly and hauled his band around. His watchword: tenacity.
He is a great friend of Father O’Hara, and often comes to see him. Once he whisked the then Prefect of Religion to Winona in his plane through the night. Said Father O’Hara: “Not afraid.”
Kings in the Palace
Of course you know that Thermopylae was just a skirmish compared to what the Greeks on the corner of Michigan and Colfax went through last week-end. Everybody just went in and sat down and stayed there, for hours; regular customers went begging for seats, and the floor show was a mummery. Sic semper tyrannis.
But there was a little-known generosity on the side that made the thing look ever so much better. In one booth were some town patrons whose bill ran to well over two dollars; these walked out without paying. It is the custom at the Palace for the waitress to collect the bill, and she is responsible for it. Thus one of the nicest waitresses in the joint was stuck for two bucks, and, things being the way they were, without much chance of making it up.
Enter our heroes. They observe the maiden’s tears, and alleviate the outrage by collecting over three bucks from the assembled collegians to replace the loss. What’s more, every waiter in the place was tipped by the sad-faced, un-hungry demonstrators.
We feel rather proud about the whole affair.
No Ode
The Washington Day Ceremonies went off very well indeed. This was the day we had lived four years for; and we must say it didn’t quite come
First ‘Dome’ Pages Go To Press Today
With over one half of the total number of engravings for the 1934 Dome already completed, the “go ahead” signal was given to the pressmen this afternoon. The first forms off the presses gave some indication regarding the color scheme to be used in the book.
Last week the final placements were given to the members of the 1934 graduating class. The section has the best representation in the current history of Domes, having over 440 seniors out of a class of less than 500.
The facilities of expert typographers have been engaged to set all type and to submit tentative layouts. The innovation in Dome composition should insure both appealing and correct page qualities through out the book.
Photographs seem to be the keystone of the 1934 Dome. An unusual presentation of the residence halls is a high mark to this end. Besides these, it is planned to include over 30 full-page snapshot panels. Over half of these panels are completed, having at least one picture of every major campus event that has thus far transpired.
Extension of the Snapshot Contest deadline to March 15 was made possible by arrangements with the engravers, and it is hoped that more students will submit photos to help construct a vivid pictorial narrative, such as the snapshot section will be when completed.
Attractive prizes have been offered, and entries (numbers per student unlimited) will be accepted at the Publications Office, second floor of the Main Building, or at 156 Alumni. Winners will be announced immediately after the Easter holidays.
up to expectations. If we hadn’t been sitting with Craine and Sullivan and Kearns it mightj have; but then we have no cause for complaint. Just to wear the cap and gown was very nice; of all we saw Joe Degnan looked best in academic swathing. Rocheleau looked about worst: his resemblance to a bartender was amazing.
And what do you know about no class poet? This is the first time in at least eight years we haven’t had a Washington ode. It certainly does cut us to the quick to have to go without our ode. We might at least have had some Juggler po’try, which we could chant a la Lindsay. The flag is very pretty, though what haunted us was: who is going to lead three cheers for the class of ’34 when it goes fluttering up in the air June 6?
The Scholastic
i
Calendar
University Theatre To Revive Melodrama, ‘Gold In The Hills’
Friday, March 2
Symphony Orchestra Practice, 7:00 p.m., Washington Hall; Engineers Club Meeting, 8:00 p.ni., Engineering Auditorium; Catholic Action Club meeting, 7:45 p.m., Main Building; Scholastic staff meetings, Ave Maria Building, 6:30 and 7:00 p.m.
Saturday, March 3
Track, Notre Dame vs. Ohio State, Notre Dame gymnasium, 2:00 p.m., Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Ohio State, 8:00 p.m., Notre Dame gymnasium.
Sunday, March k
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, for upperclassmen, 7:00 p.m., for freshman and students in Lyons and St. Ed’s, 7:30 p.m.; Interhall basketball, gymnasium 1:15 p.m., 3:15 p.m.
Monday, March 5
• Meetings: A.I.E.E., 8:00 p.m., Engineering Building; Cracow Club, 7:45 p.m., Law Building; Patricians, 4:30 p.m., Law Building; French Movie, “Le Million,” 7:45 p.m., Washington Hall; Track, Interhall Preliminaries, 7:30 p.m., Notre Dame gym.
Tuesday, March 6
Symphony Orchestra Practice, 7:00 p.m., Washington Hall; Wrangler meeting, 6:30 p.m., Law Building; Economics Seminar, 6:30 p.m., Law Building; Track, Interhall Preliminaries, 7:30 p.m., Notre Dame gym.
Wednesday March 7
Lenten Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00 p.m., for upperclassmen, 7:45 p.m. for freshman and students in Lyons and St. Ed’s; Educational Seminar, Law Building, 6:30 p.m.
Gerald Cosgrove To Speak To Journalism Students
Gerald Cosgrove, associate editor of the South Bend Tribune, will address a group of Journalism majors in the journalism room of the library at 12:30, Tuesday.
The talk will be informal and will be followed by a round-table discussion between students and the Tribune editor. Several students will present human interest stories for the approval of Cosgrove at that time.
Marquette---
Tickets for the Notre Dame vs. Marquette basketball game trip are still on sale, according to George Shields, S.A.C. president.
Though the game now has no bearing upon any mythical national championship, devotees of basketball realize that it will be one of the most bitterly fought contests of the year.
Though the number of tickets available is limited, there are still quite a few left. These tickets, good for transportation to Milwaukee and back and admission to the game, are on sale at 103 Alumni and at 225 Walsh. The price remains at $5.50.
Applications for tickets to this Notre Dame-Marquette contest have come into the Marquette offices in such numbers from all over the Middle West that the game is to be played in the Auditorium, instead of the Marquette gym. This is the largest available place in Milwaukee.
With the Ohio State game tomorrow night the last home appearance of the squad, students are urged to get their tickets early to avoid any last minute disappointment.
CONTENTS
Editorials ..............-......-	1
“The Week” ...................... 2
Dome ............................ 2
Calendar ........................ 3
University Theatre ............   3
Marquette Trip .................. 3
Paulist Choir .................   4
Frosh Elections .............-... 4
Conspectus ...................... 5
Fr. Hudson Honored .............. 5
K. of C. News .................................. 6
Wranglers ....................... 6
“Neivs of the Week” ............. 7
French Movie .................... 7
“Man About” ..................... 8
St. Vincent De Paul Society...... 9
College Parade.................. 10
Ohio State Track................ 11
Boxing Shoiv ................... 11
Illinois Meet .................. 12
Ohio State Meet................. 13
Butler Game..................... 13
Introducing .................... 14
“Splinters” .................... 15
“On Down The Line”.............. 16
1890 THRILLER IS BOOKED
By Mitchell C. Tackley
Those classic lines so characteristic of the 1890 melodrama will be spoken once again over- the Washington Hall footlights when the Univer-
Prof. Frank Kelly Working on cast.
sity Theatre Players present a revival of the uproarious thriller, “Gold in the Hills,” or “The Dead Sister’s Secret.” The play by J. Frank Davis is scheduled for presentation early in April.
The production of the play given two years ago by the University Theatre received so much applause that it is to be repeated this season by popular demand and by request of the South Bend Junior Chamber* of Commerce for charity purposes. The work will be given on the campus for the entertainment of the students and in a South Bend theater for the benefit of the poor children in South Bend and vicinity.
Those witnessing the melodrama when it was given in December 1931 will want to see it again to hiss the villainous Richard Murgatroyd and applaud the brave Jack Dalton. For the newcomers who have never seen “Gold in the Hills,” there is an evening of complete relaxation in store.
The cast includes some twenty-five players, ranging in type from Housekeeper Lizzie Jones to Bartender Big Mike Slattery. There are several important roles and many smaller parts. Professor Frank Kelly, director of the University Theatre production, is working out a cast which will be announced in an early issue of The Scholastic.
In the previous presentation John Leddy played Jack Dalton; James O’Shaughnessy played Slade; Miss Theresa Chisholm, Our Nell; William Walsh, Richard Murgatroyd; Joe McCabe, Chuck Connor; and Roger Beirne, Reginald Vanderlop.
March 2, 19 3 4
Three
Paulist Choristers Well Received Here
Symphony---
Frosh Will Vote On Class Officers Today
Before an audience scarcely indicative of the tremendous popularity with which they have been received both here in America and in Europe the Paulist Choristers of Chicago under the direction of the Reverend Eugene O’Malley appeared in concert last Tuesday evening, Feb. 27, in Washington Hall. This group of 75 boys and men, presented a varied program, the major part of which was devoted to ecclesiastical music.
The well-blended voices excelled in their interpretation of the numbers, while the firm but easy control with which Father O’Malley directs the choir maintained an excellence of pitch and tone balance.
Fine Soprano Section
Particularly beautiful was the ef-rect produced by the notes of the soprano section augmenting the firm and powerful tones of the men’s voices in the “Sanctus” by Palestrina. It was explained by Father O’Malley that Palestrina ranks as one of the greatest composers because his music expressing the doctrine of the Divine Presence, lacking the human, sensuous appeal characteristic of modern music, is mystical, ethereal, and spiritual. “Praise Ye the Lord” by Rachmaninoff featured the counter rhythm effect of the soprano obligato to a bass melody. The first group was concluded by the rendition of Bach’s “All Breathing Life,” a call to the earth and the heavens to give praise to God. The mathematical precision with which the rhythm of this number must be maintained in order to produce the “exercise” effect of the various voices presented no difficulty to this organization.
Dunsford Featured
The difference in the qualities of the soprano and tenor was exhibited in the opening number of the second portion of the program, by the soloists, Billy Callahan and Walter Curran. A solo was sung by the former in a choral arrangement of the “Lullaby” by Brahms. As an encore the youthful soloist rendered “The Last Rose of Summer.”
A former student of the University, Frank Dunsford, was featured as soloist with the harmonic effects of “Drink to Me Only With Thine Eyes.” In response to the applause for the execution of Zolotarief’s “The Gypsy,” Father O’Malley offered a medley of songs by Stephen Foster including “Old Folks at Home” and “Old Black Joe.”
The concert was cohcluded with “Kolyada,” particularly representative of the characteristics of Rimsky-Korsakoff. Robert Sheehan acted as pianist.
Four
Presenting a number of Irish melodies, the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra, under the direction of Professor Richard Seidel, will give their second annual concert the evening of March 15th in Washington Hall.
The program will be opened with the overture “The Magic Flute” by Mozart. This will be followed by the complete “Ballet Egyptian” which proved so popular last year.
“The Irish Favorites” will open the second part of the program which is to be followed by two old Irish melodies: “Londonderry Air” and “The B’hoys of Tipperary.” “March Militaire” by Saint-Saens concludes the program.
Catholic Action Club Discusses Sterilization
The Catholic Action club finished its discussion of the question of human sterilization at the regular meeting last Friday night, February 23, with the Reverend William A. Bolger, C.S.C., directing the discussion.
The final reports of the four groups assigned to find material on four phases of the sterilization question were given, and most of the discussion centered around a summary of the findings.
The next problem chosen for club study is that of child labor. Each student is to be prepared at tonight’s meeting, in the Main Building, to present arguments relating to the side of the question he has decided to defend. The discussion will be in informal debate style.
Irish Club Hears Reports
Two periods in Irish history were studied at the last meeting of the Irish club, February 22, in Carroll Rec. Anthony O’Boyle presented a report on the period from 1100 to - 1300, and John O’Malley continued with a summary of the two centuries between 1300 and 1500.
The next meeting of the club will be held on Thursday, March 8.
Sympathy
In the name of the University and of the student body, The Scholastic expresses sincerest sympathy to Dartmouth College and to the families and friends of the nine Dartmouth students whose tragic death occurred last Sunday.
The Freshman primary election was held in the Gym, Tuesday, Feb. 27. The two candidates for each office receiving the highest number of votes were selected to compete in the finals.
James Bacon and Richard Meier were nominated for the presidency, and Donald Hanning and Leo Cormier for the vice-presidency. For secretary, John Manning and Gilbert Gallivan were chosen, while Joseph Dorgan and Daniel Sullivan were the nominees for treasurer.
The finals will takes place all day today in the Carroll Rec. Hall.
Semester Probation Statistics Are Released This Week
The following statistics have been released by the Reverend Leonard J. Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, concerning the students on probation in the second semester of the 1933-34 school year.
	On Pro-	% Pro-
Colleste	Enrollment bation	bation
Arts and Letters .		1066	49	4.6
Science 			 241	35	14.5
Engineering' 	J	’..	 368	39	10.6
Law 			 108	1	3.7
Commerce 			 709	46	6.5
			 		—
	2492	173	6.94
Graduate 			 56	0	0
		 		—
Total 			2548	173	■ 6.8
Years		
Freshmen 			 711	90	12.7
Sophomore 				 584	41	7.0
J unior 				 561	32	n.t
Senior 			 516	4	0.7
Law 			 108	4	3.7
Graduate 			 56	0	
Post Graduate 				3	0	
Special 				9	2	22.2
		 		■		
Total 			2548	173	6.8
	On ProResidences bation	% Probation
Sorin 			 137	0	0
Walsh 			 175	2	0.7
Corby 			 146	1	7.8
Howard 			 154	12	a. 4
Alumni 				 210	12	1.5
Badin 			 135	2	10.3
St. Edward’s 			 117	12	8.5
Morrissey 			 223	19	6.4
Lyons 			 188	12	20.4
Carroll 			 98	20	13.2
Dillon 			 235	31	11.9
Brownson 				 117	14	11.0
Freshman J			 164	18	4.4
Off-Campus 				 297	13	4
Moreau Seminary .		7.0
Holy Cross Seminary.... 29	0		
Du Jarie Seminary			 38	0	
Community House			5	0	
Presbytery 				2	0	
Mission House 				1	0	
Chemistry Hall ...			1	0	
	. — 		■	
Total 			2548	173	6.8
The Scholastic
Conspectus For A.B.
Majors: English
Dancing Men ---
‘Commonweal’ Lauds Late Father Hudson
The following conspectus for the Department of English, written by the Rev. Janies McDonald, C.S.C., head of the Department, is the second of a series of outlines intended to aid sophomores in the College of Arts and Letters in selection of their majors:
By Rev. James McDonald, C.S.C.
The interest and consequent pleasure of a young man’s intellectual life, and, indeed, his hope of intellectual maturity, depends upon the wisdom of his choice of special studies. The student should analyze his talents—his one or ten, and try to find out what type of intellectual activity will bring him more surely— and more pleasurably—to a satisfactory understanding of himself and of the civilization of which he is a part. If one is to live up to the limit of his mind’s power to understand, one must determine constantly to devote his full energy to the pursuit (to paraphrase Matthew Arnold) of his total perfection, by means of getting to know, on all matters that most concern him, the best that has been said and thought, in order that he may, through this knowledge, turn a stream of fresh and free thought upon his stock notions and habits, which he now follows staunchly but mechanically, vainly imagining that there is a virtue in following them staunchly which makes up for the mischief of following them mechanically. What studies will give him a proper perspective of his life and times? We live in the present, but we are the product of the past; we know ourselves and our day only in proportion to our knowledge of their-roots in the thought and feelings of our ancestors.
This knowledge makes different persons of us. It is this knowledge that makes the difference between the physician and an educated man who is a physician, or a lawyer and an educated man who is a lawyer. It is, no doubt, an appreciation of this difference which prompts the medical, the bar, and the engineering associations to express their desire for more educated men in then-professions.
Obviously there are many approaches to this knowledge which is -the object of a liberal arts course. A thorough study of economics, sociology, history, politics, or the fine arts, tells, each in its own terminology, the “march of time.” Literature, however, inasmuch as it is the record of man’s most inward thought and feeling, probably brings the life of the present and past into the most
(Continued on Pase 9)
Art in the form of the dance is manifesting itself in Royal Walsh these days. A new “forehead tangle” recently tried out successfully by Rosie “Bob” Hanley and His Gracefulness, “Blondy” President Moscow, started the Walsh Carioca craze.
Detective John (Anytime) Landers reported this week that Russ (Tammany Joe) Leonard and Bill “Muscles” Veneeman have joined the ranks. Their creation is an unsophisticated fox-trot, they not being as proficient in the art as yet.
Eddie “Mouthpiece” O’Brien also has a good new step a-la-Carioca. Walsh Hall dignitaries are searching for a good manager to commercialize on the talents of this growing group. The production of a Springtime Extravaganza of Aesthetic and Ballet Dancing is being contemplated.
Roy O. Scholz Elected Radio Club President
The Radio Club will hold its first official meeting this evening at 8 o’clock in Room 122 of the Engineering Building.
At the last meeting, the organization meeting, the club elected Roy Scholz, president; William Schmidt, vice-president; Clarence Pickard, secretary, and Al Hiegel, treasurer.
The club, which has as its purpose the discussion of current matters long and short wave radio, is contemplating b u i 1 d i n g an amateur short-wave station on the campus. Any persons interested in joining the club are invited to attend this evening’s meeting.
Marcel DeBeck Winner In Brownson Pool Tournament
In the tournament being held in the Brownson recreation room, DeBeck, winner of the straight rail billiards, is the only champion so far determined. Miller will play the survivor of the Belhumeur-Weinstein match in the pool competition, and the championship of three-rail billiards lies between Waterson and the winner of the Jaynes-Banks match.
Fr. O’Donnell Recovering
It is reported that the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, “is slowly regaining his strength and wearing off the effects of the poison that has spread through his system.” Father O’Donnell is contemplating a trip to Warm Springs, Georgia, before his return to Notre Dame.
A splendid tribute was paid to the Reverend Daniel E. Hudson, C.S.C., former editor of The Ave Maria, who died on January 12, written by George N. Shuster in the Commonweal for Feb. 16. Mr. Shuster, managing editor of Commonweal, was formerly associated with Father Hudson on The Ave Maria staff during and for a while after the world war.
Mr. Shuster praised Father Hudson as a priest, friend and an editor, saying that he considers the late beloved Notre Dame priest “. . . the most ideal American Catholic I, personally, ever expect to meet. . .” I have met on one who possessed either his keenness of mind or his regal classicism of action.”
A Glowing Tribute
Regarding Father Hudson the editor, Mr. Shuster, told of his editorial exactness, his rigid standards of diction. “From the literary point of view he was the essence of his native New England,” Mr. Shuster wrote, adding that he was always loyal to his friend Longfellow, whom he admired greatly. Here the Commonweal managing editor told of Father Hudson’s association with famous writers who were connected in some way with Notre Dame; among them being Charles Warren Stoddard, Maurice Francis Egan, Orestes Brownson, Marion Crawford, Robert Hugh Benson, Cardinal Gasquet, and others.
In commenting upon Father Hud--son the priest, the author stated: “It was as a priest and theologian that he was particularly remarkable.” Then came a description of his philosophy of religion, his insight, knowledge, argumentative ability and “the loyalty and cleanness of heart with which his mind absorbed and restated all these things.
A Final Impression
“Cleanness of heart! The man was like a wax candle aflame. His must have been an early renouncement of all impureness, meanness, dross; and yet there was in him as an old man something like an incarnate power to forgive,” continued Mr. Shuster, in his discussion of Father Hudson’s priestly characteristics.
Particularly splendid were the words of the author’s closing sentences :
“His was a life which scaled that ladder to the top, going carefully, wisely, humbly, beautifully. . . And though the life of the future is buried in shadow, being what eye hath not seen nor ear heard, there is a Light in Whose presence he cannot fail to be blessed.”
March 2, 19 3 4
Fiv e
(
Annual Bauquet Is
Held By Wranglers
At the annual Wrangler Banquet held on Sunday evening, February 25, at the Rose Marie Tea Room in South Bend, twenty Wrangler Club members and their guests were present. The guests, members of the finalist teams in the interhall debating league, were John Hess, John Locher, John O’Connor, Cliff Brown, Tom Hines, and Gene Malloy. President Arthur Sandusky of the Wranglers presided as toastmaster for the evening, and immediately following the three-course meal, expressed to the group the regrets of Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., chaplain for the Wranglers, who was unable to attend.
After President Sandusky made a few introductory remarks, welcoming the guests and the members present, and explaining the meaning and tradition of the occasion, he introduced Arthur Korzeneski, chairman of the interhall debating league-for this past season. Sandusky lauded him for the excellent work done by the teams through his able guidance. In response to this Korzeneski expressed the cooperation he received from all concerned with the successful season. In concluding his speech he cited one of the purposes of the Wrangler Club: “to further the spirit of friendship and of unity among a group of students engaged in forensic activities.”
Boyle Speaks
James Boyle, president of the Club last year, gave the main speech of the evening, in which he told of various episodes and stories where effective oratory has played an important part in gaining goals desired. He stressed the importance of developing this faculty throughout his speech, and especially as a thing which every Notre Dame man should attain without fail. “A second noteworthy objective of the Wranglers, in addition to promoting friendship as expressed by Mr. Korzeneski, is primarily for the betterment of public speaking at Notre Dame,” Mr. Boyle remarked.
Mr. Sandusky, after interspersing the speeches of the evening with interesting personal incidents and remarks related to the speeches of the evening, called upon John Hayes, coach of the winning Sorin interhall team, and Gene Blish, coach of the opposing Morrissey team. Both gave accounts, some amusingly, of their respective teams. Both praised and thanked their teams for the cooperation received. John Locher of the Sorin interhall team, in the name of the guests, thanked the Wranglers for the splendid evening shown them. With these three speeches, President Sandusky regretfully concluded the evening’s activities.
K. of C. News
By Ray Martin
The second and third degrees of the order will be exemplified on the first or second Sunday in March. The first degree, preparing candidates for these degrees, will be exemplified at a date to be announced by the Grand Knight, probably at the next meeting. Everyone should make an earnest effort to be present at both these exemplifications. The impressiveness of the first degree can only be attained when there are sufficient knights present to enhance the solemnity of the ocasion. There should be no need to urge anyone to be present at the exemplification of the third degree. The lessons impressed on the minds of the candidates are lasting; the manner in which they they are learned is instructive to the rest of the knights, by whom these lessons may have been temporarily forgotten. But they are salient. They wall have to be recalled at some time, as is it well that they be recalled from' time to time when we are in school, when the penalty for forgetting in negligible. To have them called to mind later in life, perhaps forcibly, may cost a prohibitive amount. To forget them then might be fatal.
Theer is great incentive for perfect attendance at the next regular meeting also. Present plans have scheduled the new Athletic Director and head Football Coach, Elmer Layden, to speak under the good of the order. Brother McGahren has been fortunate to have secured the presence of such a personage of prominence, such an interesting personality, and such a clever speaker. It is not necessary to enlarge on the possibilities of the evening.
Remember also the attendance prize. Two missed it last time. Brother Rogers received it on the last drawing. This feature of the past was restored to raise the attendance figures at all the regular meetings. In order to help carry out this program and to attain the desired end, the names of the men who were called out but were absent will be published here, along with the name of the man who received the prize, and a description of the prize itself, so that the unlucky brothers may see what they have missed by falling down on their attendance.
The next meeting will be a week from Monday, March 12.
Cracow Club'
Arthur Korzeneski, president, wishes to announce a meeting of the Cracow Club to be held Monday evening, March 5, at 7:45 p. m. in the Law Building. Plans for the annual banquet will be discussed.
De Landero Reelected Head Of Lay Faculty
The new constitution was approved of, and the annual election of officers took place at a meeting of the Lay Faculty Club, Monday, Feb. 26, in the lay faculty dining room. Pro-
Prof. Pedro de Landero Continues as President.
fessor Pedro A. deLandero was reelected president, while Professor David L. Campbell was elected vice-president, Professor Herbert J. Bott, secretary and treasurer, and Professors Robert B. Riordan and Rufus W. Rauch, directors for one and two year terms respectively.
The following entertainment and program committee was selected: Professors Louis F. Buckley, chairman, Lawrence H. Baldinger, John A. Scannell, Cletus F. Chizek, and Andrew J. Boyle.
Group Gets A Ride
On The Streamlined Train
A group comprising about thirty . members of the faculty and student body of the University made the trip from Niles in the new streamlined train of the Union Pacific Railway at the invitation of Mr. Jeffers, vice-president and general manager of the railroad, last Thursday.
The Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, the Reverend Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., the Reverend John F. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., and the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., were among the faculty members present.
Twenty-five seniors in the College of Engineering headed by Joseph I. Hayes, senior mechanical engineer, represented the student body.
Notice
The regular meetinge of The Scholastic news and sport staffs will be held at 7:00 this evening in the Ave Maria Building. The editorial board will meet at 6:30.
Six
The Scholastic
French Movie Will Be Shown Monday
News of the Week By George Leyes
Armstrong, Dooley On Speaking Tours
What has been hailed as the most brilliant French talkie ever produced and the first truly “international” film since the advent of the talkies will be presented next Monday night at 7:45 in Washington Hall under the auspices of the French Club.
“LeMillion” under the direction of Rene Clair, unquestionably France’s greatest movie director, employs a clever trick for the benefit of those who do not understand French. The problem is solved in several scenes in which Britishers tell in English of what has happened, and is taking place at the moment. This clever idea does not in the least spoil the frolic, for each one of these interruptions takes only a few seconds and is so adroitly inserted that it becomes an integral part of the tale.
The action moves quickly and smoothly, and with the aid of Mr. Clair’s ingenious idea is sure to please anyone, even though his French vocabulary may be limited to “Au Revoir” and “Merci.” The Notre Dame French Club secured this notable film for the instruction and entertainment of the members of the University.
Dendler Presents Paper
At Patricians’ Meeting
The Patricians held their regular bi-weekly meeting in the Classics room of the Law Building Monday, Feb. 19. At this session, Henry Dendler, a sophomore in Arts and Letters, presented a paper entitled “The Twelve Tables.”
Dendler outlined the status of Rome at the time of the making of the famous code of laws and also showed the circumstances leading to the legislation. After tracing its history, Dendler explained the contents and purpose of each law. He concluded by saying: “All law of the greatest nations of the past and of the modem world had as its beginning, the Code of the Twelve Tables.”
The next meeting of the Patricians will be held in the Law Building next Monday afternoon at 4:30.
Detroit Club
A meeting of the Detroit Club was held on Monday night, February 26, in the Brownson Rec room. The business of the meeting concerned the probability of an Easter dance and the possibility of the Glee Club visiting Detroit during its Easter trip. The clubs’ picture in the Dome constituted the remaining discussion.
Personal liberty in Europe seems to be in disrepute. This week Japan installs as emperoi- in Manchukuo, Henry Pu-Yi, a thoroughly westernized dictator most suitable for Japanese designs. Over one million Germans promise blind loyalty to their god, Chancellor Hitler, who promises to remove the stigma of Versailles and regain for them their place in the sun. This demagogue who used to wield the paint brash, now wields such hypnotic influence over the Geramn masses that he could probably send them against the French or the Poles barehanded.
I
The paradox of Europe today is that although most political analysts believe in the growing inevitability of war, all nations are against it. Germany and her* allies want peace . . . on the basis of revision. France and her satellites want peace . . . on the basis of status qtio.
With communism, socialism, fascism, and bolshevism assuming more importance every day, religion is being put on the spot, and a world wide struggle between organized religion and political forces seems inevitable. Communism is avowedly anti-religious. Under socialism and fascism religion is trying hard to keep its position aloof from the arbitrary rule of a dictator, and the antics of Hitler in reviving paganism are highly significant. One Kentucky bishop anticipates, “the acid test for the Christian church in this country and throughout the world during the next ten years.”
The senate this week voted to restore 350 million dollars to the veterans and federal employees, which was taken away last spring when government economy was the watchword. On the horizon appears the soldier* bonus again. The bill, which is expected to be called up for action about March 12, provides for immediate payment of §600,000,000 to the war veterans, in greenback currency, unsupported by gold. There is a majority for it in both houses, but it is doubtful whether enough votes can be mustered over a presidential veto. The President is reluctant to exercise the power of issuing greenback currency given him under the Thomas amendment. Reasons for a veto may seem hypocritical at this time, when the government is having a hard time spending money fast enough to keep up with the schedule of monthly deficits set for it.
James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary, and William P. Dooley, new assistant alumni secretary, left on speaking tours to high schools and alumni clubs in the East and in Illinois. The purpose of these trips is to interest high school graduates in Notre Dame as their next step in acquiring an education.
The trips constitute a new undertaking of the Alumni Association. The alumni clubs in different cities arrange the meetings and lectures for the two secretaries. An endeavor is made not only to promote interest in Notre Dame but also to encourage the numerous Notre Dame grads to promote this interest among the high school students of their respective cities.
Will Speak In East
Mr. Armstrong left on Feb. 15 for a trip through the East. His first stop was Buffalo, New York. From here he continued on to New England, New York City, New Jersey and from there to Pennsylvania where most of his time will be spent in Philadelphia. His last stops will be at Baltimore and Washington, D.C. Mr. Armstrong will return to the campus on March 26.
Mr. Dooley left on Feb. 19 and will return on March 9, his trip being entirely confined to Illinois. He will not -touch Chicago, as the major portion of his tour, will be limited to visiting alumni clubs and high schools in Aurora, Elgin, Rockford, Springfield, and Joliet.	.
Shields Formulating Plans For N. D, Swimming Meet
President George Shields announced this week that the S. A. C. is now working on plans for the annual student swimming meet. The meet will be held at the South Bend natatorium within the next month.
Further details will be announced in the near future. It is suggested that those who intend to compete avail themselves of the diving classes now being conducted by Father Sigmar and Edward Butler.
Met Club Meets
The Metropolitan club met Tuesday night, Feb. 27, in Carroll Rec room. A report on the Christmas dance was given. Freshman dues were, decreased from one dollar to fifty cents and payment of these dues extended to March 13. The meeting closed with a discussion of a club smoker.
March 2, 19 3 4
Seven
Tournament Attracts Notre Dame Debaters
Four varsity debaters, Hugh Fitzgerald, William Kirby, John Locher, and John O’Connor left yesterday morning with Coach W. J. Coyne to represent Notre Dame at an annual
William Kirby
He thunders once again.
debate tournament held in Iowa City. The five went by rail in order to be on hand for the opening debate this morning, debates which will continue through Saturday.
Kirby and Fitzgerald have prepared the affirmative case. Locher and O’Connor, the negative side of the question, “Resolved: that the powers of the President should be substantially increased as a settled policy.” Teams from Iowa, Kansas, Texas, Missouri Universities, Denver College, and several others are entered in the tournament. Notre Dame is filling the tourney place made vacant by the withdrawal of Northwestern University, w hose teams were runners-up last yeai* when Iowa University won the finals.
The Notre Dame debaters, all seniors, will return Sunday night.
This will in all probability be the last college debate for William Kirby, senior in Law School. Kirby has been a varsity debater for six years, and during that time has figured in many victories over strong schools.
The varsity debate squad lost one member this semester when John Heywood, junior, had to leave school because of illness.
Registrar Calls Attention To Preregistration Date
The office of Registrar wishes to announce at this early date that preregistration for courses in all colleges of the University for the year 1934-35 will begin April 4th, the day following Spring Vacation. The final pre-registration date will be April 16th.
Students who pre-register late will be charged the customary late fee.
Eight
The Great Kiely! John William represents a strange combination of idiosyncrasies. For instance, he studies a lot and he eats a lot. He sees no wrong in studying after the lights go out and thinks nothing of eating a piece of cherry pie in two gulps. This “Roge” boy with the Harding chin is romantic too.
11 a 11 revolves around Betty. Five pictures of her decorate his desk.
Responsible for his membership in the “letter-a-day-club” so uncommon among seniors. Instrumental in Roge’s purchase of tickets for all the dances so far this year. No matter though, for he looks smoooooooth in tails, even if they aren’t his own. One more word about his romantic side: he has persuaded several of his acquaintances to walk the plank.
Bing Crosby has nothing on Kiely. When Jack gets in the shower, the closeness of the walls forces him to express himself. The result is such an unique guttural flow of sound that the rector, several doors away, finds it unbecoming and almost indicative of strains of savagery. Not so, however, for Jack boasts of a family of cops and restaurant owners.
Roge used to room with Sandy Sandera last semester in a large halfdecorated room. Sandy left school, and now Roge lives in a small welldecorated and colorful room. When Sandy left, it is said that he sent his trunk home empty.
The Great Kiely recently got the idea that perhaps if he parted his hair in the middle instead of on the side, maybe he would look better. He changed it and went home (to Chicago) for the weekend. He returned with his hair parted on the side. (P. S.—Betty also lives in Chicago. )
Among this fellow’s accomplishments are his punctuality at meal time in the dining halls, his capacities as a teller of mother goose rhymes, his success in laying off cigarettes in • Lent and still not chewing tobacco, and his proficiency as a corrector.
Perhaps his greatest achievement is that he has succeeded in keeping
‘Catalyzer’ Features Article By Pflaum
The second of a series of discussions entitled “A Critical Survey of Alchemy” by Daniel J. Pflaum, M.S., of the Chemistry Department is the leading article in the new February Catalyzer, edited by C. J. Schwarz.
Mr. Pflaum in this article delves into the field of philosophy, particularly Metaphysics and Cosmology to show how the various studies of man may be linked together for mutual benefit. “In order to appreciate fully the attitude of the alchemists toward material things, we must review Aristotle’s theory of matter and form,” he points out. “Hylomorphism can explain chemical change. In the case of either transmutation or chemical change, we observe the phenomenon of the disappearance of properties, and the simultaneous appearance of a new set of properties.”
After linking chemical processes with the Aristotelian idea of prime matter and substantial form, the writer shows that in the case of mercury, whose color, volatility, etc. are given by substantial form, alchemists came to draw the conclusion that any volatile fluid necessarily contained mercury. The article was concluded with a summary of the contributions of alchemy to the field of chemistry, alchemy with its driving force, transmutation.
An editorial, “An Invitation” to alumni of the department to get in touch with the present working body of the University, news of club meetings, and “Personals” complete this February issue.
International Relations Club
Brief summaries of the events of the past two weeks in the chief countries of the world were presented by a group of International Relations club members at last night’s meeting of the organization. Following the reports and discussions revolving around them, Professor William E. Farrell, of the Department of History, gave some interesting facts on present European trends.
The students giving the current event reports were: John Ruppel, Russia; Frank Linton, Germany; Sidney Steinberg, France; Ralph Huller, Austria; Harry Black, Poland; Richard Ferncase, Spain; John Birch, England ; John O’Connor, South America; Charles DiMatteo, United States.
out of the sit-on-the-corridor-radia-tor-club-on-cold-mornings. His associates, O’Connor, III, Dunnigan, Ve-jar, Dugan, English, Oakes, and Quirk have seats in the club. Another reason why Kiely is great.
The Scholastic
Conspectus for A.B. Majors: English (Continued from Page 5)
delicate focus. Thought and feeling lie behind all events that are not purely fortuitous. Literature is the glass through which we see and therefore re-experience that thought and feeling.
The old liberal arts courses introduced the student to the details of Greek and Roman culture, its literature, art, society, politics, and manners. Nearly all modern Western culture can be weighed in terms of what this study gave its students. Unfortunately we have departed from its standards, and, though there are hopeful signs of a renaissance, our present-day students are unprepared for a full resumption of classical studies. The Department of English believes that it can provide a fairly adequate substitute for them.
Aims Of English
The English major seqeunce has three interlocking aims. 1) It introduces the student to an intensive reading, under the guidance of competent professors, of the literature of the several phases of English and American history. The student reads, not about the literature, but the literature itself. He finds himself in the company of interesting men and women and amid interesting events— a kind of Berkeley Square experience: what people did and thought and said in Shakespearean times, in the days of the Stuart kings, in Milton’s time, and in the circle of Dr. Johnson; what thought and feeling lay behind the wave of Romantic feeling that swept Euro : and England and that saw the birth of our own republic; the literary background of the social and economic revolution and of the great reform measures, still going on, of the XIX century; what the Victorians were thinking and how our own Civil War was affected by the literary expressions of contemporary attitudes. A knowledge of such things is calculated to turn “a stream of fresh and free thought upon our stock notions and habits.” 2) The second, though not less important, aim is to help the student gain a means of self-expression—■ first a correct and idiomatic use of our language, then facility and felicity in its use. The language is like a musical instrument which one must teach himself to use as a means of self-expression. Not all can become artists, but the satisfaction of creditable accomplishment is better than muteness. 3) Finally, the Department aims to supply capable professorial instruction for those students who have special talent for creative literary work. Such talent is en-
M ar ch 2, 19 3 4
Voice of the Campus
All communications to this column ■must be mailed to the editor, 119 Sorin Hall. Full name must be signed. Initials ioill be used in publication.
NO MORE STAMPEDING
To the Editor of The Scholastic:
The new arrangement of showing the movies in Washington Hall at 6:45 instead of at 6:30 seems to me an excellent idea. To be able to go over there leisurely after dinner and to find a seat after getting there is indeed satisfying. As V. A. M. suggested last week, there remains but one more fault with the Washington Hall movies: the presence of disturbing, childish noises during serious scenes of a good picture.
Sincerely,
F. T. C.
MORE SINGERS WANTED
Dear Editor:
It was a treat to hear the Paulist Choristers sing in Washington Hall Tuesday evening. I, for one, am thankful to the University officials who were instrumental in bringing this group to the campus. Several of my friends have voiced the same reaction to the concert: it was an evening of delightful relaxation.
Would it be out of place to suggest that more entertainment of this type be brought to Washington Hall? Last year the Welsh Singers scored a hit among the students and I would certainly appreciate listening to them again this year.
Sincerely,
J. B.
Italian Club Notice
President Emilio Gervasio announces that there will be a special meeting of the Italian Club Tuesday evening, March 6, in Carroll Rec at 7:45 p. m.
Plans for the annual Italian Club banquet will be discussed. A committee of ten will be selected to make final arrangements foi’ the affair.
couraged. When it is present it must be well-grounded in a scholarly study of literary history, for it is well-known that every notable novel, play, or poem is built up from human experience that is valid. Against the classics the creative writer may test the validity of what he has to say.
St. Vincent De Paul Extends Relief Work
Rev. John Kelly, C.S.C., Frank Mc-Gahren, and Mr. Arthur Gregory presided at the weekly meeting of the St. Vincent De Paul Sciety held in the basement of Walsh Hall Tuesday-evening at 6:30 p.m.
The social workers who had made trips with the Rev. George O’Connor, C.S.C., among the dependents of South Bend during the previous week reported the conditions they witnessed. What was proposed and done for these families was recounted.
The following report was read by the secretary, Arthur Gregory: “250 magazines have been distributed between January and February; §10.90 was collected during the same time from the Mite Boxes about the school; §5 was donated by the Rochester Club from their Christmas dance proceeds; 69 cents was collected at the weekly-meetings from the members; and 50 cents was gained by the sale of very old magazines. Expenses during the same period amounted to §20 for groceries; §5 for clothes; §10 for Father O’Connor’s needs; and §3.27 for miscellaneous items.”
The suggestion was made and seconded that faculty members experienced in this field of Social work be invited to give short talks to the members of the club at their regular meetings. Mr. George Belting promised to have the Rev. James Fogarty, C.S.C., of the Department of Sociology, speak March 13. The names of Mr. Sullivan, Mr. Maurice Pettit, and Rev. Raymond F. Murray, C.S.C., head of the Department of Sociology,- were also suggested for future speakers.
Shortly before or after Easter, according to the weather conditions, the society will have another intensive drive for clothes. It is hoped that the students who are getting new outfits for the spring season will give their discarded clothes to the Society for distribution among the poor in South Bend and Roseland.
Psycho-Analysis Is Topic At
W eekly_Educational-Seminar
Mitchell Tackley and John Wol-lack, seniors in College of Arts and Letters, read papers on psychoanalysis at the regular weekly meeting of the Philosophy of Education Seminar in the Law Building Wednesday evening.
Tackley’s paper was on Alfred Adler and his psychology, and Wollack gave a resume of Jung’s psychology. Last week the seminar was addressed by Andrew C. Auth on Woodworth’s “Dy-namism” and Clarence Moore on Moore’s “Dynamic Psychology.”
Nin e
University Library.
Book List Increased
College Parade
By Janies T. Fitzpatrick
Works of Byrne Are Discussed By Club
The following books have been added recently to the University Library:
History and Description — Cole, George Douglas, The Intelligent Man’s Reviezv of Europe Today; Hitler, Adolph, My Battle; Morris, Mrs. Ann, Digging in the Southwest; Hoover, Calvin, Germany Enters the Third Reich.
Economic History—Brooks, Collin, Our Present Discontents; Leacock, Stephen, Back to Prosperity; Soddy, Frederick, Wealth, Virtual Wealth and Debt.
Economics — Adams, Arthur, Our Economic Revolution; Ayres, Leonard Porter, The Economics of Recovery.
Criminology—Tannenbaum, Frank, Osborne of Sing Sing; Warner, Florence Mary, Juvenile Detention in the United States.
Political Science—Cushman, Robert Eugene, Leading Constitutional Decisions; Wambaugh, Sarah, Plebiscites Since the World War.
Law—Ulman, Joseph Nathan, A Judge Takes the Stand.
Literature — Edgar, Pelham, The Art of the Novel from 1700 to the Present Time.
Biography—Bryant, Arthur, Samuel Pepys; Sedgwick, Henry Swight, The Life of Edward the Black Prince.
Medicine and Psychiatry—Sigerist, Henry, The Great Doctors; Syden-stricker, Edgar, Health and Environment.
Railroad Engineering and Operation— Stevers, Martin, Steel Rails.
Sociology — Brunner, Edmund de Schweinitz, Rural Social Trends; Gordon, J. W., Borstalians; Holmes, Samuel, The Eugenic Predicament; McKenzie, Roderick Duncan, The Metropolitan Community; New York School of Social Work, Social Case Work; Newsom, George Ernest, The New Morality.
Engineers’ Club Addressed By South Bend Engineer
The Engineers’ Club held its regular meeting Friday evening, Feb. 23, in the auditorium of the Engineering building. Mr. W. S. Moore, city engineer, who was scheduled to speak on “Changes in Conditions in Engineering,” was unable to attend. In lieu of the address the members were entertained with a few feats of. magic presented by a local artist recruited for the occasion.
President Bob FitzSimon led in a short discussion of the forthcoming Engineers’ Ball. Refreshments and smokes were served.
Embarrassment at SOUTHERN CAL, as reported by The Stanford Daily: The day before the game, (a STANFORD basketball game with U. S. C.) the day editor assigned a generous portion of the front page to a rally which would precede the Friday contest. Reporters assigned to the story sought in vain the Student Union, breaking up pinochle games and disturbing naps, but no one knew about the rally, nor had anyone seen the rally committee chairman or the student body president for two days.
When even the reporters failed to come back, the irate editor tried calling up authorities on the pay phone, but 17 nickels later, gave up in disgust. Then the organist called in to see where the rally was to be held and when told it “was nix” offered to put on a recital insteady. And that’s why edtitors go wild, reporters tear their hair, and the rally turned out to be an organ recital.
Indoor sport as indulged in at ST. NORBERT’S COLLEGE as reported by the student organ of that institution, (does it sound uncomfortably familiar fellows?):
All-Star Freshman Bun-Grabbing Idol Admits One Defeat—
Wham! bang! Howie Luebke sat down with three buns in one hand! You may doubt this but read what Champ Luebke says:
“I have won fame in bun-snatching by my famous side swipe. As the waiter brings the buns, I do not hesitate to climb upon the chair, shoot out with a left side swipe, thus surprising the fellows on the table and at the same time approach the buns from the rear. I usually grab three buns at a time, although my all-time record is six.
“On a recent occasion some young ladies asked me if smoking didn’t interfere with my bun-clutching. They do not realize that I smoke Luckies. Luckies soothe the nerves. Wheaties are also beneficial to a person of my rank. They lengthen the reach several inches and quicken the grab. I have suffered one defeat. After trying to snatch a dessert from the other end of the table, I realized I had met my Waterloo. Imagine my embarrassment walking up to the end of the table to get my dessert.”
From The Daily Californian: we learn the evils of the pun:
The other day a philosophy 5A professor, discussing Lucretius’ conception of matter and void, found the following note on the rostrum:
“Can matter be considered a dirty void?”
Donn Byrne was the subject of a talk by James McDevitt at a meeting of the Bookmen last Monday night. Mr. McDevitt pointed out that all readers of Byrne are either enthusiastic supporters or harsh critics. There is no middle ground. Those who dislike his subject matter seem to be drawn to his beautiful prose as if by a magnet.
The mystery in the minds of most Americans is the fact that the Irish themselves are hostile toward his works as they were against the author while he was living. He pays inspiring tribute to his native land and its tender traditions in many passages in his books and yet with the exception of some of the northern inhabitants of the Emerald Isle, his writings find few supporters there.
Mr. McDevitt added that whatever dislike Byrne incurs in this country is probably due to the fact that he was bom in Brooklyn, although his parents took him back to Ireland when he was only a few months old.
The business discussion of the club was limited to the question of selecting additional books for the club library, and the advisability of selecting bookplates for the members’ individual use.
Coach Layden Honored At Davenport Banquet
A testimonial banquet was tendered Coach Elmer Layden last night by the citizens of Davenport, Iowa. The affair was sponsored by the Tri-Cities Club of Notre Dame.
Among those present representing the University were Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., Dean James E. McCarthy, and Coach Layden. Bishop Rohlman of Davenport was one of the speakers.
Prof. O’Grady Will Address Electrical Engineers Monday
The next regular open meeting of the Notre Dame Branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held Monday evening, .March 5, in Room 22 of the Engineering Building at 8 p.m.
The speaker of the evening will be Dr. D. C. O’Grady of the Philosophy Department of the University. Dr. O’Grady’s subject is to be “The Newer Philosophy and Physics.”
And the professor, ignorant of this particular brand of collegiate humor, very earnestly devoted part of the hour to explaining this difficult problem.
_	The Scholastic
Ten
ATHLETICS
Boxers Train In Gym Irish Cagers to Close Home Season For Bengal Tourney Tomorrow Against Buckeye Five
By Howard Waldron.
After a week of light workouts, the prospective candidates for the Bengal Boxing show to be held on Friday, March 23, will start into harder and more strenuous training sessions that they may be in perfect shape foi’ these championship bouts.
Weary legs are beginning to find a new elasticity, tired arms are punching with more ease and the general physical makeup of each candidate is changing into a firmer and harder fighting unit. Long jogs on the track have worked wonders with stamina and development of wind.
The turnout so far promises to' even surpass the fine record made last year when some 50 candidates battled for the titles and awards, which were in the form of sweaters having an N.D. on a glove background. But there is still time for any pugilistically ambitious lad, who thinks he might have a try at the tournament, to enter.
The only fault that can be found in the turnout lies in that fact that certain divisions have more entrants than do other groupings and consequently the rivalry is slackened. Particularly in the middleweight, featherweight, and bantamweight divisions is the supply of candidates too light, and this can be remedies only by having more boxers apply for these classes.
Next week the men will settle down to hard training and begin sharpening their boxing eyes on the coveted goal ahead. The same training procedure will be followed that has been in order during the past few days, with the added factor of actual boxing taking place. These preliminary or training bouts will be fought with 15-ounce pillow gloves so that no contestant may incur a possible serious injury.
It is also expected that the ranks will be swelled by the addition of several prominent student boxers who have returned from the Golden Gloves meet. Many of these men will find just as stern an opposition in the rapidly growing ranks of entrants for the Bengal Bouts, which the Scholastic is sponsoring, as they did in amateur tournaments in other cities. Many lads who have never fought before are rapidly developing into first class competitors and the tournament should rank as the best yet staged for the campus championships.
March 2, 1 9 3 i
Fencing —
The result of the recent trip taken by the Notre Dame fencing team was neither completely disastrous nor wholly successful. On Feb. 22, the local sabre wielders encountered an experienced Michigan State team and were defeated by a 11 to 6 count. This is the second time this season that
the Irish forces have been upset by the Michigan State men and oddly enough both reversals were by the identical score, 11 to 6. Notre Dame lost in the foils 6-3, in the saber 3-1, and tied at 2-all in the epee. May and Ryan showed best for Prof, de-
Landero’s chargers out of their seven
by capturing four bouts. Summary:
Foils	W	L
Caresio ..... 2	2
Kehoe ....... 1	2
Grosso ..... 1	1
Ryan ........ 0	1
Epee	W	L
Ryan ...... 1	1
May ....... 1	1
Saber	W	L
<Ie Landero _ 0	2
May ______ 1	1
The total points scored respectively by each team were; Michigan State 63, Notre Dame 56.
Last Saturday the Irish fencers took second place honors in a triangular meet held at Urbana, Ill.; Illinois and Washington University of St. Louis being the other two competing schools. The affair was won by Illinois University to whom the Irish dropped a 13 to 4 decision. This score, however, fails to indicate the closeness of the match. Six of the bouts found the Illini men on the winning side of the ledger by the scant margin of one point. The local swordsmen gained some solace from the meet, however, by whipping Washington University, nine bouts to eight. In the foils Notre Dame showed to best advantage, with Caresio winning his three bouts and Kehoe taking two out of three. Washington registered a clean sweep in the epee not dropping one of the four bouts. In the saber May and deLandero of Notre Dame each won and lost one respectively. Summary:
Total Points	Bouts
N. D........-...117 N. D................ 13
Illinois ........143	Illinois -------- 26
Washington _____102 Washington ---------... 12
Members of the Notre Dame team: Caresio, Kehoe, Grosso, Ryan (C), de Landero, ilay. Martersteck.
(Continued on Page 16)
i
FINALE FOR 4 SENIORS
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
Ohio State will provide the opposition, for Coach George Keogan’s quintet tomorrow night on the Notre Dame court in a game that will mark the final home appearance of four Irish stars. Captain Ed “Moose” Krause, Joe Voegele, Leo Crowe, and Jim Newbold will give their last exhibition of basketball for the local fans at this time. '	..
The game promises to be a hard fought affair. Led by Fred Conrad, the Buckeyes will send a veteran squad into the fray. Conrad, known for his fierce play as a tackle on the Ohio football team last fall, has been used by Coach Harold Olsen at every position on the team this year. Lately he has been seen at guard, but he often takes over the pivot" post at a moment’s notice and performs equally as well there. His six foot, four inch frame will be a barrier for Krause.
Have Tall Team
Ted Rosequist, after receiving AllAmerican mention as a 'tackle last fall, is carrying his share of the Buckeye scoring burden. He, like Conrad, is a guard-center combination standing six foot, three.
The remainder of the visiting team lack a few inches apiece of towering six feet but their lack of height is made up for by uncanny ability to hit the basket and excessive speed. Especially is this true of Bob Colburn who was placed at forward on the second all-conference team last year. This chunky lad is at his best when the going is tough.
Bill Beitner is the defensive spark in the Buckeye ranks. He is one of the most consistent men in the fold in this, his junior year. He was given honorable mention on the all-conference team last year.
The Buckeyes will be out to do tomorrow what no other Big Ten team has been able to do this .year. The Irish have registered five victories over Western Conference opposition and need tomorrow’s game to keep their slate clean against these western clubs. An Irish victory would also avenge the 30 to 24 defeat by Ohio State at Columbus last year.
Eleven
Irish Track Team Drops Meet to Illinois Squad by Narrow Margin
Eight CJ.C. Records May Fall Next Week
MEAGHER SETS A RECORD
By John D. Carbine
Notre Dame’s track team lost its first indoor meet of the season last Saturday when the Illinois trackmen won a dual meet in the fieldhouse by a 55 1/3 to 48 2/3 score. The Illini won eight first places while the Irish were able to garner but four firsts. The bulk of Irish points came from second and third places.
George Meagher, Irish sophomore, broke both the Notre Dame and gymnasium records in the broad jump with his leap of 23 feet, three and one-half inches. Meagher’s jump surpassed Gough’s Notre Dame record by seven and one-fourth inches' and Simon’s gymnasium record by six and a half inches. Dave Cook established a new Illinois shot put record when he heaved the shot 48 feet, six inches.
Layden’s Absence Is Felt
The Nickmen were handicapped by the absence of Mike Layden, their star hurdler. Mike strained a tendon in practice and although the injury was slight, Coach Nicholson refused to let Layden compete and risk a more serious strain. Layden’s time in the hurdles of the Marquette meet two weeks ago was better than the time in which Illinois men won the hurdle events Saturday. Portman won the low and Schoeninger the high to give the Illini a clean sweep in the timber topping. Link, and Rushlow finished two and three to Choeninger in the high and Schoeninger and Meagher finished in that order after Portman in the low.
Irv Seeley of Illinois lived up to advance notices when he easily won the pole vault at 12 feet, six inches. .How.-ard and Edwards of the Irish and Kirkpatrick of Illinois wound up in a three-cornered tie for second.
Leo McFarlane chalked up his second consecutive" victory in the two-mile event by outrunning Jacques Dufresne. McFarlane let Dufresne set the pace for the first 15 laps and then swept into the lead with a lap-long sprint to win handily in 9:33.4. hforman Duke ran a heady race to edge out Fisher for third place.
The mile event furnished the closest finish of the afternoon. Eddie King of the Irish attempted to pass Land-meier, who had set the pace most of the way, on the final lap. Landmeier answered his challenge and the two matched strides throughout the final lap with Landmeier finally nosing out the Irish runner. Joe Young finished in third place. ~	"
(Continued cn Page 20)
Interhall
By Nick Connor
With the interhall championship game but three weeks away, it looks as though the St. Edward’s and the Off-Campus heavyweight net teams will be playing for the interhall title. Neither of these well coached teams has been defeated. If they continue to bowl over- their opponents as they have the past few weeks, one can rest assured that they will meet in the finals.
In Group II of the lightweight division there is a two way tie for the lead between Howard and Carroll. Each of these teams has won foui* games. In the first group Lyons leads the pack although they have lost one game.
Brownson Heavies Win
In the heavyweight group of the first division last Sunlday, Lyons doubled the score on the Dillon frosh, 28 to 14. Cannon, Krause and Penty, wtih 21 points among them, led Lyons to its easy victory. The other sophomore hall to play last Sunday also doubled the score on their opponents, as Morrissey won a 28 to 14 decision from the Corbyites. Tom Dunn’s work at the pivot line had the seniors baffled and as a result he was able to tip in 11 points. Monny and Gaffney of Corby garnered 10 points, but all of these were scored from far out on the floor.
Sorin lost another* game and this time Badin was the victor, 16 to 14.
In Group II Howard forfeited to Alumni. Dempsey and Joyce led the Brownson net team to a 22 to 11 win from Carroll for the championship of the Main Building. The roommate combination of Art Mueller and Fritz Weidner, with the able assistance of Josh D’Amora, scored field goals almost at will and submerged Walsh to a 23 to 12 beating. The downtowners led at the half 8 to 5. Novak and Hughes scored all of the points for Walsh in the first half.
Lyons Gets Scare
The best game of the afternoon was staged between Lyons and Dillon in Group I. The sophomores won a 16 to 15 game from the freshies in the last few seconds of the game. The first year men led 9 to 8 at the half way mark. Corby won from Morrissey 2 to 0 on a forfeit. The little seniors from Sorin followed the example of their bigger roommates and lost 30 to 15 to Badin. Paul Kane and Forastiere scored 14 of
(Continued on Page 14)
On March 9 and 10 the annual running of the Central Intercollegiate Conference meet will take place in the Notre Dame fieldhouse. The eighth annual renewal of this carnival will bring together the outstanding performers of track and field in the midwest.
Although entries are slow in arriving and rather indefinite to date, the caliber of this year’s field will undoubtedly measure up to the high standard of past years. At present it appears possible, but not necessarily probable, that eight records might be wiped out.
Four Marks Are Safe
Two C. I. C. marks also fall into the world record column. The most recently established is the remarkable time of :06.1 in the 60 yard dash. Ralph Metcalfe of Marquette covered the short course in that time in the C. I. C. meet here last year. Alex Wilson, running for Notre Dame in 1932, established a world mark of :49.3 (eight lap track) for the 440 yard dash in the 1932 meet. These marks, coupled with the best performances i^n the hurdles, appeal* safe this year.
In the field events two marks might topple. The pole vault record of 13 feet, 4(4 inches made by Johnston of Notre Dame in 1931, is endangered by Ray Lowry of Michigan Normal, who cleared at 13 feet, 8(4 inches in a meet last Saturday. The high jump mark of 6 feet, 4% inches should be bettered by the colorful field composed of Murphy, Glickert, Cosgrove, and Jackson.
Sears Is A Threat
Ray Sears of Butler and Hutton of Illinois Normal are the mile threats. The C. I. C. low of 4:21.5 looks meek in comparison to Sears’ time of 4:14.1 made outdoors last spring. Hutton cannot be overlooked, however, because he defeated the Butler flash in the National Collegiates in 1933. These two aces, along with Tom Ottey, Bill Zepp, and Leo McFarlane, have excellent chances of lowering the two mile mark of 9:24.4.
The 880 yard meet record of 1:57, established by Alex Wilson in 1932, may find its equal in the performance of Pongrace of Michigan State who has travelled the distance this year two-tenths of a second slower than Wilson’s record run. The Irish captain also ran anchor man that year on a relay team that holds the conference record at 3:25.5. The one mile quartet from Michigan Normal has been clocked at 3:25.4 this year and consequently should be a menace to the present record.
The Schelastic
Twelve
Notre Dame Defeats Butler Before 10,000
Track Team To Meet Ohio State Squad Here Tomorrow Afternoon
By Cy Stroker
The Irish basketeers scored another victory last Saturday by defeating the Butler quintet 34-24 at Indianapolis. The game was an exciting affair from start to finish with Notre Dame acquiring its ten point lead late in the second period.
Demmary, Butler center, began the game’s scoring with a goal from under the backboard, but Voegele dropped in a basket almost immediately afterward to tie the score. Successful free throws by the Butler team and field goals for Notre Dame kept the scoring even during most of the half. Hard floor play, with both sides alternately taking the offensive followed until the Irish emerged ahead at the close of the period with an 18-15 score.
Although Notre Dame never relinquished its advantage it was closely pressed throughout most of the last period by the scoring of Jones and Batts. The same nip and tuck battle that prevailed in the first half characterized the play in the second and it was not until the final few minutes that Crowe’s long shots and Krause’s buckets began to tell. With this final rally Notre Dame brought the game safely to a close.
The Butler team concentrated on checking Krause’s scoring efforts and held the “Moose” to seven points. But Crowe with seven points and Ford with eight kept Notre Dame in the lead by making long shots outside the Butler defense. Roscoe Batts, the Bulldog Sophomore forward, led the scoring for Coach Hinkle’s men with twelve points and Jones dribbled through the Irish defense for two baskets.
A crowd of 9,000 people jammed the Indianapolis field house to see the victory which gave Notre Dame a two game lead in an ancient rivalry with the Bulldogs.
Notre Dame (34)	FG	FT	FTA PF		Pts.
Voegele, rf 			2	0	2	1	4
Jordan, If 			0	0	1	1	0
Krause, c (c)			2	3	4	2	7
	... 3	1	1	2	
Ireland, 1g 			2	0	■ 1	2	4
Peters, If 			1	0	2	1	2
O’Kane, If 			1	0	0	0	2
Allen, rg 			0	0	0	0	0
Ford, 1g 			3	2	2	0	8
		—	—	—	—
Totals 		.....14	6	13	9	34
Butler (24)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Reissner, rf 			1	0	0	1	2
Batts, If 			3	6	8	2	12
Demmary, c 			1	1	2	1	3
Baird, rg 			0	0	1	1	0
Parrish, 1g 			0	0	0	1	0
Jones, rf 			2	1	1	3	n
Armstrong, c 				1	0	0	2	2
	—	——	—	—	—
Totals 			8	8	12	11	24
Frosh Meet---
The first Freshman handicap meet of the season was held last Friday afternoon in the gymnasium. Medals were awarded to those who finished first, second, and third in the various events.
These meets, in which all Freshmen are eligible to compete, will be held every Friday afternoon throughout the track season. The contestants will be handicapped according to experience and ability.
The results of last Friday’s meet:
300 YARD RUN—Won by Mulligan: Parsons. second: Hickey, third. Time. :33.3.
600 YARD RUN—Won by Parsons; Francis. second; Powers, third. Time. 1:15.4.
1000 YARD RUN—Won by McKenna; Gott, second: Van Petten. third. Time. 2:25.4.
65 YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Hoc-tor ; McCarthy, second: Smith, third. Time. :07.9.
SHOT PUT—Won by SafFa; Quinlan, second : Paul, third. Distance, 37 feet. 4 inches.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Hill: English, second; Buberic. third. Distance. 18 feet. 3 inches'.
Annual Interhall Track Meet Will Start Next Week
The thirty-first annual interhall track meet will be held in the gymnasium next week. The qualifying heats will be held on Monday and Tuesday, and the finals will be run off on Monday, March 12. The first three men in each of the qualifying heats will be eligible to compete in the finals. Those who finish first, second, and third in the finals will receive medals.
Because of the large number of entrants the halls have been divided into two groups for the qualifying rounds. Track men from Howard, Alumni, Brownson, Carroll, Off-Campus, and Freshman will compete on Monday, and entrants from St. Edward’s, Sorin, Corby, Walsh, Dillon, Lyons, Morrissey, and Badin will eliminate each other on Tuesday night.
All contestants must have a physical examination from Doctor Powers before they will be eligible to compete.
Freshmen who equal or better the requirements will be awarded sweaters. The required heights, times, and distances follow:
60 yard dash ................. :06.7
440 yd. dash ................... :57
880 yd. run ................... 2:14
Mile Run ....................... 4:58
65 yd. low hurdles ........... :08.5
Pole Vault ............. 10	ft. 3 in.
High Jump ............... 5 ft. 6 in.
Shot Put ____________________ 36 feet
Broad Jump .................... 20	ft.
IRISH OUT FOR REVENGE
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
After losing a close meet to Illinois the Notre Dame track squad will endeavor to regain its position in the win column tomorrow afternoon when it meets Ohio State on the local track.
Eddie King
Out to bother Moore.
Saturday’s affair should be something like the meet with the Buckeyes last year, which ended in a 52 to -52 tie. The visitors displayed their strength at Evanston last Saturday when they tied for first place in a Big Ten quadrangular meet.
The Buckeyes possess probably the outstanding shot putter in the Big Ten in the person of George Neal. He established a new meet record of 47 feet, 11J4 inches at Evanston last Saturday. Should he engineer such a feat here tomorrow he will undoubtedly capture first place in that event. Elser, Finkel, and Sullivan will have to do a lot of heaving to cut him down.
Buckeyes Weak In Vault
In the one mile run Moore is the brightest prospect for Ohio. Eddie King and Joe Young will give him plenty of trouble before he completes the eight-lap course. The Irish sprinters will be out to stop Stapf, the outstanding dash man on the State crew. He was the fastest man in the quadrangular meet last week.
The Buckeyes are weak in the pole vault with Sites, their best man, good for little better than twelve feet. Moore and Huffman team up to present a bold front in the two mile grind. Leo MacFarlane, who turned in the remarkable time of 9 minutes and 33 seconds in this race against (Continued on Page 14)
March 2, 1934
Thirteen
INTERHALL
(Continued from Page 11)
their team’s total points but they could not cope with the accurate basket eyes of Dray er and Welden of the junior hall.
Meyers, King and Powers of Carroll found little trouble in slipping through the Brownson defense for points and as a result Carroll won an easy 33 to 7 victory. Carroll led at the half 16 to 4. After leading by one point 7 to 6 at the half, the Off-Campus lights were able to eke but a 14 to 10 game from Walsh. Luckey and Coleman provided the necessary spark for the downtowners victory. Kohls and Waters garnered 8 points between themselves to be the high scorers for the seniors. Howard’s team won a decisive game from Alumni 22 to 16 after Frank Leonard had collected 13 points,;to be the high individual scorer for the. day.
The schedule for games .-to be played on Sunday, March 4th, are as follows:	,
Group II
8:30 Freshman vs. Walsh.
9:30 Howard vs. Carroll.
10:30 Alumni vs. Off-Campus.
Brownson bye.
Group I
1:30	Dillon vs. St. Edward’			's.
2:30	Corby vs. Badin.			
3:30	Morrissey vs. Sorin.			
	Lyons bye.			
INTERHALL STANDINGS				
	H e a v y w e i g	: h t s		
Group I.	W	L	T	Pct.
St. Edward’s 	 3		0	0	1.000
Lvons ■		n	1	0	
Badin 		9	1	0	.666
Morrissey ...		 9	2	2	.500
Dillon 				1	2	0	.333
Sorin 		—	 0	3	0	.000
Corby 				 0	o	0	.000
Group H	w	L	T	Pct.
Off-Campus		 3	0-	0	1.000
Brownson ...	n	1	0	.750
Walsh 			1	2	0	.500
Carroll 			 2	o	0	.500
Freshman ...			1	o	0	.333
Alumni 				1	2	0	.333
Howard				 0	o	0	.000
	L i g h t w e i g	hts		
Group I.	W	L	T	Pct.
Lyons 			 3	1	0	.750
St. Edward’s 		 2		1	0	.666
Badin				 2	1	0	.666 ‘
Corby			_	 9	1	0	.666
Dillon _ 				9	0	.333
Morrissey ...		1	3	0	.250
Sorin			.1	3	0	.250
Group II	w	L	T	Pct.
Howard 				 4	0	0	1.000
Carroll			 4	0 •	0	1.000
Off-Campus		 2	1	0	.666
Alumni 			1	2	0	.333
Freshman ..		1	2	0	.333
Walsh			 0	3	0	.000
Brownson ..		  0	4	0	.000 ’
Introducing...
By John D. Carbine
Charles Finkle, one of the most dependable performers on Notre Dame’s track teams for the past two seasons, has at one time or another held Notre Dame, city, state and national titles in the shot put.
Charles Finkle
Rockne wanted ten more.
Finkle graduated from Clifton, New Jersey, High school way back in 1926. While at Clifton, Chuck did the shot putting, the sprinting and the broad jumping for Clifton’s track team for three years and was captain of track in 1925 and 1926. Finkle’s longest heave of the 12 pound high school shot was 48 feet. In one meet he scored 18 of his team’s 36 points. Finkle also played football for three years and received all state mention at fullback.
Wins National Y. M. C. A. Title
After graduating from high school, Finkle went to work for the Okonite Company, an electrical wire and cable manufacturing concern, of Passaic, New Jersey. Competing for the Okonite Athletic Association, he held the state industrial shot put record for three years. He set this record with a heave of 48 feet, two inches with a 12 pound shot. In 1929, Chuck won the National Y.M.C.A. shotput title at a meet held in Brooklyn. He has won the Passaic City Industrial meet, held every summer, for nine straight years.
Finkle came to Notre Dame in 1930 and lost no time in winning his numerals in track. While a freshman, Chuck set a new interhall shot put record when he tossed the iron ball 42 feet, four and one half inches. This broke the previous record of 41 feet, 10% inches held by Charles Bachman now affiliated with Michigan State.
In his sophomore year, Finkle gath-
OHIO STATE MEET
(Continued from Page 12)
Illinois will be gunning for his third victory in as many starts as a varsity man.
The Irish relay quartet composed of McGrath, Bowdren, Rubly, and Bernard cut six seconds off their time last week and running at their new low of 3:26 they should take the stick race without much trouble.
Tomorrow’s meet will probably mark the return of Jimmie Fagan, veteran hurdler, to the fold. Fagan has been nursing a pulled tendon for two weeks but is about ready to go. Mike Layden, the probable difference between victory and defeat last week, may get into the fray if his legs behave well enough to allow him to compete.
N. D. Rifle Club Defeats
Studebaker A.A., 478-464
The Notre Dame Rifle Club won its first meet of the season last Monday by defeating the Studebaker Athletic Association team by a 478 to 464 score. The meet was held in the Studebaker gymnasium. McGrath, Minarick, Landmesser, Burns and Hosritler shot for the Irish.
The Rifle Club has arranged meets with Purdue, Howe, Culver, and Indiana. Captain McGrath hopes to complete arrangements whereby the team may enter the Hearst Trophy Meet in Chicago.
“Religious Survey” in Making
Reverend John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., assistant prefect of Religion, has been busy for the past two months editing the alumni religious survey. It will probably be published within the month.
ered 29 points for the Nickmen. He won the Iowa, Michigan State and Marquette meets. His best distance for the season, was 44 feet, three and one quarter inches against Iowa.
Last year, Charlie won the Pittsburgh and Michigan State meets. He finished second in several other meets to swell his season’s total points to 31. This year Finkle is rounding into shape rather slowly but may regain enough of his form to do something against Ohio State tomorrow.
To Finkle, the most memorable even in his athletic career came during spring football practice of 1931. Charlie was playing fullback on the second team and with no interference at all was consistently gaining ground After Finkle had made a long run, Rockne called the teams together and said, "If we had ten more men like Finkle, we could go to town.” Two days later Rock met his untimely death. Finkle never reported for football again.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
I
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
TRIUMVIRATE
Tomorrow evening when the Irish meet Ohio State in the final home basketball game of the year, three regular members of the Notre Dame five will be making their last appearance here as players.
They deserve a great hand. They have been consistently hard workers and harder fighters. They have aided greatly in bringing Notre Dame basketball to its position of prominence. Above all they have always given their best.
Sixty-three games have been played by Notre Dame cage teams since Captain Ed Krause, Joe Voegele, and Leo Crowe reported for the varsity squad of 1931-32. Of those games the Irish have won 53—all but ten— and the triumvirate of Krause, Voegele, and Crowe has contributed heavily to that consistent success.
Statistics cannot reveal how many times Krause controlled the tip-off or
Make the
Student Trip
to the
Marquette
Game
Milwaukee, March 10
Limited number of
Tickets at $5.50
including
Round Trip and GameTicket
George H. Shields, 225 Walsh
got the ball from the backboard; or how often Voegele broke up offensive spurts of opposing teams in midcourt; or how many opponents’ shots Leo Crowe smothered under the basket. Those accomplishments will have to be remembered individually for no records contain them.
But there are records of offensive play, and they speak volumes on the value of these three eagers. Consider that in their three seasons (including this one to date) they have scored 1122 points by their combined efforts—a total that is more than half of all the points made by the Notre Dame teams during that span.
Here are their three-year records:
	G	Krause				
		FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
1931-32 .....		 18	48	42	72	33	138
1932-33 ....	..... 21	77	59	115	55	213
1933-34 ....		 20	65	40	70	34	170
	—	—				—	—	■
Totals .		 59	190	141	25”	122	521
		Voegele				
	G	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
1931-32 ...	..... 18	28	19	39	20	75
1932-33 ...		 22	-74	50	94	52	198
1933-34 ...		 20	50	37	80	40	137
	—					
Totals .		 60	152	106	213	112	410
		Crowe				
	G	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
1931-32 ...	— 15	14	4	7	9	.32
1932-33 ...		 21	20	30	45	41	70
1933-34 ...	..... 20	34	21	33	32	89
	—	—		.—	—	■ ■ —
Totals .		68	55	85	82	191
G—games ; FG—field goals ; FT — free throws; FTA—free throws attempted; PF— personal fouls ; PTS—total points.
PLEASURE RIDES	CHARTER TRIPS
Aviation Service on the Campus
Modern six-passenger Ryan Brougham used; cabin heated and comfortable. Ship licensed and equipped as specified by Department of Commerce for day or night operation. Modern instruments, navigation lights, landing -lights, parachute flares, wheel brakes, etc.
Prospective Trips: Milwaukee, Wis., March 10; New York
City, March 15; Los Angeles, Calif., Easter vacation. Round Trip rates very reasonable. Will be glad to talk aviation over with you! Get in touch with
MAX CONRAD
Phone 4-9392	P. O. Box 47
EMERGENCY CALLS	FLYING INSTRUCTION
'	Fifteen
SHORTS
On the basis of entries in to date, eight of the 12 Central Intercollegiate Conference indoor records will be in danger at the eighth annual running of the meet, March 9 and 10 at Notre Dame. Only the 60, 440, and two hurdles records look safe.
Notre Dame meets Purdue in a fencing match at Lafayette Saturday which will be decided only by the pep talks the respective coaches give their men. The teams have both lost to Illinois, 13 to 4; both have defeated Washington of St. Louis, 9 to 8; Notre Dame has lost twice to Michigan State, 11 to 6; and Purdue has lost once to the Spartans, 11% to 5%.
Eddie Gough tried for three years to break the Notre Dame broad jump record. He succeeded, despite one tough break after another, in setting an indoor mark by inches in his senior year. The mark stood one year to the day when George Meagher, 1934 sophomore broke it with a leap of 23 feet 3% inches, seven inches better than Gough’s record.
Vincent Murphy, Notre Dame high jump holder, doesn’t practice any more. He has strained a tendon in his left knee which prevents him training, so he does all of his jumping in competition. He won from Matquette at 5 feet 11 inches. He rested two weeks and then won against Illinois, at 6 feet J4inch.
M ar c h 2, 1 9 3 4
11
On Down The Line
By Nick Connor
Those who believe that all boxers are “Joe Palookas,” who eventually wind up cutting paper dolls, should know that LEWIS BOSHER, lightweight on the U. of VIRGINIA boxing team, had an average grade of 97 2/3 on his first term exams, ranking him at the top of the school’s 1,400 undergraduates . . . Fifteen years ago FRANKIE BOUCHER, New York RANGERS hockey star, was a member of the Northwest mounted police. He is now leading the American division of the NATIONAL HOCKEY League in scoring . . . JOHNNY LENHART, 6 foot 4 inch freshman center at COLGATE, has averaged better than 20 points a game. Against the SYRACUSE frosh he netted 24 points, one more than the Orange total . . . BOBBY JONES plans to once again enter into competition by playing in the AUGUST invitational tourney. . . . ELLSWORTH VINES has high hopes of cashing in about $50,000 at the close of the winter months as a result of his pro tennis. . . .
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY’S track captain this spring will be PETE ZAREMBA, intercollegiate hammer thrower champion . . . KING LEVINSKY, the Chicago fish peddler, has refused to shift his fistic engagement in Madison Square Garden. This stubborn move on the part of the Kingfish will deprive thousands of basketball fans of seeing N. Y. U. and C. C. N. Y. decide the Eastern court laurels . . . CHARLIE CON-ACHER shoots and throws right handed, but there is a southpaw when dealing the cards or wielding a billiard cue . . . Officials claim that FRANK FINNIGAN, right wing on the OTTAWA hockey team, has never been knocked off his feet . . . HENRY “ZEKE” BONURA, rookie first baseman of the CHICAGO WHITE SOX, was a four star athlete at ST. STANISLAUS COLLEGE. He was captain of the football, basketball, baseball, and track teams, and he also held the AMERICAN JAVELIN RECORD.
Although WALTER MARTY holds the world’s official high jump record ■with a mark of 6 feet 8 and 5/8 inches, there are natives in East Africa, who have no trouble at all in clearing the bar at 8 feet, 5 inches. . . . CALIFORNIA’S negro sprinter star, JIMMY LUVALL, is majoring in chemistry and has a Phi Beta Kappa key as one of his objectives. When he graduates he will work for his Ph.D. . . . ALLEN HALL, the billiard star, has used the same cue for the last 15 years. He won his first amateur tournaemnt with it. . . .
Sixteen
ROGER WOLFE KAHN, wealthy young BROADWAY orchestra leader, is considered the best amateur golfer on the Great White Way. Although he has never taken part in tournaments he shoots consistently in the LOW 70’S. . . . One of the most colorful of all his big league arbitrators was UMPIRE (LORD) BYRON who soothed boiling ball players by quoting poetry to them after the third strike. . . . CURT OLDEBURG, Swedish outboard racing star, thinks the dangerous race from ALBANY TO NEW YORK is a sissy affair. He claims the Swedes have a race each year, starting from Stockholm and covering 188 miles, most of it in the open sea.
During the last 25 years as coach of the NORTHWESTERN swimming teams, TOM ROBINSON has had 15 championship squads and he has also taught more than 50,000 students how to swim. ... In answer to an open letter by Paul Gailico, MRS. HELEN WILLS MOODY says, “No, no, I will never turn professional.” . . . KID CHOCOLATE, recognized in New York as featherweight boxing champ, has intimated through his manager that he intends to renounce his title because he can no longer stay within the CLASS LIMIT of 126 pounds. . . . EDWARD M. EDWARDS of Philadelphia was recent
STETSON
COMPANY
AT THE BETTER
STORES A SIZE AND SHAPE FOR EVERY HEAD
Debonair yet
Dignified
The Manor created by
There’s a gallant swing to the lines of this new Stetson
hat for spring. Snap it in front if you like, or wear it off-
the-face. Either way, the slightly tapered crown and up-
curved brim give the “Manor” an air of energy and
smartness. Try it on at your Stetson dealer s. He has a
wide range of attractive new Stetson styles and colors.
Stetson hats for spring are priced at $6 (unlined), $6.50,
$8, ?io and upward. Also the Stetson Mity-
Lite, new extremely light-weight crusher, at $5.
JOHN B. STETSON
ly crowned the national squash champ after he had defeated ROBERT GRANT III, a Harvard senior. . . . Latest reports have it that JACK TORRENCE, Louisiana State University’s great athlete, may not enter WEST POINT after all. It seems as though he intends to try for the 1936 OLYMPICS. He is rated as one of the best shotputters in the world.
FENCING
(Continued from Page 11)
Tomorrow the fencing team will once again contest away from home. This time traveling downstate to Lafayette to meet Purdue’s fencing combine. In view of the fact that Illinois beat Purdue by the same score as they defeated Notre Dame and also because of the fact that Purdue won over Washington University by identically the same margin as the locals did, this match is bound to be close and hotly contested throughout.
Economic Seminar
“The Concentration of Wealth in the Hands of Large Corporations” is the title of the paper to be delivered by Richard G. Cahill, Commerce Senior, at the next meeting of the Economics Seminar. The meeting will be held on Tuesday, March 6 at 6:30 p.m. in the Law Building.
The S cjio la stic
Radio Fans Given
Resume of Opera
Those at Notre Dame who listen to the weekly broadcasts of the Metropolitan Opera Company from New York City will be interested in the following resume of “Lucia di Lammermoor” (pronounced Loo-chee'-ah de Lohmer-moor) which will be presented over the NBC network tomorrow afternoon at 12:50, central standard time.
Grand opera by Gaetano Donizetti based on Sir Walter Scott’s novel “The Bride of Lammermoor.” The action takes place in Scotland near the close of the sixteenth century.
Act I, Scene I—A grove near Lam-mermoor Castle. Edgar of Ravenswood and Lucia of Lammermoor love each other although their families are engaged in a mortal feud. It is necessary that they meet secretly. Lord Henry Ashton, her brother, appears on the scene in search of the stranger, who has been seen prowling about the grounds. Norman, his aide, suggests that the stranger might be Edgar, said to have saved Lucia from ' the attack of an angry bull. The talkative Norman hints of the affection of the two and the likelihood of a secret trysting place on the grounds. Ashton vows vengeance.
Scene II—A park near the castle. Lucia, accompanied by Alice, her maid, awaits Edgar. He informs her that he has been ordered to France. Before leaving, he proposed approaching Ashton and forever ending the feud existing between their respective families but Lucia dissuades him knowing that his efforts would be futile and result in their being parted forever. They pledge their fidelity in the lovely duet “Borne on the Sighing Breeze” and part.
Act II—An anteroom in the Castle. Ashton, desirous of improving his fortune by marrying Lucia off to Sir
Arthur Bucklaw, intercepts Edgar’s correspondence. He forges, in the latter’s handwriting, a letter which indicates that Lucia has been betrayed by her lover. The girl, deeply grieved, finally consents to the marriage.	’
Scene II—The Main Hall of the Castle. A great assemblage of knights and ladies are on hand to witness the wedding. Lord Ashton explains the pale, agitated condition of the bride, by declaring that she still mourns her mother. As Lucia finishes signing the marriage papers, Edgar, sword in hand, stalks boldly into the room. At this highly dramatic moment, begins the famous sextette whose majestic rhythm, flowing melody, gorgeous harmony and soaring climax have made it tremendously popular. Ashton and Edgar lunge at each other with drawn swords but are restrained. Lord Henry demands an explanation for the intrusion and displays the signed marriage contract. Incensed, Edgar turns upon Lucia, curses her and her family and rushes from the scene.
Act III, Scene I—The Tower of the Ravenswood Castle. Ashton challenges Edgar to a duel at dawn. Against the background of a terrific storm, in a duet, they pray for the early arrival of morning and the attendant vengeance.
Scene II—The Hall at Lammermoor Castle. The feasting and merrymaking at the castle ceases as Raymond enters and announces that Lucia has gone mad and slain her husband. The demented girl appears. Imagining she is being married to her lover, Edgar, she sings happily and half-sadly. Becoming agitated, her voice rises higher and higher until, finally, she falls swooning into Alice’s arms.
Scene III—The Tombs of the Rav-enswoods. Edgar standing among the graves of his ancestors, sings a
(Continued on Page 20)
AT IQ P
It’s O. K. to eat at night. Only he cagey. Don’t burden your body with heavy foods. Kellogg’s PEP is satisfying . . . won’t interfere with, sound sleep at night. PEP releases body-energy without taxing digestion. Made of nourishing wheat. Flaked. Toasted crisp. Plus enough extra bran to be mildly laxative.
PEP is ready to eat. Served in individual packages at the campus lunch or canteen. Delicious with milk or cream.
Eat PEP for breakfast too. Add sliced fruit or honey for variety. Always fresh. Always popular. Made by mra Kellogg in Battle Creek.
A Better Position
You Can Get It
Hundreds of teachers, students and college graduates will earn two hundred dollars or more this summer. SO CAN YOU. Hundreds of others will secure a better position and a larger salary for next year. YOU CAN BE ONE OF THEM. Complete information and helpful suggestions will be mailed on receipt of a three cent stamp. Good positions are available now in every state. They will soon be filled.
(Teachers address Dept. T. All others Dept. S.)
CONTINENTAL TEACHERS AGENCY, Inc.
1850 Downing St.	Denver, Colo.
Covers the ENTIRE United States
School Officials! You may wire us your vacancies at our expense, if speed is urgent. You will receive complete, free confidential reports by air mail within 36 hours.
March 2, 19 3 ^
Seventeen
S/O/?
Luckies use only the center leaves of the finest tobacco plants . . . because the center leaves are the ildest, tenderest, smoothest.
Luckies do not use the top leaves . . . because top leaves are underdeveloped ... they are not ripe ... They would give a harsh smoke.


and only the Center Leaves
NOT the bottom leaves— they’re inferior in quality—coarse and always sandy I
NOT the top leaves—they’re under-developed
—they are harsh 1
a
Always the Finest Tobacco
Copyright, 1984. The American Tobacco Company. ~	L
me
aw 1 a
beca





This picture tells better than words the merit of your Lucky Strike. Luckies use only the center leaves. Not the top leaves, because those are under-developed— not ripe. Not the bottom leaves, because those are inferior in quality— they grow close to the ground and are tough, coarse and always sandy. The center leaves are the mildest leaves, the
finest in quality. These center leaves are cut into long, even strands and arc fully packed into each and every Lucky —giving you a cigarette that is always round, firm, completely filled—no loose ends. Is it any wonder that Luckies arc so truly mild and smooth? And in addition, you know, "It’s toasted”— for throat protection, for finer taste.
Lucky Strike presents the Metropolitan Opera Company
Saturday at 1*50 P, M.» Eastern Standard Time, over Bed ami Blue Network* of NBC, Lucky Strike will bruadcabl the Metropolitan Opera Company of New York iu the complete Opera, “Lucia di Lninmcnnoor"
The Cream of the Crop "The mildest, smoothest tobacco”
ILLINOIS MEET
(Continued from Page 12)
Crain Portman won his second victory of the afternoon when he took first place in the 60-yard dash. Russell of Illinois and Frawley of the Irish finished two and'~three to the Illini star.
The Irish one mile relay team of McGrath, Bowdren, Bernard, and Rubiy^wbn~their event after a very close race. Bernard, the Irish anchor man, had a five yard lead at the start of the final lap. Miller drew up even
"WHEN A FELLER
NEEDS A FRIEND”
O P. Lorillard Co., Inc.
KEPT FACTORY FRESH
CELLOPHANE
When fate hangs heavy over your head, retain a cheerful outlook with a pipe of genial BRIGGS. There’s not a bite in a bushel of this aged-in-wood blend ... and it has a rare and spicy savor that will thrill your taste. You’ll find BRIGGS the blend a feller needs.
with him in the stretch only to have Bernard put on a final burst of speed to win the event by inches.
The summary:
POLE VAULT—Won by Seeley (I) ; Kirkpatrick (I), Howard (ND) and Edwards (ND) tied for second. Height, 12 feet, 6 ins.
SHOT PUT —Won by Cook (I) ; Elser (ND), second; Sullivan (ND), third. Distance, 48 feet, 6 inches. (New Illinois record.)
60 YARD DASH—Won by Portman (I) ; Russell (I), second; Frawley (ND), third. Time, :06.4.
ONE MILE RUN—Won by Landmeier (I), King (ND), second; Young (ND), third. Time, 4:26.
60 YARD HIGH HURDLES — Won by Schoeninger (I), Link (ND), second; Rush-low (I), third. Time, :07.9.
440 YARD DASH—Won by Miller (I), Bernard (ND), second; Rubly (ND), third. Time, :51.4.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Murphy (ND) ; Bor-roff (I), second; Barron (I), third. Height, 6 feet, % inch.
TWO MILE RUN—Won by McFarlane (ND); Dufresne (I), second; Duke (ND), third. Time, 9:33.4.
880 YARD RUN—Won by Baughman (I) ; Roberts (ND), second; Farrell (ND), third. Time, 1:59.7.
65 YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Portman (I) ; Schoeninger (I), second; Meagher (ND), third. Time, :07.4.
ONE MILE RELAY—Won by Notre Dame (McGrath, Bowdren, Bernard, Rubly). Time, 2:32.5.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Meagher- (ND) ; Conley (ND), second; Davis (ND), third. Distance, 23 feet, 3% inches (new Notre Dame and gymnasium record).
RADIO FANS GIVEN
RESUME OF OPERA
(Continued from Page 17)
touching soliloquy. Instinctively his thoughts turn to Lucia and he denounces her vehemently. In the midst of his imprecations, he beholds a train of mourners approaching and inquires as to their purpose. Even as they tell him of Lucia’s dying condition, a bell at the castle tolls out the funeral knell.
Finally he realizes the tragedy of it all and drawing a dagger from his belt plunges it into his heart. Alternately imploring Heaven’s forgiveness and avowing his love for Lucia, he falls to the ground dead.
Dr. E. J. Cain
Dr. H. H. Rogers
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
213 S. Michigan Street Phone 4-8251
Twenty
The Scholastic
From 21 links....
ONE STRONG SYSTEM
Welded together by common policies and ideals, the 27 Bell System companies work as one.
Operation is in the hands of 24 associated telephone companies — each attuned to the area it serves. Scientific research and manufacture of apparatus are delegated to Bell Telephone Laboratories and Western Electric. Co-ordination of all System activities is a function of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company.
. Thanks to the skilful teamwork of these many Bell System units, you can talk to almost anyone, anywhere, anytime!
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
I WHY NOT TELEPHONE HOME ONCE EACH WEEK? 1
REVERSE THE CHARGES IF YOUR FOLKS AGREE. |
MR. PAUL BYRNE,	{
LIBRARY, ;	*
NOTRE DAME, IND*
Cheste
Men. and women say They Satisfy
TJOR SOMETHING to "satisfy” -** you, means that it pleases you—that it’s what you want. This applies to cigarettes or anything.
A cigarette has to taste right —not raw or too sweet. For a cigarette to "satisfy” it has to be mild—not strong, not harsh.
You can prove for yourself whether a cigarette is milder— whether a cigarette tastes better.
And it’s because smokers can prove these things about Chesterfield that so many men and women say they satisfy. Try them.
© 1934. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
TASTES BETTER