NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, April 5, 1890.
Vol. XXIII.
No. 30.
Sunset.
- BY M. A. QUINLAN, ’93.
The clouds have gathered on the sunny shore, And evening’s shades now bid the day good night; While through the trees the sun’s supernal light
Conies streaniag here from that celestial door.
It casts its brilliant rays on us no more, '
But, painting on the skies in colors bright, Brings back our thoughts of romance and delight
To sleep and dream of lands we saw before.
Our day of life is drawing to its end
When we shall sink, as sinks the setting sun, From sight of friends and all we used to love.
Oh! let our lives in happy concord blend
Earth’s sunny hours with those to be begun Once more in other lands, in lands above!
The Dramas of Aubrey de Vere.
B.Y J. E. PARADIS, ’90.
This age of ours has been prominently characterized by a spirit of intellectual activity, of honest research, a passion for liberty, a certain eagerness to penetrate all mysteries or do away with that which is beyond the comprehension of human reason. Needless to say, these characteristics of the nineteenth century are expressed by its literature. Poetry sought inspiration in the freedom of nature, no more to be influenced by the artificial restraints to which it had been previously subjected. The exquisite, artistic poems of Tennyson, the imaginative productions of Byron, the patriotic melodies of Moore, and the sympathetic pictures of Wordsworth,—all received their inspiration in physi- -cal or moral nature as understood or felt by each poet. What we must regret is that under
mostly all of this poetry and its attractive charms there lie most pernicious errors, false sentiments, open or covert attacks against the Church, of Christ. And this is why we,Catholics, are proud to bring before the world one of the greatest among the few poets who have alone drawn inspiration from the purest sources of Christianity and perfumed their productions with Catholic ideas.
Few names have been better known in the highest literary and political circles of Great Britain than that of Aubrey de Vere, the third son of Sir Aubrey de Vere Bart., distinguished for his dramatic poem of Mary Tudor. He was born January io, 1814, at Curragh Chase, the old family residence, near Limerick, Ireland. He graduated at Trinity College, Dublin; after which most of his time was spent in travelling, but chiefly in reading and writing in the old sequestered home. He became a convert to the Catholic Church in 1851. In allusion to this as one of the “few dates” in his “uneventful life” he says in a letter recently: “ I became a Catholic in 1851—a blessing for which I feel more grateful every successive year.”
Amon? his earlier works were the “Search for Proserpine,” published in 1843; and “The Infant Bridal,” in 1864. The lyrical greatness of these poems, as also of “ The Fall of Rossa,” and others, can hardly be questioned. His “Legends of Saxon Saints” and “Legends of St. Patrick” are splendid specimens of narrative poetry.
It was with wonderful success and but little effort that Mr. De Vere passed from the lyric and narrative to that higher department of poetry in which Shakspeare excelled. I wish to treat of his two dramatic poems in particular. “Alexander the Great,” published in 1874, settled his place as a great dramatic poet. “St. Thomas of Canterbury” followed in 1876, and was re
470
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ceived with marked enthusiasm by Catholics, though not needed to teach the world his extraordinary power of delineating characters and developing incidents. While he presents the person of Alexander as a type of pagan pride, ambition and self-glorification, St. Thomas stands out as a model of Christian heroism, sublimely firm and humble.	.
“Alexander the Great” is undoubtedly a work of no small merit. Great things are attempted in it and great things are accomplished. The highest merit of the poem, I believe, lies not so much in its dramatic excellence as in the highly philosophical treatment of a subject so difficult and intricate—a subject the choice of which appears, perhaps, unhappy at first sight; for it seems rather unnatural that in our practical age we should feel much sympathy for a hero whose history is mystic, not to say mythical. But it is so full of sound Christian ideas without, however, being destitute of historical basis, that it is likely to have no small influence on the men of the present day. The Macedonian king is not represented as a madman or a “ lucky fool,” as it seems to have been the fashion in the last century, but he shows that maturer reflection has led us to discover the absurdity of the supposition that a fool’s luck, added to an unbounded ambition, can account for the extraordinary fact of a young man but twenty-two years of age conquering half the world in ten years. - He attributes to him the highest military genius:
“The foe in sight, instant he knew their numbers; If distant, guessed their whereabout—how lay The intermediate tract—if fordable
- The streams—the vales accessible to horse;
' ’Twas like the craft of beasts remote from man.”
With these qualities in war he combines a vast yet minute intellect; he claims for his hero an instinctive and unerring statesmanship. Alexander had great ideas, but he was not an idealist; he was idealistic, but at the same time practical; if he was once thought a dreamer, the mistake was soon discovered. His domineering temper never retired before opposition, and yet always - evaded the impossible. He understood that a ruler, however despotic, must represent the ruled and be the exponent of what they most ■ deeply love and revere. The poet particularly brings out to advantage this wisdom or shrewdness of Alexander in the hero’s last tribute to the Persian king, and his adoption of the Persian court ceremonial, for which some have censured Alexander. ; The King soon finds out the good effects of the measures he had taken on the Persian army: .	. . '	.	.
"So! I foresaw it; said I not, Hephmstion,
He that would rule them through the sense must rule, _ Must walk apparell’d in their customed pomps
And rituals of their throne? ”	.
Although we are constantly attracted by the extraordinary genius of the conqueror, and excited with admiration and wonder at his very appearance on the scene, the poet does not leave us under the impression that- there- was no blot on his wonderful career. But- we are made to sympathize with the good old Parmeno and severely censure Alexander for his ill-treatment of a man to whom he, or a.t Jeast his father, owed so much. We naturally feel indignant at his sanction of the sentence of Parmeno. This was the effect of his unhappy pride—the one great vice of his heroic character. He had to choose between ambition and justice, and,- of course, his pride prevailed; it blended itself with him like, a poison and penetrated his essence. It was not the virtuous, but the god-like, that Alexander affected; and it is not without much moral fruit that we watch the progress of the mental change in him from his early reverence for a supernatural being—his conviction that he himself is ’
" Less a person than a power, Some engine in the right hand of the gods, . Some fateful wheel that, round in darkness rolling, Knows this its work, but not that work’s far scope ”— down to the time when, flushed with the pride of his conquests, he deems himself superior to the gods, and becomes the propounder of great metaphysical questions.
' Another striking feature of the poem, and one which will likely be. valued by the thoughtful, is the visit of Alexander to the Temple of Jerusalem, recorded in history by Josephus alone. This passage, which contains exceptionally sweet and profound-poetry, will be of no small interest to the student of the philosophy of history. ■	.	.	..
Before passing to a short consideration of the poet’s “St. Thomas of Canterbury,” which, I think, is generally better known, it will not be inappropriate to quote one of the beautiful .lyrics to be found towards the end of the.play. The following is one of the songs heard by Alexander at Babyldn from some poor Hebrew slaves:	.	'	■	.
“ If I forget thee, Salem, in thy sadness,
- May this right hand forget the harper’s art! , If I forget thee, Salem, in my gladness, .	•
’ My tongue dry up and wither like my heart!
Daughter of Babylon, with misery wasted, . Blest shall he be, the man who.hears thy moans;
Who gives thee back.the cup thathye have.tasted, ' ;Who lifts thy babes, and hurls them on the stones.’
THE NOTRE DAME SC HOL A STIC.
47I
Like “Alexander the Great,” Aubrey de Vere’s “St. Thomas of Canterbury” does not seem to be popular, either in its subject or in the mode of treatment, with imaginations accustomed to the sensual coloring of modern poets. And it is in this contempt of mere passing tastes to accomplish a nobler end that he deserves our admiration. None but a Catholic poet could do justice to such a character as that of the Archbishop of Canterbury. Tennyson has attempted to dramatize the same subject, but has barely •failed to do so in a creditable manner; we can scarcely account for his blindness in attempting a work which had already been performed to perfection. Still it is regrettable to say that,-even, among Catholics, Tennyson’s “Becket” is better known than De Vere’s “St. Thomas.” It is easy enough to account for this: the unprejudiced inquirer consults reviews or magazines which profess to be the exponent of public opinion, and finds very little, indeed, about Mr. De Vere. For the leaders of literary thought are not unbiassed readers of his works, though conscious of their merit. His character of a patriotic Irishman and fervent Catholic renders him extremely unpopular before the British public, and thus he can hardly indulge the hope of hearing from that class. Critics of known merit who could appreciate his-poetry have declared him to be, not as exquisite, but a grander poet than Tennyson. If he does not possess the latter’s lightness and grace—his subtle excellence of diction—he surpasses him in his elevation of thought and religious spirit, which can hardly be dispensed with in a work of this sort.
The poem is singularly accurate in historic details, and shows how thoroughly Mr. De Vere understands the historical meaning of A Becket’s time, and the influence which the primate exerted on that time. After having accepted a high religious trust, the Archbishop began by laying aside all th'e pomp and worldliness of his previous life. His own personal holiness, together with the interests of the Church, were the aims he set before him. In the following noble lines his objects in view after being made primate are happily summed up by the poet:
“Herbert! my Herbert!
High visions mine in youth upbraid me now;
I.dreamed-of sanctities redeemed from shame; Abuses crushed; all sacred offices	-
Reserved for spotless hands. Again I see them, I see God’s realm so bright, each English home Sharing that glory basks amid its peace:
From God’s own altar lit, the angelic childhood;-The chaste, strong youth, the reverence of white hairs: ’Tis this Religion means. O Herbert! Herbert!, .
We must secure her this! Her rights, the lowest Shall in my hand be safe, I Will not suffer -
The pettiest stone in castle, grange, or mill, . The humblest clod of English earth, one time -A fief of my great mother, Canterbury,
To rest caitiff’s booty. Herbert, Herbert!
Had I foreseen, with what a vigilant care
Had I built up my soul!”	.	■
A Becket’s character is powerfully drawn, with his ardent zeal, his inflexible constancy and proud defiance of insult and danger. The scene where he tells how he was deluded into signing the articles at Clarendon is treated with keen perception and admirable taste. Mr. De Vere has judged that a great and good man J o	o	o
telling the story of his weakness and of his after-sorrow would offer a spectacle that will deeply touch the heart; and indeed his very fall only serves to bind us closer to the saint.
A splendid picture also of Henry and his time—one which we cannot expect to find in history—is given to us by the happy choice of incidents and the working out of character.
Second in beauty and impressiveness only to the saint himself is, perhaps, the character most vividly portrayed of Idonea. With gentle sadness she gives the history of her life, and she evidences always a deep insight into the hurnan heart. We cannot help being touched by her tender, passionate love foi- a dead brother, -who trod on earth -
“The Saviour’s; yea, and Mary’s. All things shone -Beauteous to him, for God shone clear through all;
His longing was to free the tomb of Christ, Fighting in Holy Land. Death’s early challenge Pleased him as well! ‘Thank God! that Holy Land Was dear,’ he said;—‘ more dear, more near is Heaven! ’ ” .
Among the scattered beauties of the poem are ‘ a number of lyrics that deserve special mention. The songs of the Trouvere to Oueen Eleanor in the third scene of the first act are notably remarkable.	.	•
In these two dramatic poems Mr. De Vere’s thoughts are commonly believed to be too concentrated and metaphysical to suit the peculiar form of the acting drama. And this is-not without foundation; for even in reading we ,have sometimes to.pause and go -back to catch -the full force and finer shades of the poet’s mean-sing. But let it be remembered that both, or at least one—“St.Thomas”,.—-are meant frankly to be dramas for the closet. - It is certain,-how-ever, that they possess much dramatic power. The death scene at the close of “Alexanderthe Great,” and most of the scenes in which Arsinoe is introduced, are as fine as anything usually seen on the English stage. .	■
But-it would be hardly possible, on account-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of the prejudices with which Mr. De Vere is commonly regarded as a poet, to give him his true rank in the literary world, or to judge him from the same point of view as we do other modern poets; for it is not a common pleasure to meet with poetry which has some higher ’ purpose than the gaining of popular applause— poetry which appeals to the sympathies of the comparatively narrow circle of persons who can form a judgment of their own. Mr. De Vere’s cultured mind and power of diction could certainly command a wide success were he to follow the modern sensuous course of our literature; but he has preferred a nobler part—to consecrate his intellectual abilities and hope of fame to the cause of morality, religion and country. Happily, prejudices are gradually disappearing, and these his dramas, wherein he sweetly and ably discourses on themes dear to the Christian philosopher, will ever find their way where the philosophical review is not read, and will be more powerful to touch the heart and the feelings.
Progress in. tlie Art of Building Bridges.
The nineteenth century has seen many grand achievements both in science and art. “Progress” has been the watchword, and seemingly impossible results have been attained. And the subject on which I wish to speak forms no exception to the rule. Progress, indeed, has been its watchword, and to-day the civil engineer takes special pride in that branch of his profession—the art of bridge building.
As bridges are almost an absolute necessity, they must have been constructed in times of which we have no record; but it is most probable that they consisted merely of a plank stretched from bank to bank, or a series of lintels resting upon uprights sunk in the bed of the river or reaching to the bottom of the chasm. These crude forms of bridges were necessarily limited to small rivers and narrow, gorges so that the larger ones remained unspanned until the arch and suspension bridges, came into use.
To the Chinese belongs the credit of being the first to introduce the use of arches, although the Greeks had already applied them to covering apertures in their buildings. Suspension bridges also date back to a very early period; and even iron in the form of chains was used as early as A. D; 65. A bridge of this kind was constructed by the natives of Bootan oyer one of their widest fivers. , It,consisted of a number of iron chains .which supported a matted platform, inclosed-by a matted border suspended
from chains passed overhead. This kind of a _ j bridge is a very unsteady affair, and shows that, t although possessing the principle of- a modern ; suspension bridge, it lacks all that goes to make its construction a true art.	;
It would be useless for me to enumerate the $ various bridges of antiquity and give their mer- | its and demerits, if that were possible; but suf-	|
fice it to say that bridges have been built by	|
all nations, both savage and civilized, up to the g nineteenth century; and let us begin there as at	|
the commencement of a new period, and dis--	f
cuss the onward march of the art of bridge - I building. First let us consider the materials	g
used in the construction of bridges. Wood and	i
stone were the principal materials used up to	I
this time, as the superior quality of iron in the	e
form of bars for the construction of bridges had	1
not yet been recognized. It was not until the	1
year 1797 that the first iron bridge in Great	|
Britain was built; and as the English are cred-ited with the invention of iron bridges, we may be sure that this was the first iron bridge of any importance. Once established as an essential of all first-class bridges, iron became henceforth the'principal material used in their construction. Many and varied are the iron bridges to be seen in England to-day, and in this line, as in many others, she is as yet without a rival.
The United States has not been backward in availing herself of this most valuable precedent; and to-day we would be astonished at the number and magnificence of the iron bridges of this country if her advancement in other respects | had not been equally surprising.	- |
• Mathematics have also played a prominent | part in the advancement of the art of building I bridges. The bridges built in ancient times by	I
kings and emperors, though solid and imposing	|
in their structure, were built at an enormous cost | and with great labor. But as’we have not the | slaves and vast treasures that those monarchs * possessed, we must experiment and make calculations to find out what kind of material will offer the most resistance to this or that kind of a strain, and find the least amount required to obtain a given result. The engineer must not only know what-strain a piece of' material can stand, but must also know what strain is on it when placed in its proper position in the bridge, so as to be able to give it a certain factor of safety, and thus avoid all danger of the material giving way under the strain.
The principal, stresses to be provided for on a bridge are the weight of the structure, the rolling load, and the wind. • The first is always known exactly; the second is given a maximum
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
473
value, while every precaution is taken to give the wind as free a passage as possible.
Let us now examine some of the more celebrated modern bridges, and try to understand the various means used in their construction, and what difficulties must be overcome, in order ' that the bridge constructed may rank among the more celebrated ones. The suspension bridge has reached a high state of perfection in this country—a higher state, perhaps, than in any country of the world, as the East River bridge will testify. This grand structure is a model of its class; and to-day, after being open to the public for eight years, shows that for long spans and absence of weak points, the iron suspension bridge has no superior. First in the order of construction are the piers, which, after all, are one of the principal factors in the stability of a bridge. The great difficulty in the construction of the piers is the preparing of the foun-' ‘ dation, for which purpose it has been found necessary to use what is known as a caisson. The caisson of the East River bridge was built almost wholly of wood, and consisted of an air chamber, nine feet, six inches high, the roof being made of fifteen courses of timber, each course being one foot thick. To the chamber were connected shafts through which the heavy material was raised, and others for the passage in and out of the workmen. When the caisson was sunk to the bed of the river, the water was forced out of the chamber by compressed air, and the workmen were thus enabled to descend and prepare the foundation. There are but two main piers to this bridge, both of which are built on the river and connected by'a span 1,595 feet in length. On each side of the central opening on the land sides, there are spans supported by the land cables of three hundred and ninety feet each. The remaining distances, which form the approaches, are supported by iron girders and trusses, which rest upon iron columns and piers of masonry. -
The bridge is supported by four galvanized cast steel wire cables, sixteen inches in diameter, and having a strength of 160 pounds per square inch of section. The floor of the bridge is eighty-five feet wide, and is divided into five spaces by six lines of iron trusses. The outer spaces are each eighteen feet wide, and accommodate vehicles and street-cars. The next two spaces are each thirteen feet wide, and are occupied by the railroads. The central division affords a passage for foot travel, and is fifteen feet wide and elevated' five feet above the rest of the floor. The total length of the bridge is 5,989 feet. This grand bridge is indeed a work l -
• \
of art, and speaks well for the progress made in civil engineering, both in its constructive and mathematical departments.
The introduction of iron as a bridge material not only aided greatly in perfecting the forms of bridges already known, but also gave rise to new forms; as before its use cast iron girder, cast iron compound girder, and tubular bridges were unknown, while to-day they are quite common.
The girder bridges are generally employed as railroad bridges, and are in almost every respect superior to the stone and wooden bridges used before their introduction.
The tubular bridge first made its appearance when it became necessary to throw a bridge of rigid material for a railroad across the Menai Straits’. The forms of bridges known at that
• time were found unsuitable for this kind of communication, so a new form had to be devised. The tubular bridge was the result of this necessity, and it consisted simply of a tube of sheet iron supported on piers and of sufficient dimensions for the passage within it of the usual trains of railroads. It proved a success, and thus gave special value to iron as a bridge material.
The largest bridge of this kind in existence o	o
is the Victoria Bridge located near Montreal. It is 6,538 feet in length, has twenty-four openings of 242 feet each, and a central span of 330 feet. The central span is level, but at each side of the centre the bridge falls on a grade of forty feet per mile. Each tube covers two openings, being fixed in the centre and free to expand or contract on the adjacent piers. They are sixteen feet wide and nineteen feet deep at their ends, and gradually increase in depth to the middle being there twenty-one feet, eight inches deep, thus making the top of the tube a parabolic curve.
Improvements are continually being made in this form of a bridge, and, no doubt, there 1 will be realized in the near future a bridge of this kind, whose boldness of span and architectural effects will be difficult to surpass.
There has been constructed within the last eight years a bridge over the Forth in Scotland, which is, without doubt, one of the greatest architectural and mechanical structures of modern times. It is an enormous cantilever bridge of. twenty-six spans, two. of which are the largest in the world, being each 1710 feet in length, and the twenty-six spans combined form a bridge of 8,296 feet long.
There are three double cantilevers in this ' bridge which rest upon piers. The main, piers are also three in number and consist of four
•^*5
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
masonry columns, 49 feet in diameter at the •top and 36 feet high. The upper outlines of the structure rise 311 feet above high water, and 36 feet above the railroad track. It was formally opened March 4, 1S90. As this kind of a bridge permits of a longer span than any of the known forms of bridges; it must be economical and therefore will, no doubt, soon become universal. Thus it is that the art of building bridges oro-gresses, and offers to the civil engineer a wide field for the application of his knowledge.
J. H. Mackey ’90.
Books We Have Read.
IV.
“LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF NICHOLAS NICKLEBY.” The “Life and Adventures of Nicholas Nickleby” was the third work of Charles Dickens, and was published collectively in serial numbers in the year 1839. With probably a slight hesitation it is placed at the head of all Dickens’ novels as being the most carefully constructed, containing the widest range of character and the greatest variety of inventive power. The great popularity of Dickens’ works renders it a superfluous task for one to enter upon any extended or elaborate criticism of his works. However, in this criticism I aim to show the range and impersonation of character of each person.
. The principal characters in this novel are, Nicholas Nickleby, his sister Kate, and his mother, the father being dead. They are striving'against the trials of life and against the. malice and trickery of an uncle and brother-inlaw, Ralph Nickleby, with his accomplices, Mr. Squeers and Arthur Gride. As may be supposed, Nicholas is a bright, intelligent and generous young man with but little knowledge of the world to help him in his coming trials. He being their only support, his mother has decided to seek help and means from Ralph Nickleby. This man, steeped in vice and ungodliness, seeking only the source that might O	O	J	o
bring to his grasp a dollar, is moved by the great beauty of Miss Kate rather than through loye of his deceased brother. Here Ralph fixes a plot to carry away Nicholas that he may take sweet Kate in his keeping and preserve her as he would preserve a beautiful flower. Accordingly, Nicholas is given a tutorship in one of the Yorkshire schools, so well known for their lone' linessxand misery, and under the management
of an ignorant, hard-hearted man, Mr. Squeers.
Here Nicholas endures all kinds of hardship, but is only awaiting the time when he may secure a more comfortable position. In this school the pupils lived in a state of total wretchedness, torment and starvation. One of the victims within its walls was a good, honest and pure but simple boy, named Smike, in whom Nicholas took great interest. Smike returned home with Nicholas, and to the day of his death proved a faithful friend and servant.
It is here that Dickens shows his peculiar comprehension of the sorrows and sufferings of childhood and his grand, artistic style of word painting, in which the effects are produced by the minute delineation of particulars.
On Nicholas’ and Smike’s return home they stop first with Newman Noggs, a man with hardships and ill-luck at his feet, but one who has proved himelf to be a kind-hearted, generous and faithful friend. Through Newman, Nicholas ascertains the course pursued by his uncle Ralph, who, having duped Mrs. Nickleby by his flattery and deception, has almost taken Kate within his bonds. Nicholas intentionally meets Ralph, and his vent of anger is described in those glowing, clear and exact words of which Dickens is a master.
Nicholas in his rounds for work secures a position as book-keeper under the firm of Cherryble Bros., two good-hearted, honest old souls, desiring only to help those placed in such a condition as is Nicholas. In the course of his

business, Nicholas falls in love with a pure and -s lovely girl, Madeline Bray, the daughter of a 1 man broken down from the effects of luxury and vice.
It is again Ralph Nickleby who appears as the instigator and perpetrator of a mean, low and criminal act, in which Arthur Gride, a man 1 of like type as Ralph, for a debt due him by Madeline’s father, promises to cancel it if the | father gives him Madeline for his wife. The i father consents; the agreement is drawn up and 1 the marriage is to take place at Madeline’s house. Before the ceremony is performed, the father steps up-stairs to speak to Madeline, and while there receives a fall in which he. is instantly killed. In the midst of the confusion Madeline is relieved from the painful matrimonial task with Arthur Gride by true-hearted ; and bold Nicholas, and is at once taken to his home where, through the kind and trustworthy • care of Kate and his mother, Madeline recovers from the effects of her awful trials.
Later on, Madeline becomes the wife of Nicholas, who is at the same time taken as a partner1 .in the firm of Cherryble Bros.. Charles Cherryble,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
475
a younger brother of the firm, secures the hand of Kate, and they unite in the happy bonds of matrimony, Smike, shortly after his arrival at Nicholas’ home, dies from the effects of ill treatment at the hands of Squeers, and is placed to rest in the grave at the former home of Nicholas. Newman Noggs remains as ever to be his faithful friend and servant. Ralph Nickleby, Arthur Gride and Squeers die the death suitable to their station, and it is here the author shows his artistic power in the painting of the darker passions of the soul and the terrible retribution of guilt. His plots, as may be seen in the parts of these two men, are not skilfully constructed. Nicholas and Kate, as characters more original in conception and more happily sustained, have never been drawn.
Regarding his style, it may be seen that his combinations are never forced, but seem to be the steady growth of a mind of great fertility, his repeated usage's of the virtues and generosity and his artistic style of verbal painting.
Dickenswasa man ofgenerous nature, humane spirit, vehement hatred of injustice and oppression, and of generous and extended sympathies, which features form the subjects of his works. His novels, as works of art, are open to criticism. However, from no other work of-his could one who had never read anything from his pen derive a more just estimate of all the wealth of his genius than from the “ Life and Adventures of Nicholas Nickleby.”
B. Tivnen, ’92.
College Gossip.
—The member of the Kansas Legislature, who wanted to change the titles of Chancellor and Regents because they smacked of British aristocracy, gave an indication of what we may expect if our higher education were ever- to pass under the control of Congress or the State Legislatures. We see daily in the policy of the trade-unions, which endeavor to enforce an artificial equality of their members, the same hostility to excellence and skill which are beyond the reach of the average.—Christian Union.
o
—The fact that the relative illiteracy of Germany is smaller than that of any other country on the globe, shows that strenuous, and on the whole successful, efforts are made by the authorities to enforce the compulsory school attendance. And yet with all its zeal and with all the advantage* derived from the fact that the Germans, almost without exception, appreciate the advantages of an education keenly, it is a difficult task to carry out the demands of the law, although it has been operative for a century or more. During the last year in the city of Berlin alone there were 6,800 cases of punish
ment for the violation of the school law, and total fines amounting to 49,078 marks—an increase of 380 cases in one year.—Independent.
—Orders have been given for the erection of a temporary observatory on the grounds of the Catholic University at Washington. The observatory will be a wooden structure, and will be situated on the knoll between the Divinity building and the Paulist Fathers’ college. It will have a revolving dome for the accommodation of a telescope, which will be used principally in observations upon comets, asteroids and variable stars. Photographic and spectroscopic work will also be attempted. The dome will be constructed by the builders of the Lick Observatory. Although the scientific department of the university will not be established for several years, such astronomical work as is possible will be begun when the temporary observatory has been constructed. It will be under the charge of the Rev. George M. Searle, C. S. P., of the Paulist Fathers of New York, who, in 1858, while an assistant at the Dudley Observatory, discovered the asteroid Pandora. A large and fully equipped observatory will replace the structure about to be built.
—In donating the beautiful flag, which was o	O'
raised on Washington’s birthday over St. Bernard’s parochial school, Fitchburg, Mass., the former pastor of the parish, Rev. Philip J. Gar-rigan, now connected with the university at Washington, D. C., wrote the following patriotic letter:	-
“Cathqlic University of America,
“Washington, D. C., Feb. 12, 1S90.
“Reverend, Dear Friend:—The practice recently introduced into most of our cities and towns and, if I mistake not, authorized by law in Massachusetts, of crowning every schoolhouse in the land with the American flag, has strongly suggested to me the propriety of sending one to you for dear St. Bernard’s school, which I love so much, and from which I hope so much. In the beginning I placed on this building the sign of Christianity: .and now that public sentiment calls for it, I would, with your permission, gladly unfurl over it the flag of our country, the emblem of liberty, to show that it is as American as it is Christian. The children will then study under the mgis of these two noblest standards on earth; and, instructed by their devoted teachers, will grow in the knowledge .of God and the love of their country. This is true patriotism. May this knowledge and love be the principle of their lives and developin them the highest type of American citizens and good Christians. I flatter myself that although this flag may have been manufactured in your own state, yet coming from Washington, the seat of our general Government and the centre of our national life and authority, it may have some additional value in the eyes of the scholars, and may recall more patriotic memories. Give it in my name to this noble purpose and to the faithful keeping of the little ones, all so very dear-to me. It is the highest expression of my desire that they may become true Christians and true Americans.
“Yours very sincerely,
“ P. J. Garrigan.”
Curfew.
On a cloud-crag the warder of the day Above his castle-wall his bright flag furled, And evening, sweet-faced nun in garments gray, Came with a benediction to the world.
T. G. La Moille.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,


Ifi
IBu&listjrt) rbrrj 5 at urban During Err nt Etntc at N. D. Elnifarrsitn.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dame, April 5, 1890.
Staff.
J. W. Cavanaugh, ’90,	H. P. Brelsford, ’91,
■ H. A. Holden, ’91.
C. T. Cavanagh, ’91,
W. P. McPhee, ’90,
J. B. Sullivan, ’91,
. Joseph E. Berry, 91.	D. Barrett, ’90,
—The conduct of military officers, especially lieutenants, towards their inferiors is often brutal and cowardly. Not long since a strange spectacle was presented. A private of the United States Cavalry, old in the service, was sentenced to one year’s imprisonment for refusing to do a menial service for a strippling subaltern. This outrage created a furor throughout the land. The matter was investigated, the injured man pardoned by the President, and the officer himself tried by a court-martial. The life of a private soldier, at best, is no sine cure. Socially he is an outcast. ’Tis true, in time of war he is respected, admired andlauded asahero; but in peace he is considered little better than a loafer. This should not be. The last few years show a marked increase in the number of desertions. Many of these cases may be traced directly to the tyranny of petty officers. Soldiers educated at West Point are expected to be gentlemen of culture and refinement; and boorishness on their part mortifies and disappoints the public. It is a peculiar fact that it is not the control of ranking officers which is offensive, but rather that of the young lieutenant who just begins to feel the importance of his “little brief authority,” and yearns to exercise it. Officers high in the profession have always abhorred and condemned this petty tyranny. Strict discipline is necessary, but the exercise of undue authority by young lieutenants should not be tolerated. _
In Memoriam Prof. J. A. Lyons.
Chicago, III., March 27, 1890.
Editor Scholastic:
As one of the old students interested in perpetuating the memory of a favorite teacher— Professor J. A. Lyons—by the erection of a monument at the entrance of Washington Hall or elsewhere on the grounds of Notre Dame University, I want to know why that committee, appointed some time ago, does not bestir itself
and call on the old students here for the necessary funds. I would respectfully suggest that the committee waste no more time if it intends to have the monument ready for Commencementin June. Sub-committeesshouldbeformed at once to solicit from the “old boys” here and communicate with the old students residing elsewhere for the necessary funds. We have had enough of talk, gentlemen. Please let us now have some cash, and it will be found that the monument will materialize much sooner than if we were to use all the eloquence possible. Acts speak louder than words. Sub-committee, please call at 264, Oakwood Boulevard, and get my mite of S25 towards this work of affection for one who was our teacher and our friend in our boyhood days at our beloved Alma Mater.
An Old Student.
The Population of the States.
The approach of the census of 1890 brings up the question of the effect of the same in increasing or decreasing the relative political power of the States. Upon the basis of the census as reporting population, the apportionment of Congressmen and Presidential electors depend. There have been many rash prophecies made as to the disturbance of the present political distribution of power, as in the assertion of the diminished strength of the East and South, and the increase of the power of the West.
While it is impossible to exactly forecast the result of next June, yet it is possible to approximate to the same, and to greatly discount it. Such a calculation, as the data at hand may furnish, will be here attempted. Taking the Presidential vote of Nov. 1880 as to the vote, and the- census returns of June 1880 as to the population of the States, the following is the ratio exhibited of voters to population:

■sm
W:

Alabama......8.3
Arkansas.....7.5
California...5.3
Colorado.....3.6
Connecticut.... 4.6
Delaware...
Florida....
Georgia....
Illinois...
Indiana....
Iowa.......
Kansas.....
Kentucky.
Louisiana...
5-o
5.0
9.0
.4.9
5.2 9-8 4-9
Maine........4.5 North Dakota..4.8
Maryland...................5.4 Ohio.4.4
Massachusetts.6.3 Oregon.......4.3
Michigan....4.6 Pennsylvania. .4.9
Minnesota...5.2 Rhode Island. .9.6
Mississippi.9.7 South Carolina 5.8
Missouri;...5.5 South Dakota.. 4.8
Montana..........2.8 Tennessee 6.4
Nebraska.............5.1 Texas 6.6
Nevada.............3.4 Vermont 5.1
NewHampshire4.o Virginia.......7.1
New Jersey.... 4.6 Washington... 4.8 i
New York......4.6 West Virginia..5.5
North Carolina 5.8 Wisconsin...4.9
The calculation in the case of the four States admitted last year is based on the vote for Congressional delegate in November 1880.
Taking the above ratios and applying them to the vote as cast for President in 1888, and in • the case of the four new States to the vote of adoption of constitutions we can approximate
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	477
to the population in June 1890 by continuing the ratio of gain or loss that each state shows at that date, for one or two years. This, if the ratio of voters holds the same as in 1880, should give an exact result. Owing to certain political conditions in some of the Southern States, especially, as the result shows, in Florida, Georgia, Mississippi and South Carolina, and owing to the extension of the electoral franchise in Rhode Island, the result requires correction. In the Southern States this may be furnished by the estimates made by the State officials. In the case also of the four new States the ratio gives, I think, too low an estimate.
•O	’	'
The following is an exhibit in parallel columns of the population in 1890, in the first column calculated on the vote, as above indicated; in the second, the same calculation making probable allowances:	-
Alabama.............1,502,000...1,578,000
Arkansas............1,284,000...1,284,000
California..........1,436,000...1,436,000
Colorado............. 365,000.... 365,000
Connecticut.......... 729,000.... 729,000
Delaware............. 145,000.... 151,000
Florida.............. 367,000.... 404,000
Georgia.............1,373,000...2,159,000
Illinois............3,817,000...3,663,000
Indiana.............2,334,000...2,334,000
Iowa................2,112,000...2,033,000
Kansas..............1,813,000...1,813,000
Kentucky............2,317,000...2,203,000
Louisiana...........1,017,000...1,175,000
Maine................ 558,000.... 675,000
Maryland............1,197,000...1,197,000
Massachusetts.......2,265,000.... .2,140,000 Michigian............2,324,000..2,210,000
Minnesota...........1,437,000...1,484,000
Mississippi.........1,019.000...1,471,000
Missouri..........-.3,036,000...3,036,000
Montana.............• 116,000.... 200,000
Nebraska...'........1,181,000...r,iSr,ooo
Nevada................ 39,000..... 47,000
New Hampshire.... 368,000........ 368,000
New Jersey..........1,459,000.... .1,415,000
New York............6,354,000.... 6,354,000 North Carolina......1,722,000...1,890,000
North Dakota......... 197,000.... 232,000
Ohio................3,838,000...3,838,000
Oregon........:..... 288,0007... • 288,000
Pennsylvania........5,011,000...5,140,000
Rhode Island......... 421,000.... 333,000
South Carolina....... 299,000...1,144,000
South Dakota......... 399,000..... 464000
Tennessee...........2,051,000...2,051,000
T exas..............2,498,000...2,498,000
Vermont.............. 322,000.... 339,000
Virginia............2,314,000....’. 1,891,000
Washington........... 304,000.... 270,000
West Virginia........ 934,000.... 866,000
Wisconsin...........1,842,000...1,842,000
Taking the above estimate of the population of the States in 1890, let us see the representation in the House of Representatives and in the Electoral College they will likely hold after the apportionment by Congress this coming winter. The House will likely fix The number of Representatives at about 351, and this would roughly * give a ratio of one Representative to 190,000 of
population, as again one to 152,000 in 1880 and one to 131,000 in 1870.	.	•
The number of Representatives and the number of Electoral votes allotted to each State would then be as follows:
Alabama........... 8	10
Arkansas.......... 7	9
California....... 8	10
Colorado......... 2	4
Connecticut...... 4	6
Delaware......... 1	3
Florida........... 2	4
Georgia........... n	13
Illinois......... 19	21
Indiana...........12	14
Iowa............. 11	13
Kansas........... 10	12
Kentucky.........12	14
Louisiana........ 7	9
Maine............. 4	6
Maryland......... 6	8
Massachusetts.... 11	13
Michigan........	12	14
Minnesota........ 8	10
Mississippi...... 8	10
Missouri........  16	18
Montana........ 1
Nebraska........ 6
Nevada........... 1	3
New Hampshire...	2	. 4
New Jersey...... 7	9
New York........- 34	36
North Carolina.--.	10	12
North Dakota.... 1	3
Ohio.............20	22
Oregon.......... 2	• 4
Pennsylvania....27	29
Rhode Island.... 2	4
South Carolina.. - -	6	8
South Dakota..... 2	4
Tennessee........ri	13
Texas............ 13	15
Vermont........... 2	4
Virginia..........10	12
Washington....... 1	3
West Virginia.....	5	72
Wisconsin........10	1
The States that would lose under this apportionment and their losses are as follows: .
Illinois.................1	Ohio...................1
Indiana..................1	Pennsylvania...........1
Massachusetts ...........1	South	Carolina..........1
New Jersey..............1
The States that would gain and their respec
tive gains are:
Arkansas................2	Mississippi...........1
California..............2	Missouri...............2
Colorado................1	Nebraska..............3
Georgia.................1	North Carolina........1
Kansas..................3	Oregon................1
Kentucky..............  1	Tennessee..............1
Louisiana...............1	Texas................ 2
Michigan................1	West Virginia.........1
Minnesota...............3	Wisconsin.............1
Taking the three popular divisions of East, West and South, there would be a gain to the West and the South each of 12 votes and a loss to the East of 3 votes.
St. Edward’s, Austin, Texas.
I.—(Continued.)
The curriculum offers a thorough classical; mathematical and commercial education. Special facilities are presented for the thorough mastery of music, telegraphy, phonography and type-writing. The institution is empowered by its charter to confer the highest degrees as well as ordinary diplomas. Several college societies exist among the students in a flourishing condition—such as the Philomathean, the Philopa-trian, the Philharmonic and the Philodynamic. Particular attention is bestowed bn the cultivation of English composition and literature. The Echo, a handsomely printed, sixteen-page quarterly periodical, is very well written and contains able literary, scientific, historical and philosophical essays, as well as solid articles on the current questions of the day.	-
47s
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Among the members of the faculty I discovered a number of old friends such as Fathers Hurth, Scheier, Ollmert, and Brothers Stanislaus, Kilian, Albert, Sixtus and Flavian. In addition to'the religious of Holy Cross, there are several distinguished lay professors in the faculty. Bro. Stanislaus, known to the literary world as B. Clarke—his family name—is recognized as a standard writer on English literature, physics, chemistry and phonography. As a master of the latter branch he is consulted from every part of the United States. Bro. Kilian is the recognized Nimrod of the locality. On recreation days he furnishes jack-rabbits in abundance to the lovers of a savo.ry stew.
The work accomplished by the Rev. President, P. J. Hurth, C. S. C., during his three years’ term of office is worthy of the highest praise. With his well-known modesty, however, he attributes the brilliant success of the institution to the wisdom of the college council and faculty. The Rev. gentleman enjoys the esteem, confidence and good-will of all the State officers as well as of the citizens of Austin in general. One of the brightest students in the college is the nephew of his Excellency, Lawrence Sullivan Ross, the able and distinguished Governor of the State. All the merchants and professional men of the city that I have conversed with are very anxious to see the college building completed by the addition of the two wings according to the original plan. The college building, being located on one of the highest hills or plateaus in the neighborhood of Austin, is visible from almost every point in the city; and when completed will form an architectural monument of which the citizens of the capital may well feel proud. If permission be accorded by the Mother-House or provincial council of the Congregation, the Rev. President thinks he will have one or both of the wings ready for occupancy by the opening of the scholastic year in the fall—a feat which will almost equal the rapidity with which the new Notre Dame was erected after the big fire in 1879.
As Notre Dame is to-day the great Catholic University of the Northwest and the Valley of the Mississippi, I have no doubt that St. Edward’s at Austin is destined to become the grand educational centre of the Southwest and Mexico, and, perhaps, of Central and South America. The climate in southern Texas is adapted to the constitution and habits of Spanish Americans; the mild discipline of the college is in harmony with their home education; most of the professors are conversant with the majestic tongue of Cervantes; and if our Pan-American Congress amounts to a.nything more than railroad excursions, picnics, banqueting and speech-making, North and South America will soon be brought into closer commercial, social and political relations—a fact which will necessitate a knowledge of the King’s English on the part of the active and intelligent young men in our sister republics. And nowhere can they find a more
suitable place for the acquisition of our mongrel Saxon tongue, as well as a knowledge of North American business methods, than at St. Edward’s College. There are, in fact, already in this establishment a great many students of pure Castilian blood belonging to the aristocratic families in the land of Montezuma.
II.
Before leaving the city we paid a visit to St. Mary’s Academy, conducted by the Sisters of Holy Cross. It is but a short distance from the Capitol. .It is built on the site of the old presidential mansion, and occupies the grounds once belonging to the State of Texas for the use of the President of the Republic before its annexation to theUnited States. The celebrated General Sam Houston once dwelt here in his official capacity as President.
The academy building is constructed of the beautiful white limestone quarried in the vicinity of the city, and forms a massive and imposing edifice, four stories high. Were we to give it a profane name, I don’t know of any more appropriate than that of Bella Vista, on account of the grand view obtained from its windows— St. Edward’s directly in front, the new city hall, the exchange, the new hotel, and other fine public and private buildings, besides the variegated natural scenery of the Colorado Valley. In the rear there was a view of the Capitol, the State University, the prominent churches of the place, and to the northwest a chain of hills rising to the height of six hundred feet, and here dignified by the name of the Colorado Mountains. The main edifice is 130x60 feet.' The interior is finished in beautifully grained native woods. The halls-and corridors are lofty and spacious, the casements are made to admit the light of heaven and the oxygen of the health-giving Texan trade-winds. The good Sisters—who
“Find tongues in trees, books in the running brooks. Sermons in stones, and good in everything”—
teach their pupils that they should open the windows of the soul to the gentle breathings of God’s Holy Spirit, and allow the light of truth to penetrate and illumine'its deepest abysses, and thus keep heart and mind ever free from the poisonous miasma of sin and the death-dealing darkness of error. Light, air, and cleanliness— which “is next to godliness”—form the beneficent trimurti of the academy. The grounds are laid out and ornamented with all the taste characteristic of the Sisters of Holy Cross. Vine-clad arbors, bubbling fountains, trellised walks leading through green lawns, form a fitting frame work to the beautiful buildings.
The course of studies embraces all that is useful and ornamental foi- the weaker, but more pious, more devoted and less selfish sex. In addition to a thorough literary and scientific training, the pupils of St. Mary’s have every opportunity of learning music, drawing, painting (not according to physiognomical school), elocution, plain, and ornamental needle-work,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	479
domestic economy, phonography, telegraphy, type-writing and physical culture. The institution has a good chemical and philosophical apparatus and a well-selected library. The Seniors edit a quarterly periodical, yclept Our Blessed Lady s Journal, in which they give evidence of original thought and literary culture, and show no small acquaintance with history, philosophy, hagiology and all things in general whether celestial or terrestrial. Gentle reader, don’t judge the Texan “ Pegasus” by the bronco: the former drinks of Pirene’s sacred spring to wing his flight, like Elias’ fiery steeds, above the clouds to the bright and calm empyrean, where the noblest of human kind—
“ In contemplation of created things By steps ascend to God.”
The graduate of St. Mary’s must be, as the Germans say, many-sided. Her mental, moral aesthetic faculties and physical nature have been all developed, and, like another Minerva from the brain of Jupiter, she goes out into the world, armed cap-a-pie the battle of life and the struggle for existence. She is a model of industry, an angel of charity, a sweet perfume of purity, an ornament to society. In the tournament of arts and sciences and Chesterfildian accomplishments, she has nobly won her “ spurs,” if Blair will allow such a figure in regard to the softer sex. But why not, when most of our Texan belles can mount a Bucephalus or rein in a Rosinante?
The pupils had prepared for Very Rev. Father Provincial a splendid and elaborate reception programme, comprising music both vocal and instrumental, addresses in English, French, German and Spanish; but, owing to his limited time he was compelled to forego the honors prepared for him to the deep regret of the zealous Sisters and their amiable young proteges.
The Sisters are planning new and extensive additions to their buildings in the near future. It is a matter of necessity with them. They are being more and more crowded every year. The actual number of boarders from Texas and the neighboring states is 80, the day scholars from the city and vicinity numbering 176.
We felt at home on seeing so many Sisters who had received their training at.the MotherHouse in Indiana—twenty-five in all. Sister de Pazzi, the Superioress, by her prudence and cheerful disposition shedscontent and happiness all around, both on Religious, boarders and dayscholars; Sister Flora, who superintends the school of art and design, is an enthusiastic votary of the fine arts. The walls, shelves and tables of her studio are filled with beautiful specimens of studies in crayon and India-ink, linear and aerial perspectives, landscapes in water-colors and oil, groups of flowers, fruits, and shells, china-painting, lustra and tapestry painting, as well as every variety of needlework. Sister Tgnatia, who will be remembered by her beautiful and poetic “Guide to Notre •Dame,” has a large and advanced class in Eng
lish literature, elocution and dramatic art. Sister Benigna manipulated one of Edison’s phonographs for our instruction and amusement. It was a revelation of wonderland. By means of rubber tubes inserted in the ears and connected with a central tube which caught the sounds from the diaphragm or resonator, we listened to declamations, snatches of opera, band and orchestral music.- Every tone of the human voice, whether in joy or sorrow, in anger or tenderness, in sympathy or mockery, sounded as plainly as if it proceeded from the living organs of speech. The performance wound up by a negro minstrel with banjo accompaniment singing “Dixie,” crescendo, rinforzando, accelerando con tutta forza, as if he were Tam O’Shanter on his gray mare, Mag, and all the witches of Alloway’s auld haunted kirk in hot pursuit. The colored nightingale was phonographic or Edisonian.
How grand are the possibilities of this wonderful invention when perfected by the skill of the Wizard of Menlo Park! Think of having all the great men of the age, orators, preachers, statesmen, generals, poets, singers, musicians, emperors, kings, presidents, squires, majors and colonels, talk and sing, orate and preach and play for you in the privacy of your study! Think of calling the dead from the tomb to converse with you, if not in propriapersona at least cum voce non ficta! Samuel appearing to Saul! Think of ten thousand people assembling in an auditorium, twenty-thousand years hence, to listen with bated breath and palpitating hearts to some learned professor lecturing his pupils on the necessity of minding their Ps and Qs, and drilling them in the famous ’ o
Peter Piper picked a peck of peppers, etc., or Quentin Quigly quarried quartzite quarternary, quelling" querulous quiiiquangular quidnuncs’ quirks, quizzing" quodlibe-tarians quoteless!	‘
In that time in the distant future a dummy will be constructed from the learned gentleman’s photograph; and the phonograph will talk from beneath his academical robes, in order to make matters more realistic and to materialize the great geniuses of the past. Here is a chance for Senator Blair—the gentleman of air,—from New Hampshire, to save himself from being relegated to the regions of innocuous desuetude. Posterity may regard him as an example of perpetual motion or a living illustration of the proverb: parturiunt monies, nascetur ridiadus mus. Judging from the analogy of physical laws, may we not suppose that every atom of matter in the universe is a phonograph and a camera, by means of which angelic eyes and ears learn all terrestrial-and cosmical events from the very apyrj of St. John. The old sayings that “walls have ears” and that “the stones will cry out” if the disciples of truth be silent, are true in more than a figurative sense. May not the convolutions of the.brain in that still more complicated piece of machinery—man, the microcosm of creation—be the plastic cylinder on which the intelligent spirit impresses its thoughts,
48o	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
judgments, ratiocinations and ideal creations for present and future use and reference, and through which it receives its impressions of the external world ? The mind lives in a world which transcends the senses—it sees the true, the good, the beautiful, the infinite; but owing to the physical nexus between it and the body, it is dependent in its present state on matter for its sublime operations. Hence when we lay down the proposition, Nihil est in intcllectu quod non prius fuerit in sensu, we add nisi ipse intellectus. Let the psychologist j^ZZfingly answer.
Besides the Sisters just mentioned, I recognized as old acquaintances Sisters Xavier, Eutropia and Macrina. All appeared happy and filled with a sense of the importance of the mission allotted to them by Providence—the building up of an educational institute for girls in the Lone Star State, which might one day rival the famous seat of learning of the same kind located on the- classic banks of the meandering Saint Joseph in the Hoosier State. There are faces here which the old painters would have loved to copy for their Cecilias, Agneses, Scholasticas, Catherines and Teresas.
III.	'
There are several other educational establishments in Austin, the chief of which.is the University of Texas, situated north of the Capitol. This sectarian concern of the Agnostic or Inger-sollian persuasion has received 2,221,400 acres of land from the public domain for its maintenance. Similar godless institutions in other states have received the like generous subsidies from the sweat of .the tillers of the soil and the toilers of the cities—Catholic as well as non-Catholic; while Christian seats of learning must rely for their support on the self-sacrifice and generosity of those who still believe that the standard of Christ must not give way to the banner of Voltaire, Spencer, Tyndall or Ingersoll —to the black flag symbolizing ignorance of all that gives value, and beauty to life—ignorance of the origin and destiny of man and of the true laws of the moral world! Thank God! the leaven of Christianity is still strong enough, among us to neutralize, to a great extent, those poison-fountains transmitted to us by the French Revolution, schools of infidelity which menace the life of our free institutions by ignoring the Christian law which originated them and still forms their vital principle. Our civilization derives its origin from Christianity. Reject the Christian'code, and what is left for our guidance? Certainly not Judaism, Mohammedanism or Paganism, all of which in turn have been met and vanquished by the Gospel—not Reason without revelation. Plato confesses its insufficiency; Cicero declares that there is no absurdity, however monstrous, to which philosophy has not given birth! What then remains? Atheism or materialism upon which may be established no liberty but that of force; no fraternity but that of the tiger and the lamb; no equality but
that of the scaffold. Besides the University, there are two commercial colleges at Austin, and to the east of the city a State Normal Institute for the training of colored teachers. With such a quantity of light and culture flowing in upon them from so many Parnassus heights and Helicon founts, the good people of Austin do not think they overstep the bounds of modesty when they dub the State capital the Athens of the South.
IV.
Father Peter Lauth, C. S. C., is putting the last coat of plastering on his new church, preparatory to having it frescoed. It is semi-Gothic in style and built of white limestone. When the massive tower is completed, St. Mary’s will form one of the most beautiful and imposing church edifices in the city. Situated on the summit of a hill, it forms one of the most prominent buildings of the place. When, about a decade of years ago, Rev. D. J. Spillard, C. S. C., laid its foundations he was looked upon as a visionary for undertaking so grand and expensive an edifice. Father Lauth, with his well-known energy and financial ability, has raised the superstructure and almost completed the work without incurring anything more than a trifling debt. The congregation, composed of Irish, Americans, Germans, Mexicans or Spaniards, French and Italians, illustrates the unity of the Church in its universality. It numbers several hundred families. Attached to the church is a large and flourishing parochial school conducted by the Brothers of Holy Cross. Father Michael Lauth, C. S. C., assistant—a polyglot in the continental languages of Europe—ministers to the spiritual wants of the few Poles and Bohemians who frequent the church. Rev. Jacob Lauth, C.S.C., is pastor of Taylor, Williamson Co., and has charge of several small outlying missions.
. S.
Austin, Texas, Feb. 28, 1890.
Local Items.
—Roberts says there is nothing like eggs.
—John D-----hasbecome a war correspondent.
—Gloster should take elocution. The classes are in good running order.
—Only one more week of hustling for the would-be base-ball magnates.
.—Why wouldn’t an entertainment by the gymnastic classes be in order?
—Navigation opens next Tuesday, and the boat club will then begin active work.
—A home run and a collapse. Verily, the national game can accomplish wonders!
—’Twas a mighty crowd, that one of Tuesday, but its efforts availed it nothing. Too bad!
—Dr. M. F. Egan will inaugurate a course of lectures on “Social Topics” during the coming week. .	’
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
'481
—In this age it looks bad to see the credulity of an august Senior imposed upon by plebeian Juniors.
—Hand-bell Ringers, the Royal, at 10 o’clock on Monday morning. The sale of tickets is unusually good.	.
—Bro. Paul, C. S. C., Prefect of the Senior department, was on the sick list for several days; but is now happily recovered.
—The St. Cecilians postponed their regular meeting of this week until next Wednesday evening, owing to the Holy Week exercises.
—The base-ball fiends have struck a new scheme—a run around the campus every morning under the direction of the clerk has been ordered.
—Several enterprising young Juniors are talking of organizing a Tennis Club. There is plenty of good material, and the good idea should be carried out.	■
—The genial Director of the merchant tailoring department has lately received some beautiful goods for suiting and for fine dress pants. Call and leave your orders.
—We have word from the manager that the famous “Invisibles” will reorganize for the season. They are-deserters from the Junior Brotherhood, and have been black-listed.
—The chief justice has been appointed Lord High Guardian of the Seniors’ reading-room, O	O’
and he wears a larger hat in consequence. “Shorty” can make an impression if he wants to.
—The Juniors spend their recreations in their “Gym” and on their campus now. April weather has closed the reading-room, and the moonlight walks after supper are much enjoyed.
—The Junior Base-Ball Association met in regular session Thursday afternoon. Captains for the championship series will be elected at the next meeting. The organization continues to prosper.
—The ceremonies of Holy Week were carried out in the College Church at Notre Dame with all due solemnity, and were of a most impressive character. The Passion on Palm Sunday and Good Friday and the Offices of the Tenebra were particularly well sung.
—Moot-court.—The regular session of the University Moot-court was held Saturday evening, March 29, Judge Hoynes presiding. .The case of Jones vs. Sanford came up on appeal on demurrer. Messrs. Cassin and Crall appeared for the appelee, and Messrs. McKeon and Lancaster for the appellant. The demurrer was sustained. The case of Scott vs. Bradford was next called. This was also an appeal. Messrs. Hummer and Long for appelee and McWilliams and Vurpillat for appellant. The decision of the lower court was affirmed. The Law class is taking notes on Evidence at the morning lecture. In the first afternoon lecture the subject of Contracts is treated. The Quiz class is also hard at work. The exercises are very interest
ing and instructive, and all the students should JH, • attend regularly. ' .	.
—The Senior Base-ball Association will be reorganized next Thursday (April 10). Officers for this session and captains of the various nines, will be elected. After the meeting the members will partake of the annual banquet. Everyone should help the sports. The athletics, in a certain sense, make and unmake the reputation of the school. Whether you play ball or not, every ope should contribute what he. is ablei Ball games certainly afford endless amusement during the spring months. We should also have more games with outside teams, especially college teams. We might suggest that Wabash, Depaw , and Butler have excellent teams and would only be too glad to cross bats with us‘. This would promote a friendly spirit-. Let the matter be agitated, o	.
—The third regular meeting of the Columbians was held on Tuesday evening, April 1,	■
the President, Professor Brogan, in the chair. The minutes of the previous meeting were read and adopted. Mr. J. Johnson read a very interesting paper on “The Rise of the English Parliament”; Mr/James Clayton read an essay on “Literary Societies,” which was well written and showed a good deal of research. The subject, “Resolved, That commerce-has asserted a greater influence on the civilization of mankind than literature” was ably discussed by Mr. Hugh O’Neill on the affirmative, and Mr. John Lesner on the negative. The chairman, in his ■ usual graceful style, showed the merits and demerits of the arguments made by the combatants; he also made some useful remarks about parliamentary debating. Mr. H. O’Neill was elected Corresponding Secretary, Mr. J. McConlogue acted as critic. The-Columbian Society is now in a flourishing condition; and, under the guidance of their accomplished President, it bids fair to be the best in the University.
—The seventh regular, meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held Wednesday evening, the 26th inst., with the Rev. President, Father Morrissey, in the chair. The meeting was one of the most interesting of the year as a special programme had been prepared. The exercises were opened by the famous “CeciliaQuartette,” which rendered the “Welcome Song” in. their usual happy style. Mr. R. Healy read a criticism on the 6th meeting, which proved quite novel and interesting,. -owing to the fact that it was composed in verse. Mr. Healy’s first poetical effort was a good one. Mr. M. Quinlan, the talented young elocutionist, delivered “Virginia” in a highly pleasing and very effective manner. The debate of the evening, “ Resolved, that ambition is a passion that leads more frequently to evil than to good,”' was probably the most interesting of the year. Masters Weitzel, Wile and Maher were on the affirmative, while Masters Du Brul, Boyd and Murphy upheld the negative. The papers of Masters Weitzel and Murphy showed deep

1 i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
thought and careful preparation, and were read in a very effective and forcible manner. The meeting was rendered still more interesting by the presence of the Rev. Fathers Walsh and Mohun, and Professors Ackermann, Liscombe and Flood.
—The three statues—of the Blessed Virgin, St. Joseph and St. Michael—selected by Very Rev. Father General for St. Edward’s Hall during his last visit to Paris have arrived. Our art critics say the statues are masterpieces. The Blessed Virgin is one of Overbeck’s Madonnas.
o
■ The venerable Founder was personally acquainted with the famous artist, and an admirer of his works. This Madonna is a marvel of beauty, so life-like.that she seems as if speaking to the Divine Infant resting on her left arm. Her head is slightly inclined and turned towards the Holy Child into whose face she is looking in an ecstasy of joy. In speaking of the Blessed Virgin to the Minims, Very Rev. Father General said: “ Let each one of you imagine that she is holding you in her arms, looking into your face and telling you what to do in order to please her.” In her right hand she bears the lily, emblematic of her title “Virgin-Mother.” The pose is graceful and majestic, and the face has an expression of indescribable sweetness and beauty; the figure is life-size. It is the gift of Miss Ellen Seerey of Cincinnati, to the Chapel of St. John the Evangelist. Equally beautiful is the statue of St. Joseph—“the Lily-Sceptred Saint.” In his majestic figure, and the peaceful expression of his noble features, he seems indeed “the shadow of the Eternal Father.” The statue was presented by Mr. W. Williamson of Catlettsburg, Ky., in memory of his favorite son Wallace, student of ’89, whom St. Joseph took to heaven a few minutes after his spotless soul, regenerated in the wafers of Baptism, had been fitted for the society of the blessed. This favored child of Heaven had a special devotion to St. Joseph. The statue was given to St. Edward’s Hall; but the Minims, with the approval of Rev. President Walsh, have given it to the church, feeling certain that it will please Wallace to have St. Joseph’s statue placed where it will attract most hearts, and where it will remind them of his little client now in heaven. St. Michael’s statue is a gdm of art. Heis armed cap-a-pie. In his right hand he holds a drawn sabre raised over the head of the Evil One whom he is crushing under his feet. The left hand points to. heaven as if he were again ringing out his war cry: “Who is like unto God?” Connoisseurs find it difficult to decide which of the- three statues is the most beautiful. They were unveiled to-day to join in the alleluias.
.	Roll of Honor. .
. .	. SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
■ * Messrs. Ahlrichs, Allen, Bovett, Burns, Barrett, H.
.Brannick, Benz, Biifger, Brelsford, Bachrach, Combe, Cassin, Carroll, Cassidy, Campbell, G. Cooke, C. Cava
nagh, L. Chute, F. Chute, E. Coady, T. Coady, P. Coady, J. Cavanagh, Crall, Dorsey, Davis, Dyer, Jas. Dougherty, Dunkel, Fisk, Fehr, J. Flynn, Garfias, Houlihan, Herman, Hackett, B. Hughes, Hummer, Higgie, J. A. Johnson, J. S. Johnson, Karasynski, Kearns, J. King, Krembs, F. Kelly, J. Kelly, Kohlman, Lesner, Langan, Lancaster, Lair, A. Larkin, W. Larkin, Lane, Lahey, F. Long, L. Long, Leonard^ Latson, Mulroney, G. McDonald, McKeon,. McAuliff, McConlogue, Mackey, Morrison, Metzger, Meehan, Murphy, Mandrue, J. Newman, H. O’Neill, O’Brien, O’Shea, W. O’Neill, Parker, Powers, Paradis, H. Prichard, F. Prichard, Prudhomme, Paris, Rothert, Roberts, Reedy, N. Sinnott, Steiger, Schaack, J. B. Sullivan, Scherrer, D. J. Sullivan, Standard, O. Sullivan, Stanton, Wade, Wright, Youngermann.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Anson, Adler, Aarons, B. Bates, E. Bates, J. Brady, T. M.'Brady, T. T. Brady, W. Brady, Bruel, Bradley, Barclay, Bergland, Cohn, Cunningham, Cudahy, Coe, Campbell, Collman, Delany, Dempsey, Drumm, De Lonnier, Elder, J. Fitzgerald, A. W. Funke, A. M. Funke, Field, Garrison, Girsch, Gross, Galen, Grund, Howard, Hambaugh, Hack, Hesse, Hahn, R. .Healy, Hagus, Higgie, Heller, Hoerr, Ibold, Jacobs, Kearney, Keough, L. Kehoe, V. Kehoe, Kutsche, J. Leonard, Lenard, Lamberton, Murphy, Maurus, Maher, Mitchell, Martin, McCartney; Jas. McPhillips, F. McDonnell, F. McKee, McNally, McIvers, F. Neef, A. Neef, Neenan, O’Mara, O’Neill, Otis, Palmer, Prichard, Quinlan, Quill, Roper, F. Schillo, Scott. Seerey, Sokup, Scherrer, Sutter, Spalding, Stapleton, Smith, Treff, Tivnen, Tetard, Welch, Wile, Weitzel, Ward, Wolff, Wertheimer, Wellington, Zinm
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adler, Ayres, Ball, F. Brown, O. Brown, Blake, Burns, Barbour, Browning, Beirs, Bixby, Cornell, Crandall, W. Connor, C. Connor, Covert, W. Crawford, A. Crawford, Coquillard, Crane, Coone, Croke, Durand, Elkin, Eckler, Ezekiel, W. Finnerty, T. Finnerty, Frankel, Falvey, Fuller, E. Furthman, W. Furthman, C. Furth-man, Funke, Flynn, Girardin, Greene, Gilbert, D. Gilki-son, A. Gilkison, Grant, J. Griggs, Girsch, Henneberry, Hill, Hoffman, Hamilton, Hendry, Holbrook, Jonquet, Krollman, King, Keeler, Kuehl, Kern, Lonergan, Londoner, Lonnsberry, C. Lamberton, H. Lamberton, Levi, Loonie, Loomis, Montague, Maternes, Marr, Mattas, H. Mestling, E. Mestling, Myers, McGuire, McPhee, McPhillips, Mosier, Marre, W. Nichols, C. Nichols, O’Neill, Oatman, Priestly, C. Paul, C. Packard, J. Packard, Ronning, Ryan, Stone, G. Scherrer, W. Scherrer, Stephens, Thornton, Trujillo, Vorhang, Vandercook, Washburne, Wilcox, Wever, Walsh, Weber, Wilson, Wolfe. C. Zoehr-laut, G. Zoehrlaut, Zeigler.	/
Glass Honors.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
• Messrs. Lair, Maher, McAlister, Metzger, Mier, Scott, Tetard, Schillo, Talbot, Ward, Aarons, McCartney, Fack, Gibbons, Hynes, Lynch, Lancaster, Lesner, Bradley, T. Brady, Crandall, Dyer, J. Fleming, E. Fleming, Fisk, Ford, Grimes, Garrison, Heard, Hayes, Hesse, Kearns, Knoblauch, Mitchell, F. Murphy, J. Newman, Stapleton.
List of Excellence.
. COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Book-Keeping— Messrs. Kearns, McAlister, F.Schillo, Scott, Talbot, Gibbons, Lesner, Lynch, Treff, Paris; Arithmetic—Messrs. Dennis, E. Fleming, Gibbons, R. Gross, Nester, Palmer, Wertheimer, Maher, Scott, F. Schillo; Grammar— Messrs. Merz, Sutter, Walsh; Reading— Messrs. Parker, Mandrue, W. Newman, M. McGrath, Bos, Hack, Lansing, De Lormier, Mitchell; Orthography—Messrs. Abt, Bos, Hack, J. Leonard, Snyder; Geography—Messrs. Lesner, Seerey; United States History—Messrs. Metzger, W. Bates, J. White; Penmanship —Messrs. McAlister, Schwarz, Quigley, Phillips, Rebillot, Cunningham; .	.	"
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	483
St Mapy'g fleadeffiiy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The Third Seniors lately held an interesting competition in Greek History; all showed a thorough knowledge of the subject, but the Misses Thirds, Spurgeon and Dennison excelled.
—A beautiful study of shells in water-colors, the work of Miss Schiltz, is attracting much admiring attention from visitors to the studio, and Miss Lynn Curtis is the recipient of warm commendation from all who see her charmingly executed study of books and drapery.
—Much interest is manifested by the Elocution pupils in the Delsarte exercises; perseverance in the practices suggested by the principles formulated by the great French teacher of Oratory cannot but produce good results. Fidelity in the study of Delsarte must promote health and grace of body, and volume and beauty of voice.	’
—Among the visitors of the past week were: S. J. Cooke, W. Hutchinson, J. D. Hammond, Chicago; W. P. Coyne, Ireland; Mrs. O. J. Long, St. Paul, Minn.; Mrs. W. F. Kelso, G. S. Green, Denver, Col.; J. Rose, La Grange, Ind.; Mrs. E. L. Culp, Athens, Mich.; Mrs. G. R. Carlin, Findlay, Ohio; Mrs. J. Dempsey, Manistee, Mich.; Mr. and Mrs. A. K. Rarig, Columbus, Ohio; Mrs. D. Churchill, Three Oaks, Mich.; Mrs. W. Schindler, Mishawaka; J. Lellens, Baltimore, Md. ’
—The “good points” were distributed on Sunday evening by Very Rev. Father General, whose presence is a strong incentive to special efforts in both studies and conduct that a high average may be obtained. -Rev. Father Zahm gave an interesting little lecture on the text “Keep your eyes open”; supplementing Professor Egan’s remarks of Thursday last. He also ■ complimented the Misses K. Morse and ,M. Pa-tier on the manner in which they read and 'recited.	.
—Another mark of kind remembrance on the. part of Very Rev. Father General was received on Sunday last; the precious gift is a finely executed bust of our Holy Father, Leo XIII. The intellectual powers, which have ?iade our loved Pontiff a veritable light in the darkness of the times, are well brought out in the clearly cut features, and, like all statuary of French make, the workmanship leaves nothing to be desired in either delicacy or strength. Sincere thanks are extended the revered donor, with the hope, reinforced by prayers, that he may live long to do honor to the Church, to its Visible Head, and.to his cherished.Congregation:
—“How to Write and How to Read” was the subject of a lecture delivered by Prof. M. F. Egan, LL.D., in the Senior study-hall, March 27.
Appreciative attention was accorded every word, and that a lasting impression was made may be learned from the fact that at several of the composition classes of the week a graphic account was written by each pupil. The principal points dwelt upon were the necessity of cultivating one’s powers of observation, keeping a record of one’s ideas, and studying the derivation, meaning and application of words. After some examples of bad taste in versification, the lecture closed with a few hints as towhat authors afford the most aid in the formation of a good literary style.
The Sunshine of the Heart.
From far-off northern regions, borne upon the frost-laden air, there come strains of joy enkindled in every Christian heart by the dawn of Easter; from tropic lands, where the soft rippling of crystal streams, the perfume of flowers and the songs of myriad birds invite to happiness, an added note is heard awakened by the glad mystery of the Resurrection. Everywhere on this beautiful earth is there joy, and nature joins with the angels in singing: “The Lord is truly risen, alleluia! alleluia!”
While joy is the characteristic spirit of Easter tide, it is also, or should be, the predominating sentiment of every day and' every hour. God created man for happiness; He surrounded him with all that his heart could desire, and, as our catechism tells us, he was to be translated to Paradise after a. certain sojourn upon earth; but by the fall of our first parents, by their sin of disobedience, they and their posterity were doomed to sorrow; labor, pain and death came to hold dominion over the human race. Through the cloud of displeasure which hung over the pathway of our first parents there glimmered a light in the promise that a Redeemer was to be born; so the coming of that promised Redeemer has brought comfort and joy to all the children of Adam; and all clouds that have appeared since have been lined with the bright tints of hope that sprang from the Saviour’s tomb, made glorious on that first great Easter morn. " .
Joy is the true atmosphere of the soul, and is as essential to our well-being, as the sunlight is
O7	o
to plants; it is to be found everywhere: nature sings, the sun is radiant, the waters laugh, the heart bounds towards God, and in finding God it is immersed in His Spirit which is a spirit of joy. Storm-clouds hide the sun in the skies; but we know it is there, and after a few hours the storm abates and, lol there is the bright effulgence of old, making the earth glad again; so when trials come, we know that the Spirit of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
God is over us, and, waiting in patience, calm comes to our heart, and joy reigns supreme.
There are some who have the unfortunate faculty of looking at the dark side of every occurrence: to them disappointments, have no redeeming qualities; crosses are heavier than they need be, and the shadows of Calvary seem so dark to them that the sunburst of Easter morning cannot dispel the shades. Selfishness, the companion of gloom, makes such persons the destroyers of peace and joy in the soul of others; they cannot enjoy life themselves, neither Jo they wish their fellow-mortals to enjoy it.
There are, however, souls which find joy everywhere; trials come to such, but remembering that “as under every stone there is moisture, so under every sorrow there is joy,” they search for the joy, and in the fulfilment of God’s will they find that greatest of boons, holy peace. They impart this sunshine of the heart to those around them, and in kindling charity they are doing the work of God upon earth.
There is an idea, prevalent to a certain degree, that dissipation and worldly amusements constitute joy; ask a society belle, after a season of gayety, if joy abides in her heart, and she will, in most cases, if honest with herself, answer sadly “no.” Social obligations must not be slighted; but there is a moderation which must be observed if one does not wish to squander the brightness which belongs to his heart. All those who wear smiling faces do not find joy a constant companion; often are they a prey to remorse and consumed with regrets. Wherever the spirit of Jesus is, there is joy to be found. Sorrow may come, but “remembrance may live under smiles, as well as under tears,” so they 1 »ravely look beyond Calvary to the Resurrec-.t'on, and with loving Magdalene they go in search of Him whom they love; and when they find Him they cry out “Master!”
.How beautiful this world would be if we would only let the Easter anthems ring in our souls forever! Then would the sunshine of the heart gladden the earth, and light the path to the feet of the Prince of peace, where joy reigns eternal.
Jessie English.
E. Dempsey, Dorsey, Dolan, De Montcourt, Donahue, Ernest, English, Flannery, Fitzpatrick, Fosdick, Farwell, Green, Ganong, Gordon, Hammond, Healey, Horner, C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Hurff, H. Hanson, Holt, Hagus, A. Hanson, Harmes, Hellmann, Hale, Hull, Hutchinson, Hamilton, Haight, Hepburn, Hughes, Hemelspeck, Jung-blut, Kimmell, Kelso, Koopmann, Lynch, Lauth, Lewis, McFarland, F. Moore, N. Morse, K. Morse, Maher, M. McPhee, McCarthy, McHugh, Murison, McCune, S. McPhee. Mullaney, Marley, M. Moore, Nickel, Norris, Nacy, Nester, 0. O’Brien, M. Otis, Piper, Penburthy, Pugsley, Patier, A. Ryan, K. Ryan, Roberts, Rinehart, Rose, Rinn, Rentfrow, Reilly, Stapleton, D. Spurgeon, Studebaker, Schiltz, Schaefer, Schrock, N. Schermerhorn, M. Schermerhorn, Thirds, Van Mourick, Violette, Wurzburg.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Burdick, E. Burns, Black, M. Burns, Clifford, Cooke, Culp, Cooper, Daly, Dreyer, M. Davis,’ B. Davis, Ernest, Evoy, Girsch, Hickey, Holmes, C. Kasper, L. Kasper, Levy, Mabbs, McGuire, Meskill, Mestling, O’Brien, O’Mara, Patrick, Palmer, Philion, Quealy, E. Regan, L. Reeves, Ruger, Robbins, Shirey, M. Scherrer, M. Smyth, Soper, j. Smyth, Sweeney, A. Tormey, E. Wagner, M. Wagner, Waldron, Wood, Wright, N. Wurzburg, Young.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Adelsperger, Coady, Crandall, A. E. Dennison, Eldred, M. Egan, Finnerty, Girsch, M. Hamilton, K. Hamilton, A. McCarthy, L. McHugh, M. McHugh, C. Porteous, S. Smyth, N. Smyth.
Class Honors.
LANGUAGE COURSE.
Latin.
ist Class—Miss G. Clarke.
2D Class—Misses Crane, B. Hepburn, F. Burdick, M. Smyth.
French.
2D Class—Misses C. Morse, D. Deutsch, E. Dennison, F. Marley, T. Balch.
3D Class, ist Div.—Misses D. Davis, E. Nester, L. Curtis, Bero, M. Schermerhorn, Hepburn, Hurff, Rinehart.
2D Div.—Misses Lynch, De Montcourt, C. Haight, S. Dempsey, M. McFarland, Gordon, Byrnes, Roberts, A. Wurzburg, L. Wurzburg, Dolan, A. E. Dennison. .
4TH Class—Misses A. Ryan, M. Otis, M. Violette, M. Hickey, E, Quealy, Clarke, Murison.
2D Div.—Misses A. Tormey, M. Wagner, K. Wood, J. Patrick, E. Philion, Young, Evoy, M. Burns, E. Burns, Moore.
5TH Class—Misses K. Hamilton, M. McHugh, M. Egan. .	German.
2D CLASS—Misses G. Lauth, K. Hurley, F. Moore, D. Deutsch, C. Hurley, Nickel, Piper, K. Morse, Quealy.
3D Class—Misses D. Spurgeon, Nacey, A. Ansbach, Harmes, Koopmann.
4TH Class—Misses E. Schafer, L. Ernest, Currier, L. Hagus, C. McCarthy.
2D Div.— Misses Rinn, E. Wagner, C. Kasper, Levy, L. Kasper, Dreyer. ’	,
5TH Class—Misses Green, E. Adelsperger, N. Schermerhorn, N. McGuire, O’Mara, L: McHugh, M. Wagner, M.' Davis, Cochrane, L. Farwell.
Roll of Honor.
[For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, correct deportment and observance of rules.] .	.
‘ senior department. .	.
Misses E. Adelsperger, Ansbach, Ahlrichs, Bates, Bern-hart, Balch, Bogner, Bero, Bovett, Byrnes, Beck, Barry, Butler, Clarke, Cunningham, Cooper, Coll, Currier, L. Curtis, Crane, Crilly, Churchill, M. Cochrane, M. Davis, . C. Dempsey, N. Davis, Deutsch, E, Dennison, D. Davis,
Life is like a beautiful and winding lane, on either side bright flowers and beautiful butterflies and tempting fruits, which we scarcely pause to admire and to taste, so eager are we to hasten to an opening which we imagine will be more beautiful still. But, by degrees, as we advance, the trees grow bleak, the flowers and butterflies fail, the fruits disappear, and we find we have arrived—to reach a desert waste.