5 -
L ti
Vol. XX.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 4, 1886.	No. 14.
Minims’ Address to Very Rev. Father General.
1.
In history (tracing it far back	,
To olden Notre Dame du Lac) One grand event, before all others, To minds of students, Priests and Brothers, Stands clearly out in bold relief, By all esteemed the first, the chief: It is, dear Father, your arrival At Notre Dame. The glad revival In loving hearts of that fair date We joyfully commemorate.
11.
Your namesakes, a full delegation Of Sorins, honor the occasion, And give your Drama, taking parts, Proud to enact your own “ New Arts ”; And still more proud, on such a day, To thank you for your thoughtful play, Whose object perfectly convinces All of your interest in your “ princes ”;
' For royalty must needs preclude Ignoble ways and manners rude.
in.
Habits refined, and veneration
For sacred things will save our nation;
Let these be stamped on youthful manner, And, like Knight Errands, round our Banner Will rally all the generous-hearted, And Truth reclaim ground whence she started. Your play, dear Father, proves the worth That charity breathes over earth;
For rude, coarse conduct, when detected, Speaks plainly of a heart neglected.
.	iv.
When, after eleven cold, weary days O’er rugged roads, through dangerous ways, From old St. Peter’s journeying here, A young and zealous pioneer. You greeted first, through falling flakes, The snow-clad grounds, the blue twin-lakes, We were not here with joy to meet you, With banqueting and smiles to treat you; But since ’twas not our happy right, We come, in recompense, to-night. .
v.
Ah, yes! The welcome then denied •_ Brings us with love intensified;	.
Saint Andrew’s day in forty-four Bequeathed to us a sacred store In all you suffered. Father, when We think there were no Minims then,
Juniors or Seniors, we delight To find so many here to-night In this fair hall assembled round • To pay their homages profound.
VI.
We come to make some reparation, Dear Father, for each stem privation—	*
For cheerless nights, for lonely days You passed. Ah! as abroad we gaze Upon the comforts round us spread, We think of those old times long fled. Did you behold in vista bright, Dear Father, what we see to-night When, on the cold and frozen earth, Your “ Holy Cross ” first took its birth? .
VII.
Ah 1 your good Angel, doubtless, threw The cheering scene before your view; Displayed the wonders to unfold Upon the plains, so bare, so cold— The stately church, the lofty dome One day to crown your future home; Fine institutions through the nation To rise in holy emulation Of this, their fruitful source sublime, Whose fame shall reach to endless time.
VIII.
But, to return: All, all remember, Propitious thirtieth of November, In eighteen hundred forty-two! The scene dawns every year anew, The Birthday of dear Notre Dame, The first step in her world-wide fame; The planting of the spotless field Whose harvest brings so rich a yield. The first Act in sublime “ New Arts,” Whose actors were grand souls, true hearts, You and seven Brothers'took the parts.
ix-	.
This day your “ princes ” could not pass Forgetful of your Holy Mass;	,
That first Mass in the old log chapel.
We look on high. Now fair clouds dapple The autumn sky; yet ’tis the same, In storm or calm, at Notre'Dame.
Y et, forty-four long years ago
’Twas far, yes, far from being so.	-
The little cabin’s fitful fire
One hour might burn the next expire. • x. .	-
The fire is now replaced by steam;
Lights from electric batteries gleam; , And now, instead of your seven Brothers, . You number many hundred others;
ziS	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
And many priests, and all devoted— Trait for which Holy Cross is noted— Thousands of children through the land, Through those you rule, own your command, And by God’s grace will owe salvation, Dear Father, to your abnegation.
xi.	.
Those olden times, with tempests rife, You call the happiest of your life; But may St. Andrew’s prayers secure Still brighter, and with joys as pure, Long years, of consolation ample. To spread afar your high example, That Notre Dame, and all around her, Be led by wisdom of her Founder! This is our hearts’ most earnest plea On this glad anniversary.
Socialism.
Socialism rests on the idea of “ infinite progress ” to which mankind, socialists say, isdestined. According to this doctrine, any institution can claim only a certain determined period of existence, after which it must disappear to give place to another corresponding to a higher degree of development of the human race. Without making any exception at all in its attacks, Socialism more especially turns its efforts upon the existing condition of property and its relation to the State. “ There should be no more private property; everything should be common.” To effect this, it is absolutely nec-essaiy that there be also such an organization of society, in which the principle that “ all things are common to all ” is put into practice. The practical aim of Socialism is, in fact, to produce this social organization. This idea of the “ infinite progress ” corresponds to that of Hegel of the eternal “ becoming ”of God; for the socialists deny the “ being” of God outside the world, and identify the idea of God with the idea of the universe: “ God is all that is.”
The founder of Socialism in France was Saint-Simon. He wished to give to the world a better means of advancement than the religion and philosophy which had been in use till then. Physico-political science was the name of that new means. But Saint-Simon was unable to form a regular system, and his writings contain many contradictions. He did not directly attack property, but he said that the proportions-of property must be modified. The industrials—that is the working class— should be placed above those who merely possess, as well as above the jurists (lawyers, judges, etc.), and these industrials should also give the decisive vote in all important affairs of the State. Bazard and Enfantin, the worthy disciples of their master, tried to give a more practical shape to his ideas.
Bazard maintained the right of private acquisition. He directed his weapons against the existing system of the right of succession which was the source of the inequality of non-deserved property, and in its place he desired the “ right of succession according to merit.” Therefore, exact lists of the most capable men of all classes had to be drawn, and the possessions of any deceased had to be given
to the most capable of the class to which that one belonged. Everyone had to contribute for the sustenance of the officers of the State.
Enfantin tried to give to his new social system its complement in a new social religion. He abolished the right of succession, called for a common education and for the emancipation of women. No more emperor, no more pope. He went so far in his extravagances that Bazard had to take his stand against his companion; the school became divided, and its speedy dissolution was the final result.
Charles Fourier brought Socialism again to life. He did not maintain the abolition of property, but he wanted the families to associate for common labor, and divide the gain according to the triple ratio of work, talent and capital. Louis Blanc followed, and proclaimed “the right of labor” a primitive right.. He required a “'social organization, which not only would- render the possibility to live by one’s work easy and sure, but by which the State would be obliged to give to every one work according to his capacity, and to pay him for it.” This is a destructive plan, because the State would be obliged to sell again the paid-for products, and thus must necessarily enter into competition with the products of particular individuals, who, evidently, would have to succumb in a short time. Hence, the State would become the only proprietor; the only one giving work, and the only one bringing forth products.'
As socialistic ideas were developed and spread through France, socialistic extremists came to the surface and began to exercise their baneful influence, and at last the people were landed on communism. And communism means no distinction of persons, or talents, or property; it is absolute equality, the state of nature, and the overthrow of everything existing. This monster of a system had already appeared in the first Revolution, but the Directory checked it. Since 1830 it has again raised its head. Peter Leroux proclaimed the dogma of equality, and anathematized property as theft, the right of succession as folly, God as evil. Cabet, finally, brings forth the picture of a communistic utopia. He sets before the eyes of his follower the ideal of a nation in the state of absolute community of goods, without property, without money, without distinction of persons, with common workshops, and over-rich in happiness and innocence.
But this theory is altogether opposed to the dictates of common sense. Where, in fact, is the man who would ever-dream of realizing such a design? All men, it is true,-have the same human nature; but there are so many points in which—although they be nothing but the result of that nature—men. differ, because they are placed in different circumstances. To realize this plan, all over the world things would have to run in the very same routine. It supposes all men having the very same inclinations. Where would be emulation ? What would become of genius? If, perchance, it would produce anything, or invent something new, what would be the recompense of it? Thus, communism, naturally, leads to the destruction of society.
TI-IE NOtRE DAME SCHOLAstiC.	ix$
It is, therefore, in accordance with nature that there be an inequality in men’s lives and conditions. Man, finite and imperfect by nature; is always susceptible of improvement and development. All are not endowed with the same powers, and all do not make the same good use of what they have received. Hence there must be rich and poor; men giving work and others doing the work; men to govern; others to obev; men to tegtilate affairs and settle conflicts; since it is in corrupt .human nature to be offended at one thing; to be opposed to another. And as long as there - will be on one side quarrelsome dispositions that delight in hatred, contradictions, animosity and discord; dissimulation, which hides its real opinion and gives to believe a different one; jealousy which, besides filling man with self-conceit and self-esteem, leaves room for uneasiness from fear of a rival; hard-heartedness, which betrays a heart of stone and remains absolutely cold at others’ misery and sufferings; and, on the other hand, that good-natured disposition which shows itself by its benevolence and hearty participation in the joys and suf-, ferings of our fellow-beings, is not easily offended and knows how to pardon offences; that tenderheartedness which is gentle and forbearing, abhors quarrels, makes peace without difficulty, is not rough, harsh or unpleasing; that conciliatory nature which is peaceful, ready to forget injuries, and banishes hatred; that generosity which shows a noble, rich and active mind, is enemy of pride and selfishness, does not shrink from any sacrifice for the welfare of our fellow-men, fights for the right and the true, pardons generously, and nobly overlooks the defects of men; as long as these two kinds of characters exist—and they will exist as long as man will exist—so long will we find these two opposite kinds of actions in life, and so long will it be absolutely impossible to bring about uniformity in all the ways of men.
J. B. S.
The Birthplace of Printing.
Mainz, one of the most interesting towns on the borders of the picturesque Rhine, is situated on the left bank of that river, at a short distance below the influx of the Maine. Its fortifications, originally planned by Vauban, extend in an arc of a circle of which the river is the chord; and a citadel, with four giant bastions bristling with heavy ordnance, commands the approaches to the two bridges—one of boats, the other of iron—connecting the town with Castel on the opposite bank of the stream. The garrison at Mainz is not less than seven thousand troops, and it ranks next to the impregnable Ehrenbreitstein among the strongest fortresses of the Rhine.
Mainz dates its origin from the davs of Augustus, when the Romans established there a military station for the security of their conquests, and to keep in check the fierce tribes who roamed in barbaric freedom the ancient forests by the majestic Rhine. The bold and enterprising Drusus, for his brilliant
successes over the Sicambri and Bructeri, appointed first praetor, and subsequently proconsul, having carried his victoridus eagles to the banks of the Elbe; and penetrated to the ocean; returning after his conquests to the Roman camp at Moguntiacum; perished by a fall from his horse. Tradition still points out at Mainz a monument known as the “ Tomb of Drusus”; but according to a fragment of Livy, the remains of that warrior were conveyed to Rome, and deposited with solemn pomp in the Julian mausoleum, the funeral panegyric being pronounced by Augustus himself.*
After the conversion of the Teutonic tribes to Christianity, in the eighth century; through the preaching of the illustrious English Benedictine; St. Boniface, constituted by Gregory III Archbishop and Primate of all Germany, at the earnest solicitation of Pepin, that prelate fixed his see at Mainz, and subsequently the city played an important part in the civil and ecclesiastical history of Germany during the Middle Ages: Pepin, Char-* lemagne, Henry IV, and Pope Gregory VH, are among the names that figure in its annals.
__ O	O	"
The Archbishop of Mainz was one of the Seven Electors of the Holy Roman Empire. To him belonged the right of convoking the electoral assembly at Frankfort, one month after the decease of the German Emperor. He presided at the election, had the privilege of a casting-vote, received the suffrages, and declared the successor to the imperial throne. The dignity of Elector was enhanced by the terms of the “ Golden Bull ” as highly as imperial edict could carry it; conspiracy against his person incurred the penalty of treason.
During the “ Thirty Years’ War,” after the unexpected overthrow of Tilly, in the disastrous encounter beneath the walls of Leipsic, by the young Gustavus Adolphus, whose abilities as a military commander had been very considerably underrated by his powerful opponents, the victorious Swede directed his march towards the Rhine to reduce the fortresses still held by the Spanish troops. Mainz was the first town that offered him a determined resistance; the Spanish garrison seemed resolved to await the last extremity rather than yield. For several days the guns from the ramparts kept up an incessant fire on the Swedish camp. Finding it impossible to retard the advance of the enemy,' whose lines hourly approached nearer the walls, the hopes of the defenders began to fail. The example of the fearful vengeance which the infuriated Swedish soldiery had wreaked upon other towns recently fallen into their hands, after a brave resistance, caused them to fear for the lives of the inhabitants, and the fate that awaited the city:if the place should be taken by assault. It was resolved, therefore, to capitulate; and on the 13th December, 1531, the Swedish monarch made his triumphal entry into Mainz, and took up his residence in the ancient electoral palace. The Span
* Ipse (Drusus) ex fractura, equo super crus ejus col-lapso, tricesimo die quam id acciderat, mortuus est. Corpus a Nerone fratre, qui, nuntio valetudinis evocatus, raptim accurrerat, Romain pervectum et in C. Julii tumulo cofi-ditum.—Liv. Epitome, Libri cxl.
22Q
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
iards were permitted to depart in safety, and the citizens, by a sum of eighty thousand florins, were fortunate to escape the horrors of a general pillage.
At the commencement of the wars of the Revolution in 1792, the French general, Custine, had surprised Mainz without striking a blow; but in the spring of-the following year the Allies determined to effect its reduction. The place had been very poorly provisioned, and the forage was insufficient for the horses of the garrison. The revolutionary troops under Dubayet and Kleber were, notwithstanding, in good spirits; they had great confidence in the skill of their generals and in the strength of the fortress, the defence of which was deemed important to the cause of the Revolution.
The allied troops, Prussians and Austrians, commenced operations in April; but owing to the frequent sallies of the garrison, the investment was not complete till the latter part of June, when all the parallels were open, and two hundred pieces of heavy artillery brought to bear upon the city.
The courage of the besieged remained unshaken; the forts replied with deadly effect to the fire from the hostile batteries, and several brilliant charges under Kleber interrupted the progress of the enemy and destroyed the howitzers in the advanced earthworks. The besiegers had floating batteries on the Rhine, which raked the interior of the town; but some French soldiers dived into the river and cut the cables of the boats, and in one instance a young Marseillais was seen towing to the bank a boat containing eighty Prussian soldiers, who were all taken prisoners.
Meanwhile, within the walls the presence of a dire and relentless foe, whose advance, more irresistible than the progress of the investing arms, had become daily apparent, filled with chilling gloom the hearts of the besieged. The supply of provisions was being rapidly consumed, and in a short time gaunt famine, with its train of attendant horrors, stalked through the streets of the city. So great was the distress that a cat was purchased for six francs, and a pound of horseflesh brought forty-five sous. Sentries had to be posted at the approaches to the river, to prevent the soldiers from dragging forth the dead horses that chanced to float down the Rhine. The generals fared no better than the troops; and it is related of the commander-in-chief that, having invited his staff to dine with him, a cat, flanked with twelve mice, formed the repast. . •
Yet amid such terrible privation, the French garrison entertained no thought of surrender; but the general distress, having become intolerable, 2,000 of the inhabitants obtained permission to depart from the town. Being refused a passage through the investing lines, they remained exposed to the double fire between the guns of the-fortress -and the enemy’s batteries, and many thus perished beneath the walls.
’ At length, Kleber, Dubayet, and the representatives of the National Convention, despairing of all succor from the armies of the Rhine and Moselle, which they .had expected daily to come to their assistance, and being convinced, that within a brief ,
period the place, should be surrendered at discretion, considered it more prudent to endeavor to save the troops under their command, who were among the best soldiers of the Revolution. The Prussian monarch consented to treat; his terms were not exacting-, and the garrison was allowed to depart with military honors.*
Mainz claims the honor of being the birthplace of that immortal invention, which, of all others that have been brought forth in modern centuries, has exercised the most stupendous influence on the destinies of the human race. Within the precincts of this old Rhenish town was first matured that wonderful art which has given magical wings to thought' and the sublime creations of genius, and which has enabled modern civilization to attain so rapidly the sphere of universal progress and enlightenment. The circumstance is not unworthy the notice of the historical student that this memorable invention, as a learned modern writer remarks, “ far from being the result of philosophical sagacity, does not even appear to have been suggested •by any regard to the higher branches of literature, or to bear any other relation than that of coincidence to their revival.” While the learned were engaged laboriously deciphering the manuscripts of Oriental lore, acquired from the Greek exiles, who in the decline.of the Eastern Empire sought refuge in the schools of the West, a few obscure Germans were perfecting one of the most momentous discoveries in the annals of modern Europe.
As early as the thirteenth century the art of block-printing, which had been long previously known to the Chinese, was practised in Europe. The introduction of playing-cards gave an additional impetus to the art of wood-engraving. From the design of single figures, the transition to small books, with engravings of religious or historical subjects, with explanatory texts, was easy and natural. But the great discovery, destined to impart to this art a power beyond all previous conception, was the triumph of Gutenberg, born at Mainz, A. D. 1400. The authentic details of his career are extremely meagre. He was descended of an ancient and wealthy family. The greater portion of his youth was passed in Strasbourg, whither he had been sent, to receive an education; and it is more than probable that the first idea of his wonderful invention was conceived while sojourning in that city. It is also affirmed that his first experiments in printing were attempted there. In 1424, he was still residing at Strasbourg; but a short time subsequently he returned to Mainz, his native city, where he entered into a contract with a wealthy , goldsmith named Fust, who supplied him with the means-of procuring a press. Peter Schoffer, the son-injaw of Fust, was soon afterwards admitted into partnership, and to the latter belongs the merit of the invention of casting types, which ^constituted one of the most valuable improvements in the.art of printing.

♦ Goethe, who was present at the surrender of Mainz, has:given a graphic description of the departure of the French- troops. L,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
221
The oldest work printed at Mainz by Gutenberg, Schoffer and Fust is the Latin Bible, known as the “Forty-two lined Bible,” each page containing that number of lines. In 1455 the partnership of Fust and Gutenberg was dissolved. The former, in conjunction with his son-in-law, undertook considerable typographical works on his own account. Gutenberg, with the assistance of Conrad, a wealthy counsellor of Mainz, continued his labors, and in 1457 the celebrated Psalter of Mainz issued from his press. The superior execution and elegance of this work manifest the rapid progress that had been already attained in the development of the art so recently discovered.
Adolphus of Nassau, having captured the city of Mainz in 1465, several of those engaged in the work of printing were forced to seek employment elsewhere. • The knowledge of the art was thus spread through Germany and the Low Countries. It was introduced into England, by William Caxton, in 1474.	-
Gutenberg died in 1468. The site of the house he resided in at Mainz is at present occupied by a literary club. In 1837 a magnificent bronze statue, by the celebrated Thorwaldsden, was raised to his
memory in the Gutenberg Platz.
M.
Lequel des Deux?
Des celestes Beautes amants mysterieux, O moines pleins de foi, 1’extase dans vos yeux, Vous buvez a longs traits, heureux sous le cilice, La science en un livre et Dien dans un calice.
Nous qui r6vons, helas! sombres et soucieux, De la douce priere ignorant le delice, Cueillons les fruits trompeurs de l’amour et du vice, Mais notre cceur blesse saigne silencieux.
Le vdtre chante et rit; et vos sacres cantiques De leur son- palpitant font trembler les portiques. Le ciel s’ouvre, et soudain vos regards eblouis
Contemplent Jesus-Christ: car le moine est un ange____ —Nous, dont les sens fletris sontsouilles dans lafange, Nous pleurons nos plalsirs trop vite evanouis!
S. F.
An Astronomical Problem.
In a recent article, written fora Paris newspaper, Camille Flammarion, the celebrated astronomer, mentions the Lick telescope, now approaching completion, arid says that one of the first uses made of it will be to direct it toward our mysterious neighbor, Mars, for the purpose of studying the strange forms presented by its geography. Then he adds that after steam, the telegraph, and the. electric light, the discovery of indisputable evidences of habitation in one of the bodies of our solar system would be the most marvellous apotheosis of the scientific glory of the nineteenth century. Flammarion is not only one of the first astronomers of his time, but he is a charming writer, who puts
his scientific knowledge in a form.agreeable even to non-scientific readers. It is a misfortune that in America too many of our astronomers, who are known and respected all over the world for their attainments, are of the dry-as-dust class.
One of the first problems, then, which the new telescope will attempt to solve, will be the habitability of Mars. The question is not a new one. Fifty years ago, the astronomer De Littrow, Director of the Vienna Observatory, conceived the idea of communicating with the moon by optical devices. It is well known that, by the aid of our best telescopes, objects having dimensions of a few miles are visible on the moon’s surface. If was De Littrow’s idea that by making a triangle, each side of which was eight or ten miles in length, illuminating it, and then changing the form successively i nto a square and a circle, these forms and their changes would be observed and recognized by the inhabitants of the moon, supposing that living beings existed in our satellite, and that they had telescopes equal to ours. Communication once established, it would not be difficult to continue it, and so to elaborate the means that the result would be the establishment of a complete mutual understanding between the inhabitants of the two bodies;
The most powerful telescopes now in use magnify 2,000 times. As the moon is 240,000 miles from the earth, it is thus practically brought to within 120 miles, at which distance the snowy peaks of several lunar mountains are distinctly visible to the naked eye. Objects of less dimensions than those’specified by De Littrow are detected in the moon by telescopes. For instance, changes are noted in the circle called Plato, which leads to the belief that a large army in motion would be perceptible. Astronomers are divided on the question of the moon’s habitability, on the ground that it has no atmosphere, and therefore no life can exist in it. On the other hand, it is said that the moon is forty-nine times smaller than the earth and eighty-one times lighter. Objects on its surface ■weigh six times less than at the surface of. the earth. From this it follows that the atmosphere of the moon, if it has one, would be six times rarer and more transparent, and that with telescopes of the same power it would be much easier to detect signs of life on the moon than for its inhabitants to distinguish similar evidences of existences on our planet. As if to complicate the problem, it is said that from a balloon at the height of three miles or less the surface of the earth appears like a desert, uninhabited, silent as a cemetery;.and if a person were to arrive in a balloon from the moon he would, even at this minute distance, ask himself , if the orb which spread out its vast and apparently dead surface beneath him had any cities at all, since he could not hear their uproar; or any inhabitants, since it seemed like an abode of the dead.
Mars interests, more. It is a world revolving in its circled “orb” about the same central sun. Its year is nearly twice.as long as ours; but it-has.the same order of seasons, its poles being inclined ’at a similar angle to the sun. Powerful telescopes show . at its two* poles alternately the snows gradually ex
222	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tending northward or southward, as the case may be, in the winter, and melting in the summer. Its day exceeds ours in length by a few hours. Its geographical divisions are numerous and singular. It has oceans, seas, great internal bodies of water, gulfs, bays, continents, peninsulas, islands, capes,— in fact, every subdivision of the land and water known on the surface of the globe. To suppose that Mars is a sterile world seems impossible under these conditions. To suppose that it is fertile and uninhabited is equally incredible. There was a time, and not far beyond the memory of most of us, when it was thought that the inhabitants of the world were the only intelligent beings in a universe that numbered its hundreds of thousands, or millions, of suns, and its inconceivable number of planets. The sun existed only to warm us; the moonand stars only to illuminate and add splendor to our nights. We have recovered from that delusion, but we still believe that the number of inhabited orbs is greatly inferior to that of those that, dead, cold, voiceless, whirl on forever through interminable space. Being a world of curious people, we want to be made sure in regard to the beings who live in the worlds that we have reason to believe habitable. From this point of view, Mars presents the most hopeful field of investigation, and for this reason a sort of silent sympathy for it has been growing up of late years. Our hearts, or at least the hearts of the astronomers, have yearned to communicate with the supposed inhabitants of the orb of which it is poetically said that“ its red light mocks the pallor of its white--faced sister planets.”
But how to’communicate? In the first place, let it be said that the astronomical theories regarding Mars are built upon knowledge extending back only a few years. It is only since 1858 that the principal geographical details regarding it have been known; and only since 1862 that the observations have been considered sufficiently complete to form the basis of a geography of the planet. A map including the smallest objects to be seen with a telescope was commenced in 1877 and finished in 1882. Everything is ready for the Lick telescope to commence its work, to add to knowledge already gained, or to change its details. .
The ideas in regard to communication have been suggested in a measure by Mars itself. They resemble those mentioned respecting the moon. Mars is several million years older than the world. Its inhabitants should be much farther advanced in the sciences and the arts. If the)' have telescopes, they should be greatly superior to ours. If they.have ■ applied electricity to illumination, their systems should be developed to an extent to us inconceivable. In a map of Mars, just finished by a Milan astronomer, there are observed luminous spots marked here and there on its surface. They resemble snow illuminated by the sun, but they can, not Be snow, since they occur in the tropics as well - as in the . temperate regions. As they are sometimes near the sea, sometiipes in straight lines, and sometimes take the forms of triangles, squares, and rectangles; it has been thought possible that they
were artificial geodetic signals, marking parallels of latitude or meridians. These have been the ideas of astronomers gifted with imagination, though it is undeniable that if the inhabitants of Mars existed, were possessed of optical resources, and wished to communicate with the people of this earth, which is at night the most brilliant object in their heavens, they could not find a means more simple or efficacious.
Mars, when nearest us, is sixty-three times farther oft than the moon. A telescope with a magnifying power of sixty-three gives it an area equal to the moon’s face. Other telescopes would make it larger in proportion, though it is impossible that objects of the same size in Mars should be seen as distinctly as in the moon. If it were desired to communicate it would be necessary to arrange illuminated points in triangles, circles, or squares; the figures having dimensions of not less than seventy-five miles. If the astronomers of Mars . had telescopes as powerful as the Lick, such geometrical figures formed of lines illuminated at certain points would be visible in parts of the American continent where the atmosphere is clearest, as, for instance, in a great part of California and in Colorado. Such experiments made in Europe would be of more uncertain result. Were communication once established, the code of signals would soon become sufficiently complete to render communication easy on a great variety of subjects mutually interesting to all concerned.
Will any of these dreams ever be realized ? Will the great Lick telescope, whose revelations the scientific world is so anxiously awaiting, help to the achievement of any such result? This is a question impossible to answer; but that it will modify, possibly in a startling manner, our knowledge of the moon and the planet Mars seems absolutely certain.—San Francisco Chronicle.
College Gossip.
—Thanksgiving Day was celebrated at the American-College in Rome by a banquet in honor of the recent arrivals of Bishops Ireland and Keane, who came to lay before the Pope plans of the proposed Catholic University. Previous to the banquet,- Bishop Ireland blessed the arms of the college painted upon the ceiling of the large dining hall. The painting, which represents the Blessed Virgin.in a celestial scene as the protectress of the United States represented by the arms of America, is the. work of the artist Torti, and was much ad- ' mired.—Baltimore Sun.	.
—The building of the bridge across the Hudson at Poughkeepsie puts .us'in mind of the fact that the project was first broached, a great tuaiiy years . ago, by Prof. Eastman, who made an enormous fortune in .that;town ? with, a business college. At the time of the,.\var he was eking out a living as proprietor of a small school. Under the draft; law scholars., were-exempt.from military .service, and-Eastman soon .found his school so. full that he. bad
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
223
to move into more commodious quarters. The secret of the plan to evade conscription leaked out, and within six months Eastman rented every vacant room in the town and filled it with “scholars.” Illiteracy spread with alarming rapidity, and middleaged men, who had been considered fairly educated merchants, suddenly forgot how to read and write, or to do their sums, and found it necessary to attend Prof. Eastman’s business school. The Professor prospered accordingly, and even when the end of the war deprived him of his “ scholars,” his business was firmly established.— Chicago News.
—The Irish College at Rome.—The Irish College is situated in one of the most central parts of Rome, near the Quirinal, and for Irish priests and people, it always has objects of interest and holy memories to attract attention. It is called Santa Agatha de* Goti by the Romans, because Ricimer, Chief of the Goths, had it in his possession, and delivered it to the Arians; but at a subsequent period this ancient church was purified by the Pope, St. Gregory the Great. A very perfect restoration took place in 1852. The church contains a nave and two side aisles, divided by sixteen beautiful columns of polished granite; costly mosaics and rare marbles ornament the altars. Amons' the most exquisite of the Roman monumental sculptures is a fine marble tomb, with its most appropriate inscription, which records the fact that the heart of the illustrious Liberator of Ireland, Daniel O’Connell, is there inclosed. He bequeathed • it to'Rome, when he died at Genoa, May 15, 1847, while he willed that his body should be borne to his own well-loved Ireland. The upper portion of the monument contains in relief a figure of Erin, presenting a veiled urn to an angel, who points upwards, symbolizing the soul’s ascent to heaven. Underneath is a group of figures in bas-relief, representing the manly figure and features of the great Irishman before the Bar of the House of Commons, after his election for Clare, in 1828, and refusing, in his memorable words—inscribed on the o *	__
plinth—to take the objectionable oath. This work Ireland owes to the genius of Benzoni, and to the generosity of her adopted compatriot, the Italian Charles Bianconi. Of late years, the Irish College, at very considerable cost, has undergone various and most admirable improvements; so that, at present, it is one of those Roman institutions of which Ireland may feel justly proud, while everything within and without—includingits most charming summer villa at Tivoli—betokens the fostering care and management of its present most excellent guardians.—Irish American.
—The Rev. S. Perry, S. J.—The Royal University of Dublin recently honored itself by conferring its highest degree on the great Jesuit scientist, Rev. Stephen Perry.. This eminent Jesuit is a man well known to the world of science. Born Aug. 26, 1833, in London, he received his classical education in the English College at Douay, and then followed a course of Mental Philosophy at Rome. He entered the Society of Jesus in November, 1853, and afterwards studied higher mathematics at Stony hurst, London, and Paris. He
was appointed, in September, i860, Director of the Meteorological and Astronomical Observatory of Stony hurst College. A four years’ cdufseof theology in preparation for ordination has been the chief interruption in his discharge of the duties of this office. He was elected a Fello w of the Royal So- . ciety in June, 1874, and has served for several years on the councils of the Astronomical and Meteorological Societies. He. is an honorary member of the Societe Scientifique de Bruxelles, and corresponding member of the Societe Geographique d’Anvers. In 1868 he undertook a magnetic survey of the West of France, in which he was assisted by the Rev. W. Sidgreaves, S. J., and in the following year the same work was done for the East of France. These two surveys formed the subject of two papers in the Philosophical Transactions. He was chosen as head of the Government Expedition sent to Cadiz to observe the total eclipse of the sun in December, 1870. In 1871 a magnetic survey of Belgium, similar to those undertaken in France, was made during the summer months, at the instance of the Government of Belgium. The results of this survey, and several other papers by. the same author on terrestrial magnetism, were published in the Philosophical Transactions, and in the Proceedings of the Royal Society. In 1874 he received his appointment from the Admiralty as chief of the expedition sent by the Government to Kerguelin Island, in the South Indian Ocean, to observe the transit of Venus. The Rev. W. Sidgreaves again accompanied him on this expedition, and, in addition to the astronomical work, a long series of magnetic observations were made on the island, and at numerous stations during the journey. These observations appeared in the Proceedings of the Royal Society. “Notes” of his “Voyage to Kerguelin” appeared in the Month, 1875-76. In 1882 the Government sent him to the Island of Madagascar for the same purpose. And he has now but just returned from the Island of Carriacou, whither he had been despatched as chief of the expedition engaged in observing the total solar eclipse.—Catholic Review.
ENGLISH AS SHE IS WROTE. '	’
The teacher, a lesson he taught; ' The preacher, a sermon he praught;
The stealer, he stole;
The heeler, he hole;
And the screecher, he awfully scraught.
The long-winded speaker, he spoke;
The poor office-seeker, he soke;
The runner, he ran; ■	; /
The dunner, he dan; ;	;
And the shrieker, most horribly shroke. ..
• The flyer, to Canada flew;
The buyer, on credit he bew; .	.
The doer, he did;	;	. .
The suer, he sid;	5	' ''"
And the liar (a fisherman), lew. .	'
The writer, this nonsense he wrote; ' The fighter (an editor), fote;	'
The swimmer, he swam;
The skimmer, he skam; ? V =. And the biter was hungry and bote.
—H. C. Dodge, in “ The Metropolitan"
224
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, December 4, 1886.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Twentieth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.50 far Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—Notice.—We are requested to announce that classes will continue up to the evening of Tuesday, Dec. 21. The authorities desire that no permission be asked to go home for the holidays before that date.
—The movement inaugurated by the Class of ’87 in the establishment of a Lecture Bureau is one that merits no slight commendation. A committee of the members of the Class has been appointed, who take it upon themselves to enter into correspondence with distinguished men and prominent lecturers throughout the country, with a view to securing their presence here at fixed intervals to address the students on great questions of the day, or on subjects of general interest and instruct-' iveness in matters pertaining to literature, art, science, history, politics, etc. The array of men now-prominent in public life, whose views on topics such as these would prove both profitable and entertaining, is large; but, of course, the selection will be made only after consultation with the Rev. President of the University, whose judgment will determine the choice of speakers.
This movement, if carried out as proposed, will, in addition to the regular Faculty lectures, prove of incalculable benefit to the student body in general, and inaugurate a feature which cannot but serve as an impetus in the pursuit of knowledge, while, at the same time, it aids in imparting a pleasing variety to the routine of college life. To carry out the plan successfully will necessarily entail great expense; but the members of the Class enter upon the work in, the confident assurance that they will meet with the earnest and,active co-operation, of their fellow-students. There are few amongst us who cannot realize what a profitable source of
instruction the accomplishment of this undertaking would prove, and we have reason to believe that the promoters of the enterprise will not fail to receive that practical support which will insure its success. We commend the work, and we earnestly hope the Class will go forward to its perfect realization. -
The Jubilee and the Retreat.
During the next few days all the Catholic students will be engaged in making the Tubilee in connection with the exercises of the Annual Retreat. It was God Himself who instituted the first Jubilees. He ordained in the Old Law that His chosen people celebrate a Jubilee every fiftieth year. During this time the land was to remain untilled, and even those fruits of the earth which grew without tillage, excepting only those for immediate use, were not to be gathered; those Hebrews who had become enslaved to their brethren were to be set free; all who had parted with the •land which they had inherited from their fathers were to recover their inheritance, and all debts were to be cancelled. Because of these benefits, the Jews were impressed with a keen sense of being in an especial manner under the providence of God; therefore they properly called the fiftieth year the year of Jubilee, or year of religious joy.
When this name of Jubilee was given to the Christian time of release from the punishment due to sin, that period, like the old Jewish Jubilee, came once every fifty years. It now returns to us more frequently, and every twenty-five years, or the occasion of some special promulgation of the Sovereign Pontiff, brings us what we rightly call the Jubilee year, for it ought to be to us all a time of joy and thanksgiving, releasing us, as it does, from the penalties which our sins have incurred. It is to be hoped, then, that all here will perform the pious exercises to which they devote a small portion of their recreation time until the prescribed visits shall have been made, and that the fruit of the devotion may remain with them.
The spiritual retreats, which last for three days among the students here, when made properly and with.the right spirit, are of great service to those who enter upon them. It is but right that we should make an offering to God of the works of the year before us, and beg for them the blessing of the Divine Hand. It is but following the advice of St. Paul to Timothy: “Take heed to thyself.” This is more especially the case with students, who should, some time in the first part of the scholastic year, consecrate to God’s honor the studies, and even the innocent pleasures, which may engage their time and attention. But they should not simply content themselves with this consecration during the retreat.- They should show through the year that the consecration was not for a day. They'should resolve.to do better, and then as the days pass by they should not let one depart without renewing.* the j offering of their all to God. ’ They will find that this offering of their lives to
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
God will act like a kind of alchemy and turn their everyday, simplest actions into the purest gold.
It will, then, be expected of all that they will enter upon the retreat with those dispositions which will enable them to make good use of the time thus spent, and that they will end it with such resolutions as will enable them to pass the year in benefiting their souls as well as their minds.
B.
The Minims’ Entertainment.
Last Tuesday, the 30th of November, was the anniversary of the first Mass celebrated at Notre Dame by.the venerable Father Founder, a few days after his arrival here, forty-four years ago. This grand act of religion, performed in the midst of a part of what was then known as the Northwestern wilds of Indiana, may well be looked upon as the real founding of Notre Dame; for the offering of the Holy Sacrifice on that last day of November, 1842, was accompanied by the offering, on the part of the zealous young missionary, of himself and his brave little band of relio-ious to a life-long- service in the cause of religion and education. Thus, the annual recurrence of an event so memorable in the annals of Notre Dame always presents an occasion of congratulation to the venerable Founder and a repetition of those wishes, that spring up in the hearts of all, that his supervision over this grand superstructure which he has reared may continue for many years to come.
The Sorin Association, established among the Minims, has always taken charge of the outward celebration of this day by a public exhibition; and on Tuesday afternoon, at half-past four o’clock, the students and members of the Faculty assembled in Washington Hall to witness the entertainment provided in honor of the venerable Founder and the great event commemorated. From the programme, printed in our local columns, it will be seen that the exercises were varied and interesting-. A beautiful poetic address of congratulation to Father General was read by Master F. Crotty. The address will be found on the first page of this paper, and its expressive thoughts and sentiments will be appreciated by all who read them. Master Crotty read his lines in a clear, well-modulated voice which, aided by appropriate gesture, gave an effectiveness to the sentiments such as to fix the attention of his hearers and place them more readily cn rafport with himself. It must be mentioned that he was attended by Masters C. Connor and C. Franche, whose presence showed the representation of the whole department in the utterances of the speaker.
On the conclusion of the address, the Orchestra rendered one of. Kucken’s exquisite little gems— “ Good Night: Farewell.” The music by the Orchestra was well given, and the same maybe said in general of the entire musical part of the programme. Prof. Kindig and Master R. Oxnard played Weber’s Gypsy music from “ Pretiosa,” arranged as a duo for. violin and piano. Of Prof.
Kindig, who is a master of his instrument—the violin—we need not speak. Master. Oxnard, played his difficult piano, part with correct and good.ex-pression. Mr. C. McFarland sang a solo, in which he showed himself the possessor of a fine tenor voice, meriting an encore. Mr. G. O’Kane, sang a bass-solo—“Lost on the Shoals,” by Church. His selection was well calculated to display the resources of-his deep voice; and how well his rendition was appreciated by his audience was shown in the hearty encore which he; received. These musical morceaux just mentioned were given at intervals during the exercises, and were pleasing and enjoyable features of the evening.	..
But the great event of the evening was the presentation of the drama of
“ The New Arts,” which was written by Father General himself, who designed thereby to impart, in an entertaining^ and impressive manner, general lessons of politeness and gentlemanly behavior. The, mainlfeat-ures of the drama are well portrayed in the Prologue, which was read by Master C. Mooney, who in his delivery showed a clear, ringing voice, well at his command, and accompanied by appropriate gesture. He spoke as follows:	.	.
The scenes of our play are not gushing, not tragic;
They show you no shooting, no drawn swords, no magic: No glittering bayonets, plotting and fighting;
No startling positions—vague, empty, exciting, .	.
And fitted to waken unmeasured applause
Among common people, whom such acting draws.
But our select audience, cultured, refined, Engaged in the work of developing mind,	'
Whose lives are devoted to true education, We trust will be pleased with our representation.
They will see graceful manner and calm self-possession, And scenes bright and piquant which carry a lesson : That may prove very useful in many a crisis, .	” ”
Which-in the life sojourn so often arises. .	.
Our Drama will prove that some people exist
Who cannot use properly ankle or wrist;	.	.
Who never suspect there is something to learn In such common things as to rise and to turn. .	. ‘ '
They never have dreamed, if the walk be complete, ' -A person must gracefully manage his feet, .	\	'
His knees, legs and spine. All one’s life one may walk Without knowing how: just as some people talk" Without knowing Grammar. To sit, stand, and bow, To eat, and the like, they think all men know how; : \ Such acts may be traced back to Adam and Eve, ..
In learning them now they can never believe; .	/
’Tis nonsense for one to pretend, so they say, To begin now to teach what was done the first day— -. Teach what has been practised for five thousand years—■ Such uncalled-for labor mere folly appears.	"
But to-night, honored audience, ’tis our design ' .y -.-" To prove that “New Arts” is an unexplored mine'; -' .L That there is. most clearly, a right and wrong way Of doing our actions: ’tis the aim of the play. * [- f Then, as the denouement so smoothly proceeds, - /	'
Each one, if attentive, may find what he,needs;	. J L
And, as Mr. John Smyth sa\s (most logically talking Will mark that ’tis true there is -calking and -.balking.' i
But why, in the rame of sound sense, we,implore,> Should any one, good, refined manners ignore? ?; y ’Tis as much a detect in a man’s education ; '	-
To awkwardly move.in his perambulation? ~ r As it is when he talks to use incorrect speech—
Are not rules of propriety, shunning their breech,.y ? f
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Important, in fact, as essential a part
-Of a good education as linguistic art?	.
Is false syntax worse than an impudent stare, Or an uncouth position on sofa or chair?
Is one who has finished his studies, complete If he cannot use rightly his hands and his feet? Does his “ A. B.” or “ A. M.” give honor to rank If for kindness received he knows not how to thank? By title alone is a man elevated;
Should he fail in decorum, he is not educated.
The question is asked in our Drama to-night What is even a scholar who is not polite? His claims on respect would be simply absurd If he be not at all times, in full sense of the word, A gentleman, graceful in personal bearing; His presence alone his refinement declaring.
An ill-mannered scholar—forgive the misnomer— Should go oft'by himself, with his Plutarch and Homer; Should be shut in a library, far out of sight, Away in a corner, says Professor Wright.
A courteous gentleman, one who is true, And punctiliously so in all things he may do, Makes friends. He must make them wherever he goes; His kind unobtrusiveness everywhere throws	.
A ioy, like the sunshine; while the uncouth, the rude, No matter how talented, learned and good, Repel all they meet. Mark the pleasant salute, A bow, or a word, the occasion to suit;
How they call forth the best in the hearts all around us; While the gruffinvite grufthess—sometimes to astound us. This side of the sea, and abroad o’er the wave, Politeness belongs to the noble, the brave:
To success ’tis the passport; but best commendation— ’Tis the safeguard, the seal of our civilization.
When Master Mooney concluded, the reading of the prologue, the curtain arose and the play began, proceeding without a hitch or break from beginning’ to end. All the various characters were assumed with a fidelity and earnestness which elicited the admiration of the audience. Especially in regard to those who took the leading roles the spirit with which they entered into their parts, the correctness with which their lines were read—in several instances embracing long speeches—their ease of movement and gracefulness of gesture surprised all present, while retaining their interest throughout the whole drama. Masters C. Mooney as “Mr. Wright,” J. Mclntosh as “John Smyth,” and F. Crotty as“ Master William ” are especially deserving of commendation for the manner in which they sustained their long and difficult roles. Masters R. Munro and W. Williamson as “Phyllis ” and “ Richards,” took their- parts well, and added to the interest of the play, as did also Masters R. Graham and J. Huiskamp as “J udge Fairbanks ” and “ Captain Jones.” The colored servants— Masters T. Mahon, A. Sullivan and F. Falvey— deserve creditable mention for the pleasing song with which they enlivened the opening, of the second act.
After the.play, the young performers presented a beautiful tableau depicting an incident in the life of St. Edward the .Confessor, and entitled “St. Edward Abolishing the Danegelt.” The names of those who . took part in the tableau are given in our “local ” columns.	.
With this the entertainment ended. Very Rev. Father General arose, and-after .-briefly expressing his pleasure and thanks,' called, upon Rev. President Walsh for a few remarks. Father Walsh
spoke at some length, complimenting the youthful members of the Society upon the manner in which they had presented their play, saying that “indeed the Sorins had covered themselves with glory,” and that many among their older fellow-students in the other departments might well learn a lesson as to how they should prepare for and carry out an entertainment. In particular, he spoke of the special lessons which the drama they had witnessed was well calculated to teach, that good manners, the politeness characteristic of the Christian gentleman, was one of those elements of an education which should especially be well and thoroughly learned. As was said in the play: “ A scholai-without politeness is fit only to be shut up in a library.” Rev. President Walsh concluded with expressing the pleasure all took in the exhibition, as well as the occasion which called it forth, and then invited the Rev. J. R. Dinnen, of Crawfordsville, an old student of Notre Dame, to address the students. Father Dinnen arose, and after endorsing all the compliments bestowed upon the Sorins, referred to the great event which the day recalled —the first Mass of the venerable Founder at Notre Dame. . He spoke of the significance of the anniversary, how it was the reminder of the rich and wonderful blessings which attended Father Sorin’s life-work since his first arrival, and concluded by wishing many happy returns, which, indeed, was but the echo of the feelings of all present. The audience then retired well pleased.
Books and. Periodicals.
.—Donahoe's Monthly Magazine commences its eighth year with the January issue. The leading article is a brief history of the Irish Element in the Southern Confederacy, including an original letter from Jefferson Davis (with a portrait). The Magazine contains one hundred large pages a month, making a volume of twelve hundred pages a year. Price, $2; $1 for six months. Address: Donahoe's Monthly -Magazine, Boston, Mass.
—The frontispiece of St. Nicholas for December is a charming Christmas picture by Reginald B. Birch, which illustrates an old-time Christmas poem by Helen Gray Cone, forming an appropriate opening for the number. Frances Hodgson Burnett’s new fairy tale, “ The Story of Prince Fairyfoot,” which begins in this number, is in an entirely different vein from “Little Lord Fauntleroy,” but is just as bright and amusing in its own way. There is also a short story, by J. D. Trowbridge, which is called “The Bamberry Boys and their Flock of Sheep,” which tells of a famous dog^trap; and Frank R. Stockton .contributes the first half of another of his entertaining shipwreck stories. It is entitled “A Fortunate Opening,” though he does not explain in this instalment what the fortunate opening was. The most striking feature of the number, however,*is the article on “How a Great'Battle-Panorama is Made.” It is written by Theodore R. Davis; who was interested in the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
227
production of one of these popular exhibitions, and it is copiously illustrated with sketches by the author, and with reproductions of photographs. The entire process of producing the marvellous effects obtained is described so as readily to be understood. There are also two good Christmas stories, a number of verses by popular writers, and a fine collection of illustrations.	•
—The leading feature of the December Century is the second part of the life of Lincoln, which deals with “Lincoln as Soldier, Lawyer and Politician,” and, together with what has been already printed, forms a sort of epitome of life in the Mississippi Valley down to 1S35. The characteristics of the future President are clearly distinguished in the young man—his humor, his pluck, his simplicity, his homely resources, above all, his devotion to principle. The style of the history is buoyant, spirited and entertaining, and shows a good sense of proportion and a carefulness that inspires confidence. The narrative is brought down to the close of Lin-coin’s “ pioneer period ” and into the first years of his legislative experience, including events which first gave him prominence as a legislator and a politican. The pictorial material which accompanies the text forms a valuable addition, including documents, portrait views of the home of Lincoln’s father, Lovejoy’s printing-office at Alton, an engraving after the cast of Lincoln’s hand made in i860, etc., etc. The opening articles are on Lincoln’s youthful idol, Henry Clay. His home at Ashland is described by C. W. Coleman, Jr., and reminiscences forming altogether a definite picture of the man are contributed by his friend, political opponent, and executor, J. O. Harrison, Esq. Three portraits of Clay are given: one from a daguerreotype printed as a frontispiece, one as a young man, from a miniature, the third being of himself and his wife, from a photograph. The other drawings, chiefly by Mr. Fenn, reproduce vividly the mansion at Ashland, its surroundings and mementos. The art paper of the number is the first of several short articles on “ Contemporary French Sculpture”’ the critical text by Mr. D. C. Brownell, devoted this month to the work of Chapu and Dubois, the former being represented in the illustrations by his “ La Jeunesse,” from the Regnault monument,and by his “ Jeanne d’Arc” ; the latter by his “Military Courage,” from the tomb of Lemoriciere, and by his “ Infant St. John.” . —In the Catholic World for December the Rev. A. F. He wit resumes the discussion of “Scriptural Questions” which formed so prominent a feature of the magazine about two years ago, and which, by their full, clear treatment of great questions of science in their real, relation to the revealed Word, were instructive and entertaining. The writer says that “he had no intention of continning the discussion of the topics treated in these articles any further when the fourth and last article- was published.” But the perusal of some scientific works published since that time “ has suggested the idea of the present serie-;, with a view to supplement and complete, in respect to a few topics, the exposition partially made in the first
series.” The article in the present number considers thefollowingpoints: “ The Nebular Theory; The Hypothesis of Laplace; Rectified Nebular Hypothesis of M. Faye; Nebular Theory in its Relation to Natural Theology.” The following quotation, from the work of M. Faye, may be, noted as showing how true science may be preserved in its proper sphere and exist in perfect reconciliation with the truths of revelation:
“ We contemplate, we know at least in respect to its immediately apprehensible form, this world, which itself knows nothing. Thus there is something other than terrestrial objects, other than our own body, other than the splendid stars; there is intelligence and thought. And since our intelligence has not male itself* there must exist in the world a superior Intelligence from which our own is derived. Therefore, the greater the idea one forms of this Supreme Intelligence the nearer will it approach to the truth. We run no risk of deception in regarding this Intelligence as the Author of all things, in referring to it those splendors of the heavens which have awakened our thought, in believing that we are not alien or indifferent to Him, and, in fine, we are altogether ready to accept, understanding!}-, the traditional formula: God the Father Almighty, Creator of Heaven and Earth.	.
“ As to denying God, this is as if one should let himself fall heavily from these heights upon the ground. These stars, these wonders of nature, that they should be the effect of chance! That our intelligence should be from matter which set itself spontaneously to thinking! Man would then become an animal like others; like them he would play for good or ill the game of this life without an object, and end like them after fulfilling the functions of nutrition and reproduction!
“ It is false that science has ever by its own movement arrived at this negation ....	.
u This is what I had to say of God, whose works it belongs to science to examine.”
Father Hewit concludes his able, paper as folio ws :	-
“ We have found, as the first and necessary conditions to the beginning of this process, an immense mass of primary matterand inconceivably powerful impulses of motive force. . Every atom of this matter, in the words of an eminent scientist, bears the marks of a ‘manufactured article’ This is true of the minutest molecule of the simplestgas-eous substance. What shall we say, then, of that variety of chemical composition necessary to a nebulous mass which is destined to condense into more or less solid spheres? Then when we consider how powerful and how regulated must have been the forces which drove the separated nebulous masses into vast distances from each other, when we consider how these forces developed in our world and in other worlds into interior lorces, acting so variously and producing such various results, what must .we conclude? Rational thinking must lead us up to the First Cause, the Supreme Intelligence and Power, which has created and which governs all for a wise and good end. The nebular theory is in perfect accord with the dictates of natural, rational theology.”
The other articles in the number are: “The ' True Man of the Times,” by Rev. Walter Elliott; “ Constantine at Constantinople,” by Aubrey De Vere; “Is the Negro Problem Becoming/Local?” by Rev. John R. Slattery; “The Cosmogony and . Its Critics,” by W. Marsha tn Adams; “A Fair Emigrant—Chaps. XI—X-III,” by Rosa -Mulholland; “ Tn the Soudan,” by M. B. M.; “ Has Rome , Jurisdiction?” by Rev. Arthur H. Cullen;“ The . Shoneen,” by Edward Moran; “.The Eight Hour Law,” by Rev. J. T. Smith; “A Chat About New Books,” by Maurice F.; Egan; “ A Summer in Rhenish Prussia,” by F. W. GreyA Few More .. . Words with Contributors.”	. ; . .
228
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Personal.
—John Moffitt, ’59, is connected with the Editorial Staff of the Chicago Inter-Ocean.
—Rev. John R. Dinnen, ’66, of Crawfordsville, Ind., was among the welcome visitors to the College during the week.
—John H. Condon’s (Law,’86) many friends at Notre Dame are pleased to learn of his.recent election as Justice of the Peace in Ashtabula, 0., an office which there pays about $1,300 annually.
—Very Rev. Provincial Corby returned on Thursday evening from Milwaukee, where he had been conducting a mission. He will preach the retreatfor the students, beginning Sunday evening.
—Mr. Paul Krueper, of ’75, and Miss Josephine Senrick were married on Tuesday, the 23d ult., in St. Joseph’s Church, South Bend, Ind.,in which church Paul has filled the important office of organist and leader of the choir for the last seven years. May happiness attend them in their newly-formed union!
—Charles R. Harris (Com’l, ’66, and a graduate of last vear’s Shorthand and Typewriting classes at the College) has emigrated from Lewiston, Ill., and is now stenographer-in-chief to the large wholesale house of Kohn Brothers, corner of Market and Monroe Streets, Chicago, where he will be glad to see any of his old friends and classmates.
—W. P. Dickerson, of ’76, is now the efficient Manager of the “ Courant ” Company, of Cincinnati, O., which has recently begun the publication of a monthly journal—“ The Courant.” This new venture in the journalistic field gives evidence of able editing and careful management in the fulfilment of its object as devoted to Literature and Insurance.
—Rev. A. M. Kirsch, Professor of Natural Sciences at Notre Dame, delivered an interesting lecture last evening on. the subject of “ Scenes from Geology,” before the Catholic Central Temperance Association at their rooms over the St. Joseph Count}’ Savings Bank. The attendance was good, and the lecture highly enjoyed.—South Bend Tribune, Nov. 2g.	.
—Among the visitors during the past week were: Mrs. Ramsey, Crawfordsville, Ind.; the Misses Mattie.B. Connors, Maggie M. Graham and Annie Shaughnessy, Mr. David B. Falter, Mr. Oswald Kutsche, Mrs. D. Thornton, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. Dr. Rowsey and daughter, Toledo, Ohio; Wm. E. Smith, Columbus, Ohio; Mr. M. W.Egan and daughters, Independence, Iowa, •	-
—We extend our sincere sympathy to Messrs. Milton V. Bulla, of ’65, .and Thomas Bulla, of ’67, in.their recent bereavement by the death of their father, Mr. T. P. Bulla, which sad event occurred at the family residence in South Bend, on the 1st inst. The deceased had for thirty or more years, up to the year 186S, followed..the. occupation of a farmer near Notre Dame, and educated his sons at the Uni-Jversity. - He was well'known.and. respected as a
'. ' ' ’ \ ‘ ' - - - ' '
good man and citizen, and his demise is mourned by a large circle of friends.
—Mr. W. E. Smith, the energetic agent of the Catholic Columbian, of Columbus, O., was a wel- ' come visitor to the University last week'. Like the majority of those making their first visit to Notre Dame, he was greatly surprised by the extent and completeness of the various departments. In the Printing Office he found many devices and improvements worth noting. We are pleased to learn that the Columbian is everywhere receiving the substantial indorsement which its able and enterprising managers well deserve. Mr. Smith reports large and constant additions to its lists.
Local Items.
—Pheasants!
. —Five below zero!
—Snow -pro maloney I
— The “open winter” will see us later.
' —Old Jack Frost is happy at something.
—Who says that navigation is not closed ?
—No competitions will be held next week.
—The Sorins covered themselves with glory.
—Who had the first sleigh-ride of the season?
—Bulletins for November have been made out.
—The “ Gyms.” are well patronized these days.
—The “Doctor” is of a very inquisitive turn of mind.
—A “yaller” tea and general wassail by Bec. last night.
—There are indications that the skating will be good this season.
—Patience on a monument—he who waiteth for the Boat-Club banquet. .
—Buy your skates. Brother Leopold has a new consignment of the most popular brands.
—The “ boss ” thermometer registered 50 below zero last Thursday morning. Winter has come.
—We are pleased to state that Prof. Ackerman, who was ill for some weeks, is now rapidly recovering.	.
. © - -
—Heavy showers of chestnuts have fallen in these regions. No harm done to the sprouting ideas, however. ;
—For a newsy paper and a loyal college organ', we refer all to the Notre Dame Scholastic, —so says the Concordiensis.
—A complete indoor view of the present state of the weather, consoling synopsis of the approaching winter, may be had at the tailor-shop.
—There will, be a grand dress, parade of the Senior company of the -Hoynes’ Light Guards to-morrow evening. All are invited to attend.
—The Indian Club exercises by. the classes in the “Gym” are worth seeing. We hope our athletes.will give a.public exhibition some time in the near future. - , .	■ \
—-The presence of the genial Professor last
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Thursday morning caused much surprise; but extended inquiries brought to light the fact that the train for Chicago was 2j^ hours late.
—The programmes for the Sorins’ entertainment were issued from the Scholastic press, and were elegant specimens of neat and artistic printing. They were admired by all present.
—At the seventh regular meeting of the St. Stan-islaus’ Philopatrian Society, the following took part in the exercises: Masters L. Monarch, T.Tal-liaferro, J. McIntosh, E. Berry, F. Cobbs and I. Bunker.
—The annual retreat will begin to-morrow (Sunday) evening and close on the morning of Wednesday, the Feast of the Immaculate Concep--tion. The sermons will be preached by Very Rev. W. Corby, Provincial, C. S. C.
—They say that this skirmish took place between a Soph, and the ticket agent: “ Hurry up, sir, one ticket for Chicago 1 ”—“What class? ” asked the agent.—“Sophomore, sir, Sophomore!” answered the Soph., with a noticeable swelling of the bosom.
—Several individuals started to go out hunting last Thursday. They got as far as the door, and immediately retreated with a sort of consternation, and hung themselves over their steam-pipes for the rest of the day. They’re going to try it again next Friday.
—Preparations are being made to make St. Joseph’s Place very attractive during the coming Spring. It has been suggested that the windows of all the buildings facing the Place should be or-namented with boxes filled with choice flowers and hanging plants.
—Through the exertions of Brother Marcellus, a fine lot of house plants has been grouped in artistic masses about the lovely statue of Our Lady of Lourdes in the Juniors’ study-hall. Several hanging baskets of variegated foliage have been placed in the windows.
—The eighth regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held on the evening of Wednesday, Nov. 24. The criticism^on the exercises of the previous meeting was delivered by Master C. Spencer. Essays were read by Masters M. O’Kane and W. Welch.
—We desire to have a good collection of short articles for a Christmas number of the Scholastic. We won’t make any fuss over the matter, but we hope to receive ma'ny assurances of literary aid before the end of next week. ■ OuT “ box ” is open for communications on the subject.
—The members of the Crescent Club held a very enjoyable sociable in the Juniors’ reception rooms last Saturday evening. Messrs. L. Preston, L. Smith and J. D. Henry acted as masters of ceremonies. Everything passed off very pleasantly, and s the singing of a rousing chorus concluded the even-ing’s entertainment.
—We were mistaken in the cause of the death of the three jokes that died in our sanctum last week. The atmosphere, being rather fresh, was uncon
genial, but did hot bring about their demise. The 'post mortem examination showed that, in the case. ’ of two, old age, and, in the case of the third,a dose of laudanum were the causes.
—The Grads’ rooms are being newly appointed. . Their favorite kink in decorations might be loosely \ called the renaissance, a charming mixture of, ?’ stained-glass windows, delicately tinted upholstery, ”</ and open lattice work. The zz/Zra-assthetic Room 60 has even, introduced the luxurious and expen- ' sive tapestry instead of wall paper.	.	?
—The Total Abstinence meeting, last Sunday -evening, was one of the most successful field by the local organizations. Several new members were admitted, and a well-written paper was read by Mr. C. J. Stubbs, of Galveston, Texas. Rev. J President Walsh delivered an address replete with common-sense ideas, and one that we would like to see brought to the notice of every young man in the country.
—Prof. Lyons has published in book form and has ready for sale the. new and popular story en- . titled “Midshipman Bob,” which created.such- a furore among the youthful readers of the 'Ave Maria whilst being published in serial form in the pages of that journal. We shall give next week'/ a more extended notice of this, the best and most popular story for the young which has been issued of late years.	<
—The boys who took the characters in the tableau, “St. Ed ward Abolishingthe Danegelt,”which. formed the beautiful conclusion to the Sorins’ entertainment on Tuesday evening, were: Masters Jewett, Rowsey, Gale, Dahler, Clendenin, Paul, Savage, Doss, O’Neill, McPhee, Grants Blumenthal, Bloomhuff, Priestly, Quill, O’Mara,?. Dempsey, Foote, Koester, Boettcher, Lowenstein, . Cook, Kutsche, Stone, Klaner, Mainzer, A. Morgen week, Taft, Dungan and Steele.
—The Director of the Historical Department / acknowledges, with gratitude, the receipt of ; the ? following contributions: Life of Father Barbelin,' . of Philadelphia, presented by a friend; History of St. Mary’s Parish, Lancaster, Pa., presented by the’-. writer, Mr. S. M. Sener; Portrait of Mother Jerome, presented by Sister Maria; The old State . House Memorial; Re-dedication of the old State . House, Boston, July, 1882, presented by Mn J. G. Fennessy, of Boston; Five large.boxes.contain-... ing select clippings from the New York and.. Boston papers, one box containing articles about Major General Shields, General Sherman and others, presented by E. R., of New York. : Linton’s Historical Charts for the XV, XVI, XVII,? XVIII, XIX centuries, presented by Rev; TYE'*. -Walsh. Chamber’s Year Book, 2 vols., presented. : by Elmer Berry, of Denver. Marble Bible, pre-J. sented by Master McKendry, of the J union depart- . . ment. Old coin, presented by Master Coad.
Epitaphs of the Catacombs, presented byJ.Da- . venport, of Cleveland.	.	f ■
—A public rehearsal of,the music for the ap- • proaching grand soiree was given last Sunday V . evening in the college parlors. A selectJind/criti-?^
23°
THL NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
cal audience was present, who bestowed no small amount of praise on the pieces rendered by the Orchestra, as well as the various instrumental and vocal selections prepared for a delightful entertainment. Little defects will be remedied, and, if nothing untoward happens before, the soiree will be one of the great events of the year.
—The life-size portrait of the late Bishop Rappe, of Clinton, Ohio, which has been placed in the Bishops’ Gallery, is from the brush of Mr. William Machen, a well-known artist of Detroit. Bishop Rappe was a life-long friend of Notre Dame, and he visited here many times, notably on the occasion of the consecration of the old college buildings, in 1866. The consecration and the Festival of Corpus Christi came together, and all who saw the saintly old Bishop when he carried the Blessed Sacrament in solemn procession around the lakes still remember the ecstatic expression which suffused his venerable countenance on that solemn occasion. Mr. Machen has received an order to paint life-size portraits of the first Bishop of Detroit, Mgr. Reze and his coadjutor, Mgr. Lefevre, who was administrator of the diocese.
—A celebration in honor of the Forty-Fourth Anniversary of Very Rev. Father General Sorin’s First Mass at Notre Dame was given by the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association in Washington Hall, last Tuesday evening. The following is the
PROGRAMME:
To cultivate, to train, to develop, to strengthen and polish all the physical, intellectual, moral and religious qualities which, in a child, constitute the nature and dignity of man, .... such is the mission of Education.”—Mgr. Dupanlonp. Music (“ Good Night: Farewell ”!—Klieken).... Orchestra Address.............F.	Crotty, C. Connor, C. Franche
Overture (Gypsy Music from “Pretiosa”—Weber)
...........................'..........................Prof. Kindig, R. Oxnard . Prologue...................C.	Mooney
Tenor—Solo—(Dreams)................G. McFarland
“NEW ARTS,”
A DRAMA IN THREE ACTS, Written by the Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., SuperiorGeneral, for the benefit of the students.
Dramatis Persona.
Master William (a smart, lively youth).....F.	Crotty
Mr. John Smyth (a student of the Graduating Class) .........................................J.	McIntosh
ME Wright (Prof, of Philosophy, an accomplished scholar, and a gentleman)..............   C.	Mooney
Judge Fairbanks (a rich banker of the East). — R. Graham
Capt. Jones (a friend of Prof. Wright’s) Master Richards (a boy full of fun)....
.. .J. Huiskamp W. Williamson
Master Phyllis (an exceptionally polite boy).
Master Edward J “ Charles | “ Louis I “ Otto f “. Francis |
.. R. Munro
H. Mooney
R. Lane
E. Garber
T. Tomkins
F. Smith
R. Boyd
Committee of the -Reception.
Joseph J
Mr.- Wright’s colored servants, Sam, Ben and Joe,
T. Mahon, A. Sullivan, F. Falvey _	'	A. Mayer
G. Foote
A. Williamson ■ W. McDonnell . H. Tillenburg E. Cook F. Toolen Church)...G. O’Kane
Harvey and Co., Country Boys, honest, but no great specimens* of refined habits.	\
Bass-Solo—(“ Lost on the Shoals ”—
Tableau.
“ St. Edward Abolishing the Danegelt.” Grand March for Retiring..............N.	D. U. C. B.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. M. Akin, Ashton, Aubrey, Becerra, Britt, Burke, C. Bowles, Baca, Barnes, Benner, Bush, Barrett, Colina, Crane, Craig, W. Crowley, Cusack, W. Cartier, C. Combe, Cooper, Craft, Cullen, Cassidy, S. Dorsey, Dore, Deary, Dillon, Dreever, Dierdorft] Dickenson, Eyanson, Ensor, Finckh, Ford, Fry, Gallardo, Gordon, Gieseler, Gibbs, Griffin, Houck, Hinchman, Hummer, Hagerty, Howard, Judie, Jeffs, J. Kleiber, F. Kreutzer, Ley, J. Langan,. H.'Langan, Lais, Leonard, Latshaw, H. Long, T. McDermott, G. Morrison, Marx, McAlister, J. McDermott, "Murphy, McGinnis, Mallay, Mulkern, V. Morrison, McSweeney, McNamara, L. Meagher, Myers, Noonan, Newell, Neill, Neff, Nelson, O’Connor, O’Rourke, O’Regan, O’Connell, O’Kane, L. O’Malley, Padilla, P. Prudhomme, J. Prudhomme, E. Prudhomme, Paschel, Prichard, Ryan, Rothert, Rodriguez, Regan, Ruger, Stattmann, Suing. W. Sullivan, O. Sullivan, Shields, Smith, Strasser, Triplett, Taylor, White, Werst, Wagoner, W. Williams, Whalen, Zeitler, Zaehnle, Hiner.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger, Austin, Adams, Anderson, H. Bronson, Blessington, Bodley, Badger, Bunker, Bell, Bull, Bra-brook, W. Boland, Baca, H. Boland, Burns, Bacigalupo, S. Campbell, E. Campbell, J. Clarke, B. Clarke, Cleveland, Carney, Cavanagh, Clifford, Cobbs, Casey, Cooney, Coad, L. Chute, F.' Chute, Curtis, Cartier, G. Cooke, Duffield, Decker, Devine, E. Doss, Draper, Dempsey, Darragh, Dunford, Ewing, Fitzharris, Falter, J. Flynn, Flood, Fisher, F. Flynn, Galarneau, Goebel, Garber, Glenn, Houston, Hoffman, J. Henry, Houlihan, Hart, Hurd, T. Hake, A. Hake, Hannin, Hayes, Hampton, Hoye, Higgins, Hustis, Inks, R. Inderrieden, Jewett, Joyce, Jacobs Julian, W. Konzen, Katz, Kern, Kellner, Keating, Lesh, Landenwich, Luther, Long, Monarch, McKenzie, McCart, Mathewson, McMahon, J. McCormick, W. McCormick, Mallay, Macatee, McPhee, Moncada, McNulty, Morrison, Meehan, Nations, Noud, Ormond, O’Brien, O’Connor, M. O’Kane, O’Shea, Pfau, L. Paquette, C. Paquette, Preston, Power, Roper, Redlich, Ramsey, Reynolds, Sweet, J. Stephens, B. Stephens, N. Smith, F. Smith, M. Smith, Spencer, Steele, Taliaferro, Tarrant, Vhay, Warner, Wilbanks, L. West, Walker, Walsh, Weldon.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Boyd, Bloomhufij Blumenthal, Boettcher, Black, A. Backrack, H. Backrack, S. Backrack, Clendenin, Cohn, Crotty, W. Connor, C. Connor, Cooke, J. Conners, E. Conners, Doss, J. Dungan, L. Dempsey, J. Dempsey, Dahler, Jas. Dungan, Foote, T. Falvey, F. Falvey, E. Falvey, G. Franche, C. Franche, Gale, Grant, Garber, Griffin, Graham H. Huiskamp, J. Huiskamp, Haney, Hillas, Jewett, Kutsche, Koester, Keefe, Kain, Klaner, Kerwin, Kraber, Lowenstein, Lane, Lewin, McIntosh, McDonnell, Martin, C. Mooney, H. Mooney, Munro, A. Mayer, G. Mayer, McPhee, Mahon, Mason, A Morgenweck, Main-zer, Nester, O’Mara, O’Neill, Prior, Paul, Priestly, Quill, Riordan, Rowsey, Rogers, Savage, Sweet, Smith, Stone, Steele, Sullivan, F Toolen, Tompkins, F. Toolen, Tillenburg, Triplett, Taft, A. Williamson, W; Williamson, Wit-kowsky, Weckler.	•
. Class Honors.
[In the following list may be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their ■ classes during the month past.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
J. Henry, P. Sweet, E. Campbell. L. Hoffman, A. Cleveland, R. Nations, S. Nations, E. Kerlin, F. Wilbanks, J.
THZ NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	lit
o -
Ormond, F. Carney, R.-Bronson, II. Jewett, L. West, P. Houlihan, F. Duffield, 21. Fitzharris, H. Roper, T. Mahon, J. O’Connor, W. Bell, A. Galarneau, T. Noud, N. Smith, C. Hurd, C. Cavanagh, C. Badger, M. McCart, /I. Hake, ,T. Flood, L. Paquette, F. Cobbs, J Hampton, J. Keating, C. Paquette, T. Taliaferro, A. Kutsche, F. Smith, J. McMahon, J. McCormick, C. Landenwich, J Ford, F. Baca, F. Flynn, C. Inderrieden, J Moncada, A. McNulty, B. Stephens, H. Boland, W. Walsh, M. O’Kane, W. Julian, W. Power, L. Bacigalupo, G. Tarrant, J. Dickenson, G-Meehan, E. Glenn, B. Tionen, A. Schloss, A. Eisenhauer, S. Kendall, G. Morrison, B. McAlister, J. McDermott, T. O’Regan, L. Prichard, E. Prudhomme, P. Paschel, E. Rodriguez, 21. Triplett, F. 21shton, T. McDermott, B. Taylor, G. Sullivan, S. Hummer, G. Mallay, A. Leonard, E. Howard, H. Barnes, E. Dillon, W. Jeffs, T. Griffin, H. Ruger, L. O’Mallay, T. Dierdorff, D. Barrett, J. Whelan, H. Hull, M. White, D. Strasser, J. Kelly, F. 21shton, N. Jacobs, H. Bronson.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
F. Crotty, J. McIntosh, C. Mooney, W. Martin, R. Graham, H. Huiskamp, E. Jewett, C. Priestly, A. Sullivan, L-Riordan, R. Munro, J. Connor, J. O’Mara, R. Boyd, F. Rogers, C. Boettcher, T. Tomkins, W. Williamson, W. McDonald, S. Backrack, H. Backrack, C. Franche, F. Fal-vey, E. Connors, G. Gale, G. Sweet, M. Blumenthal, L. Black, H. Mooney, F. Mainzey F. Bloomhuff, L. Doss, 21. Backrack, L. Paul, J. Huiskamp, J. Dempsey, L. Stone.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the courses named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Latin,—S. Hummer, M. O’Kane, T. McDermott, C. Hagerty; Greek—C. Neill, P. Wagoner, L. Bolton, Barrett, V. Morrison; 211gebra—C. Neill, W. McPhee, G. Myers, F. Long, C. West, P. Paschel, E. Hannin, L. White, G. Moirison, A. Ensor; Arithmetic—H. Boland, B. Tionen, L. Bacigalupo, J. Henry, B. Stephens, C. Paquette, W. Power, J. Duffield, J. Ormond, J. Kellner, A. Katz; Grammar—J. Clarke, L. Dunning, A. Hake, B. Stephens, W. McCormick, F. Duffield, L. Hoffman, R. Anderson, F. Flynn, J. Badger, R. Bronson, H. Bronson, S. Campbell, G. Sullivan, S. Hummer, E. Leonard; Catechism—P. Sweet, D. Stephens, W. O’Brien, H. Houstan, G. Landenwich, J. McIntosh, B. O’Kane, J. McNulty, ,C. Paquette, W. Walsh, J. Quealey, P. Houlihan; Geography—B. Stephens, G. Landenwich, F. Wilbanks, F. Carney, F. Duffield, H. Bell; United States History—F. Wilbanks, F. Dunford, J. McCormick, W. Boland, G. Landenwich; Reading—R. McGinnis, D. Strasser, A. Kutsche, P. Houlihan, A. Schloss, J. Badger, J. McCormick; Orthography—D. Strasser, A. Katz, J. McCormick, J. Badger, J. Hampton, F. Duffield, 2k. Galarneau
SPECIAL BRANCHES.
German—T. Regan, J. Pfau, J. Henry, M. O’Malley; French—C. West, H. Boland; Phonography—H. Long,.T. Flood, A 2\dams, H. Smith, 2\. Hoye, G. Myers, I. Bunker, W. Austin, A. Cooper, L. Chute, E. Dillon, E. Adels-perger; Elocution—D. Latshaw, C. Stubbs, E. Darragh, J.Kleiber, M. Mulkern, G. Sullivan, T. O’Regan, W. Henry, F. Cobbs, W. McPhee, M. Dore, E. Berry, J. Cusack, W. Devine, L. Lahey, H. Mallay, C- Bowles, G. Houck, Martineau, P. Paschel.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
/krithmetic—R. Graham, E. Jewett, L. Riordan, R. Boyd, F. Rogers, J. McIntosh, M. Lowenstein, O. Griffin, W. Kutsche, E. Savage, 2\. Cohn, F. Smith; Grammar—F. Crotty, Falvey, C. Boettcher, R. Graham, Huiskamp, W. Williamson, C. Priestly, E. Jewett; Reading—H. Mooney, L. Stone, C. Connor, J. Dempsey, J. O’Neill, C. Grant, O. Haney, C. Taft, W. Connor, S. Witkowsky; S. Steele, C. McPhee; Penmanship—B. Triplett, F. Toolen, J. Mahon.
Saint JHary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The Roman mosaic cross was drawn for by the Misses T. Balch, Boyer, Bruus, E. Dempsey, G. Garrity, Hake, Hinz, M. H uniting, Knauer, Leonard, McEwen, N. Morse, C. Prudhomme, Rogers and Stapleton. It was won by Grace Garrity.	•
—Among the visitors during the week were: Rev. Michael Sheehan, Dubuque, Iowa; Mrs. M. Stumer, Mrs. P. Rend, Miss M. Scully, Mrs. P. Cavanagh, S. Stafford, John Murphy, Mrs. M. Hamburger, Mrs. G. Myers, Mrs. P. L. Garrity, Chicago, Ill.; H. Williams, Benton Arbor, Mich.'; Miss Rena Dezenberg, Lauton, Mich.; Mrs. Sherman, Cold Water, Mich.; S. Ramsey, Crawfordsville, Ind.; Mr. Jacob Wile, Laporte, Ind.; Mrs. Killen, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Wm. E. Smith, Columbus, Ohio; Mrs. W. Egan and daughter, Independence, Iowa; Mrs. E. Balch, Omaha, Nebraska.
—The following is a list of the beautiful stereoscopic views of Ireland given at St. Mary’s by Rev. Father Zahm, on Thursday evening: Ross • Castle, Killarney; Bridge, Killarney; Tore Cascade, Killarney; The Meeting of the Waters, Wicklow; Glena Cottage, Killarney; On the Kenmare Road, Killarney; Cascade, Killarney; Mtick-ross House, the seat of Colonel Herbert; The Boyne Viaduct at Drogheda; Warrenpoint Harbor, Co. Armagh; Armagh, Showing Cathedral; Shane’s Castle, Co. Antrim; Garron Tower, Co. Antrim; Antrim Castle; Carrickfergus Castle, Co. Antrim; On the Coast of Antrim,. Fair Head; Luce Castle, Co. Antrim; The Rope Bridge, Car-. , rick-a-Rede; The Causeway Castle, Giant’s Causeway; Barnesmore Gap, Co.Donegal; Crees-lough, Cd. Donegal; Franciscan Abbey Ruins, Donegal; At Buncrana, Co. Donegal; Donegal Castle; Tully old Castle, Lough Erne;Ruins on Devenish Island; Holy Well of Tubeenaltha; The Fish Market, Galway; A Galway Mail Car; The Spa Well, Lisdoonvarna, Co. Clare; Fishing .Vil-lage, Scattery Island; Church Ruins, Scattery Island; Warrenpoint, Co. Down; Glengariff Waterfall, Co. Cork; The Mardyke Walk, Cork; Blackrock Castle, on the Lee, Cork;-Shandon and Blackpool, Cork; South Mall, Cork; Patrick’s Bridge, Cork; Patrick’s Street, Cork; Holy Cross ; Abbey, Co. Tipperary; Reginald’s Tower, Waterford; Waterford, from the railway station; Johnstown Castle, Wexford; Abbey, Wexford; Ferry Carrig Bridge, Wexford; Wexford from .Ferry-.bank; Picture Gallery,. Kilkenny Castle; St. .	'
Camice’s Cathedral, Kilkenny; Kilkenny, (Bird’s eye view); Poolaphuca Waterfall, Co. Wicklow; Lion Arch, Castle Howard, Vale of Avoca; Glen-malure, Co. Wicklow; Enniskerry,.Co. Wicklow;
In the Valley of Glendalough, Co. Wicklow.; JThe ;
*
THE frOTtiE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Scalp, Co. Wicklow; View on the Dodder, near Dublin; Powerscourt Waterfall, Co. Wicklow; St. Patrick’s Cathedral, Dublin; Christ Church Cathedral, Dublin; The Castle Yard, Dublin; Trinity College, Dublin; Sackville Street, Dublin; The Post Office and Nelson’s Pillar, Dublin; Stephen’s Gieen, Dublin; At Kingston, Ireland; King John’s Castle, Limerick; George’s Street, Limerick; Killaloe, on the Shannon; Rapids of the Shannon at Castleconnell; Lake, Connemara; In the pass of Kylemore; The Killeries Bay, Connemara; Church Ruins, Scattery Island; The Vale of Avoca, Co. Wicklow; The Treaty Stone, Limerick; In the Valley of Glendalough, Wicklow; Ruins of St. Mary’s Abbey, Howth; The Ruins of the Seven Churches; Rustic Bridge Denis, Killarney; Killiney and Vale of Shanganach; Kissing the Blarney Stone; Rock of Cashel, Co. Tipperary; Askeaton Abbey; The Wishing Chair, Giant’s Causeway; The Abbey, Doodway, Co. Galway; The Holy Well of Doon, Co. Donegal; Howth Head and Ireland’s eye, Dublin; Middle Lake, Killarney.	’
Congratulatory Address.
(Read by Miss Donnelly on the Feast of St. Andrew, the forty-fourth anniversary of the first Mass celebrated by Very Rev. Father General Sorin at Notre Dame.)
This anniversary, from year to year,
Grows unto grateful hearts more loved, more dear, Since it commemorates the great event
Which gave this nook, where happy years are spent By hundreds, aye by thousands, to your care, And made this broad domain so sweet, so fair.
Yes, Notre Dame, St. Mary’s count their birth ■ From that glad morn, when, on the frosty earth,
—Where now the College rears its lofty dome— Our Lord first made His Eucharistic home.
A touching scene that morning came to pass, Dear Father, when you celebrated Mass In a log hovel, with the earth for floor, • And the cold snow-storm driving through the door;
Yet this was but the first step in a life With toils and countless deprivations rife, Which generous hearts in prayers enumerate On each recurrence of the glorious date.
We, as recipients of the boundless grace That day inaugurated in this place, Beg leave to thank you from our inmost souls ' For all that to fond memory’s eye unfolds, Of blissful, grand results, which took their rise From that blest morning’s Holy Sacrifice.
Dear Father, may St. Andrew ratify
That which his loving heart could not deny To Holy Cross; to her first zealous priest, So long ago, upon his happy feast!
We wish you heartfelt joy on this return, Dear Father, and our grateful spirits yearn To see your every enterprise succeed;
For greatly stands our nation in the need
Of such success. God grant you health and strength To guide them to the crowning point at length;
For generations yet unborn will bless '
The steadfast faith which earns your high success.
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND EXACT OBSERVANCE OF '	ACADEMIC RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Allnoch, Brady, Blaine, Blair, Barry, Bates. Brophy, Burke, Blacklock, Beschameng, Blakeslee, Clendenen, Curtis, E. Coll, Coglin, Dillon, Donnelly, M. Duffield, H. Dempsey, C. Dempsey; Dart, De-zenberg, E. Dunkin, M. Dunkin, Egan, Ewing, Fuller, Foin, Flannery, Griffith, Gavan, Griffin, B. Garrity, Horn, Hummer, Heckard, Hertzog, Harlem, Hodges, Henke, M. Hutchinson, L. Hutchinson, Kearsey, Kearney, Kearns, Kennedy, Larkin, Lingle, McHale, H. Miner, A. Miner, L. Meehan, N. Meehan, Morse, M. McNamara, C. McNamara, C. McCormic, Marsh, Moore, McCarthy, Moran, Negley, Patrick, Pierson, Proby, G. Regan, Riedinger, Rend, E. Regan, Scully, St. Clair, Shephard, Snowhook, Stadtler, Shields, R. Smith, M. Smith, Swegman, Stafford, Steele, Stocksdale, Sherman, Trask, Triplett, Thompson, Wolvin, G. Wynn, F. Wynn, Wehr, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTAIENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Blaine, Boyer, Bragdon, Bruus, Crane, Coll, Dempsey, Griffith, Garrity, Hake, Heyman, Huntting, Kennedy, Knauer, Leonard, Lindsey, Mason, McDonnell, Morse, Prudhomme, Rogers, Steele, Stapleton.
MINIM DEPART.MENT.
Par Excellence—Misses M. Becker, I. Becker, Caddagan, McCormic, A. Dinnin, O’Mara, Qualey. 2d Tablet—Misses Pugsley, Wallace.
Class Honors.
Language Course.
Latin.
Miss Blaine.
German.
ist Class—Miss E. Horn.
2D Class—Misses I. Bub, B. Kearney, A. Donnelly, L. Trask, L. Clendenen, L. Henke, A. Beschameng.
3d Class—Misses O. Knauer, M. Hummer, M. Blair, T. Hinz, F. Moore, F. Carmien, L. Bruus.
4TH Class—Misses M. Smith, E. Balch, E. Dart, E. Allnoch, E. Qualey, H. Rose, B. Desenberg, R. Stearns, H. Hake, L. Fritz, A. Schmauss,V. Henrichs, M. Huntting, E. Blaine.
5TH Class—Misses N. Quill, R. Smith, M. Wimer, M. Thompson, E. Hodges, E. Stocksdale, L. Caddagan.
French.
2D Class—Misses B. Snowhook, L. Van Horn, A. Beschameng, E. McCarthy.
2D Div.—Misses F. Hertzog, L. Clendenen, M. McEwen, M. Kearsy, C. Gavan.
4TH Class—Misses Prudhomme, M. Barry, L. Pierson, C. Proby.	’
PLAIN SEWING.
Misses N. Larkin, C. Proby, M. Thompson, J. Lingle, E. Harlem, F. Wynn, C. Griffin, N. Dunkin, M. Dunkin, F. Curtis.	,
ANTIQUE LACE, FANCY AND DECORATIVE WORK.
Misses E. Allnoch, L. Blaine, E. Blaine, M. Bates, R. Burke, A. Beschameng, M. Blakeslee, M. Clifford, F. Curtis, C. Dempsey, M. Dempsey, B. Desenberg, M. Dunkin, E. Dunkin, A. Egan, A. Gordon, M. Hummer, E. Harlem, L. Henke, L. Hutchinson, M. Hutchinson, B. Kearney, E. Kearns, N. Larkin, H. Miner, A. Miner, N. Meehan, L. Meehan, Ml Morse, N. McCarthy, K. McNamara, M. Patrick, L. Pierson, C. Proby, M. Coglin, E. Regan, A. Riedinger, B. Snowhook, R. Stern, M. Stafford, C. Triplett, M. Thompson, L. Williams, G. Wehr, E. Zahm, I. Bu.b, F. Carmien, B. Garrity, S. Campeau, Dempsey, T. . Hinz, M. Huntting, O. Knauer, L. Leonard, M. McDonnell, M. McEwen, H. Rhodes, A. Schmauss^T. Stapleton, M. Fritz, E. Flannery, N. Quill, M. Campbell, M. Barry, A. Kennedy.	-