YEARS OF EXPERIENCE
HAS MADE US EXPERTS IN NOTRE DAME MEN’S
CLOTHING STYLES
Who should know the clothing choices of Notre Dame men better than we? We’re in touch with you daily, right here on the campus. What you want is important to us. . .the patterns. . .the fabrics. . .the styling you like is here because we have • made it part of our business to know your preferences. So, if you haven’t yet made the Campus Shop a “habit” why not drop in soon? You will find America’s finest clothing names here from which to make your selection. And, you’re invited to charge it the Campus Shop way. .
GET WHAT YOU NEED NOW . . .
CHARGE IT, THE
CAMPUS SHOP WAY ...
We know that most college men must live on a budget. We also know the importance that the right clothes play in a successful man’s life. If you need any clothing or haberdashery, get it now and charge it the Campus Shop way. Pay one-third in January, one-third in February and one-third in March, and, there are no carrying charges for this service. Your charge account is open. . . please use it!
DRESS RIGHT—You can't afford not to ... !
November 14, 1958
COMMENTARY
WSND: Last week end, after the Pitt game, one of the announcers or deejays on WSND said, “If you have nothing better* to do, go over to the Circle and welcome the team back.” We did not know whether he meant it the way it sounded; but it didn’t sound good. It has always been a tradition to welcome the football team back and WSND serves a very useful purpose in reminding the student body that the team will arrive at such-and-such-a-time, and encouraging the students to be there.' We would like to suggest that the students who “have nothing better to do” should see a movie, get lost, or change schools but should not bother to meet the team.
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Scholastic
Vol. 100 November 14, 1958 No. 7
MY, WHAT LARGE EYES YOU HAVE: We had to smile last week when Father Boar-man mentioned “the carefully bent coathanger” which saves money on long distance phone calls. The problem discussed is a serious one from the moral angle. The Religious Bulletin, we think, is most appreciated when it points out practical problems such as this rather than overstressing the theoretical aspects.
Eentered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of * postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized -June 23, 1918.
_____________________________________________________ <
FROM ROME: “The Cardinal Camerlengo of the Holy Roman Church expresses sincere appreciation and gratitude for the message of condolence and sympathy sent on the occasion of the death of His Holiness Pope Pius XII.”
CONGRATULATIONS: Plaudits to Bob Dempsey et alii for the most successful “Festival of the Arts” we can remember seeing. The standing room only crowd for Mr. Sweeney’s lecture on “Contemporary Art” was as fine a tribute to the Festival as can be paid. However, it points up another unfortunate fact — the inadequacy of the University Art Gallery to accommodate the number of interested people. We are afraid that many will be disappointed Wednesday night (the Scholastic goes to bed Wednesday afternoon) in being turned away from the Per Musica Chamber Orchestra performance. The physical facilities of Notre Dame have not kept up with the academic advancements made since World War II and there is no large auditorium for like events. We can only hope that the building program will quickly catch up with the needs of the University and provide both a new library and an auditorium.
TO END A RUMOR: Some time ago we mentioned that there was a rumor circulating to the effect that the Bengal Bouts would not be held this year. As you have probably surmised from the boxing signs posted in the residence halls, the bouts will be held. (For further information see News.) The whole question, it seems, came up by accident. Whoever compiled the “Notre Dame Date Book” that was given out last September evidently forgot to put down the dates for the Ben-gals. Someone noticed this and called attention to the omission.
At this point the Administration decided to investigate the situation and determine whether or not the Bouts were serving the purpose intended, that is, of raising money for the Holy Cross Missions in Bengal, India. This seems to have been the main question, and not the moral aspect, though this latter was also discussed in view of the fact that many Catholic theologians are opposed to prize-fighting. (At this point we would also like to dispel another rumor. Father Bernard, Vice-President of Student Affairs, was definitely NOT a boxer at any time, although he did write his doctorate on the moral aspect of prize-fighting.)
To get back to the original purpose of the Bengals, the investigation discovered that the Bengal Bouts are not grossing the expected 60-70% which would make the Bouts worthwhile. In fact, the total grossed is around 50% or less. The decline of interest in the Bengals has been going on, it seems, for the last six or seven years and can be attributed to the general decline of interest in boxing which is prevalent in the United States. This decline, in turn, is probably due to the poor quality of boxing fed to the public by the monopolistic groups which control boxers and boxing-arenas around the country.
The Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus, the organization which plans and promotes the Bouts, is now working on the budget and trying to cut expenses as much as possible. We sincerely wish them luck in this endeavor and hope that the Bouts next semester will be as successful as they were in the late 1940’s. —R.S.
BOB SEDLACK Editor
RON BLUBAUGH.________________-News	Editor
WALT RUDGE......______________Copy	Editor
JIM YOCH._________________Features	Editor	*
TEDDY THOMPSON______________Sports	Editor
PETER HASBROOK----------Business Manager CONRAD SUSKI------------Circulation	-
BOB FANCHER__________________Photography
DAVE SOMMER____________________Photography	•
LYN RELPH.________________Assistant	News
ROY RUBELI________________Assistant	News
BOB MARUYAMA______________Assistant	Copy
CHAS RIECK________________Assistant	Copy
TOM ROMANS________________Assistant	Copy
FRANK DUDA______________Assistant Features JERRY KRIEGSHAU SER... Ass’t Features CHUCK MILLER____________Assistant Features -
TOM ROSE_________________Assistant Sports
BOB SCHAEFER_____________Assistant Sports
BOB HORN.______________Assistant Business	;
FR. CHARLES CAREY, C.S.C...Moderator
News Staff: John Beall, Rich Burke, Wade Clarke, Mike Cummings, Bill Galvin, Bernie Hinds, John Hoey, Tom Marciniak, Fred Reynolds, Charles ** Tausche, Tom Weiss, Roy Zickl.
Member of Catholic School Press Association and y, . Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.	4 y
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $5.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Publication Schedule for die 1958-59 school year, Volume 100: No. 1, Oct. 3; No. 2, Oct. 10; No. 3, Oct. 17; No. 4, Oct. 24; No. 5, Oct. 31; No. 6, Nov. 7; No. 7, Nov. 14; No. 8, Nov. 21; No. 9, Dec. 5 (Special Football Review); No. 10, Dec. 12; No. 11, Jan. 16; No. 12, Jan. 23; No. 13, Feb. 13; No. 14, Feb. 20; No. 15, Feb. 27; No. 16, March 6; No. 17, March 13; No. 18, March 20; No. 19, April 17; No. 20, April 24; No. 21, May 1; No. 22, May 8; No. 23, May 15; No. 24, May 22; No. 25. May 29.
4
The Scholastic
Dear Editor:
In regard to the last issue of the Scholastic, there are a few comments which I would like to make.
First of all, you were correct in publishing a retraction of the previous statement concerning the Bookstore’s policy of remaining open on Sunday following each home football game. However, I feel that perhaps it was not in keeping with good taste to go about it in the manner in which you did. John Patton did make a rash statement, which was later proven to be false. This is all very true. However, did you make any allowance for the possibility that Mr. Patton acted in good faith? If you did, I failed to see it. Certainly his record as a senator is distinguished by legitimate and earnest efforts to further the best interests of the Student Body. A simple correction of Mr. Patton’s statement would have been quite sufficient. To resort to sarcasm degraded both your editorial and the standards set before you by others.
Do you honestly feel that this editorial was in keeping with the principle upon which the student paper, the Scholastic, is founded, namely the student body?
Daniel Halloran, 115 Cavanaugh
Ed. Note—A first principle?
L>
Dear- Editor:
It was quite a revelation for us all to read your faintly humorous “Escape” column of Oct. 31, 1958. We Howardites had no idea that we were held in such low esteem by the scholarly Mr. Bellairs. After two years of residence in cramped doubles and miniature singles none of us runs about the campus boasting of dwelling in an architectural phenomenon. Nevertheless, we do live in Howard; we like living in Howard; we have no excess rectors; and we boast but one youthful caretaker. As a second year residence hall we can claim the finest hall spirit and organization. Nowhere else on Mr. Bellair’s ragged, run-down campus does such a cohesive hall unit exist. Our attitude is one of indignation and wonderment. We are indignant at being termed “Notre Dame nonentities,” and we wonder at the ability and talent of an author who undertakes to insult any group without justification or provocation. We, as an integral part of Howard Hall, would like our existence to be recognized. This plea is accompanied by an additional wish for a larger measure of success in Mr. Bellair’s next “scholarly attempt.”
Signed: Howard Hall Hard Core	
Jerry Cangiano	Felix Ishei-wood
Jim Stucko	Ted Dudley
Doug Zilliox	James E. Gould
Peter Geniesse	Bob Corson
Martin Roach	Paul Smith
Mike Schlitt	Bill Roach
Tom Quinn	Bill McCormick
Jim Sullivan	Larry Tholen
Warner Connick	Micky Gorham
Ed. Note—Please see ESCAPE.
MAKE FAY’S JEWELERS YOUR HEADQUARTERS FOR GIFTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS
See our magnificent selection of Transistor Radios. Choose from such famous names as:
PHILCO MOTOROLA BULOVA
Prices from $19.95

111 SO. MICHIGAN ST.
Goin* home over vacation?
GOING BY
GREYHOUND* IS
BASIC ECONOMICS!
• Lowest fares of all public transportation;
• Frequent departures! Quickest time to many cities!
• Air-conditioned comfort; picture-window sightseeing fully equipped restroom; on all Scenicruiser Service® schedules!
ITS SUCH A COMFORT TO TAKE THE BUS... AMD LEAVE THE DRIVING TO US!
GREYHOUND TERMINAL, MAIN & MONBOE STS. AT 7-8541
NOTICE
N.D. Award Jackets
GENUINE STEERHIDE
LEATHER SLEEVES
24 OUNCE WOOL MILTON BODY IRRIDESCENT RAYON LINED
Special $15.95
MINKOWS
303 So. Michigan St.
NEXT TO PLANTERS PEANUTS
Compare these low, low fares!
Cincinnati, Ohio	$ 7.75
Detroit, Mich.	6.00
Harrisburg, Pa.	17.65
Houston, Tex.	26.50
Miami, Fla.	32.90
	^tastax
November 14, 1958
Have a HORID of FUN!
B
Trave! with fITA Unbelievable low Cost ■^Europe
60 D-n *m $645
Orient
43-65 Dm*
*m $998
■""Z. ainliV I Atony 'ours incluae coHege credi'.
XPfND **^1X1 so low-cost trips to AAexico $169 up, South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour $549 up and Around the World $1798 up.
Ask Your Travel Agent
26th Year
THE COVER
The chessboard and pieces drawn for this week’s cover are the work of senior Mort Keilty. The king is Ralph Marterie who is on campus tonight with, of course, his trumpet. Mort helped design Fisher Hall’s prize-winning homecoming decoration and is busy working on the Mardi Gras decorations besides participating in a very active social life at the “Woods."
Classified Advertising
SERVICES
TERM PAPERS, theses, research reports, expert assistance in organizing and compiling. Paragon Publications, Box 967, New York, 1, N. Y.
DIXIE RAMBLERS—ND’s own Dixieland band. Available for all tynes of social functions. Members A. F. of M. Contact Bruce Cosacchi, 407 Badin Hall.
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS
k 332 Sa. Michi|an An. MC-Quciy 4, HA 7-2557
ESSO RESEARCH & ENGINEERING CO., ChE, ME, (BS, MS), November 19, 20, see page 23.
U. S. NAVY AVIONICS FACILITY, November 17, see page 27.
KODL
KROSSWORD
ACROSS
DOWN
1. Sum
6. Get into tho —
10.	Harden
11.	Evergreen
12.	Native of second largest state
13.	Palo----
14.	Helps
15.	Cabbage dish
16.	Nest (Fr.)	’
17.	The Pres.
18.	Impassive
22. Said “yes”
25.	There’s a filter on the 	of King-Size Kool
26.	Period of time
27.	Squabble
30. Just takes one bad one
34. Cultural
' subjects (2 words)
38.	Type of light
39.	Kind of wave
40.	Caesar’s language (abbr.)
41.	See Kool backwards
43.	King-Size Kool has a filter-------
44.	Seaweed
45.	Give out
46.	Potential fish
47.	Comme il-----
48.	Units of reluctance
49.,Squiggly letter
50. Ash, for instance
1.	Big men from ancient state
2.	Half of a quarter(2 words)
3.	Penguin’s costume
4.1 smell----- -------(2 words)
5.	They make spectacles of them
6.	In Germany, they’re bad
7.	Kools* penguin
8.	Volume absorbed 9. Talked cat
19.	Girl’s name
20.	Opposite of output
21.	Clerical degree 22. Poet Housman
23.	King Arthur’s men sought it
24.	Absorbed
27.	Triter
28.	Car “jewelry”
29.	Draw back
31.	From_____ to post
32.	American, National or Women Voters*
33.	The Press is the Fourth
35.	Box for cutting angles
36.	Good-by to amigos
37.	Parts of necks
42. Knights (abbr.)
44. Back there
fiwrfdi -from fit® ) ।
-to Snow Fresh )]
What a wonderful difference when you switch to Snow Fresh KOOL! At once your mouth feels clean and cool... your throat feels smoothed, refreshed!
KGDL

in smoking. Smoke KOOL
mild, mild menthol.. .for a cleaner, fresher taste all through the day!
Enjoy the most refreshing experience
with
■■aMmai-wM
k®l
KGDL
Answer on Page 23
KOOL GIVES YOU A CHOICE-REGULAR. OR...KING-SIZE WITH FILTER!
1
The Scholastic
short shrift and sliced shirts
/ ■ One day, after two straight hours of / J drawing concentric circles on the paper intended for my column, I looked about | my room, which was littered with finely ground newspaper and excess hashish. This, to say the least, was not a place in which to invoke the Muse. So, with pencil and pad, I began a tour of the campus,' and eventually stopped before the Laundry. In reality, I was over" powered by the indescribable odor of burning cloth and sulphur; but, at any rate, this seemed to be as good a place as any to investigate, so I wandered in.
The Laundry was a bustling hive of activity, filled with sinister gurgling and clanking noises, and was lined with huge machines and vats. As I approached, I was greeted by a short, roundish man in a white smock. He beamed as he shook my hand, and introduced himself as Dr. J. J. Starchmonger, Director of Laundering Skills. When I made known my intentions (some of them), he offered to take me on a tour of his fasci-, nating kingdom. We stopped first before a huge machine composed mainly of two rollers, which were studded with cleats and knobs. Stifling the impulse to ask whether this was a rock-crushing machine or not, I asked my guide what purpose this machine had. He smiled and replied:
“This is our shirt-softener, although it may be used for some of our more ► stubborn socks. Its purpose is to reduce the fibers of the shirt to the consistency of warm oatmeal, so that it may be crimped in any way we please before being ossified by the starch solution. It also makes the work easier for the shii-t- ' slicer, which places diagonal rips in the shirt’s back when it resists the fraying ► action of the shirt-softener. We know that a shirt has been successfully softened if we can pour it into a quart jar.”
He held up a jar of shirt for my investigation, then moved to the next department. We came to a room filled with steaming vats, over which hung an aura of greenish smoke. These, my guide ex-• plained, were the starch and acid vats, intended for the removal or mingling of the colors of the various articles of clothing, which were then petrified by the starch. He picked up a pole, with which he fished out what must have been formerly a Bermuda shirt, which was now a peculiar ashen color, with a faint remnant of design here and there. With a smile of satisfaction, he let it sink into the ooze, then led me to the starch vats. Selecting a pair of khakis at random, he kneaded the lumpy mass of cloth into a ball, then allowed three minutes for drying. Then, with an air of triumph, he offered me a chisel and
hammer, so that I might test the results. I first tapped the ball, and was struck by the clear metallic ring the hammer produced. Then, with the chisel, I hacked at the solid mass until I was satisfied that nothing but a diamond drill could pierce the glittering surface of the starch. “One of our best examples,” he -remarked, beaming. “The trick is to fold the pants so that the pristine smoothness of the bundle can never be disturbed by anyone who might want to wear the pants. On shirts, the pockets are sealed by starch, and, on occasion, sewn shut with packthread. It makes for a very neat shirt indeed.”
The next room was a distinct contrast to the others, in that there were no great machines, but hundreds of little work-benches, each occupied by a worker busily performing his task. Here, Dr. Starchmonger informed me, work was done which was far too specialized and subtle for a machine. He led me down the rows of benches, explaining as he went:
“Here is the last retreat of what one might call ‘Creative Intuition in Art and Laundering’. This man, for instance, is a collar frayer. With a few deft strokes of his fraying hook, he can reduce a fine dress collar to ribbons, leaving barely enough to cover a tie. At the next table is an elastic remover, whose task it is to carefully extract all the elastic from drawers and socks. In 1957 alone, we reclaimed enough elastic to fit twice around the Equator, allowing for a mountain here and there. That man with the little hatchet is a button-splitter. He has the difficult job of breaking the buttons, while leaving a remnant of them hanging on the thread. This can deceive the student to such an extent that he will button his shirt, leave his room, and discover an hour later that every button has disintegrated. I could go on and on about the zipper jammers, the name-tag obliterators, and the cuffsmashers, but this is a whole world in itself. I will now show you what we call our “trophy room.”
He led me into a great hall with a vaulted ceiling, and began again his lecture:
“This wall-to-wall rug was originally a cashmere sweater which was sent to us in the laundry by mistake. You can’t imagine what a challenge it was to us. There in the center of the room is a ball of cord six feet in diameter, which is composed of drawstrings from laundry bags sent here from 1945-56. Here, under a glass case, is a very interesting exhibit. In the year 1937, a dress shirt was sent to us with the cufflinks still attached. The metal was beaten to pa-
by JOHN BELLAIRS
per-thinness by the softener, then fused to the shirt, with the result that the shirt became a very fine metal breastplate, probably the only one that ever had sleeves. You can imagine the owner’s surprise when he got it back.
Here on the wall is a picture of the Walsh Hall class of 1940, whose entire shipment of laundry was lost one week and never recovered. In this exhibit we find a collection of crude pikes made by the students during their assault on the Laundry to recover their clothes. Next to this is the bust of Cleanth Inverness, who died of blood poisoning from a wound inflicted by a metal laundry tag. And, to top everything off, there is our citation from CARE for our shipments of clothing during the past two years. We are very proud of our record.
When we had finished the tour, I thanked my host and left. I was halfway down the walk when I noticed that I had left behind my pencil, notebook, and a pair of leather gloves. At this point, I heard a loud screaming of gears and grinding metal. Amusing myself with thoughts of what was happening, I went on my way, whistling out of tune.
IRATE PROTESTS DEPT.
The other day I was called away from a heated game of Six-Pack Bezique to receive a panting messenger who clutched a scroll in his editorial fist. I examined the two-page letter, and noticed that it was water-stained, probably by tears of righteous wrath. As I read this stirring work aloud, the assembled students were rocked by emotion, and the weeping which followed extinguished several cigars. This defense of the existence of students in Howard (was first hung out to dry, then sent to Repercussions), where it probably is this week.
Later, I received a great number of postcards, all from students who apparently think they live in Howard. This is, I guess, a great tribute to the power of mass hypnosis, but rather useless. For, although these students have sent about a hundred-odd postcards (some of them very odd), I have the advantage. -For, by a few strokes of my magic pen (get your magic pen for 40c at the Bookstore) I can call into being thousands of dog-eared Scholastics dripping with venom. However, since my supply of venom has not arrived this week, I will satisfy myself by printing the awful truth which I have tried to keep from these deluded souls:
THERE IS NO HOWARD HALL!
My condolences to those affected by this news.
November 14, 1958
7

«
The Scholastic
Camfud Scotto
STUDENT SENATE PRESENTS ‘MY FAIR LADY’
I, Ralph Martierie Plays i/ For Edwardian Dance
To the theme of “My Fair Lady,” Ralph Marterie and his orchestra will provide the music tonight for the second university-wide dance of the school year. Over 500 couples will attend from 9 to 1 a.m. in the LaFortune Student Center. , <• General chairman of the dance is Junior Larry Martin, a history major :	from Toledo, Ohio. Martin is a member
I of the Blue Circle, NROTC, and the Nai tional Catholic Action Study Bureau. Two years ago, Larry was chairman of the Freshman Frolic.
Queen for the evening will be Miss * Ann Hurley, a junior at Saint Mary’s College. Ann is majoring in elementary education. She was also queen of the Freshman Frolic. Her home is in Rivei-Forest, Ill. Guests of honor will be Mr. and Mrs. Neil C. Hurley.
The theme will typify the gaiety and formality of Edwardian England. The " color scheme is in keeping with this in its shades of burgundy, pink, and willow green. The entrance hall setting will suggest a corner in a British townhouse. . This scene, like the ballroom floor, will be decorated with potted foliage illuminated by the soft glow of pink lights. Carron Court will resemble a tropical
I	RALPH MARTERIE ORCHESTRA
5	"I could have danced all night"
1
■f November 14, 1958
sun porch of British Ceylon, while the ballroom archway will also reflect the Victorian motif.
BAND “MOST POPULAR"
Ralph Marterie’s orchestra is well known all over the nation. Downbeat magazine last year selected his orchestra as the most popular college dance band in America. Marterie first became interested in forming a band while in the navy during World War II. He and his band traveled thousands of miles entertaining servicemen all over the world.
When he was discharged after the war, he quickly became one of the most popular band leaders in the country. In 1949, Mercury Records was looking for new talent for their upcoming LP releases. A Mercury official heard a sample disc which Marterie and his band, then working for ABC network, had cut for fun. Marterie’s recording of “Pretend,” the sample disc, was the first to give him national fame.
Since then, Marterie, in spite of his youth, has had more hit records than any other band; his hits include “Sko-kian,” “Shisk-ka-bob,” and “Trumpeter’s Lullaby.”
LARGE ADVANCE SALE
Tickets for the dance sold out the first night they went on sale. There has
MISS ANN HURLEY “Fair Lady”
been a waiting list of almost 100 students, with only a few cancellations. With such a large advance sale the dance is sure to fill the Student Center to capacity.-
Approximately 125 North Carolina game tickets have been bought for out-of-town girls attending the student government dance. Gene Bertoncini and the Lettermen will provide the music for the customary victory dance to be held in the Drill Hall tomorrow night after the game.
BREAKFAST COMPLETES WEEK END
The week end will be completed by the Junior - Senior Communion Breakfast Sunday morning after 9 o’clock Mass at Sacred Heart Church. The breakfast will be held in the Mahogany Room of the Morris Inn. Tickets are $2.50 per couple.
Assistant to chairman Martin was Mike Divney. Jack O’Brien was in charge of the accommodations committee; Bob Dow, tickets; and Guiness McFadden, publicity.
Chaperones are Mr. and Mrs. A. R. Caponigri, and Dr. and Mrs. Dan Crowley. Mr. Caponigri is a member of the philosophy department. Dr. Crowley is a visiting professor of anthropology.
Car permissions for those attending the student government dance have been in effect from today at noon until tomorrow at noon. The cars must he procured locally and registered in the Office of the Dean of Students by 5 pan. today. Two a.m. permissions are granted to those who attend the dance.
9
ft
John Fixer Delivers Tolk on 'Doctor Zhivago'; Novel Not Openly Anti-Red According to Prof.
The most talked-about novel of the year recently came under discussion as Professor John Fizer of the modern languages department delivered his lecture on the Nobel Prize winning book Doctor Zhivago. The novel, written by Russian author Boris Pasternak has never been published in the country of its author even though it is a best seller outside the Soviet Union. In fact, the Communist government has forced Pasternak to refuse the Nobel Prize or leave the country.
Professor Fizer, himself a native of the Russian Uki’aine, gave several rea-
(Jerry Cooke—Life)
Boris Pasternak
sons for the Russian suppression of Doctor Zhivago. The book itself, he said, actually contains few out and out antiCommunist passages. For these few sections the book most likely would not have been suppressed. Doctor Zhivago, however, failed to meet the general characteristics demanded by the Soviet Writers’ Union.
Soviet Literature must conform to “socialist realism,” i.e., it must be consistent with party doctrine. It must distort history to suit Communist purposes and have a “dialectical” outlook on life. Doctor Zhivago failed to meet any of these standards.
Professor Fizer said that Pasternak’s novel was also condemned because it was too “formalistic,” i.e., it was not written in simple language for the workers to understand. The characters in any Communist work are supposed to be typical people working for the good of the Com-
munist society. “A writer in the Soviet Union can present characters like Doctor Zhivago only if he makes them weak, philistine, bourgeosie. The real hero must be a Communist.” Almost exactly opposite, Pasternak portrays a most untypical character in a most favorable light.
Another objection of the Communists to Pasternak’s work, said Professor Fizer, was his reliance on religion and
Symposium Features Jesuit Father Weigel
Jack Conroy, a mathematics major from Chicago, has been selected as chairman of the sixth annual Advent Symposium on Catholic Action. The symposium will be held this year on December 5, 6, and 7, in the LaFortune Student Center with the theme “The Apostolate of Higher Education.”
Active in student affairs, Conroy has been student affairs vice president of the Y.C.S. and chairman of the regional Midwest Study Week for the Y.C.S. Co-chairman of the Midwest Student Leaders Conference, he is also a member of the Pan-American Conference and the La Roza club. A senior this year, he has been a member of the National Catholic Action Study Bureau, the sponsor of the Advent Symposium for the past three years.
The general format of the Symposium will be as it has been in past years with talks by distinguished scholars, followed by discussions in small groups. The Study Bureau has asked Rev. Gustav Weigel, S.J., Professor Ecclesi-ology at the Catholic University of America, to discuss the role of the Church in higher education. One of Fr. Weigel’s most recent works is the controversial article, “American Catholic Intellectualism: A Theologian’s Reflections.”
Accomodations will be available by advance regirtration with the Study Bureau of the Y.C.S. The registration fee for the entire symposium will be $4 per person. Notre Dame students, however, will be admitted at half price. This will include admission to all lectures and discussions as well as the Communion Breakfast and working papers.
The purpose of the symposium is to give to those interested in Catholic action and the lay apostolate a deeper insight into the meaning and objectives of these organizations. It is hoped that representatives from many different
• types of Catholic action and lay apostolate groups will be present,
Conroy’s committee is composed of four junior commerce students. They are Skip Easterly and Dave Brocker, registration chairmen; and Terry Riley and Mike Dodd, chairmen of publicity.
the Bible. Pasternak concluded in Doctor Zhavigo that life is stripped of meaning in godless Communist society, a conclusion entirely unpalatable to the Soviet government.
Pasternak was ordered to stop writing in the thirties during the Stalinist purge of intellectuals. He and other Russian writers were allowed to resume their work under'the “soft” policy of Krushchev in 1954. Works such as Ehrenburg’s The Thaw and Dudintsev’s Not By Bread Alone were consequences of this policy. The dissatisfaction after years of silence erupted in these works and in Doctor Zhivago.
The novel itself, said Professor Fizer, lacks any tightly knit plot. It is the story of a Russian doctor at the time of the Revolution. The story is charged with political and philosophical messages, and in this respect, he said, it can be compared with Russian literary giants such as Dostoyevsky and Tolstoy. Pasternak is a “poet of poets” and Doctor Zhivago, which reflects his own observations, is a poet’s novel.
The Russian author, said the professor, dared to describe things as he saw


£1

them, in a most untypical manner, a manner which so horrified the Communists that they suppressed the book. The West can take hope in the very fact that the book was written, Fizer said, t; for “it shows that even after forty years of horrible experimentation with human lives, the searching spirit still exists in- .5? side Russia.” '	y
Sponsored by the modem languages H department, the lecture was well attended by both faculty and students. Professor Fizer teaches Russian at the University.
—Charles Tausche
Gerald Shank Takes 3rd In Designing Competition
A Notre Dame architecture student-^ has won third place in the International Student Design Competition sponsored by the Designers and Decorators Guild.
Gei-ald Shank, Jr., a fifth year archi-S tecture major from Winamac, Ind., re-| ceived a $50 cash prize as well as ant all-expense paid one-week trip to Miami. Fla., for the award presentation. Hes was an honored guest at the awards! luncheon to be held at the DuPont Tarleton Hotel there Nov. 8.
Shank submitted a prize-winning de-J sign for the interior remodeling of two hotel suites. Contestants were provided^ with dimensions of the area to be remodeled, and were invited to make recommendations as to interior partitioning, furniture layout, furnishings,'material selections, color schemes, walls, and floor treatments. The competition was ' open to all students enrolled in interior design or decoration courses at colleges, universities, and art schools in the western hemisphere.
Judges for the competition included interior designer Melanie Kahane, designer craftsman Karl Mann, and industrial designer Russell Wright.
The Scholastic
10
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS BENGAL BOUTS COMMISSION
4
University Grants Bengal Bouts Permission;
. K. of C. Schedules fights for March 16,18,20
I The campus Knights of Columbus announced list week that the University |	has granted permission for the Notre
i	Dame Bengal Bouts to be held in the
spring. According to the bouts promoter, Ned Baldus, preparations for the event were begun last May and will con, tinue through the four-month period from now until March. At present, the bouts are tentatively scheduled for the p nights of March 16, 18, and 20.
* Baldus, a senior business administration major, is from Milwaukee, Wis. He was appointed promoter of the Ben-
' gals last May by the Grand Knight. The assistant promoter, Tom Huck, is
1 * also in the College of Commerce. He is a junior majoring in business organiza-M	tion and management and comes from
‘	Quincy, Ill.
| Upperclassmen know the bouts as a spring highlight. Thirty veteran fight-J ers will return to the bouts this year, seven of them champs in their weight / classes in the “58” bouts. The football | squad generally produces some outstanding boxers and several of them J are expected to trade their shoulder pads < c" for gloves this year. So at first glance it seems as though the “59” bouts will reach a new peak in boxing skill and ■. in spectator enjoyment.
In 1931 the fights first became a charity event when, under the sponsorship of the Scholastic, they were put ■ . on for the benefit of the missions in * India. The Scholastic continued as sponsor of the bouts until 1946 when ' the Campus Council of the Knights of | Columbus took over. The Knights (presently sponsor the bouts as part of their Catholic Activities program. Sports Illustrated, a few years ago, called the Bengal Bouts one of the most outstand
| November 14, 1958
ing amateur boxing tournaments in the country.
If the name “Bengal Bouts” seems somewhat odd for a boxing tournament, there’s a reason for it. The entire proceeds each year are donated to the Holy Cross Missions in Bengal, East Pakistan. The profits generally run from two to four thousand dollars. This year’s goal is four thousand dollars.
Two of the big men behind the scenes of the Bengal Bouts for the past 27 years have been Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C. and Dominic “Nappy” Napolitano. Father Brennan has been with the fights since 1950.
“Nappy,” as he is known, has been the Grand Master behind the months of training and he has consistently produced bouts which have been good, clean, and of high quality. An indication of this is the fact that in the entire history of the Bengal Bouts, no fighter has ever been seriously injured in the ring.
On the final night of the bouts, trophies are presented to the champions in each weight division. The main award of the evening is the Bengal Bouts Award which is given to a man, chosen by the bouts promoter, who has done outstanding work in the field of boxing. Two years ago Carmen Basilio came to campus to receive the award and last year it went to a Notre Dame alumnus, Joe Boland. No decision has yet been reached as to who will receive the award in 1959.
In addition to the promoter and his assistant, the Bangal Bouts Committee is composed of Secretary Roy Regan and seven chairmen, each of whom will form a committee of his own. These chairmen for the “59” bouts are: Ken Bourgon,
tickets; Greg Rogers, publicity; Frank Reiner, programs; Ed McKeown and Joe Hilger, concessions; Pete Finke, business manager; and Tom Moynahan, downtown sales.
Dr. Lord Delivers Lectures On Spectroscopic Chemistry
Dr. Richard Lord, professor of chemistry and director of the Spectroscopy Laboratory at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology is currently delivering the annual Reilly lectures in chemis-tiy at the University. His general subject is “Applications of Spectroscopy to Chemical Problems.” He is scheduled to speak in 123 Nieuwland Science Hall at 4 p.m. tonight, Monday, and also Wednesday, and next Friday.
The Reilly lectures were established at Notre Dame in 1945 by a gift of more than one million dollars from the late Peter C. Reilly, Indianapolis, Ind., industrialist and a member of the University’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees. The Reilly fund also provides five annual graduate non-teaching fellowships in chemistry and chemical-engineering.
Prof. Lord, co-author of Practical Spectroscopy, has been associated with MIT since 1946. During the eight previous years he taught at the John Hopkins University, Baltimore, where he received his doctorate in 1936. He has been a National Research Council fellow in chemistry at the University of Michigan and the University of Copenhagen.
Currently Prof. Lord is a member of the technical advisory committee of the Department of Defense. In 1948 he received a Presidential Certificate of Merit for his scientific contributions to the nation during World War II and the postwar years.
He is a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and holds memberships in the American Chemical Society, the Optical Society of America, - and several other professional organizations.
Marketing Club Reports Green Hat Sales Results
The final totals of the green hat sales were announced this week by Frank Doherty, vice president of the Marketing club.
Including 550 hats sold on the two student trips, 3050 hats were sold this year for a net profit of $609.04. Twenty-five percent of this amount, or $152.26, will go to the Bengal Missions. The remaining profit will be used to cover the expenses of the field trip, Christmas banquet, and smokers sponsored by the Marketing club.
The club is organized to present practical applications to the theoretical classroom material covered in the marketing courses. Experienced men in advertising, sales, purchasing, and other important fields of marketing speak throughout'the year to the members of the club.
11
Senators Appropriate $25 for Review Study: Festival Gets Permission to Engage Brubeck
In the form of a simple motion requesting $25 to cover committee expenses, Bruce Babbitt, Senate secretary, introduced the question of an internal University Review to the assembled Senate members, visitors, and to the WSND audience. A campus “first” was achieved by Jim Bennett and his crew from the radio station when last Monday’s meeting became the first in history to be carried over the air.
Babbitt turned the floor over to Bill Bowman for an exposition of the plans for the review but not before he had praised the AB junior for his fine work in behalf of an organ of candid opinion for the entire University.
As explained by Bowman, the plans
New Program Added To WSND's Schedule
This year WSND is making a special effort to provide the Notre Dame campus with complete news and sports coverage. In line with this program, WSND Sports Director Mike Ahern has announced a completely new approach to sports reporting—“The Sports Beat.”
This show is designed to get the opinion of a coach, athlete, and student on one of the leading sports questions of the day. Each week one of WSND’s sports reporters interviews personalities such as Terry Brennan and Bob Williams on such questions as, “Is College Football Becoming Dirty?” and “How Effective Is the One-Arm Blocking Rule?” ■
The questions are chosen from postcards sent to WSND by interested sports fans on campus. Anyone who has a question he would like to have discussed should send it to the “Sports Beat,” radio station WSND.
WSND SPORTS SCHEDULE
MONDAY-SATURDAY
8:00—Early Sports New’s
5:15—Volcano Sports Review (Commentary)
7:00—Late Sports Results
9:45—Sports Wrap Up
SUNDAY
11:00—Sizing Up Sports
6:30—Sunday Scoreboard (Pro Results)
SPORTS FEATURES
Tuesday, 7:30—Sports Beat (interviews)
Wednesday—7:30—On the Line (panel and guest)
Saturday—After Games—“Musical Scoreboard”
All basketball and away football games, pep rallies, and home baseball.
12
include an editorial advisory board composed of seven students, a faculty-administration board, and an editor, who would be picked by the EAB. The faculty-administration board would review the articles and would interpret the constitution but ivoidd not be a censor. Financial direction would belong to the EAB.
As a university review, its scope would encompass the students, faculty, and administration with subscriptions running perhaps $1 per year for 15 issues.
Treasurer Bill Scheckler, insisting that the need for such an organ be established, questioned Bowman on whether the Scholastic and the Juggler couldn’t accomplish the same objectives. Bowman said that the Review would be somewhere between the SCHOLASTIC, which is essentially a news magazine, and the Juggler, primarily a literary quarterly. It was further pointed out by Babbitt that censorship was necessary to the Scholastic since it is not limited to internal circulation.
Some senators objected to the Review as originally proposed because its scope took in the administration and faculty and thus was not precisely a student review. Senior Class President John Hayward was among those who argued against these objections, claiming that such divisions (student, faculty, administration) were artificial and that any such organ, to be worthwhile, must belong to the entire university.
Mike Halpin, academic commissioner, quieted the arguments of those who wanted only a student review by reminding Stay Senator John Patton that the editorship of the Thursday Throwback was “up for grabs.” Some question arose as to just how Halpin learned this well-kept “secret” but it was lost in the laughter that engulfed the Senate.
All doubts about the scope were removed by Mike Nash of Morrissey who amended the resolution to read University Review instead of the original Student Review.
Babbitt, Bowman, et al, will return soon with a final resolution to present to the Senate. With the University Review out of the way, the Senate hung out its finance company shingle and proceeded to give the Mardi Gras committee some anxious moments before it approved extra funds for a band. Finally it gave the committee permission to engage Dave Brubeck for a concert as part of the Mardi Gras week end.
The Mardi Gras boys stoimed out of the meeting muttering, “that’s student government for you,” when an 11-10 vote downed their plans for inviting Louis Armstrong. The grounds supporting this were that it was not financially feasible and would throw the social program for the second semester out of balance.
The committee was rescued by Bruce
CALENDAR
TONIGHT:
9 p.m. - 1 a.m.—“My Fair Lady” in Student Center, music by Ralph Marterie. 7:30 p.m.—Pep rally in the Field House.
SATURDAY:
4 p.m.—Post-game coffee hour in the Student Center.
8:30 p.m.—Victory Dance in the Drill Hall.
SUNDAY:
1:30 p.m.—Bridge Club meets in Room ID of the Student Center, lessons at 1:15.
2 p.m.—Dillon Hall mixer in Rathskeller of Student Center.
7 p.m.—“Where in the World,” rooms IA and B of the Student Center.
MONDAY:
6:30 p.m.—Met Club bus ticket sales, at the service bar in the Student Center Rathskeller.
7:45 p.m.—Student Senate meets in the amphitheater of the Student Center.
8 p.m.—Chess Club meeting in room IE of the Student Center.
8 p.m.—Economics Roundtable meeting in the Rathskeller of the Student Center. Social and organizational meeting open to all economics majors.
TUESDAY:
3:30-5:30 p.m.—Met Club ticket sales at the service bar of the Student Center Rathskeller.
8 p.m.—Rochester Club meeting in room 2B of the Student Center.
WEDNESDAY:
8 p.m.—Blue Circle meeting in room IC of the Student Center.
THURSDAY:
7:30 p.m.—Labor Management Club meets in the amphitheater of the Student Center.
7:30 p.m.—Bookmen meet in room IE of the Student Center.
Anyone wishing to announce activities in the “Calendar” should call the Scholastic office between 1:30 and 5:30 p.m. on Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday; and 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. Tuesday. Written announcements can be addressed to Lyn Relph, 332 Morrissey; Ron Blubaugh, 309 Pangbom; slipped under the door of the Scholastic Office in LaFortune Student Center, or mailed to the Scholastic. The deadline for announcements is 9 p.m. on Monday before the issue in which they are to appear.
Babbitt, who submitted their proposal for Brubeck, which at least answered the financial arguments. The motion carried 14-1 with five absences, including Scheckler, who had voted against the Armstrong motion.
—Jim Byrne
The Scholastic
a review . . .
by Bernard McElroy
When the curtains had closed on the University Theatre production of Hatful of Rain, when the bows had been taken and the house lights were just coming up, the man sitting next to me leaned back in his seat and said aloud “I’m all worn out.” This admirably expressed it, and the man could have paid no greater compliment to the production. For- that must have been the effect that Michael Vincent Gazzo had in mind when he conceived this play about a dope addict and his tormented family.
Certainly no one maintains that this piece is a modern classic, or is even representative of the very best work being done in the contemporary theatre. But it is a forceful and compelling play, and if given a taut, high-strung perform-
Betsy Finneran and Joe Harrington
it
HATFUL
OF RAIN
*
►
Jerry Dodge, Lee Lagessie, Joe Harrington, Rudy Hornish
ance by competent actors with a real feeling for what they are doing, it can be a striking theatrical experience. This is exactly what happened in Washington Hall.
But the success is not over-all. This is a performance (quite literally) of fits and starts. There are moments, and many of them, when an absolute pall of silence falls over the audience, and every facet of the senses is turned in undivided concentration on the stage. It is the sum total of these moments which produces the worn out but wonderful feeling at the end.
To explain in finer detail the reasons for this, it -is necessary for us to look for a moment at the play itself. When all is said and done, it is simply the story of family conflicts, brewing for years and finally gushing out in a wave of passion in two days. The action is triggered when John Pope, Sr., comes to New York to enlist the aid of his elder son, Polo, in a business venture in Florida. The situation which awaits him there is both complicated and disastrous. His younger and favorite son, Johnny, is a dope addict and Polo has spent all his money supporting the habit. Polo is living with Johnny and is teetering on the edge of an affair with his pregnant wife, Celia. Johnny and Celia are having their own marital problems, as she feels he does not love her. The action which is presented within the scope of this situation shows the four of them trying to unravel the tangles of bitterness, neglect, wounded feeling and frustrated cravings for love in which their lives have been engulfed.
As can be seen, this is a complex plot, with many separate story lines which mingle and intertwine, each working subtly upon the others. The really overpowering effect that this play can have is when the divergent elements fall together in the high-voltage climactic scenes.
This never really quite happens at Washington Hall, hence my comment that it is a production of exciting moments rather than stunning overall effect. We do not clearly see the unraveled lives, the multiple ways in which the failings, neglect, inability to communicate of each member of the family contribute toward making the other members (Continued on page 16)
November 14, 1958
13
Reverend Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., assistant professor of art at Notre Dame examines a portion of a new stained glass wall which he designed for the new Moreau Seminary on the campus. The glass wall, which is 60 feet wide and 29 feet high, is believed to be the largest of its kind in the world.
Stained Glass Installed in
New Moreau Seminary
The Holy Cross Fathers of Notre Dame are installing the first section of a wall of stained glass in their new Moreau Seminary this week and next. The stained' glass forms are set between solid panels to form the sanctuary wall of the seminary chapel, presenting an inspiring view to the observer standing on the campus side of St. Joseph’s Lake. The Seminary was designed by Edo J. Belli of Chicago, and the construction is being supervised by the Rev. Paul B. Rankin, Superior of the Seminary.
The design for the stained glass consists of a group of over-life-size angels enveloped in rays of flame and light that emit from the focal center at tabernacle level of the chapel. To the Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., art teacher at Notre Dame, is due the conception and execution of the design; and for over a year, Fr. Lauck has worked in close co-operation with the Conrad Schmitt Studios in Milwaukee in bringing the design to its finished state.
The stained glass itself is a relatively new type called “slab glass” or “jewel glass,” made in slabs one inch thick, and set into a bond of concrete. The glass is fractured or chipped in a process which provides many facets, and it is these facets that give the glass its most striking characteristic — that of a sparkling, radiant brilliance. Using
a limited palette, Father Lauck will incorporate about thirty-five tones of glass in the window pattern. The wall of stained glass, with its imposing dimensions of sixty feet in width and twenty-nine feet in height; is believed to be the largest wall of glass of its kind in the world.
Asked to explain his choice of subjects, Fr. Lauck said, “The principle function of the angels is to attend at the throne of God. In this setting of glass circling the tabernacle where Christ remains present, it seemed fitting to represent His regular attendants near Him, doing their regular chores — adoring the Divine Majesty, offering incense, singing, playing. No other subject seemed quite so appropriate in the sanctuary, or worked so well in our preparatory designs. The focus is the altar and tabernacle, and we tried to emphasize this by a network of rays of light and flame radiating from it.”
The first unit of stained glass is being set in place this week and should be completed in about two weeks. Other units will cover the south wall of the seminary library and the chapel clerestory. The Seminary is already occupied by the Holy Cross Fathers, Brothers and Seminarians, but it is not completely furnished and parts of the building are not yet in use.
I
Bach To Prokofieff j
Notre Dame will have its first formal g opportunity to hear Mr. James Bastien, f the newly-acquired instructor in music, | perform at the piano on next Thursday I evening, Nov. 20. A recital will be pre- I sented in Washington Hall at 8:00 p.m., admission free, and although it has technically been called a faculty recital, ; it is open to the entire student body. 3
Whoever was present at Mr. Bastien’s 1 performance of the Mendelssohn G minor fl Piano Concerto at St. Mary’s a few M weeks ago will need no further encour- fl agement to attend this recital. But for fl those who were unable to make it to that fl concert, the recital should be a welcome J event. For in the recent past, Notre fl Dame has not been fortunate enough to J have in residence a distinguished artist a who would take on, in addition to his fl teaching duties, the challenging and fl time-consuming burden of public per- s formances. And when non-campus en- fl gagements are added to this crowded 3 schedule (Bastien has just returned |i from New Mexico, where he gave a per- 3 formance of Liszt’s Second Piano Con- || certo with the Albuquerque Symphony fl Orchestra), the role can only be played fl by an energetic and devoted young musi- W cian.	fl
Bach’s Toccata in E minor heads the S program for the Thursday recital, and fl it concludes with the Third Sonata by M Prokofieff—between these two extremes g of eighteenth century and contemporary J selections are works of the nineteenth -.1 century romantics: Schumann, Chopin and Liszt. The Bach toccata is followed | by the Carnival Scenes from Vienna by & Robert Schumann, a series of short 1 sketches reflecting various aspects of a festival he witnessed on a short visit to jS the Austrian city.	§|
After the intermission, three Chopin ||! pieces will be heard: the Etude, Op. 10,3; the Debussy-like Berceuse in Db § major, one of the last of the composer’s great works; and the brilliant, dashing | Scherzo in B minor, nicknamed by some- I one War and Peace for its demands on | strength and technique. Chopin is one I of the more popular classical composers | and this Etude is one of his best-known f works.	|
It was often a characteristic of the 1 Romantic composers to receive musical i inspiration from some external concrete | source—as in the case of Schumann’s im- aj pressions of the carnival. Franz Liszt’s 3 poetic and perceptive treatment of the fl theme of romantic love in Sonetto 104 fl del Petrarea, also to be performed fl Thursday night, was inspired by a read- fl ing of the poem now appended to the fl sheet music of the piece: Petrarch’s fl Sonata CIV. The other Liszt work to a be heard is the Concert Etude in F fl minor, .to be followed (by means of a fl rather startling leap in time) by Pro- fl kofiefFs Third Sonata, a piano solo rep- I resentative of the famous Russian com- I poser’s early style.	1
'—by Jerry Kriegshauser
14
The Scholastic
by Tony de Hero
Some time ago, when Notre Dame was ! just starting to cash in on Neoprene, there subsisted among the ranks of grad students a wretched young man by the name of Harry Presley, no kin to the Army man, who tried bis best to teach some biology while studying for his master’s but couldn’t keep his mind on '	either thing.
| It seems he felt he had accomplished i nothing in his field of endeavor. During all his years of study, he had never been able to apply himself to research — the scientist’s dream. This did not stem from a lack of enthusiasm but rather from a lack of something on which to do research.
' One evening he sat musing in his downtown attic abode and made the definite resolution (his tenth) never to rest until he had found a suitable subject r for research. His eyes wandered over the walls covered with secondhand pinups * of Betty Grable and Scholastic covers, and finally came to rest upon his small
' I	icebox. With many a leap and bound, he
[	crossed over to it and opened it,	hoping
|	to find some refreshing beer. He	opened
;	the door, and then realized he	hadn’t
' had a cent to his name for nearly two weeks. The icebox was empty except for I* its tiny humidor. In it he kept his be-j loved, although small, collection of raw potatoes. There were five in all and ,t each had a curious shape, some indescrib-|	able. He took out the one that resembled
'	the Dean of Graduate Students and
fondled it in his hand. This was his prize ' item and the source of many a conversa-' tion among the friends who visited him occasionally.
1 An idea, too bold for words, hit him at M that moment. Why not start a new branch of research on the potato? Surely he would be acclaimed if he found some practical use for that insipid mass of
I	starch. He looked his potato-dean
' straight in its seven eyes and. made his j momentous proclamation:
| “I’ll find some use for you!”
I He didn’t care to explain to whom that
I November 14, 1958
was said — the potato or the dean — but by now all Notre Dame students have found out because these are the events that took place during the next week and which changed the Notre Dame way of life.
The very next morning, Harry got up from bed quite early and within minutes he was already dressed. He went over to the icebox and, opening the humidor, took out his valuable collection and laid it carefully in a shoebox. There he was, risking everything that meant something to him for the good of science.
“I’m a martyr!” he cried triumphantly as he tied the shoebox securely.
The watchmen on campus were a bit surprised to see Harry Presley strolling around at six in the morning with a shoebox under his arm, but they decided to overlook it. Everybody had at some time or other seen Harry; and nothing he did surprised them much.
As soon as the biology building was opened, he rushed inside and ran into a lab, locking the door behind him. Then he started a comprehensive study of the properties of the potato — a task which took him the better part of the day and night. Naturally, the staff of the biology department was a little worried about him, but decided to ignore his usual conduct.
By dawn of the next day he had finished his primary job. Before him lay 40 pages of notes and twelve pencil stubs. He opened the door of the lab and found a large container of cold coffee and three cartons of cigarettes which some generous person had left there the day before.
Elated at the sight of such splendid nourishment, Harry took the cigarettes and the coffee and locked the door once more. After heating the coffee over his Bunsen burner and lighting a cigarette, he went back to his experiments with a flaskful of hot coffee by his side.
“Now,” he asked himself, “what can I do with tiie information I have gathered?” The information consisted of a complete table of the properties of the
potato, both physical and chemical, and a conclusion of the possibilities of making the potato useful. Almost immediately, a brilliant idea crossed his mind.
“The reason the potato is not so popular,” he stated, “is because of its lack of flavor. I propose to synthesize a flavorful potato!”
Harry started setting up his apparatus, which included everything he could find around the lab. Gathering all the materials he needed for the synthesis, he carefully weighed them and mixed them in an oversized flask. Then he placed three Bunsen burners under the flask and sat nearby to write down his observations and check the temperature of the mixture.
By the end of the third day, he had reduced the large amount of unrelated elements to a tiny mass of what looked like plaster of Paris. Triumphantly, he tore the apparatus apart and emptied his precious accomplishment into a smaller flask. However, his glory was not complete. It seemed he had forgotten to synthesize a covering for the potato and he thought of the marketing hardships involved in selling his product.. It would probably have to be sold in containers, like ice cream.
He decided to taste it, risking blood poisoning; and his joys were short lived. His synthetic mashed potato was as insipid as the genuine article.
“Oh, how miserably I have failed!” he moaned, setting his notes afire. “All I’ve
15
done is take the work out of mashing potatoes!”
He took a long look at the flask and his eyes widened. The thing was growing! Taking a sample, he put it under a powerful microscope. It was behaving like ordinary bacteria! And there was no known way to stop it!
Before putting a gun to his head, he thought, it would be proper to call up the Dean of Science and tell him of his plight. Losing no time he went to the pay phone, dropped his good-luck Canadian dime in the slot, and rang up the dean’s home.
The dean was naturally upset since he had been sleeping peacefully when the phone rang.
“What do you mean you can’t stop it?” he bellowed. “Don’t shoot yourself yet; I’ll be right over!”
He meant it, too. With him came the deans of the other colleges and Harry, his voice trembling, told them the whole story and showed them the mashed potatoes, which were still growing slowly.
Each man took hold of an office phone and started notifying the authorities. From the governor’s home came a grunted hello, followed by the noise of a falling body when the news came through. Washington refused to take over. The night letter from the Joint Chiefs of Staff read: “Sorry all food requisitions have been granted for next year.”
Undoubtedly, this was their own problem. Not one to be taken by surprise, the Dean of Engineering came up with a splendid suggestion.
“Let’s build a steel tank to put this stuff in. By the time it fills the tank we’ll have some idea of what to do with it.”
The idea was immediately taken up
'Hatful of Rain'
(Continued from page 15) what they are. A great deal is said about blame in the final scenes, but by the end, it is seen that what blame there is, is distributed. They mutually created their own miseries. This was not seen clearly at Washington Hall, at least not at the opening performance. Of course, experience shows that opening night performances provide a poor barometer by which to judge a University Theatre production in this respect. It is usually necessary for the company to have one or two performances behind them before they start to work together. Here, as in the play, the blame (or credit) is distributed. The performance tonight and tomorrow might be a very different matter, for all the elements are certainly there.
Since this is first a play of family conflicts, a production must rise or fall with the actors who are playing the family. And here, Father Harvey, the director, can count among his blessings Joe Harrington, Betsy Finneran, Jim Cooney, and Lee Lagessi. They are four fine actors who play their roles with passion and sensitivity from the opening curtain right down to the last.
and Inland Steel was called to take over the supplying of such a tank. The only tank available, came word from Inland, was a new design of a water tank on stilts ever a hundred feet high. Work commenced on the shipping of the tank at three in the morning and by noon the tank was ready to receive the mashed potatoes — a construction record unparalleled to this day.
Hany Presley was unanimously elected to go up the tower and drop his mashed potatoes in. This presented a small problem since the potatoes already occupied a gallon jug. But Harry’s courage in the face of adversity made the deed possible.
By the time he got down to the ground, the motion had been introduced — no one has dared reveal by whom — to construct a series of tubes alongside the steam tunnels all the way to the dining hall to funnel off the mashed potatoes onto the students’ dinner plates. Work was started on the second project which considerably raised the dividends of Inland Steel stockholders and by nightfall the system was completed. At noon the following day the students were introduced to second helpings of mashed potatoes.
At first everybody concerned suspected that stomach acids would not destroy the potatoes soon enough; but this has been proved false. However, if you have trouble digesting, don’t eat those mashed potatoes. They might get to grow on you.
To this day, the tower stands next to the biology building and to the cautiously located new dining hall — a visible tribute to those Notre Dame students who, by their daily efforts, insure the peaceful existence of our nation and the entire world.
Perhaps the most conspicuous thing about this performance was the initial appearance of a really exciting talent in the person of a freshman, Joe Harrington. He is the only member of this fine cast who reversed the trend of the production and succeeded consistently. He established a character as soon as the curtain went up, and never wavered from it for an instant. He captured completely the struggling and yet the helplessness of the addict, Johnny Pope, and never lagged in his relationships with the other characters. He was the real unifying force which made this not just a quartet, but a family. In the dramatic moments, he rose to the occasion
“RAIN”
“A Hatful of Rain” will be presented tonight, tomorrow night, and Sunday night. All three performances will begin at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. The production is the first in a series of three by the University Theatre. The second production, T. E. Eliot's ‘‘Murder in the Cathedral,” is scheduled for early appearance in the second semester.
powerfully, and the poignant scenes with Celia were played with a simplicity and sincerity which are the basis of really convincing acting. More often than not, the palls of silence that gripped the audience were occasioned by his sustained, gripping performance. His flaws are technical ones and are seldom conspicuous. The fact that he will be around for four years is one of the principal bright spots in the University Theatre picture.
Betsy Finneran as Celia succeeded less completely, but succeeded none the less. She gave many fine moments and seemed to grow into the part as the evening progressed. She was at her best in the third act, and she and Harrington combined in doing really superlative jobs to make the final curtain a memorable experience. However, she only occasionally communicated the controlled, day-to-day desperation which is a basic element of Celia’s life in the opening scenes. It is this force which contributes so much to her scenes with Johnny and Polio, and these scenes suffered. Often too, she seemed to lack feeling for both the situation and the lines, a defect which can perhaps be attributed to opening night nerves.
Jim Cooney, one of the real pillars of strength in the University Theatre, showed us still another side of his manyfaceted theatrical talent. As Polo, the neglected brother, he created a clear-cut, moving character and powerfully portrayed the conflicting emotions, the bitter feelings and the real craving for love, all masked under a flippant, loudmouthed exterior. There is no actor- in the University Theatre who can deliver a funny line as effectively as Cooney, and this part has provided funny lines aplenty. He exploits these to the limit; almost too far, in fact. In the first act, his Polo is, both in speech and movement, almost grotesque, and this detracts from the scenes with Celia. But by the end of the second act, particularly in his dealings with Johnny and the father, he had gained a stature and clarity which remained throughout the performance.
Lee Lagessi also turned in a towering portrayal, obtaining a realization of both the pride and the rustic affection of the father. He was particularly well cast for the part physically, and he acted with intensity and conviction. Especially in the closing moments, when he has been shocked beyond sensibility by the sight of his favorite in narcotic starved fits, Lagessi created a vivid depiction of the brutally crushed pride, the effort to adjust to and live with the situation. B.ut technical problems were again in evidence, and he tended to look a bit wooden when he had nothing strenuous to do. It was, however, a fine performance.
The swinging hoods who formed the other pole of Johnny’s life were portrayed with varying degrees of success." The best was Rudy Hornish as the dapper dope peddler, Mother. He delivered a convincing performance, which caught
(Continued on page 17)
16
The Scholastic
The Salvation
of lift bur Wilbur
by Jack Devney
Wilbur Wilbur was an ordinaiy man.
In fact Wilbur Wilbur was absolutely (ordinaiy. Wilbur, however, liked his anonymous face and figure. Wilbur Wilbur lived in a city, a large and rather smelly city, but Wilbur wasn’t unduly troubled by the smell; it had always * smelled like that. Wilbur Wilbur was a scorched-collar worker and he liked to take his shoes off in the evenings and pad about the house in his stocking feet, f Wilbur Wilbur liked to bend paper clips at his desk while at work. It wasn’t that Wilbur Wilbur avoided work but merely that he considered himself rather a good clipbender. Oh yes, Wilbur was married. To a woman popularly known as a homemaker; but Wilbur Wilbur didn’t really mind.
:	One day, however, Wilbur Wilbur no-
ticed his paper clips were taking on s strange and slightly disturbing shapes.
t With each passing day, the clips be-| came more and more disturbing. Even j the Lotus Bud Bar and Grill didn’t help.
Poor Wilbur Wilbur. His only passion soured.
Well, Wilbur Wilbur was frightened S at first but his fright gave way to in’ dignation. What right did these influences (Wilbur called them the browns, the greens, and the blues) have to foist a themselves on such a well-adjusted average as he? Thus, with righteous anger • Wilbur- Wilbur jutted his double chin and strode briskly to the house of undis-I tinguishable color on the hill. Now the fi	house of undistinguishable color as
'.	everyone knows is staffed by those
। august saviors of the Wilbur Wilburs or ■ t Nevile Neviles. At any rate, upon enter-I ing Wilbur Wilbur made a loud and i somewhat obstreperous report of his
problem with the browns, the greens, and the blues. At mention of the browns a group of dignified gentlemen rushed from out of a washroom (wherein they were cloistered) loudly lamenting the dreadful influences of the browns. As he spoke of the greens another party of dignified gentlemen, who were eating maraschino cherries in a coiner by a large statue rushed over and told Wilbur Wilbur that greens must be stamped out or adjustment would be an empty word. When the blues were mentioned all present gnashed their teeth and wrung their hands and wailed that notwithstanding St. Louis, those blues were absolutely the worst.
Wilbur Wilbur was gratified. Here at last he had found true sympathy and understanding. He felt warm as the various gentlemen clapped him on the back, smiled reassuringly, and offered their hands in lodge handshakes. After each had proffered his goodwill, the assemblage adjourned to a large chamber which was tastefully decorated with cigar wrappings and Wilbur Wilbur thought to himself that undistinguishable in hue as it was, the house was a fine place. Wilbur Wilbur was seated in a large comfortable chair- and given a pile of paper clips while the gentlemen began their debate. After several hours of heated argument all present agreed (that is, all except one and he never agreed with anybody) that Wilbur Wilbur could be saved.
Wilbur Wilbur was led to the basement of the house where, among old photographs, there was assembled a large rubber banana-shaped contrivance. Wilbur Wilbur was asked to disrobe and crawl in through the hole in its side.
Upon entering Wilbur noticed the moist warmness of the receptacle. He felt this warmth penetrate him and felt his muscles relax their grip. Wilbur Wilbur smiled.
As each day passed Wilbur Wilbur grew increasingly more comfortable. He seldom wished to leave his banana now. Wilbur Wilbur was happier than he had ever been before. However, he had to be awakened to be fed and this was somewhat of a discomfort. To combat this irritation Wilbur asked his benign guardians to feed him intraveneously, to which they agreed. Thus, Wilbur Wilbur vegetated, and after he had spent several months in complete somnolence (save for occasional gurgles) the dignified gentlemen came to view him. They noted his blissful smile, his relaxed posture, and his general air of hibernational content. Yes, they agreed, Wilbur Wilbur has reached the absolute limit of adjustment. External problems no longer trouble him. He is perfectly happy. Wilbur Wilbur has been saved!
'Hatful of Rain'
(Continued from page 16) both the glib, adroit exterior and the more basic ruthlessness and decadence of the character.
Jerry Dodge as Apples, one of his cronies, was less convincing. Dodge is both a fine actor and a fine dancer, and often throughout the course of the evening, one must stand in awe of his agility. But the character itself was needlessly overdrawn. However, he adheres to it faithfully and plays it to the hilt, which is all one can ask of an actor once his task has been set for him.
John Smith gave a frequently poignant performance as Chuck, and Norm Ornellas as an anonymous man fulfilled faithfully the duties of a small part player. He was competent when he was needed, inconspicuous when he wasn’t. And that is no small accomplishment.
Father Harvey, the director, has set the tone of this play at the pitch of a steel wire about to snap. If it does not always maintain this tone, it can be attributed to the curse of having to have an opening night in order to start a run. His blocking is unforced and effective, and it is on the whole the solid, thoroughly professional job which people have come to expect of him.
This is the seventh production which had been mounted by Gil Rathbun, and sufficient to say, it maintains the high standards of the other six. It is a well planned set, which vividly captured the spirit of the play. It is bright and cheerful on the exterior, showing Celia’s efforts to make the best of life she can. But we are never allowed to foi-get that underneath, it is still a shabby, East Side flat. The lighting was for the most part adroitly handled by Dave Neal, Dan Omelianowski, and George Ressler.
Summing up, the production was a success. It’s that simple. You’ll be cheating yourself of a really rewarding theatre experience if you miss it.
17
Student Forum
Before a man can be said to be truly educated, he must be willing and able to form intelligent views on problems contemporary to his society. Indeed, he must also have some facility in publicly expressing and discussing his opinions. In effect, his academic and social existence must be truly integrated and interrelated. Since a university is primarily designed to provide for the total education of its students, it should obviously provide for that sphere of university life which would give each student the opportunity to consider and discuss problems which should be of interest to him. For this reason the student body of Notre Dame has established a student organized and conducted institution which aims at stimulating an atmosphere conducive to serious contemporary thought. This institution is the . newly-created Student Forum.
. The object of the Student Forum is to provide an occasion for interested students to gather in a group and discuss their views on some particular issue. The Forum was organized by the Student Foram Committee under the direction of the Academic Commission of the Student Senate.
The Forum will be conducted on a regular basis beginning with the first session which will be held at 7:30 p.m. on Sunday, November 23. The general interest of this initial Forum will center around the integration-segregation issue. Members of the University faculty will be guests and participants in the Forum. When the subject has been introduced and presented by the participating students and professors there will be a short break. After this the Forum will be handed over to the attending students for discussion. The professors and student speakers will discuss, defend and elaborate any point on which they are questioned from the floor. Since the object of the Forum is to promote student thought and discussion the majority of the discussion and participation will come from the students themselves. Anyone attending will be free to question any student or faculty member concerning his opinion.
It is hoped that this Student Forum will be welcomed and supported, through their attendance, by those students and faculty members of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s who feel that the intellectual life of the undergraduate should he raised above its present level and that the University should integrate the whole life of the student.
—Andrew J. Lawlor
At the Movies
AVON
Your Past Is Showing: (Nov. 13-20). 87 minutes of attempted homicide. A bright and very often amusing British comedy starring Terry Thomas and Peter Sellers.
The Foxiest Girl in Paris: (Nov. 21). Hmmmmm. Titles like this certainly do set one to wondering. For instance, what exactly must a girl have, or do, to be considered foxy? In Paris?
COLFAX
Party Girl: (Nov. 14-15). If you’re at all partial to parties and/or girls, you just might conceivably enjoy this lusty little bombshell. Ingredients: night club scenes, 25 show girls, apartment parties, and eight gangsters. Put them all together and I doubt very much if they spell “mother.” Metrocolor, CinemaScope, Cyd Charisse and Robert Taylor.
King Solomon’s Mine: (Nov. 16-19). My roommate read the classical comic book; seems to think the movie bears watching.
GRANADA
In Love and War: (Nov. 14-27). The emphasis is more on “love” than “war,” which should heighten its masculine, feminine, miscellaneous and neuter appeal. The dialogue is appropriately slang-ridden; the plot slightly trite; the performers occasionally boring. But oh! that CinemaScope and DeLuxe Color. Robert Wagner, Dana Wynter.
PALACE
Around the World in 80 Days: (Nov. 14-Dec. 1). An enchanting travelogue starring David Niven and an all-star cast.
RIVER PARK
Tarzan’s Fight for Life: (Nov. 14-15). Oh, how I remember the days . . .washing the gourds in the kitchen. . .cleaning up the bones from breakfast. . .waiting to hear Tarzan’s cry of “hoooooha” ringing through the trees! . . .Now he’s gone. . .but he’ll be back!
Co-Feature: Bullwhip. Guy Madison, Rhonda Fleming.
A Certain Smile: (Nov. 16-19). Adapted from Francoise Sagan’s novel of the same name. Typically French in its preoccupation with romantic affairs, etc, etc, etc. Rossano Brazzi and Joan Fontaine starred. CinemaScope - DeLuxe Color.
Co-Feature: Thundering Jets. You’re not going to believe this. “Thundering Jets” was filmed in Regalscope and stars Rex Reason. Yeh. Rex Reason. Regalscope. 73 minutes of bouncing deadliness.
The Hunters: (Nov. 20-22). Entertainment. Roberts Mitchum and Wagner, Richard Egan, May Britt in a CinemaScope, color capsule of duplication. Producer-director Dick Powell and star Robert Mitchum, who combined their talents so successfully in “The Enemy Below,” have gotten together again in what should have been titled “The Enemy Above.”
Co-Feature: Diamond Safari. Kevin McCarthy and Robert Bice.
STATE
She Played with Fire: (Nov. 14-15). It was terrible. He breathed fire on me already. I got boined yet.
Co-Feature: The Ghost of the China Sea. It may not be much, but it’s good wholesome nothingness. Legion of Decency Rating: A-l.
Enchanted Island: (Nov. 16-19). One to miss. One, two, three.
Co-Feature: Terror in a Texas Town. Proud possessor of a haven’t-I-seen-this-same-damn-thing-24 12/19-times-in-the-past plot.
Stake Out on Dope Street: (Nov. 20-23). Hollywood ran amuck.
Co-Feature: Chase a Crooked Shadow. The perfect companion picture.
,	—Lecil Starkloif.
18
The Scholastic
IRISH ATTEMPT TO STOP TAR HEEL WIN SKEIN
Panthers Trip Green In Last Few Seconds
by BOB SCHAEFER
Tomorrow afternoon at Notre Dame Stadium the Irish of Notre Dame will take to the field in hopes of stopping a six-game victory string of the University of North Carolina football team. The Big Green will be after their fifth win of the season against three losses after learning for the second time this season that you can’t give a team easy touchdowns and win. They fell to Pittsburgh last Saturday, 29-26, when Pitt scored with eleven seconds to play.
Noi-th Carolina, loser of its first two ball games, has developed a versatile offense and come on to win six games in a row over USC, South Carolina,
EMIL DECANTIS
Second leading ground gainer
*
I c •
5
Maryland, Wake Forest, Tennessee, and Virginia. Early season losses were to arch-rival North Carolina State and Clemson.
This will be the ninth meeting between the two teams, and North Carolina has yet to be victorious. This year’s edition of the Tar Heels is one of the best to face the Irish in the series.
Last Saturday against Virginia the Tar Heels piled up 514 total yards on offense, 258 rushing and 256 passing. They scored the first time they got the ball and kept pouring it on until they had run up a 42-0 score. Six different players crossed the goal line for North Carolina.
CROTTY GRABS IRISH AERIAL
Junior halfback Jim Crotty grabs a pass from quarterback George Izo while Pittsburgh’s Jim Cunningham (42) watches in vain. The pass was one of 18 Izo completed against the Panthers in a losing effort by the Irish. Izo’s passes were good for two touchdowns and 332 yards. The Panthers, however, scored with just eleven seconds left and won the ball game, 29-26.
The Tar Heel defense was just as effective, holding Virginia to 141 yards on the ground and 41 in the air.
Big man in the North Carolina offense is halfback Wade Smith, a 170-pound junior. Smith is the leading ground gainer for the Tar Heels and a top pass receiver.
The other halfback is Emil DeCantis, 5-11 and 187 pounds. DeCantis is second only to Smith in the Carolina ground game with a five-yard average.
Fullback is held down by two top runners. Don Klochak, 6-2 and 235, was a regular in 1954 but went into the service that year and was just recently discharged. He scored the first TD last week. The number two fullback is Don Coker, a 201-pounder, who started most of last season. He has a four-yard per
carry average , this year. Coker is a top punter with a 42-yard average on 25 punts.
Jack Cummings is the quai-terback. He is a top passer, with a 50 per cent completion average, and against Virginia threw for two TD’s and a pair of extra points.
The end slots are anchored down by Mac Turlington, a 210-pound senior, and Al Goldstein, a sophomore. Turlington is noted for his defensive play while Goldstein is a topnotch receiver.
At tackle the Tar Heels have depth and size. Co-Captain Phil Blazer is the best of the lot and a sure All-America candidate. He weighs in at 230 and is rugged on both offense and defense. The other starter is Don Redding, a 220-(Continued on page 23)
November 14, 1958
Swimmers Get Ready For Initial Encounter
Notre Dame’s new varsity swimming team is working out daily in the Rockne Memorial swimming pool in preparation for the season’s firs*- meet on Dec. 6, against Chicago University in Chicago.
The nucleus of this year’s squad is made up of the swimmers from the old Notre Dame Swim Club, which has existed for the past three years under the direction of Coach Gil Burdick.
Leading a field of 53 hopefuls on the opening day of practice were co-captains Tom Londrigan and Dick Nagle. Both are seniors and are distance swimmers.
Other seniors on the squad include
BUTTERFLY BREASTSTROKERS Practicing for first meet
Jim Hilliard, a 40-yard freestyler, Chuck Kappert and George May, both breaststroke and butterfly, and Jim Garrity and Dick Kates, backstrokers.
Coach of this year’s tankmen is Dennis J. Stark, a Notre Dame graduate. Stark graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree in physical education from Notre Dame in 1947. Two years later he received a Master’s degree in education. After graduation in 1947 he became director of aquatics at the South Bend YMCA until 1956 when he returned to Notre Dame as an instructor of physical education.
Stark is a veteran of both World War II and the Korean conflict. At present he holds a reserve rank of captain in the Marines. He is married and has “four little swimmers.”
Stark has not yet made out his slate of entrants in each event but has been working more on getting the squad in shape. He inherits a team which last year, under the colors of the Swim Club, built up a six won, five lost record in dual meets and placed high in two invitational meets.
Stark feels that his toughest foes this season will be Ohio University, perennial* Mid-American Conference winner,
Stanford, Zahm Meet in Battle of Unbeatens; Sorin Tops Inferhall Action with Clean Slate
Sunday afternoon Stanford and Zahm meet in the feature game of the week in the Interhall football league. Both teams are undefeated but tied in league competition. Stanford whipped St. Edward’s, 26-0, and Zahm won by forfeit over Off-Campus in last week’s games.
Other games on Sunday include Keenan vs. St. Edward’s, Breen-Phillips vs. Farley, Cavanaugh vs. Off-Campus, Alumni vs. Sorin, and Badin vs. Howard.
In the games of last week, Cavanaugh remained unbeaten, untied, and unscored on as they turned back Breen-Phillips by a 14-0 count. Ron Pyle and Steve Loroux stood out for the winners. Each scored a touchdown. John Lenihan ran over the extra point after the first score. The win gave Cavanaugh a season record of 4-0-1.
STANFORD, 26-0
Stanford was paced by John Tidgewell and Dick Trujillo in their 26-0 win over St. Edward’s as they each scored twice. Tidgewell’s touchdowns came on passes, the first from Damien Wren on an option-pass play and the second on a pass from quarterback Chuck Landy. Trujillo blasted ovei- from the one for his first score.
Then, in the most exciting play of the game, he found a hole over his own left tackle and scampered 60 yards for the touchdown. Wren scored the two extra points on an end run. The entire Stanford line played a fine defensive game.
Farley defeated Keenan, 20-6, but Keenan succeeded in pushing over their first score of the year.
In a bitterly contested game, Dillon and Pangborn fought to a scoreless tie. The tie gave Dillon a record of 3-0-1.
Three games were won on forfeit.
North Central, and the Indianapolis Athletic Club.
On his own squad he said that he cannot safely make any predictions yet. He stated, “It’s my first year, and therefore it will be difficult to say anything about prospects until I become more acquainted with the members of my squad.”
The first home meet for the tankmen will be held on Dec. 13 in the Rockne Memorial pool. It will be a triangular meet with Detroit Institute of Technology and the Milwaukee branch of the University of Wisconsin.
The home schedule:
Dec. 13—Detroit Tech and the University of Wisconsin (Milwaukee)
Jan. 10—North Central College
Jan. 15—Indianapolis A. C.
Feb. 7—Ohio University
Feb. 11—Bowling Green
Feb. 14—Western Michigan
Feb. 27—Central Michigan
TWO TACKLERS CONVERGE Stop Inferhall back
Zahm defeated Off-Campus, Sorin beat Morrissey, and Badin won from Lyons.
EARLIER GAMES
In other games played in the last few weeks Stanford defeated Keenan, 26-0, on Oct. 30. Trujillo, Landy, Harry Brown, and Joe Balistrieri tallied for Stanford. • Trujillo counted on a five-yard run. Landy picked off a Keenan aerial and raced 35 yards to score. Brown hauled in a 30-yard toss from Landy for his score. Balistrieri dashed off tackle for 11 yards and the final score.
On Nov. 6, Cavanaugh blanked Farley, 19-0. Pyle, Loroux, Dick Billeard, and Lenihan paced the win. Pyle was the individual standout, picking up consistent yardage besides scoring two touchdowns. Larry Rubards, Bob Bradley, Larry Waymick, Steve Kiliro, and Ed Abel played an outstanding defensive game.
Oct. 30, Zahm whipped Breen-Phillips, 8-0, as John Juliano intercepted a B-P pass and went all the way for the lone touchdown of the game.
MORE SCORES
Other scores: Alumni 6, Morrissey 0; Howard 6, Lyons 0; Sorin 8, Pangborn 6; Dillon 28, Badin 0; and Off-Campus
1, St. Edward’s 0 (forfeit).			
The leading teams:	W.	L.	T.
Sorin 		4	0	0
Cavanaugh -		4	0	1
Zahm 		4	0	1
Stanford 		4	0	1
Dillon 		3	0	1
Badin 			3	1	0
20
The Scholastic
New Series of Weekly Articles to Present Campus Kegler News to 'Scholastic' Readers
’ Welcome to the Keglers’ Korner, a new addition to the Scholastic. This series of articles is intended to convey, not only to the campus keglers, but to i all those who are interested, facts and figures on what happens down in the Notre Dame bowling alleys.
This column will include a weekly T listing of the bowlers who rolled high series and games in their respective leagues each week. This listing will include the top two teams in each league, i all those who roll a 600 series or a 200 game, and the top three average bowlers in each league. In the event that no one rolls a 600 series or 200 game, only the two highest scores in each category will be included.
Perhaps, for the benefit of those not familiar with the point system used in the Notre Dame alleys, it should be ex-[	plained how team standings are deter'	mined. Instead of standard games won
M and lost system, Notre Dame uses the four-point method. A point is given for each individual game won, and a point for the team scoring high total series, including handicap, in each match.
” A team or individuals is needed in the 6:30 Friday Kampus Kegler league. Anyone interested may contact me in : t 263 Dillon as soon as possible.
! The Spare of the Week was made by ! Bill Pregenzer, who converted the 7-9 split in the Kampus Kegler Yellow League.
KEGLER STARS k '	Classic
» LaSalle Hotel....................21-3
Project Construction...........18-6
* Ted Nekic, 215-205-235—655; Fred
Vida, 226-194-205—625; Dan Halloran, 222; Jack McKenna, 222; Don Dvorak, 219; Ray Grubbe, 209; Frank Mullen, ? 202.
Averages—Ted Nekic, 198; Ray Grub-/ be, 183; Danny Panozzo, 181.
P	Kampus Kegler—Red
Detroit Club “A” ............. 20-4
[	Holy Rollers “A”................19-5
[ Pat Heenan, 201-181-195—577;	Earl
P	Mossner, 197-193-171—561; Dick	Smale,
|	202; Denny Leo, 201.
p Averages — Pat Heenan, 179; Earl f , Mossner, 177; Jerry Cangiano, 175.
Kampus Kegler—White
St. Louis Club................ 17-7
. A. I. Ch. E.................... 15-9
Joe Rocco, 192-171-183—546; Fred i Hoey, 165-175-187—527; Don Kristnik, 204; Frank Fasel, 192.
4 Averages — Bob Kriner, 171; Fred Hoey, 168; Ralph Sauer, 165.
Kampus Kegler—Blue
Northwest Motor Service..........20-4
Detroit Club “C”_________________19-5
Fred Vida, 216-195-151 — 562; Ed Murphy, 234; Phil Hodonos, 231.
Averages—Fred Vida, 179; Tom Jablonski, 178; Ray Grubbe, 177.
Kampus Kegler—Yellow Michillos ..................  19-5
Cleveland Club “A” ___________ 17-7
Ted Nekic, 189-257-200—646; John Diebel, 176-231-167—574; Paul Scaglai-rini, 221; Rocco Dantona, 209; Stan Pe-cora, 202; Dave Gundling, 204.
Averages—Ted Nekic, 181; Frank Mullen, 173; John Diebel, 169; Bob Wisne, 169.
Kampus Kegler—Green Fighting Five................14-10
Strikers ................... 13-11
P. Huller, 180-162-165—507; J. Mc-Kenny, 168-162-166—496; Al Kushi, 199; Bill Gaynor, 191; Dick Parsons, 191.
Averages—John Burns, 170; P. Huller, 158; Ken Moylan, 158.
Area Clubs
Not yet rolling.
—Ed Silliman
Wilsonmen at Chicago; Compete in CCC Meet
Today the Notre Dame harriers travel to Chicago for the Central Collegiate Championships. Coach Alex Wilson stated that “Western Michigan will be the toughest squad competing against us.” This team defeated the Irish earlier this fall in the Notre Dame Invitational Meet. Marquette, Drake, and other colleges will also oppose the Irish in the meet.
Last Friday, Nov. 7, the Notre Dame harriers competed at Indianapolis in the Indiana “Big State” meet. The Irish tied with Indiana for first place. Each team scored 36 points. Sophomore Ron Gregory led the Irish runners, finishing second. Dave Cotton, Notre Dame’s pace-setter for the two previous meets, finished fifth and teammate Galen Cawley came in sixth. Purdue and twelve othei* smaller state schools were also represented.
The “big state” meet is important not only as a victory, but also because it is the only state-wide cross-country meet that the Irish enter. The “little state” meet and Indiana Conference championship meet are restricted to smaller schools in the state. The Irish record, is now three wins and two losses.
The seven men running for the Irish on the University of Chicago’s crosscountry course will be Ron Gregory, Dave Cotton, Galen Cawley, Mike Haver-ty, Dennis Johnston, Dave Wehlage,and Dan Rourke. Rourke, a sophomore, will be taking the place of regular Charles Fernwold who ran last week in Indianapolis with an injured calf muscle.
After the Central Collegiate Cham- ' pionship, the cross-country squad will travel to Michigan State on Nov. 24 to defend their title in the NCAA Championships.
ONTARIO MOTEL Apartments - Tourist Kitchenettes Sleeping Rooms
•	Away from Traffic Noise
•	Modern - Private Baths
•	Bargain Rates - Day or Week Phone MU 3-3510	1112 Ontario,
4 ML N. of Notre Dame Niks, Mich. 200 ft. E. of Gulf Station on US. 31 (Ya Mile North of State Une)
""AWTURBOW VprroRMTiurr
OPTICAL REPAIRS EYES EXAMINED CONTACT LENSES 207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5///
DIAMONDS - JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY
• ■
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
•
See: JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.	J.M.S. Bldg.
® mnns
LIHOTud SO nik sup
New Catholic Books’ Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
HAVE BUSES . . . WILL TRAVEL . . .
•
Departmental Field Trips Geographic Clubs Group Movements of all types
CHARTER A —
Ph. CE 3-3235 304 Natiaoal Bank BMg.
November 14, 1958
TIME OUT
The Notre Dame offense, which shone so brilliantly against Navy two Saturdays ago, functioned more than adequately at Pittsburgh last Saturday, but for the third straight week the defense allowed the opposition at least three touchdowns.
Actually the entire offense did not measure up last Saturday to the standard set the previous Saturday. The rushing total for the Irish was a scant 83 yards, an even 100 yards less than Pittsburgh’s total. Only fullback Nick Pietrosante was able to amass more than twenty yards against the solid Panther defense, and his 71 yards were almost the net gain of the entire team.
The reason for the success of the offense was again passing sensation George Izo. He connected on 18 of 26 passes for 332 yards, an average of over 18 yards a completion. He completed passes of 72, 47, 43, 30, and 27 yards besides passing for two scores, tallying two himself, and giving the Irish their two conversion points on a pass to Pietrosante.
But it seems that everyone was so awed by the outstanding passing display by the junior quarterback that they forgot that Pitt had an offense too, and the Irish defense forgot that Pitt was just as determined to get their final touchdown as the Irish had been to get theirs.
A NUMBER OF REASONS
There have already been and there will be more criticisms of Coach Terry Brennan for his withholding his first team through most of Pitt’s final drive. It is certainly true that the five fumbles lost by the Irish played a considerable part in the Notre Dame defeat. The two-point extra point rule helped determine the outcome of the game, the first time it has done so in Notre Dame games this fall. And, as Coach Brennan said in the dressing room after the game, the unnecessary roughness penalty called against the Irish during Pittsburgh’s drive to the winning touchdown was “questionable.”
Certainly, these and many other factors had a hand in determining the outcome of the game. For instance, the fact that the Panthers scored first and scored two TD’s before the Irish could cross the goal line enabled the Pittsburgh club to take their choice on the extra point decisions. By being successful in their first two point-after attempts, they forced the Irish to try for the two-point conversion after each of their scores.
Notre Dame has been visibly weak on two-point conversions. In fact, the successful one against Pittsburgh was the first of the year and the only try which has succeeded out of eight attempts. By forcing the Irish to go for the two points, Pitt minimized any advantage the Irish might have had with end Monty Stickles place kicking the extra points. Stickles has kicked eight straight conversions this year.
But even with these factors as evident and as ponderous as they are, there is still a good deal of truth in a statement uttered quietly by one of the working press shortly after the game was over last Saturday. “Notre Dame blew it. It’s their own fault for letting a team go 70 yards against them in the last six minutes of the game.”
NOT PLACING BLAME
I am definitely not trying to place the blame for the defeat entirely on anyone or anything — the team, the coach, or outside factors such as conversion rules or closely called penalties. The game was one which could have gone either way. If it had ended 20 seconds sooner, the Irish might have won it; and after the game the opinion was expressed in the press box that, if the game had lasted another 20 seconds, Izo might have passed Notre Dame to another score which would have won the game for the Irish.
The only thing for the Irish to do now is to forget last Saturday, to pick themselves up from the emotional depths into which the Pitt defeat cast them, and show the North Carolina team tomorrow the opportunistic football the other teams have been using to beat them. The Irish can still have a winning season, but they can’t afford to lose any more.
TYLER
Tyler has been having more trouble with Big Ten games this year than games from any other section of the country, having picked five games wrong, four right, and one tie in this conference in the past two weeks. He said that this week’s Big Ten games were harder than ever. But it looks like he has a sure winner in LSU. What they did to Duke last week, 50-18, is almost unbelievable.—T.T.
Sailing Team Ends Season; Eliminated in Regatta Trials
Last Saturday the Notre Dame sailing team journeyed to Shafer Lake, Ind., to take part in the elimination races for the Timme Angsten Regatta which will be held in Chicago later this month. The Irish, with 32 points, failed to place by only one point.
Entering the next to the last race, the Notre Dame squad trailed Indiana by one point and picked up the point needed to tie. However, the Hoosiers picked up one more point than the Irish in the final race and insured themselves of a trip to Chicago.
In the Notre Dame Invitational, held on October 4 and 5, the Irish were hampered by strong winds and finished fourth with 51 points.
Then the improving Notre Dame squad took third place in the Wisconsin Invitational with 82 points. Michigan skippers led in both the ‘A’ and ‘B’ divisions, but Boland and Pavia were the runnersup.
In the final meet of the season, the Purdue Invitational held on Shafer Lake, the Notre Dame squad reached their peak with a second place finish and 67 points. They almost upset a tough Michigan squad which won the meet with 72 points. Mickey Pavia was high point skipper in the ‘A’ division with 37 markers, and Dan Schuster took second place honors in the ‘B’ division with 30 points.
The sailing team is planning a seminar to be held next February. It will be advertised and is open to all interested parties.
Tyler's Picks of the Week
Army over Villanova Navy over George Washington Pittsburgh over Nebraska Auburn over Georgia Georgia Tech aver Alabama Duke over Wake Forest Mississippi over Tennessee Notre Dame over North Carolina Wisconsin over Illinois Michigan over Indiana Michigan State over Minnesota SMU over Arkansas Rice over Texas A & M California over Washington Colorado over Utah Oregon State over Stanford Akron U. over Baldwin-Wallace
PLENTY OF POISE Northwestern over Purdue NO LET-DOWN HERE Iowa over Ohio State JUST LIKE OU MAN RIVER LSU over Mississippi State LAST WEEK
14 right, four wrong, two ties TOTALS TO DATE
70 right, 25 wrong, seven ties 74 per cent
22
The Scholastic
ND-UNC
(Continued from page 19) pounder. These two are backed up by a pair of juniors, 250-pound Don Stallings and 235-pound Moose Butler.
Fred Mueller and Fred Swearington are the number one guards. Both weigh about 205 and are fast. Swearington is the handyman of the ball club as he has played several different positions.
Senior center Ronnie Koes is one of the best in the East. He goes 215 pounds and is an outstanding linebacker.
The forward wall of the Tar Heels will be one of the biggest the Irish have faced this season, and the linemen are also fast.
There is depth in the backfield as can be seen by the fact that 16 men have carried the ball at least five times each.
Against the Panthers last week the Irish made two mistakes in the second
FRED SWEARINGEN Handyman lineman
quarter and spotted the Panthers a 15-0 lead, then tried to come back and win. Twice the Irish took the lead but could not hold it. They lost the lead for the last time with only eleven seconds to play in the game.
George Izo was clearly the outstanding performer for the Big Green as he completed 18 of 26 passes for two touchdowns and scored the other two himself on short plunges. He called an excellent game, using fullback Nick Pietrosante to keep the defense honest.
End Monty Stickles caught eight passes for 87 yards and two scores and halfback Jim Crotty caught four for 85 yards.
After Pitt went ahead 22-20, the Irish clicked on a 72-yard pass play to Pitt two. Bill (Red) Mack made a great catch on the play and almost made it over the goal line. Izo scored on a plunge to give the Irish a 26-22 lead with 8:32 left in the game.
After an exchange of punts the Panthers marched 67 yards to score the clincher with just eleven seconds left.
ARMY - NAVY AIR FORCE
Insignias
MILITARY SUPPLIES
Genders Surplus Sales R.O.T.C. ACCESSORIES BRASSO and BUCKLES
You Save Everyday at GENDEL’S 512 SO. MICHIGAN
November 14, 1958
23
News Briefs
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., has been confined to Mercy Hospital in Pittsburgh this week, recovering from eye surgery. Father Joyce was injured Saturday when a loose seat plank broke, swung up, and hit him in the face. Rev. Richard J. Grimm, C.S.C., commented: “Father Joyce will be kept in the hospital for about a week for observation. Reports we have are that there is no damage to his eyesight and that the surgery was successful.”
o o
Mr. Dallas Sells, president of the AFL-CIO for the state of Indiana, spoke before the Labor Management club last Thursday evening, November 13. His topic was “Labor’s Political Activities and Responsibilities.”
Mr. Sells has been active in the recent political campaign. He is the first president of the recently merged AFL-CIO for the state of Indiana.
o o
Professors Raymond Gutschick and Erhard Winkler have' recently returned from a convention of the Geological Society of America held in St. Louis, Mo. Professor Gutschick was at the convention as the President of the East Central Geological Teachers Association. Also at the convention were four Notre Dame graduates rep
resenting the schools at which they are now teaching or the companies they now work for.
o o
The first of the series of YCS retreats last week end was attended by 16 students. Rev. Joseph E. Haley, C.S.C., conducted four conferences on the relation' of the Christian life to the lay apostolate.
The next retreat, open to all students, will be the Saturday and Sunday of Dec. 14. The charge, per person, for food, is $2.50, and retreatants leave at 7 p.m. Saturday for St. Joseph’s Hall, returning at 5 p.m. Sunday.
o o
Answers to the “25 Questions NonCatholics Ask” are provided by Rev. John A. O’Brien, research professor at the University, in a new booklet just published by Our Sunday Visitor Press.
The questions deal with the whole area of Catholic belief and practice and range from “Why don’t Catholics eat meat on Friday?” to “Is not the Catholic Church authoritarian and undemocratic?”
o o
A wall of stained glass, believed to be the largest of its kind in the world, is now being installed in the chapel sanctuary of the new $3,000,000 Moreau Seminary on the University campus.
Designed by Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., assistant professor of art, the unique stained glass wall is 60 feet wide and 29 feet high. It portrays a group of over-life-size angels enveloped in rays of flame and light. Father Lauck has been collaborating with the Conrad Schmitt Studios in Milwaukee
for more than a year in bringing his design to a finished state.
o o
Last Friday night, a group of 16 members of the Notre Dame Glee Club gave an exhibition concert at the Studebaker presentation of their new line, the “Lark,” in South Bend.
At present the club is preparing for the annual Christmas concert, to be given on Tuesday, December 16. A change in the format of the program will highlight the presentation this year as the club switches to Christmas carols as the main feature.
In addition, a joint concert with the St. Mary’s Glee Club will be held on December 7 and 8 featuring the “Magnificat,” by Bach.
The Easter Concert Tour this year will include several spots in the East, and for the first time, they will sing in Maine.
o o
Sculptor Ivan Mestrovic, distinguished University of Notre Dame faculty member since 1955, has just completed a larger than life size statue of the late Pope Pius XII. The statue is seven feet tall and depicts the late Holy Father sitting on his papal throne.
The work was commissioned by St. Louis University and will be placed in front of the Pope Pius XII Memorial Library now under construction there. Until the $4,000,000 library is completed, Mestrovic’s statue will be displayed in the City Art Museum of St. Louis. Pius XII was the < subject of two earlier works of Mestrovic.
YOUR NAME BRAND JEWELER IN SOUTH BEND . . .
YOU CAN’T WORK
WITHOUT YOUR TOOLS
Watches by
• OMEGA
• BULOVA
• LONGINES
• HAMILTON
• LE COULTRE
• WITTNAUER
• PATEK PHILIPPE
Diamonds by Keepsake & Art carved
•	GOLD & STERLING CHARMS
•	RELIGIOUS JEWELRY
•	BIRTHSTONE RINGS
•	COSTUME JEWELRY
•	MEN'S JEWELRY
• GIFTS
WATCH AND CLOCK REPAIR HAND ENGRAVING
121 WASHINGTON
CE 4-1311
COLLEGE
OUTLINE SERIES
FINE
ART MATERIALS
ARCHITECTURAL SUPPLIES
SHEAFFER PENS
SCHOOL SUPPLIES
Aho reminder for
FEBRUARY 14
Valentine Cards and Gifts
Notre Dame Bookstore
24
The Scholastic
'Plain and Fancy' Begins Next Wednesday at SMC
St. Mary’s College will present its first theater production of the year beginning next Wednesday and running through the following Sunday. Plain and Fancy is the title of the show to be presented in O’Laughlin Auditorium.
The plot follows the complicated romance of a New York couple who, while still engaged, get involved in an unusual real estate transaction. The stars are Dave Barrett and Eleanor Murphy.
The famous musical comedy is renowned for such hit songs as “Young and Foolish.” It will be directed by Mr. James Cronin and Mr. Rocco Gennano who will be assisted by students Carlee Fitsimmons and Kathy O’Brien. Stage manager is Rosie Doheny.
Others with roles in the musical are Helene Cicciorelli, Nancy Pearson, Fred Gade, Joe Maier, Herb Moeller, and Don Aeifang. Janetta MacNamara is the choreographer while Arlene Grylewicz and Nancy O’Toole are the accompanists. Taking care of props and costumes are Helen Lauinger and Sue Stemnock.
Debate Team Competes Today in First Tourney
The Notre Dame debate team begins its intercollegiate tournament schedule today as four men participate in the St. Joseph’s College Invitational Debate Tournament in Philadelphia. Representing the University are Jay Whitney and Guy Powers on the affirmative and Jerry Goudreau and Bob Dempsey on the negative. They will be in two debates this afternoon and conclude with four more tomorrow.
On the following week end, foui* freshmen will represent the team in the season’s first novice contest. Notre Dame debaters will be Bill Beaver and Dick Meece on the affirmative and Dave Cas-taldi and Maurice O’Sullivan on the negative.
Sunday through Thursday next week, the University will hold an interhall novice debate tournament. A total of 17 debates will determine by elimination the champion novice team. Each team will debate both sides of the question, Resolved: that the further development of nuclear weapons should be prohibited by international agreement.
Make Reservations at.
EDDIE’S
for
BANQUETS PARTIES
CLUB FUNCTIONS
Special Rates for Notre Dame Men
•
Eddie can accommodate groups from 10 to 100. Make your reservations now by calling CE 2-5861 after 4:30, ask for Jerry
•
1345 IRONWOOD DRIVE Michiana’s Finest
SHAMPOO by SHULTON
M)\\ :
A MAN’S SHAMPOO in Shower-Safe Plastic!
Old Spice Shampoo conditions your scalp as it cleans your hair. Removes dandruff without removing natural oils. Gives you rich, man-sized lather that leaves your hair piore manageable, better-looking ... with a healthy sheen! So much better for your hair than drying soaps...so much easier to use than shampoos in glass bottles. Try it!
ffOt M(N
November 14, 1958
25
Rack Pop
a better kind
by BOB GHELARDI
Most of us, I suppose, have run across statements by rummaging, Ph.D.’s, Time, and such erudite sources, that college students today are quieter, more serious, more homogenized, less gauche than ever before, and nobody seems to doubt these propositions less than the students. Fine. I don’t begrudge any fellow student his rare peaceful moments. But there are a few around here who evidently do, not out of cynicism or ill will perhaps, but certainly out of ignorance.
A few weeks ago, All-American Dan Shannon belabored the student body for the death of the old Notre Dame Spirit. Shannon still is high on my hero list for his performance in that immortal Iowa game, but Shannon isn’t a social scientist, or even worse, perhaps he is. What he means is that things have changed, and not knowing why, he decided he didn’t like it. But I think there’s as much spirit here as ever there was, and a better kind, too.
Back in the twenties and thirties football was the favorite sport. Seats for some of the big games went for hundreds of dollars. Like Renaissance Medicis, football heroes were toasted from Maine to California, and back again. Why? Everyone knows the twenties were wild times. Social and moral problems were ignored as long as economic prosperity continued. It was a time of unrestrained egotism, when people were glad to abdicate responsibility and slip into silliness and self-gratification. The bizarre, the weird, and the strange were sought as marks of individuality. The football heroes became symbols of the gods that everyone wanted to be. They weren’t football teams out there, they were psychic projections, carried along on waves of hysterical foam. It took a 'depression and another war to pop all the bubbles, and by that time football was carrying a different load of meaning. Army became the great power. If they appeared in ’43 on a football field, players would probably be performing on another kind of field in ’44. Football was a symbol of a more rugged kind of masculinity than before. And this mood lasted beyond the war into the late 40’s.
Since the war, it seems to me, the atmosphere has changed again. I don’t mean merely the balmy showiness of a fall afternoon, but the whole context into which the game fits—its emotional and recreational value in our society. This . value is entirely different from that of »: / •' ■J •. ■	_ -
the twenties. No longer is the ball player valued as an ideal, nor is his room the court royal of the campus. No longer does the game arouse that intense hyperbolic emotion that had overtones reaching way beyond the value of the game itself. Football is valued now much more as recreation, and as a game. And this is probably for the good.
Today (as we hear often enough) is the day of the big organization. The strains and demands of life are accepted more at face value; at least, they are recognized as strains and demands. Socially, the acceptable thing to do is meet them with a cool head. A man in a turban swallowing live fish at a ball game would be packed off to the hoosegow. (Thirty years ago the cop was likely to be swallowing fish). Pressures to get success, position, and maintain some sanity doing it seem to form the cultural matrix now. What do people living in such a generation want out of football? Relaxation, not oriental commotion.	.
Students cannot help being part of the age. If they don’t scream and yell as they used to, that doesn’t mean they, don’t care; I don’t think any of them ever miss a game. They have a smouldering kind of enthusiasm, not a string of ten-cent firecrackers. They’re just as interested as ever, but more philosophic, or more sane, about wins and losses. Concomitantly, the players themselves are treated more like human beings. There is more a spirit of camaraderie than adulation. Their indiscretions are treated as such, not as the independence of marauding Don Juans. The tenor of. football is evening out. I don’t think pep rallies and demonstrations will ever go; the Purdue game, before and after, showed us that. But the Olympian mockheroism is now a legend, and let’s not try to call it back.	.	.
This issue brings up another. Admittedly, now, the malady of this decade is. not an excess of enthusiasm, but more a lack of it. Student officers complain almost ritually of campus apathy, but the more they, denounce it the more pop- . ular it becomes. The cure for this, evident. from the'usual steps, is.to issue alarms, debate savagely, and do nothing.
One recent Senate meeting drowned it- ‘ ’ like to see is, some football Saturday, ' self in babble and balderdash about- . or other big day; some droll student get closing the bookstore on Sundays! The .a mike and set up a little stand in the idea behind this seems to be that contro- . . quad and spend two hours sanely airing versial - issues spectacularly, dealt: with*, bis gripes and defaming the enemy, will yield spectacular results, but experi- alone.	.
• ’	.	The Scholastic
ence shows they only inspire sporadic sputters and guffaws. Now and then, by some arcane process and in spite of human reason and intuition, the truth gets found out. The students are at last realizing that Senators are not categorically Leaders, or even the poohbahs of efficient organization they are cracked up to be. They are discovered to be in reality a pack of rascals but little removed, save by superior impudence and enterprise, from the mass of dullards on campus. Every year we send in a new bunch, unreasonably assuming that they " will be better than the last, and every year we are, as they say in Vegas, taken in. (There is hope now, from what I overheard once at dinner, that the hall responsible for the election of the Senator who introduced the Bookstore business will redeem itself by impeaching him).
No one over there seems to realize that controversial issues are no longer controversial, but just more issues.
The Senate by now has a neat little bureaucracy set up and going, and a very valuable one it is. Just look at the financial report. But if it wants to be worthwhile, let’s see it set to work to - help the students where they need it. *
Why are students apathetic? Because they are out of contact emotionally and intellectually with the things around them. One of the greatest problems of -this University is the need for contact between students and faculty. Nothing is ever done about this. If the Senate has the students’ interest at heart, I 4 should think it would pay as much attention. to what they need as to what they would like. After all, this is a ' school. The dances and activities it sponsors are grand, but to have dignity and not merely function, it has to go beyond this primitive social level.
Hope remains. There have been signs of life in The Scholastic this year; a barrage of mordant criticism has appeared on the “Back Page” and else- 1 where. Its fate, though, is too common:
' read once desultorily by beady eyes and ; used immediately after as wadding to
stuff wet shoes. Maybe we could use a 4 - little of that twenties spirit. What I’d '
this man is flying an airplane?
Sure, he is!
Oh, not literally, of course. Actually, he’s an expert in aircraft fire control and missile guidance systems. He’s part of the research and engineering team of the U. S. Naval Avionics Facility at Indianapolis, Indiana.
His job offers him a new opportunity every day, and he likes it. He enjoys working in diversified programs that challenge his ingenuity. He is given assignments with significant responsibility. He appreciates discussing his problems with colleagues who are recognized authorities in their fields. He knows that he is gaining valuable tech
nical experience with industry’s finest professional tools at his disposal.
The Facility has immediate openings for engineers, electronic scientists, physicists and mathematicians. Personnel enjoy competitive salaries, unequalled opportunity for recognition and advancement, professional freedom, liberal vacations, accumulative sick leave, attractive retirement benefits, and advanced educational programs.	-
The Facility has major responsibility for the Navy’s research and development programs in such areas as: airborne electro-mechanical and electronic systems, inertial components, radar components and computers, electronic counter-measures, heat transfer studies, and anti-submarine warfare systems.
Accomplishment of the impossible is tradition at NAFI. If you are a young man or woman with initiative and imagination who has talent to contribute to a dynamic Navy, consider Naval Avionics Facility Indianapolis as an outlet for your professional expression.
AS positions will to filed in accordance with applicable Cioil Service procedures.
•The mm in the picture it CHARLES E. GRAVES Ne'/I bt on campus to meet yon m NOVEMBER 17, 1958 Put yourself into this picture by arranging tor an inltnitw through your PlattmstOHia todayl
u. s. naval avionics facility
Indianapolis 18, Indiana
A new idea in smoking!
* menthol fresh
Salem brings a wholly new quality to smoking... Springtime-softness in every puff. Salem refreshes your taste the way a Spring morning refreshes you.
★ rich tobacco taste
Smoking was never like this before! You taste that rich tobacco...then, surprise!... there’s an unexpected softness that gives smoking new comfort and ease.
4 modern filter, too
Through Salem’s pure-white, modern filter flows the freshest taste in cigarettes. You smoke refreshed, pack after pack, when you buy Salems by the carton.
Salem.

F,LTer C|garettes
Created by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company