

SUBSCRIBE TODAY 
to the only student-produced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni 
,, •,'•/:\{}·~ .. :,,:~:·; ·, .·._.,:_ ,,',•,:; 

-:":f/:pH1iti~s~~ir~J 06~!;> . 
200'1 Indiana Collegiate Pre~s Association SCHOLaSTIC 
News Magazine of the Year . 
INFORMED. INTELLIGENT. OUT OF THE ORDINARY. 

I . --------. ··--.-.----------·. ~-·· .· -~·:..._7 
j PLEASE PLACE ME ON YOUR ®:.UJ~@X(f;>1n:@ll LIST. · SEND THIS FORM AND . j .$35.00 PAYMENT-TO: 
I .NAME: --------------'---...SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE . : . .. ·.· : I j .· ·315 LAFORTUNE STUDENTCENTER . . j 
I ADDRESS: --------------NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 . . .... j 
I -----------"----I
I I 



COVER DESIGN COVER PHOTO TABLE OF CONTENTS PHOTO PAGE MIKE MIKE NICOLE GRIFFIN GRIFFIN KINNEY 
v16 

IH.E.EOlJBIEEN]J:LOE.S.EEIEMB.EB~ I
Notre Dame Reacts 03 · 
TABLE OF CONTENTS byScholastic staff · 
j .S~nior staff members reflect on Tuesday's » Closing the Gate? by Kristin Kramer 13 · tragedy, . : . . · 
» Through the Looking Glass by Jacklyn Kiefer 14 London Times .' . •. . 
16 

by Jacklyn Kiefer . 
» Let's Rally by Jessica Daues 24 
I

. Want to study in London? Schola~tictakes a look. at the programs that are available to » Up Against the Wall by Gerard Meskill 26 
. interested students.··· · · ··. 
» Summer Lovin' by Sheila Flynn 32 
·1•Hole in One · . ·. · · · ·28 
:byKathleeh Corte < . .. · ., ·,. · · · 
From the Editor 2 Out of Bounds 31 ND Notebook 8 Week in Distortion 34 
. .· i-b_m Coyne, a N~tre Da~.~ graduate, adapts . Campus Watch 19 Calendar 35 
his recently published bbok into a movie. '· . · 
Splinters 21 Final Word 36 j 

look for 
1 · ISSUE3 
, . · on SEPT27 

From Belfast to Hell"Our revenge will be the laughter of our children." A mural on the wall in West Belfast was dedicated to Bobby Sands, a young man who, along with a group oflike-minded comrades, died on hunger strike in 1981. To some Irish, he is a hero. To others, he is a terrorist. What struck me were not the elaborate, almost trippy, swirls of color that surround the depiction of his long hair and strong features. Instead, it was the words that frame him. The thought ofBelfast's children laughing-I dare say, living a normal life -is refreshing, and hopefully prophetic, optimism. But Belfast's children are both Protestant and Catholic. Laughing and living aren't easy when an angry mob pickets outside a school for young girls, keeping the pupils in their homes, terrified. It is especially difficult when such events are not out of the ordinary -or even a welcome change from bombings and dead civilians. Sadly, the "revenge" will prevent the very laughter of the children. Not until the two groups decide to come to an understanding of each other will the chil­dren be permitted to walk on the streets. Not until the riots, killing and oppres-• sion are stopped will the night air be touched by innocent laughter. Until then, the children will walk quickly along the streets with curbs painted with the colors of their parents' allegiance. The Protestant children follow the red, white. and blue of the British Union Jack. The Catholic children follow the green, white and orange of the Republic. And a wall cordons off the young, leaving them to learn of each other through murals on buildings' walls. After Tuesday's horrific events, the United States is left with a choice. Will we teach our children to further hate those who already detest us for our past actions? Or will we, through careful deliberation, hold our war-mongering horses and earn the respect of the world? Action must be taken, but rationality, not revenge, must be behind the decisions. If the wrong choice is made today, I worry that the only sound to be heard from our children's mouths will be whim­pers and screams. 
More to Come 

This issue is arriving on the newsstands a day later than normal. The edito­rial board of Scholastic chose to publish late to permit the inclusion of a re­sponse to the atrocities that have been committed against the United States. These, however, are just the beginning. 
In two weeks, Scholastic will be releasing our Terrorism Memorial Issue. And we need your help. We intend to record the Notre Dame response. How are students feeling? What do professors have to say? Share with the Notre Dame community your pairi and your midnight prayers. See pages 3 through 7 for information on submitting essays, narratives, poems and thoughts. 
Be well. 


!J11wlJP4 
Michael P. Griffin, Editor 
Vol. 143, No. 02 • 14 SEPT 2001 
SCHOL8STIC 
r1 Editor In Chief 11 Michael P. Griffin 
I ,Managing Editor 
' i Matthew Barr 
Associate Editor Jessica L. Daues 
Executive Editor Sarah Childress 
News Matthew C. Ziegler, editor Jeffrey Drocco, assistant Kalie Freddoso, assistant 
Campus Life Jacklyn D. Kiefer, editor Kristin A. Kramer, assistant 
Sports Gerard J. Meskill, editor David Murray, assistant 
Entertainment Kathleen Corte, editor Carrie E. Sweeney, assistant 
Departments Cristin E. Fenzel, editor 
Design 
Crissy Manary, editor Katie Browning, assistant Jessica A. Chamberlain, assistant Jen Sanday· Brendan Condon Nick Dailey Eric Doversberger Nicole Kenney 
Photography 
Katherine A. Foster, editor 
Graphic Arts Michael M. delaRosa, editor 
Copy Adam M. Aroian, editor Jennifer L. Wahoske, assistant 
1 
Cecilia HadleyI , Aaron T rulley 
I iDistribution I IFelisia Johns, manager 
!Advertising Jessica B. Polish, manager Kyle Zuaro, assistant 
Online 
F. Brian Scofield, manager Jamie L. Moran, assistant 
I 
Marketing Kristen D'Arcy, manager 
Disce Quasi Semper Victums Vive Quasi Cras Moritums 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is 
~ 
Copyright© 2001. All rights reserved. No contents of 
this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be I Ireproduced in any manner without written consent of 1 , the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume I ; liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All ! icorrespondence should be sent to Scholastic I magazine, Lafortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN i 46556. The Royal Huntsmen are on the prowl. To be j publish~d In the next issue, letters must be received by 




"i .• 
5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All letters must 

include !lie writer's name, address and phone number. !All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon lrequest In certain instances. Scholastic reserves the ; right to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections i made more than 21 days after publication cannot be !guaranteed.The subscription rate is $35 per year. . \ Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please I 1specify volume and number, or date. Copies of the !annual football review are available at $5 per copy. 
I 
i iAdvertising rates available on request. The opinions , · i expressed in Scholastic magazine are not necessarily !Ji those of the University of Notre Dame or the student :._ body. 

2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 

SCHOLASTICNEWS 3 


End of the Innocence 
What should we do, now that the unthinkable has happened? 
KIMBERLYBLACKWELL 
Iwas late hearing the news; CNN.com would not load on my Web browser when I checked it at 8:05 a.m., so I for­got about checking the news for a little while. After all, the top news for the past 24 hours had only been a decline in the stock market-not a fascinating subject for a gov­ernment major. I showered, read and got ready for class. It wasn't until 11 o'clock that I heard people saying in the hallway that the univer­sity was closed. "What's going on?" I de­manded with the first 
my last semester in London, a bomb from a dissident IRA faction went off in front of a BBC office, and several tube stops were evacuated because of threats. Both of these countries saw the height of these internal terrorist actions in the 1970s and 80s and continue to live with the violence. 
The new terrorism here has been directed, 

· however, not by internal factions -we saw that in Oklahoma City-but, in all likeli­hood, by radical Islamic fundamentalists. (At press time, Bush-administration offi­cials have identified associates of Saudi ex-are unaware of world affairs simply because we do not have to be aware of them. If a civil war is raging in Sri Lanka, if a multi­national war is fought in Congo, if kidnap­ping is rampant in Colombia, it is a Iife­and-death reality for them. But we don't see it here because those countries do not have immediate impacts on us -we are physi­cally and psychologically far removed from them. What we do in America, however, just because of our size and influence, usually does have ramifications for them. It is per­haps inevitable that resentment of us would 
stirrings of alarm. "The _, bombs!" was the how-can­
(tJ Pilanes down. Towers collapsed. Thousands 
you-not-know? response I re­ceived. I ran into my room, 
I.··· rinlaging. In the first moments it seemed apoca­
and now CNN came up. 
The Pentagon is burning. 
lyptic in scale; I could only wonder, along with 
My hand flew to my 
mouth as I scanned the list millions of others, what fu_rther tragedi~~ w[.,Ild
of terse statements on the 
Web page: Planes down. be visited. 
~ 
Towers collapsed. Thou­sands missing. In the first moments it seemed apocalyptic in scale; in the next, like the nightmarish fiction scenarios of Tom Clancy novels come to life. I could only wonder, along with millions ofothers, what further tragedies would be visited. I quickly went to a friend's room and, for three hours, with the TV on one station and his com­puter transmitting live feed from another, we watched the news unfold. And then we headed out to Mass to pray. Out on the quad, my eyes remained focused on the flag, flut­tering gently in the wind, at half-mast. I was shaken: This isn't supposed to happen here. 
The rest of the world, including the West, has long lived with terrorism. This is dif­ferent, of course -never has such a mas­sively destructive terrorist attack been launched on any nation. But terrorism is common in many places. I remember sit­ting in my Spanish family's living room in Toledo in January 2000 when we learned that the year-long truce kept by ETA, the Basque separatist group, had been violently broken by an explosion in Madrid. During tremist Osama bin Laden as the suspects.) Ordinary Americans have done nothing to them; nevertheless we have all incurred their hatred and now, possibly, have borne the brunt of their wrath. 
A friend who has studied in Israel and lived among Palestinians has a unique in­sight into the emotions surging there. By no means can these excuse the acts of which they are accused, but perhaps they can somewhat explain their thinking. What bothers Palestinians most, she says, what feeds their helpless frustration, is not so much American support of Israel as Ameri­cans' utter ignorance of the situation. Twenty-five percent of adult Americans cannot even point to the Pacific Ocean on a world map; the vast majority must surely be unable to locate Israel, much less dis­play any awareness of the complex history of the Middle East and America's involve­ment there. The United States is the Ione gi­ant on the world stage, and international af­fairs are just so many flies to be brushed away. 
We can't help who we are. Most people 

J) c:'.:J 

build up in the rest of the world, that we would be blamed for others' problems and our ignorance of those problems. But even if government policies might be faulted (though I sometimes wonder why America shouldn't work to further America's inter­ests in the world), average citizens are not the guilty ones. On Tuesday, terrorists pun­ished them anyway. In the process, they shattered our distance, our innocence. 
As we begin to recover from the week's devastation, the world stands with us to con­demn the despicable acts of terror and ex­act punishment from those who supported and harbored the offenders. However, per­haps another consequence of this terrible day will be that we learn that we now stand with the world. We may begin to seek a grow­ing awareness and understanding ofthe world, friendly or hostile, beyond our shores. 
It wasn't supposed to happen here, but it has, and now we must go forward together. D 
The views ofthe author do not reflect those of Scholastic or the University ofNotre Dame. 
4 SCHOLASTICNEWS 

~ ~ ~
• -:-• • ', :~:. • • •.,e ~. • ·:. ,.., • • ' • • :, ,; ( J. .,: -: 
, >. ', :--_-.' . . , : .:·-' -_·-, _:·, . , , __.":, .> , . ,'>~:· .. ,.:· ..·. ·. :.:._·.· ~-";< . , 

Seeking to Comprehend 
Full understanding must take into account America's complex global image 
KRISTIN KRAMER 
For a brief period on Tuesday night I was able'to forget about the "Attack on America." I began my morning on Wednesday with a clearer mind, or at least one less focused on the previous day's horrors. Then my professor brought it up in class, and I remembered. I remembered it all. A nervous feeling fluttered in my stomach. It all came back to me as we talked in class. The obliteration of the towers. The hostage-bearing planes turned into weap­ons of terror. The footage of Palestinians celebrating in the streets. The morning was a deluge of perverse activities that were all stunningly devastating and ofimages pow­erful by themselves. Oddly, the nervous feeling in my stomach worsened when the class discussion turned to talk of retribu­tion against the enemy-of a possible dec­laration of war. One of my classmates said something to the effect that we had to "go in there and hit them so hard that they would never think about doing anything like that to the United States ofAmerica ever again." How foolish, I thought to myself. How typi­cally American butfoolish. Punishment -harsh and exacting pun­ishment -should be meted out to those who have committed these abominations. But the attitude of "let me hit you as hard as I can to remind you of who's really in charge of the world" is inappropriate when dealing with terrorists. As should be abun­dantly clear by now, such radical terrorists do not care whether they die or not. No mat­ter how many of them we kill, they will go to their deaths believing they have accom­plished much good with Tuesday's attack. 
Punish the ones we can find. Increase air­port security. Step up intelligence efforts to quell terrorist activity before it hits. But showing everyone how big and bad we are won't stop the source of Tuesday's attack. We'll be holding a people responsible for the actions of a few, and such a modus operandus is exactly what has helped breed hatred of the United States in the past. 
The United States has a history of get­ting involved in the internal affairs of other nations -whether they want us to or not. In many cases, our meddling in Third-World countries during the Cold War era more than justifies their dislike of us. We've used our superior economic and technological re­sources to help overthrow South American governments, exacerbate tensions in the Middle East and keep Southeast Asia frag­mented. This much I have learned in my American history classes here at Notre Dame. Spending a semester in Europe also taught me that Americans do not always leave the best impression behind them. A lot of American tourists tramp around, de­mand their Burger Kings and speak to Eu­ropeans in loud English, assuming every­one must speak our language. Why wouldn't they-the rest of the world revolves around us and our big economy, doesn't it? 
It is such past transgressions and attitudes that are at the root of much of the hatred that some groups and peoples have for the United States. The real tragedy is that many people have become blinded by this hatred because, for all their blustering, Americans are a great people. The United States is an incredible country, and people who are not proud to be Americans, although they do have that right, are unappreciative of what they have. _Things, places and people can always be worse, and, in much ofthe world, they are. The spirit of magnanimity, volunteerism and courtesy that we have here isn't found everywhere else in the world. Nor is our freedom. 
I am proud to be an American. I, too, sat shocked watching the events unfold on TV for much of Tuesday. And the more I learned, the more I hated them for it. Even now, I hate them for what they've done and for th~ terror and the death they have brought to thousands of innocent people. I hate them for how vulnerable they've made me feel. But I don't even know who_ "they" are yet, and until I do, striking out blindly with my hatred won't make me much bet­ter than they are. 
I fully realize that I do not bear the bur­den of responsibility that political and mili­tary leaders in our country do at this point. Nor do I possess the leadership and deci­sivene.ss such positions demand. It takes stronger stuff than I have, and judging is all too easy from the sidelines and in hindsight. I only ask, as an American, that they put forward America's best face-intelligence and compassion -rather. than her sheer brute force. D 
The views ofthe author do not reflect those of Scholastic or the University ofNotre Dame. 
(So~of my classmates said something to the effect that we had to 
-"golin there and hit them so hard that they would never think about doing an~hing like that to the United Sta!es of Ame!ica ef~ ag~1in:' How foo/tsh, I thought to myself. How typically Amencan ~~­
SCHOLASTICNEWS 5 



Never the Same 
Tragedy forever alters everyone's life 
CRISTINMANARY 
It has been 24 hours since my mother called me and told me to turn on the 
I 
news. I dress in an exhausted state of numbness and try to shake the feeling that I just woke up from a nightmare. I leave for class and walk past the library and onto South Quad. The campus seems strangely normal. The dining halls are open, athletes whiz by on bikes and students gossip as they walk to class. But the flag is at half-mast 
r) 01 
, ,, 'L 
Hiroshima and Nagasaki because we were right in our belief to protect democracy. Now this country and its leaders are about to make a plan of retaliation, and we hope once again that our truth triumphs. 
After class, I head to Reckers for my usual smoothie. Every television is tuned into a news program just as they are across cam­pus, and the scenes of Tuesday's horrible tragedy flicker across the screen. I watch again as one of the planes crashes into the World Trade Center. Still, I can't help but next week they will be sent to a country halfway around the world to fight a war against a cowardly and evil enemy. Though my family is not from New York or Wash­ington, I am just as devastated and terrified. The Catholic doctrine that this university has been built on teaches us that the world's suffering is our own. It is our responsibility to continue serving each other through support, prayer and comfort. 

I finally arrive back ·at my room. As al­ways, the door is unlocked. For the first time 
in four years, I tell 
myself to lock it the 
next time I leave. 
During the entire

l~h~~<;patholic doctrine that this university has 
course of my life I have taken for

been built on teaches us that the world's suf­
granted the security that I have been

fering is our own. It is our responsibility to con­
provided by living in the United States. 

tinue serving each otherthrough suppor!_,il [7 
Before September 

prayer and comfort. · 
and an eerie tension hangs in the air. On a deeper level, nothing is how it had been fewer than 48 hours before. The United States ofAmerica and theNotreDame com­munity will never be the same. My life arid · yours will carry the scars of September 11, 2001 for as long as we live. 
In class, the syllabus is thrown out and our professor allows an open discussion to begin. I find myself near tears several times, trying to comprehend the tragedy. Theories are tossed around and solutions are dis­cussed. War is on everyone's mind. Many believe it is necessary, and the question is whom ought we go after. Others hold a dif­
Jerent opinion and believe we should main­tain peace through negotiation. Suddenly the truth is very cloudy. As someone told me today, the truth can be a very dangerous thing. On Tuesday, those terrorists believed they were doing the right thing. They died and killed thousands ofpeople because they believed in something. The Japanese, backed by their set of truths, bombed Pearl Harbor. We dropped atomic bombs on think it looks like a movie scene. That stuff happens in Independence Day and Passen­ger 57, not in real life. It is simply unfath­omable. I find myself still struggling to make all the pieces fit. I know I am not the only one overwhelmed. I draw upon the past tragedies I have watched in my life: the San Francisco earthquake, the Oklahoma City bombing and the Columbine High School shootings. None of these has readied me for this, and not one compares to the tragedy that all of us tuned into on Tuesday. 
As I enter my dorm, I want to fall back on and find security in this campus we call "The Bubble." It seems so easy to turn off my television and focus on the most recent debate over parietals, but that is impossible. As an American and as a Christian, I sim­ply cannot ignore how much the destruc­tion of the World Trade Center and the at­tack on the Pentagon will change -and already has changed -my life. Many of my fellow students are still not sure if their loved ones are safe. Many ofmy friends are in the military and ROTC. I don't know if 11, 2001, security
O c{) 
was a word we used 

when referring to the Notre Dame police force or a large fund of money set aside for retirement. Never again will any of us treat it with such flip­pancy. Now it is a question on everyone's mind. Perhaps we are not safe anywhere ­even the Pentagon, the very height of mili­tary power and defense, is vulnerable toter­rorist attack. For the rest of my life I will wake up each morning and wonder: Will it happen again? 
At the end of the day, there are no more answers, only questions, fears and confu­sion. I feel helpless as I watch the news. My only solace comes in my prayers. As members of the Notre Dame community, we will triumph because our faith in God, in democracy and that the American way of life will riot be harmed by any evil. As Presi­dent Bush did, I draw on Psalm 23: "I shall walk through the valley of the shadow of death, and will fear no evil for You are with me." 
The views ofthe author do not reflect those of Scholastic or the University ofNotre Dame, 
6 SCHOLASTICNEWS 







A SPECIAL ISSUE 
to cope with a tragedy 
Essays Narratives Poems Thoughts 
SCHOLaSTIC 
Contributions will be accepted from all for a memorial issue that will address the tragedies of Sept. 11 and their effects on our lives and our community. All submissions can be left in the drop box outside the Scholastic office (in the basement of South Dining Hall), or they may be e-mailed to scholast@nd.edu. 
Deadline: Friday, Septe_mber 21.,-2001 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 7 

CD REVIEW TEN QUESTIONS. · 

~ Left Stranded? 
I New policy forces hobbling students to crutch it to class 
KATI EFREDDOSO 
While watching Regis ride around campus in his golf­cart-turned-limo last week, you might have noticed a lot of students hobbling to class on crutches. That's because the Office for Students with Disabilities has changed its policy on letting injured kids use carts. The OSD always has offered a ride service that drove injured students to and from classes, and in previous years, it also gave them the option of signing out a golf cart. But the OSD has been forced to revoke that privi­lege due to problems with stolen and vandal­ized vehicles last year. According to Scott Howland, program co­ordinator of the OSD, the carts were "abused, mistreated and stolen," often by students un­der the influence of alcohol. Rowland's as­sistant, Moura Locke, says that carts were even stolen from right outside the OSD's Badin Hall office. "It's not as though these were just unattended golf carts; people were actually cutting off the locks," she says. 
~, Ten Questions 
!j with the new Leprechaun ... 


ADAM URRA 

At $3,000 to $5,000 per cart, this was no minor issue. Locke estimates that the OSD spent nearly half oflast year's budget on golf­cart repairs and replacements. 
The new policy is that only students with a permanent medical condition that necessitates transportation assistance can have access to a private cait. Other students have to use the OSD's ride service, which has been expanded from two drivers to 10. But this service got started two weeks into the semester, and it runs dming standard weekday class-time slots only. That means students with temporary injuries are left without transportation on weekends and between 6 p.m. and 8 a.m. on week­days. 
Howland acknowledges that this is a problem. "At this point, [the OSD] can­not effectively meet all stu­dents' needs," he says. "Our primary commitment 
Who's the new little guy in the green suit at football games? Well, he's not ex­actly little, but senior Adam Urra will embody the role of the Leprechaun this year for the Irish. The senior philosophy and government majorfrom Westerly, R.I. sat down recently with Scholastic to talk about his new job. 
What made you go for the Leprechaun role? Is it something you've always wanted to do? 
I used to be a cheerleader, so I was around [2000-01 Leprechauns] Mike and C.J. [Brown and Lanktree]. I think I always kind of had it in the back of my .mind, but they encouraged me to go out for it. 
is to students with permanent disabilities." The budget must be spent accordingly. 
In the future, the OSD hopes to expand its ride-service hours and possibly arrange a shuttle service in conjunction with Notre Dame Security-Police and its SafeWalk program. But these changes won't take place until next year at the earliest. Until then, just try not to break your leg. 0 
What are your own Lucky Charms that helped you beat out the competition? 
It helped just watching Mike and C.J. because they were both fantastic and good examples. I alsCJ think you can't be afraid to have a good time, and, yeah, you look a little silly, but it's for Notre Dame, so it's not all bad. You just have to be ex­cited and talk like you're on speed all the time! 
A lot of people probably don't envy you, stepping into Mike Brown's shoes. Do you feel any pressure to live up to him? 
Mike did leave big shoes, but I look at that as a challenge. He raised the bar and got people really excited, but I'm look­


8 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK
~---~----------------------_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_--~_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_--_---------, 

J:iEY YOU! 

r-----­
, 

1?,i~t~'\F_ L~Wil~L~H~@:-•.H~t(~l~f~-C:S,;!ft,rf'@.1~ :·,~;'. *IE: f:@10la1:@;,(9'IT(::[;f;.Cef§M!i,[;l:•f~ iYo 
"I just can't stand her. She gets on my nerves all the time. I 
(l1 124 Years Ago 
> 
could just give her a makeover." -student overheard in South Dining Hall 
~ Tree Hugger 
Selling reusable Grab 'n' Go bags pales in comparison to the efforts of Notre 
• _r• 
Dame's earliest environmentalists. In the April 
"Better to abandon the_ use of the phone for the rest of your 
life than to let that happen again." 

28, 1877 issue of Notre Dame Scholastic, 
> 
-philosophy professor, chastising a student whose cell 
writers carefully cataloged the first blooms of 
phone rang during class 
spring, and then proposed a highly effective tree-saving strategy: 
"Did you see me spit on myself?" 

Vegetation at last makes its appearance. We 
-uniformed football player to passing student 
noticed no less than ten flowers coming out> last week. The order ofappearance is, April 12th, Hepatica triloba and Caltha palustris 011 the bank ofthe St. Joseph; on the 15th, Viola tricolor .... 
"I only have a couple words to"say about drinking -I 
The gmve just no11h ofthe upper lake will, in 
drink." 


a few years, when the trees planted this year will
> 
-'--rector, during freshman orientation . 
have attained some gmwth, look more beautiful 
than ever. It would not be a bad idea to plant a 11umberofN01waypines, balsam andsp1'ucefirs, hemlocks, etc. tluvughout the groves about the 
"So, do you come here often?" 

lake. They would add greatly to the shade; and 
-overheard student to person meditating at the Grotto 
then ifany man dare cut down one ofthe trees,> [we would] shoot him on the spot! 
All this, years before Birkenstocks came to America! 0 -Cristin Penzel 

ing forward to maintaining that standard. 
Describe the Nebraska experience for us. Did you have to get your fight on with any of those Husker fans? 
We actually had a really rough trip. Our flight was cancelled, so we had to take a Greyhound bus instead for nine hours or so, but it ended up being a great time. It was rough in their stadium, but the fans there were very classy. They knew our football, and we saw a lot of Irish fans. It was a big college atmosphere, almost like a bowl game. A few of the fans were rude, but you just tip you hat at them and smile and move on. Does this Leprechaun need some heavy 
metal, rap or just a good Irish jig to get going before the game? 
I listen to the Rudy soundtrack, actually, but if you have to try hard to get excited about Notre Dame, this probably isn't the job for you! 
Have you always wanted to attend Notre Dame? 
From the time I was in third grade. I watched the ND-Michigan game with my parents, saw the gold helmets, and I was just sold right there. 
So have you ever seen those horror "Leprechaun" movies where the lepre­chaun goes around killing people who stole his pot of gold? 
Oh yeah. 
Suffer any occasional identity crises? 
No, but everywhere I go, people always say that line, 'Tm the leprechaun." Do you know it? You do? I hate it! 
Two words that will describe ND's home opener against MSU on September 22. 
Total domination. 
How many push-ups can you do? 
As many as we need to -hopefully about 42 a game! 0 
-Kristin Kramer 
SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 9 


I I 
1 
I 
1.1 
I! 
iil:· 
IL 
ITI 
i l 
l 
11 
~1! 
Ii 
I' 
IJudgment Calls Opinions and observations 
NEW STUDENT IDS 

t They're nice -unless you're a senior who had to get a new one because yours broke. Now everyone thinks you're a fresh­man. 

DEAN'S-LIST GPA HIKE 
So much for my resume. Being an engineering major has never looked more appealing. 


HANDLESS O'SHAG CLOCK 
It was never right anyway, but 
now it's even uglier. 

... FARLEY THE DOG It's nice having animals on -campus, but .when a comatose . dog stretches.its leash across . the sidewalk and lies in wait for students going to lunch, that's dangerous. 

JACKARUTE 
This isn't Survivor. But if it were, we'd vote this bug-eating football analyst off the island. 


NOTEBOOK 
THE CD REVIEW 



,:,;;_,., 
:·­

Comfort Eagle 
LABEL: Sony/Columbia RELEASE DATE: 24 July 2001 
Story by Joanne Davidson Photo courtesy of amazon.com 
It has been awhile since the members of Cake have tantalized listeners with their whimsical lyrics and creative musical abil­ity, but they are back into the music scene with their new album Comfort Eagle. Lead singer John McCrea claims in their first track that he is an opera singer. Perhaps this is true, but this quintet's genre is difficult to classify, crossing bar­riers of pop, jam, rock and even ska. Al­though Comfort Eagle explores new ter­ritory, Cake stays true to its original, fan­ciful nature as introduced in its debut al­bum, Motorcade of Generosity. Comfort Eagle is an enjoyable journey to make with the members of Cake. Be­tween trips td a conceit hall' with "Opera · Singer," visiting Austrian nobles, and get­ting stuck in traffic with a "Long Line of Cars," Cake provides another all-around fun album to toss in while you are driving or taking that necessary break from studying. McCrea and the members of Cake pro­claim that "somebody's got to say it all," and they certainly do with their narrative 
songwriting. Cake subscribes to a distinc­
tive style through epic musical fantasies. 
While Cake's music incorporates a vari-
Jili 




'l~-i------------------------------­
Mr. Rogers told me I was unique and special, like a snowflake. Then I came here. Now when I
I_ Domelights 

hear my name called, I usually turn around and find someone talking to another Cristin (or,
I 
COMPILED BY CRISTIN FENZEL 

more likely, a Kristin or Kristen). Sound familiar? Here are the most common undergraduate 
names on campus this fall: ·· Source: Office of Knowledge Management 
FEMALE: » MALE: 
1. 
Elizabeth 1. Michael 

2. 
Katherine 2. Matthew 3. Jennifer 3.John 


4. Sarah 4. Christopher 
5. Erin 5. Brian 
* The Office of Knowledge Management based its research on the. spelling of names, not the sound. Therefore, the names "Cristin," "Kristin" and "Kristen;, are each categorized seperately. 

ety of talents, ranging from clapping to trumpeting, the attention has been always on the lyrics of the songs. Surreal and sometimes silly tunes transport the listener to vivid imaginary lands. 
The current hit single "Short Skirt/Long 
Jacket" is reminiscent of classic Cake songs, with a loud background chorus and a humorous storyline. However, Cake quickly follows U:p with an instru­mental, "Arco Arena," which demonstrates mem­hers' ability to use mul­tiple sounds. Towards the 
If you like Beck..· You'll love Cake. 

end of the album; Cake slows down their tunes to a more descriptive and emotional tempo. 
Cake's fourth album shows its matura­tion into a well-formed band. Members have stayed true to their musical roots, maintaining their typical story-telling style of songwriting mixed with heavy guitar and eclectic musical instruments. Comfort Eagle is an essential piece to a true Cake fan's collection and a welcome musical surprise to new fans. D 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



I' 
THERE IS A WAY. 
Tom Eckert, C.S.C. 2003 Ordination Class 


ANSWER_·-~ THECALL '<!Y. 

www.nd.edu/-vocation 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



''Because we call Notre Dame a family ... " 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs offers some opportunities to stand in solidarity with gay, lesbian, and bi-sexual members of our Notre Dame community. 
Featured Speaker: 

Mrs. Judy Shepard 
Thursday, September 27, 2001 
7:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Admission is FREE 

Reception with Mrs. Shepard following the presentation 
Mrs. Shepard's story: 

In October 1998, Judy Shepard lost her twenty-one year old son, Matthew, to a murder inspired by anti-gay hate. Her ordeal moved thousands of people across America to attend vigils and rallies in Matthew's honor. 
Determined to prevent their son's fate from befalling other people, Judy and her husband, Dennis, established the Matthew Shepard Foundation to help carry on Matthew's legacy by embracing the just causes he had championed. This includes working for gay and lesbian equality and helping to prevent hate crimes. 
Judy is determined to use her grief over her son's death to make a difference. She is now speaking to audiences nationwide about what they can do to make their schools and communities safer for everyone, regardless of their race, sex, religion, or sexual orientation. 

September 30, 2001, is SOLIDARITY SUNDAY. 
"Notre Dame, our Mother, in sharing your name, we claim that we are family." Solidarity Sunday invites the Notre Dame community to pray and grow as one family. On this Sunday, we recognize the_value of our community's gay, lesbian, and bisexual members. All Masses on campus will express the commitment of Notre Dame to stand with Christ, in community, with all her brothers and sisters. Prayer cards and rainbow ribbons will be distributed at all Masses to serve as symbols for the Notre Dame community to display their commitment to stand together and make Notre Dame a place for all people to grow in faith, hope, and love. 

Thursday, October 11, 2001, is National COMING OUT Day. 
On the occasion of National Coming Out Day, October 11, 2001, we the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs join Notre Dame's gay, lesbian, and bisexual students in gratitude for the love and support they have received from family and friends. We urge all members of our community to redouble all efforts to make our campus a safe and welcoming place free from harassment of any kind. 


Closing the Gates? Uncovering the hazards of a venerable tradition KRISTINKRAMER tailgates. "I don't know if I would walk all dump their burning coals down the sewer, the way over there," says senior Breen­which causes the sewer system to catch onIntimately related to Notre Dame's sto­Phillips resident Kristen Sullivan about fire," Rakow says. ''We've also had car fires, ried drinking tradition are the six Pendle Field. "Maybe if it was a big, orga­field fires and Dumpster fires. Ifyou don't Saturdays oftailgating that take place on nized tailgate with all my friends. Half the want your brats sprayed down with a hose, campus every fall during football season. fun of tailgating, though, is being right you'd better use propane." But if. you add sexual assault, robbery, around campus and brawls and sewage-system fires to the usual feeling like you' re beer and brats, you'll understand why "tail-:­really in the middle gating" has a different connotation for Rex of Notre Dame foot­Rakow, director of the Notre Dame Secu­ball." rity-Police Department. Students, how­"We're very concerned as an institution ever, will be able to about binge drinking, and every year we try continue to partici­to tighten up our policies," he says. "We pate in tailgating ac­want Notre Dame football to be a celebra­tivities. "Ifyour par­tion, a good time, but there's got to be a en ts come in and limit. We're looking at [drinking] moregig­host a little picnic gressively this year. We're getting lots of tailgater with a complaints about huge tailgates of 200 to dozen or two ofyour 300 people that keep others from enjoying friends, we're not themselves." going to notice that," Acting "more aggressively" this year will Rakow says. "If mean increased security on the.perimeter we're there, and your of campus as well as stepped-up monitor­dad is dancing on top ing for open containers of alcohol in the of the car with a center of campus. "There will be more cit­lampshade on his ing, either students to ResLife or more head, we're probably criminal ticketing, or both," Rakow vows. going to notice." Another change, targeted more directly Such loud, rau­EAT, DRINK AND BE MERRY Irish masses often enjoy an elaborateat student tailgating, prohibits students from cous gatherings, tailgate before and after Notre Dame football games. Notre Dame -parking anywhere but D2, D6 and Pendle which often are fu­officials want to prevent rabble-rousers from spoiling such festive Field, which is located east of the Notre eled by binge drink­occasions. Dame Federal Credit Union off of Douglas ing, can become a Road. Although the Blue Field, located off detriment to safety. Edison Road, has been a popular location According to Rakow, NDSPD has dealt As game time approaches, NDSPD tries for student tailgates in the past, the area is with sexual assaults, fights and robberies to break up any remaining tailgates. Ex­off-limits this year to anyone with a Notre that have been aided by alcohol consump­pulsions from the stadium generally re­Dame parking permit. "If we find student tion and the anonymity afforded by large sult in only five or six arrests per game, cars there, we'll tow them," Rakow says. tailgates where strangers can mix in with but the 32. city and county officers, 12  

Although the university forbids any stu­dent or student organization from hosting a tailgate, many do so anyway. "Tailgating with the guys in my section defines foot­ball season for me," says senior Keough resident Paul Schofield. "I don't think it's smart of the university to regulate tailgat­ing. I don't see what they're trying to ac­complish." 
Pendle's distance from the stadium as well as the prohibition of alcohol in student lots might cut down on student-sponsored the crowd. "Most people are just here to have a good time, but, unfortunately, there are those who come here to take advan­tage of others," he says. 
Another lesser-known tailgating regula­tion is the prohibition of charcoal grills, an apparent necessity for the brats-and-burgers menu of football Saturdays. Tailgaters-are­instructed to use pr_opane grills instead. In this instance, the safety of both crowd and grounds is the main concern. "What we've had is a couple of instances where people NDSPD officers and 800 ushers inside the stadium keep a fairly close watch. "I'd say the av_erage number of put-outs is maybe 15 to 20;" Rako~ says. -''Boston College always seems to be the record; we've been up to 100 with that one." 
For now, tailgating at Notre Dame still seems safely ensconced within the para­meters of the blue-and-gold tradition. But come game day, the uniformed and plain­clothes officers out in the lots will be there with an eye towards safety. . 

SCHOLASTICNEWS 13 

-,• .------·••. _-----.• .•-._,_,. 
'I 
,ii 








THR~OOKING GLASS 
Story by Jacklyn Kiefer 

Scholastic uncovers a time capsule from the '50s 
Photos by Kate Foster 
------~---·--·--·-----'·•-·------•---­





"Hey guys, do you know anything about the time capsule in the dorm?" 
This was the question that started the search. My friends and I knew that many of the dorms on campus have formal time capsules of the "do not open until the year 2050" variety, but we hadn't heard of any that were informal. It turns out that one of the rectors of the Summer London Programme, in which I participated, also was a rector of the residence hall on campus for a few years during the 1990s. She told me of a capsule in a dorm that had been added to almost every year since 1959. 
Several summers earlier, she had set out to find the capsule herself. Other rectors had told her which floor the capsule was on and the approximate room number. She and an assistant rec­tor pulled the medicine cabinet out of the room in question and found a huge pile of newspapers, letters and other items. The assistant rector even crawled back into the space to retrieve everything,_getting stuckin the process so badly that they al­most had to call the fire department. She organized everything in the capsule for future residents, and for almost every year since the seniors in the dorm have added their own items exem­plifying their experiences. 
Once I returned to campus, I got the idea of doing a photo essay on the items in the time capsule, but I had to find it first. 
BEYOND THE WALL We found everything from soda cans from the '60s (aboveleft) to "Frederick the Sperm" (directly above) behind the medicine cabinet. Everyihing was crammed into old bookstore bags and piled between the room wall and hallway wall (righQ. 
I e-mailed my London rector, who told me the dorm and gen­eral area it was in. It turned out that I knew some people on the floor, but finding it proved to be a challenge, as the rooms had since been renumbered. As my friends and I investigated the first medicine cabinet, we were encouraged to see that the mir­ror had only two screws intact. They were removed easily. We found a large space that would certainly have been a good loca­tion for a time capsule, but the approximately 4-foot-by-4-foot space was cluttered with nothing but boards and a few beer cans. 
We decided to try the next room. The residents had heard nothing of a time capsule but agreed to help us in our quest. Again, the medicine cabinet had·only two screws anchoring it to the wall, but these screws looked brand new. They were also easily removed. We were greeted by a gray object fluttering about due to an air shaft in the wall. It was identified as "Frederick the Sperm," an addition made by past male residents of the hall. We found several bookstore sacks containing news­papers dating as far back as 1959, a 1966 football program and many other items ranging from pictures to bras. 
We removed all bf the items and took some pictures. The most recent item dated back to 1996. We reorganized the items by year, replaced some of the sacks that were deteriorating and then placed everything back inside the wall for future genera­tions to enjoy. D 
jJfJ!i1Jt\1 
.n'i?·=t':t~~1-"'··1--r:-:i,r;?
~~i-: lJ?t:(<r..\;·.•.:·rJ," 
> 1'. '···V·1·rY
j::t;f.t-I~f·
(~Jyi;•"~ 
Y­

14 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 


' 
i/ I I ' 
l// 
MEMORABILIA 
Perhaps the most valuable items that we found were a program for the 1966 Notre Dame/ Army matchup as well as an Observer from the 1988 National Championship win (upper). We also found two bras left behind by previous residents (lower). 
BLACK HOLE 
Sophomore Matthew Ziegler climbs into the void between the walls to retrieve the last items in the time capsule (left). 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 15 


London Times 
> > Three ways to study in London next year 

1 
JACKLYNKIEFER The semester-long London Program was founded in 1981 for Arts and Letters juniors, " whenI look back on my time in Lon­and in 1997 it was expanded for students in don, I can see things so vividly, all university colleges. Last year, 150 jun­and I miss it so much," says se­iors participated in the program each semes­
nior finance and international business major ter. The program offers about 60 courses on Kristen Sullivan. "I can't imagine not know­topics ranging from Shakespeare to the Eu­ing the friends that I made there. We got to ropean Union. Each student takes approxi­know each other so quickly and easily, and even though I dido 't expect it when I got there, these people became the largest part of my London ex_, perience." 
This chance to meet new people is just one ofthe aspects that has attracted more than 3,000 students to the new Sum­mer London Programme, the 
OPENING DOORS Studying at the Marian Kennedy Fischer Hall aUows students to study in a high-tech environment while
semester London Program and 
experhmcing life in the.heart of London.
the Summer Engineering Pro­
gram. 
Another well-liked feature of the program mately 15 credit hours while in London, and is that the buildings are co-ed. Most students certain majors are targeted for different se­enjoy having members of the opposite sex mesters. For example, pre-med and engineer­nearby, something they definitely can't get ing majors attend the program in the fall, and on Notre Dame's main campus. As a result, PLS and business students are targeted to at­"students often share tasks such as meal cook­tend the spring semester. ing and shopping," says senior John Bauters, But what if you're a science major? Many a government and psychology major. such students have concerns about complet­
The programs share more than a growing ing their requirements; however, with plan­pool of applicants and the opportunity to ning, science majors can go study in Lon­make new friends -they also share a class­don. Alexandra Amaro, a senior biology room building. The Marian Kennedx Fisc,:her major, says that she did not feel as if she was Hall is a 27,000-square-foot facility located behind in her studies upon returning to cam­
I near Trafalgar Square in the heart of London. pus. "I always knew that I wanted to study 
I; It was formerly the home of the Oxford/Cam­abroad somewhere from the beginning ofmy 
I; 
bridge Club; it now is leased to the univer­sophomore year," she says. "I held off tak­
i~ :'. ~ity from the Crown. The groups.also share ing some of my university general require­British faculty from the University of Lon­ments [and] by doing that, all the classes I don and the London School of Economics, took in London were classes that counted among other institutions. toward my major and graduation." 
With many features in common, many stu-· Though the_Loridoil Program consistently dents might wonder what ·differentiates:'the offers. the same classes, program director three programs and what benefits one pro­Anastasia Gutting says that she always is gram offers over the others. The p~ograms looking for ways to improve the course of.: are quite diverse, and each has unique quaff-ferings. "Currendy, we're developing re­

-ties to offer the students who participate; search opportunities for psychology rnajors, Soa~i~~-UPc th~S!Jl~_yte ... ---~ ., -~. . . 
since the number· oft.on.don Program stu­
-·: ..••· ..-_ . 
dents from that department has grown 
significantly," she says. "We're also de­
veloping courses related to student inter­
est." The latter group of courses will in­
clude a new course targeted for pre-med 
majors called "Medical Practice and 
Policy in the UK." 
The courses offered are an integral part 
of the program, but perhaps the most 
unique aspect of the semester program is 
the opportunity it offers to students to 
obtain internships, especially in the 
House of Commons. Because members 
of Parliament have smaller staffs than 
their American counterparts, interns in­
teract more with the members and might 
have a greater responsibility than a con­
gressional intern would. 
Tuition and room and board fees re­
main the same as on the main campus, 
and in addition to program costs and 
housing, a weekly food allowance and 
roundtrip airfare from New York to Lon­
don is included. There are, however, other 
costs involved. "The advantage of the 
spring program is that you really get a 
chance to travel all around Europe if you 
want," says Scott Ellspermann, a senior 
finance major who participated in both 
the spring 2001 semester program and the 
Summer London Programme. Many stu­
dents choose to do this during their two 
week-long breaks, and, as a result, bring 
extra money along. · 
Here Comes the Sun 
Despite the__extended period of time 
participants h_ave to become immersed in 
the-British culture, many students feel 
that they would have difficulties complet­
ing their majors ifthey went abroad_ for a 
full semester, and _others do -not want to 
miss out on life atthe main campus. 
The:Summer London Programme was .created for these reasons. "The program· 
is great for students who want to go 
abroad but can't during the regular se­
mester," says program founder T.R. 
Swartz. "It is especially good for student­
16 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 


athletes who are bound to the main campus during the regular school year as well as for pre-med students who feel that they should stay on-campus and prepare for the MCAT." The pro­gram also offers students the chance to have an abroad experience without missing out on campus life during the school year. 
Ellspermann says that he chose to extend his stay in London "for the op­portunity to pick up a few extra cred­its before senior year." He added, "I wanted to see what the sun looked like in London!" 
The weather aside, the summer pro­gram allowed students to spend five weeks in London without interfering with other summer plans. "Students had no problems with finding intern­ships and jobs that were flexible enough to allow participation, and most people knew far in advance that they were accepted, so they were·able to negotiate dates of employment eas­ily," Swartz says. 
The program consists of six credit hours in one of several university re­quirements offered. One of these courses must include a travel portion. Last summer these courses traveled to destinations throughout England and Scotland. The travel expenses for this course, tuition, housing, a weekly sti­pend and aitfare are included in the $5,300 fee. 
In the past weeks Swartz has met 1 with Risk Management about includ­ing a course that traveled to the Con­tinent. "The proposal was approved, and we are considering several poten­tial courses that could travel out of the UK," he says. "We have considered expanding the Concert Life in London course into the Conc_ert Life of Two Cities, where the class will visit Paris during their travel time." Another ma­jor change to the program will be an option for a long weekend, running from Friday to Monday, allowing for more travel. 
Everyone involved believes that the program was a huge success. "The pro­fessors were first-rate; though some were initially reluctant, all said that they re­ally enjoyed teaching during the pro­gram," Swartz says. 
If numbers are any indication, the pro­gram has another successful year ahead. Already 35 of the 60 spots have been filled, and Swartz expects that the pro­gram will be full by mid-October. The program accepts applications from all undergraduates. "This is a great program for first-years who may want to study abroad in one of the language programs," Swartz says. "The freshman who are ac­cepted will be the youngest undergradu­ates studying abroad at the university, and London will give them a soft land­ing and instill confidence before they are completely immersed in a language pro­gram." 
Bridging the Gap 
The Summer Engineering Program was founded in 1988 by Ed Jerger and John Lucey. It has just complete_d its 14th summer. It is set up much like the Sum­mer London Programme, but it offers only two courses. These courses are both accepted as technical electives in all en­gineering curricula. 
Approximately 25 students participate in this program each summer at the cost of $4,100. This covers airfare, housing and program costs. Most participants are students who could not go to London in the autumn due to campus commitments. 
The summer program offers some spe­cial benefits to the participants. "We do take trips to sites of technical interest that aren't part of the autumn program such as the Thames Flood Barrier and a satel­lite manufacturing plant in Stevenage," Lucey says. 
The group also has sufficient time to travel during two long weekends. "I trav->> 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 17 

1 
,.,~~~£ii 
.:.:;·.~:~.-.:{:;;; :£~_·:: . : 



f:s~r_··· 
-:,~{~$?~-.. ,::~_: --~ 

-~~i~.~;~;-.~.•~;·i­
•:;·-.---, . _-~ ·... , .'• ·:
' , 
_f;i';j::;:~::,_~; 
..__...... ~ ', ., ---....., 

. 
-• e:· 
.¥;.~ :,,, !!~~!! 
>> eled to Germany, Ireland, Rome, Scotland and ii Paris during my breaks," says senior civil en­: II gineering major Kathy Cogan. "I didn't get 
: I 
to spend much time in London, but only be­cause I spent most of my breaks traveling elsewhere." Overall, the program has been a success and is well-liked by students. "We all got to know each other fairly well since there were only 25 of us, we got some elec­tives out of the way and we saw and expe­rienced Europe without the snow and cold," Cogan says. 
All of the London programs offer stu­dents unique opportunities, and all have fi­nancial aid available. Students who receive financial aid during the regular semester also will receive it in London, and jobs can be found at the London Centre, though they 

' 

are not as abundant as on the main campus. The engineering program has recently re­ceived an endowment to provide financial aid for its students, and students can apply for financial aid for the Summer London Programme. 
Studying abroad in London is feasible for virtually everyone due to the wide · range of programs available. The new pro­gram especially makes this possible when a semester seems too long. Bauters says, "I got to stay and be an active part of all the things I wanted to do at ND during the school year while still managing an international study experience .... It is the perfect amount of time to both experience the city, life and culture while not being gone from home for so long that you find yourself missing ND." D 
THE LONDON PROGRAM 
Fall 2002 and Spring 2003 
Prep Sessions, 101 DeBartolo: 
October 2, 2001 -Group Travel 
November 6, 2001-Housing 
Application Deadline: 
October 19, 2001-Regular 
October 29, 2001-Late 
Acceptance Notification: 
February 2002 
Director: Anastasia F. Gutting 
THE SUMMER LONDON 
PROGRAMME 
Summer 2002 
Informational Meeting: 
October 3, 2001, 7 p.m. 
Application Deadline: 
Rolling; expected to be full by mid­
October or November 2001 
Acceptance Notification: 
Two weeks after application submission 
Director: T.R. Swartz 
SUMMER ENGINEERING 
PROGRAM 
Summer 2002 
Informational Meeting: 
October 3, 2001, 7 p.m., 356 Fitzpatrick 
Application Deadline: 
Thanksgiving Break 2001 
Acceptance Notification: 
Before Christmas Break 2001 
Director: John W. Lucey 
l==================I= 

18 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 


. ello, football-starved Gippsters, and welcome back
H

to this ethanol-soaked bubble so fondly referred to 
as ''home." Hopefully by now you have settled back into your old campus routine. Things are just as you left them last May -the mattresses still are mysteriously stained, the football players still are bigger than you and dining-hall eggs still are pumped full of laxatives -wait, did the Gipp say "dining hall?" Apparently, some habits die hard. What he meant, of course, was either North Food Court or -his favored pseudonym -South Food Market. At first, these new titles aroused images of live cows milling around the salad bar and card-swiper ladies with giant fruit baskets on their heads. What they amounted to, unfortunately, was little more than a strained effort to convince students that what they're putting in their mouths was, at one point, actu­ally edible. 
pus liquor store. Surely that would make the money back in no time, enabling us to fund an Emmaus rock concert fea­turing Marilyn Manson and Tool. 
But enough of that tripe -let's get on to the nudity. Ap­parently, a group of Pangborn and Alumni residents, des­perate to escape the furiously fluctuating forces of fall fash­ion and the South Bend weather, decided to take a little skinny dip a couple of weekends ago. Unfortunately, they chose beautiful St. Mary's Lake for the shindig. The Gipper will not be surprised if reports of third nipples and sixth toes begin to pile up in his mailbox during the next few weeks. 
Want more? Well, this tip comes all the way from last April, after the year's final Scholastic had been issued. According to this tipster, he and some ofhis engineering comrades were burn­
ing the midnight oil at the 
Of course, there is one DeBartolo computer cluster, en­food item that even NDFS 
gaged in their studies, when they cannot contaminate, due its noticed something odd over at the entirely inorganic nature: consultant's workstation: lots and YoCream. According to one lots oflnternet porn. Now, perhaps loyal tipster, a group of stu­these hard workers were simply hal­dents has resorted to per­lucinating after a long evening of forming "Yo-stands" in crunching numbers; or else SFM. They are similar in DeBartolo has begun offering jobs nature to keg stands, not to last year's horny Hes burgh high­only because of the bodily schoolers. position involved, but also Unfortunately, Gipplings, because the standee has to that's it for the tip supply. To his be carried away by his own great disappointment, friends ifhe's had too much. everyone's favorite source ofsor­
Now, Rally in the Alley did scandal has gone dry. Why? evidently did not amount to Because so few people remem­much, because the Gipper bered to share their favorite sto­received just one tip con­ries with their ol' Uncle Gipp. cerning the event, and it fell Now, the Gipper understands the just short ofthe Gipp's scan-pressures facing students at the 
dal quota. People getting extra-friendly after a party happens all too much; it might have made the cut had they, say, fallen out of a window or used a keg tap in creative ways. 
Perhaps the lack of Rally excitement was due to the huge drnw of Flipstock, which encouraged sobriety through a se­ries of bands singing about drunkenness and drug use. Evi­dently, 3,000 students showed up for the free concert, which cost the university approximately $150,000. If the Gipper's math is correct, that amounts to $50 per person. Always look­ing out for his beloved campus, the Gipp proposes a solu­tion to help cover the cost of such a flop: open an on-cam­
beginning of the year. You've got important things on your mind, and it's easy to forget those tips. But these early days also produce the wildest, most shameless behavior on campus, so it's vital to keep 'em com­ing. Therefore, the Gipp has decided to hold a motivational contest: the Gipper will send one autographed photo -that's right, you' II be the only one on campus to have one -to the person who sends in the juiciest tip before the next regu­lar issue. (The Gipp will not be appearing in the memorial issue.) This is a rare event, tipsters. Please include a sug­gestion on how the Gip per or one of his Scholastic colleagues can verify your claim. Good luck! . 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 19 
PAID ADVERTISEMENTS 

all new ••.



Spring $10 
Initial Deposit 

Break! 

Offer ends 10/19/2001 
Cancun f rem $999 
(based on Quad Occupancy) March 2-9 or 9-16 

Puerto Vallarta from $939 
(based on Triple Occupancy) March 3-10 or 10-17 
Prices Include: 

. Motorcoach from your college to the airport 
(Groups of 6 or more) . Non-stop service out of Chicago .7 nights at a great hotel right on the beach . Airport/Hotel transfers 
dgerton's I Funjet
travel service, inc. 

Vacations·
.. Since 1924'" 

1-800-643-4604 www.edgertonstravel.com 




version· 3.O 
Bigger, Faster, Stronger 
• 
movie listings 

• 
picture galleries 

• 
new message boards 

• 
dining with Molly Kinder 

• 
and -much, much, more ... 


ndtoday.com: More radical 
than Vatican II 




SENIOR PORTRAITS! 

Sign Up on the Internet NOW @ 
www. LaurenSttidios.com 
to ensure your place in your 

2002 Dome Yearbook! 
WHO: Class of 2002 
WHEN:. Pictures· taken 
until Sept. 21 WHERE: LaFortune 108 WHY: To be in th,e 2002 
Doine 
. . 
Remember to Sign Up Today! 
WWW. 


LaurenStudios.com 



0 
...J 
w 
u:: 
a: 
0 
:sz 
0 
z 



EYES 
ON 

-~-: ~ 

· tiNDSEY JONES , 
· Senior defender Lindsey Jones is the co-captain ofthe fourth-ranked Irish women's soccer team. A local product, Jones attended John Adams High School in South Bend. In 1998, she was selected to the Big-East all-rookie team. Though not a top scorer for the Irish, she has proven to be a valuable and versatile player. This year she looks to lead the Irish through another successful season. 
The most memorable experience of my Notre Dame career thus far was: playing Nebraska in the quarterfinals at Nebraska during my sophomore year. The game went into two overtimes and then two sudden-death overtimes, which both added up to an extra 60 minutes. We ended up winning on penalty kicks and advancing to the Final Four. 
When I was voted to be a co-captain for this season: I was very honored. We vote on it as a team, so knowing that my teammates believe I can hold this posi­tion means a lot to me. 
Theposition I enjoy playing the most is: outside back. Right now I think I can help the team the most centrally until we solidify the lineup. 
After playing three sports in high school, I chose to play soccer at Notre Dame because: I heard Kelly Tulisiak., Liz Wagner and Mia Sarkesian were coming here to play soccer . 
Makingthe transitionfrom midfield to defense last year: wasn't as difficult as it might seem. In the system we play, I played outside back, and I still was able to make runs up the flank like I did when I played outside midfield. Now I'm just more defensive-minded. 
I started playing soccer: when I was five years old. 
My favorite class at Notre Dame has been: sports psychology with professor Mickey Franco. I learned all about sports from a completely different angle. 
The team's goal this year is: to win a National Championship. 
My favorite dining-hall food is: YoCream with peanut butter sauce, hot fudge and Oreos. 
To prepare myself for a game: I listen to music while I'm getting ready and then take a piece of cotton-candy bubble gum and never chew it. I have a cup full ofcotton-candy gum. 
-David Murray 
Jerry's Jabber 
All Notre Dame athletic competitions have been postponed through Sunday in light of the tragedies in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania. The Notre Dame-Purdue foot-ball game has been re­scheduled for Dec. 1.... Last Saturday, Notre Dame lost its football season opener at Nebraska, 27-10. Sophomore QB Matt LoVecchiocompleted just 11 passes for 78 yards, while also throwing one interception. Sophomore QB Carlyle Holiday made his collegiate debut, completing five of eight attempted passes for 41 total yards. He also threw one interception. Senior TB Tony Fisher ran for 38 yards and scored Notre Dame's only touchdown of the night. Coach Bob Davie's squad has been outscored 68-19 in its last two contests.... Notre Dame's volleyball team.lost three consecutive matches this weekend. The Irish fell to No. 7 UCLA on Friday, No. 1 Nebraska on Saturday and No. 15 Pepperdine 6n Sunday. The Irish did not capture a single game in the three-day U.S. BankiArby's Tournament in Lincoln, Nebraska.... The No. 3 
Notre Dame women's soccer (3-0-1) played to a 2-2 tie with Wisconsin last Sunday. Fifth-year senior defender Monica Gonzalez and sophomore forward Amy Warner scored for the Irish. Senior Liz Wagner had five saves in goal. ... The No. 21 men's soccer team dropped two games versus ranked opponents last weekend. On Friday, No. 5 Furman edged the Irish 3-2 in overtime. Junior forward Erich Braun and sophomore midfielder Justin Detter scored for 
Notre Dame. The Irish fell 4-0 to No. 16 Clemson on last 
Sunday. O 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 21 




THE · 

RANT 
BY GERARD MESKILL 

First-quarter fumbles weren't the only surprising sights in Lincoln for this Irish fan. The warmth and welcoming shown by Nebraska fans was enough to melt even the staunchest anti-Husker heart. 

Red is the color of fury. It brings forth images of fire and brimstone and blood. The mere sight of red drives a bull mad and can cause grown men to cringe. On Saturday, these men blue and gold. Surrounded by a red sea that even Moses himself could not part, the Irish were doomed to drown. This sea was not of water, but of men, women and children all sharing a common bond: love for Cornhuskers football. 
SPORT: FOOTBALL OPPONENT: MICHIGAN STATE. WHERE: NOTHE DAME STADIUM WHEN:SATUHDAY,SEPTEMBEH· 
-22, 1:30 P.M. 

So what makes up a Husker fan? Until I arrived at Nebraska on Satur­day, I wouldn't have been able to tell you. As my bus rolled through the streets of Lincoln, I got my first impression of one. Two in fact, and both of them were flipping us off. They appeared to be students and were, of course, wearing red. I began to think that I was entering a hostile environ­ment. A third Husker gave us the finger as we pulled into the parking lot. No other Husker fan made a crude gesture the rest of the day. 
We arrived on campus around 1 p.m. After a few hours of hanging out with other Domers, I decided to go for a walk around the campus before enter­ing the stadium. Without a map or a clue, I went over to the parking attendant for directions. I was wearing a blue-collared shirt with Notre Dame's crest on the left side of my chest, and I soon realized this made me quite visible, as everyone else on the block was wearing red. Nevertheless, I needed directions. The attendant was very friendly. In fact, he even wished "my team" the best of luck. 
I continued walking, passing a red "Husker Power" truck from which some Nebraska fans were having a tailgate. They all smiled, said hello and once again offered Notre Dame luck. As I walked down the street, some of the Husker fans had megaphones from which they yelled, "Go Huskers!" But one also yelled, "Good luck, Irish." My impression had definitely changed. But there were more surprises to come. 
As the day progressed, I noticed Irish fans at Husker tailgates and vice versa. A bond had begun to form between the two opposing sides. As I was admiring it, however, I heard a voice shout, "There you are!" 
I spun around to see 10 Nebraska 
Frustrated by its last-two Michigan State's TB T.J .. Unlike the Irish, MSU performances and its Duckett will have a tough seems to understand the recent history against _ time against the lrjsh strengths and weaknesses Michigan State, the defense, which held of its duo of quarterbacks, football team is going to Nebraska to a mere 182 Jeff Smoker and Peter Van come out hard for the yards rushing last weekend. Dyke. Unless the Irish play home opener. The Irish The Irish offense will take their own duo more wisely, finally defeat the Spartans better care of the football. the Spartans will take this this time, winning 38-17. Notre Dame wins, 24-10. game, 31-28. 
-Gerard Meskill -David Murray -Jessica Daues 
Sports Editor Assistant Sports Editor Associate Editor 
students approaching m~, all wearing red of course. "It's OK that you're here, so long as you don't look for me after the game to cry on my shoulder when we kick your ass in there," continued the speaker, pointing to Memorial Stadium. Then he smiled and walked away. I've heard much worse in New York, I figured, and I continued walking to the stadium to take my place in the press box. 
It was 50 minutes until game time, and already the stadium was a mass of red. Four quarters later, the stadium appeared the same way. Long after the suspense of the much-hyped, highly disappointing rematch between Notre Dame and Nebraska was over, Husker fans remained in theirseats, in the rain, cheering for their team. From kickoff to the last whistle, there was never a wrinkle in the blanket of red that wrapped the Memorial Stadium bleach­ers, which is more than could be said for Notre Dame Stadium a year ago. Many of you remember the contest between Notre Dame and Nebraska one year ago, held in South Bend. Thousands ofalumni, faculty, and students sold their tickets to Nebraska fans, who proceeded to tum our beloved football stadium into Little Lincoln. Husker fans did not allow the same thing to happen in their house. Despite thousands of the Irish faithful seeking to buy tickets, very few Husker fans allowed the promise of a few hundred bucks to come between them and witnessing their boys beat Notre Dame for the second straight year. When the game ended, the entire Husker crowd remained to cheer one more time as its boys ran into the locker room, and then the fans headed back home to whichever of the five corners of.Nebraska from which they came. But before they left, they cheered our boys, too'.· . 
22 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 

l,_ 
The Scholastic staff 
offers its deepest 
condolences 
to all those who lost 
family members, 

friends and loved ones 
in Tuesday morning's 
tragedy. 


Our prayers are with you. 



A new twist on Irish volleyball 
I
• 
:l 
! 
! : 
JESSICADAUES 
ForIrish volleyball fans who have fol­lowed the sport in the past, this year might look like a whole new ballgame. Well, maybe not an entirely new ballgame. The basics will be the same: Players will serve, bump, set and spike to score. What is differ­ent, however, is how the teams will score. The National Association for Girls and Women in Sports, the official rule-making organization for women's collegiate volleyball, made some changes to its rule book during the offseason. Gone is the traditional "side-out" system of scoring, in which only the team with the serve is able to score points. In its place, the asso­ciation has implemented what is known as the "rally-scoring" system. In this new format, a point is awarded ev­ery time the ball either touches the opposing team's court or is hit out ofbounds. This means that for every play, a point will be scored, re­gardless of which team serves the ball. This new system of scoring is not foreign to the Irish players, who have some experi­ence with rally scoring. Under the old side­out system, the fifth game of a best-of-five­game match, ifit was necessary, was played using rally scoring instead of side-outs. In addition, the freshmen and sophomores on the team played with this type of scoring with their junior clubs in high school. There remain some uncertainties, however, as to how this change will affect the way the team plays, and these uncertainties likely won't be resolved anytime soon. "People ask ifwe are training differently," head coach Debbie Brown says. "I say, no, we're not training differently, because the skills we need to play are still the same. It's· just a different way of scoring. I think_ the more experience we get with it, we'll feel more comfortable and maybe think about changing the strategies." There are, however, some aspects ofrally 
24 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 

scoring that the team is sure about. For one thing, there will be more of an emphasis on staying error-free. "With rally scoring, every play counts," senior opposite Kristy Kreher says. "Every error means a point for the other team .... In the past, play­ers just were swinging freely to make kills, but players can't do that anymore. To win, a team will have to minimize errors and have much more controlled play." 
Senior outside hitter Marcie Bomhack doesn't see remaining error-free as much of a problem for the Irish. "For our team, this is very beneficial," she says. "Our defense is excellent and we are very good at getting side-outs." And what was once just a side­out under the old format now will mean an­other point for the Irish. 
Secondly, the new format will create more parity and a greater chance for upsets. This especially will be true for teams facing higher­ranked teams. If those elite teams don't start off with their best stuff, they might be in trouble. "Before, when a team got off to a slow start, they could sort ofclimb back into it, but now, with the fast-paced game, they don't necessarily have the time to [recover]," Brown says. This was good news for the Irish, whose schedule includes several highly ranked teams such as Nebraska, Pepperdine, UCLA, Florida and Northern Iowa. 
The team knows the new rule will make 

the game muchmore interesting for its fans. 
Brown is particularly excited about this as­
pect ofthe scoring change. She says: "When­
ever we play a fifth game, whether its on 
the road or here, people always come up af­
terwards and say, 'Wow, that fifth game was 
so exciting; there was so much tension and 
excitement in the air.' " Not only will the 
games be faster-paced, but they generally will be shorter as well. Under the side-out ­system, if a team had good defense, games could last three-and-a-half to four hours. These games, according to Brown, were "te­dious and boring because no one scored any points." She says: "You're not going to see those long marathon matches anymore. Now games can be televised more easily, and it is in general more fan-friendly." 
Along with tbe scoring change, the asso­ciation has implemented a few other minor rule changes, including legalizing serves that touch the net but continue their path to the opponent's court and not allowing a second toss for service. Another more-interesting rule is optional; it can be implemented by mutual agreement of the coaches before the r match. Known as "international pursuit," the new rule allows a player to retrieve a ball, provided it has been touched at least once, that has crosseµ the net into the opponent's out::-of-bounds_area. The player can then hit the ball back only to her team's side to keep the ball in play. While all these new rules will affect how the game is played to some extent, the difference in scoring likely will be the most pervasive rule change. 
Will the team be able to succeed under the new format? The Irish think so. This year's team set high expectations for itself; its goals include finishing in the top 10, winning the Big East conference and tournament and ad­vancing as far as the Elite Eight in the NCAA Tournament."'And once we get that far, any­thing can happen," Kreher says. Right now the team, which started off the year ranked 



..,, .:, ' .: : ' :~:-:; 
GOING IN FOR THE KILL 
SeniCJrs Malinda Goralski _ 
·,·(farleft) and Kristy.Kreher·; -• 
·•.· '(left) und.ersta·ndthatto wfn . 
\·ga111~s u_nder the .new rally'. 
··-• scoring system, they must·_._ 
·stay:mistakecfreei .·._ _ .-, .• 
espeqially when executing 
offensive moves..• 
20th in the USA TODAY/AVCA poll, has fallen to No._ 23 after starting the season 3-3. But records can be deceiving. The team be­gan the year winning three straight games en route to capturing the Shamrock Invitational tournament title. Senior middle blocker Malinda Goralski and sophomore middle blocker Kim Fletcher both were named to the all-tournament team, and Fletcher was named the tournament's Most Outstanding Player after posting 35 total kills to lead the Irish of­fense. Goralski, meanwhile, was named the Big East Player ofthe Week for September 3 after recording 37 kills and 25 blocks during the tournament. 
The Irish did not fare quite so well this past weekend. Brown's team lost three con­secutive games in the U.S. Bank/Arby's In­vitational in Lincoln, Neb. But in all three· instances, the team faced highly-ranked teams: No. 7 UCLA, No. 1 Nebraska-and No. 15 Pepperdine. Not to be overlooked, also, was the outstanding performance of many Irish players. Kreher posted a team­high 13 kills and six digs and two blocks in the loss to Nebraska, giving the impression that she had nearly fully recovered from a nagging ankle injury. Freshman outside hit­ter Emily Loomis continued to emerge as one ofthe team's top freshman, posting eight kills to help lead the Irish offense in the loss to Pepperdine. Sophomore defensive spe­cialist Janie Alderete had a career-high 19 digs against Pepperdine. When the team re­sumes its play (after the terrorist attack caused the postponement of Wednesday's game against Michigan and this weekend's tournament in Purdue), the team won't let this three-game losing streak keep them down. "We're a tough team," says sopho­more setter Kristen Kinder. "Ifa team is big­ger than us or stronger than us, we're going to keep on fighting." Clearly, the Irish aren't going to let anything -especially adjust­ing to a little scoring change -stand in the way of their goals.-D 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 25 


up Against the Wall. · II 
To succeed this season, the Irish will have to overcome themselves I 
W 

GERARDMESKILL "[The Fiesta Bowl] was disappointing," says Notre Dame offensive coordinator hat a difference 120 minutes can Kevin Rogers. "I heard the complaints about make. That's how much playing the game plan, that we had a poor game plan, time has elapsed between the end and maybe it was, but I know this: Regard­ofNotre Dame's seventh straight victory last less of what game plan you implement, season and its embarrassing defeat against you'd better block them. We didn't block Nebraska on Saturday. Prior to Notre them. The thing I feel bad about as far as Dame's first-ever the game is con­
"Obviously, we weren't a very well­
BCS game at the cerned: If Or­Fiesta Bowl, the prepared football team, and I take egon State is a 2000-01 Irish responsibility for that. ... There is no better team than looked like the us, and obvi­
excuse, no excuse." 
team that would ously that night bring football they were a
-BOB DAVIE

glory back to much better South Bend. team than us, I Freshman quarterback Matt Lo Vecchio had certainly don't believe that ifyou play them won seven straight starts, leading Notre again that that kind of thing is going to hap­Dame to a 9-2 finish after the team had split pen. Ifthey were better than us, they weren't its opening four games. Throughout Decem­that much better than us." ber, the Irish faithful eagerly anticipated the After the embarrassing loss to Oregon New Year's Day contest against No. 5 Or­State, the Irish had eight months to prepare egon State. Unfortunately, the same could before facing No. 5 Nebraska in Lincoln to not be said for the Irish coaching staff. What­open the 2001 season. Nevertheless, Notre ever they did anticipate, it was not what Dame still appeared unprepared on Satur­
j 
l Oregon State brought to Tempe on January day, as the Huskers capitalized on four Irish 1 -the Irish appeared confused and unco­turnovers, including Terrance Howard's 
ordinated against the Beavers. Despite a fumble on Notre Dame's first offensive play, 
i 
month to prepare, it was obvious that Notre to cruise to a 27-10 victory. The most dis­
I 
Dame was not ready for Oregon State, as turbing signs of the Irish rust were two in­the Beavers won in a 41-9 blowout. excusable penalties-offsides and too many men on the field -both occurring on Nebraska's first offensive drive into the red zone. 
"Obviously, we weren't a very well-pre­pared football team, and I take responsibil­ity for that," Bob Davie said. "I don't care how many games Nebraska has played, I don't care how many people there are in the stands, I don't care what the crowd noise is: There is no excuse, no excuse." 
IfDavie wants to remain head coach of the Irish, he will need to do more than accept blame after humiliating losses. The Irish have been outscored 68-19 in their last 120 min­utes of football -a margin of seven touch­downs. After tying the NCAA record last year for least turnovers in a season (8), Notre Dame has turned the football over nine times in these last two games. Their last two opponents have more than doubled the team in total yards, amassing a 716-317 margin. Notre Dame never even held a lead in either game. 
After a brief seven-game renaissance, the future of Notre Dame football finds itself back at a level ofdoubt similar to that at the end of 1999's 5-7 campaign, a season that stands as the worst year of Irish football since Joe Kuharich led the Irish to a 2-7 fin­ish in 1963. Since Kuharich, only Gerry Faust (30-26-1) has compiled a worse coach­ing record at Notre Dame than Davie (30­20). 

26 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 


~-.,~;.~_-~_-__:_~:~~t/·:;.:~-~~--_:;_~-~.-_."t_:i_~ :.-~:--~: ~....
-...... -:·, '-?~;--~.:.:.:...;;i:;;., 

.... _ ·•-~.,. .. '. -~·...._.... " .......... ·-:::. 
Shockingly, the defeat on Saturday was only the sixth-worst Irish defeat ofthe Davie era. Notre Dame suffered worse losses in 1997 at Stanford (33-15) and in the Inde­pendence Bowl against Louisiana State (27­9), in 1998 at Michigan State (45-23), in 1999 at Tennessee (38-14) and in the 2001 Fiesta Bowl. 
However, no other two-game stretch of the Davie era can match this one in medioc­rity. If Davie is to turn things around, there are several questions about the 2001 Irish that he must answer, and answer quickly. First is the quarterback situation. Lately, LoVecchio has not been the same quarter­back that guided the Irish to seven straight wins in 2000. He was. the obvious choice to start in Lincoln on Saturday, since only he, flanker Arnaz Battle, and tight end Gary Godsey had taken at least one collegiate snap to that point. However, LoVecchio looked shaky for the second straight game, -com­pleting 11 of24 passes for 78 yards and one interception. His passing numbers for the last two games are 24 for 57 for 216 yards and three interceptions, compared to the 2000 
', ..,., ,:, ·.. 
...,, •... ,,,,,,,,,,.,,:1-;''• 
.-._;.'::. 

-," 
(1 -C,: 
.:" ..--~-s:i;~:; 
regular season; in which he completed 73 of 125 passes for 980 yards and just one in­terception in eight games. After LoVecchio showed his ineffectiveness in the first quar­ter on Saturday, Davie opted to replace him with fellow sophomore Carlyle Holiday in the second quarter. Holiday drove to the Nebraska seven-yard line before taking a de­lay-of-game penalty that forced the Irish to kick a 29-yard field goal for their first score ofthe year. Despite this success, Holiday re­turned to the bench in favor of LoVecchio on the next Irish possession, proving that Davie has not yet decided who will be the 2001 quarterback. When asked after the game, he indicated that he will start Lovecchio against Michigan State but quickly added, "We have to do whatever's necessary to turn this around." 
The longer it takes to find out what will turn the Irish around th_e longerNotre Dame football will remain in turmoil, as it is diffi­cult to choose a singular offensive scheme when the quarterback position is split be-­tween two men with very different styles and capabilities. Lo Vecchi o's skills favor a short-
HALLOWED GROUND Recently, trips all the way into the endzone have been few and far between for the Irish offense. Tony Fisher scored the only,touchdown against Nebraska. 
passing game mixed with the run, while Holiday's demand a heavy-option offense. Itappears the jury is still out in Davie's mind -Notre Dame will have to wait at least two more weeks before defining an offensive scheme. 
Another point of trouble for the Irish of­fense involved its receivers. Notre Dame struggled to shake the Huskers' secondary, preventing the Irish quarterbacks from mak­ing effective passes downfield .. 
"We just weren't able to execute as a whole," said senior receiver Javin Hunter. "We weren't able to get the running game going, and we couldn't get a consistent drive going. Thus the passing game was ineffec­tive and it threw the quarterbacks out of sync, and we had no momentum. How hard is itto play defense when nothing is going right for the offense?" 
Indeed, the Irish also face questions on the defensive side of the ball. Their llighly touted defensive linemen were almost use­less against Nebraska running back Dahrran Diedrick, who seemed able to advance at will against Notre Dame. 
"For us, we didn't execute as well as we could have," said senior defensive end Grant Irons. "Nebraska made plays, and they ex­ecuted." 
With a quarterback like Nebraska's Eric Crouch calling the plays, it is discouraging that an opponent could run so easily on Notre Dame since Crouch rarely throws the foot­ball: The Irish knew the run was coming and still could not stop it. This problem will need immediate attention ifthe Irish hope to stop anyone on defense this year. 
The_ conglomerate effect is that Notre Dame has erased all of last year's progress with two horrific games. No one knows who will become this team's starting quarterback down the stretch. Special teams, not so long ago the pride ofIrish football, showed signs of weakness against Nebraska. The offense was at best mediocre both on the ground and in the air in Lincoln. The defense looked clueless trying to stop Nebraska's one-di­mensional offense, namely Diedrick. And the one man who needs to answer these ques­tions, Davie, has little to say at this time. D 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 27 


A HOLE IN ONE 
Notre Dame grad scores as his debut novel hits the big screen 
0 

KATHLEENCORTE comes from a writer who didn't even get into Notre Dame's MFA program when he first n an early August morning, Tom applied in 1997. 
Coyne is sleeping soundly in the "There were five spots that year for fic­
basement of his parents' home in tion writers at Notre Dame," Coyne says. "I 
Philadelphia. His own room is upstairs but was No. 6." 
he hasn't slept there in weeks. That bedroom He did get accepted to an English program 
now belongs to Dennis the Menace, who is at Trinity College, however, and he was pre­
shaking Coyne awake for another long day pared to head to Ireland when he got a call 
of filming. from Notre Dame's English department in 
Only Mason Gamble, the actor who early August. One of the students had played the famous comic-strip character in dropped out at the last minute, freeing up a the 1993 movie, is no longer Dennis the spot in the program for Coyne. Menace, but Timmy Price, the main charac­"I wanted to thank, in my book, the per­
l ter in A Gentleman's Game, the movie based son who dropped out," Coyne says. "With-· 
l 
'·i on Coyne's first novel. And out that, I would've been 
'1 Coyne's house is no longer off to Trinity." just a home to himself and Back at Notre Dame, the his parents, but a movie set. · idea that would become A "It was bigger than any­Gentleman sGame began one expected," Coyne says. to take shape. "I would say He means the movie, which that as an undergraduate, invaded his family's home he was still looking for his from mid-August to late subject," says Valerie Say­September 2000, but he ers, Coyne's thesis direc­could also be describing the tor. But she noticed some­whirlwind debut that turned thing different · upon Coyne, a 1999 graduate of Coyne's return. "I thought Notre Dame's instantly that MFA Creative 
"It's one of those b.ooks that something pro-
Writing Program found had with one pub­transports you very quickly into clicked for him. 
lished short story He knew what to 
to his name, into a particular and peculiar world." write about at an up-and-coming that point." 
-Valerie Sayers 
novelist and a A · former 

screenwriter with ·actors like Gary Sinise and Dylan Baker ap­pearing in his movie. 
Coyne, who also received his undergradu­ate degree from Notre Dame in 1997, pub­lished his first novel, A Gentleman sGame, 
with Grove/Atlantic Monthly Press last spring. The novel, which relates the story of a young golf prodigy, recently went into a 
second printing in hardcover and also was released in the United Kingdom~ All of this 
28 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 

caddy himself, Coyne didn't start out with the intention to write a golf novel. In fact, he was hard at work on a short-story thesis :Vhen the char­acter ofTimmy Price appeared on the scene. · "I put together a story collection, and one of the stories I started working on was about a 13-year-old golf prodigy," Coyne says. "I · realized it wasn't very good because it didn't have an ending, so I wrote another story. The next thing you know, I had all these differ­ent stories that were basically chapters." 
In October of his second year in the gradu­ate program, with the rough draft of his the­sis due in four short months, Coyne told Sayers that he wanted to change his thesis. In the character of Timmy Price and the world of country clubs, Coyne had found his subject. 
Although the novel is not autobiographi­cal, and Timmy is not a younger version of Coyne, the country-club setting was famil­iar to Coyne. "I knew what it felt like to walk across a golf course at six in the morning, and I knew what it was like to come in from caddying in August," he says. "When I found my subjects, the invention part was much less intimidating." 
ButA Gentleman sGame was never a typi­cal golf book. "The expectation would be Bagger Vance," Coyne says. "Life is messed up, you hit a good golf shot, the caddy whis­pers the secret of life in your ear and you go home with the girl and the money." 
Instead, A Gentleman'.\' Game is a quieter, 
more literary novel that explores the rela­
tionship between Timmy, his father, his an­
gry football-player brother and his depressed 
mother. At the same time, Coyne probes be­
neath the genteel surface of country clubs 
to explore the less-glamorous world of cad­
dies in contrast to the wealthy club mem­
bers for whoIJ:?.. they work. 
"It's one ofthose books that transports you very quickly into a particular and peculiar -world," Sayers says. "[It is] a world I don't know anything about, but he conveys it eco­nomically and sharply." 
Coyne's talent for illustrating this world 
ultimately sold the work. He finished the 
b9ok in February, then reworked it for an­
other four months before submitting it to 
several literary agencies the summer after 
he received his MFA. In the end, however, 
Coyne found agent Dan Mandel at a pub­
lishing party in New York, where the two · began talking about golf. ''I had worked in the pro shop at a local 
country club for three summers during high school and was forever changed by the ex­perience," Mandel says. "Tom told me about A Gentleman sGame at the party and sent me the manuscript soon after. I stayed up all night reading it and knew right away that it was. something special." 
Grove/ Atlantic Monthly Press quickly snapped UP. the novel and Mandel sent the manuscript to Hollywood, where Mills Goodloe -who had made movies like Le­thal Weapon 3, Conspiracy Theory and Mav­erick and who i.S a golfer himself -came across it. "Dan called and was like, 'The producer's going crazy about the book,' " recalls Coyne. "I didn't even know people were looking at it." 
The next day, Goodloe flew to Philadel­phia to play golf with Coyne and make plans for the movie version of A Gentleman's Game. 
Goodloe promised to leave his job at Warner Brothers to make the movie independently, with himself as the director and Coyne as the screenwriter. "It wasn't us just signing the rights over to a studio and taking a big pay­check," says Coyne. ''This guy was actually going to make the movie." 
With the plans well under way, the movie needed a cast. Coyne got to sit in on casting sessions, although he says, "I was probably no help at all because I loved everybody." In the end, the cast included big-name ac­tors like Gamble, Baker (Thirteen Days), Sinise (Forrest Gump) and Pllilip Baker Hall (Magno­
lia). 
Early on, Goodloe de­cided to film the movie in Philadelphia. "The first pri­ority in location was the golf course," Coyne says. The directors ultimately chose the course where Coyne himself once cad­died. "In my imagination, that's what I think a golf course looks like because that's where I grew up playing," he says. 
Next they began looking for a house, but without any luck. "We finally went to my house at the end of the day, and one of the scouts said, 'This is the house in the story,' " Coyne says. "Thus, the fun and the movie came." 
In mid-August 2000, the 
cast and crew of the film descended on the 
Coynes's home, which had to be completely 
redecorated. "No one on my block slept for. 
three weeks," Coyne says. "Each time the 
trucks rolled down the street, my neighbors 
became a little less enchanted with Holly­
wood." 
The results of art meeting life sometimes were hectic, but they sometimes were hu­morous, such as the filming of one late-night scene that was supposed to take place in the front yard during a rainstorm. "We were doing the poor man's rain effect," Coyne says. Firemen pointed water hoses up in the air above the actors to create the illusion of rain. 
"We're out there holding every hose we can find," Coyne says. "When we say, 'cut,' the firemen move the hoses away so they're not on the actors." Unfortunately, no one re­alized where the hoses were pointing instead -directly into the open window of Coyne's father's bedroom. 
Despite the occasional soaking, Coyne and his parents made the most of the film­ing. Coyne's father became friends with Baker while his mother brought her friends 
. over to take pictures with Gamble. 
Life finally began to return to normal when filming ended in late September, but it was a slow process. "It took us two or three months to really get the house back together," Coyne says, "because when the movie leaves, it leaves." 
The movie currently is in the test­screening stage and will be released in Spring 2002. One advance review, from www.aint-it-cool-news.com, touts the film as "the antithesis of Caddyshack." It says that "A Gentleman sGame is much more like the sport ofgolf itself: leisurely, contemplative and largely serene with small spurts of excitement." 
Now, a year later, Coyne has his house back and is busy polishing up some of his short stories. "I'm always finishing up," he says. In the fall, he plans to head to his family's beach home on the New Jersey shore, where he will begin work on a new novel. 
"It was such a great experience," he says of his foray into the world of mov­ies. "But would I do it again? No way." 
Tom Coyne, James Ellis Thomas and Dan Mandel will appear in a panel dis­cussion on Friday, September 21 from 3 
p.m. to 5 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room in LaFortune. Coyne and Thomas will read from their works and answer ques­tions about publishing and writing. 
Coyne will be signing copies of A GentlemansGame at the Hammes Book­store on Saturday, September 22 from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m. 0 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 29 

Success Stories 
Creative Writing Program boosts young writers to early publication 
KATHLEENCORTE 
.whenTom Coyne finally found 
his former classmate James 
Ellis Thomas, Thomas was 
teaching developmental writing at a com­
munity college in Arizona. "He said he had 
to go out and buy a $5 phone to call me," 
Coyne says, "and less than two months 
later, his picture was in the New Yorker." 
The reconnection between Coyne and 
Thomas, a 1998 graduate ofNotre Dame's 
MFA Creative Writing Program, putTho­
mas in touch with Dan Mandel, Coyne's 
agent, who showed Thomas's work to an 
editor from The New Yorker. In July 2000, 
Thomas saw his first published story, 'The 
Saturday Morning Car Wash Club," ap­
pear in The New Yorker. 
"James is a natural storyteller who has 
a gift for creating beautiful prose with a 
wildly comedic flair," Mandel says. He 
wasn't the only one to notice. A week af­
ter Thomas's short story debut, he sold a 
still-unfinished novel to Simon and 
Schuster. 
To most aspiring young writers, Tho­
mas' success story reads like a fairy tale. 
"The average age of first novelists in this 
country is 34," says William O'Rourke, 
founding director of Notre Dame's pro­
gram. "Itis still quite surprising when stu­
dents a year or two out of school start ap­
pearing in print." 
Yet Thomas and Coyne are not alone 
among their fellow Notre Dame graduates. 
Michael Collins, a member of the 
program's first graduating class in 1991, 
published the novel The Keepers ofTruth 
last March in Great Britian, where it was 
shortlisted for the prestigious Booker 
Prize. Mark Behr, another graduate, has 
published two novels, The Smell ofApples 
(1997) and Embrace (2000). 
Current students of the MFA program 
are finding literary success as well. Jenny 
Boully, a second-year student, was one of 
16 poets nationwide to win the Associated· 
Writing Program's Inter-Journals Pro­
gram. Boully also has a book contract for 
her experimental work, The Body, which 
will be published by Slope Editions in April 2002. 

All this success comes from a small, young program in a field that is notoriously difficult to enter. "In any Creative Writing Program, you're going to get success stories," Boully says. "But it usually takes about 20 years for grads to start making a name for themselves. Here, they've managed to produce success­ful writers in six years or so." 
The program got its start in 1990 under the direction ofO'Rourke, Sonia Gemes and John 
Matthias. "I looked around and it was obvious to me that Notre Dame should have a Creative Writing Pro­gram," says O'Rourke, who joined the English department in 1981. 'They had a long history of teach­ing creative writing to undergradu­ates." 
Nine years later, 0'Rourke and his colleagues managed to get their pro0 'gram on its feet. "The program . started as a grassroots effort out of the English department," says O'Rourke. University funding came a few years later. 
The program, which graduated only two fiction writers its first year, currently admits five fiction writers and five poets every year to the two­year program. All 10 students are of­fered a full tuition waiver, which al­lows students to concentrate solely on their writing while in the pro­gram. "We regard this as a sort of time-out from life in general," says professor Valerie Sayers, who came to Notre Dame in 1993. 
But the thing that really sets the program apart has nothing to do with numbers. "One of the really distinguishing things is what Tom and James embody," says Sayers, "which is the desire to help others get pub­lished." 
"Everyone wants everybody else to s_uc­ceed," Coyne adds. "The bookshelves are plenty big and it's too damn hard to get pub­lished. You can't look at this business as if we're all fighting for the last book jacket they' re going to print. Sure, we all want The New Yorker, we all want the cover ofthe book review, but I also want to read and Jove the stuff that's good enough to get there." 
The program also offers students the op­portunity to work as editorial assistants at its literary magazine, the Notre Dame Re­view, which Sayers started in 1995. Notre Dame students are not allowed to submit work until after they graduate, but the magazine has published the works of Nobel laureates Seamus Heaney and Czeslaw Milosz. Most recently, a short story by Marilyn Krysl that originally ap-
ND MFA grads in print 
Nominated for Booker Prize 
Michael Collins, The Keeper ofTruth 

Published by Little Brown 
·Matk Behr, Embrace 

Featured in Seven New Poets 
Robert Archambeau, Joe Francis Doerr, Jere Odell and Michael Smith 

Appeared in The New Engkmd Review 
Michael Smith 

Forthcoming Short Stories 
Tony D'Souza, Dark House and Barbaric Yawp 
peared in the Review was chosen for the 
anthology The Best American Short Sto­
rfes of2000. "That's as good as it gets for 
a literary magazine," O'Rourke. "We've 
arrived." 
The Creative Writing Program has come 
a long way since it began in 1990, but it 
doesn't intend to rest on its laurels. "I think 
":'e'rejustready to shoot ahead," says Say­
ers. "We're planning to really get ourselves 
better known." 
Successful, published alumni like 
Coyne and Thomas only can help. As 
Thomas says, "That's a badge. That's it · right there." 
30 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 



It's a Fest Fest 

Look what OOB brought you!
Autumn swiftly approaches, and with it comes week­ends practically bursting at the seams with local festi­vals. Of course, OOB wouldn't dream of letting you hit the road without first subjecting at least one festival to rig­orous testing. So my cohorts and I took advantage of Labor Day weekend's brilliant weather and ventured south to Ply­mouth, Ind., home of the Marshall County Blueberry Festi­val. We arrived early and baked in the sun until dusk. We squealed. Often. We stuffed ourselves. We were kids again, with one notable exception: Mom and Dad weren't there to pick up the tab. Admission to most local festivals is free, but if you go you'll need to bring some cash for food, games, rides and purchasing local kitsch. Fret not, however. I prac­ticed considerable pocketbook restraint and still came home with some souvenirs, all of which were free, or nearly so. Souvenir 1: Ringo the Fish One dollar, five Ping-Pong balls. Land a white bowl, win a crab. Land a purple bowl, win a fish. One of our number warned me that crabs are particularly smelly, so at purple I diligently aimed. I hit a white bowl on my second toss. Luck­ily, we managed to coerce a towheaded ·youth who had just won a fish into swapping with us, and we became the proud owners of our first dorm-approved pet. We named him after the most expendable Beatle, assuming that he would soon fall prey to the infamous Flush of Death. He has proven surprisingly hardy, however, and still was alive at press time. Something to keep in mind while perusing the festival game booths: beware of lustful carnies. Pickup lines we fielded ranged from "Hey, you dropped your bellybutton! Fooled you! You can't drop your bellybutton!" to "I don't want your money, I just want your phone number." One even offered my roommate a "free ride" just for being redheaded. Souvenir 2: Pine Mountain Railroad CD Try as they might to rile the crowd with a communal rebel yell, the boys from the bluegrass band Pine Mountain Rail­road just couldn't get anyone to do-si-do. So we shut our eyes tightly and raced to the stage. They rewarded us with free copies of their latest CD and a possible PBS dancing debut: turns out some people are following them around the country and making a documentary. Souvenir 3: Good-News Bracelet and Peppermint Candy Late in the day, we passed on free samples at the Spam Mobile and headed next door to spin the Tri-County Child Evangelism Fellowship's Bible-trivia wheel. The folks 

0 II T 
0 u 
working there kicked our butts (Noah had three sons? THEO 100 was so long ago ... ), but they were nice enough to give us consolation prizes. I got a peppermint and a bracelet with colored beads symbolizing heaven, purity and sin. Eternal salvation and minty fresh breath! 
Souvenir 4: A Slightly Green Tinge 
If anything, I was expecting to return home from our es­capade stained blue, but it actually took us half the day to find any berries. In the meantime, I couldn't help but sample some traditional festival fare: elephant ears, butterfly fries (a whole potato cut into one giant spiral, then deep-fried) and corn on the cob smothered in honey and melted butter. And, of course, when we finally found Blueberry Central, a sundae topped with homemade preserves was in order. I'll spare you the details, but I hasten to offer one final festival tip: rides first, food second. 
UPCOMING FESTIVALS Wizard of Oz Festival: September 14-16, Chesterton, Ind. 
There's no place like Chesterton! Have breakfast with the original Munchkins, enter a Wicked Witch cackling contest, have L. Frank Baum's great-grandson sign a copy of the book that started it all and catch the film on the big screen. Free admission. 
Greentown Pump Fest: September 15, Greentown, Ind. 
Celebrate Greentown's Town Pump, which once served as a popular downtown gathering place. Polish up your Hans and Franz impression and get ready to participate in various pump-related activities, such as playing a pump organ, a pump art show and, yes, pumping iron. Free admission. 
Sunflower Fair: September 15, La Porte, Ind. 
Features entertainment; kiddie rides (age, schmage!); arts, crafts and collectible booths; an art show; and a rib cook­off. 
Remembering James Dean Festival: September 27-30, Fairmount, Ind. 
James Dean grew up in Fairmount, so while you're there you can visit his boyhood home, his grave and the James Dean Memorial Gallery at the Fairmount Historical Museum. Features a classic-and custom-car show, a James Dean look­alike contest, art and dance contests and screenings of Dean films. Free admission. 
End of Summer Bluegrass Festival: September 28-29, Plymouth, Ind. 
Meet my new friends, Pine Mountain Railroad. Also per­forming: Ashlea Romano, Flintlock, Apple Blossom, Echo Valley and Bluegrass Impressions. Alas, admission's a bit pricey: $10 Friday evening, $10 Saturday daytime and $10 Sat­urday evening, but you can buy an all-weekend pass for $20. 
For more information about these and other festivals taking place in this fine state, check out www.indianafestivals.com. D 
N 0 D 
F 
SCHOLASTICOUT OF BOUNDS 31 







SUMMER 

!JI 

Students hit the road with their own original musical 

SHEILAFLYNN 

The auditorium of Detroit's Andover High School buzzed with the electrifying energy that only can be created by star-struck teenage girls. Pointing and giggling, an excited throng of girls cheered wildly -not for the Backstreet Boys, Ricky Martin or even 0-Town, but for Chance at Love, an original musical writ­ten by two Notre Dame students, and for sophomore Raymond Areaux, who just had appeared onstage wearing only a towel. "It's like we were 'N Sync for a day," says Tommy Curtin, who co-wrote the musical with fellow senior Ryan Cunningham. "I'd say at least half the autographs we signed on the tour were at that show." Detroit was the fifth stop on Chance at Love's summer tour, which started in Minneapolis on July 2 and made its way across the coun­try to New York for the grand finale on July 27. Packed into two cars and an SUV, the nine performers, two couches, six folding chairs and other props traveled from Minneapolis to Chicago; the Indiana cities ofWarsaw and South Bend; Detroit; Cleveland; Pitts­burgh; Philadelphia; Boston; and the New York locales of Albany, Saratoga and Long Island. At each location, the cast stayed with a host family-usually relatives or friends -and performed one or two shows. From reserving venues to scheduling performances, the trip was quite an undertaking, and it was a far cry from the musical's humble beginnings during Curtin and Cunningham's freshman year at Notre Dame. Both members of the Pasquerilla East Musical Company and resi­dents of Keenan Han; Curtin and Cunningham decided to collabo­rate on the endeavor after they performed together in the company's 
"We think of ourselves as just college kids, but we were like celebrities when 
\
,! 
we got to some of these places." --Tommy Curtin
I I 
I 
f 
production of Godspell during their freshman year. "Ryan just came up to me and said, 'Hey Tommy, want to write a musical?'" Curtin recalls. "I said, 'OK.' " 
Curtin and Cunningham used their experience with theater to try to make their musical as appealing as possible to its potential audi­ence. "We've been in the audience before, and we know what people like arid what they want to see," Curtin says. "People want to be entertained, and that's what we did." Curtin wrote the music, 
32 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 

Cunningham took care of the script, and two years later, Chance at Love was complete. 
The musical follows the romantic adventures of three twentysomething male roommates with what Curtin calls "stereo­typical Saved by the Bell personalities." The main characters are Brett the player, Tom the nice guy and Adam the clown. The writ­ers, dissatisfied with a show that revolved solely around dating, added a little conflict and variety by moving an elderly brother­and-sister duo, Elmer and Gwen, into the apartment next to the roommates. The characters poke fun at everything from junk mail to musicals themselves throughout the show. 
For the cast, Curtin and Cunningham looked no further than their musical-company friends. Tiana Checchia, Betsy Kahl and Heidi Kellner were assigned roles as the guys' romantic interests, while Matt Baggetta and Molly McShane played Elmer and Gwen. Cunningham took on the role ofAdam, while Alan Maginn stepped into the shoes of the character Brett. A slight dilemma arose when Curtin opted to oversee the music rather than play Tom, the charac­ter loosely based on himself. But when Areaux joined the cast of the musical company's spring musical last year, Curtin and Cunningham realized they had found their Tom. "When Ray came along, we stopped stressing, and we knew he'd be fantastic," says Curtin. Finally, Chance at Love was ready. 
In March, the cast performed two dinner-theater shows in the Lafortune Ballroom. While watching a tape of the production sev­eral weeks later, someone suggested that Chance at Love go on tour. "My response was, 'That's ludicrous, but what a great idea!'" Curtin says. That night, the group mapped out a route, putting each member of the cast in charge of setting up performances in particu­

lar cities, and preparations began. 
An encore performance at Notre Dame was scheduled for April in Washington Hall. Revenues from ticket and CD sales (a cast re­cording of the musical score was made) went towards such tour expenses as plane tickets, gas money and down payments on ven­ues. Little to no money was spent on publicity. Instead, the per­formers relied on coverage in parish bulletins and local papers ­and on word of mouth. Also, several Notre Dame alumni clubs ran 
advertisements in their newsletters and on their Web sites. In late June, the cast reunited at McShane's house in Minnesota, minus Maginn, who was unable to join the tour. His replacement, 
J.J. Area, had only a few chances to run through the show -in McShane's basement. "We were standing about three inches from the wall, yelling at it," Curtin says. "I don'teven think we got through a full show." 
Yet, only two days later, the cast took the stage at Minneapolis's Visitation High School, performing for an audience of about 150 people. After one more show in Minnesota -and a trip to Cereal Adventure in the Mall of America -the Chance at Love tour hit the road, unknowingly headed toward some unusual experiences and places. 
"We think of ourselves as just college kids, but we were like celebrities when we got to some of these places," Curtin says. "They must've thought we were famous -hey, we're hip, we're cool, we're from ND, we have a musical!" 
The frenzied crowd in Detroit was one example. The cast partici­pated in a workshop with a teenage theater camp before the show, and the campers, most of whom were girls between the ages of 14 and 16, flocked to the performance, friends in tow. "We just laughed because they were absolutely in love with the boys," Checchia says. 

PHOTOS COURTESY OF CHANCE AT LOVE 
"We were like a boy band." 
The play enjoyed another successful run outside of Boston, in Cunningham's hometown. The 14th show on the tour, it sold out to an audience of 300 people. "It was really special for me to have my high-school director and music director [there], so I could show them that I have continued in theater and shared the gift that they had given me with so many other people," Cunningham says. 
Other shows proved to be just as memorable, if for different rea-
LIKE A BOY BAND The cast of Chance at Love kicks back 
sons. "We drove about an 
hour and a half south of 
Pittsburgh to go to our 
show, which we discov­
ered was not in the safest 
place ever," Cunningham 

says. When the cast fi­nally found the building and the priest who helped them set up the performance, they were led into "a bingo hall with an odd amount of grapefruit in it," according to Cunningham. The cast ended up performing for an audience of eight, with Curtin in the back comer of the stage between a potted tree and an American flag, playing a miniature keyboard on his.lap. 
"We were almost glad it happened, though, because we just sang through the show and had a great time," Checchia says. "It reminded us of what we were really doing and.how much fun we were hav­ing." 
Warsaw was the location of another unusual performance. "Itis a very conservative little town, so we were asked to tone clown the content," Cunningham says. "It made for a highly improvised pro­duction." Towards the end of that show, McShane changed her line "I'm going to come in case Tom kicks his ass," to "in case Tom gives him a big ol' knuckle sandwich." 
Twenty-three shows later, the tour finally made its way to Long Island for the last two performances. "There was a certain charm about ending in New York," Curtin says. After a month of traveling and performing, the cast was ready to invest all its remaining en­ergy and emotion into the last production, which proved to be full of intensity, especially for recent graduates Checchia, Kahl, Baggetta and Area. "Tiana was onstage singing so loud, with so much feel­ing and intensity, that you could practically cut it with a knife," Curtin says. "To have already graduated and have the chance to go out with a bang in the summer, with theater as your last experience, is an amazing opportunity." 
So ended the writers' first true foray into the theater industry. Curtin and Cunningham have no immediate plans to resurrect Chance at Love at Notre Dame, but they have sent the script and CD out to several sources. "Since we're not relying on this, we're not too impatient," says Curtin, who currently is working on another musical. Cunningham also is busy with another project, this time in collaboration with McShane. However, both now are turning their attention to the musical company's spring production of Damn Yankees, for which auditions will begin in mid-September. Cunningham will be directing the show and Curtin will be supervising the music, so ND audiences will be provided with another "chance at love" with the talented duo's theatrical work. . 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 33 


MY Summer as a Shill and More 
A corporate summer dissolves into an awkward fall 
. I 

JOEMUTO 

There comes a time in every young man's life when he feels he has to mature. He needs to go beyond his bor ders. Grow up. That's what I had in mind this summer 
when I quit my longtime position as a lifeguard and made the bold stride of becoming a corporate whore. That's right -I took an office job. 
Don't let the above griping throw you off. I thoroughly en­joyed my tenure at the downtown Cincinnati accounting firm. 
want to do it, but I still have to; hopefully, if I'm lucky, I can· get a little thrill out of it. 
For me, the most awkward thing about coming back to school is seeing people again. I'm not talking about the people with whom you were really good friends, I'm talking about the people whom you barely knew. You know, the guy who sat behind you in economics tutorial and who constantly made fun of your TA Sanjiibar's accent. Or the girl you sat next to in theology class on whom you had a crush and with whom you desperately tried to act cool and detached while subtly hinting 
The firm was gracious enough to hire me even though I'm not···· at younnvii virtues, hoping to get offered at least an IM name 
an accounting major. Its employees did, however, feel obliged to make the occasional snide comment about my being a FTT major. "So where do you want to work after you graduate?" they asked. "Blockbuster?'.' .I laughed with them, of course, but as I left the room I choked back tears -I d9 want to work at Blockbuster. 
I was hoping that they would toss me some ac­counting work, but mostly they tossed me lunch or­ders. Probably the lowest day of the summer came when they made me pick up dead birds from the roof. (Author's note: In all seriousness, this was one of my duties. You may continue to pity me.) You haven't lived until you've picked up a bird by the leg and the rest of the body falls onto your shoe. I'd like to use this forum to apologize to any joggers who were startled. that day by the most girlish scream ever to grace the streets of downtown Cincinnati. 
And it didn't help that the swim club had replaced me with four nubile 16.:.year-old girls. On my frequent trips to my old stomping grounds, I watched the new Barbie-esque guards get in and out of their guard chairs while I weighed the pros and 
. cons of going to prison. (I determined that prison wasn't for me. While I'd enjoy all of the free time, I'd probably spend the majority of it getting violated in. the showers.) 
So that was my summer jn a nutshell.I'm ·back, andTm a sophomore. I think sophomore year is the most awkward one. You're not a freshman, so no one holds your hand, and you're not deep enough into your major for any of your teachers to give a crap about you. Also, you've go to deal with Core. I'm approaching Core as I would a prostate exam: I don't really 
34 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 

-but while she was always nice, she never seemed to be in­
terested in anything beyond platonic friendship. You couldn't understand it because there seemed to be no other guys she liked and -whoa, sorry. It got too personal. 
Either way, there is no greater fear known to mankind than walking to class and seeing a face you recognize. Your thought processes be­come a study in para­noia: Do I know that guy, or do I just recognize him because hes weird looking? Should I ac­knowledge this girl and risk being sketchy ifshe doesn't recognize me, or should I ignore her and let herfeel snubbed? 
I decided that the saf­

est way to get to class without dispensing dozens of unwarranted head nods, "what's up" chin thrusts and half-waves was to take the path where I am least likely to run int9 people. Suddenly I found myself walking to class at off-peak times, such as at nine o'clock the night before. Also, I was taking small detours, sometimes pass­ing through the Saint Mary's campus on my way from West Quad to DeBartolo . 
So, after a stressful summer, I appear to be in for an even more stressful school year. How will I cope, you ask? Actu­ally, I made a contingency plan last year when I DARTed. Get ready to hate me -=-I have no classes on Fridays. Now, I know most of you now want to fill one of the new, reusable Grab 'n' Go bags with rocks, pull the convenient drawstring and beat me with it until my senses abandon me and I begin to think that having parietals is a good policy. But before you do, re­member this: I wield a mean dead bird. D 

r 
COMING DISTRACTIONS

r -· \ 
EDITOR'S CHOICE 


British Invasion 
Anglophiles rejoice: This installment of Coming Distractions brings you all things British. Attend a lecture by Shirley Williams, the Baroness Williams of Crosby, who is deputy leader and foreign-· policy spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats in the British House of Lords. Catch Bridget Jones's Dia,y on Thursday and witness Re_nee Zellweger trying her darnedest to sound like a Brit (read: Watch Renee Zellweger systematically scream "Bugger!"). Then see some real ones at Friday's performance ofA Midsummer Night's Dream, presented by Actors from the London Stage. Saturday morning grab a cuppa at the Huddle on your way to see them again, this time for an Interactive Audience-Performance Experience. Still not satiated? Feast your eyes on our new "Weekender" feature for more. 
-Cristin F enzel 


SPORTS 
• 
Sun 16 Soccer: ND men vs. Akron, 2:00 PM, Alumni Field. 

• 
Sun 18 Volleyball: ND vs. Valparaiso, 


7:00 PM, Joyce Center. '. ~~ 
• __;c;'r;'"'.) 
-~
Rocky 
~§~,
Boiman 
~ 
!
(
:•"" 


· 
JACKI KIEFER 

• 
Mon 19: Soccer: ND men vs. Cleveland State, 7:00 PM, Alumni Field. 

• 
Fri 21 Soccer: ND women vs. Villanova, 

7:00 PM, Alumni Field. 

• 
Sat 22 Football: ND vs. Michigan State, 

1:30 PM, Stadium. 

• 
Sat 22 Volleyball: ND vs. Syracuse, 6:00 PM, Joyce Center. 

• 
Sat 22 Soccer: ND men vs. Rutgers, 

7:30 PM, Alumni Field. 

• 
Sun 23 Soccer: ND women vs. Georgetown, 1 :00 PM, Alumni Field. 

• 
Tue 25 Soccer: ND women vs. Ne­braska, 7:00 PM, Alumni Field. 


THE WEEKENDER What: Mary Stuart, a play by Frederich Schiller. Story of the deadly struggle between Mary, Queen of Scots and her cousin, Queen Elizabeth I. When: Fridays and Saturdays at 8:00 PM through October 14 (see Web site for weekday times). Where: The Court Theatre, located at 5535 S. Ellis Ave. on the University of Chicago campus. Cheapest seats: $24 Tickets: Buy online at http://courttheatre.uchicago.edu or call the box office at (773) 753-4472. 
COMPILED BY CRISTIN FENZEL 

LECTURES 
• Tue 18 Shirley Williams, "Enter Eve," 
4:00 PM, Hesburgh Center Audito­rium. 
• 
Wed 19 Poetry reading by Cynthia Hogue, 7:30 PM, Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 

• 
Thu 20 Shirley Williams, "Christians and Politics," 4:00 PM, Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 

• 
Thu 20 Justine Steinberg, "Dante's First Editors: The Memorali Bolognesi and the Politics of Vernacular Transcription," 4:30 PM, Department of Special Collections, 102 Hesburgh Library. 



CINEMA 
• Fri 14 and Sat 15 Evolution and Spaceballs, Thurs 10:00 PM, Fri 
7:30 PM and 10:00 PM, Sat 7:30 and 
10:00 PM, 101 and 155 DeBartolo. 
• 
Tue 18 International Film Series: After Life, 7:00 and 9:00 PM, Montgomery Theatre. 

• 
Thu 20 The Dish, 7:00 PM, Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 


• Thu 20, Fri 21, Sat 22 Bridget Jones's Diary and Save the Last Dance, Thurs 10:00 PM, Fri 7:30 and 
10:00 PM, Sat 7:30 and 10:00 PM, 101 and 155 DeBartolo. 

THE ARTS 
• Thu 20-Sat 22 A Midsummer Night's Dream, 7:30 PM, Washington Hall. 
• 
Sat 22 Actors from the London Stage present "From Page to Stage: An Interactive Audience-Perfor­mance Experience," 10:00 AM, Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 

• 
Sun 23 The Vermeer Quartet, 2:00 PM, Annenberg Auditorium. 

• 
Sun 23 Christian Ringendahl, organ, 


8:00 PM, Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Post your event in Scholastic's Coming Distractions. 
Get the recognition your event deserves. E-mail your submissions to Cristin Penzel at cfenzel@nd.edu by Friday, September 21. 
All submissions are subject to Scholastic approval. 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 35 




Let's Do Our Part 
0 ur Country is now at war. The catastro­phe we have feared and hoped against has been thrust upon us. Cloaked in perfidy and hypocrisy, an alien foe has ravaged our coun­try. We have only one task, only one duty -to support our country to the utmost of our ability. This we can, must, and will do. There is no abstraction of justice or truth in­
"We must refrain from all melodramatic gestures and strive as best we can to maintain our normal life. Until our government actually calls upon us for more tangible services, we must endure the more trying bond of patience." 
volved. We are en­gaged in that most re­alistic and most just of all wars -a fight to defend our very lives and the freedom without which there is no life. Win we must and win we will. 
These basic truths realized, we are faced then with the imme­diate problem of how we may best help our country. The solution is simple and singu­1arly undramatic. Truth generally is. We must refrain from all melodramatic ges­tures and strive as best we can to main­tain our normal life. Until our government actually calls upon us for more tangible ser­vices, we must en­
This editorial 
appeared under the ,tenure ofEditor John A. Reilly in response to the December 7, 1941 bombing of Pearl Harbor. 

dure the more trying bond of patience. 
We know that this will not be easy. We, our­selves, find it difficult enough to avoid dramatiz­ing the _issue, and adopting an apathetic attitude toward the ordinary problems of campus life. The cry of the "lost generation" may already have been raised by some. But this slogan simply will not stand under the present circumstances. This is to­tal war-involving not a generation but a people. Every man, woman and child in this nation will bear a proportionate share in the conflict. Before this war is brought to an end, each one of us will have contributed something -no matter how large or small it may be -to its successful conclusion. 
The Notre Dame Scholastic 
December 12, 1941 

To assume that we shall bear a disproportionate share would be idiotic. A bomb is no respecter of age. It is in fact a thoroughly impersonal instru­ment of destruction. 
What, specifically, shall we do during this in­terim of relative inactivity? First of all, we must study. That is the fundamental purpose of our present status in life. If we have been given the opportunity to attain the ends inherent in intellec­tual activity. This is our heritage and we have nei­ther the right nor the privilege to abandon it. 
Neglecting assignments and failing to prepare properly the daily work required might seem at first glance to be sensible; but. actually it is extremely childish. Pettishly dropping a half-completed task is a clear indication of adolescent irresponsibility. But we are presumed to be men -able and will­ing to finish any work we undertake. Let us, then, be men and not "quitters," and finish the job we have begun. 
Then, too, we must remain at all times as calm as possible whenever a personal crisis arises. Some of us may well be called into the armed forces sooner than others. Inevitably, this will be due to the me­chanics involved in the draft procedure itself. How­ever, the separate inductions of individual students should definitely not be made the basis for unfounded rumors concerning the prospective induction of the entire student body. Nor should the individual so in­ducted feel that he has been prematurely singled out for service. We repeat again that the enormous effort which will be required to meet the onslaught of the totalitarian powers necessarily precludes any consid­eration for the individual. 
Finally, we must aim at a moral rejuvenation which will e~able us ultimately to succeed in the above program. We must develop to the fullest both a Spartan simplicity, and an intensity of ideals which will be able to withstand any future moral crisis. In short, we must strengthen our faith until it is so deeply planted in our hearts as to be im­pregnable. Then only will our ultimate triumph be assured. 
These words are addressed to a student body whose reaction so far has been undeniably splen­did. You have faced the crisis magnificently. We appeal to you now to maintain that spirit and not to falter._ We are being tried -let us not be found wanting. O 
36 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 
~'\I
~~~t~~­
~;.,-t, . .,..,-_~Jit

~,--1~.,~.\,1•. 
~ ,•--~~~, 
1-SJ~--.

(/\ /I/H1f,iJ.;:
sf,1'": t1,11,,fr
,'5.~ ~~II,~?;},
"'i,;1-'!'(,;,L_~':/,.t
i'\i~:•j~~_.,,;

,I\,• ,,,,,_,.,'4;.:--:. 
•_ ~~? ::.{t;~~~~
~t-,?~' 

www.nd.edu/~sub . add~~ 

f/1 ~•:~_,:"'·· ~ to your IM buddy list, u·, ~ '" l evolution. spaceballs and check our away messages for all our
thursday @ 10:00 
latest events 

I 
friday & saturday ·,@ 7:30 & 10:00 $3/$2 
101 & 155 debartolo 
I 

~ lII
J 

acousticafe. thursday. I 
9:00 -midnight. lafortune huddle ·;,#~ 
· second city improv group. saturday @ 7: 30. . washington hall. 
$7 at lafortune info desk 
SUB, yourall-purpoAeAtude11t-r1111 pro9raimmin9 board 












