THE DU PONT
DIGEST
FOR STUDENTS OF SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING
BAD MEDICINE for flies
Research that produced an insecticide safe to spray on cows may save millions for American agriculture
Armed with only a fly-swatter, the farmer would get nowhere in ridding his dairy barn of disease-carrying insect pests. But he has to be careful in using insecticides around cows. A toxic spray may be absorbed through the animal’s skin and show up in meat, milk and butter.
Next fly-season farmers and ranchers will be able to buy a flykiller that is both powerful and safe. In Du Pont Marlate* 50% technical methoxychlor insecticide they will get this combination of properties that no single insecticide has ever offered before.
Methoxychlor is a recent Du Pont development. Du Pont scientists worked for eight years in the laboratory and in the field to develop its
applications in agriculture.
more and better food on the American table. At the same time, in many other fields, Du Pont is helping to raise the American standard of living with continuous research aimed at developing new products and improving present ones.
*REG. U. S. PAT. OFF.
"MARLATE" 50 kills flies and many other insects attacking livestock, vegetables, fruits and forage crops.
THE BITES of flies, lice, and ticks can cut down milk production as much as 20 per cent. One spraying of "Marlate” 50 will control these pests for several weeks.
A safer insecticide
"Marlate” 50 is a residual insecticide and remains an effective killer of flies, mosquitoes, fleas and lice for several weeksafter application. When used as directed, this insecticide is exceptionally safe to human beings, livestock, pets and crops. This has led federal experts to recommend it »ot only for spraying in barns, milk kouses and milk plants, but also on the animals themselves.
Besides its use on livestock, methoxychlor kills many insects that attack vegetables, fruits and forage •rops. It is offered to flower growers ss an ingredient in Du Pont Floral Dust. It is used in moth-proofing compounds so that dry cleaners can oasily moth-proof woolens while cleaning them. Many stores carry aerosol bombs containing methoxychlor for household use. It can be used with safety in flour mills, freezing. and canning plants, grain stor
age elevators, cereal manufacturing plants—wherever food is processed. This development of research can bring immediate cash savings of millions of dollars to American agriculture, industry and homes.
The long fight
Exciting as the future of "Marlate” 50 appears, this does not mean that the use of other insecticides will not continue. Each has its special characteristics, and each has special uses for which it is outstanding. There are at least 10,000 kinds of insect pests, of more or less importance, in North America, and there can be no let-up in the scientific fight being waged against them.
Du Pont alone now makes over fifty differentinsecticides.Theknowl-edge gainedinmakingeachonespeeds the development of the next. By backing ideas with funds and facilities, Du Pont helps the farmer put
SEND FOR "Chemistry and the Farmer,” an interesting, informative booklet on the development of pest control, etc. 34 pages. For your free copy, write to the Du Pont Company, 2503 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Del.
°FG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Great Dramatic Entertainment—Tune in "Cavalcade of America” Tuesday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
2
The Scholastic
The Drapes in Washington Hall
Editor:
I wonder if those who drape their limbs over the row of seats in front of them at Washington Hall, acquire such animality here, or at their hometown nickelodeons. I had the misfortune last week to find a foot on my shoulder. On a previous occasion, I had seen a faculty member’s hat, placed on the seat ’ beside him, receive a footprint thereon. He remarked to me, “How dry cleaners get rich!”-
Appropriately should be mentioned those in the first row, balcony, who - contribute the scrapings of their shoes ' to those beneath them, downstairs.
0 Perhaps more frequent association ’ with the Belles of St. Mary’s would supply the now all-too-prevalent lack of urbanity, or more simply, lack of consideration for others.
James E. Ellison 213 Farley
An Apology
Editor:
The dictates of my conscience oblige • me to make a public apology to the campus laundry. Though in the past I have made scornful denunciations of that indispensable service, I must now recant.
Last week there occurred a miracle — one of industry or of the laundry’s patron St. Michael, but a miracle nevertheless. I stormed into the Mothaven Room of Badin Hotel for the fourth consecutive day and demanded my laundry, then missing for 16 days. Then it happened. One of the young, vivacious, ” affable employes presented me with two bundles, the second of which I had turned in only two days before! This, I feel certain, is a new record.
So I apologize. I will forget such trivial annoyances as shrunken shirts, misplaced bundles, strange handkerchiefs, and button games. As penance for my former caustic comments, I’d even let the laundry workers wash out my mouth with their soap — if they remove the lye first.
V	Don Carbone
A Line on Lines
Editor:
Brother Conan of the “Bookstore” is to be commended for the signs he caused to be placed in all of the residence halls urging the students to purchase their textbooks during the three days prior to the opening of the semester. Obviously, the only students who
9 Feb. 10, 1950
M Even I look good in an Arrow Shirt!
$3.65 up
• PERFECT FITTING ARROW COLLARS AUTOGA-SHAPED TO FIT BETTER FINE, LONG WEARING FABRICS BUTTONS THAT STAY PUT!
• SANFORIZED-WON'T SHRINK OVER 1%
ARROW shirts & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
It’s Adlers for
^RROff
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
can take advantage of this are those registered for courses in which all of the sections use the same text. Such courses are most common on the underclassmen level. Example: History. Many of the underclassmen, however, do not seem to know just what those courses are.
In the interest, therefore, of relieving the congested conditions which exist at the “Bookstore” the first week after a semester commences, I would like to suggest that a list of all of the underclass courses in which the text used does not vary with the section be posted on the bulletin board of each hall at the beginning of registration. Needless to say, it would be impractical to include in such a list the text that will be used in every one of the courses taught in the University.
Lee Kirby Dillon
A FEAST DAY
Admittedly it is important to begin a semester in a good manner. The SCHOLASTIC feels it is doing just that today with this first issue of the semester. Today, Feb. 10, is the feast of Saint Scholastica.
Washington Trip Highlighted By Reception at Embassy
Sixteen students from Notre Dame and St. Mary’s enjoyed the annual trip to Washington, D. C., organized by Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, of the Notre Dame Political Science Department. Highlights of the trip were a reception at the Spanish embassy and a party at the home of Walter Trohan, a Notre Dame alumnus, and chief of the Chicago Tribune Washington bureau.
The trippers left Thursday, Jan. 26, boarding the Baltimore & Ohio’s “Columbian” at LaPaz, and arrived Friday morning. After registering at the Lee-Sheraton hotel, the group went through the Bureau of Engraving and the Department of Justice, where FBI head J. Edgar Hoover met them personally. The House of Representatives was visited in the afternoon.
A reception at the Spanish Embassy followed, and the next morning they visited the Supreme Court building.
Trohan’s party was Saturday night, and was attended by many Washington celebrities. The party did not break up until 4 a.m.
Sunday’s activities included Mass and an extensive tour which took in Georgetown, Arlington, Mt. Vernon, the Lin
coln Memorial, the Washington Monument, and the Library of Congress.
Monday morning was spent in the Pentagon building, and the tour closed with a visit to the Senate Monday aft
ernoon.
The return trip was not without incident. Four members of the group missed the train, which left at 5:40 p.m. Monday, and were forced to fly to Pittsburgh and catch the train there.
Illinois Club Plans Trip
The Central Illinois Club -will sponsor a weekend trip to Chicago for the ND-DePaul basketball game, the feature game in a Stadium doubleheader, on Feb. 18.
President Robert Finnegan has announced that non-members of the Club will be able to take in the club’s trip with members for eight dollars. This price includes chartered bus transportation to Chicago, game ticket, hotel accommodations, and refreshments on the bus.
Co-Chairmen Jim Riley and Jerry Hammes have not arranged return transportation facilities for the trippers, because of the sufficient services offered by the South Shore and NYC railroads.
Aoot Avadalle . . .
Winter Issue
of the
JUGGLER
4
The Scholastic^)
THE WEEK
by Jack McGoldrick
Top of the Week
Fearless Fosdick anti-bean-eater crusade . . .

They’re Off
The Drill Hall and the IBM machines got their semi-annual workouts last week as the troops returned from hiding for the start of the semester. Over three hundred transfer students replaced the graduating seniors and others who left by special request. SEE YOUR DEAN was stamped in big red letters on a lot of registration envelopes
and drop and add dropped and added, thought I hit that well, look who I’ve
slips were being Cries of “but I final” and “well, got for Ethics ’
drowned out the rattle of the census cards. Even the welfare state seemed to be on its last legs, as the big question among the nine-hundred remaining vets on the campus was “will my insurance dividend get here before my G.I. Bill runs out?”
Nevertheless, classes started on time last Thursday, and in spite of the snow on the ground, the Spring semester was underway.
his coat and removed a long straw, followed by a pint of Four Boses. •
We haven’t heard what happened after that.
him that he’d “better get wanted to finish the exam.
going” if he With a look
of desperation on his face, the student turned up his coat collar, and lowered his head in the general direction of an inside pocket. All of a sudden he straightened up and wrote a whole page in his bluebook.
Fascinated by this daring move, the prof said nothing, but retreated to a neutral corner and observed some more. By this time, the student had resumed his wall-staring. A few minutes later, he ducked his head towards the pocket again, and began writing at a feverish pace.
The prof glowered, but said nothing. After a third repetition of this act, the teacher strode up to the culprit. “All
-, give me those crib
right, Mr.
notes.” With a hurt look, the student said, “I haven’t got any crib notes.”
The prof scratched his head. “Then why were you looking in your pocket before you were able to write any answers?”
With a shy smile, the student opened
Question of the Week
Q. Do you send all your shirts to the Notre Dame laundry? ■
A. No, I rip some of the buttons off myself.
Bottom of the Week
. . . may endanger the lives of all residents.
Saturday Dances Start At South Bend Church
Here is another note to be added to an already well-stocked social agenda for the- spring semester. A series of dances on Saturday evenings has been inaugurated by Father McAllister of St. Patrick’s Church in South Bend. The dances are held in the school basement and are from 8:30 until 11:30. The admission is fifty cents per person. The present series of dances will last until Lent, after which another series ■will be begun.
St. Patrick’s school is located at 306 S. Scott street, and can be easily found
by walking three the Oliver Hotel south; after that you in the door.
long blocks west of and then one block the crowd will lead Live music is pro
vided by a versatile young orchestra.
But Why?
«
group of words like this is lacking in humor, make-up & style, yet you’ll notice that almost everyone reads it to the very end.
Infused Knowledge
■ Here’s another one of those little ■ stories that is sometimes carried in the •	Scholastic as fiction.
ft This one is about final exams at a 11	well-known Midwestern U. and concerns
one of those profs who is known to 1 keep a watchful eye on his classes ■	during tests.
■ During this particular exam (a diffi-■	cult one, at that), the professor’s atten-
K tion was held by one lad who kept star-11 ing at the wall for the first fifteen minutes of the period. Realizing that a K glance to the right or left would be cer-*	tain suicide, this fellow kept looking at
K	the wall as long as the prof looked at
■I him. Finally, the teacher* mentioned to
^Feb. 10, 1950
It's fun
to DANCE
Alice and
George Davis
PRIVATE STUDIOS
... when you learn the exclusive George Davis way!
For those who wish to learn in strictest privacy, only George Davis offers private studio instruction in addition to our beautiful main ball room.
New LOW RATES to NOTRE DAME STUDENTS Call 3-8229 for FREE LESSON
CjicUji 7)aVi\
■ Disc i Sruios ■
NORTHERN INDIANA’S LARGEST DANCE STUDIO
South Bend Elkhart
106 W. Monroe at Michigan 215%> S. Main Street
Phone 38229
Phone 24333
Entertainment
FEBRUARY 10
COLFAX (through Feb. 15)—Sands of Izvo Jima (Legion of Decency Eating A-2) is a top-notch picture about Marine fighting in the Pacific. The best part of the film is the insertion of newsreel shots. The only time the story bogs down is when two females step in to thicken the brew. John Wayne, in the hard-bitten leading role, has never been better.
AVON (through Feb. 17)—Here’s a pic that has been roping in honors all over the country. Olivia deHaviland is the star of William Wyler’s The Heiress (A-2) with Sir Ralph Richardson and Montgomery Clift in featured roles. The plot comes from Henry James’ novel about a spinsterish young girl, her deceitful suitor and her puritanical father.
FEBRUARY 12
PALACE (through Feb. 15)—The Fallen Idol (B) is an exceptionally fine British film. It was directed by Carol Reed and written by Graham Greene, currently being hailed for their work on The Third Man. The Fallen Idol is adult throughout, suspenseful and contains crisp humor. Sir Ralph Richardson is in this, too; also Michele Morgan, but the acting honors are swiped without effort by Bobby Henrey, an eight-year-old. His juvenile performance ranks at the top.
GRANADA (through Feb. 16)—Intruder in the Dust (A-l) is the picturization of William Faulkner’s novel of an abortive lynching. Some maintain it is the finest of the recent Negro-discrimination trend of films. Juano Hernandez, Claude Jarman and David Brian play the leading roles.
FEBRUARY 14
FIELDHOUSE—The Irish take on Loyola in their next to last home game of the season. Coach Krause’s quintet will make their final appearance of the season on Feb. 23 against St. Louis.
PLAYLAND ROLLER RINK—The ND Circle of Daughters of Isabella sponsor a Round and Square Dance. Tickets are $1.20 per couple and all students are invited.
FEBRUARY 16
COLFAX (through Feb. 22)—Danny Kaye stars in The Inspector General (A-l), a technicolored music. This is a Kaye-fan special.
FEBRUARY 17
PALAIS ROYALE—The Junior Class tees off the Mardi Gras celebration with their dance downtown. The dress is semi-formal and all proceeds will go to the Student Charity Fund. This is the first big dance of the ’49-’5O year which freshmen are permitted to attend. Bids are going at $3 per couple.
Next time you know you’re going to have to stay up late studying, pick up a jar of Nescafe*
Nothing helps you through long sessions like coffee. And no coffee is easier to make than Nescafe. It’s instant. Just measure to suit your taste, add hot water (preferably boiling) and stir.
Good? It’s delicious! Nescafe just naturally makes a better cup of coffee, because it’s specially processed to keep its roasterfresh flavor until you release it in the cup.
Yes, coffee the Nescafe way gives you all the flavor and “lift” of pure, freshly roasted, freshly brewed coffee, without the fuss and muss of brewing.
Nescafe is the instant way to pure coffee enjoyment. If you like good coffee—you’ll love Nescafe. Keep it on hand for all occasions.
Mora people, tok Nescafe' than all other instant coffees!
•Nescafe (pronounced nes-cafay) is the exclusive registered trade-mark of The Nestle Company, Inc. to designate its soluble coffee product which is composed of equal parts of pure soluble coffee and added pure carbohydrates (dextrins, maltose and dextrose) added solely to protect the flavor
6
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
From the Editor’s Desk..
Vol. 91 February, 10, 1950 No 14.
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class Indiana. Acceptance for of postage. Section 1101, ized June 23, 1918.
matter at Notre Dame, mailing at special rate October 3, 1917. Author-
Editor
JOSEPH HERRINGTON
Associate Editors KENNETH A. THOREN WALTON R. COLLINS
JOHN H. JANOWSKI ......   News
JOHN J. POWERS ______ Assistant News
ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE .... Features
JOHN F. MEANEY _____________ Sports
JACK R. VARLEY ..........  Assistant	Sports
RICHARD CULLEN _______________ Photography
LEON GARDNER __________________  Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER _____________  Advertising
LOUIS P. LOURO _______________ Advertising
EDMOND FOLEY _________________ Circulation
WILLIAM KLEE  Circulation DALE FRANCIS ........... Faculty	Moderator
NEWS: Jack Bradshaw. Dan Brennan. Bob Butler, Don Carbone. Jim Clark. Jay Conlon, Ray Doherty, Dave Driscoll. Charley DuIIea, Carl Eilberger, Bob Finney, Tom Kelley. Joe Lang. Dan McCarthy, Lou Meece. Don Mulvihill, Jim Murphy. R. O. Murphy, Jim O’Brien. George Otott, John Quetsch, George Schwartz, Bill Shidaker, Don Smith, Roger Vorcc.
SPORTS: Jim Brislin, Bill Delaney, Jack Economous, Jack Keane, Ted Prahinski. Frank Ronnenberg, Rudy Unger.
FEATURES: Jim Carroll, Jim Kingsley, Larry McDermott, Robert Romaker, Jack Ward, Bill Weir.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. Printed at Ave Maria Press.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: A group of Noire Dame football stars found out what defeat was the other night when the “Flying Wheels”, a wheelchair basketball - team from Birmingham General Hospital, Van Nuys, Calif., played them in a game prior to the ND-Marquette contest. Fred Wallner is shown attempting to score for the Irish from his unaccustomed position. The Wheels trounced the hapless Notre Dame squad, 35 to 3, and showed the spectators that disability doesn’t mean defeat.—Photo by Kinville.
Feb. 10, 1950
Be a Super-Salesman
With the economic situation tightening and with the number of college graduates increasing, it is becoming progressively difficult for each graduating class to find suitable jobs.
In order to aid the Notre Dame graduate in this important task, the University has appointed Mr. William R. Dooley as Placement Director of the University. Until now, the position has always been a part-time job of one of the members of the Administration. Mr. Dooley should be able to do much more to aid the graduate now that he is working full-time at placement.
Other universities have had the same set-up for some time, and a few of the larger ones find it necessary’ to maintain a fairly large staff to handle placement problems. Notre Dame is wise in entering into the competition as much as possible.
But no matter how efficient the local job placement office becomes, it is only an aid to students. The individual graduate will still have to sell himself: each graduate becomes — temporarily, at least — a marketing major. He has to thoroughly study himself and the fields he is fitted for in order to make the initial selection of a job one that will give him the right start in his life’s work.
The University’s Department of Testing and Guidance can be used, along with introspection, in this study. Lectures and films sponsored will give suggestions for a method of attack: as manv interviews as possible will give the graduate an opportunity to talk with prospective employers.
However, each student must realize that these advantages are not a key that is guaranteed to open the door to a ten-thousand-a-year job. The most that they can be is a help in this serious business. The major burden still belongs to the individual student.
Those students graduating within the next year or so would be wise in preparing now for this job of super salesmanship. They should be aware of all the advantages regarding job-hunting that the University has made available. But primarily, they must equip themselves with the best possible scholastic and activity record to enable them to bargain successfully.
Real 'Wheels'
People who have been accompanying the wheelchair basketball team from Birmingham General Hospital in their tour of the country said that the ovation the paraplegics received at Notre Dame was the greatest the team has gotten anywhere. Charlie Callahan had prepared a short statement asking the people in the stands to give the boys a hand. The announcer was supposed to read it when the men came out on the ’ court. But before he had a chance to say anything, he was drowned out by the ovation given the “Flying Wheels.”	.
The applause was more than justified by these men who didn’t give up when things went the wrong way.
7
It’ll soon be February 14th
so give the VALENTINE
because it's lovely . . . because it's useful . . . because it's FROM YOU!
★ We have a brand new shipment of COMPACTS BY PILCHER, famous since 1885, in lovely gold; they are circular, with mirror, and are priced down to $1.79.
★ In the “Alma Mater” style we have two designs — one silver with scenic views of the campus, priced at $3, and the other in gold displaying the Dome, priced at $4. These are also Pilcher models.
★ Appealing to the ear as well as to the eye, are the Musical Powder Boxes just received. They range from $6.25 to $7 and are attractively set off by painted miniatures and mascot statuettes. Also on the musical side are our Bon Bon Boxes in blue and gold, guarded over by an Irish terrier on the lid. Manufactured by Thoren, they all have Swiss movements and will play the school song at the lift of a finger.
HURRY! ST. VALENTINE'S DAY IS NEXT TUESDAY!
. . . to- Aeo them all in
THE BOOKSTORE
Open fam 8:00 la 4:30
8
The Scholastic 0
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
VOLUME 91, NUMBER 14
FEBRUARY, 10, 1950
University Sponsors Symposium on Russia
Speech Summaries on Page 20
Sponsored by the University’s Committee on International Relations, a symposium was conducted last Tuesday ™ and Wednesday in the Law Auditorium on the general theme “The Soviet Union: Background, Ideology, and Reality.” The symposium represented an effort to “analyze recent Soviet actions in the light of the peculiar cultural background against which they take place.”
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.C., president of the University, was chairman of the two-day meeting. Dr. Waldemar _ Gurian of the Department of Political Science opened the symposium with an address entitled “From Lenin to Stalin.”
Dr. Michael Karpovich, of Harvard University, traced the “Historical Background of Soviet Thought Control.” He is former First Secretary of the Russian Embassy in Washington. The third speaker, who lectured on “Methods of Soviet Penetration in Eastern Europe,” was Dr. Stephen Kertesz of the Yale Law School. The former Hungarian diplomat chose political exile in July, 1947, shortly after his appointment as Minister to Italy and sought refuge in the United States.
Dr. Philip Mosely of the Russian Institute of Columbia University, and one of this nation’s outstanding students of the Soviet Union, discussed “Soviet Exploitation of National Conflicts in Eastern Europe.” Dr. Mosely served as consultant on the U.S. delegations at the Moscow, Yalta, Potsdam and Berlin Conferences.
Speaking from experience on the topic “Aims and Methods of Soviet Terrorism” was Dr. Vladimir Petrov of Yale University. Dr. Petrov was sentenced in 1935 to the Siberian gold mines where he worked for six years. During the war he escaped and is now instructoi- in Russian at Yale. He is the author of Soviet Gold and a forthcoming book, My Retreat From Russia.
Dr. Naum Jasny of Stanford Univer
Feb. 10, 1950
sity is a former member of the Soviet’s Supreme Food Board and an expert on collective farming. His topic was “Economics of the Soviet Union: Five-Yeai-Plan Results.”
One of the most complete records of the early Soviet regime ever compiled is in the hands of Dr. Nicholas Tima-sheff of Fordham University who spoke on “Church and State in the Soviet Union.” Rev. Franz Dvornik of Harvard lectured on “Church and State in Central Europe.”
The Committee on International Relations, under the directorship of Dr. Waldemar Gurian, was established last October at Notre Dame. Partially financed by the Rockefeller Foundation, it studies the interplay of religion and democracy in the preservation of international order.
First Council Dance
Slated for Tomorrow
The first in the new series of Student Council dances will be held tomorrow night at the Palais Royale. Gene Hull and his orchestra will supply the music for the affair, called the St. Valentine Informal by the Council and the cosponsor, the Kampus Keglers.
Time for the dance is from 8 to 11 p.m. with arrival and departure times optional. St. Mary’s has granted 11:30 permissions to girls attending the dance. Bids may be purchased at the door for $1.50.
The Council has scheduled approximately five of these dances, and they will resemble the successful Victory Dances held during the Fall.
Verne Kelley is chairman of the dance, -with Tom Farley acting as assistant.
The St. Valentine’s informal dance will be followed next Saturday night by the Mardi Gras dance, also sponsored by the Student Council. The next Council dance will take place on April 15. The lag is due to the Lenten season which begins Wednesday, Feb. 22. The exact number of dances and their dates after-Lent is not yet determined.
Goulet Takes Over As Mayor of Vetville
A new administration took over the reins of local government in Vetville last week, with Art Goulet coming into office as the new Mayor. Art succeeded former Mayor Leo Zuckowsky and presides over a group of six Councilmen in handling the affairs of the little village.
The new Council includes Frank Quinn of Ward I; Gerry White, Ward II; Leonard Kamer, Ward IV; Charles Baier, Ward III, and Vincent Honnold of Ward VI. Paul Gustafson, of Ward V, is the only remaining member of the previous Council.
Mayor Gaulet
At the present time the Council is planning Vetville’s part in the forthcoming Mardi Gras Carnival. The village wives intend supplying cakes, pies and other culinary niceties for a booth. A similar project last year contributed more than $300 to the NFCCS fund.
Besides the Carnival plans, the Council administers recreation activities, road repair, garbage disposal and the like. The’ Council meets every second week and is assisted by their Faculty Adviser, Rev. Paul C. Bailey, of the Department of Religion.
9
Placement Bureau Directed by Dooley
As an aid to Notre Dame alumni and future graduates of the University, the Notre Dame Placement Bureau is being reorganized to further its effectiveness. In announcing the reorganization, Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., has appointed Mr. William R. Dooley, Managing Editor of the Notre Dame Alumnus and Assistant Alumni Secretary, as Placement Director of the University.
The Placement Bureau works to secure employment for graduates and alumni and the reorganization of the Bureau will enable it to maintain employment contacts with business and industry all over the country. Counseling as the basis of all effective employment aid will be particularly stressed in the new organization.
Mr. Dooley, in his new position, will devote himself entirely to assisting Notre Dame students and alumni with regard to full-time employment. For the present Mr. Dooley will retain his quarters in the Alumni Office. However, a new placement office will be furnished on the ground floor' of the Administration Building and will be in operation before the end of the semester. The new office will provide interviewing space for the use of personnel representatives coming to the campus from business and industry.
William R. Dooley, new director of the Placement Bureau, shows Bob Stock how the Alumnus mag works. Stock, former ed of Scholastic, is temporary chief of Alumnus.
In commenting on the objectives of the new bureau, Mr. Dooley said: “We are just barely getting under way with a full-time placement office at Notre Dame. Obviously, there is a tremendous lot to be done by way of organization, and all of it can’t be done immediately.
“The whole procedure of the Placement Bureau will be based upon ‘helping a man help himself.’ Counseling, both group and individual, will be the keystone. We can’t possibly get a job for a man — he has to do that himself. But we’ll help.
“Our fundamental thought at present is to give as much placement aid as we possibly can to the seniors who will finish in June and August. Toward this end, and as an essential preliminary, we have already asked such seniors to’ fill out our placement form, which is available in our office, in the various deans’ offices and in room 131 of the Social Science Building. Those filled-out forms should be quickly returned to our office.”
What comes after the filled-out forms? Mr. Dooley was asked.
“Soon we are going to have a general meeting of June and August graduates, or maybe several meetings, of those who want basic information on the job-finding process as applied to the individual. This will be followed, according to present plans, by showing of films on vocational selection and jobfinding and by talks by industrial personnel men on the same subjects.
“I will be available for individual conferences with the June and August graduates, following the group talk or talks. Then of course we’ll arrange campus job interviews as extensively as we possibly can. These interviews will be reduced in number, obviously, by the present employment conditions generally. And those organizations that do come here to interview will be highly selective and we will of course have to 4 abide by the specifications which they set down for men wanted.”
Ci
Alumni Association Elects West Coast Lawyer Prexy
Leo B. Ward, prominent Los Angeles, Calif., attorney, was elected President of the University of Notre Dame Alumni Association Jan. 27 during a meeting of the Board of directors of the Association held on campus.
Mr. Ward succeeds Francis Wallace, author and writer, of Bellaire, O., as President of the Association. Mr. Wallace was elected Honorary President during the meeting. Other officers include Rev. Vincent P. Brennan of Holy Angels Church in Pittsburgh, First Vice-President; Joseph M. Boland, of radio station WSBT, Second Vice-President; and Arthur D. Cronin, Detroit coal executive, Third Vice-President. James E. Armstrong was re-elected Executive Secretary.
Four new directors of the Association were also installed at the meeting. They included John Q. Adams of Upper Montclair, N. J., President of the Manhattan Refrigerating Company and the Union Terminal Cold Storage Company of New York City. A graduate of the class of 1926; Harry G. Foster, of Indianapolis, agent in charge of the FBI, ’39; Richard J. Nash, of the Nash A Brothers Construction company of Chi- w cago, ’23; and Dr. Matthew Weis, St.
Louis physician, of the class of ’22.
Discussion Group Meets
The campus discussion group on world affairs, the International Affairs Club, prepared for the new semester by holding a business meeting and election on Jan. 16. The members reelected President John Gallagher; new officers include Ken Bayly, Vice-President; Ken " Snyder, Treasurer, and Joe Farrell, Secretary.
Plans for the future were discussed and the next meeting was scheduled for Feb. 13. Don Lueck will deliver a paper at this meeting entitled “Federal Fiscal Policy.” The group announced that a few new members will be admitted this semester. Letters of application should be addressed to Joe Farrell, 403 Walsh.
The Scholastic
10
New Marriage Forum Has Several Changes
The Institute on Christian Marriage for Spring, 1950, has many changes; it is being held for graduate students, June and August graduates, married students, and the faculty, in the Engi-_ neering Auditorium at 7:30 p.m. ® August graduates and the faculty are being admitted for the first time.
The institute is being held in the Engineering Auditorium because the latter has a greater seating capacity than the Law Auditorium where the institute was formerly held.
The meeting will begin at 7:30 p.m. to allow more time than the former 8 p.m.
The first meeting, “Introduction,’’ ® was held last night. It introduced the “town hall” style, in which each speaker has about 20 minutes to speak followed by a discussion and question period.
Mr. Ed Krause introduced Christian marriage as teamwork under God. Mr. James E. Armstrong introduced a survey made this year, of marriages among Notre Dame alumni.
The schedule of future meetings is: Feb. 16, “The Meaning of Marriage _ is Permanent Love ...” This subject is explained “In the Plan of God” by Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., and “With Protective Rules and Glorious Ritual” by Rev. Francis N. Nealy, O.P.
Feb. 23, “Completing a Man and Woman ...” This subject is explained “In Mind, Heart, and Flesh” by Dr. S. L. Egan, m.d., and “In Christ and the Church” by Rev. Albert L. Schlitz-er, C.S.C.
March 2, “For the Purpose of Bear-k- ing Children ...” This subject is ex" plained “As Willing Co-Creators with God,” by Rev. Philip L. Hanley, o.P., and “Unashamed of the Purity of Sex” by Rev. Joseph E. Haley, c.s C. Panel member at this meeting will be Mr. Hugh P. O’Brien, a criminologist.
March 9, “And Building Them in Virtue ...” This subject is explained “From Birth to Maturity” by Rev. James P. Smyth, and “In the Family, Basis of Social Living” by Mr. John J. Kane. Panel member at this meeting R1 will be Mrs. William R. Dooley.
March 16, “Meeting Life’s Problems as a Family ...” This subject is explained “Seeking Economic Security” by Mr. Louis A. Radelet, and “Fitting One’s Job to Family Life” by Mr. Robert E. Sullivan.
March 23, “Carrying Christian Family Influence ...” This subject is explained “By Family Holiness” by Mr. Patrick Crowley and “By the Family Apostolate” by his wife, Mrs. Patrick S Feb. 10, 1950
Crowley. This meeting is open to both men and women.
March 30, “For All of This —Prepare.” This subject is explained “In Your Search for the Girl” by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., and “In Your Learning to Love Forever” by Rev Francis E. Gartland, C.S.C.
It is interesting to note that the theme of this institute is stated in the continuation of the subject of each meeting. The chairman of the institute is Rev. Paul C. Bailey, C.S.C. The institute is presented by the Department of Religion of the University of Notre Dame.
The department cites Pius XI: “It is indeed of the utmost importance that the faithful should be well instructed concerning matrimony.”—Jim Murphy
'Tribune' ROTC Awards Won by Two Grid Players
Two of Frank Leahy’s backs are doing very well in the local unit of the Air ROTC as well as on the gridiron. Cadets John Petitbon and Bill Whiteside have won Chicago Tribune Medals for excellence in military achievement, scholastic standing and character.
Lt. Col. Leonard W. Palmer, commanding officer of the Air ROTC unit, awarded the medals in a special military ceremony held here recently.
Halfback Petitbon is a sophomore in Commerce from New Orleans while Quarterback Whiteside, a junior in Commerce, hails from Philadelphia.
Bill Whiteside is congratulated by Father Hesburgh for winning ROTC medal for excellency. John Petitbon, the other winner, and Lt. Col. Leonard W. Palmer watch.
Commerce School Makes Survey of Recent Grads
Acting on the advice of its Advisory Council, the College of Commerce last year conducted a national survey of its recent graduates now employed in a representative cross-section of business and industry.
The appraisal involved 200 graduates of the classes of 1946 through 1948. The graduates were rated on performance and attitude, and their employers, in a confidential report to the College of Commerce, were the judges.
Ratings were made on such factors as Sense of Responsibility, Loyalty, Aptitude, Ambition and Ability. Thanks to the cooperation of the employers, 69 percent of the evaluation sheets were returned. The survey revealed that 50 percent of the men involved were rated above 90 percent and the over-all arithmetic weighted mean of the group was 87 percent.
The marked predominance of excellent scores for the two highest single averages possible, Sense of Responsibility and Employer Loyalty, was encouraging: 90.05 and 92.45 respectively.
Those classifications which appeared lowest, Business Imagination, Organizational Ability and Ability to Initiate, were the three that employers found the most difficult to evaluate. Many of them hesitated because they had not had the opportunity, as yet, to test these qualities.	.
11
Notre Dame Vending Machine Syndicate Widens Its Operations: Cigarettes Now!
The coin machine, that million-dollar baby of the mechanical age, has gained another foothold on these hallowed grounds. Recently 15 cigarette venders were added to the 30-odd candy, soft drink, and ice cream dispensers now in service at various points on the campus.
As sales indicate, reaction to these new devices has been highly favorable. There seems to be but one complaint — no matches. This fault, however, may soon be remedied. To give matches, each machine must be equipped with an extra attachment. There will be some deliberation about placing matches in the venders, located in all 13 residence halls, and in the Main and Social Science buildings, where smoking is forbidden for obvious reasons. No matches, no fires.
Each machine holds 440 packs of the leading brands. According to a recent poll, national preference places Camels slightly ahead of Luckies with Chesterfields a poor third. At Notre Dame that order is directly reversed. Philip Morris and Old Gold rank next in camnus popularity.
With the exception of the ice cream dispensers, from which the university is paid a percentage, all the machines are owned by Notre Dame and supervised by the Dining Hall management. Should a machine fail to function properly, don’t hurl oral or physical abuse on it; telephone (for free) 248. David Ford or William Kesl will then send out the maintenance crew.
Mardi Gras carnival committee discusses final plans. L to r.: Dick Brodeur, Don Carbone, Don Mahoney, Jim Garvin, Bill Kirchner, Ed Farrell, Ed Noonan and Bill Anhui.
The men who service the cigarette and beverage venders are Art Smith and Joe Wagonhofer. Wounded while serving with the German army during the war, Joe came to the U.S. shortly before last Christmas. Once having fought an army of Russian women “all six feet tall,” he feels that soft drink machines are just as big but not as hard to manage. Len Kahler has been nursing the candy dispensers since they were installed last August.
“Coke,” Orange, and Dr. Pepper are all well liked, but Seven-Up seems to be most popular. This, the crew thinks", is so because it is “a good mixer.” There are ten soft-drink coolers on campus.
The gambling instinct inherent in all Notre Dame men has made the “double header” candy column most popular. It contains bars of various brands, and several shelves hold two bars. Baby Ruth is the campus favorite. Variety is now limited to the best-liked bars, and ten-cent candy is no longer stocked. According to Mr. Kahler, the Frosh seek quantity, buy big bars while the upperclassmen prefer quality, select better known candy.
The residence halls and Chemistry, Biology, and Law buildings each have one of the 18 candy-and-gum dispensers; the Main building is furnished with two.
Although the venders are filled once a day, they had to be refilled two or three times daily during the three weeks from vacation through exams,
as belabored students sought food for sustenance in that time of trial.
Now that classes and business are back to normal, the problem of insufficient nickels is being studied. The candy machines accept dimes; the beverage and cigarette devices take dimes or quarters; but they often run short of nickels to make change. Moreover, the ice cream venders insist on nickels only.
The solution to this problem is a device that may eventually be installed, the coin changer. This should be quite an attraction with Notre Dame men. Although it closely resembles a “onearmed bandit,” it is guaranteed to pay even money.—Don Carbone
Mardi Gras Dance Set for Next Friday
As the time for sackcloth and ashes draws near, preparations for the Mardi Gras Dance, to be held next Friday, February 17, in the Palais Royale, are reaching the frenzied stage for the traditional last pre-Lenten festivities.
The proceeds will go entirely to the Student Charity Fund and the dance is open to the entire student body. Cochairmen Frank Crovo and Jim Hennessy extend a special invitation to all Freshmen.
Tickets went on sale last Monday in the Dining Hall and can also be obtained in each hall from the local Student Council representative. Car permissions will be granted to all students upon request, and 2 a.m. permissions are also on the agenda.
Bob Lewis, prominent Chicago maestro, and his orchestra will be on deck to give a Yankee twang to an otherwise completely Southernized atmosphere, for the Juniors promise a souped up Deep-in-Dixie theme that is guaranteed to set all true Confederate hearts yearnin’ for hominy grits, ham hocks and mint juleps.
Dress will be semi-formal which means that the local belles will be attired in swirling formats, while the erstwhile gay blades will seek admittance resplendent in weekend suits and ties.
The Student Council made a ruling last Monday night that corsages will not be worn at the dance. Any girl wearing one will be asked to remove it. This move was made in order- to reduce the usual cost of attending a semi-formal dance.
Door prizes will be awarded to two couples holding lucky bids. So don’t wait a minute longer. Rustle up your pennies, polish up the old boon-dockers, grab the girl friend and shuffle on down to the old Palais come 9 bells next Friday night.—Jack Bradshaw
12
The Scholastic
S Gay Nineties Is Theme Of Engineers' Ball
Greeted by mustachioed gentlemen dressed according to the Gay Nineties theme of the dance, 165 Engineers and their dates attended the Engineers’ Ball last Friday night. Murals representing the seven departments of Engineering _ decorated the Palais Royale for the first social event this semester.
The high point of the Ball was the presentation of roses to the dance queens — Miss Rita Gilsinger, a sophomore at St. Mary’s and Miss Mary Freeman, a junior at the University of Detroit — by Dean Schoenherr. Bob Hochman acted as emcee for this portion of the dance program which was followed by a community sing.
_ Co-chairmen Vai Reisig and Gerry Griesmer stated that the dance was a complete social success with the continuous music provided by Bud Simpson and Ted Gallagher particularly appreciated by the Engineers.—Joe. Lang
Aquinas Lecture Series Will Begin This Month
“Catholics and the World Today” will „ be the subject of the sixth annual Aquinas Lecture Series. The opening lecture is scheduled for Sunday evening, Feb. 26, at 8:15 p.m. in the Central High School auditorium and the series will continue each succeeding Sunday during Lent.
Due to the present coal shortage it may be necessary that the lectures be moved from their present location. An announcement of place will be made _ before every lecture.
A ticket for the entire series will
Five couples at the Engineers' Ball harmonize on some songs of the Gay Nineties. Over 160 couples attended dance dedicated to beginning of engineering at ND.
cost $2.40 and can be purchased at the Aquinas Book Store, 110 LaSalle street, South Bend. Following is a list of the speakers:
Oscar Halecki—Feb. 26
Doctor Halecki is an expert on Poland and the eastern European countries and he will speak on the relationship of Catholics to world affairs. Now a professor at Fordham University, Dr. Halecki’s latest book, a volume on the relationship of the Vatican to peace, will be published this Spring.
Dorothy Day—March 5
Dorothy Day, present editor of the Catholic Worker, is one of the best known and most controversial figures in American Catholic life. A former communist, she was converted to the Catho-
lie Church and founded the famed New York Hospitality House. She will speak on Catholics and Social Problems.
Rcv. William J. Smith, S.J.—March 12
Father Smith is probably the best known labor priest in the nation today and is the founder of the Crown Heights Labor School. He has become well known in recent months by his disputes with Westbrook Pegler. Father Smith will talk on the place of trade unionism in a democracy.
Stephen Oraze—March 19
Mr. Oraze will tell of the messages of Fatima and Lipa in an address to point the way to prayers for peace in the modern world. He has visited most of the major shrines in the world and he brings a dramatic story of Our
Lady’s message to the people of the world.
Mazie Ward—March 25
Mazie Ward Sheed is co-founder of Sheed and Ward, an author and lecturer, and a key figure in the British Catholic Evidence movement. She will talk of the lay apostolate and the way lay Catholics can do their part in the world today.
Carol Jackson—April 2
Carol Jackson is another well-known and controversial Catholic laywoman. Author of books under the name of Peter Michaels and co-editor of Integrity, Miss Jackson attempts to synthesize the over-all problem of the Catholic*, in the world today. She will speak on' what an integrated Catholic should be like.	~
Feb. 10, 1950
13
Guests at Gethsemani
Thirty-seven Notre Dame Men Spend Vacation At Monastery Made Famous by Thomas Merton
& With the completion of final exams, most of the Notre Dame host hied themselves to distant points for the semester break. Vacationers ranged as far East as New York, as far South as Florida, and as far West as the Great Plains. They went by plane and train, bus and thumb, returning with enough stories to stock Hollywood for six months.
One of these stories came from the trip made by 37 of the men from Notre Dame who went down to the famed Trappist monastery of Our Lady of Gethsemani, Kentucky. Leaving by bus on the morning of Jan. 27, these men spent three days in prayer and meditation among the monks now made so famous by Thomas Merton, the “Talkative Trappist.” Scholastic received permission to use the diary kept by Joe Moresco in telling the story of the band who made this trip.
Friday, Jan. 27
We arrived at the monastery at 5:40 p.m. As we entered the guest house, we were struck by the inscription in the Main Hall — in bold, black letters was written, “God Alone.” How completely these two words described the life of these monks we were to discover in the next three days.
Father Francis, our moderator, greeted us most cordially, making it a point to learn our names. Before we could begin any banter with him the i clanging of the dinner bell called us to chow. Immediately after a hearty meal we went to the church for Compline and Salve Regina. As we passed > back to the guest house one of the men saw a placard near the door which read “Women Forbidden to Enter This Enclosure Under Pain of Excommunication.”
A The service in the church was very impressive, reaching a dramatic climax when, in complete darkness, all the monks made an examination of conscience as a solitary light shone on a | reproduction of Mary and the Christ i Child high on a stained glass window behind the main altar. It seemed like a quick look into Heaven itself as we ■	stared at that beautiful image. After
>	services we retired.
We rose this morning at 5 a.m. and [ W Feb. 10, 1950
headed for the church and morning prayers. After prayers we had our first meditation, conducted by Father Andrew, our retreat master. Very appropriately “Heaven” was the topic of discussion, a discussion which gave us all a more realistic picture of God’s kingdom than we had known before. Low Mass followed the meditation. We recited the Rosary in common as a thanksgiving, then went over to breakfast. After breakfast we returned to the church for High Mass and our morning conference, entitled “Holiness.” This conference pointed out the true, Christian concept of holiness as contrasted to some of the false and abstract ideas which are so prevalent.
After this talk, extracts from Father Eugene Boylan’s book, This Tremendous Lover, were read to us, expressions of the perfect relationship between husband and wife. A visit to the Blessed Sacrament and the Stations of the Cross followed lunch, then a second part of the conference on “Holiness.” Prior to the singing of Vespers confessions were held. The ceremony of Vespers was awe inspiring, the chanting of the monks like a magnificent orchestra playing praises to the Lord. At 6:30, after supper, we again attended Compline, receiving the Abbott’s blessing for the night.
Sunday, Jan. 29
Today, the Lord’s day, we rose again at 5 a.m. Following morning prayers and meditation we heard Mass and said the Rosary in common. Breakfast followed. At 8:45 we attended our first conference of the day, followed by High Mass. After dinner we were taken on a tour of the grounds by Father Francis. This monk’s ready wit and gracious manner added a nice touch to his various explanations and answers to our many questions. We paused for a moment at the monastery graveyard where Brother Joachim, the “man who got even with God,” is buried. We saw the grave of a monk who had formerly been a circus clown and who had just renewed his Baptismal vows when he died. “There is no doubt where that clown is playing his tricks now,” remarked Father Francis.
From the cemetery we passed around
the grounds, observing the various occupations in which the monks were engaged. All the farming necessary to make the monastery self-sufficient along these lines is conducted by the monks.
Entering the cloister we were led to that part of the building comprised of the monks’ cells, each cell six feet square which contained, without exception, a hard straw mattress, three clothing hooks and a Crucifix bordered by two holy pictures on the wall opposite the bed. True poverty, simplicity and frugality are the bywords here.
It was during this walk that Father Francis told us about Father Louis, better known as Thomas Merton. Before Seven Storey Mountain was published, 'Gethsemani had 70 monks. Since then, the number has jumped to its present total of 175. Concerning Merton and his famous books, Father Francis said, “We figured that Father Louis was on the verge of publishing a great work because of the long hours he spent in the monastery’s vault of priceless books. He would read for five or ten minutes and then meditate over the material for half an hour or so.” When Merton began submitting his manuscripts in great profusion it caused no surprise at Gethsemani. He is held in great esteem by his fellow monks, an inspired, very holy man whom Father Francis regards as “one of the greatest poets in the world today.”
Supper was a welcome respite after Vespers. Following Vespers we had another extremely interesting conference, this one dealing with Peter’s denial of Christ as compared with the betrayal of Judas, a conference which drew the moral that, no matter how far we fall, we must never despair. Compline and Salve Regina brought Sunday to a close.
Monday, Jan. 30
Another day of the 5 a.m. rising. The routine proceeded much the same as the preceding days, and the conferences were again most interesting. The first dealt with the Passion of Christ; the second, material success as compared with spiritual gain. The third conference treated husband and wife relationships and the proper union in marriage.
After an 11:30 lunch we once more (Continued on Page 32)
15
Price Seeks Senate Post From Indiana
Dr. Charles C. Price, head of the Department of Chemistry at Notre Dame has announced that he will seek the Democratic nomination to the United States Senate this year in Indiana.
Prior to this time, Dr. Price has never held a political office. In 1948 he received an Army-Navy Certificate of Appreciation for war-time research on detection and decontamination of chemical warfare agents, and for synthesis of drugs to treat malaria. The Indiana Junior Chamber of Commerce presented him with the distinguished Service Award in the same year for research on the Ph factor and active interest in world federation.
Dr. Price, in making his formal announcement, presented a nine point statement of his political program. In this statement he pledges support of the Democratic Party platform and Democratic candidates for office and support of measures that will lead to a more economical and efficient operation of the Federal Government. Dr. Price is solidly behind Civil rights legislation, limited federal aid to education, and laws providing basic elements of health insurance for the American people.
The principle objective of Dr. Price in running for the Indiana senatorship is the promotion of a world federation of Nations operating within the framework of the U.N. as a guarantee for world peace.
Dr. Price is organizational chairman of the Indiana branch and chairman of the chapter of United World Federalists in St. Joseph county, Indiana.
Frosh From Boys1 Town Leads Relief Drive Sales
A freshman product of Boys’ Town, Neb., “Rusty” Vigil, has sold 27 chance books to lead the Student Council-NFCCS drive for Foreign Student Relief and the Notre Dame Charity Fund. One other student has returned over 20 books, the other leaders close to 10 each.
Nearly 30 per cent of the $30,009 sought from book sales has been received so far. Returns are expected to soar as the end of the drive approaches. Establishment of the Notre Dame Charity Fund will be possible if the above goal is reached; this would replace collections among the students for various charities. Regardless of the proceeds from the book sales and Mardi Gras Carnival,’ $10,000 is intended for Foreign Student Relief.
Books may be returned or obtained
16
in the dining hall lobby at both the noon and evening meals daily for the remainder of the drive. An autographed football and nine ND blankets will be awarded to the top ten salesmen.
The Chevrolet convertible, which goes to the seller of the winning ticket on the Buick Riviera, is on display in the Drill Hall and, during basketball games, in the Fieldhouse. Because production of the 1950 Rivieras was not begun until Jan. 25, the grand prize has not yet arrived. When it does, however, the Riviera will be exhibited at various
January Graduates Hear Kennedy Speak
The January, 1950, commencement ceremonies held at the University on Jan. 29 at 2 p.m. saw 384 undergraduate and graduate students receive degrees. Of this total, 373 undergraduate degrees were conferred by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame.
The commencement address was delivered by the Honorable John F. Kennedy, member of the U. S. House of Representatives from Massachusetts. Mr. Kennedy described the vital need for “men and women of integrity and competence in the nation’s government” in his address.
At the Baccalaureate Mass held
January graduates file down the main steps, then to Sacred Heart Church to attend Baccalaureate Mass. Most Rev. Joseph E. Ritter, Archbishop of St. Louis, spoke.
The Scholastic
points on the campus until the drawing on the final night of the carnival.
At a brief meeting on Feb. 22, the Mardi Gras committee reviewed plans for the carnival, which will be held Feb. 20 and 21 in the Drill Hall.
The Mardi Gras committee consists of: Jim Garvin, general chairman; Bill Kirchner, raffle chairman, Ed Farrell, carnival chairman, assisted by Ed Noonan; Don Mahoney, business manager; Bill Anhut, tickets; Dick Brodeur, publicity; and Don Carbone, recording secretary.
graduation morning, the Most Rev. Joseph E. Ritter, Archbishop of St. Louis delivered' the sermon to the graduating students.
President Cavanaugh conferred honorary Doctor of Laws degrees upon w Archbishop Ritter, Mr. Kennedy, and Rear Admiral James L. Holloway, Jr., USN, Superintendent of, the United States Naval Academy, during the afternoon ceremonies.
On Saturday morning, Jan. 28, the graduating seniors made their last visit to Sacred Heart Church on the ND campus. A breakfast in the University dining halls for the January graduates followed the Mass.
That evening the Moreau Seminary choir gave a concert of Sacred Music J® and the University Administration held a reception for graduating seniors and their parents in the University lounge.

Student Council Names 26 for 'Who's Who'
Notre Dame's annual selections for Who's Who in American colleges. L. to r.: Tom Carroll, Mike Jacobs, Bill Anhut, Tom Farley, Jim Slattery, Ray Yanics, Kevin O'Shea, Joe Herrington, Verne Kelley, and Dick Cullen. Other men are shown in picture below.
In a meeting before the mid-semester vacation, the Student Council selected those Notre Dame students to be included in the lists of “Who’s Who Among Students in American Univer-_ sities and Colleges.”
The 26 candidates for “Who’s Who” were named for having the most votes among a number of students nominated for the honor. The publication compiles the names of those American students outstanding in leadership, studies and athletics.
Those representatives of this campus who will appear include: William Anhut, Secretary of the Student Council;
Thomas Carroll, Secretary of the Junior Class; John Connor, Secretary of the Senior Class and Co-Chairman of the January Senior- Ball; Richard Cullen, Student Council, Editor of the 1949 Dome, and Co-Promoter of the 1950 Bengal Bouts; Thomas Farley, Treasurer of the Senior Class and CoChairman of the January Senior Ball; Edward Farrell, President of the Blue Circle and Student Council member; William Fleming, track; Herman Hamilton, Rhodes Scholar; and Leon Hart, football co-captain.
Others named were: Joseph Herrington, Editor of the Scholastic and Uni
versity Theatre; Michael Jacobs, Vicepresident of the Junior Class and Student Council member; Thomas Keenan, Wranglers and Liturgy Club; Verne Kelley, Vice-president of the Senior Class, Student Council member and University Theatre; William Kirchner, President of the Student Council; Robert Lowry, Editor of the Juggler; David Matthews, Vice-president of the Student Council; Thomas Nelson, President of the Law Club; and John Noonan, Grand Knight of the local Knights of Columbus.
Also listed were: Kevin O’Shea, bas-(Continued on Page 33)
ND Who's Who: Ed Farrell, Jack Noonan, Jack Thornton, JackConnor, Russ Skall, Tom Nelson, Zeke Zuckowsky, Tom Keenan.
£ Feb. 10, 1950	17
SHE LOVES ME NOT? .
We’re sitting in 206 chewing the rag, discussing various and sundry topics the other night when in walks Dan. You know Dan — he’s from the East, not New York, but around there. Pretty nice guy who always has something to add to the conversation. Well, this night he not only adds something, he totals it up and takes it home. Valentines. Can you imagine that? Valentines.
Here’s the way it went. There were foui- of us in there, smoke kinda thick and the radio giving out with Rhapsody in Blue. We were kicking around the Cubs’ and Giant’s chances for the flag when Dan, who had been unusually quiet since his entrance, cuts in with something off the subject.
“Gee, I wish I was up in Chi now.” Just like that. I ask you, is that anything to say when everyone knows the
By AL LAPORTE season don’t start for a couple of months yet? “I wish I was up in Chi.” Totally unrelated. But we set him up with the usual leading question, “Why?” That does it. Off he goes. It seems there’s a little girl up in the Windy City who has, by her charm and/or convertible, attracted the fancy of our boy. Gene makes some crack about guys falling for Buicks but Dan goes right on, paying no attention to the ever-increasing flow of quips. He’s known this girl for about a year now. Met her someplace or other, I forget where. But anyway, he likes her. Likes her enough to shut off the chatter about baseball and switch over to those Valentines. Cupid replaces Durocher.
After we hear for the fifth time since the start of the semestei- how he trav
eled all over the half acre to see her during the break, Phil cuts in with another setup question. “What are you going to give her for Halloween, or whatever that day coming up is?” Dan looks a little hurt that we should be taking this so lightly, but he answers, again with that faraway look in his gleamy eyes, “A Valentine.”
Now there’s a profound, precise answer for you. A Valentine. What else would he give this doll on that day, especially since she’s in some Eastern girl’s seminary eight hundred miles away? Now isn’t that nice? We egg him on a little bit more. A card? Flowers? Candy? What?
He doesn’t answer right off. First he begins one of those hearts and flowers routines guaranteed to set any lonely hearts audience to tears. He extolls Valentine’s Day, saying that every guy A
18
The Scholastic
should remember his girl at least on one special day of the year. The thought’s nice, he says. We roar. Funny thing is the poor guy’s really serious. He gets madder as we laugh louder and some of us, like Phil, have very loud laughs. We roar more.
Dan’s about ready to throw something at Gene when he spies one of those Whitman ads on the back cover of a magazine. ® He mellows fast. We can see him get that dreamy look about him as he gazes at the chocolates. Valentines! This state of suspended activity lasts only a minute before Romeo takes up the attack and moves to the offensive with a few well placed barbs. He hits Phil with a crack about some guys not thinking enough of their gals to send them anything on Valentine’s Day. Phil pulls out an empty wallet, then points to the bookshelf. Even to Dan the answer is obvious.
The Ladida
Gene falls under fire next. Gene’s a Ladida, or words to that effect. Dan’s reading of Grimm’s Fairy Tales has provided him with this new word, which means bums who leave their women at home to fend for themselves until the heroes return. Now it’s Gene who’s looking for something to heave.
Through all this I’m having a great time. As yet I haven’t been cross examined by the prosecuting attorney, but this state of affairs comes to a screeching halt when our boy, flushed with his unexpected success over Gene, levels at me. What am I doing for Valentine’s Day? How do I know — thinking lovely thoughts, maybe. This retort infuriates our crusader who points his honey finger at me and yells something about me having no soul, no heart. I tell him as far as I know, having just finished a course in Philosophic Psych, that I do have a soul and I must have a heart be-
cause my blood flows as well as the next guy’s.
But Danny boy is not to be thwarted so easily. He comes back with some nasty remark about me not thinking enough of that girl in Westchester to remember her when I should. This is the same line that stopped Phil. I salve my conscience by saying I’m going to write her or something, but this is not enough for this fanatic. You’d think he was working on a commission basis for some greeting card concern the way he badgers me. I look about for some help
from the boys, but it’s slow in coming. They’re both looking at that candy ad.
Mail Arrives
At this point, like we had had a script, Springle trips in with the night mail. Phil’s got a letter. He reads it while I take a short breather and Dan goes back to daydreaming. Two minutes later Phil’s grabbed the ad and, looking like the kid who just hit his outside reading exam solidly, he asks how much a box of candy costs. The odds are beginning to change. It’s two and one, one wavering—Gene—with Dan and his disciple spreading the gospel to us non-believers.
In a few minutes more it’s three to one. Gene succumbs. He says he’s going to get something for his belle from St. Mary’s on the weekend. I’m all alone and I can see the handwriting on the wall. They force me to admit grudgingly that there is something nice about Valentine’s Day after all. It’s like pulling teeth but I’m beginning to give in. The clincher' comes when Springle tosses me a long awaited letter he fished out from the stack. It’s from Westchester. I beg off to scan it. I do more than that. All of a sudden she’s become mighty affectionate. Though I think there’s a Ubangi in the fuel supply somewhere, who am I to do anything which might cool this very pleasant ardor? The radio’s
now playing Como’s Prisoner of Love.
Dan picks up his coat. Phil and Gene, roommates, fight over another. I grab mine. We brush past Springle, a confirmed bachelor, and head for the stairs. There’s time to catch a show and take a look-see in some store windows before curfew. Dan’s still got that ad clutched in his fist. One track mind, that boy. Phil and Gene are murdering Toot, Toot, Tootsie. I’m scanning this letter again to make sure I didn’t read anything into it. Sure enough. It’s signed, “Be my Valentine”. Ain’t love grand? . . .
Debate Season Opens With Flurry of Talks
The Notre Dame debate team began its busy season last Monday with a debate with Kalamazoo College on the Notre Dame campus. This was followed up on Wednesday night when the talkers met Canisius College, of Buffalo, N. Y., in Washington Hall. Tonight, the varsity squad will participate in the National Invitational Tournament at Boston University.
Other scheduled debates for this month include a varsity exhibition debate next Wednesday at St. Mary’s College. Next Friday the veteran squabblers will travel to Wisconsin to participate in the Eau Claire State Teachers’ College invitational tournament. On Feb. 23, the team will take part in the invitational tournament at Nebraska University, and will return to the campus the next day to take on Our Lady of Cincinnati College in Washington hall at 7:30 p.m.
Professor Leonard F. Sommer, direc-toi- of Forensics, has announced that those who are interested in trying out for the team should contact him in room 328 of the Main Building. Said Mr. Sommer, “We are interested in anyone who is interested in debating.”
Up to this point in the season, the debaters have for the most part limited their program to exhibitions, the most recent including one at South Bend Catholic High school on Jan. 15, and another at the meeting of the St. Joseph Parent-Teacher Association on Jan. 17.
Free Smokes for Picking Score of Tuesday’s Game
The Chesterfield company is sponsoring a contest in connection with the Notre Dame-Loyola basketball game on Feb. 14.
The three students choosing the closest final score of the game will each receive a free carton of Chesterfield cigarettes.
All scores must be submitted to Room 118, Main Bldg., before Monday to be eligible for the score-picking contest.
19
Feb. 10, 1950
Eight Authoritative Speakers Present Veiws on Russia at Two-Day Symposium
Eight experts on the Soviet Union comprised the speakers’ ranks in the Russian Symposium conducted last Tuesday and Wednesday by the Com-•mittee on International Relations of the University of Notre Dame. The Scholastic presents here a number of excerpts from the Tuesday addresses.
Opening the symposium and morning speeches on Tuesday, Dr. Waldemar Gurian stated that the very existence of Soviet Russia threatens the entire world with a catastrophe. “Any weakening of vigilance and of the endeavors to build up and. maintain superior power, in comparison with that of Soviet Russia, must have fatal consequences,” he pointed out. “The decisive danger of Soviet Russia is not constituted by the USSR itself, but by the shortcomings and weaknesses of her adversaries.
“From the beginning, the Soviet regime counted not only upon division among its opponents, but also upon their greed and shortsightedness — weaknesses which would prevent them from recognizing the Soviet regime as the bearer of a political religion. They would regard it simply as a regime soon to become a normal one, a regime with which one can do business without vigilance and without realization of the necessity of turning away from an attitude of pure secularism, pragmatism, and organized activism.
must look to the origins of the regime itself, the nature of the political party which constitutes its core, the circumstances under which it came into power, and the conditions in which it has been operating since.
“Fundamentally, an all-embracing system of thought control is inherent in the very nature of a totalitarian state. It cannot recognize the autonomy of culture; neither can it acknowledge the existence of politically neutral spheres of human activity. Everything must be subordinated to the political aims of the regime.
“Thus the recent purge in the field of genetics, which came as a surprise to many outside observers, is but a logical outcome of the fundamental premises on which Soviet totalitarianism is based. It took the regime some time to develop the technique of an over-all thought control.
“The more vulnerable fields of intellectual activity, such as social sciences and philosophy, for instance, were affected from the outset while others could enjoy a kind of limited and precarious freedom until the machinery of control became finally established and perfected. Today, the process seems to have reached its completion.”
Opening the afternoon meeting of the symposium on Tuesday was Dr. Istvan
D. Kertesz of Yale. Dr. Kertesz de- V scribed the pattern of Soviet Russia’s Iron Curtain expansion. “The Soviet pattern in Eastern Europe has been: 1) isolation from the West; 2) political and economic integration towards Moscow; and at the same time, 3) elimination of all other tendencies toward integration.” All Eastern European countries were treated in the same manner after World War II, he continued.
Adding that freedom of movement is non-existent behind the Iron Curtain, Dr. Kertesz said, “escapes were made very difficult by drastic methods in Eastern European states. Barbed wires (Continued on Page 32)
JOIN THE FUN
2 for 1 Rates Now in Effect!
Bring a friend with you and cut the cost of lessons in half.
A picked staff of talented experts is ready to teach you the newest, smartest dance.
Call 2-3339 for appointment now.
Arthur Murray Studios
CALL 2-3339
120 East Wayne Street
“Soviet expansionism and world revolution have merged together. The Soviet leaders believe that the world situation permits and favors attempts to carry out expansionist policies, whereas from 1922 they concentrated first upon strengthening and perfecting their internal totalitarian system.
“Up to now they have tried to avoid open war, though they do try to keep the world crisis and insecurity and to exploit any possibility for advancement. They hope to introduce internal disintegrations in the camps of their opponents.”
Dr. Gurian finished his address by stating that “as long as Soviet Russia believes that she can expand successfully, she must first be convinced that her power is inferior, and that it is much more difficult than it was in the twenties and thirties when the USSR was not yet one of the two world powers.”
Following Dr. Gurian on the morning agenda, Dr. Michael Karpovitch of Harvard explained that to understand the Soviet system of thought control, “one
20
SPECIAL SALE OF BETTER SUITS AND COATS
It is our policy to have only one genuine sale a year to offer selected groups of PARKER-WINTERROWD merchandise from our stock, not special items bought for sale purposes. Here are some of the outstanding values. — Come in and see these fine, outstanding clothing values.
Coats and Topcoats
Were $95 to $125	Were $75 to $85	Were $50 to $60
$76.50	$56.50	$44.50
An exceptional selection of imported cassimcres, cheviots, hand-loomed imported tweeds. 18-oz. gabardines, made by Mt. Rock. Two special groups of suits in flannels, tweeds, sharkskins and unfinished worsteds.
75 or More Suits that
Were $75 to $85	Were $50 to $65	sold for $75 to $100
$56.50	$44.50	1-2 Price
PARKER - WINTERROWD, Inc.
115^4-117/2 North Main Street
Second. Floor—Upstairs
“SOUTH BEND’S OLDEST CUSTOM-TAILORS AND CLOTHIERS”
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Cagers Meet St. Louis Billikins Tomorrow Night e	___
Irish Stop Kentucky and Northwestern As Cagers Take Five More, Drop Two
Hickey's Team Shows 13-4 Season Record
By BILL DELANEY
Notre Danie, 58; DePaul, 53
After defeating Michigan State, the Irish quintet continued on their winning ways at the expense of DePaul. Sparked by Kevin O’Shea, Krause’s Kids gradually opened a margin too wide for the Demons to close completely, although they did threaten late in the second half when they came within a basket of a tie. The late rally was due mainly to the work of Sam Vukovich and Clem Pavilonis, but the Irish then went ahead by five points and stayed there until the final gun. The high man for the night was O’Shea with 21 points. Pavilonis had 14. Incidentally, DePaul got only 14 points in the whole first half.
Notre Dame, 73; John Carroll, 66
With four straight wins under- their
Jack Neumayr outstretches two Michigan Staters and prepares to tap in rebound as Leslie (left) watches. The Irish downed the Spartans, 71-65, for their seventh win.
Feb. 10, 1950
belts, the Irish took off on a two-game Eastern jaunt. The first game was the feature of a twin bill in the Cleveland Arena on Friday night, Jan. 13. The boys showed that they were not superstitious as they chalked up number five in a row and the sixth win of the season against four setbacks. In a sense, the John Carroll cagers beat themselves. While Notre Dame was sinking 21 of 29 free throws, the Streaks were muffing 18 out of a possible 30. O’Shea was high scorer again, this time with 18 points. Tom Doyle and Bob Tedesky had 16 and 15 for the Streaks. Notre Dame held a seven-point advantage at half time also, 38 to 31.
Canisius, 53; Notre Dame, 50
A disputed play gave Notre Dame (Continued on Page 24)
By FRANK RONNENBERG
It would appear that Notre Dame’s up and coming cagers are in the midst of the dethroned champions. Last Tuesday, in the Chicago Stadium, they beat the Loyola Ramblers 56-41, one of last year’s National Invitational Tournament finalists and tomorrow evening, in the Kiel Auditorium in St. Louis, it’s the Billikins of St. Louis University. Neither- has been as impressive this year as they were last year. The Ramblers have dropped 11 out of 20 while St. Louis has lost four out of 13.
Coach Tom Haggerty’s Loyola boys are returning to the Notre Dame schedule for the first time since 1924 and they picked a bad year to return. Handicapped by the loss of their two top players of last year, Gerry Nagel and All-American Jack Kerris, the Ramblers can’t seem to win for losing. After winning their first two warmups, they hit the meat of one of the toughest schedules in the country. In their two outings previous to last Tuesday’s game they were whipped by Holy Cross and St. Bonaventure.
Loyola is paced by four returning lettermen — Ben Bluitt, Ed Earle, Ed Dawson and Ralph Klaerich. Klaerich, a sharp shooting guard, is the leading scorer on the club while Ben Bluitt is one of the top defensive men in Loyola’s history. Ed Dawson, who was Jack Kerris’s understudy for three years, is reputed to be one of the best ball handling centers in the country.
Ed Hickey’s St. Louis Billikins are, by recent comparison, having a very poor season. Although minus the services of Ed Macaulay and Marv Schatz-man, the Billikins started out in fine fettle but on a recent Eastern tour they were dumped in succession by Canisius, Holy Cross, and L.I.U. There are, however, nine men returning from the team that last year gave Notre Dame two very smooth basketball lessons. Remember Joe Ossola, Lou Lehman and. Bob Schmidt? They are still around, and Ossola and Lehman have averaged
21
over ten points a game. To replace Macauley, Ed Hickey has been alternating Bill Gardinei- and Bob Koch. Both are tall and Gardiner, especially, is a very effective rebound man. The fifth starting post will probably go to sophomore Fred Kovar. St. Louis U. isn’t what she used to be, but they have lost only to the best and in their last outing they trounced the Illini by 20 points.
Notre Dame, meanwhile, has turned into a hot and cold proposition. After rolling over a highly favored Kentucky team, they turned around and were badly beaten by a Butler quintet they had previously walloped by 20 points. Then just last Saturday they turned on Marquette and rolled up their highest score of the year, winning 79-61. The game’s sparkplug of course was Kevin O’Shea, who did everything but keep score, but the big surprise of the evening was John Foley. Long John, who has had trouble getting untracked this year, potted six goals in as many attempts.
Irish Fencing Team Wins Three Matches
By JACK KEANE
While most of the sports attention around Notre Dame has been focused on its basketball scene, the Irish fencers have been methodically carving out lopsided victories over their opponents.
In the tip-off match of the season, Case Institute of Cleveland found that its bladesmen were no match for Herb Melton’s slashers as the invaders bowed to the Irish, 19-8. The Irish showed dominance in all three events with Captain Bob Schlosser in the sabre, Ralph Dixon and Jerry Dobyns in the epee and Nick Scalera in the foil giv-
Bagley battles Wildcats' Spivey for ball
OPEN LETTER
To the Notre Dame Student Body:
Right now there exists a crying need on the Notre Dame track team for talented men, especially in the field events. Next June’s graduation will leave the squad with very few men in the jumping, vaulting, and throwing events. Present-day freshmen and sophomores, who are willing to work now, will have a golden opportunity to pick up a monogram then.
There is a wealth of undeveloped talent on this campus, and those fellows who suspect they might have a little ability owe it to themselves and to Notre Dame to give it a try.
Any interested men are welcome to drop over to track practice any afternoon and talk it over with me. Time—4:00. Place—the fieldhouse.
Elvin R. “Doc” Handy Track Coach
ing the squad some veteran experience to draw upon.
A week later the Meltonmen made it seven out of twelve in the Spartan series as Michigan State became the second victim of the Irish by a 2J-7 count. Schlosser, Bosler and Dixon each swept their bouts in their respective events. An interesting sidelight of this match was the appearance of George Santelli, Olympic coach and former Columbia fencing master, who seemed very much impressed by the caliber of Mid-West fencing and, in particular, Notre Dame.
Next to feel the sting of the Schlosser slashers was the formidable University of Chicago crew which saw their series advantage over- Notre Dame shaded to seven to four with one tie as Notre Dame overwhelmed the south shore boys 20%-6%. This meet marked the first time that the Chicago fencers had ever been shut out in an event. The ND team not only shut them out in the foil but inflicted the worst defeat on Chicago in its fencing history.
In their last match, Notre Dame downed Illinois Tech 23-4 as Schlosser, Scalera, Parisi, Westrick and Walsh dominated their respective opponents.
Coach Herb Melton’s early optimism has probably changed to confidence in view of his fencers’ showing thus far. Although the loss of foilmen Lou Burns, and Mike DiCicco was severely felt, veterans Parisi and Scalera have competently filled the void. In epee, the spot left open by Jerry Dobyns’ January graduation is being amply filled by sophomores Ernie Franzgrote and Jay Conlon.
Of the six matches remaining, the Illinois match appears to be the biggest obstacle to an undefeated season which is definitely within the reach of Irish swordsmen.
Fleming Paces Irish At Spartan Relays
Tying a meet record in winning the " high hurdles and grabbing a close second in the lows, Bill Fleming did the expected to lead the Notre Dame track team in their season’s opener at the Michigan State Relays last Saturday. In the relay races, Notre Dame took two thirds and a fourth, while a few men gave some good performances in the individual events.
Johnny Helwig showed that his foot-ball performance hasn’t hurt his shot * putting form by heaving the metal ball 52’ 1%” to take second to Michigan’s famed Chuck Fonville. Joe Helwig took sixth with a heave of 47 feet.
Pole vaulter Jim Miller climbed over the bar at 13’ 4” to go into a six way tie for third. This height would have won almost any meet two years ago.
Ben Almaguer made his first college two mile start a good one by taking fifth in a fast race.
The mile relay squad of Bob Smith, who also took a fourth in the 300, Bob Boyne, Vai Muscato and Paul Schwet-schenau showed some promise as they toured their four quarters in 3:24.5 to finish fourth.
Featured by John Mohar’s fine half-mile leg, the distance medley squad that also included Paul Schwetschenau, Con Tetrault and Jim Kittell, came in third as also did the two mile squad made up of Joe Riley, Jim Bollas, George Gross and Kittell.	-
O Shea grabs rebound; Sauceda amazed
22
The Scholastic


SPLINTERS
from the Press Box by Jack Meaney
Moving In
Our old sports editor, Ralph Wright, lost his lease on the old press box and has moved on to new fields. Ralph is out Nebraska way, digging up human interest stories for the Fremont Guide and Tribune.
Before leaving, he gave us many important tips on running the press box. S' We’re only hoping that the change of tenants doesn’t in any way affect the fortunes of our grid team next fall.
They Came, They Saw . . .
The Kentucky Wildcats must be wondering how any team beats Notre Dame on its home floor. Two years ago, an all-conquering Kentucky five stopped off in South Bend, on its way to the National Championship, to take on the s Notre Dame quintet. This wasn’t just another championship team though. Many were calling it the greatest collegiate basketball team ever assembled. But the Wildcats were in for a bad night. The Irish students started screaming at the first whistle and the team could do nothing wrong. Notre Dame tagged Kentucky with one of its few losses that year, 64-55.
We wonder what Jim Line, Dale Barnstable and the other members of that Wildcat outfit were thinking when they took the floor against the Irish a couple of weeks ago. The scene was almost identical — a Kentucky team driving for the National Championship, a gym jam-packed with cheering Irish students. The game turned out to be identical, too, as the Notre Dame team played its best game of the year to drop the Bluegrass five.
They say Notre Dame can beat anyA body on its home court. You won’t have to convince the Wildcats. Since the series started back in 1929, the Irish have taken 11 out of 16 from Kentucky. And the boys from down South are still looking for their first win on the Fieldhouse hardwood. On the other hand, the Cats can point to a string of 78 games without defeat on their home court. There’s something for the Irish to shoot at should the record be intact when they travel to Louisville next - year.
F Feb. 10, 1950
There Were Some Changes Made
There are four coaches in the country who lost their jobs recently but they must be happy in at least one respect — they won’t have to get their teams ready to play Notre Dame again. At least, not in the next couple of years.
Mike Milligan ®f Pitt, which returns to the Irish schedule next fall after a year’s lapse, resigned over a contract dispute with university officials. George Sauer quit Navy because he was not given a free hand in choosing his assistants. Eddie Anderson, former Notre Dame player and captain, took his leave from Iowa but was promptly signed by a team he had coached previously, Holy Cross. Matty Bell, like a great many other coaches, decided that coaching a football team and being Director .of Athletics was too much work for one man. Matty pulled a switch on Frank Leahy. Instead of giving up the Director’s job and hanging on to the coaching position, he did just the opposite. Maybe he was thinking of the trip North the SMU team will have to make in ’51 to play Notre Dame.
There were other changes involving former Notre Dame men. Curly Lam-beau left the Green Bay Packers, which he founded 31 years ago, to become Head Coach of the Chicago Cardinals. Hugh Devore, wartime Irish mentor, parted company with St. Bonaventure and was given the task of lifting NYU out of the football doldrums.
So Soon ?
We see where Northwestern University’s baseball team got the jump on the majors by launching Spring practice a couple of weeks ago. They have a reason for getting an early start. Early in March, the Wildcat nine “leaves for its annual southern training trip.” Included in the itinerary are games in Mississippi, Florida and Louisiana.
Meanwhile, the NCAA District Four Champions, Notre Dame, are awaiting Jake Kline’s first call. The baseball schedule hasn’t been released yet, but we’ll bet the first game isn’t until some time in April. And we won’t be too surprised if the farthest South the
ND Handball Trophy Copped by Tomczyk
Hank Tomczyk won the handball tournament staged at the Rockne Memorial between Jan. 9 and Jan. 19 by defeating runner-up Vince Ste. Marie in the final game of a three-game championship match. Don Turk placed third in the tourney.
The championship match was a nip-and-tuck affair. Tomczyk took the first game, 21-17, but Ste. Marie evened the series with a 21-11 victory. The rubber game was the most hotly contested of the lot. Although he trailed 17-11 at one point, Tomczyk rallied to take the game, and the championship, by a 21-18 score.
Vince Ste. Marie
The interhall sports program got a shot in the arm with Mgr. Aaron Dyson’s announcement that a swimming meet will be staged at the Rock on Feb. 15 at 7:30 p.m. Each hall will be represented by a 15-man team. Each member of the winning team will receive a gold medal. Included in the list of events are a 200-yard crawl relay, 200-yard back crawl relay, 200-yard breast stroke, and a 400-yard obstacle relay. Zahm’s aquamen outclassed the field in last year’s meet.—Jim Brislin
Klinemen travel is to Bloomington.
The football and basketball teams draw large crowds wherever they play. Even the Band and Glee Club get Southern jaunts. We’re sure that Wake Forest and Pensacola Naval Air Station, to name a couple, would be only . too glad to have a Notre Dame nine pay them a visit.
25
i	Coach Doc Handy gives his trackmen some last-minute advice a s they prepare to meet Missouri here tomorrow. Left to right:
i	Ben Almaguer, Coach Handy, Jim Kelly, Jim Kitted, John Mohar, George Gross, Bob Feiler, Mgr. Hugh Reynolds, Con Tetrault.
i
Track Squad to Open Home Card Tomorrow
By TED PRAHINSKI
Tomorrow afternoon in the fieldhouse, Coach Doc Handy’s present edition of the track squad makes its home premiere in a meet with a tough University of Missouri squad.
Last spring, these two teams met outdoors and Notre Dame, after trailing all the way, swept the last event, the javelin, to win by a hair. Tomorrow’s indoor meet won’t have a javelin, but it will have the running events where Missouri scored heavily last year.
Bill Fleming’s first home appearance since his Sugar Bowl High Hurdles victory should bring out the Notre Dame fans. Only four men in track history have run faster than the Irish speedster did in that race over the holidays. Since then Fleming has appeared in several of the East’s big indoor meets and last Saturday he tied the Michigan State Relay meet high stick record. High jumping, and possibly sprinting, will be added to his hurdling chores tomorrow.
Missouri’s big gun is a miler by the name of Bill McGuire who has run the distance in 4:14 and can turn out a mean two-mile also. Jim Kittell and Lou Lepry will face him in the mile
while Ben Almaguer, Jim Kelly, Bob Feiler and Jerry Mahoney wijl take him on if he tries to double in the two.
Another Missouri strong point is the middle distances where Bob Schuster, Elmer Klein, Gil Phillips, Randy Vanet and Norman Cole have all done well against Notre Dame in the past. They figure to add tallies to the Mo. total in the sprints, quarter, half and the mile relay, but last Saturday’s showing of the Irish quarter-milers at Michigan State indicate they’ll have to fight for their points.
The high jump and the pole vault are two events in which Missouri will be handed points on a silver platter, since Notre Dame may not be able to field enough men to compete for the three places in these events. Jim Miller should be an easy winner in the pole vault, but Bill Fleming and Tommy Devine will face strong Missouri high jumping competition in Bob Gordon, who reportedly has done six feet five inches.
Cage Results
(Continued from Page 21)
its first loss in six starts. The Buffalo Memorial Stadium was the scene of one of the biggest rhubarbs of the season. With less than two minutes left in the game and Canisius ahead by the score of 51 to 48, Dan Bagley drove for the basket, shot and scored as a whistle
blew. Evidently Dan was fouled in the act of shooting and was to be given a foul shot and a chance to tie the score. But after much confusion between the refs and a long dispute, they called the foul on Bagley, took away the basket and practically gave the game to the Golden Griffins. Tom Muller made the free throw and the lead was increased to foui‘ points instead of the game being tied. O’Shea then stole the ball and made it 50 to 52 but the Irish couldn’t get their hands on the ball again. Notre Dame led at the intermission, 28 to 26, and the game was close all the way. Muller was high with 14 points. Strasser and O’Shea had 12 each.
Notre Dame, 71; Michigan State, 65
Home court and Michigan State. This combination brought another victory to the Krausemen. Due to semester exams, only a small crowd was on hand to see the Spartans’ sophomore center, Bob Carey, go on a scoring spree with nine field goals and ten free throws for 23 points. The Irish, however, took a 13 to 2 lead before Carey even got started and were never in danger. Notre Dame had a 12-point half-time advantage. Bagley and Dan Smith of State each had 18. Leslie and O’Shea followed closely with 17 and 16.
Notre Dame, 64; Kentucky, 51
Exams or not, the students turned out en masse to cheer and spur- on the
24
The Scholastic
A
locals to their best game of the season, to date, and a thrilling triumph over the Wildcats of Kentucky. The team as a whole never looked better and the individuals — O’Shea, Strasser, Bagley, Leslie, and Neumayr— were great. They steadily outplayed and outscored the highly rated Wildcats. Long Bill Spivey was as good as his press notices, but one man alone can’t win Oh against five together. Bill scored 27 points, mostly on his deadly hook shots, but O’Shea, Bagley, and Leslie poured the ball through the hoop for 18, 16, and 14 points. Jim Line was the only other Cat to reach double figures. Jim had 11.
Notre Daine, 71; Northwestern, 65
The third Irish victory in a row came before a packed house in the Chicago Stadium. The game was rather slow in the first half and the score at the end of the half was Notre Dame 30, Northwestern 24. Northwestern closed in early in the second period but in the last ten minutes the Irish put on their scoring shoes and went ahead' to stay. Ray Ragelis was the leading scorer with 27 points and also the only man to score ten or more for the Wildcats. Leslie had 15 for Notre Dame.
Mass Schedule for the Week of Feb. 11-17
Saturday, Feb. 11—Greater Double—White—The Apparition of the Blessed Virgin Mary at Lourdes; 2nd Coll. Against Persecutors; Tract; Credo; Pref. BVM.	’
Sunday, Feb. 12—Semi-double—1st Class—Violet—SEXAGESIMA SUNDAY; no Gloria; 2nd Coll. Comm, of Seven Holy Founders of the Servite Order; 3rd A Cunctis, 4th Against Persecutors; Credo; Pref. Trinity.
Monday, Feb. 13—Violet—Mass of preceding Sunday; without Gloria; 2nd Coll. A cunctis, 3rd For all the Faithful Departed, 4th Against Persecutors; Without Tract.
Tuesday, Feb. 14—Simple—Red—St. Valentine, Priest and Martyr; 2nd Coll. A cunctis, 3rd Against Persecutors; Tract.
Wednesday, Feb. 15—Simple—Red—SS. Faustinus and Jovita, Martyrs; 2nd Coll. A cunctis, 3rd Against Pers.; Tract.
Thursday, Feb. 16—Mass of preceding Sunday; without Gloria; 2nd.
Coll. A cunctis, 3rd Against Pers.; Without Tract.
Friday, Feb. 17—Mass of preceding Sunday; without Gloria; 2nd Coll. A cunctis, 3rd Against Pers.; without Tract.
NOTE: Missa Cantata in Our Lady Chapel every Saturday, 6:40 a.m.
Missa Recitata every weekday in Sorin Hall, 7 a.m.
Compline and Vespers—Dillon Hall daily, 5:20 p.m.
Vespers—Howard daily, 5:30 p.m.
Sext—Dillon daily, 12 noon.
WEEKLY MEETING OF “LITURGICAL LIFE” Friday, 6:30, Cavanaugh Hall Reading Room.
Vespers and Compline—Alumni Hall daily, 5:30.
Butler, 63; Notre Dame, 57
The return game with Butler did not end as happily as the one with Northwestern or Michigan State did. In fact, the result proved somewhat disastrous. The Bulldogs, always tough on their home court, caught the Irish at their apparent worst and beat them soundly. It was the sixth loss of the season. Crockett was high man for the Bulldogs with 18 points and O’Shea for the Irish with 14.
Notre Dame, 79; Marquette, 61
The Irish reached their highest point total of the season last Saturday night in the fieldhouse against Marquette. A game which was sloppy in parts also provided the spectators with a chance to see John Foley reach great heights in his basketball career. John, who played less than half the game, tossed in six field goals in as many attempts and one for one from the free throw line for a total of 13 points.
O’Shea was on top of the list of scorers with 17 and Melvin Peterson topped all other Hilltoppers with 15 points. Bagley, who also played a fine game, scored 16 points.
The season’s record for the Irish now stands at 10 wins and six losses.
It looks like the team might go undefeated in the remaining eight games.
	FG	FT	T	AVG.
O’Shea 		88	69	245	15.3
Leslie 			78	48	204	12.8
Bagley 			58	39	155	10.3
Strasser 			64	25	153	9.6
Foley ...„•		39	28	106 '	6.6
Neumayr 		30 ■		10	70	5.4
Bridge Tournament Will Open Tomorrow
Bridge addicts at Notre Dame have begun sharpening their skills in preparation for the 1950 International Intercollegiate Bridge tournament. Undergraduates from colleges and universities throughout the United Slates are eligible to compete for the annual championship title and trophy awarded by the Intercollegiate Bridge Tournament Committee.
Competing colleges are divided in eight zones. Together with the Universities of Indiana, Purdue, Wisconsin, Chicago and 18 other colleges and universities in the area, Notre Dame is in the Great Lakes zone.
In preliminary competition four pairs of contestants will be chosen at each tournament site to play a sei of 18 prepared hands. The results will then be returned to the committee and are scored by a recognized authority. The 16 highest ranking pairs (two from each of eight zones) will then play in a face-to-face final round on April 21 and 22 at the Blackstone htoel in Chicago.
Mr. John Turley, of the Latin department and local tournament director at Notre Dame, has announced that preliminary sessions will be held in the K. of C. clubrooms, in the basement of Walsh hall, tomorrow, Sunday and Feb. 18. The playing of the preliminary tournament round to select Notre Dame’s eight finalists, who will play the prepared hands on the following weekend, will be held on Sunday aft-erncon, Feb. 19.
“Everyone interested should get himself a partner,” urged Mr. Turley, “or else the local committee will find one for you. No special skill is necessary, and at the preliminary sessions we will acquaint the participants with the technique of playing tournament bridge.”
Last year marked the first official entry of Notre Dame in the annual tournament. Fourteen tables were in play during the preliminary elimination.
“All who are interested in participating in this year’s tournament should try to be present at the first session on Feb. 11,” advised Mr. Turley. Also watch the hall bulletin boards for further information.—Ken Stead
• Feb. 10, 1950
25
Names Make News
REV. THOMAS T. McAVOY, C.S.C., head of the Department of History, stated in the January Revietv of Politics that a “radical” educational plan proposed by a nineteenth century bishop might have assured a more harmonious bond between the Catholic Church and millions of non-Catholic Americans today if it had been adopted. He referred to Bishop Spalding, a social-minded member of rhe Catholic hierarchy, who viewed education as “a continuation of the process that began in the home and without which the school was destined to failure.” He coupled his pleas for social justice with the reminder that religion was an essential part of life and that “we may not exclude religion from ethics, nor ethics from economics.”
Modern psychiatry alone is not enough to cure all of men’s mental sicknesses said REV. FELIX D. DUFFY, C.S.C., assistant editor of The Ave Maria recently in a new book entitled Psychiatry and Asceticism. Father Duffy emphasizes the fact that psychiatric aid is essential in clear cases of recognized mental illnesses, but he draws a sharp distinction between the problems which require such treatment and problems which are more properly in the realm of spiritual counselors. Father Duffy’s book is now being published by the Herder Book Company of St. Louis.
Two musical Notre Dame students won a preliminary elimination contest for the Horace Heidt radio show in Elkhart, last week. Orchestra leader GENE HULL and band member and soloist BILL MACMILLAN were among several amateur artists from this region selected for further auditions by a representative of Horace Heidt, the band leader. The two Notre Darner’s soloed on the sax and marimba respectively. They will now go on to further eliminations, the ultimate goal being an appearance on Heidt’s national radio show.
DR. CHARLES PRICE, head of the Chemistry department, delivered the first annual lecture to the Honorary Chemistry Society of St. Michael’s College in Vermont last Monday. The title of his address was “Evaluation of the Influence of Electrical Effects on Organic Reactions.” Dr. Price recently announced his intention to run for the United States Senate in 1950 from the state of Indiana.
REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., president of the University, broadcast ovei' the coast-to-coast facilities of the National Broadcasting Company last month. He appeared on the weekly University of Chicago Round Table program. On the same program with Father Cavanaugh was Dr. Robert M. Hutchins, Chancellor of the University of Chicago. The topic discussed by the two educators was “Morals and Education.”
REV. PATRICK PEYTON, C. S. C., welcomed his cousin Bill Melody, who has come over from Ireland to study for the priesthood in Holy Cross Seminary at Notre Dame. Father Peyton and Bill are from the same town, Ballina in County Mayo.
Father Peyton's Cousin
Father Peyton is well known for his radio program, Family Theatre, aired weekly over MBS to promote devotion to the Family Rosary. Soon to be released is his new movie, The Road to Peace, starring Ann Blyth and Bing Crosby, that tells the story of the Rosary.
Two meetings of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Society for Metals were held in the Notre Dame Dining Hall during the last month. On January 25, four new Junior members from Notre Dame were introduced to the group, including WILLIAM F. CAREW, THOMAS K. ROACH, CORNELIUS P. SULLIVAN, and PAO ZUNG WU. At the second meeting, held last Wednesday Night, Dr. A. R. TROIANO, professor of Metallurgy at the Case Institute of Technology in Cleveland and former professor of Metallurgy at Notre Dame, gave the main address. His subject was “An Evaluation of Transformations in Steel.”
REV. ASZTRIK L. GABRIEL, 0. ® Praem., professor in the Mediaeval Institute at Notre Dame, has been elected to the Historical Committee of the Canons of Premontre and to the editorial board of the periodical Analecta Praemonstra-tensia. Father Gabriel is one of only two representatives from the United States on the committee, which conducts
research in the procedure of the centuries.
history and canonical twelfth and thirteenth Q
CHARLES M. URRUELA, who received his B.S.C. degree from the University of Notre Dame, has been transferred by the U. S. Foreign Service Department from Quito to Buenos Aires as Third Secretary and Vice Consul. He was assigned to Quito shortly after he was commissioned in the Foreign Service in 1947. Urruela comes from Englewood, N. J.
DAN PARISI, a Junior in the College of Commerce and resident of Badin Hall, has announced his engagement to Miss Ann Formato of Newark, N. J. No date has been set for the wedding.
JOE HERRINGTON and KEN THOREN, editors of the Scholastic, represented this magazine at an all-day press workshop at De Paul University in Chicago Sunday. The affair was sponsored by the Chicago Region of the NFCCS Press Commission.
Swiss Professor to Give Final Reilly Lecture Series
The Department of Chemistry announced last week that Professor V. Prelog, of the Eidg. Technische Hoeh-schule, Zurich, Switzerland, will present the final Peter C. Rielly lectures for " this year. Professor Prelog will be at Notre Dame for a six-week period beginning Feb. 12.
All lectures will be given in 213 Chemistry Hall. The complete list of lectures for the six weeks is as follows: Wednesday, Feb. 15, 8 p.m., and Friday, Feb. 17, 4 p.m.—“Ionone Derivatives From Natural Sources.” Wednesday, Feb. 22, 8 p.m., Thursday, Feb. 23, 11 a.m., Wednesday, March 1, 8 p.m., Friday March 3, 4 p.m., and Wednesday, March 8, 8 p.m.—“New Developments of Strychnos, Yohimbe, and Cinchona Alkaloid Chemistry.” These will be followed by seven lectures on “Ring Formation and Ring Properties,” scheduled for Friday, March 10, 4 p.m., Wednesday, March 15, 8 p.m., Friday, March 17, 4 p.m., Wednesday, March 22, 8 p.m., Friday, March 24, 4 p.m., Wednesday, March 29, 8 p.m., and Friday, March 31, 4 p.m.
26
The Scholastic
The Juggler; Winter Issue, Vol. 4, No. 2, 25 cents, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Winter issue of the Notre Dame Juggler, currently on the newsstands, k lives up to the promise of the well-received Fall issue. It features some excellent fiction, a well-done symposium, and a number of sensible and understandable poems. The Juggler, a magazine which for a while seemed to have set its literary aspirations too high for a college quarterly, has apparently de. cided to sacrifice esotericism for readability and a more popular appeal. This issue, following the example of the first issue of this school year, proves that this was a wise move. The Juggler again is a magazine that should be and can be read and enjoyed by the entire campus.
By far the best contribution to this issue of the magazine is D. K. Yerex’s short story Oh Young Comrades. Here is a piece of mature understanding and expression of the attitude of a young New Zealand boy toward the American troops that swarmed the island during the early part of the war. The child’s reaction to this wholesale intrusion of J his native land contains a wealth of interest and perception, written in a forthright and pleasing manner.
Another story dealing with the world of children — and dealing with it in an admirable manner — is David Wilmot’s Founder’s Day. Presented in a sympathetic and humorous vein, the story is a pleasant interlude in today’s war-dominated fiction. Richard Loesch’s War Work and Walter Clements’ The I Lonely are good studies of psychological states, but, while they constitute interesting reading, offer little more.
Rounding out the fiction section of the magazine are three sketches. Duty Section, by James Curran, is perhaps the best of the trio, but the other two are close behind in reader appeal.
The essay department of this issue opens with an excellent symposium on Anti-Semitism. In this collection of comments on a much-discussed problem, ' four authors present the Christian solution to discrimination against the Jewish race. The best of the four is The Virtuous Life, by Michael Meaney, but all four are worthwhile reading. An essay by the editor, Robert Lowry, .entitled Turgenev: The Model, is a fine evaluation of the last century Russian novelist and of his influence on the American authors Henry James and William Dean Howells.
In the lighter essay vein is an enter-
I
Feb. 10, 1950
taining and amusing chat by Lynn Marshall with would-be record collectors called Juggling the Records. With the exception of a slight trace of alienating cynicism at the beginning of the piece, it is an essay that all music lovers, novices and veterans, will greatly enjoy.
The only section of the magazine that seems reluctant to meet the reader half way is the poetry department. There are a number of good poems in this issue. But not enough. The “modern" vein is still too predominant for the general run of campus taste. One of the best poetry contributions is a trilogy by George D. Murphy, called Some Voices. These three poems have at least a superficial unity and dig deep into contrasting reality.
Although in the ‘ modern” vein, Joseph Ward’s Playboy is a well written and well-thought-out poem; its only fault is that it is a bit pretentious. Perspective, a poem by Earl Rauen, begins with a good theme and falters only toward the end. This poem, as well as The Gap, by George Labdik, is rich in charming language and imagery. Garrett Bolger’s Softly Summer completes the list of enjoyable poems, the rest either bordering on or wallowing in incomprehensibility and prosaism.
Again the departments are well done. Robert Casurella’s humorous sketch, The Statue in the Town, in the “Cap and Bells” section contrasts favorably with the less well done but still enjoyable Al’s Turn, by Robert Olmstead.
The issue closes with a number- of good reviews of such difficult books as Sean O’Faolain’s The Irish and Andre Gide’s The Fruits of the Earth.
The Juggler for Winter, 1950, deserves much credit for a fine job. A readable quarterly is an essential and integral part of campus life and this
WALKER’S
DOWNSTAIRS STORE	136 NORTH MICHIGAN
CORNER MICHIGAN AT COLFAX
You are cordially
invited to inspect our new Haberdashery Department.
MEDICAL SCHOOL EXAMS
Candidates for admission to recognized Medical Schools may take the Medical College Admission Test on Saturday, May 13, 1950, or on Monday, Nov. 6, 1950. at administrations to be held at more than 300 local centers throughout the country. The Association of American Medical Colleges recommends that candidates- for admission to classes starting in the fall of 1951 take the May test. Applications may be obtained from premedical advisers or the Educational Testing Service, Box 592, Princeton, N. J. Completed applications must reach the ETS office not later than April 29 or Oct. 23, respectively.
magazine provides just that. It is well worth a quarter in the enjoyment it will provide.—W. R. C.
Convention of Guidance Groups Open to Students
Students interested in the field of guidance and personnel work will have the opportunity of attending the national convention of the Council of Guidance and Personnel Associations, scheduled for March 27-30, in Atlantic City, N. J. A. Blair Knapp, national coordinator for the 1950 convention, said that the convention will enable students to meet and talk with guidance and personnel specialists who are tops in their field.	-
The Council serves as a coordinating agency for a large group of. constituent organizations concerned with all phases of guidance and personnel work. Any College student interested in attending the convention may apply to A. Blair Knapp, vice-president, Temple University, Philadelphia 22, Pa.
HOME OF SKIPPER SPORTSWEAR
Your Future
Dean Manion Indicts 'Mercy' Killing on Air
8: As a Newspaperman
By JACK WARD
“At the present time,” says Paul Neville, “the newspaper business is extremely crowded. Yet on the other-hand, if a man has what it takes to be a good reporter, he will have little trouble in getting ahead in the business. Whenever there is a vacancy in any newspaper, the editor will invariably scout around over small and large papers alike, for a replacement. In that way a $35 a week man in a small town may find himself with a larger paper and larger salary at any time. Of course, he has to be good. And if he is good, he will get ahead.
“A glance at Editor and Publisher magazine is enough to show the lack of demand for newspapermen. There are five times as many applicants for newspaper positions as there are openings. What with the current trend towards newspapers consolidating and attempting to cut down their expenses, it is easy to see why there are so few openings. Another recent trend in the field has been for experienced public relations men to switch to the newspaper business, as opposed to newspapermen switching to public relations, as was the case not long ago.
“Paradoxical as it may seem, newspapers today are almost demanding that their new employees be college graduates, and yet, by the same token, an A.B. degree means little more than nothing to the editor. It is fairly evident that the days of the boy coming out of grammar school and working his way up to the top is over as far as newspapers are concerned. A college degree is needed, but it is far from an assurance that a job can be landed.
“By all means the best place for the college graduate to begin his newspaper career is in a town of 50,000 to 100,000. Even if he could obtain a position on one of the larger papers, which is practically unheard of, he would gain a much more well rounded background with the smaller newspaper. In the small town, the reporter covers practically all types of beats, many of which.he knows little or nothing about. With experience gained in such work the newspaperman is much more familiar with the business than the man on the large paper, shunted off to one department. Of course, in most cases
28
the smaller the paper is, the smaller the salary, and the longer the hours. But it pays off in experience.
“Experience is the big point in the business. A college graduate is hardly well informed as to the making of a newspaper. And though there are exceptions — Bill Fay of Collier’s, a Notre Dame graduate, for example — it usually takes some time before an opportunity for real advancement is offered. From the point of remuneration, the wire service job is the best, though it, too, requires long, hard work.
“I would not say that Journalism is absolutely the best major for prospective newspapermen. Of course, a knowl-
Paul Neville, who was graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1942, has been connected with newspapers in Boston and Worcester. He is currently Sports Editor of the South Bend TRIBUNE.
edge of putting a paper together always helps, but a good background in American History is as good a background as anything.
“It is easy for the novice to tell if he is made for the newspaper- business. The long hours and low pay that he usually has before him give all the indication necessary as to whether or not he likes the work. And those who stick through the tough stages are always those who really like their jobs.
“As they say, the newspaper business does get in your blood; once it’s in, it’s hard to get out. Personal satisfaction plays a big part in keeping a newspaperman happy, busy though he may be. But it’s only fair to say that most newspapermen do have high blood pressure ...”
A Long Walk
One of the hardest jobs on campus, according to the men who know, is cleaning out the Notre Dame stadium after a football game. One of the men who wield the brooms has computed that there is approximately 30 miles of aisles in the 56,000 seat structure.
By JACK POWERS
Dean Clarence E. Manion, of the College of Law, over a coast-to-coast Mutual Broadcasting System hookup, pointed to “mercy killing” as “suicide” and declared that self-destruction is the “most horrible of all crimes against God.”
Appearing on the “Newsweek Rebuttal Program” on Jan. 15, Dean Manion replied to the statements of Dr. Charles F. Potter, President of the Euthanasia Society, who declared that “Euthanasia is not murder.”
‘Mercy Aforethought’
In his statement, Dr. Potter objected to those who were calling Dr. Herman N. Sander (Manchester, N. H., physi-sian who has been indicted on a first degree murder charge for the “mercy killing” of a critically ill patient) to murderers like John Dillinger. Dr. Potter said that “murder is killing with malice aforethought; voluntary Euthanasia is killing with mercy aforethought.”
Dean Manion, in his rebuttal, charged that “Voluntary Euthanasia is death by request and death by request is suicide.” 7 Euthanasia is thus like “helping one to pull his oto teeth in order that he may thus end the habit of biting his fingernails,” he continued. “By the same fomula one can end the pains of incurable disease by trading it for the eternal pains of Hell.”
‘Man Has God-Given Nature’
“Pushing its sentimental and emotional advocates to one side — Euthan- y asia makes sense only to those who do ; not believe in God and the eternal re- । sponsibility of the Human Soul,” Dean Manion said. “To such people what we : do for a dog in his incurable misery is the least we can do for Man. But the overwhelming majority of the American people will be completely unwilling to send American civilization to the dogs. These Americans will subscribe to the God-given nature of Man as „ that nature is described in the Declara- Wz tion of Independence.”
Dean Manion pointed out that for our forefathers the Natural Law was the basic protection of our life and liberty. He further charged that “What is proposed by the Euthanasia Society is not a matter of mercy or malice, but a matter of morals. If the incurably sick can be deprived of life unnaturally, then so may the insane, the aged, the unemployed and the undesirable.”
. 9)
The Scholastic
Diamond Expert To Talk Here Tuesday
A noted lecturer on diamonds, Mrs. Gladys Babson Hannaford, will speak in Washington Hall next Tuesday at 8 p.m. Brought here under the auspices of the concert and lecture series, Mrs. Hannaford “knows diamonds from the
Gladys Hannaford
Illustrating her lecture with screen pictures, she will tell the story of the diamond from the time that it is blasted out of rock in a South African mine until it becomes the finished gem that enhances the beauty of many jewelry pieces or the diamond tool that speeds industrial production.
An authority on the lore and traditions of diamonds, Mrs. Hannaford has innumerable stories about the diamond in romance, history and literature. Her exhibits contain accurate replicas of the Koh-i-noor and Hope diamonds, and other historic stones.
ever!
revolution!... in shirts! its soft collar won’t wrinkle



the new Van Heusen CENTURY shirt 1776!... 1789!... 1848!... now the revolution of 1950 in shirt neatness and comfort with America’s most talked-about shirt—the Van Heusen Century! Its collar, woven in one piece, has no linings or fused layers, like ordinary collars, to wrinkle. Keeps neat day and night... without starch or stays. Even fold line is woven in so it can’t fold wrong... feels handkerchief-soft on your neck. Truly an amazing shirt! Both qualities in two collar models, single or French cuffs.
Century 100 Regular, $3.95 Century 400 Regular, $4.95 Century 200 Widespread, $3.95 Century 500 Widespread, $4.95 A new shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size!
Van Heusen
Reg. T. 31.
"the world’s smartest”
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N.Y.
Air ROTC Plans Annual Ball Feb. 18
The military forces of the University of Notre Dame will put aside the serious business of training to be future officers and be “at ease” on Saturday p night, Feb. 18. This is the date of the third annual Air ROTC Military Ball.
The ball ■will be held at the Erskine Country Club from 9 to 12 midnight. Though it is planned primarily for members of the air ROTC, the officers and members of the Navy ROTC are cordially invited.
Philip Meaney and Bill Tormey are the co-chairmen of the ball. Musical arrangements have not yet been completed.
) Feb. 10, 1950
It’s Adlers for
Van Heusen
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
29
African Bishop Ci+es Need for Catholicism
The people of Africa must be converted to the Catholic faith to prevent the spread of Communism, the Most Rev. Joseph Kiwanuka, w.f., j.c.d., Bishop of Masaka Uganda, East Africa, declared on a visit to the campus last Jan. 10.
Bishop Kiwanuka, the only Roman Catholic Negro Bishop in the world, is in this country to raise funds for a seminary in his native land. He pointed out that his diocese has only one temporary seminary now, and this is being slowly destroyed by termites. At the present time, only fifty priests assist the Bishop in his diocese, and ten times that number are needed. Some parishes, he explained, have as many as 20,000 members and the smallest parish consists of 8,000.
World War II has resulted in a rapid raising of the standards of living in Masaka Uganda, according to Bishop
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger Nail Test
IF YOUR friends have been slipping you hunks of cheese, maybe your hair looks mousey. So better take the bait, brother rat, and scurry out for some Wildroot Cream-Oil. It’s the popular non-alcoholic hair tonic containing soothing Lanolin. Wildroot Cream-Oil grooms your hair neatly and naturally without that plastered-down look. Relieves annoying dryness and removes loose, ugly dandruff. Helps you pass the Finger Nail Test! Get a tube or bottle of Wildroot Cream-Oil today at any drug or toilet goods counter. And always ask your barber for a professional application. Warning: Your roommate will probably ferret away your Wildroot Cream-Oil. Buy the rodent some of his own!
afc of327 Burroughs Drive, Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
EMMKMua
WlLDHOOT
Kiwanuka. He said, in fact, that these rapid changes will prove detrimental to his people.
Bishop Kiwanuka was consecrated in 1939 with 11 other priests of different nationalities. He thus became the first Negro Catholic Bishop since the fifth century.
Concert Band to Play In Indianapolis Sunday
The Notre Dame concert band travels to Indianapolis this Sunday to present an afternoon concert at Marion College. The concert, to be held in the Marion College auditorium, will feature two soloists — Andrew Fairlie, bassoon, and Bill MacMillan, marimba.
The concert will be open to the public. A dinner for the some 55 members of the concert band has been planned for after the concert. The group will leave campus on Sunday morning and return late Sunday night.
In elections held recently by the band,
Bill MacMillan was elected president, Br) succeeding Gary Bolger. The other officers named were Dave O’Leary, vicepresident; Jim Doyle, secretary, and Jack McVeigh, social chairman.
CBS Sponsors TV Script Competition in Colleges
Ever try writing a television script? There’s money in it. This week Columbia Broadcasting Company and World Video, Inc., jointly announced a nationwide collegiate writing competition, designed to encourage the emergence of new television writers.
The competition, known as the CBS Awards, is open to all students in American colleges and universities. One prize will be awarded in March, April, May and June. The writer will win §500 if his prize-winning script is of one-hour performance length, or §250 if it is a half-hour script.
Judging the selections will be Charles M. Underhill, Director of CBS Television Programs; John Steinbeck, author; and Donald Davis, dramatist, screen writer and producer’ of TV programs.
Contest rules and the required blanks may be obtained by writing to Director, CBS Awards, 15 East 47th Street, New-York 17, New York.
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised
Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
Corsages
FLOWERS
■ for
All Occasions
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
South Bend Floral
114 S. Michigan Phone 3-8227
30
The Scholastic
® Twelve New Faculty Members Appointed
Rev. Howard W. Kenna, c.s.c., VicePresident in charge of academic affairs, announced the addition of 12 new faculty members last Saturday, Feb. 4.
Among those added is Dr. Josef Pieper, philosopher and sociologist. He © is rated as one of the outstanding European authorities on Thomistic philosophy. Dr. Pieper was recently associated with the University of Muenster and the Pedagogical Institute of Essen, Germany. He also aided the American military government last summer in courses at the free university of Berlin.
Pieper was brought to this country through the efforts of the Notre Dame Committee on International Relations O and will teach graduate courses in philosophy and political sciences besides his work with the committee.
Four of the other new men on the faculty are scheduled to teach in the College of Law. Roger P. Peters, associate editor of the publication Federal Tax Coordinator, and a lawyer in Washington, D. C., for the last eight years, joins the staff with a full professorship.
The other new law teachers, Robert F. Burns, Eugene C. Knoblock and Louis E. Jackson, will serve as parttime instructors. All three currently practice in South Bend. Mr. Knoblock and Mr. Jackson are graduates of Notre Dame’s law school. The former graduated in 1927 and the latter in 1934.
Three new faculty members are in the College of Engineering. They are Diogenes J. Angelakos, assistant professor of Electrical Engineering; Bernard D. Cullity, assistant professor of Metallurgy; and John C. Treacy, instructor
Summer Courses
UNIVERSITY of MADRID
Study and Travel
A rare opportunity to enjoy memorable experiences in learning and living! For students, teachers, others yet to discover fascinating, historical Spain. Courses include Spanish language, art and culture. Interesting recreational program included.
For details, write now to Spanish Student Tours 500 Fifth Ave., New York 18. N. Y.
in Chemical Engineering.
Profs. Angelakos and Treacy are graduates of Notre Dame. Dr. Cullity, an atomic research worker on the Manhattan project, also served as scientific liaison for the United States office of naval research in 1948-49.
William P. Clancy, who has joined the arts and letters faculty as an instructor in English, is a former education adviser to the U. S. armed forces in England and Germany. Thomas W. Tearney, who comes to the university as
Philip
: PROVE TO YOURSELF 4
no cigarette hangover
r HERE'S J All YOU L DO!
In just a few Seconds you con prove PHILIP MORRIS
IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING than the brand you’re now smoking I
1.. light up a PHILIP MORRIS
THEN, just take a puff—DON’T INHALE— and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come'through your nose. Easy, isn’t it? And NOW...
2..lightupyourpresentbrand
Do exactly the same thing—DON’T INHALE Notice that bite, that sting? Now you know why you should be smoking PHILIP MORRIS!
miP MORRIS
a part-time instructor in sociology, is another Notre Dame alumnus. During World War II he served as the executive officer of a submarine in the Pacific fleet.
A former professor at the school of the Art Institute of Chicago, Bernard W. Cullen, has been named as a lecturer in the Department of Journalism. Another journalism lecturer, John A. Scott, a 1938 graduate in the arts and letters college, completes the list for the spring semester.—Don Smith

0 Feb. 10, 1950
31
Notre Dame contingent meets the guest-master at Trappist Monastery in Kentucky. Thirty-seven students took the YCS-sponsored trip to Gethsemani during vacation.
Gethsemani Guests (Continued from Page 15) visited the Blessed Sacrament and made the Stations of the Cross. Vespers at 4:30 were followed by supper and our last conference. Here we received the Papal Blessing and had our religious articles blessed. We retired at 8:30 after Compline and Salve Regina.
Tuesday, Jan. 31
Today we rose at 2 a.m. and attended Lauds and Matins. This activity was not on the regular retreat schedule. At 5:20 a.m. we had our last meditation conducted by Father Andrew who, we found out, had attended the Notre Dame Graduate School for one year.
After Mass at 6 we ate breakfast, leaving by bus for Notre Dame at approximately 8 a.m. Our return trip took us through Indianapolis for a chow stop and then on to the campus by 4:30 that afternoon. The Retreat was over. . . .
Symposium Speeches
(Continued from Page 32)
were implanted on the western boundaries, where all vegetation had been removed. This system was reported further being reinforced by concrete pillboxes, huge floodlights and rocket flares with trip wires.”
Featured on the Tuesday afternoon program with Dr. Kertesz was Dr. Philip E. Mosely, of Columbia University’s Russian Institute, who ridiculed the Soviet claim that Communism is the
only system which eliminates national conflicts. He stated that the Soviet has “not hesitated to use national rivalries to strengthen its grip.” '
Documenting his statement, Dr. Mosely told how support of Yugoslav, Albanian and Bulgarian claims to Greek territory served for several years to bind these governments to Soviet support. “With the political split between the Yugoslav and Soviet politburos, the Macedonian problem has again become a means of pitting Bulgaria against Yugoslavia. Today, their rivalry is openly used to mobilize Bulgarian support against Marshal Tito in an effort to overthrow his dissident regime.
“The Soviet leaders, of course, did
After Graduation, what will YOU do?
EXECUTIVE CAREERS in RETAILING
reward Trained Men and Women
Interesting, responsible positions in merchandising, advertising, fashion, management, personnel, or teaching await men and women graduates of the foremost School of Retailing. A one-year graduate program leading to Master’s degree combines practical instruction, market contacts, and supervised work experience — with pay — in leading New York stores. Special programs for bachelor’s degree candidates and for non-degree students.
Request Bulletin C-57
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF RETAILING
100 Washington Square, New York 3, N. Y.
not invent the nationality conflicts which permeate the satellite area. But they have been prompt and ruthless in exploiting these conflicts for the enhancement of their own power.
Closing out the first day of the symposium was Dr. Vladimir Petrov of Yale, who spent six years as a political prisoner working in the gold mines of Siberia. Dr. Petrov said that an internal revolution in Russia could never break the grip of Communist terrorism without foreign support.
Russia’s citizens, he said, “do not dare fight against the Soviet system, despite the fact that it is an object of hatred by the entire population. The Soviet regime bases its rule entirely on fear and the well organized minority will remain in power until some outside force can shake it.”
Dr. Petrov traced the long record of purges which have taken place since the Revolution in Russia, pointing out that such mass persecutions have generally served two purposes in the Lenin-Stalin regimes. They have assured terrified obedience from the populace, and they have provided a constant supply of unpaid labor for Russia’s recurring Five-Year Plans.
Who's Who
(Continued from Page 17) ketball captain; William Roemer, Bengal Bouts; Russ Skall, Treasurer of the Student Council; James Slattery, Deputy Grand Knight of the K.C. and baseball manager, John Thornton, President of the Senior Class and Student Council member; Robert Williams, football; Raymond Yanics, President of the Junior Class and Student Council member; and Zeke Zuckowsky, Mayor of Vet-ville during the past semester.
32
The Scholastic 9
Language Department Presents Film Series
A series of foreign-made films will be again presented by the Department of Modern Languages this semester. Seven films will be offered, the primary purpose being to provide the students of modern languages with the opportunity of receiving additional aural training and of obtaining a visual insight into the cultures of the people.
Each of the films presented will have the sound track in a foreign language, with superimposed subtitles in English. All showings will be in the Engineering Auditorium starting at 7:30 with the single exception of Feb. 22, when there will be a special matinee at 2 p.m. in addition to the evening show.
Tickets good for the entire series will be sold at 50 cents each. Admission to single shows will be 10 cents each, except for the showing of Don Quixote, for which the price will be 25 cents. Tickets are available to all who are interested and may be obtained at 231 Main Building or at the Engineering Auditorium on the nights that films are being shown. The complete program includes:
Feb. 21-22, Don Quixote. This is the highlight of the series. Billed as a million-dollar production, it features Rafael Rivelles in the role of Don Quixote and Juan Calvo as Sancho Panza. There will be three showings: Feb. 21 at 7:30 p.m. and Feb. 22 at 2 and 7:30 p.m.
March 7, Revenge (Italian, 64 min.). In this film, the great Anna Magnani plays the role of a widow bent on revenge for the death of her son. About to kill the children of the former Fascist leader, she is swayed by the pleadings of the children and her revenge turns to compassion and a determination to face the future.
March 21, Maria Chapdelaine (French, 77 min.). Jean Gabin and Madelaine Renaud star in this stirring and beautiful screen edition of Louis Hemon’s well-known novel of French-Canadian life.
April 3, Dona Barbara (Spanish, 137 min.). Featuring Maria Felix and Juan Soler, this is a strong screen version of one of the great Spanish-American novels, written by Romulo Gallegos, recent president of Venezuela.
April 19, Grand Illusion (French, 90 min.). Though produced in 1938, this film retains its interest and power because of its cast, direction and exciting drama. The story is built around a group of French prisoners in a German camp during the First World War. The cast includes Eric von Stroheim, Jean
Feb. 10, 1950
Gabin, Pierre Fresnay and Dita Parlo.
May 3, Professor, My Son (Italian, 90 min.). An appalling and touching story of an old school porter and his son who eventually returns to the school as a professor, with unhappy consequences. Aldo Fabrizi plays the lead.
May 19, Spring (Russian, 106 min.). A pleasing comedy about a Russian movie director who sets out to film the life of a lady scientist who has no use for the cinema.
Dance Honors Neptune
Neptunus Rex
Notre Dame’s military men joined the NROTC at their annual ball last month in the Drill Hall. The theme of the dance was the “Royal Court of Neptune.” Mermaids, dolphins and Neptune himself highlighted the decorations.
Senior midshipmen were honored during the evening activities. With the underclassmen and their dates forming an honor guard, each senior and his date was announced and marched past the guard.
Press Club Film Society Announces Spring Series
The Press Club of the Department of Journalism will again sponsor its Film Society during the Spring semester.
Titles for this year’s program were announced this week. They are: Feb. 17, Camille, with Greta Garbo; Feb. 24, The Great Man Votes, with John Barrymore; March 3, The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, with Rudolph Valentino; March 10, Stagecoach with John Wayne; March 17, Million Dollar Legs with W. C. Fields, Jack Oakie and Hugh Herbert; March 24, Mr. Deeds Goes to Town, with James Stewart,
and March 31 a documentary program with Moana, Night Mail and The Plough That Broke the Plains.
Those interested in joining the Film Society should send §1.00 and their name and address to the Department of Journalism, Notre Dame, Indiana. First come, first served.
All programs will be held at 7:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium.
PHOTO CREDITS
Photo on page 9 by Fitzgerald; 10, McLaughlin; 12, Fitzgerald; 13, Brickson; 17, McLaughlin; 18 and 19, Degnan; 21, Kinville; 22, Kin-ville; 24, Murphy; 33, Brickson; 35, Brickson.
*3,.W$ EUROPE
MEXICO ALASKA THE IUEST
SITA, 141 W. Jackson. Chicago, III.
»STUDENTS INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL ASSOCIATION • Santo la'SO'a CoHtom.a • ioc«
Look, Fellas
We can offer you
Good Food
Good Service
and a tasty, varied menu at prices you will appreciate. Stop in soon.
Now Open on Sundays
JOE NABICHT'S
Chicken in the Hough
213 No. Main St.
Phone 3-1215
33

Roughly Speaking
by Ken Zhoren	<&S
Swing to Beech-Nut... Beech-Nut Gum!
Swing on down and getcha some!
Swing to the taste that lasts so long!
Swing to Beech-Nut... come along!
Y’ can’t beat Beech-Nut Gum for quality ‘n’ refreshment!
Swing to Beech-Nut... Beech-Nut Gum!
Nous Regrettons
For the past several years the magazine frenchily entitled Mademoiselle has been sponsoring a short story contest. The two winning stories are published and the authors receive 500 samoleons each. Not bad; not bad, at all.
To continue: each year a letter comes to the Scholastic announcing this contest. But each year we are forced to write Mademoiselle, telling her we can’t possibly oblige. The reason — one clause in the eligibility rules reads: women undergraduates only!
We have tried to convince the unmarried Mademoiselle that our campus is void of such corporeals. But our words fall on deaf ears. With the regularity of a ground hog, the announcement arrives each winter. Someday, some bright male hereabouts is going to submit a story, hiding his name behind a pseudonym. Imagine how the press release would read if the jokester won.
Mlle. Glokenschpiel, the winner, is a Senior at the University of Notre Dame—some unknown finishing school in the midwest. Mlle. Glokenschpiel is a major in physical education. She is 6’4” and is a lithe 250 pounds. She has previously claimed athletic recognition for being the only all-American croquet player to come from Turtle Creek, Pennsylvania. If she does not make writing her career then she will accept the Pittsburgh Pirates’ $100,000 offer to play center field.
Wet Paint
While most of us were recuperating from the exams, far from these surroundings, some people were busy at work wielding paintbrushes.
The new coat of green paint in the Huddle peps the old place up and even does the impossible — it makes it look clean. Now if only something could be done with the cheesebox’s exterior.
If we’re not mistaken a new covering of gilt has been applied to the Baroque altar in Our Lady’s Chapel in the Main Church. It makes it more beautiful than ever.
Speaka Da English
An encouraging sign in film-fare has recently been noted in the nearby cities. Namely, it is the upswing in foreign presentations. Last Fall we were offered The Red Shoes and Hamlet. During the
past few weeks there have been Paisan and Monsieur Vincent. And now on tap there are The Fallen Idol and Quartet.
We are not of the school that thinks so long as a film comes across the Atlantic it is necessarily great. We do think, however, that since the foreign films are carefully selected for American consumption, we do receive most of their best productions.
Take The Fallen Idol, for an example. Two other NDers and ourselves saw this picture during Christmas in New York. It is far from being a great motion picture — but, it is good; very good. What lifts it out of the Hollywood rut of mediocrity is that it is adult entertainment from start to finish. The story is fine and the acting and direction is even better. We see by the Entertainment column that it is expected in South Bend this coming week. If you get the chance, see it!
Give a Little
The third Student Relief Mardi Gras is upon us. Added to this year’s pre-Lenten festivities is next Friday night’s dance at the Palais. Also something new this year is that part of the proceeds from these functions is going to stay right here on the campus.
For that reason, alone, there should be extra incentive to see that the Mardi Gras dance and carnival both go way over the top. Many students have been working for several months on these activities. The final success or failure of them, however, depends upon the entire student body.
Notre Dame has gained nationwide recognition for its past two Mardi Gras. Let’s show the other Catholic colleges throughout the country that we can do it again.
HELP WANTED
All students interested in working on the SCHOLASTIC and who have not already done so, are requested to attend next week’s news meeting. The meeting will be held Wednesday night at 6:30 in Room 102 in the Main Building. Photographers, sports writers, feature writers, news writers, cartoonists — all are invited to attend.
0
34
The Scholastic
Audio Visual Film Showings Cover Variety of Subjects
Educational film showings will be resumed this semester with a promising array of motion pictures including everything from science to sports. The new series will begin on Feb. 14 and will be presented on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday at 12:30 p.m. All students are welcome to see the films which are presented in the Audio-Visual Center in the Main Building.
lucsday, Feb. 14
Unseen Worlds (10 minutes). The electron microscope is a miraculous instrument, dedicated to the progress of mankind. Film explains in simple terms how this instrument was devised to help make the world a better place in which to live.
Command Performance (20 minutes). An interesting and thorough description of the recording and processing of RCA Victor records. Studio recording scenes, plating processes, mixing machines and presses all are shown in actual operation. Excellent from chemistry angle.
Wednesday, Feb. 15
Two-Way Street (10 minutes). This film describes and illustrates the methods and problems of world trade.
Szving King (20 minutes). Produced by Bert Dunne, this film featuring Ted Williams, was photographed at Fenway Park with all the reality of major league baseball. Ted Williams is backed by a magnificent cast . . . Dave Ferris, Joe Cronin, Tex Hughson, Rudy York, Bobby Doerr, Johnny Pesky, Dominic Di Maggio and Wally Moses.
Thursday, Feb. 16
Crystal Clear (color) 10 minutes. Excellent technicolor scenes from laboratories of Western Electric explain how the remarkable artificial quartz known <■ as “E.D.T.” (the crystal which generates the electricity used in the translating of sounds into actual voices) is produced, by a chemical process of growing larger and larger crystals from “seed” crystals. Produced in 1948.
Clean Waters (color) 20 minutes. Illustrates the importance of our natural water, the dangers of pollution to our public health, our city water supply systems, our fish and wild life and our recreation facilities. Proper sewage treatment is .explained by animation.
Tuesday, Feb. 21
Bottle of Magic (14 minutes). Traces the development of the electron tube from the pioneering efforts of scientists during the .early 20th Century and dramatizes its importance to cur civilization in providing communications for police duty for safer travel and for entertainment through its use on the telephone, radio and television radar, aviation, radio, mobile radio and public address systems.
Electrons on Parade (18 minutes). The miracle of radio broadcasting is revealed in this film. A journey behind the scenes with the skilled artisans who make the tubes that receive, amplify and broadcast the latest news, the finest entertainment and the great music of the world.
Thursday, Feb. 23
Finding People for Products (10 minutes). This film briefly tells the story
of city marketing — what people buy and what makes them buy it.
A Tale in a Teacup (20 minutes). This film was made in England and India and adapted for American audiences. Traces important role of tea in world history and then shows how it is grown, picked, manufactured, and prepared for export.
Dick Herle to Lead Cheerleader Squad
Next September when cheerleaders yell “Spell it out!” the Notre Dame student body may be able to supplement their lung-pow’er with visual aids. Semaphore flags for the student section are included in plans for next season’s football games, Dick Herrle, newly elected head cheerleader, announced this week.
Herrle, Badin hall junior from Brooklyn, N. Y., and Student Council • member Frank Regan have been appointed by the Council to work out a “cheerleader” Constitution, whereby a seven or eight-man cheerleader squad will be able to operate at top efficiency.
Trials are planned for the near future to add three or four men to the squad to bring it up to its proposed strength. The squad is now composed of Herrle, Jack McGlinn, Jack Wenning, Mike Perino, and Ralph Holmes Holmes is the only one scheduled to graduate this June.
Closer cooperation between the cheerleaders and the band is also on Herrle’s hopeful list. And Shannon View Mike II — replacement for the prodigal Clashmore Mike — is already working out and eating at the training table.
Engineers Cavort at 'Beginning of END'
Some party-goers sit out a dance while the slip-stick slickers Welcomers, replete with handle-bar mustachios, greet an engi-try to forget their engineering studies for just a few hours, neer and his date at the annual Engineers' Ball in the Palais.
Feb. 10, 1950	35
MISS
STORKC^i
Starring in "JOLSON SINGS AGAIN" A Sidney Buchman Production A Columbia Technicolor Production

pS‘?aSmer^-
TO B ACC	r tobaccos...
"Chesterfield buys.	market.
the highest	ond
' CheT teen satisfying-/ s 90 years.	v
The Best Cigarette for YOU to Smoke
Copyright 1950, Liggett & Myrs Toiacco Co.