SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE

........
BIND




ba sOBilB»sas^
CEEE&RATES 100 YEARS
:W
Scholastic is accepting applications for Systems Manager
Some experience with any/all of the following is preferred: Macintosh computers, Aldus Pagemaker, Microsoft Word and the MacServe network system.
Applications are available in the Scholastic office, 303 LaFortune.
If you have already applied for this position, there is no need to reapply, all applications are still under consideration.
Scholastic is always seeking more writers, artists and photographers. If you are interested, please come to our informational meeting on Tuesday, March 26 at 7:30 p.m. in the Montgomery Theater on the first floor of LaFortune.
1990 Scholastic Football Review Issues
can be picked up by off-campus students at 303 LaFortune Hall from 3-5 on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday
Extra copies of this issue are available for $5.00 at the same times
♦PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS
♦FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN
♦IN ROOM MOVIES/VCR (over 50 titles)
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
SCHOLASTIC!
NOTRE PAME’S STUDENT MA^
COVER
13
Humility, Hard Work, and Home Runs
Frank Jacobs has overcome adversity through hard work and a great attitude -- and some tremendous natural talent
16
The Men of the Diamond
The Notre Dame men's baseball team enters its centennial season poised and ready for a serious run at the NCAA Tournament
MARCH 7,1991
ENTERTAINMENT
6
Music
H.P. Zinker Sting The Waterboys
8
Movies Oscar Previews
CAMPUS LIFE
10
Campus Ministry at Notre Dame
From choir to Bible study, Campus Ministry is Notre Dame's spiritual resource
SPORTS
18
Diamonds are a Girl's Best Friend
After three seasons, Notre Dame softball is ready for a full-fledged varsity schedule
WEEKLY DEPARTMENTS
2 Editorial
3
On Other Campuses
4
Week In Distortion
5
Behavior Modification
20
Final Word
ESESSS
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Be iii
Mind and Body
Vol. 132, No. 17 March 7, 1991
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Michael C. Wieber
MANAGING EDITOR
Derik T. Weldon
EXECUTIVE EDITOR
Ian Mitchell
NEWS EDITOR
Traci Taghon
SPORTS EDITOR
Jon Pau! Potts
CAMPUS LIFE EDITOR
Kristine DeGange
ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR/
DEPARTMENTS EDITOR
Dave Holsinger
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR
Mari Okuda
PHOTOGRAPHY ASSISTANT
Paul Webb
COPY EDITOR
Dave Raedy
LAYOUT/SYSTEMS MANAGER
Patricia Doyle
ADVERTISING MANAGER
Tony Porcelli
BUSINESS MANAGER
Scott Ecker
GRAPHIC ARTS MANAGER
Jeanne Naylor
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame,INt46S56andprmledaiThePapas,Inc.fMUfindfIN46M2. The subscription rate is $25.00/year and back issues are available at $125/ copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and donot necessarily represent the opinions of theentire editorial boardofScholastic or of the University of Not re Dame, itsadministral ion, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsoUcitied materials become the property of Scholc&tic.
Copyright 1991 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
2
A s the year comes to an end, we’d like to thank those of you who have helped make the past four years interesting for us at Scholastic. In our memory, we leave you, the students, as executors of our last wills and testaments.
To “King” Rob Pasin, we give the guts to know when to push his own political agenda and when to back down when he’s dead wrong. But, what can we expect of a three-year monarch?
To The Observer, we give you a sports columnist whose writing doesn’t read like a sports public relations guide.
To student affairs, we leave an open mind and the realization that parietals do not inhibit students from having sex and keeping alcohol behind closed doors only increases the number of closet alcoholics on campus.
To student activities, we give the understanding that being exposed to pictures of hot tubs and ads for band at local bars also does not lead to increased sex and drinking problems.
To senior bar, we leave more pizza ovens so that it doesn’t take45 minutes to get lunch on Friday and a staff from more than one social clique.
To Theodore’s, why not let SUFR have Theodore’s? No one else uses it.
To DART, chin up little camper. Itcan’tbe all that bad.
To the bookstore, we leave a T-shirt annex so that students can actually get school
supplies without having to fight through Irish-crazy visitors on any given day of the week.
To security, we leave a map of the campus with dangerous areas highlighted and the courage to give students the whole story no matter how unsettling or gruesome in the case of rapes and suicides. Students have a right to know.
And, to their South Bend counterparts, we bequest an interest in the safety of Notre Dame students, not just in how much money they can rake in through underage drinking fines.
And, finally, to the dining halls, we leave a menu of foods students actually like and the simple idea of a variable meal plan or a plan that allows students to charge off food against a running account. What are you afraid of? That your own affiliate, The Huddle, will steal the business from the dining halls? (Shouldn’t this be a hint?)
In concluding this, our final editorial, we have only one regret—it’s too late for us to make most of these changes. We love this place just like you do but realize it’s far from perfect. It’s up to you. Don’t let us down.
Michael C. Wieber Editor in Chief
Derik T. Weldon Managing Editor
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name, address and phone number. University st udents should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. Allletlersmust besigned. Nameswill be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United States. Scholastic also will edit far copyfitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot pint all Idlers received.
Address all correspondence tv.
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556
SCHOLASTIC
Chunky Boys.
Pushy Texas Women
Bluto Snags his Gut
Picture this: you’re done with dinner and you aren’t ready to head back to the dorm and tackle the books. You’ve scoped out every member of the opposite sex in the dining hall. You’ve played with your food till it’s become a masterpiece that dining hall workers will tell their children about What now?
Students at Northern Illinios University have come up with a new game.
They ride thecafeteria conveyor belt into the dishwashing room, but the National On-Campus Report says that recently the prank backfired when one student’s stomach got caught between the end of one belt and the beginning of another. The director of residence halls food services said the student would get a disciplinary writeup.
Just how overweight this student was and just how much pain was involved, we may never know. But remember kids, buckle up for safety.
You Can’t Spell DUMB without the UM Your grades are slipping. You decide to buy a study guide. Forget John Ritter’s “Where There’s a Will There’s an A” and go straight for University of Miami graduate Richard Little Jr.’s new book, “The Smarter Student How to Study Smarter, Not Harder, and Get Straight A’s!” Ahem.
Here’s a sample of his suggested study schedule. It’s “not too rigid, but it sets priorities.” .
3-4 p.m.: Read psychology
4-5 p.m.: Study biology (“special friend” optional)
5-6 p.m.: Eat dinner
6-7 p.m.: Pay freshman to write English paper
7-8 p.m.: Watch “T.V.’s Bloopers and Practical Jokes” 8-??.?.: Drink, belch and scratch at will
They say you can take the man out of Miami, but you can’t take the Miami out of the man.
This book is also published under the title, “If There’s a Class, I MightGo.”
Don’t Mess with Texas
Congratulations to Candace Brister and April Yett, two University of Texas students who are damn proud not to be quiet, coy, proper little women..
The two recently applied to the Longhorn Hell Raisers, a 76-member student spirit group. They were rejected by the male organization and have filed a complaint of sex discrimination.
Brister said, “I don’t see anything about being female that prevents you from being loud and obnoxious.” ‘Nuff said.
I’m Biff, and this is my roommate Candy “Right now, the idea of pairing roommates of different genders probably seems as foreign as allowing men and women to live in the same dormitories did 40 years ago,” says the editorial in The Stanford Daily.
HAH!! Welcome to the time warp.
While this editorial goes on to lucidly and convincingly explain why adults should be able to choose whom they live with regardless of gender, we here at the University of Notre Dame are still debating whether or not parietals are a good idea.
Of course, we have the advantage of in loco parentis, which saves us the trouble of making any difficult choices for ourselves until we grow up.
MARCH 7,1991
Long Live Spunky Spandex
Northern Michigan University President James B. Appleberry refused to recall an 8-minute promotional videotape that some faculty members claimed was sexist, reports the College Press Service.
A 70-second introduction to the video featured dancing teenaged girls wearing form-fitting leotards.
While the controversy raised “basic and contextual gender issues” on campus, Appleberry told a Faculty Senate meeting the tape was “very professional.”
He also asked the Senate members “What’s wrong with being sexy?”
[In related news, Fr. Malloy announced that the Dancin’ Irish will be allowed to re-form and assist in the creation of a video to introduce high-schoolers to the University of Notre Dame. The tape will be called, “Girls, Old Mil and Notre Dame: Finish Before 2 a.m.” ]
□
edited by Traci Taghon
3
s

romDoae
•U	RH «a Ry
lb you’re eadig didder while you’re reading dis, stob readig dow. [Translation from coldspeak: If you’re eating dinner while you’re reading this, stop reading now.] It’s going to get ugly. What I have to say, while it’s something that all of us have been through, is nonetheless still a remarkably hideous and extremely unpleasant source of anguish for most of us. What I am referring to, of course, is the common cold.
Now, considering that we live in an arctic wasteland like South Bend, I can understand if most of us get colds over the winter. The problem with this colds is that they’re caused by a virus that is far from your garden variety herpes or warts virus. These viruses are killers, bred to incur torturous agony on anything that gets in their way. I’ve heard that viruses get more virulent [special bonus word for anyone who took BIOS 102B, “Understanding Viruses (a.k.a. Science for Arts and Leisure types)”] as they pass through more people’s immune systems. If this is true, that means that the cold we all seem to get has actually been around since 1930 and is continuing to get stronger as it abuses us. At the rate that it’s getting stronger, pretty soon it should be able to reproduce on its own. In fact, I think it can already walk around by itself. I thought I saw one go down to food sales the other night and order a couple chili-cheese dogs. But then again, with the hallucinations I’m getting from the cold I have now, I can’t be
too sure about anything.
Of course, the hallucinations I’m having could have something to do with the vast amounts of anti-cold drugs I’ve been taking. A good recipe for mild hallucinations, loss of speech and motor function, and a slightly euphoric feeling is to take several Sudafed, some Advil, an antibiotic or two and a little bit of Robitussin. You see, there’s really no good way to get rid of a virus, and scientists know this. The easiest way to tell that your doctor doesn’t know diddley about what’s wrong with you is if he tells you that you have a virus. If you do get diagnosed with a virus, your only course of action is to panic and then take as many drugs (prescription, mind you) as you can possibly get your hands on. The only hope you have with a cold is to make yourself so numb with chemical additives that you can’ t feel a thing until the cold decides to get someone else. Don’t try of those cures your Grandma tells you. Chicken soup doesn’t work—that was a lie made up by the people at Lipton and Campbell’s. Friends have suggested a drink called a “hot toddy” to me, but that didn’t work either. I have to admit that it was more fun than chicken soup, and even more so on top of all the drugs I had already taken.
I have heard one theory about colds that I would believe. Somebody said that it’s easier to get colds when the weather changes rapidly. If this theory is true, everyone on this campus should be bedridden constantly.
Just the other day, within a twelve hour time span, the weather went from snow to sun to rain to droughts to flash floods, back to snow again, and then finished up with a tornado. And they say that the greenhouse effect isn’t doing anything strange to the weather.
Actually, I think I got this thing from an aerial-borne virus particle spread by my careless roommates. I’d like to be mad at them, but I can’t because they’re just two of the many poor dolts on this campus from warm places like California who think that they’re dying of TB everytime they get the slightest trace of post-nasal drip. I just don’t think that people with pansy California immune systems should be walking around here without gas masks. Then again, they’re from L.A. — they get worse things than viruses flying into their lungs every minute that they walk around in the California sunshine. I know that I don’t buy their theory of healing through crystals and meditation — what the hell do Californians know about curing a cold?
Anyway, I’m going to empty my head of phlegm yet again (you were just waiting for me to say something about phlegm, weren’t you?) Hopefully the drugs will wear off soon and I’ll be cold-free and sitting on a beach somewhere far away from killer South Bend viruses.	-	□
by Dave Holsinger Dave Holsinger is Scholastic's soon-to-be foreign correspondent and a cold victim.
SCHOLASTIC
Mro Manners finds Dillon’s skakeboard crowd childish and rude
Dear Mr. Manners:
Hey, I really like to skateboard to classes, you know? How can I get the people to stay out of my way? It’s really a bummer when I have to run them down. Oh, I have a friend who drives those cool little carts for the cripples and he wants to know what to do about this too. Thanks, dude.
Buff Q., sophomore, Dillon.
Gentle Buff: Go to hell. I don’t answer questions for people as annoying as you.
Dear Mr. Manners:
This is a most embarrassing problem. I truly hope you take me seriously and give me an honest answer.
Sometimes when I start to laugh, a little bit of, how can I say this delicately, debris (snot to the uncultured) comes out of my nose. This has been plaguing me for many years.
How can I disguise the fact and also wipe my nose clean without anyone noticing?
Mary K., senior, Walsh.
Goodness, Mary. You do have quite a problem, don’t you. I will have to consult the Etiquette Dictionaire for this.
Here it is.
“When one finds that one is quite incapacitated by the discharge of bodily fluids [ooh, yucky] from one’s nose or mouth during the act of laughing or. speaking, one should beat a hasty retreat from the room. If this is not possible, one should deftly wipe the back of one’s hand across the wet region. To dry the hand, one should wipe it on one’s leg. (If one is a lady, take care if one is wearing a mini-skirt.) If one has discharged on another person, as is often the case in speaking (see entry on “Say It, Don’t Spray It”) one can do nothing but ignore the problem and hope for a speedy death.”
Dear Mr. Manners:
What should you do when someone calls out your name and you turn around and maybe even answer and then you realize it wasn’t you they were calling to? I’m sure you understand how this can happen a lot on a campus like this one, where several thousand people share my name.
John O’Brien, freshman/sophomore/junior/senior, everywhere.
Yes, John, I do understand.
You must be tired of looking like a fool when you answer someone whom you don’t even know. Here’s what you can do.
First, try acting like you’re responding to someone standing a few steps behind the person you don’t know. This rarely works, but is worth a try. If you can walk around your unknown hailer and actually talk to another person — you don’t have to know them either, just ask the time or something — you’ll look like you knew what you were doing all along.
Second, act like you really do know the person calling your name. Say things like, “What a great party that was! Boy, you sure were doing great with that girl. What happened, man?” Be careful not to carry these remarks too far; after all, this person goes to school here too, and will know you’re BS-ing if you say something like, “I couldn’t believe all the girls at that party in Cavanaugh.”
Also, remember to amend the remarks if the person you’re pretending to know is a girl.
Dear Mr. Manners:
My roommate sings. This may not seem like such a bad thing to you, but I swear she is totally tone-deaf. To make matters worse, she listens to country music and that is what she constantly sings. I get along with her O.K. otherwise, but I must find a polite way to get her to stop singing or I will lose my sanity.
Marianne L., junior, Badin.
You have more than just an etiquette question here, Marianne. You have a question that extends into the realm of Good Taste vs. Bad Taste.
Were your roommate an operatic soprano, I would find it acceptable, even desirable for her to serenade you with arias from Verdi and Wagner. Since she is not, she should only sing when she is so emotionally moved that she cannot help herself.
This cannot happen if she is listening to Conway Twitty.
Marianne, you must sit down with her and explain, in a very concerned but never condescending manner, that even if she’s “never been this far before,” or if she’s a “lady wearin’ tight fittin’ jeans” she should not sing out loud, especially if sane people are within earshot
Be careful. These cases can sometimes turn ugly.
If you have a question for Mr. Manners, he can be reached at the following address:
Mr. Manners, c/o Scholastic, 303 LaFortune, Campus Mail Letters should be written in any color ink except red (I don’t like red, and the reason why is none of your business), or laser printed —■ I will no longer accept dot-matrix. Be sure to use gender-inclusive language and don’t swear. Enclose your letter in a standard, business-sized envelope and make sure that you leave a little space unglued at the top so that I can easily use my letter opener. Freud was full of it.	□
MARCH 7, 1991
5
H.P. Zinker
boggles the mind on Beyond It All
H.P. Zinker Beyond It All
Five Reasons You Should Listen to WVH:
(1)	All sports, all the time.
(2)	Have you heard the Lemonheads’ cover of “Step by Step?” (3) Classic rock, if you consider Wire and The Jam to be classic rock.
(4)	Where else can you request songs like “Orgasm Addict” and “Clitoris” and not have the phone slammed down on you?
(5)	The new H.P. Zinker album.
Actually, reason number 5 above should be number 1 — albums like this don’t come along but once in a blue moon, and the good folks at WVFI would be more than happy to play the latest from this Austrian (that’s Austrian, not Australian) band.
H.P. Zinker is a three piece guitar outfit which fuses grunge, pyschedelic instrumentals and acoustic guitars to achieve an
overall sound which is just unbelievable. Although their name might lead you to believe that this was the work of one artist, there are indeed three members to the band: Hans Platzgumer on guitar, Frank Puempel on bass and vocals and David Wasik on drums. Their new album, Beyond It All, is one of those albums that requires that you listen to the whole album at one time lest you lose the effect. Its seven cuts, averaging about five and a half minutes each, each have within them enough musical ideas and stretches of imagination to fill entire albums for most bands. One might think that all of that intensity might mean that any of the cuts would stand alone just fine. For the most part, they do, but all of the songs tie into one another to create a stunning overall effect This album requires presence of mind when listening to it — although one might think that dozing off during long instrumental sections is okay, H.P. Zinker is not Pink Floyd, and their instrumentals go somewhere besides hyperspace.
Beyond it All is for the most part vastly underproduced, which is probably all for the better. Their sound is left raw arid for the most part self-contained, requiring little outside assistance from production or studio effects. This album could well be a live album for its
stripped down approach to the music. Aside from the addition of a cello on “Sunbeam First Ave,” Beyond It All is all guitars, bass and drums.
From the opening of “Me and My Misery,” H.P. Zinker doesn’tseem to get too comfortable with any single musical mood/ “Me and My Misery” opens.with a slow, noodling guitar bit, and then drops into a wave of grunge and angst without any warning at all. Jane’s Addiction should take lessons from these guys — “Ocean Size” would be much better if there were no warning about the oncoming rush of feedback that follows the opening acoustic bit, which is exactly what “Me and My Misery” does. Within each song, the overall mood, tempo and aural texture is bound to change several times. “Schwin-dlig,” which follows “Me and My Misery,” begins with a lilting guitar riff, played without distortion, but then falls back into the swirling grunge of the opening track. The song’s tempo is just as mutable as its mood, and “Schwindlig” finds its way through several more melodic and tempo changes before it ends up on the same minor chords on which it began — the only problem is that it ends with a major chord, strummed on an acoustic guitar.
Just as H.P. Zinker never gets too comfortable with any single mood, they likewise don’t seem
to comfortable with lyrics and vocals. Frank PuempcI’s cng-lish seems a bit strained, although their lyrics reflect a very angsty preoccupation with the self. On the epic “Sometimes I Just Don’t Feel Like Talking,” H.P. Zinker comes up with some great lines, like “Like out of hell and here to tell/How it all could be/It’s creeping up from the back of my mind/To be faded away...” The lyrics, though, are not really the prime concern. Although they do adequately complement the music, they only come in bits and pieces and never really become as important as the music.
For all of their instrumental and lyrical brooding H.P. Zinker ends Beyond It All with a very quaint instrumental called “Sunbeam First Ave,” which makes you wonder if they were just kidding all along. Maybe they’re notreally that depressed. The title probably gives the best clue to what they’re thinking— H.P. Zinker are definitely “beyond it all.” This album is a phenomenal work, and hopefully this band will continue to expand its musical force and exercise its creative muscle. In the meantime, there is enough musical creativity on Beyond It All to keep the average listener enthralled until H.P. Zinker can come up with another album □
by Dave Holsinger
6
SCHOLASTIC
Th® (C^®^
@©miOiMi(eg Ms ]pag4 ihmdliittwim ©ff g©lnd. ©©iMwiriiOmi^ C^J	C^>J
\
Sting
The Soul Cages
Since his days with The Police !	and his three solo albums,
I	Sting’s musical style has grown
I	and developed consistently, and
i	his latest album, The Soul
i	Cages, provides an inventive
combination of lyrics, voice and instruments. Although it has been three years since Sting’s last album, TheSoul Cages was j	worth the wait.
:	Sting’s voice, combined with
!	strong percussion and intense
I	rhythms, creates a haunting
sound. The unique sound of this album can mainly be attributed to two factors. The first is the variety of instruments and sounds that Sting employs. He | features instruments such as the i oboe, mandolin and a multitude
of percussion sounds at a time when electronic music has become increasingly prevalent and more emphasis has been placed on vocals. Branford Marsalis also performs on this album. His saxophone performance contributes to the quality of The Soul Cages.
Secondly, this album was produced using QSound. This process creates a three-dimensional sound so the listener does not feel as though all the sound is coming from the speakers. Rather, sounds seem to emanate from other locations within the room. This system empasizes the instrumentals that Sting used to create this album.
The first track released off The Soul Cages, “All This Time,” is one of the more upbeat songs on the album. Although the radio version omits one of the verses contained in the album version, both versions exemplify the unique combination of sounds Sting has created on this album. Instead of having a melody accompanied by lyrics, the lyrics and instruments complement each other in an unusual way. Sting’s voice intertwines with
the instrumental music to create one sound with minimal differentiation between the lyrics and music.
The instrumental song, “Saint Agnes and The Burning Train” features Sting playing the mandolin. In addition to the talents that Sting displays singing and playing the bass, this song showcases his musical versatility. Many of Sting’s lyrics on this album relate to nature. Even though “Saint Agnes” has no lyrics, it still seems to depict sounds of nature, and it fits in well with the rest of the album.
Sting’s father passed away after the release of his last solo album. Many of Sting’s feelings with regards to his father’s death are incorporated into the songs on The Soul Cages. Two of these songs are “Why Should I Cry For You?” and the title track, “The Soul Cages.” In “Why Should I Cry For You?,” Sting questions his feelings about his father’s death. The instruments Sting uses creates many sound images that seem to represent sounds of nature, such as bird calls or the wind whistling. The other song, “The Soul
Cages,” expresses Sting’s feelings, while telling the story of a fisherman and a young boy. The song is darker than some of the others, partly because of its theme, but also because the instrumental music seems to appropriately match the lyrics. The heavy bass/percussion background echoes throughout the song and accompanies the refrain, “These are the soul cages.”
The Soul Cages is strikingly different from Sting’s other solo albums and shows his musical ability and diversity. However, Sling’s excellent use of musical instruments is diminished because of the way it is used in many of the songs. Several of the songs sound very similar to the others and it lessens the impact of the musical combinations Sting used. Although other than the voice, this album hardly seems related to the upbeat,. popular songs of The Police, The Soul Cages was worth its wait and definitely worth a listen. □
.	by Patti Doyle
Patti Doyle will be Scholastic's Executive Editor as of next issue.
MARCH 7,1991
i
© 0@©[k
©ft W® DWMDW©®
On March 25, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences will announce the winners of its annual Academy Awards. Besides Cher showing up wearing only a tattoo, Sally Field whimpering, “You like me,” and Andrew “Dice” Clay explaining the real meaning of nursery ryhymes (oh, sorry, that was the MTV awards) the evening is very profitable. “Profit,” you ask? Yes, unlike Stupid Pet Tricks, wagering is encouraged on who will win the Oscars and I wish to help everyone win some money off their less-informed roommates with some advice. The following are my picks for this year’s major winners and the usually unfair Academy picks based on past Oscar history, close scrutiny of the nominees, and most importantly, my present mood.
LIGHTWEIGHT AWARDS
CINEMATOGRAPHY: (Avalon, Dances With Wolves, Dick Tracy, Godfather Part III, Henry and June) DickTracy isinnova-
8
tive,butadistantsecond. GodfatherPartHI we had seen before. In the past, this award has gone to the film with the long, sweeping shots of breathtaking scenery (The Last Emperor, The Mission, Out of Africa) and this year it will be the very deserving Dances With Wolves.
BEST ORIGINAL SCREENPLAY: (Alice, Avalon, Ghost, Green Card, Metropolitan) Most teenage girls could have written the rough draft for Ghost. Green Card was superbly crafted and deserves the Oscar, but the Academy cannot turn down Woody Allen’s only nomination, Alice.
BEST ORIGINAL SONG: (Dick Tracy, The GodfatherPartHI, Home Alone, Young Guns II) The only category where the truly weak films have a chance for an award. The Academy will refuse to recognize Jon Bon Jovi’s “Blaze of Glory” (could you imagine him with an Oscar?) and will regretfully give it to Madonna for Dick Tracy. This may
make the censors a bit nervous with the possibility of Madonna on live television BEST SUPPORTING ACTOR: (Graham Greene, Al Pacino, Andy Garcia, Joe Pcsci, Bruce Davison) Pacino was surprisingly solid in a rare comic role in Dick Tracy and deserves strong consideration. Garcia docs not deserve his nomination for his sometimes flat performance in Godfather Part III. Greene was tremendous as the Sioux who befriends Kevin Costner’s character, but Dances with Wolves cannot sweep everything. Davison in Longtime Companion could pay big money as a longshot in a category that is always surprising. Pesci was robbed of this award in Raging Bull and his similar role this time around in GoodFellas should finally see him taking an Oscar home.
BEST DIRECTOR: (Kevin Costner, Francis Ford Coppola, Stephen Frears, Penny Marshall, Barbet Schroeder) Frears, in The Grifters, and Schroeder in Reversal of
SCHOLASTIC
Avalon, a story about the Jewish immigrant experience
In the 1920s, is up for Best Original Score.
Fortune are worthy nominees, but they are up against the Academy’s past favoritism of directors of bigbudget films (Reds, Ghandi, Amadeus, Out of Africa, etc.) Coppola already won for his second Godfather and was nominated for Apocalypse Now, but all of his problems on the set of Godfather Part III diminished his direction. Marshall does not fit the big-budget requirement although she did a tremendous job in pairing the unlikely duo of Robert De Niro and Robin Williams in Awakenings. Costner’s debut is so visually exhausting and clearly structured for a newcomer that the Academy will justly reward him for his efforts..
HEAVYWEIGHT AWARDS
Meryl Streep, even though she wasn't at her best in Postcards from the Edge, still got the nomination for Best Actress is this year's go-round.
BEST ACTRESS: (Anjelica Huston, Kathy Bates, Joanne Woodward, Meryl Streep, Julia Roberts) Kathy Bates is my personal choice for her terrifying/comical character in Misery The mere mention of her name makes my ankles swell. Streep is not at her best in Postcards from the Edge, but the
MARCH 7, 1991
Academy seems to think that she is a permanent member of this category. Huston already won Supporting Actress in Prizzi’s Honor where she was better than she was in The Grifters. Roberts will not win for her shallow role in Pretty Woman, and I believe she was nominated more for the length of her
skirt (or lack thereof) than for her acting. She does, however, win my undying love. The Academy does not care about my hormones, though, and therefore they will give it to Woodward in Mr. and Mrs. Bridge in the annual shocker.
BEST ACTOR: (Gerard Depardieu, Richard Harris, Jeremy Irons, Kevin Costner, Robert De Niro) By far the most confusing category. The Academy shoulde be ashamed for not nominating Robin Williams and Robert De Niro for their roles in Awakenings and also Al Pacino for his role in Godfather III, with De Niro’s performance dwarfing that of any other actor this year. Barring these three, the only ones with a shot are De Niro for GoodFellas, Costner in Dances With Wolves, and Depardieu in Cyrano De Bergerac. De Niro rehashes his famous “You talking to me?” character seen in Raging Bull, Taxi Driver and The Untouchables. His work is again excellent but is not fresh. Costner suffers from the same ailment. His John Dunbar character is very similar to his characters in Bull Durham and Field of Dreams — the strong-willed yet sensitive hero who searches for a missing part of himself. The Academy usually rewards an actor for taking risks with his role, so look for Depardieu to win in the best film no one saw.
GEORGE FOREMAN AWARD:
BEST PICTURE: (Awakenings, Dances With Wolves, Ghost, Godfather Part III, GoodFellas') Ghost? Ghost?! This is like nominating The Adventures of Ford Fairlane for Most Tasteful. Everyone agrees that GodfatherPartHI did not measure up to its predecessors (both won this award), and GoodFellas was a tad anticli-mactic. Bo\h Awakenings and Dances With Wolves melted my hear and made me laugh, but as Christopher Lambert said in Highlander, “There can be only one.” I will go with Dances With Wolves in one of the closest votes in Oscar history.	□
by Noah Cooper
Noah Cooper is a freshman who lives in Pangborn Hall who would like to let Julia Roberts know that just because he didn't pick Julia Roberts for Best Actress doesn't mean he doesn't still lust after her just as much.
9
Campus Ministry at N otre
Dame
From liturgical choir to prayer services and Bible study groups, Campus Ministry provides a valuable spiritual resource to Notre Dame
/'Ane of the things that makes Notre V^/Dame so special is its commitment developing a setting through which students can concentrate on every aspect of their lives: academic, athletic, and religious. A highly qualified faculty gives Notre Dame its academic reputation; an excellent football team its athletic reputation; and a peaceful setting with a strong Catholic focus its religious reputation. A large part of religious life at Notre Dame is organized and arranged by Campus Ministry, a group of fifteen religious and lay people working to reinforce a spiritual way of life on campus.
Campus Ministry began as the Prefect of Religion under the direction of a pastor on campus responsible for religious life.
Cardinal O’Hara, during his.presidency at Notre Dame, published a religious bulletin that set down “guidelines” for the religious life of the students on campus. For example, they were required to attend mass every day, and attendance was taken. From this document, a sort of pastoral center that was related to the church and hall chapels was formed. This center furthered its sphere of influence beyond the chapel to offer retreat services and planning, various lectures, and spiritual counselling.
“As this was developing at Notre Dame, it was also developing nationally,” Father Stephen P. Newton, C.S.C., Director of Special Projects at Campus Ministry said. “Today, our primary focus is on the sacramental life on campus—that is
Baptism, Reconciliation, Eucharist, Marriage, Ordination, etc. And with the Eucharist, presiding over masses is not the only thing involved. We are concerned with instruction, music, and songs. An example of Campus Ministry's work is the hymnal found in Sacred Heart.
Fr. Newton furthered by stating that Campus Ministry is concerned with the faith life, not necessarily the theological life which is emphasized by the theology department. It wants to emphasize active, everyday religion. The organization is also concerned with the increasing number of non-Catholics on campus. “The sacramental spirituality is really focused on the Catholics,” Newton said. “We are trying to revamp the program to give non-
SCHOLASTIC
10
The Fatima Retreat Center overlooks the contemplative spot for reflection.
Catholics the ability to partake in ministry by availing them to various churches in South Bend and by creating a program of ministry that is available to them. We are also trying to encoiporate the Voice of Faith Choir in our campus events. They are a gospel group and although gospel singing is not a Roman Catholic tradition, I think both Catholics and non-Catholics benefit from their involvement,” he added.
The activities of Campus Ministry are wide-ranging as ibis involved in almost every aspect of spiritual life on campus. It offers services in religious education such as the Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults (RCIA). This program gives adults the opportunity through baptism and communion, to seek full participation in the Church. Special classes are offered to those who are interested in receiving the Sacrament of Confirmation. Religious Education is also responsible for the Catholic Faith Series. This lecture series deals with aspects of the adult faith experience such as prayer, morality, scripture, sacraments; and service.
Another facet of Campus Ministry deals with “Marriage Preparation and Enrichment.” The program is tailored to three different groups: couples considering marriage, engaged couples, and married
beautiful lakes of Notre Dame creating a <
couples. Workshops titled “What’s the Future of This Relationship?” and programs such as “ENRICH” are created to help couples contemplating marriage but alsocouples who have been married for fifty years.
Finally, Campus Ministry has many smaller programs designed to direct and influence anyone in search of spiritual counselling. Spirituality prayer groups and Outreach (a program for the students of University Village) are two such programs.
One of the most popular and widely publicized activities of Campus Ministry is the Notre Dame Encounter with Christ. Although Campus Ministry hosts many retreats throughout the year, NDE is by far the most popular. Focusing on the exploration of individual’s relationship with God and the commitment involved in the Christian lifestyle, the program looks to deepen the sense of faith and to facilitate personal reflection in its participants. There are five encounters per year and each one is held at the Fatima Retreat Center, on the west end of campus. They last three days (a Friday, Saturday, and Sunday) and are directed by students and faculty alike. With music, presentations, and discussions, the retreat offers a rare opportunity to meditate on faith and on
God.
“I don’t really want to say too much about the Encounter,” Judy Hutchinson, Assistant Retreat Director said. “Wedon’t want to give any preexpectations to those who might want to participate. It is important not to come in to the Encounter with too many expectations. If you do, it can hinder your experience with the program. An open mind is one of the most important things in this situation.”
Hutchinson did reveal that one of the most important parts of NDE is the “Fourth Day Follow-Up.” While in the retreat, the participants are suddenly confronted with very moving, involved discussions and explorations—most of the time
lief,	with people that they have never
met before. The Fourth Day Follow-Up is a rejoining of the NDE participants to discuss their reactions to the retreat and to further their spiritual journey.
■' " Whoever you ;'' ar^ wherever you ■ ■ are, if its your first retreat or
^ekpbrienc^
J personal, and it iR.dbesn^^^
the depth bf^
“While in an intense experience like the retreat, you can get a real high but two days later, that high tends to wear off. Its easy to forget. Hopefully, these meetings help people remember what their experience felt
MARCH 7,1991
A student sits by the beautiful shore of St. Joseph's lake. The campus of Notre Dame is highly condusive to serious thought and reflection.
not sure just how much faith they have. McFadden emphasized that NDE is for everyone. “It doesn’t have to be a Bible banging revival meeting,” she said. “Whoever you are, wher ever you are, if its your first retreat or your 100th, the experience is very personal and doesn’t necessarily hinge on the depth of your faith.”
Another Notre Dame Encounter experience can come from working on a team that organizes the event. “I feel like I had a unique experience because I had a “behind-the-scenes” job,”. Allison Heuring, an R.A. from Breen-Phillips said. “Its an excellent chance to work with and meet faculty members or those people who you don’t have a. chance to relate to normally. It is a unique
like so that they can build upon it,” Hutchinson said.
The proof that the Notre Dame Encounter is as special as it seems to be comes from those who have participated in it. Every person comes back with a different reaction to what they have learned or with a new idea that they want to implement in their own lives. Yet with the differences in opinion that stems from various interpretations comes a bond. Participants feel a closeness with others in their group that is unique. They have bared their innermost emotions with perfect strangers and because of the uninhibited sharing, resurfaced as intimates.
“The weekend that I spent at NDE was one of the best weekends of my life,” Kate McFadden, a junior PLS major said. “The neat part is that even though fifty people go on. a Notre Dame Encounter, you break up into smaller groups and that’s where you carry on all of the discussions. It is very intimate.” She added, “You really get to know a small group really quickly. It’s hard to describe how it happens. Since that weekend, I have madeeight or nine new friends that I can go to with deep things. It is kind of scary to ‘tell-all’ in front of people that you don’t know very well, but that’s how you get the most out of the experience.
It is a two-way street If you open up, others will to.”
McFadden furthered that nothing, that is said leaves the retreat—confidentiality is stressed. When you allow yourself to open up, you gain other’s respect and they begin to do the same—a give and take, a sharing.
’’It’s an excejlen to workwithfaculty membefs...It’s a unique j: ; chance to be with them r
Aside from the small discussions, there are ice-break activities, masses, and prayer services scheduled. One of the highlights according to McFadden, is an evening of skits put on by the students. "Everyone has their own little idiosyncrasies, and as these skits poke fun at them. They give everyone an excuse to laugh at themselves and with others.”
To some, retreats are a little intimidating. Maybe their faith is not very deep, or they are
chance to be with them as. fellow Christians.”
Heuring stated that the full title Notre Dame Encounter with Christ isn’t stressed enough. “It is a chance to realize that you can have encounters with Christ every day. It a sort of support group.”
The retreat takes place at the Fatima Retreat Center on St Joseph’s lake. ‘The place is great,” Heuring said. “You know you’re still on campus and still part of the Notre Dame family, yet at the same time, you are removed from the hectic day. Ils another side of. the Notre Dame community.” /	-
Campus Ministry gives the students and faculty in the Notre. Dame community a unique experience not only to explore their potentials as humans, but also as Christians; “I feel like the world would be a much better place if everyone had the opportunity to participate in an experience as.decpcning as this,” McFadden concfuded. Perhaps as more and more people experience the valuable resources provided by Campus Ministry, the Notre Dame family will be able to. further expand their Catholic influences of service and ministry to those in: need.	;	□
by Kristine DeGange
SCHOLASTIC
Humility. Hard Work and Home Runs
Frank Jacobs has overcome adversity through hard work and a great attitude—and some tremendous natural talent
By J. Bradley Keck
Frank Jacobs stepped to the plate as a college baseball player newcomer. He was a sophomore and his last athletic achievement was scoring a touchdown for the Irish football team against West Virginia in the Fiesta Bowl. But now Jacobs was wielding the lumber and stepping into the batters box against Texas, the third-ranked baseball team in the nation at that time. Jacobs knew he was ready, but Irish coach Pat Murphy wasn’t so sure.
“That was the day I knew that Frank could hit the ball,” says Muiphy. “Before the game, though, Frank came up to me and said, ‘Coach, I’ve never worn steel spikes before.’ That worried me a little.”
The coaches were uneasy but felt that Jacobs was the type of
Notre Dame Sports Information
player that could and would get the job done. .The problem was that Jacobs was untested and had not really faced great college pitching.
“I think one of my greatest moments was when we were playing Texas in baseball. The coaches really didn’t know if I was ready for it or not, but they put me in there as a DH, and I really had a good game,” said Jacobs. “The first time I hit the ball it went for a home run but was called foul—I ended up walking. On the day I went three for five with two doubles. That was just one of the biggest highs. It was a highly ranked team, a great pitcher, I had just come off the football field not to long ago, and I hadn’t played baseball since high school— but I had a great day.”
“I saw him get in there, totally over-matched by a kid that was a first round draft pick from the Mets,” recalls Muiphy. “Then I
MARCH 7, 1991
13
Joe Vitacco
Jacobs levels a block against Purdue in 1989, his last season on the gridiron.
saw the way he (Jacobs) handled himself and hit two doubles and a single, I knew then that this kid was going to be a great player.”
These are the days that are great for Frank Jacobs. If he pounds the ball 470 feet, as he did at Dayton; or sends a batting practice pitch 450 feet through a major league scout’s windshield, as he did in San Antonio; or even when he caught the football that clinched a national championship, Jacobs is thrilled. He is thrilled but not satisfied. Satisfaction on the field comes from doing the little things and doing them well. Anything else and he feels that the publicity he receives is unwarranted.
“Every thing I do gets magnified, where I don’t see those things as a big deal,” says Jacobs. “I see other people doing the same
thing but they don’t get the credit. Catching success, not only as an athlete the touchdown pass in the Fiesta Bowl—. I but as a person. His parents didn’t really feel that was that big. It was passed away when he was very one of the biggest thrills of my life, but it young and he was raised by his wasn’t worth all of the talk it received. It aunt. Jacobs attended high
wasn’t that tough of a catch— it was right to me, Tony (Rice) deserves all of the credit.”
Jacobs feels the the same thing is true now in baseball, “I’d rather have some one congratulate me if I go four for four with hard hit singles than talk about a big home run if I went one for five,” says Jacobs. “I’d rather hear someone say ‘nice hits’ than hear everybody say ‘nice hit’”
Sentiments like these enable Jacobs to achieve as much as he has. He not only is a great athlete, but is a great person. He has had to overcome a lot to reach
school at Covington Catholic in Kentucky, right across the Ohio River from Cincinnati. As a senior he was named Mr. Football in Kentucky and then was drafted and offered a contract to play baseball with the Cincinnati Reds. Jacobs turned down this offer to attend Notre Dame.
“I felt that at Notre Dame I could get three important things,” says Jacobs. “The first main reason was academics. The second was that I would be close to home, my family and friends could see me play. The third reason was football, the exposure that Notre Dame gets— Coach Holtz had such a big influence, and I felt that Notre Dame was on the rise.”
Notre Dame was happy to have Jacobs. He came in and was a solid football player for the Irish. He has earned three monograms in football and started six games during the 1988 national championship team. But Murphy approached Jacobs his freshmen year and asked if he might also want to try to play baseball for the Irish. Jacobs declined this first offer but in his sophomore year took up the second sport. Jacobs joined an elite club with his decision. He became one of only eight men since 1960 that have played both varsity football and baseball at Notre Dame.. Other players who have achieved this feat include sopho
Nick Spangler
Jacobs will see most of his action at designated hitter, but may also fill in at first base.
14
SCHOLASTIC
more Irv Smith, and pro football players Joe Theismann and Terry Andrysiak.
But adversity again struck Jacobs. Last year during the Air Force football game he broke his ankle and underwent surgery and Jacobs was forced to makeanotherdecision. He could continue to play both sports, he could concentrate solely on baseball, or he could embark on a professional career with the Houston Astros who had just offered him a second professional contract. Jacobs choose to stay at Notre Dame and only play baseball.
“If I had been at another school, I may have signed with the Astros, but I felt what they were offering could not compete with what another year at Notre Dame could give. I needed another year of baseball to help me,” says Jacobs. “I came back to Notre Dame to have a full year of baseball, get the experience, play for the best coach in college baseball, and finish a Notre Dame education that is really worth a lot.”
This attitude off the field and action on both the football and baseball fields is what makes Frank Jacobs unique. For this attitude and achievement Jacobs was awarded the “Spirit of Notre Dame” award. This is given every year by Maxwell House to recognize a Notre Dame athlete who has distinguished themselves in competition, demonstrated the “Spirit of Notre Dame” and has exhibited the ideals of the university. The honorees are people who have overcome adversity and are
committed to excelling on and off the field.
“That award really meant something to me,” said Jacobs. “Especially after I saw the other people in the race for it. One was Chris Zorich. When coach Murphy gave me the award and I found out Chris was the runner-
up, I knew it was a special award. I feel that Chris is an unbelievable person and to win an award that he was also nominated for made it that much more important to me.”
This kind of attitude shown by Jacobs in receiving the award is what is special about Jacobs. He is giver even in receiving. He always tries to give credit when others de
Notre Dame Sports Information
Jacobs has quickly established his name in the Notre Dame record books in such power categories as home runs and runs batted in.
serve it and shies away from credit that he does not deserve. He looks up to his teammates and tries to lean from all of them. He appreciates and tries to learn humility from people like Zorich and Raghib Ismail. In his mind, fellow baseball players like Joe Bink-
iewicz, Cory Mee, Craig Counsell, and Tony Livorsi deserve as much and maybe more credit than he receives.
“He (Jacobs) is a beautiful human being, he is sensitive, he cares about people so much, he will be a great father and a great role model for his family,” says Murphy. “Frank as a baseball player will get the job done, Frank as a person has a great heart.”
Jacobs is armed with a great attitude and wonderful talent Last year Jacobs slammed 11 home runs and brought 49 runners across the plate. He is ranked third on the Notre Dame all-time homer list and ranks eighth in the career RBI department. Remember, this is only after two seasons. In the fall season this year he batted a superb 6-14 with two home runs and eight RBI in only eight games. Amazingly, he will only get better. He is not in a rush to make the jump to the bigs and he knows what needs to be done to achieve his goals.
“Hard work and dedication through thick and thin has got me to where I am today,” says Jacobs. “I went through a lot of times that were very frustrating and lonely, but I stuck with it and have always worked hard, it seemed that it worked for n me.
This altitude and faith in hard work combined with Jacobs ability to hit the baseball hard should keep working for him. As long as Jacobs keeps his extremely positive atti-
tude and approaches life’s obstacles as they come, he will not be stopped. With a big bat and an even bigger heart Frank Jacobs is poised and ready to have a tremendous senior campaign and a successful pro baseball career.	□
MARCH 7,1991
15
a
Jake Kline was a legend here at Notre Dame and in college baseball from 1934 until 1976...
... and now in 1991, the ,100th year of Irish baseball, coach Pat Murphy prepares his squad for perhaps their most successful season ever.

The Notre Dame men's baseball team enters its centennial season poised and ready for a serious run at the NCAA Tournament
By JeffWeghorst
Spring 1892: the University of Notre Dame assembled its first varsity baseball team. Benjamin Harrison was President; the U.S. flag had only 44 stars; and Notre Dame’s baseball squad had no coach, only captain Charles Gillon. It played just one game that season— a victory.
Forward to the spring of 1991: the Irish’s 100th baseball team takes the field. This squad has a coach, a rich tradition and it looks forward to one of the most anticipated seasons in Notre Dame history. This team will play many games, and it will enjoy many triumphs.
But first, let us return to that first season
16
It would have been hard to be a baseball fan in those days— baseball was a new sport. Professional baseball had only started about 20 years before, celebrating its first season in 1869. The game had its great players, but it did not have its great heroes like today. Television and radio were not there to create them. The Irish players could not dream about performing like Joe Dimaggio, Jackie Robinson or Babe Ruth: indeed, the Yankees’ fabled “Sultan of Swat” would not be bom for another three years.
But every year, for 100 years now, this school has had a baseball team. And each of these teams has had their triumphs, many of
them great.
Notre Dame baseball teams earned winning records in 35 of their first 41 seasons. Fourteen coaches led the Irish during those years, the first being Frank E. Hering in 1897. In 1908, Coach Hany A. Curtis took the helm, and his team achieved the highest winning percentage in school history (.952) when it recorded 20 wins and just one loss.
In 1934, Notre Dame’s winningest coach of all time, Clarence “Jake” Kline, took over as baseball coach, a position he would hold for 42 seasons. He was also a mathematics professor. Kline embodied ND baseball; he was an institution not only under the Dome,
‘ SCHOLASTIC
but in all college baseball.
“Jake Kline was certainly a great baseball coach,” says Bernie Crimmins, captain of the 1942 squad. “He was an outstanding Notre Dame man.’.’
Kline’s teams were great, and they played some of the toughest competition around. Eight of his 42 teams madeit it to the NCAA Tournament. His 1957 squad tied for third place in the College World Series, Notre Dame’s best finish ever. This is especially amazing because Kline only had two scholarships to work with, which he divided among his players. Often, he recruited players from the football team.
“Jake Kline knew more baseball than a lot of people give him credit for,” says Chuck Lennon, a member of Kline’s squads and graduate of 1961 who is Notre Dame’s Alumni Director.
However, Kline was more than a great coach, he was a great teacher and friend.
“There would not be a town that we would go into that when we got to the hotel there would not be a stack of messages from his former players and students,” recalls Lennon.
ND baseballplayers took a lot away from their experiences with Kline and ND baseball. Lennon tells a story of a trip to Ohio University in Athens, OH. The team got to the hotel late on a Thursday night and Kline went straight to his room when they arrived, assuming that the team would obey its 11:00 P.M. curfew. The players thought otherwise. They went out for pizza and got back after midnight. As they walked to their rooms one player jokingly exclaimed, “Here comes Jake!” The startled players darted into their rooms, with the exception of team member George Sefcik. Sefcik accidently ran into Kline’s room and jumped into bed with his coach. Fortunately, Kline didn’t have his glasses on, and the identity of the intruder was never discovered.
“Players who played for Jake realized what he did for them. And it had nothing to do with wins and losses,” says Lennon.
Today, with all of this tradition behind them, Coach Pat Murphy and company are ready to create some legends of their own. The 100th Irish baseball team stands on the threshold of what could be the greatest season in school, history. After defeating the fifth-ranked and 1989 National Champion Wichita State squad earlier
this fall, and powerhouse Texas last weekend, it is no secret that the Irish have talent and the determination to do just that.
The baseball squad is right on track to receive an NCAA Tournament bid, something which eluded the team last year despite an impressive record of 46 wins and 12 losses. The Irish were ranked 15th nationally in the pre-season. The team however, is not worried about rankings.
“(Rankings) mean very little to me,” says Murphy. “At the beginning of the season I told them they were 278th on the Murphy Poll, and we’re never satisfied. We work day in and day out.”
This squad certainly has some weapons. According to Murphy, the Irish have four or five major league prospects. Offensively, the team is very strong and is led by power hitting senior Frank Jacobs and sophomore Eric Danapilis. As a freshman last season, Danapilis, accumulated an outstanding .429 batting average, the second highest in Irish history.
Strong batting alone, however, does not account for a team’s run production. Baserunning skills are vital as well, “We are an exceptional baserunning team. We work very hard in practice on this aspect,” says Murphy.
It has been said that teams win with pitching. The Irish pen is well-stocked in this department as well. David Sinnes, Pat Leahy, and Alan Walania can all throw in the upper eighties— they can certainly bring the heater.
And leadership responsibilities on the staff have been assumed by senior Tony Livorsi, a slowballer who throws in the upper sixties.
“I could walk into a 7-Eleven and find four guys who could throw faster than Tony Livorsi,” Murphy kids. “(Livorsi) is the slowest pitcher in college baseball, but he’s also one of the most effective.”
In the field, the strength of the team’s defense is the outfield. Here Dan Bauch, Edwin Hartwell, Danapilis and Irv Smith deserve accolades. During the team’s trip to
Arizona, “...we had the best outfield you can have,” says Murphy. “The outfield is a tight unit, and this a credit to assistant coach John Flanagan.”
Mike Coss and Craig Counsell hold the infield together.
Indeed, the ’91 edition of Notre Dame’s baseball program is no different than those before when it comes to team goals. The echoes of great coaches can be heard through Murphy, a coach who will win his 200th coaching victory this season. He wants this team to be remembered as, “... the first ND
Nick Spangler
Danapilis is coming off a season in which he racked up the second best batting average in Irish history.
baseball team to win the national title”
But when asked about his impending 200 victory milestone, Murphy replied, “I don’t care if I get stuck on 199 for the rest of my life. My job here is to help young people get better. Those aren’t coach Murphy’s wins... those are ND baseball wins.”
First and foremost, Murphy wants his team to gain “... a great life experience.”
For, like his legendary predecessor, Jake Kline, Murphy sees more to life than just curve balls and three-run homers. □
MARCH 7,1991
17
Diamonds are a
Girids Best Friend
After only three seasons, the Notre Dame softball team is ready for a full-
fledged varsity schedule
By Amanda Clinton
TJ eginning their third year I> of varsity status, the Notre Dame softball team is about to embark on a more challenging schedule with a more experienced team.
“We have seniors this year,” says senior captain Kathy Vemetti. “We are a little older and more stable and more mature.”
Workouts began on January 19th. Six days a week the team practices for at least two hours a day, preparing for the most vigorous schedule they have ever had, which begins on March 9th against Miami of Ohio in Oxford, OH.
This year the Irish have greatly increased their depth with nine freshmen and 14 returning players. The freshmen this year will contribute much to this up-and-coming squad.
“Last year there were 18 girls on the team and beyond the starters, there was a seem-
Boulac has brought In enough players so that there is quality depth on the bench. Paul Webb
i ing drop off,” says Coach Brian Boulac. ;	“This year there is a quality substitute in
!	every position. The freshmen have brought
:	greater depth. They have played a lot of
; softball and bring experience.”
i “Everyone is more on the same level, i	There is not a huge gap in talent,” echoes
!	Vemetti. “We feel confident putting any-
!	one, any where.”
“Every year we get better and better because of our depth,” says Boulac.
This year’s captain is Rachel Crossen, a senior center fielder. Presently coming off a knee injury, she is fighting to regain confidence and strength. It is essential for any softball squad, and especially this younger team, to have a strong center fielder to direct the entire defense. Crossen is the key to the defense and will work to overcome her injury and fulfill that leadership role.
In order for the Notre Dame softball team to have a successful season, it is important
for the team to have strong pitching and strong defense.
“This year we have a very young [pitching] staff that will definitely develop into a fine softball staff,” says Boulac.
The key players to the success of the pitching staff are junior Missy Linn and sophomore Stacey Alford. They both had excellent seasons last year; unfortunately, Linn has had to battle a knee injury. Other contributors will be Erinn Kelly and Ronny
18
' SCHOLASTIC
Alvarez. Kelly participated in the ASA tournament this summer, and she also pitched in the national tournament Alvarez plays outfield in addition to her pitching talents. And according to Boulac, “She is such a fine athlete, she will fill the starter there [outfield] if we need her.”
Carrie Miller and Stephanie Pinter, both freshmen, also will prove to be important contributors. Miller was a member of the team who was first in nationals this summer. She will prove to be an excellent addition to the team and also will contribute to the outfield. Pinter is also a strong addition to the team. She is in the process of reshaping her pitching motion and will be used as a utility outfielder.
At the catching position is junior Amy Folsom. Last year she caught every major game for the Irish which was over 40 games. “She is a remarkable athlete and a real gift to the team. She is one of the best catchers in the Midwest,” says Boulac.
This year the team is concentrating on shaping some freshmen into backups for Folsom. Melissa Cook and Kim Harder, both freshmen, are prime candidates.
The defense is also an essential component to the team’s success. Junior shortstop Ruth Kmak is considered by Coach Boulac a “mainstay defensively.” Megan Fay, a senior in the outfield back will help the team, as will Vemetti, a senior and firstbaseman, who has according to Boulac, “improved
greatly." Other players contributing are Debbie Boulac, a sophomore at third base, and Laurie Sommerlad, a junior at second base.
A player who has improved tremendously is sophomore Lisa Miller. She will be a utility in fielder and outfielder, “She is in the position to challenge for starting out. She has improved dramatically over the last year,” says Boulac.
This year the team is a much larger than last year. Last year the members numbered 18, in comparison to this year with 23 players.
“Everyone wants to
beapartof the team—even if they can’t dress or travel,” says Boulac. “The team is building on last year’s team. As a result, we get stronger and stronger every year”.
Since this team has only had varsity competition for two years, they are relatively young. However, the program has grown rapidly. This year the team will participate in a true Division I schedule compared to the mixed schedule in the past two years.
“Our main weakness is overall hitting,” says Fay. “We just don’thave the depth in it. We will win a low scoring game out of our pitching and defense.”
Explains Vemetti, “Other teams recruit for hitting and figure they can shape their players into field players. We recruit for field abilities and figure we can shape our players into hitters. This is why our defense and pitching is so important to pur success”.
This year the Notre Dame softball team has certain goals to shoot for, “We want a winning season. If we can win over 30 games we will have had a successful campaign,” says Boulac.
Last year the Irish won the MCC Championship—and that is after only two years of varsity experience. Once again the team will aim for winning the conference.
“We want to play one game at a time, even each inning at a time. We are going to
Folsom is one of the "... best catchers in the Midwest," says her coach.
Paul Webb
Paul Webb
The recovery of centerfielder Crossen from knee surgery is vital to the outfield defense.
go out and play ‘our game.' We just want to play our best,” says Vemetti. “That way we will always be proud and satisfied, regardless of if we win or lose. We are good this year. So if we play our best, we should win.”
There is a definite feeling of unity on the
team this year. No one graduated from last year so the freshmen just add to a close group, “There is a sense of oneness. The team concept comes first and the individual goals come second,” explains Boulac.
Regardless of the fact that this is only the third year of varsity status for the soft-ball program, it has grown with leaps and bounds. With depth and experience, the 1991 Notre Dame Softball team will undoubtedly have their best season yet. □
MARCH 7,1991
19
The War
From Abroad
Junior Marshall Armintor reflects on the Gulf war as an American student in London
None of us got any sleep that night.
Along with those of you of America, we were riveted to our T.V.’s, watching the CNN broadcast of the Coalition bombing of
Baghdad, on ITV3. The effect was wholly shattering; America and Britain were finally in a shooting war, and we were Americans in aforeign country- a ripe target for terrorism. We had not quite known what to expect nex t. Rumours ran rampant over here as well; we thought we were going to be shipped home the instant war broke out, smuggled out of the country each separately on midnight freighters or in the wheels of transatlantic 747’s. All that, of course, never came to pass. When it came down to it, we would stick the war out along with the rest of the Britons.
The London Program participants had been notified as to the possibilities of war, and what precautions would be taken to ensure our safety. During the hostilities, we felt relatively safe, considering the police’s track record in dealing with IRA terrorism since the early 70’s. As it turned out, the only bombings that occurred during the war were IRA related, and their bomb threats still continue to paralyse the tube system [London’s subway] as I write this. Blit overall, there was heightened awareness about security- in our flats and in the Notre Dame building. ID checks and “signing in” at certain hours everyday naturally became a part of our daily routines. Security guards. were added to the flats as well. Also, we received precautionary instructions for trav
elling outside of the UK, as American citizens. Other than that, the war didn’t really reach us, except through the constant news bulletins and updates on television and the
newspapers. As one of my flatmates said to me, “I feel strange trying to acknowledge the fact that we’re in a war-1 can’t say other than it’s just more television to me.”
And, like everyone else in the world, we had to view this war through the papers and-television. There has been plenty of coverage on American politics in the British media, but all we wind up seeing are mosfly hawkish images. We saw the prowar rallies, the burning of the Iraqi flag, moments of Bush speeches when he was in rare form; condemning the Iraqis for their teacherous, new world-order threatening acts. We have no way to gauge real public opinion about the war. In London, there have been many antiwar protest marches and demonstrations, as weir as antiwar rumblings in the press by certain Socialist and Labour party politicians. But other than that, life has continued with little real friction- exactly the way the British want it As the Guardian put it, somewhat tongue in cheek, ‘This war must be serious- Wednesday’s Sun Page Three girl was on page 15.”
To understand the British position on the war, one must be conscious of its past, as the huge and intensely civilized empire it once was, unwilling to take any opposition from those lands it colonized, including Iraq, which it settled. The spectre of Churchill still haunts the British character. They faced
this war with an absolutely united front; no opposition or debate occurred in the House of Commons, as it did before the war. Instead, they stumped the Iraqis using blazing Churchillian rhetoric, hoping to inspire the attentive television audience. Traditionally, Britons present a united front in the face of any conflict- never mind the Falklands: once the troops were committed, all argu
ment would chase, and the effort would be a united one.
When the Coalition launched the ground war, we were pretty much braced for anything- and then it was all over, the ceasefire declared, Kuwait City liberated, the first British troops already arriving home. Just like that, we’ve had to adjust to “normal” life in London- something we’ve never known about. As I write this, the leaders are meeting again, just a few days after the ground war started and ended.
It is hard to figure out exactly what happened, as it’s all taken place so quickly. In a way, it was the perfect media war, quick, eventful, enough to hold the attention span for 15 minutes. As seen from the viewpoint of this precious stone set in the silver sea, all performed bravely and well, stiff upper lip and all that. That’s what they would have us believe. But in these last days, we are only now beginning to know the true nature of what went on in those several weeks in the desert, enough to make everyone realize, I hope, that war on any scale is a tragedy for al 1 involved. And once again, that point will be made through that flickering telly in the comer, or on the printed page you grab as you make a dash for the tube. ...	□
Marshall Armintor is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters London Program.
20
SCHOLASTIC
t IT's Another bay, awotmek mllar at the’
CLICHE TESTING INSTITUTE
r.AS w
Actuals HAVE 4hdEATacmx GHviTWi/st-y, father ^gSEASCH U fcGWlRED.
KHER. A SUWEf OF 1HE bECEKa P0KWS fHUHOM wsmoN, n is «£a»thw MS NOT AW TAW* IV lAtTH WM-
#W«/NftA-. MORE THAN
.jauiweo i2.
...37..3X-31
1 DON'T
WY IT.
30
il



/WK TypiCAL (OMWS IT APPEARS SAFE ID (WE THAT A SPNE KMAWJ MOSS-REE WM' ft I THE UME IT ROLLI-
T^_ hither : yer
1 O$tn'<h«; iaiwHner ^hCQnr t

/

0T
Thursday,
March 21st
The SHAMRCCH SHUFFLE III
>5K Race begins at Stepan Center, 6 p.m ^There is a $6 registration fee, which includes a commemorative T-shirt.
•^Register March 19 &. 20 at dinner or in SUB office or 1/2 hour before the run. ^Rain date set for April 4th.
Saturday, March 23rd
MUSIC AND ICE CREAM SUNDAES AT FIELDHOUSE MALL
^Help devour a delicious ONE-TON Ice Cream Sundae at 2.0C
^Free mugs to first 650 people.
^Eand schedule.
rrX AFFA/F Seed Cuesticn Chisel ice-nine Tartar Gun ITSITT
1:3© 2:15 3:©© 3:45
^lf it rains, bands and ice cream will move to Theodore’s.
$ H
3 ~U ”□ o
if I
m
STUDENT UNION BOARD