Vol. XXL
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 7, 1S8S.
' No. 16.
To a Friend at Parting.
1.
Ah, think not that I feel the less
Because I smile and speak of Heaven!
I would not flout the heart’s distress: But why was Faith’s sweet sunshine given,
If not to brighten every cloud
That flits across our mortal day?— If not to touch the very shroud
With light from Easter’s blessdd ray ?
xt.
We part. For years? For life? If so, A time, at most—a span of breath.
But half a parting! There is no Forever on this side of death.
And while on earth we live apart, We find each other, near or far, Wherever rests the Sacred Heart— The altar-lamp our guiding star.
For Jesus’ Heart holds you and me: And only final loss of grace—
No leagues of land, no stretch of sea— Can bar us from that trysting-place.
in.
Another Heart, too, holds us both: Our Mother’s, with its tender care, And faithful love that knows but growth;
And we can meet each other there.
Ay, morn and eve, and all day long, Whene’er we breathe an Ave sweet—
Alone, at rest, or mid the throng Of toil and strife—our souls can meet
In Mary’s Heart, so skill’d to keep
Each for the other, both for Him
From whose illimitable deep
That reservoir o’erflows its brim.	'
. IV.	-
’Tis thus, to me, our holy Faith Makes sunshine in the Vale of Tears.
Nor less that other side of death—
And ere the everlasting years ‘
Encircle both—for us ’tis bright	~
With more than sunshine: so we trust
But wisely—climbing tow’rd the light
Which glads the Mansions of the Just.
—Ave Maria.
Sir Thomas More.
As we look through the pages of a nation’s history, we find there held up before, the public eye, for praise and admiration, the names of many whom the world calls heroes. Among them the close o	.
observer may find some whose acts and motives have been such as to render them deserving of the position which they hold in the public mind; others are accorded praise and glory for deeds which, if carefully sifted and thereal motives which prompted them discovered, would call forth well-merited censure where admiration is now lavishly bestowed. Historians and biographers frequently present before us their estimate of a character, but refrain	,
from giving the grounds on which they base their	.,
opinions. Therefore, it behooves us, in forming our judgment of men of the past, if we would .	. .
arrive at truth rather than error, to diligently in-	.
quire into their lives and surroundings, and render.	।
our decision only after due deliberation.	.
There appears in England’s history a man who for greatness of mind, nobility of character and fearlessness in the cause of truth and duty stands preeminent among his countrymen. The whole life, . public and private, of this man, whose name appears as the subject of this sketch, will bear the closest scrutiny, even by his enemies,withoutoneray	.
of its brilliancy becoming dimmed. Even at this re- ' mote day, as we view through the obscurity of more . than three and one-half'centuries the life of Sir Thomas More, we recognize therein nothing but those noble qualities which constitute true greatness.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
More’s parents, although belonging to the English gently, were not wealthy, and during his youth he was obliged to contend with many7 of the difficulties with which poverty7 is attended. When fifteen years of age, he entered the household of Cardinal Morton, Archbishop of Canterbury, as a na^e: and even while engaged in that humble occupation, he displayed a readiness of wit and brilliancy7 of genius which caused his learned master to predict for the youthful servant a bright and useful future. He was heartily7 devoted to study, and with his habitual cheerfulness and good nature he encountered and overcame every obstacle that stood between him and the gratification of his desire for learning. Partly7 in accordance with his own inclination, but more by the desire of his good father, he entered the legal field, and his natural genius and wit soon won for him a place among the foremost members of his profession. That his worth and ability7 were appreciated is evident from the fact that he was repeatedly7 elevated to official positions of varied importance. While holding these minor offices and residing in his pleasant home at Chelsea, he could spare from his official duties abundant time to exercise his literary tastes and talents. It was during this period that he wrote his celebrated book “Utopia,” the greatest literary7 production of the age. This woik, written when the fire of English literature was burning only with a dim and unsteady7 flame, was one of the most notable produced by7 any7 English writer, and shows its author to have possessed ideas far in advance of the age in which he lived. The next important production of his pen was “The Life and Reign of Edward V,” which was the first English work deserving the name of history, and is declared by critics to be our earliest specimen of classical English prose. These two works alone would have been sufficient to render More famous as a literary7 man; but they were not his only writings. Besides these, he wrote several other books of minor importance, comprised chiefly7 of theological treatises and discussions, all of which, however, reflect credit on their author. .If his fame as a writer is not so extensive as that of some more modern authors it is because he wrote at a time when lack of education had darkened the minds of the English people and rendered them incapable of appreciating the most brilliant literary productions; and his writings were not such as would be popular in later times when the language, in which most of them were written, had fallen into disuse, and the condition of England had materially changed.
In 1529, when the great Cardinal Wolsey fell.
into disfavor with the king and was dismissed from the position of Lord High Chancellor, More was raised to that important office. Although he was the first layman to whom the chancellorship of England had ever been entrusted, he performed the many duties devolving on him in that important position with justice and impartiality rarely practised by7 his predecessors.
During the two and one-half years in which More held his high office, although he possessed the friendship and almost unlimited confidence of Henry VIII, he saw clearly, from the turn events were taking, that the time would soon come when he would be called upon to choose between the voice of conscience and the wishes of his capricious monarch. While he could not but foresee that his position was a dangerous one, he hesitated not one moment as to the course he would pursue. He continued to perform his duties with his accustomed cheerfulness, refraining while he could reasonably do so, from expressing his opinion regarding the proposed divorce and re-marriage of the king. Henry, thinking that More who owed his office to the royal will, would not dare to oppose him in his design, urgently pressed him to sanction the divorce. The chancellor, already alarmed at the progress of the Reformation which had even now spread itself over Germany, and was making rapid headway7 in England; and, sooner than needlessly give offence to his sovereign, surrendered up the seals of his office and retired into private life. Henry now demanded that More acknowledge him head of the Church, but he declined. This enraged the haughty monarch who was accustomed to nothing but obsequiousness and flattery from his pliant officers, and he resolved to force the conscientious More to yield to his wishes. The exchancellor was accordingly7 compelled to bid farewell to his family and the pleasant scenes surrounding his beautiful home at Chelsea, and was confined in a gloomy, dismal prison where he remained for more than a year' awaiting the pleasure of the despotic king. At length he wras brought to trial charged with treason. This charge was preferred, not that More had ever betrayed a trust, but he had thwarted the will of the merciless Henry, and as a penalty for this his life must be sacrificed. To bring him to the scaffold, it was necessary that some accusation should be brought against him, and treason was the most effective and convenient. After the mock trial had been gone through, More was found “guilty,” and condemned to death.
During'his imprisonment and trial his accustomed cheerfulness and good humor never fora
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
moment forsook him. He had followed the path which duty pointed out, and with the happy consciousness of a life well spent, he prepared to ascend the scaffold. Never for a moment did he betray any fear of death; not even the gleaming steel of the executioner could cast a cloud upon his radiant countenance; but he spoke with his usual wit and pleasantness to the lieutenant who assisted him up the shaky steps of the scaffold. Thus the capricious Henry VIII sacrificed to his pride and his profligacy as true a subject and as great a man as England ever held.
During his official life, More was ever on the side of mercy and leniency. It is true, he sometimes punished depraved criminals with the severity which their deeds merited, but he always entertained a profound dislike for the sanguinary practice then prevalent in England, especially with regard to the punishment of those accused of heresy. It is said by some that he himself encouraged the custom of persecuting so-called heretics; but this charge is wholly groundless. In his great book “Utopia,” where he describes his ideal nation, he paints it as a government in which all are happy and contented, and freedom of conscience is one of its fundamental laws. This alone would show how improbable is the charge brought against him of introducing religious persecution. It was not until More had retired from office and his flexible successor, Thomas Audley, held the chancellor’s seal, that heresy was declared a capital offence, and so many innocent victims yielded up their lives on the scaffold. During his whole life the firm convictions, the unswerving integrity and the noble courage of More won the esteem even:of those who differed from him in opinion. His life was pure, and his death he met calmly and even joyfully.
As a writer, he ranked among the greatest of his age; as a statesman, he gained the respect and admiration of his contemporaries, and as a martyr he cheerfully gave up his life for the faith of his fathers, and gained a place in the realms of eternal joy, and a crown of glory that can never fade.
T. F. Griffin.
A maxim invented by envy, and too readily adopted, is that we should not praise men before their death. I say, on the contrary, praise them when they deserve praise. When jealousy and calumny can rage against virtue and talents, and strive to depreciate them, it is then especially that we should dare to bear testimony to the good that exists. It is unjust criticisms we should fear, and not sincere praise.— Vauvernargues.
Reciprocal Duties of the Press and the Public.
BY WILLIAM MOYNES, A. M.
It is safe to assert that no country in the world compares with our own in the number of its news- . papers. In fact, newspapers are three or four times more numerous in the United States than in anv other country. Nowhere else are they so widely circulated and so extensively read.
The influence newspapers exercise is commonly underrated. But a careful observer cannot fail to notice that it is difficult to find anywhere in the United States a family, not altogether illiterate, that does not subscribe for and read at least a weekly newspaper. And probably most families take two or more weeklies or dailies, not to mention magazines and other publications. The newspaper . generally serves as the chief medium of communication between the great world outside and the family. Its facts and narrations, its incidents arid news, its arguments and suggestions, reach the impressionable minds of all in the household—of the mother and children—giving rise to many of the ideas they acquire and many of the opinions they form. And as long as it is preserved, whether for days or years, it presents the same facts and assumptions, inculcates the same lessons, and points out the same course of conduct.
Needless to say that the reading of newspapers -has a tendency to enlighten the people, to keep them informed in respect to current events throughout the world, to increase their general knowledge, to make them feel a deeper interest in public affairs, to make them self-reliant and independent, to render it impossible to lead them blindly in any direction, and to maintain an equilibrium in public and social concerns. And here, for the sake of illustration, a slight diversion may be pardoned: It is well known that the study of history greatly enlightens men in respect to their duties to themselves, their fellow-citizens, and the State. They derive from it an aptitude for reasoning, and reasoning accurately, in respect to the consequences of contemplated acts by the government or by combinations of the people. Thus they are enabled, with the approval of reason, to favor or to oppose such acts. But only a comparatively few study history. The important lessons it teaches are almost unknown to the great majority of men. However, not so in the case of the newspaper. That is read by the people generally. Its news, its editorials, and its miscellany, are perused from day to
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
244
day in all parts of the country. In fact, the newspaper is a daily summary of the history of the world. It is current history. From this point of view, may it not be regarded as an important instrumentality in the education of the masses? And, as such, does it not owe a duty to itself and to the public? Undoubtedly it does; but, fortunately, its duty and its interests are identical. There is no conflict between them. Its duty is to cultivate and exemplify, as far as possible, the qualities and characteristics that ought to distinguish the citizens of this Republic. . And in doing so it cannot fail to meet with a responsive feeling—a strong feeling of co-operation on their part. It owes them the duty of cherishing and cultivating independence of spirit, honesty of purpose, and courage in the advocacy of right. It should not be misanthropic. Not blind to the weaknesses, neither should it ignore the commendable traits, of poor humanity. There are certain qualities that men instinctively admire, and the newspaper that espouses and consistently aims to promote them secures a deep hold upon public favor. Men instinctively admire truth, integrity, honor, courage, justice, character, and kindred virtues. No upright person of nature normally warm and sympathetic, can withhold respect and admiration fro a the man who dares at all times to maintain the cause of right—the cause of Truth—who dares
“To stand beside her -
:	When craven churls deride her;
To front a lie in arms, and not to yield—	.
This shows, methinks, God’s plan And measure of a stalwart man.”
But let us take another view of this subject. Let us inquire whether it is not the duty of newspaper. men, and indeed all of us, to be manly, charitable and broad-minded in reference to the opinions and convictions of one another. Under the protection of a common citizenship, it is but fair that we should enjoy immunity from criticism and censure in respect to our minor differences. We miv differ from one another in politics, habits, qualifications, opportunities and social status^ but nevertheless we stand upon the same footing in our civil relations, and have an equal right to indulgence in all things that do not threaten the infraction of those relations. On every side we find evidence that men may differ to-day and.agree to-morrow. It is generally conceded that opinions are founded upon a person’s range of information, observation and individual experiences. But not one of us can rationally hope ever to have full and. accurateinfofmation in respect even to the things that closely concern us, or with
which we have to deal from day to day, not to mention thousands of things throughout the world which we can never see, and of which we can learn little or nothing. And although the emotions of the human heart are the same in all parts of the world, a story of Arabian, Egyptian or Persian love and valor being as touching in our own country as though it were American, yet things are so ordered that no one can ever pass through more than a very limited range of the sum of human experiences and knowledge. A hasty retrospect will assure us that as we increased in experience and knowledge, while travelling on toward the meridian of life, manjr opinions long entertained became radically changed or were altogether dismissed. And even- now may not increased knowledge, a more extended scope of observation, an addition to the sum of actual experiences, lead to a total change of our views upon some subjects? How, then, can fair and reasonable men claim that the views they entertain are absolutely correct, and that all contrary views are wrong? The wiser and more reasonable a man is, the less likely will he be to claim that his convictions register the exact standard of truth, right and justice, and that the convictions of all other men are erroneous and pernicious. Common sense condemns all the pretensions of such boastful arrogance.
The higher a man stands, the more of the world he sees; and the more he sees, the more likely he is to avoid all exhibition of narrowness and intolerance. The common ant sees only a few inches, and all the beauties of the world are unknown to it. The vision of the common fly is limited to a few feet, and it cannot see or admire the beauties of anything much larger than an ordinary sugar-bowl. In Utah are numbers of persons born in that Territory who become very incredulous when told that Chicago, Philadelphia or New York is larger or moremagnificentthan Salt Lake City. And,indeed, most men exhibit a tendency to regard the places in which they live as essentially superior in most respects to places they have never seen. The nearer things stand to us in the order of proprietorship or association, the more likely we are to be blind to their defects. So it is important to the interests of truth to take a broad view in forming judgments concerning our fellow-men and the affairs of life.
Every citizen is entitled to express himself freely and openly in respect to matters that concern the public. To put a penalty, upon the. expression of honest thought—thought conforming to the fundamental rule.of invading no man’s legal rights—is felt to be hardly less offensive and degrading by a
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	245
person of spirit than would be his arrest and actual . imprisonment. Michael Angelo was once accosted by a person who bemoaned his fate in the likelihood of his dying without children to perpetuate his great name. Pointing to some of his works hard by, Angelo said: “Behold them! They are my children! They will perpetuate my memory!” And so with the ideas of every man, whether chiselled into shape and tangible form in marble or brass, or limned upon canvas, or made public orally, or in writing, or by the agency of the Press. These are a part of himself, and not unworthy of the name Angelo bestowed upon his works.
The Press should recognize this right in every law-abiding citizen, and not seek to abridge it by captious criticism. And, on the other hand, all citizens should protect the Press in the right fully and freely to discuss the merits or demerits of public measures, and the character or want of character of those who offer themselves as candidates for office. The law should not be permitted to abridge or encroach upon this right of the Press. A man whose acts are proper subjects of reproach should not offer himself as a candidate for office. But should he do so, the Press ought not to spare him. It ought to excoriate a person shameless enough to invite its scrutiny and criticism under such circumstances. It is in the interest of a sound public policy that the right of the Press to indulge freely in honest criticism should be jealously guarded and maintained. Whenever, too, the grasping avarice of the ghouls and vampires of the stock exchanges and money-marts oppress the people, it is the duty of the Press to raise the cry of alarm; to point out the wrongs they are perpetrating; to oppose their machinations with earnestness and vigor, and to defeat their schemes of public spoliation. As against such schemes of plunder the people are ..weak and helpless- until aroused, banded together, and put upon their guard; and to do this is a duty specially devolving upon the Press. In this respect the Press is their defender and protector in a degree . far surpassing that of their well-paid representatives in office.
And here it may be remarked that the people iowe the Press a reciprocal duty, which ought cheerfully and unstintedly to be discharged. They owe it their appreciation, encouragement and generous support. Shame on any community that is mean and miserly towards its newspapers! Every such community is more likely to. recede than to advance in the general and spirited competition how prevailing. A mere glance at a newspaper suffices to inform an observing person whether it
is published in a large or a small town, in a thriving or a dull place, and whether the community is composed of active, enterprising and progressive men, or fossilized, penurious and small-souled creatures. Odd though it may seem, the newspaper unconsciously tells its story, and tellsit truthfully, as to the size and character of the place in which it is published, and the kind of people there living. The size of the paper, whether it is a daily or a weekly, the number of columns of advertisements in it, the quantity of reading matter it contains, whether the printing material is new or old, etc., are some of the indications that inform the experienced eye of the business man as to its circulation and the kind of place in which it is published. Of course, he shuns and leaves to retrogression and decay a place which the newspaper pronounces dull, dying or dead. Every citizen, then, has incidentally a pecuniary interest in the success and prosperity of the newspapers published in his town. Properly understood, his duty in that respect to himself and his fellow-citizens requires him to take the local papers and to advertise his business in them. He should, too, have his job printing done at home. In short, he should patronize his home printing office to the fullest extent possible in connection with the nature of his business.
On the other hand, where the editor finds in the community a just appreciation of his labors—finds that his paper is held in becoming esteem, and patronized as generously as the size and business of the town warrant—he is bound in honor to put forth his best efforts to promote the welfare of the place and to protect the interests of its people. The competition now so sharp everywhere renders economy on his part necessary. This should be faced as a duty and borne uncomplainingly. He should be mindful to have his paper, not less than himself, in a “new dress” from time to time. In fact, if truly devoted to duty, and honestly anxious to acquire success, he is likely to be more particular about the appearance of the paper than about his own appearance. He will be inclined to concur with Horace Greeley in saying, “I expect always to be poor myself, but I want the Tribune to be rich.” He will make it a point of first importance to secure the local news—all of it that can possibly be of interest. But he will avoid sensationalism; for a sensational sheet is unreliable and disappointing. People do not trust it, and they soon tire of it. Nor will he be a scandal-monger. A newspaper that shows a predilection for the low, coarse, nasty, disgusting incidents, and doings of the day, comes in time to be shunned as a viper by
246
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
persons of delicate sensibilities and refined tastes. It is kept out of the hands of their children and carefully excluded from their homes. The newspaper is a public educator, and it must lose all claim upon the respect and indulgence of the people when it becomes a vehicle of slush and filth. It is of the highest importance to publish the local news, and to publish it fully. It is only by doing so that papers published within a radius of 150 or 200 miles of the larger cities can be made interesting and useful, successful and profitable. The dailies of the smaller cities must, of course, receive at least the most important of the Associated Press dispatches; but in no case should there be any relaxation of the attention due to the local columns. In the weeklies the general news should be carefully prepared and summarized. There can be no excuse for publishing in a weekly a dispatch stating a certain thing as a fact, and another contradicting it. The order of importance in presenting the news is to begin with the town, and then to pass on to the township, county, State, Nation and the world. Of course, this order is subject to modification if there be in the news anything specially startling and important. News of this kind is always entitled to precedence. And the selections should be carefully and discriminatingly made. It should be sought to give such as describe remarkable occurrences—occurrences with which a man need not be ashamed to charge his memory—occurrences which he would not hesitate to repeat as interesting or remarkable. But, above all, the selections should contain facts and deal with matters of interest. Biographical sketches, historical incidents, accounts of discoveries in the sciences and inventions in the arts, and the like, are generally read with profit and pleasure, while, at the same time, they serve admirably to maintain the dignity and character of the newspaper. Tastes widely differ, and it should be sought to make the newspaper interesting to all. But, as a general rule, hardly anything can be published that will not interest and be read with pleasure by some persons in a community. However, work that will satisfy the majority must be distinguished by correct taste, good common sense and accurate forecast. This remark is specially applicable to the editorial columns. Other classes find special interest and pleasure in reading wit, humor, fiction, and accounts of games, amusements, etc. The claims of all these classes must receive due recognition in the parts of the paper respectively appropriated to them. Though the humor of the day has become considerably diluted, yet whenever the eye
rests upon anything new and meritorious in that line, it is safe to copy it.
It requires excellent tact and judgment to understand and apply the rules essential to the editing of an influential newspaper, and a man wanting in such tact and judgment had better not enter the field of journalism. Of course, the work of the ordinary reporter, who is generally told where to go and what to do before he starts upon his errand to find news, involves no particular originality and only a limited exercise of the judgment. But the editor who directs the policy of the paper and fixes itsattitude with respect toimportanteventsin public, business and social life, must have what is popularly called a “level head.” His writings fix the standing of the paper in the community and wherever it circulates. It is better to have no editorials at all than to have confused, repugnant, misleading and shallow productions. As there are so few men that seem to combine facility and grace in writing with accurate general information, reliable forecast, sound judgment and broad-gauge views, it is by no means easy to secure the services of editors thoroughly competent, and it is even more difficult to pay the salaries they demand. In all cases involving this question, or where the services of such men cannot be secured, it is invariably wiser to publish but few editorials, and to concentrate attention upon the other departments of the paper.
Every well-conducted-paper has a policy or individuality of its own, so to speak, and an experienced editor readily enters into its spirit—readily catches the prevailing sentiment and writes in harmony with it. A person of immature judgment, circumscribed experience and limited information is incapable of doing this. He involves it in contradiction after contradiction until its readers lose all patience with it, and wish it at least as far away from them as the weather-vane on the stable. A newspaper can inspire no respect, command no confidence, have no influence, while a changeling occupies the editorial chair.	•
And there are other matters affecting the internal management of the office that deserve careful attehtion. For example, it is a matter of no small importance to keep the office neat and tidy, for this exercises an influence by no means inconsiderable upon the morale of the employes and the manner in which they do their work. However, nothing can have a more salutary influence in this respect than to pay them regularly. When pay-day goes by, and their wages are not received, they become careless, discontented, indifferent. Some of them are not unwilling to quit work, and while in that
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
frame of mind they do not hesitate to do' things that would justify their discharge. The employer is at the mercy of their whims. When he suffers a considerable bill to run up he is afraid they may quit work, make known to the public by law-suit or otherwise how difficult it is for him to pay his debts, and force him to put forth unavailing efforts or resort to humiliating expedients to collect or borrow on short notice the necessary cash. When thus hampered with indebtedness he is not wholly master of his office, and occasions are not wantins’ to make him painfully aware of the fact. But it is quite otherwise when he pays the men promptly; They are then reliable, they do hot doubt his solvency, and they are glad to be and to remain in his service. In fact, he knows that he can count upon the faithful performance of the work respectively assigned to them, and he has no fear of annoyance through insubordination on their part. Besides, he . should avoid the “order” system of collections and payments. He should collect cash from those who owe him and invariably pay cash to those whom he owes.
The reputation of the office for solvency should Be maintained in the community at all hazards, and few things sooner undermine it than to adopt, the “ order ” system or to withhold wages from the employes. In the counting-room everything should be conducted on the strictest business principles. Subscriptions should be carefully entered on the books; collections should be made promptly; specimen copies of the paper should be sent out from time to time, with a view to increasing the circulation; the paper should also go to press and be delivered to subscribers regularly at the appointed time. But such details may fatigue the reader. Suffice it to add that business tact of a high order is required in the counting-room. In fact, ably edited journals are sometimes compelled to cease publication on account of poor business management, while many that are editorially indifferent, erratic or actually feeble, enjoy a fair measure of success on account of the tact, persevering enterprise and sound business management of the publishers.
To conclude, it may be stated, as a general rule, that when the Press discharges the duties it owes the public, with sincerity of purpose, liberality of spirit and soundness of judgment—with honesty, fairness and efficiency—the public can be depended upon cheerfully to respond in fulfilment of the reciprocal duties of according to it due appreciation, vindicating it in all reasonable discussion and criticism, reposing- confidence in the validity of its
247
conclusions and the wisdom of its recommendations, and extending to it the practical encouragement of a steady and generous patronage.
Scientific Notes.
—Artesian wells have always been the subject of a good deal of mystery, but they are quite commonly employed for sources of water-supply. Messrs. Belding Bros. & Co., of Northampton, Mass., have had a sad experience with one intended' to supply their silk-works. After drilling to a depth of 3,700 feet the well was abandoned, as no flow of water was obtained. The bore was an eight-inch. Sandrock was struck at 150 feet, and the remainder of the boring was into it without getting through it. At Holyoke, only nine miles away, good and abundant water is found at 600 feet. The Belding well is the deepest in this country. The next deepest is at St. Louis, Mo., where a depth of 3,180 feet gives a sulphur water. The deepest in the world is a Government well in Prussia, over 4,000 feet, and furnishing hot water. The largest artesian well in the world is near Passy, in France. This is two feet in diameter, 1,913 feet deep, and flows 3,795,000 gallons of water per day. Another famous one is at Grenelle, France, which is sunk i,So2 feet, and delivers 880.000 gallons of water daily, and with sufficient force tp.rise_.i3O_fept. above the surface.
—M. Berthelot, the well-known Paris chemist, has recently made some discoveries in relation to. the metallurgy of-the ancients, which are considered to have both scientific and historical import-. ance. M. Place discovered in 1854, under the ruins of the palace of King Sargon, a stone coffer con-" taining several metal plates covered with cuneiform inscriptions, recording the erection of the^ building (B. C. 760); the fact being likewise recorded that three of the tablets were respectively of gold, silver and copper, while the fourth was composed of various substances. M. Berthelot’s* researches confirm the correctness of the inscriptions as to the first two plates; the third he found to be bronze instead of copper, containing eighty-five parts of copper to ten of tin. The fourth plate, was found to consist of crystallized magnesium' limestone (carbonate of magnesium), a very rare mineral, unknown to scientific men at the commencement of this century. Some fragments from Tello were likewise analyzed by M. Berthelot, with the result that.a vase was found to be composed of pure antimony, which metal has always; been regarded as unknown to the ancients and as having been discovered only in the fifteenth century. Tello has been deserted since the time of the Parthians, so that the remains of the oldest Chaldean culture are found there. Virchow has -also recorded the discovery of antimony ornaments . in a trans-caucasian necropolis. 21 statuette was found by M. Berthelot to be of pure copper.
248	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
PublisljrlJ c&rrn Satur&an ‘buring 2>crm Cimc at X. D. Snibrrsitg
Notre Dame, January 7, 1888.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Twenty-First year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends •who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms., Sr.^o fer Annum. Postpaid.
*A6xm EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff.
G. H. Craig, ’88,	P.VD. Brownson ’88,
J. A. Burns, ’88,	Chas. P. Neill, ’89.
Letter from Very Bev. Father General Sorin.
The Minims received a beautiful letter a short time ago from the venerated Father Founder while on his way to the Holy Land. The letter was, unfortunately, mislaid; but for sake of-the pleasure it will undoubtedly give Very Rev. Father General’s numberless friends, the princes have prepared the following synopsis:
Cairo, November 29,1887.
To the Princes of Notre Dame:
Here I am, in the Bishop’s room, forced on me last Friday. I have just returned with my comfagnons de voyage from seeing the pyramids—the wonders of Egypt. These huge structures (funereal, perhaps, in appearance) have no architectural beauty. They are built of white cut stone, and have stood the burning sun of Egypt for the last 5,200 years. As we were unavoidably delayed for over an hour by the opening of the bridge across the Nile to allow a ship to pass, we could only see the pyramids from the ground, to the great disappointment of my companions,
who would give me no rest until they had ascended the top. They have just returned, riding on long-eared donkeys and perfectly delighted with what they have seen, but so fatigued that they have gone to rest, while I feel vigorous. The pyramids were built by the Egyptian Kings, and as you are a royal progeniture at Notre Dame, I think you might have one of these appendages of Egyptian royalty. The east end of your play-ground would be a very suitable place for a pyramid—not exactly as large as the original, but say 14 feet high, with 11% feet at base of each of its six sides. Have a double row of shade trees on either side of a walk 12 feet wide, running east, for visitors. See Bros. Charles and Alfred about it, and tell them they will im- . mortalize their names by building the first pyramid on the • American continent.
Please give my affectionate regards to all my friends, far and near.	'	Your devoted,
E. Sorin.
The Star of Bethlehem.
An esteemed correspondent sends the following question:
“ May I request you to ask the Editor of the Scholastic how long it would take a ray of the Star of Bethlehem to reach us? I suppose a ray of light from that star which shone upon the Divine Infant, travelled as fast as light from any other star.”
We do not know the distance, however, that the light had to travel, or whether the star was a comet, a meteor, or what is commonly known as a “ fixed ” star. There seems to be a disposition among persons of a yzz<75z’-scientific turn of mind to regard the star which appeared in Cassiopeia in the year 1572 as a variable star of long period, becoming visible every three hundred odd years, say 314-4. Hence it might have been visible in the year of Our Saviour’s birth, and should have been seen again in 1S86 or ’7, but was not. The newspapers last year were all in a state of expectation on the subject, and some even went so far as to mistake the well-known planet Venus, which was particularly brilliant last fall, for the famous star. It is not at all easy to understand, however, how a fixed star in the constellation Cassiopeia could have led the Magi to Jerusalem and thence to Bethlehem. On the other hand, a comet would not have escaped Herod’s notice; and he evidently had not thought about the matter until the Wise Men arrived. The most probable opinion is that the star of Bethlehem was a special and’ miraculous light afforded by Heaven to the Wise Men, as the pillar of fire was given to guide the Israelites in their desert wanderings. In that case its light would reach them in the fraction of a second. None of the known comets are distant enough,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	249
when visible, for their light to require more than a few minutes to reach the earth. The nearest of the fixed stars, a Centauri, requires about three years and a half to send its rays to the earth, the furthest may require thousands of years for aught we can tell, for we have no means of measuring the distance of the more remote among the heavenly bodies.
[From the Scholastic Ahnuali\ Ths Presidential Horoscope.
In our issue for 18S4 we cast the horoscope of the successful candidate for the Presidency, and we need not remind our readers how literally it was fulfilled, in spite of the scoffs of the incredulous. Appearing, as it did, before the close of the year 18S3, when the nominations even were mere matter of speculation, it gave, as may be remembered, a satisfactory description of the character, manners, and physique of the present honored incumbent of the supreme chair of the Republic, and of the main circumstances attendant upon his election; the discomfiture of political “bosses,” the absence of bribery and corruption, and even of oratorical display, etc. As soon as published, the horoscope was met by the flouts and fleers of the would-be satirist. The Chicago Inter Ocean in particular had a long article headed “The Scholastic in Politics,” which was intended to wither us with contempt and derision. But the man with the thick neck was elected in spite of all.
The following is the horoscope for the hour of closing the polls at the mean centre of population for the next presidential election:
The prominent feature in this horoscope is the gathering of planets in and about the sign of Sagittarius, Jupiter occupying the human half, and the Moon the bestila, of this double-bodied sign, while Venus is passing from the former into the latter; so that the southwest horizon at sunset will be brilliant with the chief ornaments of the nocturnal sky. Not far off is Mars in Capricorn, while the setting Sun and Mercury, which has already set, are in the neighboring sign on the other side.
Now Sagittarius is a centaur—that is; a man on horseback, and we must look to the. ascendant to determine the character, complexion and pursuits of this man on horseback. Taurus is always on the ascendant at a presidential election. In 1884 the influences of the sign were considerably modified by the presence of Neptune therein, but Neptune will have passed the threshold of Gemini
before November, 1888. Hence the Taurine or bovine features of the ascendant are unmodified and denote the person and occupation of the man on horseback. In short, our coming President will be a Texan cowboy.
In the present state of politics the writer, as well as his readers, are completely in the dark as to who the favored cowboy may be. The stars do not reveal names. But, mark my words,—he will turn up in good time.
Now, as to the circumstances of the election. J u pi ter, although regarded in general as a fortunate planet, is not so in the case of popular elections, as he leans to the side of despotism. You see he is very strong, for Sagittarius is his own sign and he is also in the Seventh House. He is befriended by Venus, the lady of the ascendant, and although opposed by Neptune, the star of the present administration, is evidently strong enough to override the opposition. Observe- now that the Moon, the index of popular opinion, is peregrine, and afflicted by semi-square with the Sun, although favored by a trine with Saturn. We must hence conclude that the nominations will be controlled by a clique, the jealousy of party leaders leading to a compromise on a hitherto obscure candidate, who will be far from what would have been in reality “the people’s choice.” The trine with Saturn, however, indicates that time will show the choice to have been a happy one.
Mercury, retrograde, peregrine and in the Sixth House will give little trouble. Venus, fortified by a semi-sextile with the Sun and trine and Saturn, is indicative of increasing prosperity during the coming president’s term of office. The price of wheat, which has been falling during the approach of Uranus to Spica Virginis, will rise after that planet passes the star, and good times may again be expected.
The quartile aspect of Mars and Uranus, into which Mars is barely entering, may occasion some election riots on the Pacific coast, towards the closing of the polls. The biquintile of Mars and Saturn gives courage and boldness to the nominee. The sextile of Saturn and Uranus is not of any importance. The sextile of Uranus and Venus will secure the benignant regard of the ladies for the successful candidate.
In short, although the horoscope is ‘not all that could be wished, it shows that, we shall have a chief of the executive who will at least do the country no harm. He will “ let well alone,” and under such a dispensation our beloved country is sure to prosper,
250
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Wealth.
Without the resources of nature there could be no wealth, no people. Fertile valleys and hillsides are-the most prolific sources of prosperity. In a region of barrenness, industry and economy produce a scanty subsistence. The great desert, rocky Labrador, heath-covered Iceland and lichen-laden Scythia are wrapped in mournful ruins: their generations toil on drearily to supply the bare necessities of life, and ever remain strangers to luxury. In such countries the civilizing influence of religion and education can make but little progress. They may produce fishes and furs, but they are inconsiderable in their results when compared with what is derived from the productive soil, rich mines, stately forests, and superior- minerals of America, Britain, France, Germany and India.
In ancient times, when transportation on any extensive scale was almost unheard of,famines were frequent. English history furnishes a notable example in the year 1258. Modern explorations and inventions facilitate transportation to such an extent that the world’s riches are well divided among all nations. Take our railroads and telegraph systems; what in ancient times can be compared to them? By their use millions to the east and west of us are furnished with the necessaries of life. In return, the villager, the pioneer and aristocrat are clad in comfortable and attractive apparel. Who has not thought of the wealth of contentment in homes ornamented with decorations chiselled from the forest? From the forest the woodsman, the sawyer, the lumber dealer, the engraver, and the finisher have carried sheaves of joy to thousands of homes. Where is the home that is not made splendid by the products from mines? Where is the statue, temple, or hall of state that does not owe its magnificence to the same source?	.
A great aim proposed by humanity is to obtain gold. The man or country possessing the most gold and silver has been called the wealthiest; but are we to bow to money as to a godly shrine? The man is truly wealthy and great who is wise and virtuous. The country is the wealthiest whose citizens are most’refined, economical and industrious. By means of industry the poorest man is able to achieve honor, as well as the richest. In the family as in the state, economy is one of those prime factors that cause the results of civilization to accumulate. If anyone, seeks to improve his condition, he must learn all he can, spend as little as possible, and make what he does spend bring all that can be garnered
from life’s joys and blessings both to himself and those with whom the social order brings him into immediate and directive relationship.
The words “waste not, want not,” carved on Sir Walter Scott’s fireplace, briefly express the secret of order and economy. “Economy in little things is like the falling of the snow-flakes. Each flake is small in itself, but an hour’s storm brings a result weighty and powerful. Like the snow-flakes, not the single dime or dollar, the single moment
O	3	o
of joy or of good resolve, but a jewelled lifetime that makes the owner rich and cultured.” History is not wanting in examples to show that a nation’s prosperity is based upon the culture, contentment and real worth of its people.	' .
The republics of Southern Europe did not wreck for want of marble and gold; but contentment was not there. The empire of Charlemagne did not fall for want of people and soldiery; but the false show of chivalry was there. England did not lose America through lack of money and arms; butthere was one thing wanting, and that was" the recognition of the principles of justice. Egypt and India have stood still for four thousand years in the way of civilization; they did not want for natural re-, sources—education was not there.
These examples show us that no great power has ever fallen through want of money and arms. We . must admit that national prosperity depends to some extent upon thesagacity of the ruler; but history errs in attributing too much honor to kings and queens. The best kings are those who have ruled least, and have been ruled most. Excepting Julius Caesar, in literature, science, invention, no royal personage has ever attained average merit. Euclid, the Greek slave,'who pictured his geometry upon the sand with a stick, gave more to posterity than Alfred, James I, or Louis Napoleon, the greatest rulers known. The philosophy of Plato, yet shining among the boughs of Academus, thrills the heart with more reverence than the biography of potentates. The force -of one line of Shakspeare overpowers all that Queen Victoria has ever said or written. This shows that exalted position does not always bequeath most wealth to posterity.
Turning from national wealth to that of individuals, more deserving, but less honored than princes, many forms of wealth, more valuable than gold appear. Who would bargain his culture for gold? Where is the man who sees less in genius than in riches? What Christian would sell his faith for . gain? The realization of one virtue savors more of wealth than the whole history of a Nero. . .
By what degree of comparison can we measure
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	251
the acts of miser and philanthropist? There is no standard by which to value the genius forced into use by necessity. Could some philosopher but penetrate the science of circumstances as well as others have ethics and economy, what a boon he would confer upon us mortals! Among the laws of this new science would be many old truths taught in new ways. The breath of society would be sweetened and pleasure linked with labor. Music and art in the family would receive greater attention.
Wealth meets its greatest end when the greatest good is done to the greatest number. And good is best realized to a nation when there is a unity and harmony of labor and action among the people. “Education for all, aristocracy for none.” The same good is best fostered under legislation which fathers contentment and a fidelity that is more powerful than temples of gold and ship-loads of cannon, more admirable than tributes to honor, and as enduring in the world’s history as the imperishable Egyptian landmarks.
S.J.C.
Books and Periodicals.
—With the short, dull days of early winter come the cheery holidays and Vick’s beautiful annual; andlo! Spring already appears not far distant. We can almost see the greening grass and the bloomingflowers. As a Catalogue, Vici?s Floral Guide is unequalled in artistic appearance, and the edition of each year that appears simply perfect, is surpassed the next. New and beautiful engravings, and three colored plates of flowers, vegetables, and grain, are features for the issue for 1S88. Its lavender tinted cover, with original designs of most pleasing effects, will ensure it a prominent place in the household and library. It is in itself a treatise on horticulture, and is adapted to the wants of all who are interested in the garden or house plants. It describes the rarest flowers and the choicest vegetables. If you want to know anything about the garden, see Vick's Floral Guide. Published by James Vick, Seedsman, Rochester, N. Y.
—The colored plate in The Art Amateur for January is a charming water-color coast scene by H. W. Ranger. Among the numerous working designs in black and white are a capital study of fuchsias; the fourth of the classical figures for panel decoration (Euterpe); pages of smaller figure sketches and of borders for embroidery; a design of daisies for brass-hammering; a very pretty figure design for a fan; and, in china painting, decorations for a panel (cardinal flowers), a plate (roses), and a fish-plate (the second of the series). The number is specially rich in practical articles, the chief topics being painting in water-colors, still-life painting in oils (water-fowl), tapestry painting,
charcoal drawing, china firing, and wood-carving. The last article begins a series by Benn Pitman, and is accompanied by four attractive designs. There are also interesting “talks,” with Mrs. Wheeler on embroidery, and with Mr. Shugio, the Oriental expert, on Japanese swords and on the art of flower arrangement as practised in Japan, the latter profusely illustrated. Another richly illustrated article treats of beds, especially French and German ones, and some very clever drawings accompany a biographical notice of II. W.'Ranger. The Fall exhibitions at the Academy and the American Art Galleries are ably reviewed; “My Note-Book,” and the discourses of “ Greta” on art in Boston, and of H. P. Du Bois on “Book-finding,” furnish particularly entertaining reading. The Art Amateur aims to make itself indispensable alike to the connoisseur and the student of art, and such numbers as the present fully justify its claim in this regard.
—The Catholic World opens its campaign for the new vear with a rattling discharge of hot shot upon the enemy’s ranks, in the shape of an article on the School Question, signed by Dr. Patrick McSweeny. “Headless, Heartless, and Godless” he calls the public school, and proceeds to justify that characterization in a terse and capable paper, which has the additional merit of being refreshingly brief. An entertaining description of the Mexican town of Saltillo, and views of Mexican life generally, follows from the pen of C. E. Hodson. Other articles of more than ordinary timeliness and value are Bishop Keane’s on “ The Catholic University of Louvain ”; Rev. John R. Slattery’s account of “The Seminary for Colored Missions,” and a third paper on “The Metropolitan Aluseum of Art,” which, being the first of the series which bears a signature, reveals Mr. William Henrv Goodyear, one of the Curators of the Museum, as an adept in the art of close and yet comprehensive statement. We do not recall any articles on subjects akin to those treated by Mr. Goodyear which show more thorough mastery of the principles involved, more accurate knowledge of details, nor a more pregnant, vigorous style of presenting a general view which shall enlighten without wearving the uninitiated. Other specimens of the hand-to-hand tactics which the Catholic World appears to favor are Father Young’s excellent plea for “Street-Preaching,” and an unsigned but telling article on “ The Treatment of Converted Polygamists,” which we recommend without describing. Miss Agnes Power contributes the Christmas feature of the January number in an amusing story called “ Dolores.” Miss Kathrine Ty nan has a very beautiful poem, “Ronain and his Island.” The serial story goes on as usual, growing in interest with every page, and the department of “Readers and Correspondents”deserves careful reading. Its brief papers touch on topics of living interest, and treat them with directness and boldness. Mr. Egan’s “Book Chat” describes in his usual readable way three good novels,“TheNew Antigone,” “Narka.” and “ Marizio’s Crucifix.”
2S2	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Personal
—Mr. A. Linnerborn, C. S. C., Professor of German in the University, left Notre Dame on Christmas evening, to complete his studies in Rome. He has the wishes of many friends for his success.
—The many friends of the Rev.' T. O’Sullivan, ’56, of Cummins, Ill., will be pleased to learn that he has recovered from his late serious illness, and now bids fair to enjoy a restoration to perfect health.
—Everett G. Graves, B. S., ’76, is in the Surveying and Land Business at San Antonio, Texas. Everett lately visited one of his Notre Dame Professors,- at present connected with St. Edward’s College, Austin, Texas.
—R£n£ V. Papin, of St. Louis, formerly of the Minim department, was a welcome guest during the holidays. His numerous friends here were greatly pleased to meet him and to find him in such excellent health. Notre Dame always has a welcome for former students, but it is especially cordial for such as Master Papin, whose amiable and excellent qualities endeared him to all with whom he was associated.
—Quite a good-sized and very atten tive audience, in spite of the disagreeable weather, gathered at Library Hall to hear the lecture on “Voltaire,” by Rev. T. E. Walsh, President of Notre. Dame University. It is needless to say that Father Walsh made use of an elegance of diction that is rarely heard. His English was.really sublime. His reasoning was strictly logical, and the arrangement of his discourse was very systematic.—Ft. Wayne Journal, Jan. 5.	'	'
—Rev. A. Morrissey, C. S. C., Director of Studies at the University, left Notre Dame on the evening of the 25th ult., for Rome, to take a position in the House of the Congregation in the Eternal City. His departure was deeply regretted by his many friends among the Faculty and students, all of whom follow him in spirit with their best wishes for a long continuance of the success which has thus far deservedly attended him in his career. We all hope, too, that his absence from us will be of short duration.
—We give herewith a portion of a letter addressed to Very Rev. Father Corby, from Mr. T. A. Flanagan, one of the leading students of Notre Dame in the Class of ’56. He is now a prominent and successful lawyer of Alabama. His memories of his Alma Mater are fond and enduring. His reference to the recent lamented death of Mrs. M. M; Phelan, at St. Mary’s is particularly touching:
Bessemer, Ala., Dec. 25, 1887. Rev. Father and my very dear Friend:
I am very grateful to you indeed for the kind remembrance that prompted your esteemed favor of the 12th inst., informing me of the death of that dearly remembered, saintly soul whom I used to call “ mother,” and who thought so much of me in days still fresh as yesterday in my heart, though lengthened into years and.the years into triple decades since last I. saw her saintly face. A life of thirty years such as hers has been at St. Mary’s, with the work
and good deeds that preceded it, leave no cause for sorrow or regret, for she is certainly another soul with God, piay-ing for the loved ones left by her here on earth. 1 am only sorry I could not have seen her once more before she died.” May God rest her soul! but 1 feel less like praying for her than to her. Yes, one by one they pass away but few, my dear friend, as you say, are left who were with us in those years agone! I often and often think of them, and in the words of the beautiful song my soul sighs out:
“ Oh! where are the friends of my youth?
Say! where are those cheiished ones gone? Why have they dropped like the leaf?
Oh! why have they left me to mourn?”
Very Rev. Father Sorin; loved and venerated Father Granger; Fathers Vagnier and Sullivan, our friend. Joe L. you and I! Who else i< there of the many who were young and joyous with us then? and Fathers Sorin and Granger long have passed their three score years and ten. God grant me the blessing to see them both again! and since I think of it, I myself am nearing my semi-centennial birthday, but five more days, and I will be fifty years old. I cannot realize it myself, yet it is true. I regret indeed to learn of Father Tim S-----’s sickness, and trust he may recover. Please remember me to him. Poor Father Shorti>, too, ' has gone! He was Vice-President of Notre Dame when I first went there in 1851, and was very kind indeed to me and my little brother. May he rest in peace!
—The Rev. Louis Neyron, one of the pioneer missionaries of this State and an old resident of Notre Dame, died this (Saturday) morning, at eight o’clock, just as we go to press. - He was long and familiarly known to the friends and students of Notre Dame, and they will not fail to breathe a prayer for the repose of his soul. May he rest in peace!	-
Local Items.
—Happy New Year!
—Have you seen the Scholastic Annual?
—75° copies of the Scholastic Annual were mailed last Thursday.
—Notwithstanding the general “break-up,” the sleighing and skating remained good. 00	o	o
—The Scholastic Annual for ’88 contains thirty (30) pages of reading matter more than any of its predecessors.
—Found—A sum of money between the College and the Post Office. The owner may call at the President’s office.
—The gentlemanly officials of the'L.S.& M.S. RR. provided special cars for the students going home for the holidays.
—The Philopatrians had a rousing meeting on the 14th ult. Several new members were admitted. A full report in our next.	,
—The St. Cecilians did not forget their old •friend, Bro. Leander^ on the occasion of the 30th annual “Empire Entertainment” of the Association.	' .
—A South Bend weather-prophet has come to the front. His predictions thus far have been verified in a remarkable manner. Our astrologer must look to his laurels, .	. .	. ,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
253
—The Minims desire to return heartfelt thanks to Rev. President Walsh, Bro. Leopold, Mrs. and Miss Harlan, of Tremont, Ohio, for kind favors during the Christmas holidays.
—The Scholastic Annual is out. Everybody should secure a copy. The approaching Presidential campaign has called forth our astrologer from his retirement. Read his predictions.
—Arrangements are being made for the erection of several new and commodious college buildings to be put up next spring or summer. Notre Dame already possesses the handsomest and most complete of college structures in the West; but even these are not sufficient for present requirements.
—The solemnities of the festival of Christmas were deeply impressive at Notre Dame. Solemn’ High Mass was sung at midnight and at 10 o’clock a. m., by the Rev. President Walsh, assisted by Rev. Fathers Regan and Coleman as deacon and suhdetcon. A very eloquent sermon was delivered by Rev. Vice-President Morrissey.
—Visitors to St. Edward’s Hall greatly admire the tasteful, artistic work done there by Bro. Frederick during the past week. The walls of the study-hall are of a most pleasing shade of green which is both beautiful and restful for the eye: The walls are painted in oil, and stippled so as to represent pressed leather. We have no doubt but the same refined taste will be displayed in the rest of the work that Bro. Frederick is preparing to do.
—The Scholastic of Dec. 15th, is a Jubilee number ornamented with the portrait of Leo XIII, and containing a short history of his life, with poetry in his praise in Latin, German, French, and English. A copy is printed on parchment with ornamental cover to be presented to His Holiness. Irrespective of any question of religion, there is no dispute that Leo XIII is one of the most remarkable characters of the 19th century. He is in the 77th year of his age, and still industrious in the discharge of his great responsibilities.— Ypsilanti Sentinel.
—The last pleasing number of our literary friend, the Notre Dame Scholastic, amid a mass of excellent jubilee matter, contains a fine classical poem of address to Leo XIII. It is expressive of the admiration, veneration, and love of the Faculty and students of Notre Dame University for the Holy Father. Written in good Latin sapphics and adonics, which cannot fail to recall to the student the lively stanzas of Horace, it breathes a spirit of filial love and piety which witness strongly to the cultured training and Christian education that find a worthy home in a great Catholic school.— Colorado Catholic.	.	■
—“ Barney, the prophet,” celebrates two birthdays annually: one on the 12th of Aug., the other on the last day of the year. At the celebration that assembled to do him honor on the 31st ult., he announced that the number who come to consult him about the weather is becoming so great that it interferes with his work, consequently he has decided to give audiences only twice a year—between the hours of 11 and 13 p. m., on the szd of February, when he will give his predictions about
the past Winter, and on the 4th of July when he will make known his views about the Summer. This announcement the Junior prophet requests the Scholastic to make to his friends.
—There are few who read this item but will regret the serious illness of Prof. J. A. Lyons, of Notre Dame University, one of the most genial, whole-souled men who ever lived. No odds how oppressed he was by his cares as a member of the Faculty of Notre Dame, or how overworked by his voluntarily assumed duties as professor, publisher and author, he always found time for a cheery word with students, friends and acquaintances. But, like the late Vice-President Colfax, he was always in a hurry. Both.these men had a faculty of crowding a warmer welcome into a half-minute -	o	_ -	_
than most men could in a half-hour. Prof. Lyons has the best of nursing and medical attendance, and let us all earnestly hope that his life may be spared for many years of usefulness at Notre Dame.—South Bend Tribune.
—The 1 (th and 12th regular meetings of the St. Cecila Philomathean Association took place , on the 10th and 15th of December. The meetings opened with well-written criticisms on previous meetings by Masters L. Scherrer and T. Darragh. The question: “Should capital punishment be abolished”? was next on the programme. Masters M. O’Kane, Burger and L. Scherrer supported the affirmative in a very vigorous manner. Masters Blake, McGurk and McGrath sustained the negative with much power and force, which caused the judges to decide in their favor. Masters Delaney and Berry gave historical sketches of celebrated men. The parts in the drama to be given after examinations in February were then discussed. The President said that the various roles would be distributed to the members during the holidays. Rev. Father Morrissey addressed the members eloquently in his own happy manner, and concluded by saying that the St. Cecilians of ’87 were the brightest looking, the best behaved, the. most talented and energetic in the University, and he had no doubt that, as usual, they would give the grandest exhibition of the year.
—We note with pleasure the rapidly increasing circulation of our esteemed contemporary, The Ave Maria^ throughout the world. Its exceptional position as the only magazine in the English language published in praise and to the honor of the Queen of Heaven claims its propagation wherever the English tongue is heard, while the words ’of praise, from the highest literary circles in every quarter of the globe show how faithfully and well the accomplished Editor fulfils the labor of love with which he has been entrusted. A recent number of the London Tablet contains the following notice:
“The Ave Maria. A Catholic family magazine. New Series, vol. 24. . (Notre Dame, Indiana, 1887.) This excellent magazine deserves high commendation and we warmly recommend it to the notice of parents and librarians. Itis edited by a priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross in Indiana; and by one, we must add, who knows how to edit. By no means an easy task is that of any editor of a : family magazine; doubly difficult is it when the magazine :
254
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
is for Catholic family reading. There is, however, in each number of The Ave Marin such a judicious admixture of grave and gav, of tale and exhortation, of poems, general ■jottings, and reviews, that it would be difficult for any 'member of the family not to find something to his taste. There is also in each number a “ Youth’s Department-’ in which, we can vouch for it. the tales are by no means the least interesting. When we mention that The Ave Maria can be had from Notre Dame post free, weekly or in monthly parts, for twelve shillings a year, we have said enough to show that it deserves encouragement. Bound into half yearly volumes such as the one before us, attractively and well got up in blue cloth, there could not be a much better gift book or prize volume for the young. We see that Messrs. Burns & Oates are the chief agents for this country, and Messrs. Gill & Son for Ireland.”
—The Director of the Bishops’ Memorial Hall returns grateful thanks for the following gifts: Rt. Rev. Bishop England’s episcopal chain presented by Mother Leoni. Late cabinet photograph of Rt. Rev. Bishop Burke, presented by Mrs. P. Smith. Four original letters written by Bishop Chabrat; two written by Archbishop Eccleson, presented by John Norris. Complete volumes of the A< F. Freemans Journal^ from Jan. 1846, to Jan. 1S64, presented bv the Library Association. Four-page document, written in 1810, by Bishop Dubois, relating to the earl}- history of Mt. St. Mary’s College, presented by L M. Carroll. “ End to Controversy between the Romane Catholique and the Protestant religions,” written by T. Bayley, printed at Douay, 1654, with autograph of Archbishop Whitfield, presented by Rev. Father James. Ordo used in 1851, by Bishop Folev; manuscript of sermon preached on Magdalen’s Day, J7S6, by Rev. Michael Ennis; large photograph of Bishop Baraga and the catafalque on which his body rested in the Cathedral of Marquette, presented by Mrs. Dr. Johnson. Manuscript of sermon preached in St. Patrick’s Church, Baltimore,at the obsequies of the Abhd John Moranville, presented by .J. Mangin. One hundred and thirtyseven original letters written by Rt. Rev. Bishop Timon; one hundred and four original letters written by Rt. Rev. Bishop Rosati; thirty-one written by Bishop Odin; twenty original letters written by Most Rev. Archbishop Blanc; twelve written by Rt. Rev. Bishop Brute; twenty-six written by Rt. Rev. Bishop Amat; one written by Rt.Rev. Bishop Barry; ten written by Rt. Rev. Bishop Dominec; three written by Bishop DeNeckere; oneby Bishop Forbin Jansen; one b}^ Bishop Flaget, presented by a friend.	.
[From the “Austin Daily Statesman."]
St- Edward’s College, Austin, Texas.
As previously announced, the annual holiday seance at St. Edward’s College took place on Wednesday evening, Dec. 21, and proved a very enjoyable affair. The varied programme and the excellent rendition of the parts proved quite interesting. The humorous readings and personations especially, and the college song, with its local hits, created a great deal of merriment, and were roundly applauded. The orignal essays of Mr. Pinnel and Mr. Hamby—class compositions, brought out by
request and without previous notice—deserve credit for thought and a very fair style of composition.
At the conclusion, Rev. P. Lauth, C. S. C., of Austin, made a few remarks. He thanked the students for their entertainment; complimented them on the excellence of their work, and promised them success if they persevered in their praiseworthy efforts. He had attended the various exercises here for many years, and could not help noticing the wonderful improvement that had taken place, both in the personnel and the work of the college. It is only a couple of years since President Hurth took charge of the college, and within that time the institution has become a noted one. It is rapidly becoming famous, and, at its present rate of advancement, it must soon enjoy a national reputation. A few years ago he saw about a dozen students here; now the spacious study-hall is nearly filled to its utmost capacity. And from what he has seen of the workings of the college, it richly deserves its success. If the students persevered in their laudable efforts to improve themselves, they would become an honor to the college, to their parents and to their country—they would become great men.
After the song, “ Our Friends,” a number of the-students left the hall, much to the surprise of Piesi-dent Hurth, who asked what this meant. In a few moments, however, the mystery was solved, when the students filed into the hall with a tripod and draped picture. Mr. D. Shall then read a congratulatory address to President Hurth, thanking him for his kind interest in the welfare of the students, and asking him to -accept this Christmas gift as a token of their affection and esteem. As the speaker uttered these words the drapery was removed, revealing a fine, full-sized crayon portrait of the President of the college. Rev. Father Hurth gazed at the portrait dumbfounded, and could not say a word. At the close of the entertainment he thanked-the students for their good wishes and their gift, and hoped they would always find him true to his duty and solicitous for the interest of those who were committed to his care.
SLANDER ANALYZED BY JOSH BILLINGS.
Slander iz a lie, and kan travel faster than daylight kan.	.
Whare it kums from, it iz often impossible to tell, and whare it will go to, nobody knows.
Thare iz nothing too pure for it to feed upon, and thare iz no sutch thing az satisfying its appe-tight.
It iz conceived in iniquity, and born in sekresy, and will.liv and gro fatt whare truth will starve to deth.
It iz a foundling that the world allwuss stands reddy to adopt and send on its way rejoicing, with a free pass and full letters ov kredit.
It haz fastened its dedly fangs upon the innosent, and haz even made virtew herself tremble in its presence.
Slander iz the coward’s refuge, and the devil’s logick.	.	.
<
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	255
Saint fflary's Acabemy.
One Mile'West of Notre Dame University.
—Miss Sophie Papin was a welcome visitor during the holidays.	•
—Miss S. Smith, Class of ’85, spent a few days with her sister, Margie, during the holidays.
—Santa Claus came to St. Mary’s; but, to everybody’s surprise, he charged expressage for every box.
—The Misses L. McNamara and E. Flannery deserve special mention in the Second Senior Class of Rhetoric.
—Many reproachful glances meet the calendar now that January is here, for each day brings nearer the semi-annual examinations.
—The participants in the French play of last month had quite a treat lately. An oyster supper is always enjoyed, but doubly so when it is earned.
—Impromptu concerts have been a favorite amusement of late. Some of the pupils have shown wonderful talent in the improvising line; Miss Van Horn, in particular.
—The Minims’ hymn to the Infant Jesus after the Midnight Mass was very touching. How dear to the new born King must not their innocent homage have been!
—Even amid the pleasures of Christmastide and the attractions of home, St. Mary’s was not forgotten, as affectionate letters to the teachers and pupils remaining here, amply show.
—The Midnight Mass was celebrated by Very Rev. Father Corby, Provincial of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. He also said the Masses at 6 and 6.30, and delivered a beautiful sermon at the 8 o’clock Mass which was sung by Rev. Father Saulnier.
—Too much credit cannot be given to those who have shown themselves “good angels” during these days of rejoicing, by forgetting their own homesickness in order to cheer and comfort others. Unselfishness is so rare nowadays that a glimpse of it is to be hailed with joy.
—The sad news reached here last week of the death of Mr. C. Orr, of Steubenville, Ohio, whose daughter, Virginia, is a pupil of St. Mary’s. No particulars have been received as yet; but Mr. Orr had been in poor health for some time, so it is to be hoped his death was not a sudden one. Heartfelt sympathy is extended the family in this their sad loss.
—Miss Katie Shields, a member of the Second Senior Class, and a devoted “Child of Mary,” who was called home in November, by the serious ill-, ness of her mother, is now dangerously ill. Her little brother is also sick, and grave fears are entertained regarding Katie’s recovery. Many and fervent are the prayers offered for her. We are happy to state that Mrs. Shields is convalescent.
—The members of the Graduating Class were.
entertained on Thursday last by their classmate, Miss Mary Sullivan, of South Bend. Accompanied by their teacher, they repaired to Mrs. Sullivan’s, where the afternoon was delightfully spent. After a bounteous repast, they enjoyed what is not a common treat at St. Mary’s, a moonlight sleighride home.. Many thanks are extended Mrs. Sullivan and her amiable daughters for their thought-
O	o
ful kindness.
—The young ladies who remained here during the Christmas vacation are unanimous in declaring that they had a delightful time. They enjoyed to the utmost the privileges granted them, and are now ready for hard study. Their general good conduct entitles them to much praise. Plain sewing, fancy-work, music, study, reading and recreation made the days pass all too swiftly; and now, refreshed by the holidays, they are ready to greet those who are worn out by ten days’ round of pleasures at home, and who are far from being in a mood for study.
—The visitors for the past week have been Mrs. E. L. Smith, C. F. Smith, Reading, Penn.; Mrs. O. H. Woods, Mrs. A. J. Churchill, Avon, Ill.; P. Cousineau, Monroe, Mich.; Mrs. Thompson, Mr. and Mrs. W. S. Brewer, Woodville, Mich.; W. Graham, Cleveland, Ohio; C. Morse, Grinnell, Iowa; E. E. Balch, Omaha, Neb.; O. Armstrong, St. Louis, Mo.; T. Marentette, Toledo, Ohio; Miss V. B. Beucler, Louisville, Ohio; Miss E. Vansi, Wm. Bond, Mrs. A. Kelly, C. B. Boyer, Chicago, III.; Mrs. M. Chapaton, Detroit, Mich.; Mrs. Shirland, Mr. G. Beitner, H. B. Miller Wm. Miller A. Cdquillard, South Bend; Miss O. Tong, Miss M. Oechtering, Mishawaka, Ind.; Mrs. TLButler, Mason, Mich.; A. Furlong, Dubuque, Iowa.
The Value of Quiet Moments.
Moments seem as nothing when considered in connection with time; and, although they denote the briefest periods, they are found to be as important factors in the formation of ages as atoms, the smallest of parts, are to the planet we inhabit. This comparison serves to illustrate the value that the unimportant bears to the important, the fraction to the unit, and indicates the relative value of moments, when we remember that life is but a collection of these minute intervals.
By this line of reasoning, it is instantly seen that moments not only have positive value in relation, to the measurement of time, but by occupying them wisely, the usefulness and happiness of life are enhanced, and purity of soul preserved. During infancy in the nursery ;v in youth in the study-hall; ’ in mature years.in the library; in all the pathways, over which the lamp of science sheds its light; in literature, poetry, music and art, as well as in the ennobling study of virtue, quiet moments are abso-.

25b	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
lutely essential to advancement, perfection and success. It is alone when all perplexities and distractions are exiled and flight is taken from noisy and disturbing surroundings, and a conquest is won over the temptations of idle occupations, and the gilded emptiness of frivolous pleasures, that knowledge can be acquired and fruitful actions decided upon. Then it is that thoughts flow more abundantly; reason resolves more readily; judgment acts m ore correctly, and reflection imparts greater qualification and power to the mind; nobler and more extensive feeling to the heart, and greater purity to the soul. By glancing over the pages of history and noting the men’and women who have beautified and added interest to them by lofty attainments, useful achievements, grand and illustrious deeds, it is observed that the grandeur of their lives, the development of their genius, the goodness of their acts, and all that entitled them to honor and fame, are the fruits of those moments of their lives spent in quiet. Again, by looking at the many inventions and works of various kinds of construction, which have so largely lessened the toils of life and promoted the comfort and happiness of the human race, further unmistakable evidence of the value of quiet moments is apparent. In every department of mechanics, and in every field of labor, the character of production and the nicety of handiwork is always corresponding to the ability and skilfulness acquired during the quiet moments of apprenticeship.	.
The results of science and art, as well as the magnificence of nature and the splendor and sublimity of God’s works, are the more appreciated when the mind and heart are in freedom, except to self-entertainment.
In the home-circle, so dear to us, quiet moments unfold new happiness, perpetuate all the endearing affections, reveal truth and sincerity, and the heart goes forth in prayerful communion with Heaven.
Memory, that faculty which makes us cling so tenaciously to the past, often takes us back to the sweet, innocent days of childhood; advancing, step by step, we cull again the flowers of youth; in fancy we behold the labor of middle life, and thus dream on till we find we are enjoying some quiet moments under the autumnal sky of life. It is in quiet moments like these that thoughts become prayers, • calling down the blessing of Heaven upon those we love. Thus we see that quiet moments are a plentiful source of usefulness, goodness and. pleasure; and their value,' which even now is great to us, becomes doubly so when we reflect that these moments, properly used, lead to the Kingdom where moments are lost in eternity.;
Class Honors.
[Honorably mentioned for the month ending Dec. 22.] LANGUAGE COURSE.
FRENCH.
ist Class—Miss M. F. Muiphy.
2d Div.—Misses Be<chameng, Snowhook, Van Horn.
2d Class—Misses Gavan, Marley, McCarthy, Campeau, McEwen. Studebaker.	’
3d Class—Misses T. Balch. Horn, G. Regan, Prudhomme, Kron, Barry, Campagne. Hellman.
4T11 Class—Misses Birth, Fenton. McCormick, K. Desmond, M. Desm >nd. Sneehan, Van Miurick, Flannery, DempsevyWaterbury, Brewer, Arpm. Hepburn. La Berge, Butler, Pugsley,Wagner, Rhinehart, B. Smith, Spier Latta, Burton, Sloman, Doian, Davis, Wyatt, M. Horner, G. Papin.
5TH Class—Miss A. Papin.
GERMAN.
Advanc’d Course—MLs E. Horn.	„
ist Class—Misses I. Bub, O. Huffman, A. Beschameng, L. Trask, L. Henke.
2D Class—Misses T. Hinz, M. Hummer, F. Moore, O. Knauer.
30 Class—Misses Neff, M. Smith, Thompson, Quill, M. Horner, Leonard, Davis, Dryer, Daube, Fritz, Kohler, Andree, Miller.	.
4T11 Class—Misses C. Hurley, K. Hurley. Heffron, O’Brien, Lauth, Bourne, B. Morse, McFadden, I. Horner, Lewis, Connors, Crane, Kennedy, Kloth, Rogers, Butler, Bray, Foster, G. Murphy.
Holy Bosary Academy, Woodland, Cal.
[The Woodland (Cal.) Daily Democrat recently contained a lengthy and highly interesting report of the holiday exercises at the above-named institution.„ In conclusion, it says;]	,	.	'
Of the useful and interesting departments in the Institution, the most conspicuous is the Art Studio, full of finely executed pictures, which was not represented at this entertainment; it has been reserved for the closing exercises of the scholastic year, in June. The people of Woodland and Yolo County cannot too highly appreciate this institution of learning. It is the only one under the charge of the Sisters of the Order of the Holy Cross on this coast. The mission of this Order is educational, and it has a happy faculty of imparting instruction. It also produces the most learned and talented teachers, at the Mother Institution, at Notre Dame, in the State of Indiana, where they are instructed in all the branches taught at Vassar. The corps of teachers sent here to found this institution, have not only this thorough education, but have much experience in teaching, except the teacher of elocution, who is not a member of the Order, but a graduate of the Mother Institution, where her great genius in elocution was discovered and brought out, when Mother Superior captured her and transplanted her to this newly organized academy. Mother Superior had been Prefect of Studies of the Mother Institution several years, when she was transferred to this coast and made Superioress of the Order in this State. Thus it was that the Academy of the Holy Rosary of St. Mary’s was launched, with all sails set, with all the appliances of an old institution of learning; and we are no longer under the necessity of sending our daughters abroad for education. <	.