NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
'“V'v*
>5
W«:
mrumes
AT MUNICH
and dis catered what

“T WAS with the correspondents at Munich,” says this A American reporter, “and saw what diplomats have since tried to gloss over. For one revealing instant, they exposed what the peace of Munich actually signifies to Americans.” Here’s his eye-witness account—and an analysis of what will happen in our future relations with Europe, South America, and, in particular, England. See page 5 for—
European Showdown by DEMAREE BESS

Why not to* football games?
over-emphasis on athletics”?
How does your school feel about
Here’s one answer to an old college problem, by a university presi-the trouble with football is, nobody wants to give few well-known sports myths,
dent who says
th. gate receipts. He	..atH«idsm".
up
and advances a new program
Gate Receipts and Glory

ROBERT M. HUTCHINS, President, University of Chicago
America. But
They laughed at his JUNGLE AIRLINE (nowraking in amiliion a yteew)
scoffed at his idea of flying freight into the jungles of Central today Lowell Yerex’ airline, TACA, flies 15,000,000 pounds of machinery, horses, butter and eggs, diewing gum and pas-■. And, without benefit of government subsidy, will gross more than a million dollars in 1938. Here’s the amazing story. Flying the Jungle Run by HERMANN B. DEUTSCH
^^ilaUer]^
EIGHT STORIES OF!
TWENTY-SEVEN KIDS trapped on the top floor. Truck 4 raises its hundred-foot aerial ladder —and Tommy Mayo picks that crucial moment to tell Arch Reynolds, “Nobody’s ordering me to kill myself for nothing!”.... A fast-moving story of fire-fighters in action.
High Fly h MAURICE BEAM
A/Rb A PREACHER COES Frro 90 TO WM. What did the Good Book say? "Stay not, but pursue after your enemies, and smite the hindmost of them.” With a Civil War going on, that was all the Rev. Praxiteles Swan wanted to know! A short story by Lt. Col. John W. Thomason, Jr.... RIGHT IN THE MIDDLE OF THE WEDDING. Ninety-Nine Alarm Clocks went off! Dorothy Thomas tells you why, and how it affected more than one wedding. A short story . . . PLUS: Fiction, articles, serials, Post Scripts, cartoons and news of authors on the Keeping Posted page. All in the Post out this week.
*
I
sengers every year.

---»»BSS3W«SSW)«^
THE SATURDAY EVENING POST
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
Z 188
Vol. 72
December 2, 1938
No. 10
LINNETS PAY TRIBUTE TO 1938 VARSITY
By Edmund Butler
At eight o’clock next Thursday and Friday evening the Freshman Linnets will take over the stage of Washington Hall to present their second campus show, which promises to be an even more novel and surprising production than their inaugural concert.
Primarily, the show will be a musical tribute to the 1938 varsity victorious football team. Out of the lore of alma mater tunes the Linnet Glee Club will salute each of this season’s opponents with their college song.
Once again living pictures will be used, this time to depict student life at Notre Dame. Lavish sets are being built to enhance the presentations which have been prepared. For one stage interpretation the entire freshman football squad of 36 men will make a uniformed appearance.
Joseph Casasanta, University band director, will conduct the Linnet Glee compositions, ‘‘Hike Song’’ and “When The Irish Backs Go Marching By.”
Another surprising, climactic scene, involving intricate stage effects, will attempt an interpretation of “a student’s Christmas.” This promises to be the most surprising spot of the production.
Besides the two evening shows for the students and faculty members a special matinee will be given Thursday for student members of Moreau Seminary, Holy Cross Seminary, and ‘Dujarie Hall.
Fr. Gavin Appointed
Rev. Michael J. Gavin, C.S.C., was recently appointed associate professor of philosophy succeeding Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., who is on leave of absence from the University because of ill health. .
Graduating from Notre Dame in 1932 with an A.B. degree, Father Gavin formerly taught Latin at Holy Cross Seminary, Notre Dame, from 1936 to 1938 while continuing his studies at the University. He was also instructor of Logic at the Notre Dame summer session of 1937.
Mrs. W. J. B. Macaulay! '34 Laetare Medalist, Dies at Rome
Mrs. William J. B. Macaulay, Laetare medalist at Notre Dame in 1934, and American wife of the Irish minister to the Holy See at Rome, died there on November 24. During her
Mrs. William J. B. Macaulay Requiescat in Pace.
illness of two weeks, Mrs. Macaulay had received a special blessing from His Holiness, Pope Pius XI who in 1926 had made her a Papal Duchess in recognition of contributions to Catholic charities and welfare work. She was 53 years old.
Mrs. Macaulay was noted for her philanthropies. She was awarded the Laetare medal in 1934 as Mrs. Genevieve Garvan Brady of New York City.
She was a nurse during the World War and was decorated by the Belgian government. In 1928 she became chairman of the board of directors of the Girl Scouts, succeeding Mrs. Herbert Hoover. Shortly before her marriage to Mr. Macaulay, she presented the Society of Jesus with part of her vast Long Island estate to be used as a house of study. Her first husband, Nicholas F. Brady, utilities financier, died in 1930, leaving an estate of $12,000,000.
A rare first edition of Charles Dickens’ Christmas Carol containing a letter writeen by him to Charles (Continued on Page 23)
MORRISSEY. ALUMNI IN DEBATE FINALE
Morrissey and Alumni will settle the 1938 interhall debate rumpus at St. Mary’s College, Tuesday evening, at 8 o’clock. Morrissey advanced to the final round Monday by defeating a next-door neighbor, Lyons; and Alumni emerged from a tangle of cases to nip Sorin in a tight upper bracket semi-final, Wednesday.
Both debates brought favorable negative decisions. The Morrissey trio of Tom Grady, Jack Walsh, and Fred ' Holl shook their head convincingly at the Lyons lineup of Bill Cotter, Dave Withey, and Jack White. Withey, White, and Grady all showed varsity possibilities.
The Senior feuding, bitter and personal as always, brought Wintermeir, Newman, and Colgan out on top of Doozan, Schmitz and Johnson. The decision was close, very close, and precipitated an encore which lasted long after the judge, Mr. Cox of the Speech Department, had escaped through a side door.
The result was a personal triumph for Wrangler Bob Weaver who got his Alumni boys out of the minor leagues after three years of adverse decision. Varsity debater Frank Fitch coached the successful Morrissey sophomores. Milton Williams pulled the strings for Lyons, and Wrangler President Bill Mahoney went under in the Sorin sinking.
The formal decision will be made at St. Mary’s College Tuesday night. However, the Wranglers hope to appeal the decision to a radio poll by having the two teams repeat their performance over the campus radio station later in the week. The radio decision will have no effect on the St. Mary’s verdict but will be interesting inasmuch as it will contrast audience reaction with the opinion of Varsity Debate Coach Coyne who will judge the final debate.
ARTS AND LETTERS
Each advanced student in Arts and Letters will be called, by letter, to the General Offices for pre-, registration in courses for the second semester of 1938-39 at a free hour on December 5, 6, or 7.
4
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
WRANGLERS HEAR OF ARTISTS' PROBLEMS
THE WEEK
By Bill Donnelly
Robert Heywood, of New Richmond, Wis. and Alumni hall, Monday night presented the problems of the artist in the modern world before the Wranglers. Mr. Heywood used M. Maritain, Paul Claudel, Leon Bloy as
Wrangler Heywood
Presents Problems.
authorities in bewildering the assembled members.
Painting, sculpture, and the novel were the subjects discussed by the speaker who carefully detailed the problems facing the worker in each of the artistic media. Probably the high point of the talk was the presentation of the troubles faced by the artist who uses the written word to express his inspiration. The problem of truth and the necessity of the novelists compliance with morality was the center about which much of the discussion revolved.
Report of committee activity before the meeting found Al Funk, chairman of the interhall debates, reporting on the condition of the contestants, the dates and place of the finals, and refusing to predict the finalists. Vincent DeCoursey announced that candidates for admittance to the club would be presented before the club at the next meeting Dec. 5.
Musicians on Air
Representatives of the various sections of the Music Department will present a half hour broadcast tonight from 8:30 to 9:00 o’clock. Compositions of classical flavor will be interpreted by the symphony orchestra and string ensemble, by instrumental and vocal soloists, by quartets and trios, and by the University Glee Club. The program will be under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the department.
Ambition
This is the tale of Lucien Lacroix and his hobby. There always have been hobbies but never a hobby like that of “Our Boy Luke” and his passion, his inner craving, for leading orchestras. Luke is a senior football manager and it all began at Atlanta (let’s hope it won’t end in Atlanta) where “Red” Norvo was playing at a Georgia Tech dance. Luke was feeling in a gay and festive mood that night and he requested “Red” to play “The Victory March” for the team. Then, before he knew it, there he was up on the platform leading the orchestra while Mildred Bailey stood beside him with an affectionate arm draped over his shoulder. As our hero left the platform he greatly misjudged the distance between the stage and the floor, (he was feeling in a gay and festive mood as we said before) and he lost his equilibrium completely.
But Luke is not one to be dismayed easily. In New York he led Kay Kyser’s band through “The Victory March” while his girl friend neatly trucked around him on the platform. In Baltimore he led the band of some nameless fellow down there. In the “Club Cherie” in Evanston he bor-.rowed the drummer’s drum sticks while the drummer was using his brushes, and he led the band with them. (Unfortunately the drummer didn’t think it was so funny when he reached for his sticks and found them missing, but some people are just narrow-minded that way.)
Then in “The Blackhawk,” a Junior manager, who was possibly dreaming of taking up the hobby next year where Luke leaves off, told Jan Garber of Luke’s past experiences at leading bands. Jan took the bull by the horns and immediately requested through the microphone that Luke come over to the band stand. Then, without saying a word, he simply handed Luke the baton and went dancing off around the floor with Luke’s girl.
It would seem our hero had reached the heights here in actually being asked to conduct an orchestra. But now he is off to California and new bands to conquer. And now he has an even higher ambition. “The next thing I want to do,” he told us, “is to play some instrument in a big band. I can’t read a note, but I think I could beat out a pretty good job on the drums if I got a chance. Boy, I’m telling you, I don’t know how but I’m going to play the drums in some
band in Los Angeles before I come back to school.”
The suspense is killing us.
Top of the Week? or
Bottom of the Week?
To-morrow’s score.
On Display
A friend of ours was looking up something in the periodical room of the library when a professor breezed in with some foreign students in tow. He spied a copy of Fortune on a table, rushed over to it, picked it up, and waved it before the eyes of his proteges. “This,” he told them exultantly, “is Time’s big brother.” They didn’t seem to quite get the significance of the metaphor but they all nodded in mute awe and pretended they did. Then the professor spied our friend paging through the index, and he pounced over beside him. “This boy,” he said, “is looking up something for his class. Aren’t you, boy?” Our friend mumbled something noncommittal like “Glymph” and went on paging through the index as the foreign students studied his actions intensely. He tells us that he felt small, very very small, and very much like a guinea pig.
•
Odd Ends
One of our more competent eavesdroppers reports the following piece of conversation overheard in the cafeteria a few weeks ago and spoken by Jacques Maritain to Dr. Waldemar Gurian: — “But without Goldberg they wouldn’t have done a thing.”... A student we know received a letter from his folks saying they got a special kick out of hearing that Hofer starred against Northwestern because they remembered him so vividly as “The big blond they had to awaken from a deep sleep in the Hotel McAlpin lobby for his autograph.”.... In his column last week (that “Over the river” affair), Elmer Layden commented on the Dartmouth-Stanford game as follows: “.... the Indians will bow in defeat.” In indignation at such obvious equivocation, we can only regret that the game did not end in a tie._Two of the four students from our home town of Queens Village, N. Y., are at present on suspension from the University for disciplinary reasons. Whose next?...... From last Saturday’s South Bend News-Times: “Third Quarter, Holy Cross 21, Boston College 7.” “Fourth Quarter, Holy Cross 20, Boston College 7.”
DECEMBER 2, 1938
5
WITHEY. MacCAULEY PROBE ROMAN GODS
•
At the last regular meeting of the Patricians, John MacCauley and David Withey jointly presented a paper entitled “The Deification of the Roman Emperors.”
Mr. Withey remarked that the Roman concept of a god was far different from the modem Christian conception. To the Romans, a god represented an impersonal, supernatural force differing from the Christian concept in that it need not be infinite nor all-powerful. The final requirement for Roman worship was that the god be established or recognized by the state.
Speaking in turn Mr. MacCauley demonstrated the complete fulfillment of the Roman concept of a god by Augustus, the first of the deified emperors. He pointed out that the profound reverence in which the people held Augustus as the ruler of a mighty Empire was embellished by the elaborate literary conceits of
President Kohn Wants quarterly revieiv.
such contemporary classical writers as Horace, Vergil, and Varus.
Having shown in the first part of the paper that Augustus came up to the three requirements of a Roman god and having discussed the religious situation of the time in the second part, Mr. MacCauley, concluded by stating: “From all these considerations we conclude that Augustus was a god, that he was believed to be the supernatural force of Roman destiny and power, that he was really worshipped as such, and that this conception as a deity was given the name ‘divus’.”
Before adjourning the meeting, John Kohn, president of the Patricians, suggested a new meeting hour which would be more convenient to the majority of the members. He also proposed that the bulletin plan of the Patricians should be developed into a quarterly review.
I College Parade
By Red E. Sisk
“Open Door Policy at Troy”
For at least the past three weeks University of Southern California students have been going around looking for a Homecoming slogan for this tussle with the Fighting Irish tomorrow afternoon. After all was said and done, the slogan decided upon goes like this: “Troy Awaits With Open Gates.” In other words, fellows, it’s just as well that no wooden horses were loaded on the N. D. football special for the conquest of Troy.
—o—
“Snakes Stay ’Way from My Door” —Ratcliff
Call it “pluck” if you may, but whatever it is, an Alabama University student, who runs by the title of Norman Ratcliff, has plenty of it. Two months ago he entered school with twenty-five cents of Uncle Sam’s money, a “pup” tent, one pair of trousers, one coat, one pair of shoes, three shirts, one tie, three pair of socks, and more than anything else, plenty of ambition. Working his way through college, he sells candy, ice cream, and cigarettes in fraternity houses. Norman now has increased his resources by seventy-five cents, owns all his books, and hasn’t been hungry. He admits his home—three feet high and six feet long—is a little airy these winter nights even in Alabama. His biggest source of complaint is the possible invasion of his dwelling by unwelcome snakes; not long ago Norm killed a moccasin which was ten feet from his tent.
—o—
Campus Cut-outs
Girls at the University of Wisconsin may wear ski suits and scarfs tied over the tops of their heads this winter, but they won’t be in the good graces of the Wisconsin masculine element.... The Wisconsin Cardinal warns such offenders that “if you have no qualms about looking like a duck or someone fresh off Ellis island, then go ahead and wear these things and keep warm.”.... It seems to be either a case of breaking the social conduct on dress or freezing and pleasing the rule book.... If Layden runs out of something to say during the halves, he can find some football pep talks in Shakespeare.... The Auburn Plainsman gives the following references from William: “More rushes, more rushes.” — Henry IV; “Let him not pass, but rather kill him.”—Othello; “An excellent pass.” —The Tempest.... We’ve heard mention of “flunking insurance” for college students, but here’s just the reverse. ... Students who flunk at the U. of Colorado pay three dollars per hour.
ANNY RUTZ TELLS OF OBERAMMERGAU PLAY
By William C. McGowan
In 1633 the Black Death gripped the little village of Oberammergau, in the Bavarian Alps, and seemed reluctant to leave. The townspeople, devout Catholics, flung themselves on their knees and prayed for a miracle,
Fraeulein Anny Rutz Will lecture tonight.
vowing to God that if they were saved they would present a Passion Play every ten years as long as their village existed. The plague was lifted, and the natives of Oberammergau, in their gratitude, produced the first Passion Play in 1634. They have continued to produce it every decade since then.
Fraulein Anny Rutz, the “Virgin Mary” of the last two productions, presents her lecture “A Pilgrimage to Oberammergau” in Washington Hall this evening at 8 o’clock. In her lecture Fraulein Rutz tells the story of Oberammergau and describes the staging and lighting of the Passion Play. She will discuss the policies and ideals of those who conduct it, and will illustrate her subject with 100 colored lantern slides of Alpine views and scenes from the play.
But the Oberammergau Passion Play, in spite of its 300 years, is not the first play of this type. Miracle Plays are the mother of all Passion Plays, which have been presented in many European cities since the tenth century. However, Oberammergau’s is the most famous and important survivor of these early productions. It was presented every decade from 1634 to 1674, then the village decided to hold it on decimal years, and with little variation in schedule it has continued to the present day.
The Monks of Ettal, nearby to (Continued on Page 18)
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
---------------------------------.
Our Daily Bread
*________________________________>
Liturgy
The Liturgy is the treasure house of revelation. Advent opens the door to the innermost recesses of divine bounty, the Incarnation. The crown jewel is the feast of the Immaculate Conception. Formal celebration of a feast based either directly or indirectly upon the fact of the Immaculate Conception began in the 8th century in the East and the 9th century in the West. The promulgation of the dogma by Pius IX in 1854 and the fixing of the feast and office on Dec. 8 gave official sanction to the belief already universally accepted as part of the deposit of faith. In the words of the Constitution, Ineffabilis Deus, “The Blessed Virgin Mary in the first instant of her Conception, by a singular privilige and grace granted by God, in view of the merits of Jesus Christ, the Saviour of the human race, was preserved exempt from all stain of original sin.”
Mass Calendar: December 4 to 10
Sunday i—Second in Advent. Semidouble. 2d Collect St. Peter Chryso-logus, Bishop of Ravenna. Confessor. Doctor. 3d St. Barbara. Virgin. Peter, the “golden tongued,” died A.D. 450. Barbara martyred in Asia Minor about 235.
Monday 5—Ferial. Semi - double. Mass of preceding Sunday. 2d Collect St. Sabbas, Abbot (died 531). 3d Faithful Departed. 4th Church or Pope. V.R.
Tuesday 6—St. Nicholas. Bishop. Confessor. Double. 2d Collect preceding Sunday. Died 324. Called Nicholas of Bari where his relics are preserved. Tradition ascribes to him the custom of “Santa Claus” by reason of his charity.
Wednesday 7—Vigil of the Immaculate Conception. Feast of St. Ambrose, Bishop of Milan. Confessor. Doctor. Double. 2d Collect preceding Sunday. 3d the Vigil. Ambrose is renowned for his eloquence. Converted St. Augustine. Ambrosian or Milanese Liturgy named after him. Died 397.
Thursday 8—The Immaculate Conception of the Most Blessed Virgin Mary. Double First Class. Credo. 2d ■ Collect preceding Sunday. Dogma proclaimed by Pius IX, December 8, 1854.
Friday 9—2d day of Octave. Semidouble. Mass of Feast. 2d Collect preceding Sunday. 3d of Holy Ghost. Credo.
Saturday 10—3d day of Octave. Semi-double. Mass of Feast. 2d Collect St. Melchiades. 3d preceding Sunday. Credo. Melchiades, Pope, died 314.
Rouge, Powder, Make-up Sticks, Cues and Cues;
Sadlier Looks Backstage on "Room Service"
Three hours before curtain time. In the two small rooms, directly back-stage, drawn green shades shut out the gloomy dusk. Powerful electric bulbs flood the rooms with a brilliant white light. Long tubes of greasepaint, jars of rouge, powder, make-up sticks, liners and puffs are cluttered together on small tables.
Witkowski is standing before a large mirror applying a base to his face. However, as soon as he finishes this initiatory step, his fingers move more slowly and more surely, his eyes become mor< intent. Shadowing and lining must be exact. Gradually age creeps into his skin. Lines become
Southerner Collins “We saw you all foist.”
more pronounced. He grays his temples. Finally he steps back—a middle-aged Russian.
Over in a corner, Director Mills works on Hogan, makes him heavier, darker, more mature. Debonair Bob Blake wanders in and out wondering how he is going to achieve that Oswego “effect.”
Almost six o’clock. Plenty of time yet. Curtain doesn’t go up until 8:15. I go out on the stage to begin a final check of all conceivable properties. The seats stretch away from the apron into a dark, empty house. Seems like a vast tomb—outside the footlights. Innumerable thoughts race through your mind. Countless little details begin to pop up. People come up and ask you questions. You mumble answers, but don’t know what they’ve asked you. You’re miles away in a sphere of worries, properties, mooseheads, owls and ipecac. You look at the actors and envy them. Nothing for them to do but know their lines and watch cues. Lucky devils!
Half an hour before curtain. The house is almost filled. There’s a steady rumble of talk and movement from out in front, but you hardly hear it backstage. It seems far away. The cast are scattered about in small groups behind the set and in the backstage rooms. Last minute touches are applied to make-up. Some are running through lines. Others are
talking about small things, anything, just to get their minds off the show. The air is tense. Nerves are almost snapping.
“On stage!” sounds like the crack of doom. Silence. Then Hogan and Witkowski get up and take their positions on stage. McFarland stands in the wings waiting. The house lights are cut, and the babble from the audience dies out. Curtain! The show is on!
A few lines . . . cue . . . McFarland walks through the door . . . Witkowski exits. Hagen paces up and down puffing a cigar. He’s on next. Bob Blake and Gertrude Krause sit quietly. They say nothing. They’re listening to the reactions of the audience. You can always tell what mood the house is in after the first few minutes of the show. Tonight is different though. The prime worry isn’t how the show’ll be received. It’s about the girls. This is the first time in years that girls have played a Notre Dame show.
If the house breaks when they make their entrances, things will be mighty black. Babs Southard begins to tremble. Her entrance is coming up in a minute or two. We say nonsensical things to her, but it’s no use. She’s afraid of the house. Don’t blame her. If the audience is in an “ugly” mood. . . .! In the wings we’re waiting . . . waiting . . . cue! She’s on!
For a moment we can’t believe it. There wasn’t a ripple in the audience. Impossible. Surely, this isn’t the Notre Dame theatre crowd we know. And yet there wasn’t a break. Grins erase tight hard lines. Gertrude lets out a long breath. She feels better now. But don’t we all! Father Carey laughs uproariously as Hagen staggers through a door with his moosehead. The act ends . . . Curtain! . . . houselights up!
We hang the moosehead on a wall upstage. Blake sits on a bed and removes the ice-bag from his head. He looks comfortable there in his pajamas. A last minute check of the stage! Everything is set. Hogan, Blake and Hagen take their positions. They start a poker game. Curtain breaks . . . second act is under way. Things are running smoothly now. The audience is laughing continually. We’d be disappointed if they weren’t. After all, “Room Service” is a comedy.
Director Mills stands in the wings listening. All attention is on the stage. Witkowski is. going through his pantomime act. That lad has
(Continued on Page 19)
DECEMBER 2, 1938
FR. WARD TURNS CHEF IN "COMMONWEAL11
By Thomas C. Ferneding
In his latest article, which appears in the Nov. 25 issue of Commonweal, Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., associate professor of philosophy, writes of his early experience on “How to Make Molasses.”
The article begins with the planting of the cane seed late in May, and runs through the entire process of growing, harvesting, and finally boiling the cane juice into molasses late in September. Interesting is the fact that the cane must be cut at exactly the proper time. Green cane will make molasses sappy, while cane which is allowed to harden by frost, sours, and the molasses is unfit.
Stripping the cane is the hardest task of all. A boy runs his hand up and down the stalk and leaf after leaf, humping the stalk over to the leaves at the top, squatting on his heels to get those near the ground. When this process is finished backs are sore, and hands have been slitted between the fingers by the sharp blades of leaves.
The cane is then topped, ground and cooked in an open trough dug into the earth on a slope. Two batches of molasses are cooked in a day.
Finally the batch is completed, but the workers are never quite satisfied with it. “Just a shade thick. That we took off at noon was thin, but it was a nicer color.” Father Ward concludes his article: “The best we made yet this year was the day before yesterday noon; clear, and the color of worked taffy.”
Listed among his many works, Father Ward is the author of Philosophy of Value and Values of • Reality.
Met Club Makes Plans
George O’Neil, president of the Metropolitan Club, announced that special student trains would be run by the New York Central Railroad to New York City between Dec. 15 and Jan. 10. The round trip tickets, which will cose $26.00, may be purchased in the basement of the Cafeteria from Dec. 12 to 17 between 6:30 and 8:00 p.m.
The Met Club has engaged Lou Salazar’s orchestra, whose clever arrangements have delighted guests at the Westchester Country Club, for their Christmas dance at the St. Moritz.	’
The New York boys intend to teach catechism and coach basketball teams among the youngsters in the poorer South Bend parishes.
A smoker, at which pictur.es of the Navy game will be shown, is to be held within the next few weeks.
--------------------—
Man About the Campus
X____________________
By Graham Starr
This week the Scholastic, after delving into a heap of slide rules, logarithm tables, catalyzers, and a library of chemical engineering tomes finally extricated Joseph Bernard Moorman, of Cincinnati, O., president of the Cincinnati club, and editor of the Notre Dame Catalyzer, monthly magazine published by the chemistry and chemical engineering departments.
Joseph Moorman
Last year he lived with Harry Detzer in Dillon. That’s not startling. But the all night lights obtained via the attic were startling, at least to the prefect, Prof. Madden. He would “tear” down the corridor, and open the door quickly only to find no lights. But back at his room he would again see them through the window. A championship track dash to the offenders’ room, but again no lights. The ingenious roomies had connected wires so that lights would go out when the door was opened. Later Mr. Madden breezed in and closed the door behind him. The jig was up. And the parties held in that room....
On Army trip he met his Trinity College, D.C., flatne. Went to the “Famous Door” where he was soaked two dollars for one beer.
Although it is unusual for a “cultureless engineer,” he appreciates classical music. His ambition, according to a contemporary, is “not to get in a rut.” Money doesn’t mean a thing to him. (?) Likes the wide open spaces, and could never sit down at an old office desk. He does sit down at bridge tables, however, as he won the chem club bridge tournament last year.
MUSING FAVORITE IN STUDENT POLL
By Louis J. Essey
It’s Ted Husing for Notre Dame! Such was the overwhelming verdict of a recent poll of all the halls on the campus—with at least one opinion from each residence—in selecting the nation’s best sports commentator. Husing polled twelve votes to two each for Red Barber and Bill Stern, and one each for Bob Elson and Lee Douglass.
Frank Toyne, of Sorin, says, “Husing gives the game more color, thus making it vivid and realistic.” Dan Donovan of the same hall, in contradiction, takes up for Red because of his clear description and non-coloring of games.
“Barber can make any game appealing by giving small details which other announcers consider inconspicuous and the lack of which would make any gridiron contest uninteresting,” voiced Robert. Piercecchi of Walsh.
“Sterns is tops for me,” commented James Duggan of Brownson, “because of his free-flowing English and his knowledge of sports.” Sigmund Wesolowski and Jack McCue of Freshman Hall, point out that Stern is an ardent follower of Notre Dame and is always willing to give the school a breaks
Zahm’s Robert O’Hara throws his vote to Bob Elson, “for he seems to be well acquainted with all the schools and players, knowing many personally.”
A graduate student, Vince Duggan, of Morrissey sub, is a 100% Douglass admirer. “He makes the games last longer and gives many humorous cracks, making some contests lively which otherwise would be dull.” (How about that Georgia Tech game, Lee?)
Matt Scukenik of St. Edward’s, stresses that “Husing gets in the game himself and does not get excited—a quality which is essential to sports broadcasting.”
Other ardent Husing fans are: John Richards of Badin, Joe Bag-iackas of Old Infirmary, James Tans of Alumni, Roger McCormick of Dillon, William Bolchoz of Howard, Tom Welsh of Morrissey, Joseph Stephen and Louis Reiser of Lyons, and Charles Schlayer of Brownson. They all seem to agree emphatically that Ted knows so much about football that he could coach one himself and do a > good job of it. Besides he picked four Notre Dame men on his All-America team.
The above students point out that Husing is quite accurate in everything he says, never uses constant repetition like Stern, uses words to best advantage at the right time, and gives a technical description which is easy to follow.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Radio
By Bernard J. Feeney
Next Monday evening, December 5, at 7 p.m. over the nationwide network of the Columbia System, the Cavalcade of America returns to the air. Friends of Notre Dame should take note for little known sidelights on the life of Knute Rockne and the contribution which he made to the youth of this nation will be carefully woven into a fine dramatization.
Cavalcade’s story will trace the life of Rockne from his first appearance on American soil to that fateful day when his plane crashed to the prairies of Southeastern Kansas. Through the unfolding episodes of Rockne's coming to Notre Dame, his brilliant contributions as player and coach, and his development of George Gipp, the Four Horsemen, and other stars, much of this school’s great tradition will be revealed. We look forward to this program with a good deal of interest.
Since discussion involving Notre Dame is in order, it is well to mention a man who recently was connected with radio at the University, and who now is gaining prominence daily in his chosen field. That man is Jim Britt, whom many will remember as the genial sports commentator over WSBT. Transferred to WBEN in Buffalo, Jim has done such fine work that early in October he was given the Chicago Cardinals - Green Bay Packers game played in the new Buffalo Civic Stadium. Few knew that this game acted as his audition. Transcriptions of it were taken and sent to NBC in New York. As a result he was immediately assigned to the Penn.-Princeton game of Oct- 15. As all the football enthusiasts know, other games followed until each Saturday has found him handling some big game and doing a very creditable job.
Of immediate local interest is the initial broadcast of the Political Science Forum tonight at 9:15 p.m. This first radio output of the Academy of Politics will bring Fred Sisk, Joseph Messick, and Ted Kmiecik to the microphone for a round table discussion on the city manager plan of government.
Mr. Robert Proctor, former Notre Dame debater and orator, will be interviewed on next Tuesday’s “Men of Yesterday” program.
The Log
Mon. 7 :£5 p.m.—Faculty Talk.
Tues. 7:00 p.m.—Mr. Robert Proctor. Thurs. 6:^5 p.m.—Sports with Walt
Hagen.
Fri. 6:45 p.m.—Music Department. Frj, 8:30 p.m.—The Modernairs.
Fri, 9:15 p.m. — Political Science
Forum.
POLITICAL SYNOD ON AIR TONIGHT
By Jim Magarahan
The Notre Dame Academy of Political Science will make its debut on the air* tonight at 9:15 when three of its members will broadcast an argumentative round table discussion through the campus facilities of Station WSBT-WFAM.
The quarter-hour discussion, entitled “The City-Manager Governing System,” will be conducted by Joe
Politician Sisk Part of a Round Table
Messick, chairman of the Academy’s radio committee, Ted Kmiecik, and Fred Sisk.
The broadcast is planned to be informative as well as argumentative, opening with a history of city-manager government, which began in Staunton, Virginia, and has rapidly become one of the most efficient plans of city rule discovered.
The program will continue with arguments for and against the system, and will end with the conclusion formed by the Academy and its radio representative.
■ Notre Dame is one of the few school in America which is installing courses for the development of future city rulers. The most notable other schools which plan to offer these courses are Syracuse, Stanford, and University of Cincinnati.
This will be the first in an unlimited series of weekly broadcasts sponsored by the Academy over the local radio station on Friday evenings.
Last Tuesday evening, at the regular weekly meeting of the group, Lawrence Ferguson delivered the chief address on “Cooperation Among State Governments.” Two weeks ago the principal speaker was Redman Duggan who discussed “Centralized Purchasing” from the standpoint of a political scientist.
Vincentians |
By Richard Leo Fallon, Jr.
There are some very interesting stories told about Frederic Ozanam, but we think that they, are not told often enough. It is said, for instance, that upon one occasion a group was in possession of a sum of money donated by Protestants for distribution to the poor. The group hit upon Ozanam and his Society as the agent for seeing that the money was put into the right hands. Ozanam was very careful to direct it into Protestant channels while his associates chided him for not using it in Catholic charity work. He was firm, however, and would have turned the money back had not used it for Protestant needy.
At another time Ozanam was approached by a poor fellow* who, having been helped before by the Vincentian, had gone off “the straight and narrow.” Ozanam turned the man away; but then after being troubled with a sensitive conscience, followed him through the City, and gave him the help needed. Ozanam must have had in mind the picture he once sketched of the poor man as “the messenger of God to us, sent to prove our justice and our charity, and to save us by our works.”
One of Ozanam’s beautiful practices was to go to the homes of the poor on Holy Thursday morning after his Holy Communion. And with him were loaves for the needy families.
New Year’s Eve was actually sad for him one year as he sat and watched his family thoroughly enjoy themselves! His wife finally sounded him out and found that he was thinking of a family that had a chest of drawers taken from it in payment of some debt. Now Mrs. Ozanam was naturally interested first in the welfare and happiness of her own family, and wanted it united for the evening’s celebration. And there was the financial element to be kept in mind —how Mrs. Ozanam had to watch this! But finally she whispered to her husband that he should redeem the furniture. His heart and mind in perfect peace, he came back for the happiest of New Year’s.
Picture a dingy flat somewhere in Paris.... musty, wet clothes on a line strung in the only room.... a drunken man cursing the wife hunched over a coal stove from which comes only the lifeless odor of boiling water. You know that scene. Such a one must have been bared to Ozanam when he went to the home of a woman who had a wretched husband and was unaware that her marriage could be annuled. Can you imagine the peace that lightened her heart later?
DECEMBER 2, 1938
9
SCHOOLMEN ADMIT NEW MEMBERS
•
The Schoolmen, campus undergraduate philosophic society, met recently in the Law Building to examine and admit new members. An examining body including Prexy Tom Roche, John Walsh and Ted Frericks questioned and evaluated the aspirants. When the formality of the inquisition was cast aside eight Junior philosophy majors were admitted to this exclusive group.
Of the men seeking admission Fred Wolfe, Dick Fallon, Ed Matthews, Tom Hackett, Al Colley, Jim Daner and Al Funk were successful in winning a nod of approval from the scrutinizing seniors. Among the would-be Schoolmen are James Cannon, John Crane and William Syring who have not as yet been examined.
The regular bi - weekly meetings feature a paper by one of the members. At the last conclave Peter Repetti gave an interesting and succinct summary of Gilson’s “Medieval Universalism.” Newly admitted Dick Fallon was assigned to deliver a paper at the next meeting.
Among the numerous organizations on the campus the Schoolmen lay a just claim to being one of the more erudite and cultured groups. Admission is open to philosophy majors who have attained then' Junior year. It provides an outlet for those interested in philosophy to express their initiative and personal problems with men who share this mutual sympathy.
The election of Dick Fallon to the post of vice-president completes the executive body which includes President Tom Roche and Secretary Herman Romberg. In his capacity as faculty moderator Rev. Thos. J. Brennan, C.S.C., is a source of inspiration and encouragement to these men who would better appreciate “the science of all things through their ultimate causes acouired by the natural light of reason.”
Le Cerc/e Francois
Professor Stanley S. Sessler, head of the Department of Art, delivered an illustrated lecture on French painting of the 19th century, Tuesday night, at a meeting of the Le Cercle Francais in the language clubrooms of Badin Hall.
The Club had an unusual Communion breakfast recently. Rev. Charles L. Doremus, C.S.C., gave the sermon at the Mass in French and read the epistle and gospel in French. At the breakfast Father Doremus and Prof. Charles Du Bos spoke of the essential character of the French language.
COYNE MAKES SLASH IN DEBATE RANKS
By Thomas C. Ferneding
Tryouts for positions on the varsity debating teams both A and B squads, were held this week under the direction of Mr. William J. Coyne, associate professor of speech.
Applicants who have successfully passed the preliminary rounds of the
Debate Director Coyne Even evidence counted.
tourney to date are: Monday afternoon’s contest: John White and Frank Fitch. Monday night: Milton Williams, Jerry Flynn, Dave Withey, and John Wintermeyer. Tuesday afternoon: Albert Funk, Thomas Grady, and William Meier. Tuesday night: John McCally and Francis Parks.
In the judging of these tryouts, Coach Coyne paid particular attention to the individual speaker, his delivery, analysis of question, evidence, general effectiveness, rebuttal and refutation. Decisions were made with stress on the individual, rather than on a particular side of the issue debated. This list will be increased by some additional debaters.
The various contestants for the varsity debate tryouts argued the same question which has confronted interhall debaters for the past few weeks namely: Resolved: That the United States should cease to use public funds for the purpose of stimulating business. This question will continue to be debated for the remainder of the season by members of both varsity teams.
Final selection for candidates of both A and B squads, , will be made on December 7.
From the looks of the bulletin boards one would think Christmas was ready to pounce upon the student body; signs advise him to take home a bit of jewelry, to go home by bus, by train, by plane. All in all the spirit of Christmas seems to have invaded the campus — instead of notes, the “Spirals” are now filled with crossed-off calendars.
NEW BEST SELLERS ON LIBRARY LISTS
, By Steve Smith
Headlining the recent acquisitions to the University Library is the nation’s best selling novel, The Yearling, by Margaret K. Rawlings. Superseding the phenomonally popular Gone With the Wind as America’s favorite reading matter, this story of a modern Huckleberry Finn of the Florida Everglades, the now frtnous character, “Jody” Baxter, tops a list of about 30 new outstanding books received since Nov. 5.
Other books of particular interest are King of the Beggars, by Sean O’Faolin; Charles Sheeler, by C. M. Rourke, (biography) ; Catholic Literary France from Verlaine to the Present, by Sr. M. J. Keeler, (Catholic Literature); I Believe in Education, by E. A. Fitzpatrick; The School Ma’am, by Mrs. F. R. Donovan, and The Administration of Adult Education, by F. M. Debatin (education).
A variety of subjects and originally handled are presented in E. I. Curran’s, Great Moments in Catholic History, which, coupled with R. Curri-gan’s detailed and careful history, The Church and The Nineteenth Century, comprises a novel study of the Church in her relations with the world. For those who require new information on economics, the library has provided the documentary Landmarks of Economic Thought of J. M. Ferguson. .
New angles to tangled world affairs are discussed in E. C. Bleucher’s British-American Alliance and in Sir Philip Gibbs’s Across the Frontiers. Miscellaneous material includes Penny Vessel Vagaries, by D. L. Pickman; Poles in New York, by M. Hai-man, and People at Bay by O. I. Janowsky.
Cracow Club Meeting
In observation of Poland’s 20th anniversary of independence, as a result of the Versailles Treaty, the Charles Phillips Cracow club will hold a meeting tonight, Dec. 2, in Badin. Rec.
Steve Szumachowski will speak on “Poland’s Strides”; Vernon Witkowski will discuss “Twenty Yeas as a State.” They will trace Poland’s trend towards democracy, and its general movement forward with its neighboring countries.
Elections of the new administrative officers will take place during the club’s confab.
In memory of Charles Phillips, founder of the club and writer on independent Poland, a general Communion breakfast will be held just before the Christmas holidays.
10
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Band Concerts at all Basketball Games
•
With the coming of snow most of us have changed our interest from the gridiron to the basketball court. And so has the band. No more practicing of formations, or school songs of opponents. With the final gun at Northwestern, we ended our performances at football games—though some optimists were all packed for California.
Since then we have been working on music of a bit more serious nature. In keeping with our spirit, the concert music is light and full of brand new marches, just off the press this fall! The “Steel King,” and “City of Pittsburgh” are only two of the new marches, while older favorites such as “My Hero” from the production “Chocolate Soldier,” “Three Musketeers,” “Rosalie,” and many others (even Tiger Rag) will all be played during our concerts throughout the basketball season. These concerts, the first of which was held Thursday night, will consist of two portions, the half hour before the game, and the intermission period between
• halves of the game.
As is customary in the training of drum majors, the assistant drum major, Stanley Litizetty, was given the opportunity to lead the band during the last home game, and also at the Northwestern game. Now that the football season is over, we wish to thank the student body for its fine spirit and cooperation at all the games, particularly for the fine reception given us at the Minnesota game. With this experience behind us we are looking forward with eagerness to playing once more for the students at the basketball games.
Forum Men Breakfast
The annual Commerce Forum Communion breakfast will be held Sunday morning, Dec. 4th in the Faculty Dining Hall following the 8:30 Mass in Alumni Hall chapel. Thomas Reardon is general chairman for the event.
Speakers who have been chosen for the occasion are Dean McCarthy of the College of Commerce, Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., and Mr. LeClair Eells, faculty moderator. Pat Gorman is to be toastmaster for this year’s breakfast.
The members of the Commerce Forum will attend an 8:30 Mass in Alumni Hall chapel in a group. It will be necessary to present the receipt of the banquet ticket in order to attend the Mass.
Tickets are now available, and may be obtained from the following members of the Forum: Thomas Reardon, 211 Walsh Hall; Phil Lucien, 203 Zahm Hall.
Boy's Town Revue Smash Hit on Palace Stage;
Leave for New York and Possible World Tour
By Ed Fulham
Boy’s Town is on the stage. The boys played before three packed houses at the Palace Theater on Saturday Nov. 26. and they were greeted by loud and sincere applause.
Of higher entertainment value than most shows of a similar nature the Boy’s Town Revue is filled with the shining example of what care and treatment can do with hidden talent.
Foremost among the youthful stars was little Sammy Applebaum, a tiny black haired boy of 11. The little
Captain McGoldrick Obliged with autographs.
Jewish boy sang the lead with the A Capella Choir, and two solos with a Western act.
Dawson Butler, 20, of Chicago gave excellent impersonations of screen stars. Butler has been at Boys Town for several years, and he hopes to go on with his impersonations as a career.
Two colored boys, John Duke and Harold McDemmond, pleased with their tap dancing. Both boys have been dancing since early childhood. After going to Boy’s Town they were encouraged to keep it up by Father Flannagan, and they both hope for a chance to dance professionally.
The remainder of the show consisted of four numbers by the A Capella Choir, a Western act that featured rope spinning acts, and group marching and drill that opened and closed the show.
After the performance was over most of the boys rushed back to the LaSalle hotel hoping to hear a broadcast of the game between the Boy’s Town football team and Black Box Military Academy being played in Los Angeles, California.
The Boy’s Town team has a splendid record. They haven’t lost a game in three years. In fact, they have been scored on only once. “We
wouldn’t have been scored on then,” one of the boys said, “but our safety man was watching a girl on the sideline and didn’t knock down a pass.”
Some of the boys came out to Notre Dame to see the campus after the first show. According to most of the boys Notre Dame is the favorite team at school. They listen to all our games and are sure that we’ll win over U. S. C.
They met Captain Jim McGoldrick in the cafe and wanted autographs. Jim obliged.
The troup consists of about 20 boys. So far they have played only in the Middle West but are going slowly east playing one night stands. After New York they head west to the Pacific Coast. If the show continues to be a success plans are being made for a world tour, and all the boys in. the show are looking forward to it.
“Boys’ Town is great, and Father Flannagan is wonderful.” That was the statement of every boy. One boy summed it up: “Boy’s Town is exactly as it appeared in the picture. They didn’t make a picture to fool the public, if you saw Boy’s Town on the screen, you saw Boy’s Town as it really is.”
It was a pleasant sight to see boys in brown pants and brown jackets with faces that showed where care and kindness had erased the harsh lines that had once been made by the world.
Langford Writes
The work of Mr. Walter Langford, assistant professor of Spanish, has recently been published in several prominent magazines. The articles all deal with Mexican politics and Mexican' personalities both of which Mr. Langford knows intimately.
In The Sign appeared the article “Is Mexico Facing a Smash-up?” a consideration of the economic crisis now confronting the Cardenas administration in that country.
A story of the amazing Father Pro, “Mexico’s Special Martyr,” who met his death in 1927 in the persecutions that tore at the foundations of the faith in Mexico, appeared in the November issue of The Missionary.
The Nov. 5 issue of the Ave Maria featured an analysis of the implications involved in the • reorganization of the official government party under the title “Mexico’s New Political Party.” Other articles by Mr. Langford will appear in the Ave Maria, the St. Francis Home Journal and the Little Missionary.
DECEMBER 2. 1938
II
Theatre
\_______________________________
By Norbert A. Aleksis
So far as we can remember, campus drama presentations have not been traditionalized with curtain calls at the conclusion of a performance. And we don’t recall of any instance in which a University Player was applauded for fine performance upon stage entrance or exit. It was a genuine pleasure to witness the realization of both heretofore unheard of incidents during the two performances of “Room Service.” The continued applause of the audience resulted in several curtain calls for the entire cast!
Furthermore, upon the final exit of the Russian waiter Sasha Smirnoff (played by Vernon Witkowski), an enthusiastic audience applauded this fine rendition of stage ability. We believe these events significant and important for several reasons. First, such response from our audiences acts both as a tribute and a compensation for the hard work and excellent results produced by the directors and the cast. It proves that Washington Hall audiences can show appreciation despite several sad exhibitions of conduct in the past!
In closing press notices on the inaugural presentation of the University Theatre, credit and praise should be extended to the men behind the scenes. To Director Mills we offer congratulations for lifting the campus drama to higher levels of production. Then, too, all during the strenuous rehearsals and up to the closing curtain Assistant Director Ray Sad-lier showed distinct qualifications for his position. For four weeks he served as character substitute, prompter, publicity director, stage manager, scenarist, “prop-man,” make-up artist and writer for this column! Noteworthy, also, was the performance of Bub McFarland as the prostrated Gribble.
It seems to be the perennial task of the reviewer or commentator to analyze the success or failure of things. We find this task comparatively easy when viewing the reasons for the success of “Room Service.” First and foremost is the fact that the directors of the University Theatre are qualified to act in their capacity, having a comprehensive grasp of the problems of stage technique, direction, casting, etc. In other words, they know their stuff!
Campus projects always fail when the “sources” of direction are inadequate. Those hungry for publicity and general “hangers-on,” contribute nothing to the development of a project; these coupled with politics of
would-be directors, constitute obvious restraints upon progress! The sincere and genuine attempts of the University Theatre have thus far successfully eluded the well-known perverted practices which can easily prohibit artistic development.
Finally, it must be said that not everyone can direct. Direction is impossible without knowledge . . . and this is not an obvious truism in many instances. Furthermore, not everyone can perform, yet some would believe that quantity is the prime objective in art!
By Dick Metzger
In the early part of November the Hoosier Salon Patrons . Association held its annual exhibition of Indiana Parochial school art at Marian College in Indianapolis. In this annual exhibition the Association has sought to foster creative ability in the arts with the aim of making Indiana the foremost state in the Union in this particular field.
Each year the University Department of Fine Arts has sent a representative group of its students’ best work to this competition with noteworthy success. Notre Dame students in the past have won a majority of the prizes offered in both painting and drawing. This year that record has been maintained, Notre Dame students having won first prize in three of the four competitive divisions.
Don Driscoll, Co-Art Editor of Scrip with John Webster, won first prize in oil painting with a still-life group of bright marigold flowers, the very first work he attempted this year. He also took first honorable mention in life drawing with a fine rendering in charcoal and white chalk on gray paper. Edward (“Buck”) Reilly, a special student in the Fine Arts Department, won first place in the commercial design class with his realistic oil painting of a breakfast featuring Kellogg Corn Flakes.
Bob Schultz, a student in the Department of Architecture, was first in the cast drawing competition with a carefully studied, precise charcoal rendering of Michelangelo’s statue of Guiliano de Medici, the original of which is in the Medici Chapel in San Lorenzo Church, Florence, Italy.
Professor Stanley S. Sessler, head of the Department of Fine Arts, will place these prize winning drawings and paintings, together with other outstanding student work on exhibition in the Library next Tuesday.
Music Notes
By William Mooney
It is our pleasure to introduce Mr. Donald C. Tiedemann, baritone.
As baritone soloist with the Notre Dame Glee Club for the past two years and vocal soloist with the Notre Dame Band, Mr. Tiedemann has had an opportunity to continue in the work he likes best—singing.
For the past three summers he has sung with the Chautauqua Opera Company at the Chautauqua Institution in Western New York, where such musical celebrities as Mischa Mischakoff, concert master under Toscanini, Georges Barerre, eminent flutist, and Georges Miquelle, first cellist in the Ford Symphony Orchestra, and many other outstanding instrumentalists meet under the baton of Albert Stoessel.
Mr. Stoessel also conducts the Opera Company in whose ranks are such famous Metropolitan stars as Josephine Antoine, Susanne Fisher, Helen Jepson, Jules Huen, Donald Dickson and many others. Don Tiedemann is one of the few members of the company fortunate enough to be given a place even though he does not spend the winter studying voice at Julliard, Eastman, or the Curtis Conservatory of Music as other chorus members almost without exception do.
Don has been in the company since he was fifteen and has studied voice each summer, first under Horatio Connell and later under his successor, • Clarence Rienert. In spite of his experience, which is most valuable in obtaining small parts, Don seriously doubts that he will go back this year, since he wants to spend more time in intensive study than is possible .while singing in this company which puts on six operas in eight weeks, necessitating rehearsals from ten to twelve in the morning, from two to five in the afternoon, and at night from seven-thirty until the director is satisfied.
Don’s chief ambition at Notre Dame is to have a radio program of his own, and hopes to realize this before his senior year.
While music is his chief interest, Don intends to keep it as an avocation. He plans to finish in Arts and Letters at Notre Dame, and then go to Harvard for law.
Next week “Music-Notes” will be written by Don. We are looking forward to an interesting treatment of the future of young singers in'America.
12
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus
Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C________Faculty Advisor
MARK J. MITCHELL__________________Editor-In-Chief
VINCENT DeCOURSEY_______________Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
William P. Mahoney______________________________Literary Editor
William A. Donnelly_________________________________The Week
Frederick Sisk__________________________________College Parade
Graham Starr----------------------------Man About the Campus
William Mooney______________________________________Music Notes
Andrew Wilson Splinters from the Press Box
Edward Huff_________________________________________Introducing
News Staff William C. Fay News Editor
F. G. Barreda---------------------------Assistant News Editor
John Kohn----------------------------------Harry Penrose
George Haithcock___________________________Joseph Perkins
Thomas Ferneding_____________________________Joseph Miller
George Neumann_____________________________Stephen Smith
John Ferneding-----------------------------Thomas Marker
Edward Huston------------------------------Richard Anton
Sports Staff
Donald Foskett Sports Editor
Robert B. Voelker-----------------------Assistant Sports Editor
Clarence Sheehan_______________________________John Quinn
James Newland-----------------------------------------John	White
Francis Kennedy Frank	Aubrey
Art Staff
Tom Powers______________________________________________Art Editor
Don Driscoli----------------------------------Assistant Art Editor
John Webster----------------------------------Assistant Art Editor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City— Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to P. O. Box 155, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Vol. 72	December 2, 1938	No. 10
Something About "Swing"
(Ed Note: In many dispatches about the recent religious bulletin on “swing,” the AVE maria, from which the bulletin quoted, was referred to as the “weekly publication of the University of Notre Dame.” We have been requested to point out that this is erroneous. The ave maria has no connection whatever with the University or any of its publications. It is merely published on the campus.)
WITH “jitterbugs” condemned on every side, and “swing” decried as a menace to the youth of the nation, we would like to add a few words to the general chorus, by way of shedding a little light on the question.
In the first place, we would like to make a distinction between music which is played in a definite style, known as “swing,” and people who dance is another style, called “jitterbugs.” In the failure to make this distinction, we
feel, lies an error which is anything but advantageous to the opponents of “swing.”
Most observers agree that the most avid “jitterbugs” are to be found not among men and women, nor even among young men and young women, but rather among boys and girls, for the most part of high school age. These are the people who enter swing contests. They are the ones who form local “hot clubs.” Should we, then, consider a serious menace what seems to be nothing more than a manifestation of adolescent foolishness. We would much prefer to place this youthful addiction to strange gyrations in the same category with “puppy love.”
As for “swing” music proper, we wonder how serious an evil this is, and how great a deleterious influence can result from listening to it. We prefer to think that any mature person cannot fail to see the transciency of a fashion in it. And it must be admitted that a “swing” style in the rendition of some of the more trite and sentimental so-called classics, is often refreshing.
Briefly, then, we feel that if one must oppose “jitterbugs” and “swing,” the best attitude is one of patient tolerance.—Mark J. Mitchell.
. And Gladly Teach"
THERE must be something wrong with the public school system. We came to that conclusion the other day after reading an enlightening news article on the front page of a Chicago newspaper. For some time we have sat by and pondered the possible outcome of a situation in the American public school system that has become so prevalent as to cause no little alarm; but we never publicly expressed our indignation until the appearance of the aforementioned little item.
The story deals with a Los Angeles school teacher who appeared in court to testify against two men accused of robbing her. The little lady came to court attired in what the judge described as a “tight fitting sweater and tight fitting pants, commonly known as slacks.” The magistrate felt that he had a certain amount of dignity to preserve in his courtroom, so he ordered our ultra-modem schoolmistress to go home and change to “women’s clothes.” To which she replied that she didn’t believe the court had the right to tell her how to dress. She was sentenced to five days for contempt of court.
This story illustrates one of the unfortunate results of laxity and favoritism in admitting teachers to our public school system. Altogether too many intellectual anemics and emotional jitterbugs are to be found in our American classrooms today, and they get in because we just don’t seem to care. Some of them do honestly want to teach, but they just aren’t capable. They fail to realize that teaching is still a profession and not just another “job.” For many it is a welcome haven between the last education course and a wedding ring. But some of the most flagrant violators are those young men and women who do graduate from college,. yet can’t seem to get work when they are turned into the world. They present a peculiar problem—a teacher with the heart of an engineer or a stenographer.
These abuses all add up to create a serious problem. Perhaps all we need to do is ask prospective teachers one question—“Why do you want to teach?”
—Donald A. Foskett.
DECEMBER 2, 1938
13
Some November Magazines
There is an ever present danger in reviewing whether the subject reviewed be a book or an article. The reviewer tends to become too didactic and tells one to read not because of any intrinsic worth of the thing to be read but merely because the reviewer has said “This is to be read” or “This is not to be read.” At the outset, this work is intended to be only a guide, and if any one piece has an especial recommendation, it is only because I think that you, too, will appreciate the article as much as I. .
The Commomveal for Nov. 25, in “Nazism and the Spiritual Resistance” by Edward Quinn, has a timely article in view of the recent antiSemitic activities in Europe the past weeks. Since concession to Nazi demands results only in more demands, it can easily be seen that a concession is no longer a means of solving the problem. The other alternative is resistance, not, however, material resistance. Only a spiritual resistance can be successful in the end. The common front of Christians in Germany, their prayers and sufferings— particularly if it goes as far as martyrdom—will show the power it denotes a reality that is by no means metaphorical. Christ is the Head of the body of the Church; we are members of that body by the ontological bond of the habit of faith, and the baptismal character, and we are living members by another such link, sanctifying grace. By these mysterious, supernatural bonds, which for lack of a better term we can call mystical, we are as truly one with Christ as the branches are one with the trunk of a tree by means of the life-giving sap that permeates the whole organism.
But, and here is the surprise, such a concept does not express the whole truth because the Mystical Body is not exactly co-terminous with the visible Church. It extends farther than that. It embraces the Nazi, the Communist, everyone. It is for everyone that Christ shed His blood, and that is what makes them members of His Mystical Body, each in his own way. The mystery of the Redemption embraces the Communist as well as ourselves and in that mystery all men are one. Finally, in the interests of clarity and to avoid all misunderstanding Mr. O’Connor suggests that it would be better to refer to the visible Church (those who are baptized) as the Body of Christ, as St. Paul does, and to use the term Mysti
cal Body to designate the totally different concept of humanity as the object of Christ’s redeeming power, as St. Thomas does. We are obliged to belong to the Body of Christ, we already belong to His Mystical Body by the fact that we are men.
The Nov. 26 issue of America carries an article “Neutrality of Partiality” by W. Gerald Downey that has in it the germs of a fine argument apart from the usual things on our foreign policy. Mr. Downey has injected a small bit of philosophy into this work.... He considers man, or rather the normal of the Christian group and the real poverty of Nazism. That will take time especially as the secular forces are so strong in the world today and in view of the confusion of spirit among those who think that National-Socialism is the sincere enemy of Godless Communism. Both are in fact diverse forms of the one secular spirit, which has grown out of the faithfulness of the past two or three hundred years. It is that spirit which has to be destroyed in the modem world and it can only be overcome by the Spirit of God, working in the mind and will of individuals wholly devoted to the things of the Spirit, enlightened and strengthened by the Paraclete. Mr. Quinn has grasped immediately the major ill that besets the modem world today: that of greed. The remedy has been succinctly expressed centuries ago, “Love Thy Neighbor as Thyself.”
In the same issue of Commomveal Leo R. Ward in “How to Make Molasses,” captures engagingly the charm of rural life. Usually the account of a small manufacturing process must, of necessity, be rather dull, but the author has painted a pleasant word picture aided by a clever sense of dialogue in following the making of molasses from planting the cane (sugar) to boiling the sap in a great kettle over an open fire. Stories of outdoor life carry an especial appeal and this one, with its skillful treatment, makes us feel like rolling up our sleeves and pitching right in with the folks.
If you like surprises, “The Mystical Body of Christ” by William R. O’Connor in the Commomveal for Nov. 25 will give you one. Furthermore, if you never quite understood the term “Mystical Body,” Mr. O’Connor will clarify the situation for you. The Mystical Body denotes that a unity exists between Christ and certain others. It is a metaphorical term “Mystical Body” but condition
By John J. Deane
of mankind, is one of peace. When war breaks out between two nations, the other nations which wish to remain friendly to both sides usually ■ declare their, neutrality. Neutrality means the continuation of this normal condition of peace—the condition that formerly existed among all nations— between the nations at war and those remaining at peace. Those, I think, are controversial thoughts. Man has never been characterized as a particularly peaceable animal. It is only with the coming of culture and civilization that he has veneered his warlike instincts and presented a false front.	•
John Wiltbye in his article “Adenoids and Poor Eyes Aid to Juvenile Delinquency” found in America for Nov. 25 steps, rather rudely, on the feet of the New York School Board’s Committee for Juvenile Delinquency much in the same manner that Mr. McLemore takes oif on the New York Boxing Commission. “The Board,” says Mr. Wiltbye, “in its latest report is threshing old straw.” While he agrees that such things are good, he does not think that summer camps under school supervision, and an opportunity for the child to secure medical treatment for bad eyes and swollen tonsils really settles the grave problem of juvenile delinquency. Too many criminals have been provided with glasses before their seventh year, and simultaneously deprived of their tonsils; too many saints and heroes had neither medical care nor playgrounds. The commission, it seems, has printed 160 pages (its report covered that many) of balderdash. As a sure remedy for juvenile delinquency, Mr. Wiltbye advises that children be educated in religion. A child is not an animal needing care only for his physical welfare. He has an immortal soul and a destiny not bounded by time, or space. The educational system which provides merely for the child’s mental and phyiscal training will not check, and may promote, juvenile delinquency. If we wish to make our boys and girls good citizens, we must not restrict our solicitude to their physical welfare. We must care first of all and through all for their immortal souls. .
Those of you who are interested in social legislation will be happy to read Lawrence Lucey’s article “Child Labor is an Evil but Haans are Not the Cure” in America for Nov. 26. Child labor, he contends, is a direct outgrowth of low wages paid to the (Continued on Page 21)
14
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Past Shades
By John Marston
Scene: Campus—at midnight.
Cast: Two Shades of the past.
1st. Shade: Isn’t this the hall we lived in?
2nd Shade: This is it hut it was never as quiet as this when we were here.
1	S: Well the lights are out—you know its after eleven o’clock.
2	S: Yes, but life used to begin at eleven for us. The rector never came up to our floor. The track men used to practice by jumping over the beds and....
1	S: Let’s go in and see if anything’s going on.
2	S: It’s fun coming in like this without Pete’s signing us in. I wonder where he is?
(1st. Shade whistles)
1	S: Here comes someone. It looks like Pete.
2	S: Sure it’s Pete. He still has the same squeak as he walks.
1	S: That’s because he still has the same shoes. “Hi Pete, how are things around here?”
2	S: Can you beat that. He doesn’t even recognize us. He must be getting old or else we are....
(Shades enter the hall.)
1	S: They certainly have plenty of notices on the bulletin board.
2	S: Maybe this is what they call outside reading.
1	S: Here’s a good one. “Students cannot use'automobiles without special permission.”
2	S: We didn’t need special permission.
1	S: That was because there were no automobiles.
2	S: And look at this one. “Buffalo Club skating party to be held on the third.”
1	S: The lakes look kinda watery for a skating party.
2	S: They must mean rollerskating.
1	S: Rollerskating? Now isn’t that nice. Soon they will be running picnics and making daisy chains.
2	S: Well I’ll be....
1	S: Don’t tell me. They have visiting hours—or is it a social to be held at St. Mary’s?
2	S: No. “Students are not to leave South Bend.”
1	S: You remember our limits, don’t you?
2	S: Sure. No one was allowed past chemistry hall unless he signed out. But then we could skive through the woods and the prefect couldn’t see us.
1	. S: And besides the horse and wagon that he used couldn’t go any faster than the old prefect could run.
2	S: Gosh, it was fun when he would give chase. Once we took to the fences we were safe.
1	S: Now that the prefect has an automobile I don’t suppose that the fellows even go out.
2	S: It must be tough on them alright. Let’s take a look in our old room before we leave.
1	S: It was room 200 wasn’t it?
2	S: That’s right. It was here by the stairway.
(Shades go up and enter the room)
1	S: Look at this—a basin in the room—and hot and cold water.
2	S: It certainly has changed around here. Maybe these kids are rich and can afford it?
1	S: These fellows have everything; rugs on the floor, drapes on the windows and....
Reminiscence
By Steve Smith
Amid the broken reverie* of youth The tangled dreams float, thick About us, (just as with the fever-haunted sick),
A bright Delusion steals the role of truth.
Into a thousand ardors plunge' the young
Though swiftly schemes fade, die,
Each cast off, (for what could ever satisfy?)
Youth’s a fickle ballad, halting, sung
In alternating moods, its charm lies much
In triple variations; thus
Men love it, (we ever covet change)
May we have youth around us, for a freshened touch.
2	S: Why they each have their own set of books. These fellows aren’t rich. They’re just crazy.
1	S: -Remember when the prof told us to bring our own books?
2	S: Sure and we flipped to see who had to change classes.
1	S: This education business is alright but it gets expensive if you don’t play it smart.
2	S: Let’s be going now.
(Shades make their way down to the door)
1	S: How would you like to live under these rules?
2	S: Nothing doing. For good fun you couldn’t beat that chase we would get through the alleys down town.
1	S: It certainly must be tough on these fellows with the prefect zipping around in a car.
2	S: Well, what’s this?
1	S: A couple of fellows signing in late and Pete won’t agree with them that his watch is fast.
2 S: Yeah, but look at that snow ball that they are bringing in. I told you these fellows were crazy.
(Shades advance to the arriving group)
1st. Student: But Pete, he’s an art student—he has to make a bust of Washington for a class in the morning.
2nd. Student: That’s right Pete, I have to make a bust of Washington.
Pete: With that snow ball you could make his whole army.
1st Student: He was a big man, Pete.
Petes O. K. take it in but don’t drop it.
2nd .Student: Don’t worry, Pete, we won’t.
1ST. Student: Good night, Pete. (aside) Boy, that was close.
2nd. Student: Put it down so he can get out. I hope he is still alive.
(Student emerges from snow-ball).
1	S: Say, these fellows are O. K.
2	S: O. K? Do you know, I think the prefect better use reindeers instead of a car.
SHADES, shades, shades.
(Curtain)
DECEMBER 2, 1938
15
THE WEEK IN SPORTS
IRISH PLACE SEVERAL ON ALL AMERICAN
IRISH IN LAST BIG TEST OF SEASON AGAINST BOWL-BOUND TROJANS AT LOS ANGELES
By Pete Sheehan
The end of the 1938 football season has arrived for the great majority of our American college football teams, and only a few scattered games remain to be played, among them the tussle between Notre Dame and the Trojans of Southern California. At the end of each football season followers of the game instinctively look for the inevitable All Americans, which seem to multiply as each succeeding December rolls around. Some of these teams have already appeared and when one scans their different personnels, it is interesting to note the number of Notre Dame men that are being chosen for positions on them.
Probably one of the first to come out with an All America was Bill Stern, the well known N.B.C. football announcer, who has become almost as familiar a figure as Red Barber in the stadium broadcasting booth. Bill based his selections on performances he had watched from coast to coast up to and including the games of Nov. 12. For one of the tackle positions on his first team he picked Ed Beinor, selected for the same position on last year’s team of the All American Board. On his alternate team, which he said was capable of just as good football as the first, Stern chose Ed Longhi for the center position and Earl Brown for one of the end posts.
The Columbia Broadcasting System also came out with a team, and a team that has a distinct Notre Dame flavor. Yes, Mr. Ted Husing didn’t watch the Irish overcome the Army and submerge Minnesota for nothing; he had those field glasses focused on some sterling individual performances and he remembered them. No less than four wearers of the blue and gold appear in the C.B.S lineup. Earl Brown holds down an end position, Ed Beinor takes over one of the tackles, while Lou Zontini and Bob Saggau make up exactly one-half the backfield.
The Hearst papers selected Earl Brown and Ed Longhi for their team.
Brown and Longhi were also the choice of Francis Powers for his Chicago American All Western team. Quarterback Steve Sitko, who, we think has received altogether too little mention for his superb generalship and blocking this year, was also selected for this eleven.
Southern California’s Trojans, selected to represent the Pacific Coast Conference in the annual Rose Bowl Classic, will attempt to dethrone the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame and the Middle West as national champions, shatter their undefeated record, and uphold the prestige of football as it is played in the
Tackle Ray George
Veteran Trojan lineman.
Cagers Win and Lose
Coach George Keogan found tough opposition for his varsity basketball team in the traditional practice games this year, for during the past week the Irish have stacked up against the well known Firestone team and the Bendix club of South Bend. Starring for Firestone, which edged the Keo-ganmen by five points, were Johnny Moir, Paul Nowak, and several former N.Y.U. stars.
The Bendix team was rather easy for the Irish, as Coach Keogan alternated his first two teams throughout the game. Frank Wade, ’36, played for Bendix.
land of sunshine. Upwards of 100,000 fans will fill the Los Angeles Coliseum tomorrow afternoon to view this contest after which Notre Dame hopes to rest on the top of the gridiron world for the first time since 1930.
Alabama was the first opponent for the men of Troy, and the Crimson Tide were the winners, 19 to 7. The Trojans came back strong to defeat . Oregon State, Ohio State, Washington State, Stanford, Oregon, and California on successive Saturdays. Washington’s Huskies nosed out U.S.C., 7 to 6 but Coach Howard Jones’ team bounced right back and defeated University of California at Los Angeles on Thanksgiving Day. This was the same team that Wiscon-son edged out, 14 to 7, but Southern Cal. overwhelmed them 42 to 7.
The visitors will be at a great weight disadvantage as the Trojan line averages well over 200 pounds. Stanley and Stonebraker will probably be at the ends. Stanley weighs 206 pounds. Howard Stoecker and Ray George will be back at the tackle posts. Both of these young men weigh in at 212. Ben Sole, 238 pound sophomore giant, and Harry Smith will play the guard positions. Captain Don McNeil will once again face the Irish from his position in the center of the line.
Grenville Lansdell, triple threat back, will cal signals, with Bob Hoffman and Boyd Morgan probable starters at the halves. Sangster and Day will alternate at fullback.
This year’s battle, as those of the past, will afford the spectators with an opportunity to see several AllAmerica selections in action. Lansdell, George, and Smith of the Trojans have been named on several mythical teams, while Beinor, Longhi, and Brown of the Irish, have also attracted a great deal of attention from the gentlemen who select these teams. Notre Dame fans can easily remember “Blackjack” Smith’s, line play here last year. He was considered the outstanding lineman to perform in the stadium in recent years.
16
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
U. S. C. EDITOR RATES UNDERDOG TROJAN TEAM SEVEN POINTS BETTER THAN NOTRE DAME
WINTER TRACKMEN IN INITIAL WORKOUTS
Sports Editor, The Daily Trojan
LOS ANGELES, Dec. 1—(Special to the Notre Dame Scholastic)—It’s “Revenge Year” for the husky Trojans of Southern California as they stage their comeback into the limelight of national gridiron prominence at the expense of teams which have been defeating them during the lean years since 1933.
The Trojan debts of longest standing are with Notre Dame and California. The latter was defeated 13-7 this year by the Thundering Herd which had not defeated the Bears since 1933. The Fighting Irish have also whipped the Trojans for four years running, and in Saturday’s game Southern California has hopes of turning the tables.
Like the Irish, the Trojans have faced one of the toughest schedules in the country. After losing the season’s opener to Alabama, a team which appeared to be in mid-season form, Southern California went through its next six games undefeated, including among its victims Oregon State,- Ohio State, Washington State, Stanford, Oregon, and California.
In a psychological slump Washington sneaked in a 7-6 victory on a snow-covered field at Seattle. On Thanksgiving Day the Trojans returned to form and walloped UCLA, 42-7.
This year Coach Howard Jones has a far better team than the one which faced Notre Dame at South Bend last year and held it to a tie until the last four minutes of the game. The Trojan line is the heaviest in years, and reserves are plentiful in most of the positions of the backfield and forward wall.
Southern California boasts three all-coast stars, all of whom have been given all-American mention. Harry Smith, running guard, is the best man at this position that the Trojans have had since the time of Aaron Rosenberg and Johnny Baker, who kicked the field goal which beat Notre Dame 16-14 in 1931.
In the backfield Granny Lansdell, quarterback and ball-carrying star, has been aided in his long runs by the sensational blocking of “Booming” Bob Hoffman, left halfback. Hoffman, who also backs up the line on defense, was out of the UCLA contest with a twisted knee but should he ready for the Irish.
At fullback Coach Jones has been alternating Bill Sangster, a ten second sprinter, with Sophomores Jack Banta and Bob Peoples. The latter was out for six weeks with a chipped
(Continued on Page 20)
Director Scannell Looks to the hardwood.
Interhall Basketball Gets Under Way
With the arrival of December, Notre Dame’s army of interhall athletes, under the leadership of Mr. John Scannell, head of the Department of Physical Education, has turned its attention from Cartier Field and Freshman Field to the hardwood courts of the field house. Last week the call was sounded for the various hall groups to practice, and the call resulted in one of the largest turnouts in the history of interhall basketball here. Carroll Hall runnerup in last year’s heavyweight division, was well represented, as was Brownson Hall, the team that took second honors in the lightweight division a year ago.
- The second round of practice periods is as follows: On Sunday, Dec. 4, Zahm will practice at 9:00 a.m., Carroll at 10:00 a.m., Brownson at 11:00
• a.m., Cavanaugh at 1:30 p.m., Freshman at 2:30 p.m., and Off-Campus at 8:30 p.m.; Monday, Howard will practice at 8:00 p.m., and Sorin-Walsh at 9:00 p.m.; Tuesday, Alum-ni-Dillon at 8:00 p.m. and St. Edward’s at 9:00-. p.m.; on Thursday, Badin at 8:00 p.m. and Lyons at 9:00 p.m.; and on Friday, Morrissey at 8:00 p.m. and Old Infirmary at 9:00 p.m.
Mr. Scannell also revealed that on Thursday, Nov. 24, the St. Louis club defeated the Freshman team, 4-0, in a regular soccer league game.
With a large squad responding to the opening call, indoor track practice was inaugurated Monday at the fieldhouse. A warning of the dangers attached to getting into shape featured the opening practice session.
Warming-up exercises will dominate the early routine of the track-sters, it was stated. Following a week of “getting-in-shape” drills, preparations will start for the opening meet of the year. One, possibly two, practice meets will be held before the squad travels to Champaign for the Illinois relays. Differing from past years, this initial meet will be held before the final examinations, instead of after.
The squad promises to be as large in number as in past seasons, but it is doubtful as to whether it will measure up to that of last year from the standpoint of performance. Among other stars of the cinders, Dan Gibbs, Bill Clifford, Bill Sheehan and John Francis were lost by graduation.
Indications are that sophomore will play a big part in the track battles of the coming season, a good squad of second-year men having-come up from last year’s Freshman squad.
Gridders in Last Drill
Early Monday a squad of 36 picked for the last game of the 1938 season left the campus for the “sunny southwest.” As the rugged players hurried to get out of the cold Indiana winds, mumblings were heard about “this Indiana and its weather.” The big frosh-varsity scrimmage planned for Saturday and then postponed till Sunday was finally given up as the cold left the team open to injuries. The first two teams, outfitted' in numerous jerseys, towels, and gloves, ran through dummy scrimmages, and a scrimmage was tried with the third and fourth teams.
The weather is causing Coach Layden a few more troublesome thoughts as recollections of past trips brought back memories of unusual heat. With a heavy Trojan line charging the lighter Irish team, Mr. Layden hopes for kindness from the winds and weather.
The team will arrive in Tucson, Arizona, on Wednesday, and a practice session will be held there on the University of Arizona campus; the Irish will remain at Tucson through Thursday, when they will hold another practice drill. On Friday they will practice at Yuma, Arizona, and will go from there on to Los Angeles. They will arrive back on the campus on December 7.
DECEMBER 2, 1938
L7
FENCERS SHOW LACK OF PROPER SPIRIT
•
It is significant that, although fencing practice has only been carried on for a short time, a strange and rather lamentable condition is existent. At the beginning of the year, with the return of several lettermen from last year’s team, Coach de Landero entertained high hopes for this year’s team. Now, matters have taken a different turn as the so-called “experienced” fencers seem to have lost most of their interest in the sport.
The only solution to this difficulty seem to lie in the new men who, though inexperienced, are hard workers and are willing and eager to learn. Whether last year’s men take on interest in their work or continue their present lackadaisical pace, Coach de Landero is determined to have a representative team. The men that the instructors are mainly depending on are Leising, Gaither, and Schlafly, in foil, Smalley and O’Donnell, in epee, and Reynolds and Donovan, in saber.
With matters developing as they have thus far, the future promises to be interesting for all, especially the result of the present disinterest shown by the lettermen of the 1937 team.
Dr. Eddie Anderson, '22f To Coach Iowa U.
•
Word from Iowa City last Monday confirmed the report that Dr. Eddie Anderson, Notre Danie ’22, would take over the coaching duties at the University of Iowa for the next three years. This news means that Elmer Layden will have to sit up a few nights next fall figuring out means to combat the Notre Dame system as exhibited by Mal Elward and Dr. Eddie.
Anderson’s record at Holy Cross, where he has coached for the past six years, is extremely impressive. His teams have won 47 games, lost seven, and tied four. The Crusaders of 1937 were undefeated, while this year’s team was toppled only by the great Carnegie Tech eleven, and at that the score was only 7-6.
Eddie will be right at home at Iowa, for he is a native of that state. After high school he came to Notre Dame, where he gained national recognition on several occasions. He was a team mate of such greats as Frank Coughlin, George Gipp, Chet Wynne, “Hunk” Anderson, Paul Castner, Chet Grant, and “Clipper” Smith.
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX <_______________________________________
By Andy Wilson
After some thin years, it is once again proper to speak of the men of U.S.C. as the Mighty Trojans. With a team weight average of 200 pounds per man, and a record of seven wins against two losses, including a 13-7 victory over the Golden Bears of California, defending Pacific Coast champions, and .a 42-7 rout of U.C.L.A., they are truly mighty in bulk and in ability.
If the Trojans have the better mental attitude tomorrow, they will win. If the Irish have it, THEY will win. Southern California has three incentives: the thrill of whipping an unbeaten team, the prestige of winning a game that now rivals the Rose Bowl battle in importance, the pleasure of ending a five-year jinx (U.S.C. last beat Notre Dame in 1933). The Irish have one big incentive—preserving their first unbeaten record since 1930 for their first National Championship since that time.
We believe that the Trojans had to hit a small emotional peak last week to wallop the “Uclans” in order to clinch decisively the Rose Bowl nomination. Notre Dame, on the other hand, had its last peak three weeks ago against Minnesota, and should be on the way to its highest peak of the season after a two-week let-down.
The Trojans will fight very hard, but the Irish should have sufficient emotional reserve to fight harder. And unless we have underestimated the Trojans altogether in placing their mechanical ability on a par with that of Notre Dame’s, the harder Fighting Irish will win. We wouldn’t make any bets, however, on either team, and we heartily recommend that you all “say a prayer for Notre Dame.”
• '
The members of our cross-country team, runners-up to Indiana for the National Championship in the meet at East Lansing a week ago Monday, have been telling us many things about Bill Feiler of Drake—about his good nature and his all-around good sportsmanship. Little Bill is another one of those long distance midget runners, standing approximately five feet three and a half inches high to our own Greg Rice’s five-four. Two years ago Feiler won the Central Collegiate Conference indoor two-mile championship here at Notre Dame, but lost it to Greg last March. He has been trailing Greg ever since.
He finished second to Greg last week at East Lansing, after leading till the final hundred yards. He, Greg, Jim Whitaker of Ohio State, and Mel
Trutt of Indiana, came off the four-mile cross-country course and onto , the running track for the last quarter-mile all in a bunch. Gradually Little Bill and Little Greg moved ahead. Feiler hit the last turn first, and, as he himself good - naturedly told our squad after the meet, he thought, “I’ve got the little bugger now!” However, Greg came bolting off the turn with his marvellous sprint and hit the finish-line twenty yards out in front.
Feiler is one of those fellows who really makes unusual efforts to be friendly. It seems that in the meet last week, he and Bill Smith, Penn State sophomore and winner of the I.C.A.A.A.A. or Eastern championship some weeks before, were running somewhere back in the ruck at the halfway mark in the wooded section of the course. Feiler was moving up easily, but Smith was plodding rather disconsolately along. Then as he passed Smith, Feiler called, “Come on, Bill, you don’t belong ’way back here!”
This bit of encouragement from a strong rival may not have had anything to do with Smith’s finally finishing strongly in fifth place, but he said he considered it one of the most amazing things he has even encountered in cross-country competition. In fact the easy friendliness and affability of the Middle Westerners in general overwhelmed him. It was entirely unlike the atmosphere of eastern meets, he said, in which every race is for blood, and aloofness and even belligerence are the typical attitudes of the runners. ...
•
Strictly on the q.t.: The Irish quarterbacks will signal for those trick plays at last, with all the backs throwing passes, and the ends getting lots of work as ball-carriers. . . . Earl Brown, with his basketball change of pace, is one of the shiftiest runners on the squad. . . . Mike Corgan may be the Bucky O’Connor of 1938—if he ever gets in the game, with Zon-tini and Morrison ahead of him. . . . The line blocking, having looked, rather poor for the last three games, seems to be getting sharper again. It will have to be extremely sharp tomorrow to open holes in Southern California’s 220-pound line. . . .
Elmer Layden can look forward to having a young millionaire on his team in 1948 if things go the way Jimmy Curran hopes. The youngster, who says he is out to beat John D. Rockefeller’s record, is due at Notre Dame in ten years.
18
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Introducing
By Eddie Huff
“Paul, what was your reaction when you missed the conversion after ' Notre Dame’s touchdown against Northwestern ?”
Now the speaker is Paul Edward Morrison, right halfback of Notre
Dame’s shock troops, a citizen of Jersey City (state redundant), graduate of Lincoln High, and a senior in the study of foreign commerce:
“Well, maybe I was supposed to be jittery and worried, but honestly it didn’t bother me much. I knew that the boys would go out and get the win; besides, a good kick would only have tied the ball game. Now I’m not explaining my failure as a strategic move, but the misfortune that I had in kicking wide have its compensations.”
Just then Ed Longhi, varsity center, bellowed from across the corridor, “Open up on the ‘info,’ ‘Morry,* as you open holes for the ball carriers.”
“Morry” gave a sly nod to the reported and said, “I’m glad that that boy’s on our side; I’d dislike playing against him.” .
Paul Morrison will be awarded a monogram at the end of the season after playing “B” ball for two seasons. As a sophomore Morrison suffered a broken leg against the Illinois “B’s” and this injury detained his rise to the varsity squad until last -spring.
Morrison is not exceptionally fast, . but he is a workhorse who likes to block. His additional abilities come from place kicking by which route Paul has tallied three points in five tries. His defensive efforts, both in forward pass tests and in the rough duty, come in for recognition. It was Morrison and Jack O’Brien who conveyed Bill Hofer through Northwestern’s scattered jersies at Evanston.
OBERAMMERGAU TALK
(Continued from Page 5)
Oberammergau, probably wrote the first production; and in 1814, Rochus Debler, the village schoolmaster, wrote the music for it. The script contains eighteen acts, each dealing with a particular incident or period of Christ’s life during Passion Week, and a number of tableaux that are presented as interludes. The Passion Play begins the first Sunday in May, and it is repeated on each Sunday thereafter. A single production lasts eight hours. An orchestra of fifty men, a chorus of forty-six, and 700 characters comprise the personnel of the play. During one season as many as 700,000 visitors have watched the Oberammergau Passion Play in modern times.
The people there are fervent in their devotion to the Passion Play, and candidates for the next production must let their hair grow for they are not allowed to wear wigs, nor facial make-up. The three requisites for candidates are: first, they must be natives of Oberammergau; second, they must be of unimpeachable moral character; and finally they must be dramatically qualified. The villagers present classics during the lean years to train the players in stage-acting; for they must regard their roles with religious devotion and enact their parts with the deepest reverence.
When the final selection of players is made, the committee in charge includes the village priest, the burgomaster, the village council and members chose by popular vote. They discuss the candidates and make all decisions. The proceeds from the Passion Play presentation are allotted in four equal amounts to the following: preparations, homes for visitors, the
Times Are Z/Qut of Joint" SALE!
Go Home “Looking Great"
1/4 Off for Cash
Choose from the world's' finest READY-TO-WEAR Year-round Suits —Topcoats —- Overcoats — Hats
Now $26.25 Now $33.75 Now $37.50
Now $48.75
Now $ 3.75
Now $ 5.62
RENFRANZ - RASMUSSEN, Inc.
106- 108 S. Main St.
Suits and Overcoats
HATS
Were Were Were Were
Were Were
church, and finally the players. Henry Ford was so pleased with the performance of the “Christus” in 1930 that he gave Anton Lang, its interpreter, a new Ford car. But the folk of Oberammergau are at present apprehensive lest the new regime in Germany prohibit further performances.


N. D. BOOKSTORE
Badin Hall
$35.00;
$45.00;
$50.00;
$65.00;
$ 5.00;
$ 7.50;
DECEMBER 2. 1938
19
TROJANS HAVE NEVER DEFEATED LAYDEN
By Bill Scanlon
Southern California, selected Monday to represent the Pacific Coast Conference in the annual Rose Bowl game on New Year’s Day at Pasadena, has provided Notre Dame’s opposition 12 times in the nation’s intersectional football rivalry.
The Irish teams have emerged victorious seven times, one game was tied, while the Trojans toppled the Irish on four occasions. Such names as Ed Krause, Joe Kurth, Jack Robinson, Chuch Sweeney, Bill Shakespeare, Andy Pilney, Andy Puplis, Tom Conley, are among the Irish greats who have added prestige for all-American laurels in the annual game which provides the season close for the men of Notre Dame. Such Trojan aces as Tay Brown, Shindler, Cotton Warburton, Ennie Pinckert and others have gained nation-wide acclaim largely through outstanding performances in the Irish-Trojan series.
One point victories have provided • capacity audiences with the season’s thrillers on various occasions. When the competition between the Trojans of Los Angeles and Notre Dame began in 1926, the Irish grabbed a 1312 triumph. A year later, they won again, 7-6. In 1928 U.S.C. won for the first time, 27-14. The largest crowd to see a college game in history, over 110,000, crowded into Soldier’s Field in Chicago to watch the Irish triumph, 13-12, in 1929.
In 1930, last year under Knute Rockne, the Irish rallied behind an “unknown” Bucky O’Connor and walloped the best Trojan team of all time, 27-0.
Southern Cal handed three defeats, to the Irish in a row in 1931-32-33 by scores of 16-14, 13-0, and 19-0. In 1934 Coach Elmer Layden took charge of the forces under the Dome, and has never led his team off the field heated by the Trojans. A 13-13 tie marred the record in 1936. Notre Dame won 14-0 in 1935, 20-13 in 1936, and 13-6 last season.
On the Enemies' Trail
TO DATE:
SOUTHERN CAL has lost to Alabama, 19-7, has defeated Oregon State, 7-0, Ohio State, 14-7, Washington State, 19-6, Stanford, 13-2, Oregon, 31-7, and California, 13-7, has lost to Washington, 7-6, and has defeated U.C.L.A., 42-7.
THIS WEEK:
SOUTHERN CAL plays Notre Dame.
BACKSTAGE HIGHLIGHTS
(Continued from Page 6)
plenty on the ball—and the house loves it! Collins and Coppinger swap stories off in a corner. Stefanik keeps going up to people asking them if they think he looks like a doctor. It’s almost the end of the act. We warn the stagehands at the curtain. “Wagner is backing the show!” . . . curtain!
Hagen’s owls are slapped into place at the heads of the beds. Bab asks us not to start the third act until she has finished changing into her colonial rig. We tell her not to worry. Finally everybody is ready again. Doyle and McFarland give
I LOVE you TRULY....
Your gift tells her so in the most charming way — A brilliant array to choose from at Ellsworth's.
Compacts______________1.00 to 5.00
Amusing jewelry_______1.00 to 7.50
Gossamer hosiery__the pr._79c to 1.35
Gloves___________the pr._ 1.00 to 5.00
Hankies______________________25c to	1.00
Handbags____________________2.00 to	7.50
Sentimental perfumes____1.00 to 27.50

their white ties a last tug, then take their positions on stage. Hogan waits in the wings. It’s a fast cue. This act rolls along without any hitches. The action is getting faster ... faster . . . climaxes come ... go! The show is practically over.
Collins lights his cigar and strolls on . . . just an ol’ southern senator from down Brooklyn way. Lines . . . more lines . . . curtain . . . thunderous applause . . . curtain calls! The show is over . . . photographers shoot some pictures . . . general confusion . . . congratulations . . . coffee . . . sandwiches . . . cigarettes . . . and a babble of talk ... and sporadic laughing. On to bed . . . blessed bed! Tomorrow is another day, and we do the same thing all over again.
20
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
TROJAN ED. PREDICTS S.C.
(Continued from Page 16)
ankle. Boyd “Red” Morgan alternates with Jimmy Jones at the outside halfback of the Jones single wing system.
Troy has seven top-notch ends with Sophomores A. Krueger and Johnny Stonebraker working with Veterans Ralph Stanley, Bill Fisk, Ray Wehba, Ed Snyder, and Sal Mena. The tackles are just ordinary with Howard Stoecker and Ray George usually getting the starting call.
Besides Smith, Coach Jones has Floyd Phillips, sensational sophomore, at left guard. The standing guard post is literally held down by 215 pound Tony Tonelli and Ben Sohn, 230 pounds. Captain Don McNeil and Ed Dempsey both play top-notch games at center and will give Longhi plenty of competition for honors.
Playing a game with a record such as Notre Dame, Southern California deserves to be rated as no better than an underdog, but if the Trojans play the way they did against California, I’ll pick them to win by seven points.
•ar—
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG., SOUTH BEND
STATIONERY with Name, Address and College Seal
Late Used Records at_15c
Latest New Decca’s at 35c
BAND AND STRING INSTRUMENTS AND ACCESSORIES
“If its Musical — we have if' Mack's Music Box 228 North Michigan St.
It looks like a telephone switchboard
—actually it’s a Teletypewriter exchange switchboard. Through such boards—located in 160 cities and towns— already more than 11,000 subscribers to Teletypewriter service are being inter-connected.
Subscribers carry on 2-way typewritten communication across the street or across the continent. Whatever is
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind. ,
typed on the sending machine is reproduced exactly, instantly, at the other end of the wire.
When you join the business world, you’ll find many progressive companies use Teletypewriter service. Speeding the written word—as the telephone speeds the spoken word—it is one more Bell System contribu-
BELI
DECEMBER 2, 1938
21
SOME NOVEMBER MAGAZINES
(Continued from Page 13)
father or of no family income whatsoever. Child labor has a very definite cause — poverty-stricken parents. By prohibiting child labor through the method of simply enacting a law forbidding it, the family income is crippled more than previously, and the result is more misery and destitution than had been. Such child labor legislation is a means for lowering and not raising the income of the family which it affects. Legislation abolishing child labor makes the poor poorer. It is class legislation of the most vicious sort—aimed at the poor. Mr. Lucey suggests that, instead of prohibiting children from working, the legislature should prohibit the mother from working because he says, it is more important to have the mother of a growing family at home than it is to have the children in the class room. And who is to say he is not right. But, he says, few politicians would even suggest such a nonsensical notion because women through organizations can speak, more than that, they can also vote. Working mothers have articulate voices, but children cannot speak for themselves nor have they the weapon of the vote.
The space is too little for me to devote any more of it to a lengthy review of an article but here are some that, I think, you will find worthwhile:
“Kemal the Victorious,” by C. 0. Cleveland in Commonweal for Nov. 25. Kemal the Turk was a modern
DENTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG., SOUTH BEND
Peter the Great.
“The Word,” a poem in Commonweal for Nov. 25 by Sara Allen. A typical line, “Tender as a swan’s feather floating.”
“Being and Becoming,” by R. Scannell in the latest issue of New Scho
STETSON HATS . . .
are. featured at Spiro's in all the new shapes and shades. . . . They're $5 and up to $10.
SAM’L SPIRO & CO.
121 SO. MICHIGAN STREET -	- SOUTH BEND
lasticism, Vol. xii, No. 3. For those of you who are philosophy majors, this resume of the history 'of Metaphysics, and, particularly, the treatment of the question of being should be very welcome. It is.. I think, somewhat too technical for one not acquainted with Metaphysics.
Specialising in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN OPTOMETRIST Successor To Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
This Stetson Rates an "A”
It’s at the head of its style class. Here Stetson has fashioned a hat that you will find hoth flattering and smart—and practical on or off the campus.
Step Out With a
STETSON
22
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
GAME BROADCAST
The Varsity-So. Cal game will be described by Bill Stern over an N.B.C. hookup with a Chicago outlet through either WMAQ or WENR, starting at 4:00 p.m. M.B.S. will carry the game either through WGN or WLW. WSBT will broadcast a play-by-play account from telegraphic reports.
Remember the Two Jimmies for:
SHOE REPAIRING WATCH REPAIRING
Jimmy McAllister	Jimmie Warner
(Located next to Candy Store and Telegraph Office)
New Jersey Club
At their last meeting, Thursday, Nov. 17, in the Law building the members of the New Jersey Club made plans for the annual Christmas ball to be held at the Robert Treat hotel in Newark. Robert Tuson, senior in the College of Engineering, will be chairman with his assistants, George Plain, Peter Repetti, Lucian LaCroix and Vince Kierman.
At the meeting ping pong, handball and bowling tournaments were discussed, and it was decided to hold a Communion breakfast before the Christmas holidays.
FLY..
Notre Dame Students
Many future job* will require a college education and a pilot’* license.
Compliments of
You may now include flying in your education if you have the written consent of your parents. The best way to travel is by air. LEARN TO FLY.
LOW RATES—$3 per half hour le**on. Guaranteed *olo, $45.00.
INDIANA AIR SERVICE
Bendix Field	Phone 3-2455
N. D. representative: Ed. Minczewski, phone 4-1913.
Football at World’s Fair
Boys who want to learn football from “old masters” will have that opportunity in the Academy of Sport at the New York World’s Fair, 1939. Free classes in every department of the game are to be taught during September and October of next year by such expert coaches and players as Jim Crowley of Fordham, Mal Stevens of N. Y. U., “Pop” Warner of Temple, Larry Kelly of Peddie, Alexander Wojciechowicz of the Detroit Lions and Marshall Goldberg of the University of Pittsburgh.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
♦
ASK US ABOUT OUR NEW PLAN TO PROTECT YOU AGAINST THE COSTLY BREAKAGE OF GLASSES.
L E MON T fi E E S
Optometrists and Opticians
Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
THE BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan Street South Bend, Indana
THIS FREE BOOK
HASTHE ANSWERS? )
CAN YOU ANSWER? nisbooHmtkiAnsrmtclkae and scons of other Questions:
1.	Ohio has 24 electoral votes.
(True or False?)
2.	The area of Kansas is twice that of Kentucky. (True or False?)
3.	President McKinley was assassinated in 1902. (True or False?)
4.	Shanghai is the Capital of ' China. (True or False?)
Over 1000 useful facts including Postal Rules; U. S. Presidents; Population of principal Cities and Countries; Facts about the Earth and Planets;
etc.,etc.
144-Pj^c. I e>t-Pocket
ANSWER BOOK
Thousand-Fact Reference and
DAILY MEMO-DIARY
Pun^lase °P a bottle of Parker Quink at 15c or 25c
—tie Xaurmg Nev fPratMg Ink Tiat Ends Pen-Clogpng
Now! Acceptthis offer! Made solely to induce youtotryParkerQtuwfe —thenewmiradewrit-ing ink that makes any pen a self-cleaner. Quin£ dissolves deposits left in a pen by ordinary inks—ends dogging. Always rich, brilliant—never wa-
tery. Get Quink and Free Answer Book today at any store selling ink. Offer good only in U.S. A
‘Rmcer >
Uuwk
OU* tn Ite Mbsr An Ce.
DECEMBER 2, 1938
23
LAETARE MEDALIST DIES
(Continued from Page 3) Knight and two volumes of Oliver Goldsmith’s Vicar of Wakefield, the most valuable of the collection, were given to Notre Dame by Mrs. Macaulay. Dickens’ Christmas Carol is dated 1843.
Mrs. Macaulay also was vice president of the national women’s committee on welfare and relief mobilization under Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt and vice chairman of the
social service board of New York City since 1906.
She was born in Hartford, Conn., and attended the Sacred Heart convent at Manhattanville, N. Y., and Providence, R. I. Later she studied for several years in Dresden and Paris.
Funeral services were held Sunday in the Church of Jesus, Rome. Monsignor Guiseppe Migone, titular bishop of Nicomedia, said the Mass, assisted by Monsignor Michael Curran, rector to the Irish College at Rome.
MARTY PETERS WEEPS
According to Paddy Driscoll, Marquette University coach, Marty Peters (former Notre Dame end) who won the “gloomy coach” contest sponsored last fall by the Spokane Athletic Round Table, came though with another classic entry this season. It relates the sad story of the loss of Tyrannosaurus Rex and Megalosaur-us, giant and bruitish tackles who looked great in spring practice out there at Atchison, but were suddenly “gone with the wind’.”	-
Going Places for Christmas?
You Can Buy Tickets All the Way at the SOUTH SHORE Ticket Office
• We can be a lot of help on travel problems. Little things like pullman reservations, for instance, and ideas about schedules and routes that save time and bother. And, as far as tickets are concerned, you can make it a “one-stop” deal — we sell through railroad tickets to any destination West, South or North. Why not talk over your Christmas trip with Mr. Veach?
FOR MORE INFORMATION
See C. W. Veach
City Passenger Agent 301 N. Michigan PHONE 3-3111
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD

These are Clothes preferred by College Men
HICKEY-FREEMAN CLOTHES SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES ALPAGORA COATS DOBBS AND MALLORY HATS
For the — "Sweetheart of your Student Days
•	Rings—
•	Compacts—
•	Cigarette Cases—
•	Pins—
SEE
George O'Neil—Sorin
Vince Ryan—Howard Joe Judge—Walsh
Chuck Reddy—218 Parkovash Ave., South Bend, phone 4-2934
John Jaxtheimer—Walsh Ed Stroh—Morrissey Sub Bob Scally—Lyons
EDWARD F. O’MALLEY. PRESIDENT’S OFFICE,
YOU CAN
ON THIS COMBINATION
Copyright 1938. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
^Together they make the United States admired and respected the whole world over
And for the things you want in a cigarette you can depend on the happy combination of mild ripe tobaccos in Chesterfield.
Each type of Chesterfield tobacco is outstanding for some fine quality that makes smoking more pleasure.
Combined ... blended together the Chesterfield way . . . they give you more pleasure than any cigarette you ever smoked.
On land and sea and in the air. . . wherever smoking is enjoyed. . . Chesterfield's mildness and better taste satisfy millions.
the blend that can’t be copied ...the RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos

