PROFESSIONAL CAROS
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE
EYE. EAR. NOSE. THROAT
PHONE 3*1395	J. M. S. BUILDING
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
434 ASSOCIATES BLDG.	PHONE 3-2S74
DR. H. R. FRASER
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHERLAND BUILDING PHONE 4-8989	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
OFFICE 4-S66I	RESIDENCE 3-4080
DR. R. F. LUCAS
DENTISTRY—X- RAYS 702 J. M. S. BLDG.	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
82S SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER.
M. D.
M. J. THORNTON.
M. D.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
'	Leonard A. Rose, d.d.s.
Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s.
Peter J. Rose, d.d.s. 023-829 SHERLAND BLDG.	SOUTH BEND
... and a simple solution
When the Bell System was still very young, a problem arose: How to assure—at lowest cost—a dependable supply of telephone apparatus of high quality and uniform standard?
As the System grew and the telephone network became more complex, this problem of supply grew more difficult. But it was solved this way.
Western Electric was given responsibility for manufacturing, purchasing and distributing the equipment needed by the telephone companies. The concentration of these functions has resulted in keeping quality up and costs down—to the benefit of every telephone user.
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST ASSOCIATES BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
Western Electric
. . . /s Ixtcli of \<>ur Urll I I’lcphimi’ si'i rh c
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COLLEGE PARADE
A Newcomer
Saturday, when time came to go through the stack of exchanges that had been heaped during the course of the week on our dresser, we were agreeably surprised to find a copy of Stage buried beneath the combined efforts of battalions of student journalists and perspiring propagandists. The student publications are indifferent; some are excellent and others—well, we have always maintained a nisi bonum attitude towards the others. The propaganda is what really fills the waste basket, though. Whether it is a report from Washington on the amount of NYA help in Indiana high schools, suggestions for traveling itineraries while driving through Ontario, or the beautiful pamphlets put out by the German Library of Information, they are all classed as propaganda and tossed away. Those German booklets were funny to read once upon a time before conscription took the joke out of the whole matter. You see, they are very well written and expensively printed magazines purporting to show life as it really is in the Reich. A classic example of what they show Germany to be: pictures of huge,' modern houses, like the ones Commerce men all plan to own five years after they are out of school, telling that these are the homes of ordinary Nazi working men. However, they neglected to tell just what group those fellows were working.
Anyway, as a change from campus journalism and the professional paper wasters, came Stage. Not only are the pictures, reviews, articles, and assorted etceteras the best you can find but, each month, some play currently running on Broadway is printed in its entirety. This month it is James Thurber’s “The Male Animal,” that rollicking story of love, Red-baiting, and football that causes the hearts of OSU followers to swell with pride, for the locale, though not stated in the script, is supposedly Columbus.
❖
Tutoring Parlors
For many years, the Eastern schools, especially those Ivy League institutions attended by commuters from the Stork Club, have been battling a peculiar institution, known as the tutoring parlor.
J. KELLY ■■■	■	■ —
Someone, usually a Phi Beta graduate, having gathered all the notes for most of the courses, proceeds to set himself up in business, giving short, complete reviews of the courses just before exams. It’s all done for a nominal fee and the proprietors of these intellectual bucketshops can just about guarantee a passing grade.
Finally, however, Harvard has discovered a way to eliminate these institutions that have been growing rich by spoon-feeding education to lads who have more money than time to study. Harvard is going to go into competition with the cram shops by conducting what the administration chooses to call “streamlined reviews” of various freshmen courses before exam week.
“Up early this morning, aren’t you,. Father?”
Happy Thought
Think of all the masticatory disorders that would affect our country if all those venerable spell-binders who have for years accused modern youth of being softer than their parents, had to eat their words in the light of the reports coming from Army heads that the average 1941 draftee is bigger, heavier, and in better physical condition than the draftee of 1917.
*
Sorin Defines
An ash-tray is an object in which our cigarette ashes are deposited if one is in a room that has no floor.
Slight Depreciation
Northwestern’s Purple Parrot told of a Sig Chi who turned in a 20-year old term paper from his Fraternity’s files. He got an “A—,” and a note from the prof which, roughly, ran like this: “This was an ‘A’ paper when I wrote it, and by golly it’s still worth an ‘A—
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK
I ■■ «	■ FRANK WEMHOFF-^-
We know that those who cast it upon the waters did not expect its return, but here conies “Scrip” again. To save you time next Friday a sample of “Scrip” has been stolen for your perusal. After reading this, when you hear the little booklet smack outside your door, just nudge it down the hall a little with your foot.
Book Review
Bunny Brown and His Sister Sue at Camp Rest-a-While, Grosset and Dunlap S.50. By Laura Lee Hope.
The classics we have always with us, just as the poor. So it becomes inevitable that we have poor classics. This month we have chosen a poor classic for review, as is sometimes the case. In this vacation saga of adolescent youth is captured all the flavor of rural New England. However, New England is not as a rule, rural, for alliteration’s sake, no.
The author has no truck with pastel-blooded invigorates. She writes with conviction (Walla-Walla Annex ’27). She went to the Townsend convention as an alternate’s alternate and observed the folk-lore of the quaint New English along the width and breath of her journey. What she wrote when she returned has left its stigma forever.
The book, written in the best Aris-totelean tradition, is also written in a hurry. But no one minds such little incongruities as roasting marshmallows on sumac stick when one is enamoured with literary paraphernalia. The potentially immortal character of Bunny Brown is well done. In fact, to be done by a Brown is to be done to a Brown. Sister Sue is a literal throwback on the dainty ladies of another era. The story is extremely hush - hush. The author wTites nothing at which we should raise an eyebrow, giggle “art for art’s sake,” and then read it again. Puritan souls will be stimulated.
Bunny Brown is a mud-pie cavalier of seven years. Sister Sue has .chipped off six years and at that unsullied age has mastered the cookery of gooseberry tarts. The dialogue of the two is especially tender, such as:
“You’re funny, Bunny.”
“You are too, Sue.”
Miss Hope has indeed captured the carefree irresponsibility of these, the
adults of tomorrow. She ought to express, as monitor of Neo-Classical Union No. 656, the depths of emotional expression free from rigidity and formality.
It would be criminal to spoil this entrancing novel with a detailed synopsis. Instead, it is preferable to tease you with a particularly pungent passage:
“Gosh, Sue, have we only got two gallons?”
“But, Bunny, there’ll be just you and I and the Duplext twins.”
“Oh, all right. Got plenty of pretzels?”
“Yes, we have.- And Bunny Brown, don’t you dare get high in front of our guests.”
“Aw, Sue, you know I’ve got a tre-menjus capacity.”
“No, you haven’t. If you could only have seen yourself after four glasses of sugar water last Sunday.”
Bunny Brown and his Sister Sue at Camp Rest-a-While isn’t just another novel to, be read and discarded. Laura Lee Hope has written for the ages. Her mastery of situation, her depth of character, will sear your individual souls and bosoms. Of course, there may be those malcontents among you who will not grasp the great philosophic import of this book and will cast it aside demur-ringly. It will not censure you for this. I will not expose your black hearts; but I do warn you. In the words of the unforgettable Alexander Pope:
. ’Tis hard to say if greater want of skill Appear in writing or in judging ill.
In this case the “want” is about equally deficient. But should there be those deluded beings among you who would read further, I can only say to you, friends, that there are 19 more messages, or one to a book, in the Bunny Brown and Sister Sue series. Only 19 more.
Warning
The Niagara Index relates the sad story of one of the boys there who had exceeded his allowance and wrote home for money to go to a tea-dance, of all things. It seems that his parents had a perverse sense of humor or maybe they knew their tea-dances but, anyway, they sent by return mail—a pound of tea.
Father Smith Sees
Battle Against Foes
In Washington Hall Monday night the Rev. Ignatius Smith, O.P., head of the school of philosophy at Catholic University, in Washington, D. C., spoke on “The Plight of Patriotism.” Father Smith was introduced by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame.
“Patriotism,” Father Smith emphasized, “is more than a pride in the physical greatness of our nation, more than pride in its natural resources and in its tremendous armament.
“Genuine patriotism is a quality rooted deep down in the souls of men and involving their minds, their wills and their lives. It demands honor, love and service of our nation. Such patriotism is based on the inescapable virtue of justice and love.
“But this type of thinking and active patriotism is not only rare today, it is difficult,” Father Smith concluded. “To produce it is a slow task. This type of patriotism must have a nation of which it can be proud and in which it is secure. In this sense patriotism needs armies, navies and air fleets. It needs also loyal citizens who divide their allegiance with no other nation in rhe world. It needs aggressive citizens in this country who will take immediate legal and aggressive action against those who enjoy the hospitality of this land with the definite hope of destroying us.”
Alumni Debaters Win
Interhall Meet Honors
Interhall debating laurels wTere taken over last Monday by the Alumni affirmative team. The Dillon negative contingent bowed in defeat to the superior vocal barrage of the Alumni team. This final debate of the interhall series was held in the Law auditorium.
William J. Coyne, director of debate, was judge of the contest. Thomas Grady, director of interhall debate, was chairman. The debate series was sponsored by the Wranglers’ Club. The trophy for the winning team will be awarded later by the Student Council.
The interhall question was: “Resolved, That the nations of the Western Hemisphere should form a permanent union.” The winning Alumni team members were Tom Carty, Joe Mulligan, and Paul Vignos; the team was coached by Milt Williams. On the losing team, coached by Jack Hennessey, were Don Casey, Roger Young, and Jim McVay.
—Robert LeMense
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 74
JANUARY 24, 1941
Number 13
Ave Maria Press, Founded 76 Years
Ago, Moves to Modern Building
Many Notable Writers Have Worked for Publication
Only the ink-stains on the floor and the smell of printer’s ink remained in the old Ave Maria building this week, after the last of the printing equipment had been moved to the new Ave Maria Press just north of the University heating plant. The Rev. Patrick Carroll, C.S.C., editor, announced that all equipment and material was ready for the first complete issue of the Ave Maria last week.
The Ave Maria was founded by the Very Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., 76 years ago. Its first editor was the Rev. Neil Gillespie, C.S.C., a relative of James Blaine, prominent statesman. About 1883, the Rev. Daniel E. Hudson, C.S.C., became editor, holding this position for 50 years. The efforts of Father Hudson gave shape and distinction to the Ave Maria, making it a nationally known magazine.
Among the well-known writers employed by Father Hudson were: Charles Warren Stoddard, Maurice Francis Egan, Katherine Tynan Hinkson, Christian Reid, and Aubrey de Vere. Upon Father Hudson’s retirement from active duty, the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., took over the duties as editor, holding this position for six years. He in turn relinquished the post to Father Carroll, the present editor.
Throughout these many years of history making, the old Ave Maria building kept pace with the necessities of a prosperous and expanding newspaper. Additions were made to it as they were needed.	,
Plans for the new building were approved last June; ground was broken in August; the cornerstone was laid in September; and the first equipment was moved in during the Christmas vacation; the bulk of the material was moved on Jan. 6, with final moving taking place last week.
The first issue after the holidays had
work undertaken in both buildings. The linotype work and type setting was done in the new building while the printing was done in the old. However, the comment that some of the issue was made on the way from the old building to the new, was branded false.
The Ave Maria Press employs a regular staff of about 35 people, besides many brothers, priests, and sisters of the Holy Cross Congregation. The new building will have the newest equipment in lighting, heating, and floor facilities. There will be three new presses, two paper cutters, and two addressographs. The new building is a one-floor structure with store-room facilities in the basement.
The Ave Maria Press does printing work for all the needs of the University, including the Scholastic. Upon being asked whether the Ave Maria Press was to print the Dome of 1942, a spokesman said that nothing had been planned, but if proper arrangements were made, they would be glad to print the Dome.
—Jack Shine
New home of “Ave Maria” Press
Placement Bureau Urges Seniors to Begin Job-Hunt
A January 27 deadline for the filing of placement applications by graduates of 1941 was set this week in a bulletin issued by William R. Dooley, director of the Alumni Office Placement Bureau. Seniors can procure application forms in the Alumni Office, Mr. Dooley said.
The bulletin reminded the seniors that job-finding is primarily their own individual responsibility, and that potential help of the Placement Bureau is limited by many factors. One of these factors is the present demand of industry.
“At present,” Mr. Dooley said, “most of the personnel men who come to the campus are looking for seniors in one or more of these classifications: engineers, accounting majors, chemists and prospective salesmen. The demand through correspondence is also largely for men in these fields.”
Mr. Dooley also listed personality, extracurricular activities, physique and summer employment record, along with academic achievement, as playing important parts in the selection of men by prospective employers.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Graduate Enrollment Highest in History, Department Expanding to Meet Demand
The University of Notre Dame Graduate School, listing 143 students from five countries, has this semester the largest enrollment of students since the school’s beginning. The enrollment has tripled in’ the last five years, and the school now offers the master’s degree in 16 departments and the doctor’s degree in seven.
The first official announcement of master’s and doctor’s degrees was made in the University Bulletin of 1904-1905. In June of 1905 one degree of Master of Arts and one of Master of Laws were conferred. At that time, however, and for a number of years after, graduate courses were not a regular part of the curriculum.
The present administration of the Graduate School, under a Committee on Graduate Study, was organized in 1923. This committee consisted of 12 members until its reorganization in 1931 when the number was reduced to seven. The committee has charge of all graduate work at the University. Its members are: the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., chairman, the Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., secretary, the Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., Prof. Jose A. Caparo, Dean Henry B. Froning, Prof. Edward G. Mahin, and Prof. Leo F. Kuntz.
From the beginning the opportunity for getting an advanced degree has been limited to the colleges of arts and science. In some departments, however, such as Speech and Journalism, no advanced programs have ever been introduced, while in most of the other courses the curriculum is restricted to studies for the master’s degree. The 16 departments offering the master’s degree are: religion, philosophy, English, classics, modern language, history, economics, politics, sociology, education and music, in the Arts; and biology, chemistry, physics, mathematics and metallurgy, in the Sciences.
Goodrich-Cavanaugh Contest in April
The committee on prizes has announced the annual Goodrich-Cavanaugh oratorical contest. The preliminary contests will be held within the week of April 21. The finals will be on April 28.
This contest is open to any student who has not yet completed eight semesters of his undergraduate work. Any undergraduate who wishes to. enter the
The doctor’s degree is conferred in two departments of the Arts and five of the Sciences. Almost from the beginning the doctor’s degree has been given in chemistry which has had an adequate staff and facilities for the purpose. In 1932 it was offered in the department of biology (Systematic Botany). Since 1932 programs of courses leading to the doctor’s degree have been introduced into the departments of metallurgy (1933), philosophy (1936), physics and mathematics (1938), and politics (1939).
With the exception of a few prefects, all of the graduate students live off-campus. Nearly all are full-time students at the University and the problem of the part-time student is practically nonexistent. By reason of this the graduate school is well organized and the student’s entire time can be devoted to his work. Nevertheless, most of the students are employed on campus, as graduate assistants, secretaries, etc. This employment, which is correlated as far as possible with academic work, is thought not to be incompatible with advanced study, and it enables the student to defray part of his expenses. A number of grants in aid are also awarded to deserving students in several departments. Graduate students have been especially unfortunate in securing positions after leaving school.
As to the future of the Graduate School, Father Moore, secretary of the Committee on Graduate Study, says, “The Graduate School has exercised the greatest care in the adding of advanced courses to the curriculum and in the admission of graduate students. Further development of graduate studies is contemplated, but no new or expanded program of courses in any department will be announced until the teaching staff and facilities of that department are such as to place beyond all question its preparedness for research and advanced course study.”—John A. Lynch
contest should submit his name to one of the teachers of speech or to Professor Paul Bartholomew, of the department of politics, not later than Feb. 1.
Prizes of $100, $35, and $15 will be awarded in connection with this event. Those interested may obtain further in-formation from members of the department of speech or Professor Bartholomew.—Joe Stephens
Guest Speaker Heads
Mathematical Society
Professor Marston Morse of Princeton University who has been elected president of the American Mathematical Society for the next two years is well known on this campus, since he attended two symposia here during the past few years. He opened the first of these, on the calculus of variations, in 1937, and he also presented a paper at the third symposium, in 1939.
The three preceding presidents of the American Mathematical Society also have visited Notre Dame. Professor G. C. Evans, of the University of California, gave a public lecture in 1938 on mathematical economics. Professor R. L. Moore, of the University of Texas, was a speaker at the symposium on topology in 1940; and Professor S. Lefschetz, of Princeton University, was a speaker at the first and fourth symposia.
—James P. O’Laughlin
Soldiers on 10,000-Mile
Trip, Visit Notre Dame
The late Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., probably never dreamed that his invention of synthetic rubber would later be the cause of 50 United States soldiers being bivouacked in a field house built in memory of his friend, Knute Rockne. That, however, is just what happened here Jan. 16.
These soldiers are testing 25 ordnance trucks fitted with neoprene (synthetic rubber) tires. They stopped at South Bend and Notre Dame enroute from Detroit to Cheyenne, Wyo.; from there they will go to San Antonio, Texas and then back to Baltimore, Md., their starting point. The trip will cover 10,000 miles.
The soldiers stayed over night in the apparatus rooms of the Rockne Memorial. Their cross-country route has been -laid out to test the synthetic rubber tires under almost all possible war conditions of weather and terrain.
—Robert LeMense
William Cotter Named
Washington Day Speaker
William Cotter, of Alumni Hall, has been named Washington Day speaker by the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies. Cotter, a senior in the School of Commerce, from New Rochelle, N. Y., is a member of the Wranglers society with a magna cum laude average.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
Ray Herbeck Will Play
For Junior Prom, Feb. 21
Notre Dame Juniors will promenade with Ray Herbeck and his orchestra on Feb. 21. This announcement was made by General Chairman James Fayette and Ted MacDonald, chairman of music.
Herbeck and his 12-piece band are recognized as one of the “up and coming” organizations of the day. He acquired considerable renown recently while playing at the Beverly Hills Country Club in Cincinnati, and his music is currently heard at the Edgewater Beach Hotel in Chicago, where he succeeded Richard Himber’s orchestra. Ray Herbeck’s band broadcasts nightly on WMAQ or WENR.
—James P. O’Loughlin
Freshmen Eligible To
Attend Monogram Ball
Paul Ready’s Campus Commanders, from Purdue University, will play for the annual Monogram Ball at the Palais Royale on Friday night, Feb. 7, it was announced by President Robert Saggau this week. Dancing will be from 9 to 12 p.m.
All students, Freshmen included, are eligible to attend and 12:30 permissions will be given to those present. The dance will be informal. Tickets, priced at $1.50, are available from any member of the Monogram club.
Departing from precedent, the dance
A Tea Dance, Monogram Ball, and then—The Prom!
will be informal this year, and in many other respects also will be “something different,” according to General Chairman Al Perrine. Novel decorations are promised by Joe Olbrys, decoration committee chairman. Bill Hawes, chairman of the music committee, said that James Brutz and Hercules Bereolos, in charge of entertainment, will conduct a floor show at the intermission.
Ed Sullivan, publicity; Ray Pinelli, patrons; and Ray Mendolia, tickets, are the other committee chairmen assisting Perrine in arranging the dance. Members of the University coaching staff and their wives have been invited as patrons.
—Dan Broderick
Tea Dance Scheduled For Saturday, Feb. I
John O’Dea’s successful Tea Dance innovation will not hold sway next Saturday afternoon, as previously considered, because of the Notre Dame examinations and the semester week-end at St. Mary’s. The series will be continued on the afternoon of Feb. 1, following the St. Mary’s Freshmen Formal of the previous evening. Another dance will be held on Feb. 8, following the Monogram Ball on Feb. 7, and will be the last before Lent. All of the dances will be held from 2:30 to 5:30 in the Bronzewood room of the Hotel LaSalle, with the music of Marty Ross and his orchestra.
—Mark G. McGrath
Release New Book
By Father Cunningham
Just released by the Macmillan Company is a book by the Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., Notre Dame professor of education, entitled The Pivotal Problems of Education. The book is a complete and clear statement of Catholic philosophy in relation to the problems of modem American education.
The need is stressed for a selective principle in the college of today if the tradition of the liberal education is to be carried on. In one chapter the author offers a plan by which the best students of each incoming freshmen class would be chosen and invited to follow a curriculum in the classical studies for two years, emphasizing the classical languages and mathematics. Then in the last two years these students would take philosophy as their major, spending three-fifths of their time going through a course of philosophy that would give them a solid fundamental training. During the remaining two-fifths of their time, they would be left free to devote themselves to the arts and sciences that have to do with their chosen career. This group would be taught and advised only by the best of the school’s staff. Father Cunningham predicts that the graduates of such a course would be on their way to becoming the best intellectual leaders in all fields.
The book is divided into two major sections, the first section dealing with the first of the ‘pivotal’ problem, The Pupil. Herein the goals in education are thoroughly discussed.
The second section concerns itself with the other three problems. The Curriculum, The Teacher, and The Institution. In these chapters is a full discussion of the means of attaining the goals of education.
This work is based on a text of Father Cunningham’s published in pianograph form and used in many colleges and universities for courses in the philosophy of education.—James K. Cunningham
“SCRIP” NEXT WEEK
Scrip, campus literary quarterly, will make its second appearance of of the schoolyear next Friday, Jan. 31.
The next issue of the Scholastic will be published on Friday, Feb. 7.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
By James Meaney
You’ll see Red bounding around the campus with his bowlegged run, arms swinging and red hair flopping. The past
James McGovern
football season he was a veritable whirlwind in Alumni — he coached the Alumni team and played right halfback. His theme song was, “We wuz robbed!” — three times robbed, he still insists. His o w n excuse, the
time he was off for a touchdown and someone tackled him; “The wind was against me!” But he needs no excuse for his record as Bengal boxer—he went to the finals his freshman year, and won a sweater.
Red’s past life has been as fast-moving as his foot-work on the campus. As a pedestrian, he has awakened three times in the hospital, after being run down. He spent one summer working on an upper Lake Michigan fishing boat, with three Indians. Last summer he crossed the continent to California and back in a second-hand Ford, without a single break-down! While there he got to know the Indian who posed for the Buffalo nickel—“What a profile!” says Mac. Also he went in for aquaplaning and beachloafing. One summer that he spent in a football camp he became famous—for eating watermelons. There they named him “All-American,” in dummy scrimmage! In high school football he became a momentary hero by catching his own forward pass! And in baseball, as pitcher, he made a record of walking 18 men in one game. After that, he improved (he says). Most of his time on a golf course he has spent caddying. He carried Bing Crosby’s clubs once, and completed a 72-hole circuit in one day for the McGovern record.
In his travels, the New York subways were his biggest disappointment—they weren’t as crowded as he expected.
He’s a highly excitable handball and pingpong player. And when he’s most excited, he plays worst, and argues most, his opponents claim. He prefers to play with the heavyweights in basketball. They don’t run so fast.
His main personal worry is his hair— how to keep it growing. He believes in furious combing and brushing, and dislikes hair tonics. “Skin-head” is a nickname he hates.
Red looked sickly at the Christmas party—he tried to smoke the free cigarettes, but burned the tablecloth and lost his appetite—for smoking and for food.
In classwork, he is a hard worker and an exam worrier. He is known to have talked himself out of a passing grade in a religion class. Accounting is his major; speech was his most troublesome class. He would go into a dance routine every speech, until the prof made him stand still and count to a hundred.
He is a confirmed college bachelor— all the girls he used to know are married, he moans. And he’s a good moaner. He once moaned himself out of three room mates at a summer camp; then he had the room to himself.
“Skin-head’s” ambition is to travel— he wants to see everything of interest in the world. But his first trip will be to Texas—where the watermelons grow.
Demonstrations Prove
Rate of Earth's Rotation
Lee E. Peterson and Leonard Dart, graduate assistants in the department of physics, have set up an experiment in Science hall to show the rate of the earths rotation. Though this demonstration of the rotation of the earth about its axis is being employed to prove the fact to first year physics students, anyone visiting Science hall museum may study it.
A heavy ball is attached to a 50-foot length of wire hanging from a frictionless support. Men on their way to class can observe the position of the swinging pendulum and on their return about an hour later can notice that it has moved 10 degrees.
Because of the frictionless attachment, the pendulum continues to move in the same direction all the time with the earth rotating below it, as is shown by referring to an indexed cubicle directly under the pendulum. The plane of motion of the pendulum appears to change, but in reality it remains fixed and the earth turns beneath it. .
In 36 hours, at the latitude of Notre Dame, the pendulum will mark a complete revolution of thie earth but at the equator there would be .no perceptible change in the direction of swing of the pendulum.	*
The rotation of the earth was observed in the 13th century, but this experiment, known as Foucault’s pendulum, has remained the clearest demonstration of it.
—James V. Cunningham
COMING EVENTS
The Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., has announced the following schedule of coming events for the remainder of the entertainment season:
Music Program
First the musical calendar for the first half of the 1941 schoolyear:
March 15—The Siberian Singers, a group of eight or ten singers who feature Russian songs.
March 24—The Barton Harp Quintet, another group which was well received last year.
Music Week—April 27 to May 2.
April 27—The Notre Dame Glee Club and Symphony orchestra in a combination concert.
April 28—The South Bend Symphony orchestra with Rose Bampton of the Metropolitan Opera Company as soloist.
April 29—A concert by the Notre Dame band.
April 30 — The Augustana College Choir of 65 mixed voices and acknowledged as one of the finest in the country.
May 2—The Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra.
Lecture Program
Feb. 10—Dr. Albert Emerson of the School of Science, Chicago University.
Feb. 20—Sister Mary Madaleva, President of St. Mary’s College, Holy Cross, Ind.
March 10—Rev. Julius Haun, and illustrated lecture.
March (exact date not yet set)—Dr. Jerome Kerwin, head of the Department of Political Science at Chicago University.
Mal Elward, Notre Dame end who teamed with Rockne, and successor to the late Noble Kizer, grid coach at Purdue, has been named Athletic Director of the Lafayette, Ind., university. His son, Allen of Breen-Phillips, is a quarterback on the freshman squad.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
N. D. Council Sponsors
Boys Oratorical Contest
Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus has announced that it is once
THE CAMPUS
BY GEORGE MILES
again sponsoring
Tom Carty
an oratorical contest for the Columbian ■ Squires of Indiana. ■ Due to Notre ■ Dame’s limited ■ age-group it is not ■ able to sponsor ■ the Columbian I Squires directly, so ■ it uses this contest I as a means of aid-| ing this important division of the order.
The subject which must be used by the contestants is “Catholicism and Americanism.” The oration must be original, but the contestants may receive help in its preparation. It should take from eight to ten minutes to deliver.
Thomas F. Carty, chairman of the event, has announced that any boy between the ages of 14 and 18, whose father or brother is a member of the Knights of Columbus or who is himself a member of a youth club unler the direction of a K. of C. council, may enter. This is a change from the policy followed last year when only those boys who were members of the Columbian Squire groups were allowed to participate in the event.
Each Council in Indiana will hold a local elimination which will be concluded by the middle of February. The winners of these local eliminations will then meet in a district elimination which will be run off by March 15. The finals, which will include the district winners, will be held in Indianapolis during the first week of April.
Judges for the final event will be appointed by Notre Dame Council, which has donated a traveling trophy. This trophy is held by the council which sponsors the winning contestant. Besides this traveling trophy there will be individual prizes for the winners in both the local and district tournaments.
The contest is now in its second year and it is hoped by the committee in charge that the response from the local councils throughout the state will warrant making the event an annual one.
Carty announced that he has the cooperation of State Deputy George Kinzel and Columbia Squire Chairman John Valle. Both of these men have pledged their support of the contest.
We have been aware, for the past four months, of an attempt on the part of the University to avoid any definite statements regarding the condition of world affairs. But now we understand fully the gravity of the situation, now we realize the proximity of danger. Surely, there are (as some one so aptly put it) dark days ahead: the University has committed itself, it has erected a barbed wire fence in the main quadrangle.
* * *
An anomalous situation exists in the philosophy department these days. One professor is constantly on the lookout for a bomb in the floor-boards of his automobile; the other is boldly running through stop-signs in his car and bashing innocent fellows. It is clear that the first man has forgotten to search for the ultimate cause, the anti-British person who threatened to plant the bomb, and the second philosopher, well, he just carries idealism a little too far.
* * *
Speaking of philosophers, two student Thomists who are seldom seen apart have been labeled by a senior who takes delight in labeling unusual personalities. He calls the companions “Essence” and “Existence.”
* * *
Some of the more violent opponents of the President of the United States on the campus felt that the proposed legislation would delegate too many powers to him. And ever since prayers were offered for the chief executive after the Masses of last Sunday, they are convinced that the way is open for dictatorship. We know one fellow who prayed with his fingers crossed. And we suspect that there were many more who just moved their lips without saying a word. You never can tell about those Republicans.
* * *
There have been many good professorial hedgings in the past. One of the best always involved asking the curious student if he had ever studied some subject which was never taught, then, when the young man answered “no;” waving him off with “Oh then you wouldn’t understand even if I explained it.” Last week, however, we heard how one instructor put down a questioner, and we think that his method deserves credit for
its originality if for nothing else. When one of his charges posed an especially difficult problem this teacher frowned, then sighed: “Please don’t ask any more questions, I don’t feel like answering them today.” Every one has an off-day.
* * *
The barbed wire fence in front of the Main Building is not the only sign of the seriousness of the times. Recently one of the students who had been taking flying instructions in the Civilians Pilot Training Corps organized for the young air-minded men of the University, dropped out so he could devote his time to less strenuous activities. Not long after, he received an official letter. The message was brief: “Your government,” it said, . “is through with you!”
* * *
They have a new cash register at the Caf these days. The old one collapsed quite suddenly last week and caused all hands acute distress for a while. No one was able to determine the reason for the downfall, but no one is worried. The new box is small but efficient; it takes in money as fast as anything.
* * *
We never know when to believe those Commerce men, so we present this story without any voucher whatever. It seems that a prominent business man was invited to the campus to discuss current problems and explain their significance to the Commercials. He was to be assisted by one of the Commerce school’s professors in this session. The affair was going smoothly until the business man asked what was one hundred and ninetyeight divided by two. Then to the huz-zahs of the student audience, the Commerce professor whipped out a large slide rule and shouted the answer. The act was concrete proof of the constant preparedness of all the mercantile-minded, it was a fine example of how they jump at opportunity. Oh yes, the , answer was wrong.
LATE CALL
Something goes trembling over my heart
That I cannot explain, Like the rustle of a fallen leaf In a tvinter rain.
—R. A. M.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
STUDENT FORUM
Labor, a Spoiled Child
8y John Patterson
Familiar to everyone is the fabled
parent who said, “We are being too strict with Johnny. It is time we let him
hold the reins him-
self.” Just as familiar is the rest of the story. Johnny, pampered and spoil ed, literally “raises the roof” and “gets away with murder.” Then he reaches his intellectual majority, goes out in the cold world all by his lonesome,
John Pattenon and soon gets a few swift kicks in the pants before he settles down.
Like Johnny is the labor faction in the United States. There are a few differences, but in general, Johnny and Labor are of the same ilk.
There is no doubt that time was when Labor was mistreated. The big, bad, business men with burlap-sack paupches exploited the workers. So the government stepped in and put hand-cuffs on the bosses; the unions were strengthened to unheard of proportions by federal and state laws.
The first unbridled act of the spoiled brat, Labor, was the strike. Initially, strikes were bad means toward a good end; now, in most cases, both means and end are bad. Having its' way, the brat began to get out of hand, and now holds such a strong position that it may give, rather than receive, all kicks.
Granting that workers should be protected, it must be admitted that Labor needs cleaning up. There are questions to be asked. Should Communists be tolerated in unions? Are racketeers logical executives for the A. F. of L.? Must a man pay enormous fees to gain * and maintain membership in a union? On the other hand, is' a worker obliged to join some union? And finally, does Labor have a right to clog up the works in defense industry?
The Newspaper Guild,' especially in New York City, is admittedly full of
Communists. The bitter struggles between red and white factions in Guild elections is sufficient testimony of Communist tendencies. The fellow-travelers are still ruling the roost in the Guild.
Westbrook Pegler, caustic and sour as his column may be, must be on the right track in his campaign against racketeer members of the A. F. of L. He has named his man in every case,- has been instrumental in promoting the criminal conviction of such men as George Scalise and Willie Bioff. The Federation at its last convention half-heartedly deplored its own condition, but did nothing to correct it.
Unions are a trifle contradictory in their actions. In one sense they are exclusive: they can refuse admittance to any individual and back up this refusal with an enormous entrance fee and high dues. But, on the other hand, strikes are called because some worker in a plant is non-union. Near Harrisburg, Pa., just before Christmas an aluminum plant was closed for one week because one of the workers was behind in his union dues. The plant was a vital cog in defense industry. Yet to please the union, the owners had to give the delinquent a new job in an isolated, side-tracked little building away from the main factories. And the bosses had all they could do to keep the union from pressing its demand for the man’s dismissal.
If these statements were isolated examples, there would be no need to probe into the faults of labor organization in the United States today. But the evidence clicks a picture of blurred ethics in most of Labor’s practices.
Although some may claim this is mere prediction, all arrows point to the fact that the government has given Labor a chance to gain the upper hand in industry so that, indirectly the government will control industry.
Now that the spoiled child has run amuck, has even taken a swing at its benefactor’s defense program, the government is preparing to let fly with a well-aimed kick by taking over Labor. Then the government will control industry, not indirectly, but directly. We don’t need to construct a syllogism to prove it.
Commerce Forum Plans
New Meeting Schedule
Beginning on Feb. 13 the Commerce Forum will inaugurate a new schedule for its meetings, which will be held every two weeks, with some lecturer or commentator featured. Larry Walsh, assisted by Bill Foley and Lawrence Schmidt, is in charge of the arrangements for the lectures.
Under the direction of Gail Fitch, sophomore chairman of tours and special trips, preparations have begun for the annual trip to Chicago, where every year, the Forum visits various industrial and commercial establishments.
—John Moriarty
Delahanty, '40, Made
Editor of Trade Paper
James L. Delahanty, ’40, of South Bend, has recently been appointed associate editor of Automotive News, published in Detroit, the official organ of the automobile industry.
An article appearing in the current issue and written by Delahanty prophecies marked curtailment of production in 1941 because of defense orders; but at the same time it lists 1940 as one of the best years in the history of the industry.
Delahanty was graduated from Notre Dame last spring, receiving his degree from the College of Commerce.
—Joe Stephen
Engineers Show Movie of
Tacoma Narrows Bridge
On February 3 a movie will be shown at 8 p.m. in the Engineering auditorium concerning the collapse of the Tacoma Narrows Bridge. The film was made by Prof. F. B. Farquharson, of the Civil Engineering Department of the University of Washington, who was actually on the bridge with his camera at the time of its collapse.
He remarked that three times he felt the floor of the bridge give way and stepped back just in time to save himself.
This picture is being shown under the auspices of the Civil Engineers Club at Notre Dame, in cooperation with the other engineering clubs on the campus. All engineering students are invited to attend, as well as any others who are interested.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
11
Work on 1941 "Dome"
Hits Increased Tempo
Work on the 1941 Dome goes forward at an increased tempo this month, with Feb. 20 scheduled as the date on which 16-page sections of the annual yearbook will be sent to the printer. Following that date, Editor Neil McCarty and staff send one of these sections daily until the Dome is completed sometime in May.
At present senior class individual pictures are being rounded up by Sam Boyle. Individual pictures of the junior class were completed and sent to the engraver before Christmas. All club pictures are to be ready for the engraver, the Pontiac Engraving Co. of Chicago, by the end of this week.
Art Editor John Bermingham, with the capable aid of Professor Stanley S. Sessler and Francis Hanley of the University department of art, is finishing up sketches, cartoons, etc., preparatory to sending them off to the engraver. Jack Garvey is working diligently on his picture story of “The Year at Notre Dame.”
—John Casey
Philadelphia Symphony To Climax Music Week
Notre Dame students may not have had the opportunity of seeing Walt Disney’s “Fantasia,” starring the Philadelphia Symphony orchestra under the direction of Leopold Stokowski—but on May 2 they will have the privilege of seeing and hearing the Philadelphia Symphony in person, possibly under the baton of the famed Stokowski. Whether Stokowski will direct the Symphony is uncertain, for at present he is quite busy rehearsing an All-American Youth orchestra. It might also be noted that the phrase “under the baton” is really a misnomer, for Stokowski uses only his hands in directing. This appearance of the Philadelphia Symphony will climax Music Week at Notre Dame, April 27 to May 2.
Miss Rose Bampton, soprano of the Metropolitan Opera Co., will appear as soloist with the South Bend Symphony orchestra on April 28. Miss Bampton has often appeared as soloist with the Philadelphia Symphony orchestra. Another feature of Music Week as announced by Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., is the appearance of 'Augustana College choir, reputedly one of the finest in the country—scheduled for April 30.
These entertainment features as announced by Father Connerton all pertain to Music Week, but many other events
have been provided for the coming months. Among the important personages who will appear on the platform of Washington Hall are: Sister Mary Ma-daleva, president of St. Mary’s College; Dr. Jerome Kerwin, head of the department of political science at Chicago University; and Dr. Albert Emerson of the school of science at the same university. The Rev. Ignatius Smith, O.P., dean of the school of philosophy at Catholic University, whose subject was “The Plights of Patriotism,” spoke here Monday.
The organizations and persons mentioned here merely headline the entertainment season at Notre Dame for the first half of 1941. Elsewhere in the Scholastic a complete calendar of the coming entertainment events is presented for your convenience.
—Robert LeMense
Alfred Meyers, N. D., '26, Publishes Mystery Novel
Reynal and Hitchcock, of New York, have just published a mystery novel entitled Murder Ends the Song, by Alfred Meyers, Notre Dame, ’26. While a student here, Mr. Meyers was a member of the glee club, and later became an instructor of English. Although he has written numerous short stories, this is his first attempt at a full-length work.
Having had experience in operatic circles, it is not strange that Mr. Meyers selected an operatic background for his novel, and an antique coloratura soprano for the victim.
He has combined both his musical and writing inclinations in the past. Since, receiving his master’s degree at Notre Dame, Mr. Meyers sang in the chorus of the San Francisco Opera Company, has written a play which was produced at Reed College, and won the prize in the Portland Civic Theatre’s contest for Oregon authors.
New Debate Cup Given
Howard Hall’s retirement of the Wranglers Cup last year led the Student Council to donate a new cup for winners henceforth, of the Interhall debate contest. Student Council President John Burke announced that besides the traveling trophy, which will be held by the winning hall, there will be individual medals given to the winners of this year’s contest. These medals will be of the same type as those given for Interhall sports. Joe Mulligan, Tom Carty, and Paul Vignos, the Alumni team, will be given these awards at the* Wranglers’ banquet sometime in February.
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
“Whatever stirs up emotion disturbs judgment.”.... Chaff and chatter clog the avenues of the spirit.... Less talk and more prayer would brighten the darkening ways of the world.... The Liturgy alone provides the objective vision toward which we should strive.... “I am the way, and the truth, and the life.” (John 14, 6)
The words of the Preface proper for the Epiphany show us how God set us on the way.... “When thine only be-gotten-son showed himself in the substance of our mortal nature, he restored us by the light of his own immortality.”
“I shall not die, but live,” is part of the Offertory psalm for this third Sunday. ... The same psalm occurs in the Offertory of Holy Thursday.... The fact has profound significance.... The same words applied to Christ in the shadow of the Crib and the shadow of the Cross. — Each in turn is the cause and the pledge of our own immortality.
Candlemas Day, February 2, is full of the same meaning.... The prayers for the blessing of the candles, the symbolism of the candles, the procession, all declare that the heaven from which Christ came and to which he returned is ours for the asking.
The Ordo designates this feast as the Purification of the Blessed Virgin.... It is also the Presentation of the Child Jesus in the Temple.... Both acts were performed in compliance with the Jewish law by. which neither participant was bound.... The example of humility and obedience shines all the brighter by contrast.
The Liturgy follows the measure of time, but its concern is with the things of eternity.... Before our next issue the time after Epiphany will have run its course.... Its theme, the manifestation of the divinity of Christ, will end only in the Beatific Vision.
Mass Calendar on page 19
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
STUDENT FORUM
Labor, a Spoiled Child
By John Patterson
Familiar to everyone is the fabled
parent who said, “We are being too strict with Johnny. It is time we let him
hold the reins him-
John Patterson few swift kicks in settles down.
self.” Just as familiar is the rest of the story. Johnny, pampered and s p o i 1 ed, literally “raises the roof” and “gets away with murder.” Then he reaches his intellectual majority, goes out in the cold world all by his lonesome, and soon gets a he pants before he
Like Johnny is the labor faction in the United States. There are a few differences, but in general, Johnny and Labor are of the same ilk.
There is no doubt that time was when Labor was mistreated. The big, bad, business men with burlap-sack paujiches exploited the workers. So the government stepped in and put hand-cuffs on the bosses; the unions were strengthened to unheard of proportions by federal and state laws.
The first unbridled act of the spoiled brat, Labor, was the strike. Initially, strikes were bad means toward a good end; now, in most cases, both means and end are bad. Having its' way, the brat began to get out of hand, and now holds such a strong position that it may give, rather than receive, all kicks.
Granting that workers should be protected, it must be admitted that Labor needs cleaning up. There are questions to be asked. Should Communists be tolerated in unions? Are racketeers logical executives for the A. F. of L.? Must a man pay enormous fees to gain* and maintain membership in a union? On the other hand, is' a worker obliged to join some union? And finally, does Labor have a right to clog up the works in defense industry?
The Newspaper Guild, especially in New York City, is admittedly full of
Communists. The bitter struggles between red and white factions in Guild elections is sufficient testimony of Communist tendencies. The fellow-travelers are still ruling the roost in the Guild.
Westbrook Pegler, caustic and sour as his column may be, must be on the right track in his campaign against racketeer members of the A. F. of L. He has named his man in every case,- has been instrumental in promoting the criminal conviction of such men as George Scalise and Willie Bioff. The Federation at its last convention half-heartedly deplored its own condition, but did nothing to correct it.
Unions are a trifle contradictory in their actions. In one sense they are exclusive: they can refuse admittance to any individual and back up this refusal with an enormous entrance fee and high dues. But, on the other hand, strikes are called because some worker in a plant is non-union. Near Harrisburg, Pa., just before Christmas an aluminum plant was closed for one week because one of the workers was behind in his union dues. The plant was a vital cog in defense industry. Yet to please the union, the owners had to give the delinquent a new job in an isolated, side-tracked little building away from the main factories. And the bosses had all they could do to keep the union from pressing its demand for the man’s dismissal!
If these statements were isolated examples, there would be no need to probe into the faults of labor organization in the United States today. But the evidence clicks a picture of blurred ethics in most of Labor’s practices.
Although some may claim this is mere prediction, all arrows point to the fact that the government has given Labor a chance to gain the upper hand in industry so that, indirectly the government will control industry.
Now that the spoiled child has run amuck, has even taken a swing at its benefactor’s defense program, the government is preparing to let fly with a well-aimed kick by taking over Labor. Then the government will control industry, not indirectly, but directly. We don’t need to construct a syllogism to prove it.
Commerce Forum Plans
New Meeting Schedule
Beginning on Feb. 13 the Commerce Forum will inaugurate a new schedule for its meetings, which will be held every two weeks, with some lecturer or commentator featured. Larry Walsh, assisted by Bill Foley and Lawrence Schmidt, is in charge of the arrangements for the lectures.
Under the direction of Gail Fitch, sophomore chairman of tours and special trips, preparations have begun for the annual trip to Chicago, where every year, the Forum visits various industrial and commercial establishments.
—John Moriarty
Delehanty, *40, Made Editor of Trade Paper
James L. Delahanty, ’40, of South Bend, has recently been appointed associate editor of Automotive News, published in Detroit, the official organ of the automobile industry.
An article appearing in the current issue and written by Delahanty prophecies marked curtailment of production in 1941 because of defense orders; but at the same time it lists 1940 as one of the best years in the history of the industry.
Delahanty was graduated from Notre Dame last spring, receiving his degree from the College of Commerce.
—Joe Stephen
Engineers Show Movie of
Tacoma Narrows Bridge
On February 3 a movie will be shown at 8 p.m. in the Engineering auditorium concerning the collapse of the Tacoma Narrows Bridge. The film was made by Prof. F. B. Farquharson, of the Civil Engineering Department of the University of Washington, who was actually on the bridge with his camera at the time of its collapse.
He remarked that three times he felt the floor of the bridge give way and stepped back just in time to save himself.
This picture is being shown under the auspices of the Civil Engineers Club at Notre Dame, in cooperation with the other engineering clubs on the campus. All engineering students are invited to attend, as well as any others who are interested.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
11
Work on 1941 "Dome"
Hits Increased Tempo
Work on the 1941 Dome goes forward at an increased tempo this month, with Feb. 20 scheduled as the date on which 16-page sections of the annual yearbook will be sent to the printer. Following that date, Editor Neil McCarty and staff send one of these sections daily until the Dome is completed sometime in May.
At present senior class individual pictures are being rounded up by Sam Boyle. Individual pictures of the junior class were completed and sent to the engraver before Christmas. All club pictures are to be ready for the engraver, the Pontiac Engraving Co. of Chicago, by the end of this week.
Art Editor John Bermingham, with the capable aid of Professor Stanley S. Sessler and Francis Hanley of the University department of art, is finishing up sketches, cartoons, etc., preparatory to sending them off to the engraver. Jack Garvey is working diligently on his picture story of “The Year at Notre Dame.”
—John Casey
Philadelphia Symphony To Climax Music Week
Notre Dame students may not have had the opportunity of seeing Walt Disney’s “Fantasia,” starring the Philadelphia Symphony orchestra under the direction of Leopold Stokowski—but on May 2 they will have the privilege of seeing and hearing the Philadelphia Symphony in person, possibly under the baton of the famed Stokowski. Whether Stokowski will direct the Symphony is uncertain, for at present he is quite busy rehearsing an All-American Youth orchestra. It might also be noted that the phrase “under the baton” is really a misnomer, for Stokowski uses only his hands in directing. This appearance of the Philadelphia Symphony will climax Music Week at Notre Dame, April 27 to May 2.
Miss Rose Bampton, soprano of the Metropolitan Opera Co., will appear as soloist with the South Bend Symphony orchestra on April 28. Miss Bampton has often appeared as soloist with the Philadelphia Symphony orchestra. Another feature of Music Week as announced by Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., is the appearance of Augustana College choir, reputedly one of the finest in the country—scheduled for April 30.
These entertainment features as announced by Father Connerton all pertain to Music Week, but many other events
have been provided for the coming months. Among the important personages who will appear on the platform of Washington Hall are: Sister Mary Ma-daleva, president of St. Mary’s College; Dr. Jerome Kerwin, head of the department of political science at Chicago University; and Dr. Albert Emerson of the school of science at the same university. The Rev. Ignatius Smith, O.P., dean of the school of philosophy at Catholic University, whose subject was “The Plights of Patriotism,” spoke here Monday.
The organizations and persons mentioned here merely headline the entertainment season at Notre Dame for the first half of 1941. Elsewhere in the Scholastic a complete calendar of the coming entertainment events is presented for your convenience.
—Robert LeMense
Alfred Meyers, N. D., '26, Publishes Mystery Novel
Reynal and Hitchcock, of New York, have just published a mystery novel entitled Murder Ends the Song, by Alfred Meyers, Notre Dame, ’26. While a student here, Mr. Meyers was a member of the glee club, and later became an instructor of English. Although he has written numerous short stories, this is his first attempt at a full-length work.
Having had experience in operatic circles, it is not strange that Mr. Meyers selected an operatic background for his novel, and an antique coloratura soprano for the victim.
He has combined both his musical and writing inclinations in the past. Since, receiving his master’s degree at Notre Dame, Mr. Meyers sang in the chorus of the San Francisco Opera Company, has written a play which was produced at Reed College, and won the prize in the Portland Civic Theatre’s contest for Oregon authors.
New Debate Cup Given
Howard Hall’s retirement of the Wranglers Cup last year led the Student Council to donate a new cup for winners henceforth, of the Interhall debate contest. Student Council President John Burke announced that besides the traveling trophy, which will be held by the winning hall, there will be individual medals given to the winners of this year’s contest. These medals will be of the same type as those given for Interhall sports. Joe Mulligan, Tom Carty, and Paul Vignos, the Alumni team, will be given these awards at the* Wranglers’ banquet sometime in February.
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
“Whatever stirs up emotion disturbs judgment.”.... Chaff and chatter clog the avenues of the spirit.... Less talk and more prayer would brighten the darkening ways of the world.... The Liturgy alone provides the objective vision toward which we should strive.... “I am the way, and the truth, and the life.” (John 14, 6)
The words of the Preface proper for the Epiphany show us how God set us on the way.... “When thine only be-gotten-son showed himself in the substance of our mortal nature, he restored us by the light of his own immortality.”
“I shall not die, but live,” is part of the Offertory psalm for this third Sunday. ... The same psalm occurs in the Offertory of Holy Thursday.... The fact has profound significance.... The same words applied to Christ in the shadow of the Crib and the shadow of the Cross.__ Each in turn is the cause and the pledge of our own immortality.
Candlemas Day, February 2, is full of the same meaning.... The prayers for the blessing of the candles, the symbolism of the candles, the procession, all declare that the heaven from which Christ came and to which he returned is ours for the asking.
The Ordo designates this feast as the Purification of the Blessed Virgin.... It is also the Presentation of the Child Jesus in the Temple.... Both acts were performed in compliance with the Jewish law by. which neither participant was bound.... The example of humility and obedience shines all the brighter by contrast.
The Liturgy follows the measure of time, but its concern is with the things of eternity.... Before our next issue the time after Epiphany will have run its course.... Its theme, the manifestation of the divinity of Christ, will end only in the Beatific Vision.
Mass Calendar on page 19
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1S67	'
WILLIAM C. McGOWAN, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN W. PATTERSON, Jr., Managing Editor
JAMES NEWLAND, Promotion
WILLIAM SCANLAN, News Editor
JOHN DINGES, Sports Editor
GEORGE MILES, Literary Editor
WILLIAM BAADER
Art Editor
REV. C. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York Qty—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, 213 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana. ’
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building;
Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
War and the Catholic Press
For a long time there has been concern about the Catholic press in the United States, especially about the lack of expert writers who could cope competently with the social problems of the nation. Bishop Lucy, of Amarillo, Texas, . said very frankly in The Catholic School Editor last Fall that “many of the editors and writers in the Catholic press are not equipped to contribute articles of any value on problems of economics and international relations.” The Bishop quoted two Catholic journals which gave absolutely opposite opinions about the Smith amendment to the Wagner Act. One journal said it would “destroy” the Act; the other said it was “constructive and desirable.” This deplorable lack of unity filled Bishop Lucy with dismay, and he longed for the day when Catholic journals could be competent and unified in their attitude toward our national problems.
Perhaps the European war has done something toward promoting a greater unity of thought among Catholic journals. Concern for the peace, the safety and the prosperity of the United States is rising daily among them and they seem to be one in their attitude toward keeping this country out of the conflict. Commonweal for January 17, 1941, is no warmonger and advises its readers that “Before this country gets much more involved in the war, it ought to study ways and means of conceivably, at some time, ending the war.... We believe this
country would find that the problem of ending the war would be compounded if America’s tremendous bulk were added to the firing line, and that America could serve best by trying to disperse the fire in an effort for unity.___ around the world.”
These pacifistic sentiments are echoed by Our Sunday Visitor, in the issue of January 12, 1941, where a front-page editorial warns that “Theoretically it would seem that we should (enter the war); but looking at the situation realistically we certainly should not. The people of a country, on whose cities incendiary bombs have been raining, may think our cooperation as an ally would hasten the war’s end, but it would actually prolong it.”
Some Catholic papers see an alarming trend toward war and move with frightened words to warn their readers. America for January 18, 1941, points out, for example, that “Thus the American people, committed overwhelming to peace, may (since the President declared this country ‘will never submit to a peace dictated by totalitarian forces’) overnight find themselves overwhelmingly committed to war.” But America’s attitude is identical with the first mentioned journals as she hopes that “Every man who loves his country will earnestly pray that the spirit of wisdom and of counsel, of justice and charity, be with us upon this troubled year.”
Even the issue of Catholic Digest for January, 1941, which has no editorial
page as such, indicates its opinion by printing as its leading article, “Compulsory Military Service,” by Charles C. Tansill. This piece first appeared in scholarly Thought magazine, for December, 1940. Mr. Tansill has no doubts about a gloomy future, and after a long discussion of militarists who believed that war had been the source of all betterment for the human race, he concludes that “When America enters the present conflict in Europe, as she will inevitably do if the plans of the Roosevelt administration are carried out, let us hope that some small grains of comfort may be extracted from.... assurances of Ruskin, Treitschke, Maude and Luce”—all of whom saw war and international conflict as the great benefactors of mankind.
Just a week ago our neighbor. The ■New World, official archdiocesan weekly of Chicago, printed an outspoken editorial condemning any tendency toward “the economy which prevails in dictator countries....” Congress is warned that it “should weigh carefully.... expenditures for national defense and not burden the nation with a huge, unnecessary debt which certainly will bring on political absolutism.” The article concludes with a flat statement of its opinion: “We are not militaristic, we want no position of domination, we do not even feel obligated to assist other nations in this war except in the terms of our own national defense.”
The unity of these opinions from Catholic journals is found in their common agreement that the United States should stay out of the present war. They believe that our national interests will best be served by peace—by our own continued non-participation coupled with an effort to stop the conflict. Most of them are of the mind that our entry would compound the problem of ending the war and actually prolong it. At least one of them suggests that we can “serve best by trying tb disperse the fire in an effort for unity.... around the world.”
Those are the main features contained in the Catholic press’s attitude with regard to the war. There are many more arguments presented, but in general they are focused around these points. Perhaps the essence of all Catholic press opinion finds its clearest and simplest presentation in the January, 1941 issue of The Catholic Worker, which says editorially: “We are Christian pacifists and try to follow the counsels of perfection. Man... has a supernatural destiny as well as a part to play in this temporal order. We firmly believe that our stand makes- for the common good....”
—William C. McGowan
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
Dave Is Good ....
by Jerry Smith
Dave was canned today. He beat up • the boss. Dave will find a new job. Dave is good. He’s handy. I like the way he listens when someone speaks in cool, confident explanation. Dave can talk to engines. I’ve seen him take them down and locate their rasps and groans. He takes out his whisk broom and cleans his bench of scraps of rubber, iron filings, and grit. He washes each part of the engine separately, until it is a sharp piece of flawless metal. Then, as he reassembles them, he bathes and warms each part with green oil and thick grease. His reassembled engine roars a melody of grateful meshing harmony.
Then he talks to another engine, one that has been strained even more. The way authors try to ease and lighten a sentence that has tried too hard. Dave doesn’t follow his engines outside the hangar. He doesn’t even like to put them in the planes.
“It won’t be long before my babies will get you there without a lousy pair of wings and rudder to keep ’em straight.”
Old Chet was different. Chet was on the field, rather part of it, when they mowed the hay and bumped the first biplane over the stubble. Albert didn’t hire him, just discovered he couldn’t get along without him. Albert is the boss. Back in those days he was all the boss, now he has taken in a partner and confined himself to the field. He calls himself the Field Superintendent. The partner, Ronald White, handles the downtown end of the business. There’s not much wrong with the boss. He doesn’t make many mistakes. He was young when he first opened the port; there were years of stunting and jumping with crates built of wire and glue and a prayer before this game settled down to an even pace of getting things where they wanted to go and in a big hurry.
Chet must have been fifty years old when he built the wooden garage they first used to cover the crate. He moved the wind sock to the four corners of the field before they found the right one. He watched the barometer when a thunder shower meant grounding the crate. He slept in the garage. Albert couldn’t get along without him.
Things move fast in this game. Radio, the beam, streamlining, speed, but you know about those things. It’s service and safety that have arrived since' I started to understudy Dave. We have a front
office in the luxury equipped downtown terminal. Long black limousines to wind through city traffic and deliver the passengers in a group and on time. It’s business.
Chet didn’t change much. He left the field only once a year and then only for two weeks. He loaded Betsy onto his trailer and drove down to Elmira for the glider meet. Betsy is Chet’s glider. She rested over in a back corner, a shrouded gray triangle. Chet would uncover her and give her a new covering of paint about a week before the annual meet. Once he told me about the gentle angles in gliding. The quiet, the feeling of being carried aloft on a breeze, feeling its slightest touch. You have to go where it takes you, but that adds to the interest. It’s the difference between feeling the smooth drip of salty waves as you lay out over the side to keep the sail upright or merely driving over them, reducing them to a series of jolting slaps.
Chet could see no pleasure in flight when Dave made it so simple. It’s just a safe, money-making proposition. But Chet respected Dave. You had to. It took sense and capable hands to dip into that steel and grease and turn out an engine that was able to pull a plane into the air with assurance.
The last few years Chet had more trouble finding something to do. He wasn’t as nimble as formerly. He was surrounded by trained young men who worked quickly. Once he dropped an engine block on his foot and broke a toe. He didn’t get to the glider meet that summer. When he did return to work he was put on the little tractor that draws the liners and little baggage trucks into position at the line. Even that required jumping down to make connections. Once he stumbled over his injured foot. When he struck the concrete runway his arm was broken.
Albert decided he had better find work for Chet some place else. Insurance companies don’t like accidents. So Albert placed Chet as a night watchman in an apartment building. We don’t have a night watchman on.the field any more, we’re open day and night.
Chet still came out to the field every day. Albert found that we could get along without him. Albert asked Chet to be careful about not disturbing the men. Especially Dave. Dave is designing an army special. Dave asked Albert to
leave Chet alone. Maybe we would be better off if we didn’t see how fast we could get things done. Albert didn’t like that. He walked away. Albert talked to Chet. I don’t know what he said, but Chet didn’t show up at the field for a week. Then one morning as I climbed out of my car on the parking lot behind the hangar one of the older men came over to me.
“You remember Chet, don’t you?” “Yes.”
“He was killed last night. He tried to fix an elevator in that apartment building where he works. He was loosening the windlass when the elevator came up and wound him tightly in turns of steel cable. They say yop never heard such screaming. He died before they could cut him free.”
Dave wasn’t in his room. I looked in number one hangar.
Albert was talking evenly, steadily, Dave was listening quietly, fixing him stationary and white with direct eyes. The rest of the huge interior was empty save for the black shadows of the big transports. They were small down there. Albert’s voice echoed hollowly from the bare galvanized walls.
“Look, Dave, use your head. I’ve been down to see Mrs. Wilkins. I offered her everything I can do.”
“How did he look?”
“I feel sorry for the poor devil.”
“Devil?” Sure. That makes it easy to say. Not Chet, devil! devil!” Then he calmed, his arms settled limply to his sides. He asked calmly.
“You’re going to close down the field the day of the funeral?”
Recovering his fire, Albert came hack angrily.
“Do you know what that would cost?”
Dave beat up the boss. Then Dave walked out.
The boss looked peculiar lying there on the concrete. His tailored clothes would be goose-pimpled on the back when he got up. That’s a funny thing to think about. There was grease on the boss’s face from Dave’s hands. I hadn’t seen grease on the boss’s face in a long time. The boss got^up from the concrete. He looked at me amazed, weary, “Dave. He shouldn’t have done that. But he’s a good man. Tell him he can come back if he’ll apologize.”
A push would have knocked him down again. I’m going to look for Dave. Guess I’ll go where he takes me. Dave is good. He’s handy.
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SHADES OF "THE MARK OF ZORRO"
Fencers Defeat Wisconsin
Face Chicago Tomorrow
Notre Dame’s fencers opened their season with a surprise but safe victory over the University of Wisconsin last Friday, 15-12. The Irish took the foils, 6-3, the sabres 5-4, and lost the epee, 5-4. Russell Harris was the star of the encounter for the home team as he won three bouts in the foils and won two out of three in epee; Mike Humphries took three bouts in the sabre duels, and Capt. Jack Gaither won three bouts and lost the same number in epee and foils.
Concerning the victory Coach Walter Langford commented, “It came as a mild surprise. We lost five of our best men last year and were expected to be very weak, while Wisconsin has the same team that beat us last year 9% to 7%. We’ll really see how good we are when we face the University of Chicago tomorrow afternoon. They have wonderful facilities and a great coach and have been Big Ten Champions for seven years. As a matter of fact they were undefeated last year. We can hardly expect to beat them but we’ll be in there trying.”
The team faces a difficult schedule. On the out-of-town matches nine men will travel and compete while nine other substitutes will be on hand for home contests. The schedule in front of the team is as follows: University of Chicago at Notre Dame, Jan. 25; Marquette at Notre Dame, Feb. 1; Ohio State at Columbus, Feb. 8; Marquette at Milwaukee, Feb. 15; Michigan State at East Lansing, March 1; Univ, of Hlinois at Urbana, March 8; Cincinnati at Notre Dame, March 8; and Washington (St. Louis) at Notre Dame, March 27.
—Mark McGrath
Captain Gaither "Hopes"
Fencers Have Good Season
Every weekday afternoon from three to five, the interminable clash of steely blades echoes in the North basement of the Notre Dame fieldhouse. There the fencers practice under the leadership of Captain Jack Gaither.
Captain Gaither’s home is in Louisville, Ky. He is 5 feet 10 inches tall, light-haired, modest — and he wears glasses during his bouts but at no other time. Jack is a senior, a resident of Alumni Hall, and an accounting, major. He fenced for the first time in the fall of 1937, and in three and a half years has almost disproved the ancient theory that it takes seven to become a master of any of the fencing swords. He prefers the foil, but this year is adding the epee.
Captain Jack was duly discouraged when five of N.D.’s best fencers left via graduation last June. Despite all predictions of weakness, the team showed good form in beating Wisconsin last week by a comfortable three points. As to the fate of his team against the difficult opposition to come, Jack says, “I just hope we have a winning season. We’ll prove ' our worth Saturday afternoon against the University of Chicago.” According to Coach Langford, the University of Chicago is hard to out-fence, but you can be sure that his charges will rally round Captain Gaither, to give Chicago warthy opposition.—Mark G. McGrath
F. Owen Evans, sophomore Irish left ' halfback, answers to “Fred,” “Dippy,” or “Owen.”
Coin Toss Awards Campus
Grid Title to St. Edward's
After battling to a scoreless tie in the Interhall Championship football game last month, St. Edward’s and Dillon Hall’s claims to the title were decided by the flip of a coin, and a serious campus question of the last six weeks was answered. St. Ed’s has taken permanent possession of the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell Gold Trophy emblematic of the University Interhall Football Championship. The award will be displayed in the Huddle for one week beginning this Friday.
The Faculty Board in Control of Athletics, after much debating on the awarding of the spoils of the grid war, finally decided that the flip of a coin was the best way to settle the championship. In a special meeting in the office of the Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, Gus Ryan, president of the Chicago Club, and Coach Joe Rogalia, representing St. Ed’s, and coaches Wally Bohrer and J. C. Brennan of Dillon, met for the crucial moment. St. Ed’s won the toss, and the trophy on which will be inscribed the words, “University of Notre Dame Inter-Hall Football Championship 1940. St. Edward’s and Dillon Co-Champions.” Ironically enough, Wally Bohrer, Dillon coach, flipped his own coin to lose the trophy.
At the same time, the Board decided to present 20 members of each team with gold footballs, on which will be inscribed the words, “Inter-Hall 1940.” The players, who have yet to be named by their respective coaches, will be presented with their awards by Mr. Elmer F. Layden, Director of Athletics, sometime in the near future.
Special commendation is due here to Dr. E. R. Handy of the department of physical education, under whose auspices the tourney was run. His unceasing efforts and invaluable help settled the Interhall championship in a manner most satisfactory to all concerned. A new trophy will be offered by Father O’Donnell for competition in the 1941 Interhall grid season.—Jim Clemens
Until 1865 only the Arts and Letters course was offered at Notre Dame. In that year a Science course was offered. In 1869 the Law Department was added, the first permanent department of this kind at a Catholic university in the United States.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
THE
Michigan State, Marquette and N. Y. U. Next Games
Monday night’s thrill-studded 54-49 victory over Syracuse was damaging to Irish cage prospects. Capt. Eddie Riska, sparkplug of the squad, cracked a bone in his left foot in a manner spectators might have expected during any game played in the enthusiastic style of the rugged forward. Riska had intercepted a Syracuse pass, and jumped up near the basket for a one-handed shot. The ball went through the hoop but Ed fell as he
Forward George Sobek
came down on a weakened left foot and was carried from the floor. The bucket set the score at 23 to 20 and ended the scoring for the first half. Eddie will probably be out of action until the N. Y. U. Charles Butler and Bernie Crimmins are leading contenders for the vacant forward post.
Thus a necessarily revamped Notre Dame squad will meet a definitely dangerous band of Michigan State Spartans here tomorrow night. Spartan coach Ben Van Alstyne’s boys risk an impressive record against the Irish. They have won all but two of their games so far, losing one of two games with Creighton and being taken for their second loss by the University of Michigan. On the credit side of their ledger, Michigan State points to two victories over a previously undefeated Temple team and their toppling of Long Island U. from the ranks of the undefeated.
Marquette Next
A big team will be put on the floor by the Spartans. Stars Hindman and Mekules, both centers are 6'2" and 6'3" respectively and the rest of the team is composed of six footers. Mekules scored 22 points against West Virginia. Joe Gerard, a forward is another man assistant Coach Ray Meyer has marked well on his scouting trips.
(Continued on page 16)
Splinters From the Press Box - -JAMES NEWLAND— .......
The history of Notre Dame basketball is replete with many extraordinary events and personalities. Such spectacular events as tie ball games and one-point thrillers, and such stars as Ed Krause, Johnny Ford, Tom Wukovits, Ray Meyer and Marty Peters have made basketball at Notre Dame almost as famous as football. Three years ago the University had two basketball gentlemen who have stood above and have shone more brilliantly than any other Notre Dame players. Where people talk basketball, especially locally, the names of Paul Nowak and Johnny Moir will inevitably appear.
❖
Sports writers in reminiscing speak of 1936, ’37 and ’38 not as “great basketball seasons at Notre Dame’’ nor the ’‘best teams George K e o g a n ever coached.” No — they call it the “Moir-Nowak era.” And justly so. These two players gave to Notre Dame basketball something it had never known. They had speed, exactness and precision. And since they have left, basketball here hasn’t been quite the same, even though local teams have had fairly good seasons.
*
During his sophomore year, Moir scored 260 points, an all-time scoring record and one-fourth of the team’s total points for the season. The previous record of 212 points was held by Ed “Moose” Krause. Both players were named All-American two seasons in a row, and only recently Nowak was named the greatest center ever to perform in Madison Square Garden. Together with Tom Wukovits, Earl Brown, Eddie Sadowski and Tommy Jordan, these two hardwood wizards brought Notre Dame successive National Basketball Championships in 1936 and ’37.
❖
When speaking of this Golden Era of Basketball, these two players cannot and should not be mentioned singularly. Taken individually, Nowak and Moir were good. Taken collectively as a fast breaking, deadly shooting combination, they were phenomenal. If Moir had had no Nowak to feed him the ball on his streaking under-basket plays, the Irish would have been just another ball team. And if Nowak had had no Moir to monopolize on his bullet-like passes, Coach George Keogan would have had a team that could pass with the best, but prob
ably not outscore them. Their cooperative playing made them the immortal basketball duo just like the Four Horsemen of Notre Dame gridiron lore became football’s greatest unit. Basketball play- -ers will come and go at Notre Dame, but it will be a long time before two players combine to equal the scoring accuracy of Paul Nowak and Johnny Moir.
♦
Now let’s have a little talk about this present ball team of ours. Its record of nine victories against three defeats is nothing outstanding nor is it the worst record in the world. The Irish are woefully lacking in height. As a consequence, they must depend largely on speed and deception for a large percentage of their points. Against Butler, Notre Dame’s rebounding work was nothing to write home about, but at the same time the steady scoring ability of Captain Eddie Riska, Cy Singer and George Sobek was the outstanding item of that hectic ball game.
♦
The apparent fatigued condition of Notre Dame’s starting five following the Butler game gave Coach Keogan’s re-turn-to-the-center-jump plea added emphasis. The Irish mentor has advocated this change since the center jump was abandoned in favor of a faster game. Ed Riska, one of the most sincere ball players we’ve ever seen, was definitely tired mid-way in the second half. And Cy Singer wasn’t the freshest player on the floor at that period of the game either.
It is our understanding a player, in condition, should be able to last an entire game, or at least's good portion of the game, without tiring to the extent that he can hardly move one foot in front of the other. If this he the case, and in view of the fact that few ball players can last an entire game the way it is now played, Coach Keogan’s appeal is definitely in order.
♦
The acquisition of Ray Meyer as assistant hardwood coach was a smart move on the part of Notre Dame athletic officials. His presence in the field house must have some bearing on the outcome of ball games. Ray captained the Irish two successive seasons and during that time Notre Dame lost only six ball games.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
"Dy ALBERT DEL ZOPPO -
Robert Smith was rated as a very good basketball player when he played for Joliet High, but few believed that he was big enough to win a position on a strong college basketball team. So the sports followers of Joliet forgot about Bob when he enrolled at Notre Dame, especially when little or nothing was heard about his doings here as a freshman. It was only when Bob was a sophomore that reports began to trickle into Joliet that the home-town boy was attracting the attention of George Keogan, and that the Notre Dame coach felt that Smith would develop into a varsity ball player. From then on the Joliet fans began to pull hard for Bob to make good. And Bob hasn’t disap* pointed them.
He saw little action in his sophomore year here, chiefly because competition for positions was extremely tough. Outside of the left-forward job which had been won by Riska, the other forward and guard positions were held by experienced seniors— Sadowski, DuCharme, and Captain Brown. What was more, in scrimmage sessions, Bob was constantly shifted from forward to guard, from guard to forward, and he had a little difficulty in becoming accustomed to one position. Early last season, however, he showed up so well as a guard that he gave up all thought of playing his old forward position, and concentrated on battling Ryan and Klier for a first-string job. The team’s poor sho-wing during the Christmas holidays last year finally gave Bob his chance to start a ball game. Teaming up with Don Smith (no relation), he pepped up the squad with his fast floor play and quick set-shots to start Notre Dame on a long winning streak. For the remainder of the season the Smith boys shared the regular guard jobs with Klier and Ryan.
Bob Smith is playing the best ball of his career this year and opposing teams have found him a hard man to handle. Six feet tall and weighing only 162 pounds, Bob has more than made up*
for this lack of size by his speed and finesse. There is little that this Joliet star can not do well. Offensively he can dribble, feint, and pass. But his greatest asset in this department of the game is his shooting. Bob is, without a doubt, the best shot on the squad whether shooting on the run, or set. On setshots he is deadly from any spot on the floor, but especially so -when unmolested from either corner. What makes his
11 OF NOTRE DAME
shooting border on the phenomenal at times is the quickness with which he gets off most of his shots. Third in team scoring, Bob can attribute his effective offensive play to the fact that he can hit baskets with either his left or right hand.
Defensively, Bob is on a par with some of the better N. D. guards of the past few years. He sticks aggressively to his man, and can be counted upon to do his share of ball-retrieving off the backboard.	.
Well known facts about Bob Smith are that he is the son of a Joliet furniture dealer who is his best pal; that he is a real “smoothie”—a good dresser, and
BASKETBALL
(Continued from Page 15)
Marquette’s Hilltoppers have had moments of glory and depression this season, but they are expected to be primed for the Irish when they come to Notre Dame Feb. 1. One of the happier episodes of the Marquette season was their victory over a Wisconsin team that de-feaetd the Keoganites. Another victory although a moral one, was the game in which they lost to Michigan State by a five point margin of 23-18. Coach Keogan says Marquette may play a good game or a poor one, but he is preparing for a strong team powered by a well built 6'3" guard named Komenich and two good forwards, Reavely and Poja.
And then Northwestern
Their game with Northwestern on Feb. 8 will give Irish eagers their chance to avenge their New Year’s Eve defeat in Evanston. The coaches say the Irish antidote for Wildcat poison will lie chiefly in harder, more aggressive play. The Irish merely started the 1941 basketball year with a bad night. Dutch Lonberg’s squad is built around Clarence Hasse who operates as a forward or center and who worked well under pressure in Monday’s Iowa game. Footballer Don Clawson has transferred his talents to the basketball court where he works at center. Captain Al Butherus, another gridiron transfer, is rated as a good guard and a fine defensive player.
The Notre Dame cage coaches were satisfied with the Penn-Syracuse campaign with its 53-37 victory over the former and 54-49 win at Syracuse. In the latter game, neither team led the other by more than four points throughout the whole second half. Cy Singer, sophomore scoring ace, showed well against Penn. Red Carnes demonstrated his ability with 12 points against Syracuse and all loyal Notre Dame fans are grateful to Art Pope for sinking his attempt in the last eight seconds of the same game. Larry Ryan was another player who came through in the pinch as he calmly sank his two free throws in the Syracuse over-time. Charley Gillespie was the surprise of the trip in the coaches’ opinion and played surprisingly good ball while the whole team operated well against the tough Syracuse club. Frank Quinn is playing very well on his defense while George Sobek is remembering to forget his injured knee and playing better all the time, running and breaking faster.—Jack Dinges
a good “looker”; that he is an excellent golfer, a Business Ad major, and young enough not to have had to sign for possible military training.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
Lillis Well Qualified for 1941 Grid Captaincy
The Selective Service Act will probably raise havoc with many football teams next fall. But the Fighting Irish, with whom this business of fighting is an old story, have taken precautions to minimize the danger as far as their new captain is concerned. When they recently chose Paul Bernard Lillis as captain for the 1941 football team, they took into consideration the matter of age, ability, I.Q., size and a few other important things.
Age: Captain Lillis is only 19 years old. He’ll be 20 in February and is at least a year or more removed from the draft.
Ability: Captain Lillis has won two monograms at right tackle; with the second team his sophomore year and on the starting lineup last season.
Captain Paul Lillis
I.Q.: Paul has made a few notable advances in academic competition. Because of his scholastic record in high school, .he received a fully paid tuition scholarship to Notre Dame from the New York Alumni. Here at Notre Dame, despite his work with the team, he has maintained that scholarship in the department of mechanical engineering, which, as any engineer can advise you, is a feat in itself.
Size: He is six feet, two inches tall and weighs 215 pounds. Claims he would weigh more if his roommate, Bob Mullaney, of Bedford Village, N. Y., who is on the Gym team, didn’t keep him in shape.
Paul, who is of Irish-American descent, was born in Fort Worth, Texas. His father is an engineer in New York City. The Lillis home is in Mount Vernon, New York, where Paul finished his last year of high school at Davis High school. During his year there and his three years at Bennett High school, Buffalo, he “won his letter” in football, basketball, track, baseball and swimming. He was co-captain of football in his junior and
senior year and won the Westchester All-County Award in his senior year. Besides his athletic activities and his scholastic achievement Paul found time for some dramatics and student council work. At Notre Dame he was president of his freshman class and is a member of the Student Council.
When asked about the coming season, Captain Lillis reiterated that he hoped he could do as fine a job as the 1940 Captain, Milt Piepul. When referred to the schedule, he proved his true mettle as captain, one of the qualifications of which is to answer requests for predictions, without actually doing so, but still conveying the impression of a prediction. “We can only play the schedule one game at a time. We’ll have a pretty good team. We’ll have to have better than a ‘pretty good’ team to win ’em all. We’re going to try to do that.” Captain Lillis expressed concern for Steve Ba-garus right halfback and Jim Brutz, left tackle, who seem tentatively headed for a year’s military training beginning next July.—Tom Potvers
Duties of Athletic Board
Are Many and Varied
The Faculty Board in Control of Athletics is just what the name implies: it has complete control of all athletics at Notre Dame.
-Seven faculty members and three alumni, all chosen by the president of the University, constitute its personnel. There are two officers, the boardchairman, appointed by the president, and a secretary, elected by the faculty members. All members serve for the scholastic year, or until a successor is appointed. The alumni members are required to be present every year at Commencement for a meeting, but they can be asked to attend any meeting.
Meetings are held at least four times a year, and a special meeting may be held at the vote of two faculty members. Coach Elmer Layden is not a member of the board, but he meets with it in an advisory capacity, and is responsible to the Board.
Present Board members are Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University; Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice president of the University, chairman of the board; Rev. James Tra-hey, C.S.C., Rev. Thomas Lahey, C.S.C.; Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C.; Dean J. E. McCarthy; Prof. Clarence Manion, and Prof. William L. Benitz.
The board was formed on Sept. 26, 1898. At present, some of its numerous tasks include: Hiring coaches, contract
ing for games, purchasing equipment, keeping an athletic budget, keeping records of all intercollegiate contests in which Notre Dame participates; conducting ticket sales, handling concessions, including the parking lot, making arrangements for the visiting coach and team, and recommending candidates for monogram and freshmen numerals.
—Kelly Cook
Five Gridmen Complete Freshman Cage Squad
With the addition of five new members, the freshman basketball team is now completed. The five men are: Heinie McQuoid, Ted Smith, Bill Smyth, Francis Curran and Al Murphy, all of whom played on the Freshman football team last fall.
Coach Tony Romeo says, “The squad is coming along well, and right now I’d say they were in top form. We have about five or six teams out for practice every day and the constant workouts are developing a lot of fine boys.
The squad now consists of: Barney Barnicelli, Tom Brennan, Francis Curran, Ed Dehner, Mark deMots, Paul Dohr, Dan Dawney, Bob Faught, Dick Grant, Bill Hartford, Buster Hiller, Bill Holtel, Ray Kuka, Heinie McQuoid, Jim Meagher, Johnny Moore, Al Murphy, Bob Nelson, Rich Nimiera, Dick Nixon, Barney Pyne, Joe Rigney, Bill Rogers, Ray Ruetz, Bill Smith, Ted Smyth, Omer Sturn, Red Timborn and Bill Wukovits.
Frosh Numerals Awarded
Freshman numerals, symbols of three months of daily knocks on the tough sod of Cartier field, have been issued to the members of the 1940 freshmen football squad. Commenting on his team, C. J. Kline, coach of freshman football, said “This group was much smaller, both numerically and physically than the freshman teams of past years. Generally speaking the material was below the average caliber but there were several players who showed good promise for the future.” Of these he mentioned: Matt Bolger and Bill Smyth at ends; Jim Butler and Pat Hinkson at tackles; Bill Broderick and Pat Filley at guards; Jim Cunningham at center; Tom Creevy at quarterback; Russ Ashbaugh, Angelo Bertelli, Creighton Miller, and John Clark at halfbacks; and Bob McBride and Neil Williams at fullback.
The coach was quick to remark, however, that many of the other numeral winners who were unable to show their “stuff” because of late classes, or other reasons, might lead the pigskin parade in the spring session.—Mark G. McGrath
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Keeps Warm With One of Most Modern Heating Plants In Country
On the campus of Notre Dame is one of the most modern heating plants erected in the last decade. The plant is located in the northeast end of the campus. Its structure, measuring 100 x 50 feet, is of a sturdy yellow brick which frames hundreds of glass windows. These afford the maximum of light and dispell the gloomy appearance which usually prevails in plants and factories.
The inside of the plant is as clean as a modern business office. Red tile floors contrast the white enameled pipes and are set off from the yellow glazed brick superstructures of four huge boilers. The building is constructed to allow for expansion.
This is the third heating plant that Notre Dame has had. The first one was erected in 1881 on the site which the natatorium later occupied, directly behind the Administration Building. The second, built in 1899, stood where the Student Infirmary is now located. Brothers Borromeo and Irenaeus, are superintendents of the present plant, which was raised in 1931. The plant personnel is employed on three eight-hour shifts a day; and operation is throughout a 365-day cycle.
Four 400-horse power boilers are spaced well on the ground floor of the building. These boilers, capable of 200 pounds pressure, generate the steam which heats 45 buildings on the campus. On each of the boilers is a control panel which records the carbon dioxide and indicates the steam flow. The steam from the boilers circuits the campus and, having condensed, is drawn back by a strong vacuum system.
sprays the ashes to cool them and to cut down the choking dust. Fifty tons of coal or ash can be handled by the conveyor in an hour. The plant will use from 75 to 100 tons of coal a day during the winter season.
Each boiler has a chain grate which slowly revolves through the furnace. The coal is picked up at one end and enters into the flame. By the time it has gone through the furnace it is completely burned, and is then dropped off as ash into a waiting receptacle. The draft for the fires comes from giant fans which force air into the furnaces. The smoke from the four large furnaces is discharged through a chimney 200 feet tall.
The steam circulates through the campus in pipes laid in underground tunnels. These tunnels measure six feet in height and breadth, and wind over two miles under the campus. They are lighted throughout.—Bill Talbot
Law Students Eligible For "Copyright Law"
Desiring to perpetuate the memory of Nathan Burkan, crusader for the cause of unfortunate authors and founder of the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP), that society is conducting the Fourth Annual Memorial Competition in his honor. “Copyright Law” is the subject.
The competition is open to all graduating students in colleges of law, and will be supervised at Notre Dame by Mr. James Kearney of the College of Law. He will award the $100 prize to be paid by the A.S.C.A.P., to the student who shall, in his opinion, prepare the best paper on the subject. Articles must be submitted before March 31, 1941.
John C. Hynes of South Bend was the 1940 winner of the contest.
—Francis Carver
A long conveyor carries coal from the cars to the huge 500-ton bunker which scales from a high point the boilers beneath it. The conveyor is also used for dispensing ashes. Before being removed however, a continuous stream of water
Tux or Tails
Special rental price!
We will fit you out completely in
Tuxedo or Tails — shirt, tie, top hat
$6.00
Just give us 36 hours notice.

JANUARY CLEARANCE SALE — includes our regular stock — made * to - measure ADLER-ROCHESTER suits — selection of fabrics and colors — values from $35.00 to $55 — now.
Reduced as much as One-Half
PARKER-WINTERROWD II5V2 - i 171/2 N. Main Street
Come to our upstairs shop, or see our campus representatives: JOHN SIEVERT	CAPT. MILT “MOOSE” PIEPUL	JOHN RYAN
234 Alumni	107 Alumni	337 Walsh
PARKER - WINTERROWD 115%-119% N. Main Street
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
* THE MUSIC BOX
By Felix Pogliano
Record of the Week is Alvino Iley’s “Tiger Rag,” a whirlwind arrangement in which the antics of his electric guitar (which does everything but reproduce the tiger’s stripes) and the good work of the whole band must step down for the King Sisters. You won’t believe their vocal the first time you hear it. It is amazingly fast and tricky, but the girls have perfect enunciation. The reverse is “Rose Room,” done in slow tempo. (Bluebird)
Johnny Long has recorded another one of those ensemble arrangements you’re beginning to look for. This time it’s “When I Grow Too Old to Dream,” with the solo work only passably handled by Bob Houston. But when it comes to the chorus it’s one, two, three—go, and no letdown. Clever words and a fast, knock rhythm make this record the best of its kind since “Shanty in Old Shanty Town.” Long is still climbing fast; it is unfortunate that, in this case as well as many others, the recording job was not cleaner. (Decca)
“Hello .Ma! I Done it Again,” is a swell tune, and Bea Wain gives it an extra push on her latest Victor release. “How Did It Get So Late, So Early,” the flipover, is a poor second, through no fault of Miss Wain or the orchestra.
Les Brown and his orchestra “Dig It,” and. very effectively, proving that there is something besides “Concerto for Clarinet” and “Love of My Life” in the picture, “Second Chorus.” The vocal of this rock tune is done by Doris Day and the ensemble. The other side: “While the Music Plays On.” (Okeh)
One of the smoothest records in a long, long, time is Benny Carter’s “Takin’ My Time” and “Cocktails for Two.” The former is a slow shuffle tune perfectly suited to the title, with some beautiful sweet trumpet and a real fade ending. The reverse plays up Carter’s own mellow alto sax. (Bluebird)
Two Albums have lately been released that have lived up to everything said about them. Decca’s “For Dancers Only,” by Jimmy Lunceford and his orchestra, contains some of Lunceford’s best work, including, besides the little tune, “Coquette,” and “Down By the Old Mill Stream.” “Sweet Sue,” with Sy Oliver on the vocal, is one of the particularly bright spots. Columbia did a good turn in releasing Earl Hines’ album of piano solos. Fine selections.
Brown Goes To Harvard, Piepul To De LaSalle High
A sudden increase in activity has taken place in the ranks of recent Irish gridiron alumni.
Earl Brown, All-American end in 1938 and star guard on the Irish cage squad, was named as successor to Wes Fesler who resigned as varsity end coach at Harvard University last week. Brown had been end coach at Brown University. He will report at Harvard for spring practice on March 15 and will coach the Indian’s cage squad next year.
Milt Piepul, rated by Coach Layden as one of the best Notre Dame captains in many years, is already signed up for a coaching job this coming fall. The burly fullback has signed a one-year contract as head grid coach at De LaSalle High school, Chicago. He succeeds Emmett Murphy, former Notre Dame quarterback. The school has an enrollment of 1,100 boys. In addition to his coaching duties, Piepul will teach history.
Benny Sheridan, brilliant left half of the 1939 squad, found an attractive coaching berth at John Adams of South Bend. He coached a successful football team this year. The draft blew his way and old Number 12 leaves to join the colors next month.—Jack Dinges
Differentiation
i
A crimeless deed
For soldiery
That two should die For larceny.
II
Earth and sky
In twain were rent — A Third Who died Was Innocent.
—R. A. M.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
SacmMor to ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Mass Calendar: Jan. 26-Feb. I
Sunday, 26—Third after Epiphany. Second prayer, St. Polycarp, Bishop. Martyr, 3d, for Peace.
Monday, 27—Saint John Chrysostom, Bishop, Confessor, Doctor. Second prayer, for Peace. Credo.
Tuesday, 28—St. Peter Nolasco, Confessor. Mass: Justus (in Common) Prayer proper, 2d, St. Agnes, Virgin, Martyr, 3d, for Peace.
Wednesday, 29—St. Francis de Sales, Bishop, Confessor, Doctor. Mass: In medio (Common of Doctors) 2d prayer, for Peace. Credo.
Thursday, 30—Saint Martina, Virgin, Martyr. Mass: Loquebar (in Common). Second prayer, Bl. Virgin (Christmas to Purification), 3d, the Church, 4th, for Peace. Votive or Requiem
Friday, 31—St. John Bosco, Confessor. Second prayer, for Peace.
Saturday, Feb. 1—St. Ignatius, Bishop, Martyr. Second prayer, for peace.
A Variety of Pipe$=^ A Variety of Prices—
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Dr. Grabow $1.50
Yello-Bole Regular_______1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial_____ 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless _____3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor______4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran______5.00
Hollyclourt 3.50
Sasieni 5.00
Comoy -------------------5.00
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SHOE DEN for MEN
gss
Men’s Fine
Shoes
• WALK-OVER
• NETTLETON
• CROSBY-SQUARE
• Q-N SHOES
Priced from
$9-95
flHI and up
Nettletons________
Walk-Over _______
All styles Crosby-Squares ___ All styles Q-N Shoes__________
$7.95 up
......$.695
$4.95
$2.95
&aul 0. S^uehn
120 So. Michigan St.
April 19 Deadline For
Prize Contest Entries
The Rev. James H. McDonald, C.S.C., chairman of the Committee on Scholarships and Prizes, has announced that the latest date for submitting entries in contests for medals or other prizes will be April 19. In the University Bulletin are listed, on pages 77-88, all available scholarships, fellowships, and prizes for students together with the conditions necessary for winning them.
The following check-list is for the convenience of those who are interested in competing for the prizes offered in various departments of the University:
Department of English — Meehan medal; William Mitchell award, playwriting; Father Cavanaugh prize.
Department of Philosophy (undergraduate) — Dockweiler medal.
Department of Speech — medals for public debate; Cavanaugh - Goodrich prizes, 1, 2, 3 — politics, speech.
Department of Modern Languages — Cervantes; Jeanne d’Arc medal, French.
Department of Civil Engineering — Martin McCue medal.
Department of Electrical Engineering — Electrical engineering medal.
Department of Architecture — Architecture medal; A. F. Keryick medal, drawing; N. W. Kervick medal, general average, architecture; R. T. Sollitt prize, design; G. T. Sollitt prize, structure; Maurice Carroll prize, ecclesiastical design.
College of Law — Hoynes award; G. A. Farabaugh prize.
Department of History — Monsignor O’Brien prize; Thomas O’Hagan prize, Irish history (operative in 1943); Charles L. O’Donnell prize.
Department of Journalism — J. Sinnott Meyers burse. .
Kanaley award — special committee of the vice-president and board of ath
LEARN TO DANCE ★ IMPROVE YOUR DANCING
We teach thorough foundation and the newest steps in Waltz, Fox Trot, Rumba and Conga.
•
. Call 3-4079
Maxene Mollenhour School of Dancing
Indiana Club — 320 W. Jefferson Street South Bend, Indiana
letic control, Byron V. Kanaley prize for scholarship and other qualifications.
College of Engineering (dean) — Miles O’Brien prize, mechanical drawing; John J. O’Brien prize, shop work.
Department of Chemical Engineering — George L. O’Brien prize, chemistry.
Students’ Activities council — S.A.C. prizes, scholarships.
Department of Economics — Donoghue prizes, 1 and 2, economics.
Sport Squibs
Of the 23 men listed on the varsity basketball roster, seven are from various sections of Indiana; four* of the six Illinois players claim Chicago as their home town. Other states represented on the roster are: New York, Ohio, Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, Maryland and Kentucky.
•
The yeai- 1940 is now history, and with its passing Notre Dame has amassed a .625 percentage for all dual athletic contests. The basketball team with a .790 average; football followed with a .788 which equalled last season’s mark. Next in order were: Golf, .667; Tennis, .556; Fencing, .556; Baseball, .529; and Track, .375.
• ■
The popular- belief that Notre Dame’s forward passing in their 35-13 win over Army in the first game of the Cadet-Irish series in 1913, was new to the Army team was spiked by Ray Eichen-laub, former Notre Dame fullback and teammate of Rockne, speaking at the Testimonial Football Banquet. He said that Pritchard of Army threw passes also on that memorable day.
The department of biology of the University offers a course, to graduates only, in Cytology, the study of the structure of the cytoplasm and the nucleus, and their interrelations, the chromozones, their number and reduction, conjugation and fertilization. Is not a snap course!
THE
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THEATRE
By Vern Witkowski
“Angels Over Broadway” is an exceptionally fine film. We went to see it a second time. It was a delightful change from the drippings that are offered so frequently and so plentifully on the silver sheets about town. Ben Hecht (more familiarly recognized with the “and Charles MacArthur” appendage) wrote, directed, and produced the movie. He cast Thomas Mitchell as a drinking playwright and gave him the best speeches of the play. He used Tom Mitchell’s team mate, John Qualen, as a bank clerk who had stolen §3,000 and was contemplating suicide.
Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., was cast in probably the best role he’s ever had in the movies, a big-town wise guy. And to complete the unholy foursome, Rita Hayworth was cast as a fanatically ambitious dancer. This combination, including of course, Ben Hecht and the cameraman, produced a movie that is nothing short of a lucky seven. A “natural.”
We understand perfectly that most of you haven’t even heard of “Angels Over Broadway.” This is to inform you that this grand film played a local house last week, more specifically on Tuesday and Wednesday, the 14th and 15th. Do not blame yourselves for missing it; you couldn’t have known. But blame the idiotic scheduling that sandwiched “Angels Over Broadway” between the great Kay (Stooodents) Kyser and the greater Bette (The Letter) Davis. “Angels Over Broadway” was beyond question better quality fare than either of the two aforementioned vehicles; in fact it was far more satisfying entertainment than “The Letter” which without James Stephenson’s brilliant acting would have hatched its own egg.
“The Letter” had its good points of
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE. O.D.
W. G. BOGARDUS, O.D. E. C BERRY, O.D.
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Drive Safely and Save a Life
course, but those points were just a little too separate. Among them: the surging music of background; photographic moon moods, that proved quite functional and not overdone; Bette Davis’ final speech, “With all my heart.... I still love the man I killed,” to the utter despair of husband Herbert Marshall; the suspense that built from that point to “The End”; Miss Davis’ knitting scenes, especially the last. And of course anything and everything that James Stephenson did. Here was the most flawless movie characterization of the past year. Charlie Chaplin, for his work in “The Great
You'll enjoy the relaxation of a pause more if you add the refreshment of ice-cold Coca-Cola. Its taste never fails to please, and it brings a refreshed feeling you will like. So when you pause throughout the day, make it the pause that refreshes with
YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY ice-cold Coca-Cola.
After a long class pause and 1r
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
COCA - COLA BOTTLING CO. of South Bend, 1107 Beyer Avenue
21
Dictator,” just nosed out Stephenson for the New York Film Critics Award.
Nevertheless—we suggest with all the fervor we can arouse that this—this— theatre in South Bend recall “Angels Over Broadway” for another run, and plan it to cover a week-end. Two-day run, pouf!
Prayer for a Long Life
Please, Lord, let me live long, With years bent low— Leaves that cling longest Fall on snow.
—R. A. M.

22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MUSIC
By John W. Larson
John Barbirolli, the present conductor of the New York Philharmonic orchestra, is by nature a Latin who is very probably somewhat out of his natural water, who may even be just a trifle over his head. He is, I think, by temperament a most retiring, self-effacing sort of man whose best job is as accompanist. He might be an excellent man in providing music for the opera where, though it is of course of some importance, the orchestra has not to be of shimmering and imposing excellence. Barbirolli is an objective man about his music — perhaps far too much so, because he never quite succeeds in really making a score his own. He always gives a mere reading instead of a full-blooded performance. He gets a fine rich sonority, a great deal of impressive sound from his orchestra; he also gets those grandiose finales which never fail to raise the hair on the heads of all his Latin admirers. They are compelled at the close of one of his programs to stamp their feet madly and scream hundreds of "bravos” at him.
It would be a simple matter to condemn Barbirolli, to say with blunt authoritarianism that he is no musician. But this would be ignorance or petty dogmatism. After all, it requires some measure of musicianship to read through an orchestral program. And though Barbirolli may not be the conductor for the New York orchestra, this is no evidence whatever that he is not to be recognized as a musician. I am not sure what the answer is; I cannot say why the New York Philharmonic’s program became increasingly bad. I cannot say why the critics are attacking Barbirolli. If Barbirolli is such a stinking conductor — and he has not become bad over night — why wTas his contract renewed?
I understand that there are those who would, in answer to this question, tell me that the man has the right strings between his fingers. How, under these circumstances, could any man fail to hold on to his job ? This is not for me to agree with. It seems to me a most dangerous and unfair accusation on the part of people who probably could show no decent evidence for it. Barbirolli is a rather young man for so important a job.
Furthermore, it could not have been any snap to step into the shoes of titan Toscanini. Too, the men of the orchestra have probably got to the point where they are now playing for no other reason than their living. They have got
utterly sick of summer guest conductors and of winter-vacation celebrities. It would take a man of tremendous and electric vitality to whip these men into the spirit of things after their annual summer bout with fifteen or twenty different guest conductors at New York’s Lewisohn Stadium. And Barbirolli has not enough of that vitality. I am inclined to believe there are few contemporary conductors who would.
For More Fun Out of Life f
Chew Delicious j DOUBLEMINT GUM Daily f
Highspot your days and evenings—enjoy the j sv, fun of chewing refreshing DOUBLEMINT GUM.
Tho velvety smoothness of DOUBLEMINT GUM Rli adds to the natural fun of chewing. Delicious, &V cooling, real-mint flavor helps make your mouth a ; j feel refreshed... adds fun to everything you do.
Chewing this healthful, inexpensive treat helps sweeten your breath .. . aids your diges-tion . .. helps keep your teeth attractive.
Treat yourself daily to healthful, delicious
DOUBLEMINT GUM.
Buyseveral packages el
i
"The Biscuit Eater'" Coming To Washington Hall
Tomorrow afternoon in Washington Hall the motion picture presentation will be the successful Paramount film, “The Biscuit Eater,” in which young Billy Lee is given his first starring role. Accompanying it on the program will be a Popeye Cartoon and an RKO newsreel.
—Mark McGrath
U-147
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
Present Mathematics
Papers at Notre Dame
Dr. Paxton, of Wayne University, and Dr. Davids, of New York University, recognized as authorities in the field of mathematics, will visit the campus today and tomorrow to engage in a discussion of “linear spaces” with members of the mathematics department of the University. Both men will present papers on the subject, as will Drs. Karl Menger and Paul Pepper, of the Notre Dame faculty.
The meetings will be informal physicists’ discussions, and are to be held in the library of Science Hall.
—Dan Broderick
Provide 2,000 Animals
For Biology Experiments
Rats, mice, rabbits, guinea pigs, monkeys and chickens, totalling 2,000, are being housed in air-conditioned labs in the Biology Building these days. That many are needed for use in experiments and to keep up the stock, with the Bacteriological Laboratories running on a 24-hour a day basis.
The monkeys have the most palatable diet, as their food consists largely of bananas, carrots, and potatoes. Star boarder is a baby monkey born in Sep-
THE ARISTOCRAT OF ALL PIPES
DUNHILL PIPES
Imported from England. A pipe that has been the choice of the most discriminating .pipe smokers for centuries. In many shapes.
$10
CIOAJ»^ORSS
Conveniently Located in the Lobbies of
HOTEL HOFFMANN HOTEL OLIVER
HOTEL LA SALLE
tember and successfully nursed to a ripe old age of four months in spite of the loss of its mother at birth.
To guard against .the spread of any disease, which might prove fatal to the whole colony in such close quarters, all injected animals are kept separate from the rest. Cages are constructed, too, so that they can be easily cleaned and can be spaced out if necessary.
—Cari Rohrer
Mechanical Difficulties
Delay New Publication
The second pamphlet of the Notre Dame student committee for decent literature has been delayed by mechanical difficulties and its exact publication date now is uncertain, according to the Rev. John Lynch, C.S.C.
This pamphlet will contain representative issues of the Religious Bulletin, relating to a variety of topics. The committee decided to publish a second pamphlet, rather than revise their first one, which was entitled “No Smut.”
—John Aselage
Paul Nowak Named
On All-Garden Team
Orchids to the Irish from Irish. Ned Irish basketball director of Madison Square Garden, scene of much sparkling cage play, announced his selections for an all-time Garden team picked from clubs which have appeared in the famed arena since 1934. Paul Nowak, ex-Notre Dame star who graduated in 1937 was named as center. Nowak is now playing with the Akron Firestones in the professional league. Other Notre Dame men playing with Paul are Johnny Moir. Duke Ducharme, Steve Sitko and Tommy Wukovits.
Cribs Representing Nativity
Follow Age Old Tradition
Christ’s Nativity was reenacted this Christmas season here in Sacred Heart Church before the famed Bernini altar with a crib nestled in a miniature forest of firs. Properly known as the creche, it was complete with figurines representing the Holy Family, the Magi, angels and traditional animals against an illuminated background of the city of Jerusalem.
According to Brother Boniface, C.S.C., the crib is approximately 25 years old, except for the figures which he added in recent years. They are a little larger than usual, being about 30 inches in height.
Using the crib to recall to mind the mysteries of the Incarnation and the birth of Christ is one of the most ancient Christmas customs, dating back to the thirteenth century when Franciscan Fri
ars in Italy evolved the idea.
St. Francis of Assisi was the first to ask and receive permission from Pope Honorius III to construct the Nativity scene and use it as a background for a midnight Christmas Mass. From there, the idea spread and has been expanded to include churches and home. One of the most elaborate settings ever constructed was designed by Pierre Men-ager and placed on the surrounding hills of Madrid, New Mexico.—John Aselage
"HAUD LONGIS INTERVALLIS"
You said it, Cicero,
There's a Train Every Hour!
Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and on through until 9:30 P. M., South Shore trains leave South Bend every hour at 30 minutes past the hour. Two early morning trains, leaving at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Two late evening, trains, leaving at 1:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. That’s frequent service!
Ticket office: 301 N. Michigan St. Phone 3-3111.
TO CHICAGO
ONE WAY FROM
SOUTH BEND
MADE FOR SMOKERS UKE YOURSELF
OU ll enjoy Chesterfield’s right combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos. They give you something no other cigarette can offer.
Chesterfields are MILD... the way you want a cigarette ... not flat... not strong. Chesterfields smoke COOLER, and every puff gives you that BETTER TASTE that Chesterfield is famous for. Ask for Chesterfields.
DO YOU SMOKE THE CIGARETTE THAT^
...ITS THE SMOKER’S CIGARETTE
Copyright 1941, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
Light up and listen with ★ ANN SHERIDAN * of WARNER BROS.’ current hit HONEYMOON FOR THREE as she tunes in on her personal radio to FRED WARING and GLENN MILLER who each dedicate a number to her this week.