Cbe ^
Rotre Dame Scholastic
'DlSCeQVASl-SempeR-VICTVRVS- :ViVG-9VASl<RAS-MORrn/RVS?
Vol. XXXIX.
NOTRE DAME,. INDIANA, February 24, 1906.
No. 19.
Washington the Saviour/
CHARLES I.. O’DONNELL, ’06.
A SHACKLED sleep of years, A waking horror of unspoken fears She knew, thy Country, pale from tears.
Fettered for uncommitted harm,
For speaking hopes to man most dear oppressed, To thee she came in woeful raiment dressed, Champion, and took thy young, untrammelled arm.
Fresh from Virginia’s fields,
Strong with the strength that glowing manhood wields,
Thy life to'her protection yields.
No breath of fame had touched tin- brow— Fame that alone may coin the title great— We see thee signed in youth’s unlaurelled state With all the virtues that we honor now.
Wise in that jocund hour
When grateful countrymen would thee endower With all the nation’s new-found power.
No thought of empire, sprung from pride, Had ever in the long fight nerved thy stand; Thou gavest then the nation a clean hand
To take her as a knight might take a bride.
Plundered of skies o’erhead;
The glory of the stars and stripes of red
In the Nation’s noble flag didst wed:
The warning of The lightning’s bars, ’
The loyalty of heaven’s o’erbending blue, . :
The gleam of peace that shineth whitely, through	-
The still splendor of the steadfast stars.
Calm through that high debate
When the great bell broke on the house of state And the clouds raised of thy Country’s fate.
Firm when from half-ploughed Lexington The shock and thunder of reverberate war Hurtled across the bleak Atlantic bar, .
And England shook before the farmers’ gun..
Staunch in the test of might—
The long-waged, wean-, starved and bleeding fight— Thou foughtest steadfast for the right.
The God of Freedom’s battleline,— Thin-ranked or full, in every nation flung Since human life, itself was budding-young,—
Thou knewest looked victory down on thee and thine.
Buoyant throughout that trial,
Grave wast thou when the broken British file Laid down their arms, a useless pile.
Thou knewest that nations are not great
By might alone nor martial strategy, But as-they live that war may needless be; ,
And on this faith didst ground the infant state.
•Read-at the Washington Birthday Exercises.
And .now thy brow we twine	' -
With leaves symbolic of the tree divine, .	. ..
While lights of peace war’s glare outshine. y
Warrior, statesman, chief, the deep impress
Of thy great soul is bn the-Nation yet, ■ ■ - ■	•
And while they live thy sons can not forget . 7 yri
Thine honored ways, nor cease thy name to bless..
An elected people we,	.	V "	-
Locked by the far-shored sea	ri /: - /
In our immensity. .	-	,
.Ours is a history dean of shame, '.-’ri.ri riri ri
Ours is a present full of hope,	. -yyiriri
A future ours of boundless scope, ‘ y r-ri-riy/ri/-Be all the honor to thy nariie,—	..	- -
Our Country’s Saviour, Washington. ri-X
3'4
NOTRn DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Washington’s Ideal.*
JOHN C. MCGINN, *'0 G .
ACH succeeding rear at Notre Dame elicits a demonstration such as the one we have entered upon to-day. The regularity of its occurrence and the sameness of its character tend to increase
our devotion and refresh in our minds the image of him in whose honor we are here assembled. To speak to you on this occasion of the many brave and heroic deeds performed by AV ashington during the pioneer days on this continent would only recall to your minds scenes and adventures with which everyone present has long been familiar. Merely to relate or dwell upon the hardships, the sufferings and the sorrows of the great and benevolent General, or to expatiate upon his foresight and sagacity as President of our infant Republic, would give you but an inadequate idea of that man whose character to-day is esteemed, praised and loved by the very nation from whom he had, in his manhood, wrested an empire, and by the grateful heart of every truly American citizen. To dwell, then, for a few moments upon the exalted motive which influenced the actions of this great man, and to admire the sterling patriotism which this lofty motive begot, is my intention in speaking to you to-day. We see the influence of this high motive upon his every act; guiding him as a youth serving under the unappreciative Braddock; strengthening and consoling him in the trying days_ of the Revolution, and, finally, cheering and directing him as the head of our young and glorious Republic. Love of human liberty was the star to which the chariot of his ambition was hitched; love of human liberty that in his latter - years identified itself with that most ardent love of country which led him to exclaim: “I would offer myself a willing sacrifice provided I could contribute, to the’people’s ease.”	_
Whether we follow him through the vicis-situdesOf his early frontier life, or employed in
.*■_Oration delivered at the Washington Birthday Exercises. ’	.	: . . ‘	.	.	, -
staying the unjust encroachments of Prance, we see him actuated by one ever-present motive. Met at the very dawn of his.military career by that experience of human.stupidity and indifference which, seemed to follow him through life, AArashington never faltered; even in defeat he was borne up by his everpresent desire of freedom, whence, sprang that endurance and patriotism which won for us a country and for AArashington the undving love of a grateful nation.
AArashington’s life as a boy differed in. no great degree from that of the youngsters of his time. Inured to a rough life by his early training as a surveyor, AArashington loved to indulge in the perilous excitement of whatever sports the severe Afirginiari winter could afford. This, together with his early dealings with the Indians, coming in the formative period of his. life, fitted him far better than he knew for that life of hardship which . he was soon to be called upon to lead.
In his early twenties, he was induced to take up arms against the French who had unceremoniously entered and taken up quarters in Pennsylvania. Here we first see the greatness and the possibilities 6f our young hero. AVith the road to fame open before him, he was prevented from reaching, the coveted goal by the brave but haughty Braddock. When we see this young hero giving himself up with such zeal and earnestness to his country’s cause,—never wavering even under the most distressing circumstances;—when we behold this brave young soldier on the battlefield at Fort Du Quesne throwing himself into the very jaws of death and rescuing the scattered remnants of England’s ill-directed army, we . do nor have to look far for the motive which impelled him onward. Love of liberty kept burning in, his breast the feeble flame of patriotism which the ungrateful attitude of Braddock and his English compeers had almost extinguished. During the first period of his life Washington fought for and reverenced England, his mother country. So long as England proved a kind mother, so long was Washington a loyal son. But when England in her, insatiable greed sought to take away the rights-7-the free and inalienable, rights—of ? her. colonists, Washington was the first to step forward and demand restitution; England’s answer, as you well
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
know, gave birth to the Revolution, which Washington, burning with the desire of freedom*, espoused and championed to the end. As soon as a Congress had been formed and the independence of the thirteen states proclaimed, you know how unceasingly Washington labored to set in circulation the stagnant blood of patriotism which clogged the veins of tepid and wavering colonists.
See him as time and time again he leads his crude and ill-rationed armv to signal victory; see him stem the tide of indifference which threatened to irrevocably blot out of existence his already chaotic army; see him tramping through snow and ice, leading a half-shod and impoverished army across the bleak and ice-bound Delaware, where he captures the well-fed and well-paid mercenaries of England, and plants on the shore of Jersey the flag of liberty and freedom. Tell me what motive could have induced Washington to undergo the hardships of these battles; tell me what could have induced him to bear in silence the continual contumelies of Congress at this time when he most needed help and sympathy; tell me what led him to eke out a miserable existence -with an ever-decreasing and starving armv at Valley Forge; tell me this and you shall but re-echo that high and lofty principle of human liberty and freedom which ever actuated the deeds of the Father of our Country.
Later on when the bands of bondage had been forever shaken off, and Washington had been chosen by the people to fill the office of President, that noble motive which heretofore had influenced his life now identified itself with that strong and ardent love of country which characterized his life ever afterward. From the selection of his first cabinet even to the laying aside of his power . we see this noble soul working, for the best interests of his country, and his country-alone. Can we not truly say that Washington’s honest dealing in the care of selecting his first cabinet was the only means that ever made possible the practical existence of a nation governed by the theoretical tenets of an untried and an unknown constitution. Had. he been led by any selfish motives, had he allowed party considerations to enter into his choice, who can say what would have become of \our now great and glorious Republic. Would it have fallen back into
the despised monarchical rule of England ? or would.it have fallen still lower into the .. slavish despotism of the Eastern world ? Civilization and Christianity watched with unabating interest the policy and action of Washington. Those principles of honesty, liberty and freedom which he professed were carried into the darkest corner of the Eastern world where they were soon to leave an indelible stamp upon Civilization and Christianity.
Above all personal considerations, Wash-, ington looked upon that sacred trust which the people had put into his hands; and his performance of this duty leaves no ' doubt in our minds that he acted for the purest and best interest of his country. In that humble phrase, “honesty is the best policy,” he led his adherents to believe that he would act fairly and justly to all; and were they deceived ? When once he had proclaimed an entire and indisputable impartiality toward foreign states he could . not be moved to deviate in the least from that principle. Hardly had our nation blossomed when an appeal for aid was made by France, but Washington saw the • rashness of entangling a weak nation in foreign contention. His onlv thought was the welfare of his countrv, and as this could be maintained only by a strict neutrality, he had to refuse help to that nation . which had helped him throw off the British yoke and was instrumental in securing our independence. This line of action made Washington an object of fiercest attack for his enemies. Charged with the usurpation of power,. treason to his country and the embezzlement of public funds, yea, threatened even with impeachment and assassination,: this noble character, his heart bursting with love for his people and country, met his : enemies with silence and prayer. He was right; he knew it, and no sinister, no party considerations could alter his course. Fame, * greatness, reputation—all might be lost, but his country, never. Washington’s conduct in this crisis was admirable. It remained for future ages to proclaim its expediency.
Washington’s last communication to us; k teems-with that same spirit of lovewhich he ever bore his country-. When people had learned, to know his genius and to honor and esteem his character; when Congress .
HG7EL DAME SCHOLASTIC.
realized the sincerity of their leader and were willing to bow in submission to him ; when, in a word, he was about to reap the reward of his early struggles, he quietly sheathed his sword and withdrew from public life, uttering these words: “I consider it an indispensable duty to close this last solemn act of my official life by commending the interests of our dearest country to_ the protection of Almighty God, and those who have the superintendence of them to His holy keeping.” The salvation of the Republic, the integrity of the Union for which he labored so unceasingly, was secure. Washington had done his duty to mankind; he had fulfilled his mission, and now, enjoying the respect, love and admiration of every true American patriot, he withdrew to end his days in unalloyed peace.
One can not know Washington, his earlv struggles, his trials and sorrows, without being influenced by the purity and nobleness of his life. For when we see embodied in the nature of this man the very principles of honesty and integrity which we so prize to-day; when we see this warrior, statesman and diplomat moving and acting in the selfsame universe in which we ourselves
must move and act; when we see him putting into his daily acts those very elements which make up the Christian character, we are instinctively drawn to him; we love, esteem and emulate him.
To-day we- hear our country calling for such men as.Washington. They are needed ■ in Congress, in our state legislatures and iri every public office. Washington’s example is before us. Had the seed planted by him and our : early fathers been blighted in the bud, they' -would not have looked upon their work as a failure. Stouter hearts had they and stronger faith. They would have known that at another day, if not in theirs,
their hopes would be realized to the full;	_	_
they would have looked forward with con- nation into existence; how he suffered at fident hearts to the time when America,- its birth, cradled it in its infancy, fought by God’s help and. by her own, would stand and labored for it until he was old and forth as the greatest nation of the world; worn. Although all these acts may deserve they would have looked forward to that praise and are worthy of our admiration,
laden with honor and responsibility. Oui* fathers for years “have handed down the torch,” each generation to its successor. That light which signifies all the ideals of personal worth and of civic usefulness is now in our hands, and it is our sacred care to keep it burning.- The spirit of our fathers is with us still and their eyes are upon us. Let us resolve they shall not look down with shame upon their sons. Worse than foreign invasion, worse than all discord of party strife, worst of all national perils, is the loss of this high ideal of personal duty even on the part of the humblest citizen. Let not the Father of our Country from his pedestal of glory look down upon degeneracy in the ranks of his sons, for then in truth will his work have been a failure; but from his height in glory may he see in the heart of each of us, burning with a steady flame, that torch of national devotedness by which his own life was so nobly guided;
The Personality of Washington.
WILLIAM C. O’BRIAN, ’06.
There is no better way to honor the deceased Father of our Country than by recalling thfe deeds wherein he obtained his well-deserved fame, for by doing so we not only weave a garland of glory round his brow but also fill our own souls with patriotism and a love for all that is best in our country.
It is interesting to look into the early days of Washington and study his great character as a boy. It is worth while to dwell at length on the brave deeds he performed and the devotedness he displayed as a'true patriot; it is inspiring to read how he was instrumental in bringing this great
day when men would be proud tot say, “I there is yet something to be said which was am an American;” But the seed they planted one of the .features in the success of the was not blighted; it. took root and has Revolution, for it achieved what genius arid grown arid blossomed. ;Tfie day they longed bravery could not—I speak of Washington’s for has come; it comes to you and to me personality.	:
NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Men look forward to externals more than to the internal. They are drawn irresistibly by the expression of the strong, the brave, the beautiful and the good, so that in a way they judge ability and form their likes and dislikes by mere appearance. The Creator, in whose hands the destiny of nations rests, so fashions those whom He chooses as leaders that their very presence will win people. He gives them a certain . magnetic force that attracts men and holds them together. That Washington -was gifted with this power is well known.
When our colonies were weighed down with oppression andwere suffering untold wrongs; when men were sad and . sick of English rule and were about to throw off the fetters of “taxation without representation; ” when 'the inevitable war was at hand, and men were looking forward for some one to lead them, they were gladdened one day when the doors of old Independence Hall swung back and proclaimed George ’Washington their commander-inchief. The air was rent with shrieks of joy as he came forth radiant in glorious uniform and his face beaming with patriotism. As he went forth to gather the troops, he was greeted with acclamations of joy; people went out to meet him; children rushed to the streets to catch a glimpse of him; fathers and mothers stood eagerly here and ihere to greet him; soldiers sent cheer after cheer through their camp; cannons roared and the whole land was filled with jubilation. It was an inspiration in itself to behold his great manly figure riding along so stately, so dignified and so reserved. The people loved him; gave him their confidence, their devotion and their whole self, for they knew that* under his guidance, although the army consisted of brave, enthusiastic, untrained farmer boys, they could accomplish the desire that burned in their breasts. Having
A combination, and a form indeed
Where every god did seem to set his seal To give the world assurance of a man.
During the. long years of the Revolution and for eight years of his political life,-the -people clung to him as children to their father. It was his presence that gave the ; soldiers courage at Dorchester Heights, as he rode back and forth through the camp
all night long. Here they were within, shooting distance of the enemy—a few bands of undisciplined troops, without ammunition and devoid of many necessaries, standing in the face of twenty bands, well-trained and ". supplied with every necessity. Yet because .Washington was there they never flinched; ’ Nor was this personality less remarkable -in rhe battle of Princeton. When General . Mercer was wounded, the troops began to falter, especially as the main army of . the enemy approached; the British opened fire;. \ the inexperienced troops in the van wavered ; and were just on the verge of flight. As. they were advancing and retreating, droop- /• ing, fainting, the wounded and the dying . lying, here and there, out of that coiling smoke and roar of cannon ; out of that confusion and almost sure death, Washington . dashed to the front within thirty yards of . the enemv, revived their valor and .their -courage by his presence, so that the troops stood firm and the battle continued. Soon the field was streaming with.English blood; the victory was won. Washington’s presence had saved the dav, had saved the. Rovolu-tion, for this was a decisive moment of the war. It was his presence too that nerved ■ his little band of three thousand raw troops, . poorly fed, poorly clothed, ilLshod with but few arms and less ammunition, to face . the eleven thousand at Long Island. .. .
When we think of this contrast we. can not help thinking of some great magnetic • power in him that , gave every, soldier endurance. What was it that gave them courage to follow him at Valley Forge as they traced the snow with their bleeding . feet ? Was it not his presence that kept the spark of patriotism burning in their heart as they crouched around the fire all night long trying to keep warm ? Was it not his presence that cheered those wasting away from hunger and sickness ? We all remember . the battle of Monmouth, when Lee and the whole army, were retreating and the troops were running hither and thither to escape . death,- as Washington rode to the front, the soldiers took courage, fell into line, stood .. their ground, and finally drove the enemy -from the field. That his personality was one < . of. the .causes in. the success of the war-
is shown again at -.Yorktown. Although ’ : the victory on land was almost sure, it
HO TXT jOAUHi SCHOLASTIC.
was not so on sea. Here in order to save the day he had to call upon allies. It is something to command one’s own; it is something to gain the consent of distant friends, but it is still greater to be able to control an army of allied troops.	*
The Germans, French and Irish, and everv good nation loved Washington. It was his personality as well as his genius that awakened Europe. Men esteemed him greater than a mere fighter. They read within his countenance sincerity, patriotism and determination. When I look back to the days of ’76 I feel that I too would have stood by such an' one and should consider death triumphant fighting so near to him.
Would that he lived yet to inspire us with courage, but,
He is gone who seemed so great— Gone; but nothing can bereave him . Of the force he made his own
Being here; and we believe him Something far advanced in state And that he wears a truer crown Than any wreath that man can weave him.
Yes, for more than a hundred years he nas slept in the midst of us but his memory still lives in the heart of every true American and will continue on echoing forth his glorious deeds even beyond the veil of eternity. —--------------------->*<*1------
Song, of Passing.
- THOMAS E. BURKE, ’07
. yX^HERE are the men whose place we fill, . The strong young souls of yesterday, The men of heart, the men of will?
' “The wind hath blown them all away.”
Where are. the customs of the past? . Into what labyrinth did they stray?
They all have vanished in the blast— . . “The'wind hath blown them all away.”
Where are the memories of the dead?
: Methought that they would ever stay, But now behold they too have fled,
. “The. wind hath blown them all away.”.
So we. and. ours shall also. pass	.
.	. jLikeyto. the suckling leaves of; May; '
? It shall be said of us alas ! \	.
7 “The wind hatb> blown theni all away.”
Lullaby.
THOMAS E. BURKE, ’07.	' -
CLUMBER, sweet babe, on thy mother’s white breast, Knowing no care.
Dav has gone out through the gates of the west, Soft is the air.
Luna comes forth through the portals of night, Tossed is her hair;
Slumber, my child, in the silvery light, Young, and so fair.
Rocked arc the stars in the wavelets blue, Cradles of night;	.
Soft breezes ride on the boughs of the yew
. Waving so slight.
Sleep, baby’, sleep on thy mothers white breast While the pale light	*
Bathes thy warm cheek as thou silently' rest .
Through the long night.
Washington and Religion.
EDWARD J. FINNEGAN, ’06.
How soon men are forgotten after they have filled the time.allotted them; yet how much sooner do their deeds and characteristics become, in the minds of men, exaggerated, confused or mystified. Alive a man may profess one religion, dead a dozen are imputed to him; in his life his public acts are praised, in death they are criticised. “Such things become the hatch and brood of time.” Comparatively speaking, we are more familiar with and our insight more distinct into the lives and life-works of many . early American patriots than with those of George Washington. To the vast majority of citizens the Father of their country lives in history as Romulus lives in the pages of Livy. They know him as the great General— the boy that never told a lie; the extremist has even edged him out of existence.
- Homer, we believe, was born but once— this is generally granted, and no one has accused him of more than one birth—yet seven cities . have infallibly decreed that within their walls daylight first shone upon the poet. Of- Washington it has been remarked that it is inconceivable how, he
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
could have remained the wealthiest man in America, had . he paid rent for all the pews accredited him. Every little mushroom sect of his time hailed him as one of its pillars; every little church of his state possesses a pew which it is a pleasure for its sexton to point out to curio-hunters as the Washington family pew, and within which perhaps an edition de luxe of one of Washington’s MS..prayer-books lies, dust-covered. As the years round out, the twenty - second of February brings with it some new phase of Washington’s career, or else throws a veil over some already obscure view of his character. When such history manufacturing will cease is recklessness to suppose, but we live in hope that “Time will beget some careful remedv.”
We do. not intend to expose' the subject of this paper to the lime-light in order to proclaim him as the follower of some new creed—we leave it to Mrs. Eddv to make him a Christian Scientist—but we wish to behold Washington in the atmosphere of early religious tolerance, to learn his attitude toward the Church, and to know- his religious character in active life.
Almost in sight of the house in which George Washington was born, Catholicism rooted and spread as it did in the pagan da vs of Rome. Across the Potomac the ■J
Holy Sacrifice was to be found, yet unseen’ adoption of the Gregorian calendar. .The
to the searching eye of the persecutor. Hidden among the hills of fair Maryland, offered in the darkened nooks and corners of private houses, the Church of centuries met persecution, even in a colony founded . and intended as the first fruits of a people’s love of freedom. To a zealous clergyman’s appeal that the Virginians had souls, the civil authority replied: “Souls! damn their souls! Let them plant tobacco.”
In Virginia no law existed forbidding the Holy Sacrifice until after William and Mary; but then there was a statute-which read, “ that it. shall be lawful under the penaltie aforesaid, lOOObbs. of tobacco, for any popish priest, that shall hereafter arrive to remame above ;five days after warning given for his departure by the governor or
commander, of the place where he or they Weems, Washington owes the childish regard shall bee, if wind and weather hinder not his and praise of his great love of truthfulness., departure.” Little less than a half century The Virginian lady, as was then the cus-before Washington’s birth the policy of tom in education, possessed but superficial
James II. and his sons carried fear to .the: . \ early American settlers and kept aflame the popular prejudice against Catholics, iAnd just as this anti-religious feeling, was sub-' 1 siding the approach of the French on the . western bound ary revived it. There was ’ also a law that compelled the parsons to' use only the common prayer-book catechism for instruction, .but many indeed failed even . to instruct. As a profession they impressed, a government official as “ well paid, and . by my consent should be better, if. they would pray oftener, and-preach less.” These were dark days when the state was the church, yet amid such hatred and ignorance the father of to-day’s freedom was bom. ; \ _
Perhaps Washington’s baptism is the only part of his religious training that, does not border on incredulity. In his mother’s bible, in that traditionary family addendum of ; births, marriages, etc., one may read this insertion: “George Washington was bap- . tized the third of April (1732). Mr. Beverly Whiting and Captain Brookes godfathers, and Mrs. Mildred Gregory godmother.” The old style of reckoning time was then still .in vogue, so that the baptism, according to the new calendar, actually occurred on April fourteenth. So too with.‘the date, of his birth which was changed from the eleventh to the twenty-second of February with the
place and minister, of his baptism are not known. No data with reference to Washington’s early religious instruction, exist, save : the. traditions that have been accorded by Mason Weems, which are.no doubt entirely mythical. We know his father possessed a kind and affectionate nature, and to these ■. qualities Weems credits several anecdotes concerning the truths arid precepts of natural religion with which the plastic mind of . Washington was impressed: “ The cabbage ; seed which, in imitation of. Beattie^ he planted that it. might grow and spell his name to illustrate that creation implies a creator; the half-apple which he gave away in the spring, rewarded by. abounding fruit in the autumn, to illustrate the need and reward of kindness.” Indeed to the mystic /
320	NOTRE DAME
learning. Washington’s mother, therefore, boasted of little knowledge; her reading was somewhat limited, her favorite book being Hale’s “Moral and Divine Contemplations.” Of such a taste she, no doubt transmitted to her son’s tender mind sufficient notion of right and wrong. She was naturallv affectionate and loving, as in after years, when her son was mounting high in national esteem, she exclaimed: “George was always a good boj’ and would surely do his duty.”
How any atheistic ideas can be imputed to Washington is inconceivable, when in his voluminous writings we read and see so many references to an “overruling Providence,” yet by one writer he has been made out a follower of that doctrine. On the contrary, his keen sense of duty and responsibility which he displayed so early in life and which guided his whole career, unquestionably shows his faith in a Creator. That . his notion of responsibility was not at all deterministic is proven by his frequent reference to the Supreme Being. In all his official success and in the preservation of his life at critical moments, he sa.w the Invisible Hand protecting. Delivered from the British after his army’s narrow escape from annihilation, he remonstrates: “The hand of Providence has been so.conspicuous in all this that he must be .worse than an infidel that lacks faith and more than wicked that has not gratitude enough to acknowledge his obligation.”	.
In his “Farewell Address” he knows the safeguard of society is religion: “Of all the dispositions and habits which lead to political prosperity, religion and morality are indispensable supports.... Let it simply be asked, where is the security for property, for reputation, for life, if the sense of religious obligation desert the oaths which are the instruments of investigation in courts of justice?” And how the aphorism “Ours is a kind of a struggle, designed by Providence to try„ the patience, fortitude and virtue of men,” re-echoes the Book of Job: “the life of man upon earth is a warfare.”
In view of the hindrances of public Catholic profession we. can well suppose, that Washington never met dr knew a Catholic until : early manhood; ? Up to 1751 his letters indicate no Catholic correspondentj and. no : doubt for many years his acquaintance with
’ SCHOLASTIC.	j
~	’ j
those who professed Catholicity was among | the French. In 1753 he met on official	I
business at Venango Captain Joncaine, a g Catholic, and later on during the war 1 Washington must have mingled to a great E extent with Catholic army officials and E soldiers. Colonel John Fitzgerald was his B aide-de-camp, and Lafayette became his g intimate friend. To a general whose every ® thought was concentrated on the crucial £ question of the hour, observation of relig- J ious dispositions was seldom indulged in. g Quite true we believe this, for as some one 1 has written in apathetic strain: “He never 1 saw a Sister of Charity on his battlefield, I her white cornette, flag of the Truce of God, | carrving the charitv of angels beside the | courage of men.”	.	|
In 1791 Washington was at Georgetown d - O	O	I
arranging for the foundation of the federal city, and while there paid a visit to Georgetown College. He attended the Catholic church for the first time on October 9, 1774. Washington was then forty-two years old. He was in Philadelphia as delegate to the Continental Congress, and on that day, it being Sunday, he went to Vespers at St. Joseph’s Church. He recorded the visit, but no hint is given to show what effect it might t have produced on him. Oct. 9.—“Went to Eresbyterian meeting in the forenoon and the Romish church in the afternoon; dined at Bevan’s.” Again Washington notes in his diary that he went to Catholic services while attending the sessions of the Federal Convention which framed the Constitution of the United States. May 27.—“Went to Romish church to High.Mass; dined, drank tea and spent the evening at my lodgings.”
When Washington retired into private life he turned his attention to his own neighborhood, and for a brief period was chosen vestryman in two parishes. But the . duties, however, of the vestry were almost civil in nature, although there was the care of looking after the poor as well as paying the parson. During this period of his life, it is said; he always attended church on Sundays, almost invariably the Episcopal. Considerable discussion has taken place concerning, his reception of the communion, the result of which points to the fact that he seldom if ever approached the communiontable, that during the last thirty years of his
NOTRE DAML
life, it is known for a certainty, he never . participated in this ceremony. Whether in after-life Washington’s views were changed, there is proof that early in life he utterly rejected the essential doctrine of the communion.	.
1111754, the same year that Washington— he was then twenty-three years old—was given charge of the regiment then being O	O	O	O
organized against the French, he made a formal declaration of disbelief, not onlv as regards Episcopal communion but Catholic as well. ■ The act as recorded is still extant in the county court of Fairfax. It reads thus: 11 Lieutenant Colonel George Washington, Lieutenants John West, Jr., and James Tower, presented their military commissions, took the oaths according to law registered, and subscribed the test.” The test, which is still preserved in the same court-house, reads: “The subscribers declare that there is no transubstantiation in the elements of bread and wine at or before the consecration thereof by any person whatever.”
That Washington’s mind was Untainted by prejudice or religious bigotry toward Catholicity is clearly shown in a severe reprimand provoked by a number of soldiers who participated in the customary celebration at Boston Heights and elsewhere of the so-called discovery of the Gunpowder • Plot by burning an effigy of the Pope. Washington possessed a highly developed . moral sensitiveness. He protested earnestly against the violation of Sunday, against the use of indecent language and the habit of gambling. While in the army he issued an injunction that “if they (officers) should hear the men swearing or using oaths or execrations, to order the offenders twenty-five lashes immediately without court-martial.” In early manhood he had kept a public fast all day, and in the army always insisted upon religious service.
• Washington has often been referred to as a special patron of Freemasonry. We know he took the first three degrees, but to his . impartial mind the masonic atmosphere must have been stifling,-for after his thirty-sixth year he. attended the society’s meetings but once or twice. He was accused of presiding over the masonic lodges in this'country, but in a letter he protests: “I preside over none,
’ SCHOLASTIC. ■	72i *
nor have I been in one more than once or r twice within the last thirtv vears.” :	\	: T
Washington died December 14, 1799. He .	:
faced death with perfect tranquillity, with ;/ .. a consciousness of one’s dutv well done, ; with no lurking regrets. It was a kind of -	. .
death which one might picture of a genius . . whose religious convictions in life were not very’- pronounced. He expressed no desire . for religious comfort, no thought of a here- .	'
after. He appeared, however, to have one .. fear—premature burial. “I am - going,”.he. L. said calmly to those around his deathbed, J “have me decentlv buried, and do not let - . my body be put into the vault in less than ;	•.
three days.” To prevent any mistake he asked: “Do vou understand me?” Thev nodded assent. To this; he replied—they were his last words—“’Tis well.” .	-
Perhaps somewhat brokenly we have . traced the dim lines ofWashington’s religious > belief. That he never claimed any renown in the religious sphere is quite evident. In all \ his public acts his motives were always pure ’	'
and unapproachable. His high moral char- . acter shone out above all his deeds; he knew what was right; he shunned what was' wrong. He felt himself called to a great work, and he never faltered in its accomplish- -. .	:
ment. Though he might have preferred to . follow another course, yet his delicate notion of justice persuaded him to give his life to ■ his people. Fair America was his fane, liberty his altar, genius his offering, social welfare his motive,—a sacrifice which he offered np . to that Supreme Being before . whom we . find him prostrate at Valley Forge; to that . supernatural power which he saw working in every fortune of the young Republic, -under whose protection and guidance-he / placed his handiwork when he entrusted its. .
to other hands.	. i
My Ideal.
THOMAS E. BURKE, ’07. Z	,	'
Behind the mountains grey, Beyond the bar of day,
Behold a silver star; . A sapphire in the sky, That leadeth me on high
Where the lihmortals are.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame Scholastic
Published every Saturday during "Term Time at the University of Notre Dame.
ntered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Notre Dame, Indiana, February 24, 1906.		
Board o	f Editors.	
STEPHEN F.	RIORDAN, ’06	
CHAS. L. O’DONNELL, ’06	JOHN F. SHEA,	’06
ROBERT L. BRACKEN, ’OS	EUGENE P. BURKE,	'06
WILLIAM A. BOLGER, ’07	JOHN M. RYAN,	’06
THOMAS E. BURKE, ’07	JOHN C. MCGINN,	’0 6
WESLEY J. DONAHUE, ’07	LEO J. COONTZ,	’07
CORNELIUS HAGERTY,’06	EDWARD F. O’FLYNN,	’07
WALTER J. O’DONNELL, ’06.		
—Doubtless many of our readers have remarked the extent to which we have gone in our columns this week in celebrating the worth and wisdom of our great pristine ' president; to such an extent that the present issue might well be called a “Washington Day number.” However, we feel that we need make no apology for the expenditure of space. Graceless indeed would be our ^natures and insolvent our souls if we had to truck and higgle over the price or manner of paying the debt we owe to Washington. The nobility and unselfishness of his pafriot-ism should afford a lesson that no American - can forget.	.	.
His, putting some of the force of his - character into his every act should . make the circumstances of his life well worth repeating, that taking the cold principles that dominated his’ life we might distil them in the alembic of our appreciation and they too might nerve us to the'same sincerity of purpose. The microscopic criticism of the , historians, of the day has not discovered a ‘ stain in the , white garment of his glory nor . ~ the general iconoclasm of the times destroyed V- this idol of popular worship; and for, this > we should be thankful. ;	;
—Deep gloom fell upon the faculty and students of the University last Thursday when it was learned that St. Viateur’s College at Kankakee had been burned to the ground. The misfortune is aggravated by the fact, as reported in the newspapers, that the heavy loss was only partially covered by insurance. Our Alma Mater has always felt more than usual sympathy with St.Viateur’s, and this sympathy is heightened a hundredfold by the sad event of Wednesday night. The work done in our sister college is as sincere as her spirit is broad, and her alumni. have good cause to be loyal to her. They will have an opportunity of proving their lovaltv in this great emergenev—old students by generous contributions to the rebuilding of St. Viateur’s and present-day students by standing by her in the hour of her distress and steadfastlv refusing to transfer their allegiance to other colleges. The great and good men who upbuilt St. ' Viateur’s will know how to draw good out of apparent evil, and the Scholastic, voicing the feelings of all at Notre Dame, prays that the new college mav be even .bigger and better than the old. Courage, St. Viateur’s!
. _	-	O’
- -------------.
—The need of a Catholic Reference Book . has been felt bv all classes of readers, but to no one has it been more apparent than to the student of history, and especially to the student of Church history. The specimen pages of the. Catholic Encyclopedia fully justify us in asserting that at last this need is to be adequately supplied. The scope of this great work will comprehend all the
• various forms of Catholic teaching, everj'- field of Catholic. action, and Catholic interests of all kinds. The long list of contributors, the select Catholic, scholars -of the world, forces upon us the feeling that every subject will obtain full and authoritative treatment. The specimen pages clearly prove that we will, not, be deceived in our expectations. Every article has.been carefully weighed and considered, while 'the style is truly encyclopedic; This work is • a welcome addition to every library, and .will accomplish, at least one great end in so far as it frees us from being forced to take bigoted and . partial writers for authorities, a hitherto necessary attitude.	t /
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Washington’s Birthday Celebration.
Last Thursday afternoon witnessed the formal celebration of George Washington’s Birthday. At two-thirty o’clock the students of the University were assembled in Washington Hall to do honor by song and speech to the “Father of his Country.” The exercises were similar in character to those of former-years, the only new feature being the first public appearance of Notre Dame’s latest contribution to the musical world, the glee club. The program opened with an inspiring selection by the University Orchestra, followed in turn with a song from the glee club. Mr. McGinn then orated at some length on “Washington’s Ideal,” his paper as well as the poem read by Mr. O’Donnell being printed in full in other columns of this issue. “ Columbia, the Gem of the Ocean,” as sung by the audience introduced the event of the afternoon, the presentation of the flag. The presentation address, made by John F. Shea in behalf of the Class of 1906, was as follows:
Very Rev. Father Cavanaugh:—It is a pleasure for the class of 1906 to be able this day to honor the memory of America’s-greatest patriot and to give expression of loyalty to our country and to Notre Dame.
This beautiful custom of presenting the national flae: to our Universitv is a Jong-established one, and we sincerely hope that these exercises to-day may prove but a link in the chain of a custom that will - extend unbroken into the far future.
In the early days of our Republic there existed a blind and passionate antipathy in the hearts of many against the Catholic citizen. These prejudiced people insisted that spiritual fealty to the Pontiff at Rome was incompatible with loyalty to one’s country, and the fangs of their prejudice were seen and felt in the violence of the Know-Nothing and similar movements. The great flow of Catholic.immigration into this country, 'which began in the early forties, was . also looked upon by many with the greatest distrust. It was openly asserted ' that such people could not feel emotions of patriotism, and that their presence in this country would prove a menace to the safety . of the government in time of war or:
national stress. In the course of events a ;	-
a war did come, and an effort was made to disrupt the Union. In the terrible struggle • .. that strained the very fibres of our national structure, the distrusted Catholic gave his answer to the base charges of bigotrv: and in the entire annals of our country there is no record more glorious, no sacrifice more heroic, than that of a Catholic regiment that 7 charged and died on the hills of Fredericks- • burg. To-day the Catholic is recognized and trusted in our political life, and his . influence on the whole has been one for good. - -. We can justly be proud of such men as Bourke . i . Cockran, Secretary Bonaparte and Senator ;
Gearin, who. represent such sterling types of Catholic citizenship and who are so intimately connected with Notre Dame.	"
Though our country is to-day peaceful and prosperous, nevertheless there is as much necessity for strength and character in her citizens as there was in the earlv days of war and rebellion. We are constantly, meeting with exposures of corruption and graft in our political life, which make it the /	.
duty of every citizen to take a jealous interest	’
in politics and to exert his influence in our national life as a power for good.	'
This duty is recognized at Notre Dame . -where we are taught to love our country ' and to venerate the -high ideals which actuated her heroes and statesmen.	.
The Catholic love for country, however, is . \ no love inspired by blind idolatry or mere sentiment. It is something more than this. . -It is an influence that actuates him above all others, a love that is more absorbing than any other love—the Catholic loves his God and then his country. This is the patriotism that-is taught at Notre Dame, < and none other is ptirer or more effective. ; ' -
Reverend Father Cavanaugh, as a pledge .	/
of the love we bear our country, of devotion	;
to her high ideals and gratitude to our Alma. ;
Mater, we ask you to accept this flagj and . it is our fondest hope that when worn and : < , weather-beaten it is added to the relics ot other classes that have gone before, it may h. be said of the class of 1906 that they were faithful to the teachings of Notre Dame 7 and to their country.	\
Very Rev. President Cavanaugh accepted -the flag in behalf of the Faculty. The exer-f^-. J cises closed with the singing of “America.”;
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Preliminary Debates.
Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday the first preliminary debating contests were held in the law lecture room. The question discussed was: Resolved, That a commission be given power to -fix railroad rates. The number of contestants was smaller than last year; fortv-two names were handed in bv the time of the holidays, but shortly before the first contest the list had shrunk to twenty-four. On this account the original plan of picking three out of every six to debate in the semi-final contest was abandoned, and three groups were formed, each having eight speakers, of whom the five with the highest marks were retained. The victors Monday evening were classified by the judges. Fathers Trahev, Schumacher and Prof. Afahonv as follows: Donahue, Boyle, Brown, Galligan and Collier. Tuesday the judges were Fathers Cavanaugh and Crumley and Prof. Schwab; the winning debaters: Bolger, Mallov, E. Burke, Young and Cunningham. Wednesday, . Profs. Steele, O’Hara and Schwab acted as . judges, and Alessrs. Hagerty, Corcoran, T.
Burke, J. Cunningham, and Corbett were successful.	.
-	These debates, like all other contests of the kind at Notre Dame, were hard-fought, • exciting battles. Perhaps one of the chief reasons whv Notre Dame al wavs turns -7	-	'
out winning teams is her'free-for-all system - of choosing representatives. There are no societies or fraternities to exclude good men : . anyTone may enter and everyone has an equal chance. It is regrettable that more candi- -. dates did. not come out . this year as there -could be no practice more valuable for young men. No one is sure to make the team, and if a debater loses, there is no disgrace attached, but on the. contrary he is respected .	.by . his fellow-students for his courage in
.	making the attempt, and he himself gets all
-	thef profit,: coming : from, the writing and
.	. memorizing, of his speech and the practice ■	in delivering it. No one knows what he can
dotmtil-he tries. .	;	, -	:
.	. Messrs. Bolger, Malloy . and Donahue , of . . I last year’s team manifested again their ,	- remarkable talents, Mr. Donahue especially. ‘
of Brownson Hall set a good example for | new men; he delighted his audience bv his 1 direct, clear-cut manner. The same is true £ of Mr. Valdez,, who though just acquiring B real facility in the English language made a very creditable showing. Mr. Corcoran, too,	fe
surprised everyone. He spoke with fervent	g
earnestness, and his massive frame and voice	S
lent strength to. his persuasive words. All	O
in all, the contests were very’ good, and	p
we need not fear either Iowa or DePauw if	H
the men keep up the pace with which they-
have started. Professor Reno is again in	E
charge of this work and was well pleased	g
with' the debates.	®
Athletic Notes.
Christie Matthcwson can pitch some—he looks like a ball player—he has form and form and form, but you should see a pitcher Notre Dame has. He can pitch some—he looks like a ball-player—he has not form, but Form, and Fdrm, and Form. His initials are secret, but his name is Keefe.
. . # # -
Birmingham has been laid up for the past week with a sore foot and has been unable to practise. '
. Shea’s hand is nearly well and he will soon be at it again the same as ever.
The . wind blew around the corners and the shutters rattled on the green-house, but Capt. McNerny had no pityr; for taking his sturdy band of future greats out on Carroll campus in the “hail and rain and the snow,” he froze them to death—almost. This was on Wednesday. .	;	.
. Thursday. Notre Dame’s baseball team assembled in a body in the “Gym”.
“Mac” McCarthy got the -first three-bagger , of the year Wednesday.
Coach Arndt has. finished his xwork at Notre Dame for this year and will turn the team over to Captain .McNerny-—a team well . advanced in general all - round knowledge of
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
o.fo

baseball and ready to start in to acquire the finishing touches of the game. The squad has gone through all the elementary stages of the game. They have been taught how to stand up to bat how to covei* the bags, how to slide to the bases, and all the things that beginners must know before they start in to really play the game.
Arndt has worked hard and earnestly in preparing the team for the coming season and has done all in his power to turn out a winning team for Notre Danie. He will leave on Monday for St. Louis and go South with the National League team of that city to train. This is his second year in fast company, and from his record of last year it is safe to predict that his future will place him high among the leaders in his line. Success and everything that is good we wish him, and hope to hear of great things from him in-the baseball world.
* * *
Bonan appears to be the man who will be compelled to run for the cripples as he goes down to first-base like a. quarter-miler..
Sam O’Gorman is the best fly-hitter on the team. Coach Arndt had him 'hitting flies to the out-fielders in the early part of the week, and by actual measurements one man ran four hundred and ninety-eight thousand yards—chasing the ball.
Hoefan has been on the sick list for the — o	*
. last few days, but reported again on Thursday morning'.	.
A relay team is still under consideration, and whether or not Notre Dame will have one will be decided in the near future. If
' we are to have a team asked to report the first
the men will of next week.
be
coach, the team
Captain McNerny will
from now on and will pick the team just • before the South Bend series. The Greens will report here about April 15, and the series will start about the 20th.
' - ’ * * ■
/ Perce-and .O’Gorman appear to be our only pitchers at .present, and if all the work is to fall'; bn two men thev have a hard
task before them. This will be Perce’s first . year in the box, but it can easily be seen that he will make good. Last year- Perce played right-field as we had an abundance of pitchers, but this year he will undoubtedly be found on the slab and will be one of our most valuable men.	.	.	,
The last week has been devoted to, “gamy” games, some of which were played' outside. The weather, . .while appearing, warm and bright, has nevertheless been too' . cold for baseball, and the pitchers had to be very careful of their arms so that only light ' work was indulged in.	.. yy
Whenever the weather permits the team will go outside as the outfielders get • very little chance in the “Gym.” Bonan, Birmingham and Farabattgh appear to be the most likely candidates for the. outfield positions.	... A
The faculty board of control has consented to the baseball team, making an Eastern^ trip this year, the team to leave here about June 16. The first game will probably be played at Cleveland with. Western Reserve^ University, and from there the team will goto Washington where they will meet George-. town. A game between Georgetown and Notre Dame should arouse great interest, as, they are the two largest Catholic schools in America and particular interest as-one isin. the East and the . other in the ...West. Games will be scheduled with Amherst, Brown, Wil-;, liams and Holy Cross. This is the first trip of the kind that a team from Notr,e Dame. • has ever gone on, and. the decision of the board has met with , hearty approval rby .: the entire student body.
- / * .*• e ' ’ « - - ■' • :
Some students took a cross country run Thursday morning. A run _ of this kindy may not make sprinters of even lohg-disyy tance runners, but it does make a strong f body, vigorous .mind, and an enviable temper. ■ .	~	.	: -.y yyyy'jy

Friday afternoon the team had. fh&r£fifsfc^ practice on Brownson campus, and nndM^ in batting - practice. .; -:. T'A y y R. E.. By-y
NOLLE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
LAW DEPARTMENT.
A Thesis for February on the Laws Governing Perpetuities and Accumulations.
A perpetuity may be defined as a future limitation, whether executory or by way of remainder, and of either real or personal property, which is not to vest until after the expiration of, or will not necessarily vest within the period fixed and prescribed .by law for the creation of future estates and interests, and which is not destructible by the person for the time being entitled to the property subject to the future limitation, except with the concurrence of the individual interested under that limitation.
The purpose of the rule against perpetuities was to prevent the burdening of estates by the imposition of limitations to take effect on the happening of remote contingencies, for which reason it is often and very property termed the rule against remoteness. The rule exists in all the states where the common law prevails except in so far as it is modified by statute. These statutes are property speaking not directed against perpetuities, but simply prohibit restraints upon alienation. The statute does not insist upon the vesting of estates, but only upon their inalienability, and the doctrine of remote-ness,'therefore, has no materiality, except as it affects the inalienability.
The rule against perpetuities applies to future interests in both realty and personalty, whether legal or equitable, and to every kind of conveyance or devise and to every form of limitation or condition by which such future estate or interest may be created. «But the rule being directed against future contingent interests only has no application whatever to interests which are vested, for a vested interest by its very nature can not be subject to a condition precedent. In all cases, therefore, where the application of the rule against perpetuities is invoked, the character of the interests as vested or contingent is the primary consideration. Limitations of present life estates arc not within the rule, for the reason that they can not by any possibility suspend the vesting beyond the period prescribed by the'rule.	...	.
Future estates which ’ may be destroyed
at any time by those having present interests in the property, are not deemed of sufficient importance to require the application of the rule. Hence an estate in trust which is destructible at the mere pleasure of the cestui que trust, or of the trustee, can not create a perpetuity. And for the same reason the rule does not apply to a limitation after an estate tail or to a power collateral thereto. Nor does it apply to common law remainders, for the reason that if thev are vested, remoteness is out of the question, and if contingent they must of necessity take effect, if at all, eo instanti the preceding life estate determines. A mortgage or deed of trust executed to secure a debt does not suspend the power of alienating the mortgaged property, and is valid.
In applying the rule against perpetuities, the character or nature of the contingency or event upon which a future interest is limited is of no moment. The only consideration is whether this event, whatever it may be, will happen within the period prescribed by the rule. To render future estates valid they must be so limited that in every possible contingency thej'- will vest within or at the termination of the period. . At common law the’periods prescribed by the rule against perpetuities within which contingent interests must become vested is a life or lives in being and twenty-one years afterwards. The number of lives by which the period is measured is immaterial, provided they are all in being when the contingent interest is created, for no matter how manv lives there mav be, still according to an old expression “the candles are all . burning, out at once,” and the period is in effect merely measured by the life of the longest lived of them.
Where a devise or bequest is to a class of persons answering a given description (e. g., the children of a designated person) and any member of that class may possibly have to be a scertained at-a period exceeding the limits allowed by law, the devise fails as to the whole class. The whole property can not be given to those who are in fact ascertained withinf the period and .might have taken it if the gift had been to them nominatim, because they are intended to
.NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.

take in shares to be regulated in amount, augumented or diminished, according; to the number of other members of the class, and not to take exclusively of those other members.
’ Accumulation is the adding of the interest or income of a fund to the principal, oi* the withholding of income from present distribution for the purpose of creating a constantly . increasing fund for distribution at a future time pursuant to the provisions of a will or deed. The right -of a person to dispose of his propert\r as he wishes is unquestioned, and it has been held that one mav lawfullv direct accumulations of the. entire income of his estate during the minority of his children, although the court in such case may divert so much of the sum as is necessary for the support of the children.
Though a settler has, at common law, an absolute right, subject to the rule against perpetuities, to control the income of the estate disposed, of by him and an equal right under the statute during the statutory period, yet the right can not be effectively exercised by the mere direction to accumulate. At common law if the period for the accumulation fell within the period for the rule against perpetuity it was valid. In a majority of the states this is still the rule.
Under the common law rule the estate might be tied up for a great number of years. To avoid this theThelusson Act" was passed in 1S00 to limit the time within which trusts
.	—Visitors’ Registry
for accumulation of the income of real or per- Grand Rapids, Mich, sonal property'- should be allowed to run.
The statutes in the United States regulating the trusts for accumulation generally limit the duration thereof to the minority of the persons for whose benefit the accumulation is directed. In case the accumulation is for the benefit of several persons it may continue until the majority of the youngest. If the beneficiary dies during majority the accumulation terminates at his dea,th.
'. A present vested gift of principal is not affected by an illegal direction to accumulate the income, but the donee of the principal takes, the income as it accrues.
An unconditional gift to a charity is not affected by direction for accumulation, which; is too remote.; The income becomes immedi-atelv distributable in charitv. :
J. W McInerny, Law, ’06.
P ersonals.
—Friends and former classmates of Francis /y J. Conboy (LL. B. ’04) will be pleased .to learn that a new honor has come’ to him in the formation of the firm of Doran and / Conboy, of Laporte, Indiana. This admittance into partnership with one of the -city’s most prominent practising lawyers y ‘ is eloquent testimony to the worth of Mr. Conboy’s service. Frank has the best wishes ■ ? of all who knew him -while at Notre Dame. '
—Paul Martin (student ’01-’02) delighted his old friends at Notre Dame by a recent visit. Air. Martin has been very successful M in his line of work, and. was until recently a . regular contributor to the literaiy section of the Chicago Record-Herald. A recent article of his on William Butler Yeats, the ’ M Irish poet and dramatist, has attracted much: ~ favorable comment, and speaks -well/for Mr. f Martin’s future success in his chosen work '
—J. P. Devereau of. St. Louis, Mo,, former army officer and a nephew of Archbishop . j Ryan died after a long illness in a Philadelphia hospital on Feb. 9th. The deceased \ retired from the army about a year ago on account of poor health. He and his ’ two brothers were old students at. Notre Dame where he is still fondly remembered for his eloquence and cheerful disposition,;
Byrns, Ishpemin.
-Miss Colly Conlon, Mr. and Mrs. C. J.
Mich.; Rev. Daniel M
Donahue, Weedsport, N. Y.; Miss Alary L. y . Sutton, Williamsport, Ind.;. Mrs. H. C. Kin-seley, Mr. E.. W. Katz, Clarence W. Katz,. Joseph Abraham, Edward Bizzard; CpL and Mrs. J. E. Brady, Chicago, Ill.; Miss J. L. Cummer, Edna Hummer, Airs. E. Guy Sutton; Miss Mildred Brown, Airs. Irene Robertson, Airs. Alamye' McKibben,; Airs. John Orff, Sorith Bend, Ind.; Miss Lora Hull, St.
Mrs. J. R. Mulconey, Fort Miss Eleanor Hellman, Galena,
Joseph, Ind
Dodge, Iowa;	.	.
Ill.; Mrs. E. 0. Bedford, Ogden, Utah; Mrs
W. P; Woody, New/York. CityMiss Mil
dred R Rroxi, /Syracuse, New York; Mrs. W. C. Wendell, Tom H. Wendell^ Mary^d; Wendell, Frank J. Brockamp, . Henry J. Brockanip, y Cincinnati, . Ohio.';y. AlrsFHMNi Roberts, Wilmington, Ill. ’ . f < ./'yyy
328	NOTRE DAME
kJ
Local Items.
—Exit Winter, enter Spring and Bro. Philip.
—It is nearly time the lawn seats were being hauled out from the winter store7 house.
—Though the guess comes from one in high authority, still we have reasons to doubt Letty’s ability as a track-man.
—As is the usual custom on Washington’s . birthday, the University band rendered a program in the rotunda of the Main building, o
—When he meets you he spreads a grin and savs, “Well, Alister.” The monev man will paj' handsome prizes for the best answers. Guesses limited to Sorinites.
—It is wonderful how a slight act may speak volumes. This was aptly demonstrated when a flag was seen floating from one of the upper windows in Corby Hall before breakfast last Thursday morning.
—For the general good of the occupants of Sorin’s “court” rooms a grate has been inserted in the big chimney. Here the papers, etc., which are thrown out of the windows will be gathered up and burned. We are indebted to Bro. Charles for the idea.
—An history and economic student, one Jas. Keefe by name, credits Richard I. with a financed bride. After all there’s nothing like original research, Jim, and it adds some consolation, to know that the titled fortune hunters are not solely a contribution of the 20th century.
—It is the will of everybody in general, but • more particularly of “those who have a right to say things,” that the sophomores (small “s”) when breaking up their meet-, ings, recognize their position, and unseen steal off to their respective rooms. No hilarious rooting or bursts of enthusiasm— the privileges of more worthy ones—will hereafter be tolerated. Sophomores, this is ominous and final. ;	’
—It wasn’t the poodle’s fault, the poodle was lost. That accounts for its appearance in the refectory, affr ightedly searching around seeking whom it might caress. Perhaps it was because of the pre-established affinity
; of things, but on the Junior table it found our Leo.- The poodle paid its respects, Leo smiled in response, and the poor beast turned and-fled. Poor poodle! Cruel Letty! How could you Lee ?
“ —“ Aly Experience with the Heathen O ” is the mystic.title of a work under way by a member of the Junior class. It is the sequel y of a session’s missionary endeavor to convert /a tribe of propositions in the Logic Jungle. / Though the author fails, still his
SCHOLASTIC.
courageous attempts win our sincere praise and admiration. The work is replete with thrilling and adventurous incidents, and the writer’s style can not fail to please. Even at this early date hoping sophomores would do well to watch for it, for there are pitfalls and dark passages in the Junior’s life, and much valuable information may be gleaned from this volume. Keefe & Co. are the publishers.
—Washington’s birthday to many means but little, but to those who see and feel the significance of the national holidav, feelings of pride and loyal resolves for the preservation of their countiy’s freedom are almost involuntarily elicited. But especially to those who have risked theii* lives and fought for that liberty, “our” Father’s feast must recall with tears of joy the martial past and bring with it unknown emotions of love. To the observant eye of the students such joy and love of country is shown by dear Brother Leander. To the Corbyites more than to any at Notre Dame, the patriotic expression of their faithful prefect must illustrate most vividly what true patriotism means to the heart of a loyal American. Each occurring festival of the Father of our Country is brought to our notice by the draping of national colors over Brother Leander’s door. To love of country he has cemented love of God. No better or nobler combination can be conceived than this dual love which flames and overflows in that loyal soldier—Brother Leander.
—Next week we shall observe the Forty Hours’ Adoration, one of the most impressive of Catholic ceremonies, and one that has steadily grown in popularity among the faithful ever since its institution in Milan about the year 1534. These exercises—sometimes called Ouarant’ Ore—are commemorative of the forty hours that our Lord spent in the tomb, and owe^their promulgation, if not origin," to a. pious Jesuit, who, failing to prohibit an objectionable carnival play, employed the expedient of offering in his church, a successful counter-attraction. This priest knew well how to draw on the solemnities of the Catholic storehouse whose peculiar treasures in this regard'made St. Teresa exclaim: “I would be willing to lay down my life for a single one of the ceremonies of the Church.” To add their share to : the observance of the Forty Hours’ Adoration the altar-boys, or. better said, the members- of the . St. John Berchmans’ Sodality, have determined to ... constitute themselves self-appointed “Watchers” during the time of Solemn Exposition. Companies of four or more acolytes will relieve, one another in the sanctuary every half hour. Let their zeal be. an example to others.