SCHOLASTIC
PUBLISHED WEEKLY - FOUNDED 1867
2	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
HOW GOOD IS THE NOTRE DAME TEAM THIS FALL?
A football expert tells you
' / in this week’s Post
► What players from here will make headlines this season? Which of our opponents will be most dangerous? Frank Wallace has just completed a swing around the country, chinning with coaches, getting the inside, and now brings you the names to watch... Why will the South nab off so many good players? What important rule change will speed up this year’s game? Who is Wallace’s choice for back-of-the-year? For No. 1 lineman? All-America? Turn to the Post for a fact-crammed article that predicts all this year’s winners.
Read Pigskin Preview of 1940 by FRANCIS WALLACE
Also in this issue:
1 Mysteries of Europe
Jules Romains this week begins the story of his unique role in recent secret diplomatic maneuvers in Europe. “I had not planned to say all this until much later,” states France’s first man of letters, “but I think it may be helpful now to give the people of the largest Democracy still intact a chance to see through what weaknesses peace and liberty were lost...” A fascinating, shocking chapter of history, hitherto never told.
No. 1. The Mystery of Daladier
by France's Author-Diplomat
JULES BOMAINS
Young Ames gets coaching in love .
When Young Ames sat down on a bench outside the White House, he didn’t know the stranger beside him was the President! Walter D. Edmonds lets you eavesdrop while Andrew Jackson explains how to get a father’s consent when you are poor, and your girl is wealthy. Read Young Ames, Andrew Jackson, and the American Eagle.
Communists take over U.S. Merchant Marine?
20 miles from West Point is a hotel where sailors are trained to prepare American crews for Communism. Course fee, $125. On graduation, seamen form party nuclei aboard ships. Our Communist-operated National Maritime Union claims 51,000 sailor members. For details of this brazen scuttling of Americanism, read Seagoing Soviets, by William McFee.
The cop with the asbestos voice
“Old Man Kitzmiller is putting up a loving cup big enough to take a sitz bath in, to see if flatfeet can sing better than detectives.” You are invited to a music fest to watch Tannhauser get a vocal rubber hosing, in a slightly cockeyed yam by Joel Sayre, You Tell Me Your Dream.
1MKV ROBERTS RINEHART continues her new mystery novel, The Great Mistake... ALSO—short stories, cartoons, poemsand Post Scripts. All in your copy of the Post—now on sale!
THE SATURDAY EVENING POST

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
3
COLLEGE PARADE
- ii । — i.— RAYMOND J. KELLY ■	—
A reserved seat in the old reviewing stand—most interesting—yet the parade has barely started and already Mr. McGowan, as we staff members call him to his face, is howling for this page. Three or four college papers, all from out West, and the Presidio, “edited and published by and for the inmates of the State Prison at Fort Madison, Iowa,” are all the material yet available for the cautious culling and garbled gleening, that is the job of the unfortunate sent to walk punishment tours on the College Parade.
In the Presidio, we found a most interesting column “Bastile Boulevardier” which contributes the initial piece to this year’s Parade.
“A bunch of the slugs were whooping it up, and the Pepsi-Cola was flowing freely over the Canteen bar. Along about the third bottle the lying reached an alltime high and finally the subject was reached concerning how far back different memories could go. Shylock Crane opined that he remembered his first birthday because the family horse saw him for the first time and ran away. Bar-None Bradley topped that one by recalling the day of his birth, saying it was a Friday and he remembered the abalone on the table. It remained for Jimmy (The Dunce) Caffrey to give out with the prize-copper. Casting a disdainful eye on Crane who was ordering his fifth hamburger, the squirt of the squared circle, roared: ‘Youse mutts ain’t seen nuttin’ and your memory could be matched by a mildewed herring. Why, I can remember clear back when an angel on the assembly line cracks to me, “Turn over, brat/ and let me hook on your ears.” ’ ”
❖
Chips
Artie Shaw is the feature of the USF club dance to be held at the Palace Hotel, San Francisco, following the Stanford game.... Masked Sophomore vigilantes kidnapped a Freshman beauty queen at a University of California fashion show, attended by two thousand spectators. All part of the publicity for the annual Frosh-Soph Brawl Ball.... St. Mary’s (Calif.) Collegian devoted its sport page to bewailing the loss of its ace publicity man, a semi-heroic character known on the Coast as “Tom-Tom” Foudy. Hollywood wooed him away from the Gael’s athletic office with filthy lucre to the sorrow of the entire school.
Heaping Handfuls of Insult
One of the notorious picture-cartoon magazines that sprouts pictures of prizefighters and unbelievably beautiful blondes took one of our Eastern institutions for a ride, recently. A cartoon came out showing a sweet young thing at a perfume counter, telling the salesgirl, “It doesn’t have to be subtle. He’s a Yale man.” The idea was pretty good but when the identical cartoon appeared in two different places in the same issue we began to suspect that a Harvard man was loose somewhere.
❖
Fearless Reporting
From Universitad Santo Tomas, Manila comes something new in our experience with college periodicals, two different papers from the same school in different languages. The Spanish magazine we found interesting to the extent of the pictures of five Filipino misses it contained. Further than that, my knowledge of Spanish, acquired after two year’s exposure to Jose and sundry copies of LaPrensa proved too inadequate and I turned to the Varsitarian, the English paper.
“Due to one reason or another all the columns for this issue of the Varsitarian were found to be unpublishable.
What would happen to Notre Dame and the Scholastic if those liberal, foreign ideas entered the close-cropped skull of our Mr. McGowan?
“. .. Mak* mine snap courses. I’m here for the social life.”
And I'm Taking Over, See?
Sam Soph, after going down for the third time, came to, finding himself in the lower regions, supplied with horns and a pitchfork. Hardly had he gotten settled in his new abode than he began ordering everyone around.
“Say there, young fellow^” spoke up Satan, “You talk as if you own this place.” _	.
“You’re darn right,” was the prompt reply “My rector gave it to me when I was at Notre Dame.”
♦
From 'Way Out Thar
The Frisco U. Foghorn beat us to this item from the West Pointer by a scissors and a half, but anyway.... “It wasn’t. so very long ago, during June Week too, on Firtation, I bet that she wouldn’t marry me. She called me and raised me five.”	•
The Foghorn, along with every college paper, those from Rosary, Chicago and such schools excepted, has filled its sport pages with accounts of the power, speed, ~P' cleverness, and all-round brilliance of its football team. The lead article on the sport page, describing such potential AllAmericans as “Tank” Hill and BiH Teles-manic, was concluded. . . . “all this and . heavy too.”	-
*
Statistically Speaking
A member of the staff of the Californian compiled an impressive ’-array of figures, indicating that University students spend over 5'/2 million dollars • \ per year for clothes and personal equip-' > ment. Men, he estimates, spend $29,627.17 . for cuff links alone; while women’s expenditures, per month, just for chewing gum, total $433.97. That last item has the makings of a nasty remark.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK
FRANK WEMHOFF—
MUSIC NOTES
By John W. Larson
Top of the Week
Begins the Battle of Notre Dame.
Dear Parents
Well, I’m here. We have one window. I breathe while roomie exhales. My roommate gets forty dollars a month allowance. His family owns a winter home in Florida and he has a thirty-foot cabin cruiser. I sure like him a lot. On Sunday we went over to see roomie’s sister at some place called “the rock.” I don’t believe they mentioned it in the catalog. A little girl with a monocle told us that they had reached their quota for the day and would we please come back next Sunday. A senior told us that we could have the place all to ourselves in another week. Then he laughed sadly and walked away. Gosh, but seniors are smart.
The fellow across the hall from me just doesn’t belong. The other morning he looked very trim and I asked him if he had gotten a new haircut and he •said, “No, I merely shrunk it under the shower.” He lives in Chicago so now I ■only speak to him when the Cubs lose. He won’t be lonely then.
The food is good._____they say. We all eat in a big hall and sit twelve at a table to protect us from the sophomores. You’ve seen that slogan, “I’d walk a mile for a Camel.” Well, I do that every noon and I don’t smoke, if you get what I mean.
I think I’ll need a lot more money for books. Some of them are very fine books. I believe we pay for the cover and they throw the pages in for nothing. The University gave us a book of rules ■with n. red cover. Do you think that is significant? I came in 20 minutes late last night and today I received a nice letter asking me not to do it again for at least a month. Each night when we come in we sign a register. It’s just like a hotel without room service.
The football team practices out behind our hall. I was all wrong. They will not need me this year as I had suspected. Also, the players seem to be bigger than they are in Pawhuska. But I’ll be sure and watch the games closely so that I can learn the plays.
Your obeying son,
Hal Tosis, Jr.
Around the quads
“They say he calls his congressman Weather Strip because he expects the rep to keep him out of the draft.”.... “Why, hello, Joe, you old so and so.... Where ya livin’?”.... “In the caf, but they send all my letters to Sorin.”.... “I' just saw an awful accident”.... “Yeah, I’ve got a date with her tonight.”.... “My watch has gone wrong.”.... “You can blame its environment.”.... “Were you fooled at Howell’s too?”.... “They’ve been serving chicken like that here for years.”.... “Which way is LaSalle Hall?”	’
Plitcal Purtry
Mary had a little lamb
Its fleece was soft and silky
It followed her to school one day
So she called it Wendell Willkie.
Famous Last Words
Brutus: “How many cheese sandwiches did you eat, Caesar?”
Caesar: “Et tu, Brutus.”
The Life of a Joke
Birth: A freshman thinks it up and chuckles with glee at his originality.
Age 5 minutes: Freshman tells it to Senior, who answers, “Yeah, it’s funny, but I’ve heard it before.”
Age 1 day: Senior turns it in to the Scholastic (any similarity....) as his own.
Age 2 days: Editor thinks it’s terrible.
Age 10 days: Editor has to fill magazine, prints joke.
Age 1 month: Twelve college comics reprint joke.
Age 3 years: New Yorker discovers it.
Age 10 years: Elmer Layden tells it at pep session.
Age 20 years: Joke is reprinted by Readers Digest.
Age 30 years: Professors start telling joke to freshman classes.
Age 50 years: Senior turns it into the Scholastic.
*
Bottom of the Week
When the professor said, “Gentlemen, Order!”.... and the class shouted, “Beer.”....
A quick glance over various programs played by the major symphony orchestras throughout the summer indicates a ‘ somewhat surprising and curious neglect of Joseph Haydn. There have doubtless been summers ■When the symphonic music of Haydn held a prominent place on orchestral program bills. This summer, I think, could scarcely be included among them. Rather, there has been a preponderance of Beethoven, far too much of Wagner, ana ah alarming overdose of Tschaikowski. Brahms, too, has battled his way through the usual manner of cycles. No summer of musical activity could ever possibly be thought of as satisfying without at least a dozen “Brahms Cycles” romping merrily from New England to California.
But then, I am wondering why we could not have heard more of Haydn this summer. Why have the conductors been willing—and it appears they have been—to give the D Major- Symphony so few performances? Could it be that there is a seasonal character about this work, that it is more pleasurable to hear during the winter? One is forced to a point of obvious ridiculousness in attempting to explain away Haydn’s lack of popularity.
If we could suppose anything so foolish as a seasonal character in Haydn, his proper season, above all, ought to be summer, for his music is preeminently “out-of-doors” in feeling. Haydn never-lost this note of dancing exuberance which marks his greatest work. He might easily be called the first of our great secular tone-poets in whom pure joyous- . ness was primary. He had not the tragic expression, the awful defiance which was . to come later. His was a holiday mood of true lyric beauty concerned not with ; deep and fearful complexities. Nevertheless, it would be the grossest error to J brand Haydn as incompetent or devoid ' of mastery. On the contrary, his sim- 3 plicity harks back to the great 15th and ■ 16th polyphonic masters who passed s their spare hours in writing such pro- $ foundly magnificent examples of conn-terpoint as have never been equalled. £
Behind all the broad merriment of much of Haydn’s music, there is a defi- g nitely serious and solemn kind of devotional aspect. The “Andante” of the E g Flat Major Symphony is, for example, J unusually sombre and stately. Here, Haydn almost deliberately throws, aside J the spritely chatterings of the madrigal mood for a rather desperately stiff for--J? malness. And all this is extremely, pain-
(Continued on page 27)
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as seeond-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 74
SEPTEMBER 20, 1940
Number I
UNIVERSITY MOURNS PASSING OF
VERY REV. JAMES A. BURNS, C.S.C.
It is difficult to evaluate in one brief sentence the summary of a man’s life accomplishments. Suffice it to say that Father Burns’ life will be a glowing pattern for many generations to come.
Funeral For Highly Esteemed Priest Held Last Week.
Recently the University of Notre Dame and the Congregation of Holy Cross felt the sting of a poignant paradox in the death of the Very Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C., whose lamented death occurred Sept. 9. While being enriched with Father Burns’ calm control and influence over their parallel destinies, both feel impoverished over the passing of his gracious personality. It has often been remarked that Father Burns reminded one of the intellectual gentlemanliness of Cardinal Newman.
The funeral mass for Father Burns, who at the time of his death was assistant superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross, was sung at 9 a.m., Thursday, Sept. 12, in Sacred Heart church by Very Rev. Albert Cousineau, C.S.C., superior general of the Congregation. Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C.. provincial of the order, was deacon, and Rev. Jules Poitras, C.S.C., of Montreal, Canada, provincial of the Canadian division of the order, subdeacon. Rev. William R. Connor, C.S.C., chaplain of St. Mary’s college, was master of ceremonies.
Rev. Patrick Carroll, C.S.C., delivered a most inspiring eulogy, the thematic spirit of which was gathered entirely from the inherent priestliness of Father Burns’ long, serviceable, apostolic life.
Born in Michigan City, Indiana, Feb. 13, 1867, Father Burns was president of Notre Dame from 1919 to 1922 during which time he reorganized and built the colleges and departments of the University to their present day status. As president, he inaugurated the endowment and expansion program, and in 1922 retired from the presidency to direct this program for two years. After a second term as superior of Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C., he was chosen provincial of the United States province of the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1927. He performed the duties
of this office with his usual great zeal and fidelity. His advice, which was so valuable because of his scholarship and experience, was available to those who needed it, and always was he especially interested in Notre Dame.
In 1932 he was reappointed provincial when the international general chapter of the Congregation met at Notre Dame. In 1938 the Congregation manifested its confidence in a most singular way when
Very Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C.
it appointed him assistant superior general.
Father Bums graduated from Notre Dame in 1888 and entered the Congregation of Holy Cross the same year. He was ordained in 1893, and was professor of chemistry at Notre Dame until 1900 when he was made superior of Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C., and served in this capacity until 1919. While superior, he found time to earn his Ph.D. degree from Catholic University in Washington, to be co-founder of the National Catholic Educational Association, and to write two books on the growth and principles of Catholic Education in America.
Father D1 Donnell Elected
President of University
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., has been elected president of the University for a full term of three years, succeeding' the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., who is now auxiliary bishop of the Army and Navy diocese. The administrative duties which Father O’Donnell assumes will not be completely new to him for he has been closely associated with such duties for many years.
Father O’Donnell was born on June 2, 1895 in Grand Rapids, Mich., and entered Notre Dame as an undergraduate student in 1912, and received his Litt.B. degree in 1916. He entered the seminary of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and on Dec. 28, 1921 was ordained to the priesthood in Sacred Heart Seminary, Grand Rapids, by the Most Rev. Edward D. Kelly, D.D., then bishop of the diocese. The following year, Father O’Donnell received a Ph.D. in history at Catholic University, in Washington, D.C. His doctoral thesis, at the time, was considered the most authoritative and exhaustive study of the American hierarchy.
In the spring of 1923 he was named rector of Badin Hall on the Notre Dame campus, and in 1924 became prefect of discipline and supervisor of student activities, a post which he held until 1930. He also served as a professor of history during this period.
In 1930, Father O’Donnell was named president of St. Edward’s University, Austin, Texas, a school under the direct management of the Congregation. His ability as an administrator in that post won for him the vice-presidency of Notre Dame in 1934.
Father O’Donnell was a pioneer in the early work of the Catholic Students Mission Crusade, which antedated current. Catholic Youth Movement in this coun-. try. He is an active member of the American Catholic Historical association,^, having served on its executive council for. two terms and contributed to its official
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
publication, the Catholic Historical Review.
With this background in administrative affairs, student relations, and educational efforts, Father O’Donnell is well equipped to carry on the manifold duties of this high office. The Scholastic extends its heartiest congratulations to Father O’Donnell and wishes him the greatest success in guiding the destinies of Notre Dame during these crucial times.
Father Boland Becomes
Arts and Letters Dean
The coming of the new school year finds many new faces not only among the student body but among the faculty as well. Appointment of two new deans and numerous additions to the faculty have been announced by the University — the Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., was chosen to succeed the Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., as dean of Arts and
Rev. Francis M. Boland, C.S.C.
Letters, and Professor Henry B. Fron-ing was named dean of the College of Science, succeeding the late Rev. Fran-, cis Wenninger, C.S.C.
Father Miltner was made president of the University of Portland during the summer. Ten new laymen have been added to the staff. Among them are:
William W. Arbuckle, instructor in the department of music. He taught last year at New Mexico State Teachers College. Francis Lee Benton, Ph.D., instructor in organic research division of the department of chemistry. He was formerly at Ohio State university. Cecil Birder, head of the department of speech, for the last 12 years on the speech faculty of the University of Minnesota.
Harold E. Ellithom, instructor in the department of electrical engineering, who spent three years with the Hygrade Sylvania Corporation, Salem, Mass. P. A. Guarino, instructor in the department of electrical engineering, who also served
for the last two years with Hygrade Sylvania Corporation.
J. L. Kelley, Ph.D., assistant professor in the department of mathematics, formerly on the staff of Johns Hopkins university, Baltimore, Md., John Mizelle, Ph.D., instructor in the department of zoology, formerly of Oklahoma Agricultural and Mechanical State college. John J. McClurg, field work supervisor in the department of social work, a former member of the board of public welfare, Washington, D. C. John P. Nash, Ph.D., instructor in the department of mathematics, formerly of Rice Institute, Houston, Texas. Charles V. Robinson, Ph.D., teaching fellow in the department of mathematics, who was on the faculty of the University of Missouri, Columbia, Mo.
Members of the Congregation of the
Fattier Burke Preaches First Mission Here
The Rev. Daniel A. Lord, S.J., of St. Louis, famous for his effective work in various fields of Catholic action and probably the outstanding figure in Catholic youth activities will arrive on the Notre Dame campus to open the mission Sunday for juniors and seniors.
Father Lord has spent a great part of his life in Catholic youth work and is well acquainted with modern youth’s problems and the Catholic solution to them. He is able to present his matter in a forceful, interesting manner. A sermon by Father Lord should not at all give rise to the unpleasant connotation that the word “sermon” unfortunately has for some persons. He has given retreats and missions for priests and laymen in Indiana which are popular, one of the reasons being the conference-like air rather than the solemn preaching so abhorent to some persons mostly in the need of the benefits to be gained from missions. ■
His justly popular pamphlets have had a wide circulation as have his newspaper writings, notably his “Hello Gang” formerly appearing in the Youth section of Our Sunday Visitor and other syndicated articles in Catholic newspapers. He is editor of The Queen’s Work organ of the Sodality of Our Lady of which he is the head and promoter. The sodality is a widespread Catholic youth organization in many colleges and high schools. He has done considerable work in amateur theatricals, his work in this line carrying him as far as Hollywood. Each year he presents a “Follies” which attracts competent young amateur actors and appreciative audiences annually. Those attending his mission may be assured of hearing sermons on pertinent questions in a manner sure to impress them.
Plans are being made to arrange mat-
Holy Cross added to the University staff were announced during the summer, coincident with publication of religious appointments. Priests added to the faculty are: Rev. John J. Benner, C.S.C., Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., Rev. John D. Gallagher, C.S.C., Rev. Thomas P. Irving, C.S.C., and Rev. John A. O’Brien, formerly chaplain of the University of Illinois.—Jim O’Donohoe
Cambridge, Mass.—(A C P)—Harvard college once was so poor the legislature ordered towns to appoint men to solicit subscriptions for its support.
According to a WPA historical survey, the legislature ruled in 1652 that those who failed to keep their pledges were liable for property seizure.
ters so that Father Lord may hold special consultation with mission-goers who wish to seek his personal advice on special problems which may confront them. The time and place of this consultation period ■wall be announced later.
The second mission will open at 7:30 p.m. Sunday. There will be a Mass every morning at 6:30 followed by instruction by Father Lord in Sacred Heart Church and a sermon and. benediction at 7:30 every evening during the mission. The mission will close at 6:30 a.m. on Saturday, Sept. 28.
Services tomorrow evening will mark the close of the first mission. This mis-
- Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C.
sion, for all freshmen and most of the sophomores, was given by Father Eugene Burke, C.S.C., one of the most popular priests on the campus. Father Burke also has a background which fits him well for the task of guiding Catholic men in solving their problems. He has been president of Portland University;
is past editor of the Ave Maria; taught scripture and Hebrew at Holy Cross college at Catholic University and now teaches religion at Notre Dame. Father Burke’s inestimable value to the University has become more deeply etched in its annals by his prominent part in the promotion of campus radio produc-tions.—John Dinges	:
J
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
Trunks of Notre Dame students, literally hundreds of them, swamped workmen in the Union station in downtown South Bend. Each arriving train brought more trunks, so many that hauling them to the University was slowed down considerably. More or less alike, the trunks no doubt contained a wide variety of possessions. The four men pictured above, whose problem it was to sort the trunks and see that they arrived safely at the various halls on the campus, were, left to right. Willard Witt-ner, baggage agent; Frank Scroggins, station master; L. . O. Martin, New York Central Railroad patrolman; and Paul Benz, baggageman.
(South Bend Tribune Photo)
Name Father John Lynch
New Prefect of Religion
The Rev. John P. Lynch, C.S.C., for several years assistant prefect of religion, has been appointed as prefect of religion to succeed the Rev. Francis E. Gartland, C.S.C., who has been transferred to the Eastern Mission Band in North Easton, Mass.
Father Lynch has been active in the work of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine. He has also directed several discussion groups on the campus. He will be located in Dillon hall.
Assisting Father Lynch are the Rev. John Grimm, C.S.C., who served as assistant last year with headquarters in Howard hall, and the Rev. William Crad-dick, C.S.C. Father Grimm has moved to Cavanaugh hall, and Father Craddick is now at Howard.
Secretary Counts 3,174
Students For Semester
The Secretary’s office of the University reports that 3,174 certifications were issued by September 10. This number includes 188 members of the Congregation of Holy Cross, about 119 graduate students, and an undetermined number of transfer students. The total number of lay students, graduates excepted, is 2,887.
The residence halls on the campus can accommodate 2,552 students. This leaves 336 students who are being temporarily accommodated off the campus, mostly in downtown hotels. In all probability this-number has already been greatly “decreased, because many certifications are not turned in and many students drop out the first few days.
Graduate students live off the campus for the most part except the few who are prefects in some of the residence halls, and the four graduate chemistry students who occupy the tower in Morrissey Hall. Some students are being housed in the Infirmary until permanent rooms can be secured.—Robert LeMense
Goodrich, University Benefactor, Succumbs
James P. Goodrich, LL.D. ’17, former governor of Indiana and founder of the Goodrich-Cavanaugh Foundation at Notre Dame, died on August 15 in Winchester, Ind., after a brief illness. He was 76 years old.
Mr. Goodrich was governor from 1917 to 1921, within the period of the first World War. The late Rev. John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame at that time, was a member of the extraordinary commission organized within the state during the war to deal with emergency measures. A fast friendship
developed between the two men and, in admiration of Father Cavanaugh’s principles of Americanism and his gift of oratory, Mr. Goodrich established a Foundation at the University in October, 1939.
For the present, the Foundation, capitalized a year ago at $5,040, will pro-^ide prizes for an oratorical contest to ‘be held each year among the students on the fundamentals of American government. Later when the principal of the fund has doubled, the nature of the-incentive may be changed, but the objectives . of Americanism and oratory must remain.	■
Although he retained an active interest in Republican politics and was a delegate to the Republican convention in June, Mr. Goodrich devoted most of his-later years to philanthropy. He went to Russia in 1921 as a member of the relief commission headed by former President Herbert Hoover.
Armstrong Honored
Mr. James Armstrong, secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, has been selected for honorary membership on the Rockne Stamp Committee, a staff,- . of prominent workers who are advocat-k? ing a national stamp as a tribute to theJ?. memory of Knute Rockne. Mr. Armstrong is of the Class of ’21.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Postal Chief, Graduate of Notre Dame, Praised
Frank C. Walker, Notre Dame alumnus of 1909, has been named by President Franklin D. Roosevelt, to succeed James A. Farley, who is retiring to private business. He is the eighth Catholic, the third under Roosevelt, to serve among the 319 cabinet officers in the nation’s history. Mr. Walker visited his son, Thomas, of Dillon hall, on the Notre Dame campus this week.
Born in Plymouth, Pa., May 30, 1886, Mr.' Walker was educated at Gonzaga University, and also at the University of Notre Dame, from which he received his Bachelor of Laws degree. In 1932 he became treasurer of the Democratic National committee, but later resigned the office. He operates a chain of theatres in Pennsylvania and New York and is a trustee of Notre Dame and Scranton universities.
In commenting on Mr. Walker’s appointment, Ernest Lindley, Washington columnist, wrote: “Walker is a man of the high integrity and sturdy idealism of Senator Thomas J. Walsh of Montana, who was his mentor and first hero in politics. He is imbued with the high principles of social justice set forth in the great Papal encyclicals, Rerum Novarum and Quadragesimo Anno.”
Entertain Faculty
A reception to welcome the new members of the faculty and their wives was held by the Faculty Club in the University parlors of the Administration Building last Sunday afternoon. The affair, presided ever by Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, and Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Vice-President, was attended by about 400 guests.
Frank C. Walker
Film Premiere Features
Program of Rockne Week
The world premiere of the picture, “Knute Rockne — All American,” and the Notre Dame-College of the Pacific football game on the following afternoon will climax South Bend’s celebration of National Knute Rockne Week, from Sept. 9 to Oct. 5, during which time visitors, alumni, and visiting celebrities are expected to swell the city’s population by 250,000.
A contingent of Hollywood movie stars, including Pat O’Brien, Gale Page, Ronald Regan, Donald Crisp, Jane Wyman, and at least a half dozen other topflight movie idols, will be on hand for the three-day climax to the week. The film, “Knute Rockne — All American,” will be shown simultaneously in three of the
South Bend theaters: the Colfax, the Palace, and the Granada. The film stars will appear in rotation at each of the theaters. Another feature will be the broadcast from the John Adams High School of Kate Smith’s program with the visiting stars as guest artists.
Other highlights include a banquet to be held in the University of Notre Dame dining hall, a grand ball, the placing of a wreath on Rockne’s grave, the appearance of Pat O’Brien at the Notre Dame pep rally, and the introduction of the film contingent between halves of the football game.—Bill Welch
Professor Flynn Heads Social Dept. Program
A new item in the catalogue of studies this year is the Department of Social Work under the guidance of Professor Frank Flynn.
In an interview with Professor Flynn early this week it was learned that this graduate department will deal with current social problems, with a laboratory program in field work offered in conjunction with the St. Joseph County Welfare Association. Practical training will be taken at clinics and the therapeutic center.
The course is not connected with the Department of Sociology and will involve a required 450 clock hours.
Admittance for training does not require a Sociology major but merely a well rounded out background such as is supplied by the average Arts and Letters course. The course is an extension of the work started 12 years ago by the Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., which has made Notre Dame one of the country’s outstanding schools in this field.—F. F. Richards
The campus days of 30 years ago came to life as student extras, costumed by Warner Brothers, were employed for Rockne picture scenes.

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE
Students Not Subject To Draft Till July, 1941
Of much local interest is that section of the Burke-Wadsworth Selective Service Act, recently signed by President Roosevelt, which deals with students. It says in effect that if a registrant is a student who entered upon a regular college course during 1940, his induction shall be deferred, at his request, until the completion of the 1940-41 academic year or until July 1, 1941, which ever comes sooner.
Supplementing this is a letter received recently at the University, which deals with the same situation as the above paragraph:
THE WHITE HOUSE
Washington August 14,1940 My dear Mr. Administrator:
Reports have reached me that some young people who had planned to enter college this fall, as well as a number of those who attended college last year, are intending to interrupt their education at this time because they feel that it is more patriotic to work in a shipyard, or to enlist in the Army or Navy, than it is to attend college. Such a decision would be unfortunate.
We must have well-educated and intelligent citizens who have sound judgment in dealing with the difficult problems of today. We must also have scientists, engineers, economists, and other people with specialized knowledge, to plan and to build for national defense as well as for social and economic progress. Young people should be advised that it is their patriotic duty to continue the normal course of their education, unless and until they are called, so that they will be well prepared for greatest usefulness to their country. They will be promptly notified if they are needed for other patriotic services.
Sincerely yours,
FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT (Signed)
The Honorable,
The Administrator,
Federal Security Agency
Richardson To Direct
Notre Dame Modernaires
The Notre Dame Modernaires, who provided musical entertainment at many of the university dances last year, are back again, now under the leadership of Bob Richardson, a senior in Walsh Hall. The Modernaires played at football victory hops last season as well as the Monogram and Engineers’ dances. They were also active during the summer, playing at New York’s Glen Island Casino, Hotel Statler, and several Illinois beach resorts.
The band is composed entirely of Notre Dame men, including Bill Dunham at drums, Tommy Delia, Joe Sullivan, and Bob Simon. Richardson and the band are now ready and anxious for another full season of activity here.
THE COVER
The preliminary art work necessary for the redesigning of the SCHOLASTIC cover, was the contribution of Mr. Thomas E. Kelly, of Oakville, Conn., commercial artist, friend of the editor and' of Notre Dame.
By James J. Meaney
Harry Murray, ’41„ is a- politician. Not a ward-heel or grafter — he is of the brand that are eventually called “statesmen.” He prefers to think of politics as the art of handling men. And Harry can handle men, from dishwashers to senators; he can manage affairs, from banquet arrangements to committee meetings. In short, Harry gets things done. He has contacts, and can make contacts; he knows whom to go to, where to find him, how to approach him.
Harry L.’s handicap of bad eyesight attracted attention during his freshman year — but his quick mind was the herotalk of fellow freshmen. He seemed to memorize as he read, and could discuss a paragraph or a chapter thoroughly after one reading. His classmates with freshman exuberance used to chant “Ta ta, ta ta, ta ta, Harry L. Murray!” in rafter-raising unison when he entered the classroom. They sat back and listened when the prof would say, “Let’s hear from Mr. Murray.”
Harry L. likes organization, and the Freshman Managers organization attracted him. He was soon a busy mainstay. They still remember him at the office—from Layden on down.
St. Vincent de Paul became another outlet for his energies. He worked at the newly organized St. Augustine’s Negro parish, cheered the Healthwin patients with his chatter, and became an experienced case-worker. The Vincentians found him a worker who knew how to get things done.
He met Eli Abraham, and joined the K. of C. Soon he belonged to the inner
ATTENTION STUDENT PHOTOGRAPHERS!
Any student who has done good photographic work and is interested in taking pictures for the Dome is asked to report to 351 Dillon Hall on Saturday afternoon.
Neil McCarty Editor, 1940 Dome
circle of those who know what is going on.
In campus politics, Harry L. prefers to be a close onlooker, a man of many camps. It gives him all of the experience and none of the disappointment, he finds.
Around the campus there is nothing that Harry loves more than a good bullsession. But it must be serious. He leads in discussing politics, theoretical and practical, local, state, and national. Harry likes to discuss the good things of life—good food, good clothes, good music; back home he is an expert at mixing drinks, but explains that he hasn’t a license to practice in Indiana.
Harry awed his fellow freshmen by taking a graduate course in public speaking, and passing it with honors. Harry is majon’ng in politics, and taking first year law. In public affairs he is in his element. He knows society, from the top to the bottom. Harry likes to explain the workings of the slot machine and numbers rackets, as carried on in Pennsylvania. He knows graft, and how to expose it, red tape and how to cut it, chiseling and how to stop it. He knows how machines are organized, and why. He knows who the bosses are, and how to get to them. He is more than an apprentice in politics.
Harry hates a four-flusher, a chiseler, a wing-bag. He looks down on dininghall food-wasters, rowdies, “screw-balls,” and people that bump and shove. If you are none of these, you are his friend.
Father Doheny Named
. Asst. Superior General
The Rev. William J. Doheny, C.S.C., president and superior of Holy Cross college, Washington, D. C., was named assistant superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross. His appointment was announced by the Rev. Albert Cou-sineau, C.S.C., superior general of the order, which has its headquarters at Notre Dame. Father Doheny succeeds the late Very Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C., who was buried Thursday, Sept. 12.
A canonist of note, Father Doheny is authorized to plead in all ecclesiastical and diocesan tribunals throughout the world. He is a graduate of St. Norbert’s college and was ordained a priest of Holy Cross in 1924.
Father Doheny received his J.U.D. degree from Catholic University and has studied in various European seats of learning. Since 1937 he has been president of Holy Cross college, Washington. He has written several outstanding books on canonical subjects.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Father O'Brien, Founder of Newman Foundation, Joins University Faculty
Comes from Illinois to Teach Apologetics
“The day has come for the Catholic laity to do something of an active rather than a passive nature in the defence and propagation of the faith.” The Rev. John O’Brien, Ph.D., LL.D., founder of the Newman Foundation at the University of Illinois, was speaking in slow and chosen words, spiced with a bit of brogue here and there. The place — his high, narrow, book-walled room in the Main Building; the time—in the evening following his class in Catholic Action which he has initiated and is teaching for apologetics majors working for their master’s degree. This course, which Father O’Brien hopes and intends to become the nucleus for a nationally known school in Catholic Action, is formed on the basis of his investigation of Catholic lay work in England. He has spent the past year across the ocean, nine months of it as a research scholar in the philosophy of religion at Oxford, and the three summer months traveling about the continent.
He is also delegated to set up and direct an organization for making converts in South Bend. Since he has studied at the Catholic Evidence Guild apprenticeship school in London, he is well qualified for the position. The Evidence Guild, an internationally known organization for the promulgation of the Faith, uses this school as a proving ground for its lay preachers and spends the time in collective and individual heckling as apprentices stand on a rostrum and try to speak in practice as they will some day in earnest.
Father O’Brien plans to train his students in just such a lay apostleship, and also in writing articles for newspapers and magazines, both Catholic and nonsectarian, in defense and exposition of the Catholic religion. He cited as an example of the necessity for such work the invitation extended to him to reply to an article in a McFadden publication. Physical Culture, entitled, “Why Ministers Favor Birth Control.” His reply will appear in the November issue. He has also made plans for his boys to prepare a page for the youth section of Our Sunday Visitor. Any lack of enthusiasm for this line of endeavor has perhaps been due, he says, to the lack of guaran
teed position on graduation. He wishes to remedy this situation.
Father O’Brien is the founder of the Newman Foundation at the University of Illinois, now a nation-wide institution for the spiritual guidance of Catholics in non-sectarian universities. He was director of the Foundation and chaplain at Illinois for 23 years. He is also the founder of the Cardinal Newman Award,
Rev. John O’Brien, Ph.D., LL.D.
conferred annually for the year’s outstanding contribution to science, literature, art or humanity. This award is national, both in scope and renown. Thomas E. Dewey, Robert Andrews Millikan, Frank B. Kellogg, and the United States Senators Gerald P. Nye and George Norris have been honored thus in the past. Previous to his joining the faculty, Father O’Brien said , his only contact with Notre Dame occurred when he arrived in 1913 as captain of St. Viator’s debating team, which caused N.D.’s first defeat on home ground at that time in about 20 years.
Father O’Brien took his doctor’s degree at the University of Illinois and studied afterwards at Catholic University in Washington, D. C., and at the University of Chicago. He has had pub-Ished in all about twelve books, 50 pamphlets and countless magazine and newspaper articles. His first book, titled Silent Reading, is a study in the psy
chology of reading: his last, Thunder From the Left, vividly bespeaks its theme through its name. His best known work, The Faith of Millions, has had a phenomenal success, since it has reached the 100,000 mark in two and one-half years, and according to the present demand will sell 100,000 copies a year for the next decade. The fastest seller on religion today, it is an exposition of the philosophy, faith and credentials of the Catholic Church. Study clubs throughout the country use it as a text. Father has edited two symposiums, The White Harvest, a study in convert making, and Catholics and Scholarship, which states in rather an alarming way the fact that there are far too few Catholic scholars, and discusses the means of increasing them. This last includes a contribution by Mr. James A. Reyniers, professor in the biology department at Notre Dame.
In closing his interview Father O’Brien said, “My interest here lies in stimulating enthusiasm for the study of apologetics and Catholic Action; in assisting and directing the research here so that it will become a national institution for laymen.” He further added that it was a pleasure to be here at Notre Dame after laboring at a state university for 23 years. He hopes to meet as many seniors and post-graduates as possible, and to assist and direct them in Catholic lay action.—Bill Keenan
"Abe Lincoln in Illinois"
Is Saturday Night Film
“Abe Lincoln in Illinois,” starring Raymond Massey, will be the movie offering Saturday night at Washington Hall.
The scenario, adapted from Robert Sherwood’s play of the same name, progresses through the various phases of Lincoln as rail-splitter, clerk, back-woods lawyer, and politician, ending with his departure for Washington to take over the presidency of the country. A Disney cartoon and a newsreel will complete the program.
Other movies booked for the near future are “U Boat 29,” “Young Tom Edison,” “Irene,” and “Northwest Passage.” Arrangements for “Destry Rides Again” are incomplete.—Don Heltzel
O'Dowd on Radio
Jerome O’Dowd, a law student at Notre Dame, was among the students who appeared on the “Campus Summer Playhouse” on Westinghouse WGL, Fort Wayne, Ind., during the summer vacation. The programs were presented twice a week and are written, produced and acted by the students, under the direction of Bob Lee, WGL announcer, who is working toward his M.A. in speech at Indiana University.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
11
Diplomas, Classes, and Shakespearean Drama Highlights of Summer on Campus
Graduation became a highlight of 1940 at Notre Dame. Friday, May 31, saw the return to the campus of hundreds of alumni representing every fifth year class starting with 1890. Returning Notre Dame graduates registered during the day, also enjoyed a golf tournament on the University course during the afternoon featuring one of the nation’s golf aristocrats, Walter Hagen, Sr., and his son, Walt. Jr., a member of the 1940 class. The elder Hagen won. In the evening a banquet was held to honor the 25- and 50-year graduating classes.
On June 1, the alumni witnessed an intercollegiate baseball game between •Notre Dame and Michigan State in the afternoon, played softball on Badin Bog, and attended smokers, informal reunions in the halls, and band and glee club entertainments in Washington Hall. The annual Alumni Banquet was held that evening, Professor Clarence Manion of the Law School acting as toastmaster. Honored guests at the banquet included ex-president of the University, the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., auxiliary bishop of the Army and Navy diocese; Raymond J. Kelly, ’15, national commander of the American Legion; Lewis J. Murphy, ’16, national commander of Disabled World War Veterans; Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
662 Graduates
Degrees were conferred on 662 graduate and undergraduate students at the 96th annual commencement exercises on Sunday, June 2. The baccalaureate address was delivered in Sacred Heart Church that morning by the Most Rev. John J. Cantwell, D.D., archbishop of Los Angeles. Diplomas were presented the graduates in the fieldhouse Sunday afternoon by Father O’Donnell. The Hon. David Worth Clark, senior senator from Idaho and member of the class of ’22, delivered the commencement address.
Classes for the summer session of 1940 began on June 22, with approximately 850 students in attendance. Besides regular members of the University faculty, 21 visiting teachers helped with instruction work during the session. Special lectures were given in Washington Hall by three visiting clergymen. The Rev. James O’Toole, of Toledo, talked to members of the student body on the problems and benefits of Catholic Action. The Rev. Stephen A. Leven, the famed street preacher of Louisville, Ky., gave a talk on his own line of work. The Rev. John B. Delaunay, C.S.C., of the University of Portland, delivered an address titled “The Merry Men of God,” which dealt
with expressions of humor shown among the saints.
Shakespearean Comedy
One of the most delightful aspects of the summer session was the presentation of the Shakespearean comedy, “Twelfth Night.” University students in collaboration with some South Bend actresses, and under the direction and leadership of Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., and Mr. Robert Speaight, of the department of English, gave four performances of the play on the campus during the latter part of July. The walk and steps of the south side of the Commerce building served as an outdoor stage for the production, bleacher seats were set up on the lawn of the south quadrangle. Costumes for the play were designed by John Willmer, freshman art student, and were made by the nuns on the campus.
On July 30 in Washington Hall, 87 diplomas were presented to graduate and undergraduate students who had successfully completed their courses. The Rev. Francis P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., of the Sociology department, delivered the commencement address. Session examinations for students not graduating ended on July 31, thus concluding the summer’s activities for 1940.—John Casey
115 Student Musicians Answer First Band Call
One hundred and fifteen students answered the first call of Band Director Joseph Casasanta last week.
A successful band looms for this year. Regular rehearsals began last week and are being held five days a week, two of which are devoted to drills and formations. Preparations for the approaching football season are now in progress. The Band officers for the present year are: Larry Schmidt, president; John Stack, vice-president; Bob Finch, secretary; and Jack Stiedl, business manager.
An invitation to try out for the band is extended to all who are interested and have not as yet signed up.—C. S. Coco
Freshmen Survey
Dr. James McMeel reported this week that a new procedure is being followed with this year’s freshmen whereby the entire student body will be immunized against certain diseases within the next four years. The details and results of this new movement will be completed soon. Meanwhile routine freshman and football physical examinations are proceeding on schedule.—Mark J. Lies
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
Liturgy is the Church giving glory to • God and sanctifying man.... Its outward expression is all the rites and ceremonies which accompany the established forms of worship.... It satisfies man’s natural longings to express his dependence upon God and fits them into a framework of divine origin.
Some phase of this subject we shall endeavor to present each week on this page and in this space.... A calendar of feasts for the week will appear upon another page for the convenience of those who use a missal at the celebration of holy Mass.
Man by his very nature tends towards God.... God himself through the Incarnation reaches down to man and raises him to the supernatural state._This is sanctifying grace.... The sacramental. . system established by Christ is the means by which man attains to and perfects himself in this state.... The Eucharist, which is at once both sacrifice and sacrament, is the centre of this system.
All the acts by which man glorifies God and effects his own sanctification are called worship.... The supreme act of worship is the mass.... To know the mass and to love it, to participate frequently in its celebration, is the most effective means of keeping close to God. .... It is not just private worship but corporate.... It is the whole body of the Church united in giving praise to the Most Holy Trinity and supplicating its blessings on the whole body of the Church.
There is no place for individualism at the mass.... At the mass there is no such thing as loneliness.... All are members of Christ and members of one another. ... Holy Communion received at the mass intensifies this sense of solidarity. ... The same Flesh and Blood strengthens the supernatural life in eadi one.... The grace of Christ is poured -forth upon you, according to St. Paul—. Here there is no place for envy, hate, unlawful ambitions....
Baptism and Confirmation make everyone co-offerers of the Sacrifice with the priest. . .' . This tremendous thought should drive out all considerations of ease and inconvenience._To be at the Last Supper and on Calvary every day is a privilege of rare exception.
(Mass Calendar on page 26)
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive
Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1S67
WILLIAM C. McGOWAN, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN W. PATTERSON, Jr., Managing Editor
JAMES NEWLAND, Promotion
WILLIAM SCANLON, News Editor
JOHN DINGES, Sports Editor
GEORGE MILES, Literary Editor
BERNARD LONGO, Art Editor
REV. C. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, 213 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building;
Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Looking Ahead
It is the peculiar problem of a weekly publication to appear to be breaking the news, when in fact much of its content is only slightly less than a week old. The Scholastic has had that problem for 74 years, or since it was established in 1867. But the problem would be smaller if readers were aware that as a weekly news magazine the real aim of The Scholastic is radically different from that of a news daily.
There is little chance that any “scoops” will ever grace its pages, because the process of writing and printing the magazine is vastly different from that of a high-speed daily. On the other hand readers can reasonably expect to find a better statement of what has happened than can be found in the hurried news columns of a news daily. This is not said to disparage the newspaper, but merely to indicated the difference between the methods of a daily and those of a weekly publication.
Then it is to be expected that The Scholastic will present for the most part facts and events already partially known to its readers. That is the inevitable situation in a weekly—and it is too little understood by readers. Friday afternoon will be much more interesting if it is considered that most of us are in the habit of being jolted morning and night by three-inch headlines which carry information of less moment sometimes, than they would have us believe.
Of course, The Scholastic has a compensation factor..Its staff, with com-
partively more time to work, tries to record more accurately than a news daily. It tries to supply details which are imperfectly known, and which would be perhaps unattainable to an unreasonably hurried reporter. This year The Scholastic will continue its search for facts which are complete and at the same time always appropriate. It is hoped that as the year progresses the writing presented in these pages will correspondingly attain increasing significance.
Perhaps the least tangible asset of a weekly magazine is its ability and opportunity to reflect the changing scene. Yet this asset is the most important of all. A staff not forced o make daily sallies into the midst of things has time, usually, to realize the signficance of what has gone before, and consequently is able to write with a more seasoned view. The Scholastic recognizes its opportunities and is grateful for them. It intends seriously to make full use of them. Finally, it hopes its readers will follow along with a co-operative spirit and a kindly eye.—William C. McGowan
Rise and Shine
Each year from this editorial box comes a plea for active student interest in The Scholastic. Looking through issues of the past we see invitations galore asking all who are journalistically inclined to join us in publishing the school weekly.
Now, hoping for a more gratifying response, we are going to ask for a spe
cial type of writer. We want editorial writers!
The burden of composing editorials has been, up to now, on the shoulders of two or three editors who have numerous other things to do. Between collecting copy, writing heads, editing generally, working in the press rooms, these few men must sandwich in an editorial each week.
Sooner or later, there is going to be a lack of ideas, no punch in the editorials finally printed.
In order to add freshness to the editorials, The Scholastic this year intends to establish a board of editorial writers. We believe that a group of writers, for instance eight men, insures a more varied and a brighter editorial outlook.
Over in the library, a group of aspiring journalists are taking a course in editorial -writing. We understand that one object of the course is to get a piece published. Here we are, just waiting for good material.
Finally, the opportunity is afforded for those who feel like expressing opinion in print rather than wasting it in a bull session.—John Patterson
The Laymen's Retreat
A gratifying note in these times was struck by a small item in the August issue of The Santa Maria, published on the campus by the Knights of Columbus. “Fourteen hundred Catholic laymen from all sections of the United States participated in the 23rd retreat conducted by the Fathers of Holy Cross on the campus at Notre Dame,” it began.
According to the item, this constituted the “largest group ever to participate in the annual .‘spiritual housecleanings’ which were inaugurated during the first world war in 1918.” To cap the climax a second retreat followed immediately with a group of some 200 taking part.
It is a blessed relief from the ordinary news of the present day, to know that me nin increasing numbers are setting aside part of their summer for three days of prayer and contemplation. This entire group, on the final day of their retreat marched in “acolorful candle-lit procession from Sacred Heart Church to the Grotto.... on the campus, while hundreds of women and children from South Bend and nearby points lined the route of march to witness this demonstration of faith by men from all walks of life.”
One feels that the writer for The Santa Maria was too reticent. He should have said “this extraordinary demonstration of faith.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
Crusaders for God and Country
(Sermon preached by the Very Reverend J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., at the formal opening of school.)
“I am the Lord thy God. Thou shalt not have strange gods before me.” (Ex.20.1-3)
The command of the Master to “teach all nations” was given to the Apostles shortly before His ascension into heaven. In a sense, it might be considered His valedictory. And when the Holy Ghost came on that first Pentecostal morn the Apostles were filled with those wonderful gifts of mind and heart which enabled them to go through the world preaching the Gospel of Christ and Him crucified— “the things that He had commanded them.”
That the Apostles succeeded in their mission is apparent to any student of history. As a result, the nascent Church of Christ soon took form. Built on a rock, it will survive to the consummation of the world, regardless of the storms of persecution—“Behold I am with you all days I”
The extraordinary work of the Apostles was continued by their succes- -sors. Before many centuries had passed, schools were founded in the bishops’ homes and instruction given by priests and monks renowned for their learning. It can truly be said that wherever the Gospel of Christ was preached the Church nurtured education. She did so in order that her children might have a true appreciation of their ultimate end, which is God Himself. It is not surprising, therefore, that, as century followed century, the Church formed a basic philosophy of education that emphasized the arts and letters and sciences and other studies that contribute to civilization and culture.
The missionaries of the early Church became educators and left their imprint wherever they went. Their contribution reached its peak in the Middle Ages, when Church and State cooperated in the founding of schools which later developed into the great universities of the thirteenth century. This period is also famous for the development of Scholasticism and the rise of that galaxy of scholars known as the Schoolmen. Albertus Magnus, Thomas Aquinas and the others did not scorn the products of Greek thought, but sought to make them the rational basis of belief. Hence, Scholasticism established harmony between the findings of reason and the truths of revelation. And scholastic philosophy, with its accompanying method, is still fundamental in the development of the reasoning pow
ers of students in the Catholic program of education.
It was only natural, therefore, that when the intrepid Spaniards and French discovered the Americas, Old World civilization should be brought to the Western Hemisphere. The missionaries, successors to the Apostles and disciples, came
IN THE REMEMBRANCE OF A WOMAN
I had no need of knowing how
The sun did set, what things the planets be.
I fondled One who could of laughter make
A star, of one sweet tear a sea.
He tvas so very small, He could not help—
When birds with hunger filled the skies—
Forgetting that He was a little Man To listen like His Father with His eyes.
Like other boys, He had His private games,
Small crosses on small hills of sand.
And once I found Him fitting nails
Against His feet, against one eager hand.
—Lowes Keble
and preached the Gospel of Christ to the natives. They strengthened and perpetuated their teaching by establishing schools and universities that were to serve as fonts- of culture and refinement in the nations to be.
No more eloquent tribute could be paid to the Church in the New World during the period of Spanish colonization than that of the non-Catholic historian, Bourne, in his well-known “Spain in America”:
‘‘The transmission of the heritage of European culture to the New World and its inhabitants, the great work of the colonial epoch, was the task undertaken by the Church.... While both the crown and the Church were solicitous for education in the colonies, and provisions were made for its promotion on a far greater scale than was possible or even attempted in the English colonies.”
So in the providence of God, and in accordance with the mandate of the Master, there came from France, in 1841, Father Sorin and six Brothers to labor in the New World. They spent a year at Vincennes and afterwards, in the early part of November, 1842, they set out by oxcart for the northern part of Indiana. Here they carved out of the wilderness a shrine of education dedicated to the Mother of God. And today Notre Dame, with its student body of three thousand from every State in the Union and twelve foreign countries, stands as a monument to their faith, their courage and their perseverance.
Praises Founder
The founder of this University and his associates brought to the Indiana wilderness a true appreciation of the phil-osophy of Catholic education. Recognizing God as the center—the very heart of the program—they taught the sacredness and dignity of the human personality. They believed that the end of man is God; that man has an immortal soul that will not rest content until, in the words of Saint Augustine, it “rests in Him”; that man possesses certain Godgiven faculties that through education seek proper development. The founders believed that man, a social being, naturally has to be trained so that, in addition to culture and refinement, he acquires the use of tools that enable him to be a success in life. But throughout this program of education ran the theme that you remember in your catechism— man is placed on this earth to know, love and serve God in this world, and to be happy with Him forever in the next.
Notre Dame still treasures the heritage that she received from the founders. She still insists that God is the center of educational life. She still clings tenaciously to the principles from which all truth proceeds. She still believes in the development of the whole man. Progress she recognizes; research she sponsors; scholarship she loves, but all these in keeping with the foregoing premises. Under the patronage of the Queen aloft the golden dome, she can never compromise her heritage with the fads and fancies of modern educators who seek only the glorification of man as man, under the baneful influence of the philosophy of naturalism.
i
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
14	THE
On the contrary, taking her stand in direct opposition to the worshippers of false educational idols, she turns for inspiration and guidance to the words of Pius XI, of happy memory, in his encyclical, “The Christian Education of Youth”:
. It must never be forgotten that the subject of Christian education is man ‘whole’ and ‘entire,’ soul united to body in unity of nature, with all his faculties natural and supernatural, such as right reason and Revelation show him to be.. ..
. All the teaching and the whole organization of the school.... must be regulated by the Christian spirit._so that Religion may be in very truth the foundation and crown of the youth’s entire training; and this in every grade of school .... and the higher institutions of learning as well.
“Hence every form of pedagogic naturalism which in any way excludes or weakens supernatural Christian formation in the teaching of youth, is false. Every method of education founded, wholly or in part, on the denial or forgetfulness of original sin and of grace, and relying on the sole powers of human nature, is unsound.”
In war-torn Europe, where man-made ideologies are striving for supremacy, we can readily see the results of the iniquitous philosophy of naturalism which the Holy Father condemns. It appears that Western civilization, as we once knew it, is dying. Perhaps it is already dead. But I predict that there will be a resurgence in the not too distant future, when people realize what follows from a worship of false gods.
Deplores Conflict
As we cast a sorrowing eye across the sea at the destruction of life, property and sacred ideals, let us pause and make a national examination of conscience of our own beloved country. Are we not following the path that has led so many European nations to ruin? In the United States crime flourishes. Divorce and race suicide have come to be accepted without causing so much as a lifted eyebrow. Morally, we have become calloused. The youth of our country are too often entrusted to so-called educators who not only deny that God is the heart of education, but deny the existence of God Himself! With such a beginning, one need not be a prophet to foresee the end.
Well may America learn a lesson from France, in view of what has happened there, and I know of no more appropriate way to express a repentance following our chastisment than by quoting the litany of Archbishop Saliege, of Toulouse:
“For having excluded God from our schools, public deliberations and the nation, Lord forgive us.	•
“For having despoiled religion and the Church, Lord forgive us.
“For having opened and multipled places of sin. Lord forgive us.
“For having desecrated the Sunday and forgotten the commandments. Lord forgive us.”
France had forgotten God, and the inevitable occurred. The worship of “strange gods” will bring disaster to any nation.
We love our country. All of us are interested in its welfare. Just now we are particularly interested in a program for national defense, if for no other reason than to prepare to keep an intruder from our house. In this program Notre Dame, as always, will do her part. But may God forbid that war in any form visit our land. We are a peaceloving nation, and we detest war for what it fails to accomplish and for the ruin it leaves in its wake.
Naturalism Is Enemy
But there is already an enemy within our borders. Within the last forty years it has silently and effectively taken its toll. That enemy is naturalism. In my opinion, it will destroy our civilization more quickly and completely than any hostile army possibly could. The tragedy is that this philosophy has found so fertile a field in certain educational systems. One has only to read Dr. O’Connell’s classic work, “Naturalism in Education,” for proof of this statement.
The results of naturalism may be found in the religious census of the United States for the year 1936. That report proves pretty clearly that we are no longer a Christian nation. Of a population of about 130 millions, only 56 millions profess to be members of any Church. And even of that number millions are only nominally churchgoers. Well may we reflect upon the words of a columnist in one of the Catholic papers:
“As a nation we are pagan. Not only numerically, but largely morally and philosophically. Witness, for example, our crime record, our divorce problem, the practice of birth control, our lewd literature, our indifference or contempt of the commandments and their implication, our uncertainty of belief. What we need is to arouse our faith, to return as a nation to God.”
Let us pray that the curse of a misguided intellectualism, with its cafeteria morality, be lifted from our nation so that our citizens will appreciate and practice the first commandment as given to Moses on Mount Sinai: “I am the Lord thy God. Thou shalt not have strange gods before me.”
Today, as we gather here in solemn service to ask God’s blessiing on another academic year, the international horizon is dark with the grim spectre of war. Our national outlook is bedimmed with ominous clouds, because so many of our people have-forgotten God, the Creator and the end of mankind.
Yet I close this sermon on a note of . hope—hope for America and the civilization given to it by the Founding Fathers,
who were religious-minded men — hope for the youth of America, in the glory of work and achievement that lies ahead.
Hope for America lies in the belief that, regardless of the storm clouds of war, citizens will look beyond the horizon and return to a recognition and worship of God. The return may not come soon; it may not come for a generation, but come it must as our people re-awaken to the truth and wisdom underlying Christian civilization. Such hope is based on the promise that the spark of belief in God and the Christian religion still burns within the breasts of the seventy or more millions now apparently deaf to the divine command: “Thou shalt not have strange gods before me.”
Hope for the youth of America—hope for this freshman group before me— lies in the belief that they will recognize the folly of their elders’ worldly-mindedness, and proceed like an army in battle array to establish a vital appreciation of the true, the good and the beautiful as found in God Himself. A glorious opportunity awaits them. A ringing challenge is given them, and under the leadership of a God-centered education, not a man-centered dictation, they will march on to a rebirth of Christian civilization.
Youth Undefeated
Youth as I know them are never tainted by the philosophy of defeatism. They love an adventure; they glory in the unexpected; they revel in a challenge. All these await them if they will help to ignite the spark of religion now lying dormant in the hearts of their elders. By so doing they will destroy the false gods of the present, so that adoration may be given to God Himself, eternal and unchangeable.
As you begin your college program, members of the Class of 1944, in this environment sanctified by the early missionaries, let your objective be to become crusaders for God and country in an apostolate that will emphasize the discipline of the spiritual, the intellectual and the moral. To be a good crusader you must be well trained and subject to the demands of the society in which you live. Also you must have an understanding of the doctrines of Catholicism if you are to further them under the dynamic cause of Catholic Action. You must recognize that success requires hard labor. There is no soft way to achievement.
At Notre Dame you will find that religion is still the heart of the academic program. Here you will find applied the. first principles from which all intellectual development proceeds. Here you will
(Continued on Page 26)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
Father Shea Die$"Author of "Victory March"
By James Cunningham
“He wrote a victory march — this cherished priest-friend of ours,” began the Rev. Henry F. Hammer, speaking at the funeral of the Rev. Michael John Shea, composer of the “Victory March,” who died last August 19 in New York.
“A youth from Holyoke, Mass., he was a student in the Arts Department of Notre Dame. One of a group of five hundred, he was distinguished for his piety, intellectual gifts, attractive personality, and ardent love of music,” continued Father Hammer.
Spiritual Gifts
“In a sense Mike Shea was a strange youth — but strange only because the exceptional spiritual gifts of his make-up placed him upon an eminence a little higher than that of the young men who surrounded him. Whatever he did, he did exceptionally well. He, more than any other student of his time, caught in his soul that indefinable, but inspirational something which has become celebrated all through the nation and euphoniously characterized as “The Spirit of Notre Dame.” And to him it was given to interpret in musical language, that will live as long as America lives and the golden dome of the great University stands.
‘There is victory — is there not — in this humanly untimely death of his? Humanly speaking the span of man’s earthly life is three score and ten. Death has struck him down at the comparatively early age of 55. But I speak truthfully when I say that, though this early and sudden death is a shock, it can, in no sense of the word, be regarded as a tragedy. Death is a tragedy only when those die who have not lived well. For the priest of God, whether he views the imminence of his own death or the passing from this life of one who shared with him the office of the Eternal Priest —the word death has only one meaning. It means victory, and if death comes soon, it is quick earned victory,” said the priestly speaker.
“Father Shea’s life was a victory march. I knew him well over a long period of years. I first met him during his student days at Notre Dame, where he
was a classmate of my brother and a frequent visitor at my father’s home. His genial smile radiated friendliness. Latei’ we were seminarians together at Dunwoodie where I was honored with his friendship. I stood near him on that June day in 1912 when he was raised to the dignity of the Holy Priesthood before the high altar of St. Patrick’s Cathedral,
Rev. Michael J. Shea
where afterwards he was to serve as an assistant to the revered and lamented Monsignor Lavelle through a year of distinguished and zealous parochial service.
Studied In Rome
“Prepared by the study of music in Rome and by a visit to the Monastery of the Monks of St. Pierre Solemes, he was in a very special manner qualified to assume the duties also of assistant organist and choir director at the Cathedral until his late Eminence, Cardinal Farley, recognizing his great musical talent, appointed him to direct the choral work at St. Joseph’s Seminary and to assume the important task of training the seminarians in ecclesiastical chant. During 24 years of zealous professorial
labor at the seminary, though he taught successively philosophy, apologetics, dogmatic theology and music, he found time to compose many Masses, motets and hymns.
“Father Shea’s long ambition to become a pastor, in order that he might more directly come in contact with God’s people and share with them the goodness of his great human heart and the spiritual gifts of his priesthood, was after more than 20 years of devoted and effective seminary work at last realized. Two short years ago in the springtime of the year 1938, he left Dunwoodie to assume parochial charge of this beautiful parish of St. Augustine at Ossining. The last phase of his victory march had begun.
“Work which even a well man might have hesitated to begin he fearlessly undertook. Organizing, directing, daily administering the material interests of the parish, offering Holy Mass, giving the Sacraments, visiting the sick, consoling the afflicted, looking after the wants of the poor, instructing the children — a Good Shepherd, indeed, whose only interest was the care of his flock.
“So the victory march of this beloved priest is ended.
Future Contacts
“A short while now and the warmth will give place to the cool, fresh winds of late September, and brown leaves will fall unchecked from numberless trees through the months of October and early November. Autumn will be our brief guest before the snows of winter fall. Thunderous crowds will gather in great stadia throughout the nation to attend the inter-collegiate football contests. Bands will play and pennants wave and through the radios in many of your homes will come the triumphant strains of a long, familiar tune. You will pause and listen and say, ‘It is the Victory March. It is Father Shea’s Victory March.’ May it remind you then to pray for the soul of his whence the inspiration of that glorious music came. May it ever remind .you for your edification how well he lived his Christian life and so marched on to eternal victory,” concluded Father Hammer.	•
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Optimism Prevails (Almost) As Irish Prepare For Brilliant Gridiron Season
Clear the track, the Fighting Irish football special is roaring ’round the bend, and woe it is to the foes who seek tp block her autumnal path to national gridiron supremacy!
With his 1939 forward wall shot by graduation, and such vaunted backs as Benny Sheridan, Lou Zontini, Harry Stevenson, Joe Thesing, and Steve Sitko, gone through the same medium, Head Coach Ehner F. Layden is building his 1940 machine along streamlined plans, with speed and deception taking the place of sheer power.
The greatest task confronting the head mentor is rebuilding a line that finds Tom Gallagher at left tackle the only returning regular of the ’39 eleven. However, rival coaches are shedding few tears for Mr. Layden along these lines, inasmuch as he has power-a-plenty up front with such recognized stars as Paul Lillis, Jim Brutz, and Cliff Brosey, returning at the tackle slots; Pete Kelly, John Gubanich, Herky Bereolos, and Ed Sullivan at guard; and Johnny O’Brien, George Rassas, and Phil Sheridan at the flanks. These boys supplemented by such burly sophomore prospects as tackles Lou Rymkus, Wally Ziemba and Bob Neff, all over 220 pounds; guards Jim Walsh, Bob Webb, and Jim Kelly; and ends,- Bob Dove and George Murphy, make the going slightly pleasant for Coach Layden and his aide-de-camps on the line, Joe Boland and Joe Benda. Center presents the most vexing problem with five inexperienced men battling it out for the number one job, namely, Bob Osterman, Marty O’Reilly, Jim Ford and sophomores Tom Brock and John McHale.
Backfield coach, “Chet” Grant finds the situation none the less pleasant from his point of view, with lettermen returning at every position, and a host of high-powered sophs eager to smash into the starting line-up. Three deep at every position are the Irish backs, who pack speed and power. At this writing, by right of experience and past performances, the fullback nod goes to “Big Moose” Piepul, captain and pile-driver of the Blue and Gold. Bob Saggau, triplethreat left half, who, in this his last year, should make a strong bid for AllAmerican honors, looks good. Shifty Steve Bagarus gets the call at right half, and “pull-’em-out-of-the-hat” Bob Hargrave will trick the opposition at quarter.
Asked .to give his opinion on his team’s outlook for the coming campaign Coach
Layden complied with the following statement: “I don’t want to appear too optimistic so early in the season, because anything can happen when a team plays a schedule such as ours. But I’ll go on record as saying that we expect to have a great team this Fall. The boys are hustling a-plenty, and the enthusiasm is great. Every position is wide open and probably will remain as such until after the third game. We still have plenty of work ahead of us before we tackle College of the Pacific two weeks hence. Last Saturday’s scrimmage brought to light many defects in both our offense and defense that will have to be remedied pronto. Next Saturday’s annual battle with the Frosh will afford the boys ample opportunity to see what they can do under actual game conditions. All in all it looks like a great year for the Irish— but I’ll tell you more about that later.”
—Jim Clemens
Bill Mahoney Succeeds Nicholson As Track Coach
There is an adage to the effect that youth must be served. It came true this summer when William Mahoney, very
Coach Bill Mahoney
probably the most youthful collegiate track mentor in the country, was appointed head coach of track last month to succeed the late John P. Nicholson.
For two years Coach Mahoney worked side by side with “Nick” in the capacity of freshman coach. Then, when the inevitable occurred last spring, Bill assumed the driver’s seat and spurred the locals on to the state championship. Consequently, he is believed well qualified for the post.
During his college career, Bill showed amazing versatility. He was a hurdler on
the track team, wrote for The Scholastic, bandied words for the Wranglers, played the clarinet and saxophone, and studied law. Even now in his new post he still retains his legal aspirations and intends to practice law on the side.
From all indications the new coach will have a wealth of talented material on hand in his first full season.
—Frank L. Kunkel
N. D. Men Prominent In
1940 All-Star Lineup
Boasting seven men on the All Star team, two in the stai'ting lineup, Notre Dame gridmen gi-aduating in June took their final bow as collegians on the football field. Though the champion Green Bay Packers handed them a 45-28 drubbing, the All-Stars gave a good account of themselves and provided one of the best games since the series began.
As in the past the Stars were selected by popular voting and, followers of the Fighting Irish poured in thousands of votes for graduates of the ’39 team. The coach was chosen by votes, and for the third year in a row a Notre Dame man was elected head coach. Eddie Anderson ran away with first place on the merits of his work at Iowa last fall. One of his five assistants was Buck Shaw of Santa Clara, another coach who learned his football under Rockne.
After two weeks of conditioning and practice, during which Bud Kerr, intended starter at left end, broke his ankle, the All-Stars lined up with Joe Thesing at fullback and tackle Tad Harvey taking the starting post of Boyd of Texas A. & M. who was unable to join the squad. Thesing got loose on the kickoff for a 40-yard runback but was soon withdrawn. Chuck Riffle moved in along side Harvey, when U.S.C.’s Harry Smith was taken out with injuries. Steve Sitko, Lou Zontini and Benny Sheridan got in for brief periods, but had little opportunity to show why they had been starting backs here.—John Quinn
N. D. Loses to Army
Coach Elmer Layden has already lost two promising members of his squad to Uncle Sam’s military service. Howard Petschel and John Walior, sophomore right end and guard, respectively, took advantage of the recruiting officers’ proposals last spring, fulfilled the requirements and are now learning to fly in the U.S. Army Air Corps. Petschel won the spring-practice medal for ends for blocking tackles and was regarded as the most improved end on the squad. He . was to report at Randolph Field, San Antonio, Texas, on Sept. 11.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
Neild Breaks Records
In Campus Golf Tourney
The 11th Annual University Championship Golf tournament got under way last week-end, and at the end of the first 36 holes Golf Captain Sam Neild led the field with a fine score of 142, six strokes ahead of his nearest rival, Gene Fehlig. Neild’s amazing total of 67 for the first round, together with his 36 hole total of 142, broke two student records on the par 71 course. Neild’s five birdies on the first 18 holes played featured his afternoon’s work.
The tournament affords Golf Coach Father Holderith an idea of what to expect in the way of material for the season which starts in April. Many freshmen and sophomores turned in fine scores which might be an indication of some .stiff competition for team berths next spring. The winner and runner-up will receive trophies donated by William J. Burke who founded the course in 1927. In addition, the name of the winner and his score will be engraved on the plaoue in the golf sh®p.
The concluding 36 holes will be played tomorrow and Sunday, Sept. 21 and 22. Of the 64 who teed off last Saturday, 34 have turned in 36 hole scores. Here are the leaders at the half-way mark:
Name	Out-in-total	Out-in-total	36
Sam Neild 			 35-32—67	38-37—75	142
Gene Fehlig 				 39-38—77	36-35—71	148
William Fisher ....		 40-38—78	37-35—72	150
William Schaller ...	...... 38-37—75	38-40—78	153
Mike Fisch 			 39-35—74	41-39—80	154
William Wilson ....		 37-36—73	39-43—82	155
John Harrigan ....		 40-38—78	42-37—79	157
Lou Brozo 			 39-40—79	41-38—79	158
William McCarty			 39-38—77	39-43—82	159
James Allen 			 39-40—79	42-38—80	159
Richard Dalton .....			 39-39—78	38-43—81	159
William Morehead	.... 41-43—84	37-39—76	160
Jack Hedges 			41-39—80	43-38—81	161
George Schrieber .			 39-43—82	41-38—79	161
Tom Walsh 			 42-39—81	40-41—81	162
Mel Wilke 				 46-36—82	39-41—80	162
James Wolff 			 44-40—84	41-37—78	162
James Bakeman ...		 39-43—82	38-42—80	162
Tom Nash 			 42-37—79	44-39—83	162
Larry Aubrie 		..... 39-42—81	42-39—81	162
		—Al Clark	
Active Sports Program
For Rockne Memorial
This year the Rockne Memorial sports program opens with a freshman swimming contest. All freshmen are invited to compete for win, place or show medals in not more than two events other than diving contest, which is open to all under any conditions. ’
The rest of the program for the first semester is full and varied, as announced by Thomas Mills, director of the Memorial. A basketball free throw contest and an open swimming meet will precede the holidays. Interhall volleyball and basketball matches will be played off con-
(Continued on Page 25)
Splinters From the Press Box
■	, , ."JAMES NEWLAND^- ■
Back home again in Indiana, and it seems that we can see that gleaming candlelight still shining bright for Coach Elmer Layden and his gang of Fighting Irish. Brighter, perhaps, than any of his six previous years as head man of Notre Dame football destinies. Prognosticators “in the know” have intimated the Irish can’t miss this year to nail down the first national championship since the golden era of 1930 when our beloved Knute Rockne piloted one of his many Notre Dame elevens to football’s highest tribunal. But to foretell the outcome of an entire season is one thing — and to predict it right is another. There is no denying, Notre Dame on paper is a potential championship aggregation. But it’s well nigh incredible the unforeseen paradoxes that can send a great team from top of the heap to a deep, groggy position down where the trade winds play.
Notre Dame’s own Francis Wallace, whose Pigskin Preview each fall in the Saturday Evening Post is watched with eager anticipation by fans, players and writers, heralds the 1940 edition of Fighting Irish as “the team of the year.” He writes, “If Saggau and Piepul get hot together through the thick of the season, the Irish will again be reaching for a national title.” In predicting an undefeated season and a national championship for Notre Dame, Wallace selects Texas A. & M., Washington, Nebraska, Fordham, Ohio State, Cornell, Tennessee, Tulane, Duke, Southern Methodist, Santa Clara, Minnesota, Northwestern and Southern California, to finish in that order. In his preview of 1940 All-American backs he names Scott, Ohio State; Harmon, Michigan; Piepul, Notre Dame; and Kimbrough, Texas A. & M.
❖
Ten familiar faces are missing from last year’s brigade. Whether they will be sadly missed is yet to be seen. At left half Bob Saggau will shoulder a department in the backfield that was paced last season by his two “S” partners, Harry Stephenson and Ben Sheridan. Bill McGannon, a whiz during spring practice if there ever was one, will also have something to say at left half. Capable Captain Milt Piepul, whose only fault according to one writer is shaking off the seventh and eighth tacklers, is expected to blitzkreig enemy lines no end. Bob Hargrave holds sway in' the brains department. Called by some the
“chance taker,” Evansville, Indiana’s, grid gift to Notre Dame, is expected to carry the mail occasionally as well as call signals, forming an offensive threat that may bring back memories of the famed razzle-dazzle. Lou Zontini had things practically his own way at right half last year, and his absence probably will be felt, but the two Steves, Bagarus and Juzwik, so far have shown great possibilities of stepping into Zontini’s old shoes, not an easy task under any circumstances.
❖
If practice makes perfect and if weight has anything at all to do with developing a substantial line, Layden has it. Experienced at all positions except center, this forward wall spells power in more ways than one. Veteran Johnny O’Brien and hard-luck George Rassas, both seniors, definitely have shown dividends at the end positions, and with Phil Sheridan ready to follow his famous namesake for a thrilling ride through enemy lines, together with Johnny Kovatch, lightest of the end four-. some, ready to give all, slim Elmer may present to the pigskin world his third All-American end in a trio of years. The one, and only, first string varsity member of last year’s squad, Thomas Gallagher, should not feel at all conspicuous at tackle. Jim Brutz, Paul Lillis and Cliff Brosey, Lou Rymkus, and Walt Ziemba are fighting for starting tackle assignments.
❖
Erudite sports writers did not give generously of their fine adjectives and rhetorical phrases last season to the sentry duties of Pete Kelly and Johnny Gubanich. Understudies to Joe DeFranco and Chuck Riffle at the guard spots most of the season, these two seniors should give the scribes plenty of copy material. Before the schedule is very far along, there may be some changes made in the center of the line, but until a better man comes along, Bob Osterman, at 200 pounds, apparently holds the upper hand.
V
Whether there will be all gold and no blue in the Irish banner this season is a matter of conjecture. It is a comfortable thought to sit back and imagine nine sweet victories in a row unblemished by the blot of defeat. But imagination—it’s funny. Can it make a cloudy day sunny for a squad of Fighting Irish? An afternoon on Cartier Field should convince anyone they have what it takes.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
■ — ALBERT DEL ZOPPQS=
He’s big. He’s fast. He’s rough and tough. But best of all he’s a “swell guy.” That is why Notre Dame’s footballers chosen Milton Piepul to lead the Fighting Irish for the 1940 football season. Milt’s popularity stands out more strikingly when we remember that not since 1926 has a Notre Dame back been honored with the football captaincy.
Receiving honors is nothing new for Milton Piepul. He has been winning awards ever since he
began smashing liis way for touchdowns against New7 England high school opponents. At Cathedral High in Springfield, Mass., Milt finished his high school football career by winning the most valuable player award. And though slowed down by injuries in his sophomore year at Notre Dame, Piepul recovered sufficiently the following year to earn a place on the AllWestern, the Polish All-American, and a place on almost every All-Opponent.
Milt Piepul looked like just another fullback in the fall of 1938 when he shared that position with Thesing, Simonich and Tonelli. But with no injuries to hamper him in 1939 Piepul started out to prove himself to be one of the best fullbacks ever to wear the
Blue and Gold. The ‘Moose’s” record speaks for itself. Last year he led the Notre Dame scorers with six touchdowns, averaged better than five yards a trip in 84 attempts, didn’t fumble once, and lost yardage on only three plays. Furthermore, Milt never failed Layden’s trust in him when he was called from the bench to pick up necessary yardage to make a first down.
Piepul’s bid for national recognition began in the Southern Methodist game last year when he sparked two sustained drives for touchdowns. From then on, there was no one who could stop him. He reeled off long gains for touchdowns against Georgia, Iowa, Northwestern, and Southern California^ And against
Navy “Moose” had radio commentators searching for new epithets as he bulled his way up and down the field for a total gain of 110 yards, almost as much as that gained by the entire Navy team.
Milt plays spectacular- football for a fullback. That’s because he can do more than ram his head through the opposition’s front line. He can kick; he can pass; he can run the ends. More than that, he can drive for yardage when
two or three men are desperately hanging on to his legs and hips.
Georgia Tech, Carnegia Tech, Army, Navy, and Northwestern are going to be happy to see Milton receive his Phy. Ed. degree next June, but before that time they will have to feel more of “Moose’s” jarring knees and jolting tackles. Capt. Piepul, like his coach, Elmer Layden, doesn’t believe in pointing towards any particular game on the schedule. He is out to win them all. But we somehow feel that Piepul will be pumping his legs harder and faster when he crashes into the Iowa and Southern California lines this fall.
Watch out for your All-American honors, Texas John Kimbrough!
Former Prep Stars Stud Freshman Pigskin Squad
This year’s Freshman football squad has among its 90 candidates outstanding men from every section of the country. Innumerable players, in the opinion of Coaches “Jake” Kline and Al Mooney have shown great promise.
At the ends are Matt Bolger, from St. Benedict’s Prep, Newark, N. J.; Bill Kyle, from Central Catholic, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Louie Hornie, from Har Brack, Tarentum, Pa.
The tackles are Bob Brown, Evanston High; Tom O’Brien, Suffern High, New York; Pat Hinkson, Straawn High, Texas; and Bill Amanma, watch charm tackle from Vernon High, New York.
The guards who to date have shown the most fight are Tony Del Vecchio, from Kokomo High, and Norb Ellrot, from Vincentian Institute. Pat Folley, Tom Carrigan, Stan Kudlacz, and Nick Rotz are giving their all for first string positions. At the pivot post Paul Cunningham, from Albany Academy and Tom Kelly, Elizabeth High, are fighting it out for center with stiff competition from Bob McDonnell and Bob Metzler.
Calling plays from the quarter back spot are Allen Elward whose father is coach at Purdue University, and Tom Dorais son of Gus Dorais, coach at Detroit. Other signal callers are Al Young-hause, Marty Kuntz, and Russ Ashbaugh.
At the running half, stars are Tony Bertelli, from Cathedral High; Mickey McConnell, from Elmira High; Owen McCall, from Drummer High, Gibson City, Ill.; Pat Yoklavich, Gunnison High, Gunnison, Colo., and George Dickson, from South Pasadena High. The blocking backs are Red Clark from Central Catholic, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Bill Murphy, Van Noys High, Calif.; Bill Broderick, Dormont High, Dormont, Pa.; and Gerry Goffney, from De Salle Institute.
In the fullback position, Neil Williams, from Boardman High, Youngstown, O.; Bob McBride, from Logan High, Logan, O.; Ed Tessaro, Greensburg High, Greensburg, Pa.; Joseph Daley, Malvern Prep, Reading, Pa.; and Bill MacNa-mara, Baldwin High, Baldwin, N. Y. All look like future varsity men.
—Joseph Lafferty
Varsity Football Schedule
Oct. 5—College of the Pacific at N.D.
Oct. 12—Georgia Tech at N.D.
Oct. 19—Carnegie Tech at N.D.
Oct. 26—Illinois at Champaign.
Nov. 2—Army at New York.
Nov. 9—Navy at Baltimore.
Nov. 16—Iowa at N.D.
Nov. 23—Northwestern at Evanston.
Dec. 7—Southern Cal. at Los Angeles.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
New Generator Produces 8,000,000 Volts
Recent scientific journals print thrilling reports about the dynamic mysteries of atom smashing. University laboratories are being equipped with vast,
mushroom-like high-voltage machines to split matter to a inferential spray of
protons, neutrons and alpha particles. For everywhere today the atom is the minute watchpiece of matter that intrigues the scientist. Whatever makes the atom tick may make the world tick.
The atom is not new. Democritus toyed with it some four hundred years before Christ. Twenty-five centuries of thinking about and experimenting with the atom have not divested it in any measurable way of its original challenge to discovery.
In line with recent installations of atom-smashing machines elsewhere, the University has expanded its own facilities for research. During the past summer a basement addition was built on to Science Hall. Here a steel tank weighing 21 tons rests on wheels. To the uninitiated it suggests a gift from Nazi skies. Its purpose is most
satisfactorily explained by an im
aginary conversation between a precocious freshman and a physics professor.
Freshman: Is this the new atom smasher?
Professor: Yes.
Freshman: What is the tank for?
PARKER-WINTERROWD
II5V2 - • 17% N. Main Street
Notre Dame men who know distinctive clothing depend upon PARKER-WINTERROWD. Right in appearance, fabric and fit, and priced to suit your budget.
Look, at your liesure, in this friendly atmosphere — we invite you to call at our upstairs shop or see our campus representatives:
Professor: I think I can answer your question better if we walk over to the Engineering Building and inspect the old atom smasher.
(On arrival at the Engineering Building, the professor opens the door of
Nq. 1 Atom Smasher
Room 28 and ushers the freshman in. He is confronted by a large copper ball, twelve feet in diameter, mounted 25 feet above the floor on three legs arranged in a tripod. Two rubber belts run from the far comers of the room to the ball, and
a weird-looking glass tube halves the
ball and passes through the side wall of the room.)
Professor: This is an electrostatic generator. It can produce 1,800,000 volts. The rubber belts that you see going up to the ball are mounted on pulleys and are turned by electric motors. As the belts leave the lower pulleys, they pass under a bar with many needle points. Electrons are actually sprayed on the belt and are carried up into the ball. They are removed inside the ball by a similar set of points and in a short time the copper ball has accumulated a tremendous charge. This charge produces a very high voltage. When this voltage becomes sufficiently high, in this particular generator, 1,800,000 volts, a large spark jumps from the sphere to the ground.
Freshman: What has the spark to do with atom smashing?
Professor: No direct connection. When used as an atom smasher, the charge on the ball is released down the evacuated glass tube in the form of electrons which curve like tiny bullets with a velocity nearly equal to that of light. It is these high velocity electrons which bombard the atoms under observation and cause them to disintegrate.
Now we can return to the new generator under construction at Science Hall. This generator is designed to give seven to eight million volts. To achieve this at normal atmospheric pressure the size of the copper ball would have to be some forty feet in diameter. This is structurally impractical. The size of the generator can be materially decreased if the air pressure around it is increased. Hence, the new generator will be encased in a steel tank capable of holding ten times atmospheric pressure.
Freshman: Why build a new generator?
Professor: We need higher voltages.
Freshman: What will be gained by the higher voltage?
Professor: The higher the voltage the faster the electrons will move. High velocity electrons disintegrate many more atoms than low velocity electrons.
Freshman: Seems to me all this atomsmashing is nothing else but the smashing of the world.
Professor: On the contrary! In a sense it is not smashing at all. It is a recreation of the beauty of the method of the world. It is like coming down to the beginning clay of all things and discovering the infinite task of design in Creation.
John Ryan 337 Walsh
Capt. Milt "Moose" Piepul
107 Alumni
John Seevirt
234 Alumni
Campus Schedule
For the convenience of its readers The Scholastic has prepared a schedule of the “open for business” hours of the most frequented service establishments on the campus. The Scholastic hopes
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
that this schedule may save its readers some of those futile walks across the campus.
Library — Monday through Friday — 8:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m.; 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Saturday — 8:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. (except from September until the end of the football season when it closes at noon on Saturday.) Sunday—10:00 a.m.-noon.
Bookstore — Week-days, 7:30 a.m.-11:15 a.m.; 12:30 p.m.-4:30 p.m. Saturday, 7:30 a.m.-ll:15 a.m.; 12:30 p.m.-2:00 p.m.
Postoffice — Mail arrivals, 6:30 a.m., 11:15 a.m., 3:45 p.m.; mail departures, 7:00 a.m., 11:00 a.m., 4:00 p.m.; office hours, 7:30 a.m.-5:30 p.m. (except Saturdays when it closes at 2:00 p.m.
Ticket Office — Week-days, 9:00 a.m.-4:30 p.m.
Office of the Prefect of Discipline— Week-days, 8:00 a.m.-12:00 m.; 1:00 p.m.-4:00 p.m. Saturdays, 8:00 a.m.-12:00 m.
Rockne Memorial — Week-days, 7:30 a.m.-9:00 p.m.; Sundays, 9:00 a.m.-4:45 p.m.
Swimming Pool — Week-days, 9:00 a.m.-9:00 p.m.; Sundays, 1:00 p.m.-4:45 p.m.
Athletic Equipment Office—Week-days, 9:30 a.m.-12:00 m.; 1:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m.
Athletic Training Room — Week-days, 8:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m.
Golf Course — Week-days, 7:00 a.m.-5:30 p.m.; Sundays, 6:00 a.m.-5:30 p.m.
Cafeteria — Week-days and Sundays, 6:30 a.m.-9:40 p.m.
Huddle — Week-days, 7:45 a.m.-9:30 p.m.; Sundays, 9:00 a.m.-ll:00 a.m.; 6:45 p.m.-9:30 p.m.—Ed Drake
Ray Eichenlaub Named
Head of National Alumni
Ray J. Eichenlaub, of the class of 1915 and Columbus, Ohio, has been named president of the Notre Dame National Alumni Association for 194041. The Very Rev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., 1899, is the new Honorary President of the Alumni Board. Other officials are: Clyde E. Broussard, ’13, Beaumont, Texas, First vice-president; Thomas F. Byrne, ’28, Cleveland, Ohio, second vicepresident; James E. Armstrong, ’25, Notre Dame, Indiana, secretary-treasurer; and William R. Dooley, ’26, Notre Dame, Indiana, assistant secretary.
Also chosen were Francis H. McKeever, ’03, Chicago, director to 1941; Edward F. O’Toole, ’25, Chicago, director to 1942; John T. Higgins, ’22, Detroit, Mich., director to 1942; and William J. Mooney, Jr., ’15, Indianapolis, Ind., director to 1944. Ex-officio director Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr., ’17, Chicago, and Joesph Mulqueen representative of the students, complete the board of directors.
George J. Kelly
Scholastic Staff
John F. Dinges, Downers Grove, RI., and George Miles, New York City, have been named to vacant positions on the staff of the 1940-41 Scholastic, the Rev. Cornelius Laskowski, C.S.C., faculty adviser, announced.
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE ---------------------- Badin Hall------;------------
Get your copy of “How to Choose a Slide Rule,” by Don Herold, absolutely free while they last.
Table Lamps, indirect lighting.......98c, $1.98 and $2.98
N. D. Loose Leaf Notebooks......— —- ...50c
Parker, Sheaffer, Sanford Pen Sets and Inks Stationery and Supplies	.
This New Book Makes Life Easy For You... Bead
IT’S HUMOROUS
"How to Choose
a Slide Rule”
by DOX HEROLD
Don Herold takes the mystery out of Slide Rules with this helpful new book. He tells you, in the twinkling of an eye, how to decide on the kind of rule that will do the most for you. The story is simply told, as from one old slide rule slider to another, and profusely illustrated in two dazzling colors, as only Don Herold can illustrate.
"How to Choose a Slide Rule” is yours for the asking—providing you ask before the supply runs out. See your campus K & E dealer at once.
IT’S HELPFUL. .
IT’S FREE
Dinges will be sports editor, and Miles, literary editor. Columnists for the year include: John Considine, James Newland, Albert Del Zoppo, R. J. Kelly, Felix Pogliano, Vern Witkowski, Bill Mulvey, James Meaney, Russ Harris John Larson, and Frank Wemhoff.
EST. 1S67
KEUFFEL & ESSER CO. NEW YORK—HOBOKEN, N. J.
CHICAGO - ST. LOUIS SAN FRANCISCO - LOS ANGELES - DETROIT - MONTREAL
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
THEATRE
By Vern Witkowski
This past summer the English department of Notre Dame sponsored a theatre group. Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., head of the department, arranged for Mr. Robert Speaight to direct. The play chosen was “Twelfth Night.” Mr. Speaight is the prominent English actor
who did Thomas a Becket in the original (London) production of ’’Murder in the Cathedral.” Associated for many years with London’s “Old Vic,” he is regarded as an authority on the Shakespearean style of acting. Orson Welles brought him to this country for “Five Kings” and used him in a number of Campbell Playhouse radio productions.
I saw “Twelfth Night” in dress rehearsal and on its opening night. I think it was possibly the best all-round produc-
tion of a play here in at least the last four years. The setting for the play was quite a novel experiment on campus: the actors used as their stage the front steps and walk of the Commerce Building. A semicircle of bleachers served to give the outdoor theatre a bowl effect. The only major technical difficulty with this particular arrangement was the lighting. However, even though the lighting was not perfect, the novelty of the experiment made one forget it somewhat.
TEUWSKM
Maxima, $10/ Major (illustrated) or Debutante, $8.75 ; Junior or Sub-deb, $5
Matched VacumatkPea and Writefine Pencil Seis, $8.50 to $150
Pens marked with the Blue Diamond are guaranteed for the life of the owner against everything except loss or intentional damage* subject only to a charge of 35P for postage* insurance* and handling* provided complete pen is returned for service.
TRY FARMER QUINK, THE MIRACLE INK THAT CLEANS A PEN AS IT WRITES* 150 AND 25*
CARRY THE PEN
That Will Help You Get The^Breaks”!
GUARANTEED/^LIFE
That smart, exclusive style of shimmering Pearl rings which excites admiration when you’re seen in its company.
That patented One-Hand Sacless Filler with a Big Ink Reserve in place of a rubber ink sac.
That streamlined Television barrel which keeps you from missing the boat by showing if your ink is running low.
That extra resilient, non-brittle 14 K Gold “lubricated’* Point which takes the load off your hand!
It’s the revolutionary Parker Vacumatic—the only Pen of its kind in the world. Yet based on official Life Expectancy Tables of leading insurance companies it costs less than poorest pens because it’s Guaranteed for Life by Parker’s Blue Diamond. Try it today at the nearest pen counter.
The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wisconsin.
the EASIEST* most convenient to operate* as proved by Deavitt Labs.

22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
A minimum of properties and stage furniture was used. And the architecture of the building combined well with the excellently designed costumes to give the production a strictly Shakespearean flavor. The musical accompaniment was quite authentic: Mr. Pedtke, of the Music department, directed a small string ensemble which augmented the delicate mood of the comedy.
The play was carefully acted with much more feeling for precise interpretation of character than has marked many previous Notre Dame dramatic presentations. But characterization was obviously the principal goal of each actor. Exactness of individual interpretation seemed to be the main object even at the expense sometimes of group work and actor-to-actor contact.
Even without a primary view to this group contact, it sometimes follows naturally, when the actors relax into the scene they are playing. This happened especially in the drinking and plotting sequences of Sir Toby, Sir Andrew, Feste and Maria. And so these scenes proved to be the best acted of all, not because they were played by one or two actors, but by every actor on stage at the time. The audience was, therefore, not conscious of one person in the scene, but of the interplay between characters and the group mind in moving the play along. And there was the secret: in these scenes it moved.
As for the individual work, I think four characterizations stood out. Jack White’s handling of Feste, the clown, was consistently good. He pranced and sang and danced and taunted the good Malvolio with a merriment that showed he had as much fun entertaining the audience as the audience had in being entertained. Bill Mulvey’s Sir Toby Belch was unorthodox, but refreshing to watch. Instead of the conventional merry old uncle to Olivia, Mulvey’s Sir Toby was the swashbuckling young uncle to Olivia, but equally as merry. In Malvolio, Jack Boyce showed a good dramatic sense of restraint, using his Ronald Colman voice to good effect. Sir Toby’s playmate, Sir Andrew Aguecheck, was done with a noticeable care for precision by Louis Ronder.
Even forgetting the experimental aspect of-the summer project, it was a success. The show was gay and entertaining, and moreover it was real Shakespeare. It may be revived at Washington Hall this season, and if it is don’t miss it.
Sophomore Sees Working of New Canal Defenses
On a cruise to South America this summer, Art Kirby of Lyons Hall had a chance to see first-hand the work being done by Uncle Sam for the upkeep and defense of the Panama Canal. All across the isthmus one of the two lanes of the Canal were shut down, and locks were being gone over, new flood gates constructed, and devices to protect the locks from mines being installed. Both east and west traffic was restricted to the other lane.
According to Kirby, the people of Chile and Peru are putting their faith in the United States in the present international crisis. Neither country is rich
The New Store Is Exclusive
Headquarters for Lee Water-Bloc HATS
Rvse s Katz
1 V FOR MEN AND 1 ^.YOUNG MEN
MAIN AT COLFAX
Kour
with a new
^EyVater-Bloc »»»
UNIVERSITY
S5.00
Not only a new color but a new band and a new edge. Khaki is the color—with a felt bind* ingofcontrasting color.
Makers of the Aetna Insured Hat... $330.
enough to arm adequately. Only Argentina is really arming, having ordered 400 planes from this country at the same time Britain placed her large order for planes with the United States.
—Carl Rohrer
Douglas Hyde, first president of Eire (Ireland), was once interim professor of modern languages at Rutgers University in New Jersey.
The Walt Disney animated cartoon technique is a new twist in engineering courses at New York University to illustrate principles and mechanical theories.
Harvard University’s $143,000,000 endowment makes it America’s richest educational institution.

The Term ‘Americanism” is said to have been first used by John Witherspoon, president of Princeton University, in 1781.
LEE HATS
' 358 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK, N. Y. t*REC. U. S. PATENT OFFICE
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
Headquarters for
ARROW SHIRTS
Shop for these Famous Shh-ts . at Adler’s. Here you’ll find the newest styles . . . the largest selection.
RADIO By John M. Coppinger
MAX ADLER
"ON THE CORNER" ... Michigan at Washington
First a greeting to the returning old timers of the Radio Club—may your activities he as industrious and your programs as accomplished and versatile as last year. Then, a word to the freshmen and newcomers—you’re all invited to become members of the club and try your hand at radio broadcasting — if you’re good enough. There’s plenty of room for more talent on the campus . >. radio studio. In the past there have been -undercurrents of rumor to the effect that the Radio Club is a closed clique and newcomers are given the cold shoulder. Everyone is invited to try out for actual broadcasting—everyone!
Last year productions varied from faculty talks to half hour dramas to musical jamborees. Variety is the keynote for the year to come. Any ideas will be welcomed by officers in charge.
Radio Stage, a half-hour dramatic
FRESHMEN! Here’s One Rule Not In The Book
never says diet
You may have to wear a freshman cap, but there’s no rule against wearing Arrow shirts. No doubt you’ve discovered by this time that more college men wear Arrow shirts than any other brand shirt There are reasons: The superb Arrow collar, the Mitoga cut, the anchored buttons, and the permanent fit (San-forized-Shrunk, fabric shrinkage less than 1%). All these extra values plus authentic styling are yours for the small sum of $2.
Buy a stack of Gordon oxfords as a starter —you’ll never regret it
ARROW SHIRTS
Ostunrth’s
Sanforized-Shrunk (fabric shrinkage guaranteed less than r%!)
You’ll like the way the handsome Aroset collar on the Arrow HITT shirt looks crisp and fresh all day with never a sign of wilting. No starch needed. Come in today for a HITT or two—and see if it doesn’t make a hit with you.
24
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE
EYE, EAR, NOSE. .THROAT
PHONE 3-1395	J. M. S. BUILDING
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
434 ASSOCIATES BLDG.	PHONE 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST	•
SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 4-8989	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
OFFICE 4-5661	RESIDENCE 3-4080
DR. R. F. LUCAS , DENTISTRY—X- RAYS
702 J. M. S. BLDG.	SOUTH BEND, IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
405 ASSOCIATES BUILDING
show, inaugurated last year proved that ardent amateurs are often professional in their writing and their acting. The student body received this particular show with enthusiasm. It will be revived as soon as the “radio” year begins in October. Again, all newcomers with any dramatic talent are wanted—freshmen, especially.
Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., faculty moderator of the club, has promised new equipment and more efficient production to guarantee the success of the forthcoming year.
As a start he has appointed Bob Lejeune as station manager. Bob is eager and has plenty of ideas. It is an excellent choice Father Burke has made. Bob, in turn, has appointed Vern (Ham) Witkowski production chief, Lou Ronder as head sound man, and John White as chief announcer.
From the lineup the year looks promising.
Sports Squibs
The recent death of the Very Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C., marked the passing of one of Notre Dame’s athletic figures of the past as well as that of the assistant superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross and a former president of the University. Father Burns was varsity catcher on the Notre Dame baseball team in the early 80’s and his interest in sports never lessened. He was president of Notre Dame from 1919 to 1922, serving during the first three regular' years of Rockne’s coaching regime. The Irish lost only one game in those three years.
a newcomer cornered a senior we know and questioned him about life at the University. Our friend answered every question in the usual smug upperclass manner, but was stumped completely when the freshman asked very innocently what one did with one’s money. The answer, we think, is quite simple: usu-■ ally one does nothing with one’s money because one has no money, but if one is fortunate enough to have money, why then one spends it.
:S *	*
A prominent member of the Politics Department has almost convinced one of his students that he is one of those “fifth columnists.” After school closed last June the two of them drove north together, and whenever they passed an air-field or army camp the portly professor of Politics would shout “Pouf! One bomb!”
The man across the hall has given us the cause for the epidemic of poliomyelitis. According to him two diseased monkeys died during the last visit of the circus to South Bend, and were buried in an open lot. Infection was
sell 50
Assorted Christmas Card Folders with
Customer’s Name Imprinted
MdT FREE SAMPLES.
mnc?	Also business greet-	YOU
100%	ings and calendars.	ONLY
Profit	No investment. Ex-	50c
penence unnecessary. _
Write for free samples and full particulars.
W. E DUNBAR CO. ■"KE*
PHONE 3-1254
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
CAMPUS CHATTER
By George Miles
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING L. E. FISHER,	M. J. THORNTON,
M. D.	M. D.
The BOOK SHOP
DRS. ROSE AND ROSE
DENTISTS
430 SHERLAND BLDG.	TELEPHONE 3-4269
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST ASSOCIATES BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
We were surprised, upon our arrival at the University, to find tradition being shattered, scattered and destroyed. Buses, cement walks, fresh paint jobs in the cafeteria and dining halls, additions to Science Hall and the Chemistry Building were some of the changes which stared us in the face when we stepped on the campus. It was a rather disheartening feeling we experienced as we viewed these new scenes, but we were consoled by the sight of two venerable gentlemen who are apparently impervious to all change, and undisturbed by such caticlysmic happenings as wars, epidemics and the razing of Freshman Hall. The two men are, of course, Father Condon and Brother Canute. We are told that they intend to stay.
* * *
On the first day of the academic year
Notre Dame Headquarters
Books
Pens
for
Stationery Pencils
Greeting Cards
130 N. MICHIGAN STREET
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
25
Greetings Notre Dame Men
Come in to the
HUDDLE
Look over our pipes — large selection at all prices.
SV , bob hope
"Thanks | ' For the , Memory”
NE nwtci
rC« a**
$150
CHOICE OF
■■ sines
Dr. GRABOW
MADE IY
M. LINKMAN t CO., CHICAGO Makers of Hollycourt Pipes
NO BREAKING IN
NO BITE.. NO BITTER TASTE
DR. GRABOW PATENTED CLEANER-jf
A sweeter smoke because Link-?man’s exclusive machine pre-smokes every Dr. Grabow pipe wilh(Edgeworlh) fine tobacco.
spread by the carrion, and the plague was started. He swears it’s the truth.
* * *
Last week oil was discovered near Edwardsburg. A few days ago “Boom Town” with one of the greatest casts ever assembled, a saga of the oil fields, arrived at the Colfax Theater. Maybe it was just a coincidence, but we would be willing to throw a vote M-G-M’s way for the best publicity trick of the year anyway. In fact we are so excited over the whole thing that we are going out and “wildcat” as soon as we can hi-jack some pipe.
* * ❖
Two of the University’s sturdy sons had just paid their bills, and were preparing to leave the Main Office when an elderly gentleman who had just taken in the Bachanalia stepped in front of them. “I just been in there” he said, waving a wallet in their face. “I gave them a thousand bucks. I gave them a thousand bucks, and told them to pay fer anyone who didn’t have the dough.” He then floated off, leaving the two fellows perplexed, but determined to play the part of paupers next February.
* * *
By the way, there shall be no catty remarks in this space about Mr. Connelly’s Cafeteria or the Dining Hall food. Many will conclude that we have lost our tastebuds, or that Mr. Connelly is our uncle. Nothing of the sort. It just happens that we have seen Mr. Connelly’s Great Dane. And a very Great Dane he is.
# $ *
We are in high dudgeon over the underhanded way in which the authorities tore down Freshman Hall. It was bad enough doing it during Summer School, but why at three o’clock in the morning? Guilty conscience?
ROCKNE MEMORIAL (Continued from page 17) currently, three nights a week, four games a night throughout teh winter in the light apparatus gym. This provides plenty of opportunity to build a team for all who are interested. These interhall matches will be finished in approximately nine weeks.
Following the Christmas holidays there will be held an interhall swimming match, an open and a ladder handball tournament, a freshman and an open squash tournament and a faculty handball match. The ladder tournament is of such nature that the contestants can play off their games at their oivn convenience.
Medals will be awarded to all members of winning teams and to those taking first, second and third places in the individual contests.—Bill Keenan
FOR Wt/E
First Showing!
New 1941 RCA Victor Presidential Model
SAVE $5.00
$9.95 RC4 Victor Record Player
Double your radio enjoyment. This RCA Victor Re.cord-Player records through your radio. Formerly $9.95? While our limited stock lasts, you save $5.
Records and Albums
REDUCED AS MUCH AS ONE-HALF
AU 12-inch S2 and $2.50 Red Seal, NOW $1 AU 10-inch $1.50 and $1 Records. NOW 75c 12-inch Black Label Records-NOW 75c
AU 10-inch Black Label.	_
(except foreign) __________NOW 50c
Largest Record Dept, in Michiana 9 Listening Booths Electric Victrolas Well-Informed Clerks
Open Tues., Thurs., Sat. Evenings
RODIIIS
Z/2 WTH	.
26
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Mass Calendar: September 22-28
Sunday, 22—Nineteenth after Pentecost. 2d prayer, Octave of Our Lady of Sorrows (15th), 3d, St. Thomas of Villanova, Bishop, Confessor, 4th, St. Mauritius and Companions, Martyrs.
Monday, 23—St. Linus Pope, Martyr. 2d, St. Thecla, Virgin, Martyr, 3d, The Saints (A cunctis) 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Votive or Requiem.
Tuesday, 24—Our Lady of Mercy. Mass from the Common between Pentecost and Advent, Prayer proper. 2d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Credo. Preface of the Blessed Virgin.
Wednesday, 25—Feria. Mass of preceding Sunday. 2d prayer, of the Saints (A cunctis), 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Votive or Requiem.
Thursday, 26—Saints Cyprian and Justina, Martyrs. Mass: Salus (in Common) , Prayer proper, 2d and 3d, as yesterday. Votive or Requiem.
Friday, 27—Saints Cosmas and Damian, Martyrs. Mass proper. 2d and 3d prayers, as on Wednesday. Votive or Requiem.
Saturday, 28—St. Wenceslaus, Martyr. Mass: In virtute (in Common) Prayer proper. 2d and 3d, as on Wednesday.
CRUSADERS FOR GOD
(Continued from Page 14)
find importance given to the training of the will, so that the facets of your character will shine brilliantly in the study and practice of the cardinal virtues of fortitude, justice and temperance. Under the guidance of a loyal and capable faculty, begin immediately to assume your new responsibility. Four years pass quickly, though they may seem long in the perspective of the present. Opportunities come but once. If'they are not grasped, they may slip away never to return. The sacrifices made for you by loving and devoted parents demand that you be grateful, and that their investment in you show a return in appreciation.
The unpredictable future may have many problems for you, but never become discouraged. Cultivate here a , strong spiritual sense and nourish it by fidelity to Holy Mass, the Eucharist and lively prayer in the religious program characteristic of Notre Dame. Develop your intellect by a discipline of study and industry,, so that your reasoning powers will grow with the years. Strengthen your will by knowing the value of fortitude and all that it implies - —“No,” to evil in any form. Go to work in the laboratory of self, so that you may fulfill your mission in life as crusaders
for God and country, remembering always that beautiful theme of the inimitable Cardinal Newman:
“Times come and go, and man will not believe that that is to be which is not yet, or that what now is only continues for a season, and is not eternity. The word passes; it is but a pageant and a scene; the lofty palace crumbles, the busy city is mute, the ships of Tarshish have sped away. On heart and flesh death is coming; the veil is breaking; the end is the trial.”
Prepare yourselves, therefore, to meet the Great Teacher smiling!
Add Zest to Your Daily Life ■
Chew Delicious i doublemint GUM
there's extra tun one{ delicious, , DOUBLEMMT GUM and enjoying lotsoiae
long-lasting flavor	«„i fc-rf daily helps
And chewing this healthful
relieve pent-up	aweeten your breath
digestion, too, and.he^ sw^ten yo
' and keep your teeth attractive.	.
Treat yourself to healthful, refreshing
DOUBLEMINT gum every day.
Berry Enters Annapolis
Joe Berry, the best center of last year’s freshman crop, has advised Mr. Layden that he is leaving the Irish roster to join the Middies at Annapolis. Such news is particularly unwelcome at this time in view of the fact that Notre Dame graduated three monogram men who would be handy at this position— John McIntyre, Jack Finneran, and Al Mooney—last spring.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
27
MUSIC NOTES
(Continued from Page 4) fully conscious, if you will; but such consciousness stands up rather well against the flagrantly unconscious composing we are forced to bear in much contemporary music.
It must be granted that Haydn’s reformation of the symphony and his pioneering in the field of the modern orchestra are among the greatest achievements in the history of art. In the symphonies which he wrote in the 1780’s, a new and more intense style had broken through for the first time to gain maturity in the London symphonies of the 1790’s. With Mozart, of course, the symphony became a much more profound means of expression, though even in him there is a. holiday spirit coloring all his classic depth. It was Beethoven who would “strike fire from the soul of man.”
Notes from Home—
When you are far away, dear, I promise to be true;
Whenever I kiss another boy I’ll always think of you.
LOST — Gray Parker fountain pen. Finder please return to 213 Walsh Hall, or Scholastic Office.
THE
BARBER SHOP in BADIN HALL opposite Howard, is equipped for all your tonsorial needs.
6 BARBERS
No Salesmen
Shoes Cleaned, Shined and Dyed
Hours: 1:30 a. m. to 5:30 p. m.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor to
ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Knights of Columbus
The 31st year of Knights of Columbus activity on the Notre Dame campus was officially started last Tuesday night with the installation of officers at a regular meeting in the council chambers in Walsh Hall.
District Deputy 0. P. Geier of Mishawaka installed the following officers: Robert E. Sullivan, grand knight; John F. O’Loughlin, deputy grand knight; Raymond J. Kelly, chancellor; Edward P. Reidy, recorder; William D. Gagan, treasurer; Robert J. Doran, warden; William 0. Regan, advocate; Louis F. Buckley, trustee and James C. Brutz and Edward E. Doyle, guards.
Grand Knight Sullivan announced the appointment of Ralph A. Gerra as lecturer for the coming year.
Appointment of committees will be announced by Sullivan at the next meeting when plans of organization are completed.—Don Heltzel
Special Agent
Jes. J. Tushaus, special agent of the supreme council, Knights of Columbus, will visit the campus and inspect the procedure of the Notre Dame council next Tuesday.
He will meet with council officers and committee members at 5 p.m. to explain the five point program of progress adopted by the national convention at Indianapolis last August.
At 8:15 he will address members of the local council and students interested in the Knights of Columbus. Eli Abraham, financial secretary, urged all students interested in learning about the K. of C. to contact a member and come to the open meeting or to leave their names at council headquarters in Walsh Hall.—Don Heltzel.
Vaudeville
According to the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., who has supervised the Knights of Columbus “Student Vaudeville” program, the event will be staged again this year. Father Burke will again direct the show. The curtain is scheduled to go up during the week of Dec. 8.
As many know, the annual Vaudeville show was once the outstanding theatrical event of the schoolyear. Vaudeville was revived last year at Notre Dame after an absence of many years due to the work of Father Burke.
Once more awards of $30, $20, and $10 will be given to the top three winners, with a professional committee choosing the winners.
non rolumbia
m j s t c r w o r k s
REDUCED
AS MUCH AS
ONE-HALF
Tchaikovsky’s “Nutcracker Suite’’—was $5.00, now $3.50 (three records).
Brahm’s “Symphony Number 2 in D Major"—by the New York Philharmonic. John Barbirolli conducting. Was $10.00. now $5.50 (five records). '
Wagner’s “Tanhauser Overture” — was $3.50. now $2.50 (two records).
Dvorak’s “Symphony Number 5 in E Minor”—from the ‘New World’—Leopold Stokowski conducting the All American Youth Orchestra.
And be sure to hear:
Will Bradley’s “Beat Me Daddy Eight to the Bar”—Part 1 and 2—50 cents.
Eddie Howard singing “Now I Lay Me Down to Dream” and “I’ll Never Smile Again”—50 cents.
Benny Goodman in “Dreaming Out Loud” and “I Can’t Resist You”—50 cents.
And the new Okeh«Vocalion at 35c
Dick Jurgens—“Goodnight Mother” and “Crosstown.”
Gene Krupa—“Blue Rhythm Fantasy” (Parts 1 and 2).
Ray Herbeck — “Trade Winds” and “Can’t Get Indiana Off My Mind.”
RODIHS
/i2	.
Open Tues., Thurs., Sat. Evenings

THE ALEXANDER TWINS... Dorothy and Grace, Famous Drum Majorettes for American Legion Post 42, Martinsville, Wrginia SALUTE YOU
J ptK|	<'■
AND SA LU EE
FOR REAL MLLDNESS
in a cigarette. You’ll find them in every Chesterfield you smoke...and it takes the right combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos united in Chesterfields to give you the added pleasure of a cooler smoke... Make your next pack Chesterfield andjoin the millions of smokers who say
Copyright 1940, LtGGETT & Myers Tobacco Ox