Volume 73
October 13, 1939
Number 4
AND 97 YEARS have
Students Mark passed... at 8:30 this Founder’s Day morning in Sacred Heart church, the Reverend President, John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., celebrates solemn high mass before the entire student body in grateful commemoration of the 98th anniversary of the founding of the University. (Seepage 5)
❖
THE FIRST step in Stage Mustang an intensive Irish drive Rally Tonight to stop the galloping Mustangs of Southern
Methodist will find the student body marching to the gym tonight for the second pep rally of the current football season. Everybody out!. ..(See page 7)
♦
FOR A MIND that is
Father Miltner alive, that has not Begins Essays closed the windows that open out on the knowable universe, the horizon becomes ever broader, the sense of mystery ever deeper, the feeling of wonder and the zest for discovery ever keener.
(See page 9)
BACKFIELD timing S.M.U. Battles equal to the rhythm of Irish Tomorrow the swing band, ellus-iveness and grace of-the dancing mustang, a cheering section with more noise than swing can make, and the Irish will come through. But you couldn’t tell that to a Mustang!
(See page 12)
The Reverend James French, C.S.C. — Sixty Years at Notre Dame. He remembers the building of the Dome. (See Page 5)
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Stalin Over Europe by DEMAREE BESS
► By radio from Paris, just as this issue of the Post went to press, came the real explanation of Stalin’s strategy in signing his pact with Hitler, Was the real coup German —or Russian? Read why Stalin engineered a cold-blooded plan to sacrifice international communism and plunge Europe into war.
WHY STALIN $ WAHIS WAR M IN EUROPE
BURIED TREASURE! Buried deep on a tiny island off Nova Scotia is a treasure hoard which has baffled diggers for 144 years! And the deeper they dig, the more excited they get at what they find. Here’s a mystery story that rivals Capt. Kidd’s. The Money Pit by PARKER MORELL
TROUBLE AT 2 A. M. Gangsters tipped off Tony Reseck, house detective. “Get that girl in 14A out, flatfoot. She’ll lead trouble to you.” But Tony decided to go meet the trouble. A dramatic short story. I ’ll Be Waiting by RAYMOND CHANDLER
SECRETSOF A FOOTBALL “REF.” how does he know where the ball is on trick plays? What "secrets” do coaches tell him in the dressing room before the game? Here’s an amusing play-by-play description of his job by one of the gridiron’s best-known officials. I’m Always on the Spot by WILLIAM H. (Red) FRIESELL
TWO-GUN SLAPPEY RIDES AGAIN! "i se the champeen cullud cowboy of the world!" Those rash words were to get Florian Slappey a job at the Bar-Nothing Dude Ranch. (Ah, wicked, wicked fate!) A short story by OCTAVUS ROY COREN
“IN THIS CAGE IS A SOUTHERN GENTLEMAN.” That's what the card said on the strange present Colonel Venus was sending to South Carolina. A short story that will entertain you with a sport kings enjoy. The Venus Mugwump, by HERBERT RAVENEL SASS
HI-YO, SILVER! Millions of people hang on his words — but only a handful know what he looks like! Who is the Lone Ranger? Who’s the “brain” behind him ? The Post brings you the phenomenal story of Public Hero No. 1. By I, BRYAN, III ONLY A FANATIC WOULD GO FISHING! It seemed odd that the stranger who chartered the Poseidon was so set on braving the Gulf in a storm. And seemed pleased even when he lost a whopper! A rare short story of the human side of big-game fishing. Blowing East by PHILIP WYLIE
“SUBMARINE TO STARBOARD!” Chief Gunner’s Mate Terry Sullivan, U.S.N., had his orders. “Go aboard the windjammer Cytherea and see she gets to Europe safe.” What could he do to save this lumbering old “pickle tub” carrying only two three-inch guns ?... An exciting sea adventure — And Iron Men by ALLAN R. BOSWORTH
CAROLINA ROMANCE. The first flush was on the peach fruit when Charles and Tamar drove home — he to buy up pottery, she to dazzle all with this stranger she had met. But Arne, waiting for them, had no welcome in his look.. .The story of a woman’s choice. I Am the Clay by RUTH BURR SANBORN
“I RUN A GARAGE — heaven help me!" You park your car in garages____but do you know what you do that drives the men w-i-l-d? A garage man with a sense of humor clears up those horrid mysteries of “Who dented my fender?" and "Who left the key on?” Read “It Was All Right When I Brought It In"
AUTOMOBILE ANNOUNCEMENTS
This is Automobile Show week in New York, and this week’s Post carries a record number of advertising columns (largest in eight years). You will find a thrilling display of automotive news for 1940. Notice especially the color advertisement on pages 116 and 117, “America Hitched Its Wagon to a Car!" Get your copy of the Post today.
I
THE SATURDAY EVENING POST
The Notre Dame Scholastic
3
College Parade by Jack Willman
So What?
So we trudged up four flights of stairs to our Walsh pent-house to deposit an armful of collegiate pulpaganda on the reading-table of our tidy room. So an unlocked door admits the managing editor of the campus news-organ. So said M.E. proceeds to unravel said pulp, peruse it with the M.E. eye, and strew it promiscuously and indecorously about said room. So we return late to find said room in said condition. So to bed. So to awake to find efficient maid has cleared room of said mess. So Parade is somewhat curtailed. So orchids to maid. So .... much for Foskett.
Vice Verse
Slippery ice—very thin;
Pretty girl—tumbled in;
Saw a fella—on the bank;
Gave a shriek—then she sank;
Boy on hand—heard her shout;
Jumped right in—pulled her out;
Now he’s hers—very nice;
But she had—to break the ice.
—California Pelican
Random Observations
California’s Daily is the self-styled “Monarch of College Dailies.”... Clemson’s Tiger admits that it is “The South’s Most Interesting College Paper.”. ... The Daily Texan christens itself “The First College Daily in the South”.... and LaCrosse T. C. publishes the Racquet.
The Vicious Circle
Sue—“Am I the first girl you ever kissed?”
Tom—“Now that you mention it you do look familiar.”
—Pointer.
❖
Not Our Boy Mickey
The coroner straightened up from the body. There was a tense, expectant hush—a restless waiting for the gruesome verdict.
The mouse had committed suicide because he found out his old man was a rat.—Yellow Jacket.
❖
Around the Bandstand
For Lehigh’s Senior Ball, Al Donahue and his society favorites will provide rhythm.... It’s Ben Bernie and the lads at Missouri’s Icebreaker.... Johnnie “Scat” Davis attracts saddle-shod shag-gers into the Blackhawk.... and Will Osborne is at the Edgewater Beach Hotel... On tour, Glenn Miller has been breaking theater attendance records.... and why not—his floating clarinet amid that superb five-sax section is really solid.... But Dick Jurgens is still “the” band of this sector.
Advertisement by Analogy
“ ‘The school spirit at Notre Dame can be likened to an electric current,’ said Thomas P. Neill, instructor in history, at a meeting of the Arts Sodality.”
“ ‘The stands, made up of 3,000 Notre Dame students, impart an indescribable something to the team, which gives it new life and spirit,’ he asserted. ‘It is just as if there were 12 men on the team, and it is commonly known that the secret of Notre Dame’s success is due to the teamwork on the part of the student body as well as the team’.”
—St. Louis University News ♦
Remnants in Review
Colorado School of Mines’ Oredigger boasts a professorial column which is headed “The Gilded Shovel.... 79% of Lehigh’s ’39 graduates have been placed .... John Munski at Missouri is hopeful of participating in the Olympics—as an athlete.... every paper has a personal experience story of students caught abroad at the war outbreak.... “Stub” Allison was prudently pessimistic before the College of the Pacific game.... Boston US gridders chose Ann Sheridan and Notre Dame as the respective oomph leaders.
Platitude
People who live in glass houses might just as well answer the door bell.
—Covered Wagon
Our Chicago Friend
“The American position on academic freedom has brought to our universities men of great distinction whose race or whose views are held to disqualify them from carrying on the search for truth in certain other countries. It may turn out that Hitler and Mussolini will be the great builders of the American universities.”—Robert Maynard Hutchins
Fashion Flash
Joe Prep: “Are my pants too short?”
B.M.O.C.: “Either too short, or you’re in them too far.”
What’s Up, Boston University?
“From the sports publicity department comes word that from now on Pat Hanley’s gridmen are to be known as the ‘Fighting Irish.’ This has been adopted by Coach Hanley as the official slogan for the 1939 pigskin tiffs. Notre Dame wants to know that if it’s o. k. with everybody down this way, they’re going to call their eleven the ‘Terriers’ this year. Somebody swiped their former sobriquet, they say, and they’d love to use our discarded nickname.”
—Boston University Netos.
“Fire or No Fire — Ya Gotta Sign Out!”
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Week by F. G. Barreda
Boogie-Woogie
Word has crept around, trippingly on the tongue, of the history professor who absent-mindedly squibbed shaving cream on his tooth brush while in devilish meditation of cooking up tough quiz questions for the perspicacious morons in his class.
He would torture them, yes. What exhilarating ecstasy, what spine-tingling rapture to watch the rogues squirm, hem, haw, and as the Norwegians so aptly put it, etcetera. Jove, the chaff of his brain would go unanswered. And it was with this purpose in mind that the pedagogical brittlepuss conceived his prize questions, to wit:
1.	Explain in toto the metaphysical ambiguities involved in Adolph (Purge) Hitler’s phrase, “Who dat?”
2.	Do you read Scrip? Why not?
3.	Giving a wealth of examples, trace the development of the Filipino yo-yo from the dawn of history up to and including this morning. Do not answer “yes” or “no.”
It was not until he sat down to find out how Daddy Warbucks had foiled Axel that he noticed a strange taste in his mouth. Could it be foreign matter? Well, could be. Fraught with despair in finding the ultimate cause, he resolved to go about it objectively. What would Deeth Crispin III, do? After many “um-s” and “ah-s” he was still stumped —alas, a beaten man.
Some time later the professor was seen heading for class with the tooth brush still in his mouth.
No, gentlemen, crime does not pay.
Mind over Matter
A somewhat prominent magazine carried a story last week about the fundamental system of football played at Notre Dame. According to the article, it is alleged that Irish gridmen get the words “Block, Tackle, Block, Tackle,” so deep in their minds that they even want to dive at the campus trees. Yes, only the other morning Joe DeFranco threw a side-body block at the Main Building to clear the path for Lou Zon-tini who had side-stepped the entire Moreau Seminary choir. A sycamore in the secondary finally nailed him.
♦
How to Succeed
We brought our lunch. The sign said the window opened at 12:30, and we wanted the best seats in our section. It
was 12 o’clock. No one was in sight. Surely this time our tickets would be on the -50-yard line, snug in the shadow of the press box. At 12:30 the dinner bell rang, and the epic of the Cimarron was revived in the dash toward the stadium. Hundreds of jealous eyes drove flames of greed into our back. Haw, we were still first in line.
We never knew what happened after that. The ticket fellow opened a window inside the gate—and the stampede followed. When we picked ourselves off the ground someone was yelling, “Get back in the end of the line, you masher!” What bitter gall.
At 1:18 we rushed into class, despondent in the thought of having gotten a ticket in section 31 with the freshmen— and next to the Boy Scouts.
Acoustics
One night, after the regular blackout, a sly rector crept up to the fourth floor in his stocking feet to apprehend a band of culprits who were playing hop-scotch with football shoes. As he carefully wound a silent path up the steps he was already relishing the thought of saying, “Report to me in the chapel at 5:30 tomorrow morning.”
Hmmm, he reflected, that wouldn’t be strong enough—it was entirely too meek and humble. After all, he was no milquetoast. He must put more authority in his tone, more bravado, give it “oomph,” as it were, with a rich dash of basso profundo. The pitch was still a bit corny. He had to round out the vowels, slur the diphthongs, stress the consonants, careful in not giving obsolete pronunciations.
Once again, then; this time with plenty of life: “Report to me in the chapel at 5:30 tomorrow morning!” Much better. But, hark, his tongue slipped, and he found himself saying the words out loud. Gunga Din, the hall’s grapevine, heard the message and relayed it to the fourth floor.
When the rector reached his destination the hallway was empty. A chorus of artificial snores mingled with the eternal gurgle of the water fountain. The guilty party had fled from the scene of the crime, and the rector opened every door on the floor in a vain attempt to get someone to report to him in the chapel at 5:30 the next morning.
Bottom of the Week
Seniors on the 20 yard line.
OPINION
Starting this week, the SCHOLASTIC inaugurates a series of articles concerning student opinions on questions submitted by the students themselves. The question chosen this week, entered by Bob Carver of Breen-Phillips, is: Arc you. in favor of a Reserve Officers Training Corps (R. O. T. C.) being instituted here on the campus? Because the question pertains directly to them, only freshmen and sophomores were interviewed. The following are their comments :
Morrissey—Sam Garro: “The establishment of an R.O.T.C. unit here on the campus would be a very good thing, both from the view of the physical and mental betterment of the students and from the standpoint of national preparedness.”
Lyons — Duke Goeller: “Despite the fact that there are more than ample facilities for the physical development of students, many shirk from the necessary exercise to keep them fit. A R.O.T.C. should fill that gap in student betterment.”
Badin—T. J. Caufman: “I was a member of the R.O.T.C. while in prep school and would be glad to see such a training in effect here. Besides being timely, the Corps is a very good influence upon the student body as a whole.”
Carroll — Albert Del Zoppo: “As a remedy for the physical conditions of the students, the R.O.T.C. is rather unnecessary. We already have the facilities for that development, such as the Memorial where informally the students may exercise at almost any time and not at a specified period.”
Breen-Phillips—Zane Sandom: “I am definitely in favor of such a measure. In these troubled times, preparedness is more than a mere asset. The R.O.T.C. offers that preparedness. Its benefits to the physical development of the student body are magnanimous.”
Cavanaugh—John Jackson: “It is a very, very fine idea. It improves the manliness of a student besides making him adept at the tactics of war. The latter is of great importance if and when war break out . . . too much valuable time will not be lost in training inexperienced men.”
Zahm—Matt Gartland: “I believe the R.O.T.C. would be a great thing for the men of Notre Dame, both physically and mentally. However, contrary to the regulations of the Corps, such training should be voluntary and not compulsory.”	.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Z 188______
Volume 73
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing: at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
October 13, 1939
Number 4
THE LOG CHAPEL — CHALICE OF TRADITION
Solemn High Mass to Mark University’s 98th Birthday
Father Carrico Will
Deliver Sermon Today
And 98 years have passed.... this morning, at 8:30 o’clock, in Sacred Heart Church, the Rev. President John F. O’Hara, C.S.C.—assisted by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., as deacon, and the Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., as sub-deacon — celebrates solemn high mass before the entire student body in grateful commemoration of the 98th anniversary of the founding of the University.
The Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, will deliver the Founder’s Day sermon, and the Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science, will be master of ceremonies.
Contrary to general belief, Founder’s Day, is not the date of the founding of Notre Dame but the feast day of its builder, the Very Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C. During his lifetime Father Sorin would not permit a formal celebration
of his birthday but his companions and students, desiring to pay him some token of honor, made a special occasion of his patronal feast. Since his death, the day has been observed annually as a tribute to his memory.
It was 98 years ago that Father Sorin and a little band of six brothers arrived at South Bend from Vincennes. They were led through the woods to the lake by Alexis Coquillard, who later became the first pupil of the college established temporarily on a little knoll overlooking the lake. This first college building is still in use and is known as the “Mission House.” Notre Dame’s first alumnus became a distinguished and influential person of the day, a wealthy manufacturer of South Bend.
The winter of Father Sorin’s arrival was one of the most severe in the history of the United States. Fifteen inches of snow, extending as far south as Georgia, greatly interfered with the construction of the community’s projects. Thirty years later they were confronted with another great obstacle when a dis
astrous fife threatened to blot out the infant school. But Father Sorin and his followers worked on.___and today we see the spires that ai'e Notre Dame.
—Jack Dinges
Aged Priest Recalls
Era of Father Sorin
Tradition is an integral part of all college life. Every campus in the country has its link with the past which it honors in a proportion nicely fixed to its age. At Notre Dame we have many traditions, some of which date all the way back to the founding of the University in 1842. Consciously or unconsciously we all respect those traditions, and most of us would object strenuously to any attempt to change or eradicate them. ’
There may be some who resent this continual reverting to the past as being a bit boresome and too stagnant for a world where next week’s battle has already been fought—by a radio commentator But the very fact that we do live in a fast-changing world is all the more reason why we should appreciate the stability of tradition. If customs constitute the heart of a nation, then tradition is the soul of a campus.
In this respect we have one advantage at Notre Dame that many other colleges .lack. Our link with the past is not dead and rusted but shining and living in the person of priests and laymen who are old enough to have seen Father Sorin, but are young enough to visit the Rockne Memorial. These men have seen Notre Dame grow from a small midwestern college to a nationally known and loved university.
Such a man is the Reverend James J. French, C.S.C., old in years and wisdom but young in spirit. Now retired and living at the Community Infirmary,' he has been a part of Notre Dame for 66 years. He not only knew Father Sorin, but his imitations both of him and Father Granger were so successful that he was the campus sensation in his undergraduate days. However, he did not mimic only Father Sorin’s mannerisms. He also imitated his idealistic and conscientious belief in Notre Dame’s fu-.ture. While Father French was Prefect of Studies here from 1893 to 1905 he personally canvassed the country for
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
new students. During most of that time, as he himself neatly phrased it, he “used to live in a satchel.” No sacrifice or hardship was too great to be endured so long as it brought a little closer the realization of Father Sorin’s dream.
Statistics are usually boring, but in Father French’s life they assume heroic proportions. Born in April, 1859, he came to Notre Dame as a student in 1873 and worked as waiter until he entered the novitiate in 1876. He was ordained May 23, 1883, in Cincinnati at St. Joseph’s College where he was a prefect and teacher under Archbishop Hurth. President of St. Joseph’s from 1883 to 1887, he returned to Notre Dame as Prefect of Studies in 1893. He became rector of Holy Cross Seminary in 1905, and he served as First Assistant General from 1906 to 1926. In 1912 he revived the Mission Band— originally founded 30 years earlier by Father Kline and Father Lauth—and was its head for the next 24 years. During that time he had charge of such men as Father Wesley Donahue, the recent Superior General; Father Joseph Boyle, later president of Portland (Oregon) University; and Father Finnegan, later Bishop of Helena, Montana. He retired from executive duties in 1928 and became chaplain first at the hospital in Anderson, Ind., and later at St. Joseph’s Hospital in South Bend, which position he held up to the opening of the present school year.
Father French’s impressions and memories of his early life at Notre Dame are particularly interesting. Selected at random are these . . . The fire in the Main Building in the spring of 1879. Students, priests, and nuns helping the pitifully small South Bend fire compan
ies against overwhelming odds. Especially heroic work on the part of the nuns who saved priceless paintings and early records of the University. Despite the confusion and excitement only one injury—a student who broke his leg jumping from a window in the rear of the building. . . . Boat races on the lake—before it became two lakes. Students cheering madly for the “Rose Bowl of the eighties” when the crews approached the finish line near the old boat-house. . . . No “Gold Coast”—just dormitories. . . . The construction of Sacred Heart Church. The rear was built first as an addition to the old church, which was then demolished to make way for the present structure. . . . The erection of the Dome and statue. . . . Beginning of athletic competition with outside schools in 1890 with baseball the only major sport. . . . Increasing interest in football, culminating in the national championship in 1919. . . . May devotions and visits to the grotto . . . Notre Dame growing . . . growing . . . growing.
In spite of his obvious talent for executive work, Father French’s greatest genius is considered by most people to lie in his talks and sermons. While Prefect of Studies he used to give daily lectures on table manners to the students in the old Carroll Dining Hall, punctuating his talks with hilarious imitations of the “soup-whistlers” and “meat - stabbers” before him. He preached such inspiring sermons that the late Cardinal Mundelein, hearing him in a Lay Retreat here, begged him to conduct the Diocesan Retreat in Chicago that year. Undaunted by his modest refusal, Cardinal Mundelein be-seeched Father Morrissey, then Provin
cial of the Congregation, to order him to give the retreat.
Father French is the kind of man whom it is a privilege to know. Courteous and soft - spoken, yet he has strength of character and firmness of conviction etched in every line of his face and in every movement of his spare body. He combines a devout piety with an automaton regularity. He makes a ritual of his Divine Office and allows nothing to interfere with his reading it at exactly the same time every day. He is, in fact, both a priestly man and a manly priest.
Father French has completed a circle which leads him back to the very threshold of his life here at Notre Dame. After 63 years he has returned to the same house—almost the same room— from which he stai'ted as a novice. During all those years the Dome has been the center of his life’s orbit whose radius was his devotion and his genuine love for Notre Dame. It must be indeed gratifying to him to retire and rest still within that orbit. He has moved across the lake, but he can still see the Dome, and he watches over the campus. He is rightfully proud of the concrete realization of Father Sorin’s vision, but he is even more proud of its spiritual realization whenever he hears the bells calling all Notre Dame men to honor the true “Spirit of Notre Dame.”
—John Reilly
S. M. U. Swing Band
Shades of- Goodman and Dorsey! Tomorrow afternoon the Notre Dame stadium receives its baptism in swing. For spectators at tomorrow’s tussle between the Irish and the Southern Methodist Mustangs will see for the first time the
Southern Methodist Swing Band — Mustangs Will Ride Hot Trumpets in Half Time Jam Session.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
7
celebrated swing band of Southern Methodist University. Punts and passes will drift off into obscurity for a few minutes between the halves as Mr. Frank Malone and his 65 hilltop hom-tooters “send” for 40,000 Irish and Mustang fans.
If one considers Mr. Malone’s situation from the point of view of a football coach, he is a very fortunate man. For out of last year’s star-studded organization, the Mustang director has lost only three “starters.” One of these departed gentlemen, however, was a key man in the S.M.U. musical offense—Ed Hagan, hot drummer. Hagan was praised highly by the thousands of football fans who saw the Mustang swingsters in action last year; he justly earned the title “hottest college percussionist in the country.” Hagan is now a member of radio station WFAA and appears as specialty drummer at the S.M.U. home games.
The Mustang swing band has been rehearsing almost as long and just as vigorously as the football team they play for. All summer long a complete staff of arrangers wrote new swing arrangements. The result? Just about the finest musical show ever put on by a college band.
Rumor from the Music Building has it that, though Joe Casasanta hasn’t been saying much, he has been driving his boys hard in preparation for the Notre Dame band’s second tough engagement in two Saturdays. The guiding genius of the Irish musical fortunes has intimated that his popular “Tiger Rag” will make the swinging Mustangs sound like the Beethoven String Ensemble. At any rate, tomorrow afternoon should see a battle of music the like of which has never been seen in the Mid-West before.
Student Trip Tickets
To Go On Sale Monday
The line forms on the right. Student trip tickets for the Navy game, at Cleveland, next Saturday, will be sold Monday and Tuesday in the basement of the Dining Hall, Jerry Donovan, president of the Student Council, announced Wednesday.
Two trainloads of Irish rooters will invade the Lake City. Train “A” ($8.15 per round trip) leaves the campus Friday night at midnight (C.S.T.), arrives at Cleveland at 6:00 a.m. (E.S.T.), returns Sunday at 4:00 p.m. Train “B” ($7.65 per round trip) leaves the campus at 7:00 a.m., Saturday, reaches Cleveland before gametime, and returns at midnight Saturday.
A $3.30 game ticket is included in the fare, Donovan announced, but he also emphasized that straight train tickets are available.
A victory dance will be held by Cleveland Alumni in the Hotel Statler, with George Hall and his orchestra furnishing the music at $3.00 per couple. Reservations will be limited to 350 couples. Dick Kelly, president of the campus Cleveland Club, is accepting reservations at 225 Walsh Hall.
—William Keenan.
Pep Meeting Tonight
The first step in an intensive Irish drive to stop the galloping Mustangs of Southern Methodist will find the student body marching to the gym tonight for the second pep rally of the current football season. Tonight’s rally promises to be a memorable one, for even the fireworks along the parade route will be more elaborate than usual.
If pep rally speakers mean anything, the Irish should rope in the Mustangs tomorrow, for heading the list of Notre Dame speakers are the Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., and Professor Clarence “Pat” Manion. Upperclassmen will recall that Professor Manion has a reputation for addressing only victorious Notre Dame teams the night before a game. Francis Wallace, Notre Dame grad, and well known fiction and sports writer, has also been invited to attend the meeting. As usual, Elmer Layden will be on hand to tell a story. Head Coach Matty Bell is expected to appear on the rostrum for the visitors.
S. M. U. Victory Dance
Start the new year right! That’s the motto of the Commerce Forum, and to prove it they are sponsoring a Victory Dance tomorrow night as the climax to the Southern Methodist - Notre Dame football game. Karl Hunn and his orchestra will play from. 8:30 until 11:00 at the University Club. The price per couple is one dollar.
The first meeting of the Commerce Forum, held Oct. 4, was attended by over 250 enthusiastic members. The Forum selected the Rev. James Fogarty, C.S.C., of the Department of Economics as chaplain for 1939-40.
President Herb Connelly outlined a program of activities for the Forum which includes a Victory Dance on Oct. 14; several trips to industrial centers, among them the annual trip to Chicago; lectures by prominent business men; a radio group headed by J. B. Morgan; and industrial and commercial movies, as well as the continuation of the placement bureau for graduating students.
This year’s officers are: Herb Connelly, president; James Metzler, vice-president; Allen Mago, secretary; William Carbine, treasurer; James Huf-nagel, executive committeeman; and Philip Sandmaier, chairman of the board.
Catholic Press Meet
Propaganda was the watchword of the Regional Conference of the Catholic Press Association, held at Mundelein College, in Chicago, last - Saturday. Speakers presented different aspects of
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
propaganda and explained, described and discussed what propaganda should mean to a Catholic, especially if he is a member of the Catholic press.
The Rev. Frank Gartland, C.S.C., prefect of religion, as leader of a Notre Dame group, conducted a round table discussion of the “decency in print” campaign. Father Gartland traced its history from the Bishops’ inception of the movement in February, 1939. Seventy thousand copies of the No Smut pamphlet have been printed, he said, and 30,000 additional copies are due shortly. Father Gartland’s suggestion that committees for “decency in print” activities be formed in Chicago schools, was well received.
In a morning general assembly, Mr. Karin Walsh, Sunday editor of the Chicago Times, explained the newspaper’s position with regard to biased news. He assured the assembly that “Every newspaper wants to be fair. Advertisers, for example, exercise very little influence on the editorial policy; it is the reporter ■who is responsible for most biased newswriting. However, that wall continue until automatons write news, or until the human element is done away -with.”
Mr. Walsh reminded the listeners that much bias is due to readers’ interpretation of what is printed. Reactions to news vary with each person, but that too is unavoidable, he said. Speaking specifically of contemporary war news, Mr. Walsh described the handling of it —from its source in Europe to its final printing in America. Eight people handle the news before it is printed, and usually all eight change something. The New York Times notes on its front page that “all war news has been censored in Europe,” to warn readers of conditions.
The Rev. Edward V. Dailey, editorial writer for The New World, described the comparative power of radio, forum, personal contact and the press in dispensing propaganda. He rated the press first; it embroiled us in a war in 1917, and is keeping us out in 1939. It can be a great influence for good, he said.
In general the Catholic press is poor, and most of the good writers are on the other side. We must not be discouraged, Father Dailey said, but we must do more competent work with the publications we now have. Too many Catholic papers are “diocesan rags,” he concluded.
A most interesting round table group discussed college magazines informally. The “New Yorker” type school magazine was decried in favor of publications of purely literary or news content. The staff of the" Barat College Forest Leaves magazine read four papers dealing with
various aspects of magazine work. These papers were especially competent, and their readers defended their assertions with knowing zeal.
The Rev. Daniel A. Lord, S.J., editor of The Queen's Work, gave the final keynote speech of the convention, entitled “Propaganda and Social Responsibility,” which has already been reported in the Notre Dame Religious Bulletin.
Benediction of the Most Blessed Sacrament, at 4:30, celebrated by the Rev. James A Mayner, marked the close of the convention.—William C. McGozvazi
N. D. Faculty Outstanding
In ‘Review of Politics’
The October numbei" of the quarterly Review of Politics has just been published. This issue will be of special interest to University students, not only because it features contributions on
Yves Simon
current controversies from scholars throughout the country, but also because the work of members of the University’s own faculty appearing in the journal is so outstanding.
The editorial, “Some Reflections on the War,” will be of value to everyone who tries to form an opinion on current events free from emotional and propagandistic attitudes. Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., has contributed an exemplary description of the agrarian movement. Book reviews by Daniel C. O’Grady, Waldemare Gurian, Yves Simon, Willis D. Nutting, and F. A. Hermens, all of Notre Dame’s faculty, serve to produce an interesting and timely magazine.
Professor Briefs’ (Georgetown) study on German national character is very
important, and is indispensable to everyone who seeks to comprehend the true meaning of much-discussed facts.
Christopher Hollis, personally known to many Notre Dame students in the capacity of visiting professor, presents a defense of Mr. Chamberlain’s foreign policy, a topic which is, today, arousing great controversy. A philosophical approach to sociological theory can be studied in Albert Salomon’s article on Tocqueville.
Francis G. Wilson of the University of Illinois discusses “Modem Ideology” and Morstein Marx of Queens College, New York, analyzes some aspects of the modern state with the help of Mosca’s famous book on The Ruling Class.
Copies of The Revieiv of Politics are available at the Notre Dame Cafeteria news-stand and subscriptions may be addressed to The Editors, The Review of Politics, Notre Dame, Ind. Student subscriptions are $2.00 per year, 20% below the regular rate of $2.50. Single copies sell for 75c. Those students who desire to enter their subscriptions now may secure earlier issues of the magazine for 50c each.
Father Burke Declares
Open Season On Actors
The Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., declared that he intends to find and bring before the public every fellow on this campus who can entertain. Ably assisted by a fleet of K. of C. men, who have offered rewards of $25, $15, and $10 to public entertainers No. 1, 2, and 3 if they will give themselves up, Father Burke has already started his search for talent.
A vaudeville show to be held sometime in December will determine who are the three best entertainers on the campus. There will be preliminary try-outs shortly before Thanksgiving—one on Nov. 23. Fellows who are interested in winning one of those prizes are asked to drop in to the K. of C. headquarters in the Walsh Hall basement and put in their applications.
Father Burke is especially anxious to have as much variety as possible in the show. He’s on the lookout for amateur magicians, singers, dancers and comedians. A search has been started for a tumbling act (phy-ed men, please note), and a N. D. version of the Bergen-McCarthy skit.
Coincidental with the revival of vaudeville at Notre Dame is the arrival of the son of one of its earlier stars. He’s' Harry Scott, a Brownson Hall freshman, son of Harry Scott, Sr., a pianist, who won many prizes in the early vaudeville shows.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
9
FACULTY
Father Miltner Urges
Interest In Religion
Classes in religion began this week. What is your attitude toward the study of it? Enthusiastic? Glad of the oppor
tunity t o deepen your knowledge of it, to find out the reasons that lie behind your practice of it, to equip yourself with such a command of it that you will be able to take a part in the glorious movement of Cath-
Father Miltner °lic Action now getting under way the world over? Or are you bored at the thought of taking up once again a subject which you have, in the measure of your abilities, already investigated in the High School?
(This is the first of a weekly series of articles to be written by the Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters.)
Are you among those who feel that they “know enough” about the subject, and would like to be allowed to drop it from your program in order to give attention to something “more important?” Much will depend upon the spirit with which you enter upon your study of it, upon your appreciation of the relative value of religious knowledge and of the intensely practical service such knowledge will be to you in the solution of the problems of your individual and social life.
When does one “know enough” about a subject? One may of course easily acquire sufficient information to reach a certain objective. Tell a traveller that the way to reach a certain town is to go straight ahead, and he knows enough to find it. It often happens that we possess plenty of factual information to enable us to accomplish an immediate task. But did you ever hear of a chemist or a biologist or a student of literature or history or philosophy declare that he “knew enough,” and was ready to drop the subject and turn his attention to something else? Quite the contrary. All of them will tell you that the more they know of their subject, the more keenly they realize that a whole life time will be too short to enable them to investigate the vast areas that lie in view. For a mind that is alive, that has not closed the windows that open out on the knowable universe, the horizon becomes
ever broader, the sense of mystery ever deeper, the feeling of wonder and the zest for discovery ever keener.
Will you say that the subject of religion is an exception to all this, that to be in possession of a few or even of many factual items about it, so that if, like the traveller mentioned above, you go straight ahead you will eventually reach the Eternal City, is to know enough about it? In a sense, yes, for theologians tell us that the irreducible minimum of what one must believe in order to be saved is that God exists, and that He is the rewarder of those that seek Him. But they are talking about Faith, about truths accepted only on authority, not about knowledge of God and of man’s relations to Him inasmuch as this can be acquired by the exercise of our intelligence and reason. They are speaking of men who never had an opportunity to acquire a wider group of religion than that.
It is one thing to know that something is so, quite another to know why it is so, and still another to understand the full implications of a proposition even when you know why it is true. Progress in knowledge of religious truths, as of all others, accompanies, or should accompany, the growth and development of man and of mind. First comes the factual, the simple statement of truths without explanation; then, as the powers of reason begin to function, these truths are presented with the degree of illustration and proof suitable to the adolescent mind; finally, on the college level, the same subjects are submitted with full panoply of proof to minds assumed capable of receiving them critically, of discussing them intelligently, of appreciating the philosophy behind them and the reasonableness of the act of faith by which is accepted that even which transcends the power of reason to understand. Regarded in this way, no one can ever truly say that he “knows enough” about them. A Being of Infinite perfection is inexhaustibly knowable; neither time nor eternity will be sufficient for us to acquire a full knowledge of Him. At any rate, if we are made by Him and for Him, if He is the end of our life, then not to know Him is to fail to understand the meaning and purpose of life, to fail to know how to live, how to act, what is right, what is wrong, what is of supreme worth, what of merely relative worth. It is even to fail to know ourselves, and so to know how to solve the many perplexities of our individual life or the problems of our social life. “All controversy,” says Belloc, “is at bottom theological.” This is only another way of saying that the truths of
religion underlie and enter into the solution of the basic problems of every other department of knowledge.
—Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C.
Konop Scores Critics
Of Legal Profession
“There has probably always existed and always will exist unjust criticism and slander of the legal profession,” said Dr. Thomas F. Konop, dean of the College of Law before a recent meeting of the Leigh County Bar Association.
Dean Konop pointed out that criticism of the legal profession and prejudices against it may be attributed principally to four causes: 1) the natural prejudices that usually arise against persons who occupy a prominent place in society; 2) a misunderstanding by the public of the duties of a lawyer in a law-suit; 3) the conduct of some lawyers;.and 4) the conservative attitude of members of the profession toward movements to promote social justice.
According to the latest reports received from last year’s graduates, nearly all have passed bar examinations in Indiana, Ohio, Illinois and Minnesota.
—Thomas C. Ferneding
Father Ill Resigns
As Department Head
At a meeting of the Modern Language teachers last Friday, the Rev. Bernard J. Ill, C.S.C., oldest active member of the faculty, gave a summary of his long career as a teacher and formally resigned as head of the department, a position he has held for seven years.
Father Ill has taught languages for 104 semesters
Rev. B. J. Ill, C.S.C. and has taken an active part in all
University endeavors; he was particularly active during the endowment drive of 1921-22. This year the number of Modern Language teachers remains 17, as last year, with Mr. Finlayson replacing Mr. de Landero, who is on a leave of absence in Mexico City. Over 1,160 students are studying one of the five languages taught in the department: French, German, Italian, Polish, and Spanish, with 600 in the latter. Mr. Earl Langwell succeeds Father III as head of the department.
—Robert LeMense
10
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 18 6"
William C. Fay, Editor-in-Chief
William C. McGowan, News Editor
Frank Wemhoff, Literary Editor
Donald Driscoll, Art Editor
®Sho01 Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor T	,PIges^- Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service,
Ina, 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Aotre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, 259 Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana,
Staff meetings Friday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff. 6:30 P.M.: General Staff. 7:00 P.M.
Across the Editor’s Desk
Place In The Sun
And a great sign appeared in heaven: a woman clothed with the sun. and the moon under her feet: and on her a crown of twelve stars.—Apoc. xii., I.
UP TO A few years ago Mary was like that above the dome at Notre Dame. About her head a nimbus of twelve stars shone. Her feet rested on the slim crescent of a moon outlined in electric lights. Night after night this lovely vision starred the dark with comforting grace. All day the rays of the passing sun glanced off her golden hands. And then the stars and the moon were taken away but Mary remained as beautiful as ever. Out of her hands there still continued to fall a golden spray of grace. So far above the earth, so near the limpid sky, Mary became the shining symbol of both.
It was not a matter of sheer coincidence that led Father Sorin to incorporate the House of Gold into the lines of the Main Building and there to live under its golden splendor as under a kindly roof. The long years have more than justified the wisdom of such architecture. Any attempt at inventory, even the most casual, will draw a startling contrast between the Notre Dame of the past and of today.
As we look upon this powerful institution we are moved to praise the ardor and the initiative of the men who had passed on to become part of the annals of Notre Dame. But let us not restrict
Donald Foskett, Managing Editor
James Newland, Sports Editor
Richard Metzger, Art Editor
Rev. C. Laskowski, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
our praise to human hands alone. Granted that Fathers Sorin, Zahm, and Cavanaugh built with an inspired vision rivalling that of saints, still they would never have built with such daring had not Mary whispered the intimations of Notre Dame’s present grandeur and given to them in the blackest hours of crisis a confidence that laughed at death. It took more than the stubborn pride of empire building to resurrect thrice out of the white glow of crumbled clay and twisted steel a Notre Dame each time greater than the last. It took courage, inexplicable in terms of the human heart alone, to continue the mission of Notre Dame those bleeding days of two great wars when distant drums and trumpets were imperatives for the students to volunteer for death. And during the hysterical days of the Klan, when threats came from all quarters of fire, of overhead bombing, and of force, a president, silvered with worry, prayed in his room and won out.
Out of a naked wilderness, building on the foundation of an old man’s stout heart and a faith believing beyond belief, Mary has reared a University upon which the eyes of the entire world are focused. From intimate association with those responsible for the welfare and progress of the University we have learned that they are grateful and happy in the fact that the world can’t fix its eyes upon Notre Dame without having to see the apocalyptic Woman of the sun above the dome. They are acutely conscious too that the spirit of Notre
Dame is not caught up and crystallized fully in any one individual. The ultimate summary of it resides in Mary; different phases of it are reflected in the' men gathered at her feet. The spirit of Notre Dame, however far the intangible margins of its definition reach, functions best in the corporate mechanism of those men pledged to serve this Woman of Gold.
We feel that Father Sorin will be more than adequately eulogized at the traditional Founder’s Mass. The preacher will breathe life into the dead; ashes and limp bones will gather together again for a brief and vibrant interlude and live. Perhaps the preacher will go farther; he might sketch the lives of other men intimately woven into the pattern of Notre Dame’s development. But for all this essayed completeness he will at best have touched only a few points on the splendidly upward graph. The Scholastic wants to run its finger significantly along the entire graph of human lives because it feels only the whole graph can explain the story that began distantly and humbly among spired trees and continues among spires of copper and of stone.
The Scholastic feels that it represents a widely prevalent gratitude when it acknowledges the total effort of the faculty converging more and more toward making Notre Dame the greatest Catholic university in the world. If the faculty makes itself great in mind and heart it is only for one shining purpose— to restore Mary to her ancient place in the Sun.
Bowed But Unbloody
AS A Freshman we took our football from a ten yard line seat and liked it. Someday, we thought, we would be a Senior and sit on the 30 yard line— maybe the 40.... Well, here we are, a Senior, and last week we had a dandy seat on the 19 yard line. On the 35 was a solid block of casual coats and contrasting slacks that had to be the Freshmen.
The new ticket distribution system— aside from its physical inconveniences— seems to have abandoned the tradition of reserving best student seats for Seniors. We’re on the 24 tomorrow. We don’t mind that so much, Freshies — and where were you at the last pep meeting?—but if you must sit in our seats, why not make some noise? It looks like a tough ball game.—William C. Fay
The Notre Dame Scholastic
11
France Before the War
by Roch Le Page
One of the things that amused me most during my stay in France was the various weird impressions that many French students have about America and Americans. For some, who judged . America merely by a few movies they had seen, this country was filled with cowboys and gangsters. Others, who obtained their information from travel advertisements, believed the whole country to be dotted with skyscrapers. Still others, who formed their ideas from the reading of movie magazines and the like, thought that divorce was the upshot of every marriage in the United States, that everyone moved at a terrific rate of speed, that morals were very low and so on.
“How stupid!” you will say. True—I agree with you, yet not typical of French students only. How many American students unconsciously think of a string of night clubs and one or two small sections of Paris the moment France is mentioned? Paris is not France, no more than London is England, or New York City America.
The French are on the whole a quiet, studious, home loving race. They are a Catholic people and this is evidenced in a physical way by the fine upkeep of their cathedrals, churches, and shrines that rank with the most beautiful in the world. •
Paris itself, though quite cosmopolitan, I found the most interesting city I have ever visited. It has a certain charm that is hard to surpass. The well laid out boulevards—wide and tree-lined, the parks—even though they are dug up for bomb shelters, the sidewalk restaurants, the wonderful churches, the bookstalls on the quays along the Seine, the institutions—such as the Louvre, the Comedie Francaise, the Opera—all these and many other features tend to make of Paris a city that is a heaven for the tourist and the student.
Especially so for.the student—and because of a feature that I have not yet mentioned, which is the high value of the dollar in France. The cost of living in France today is high for the Frenchman, but for the American it is ridiculously low. While the dollar was worth about fifteen francs four or five years ago it now brings more than thirty
seven francs—or at least it did during the past year. In actual buying power the dollar goes nearly three times as far in France as it does in America.
For example, in Dijon where I spent the school year it cost me about eight dollars a month for a comfortable room with steam heat and bath, both of which are luxuries in France. Board—including many meals in restaurants—cost me about fifteen dollars a month. Railroad transportation is exceeding cheap since all tourists obtain a forty percent reduction on all train fares regardless of the class they travel in.
Yet, even though rail fares are low I decided to try my hand at hitch-hiking, known in France as auto-stop. They have a name for it, but as far as I
On Founder’s Day
This is the tree tvhose root he set
That bitter spring, in stubborn soil;
God's sunny grace and man's hard toil
Have reared it thus, nor fail it yet.
Against all seasons grew its girth, By storm unshook, by drought unshrunk,
A naked, scarred but living trunk Fire left it once,—still firm in earth.
A tree of many branches notv
It towers among time's mighty ones, The mothering home of many sons, The fruit of Sorin’s triple vow.
I saw a cellar hacked and thrown Upon the common wood-pile; red Was all its core, as if some fled
Fair sunset to its heart had flown.
Not so thy power shall depart, O Notre Dame, but there shall be The things that grace eternity
Stored golden in thy wide, warm heart.
And tvhen some distant dawn shall see Thy splendor gone, when worlds are dead
And all the feet of the time have fled, God's mind shall keep thy memory.
Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C.
could see, it is very seldom used. While there I never saw a single other hitchhiker. Only on one occasion was I really successful and that was on last Pentecost Sunday. Being a national holiday the traffic, which an American would have considered as average, was definitely heavy for France. I set out from Dijon at 8:30 in the morning and managed to reach Strasbourg by 7:00 the same evening. The only inconvenience was the super-abundance of bicycles, which at times made it hard to hail passing cars. The trip cost me about twenty cents—the price of a road map and a package of cigarettes; and besides covering the distance of about two hundred miles, I was taken out of the way a few times to see worth-while towns and villages.
Furthermore, I was set up to a fine feed by a college professor who refused to take a centime and then brought me along about seventy-five miles. A while after leaving him I obtained a seventy mile ride from an army aviator on leave. He was very talkative and interesting but he drove like an aviator, and I often found myself gritting my teeth and hanging on to the seat. Two days later I started back from Strasbourg, but now it was a week-day and the traffic was very light. As a result rides were scarce and lifts were short. Having only reached Belfort after eight hours of slow moving I entrained there for Dijon.
One question that is often asked me is: “How did you like the food?” “Very much” is my first answer. The only thing I could not get accustomed to at first was the meager but typically French breakfast of a cup of. coffee and a crescent. I easily solved that by eating four or five crescents every morning much to the amazement of those eating (?) with me. The other meals always consisted of five or six courses, usually stalling either with hors d’oeuvres or soup, followed by a vegetable course, a meat course, a salad, cheese, and finally dessert. Their pastry is what I liked most in the line of food. They have as many different kinds of pastries as they have perfumes, and their names are as bizarre as those of the perfumes. There is nothing in France, however, which approaches campus “mystery balls,” either in name or content.
12
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Unbeaten S. M. U. Will Give Notre Dame First Big Test
Mustangs Have Plenty
Of Speed And Weight
There is a great deal of talk about a collegiate swing band and a dancing mustang. Southern Methodist University will bring both to the Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow afternoon. But, most important of all, S. M. U. will trot a squad of human mustangs out on the turf. All of them play football. Anticipate not good music or graceful horsedancing, but watch for a driving, slashing, passing gang of football men from S. M. U.
Notre Dame’s national champions of 1930 will vouch for the fact that the Mustangs know how to play football. In that year the chances of the Irish were almost wrecked in the first game of the season, opponents—Southern Methodist. Flying footballs darkened the air that afternoon, and passes aplenty will be thrown tomorrow.	.
Coach Layden has made no predictions as to the outcome of the game. At athletic headquarters the topic of conversation was Notre Dame mistakes and the lessons learned from Georgia Tech’s magicians. Layden’s remarks along these lines were:
“Again we meet a team trained specifically to deceive its opponent. This time, if we have profited by the experience against Georgia Tech, and I believe we have, there should be improvement in our defensive ability. But one thing which Tech lacked, Southern Methodist has, size. At every position they will show us heavier men than Tech did. This added advantage should give us trouble.”
Psychologically, S. M. U. has been given many a lift during the past two weeks. Mr. Layden pointed this out in another statement:
“The teams in the South and Southwest have been traveling to the North and Mid-West these past two weeks. They have come home with many victories, in fact, almost a perfect record. This fine showing gives Southern Methodist added confidence.”
And then about Georgia Tech and Notre Dame:
“I was glad to get the opportunity to use some new men. We want to see as many as possible in competition. The men themselves may come through on the competitive field in a better fashion than practice sessions would indicate. Then again others may not show so well. Those are important facts for us to know. Also the more experienced squad we have, the better.
“Our running and passing attack improved against Tech. Kicking bogged down. The defensive play was spotty mainly because of the exceptional ballhandling of Tech’s backfield.”
Let’s take a look at the boys from down on the range. Coach Matty Bell has found a sophomore sensation in Preston Johnston. This lad is just what Southern Methodist has lacked for the past few years, a triple-threat halfback. Against Oklahoma, Johnston did everything expected of him. He passed, kicked and ran the Mustangs to a tie in that game. But don’t overlook Captain Chelsea Crouch, Will Mullenweg, and Wally Bearden, the three men who round out S.M.U.’s version of a magician’s quartet.
And the line — flanking the front ranks will be two lettermen from 1938, Bob Collins and Bob Baccus. Formidable at the tackles will be Willie Curik, a regular last year, and Fred Harris, a Junior. Besides Buck Bailey and Bianci, 230 pound Jack Fawcett will be in at guard to pile up any attempts through the middle defenses. Ray Pope failed to make All-Conference at center last year only because he was in a league with Ky Aldrich, Texas Christian’s All -American star.
Week after week, Notre Dame faces the best the United States has to offer. Southern Methodist is no exception. Bigger than Georgia Tech, trickier than Purdue, as star-studded as either of the two, the Mustangs should prove mighty ornery. Notre Dame must become a rugged bunch of rough- riders to tame them.	■
Backfield timing equal to the rhythm of the swing band, elusiveness and grace of the dancing mustang, a cheering section with more noise than swing can make, and the Irish will come through.—John Patterson.
Mustangs—Headin’ f(
Willie Curik
Curik (above left) will carry the brunt of the off tackle tomorrow. Watch Crouch /above right) iv,
The Starting
Notre Dame
Kerr ..... Gallagher ... DeFranco ... McIntyre .... Riffle .....
Harvey ...... J. Kelly (C) Sitko ....... Saggau ...... Zontini ...... Thesing .....
.....Left pnd ...Left 'f'ack
...Left l-ruai ...Center.... ....Right Guai ....Right Tack .Right Enc ...Quarterba< ...Left Halfba Right Halfba ...Fullback.
Time—2:00 o’clock (CST). Place—] crowd—40,000. Referee—Ab Curtis (Fori es (Dartmouth). Linesman—B. Wyatt I Moon (Dallas). Coaches—Elmer F. Lay (Southern Methodist). Radio broadcast WFAM South Bend; NBC (Red network
The Notre Dame Scholastic
13
’ for a Last Roundup
Splinters From The Pressbox
by Frank Aubrey
Captain Chelsea Crouch
the Mustang defense when Irish, poiuer strikes it) ivhen the Methodists take the offensive.
ng Lineups
Southern Methodist
; and.... Jackie.. Guard-iter...... GuardTackle..
t End.... terback.. [alfback. [alfback. Iback....
... Tunnell .... Sanders .... DuVall .... Echols
.. Fawcett ... Curik ... Goss
Mullenweg ... Mallouf Crouch (C) .... Bearden
ice—Notre Dame Stadium. Probable (Fort Worth). Umpire—H. G. Hedg-zatt (Missouri). Field Judge—E. B. Layden (Notre Dame), Matty Bell idcasts —WLW Cincinnati; WSBT-twork).
Well now that the baseball season’s just around the corner—the one the Reds are hiding behind back there—a summary of the best features, pitching, fielding, catching, hitting, and hustle seems to add up to ‘Yankees.’ Consider their knack of batting runs across the plate. This year the eight Yankee regulars averaged 93 runs-batted-in apiece. Only eight other men in the league knocked in that many. The Yank’s eight regulars averaged 19 homers apiece. Only nine other men in the league hit that many. Even this home run production schedule was stepped up during the series when in a stretch of 16 innings the Yanks were held to eight hits, six of them homers. But any eulogy of the New Yorkers which failed to include their fielding skill would be sadly put. Foi- on days when the homerun attack failed (June 18th or 19th and August 8th, I think it was), the Yanks had to win on defensive skill. Rolfe, Crosetti, Gordon, and Dahlgren have already been assessed a value $900,000 higher than Connie Mack’s famous four. Each man is the stand-out defensively at his position in the American league. All are young, fast, and have years ahead of them. The outfield, which cannot be valued here inasmuch as neither Connie nor anyone else ever had a $100,000 outfield to compare it with, lists as assets three fine arms, three powerful bats, and six fleet legs. All the outfielders are young except Selkirk who will probably step down for Henrich within the next five years.
Among the youngsters pitching McCarthy’s way are Donald, Sundra, Russo, and Chandler. Among the elders, but still effective are Pearson, Ruffing, Gomez, and Hildebrand. Looming up behind Bill Dickey is the figure of Buddy Rosar, 1938 hitting star of the Newark Bears. So, while F.D.R.’s third term may have been forgotten in all this talk of prospective parleys and promising parlays, it looks as though the Republicans and the seven under-dogs of the American League are going to have a tough time ousting the respective defending champs. We look for the Yanks and Eleanor’s husband to do it again in 1940.
The North was successfully invaded last week-end by reconstruction teams from the South. Southern colonels claim victory for their men all along the line.
Texas shattered Wisconsin’s forces; Oklahoma dispersed Northwestern with ease; L.S.U. put Holy Cross to rout; Duke swept Colgate off the field; and here on local terrain, a too-lightly regarded Georgia Tech failed by inches to topple Notre Dame. The inches measured are those which separated Gibson’s fingers from the ball on that last-ditch pass to our ten-yard line. Those Georgia boys didn’t give up for a minute. Our mistake was in thinking they had. If that Johnny Bosch is a soph, a lot of ends are in for a headache in the next few seasons. Bosch was the classiest back on the field last week.
We hear many of our fellow-worker* belittling the Army and the Navy this fall on their showing to date. A very unwise thing to do, verily. Army so far has had two close wins over Furman and Centre, fair-to-middling opopsition it’s true. But Army is developing a squad of second-year men from 1938’s powerful plebe team. You can’t expect worldbeaters over night. You may expect, however, that Army will be very good a little later. When the Cadets begin sniffing that invigorating element which passes for air down in Manhattan, look out! . . . Of Navy’s two-point win over Virginia this can be said. Virginia won the Virginia Big Six championship last year under Frank Murray who coached for 15 years at Marquette, and this year the Cavaliers came back strong with only three of the ’38 starting lineup missing. ... Did you notice that L.S.U.’s end, Ken Kavanaugh, caught three passes for touchdowns and intercepted another for an 80-yard run-back against the Cress? Sic transit omni American!.
Picking Splinters:
Notre Dame over Southern Methodist Army over Columbia Dartmouth over Navy Indiana over Wisconsin Fordham over Tulane Michigan over Iowa Cornell over Princeton
Northwestern over Ohio State Oklahoma over Texas Purdue over Minnesota Pittsburgh over Duke Southern California over Illinois U.C.L.A. over Stanford Villanova over Texas A. & M. Pennsylvania over Yale
14
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Introducing by Pete Sheehan
If the state of West Virginia forbade hitch-hiking the name of Lou Zontini would not, in all probability, be on the lips of every Notre Dame alumnus— both real and synthetic—in the country.
Educational facilities in Whitesville, W. Va., lais home town, do not extend beyond the ninth grade. However, school busses are provided to transport the advanced pupils to Sherman High, Seth,
W. Va., 14 miles away. These call for the pupils in the morning and bring them home immediately after school is dismissed.
busses
Lou finished Junior High in ’33. At this time John Zontini his brother, was starring at left half at Marshall College and Lou was determined to follow in the footsteps of his football hero. But a serious problem faced him — how would he get home after practice? Fourteen miles was a long journey. Someone suggested that he use his thumb. During the next three years this young athlete was known to all the regular travelers on the Seth-Whitesville Road.
The Zontinis are prominent in West Virginia athletic circles. John, who received honorable mention on several AllAmerica’s in ’34, was all-State left halfback for two years and was named captain of the mythical team the latter season. The quarterback post was awarded Lou in ’35 and Red, a younger brother, is destined for the fullback spot this year.
Although Lou had been a signal caller in high school he started out at left half when he entered college. He caught on to this new position so quickly that he earned his monogram during the first three games of his sophomore year.
When Lou went out for spring practice he found that he was to play a new position—right half. The coaches realized that Lou, a rugged, speedy runner, a deadly blocker and ace defense man, would never be a star left half because he could not hold his own with such stars as Saggau and Stevenson in the kicking and passing departments. As a right half, he had everything.
Prior to last season Notre Dame’s right half was given little publicity. But Lou’s hall-toting ability commanded at
tention. Today the right half is considered as strong an offensive threat as his running mate.
Against Van High, Lou made seven touchdowns but that game is not the most memorable one to the West Virginia boy. He says that he will never forget the Minnesota game last year when he made an 84 yard dash for the
initial touchdown, prised as I,” Lou
“No one was as sur-asserts. “After I got
LOU
through the hole in the line I found myself in the open. Downfield the boys were knocking down Gopher after Gopher. I just ran.”
Football has commanded most of Lou’s spare time thus far but he would like to have played basketball and baseball for the Fighting Irish. He intends to try the collegiate version of the national pastime this spring when his football duties are completed.
Statistics: Born in Alliance, Ohio, on August 30, 1918. Moved to Whitesville, then to New Castle, Pennsylvania, and back to Whitesville. Full name—Louis Roger. Weight, 180 pounds, height, 5 ft. 8% inches. A physical education major, Lou hopes to teach, coach, and play baseball after he receives his degree in June.
Layden Says Students
May Attend Practices
During the past few weeks many students have strolled across the campus toward Cartier Field and its big green gate, only to be informed by one of the managers that admission would not be granted to them. This situation has caused, in some cases, no end of resentment, in others, a “don’t care” attitude which brings with it a lack of spirit.
But explanations are in order. Director of Athletics, Elmer F. Layden, implicitly stated Wednesday that he has never since he has been athletic director here, given orders that students should be refused admittance to football practice.
“The football team is not an isolated group of individual machines playing for themselves. The team belongs to the student body, not to the coaches, not to the faculty. We are more than glad to have any student attend practice.” was the comment made by Mr. Layden.
He also added this small amendment to the statement:
“There are times during practice sessions when we must ask the students to leave. In doing so we do not mean to imply that there are sinister spies in the crowd. However, innocent remarks made to visiting families and friends from opposing schools by bystanders may go a bit further than is intended. We often are put in hot water by simple, unassuming statements made by members of the squad itself.”
Tennis Tournament
Pat’s hard at work with his roller, white wash and brushes. For the past few years Pat has had the job of keeping the eight clay courts in condition; perhaps his remarks about Indiana weather can thus be explained. However, this week Pat has his well-tanned face screwed up in a whistle as he works. The fall tennis tourney is in its final matches.
Play in the lower bracket of the tournament advanced into the semi-finals' this week and into the quarter-finals in the upper group. A performance of the legendary Damon and Phythias struggle will be staged from opposite base-lines as Whit Gregory meets Dan Canale in what is expected to be one of the outstanding singles matches. Both hail from the far side of the Mason-Dixon line and have often played as doubles partners. Gregory gained the semi-final round by driving out a 7-5, 6-1 victory over Jack Walsh. Defending champion Canale eliminated Belli after three hard fought sets and then
The Notre Dame Scholastic
15
abruptly beat letterman Bowler, 6-1, 6-4 to gain his semi-final berth.
In the first bracket a real match is expected between Captain Bill Fay and Norm Heckler. In his previous rounds Heckler has shown a fine brand of play and Fay, last year’s number one man, can expect a strenuous test. Jack Joyce, one of the serious contenders, was unable to continue play and defaulted in the early rounds. However, his game is counted on for the spring competition.
Sitting on a bench on the back court. Coach Walter Langford has been taking in these final matches with keen interest. He is relying on this tourney as something to work on in formulating a possible team lineup.
In the Freshmen Tournament some high class tennis has been shown with activities now moved into the semi-final round. Two contenders who have stood out in this competition of over 70. are Pappas and Gossen, both of whom have so far met little trouble.
Boland Gives Tips To
Bewildered Grid Fans
Johnston, S.M.U.’s ace passer will go back to pass and then the spectator is in for an interesting afternoon of trying to follow the ball. With the invasion of Southern Methodist the razzle-dazzle, hipper dipper play begun by Georgia Tech will be continued.
Following the complex play of last Saturday The Scholastic has sought out Line Coach Joe Boland for a bit of authoritative advice. Joe’s theme was, “The easiest way to enjoy the game is to watch the ball—or it was the easiest before the southern teams began playing hide and seek with the ball.”
We asked how to observe the finer points of the game—the necessary information of every Sunday morning quarterback. “Center your attention on limited sections of play, watch the guards pull out into the interference, the defensive play of the line-backers, any one of numerous details of each play.”
Perhaps this Saturday’s game will afford one of the best displays of passing seen around these parts in years. Mr. Boland suggests that the spectator try to. follow the intricate pass pattern the offense weaves in the defensive open territory. “Watch the paths of the eligible receivers cross, watch the ends cut sharply across the line, watch the offense decoy the defenders from the intended receiver. These teams from the section that has produced passers like Baugh, and O’Brien, put a lot of faith
in throwing the ball around and in dire cases they send out as many as five possible receivers.” Joe sighed, “It ought to be something to watch.”
For any spectator who wants to be able to tell his section of the stadium why this play didn’t work or why that man threw the ball over the other man’s head Joe suggests reading Lou Little’s book on How to Watch a Football Game (a likely present for some Cotillion dates).—Jack Quinn
Student Council Plans
Frosh Swimming Meet
The Student Council, inaugurating a new interhall sports program, announced today final plans for the Freshman Swimming Meet, to be held in the Rockne Memorial pool on October 18 and 19. This will be the first swimming meet of the year under the auspices of the Student Council.
High interest has already been shown in the coming meet as more than 30 entries to date have been received. Entries will be taken at the Memorial up until the day of the preliminaries, and all freshmen are urged to compete in this water carnival.
The preliminaries will be held at 8 p.m. on Wednesday, Oct. 18, with the finals to be staged on Thursday, Oct. 19. Medals for all events will be awarded.
There will be six events on the program: 100-yard free style; 50-yard breast stroke; 50-yard back stroke; 50-yard free style; diving and 75-yard medley.
In the diving event there will be four required dives. They are: front, back,
Frosh Swimmers Will Compete Here
front jack, and back jack. Teams in the 75-yard medley relay will swim 25-yard back, 25-yard breast, and 25-yard free style.	.
Officials for the meet will be: Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., referee; George Cooper, starter; Professor Ray Hoyer, timer; John Nicholson, timer; Rev. Thomas - Brennan, C.S.C., timer; Capt. E. A. Schleuder, timer; George Keogan, Gill Burdich and George Bartuska. judges of the finish; Charles Hafron, clerk of the course; and Edward Slezak, scorer.
Bulletins are up in all the halls for further particulars.
Active Sport Program
Planned For Memorial
With tournaments set for practically every sport, Rockne Memorial Director Thomas Mills plans to keep every student busy during the coming months. Eleven intramural meets in swimming, handball, squash, basketball, softball— and other sports where there is enough interest—are definitely assured.
Freshmen especially should start practice for handball, swimming, and squash tournaments which are to be held for first year men in the very near future.
In swimming, besides the freshmen meet, an all-campus individual tournament will be held sometime before Christmas, with the Interhall team meet to be staged about March. Lyons hall, paced by William Cotter, won this event last spring.
An open handball tournament will be held shortly before Christmas vacation,
16
The Notre Dame Scholastic
to be followed by the Interhall singles and doubles tournament.
The squash players are not to be left out, for they likewise will have a tournament during the winter season. The beginners will get warmed up by organized competition in a few weeks.
Foul shooting and Interhall tournaments will be held upstairs on the basketball courts. There are possibilities of volley-ball and badminton tournaments, and when spring comes the softball bugs may take their fling in an Interhall affair.
In elimination tournaments official Notre Dame medals will go only to first place winners. In the swimming meets, however, these medals will also be awarded to second and third place winners.
The hours of the Memorial on week days are from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. On Sunday the swimming pool will be open from 10 a.m. until 4:45 p.m. and the gymnasium from 8 a.m. until 4:45 p.m.
—John Leivis
“B” Game Cancelled
For the second time in as many weeks the Notre Dame “B” game has been called off. The Irish reserves were slated to play the Illinois “B” team tomorrow morning but the game was cancelled due to the fact that after the departure of the “Illini” varsity for Southern California, they were unable to corral enough football players on the Illinois campus.
Coach Bill Cerney hopes to give his men some action in the near future provided nothing happens to the rest of the “B” teams on the schedule. In the meantime, this group of “boys behind the scene,” are sharpening up the varsity each week by running through formations of rival teams.
Law Professor To Speak
Before Catholic Laymen
Clarence E. Manion, professor of constitutional law at Notre Dame, will be the principal speaker at the 24th annual convention of the Catholic Laymen’s Association of Georgia, on Sunday, Oct. 29, at Atlanta, Ga. The program includes the Convention Mass on Sunday morning, at which the Most Eev. Gerald P. O’Hara, Bishop of Savannah - Atlanta, will officiate.
Prof. Manion, as lay guest of honor, will speak at the afternoon session on “God and the Government.” The theme of his talk will be that “the American political system doesn’t make sense unless the existence of God is admitted.”
The executive secretary of the Association is Richard Reid, editor of the Augusta, Ga., Bulletin, and Laetare Medalist for 1936.
MUSIC NOTES
During the past summer it was my pleasure to study voice at the Juilliard School of Music, on Morningside Heights, New York City.
My entire course a t Juilliard was under the direction of Bernard U. Taylor, one of the Institute’s foremost instructors in vocal technique.
Mr. Taylor strongly advocates
Frank Ciolino
simply the name musical education
the Group Voice
System, which is for that branch of which, instead of
teaching voice to an individual privately, brings groups together in classes for instruction in vocal work and the art of singing.
Since the World War, choral singing has made great advancement in colleges and universities. To have fine choruses it is necessary to have good singers. Since it was impossible to accomplish this through private teaching alone, we have developed today a group movement that is spreading rapidly throughout our educational system.
Besides being a stimulus to the teacher, the system arouses the student to continue his study privately.
The directors of Juilliard are of the opinion that all vocal study should begin with group work. They also believe that no strictly private instructions should be given until the student has developed to a place where his work might be retarded by continued work in a group. It is not until the student has entered into professional work that he should abandon the group method. Even then an ideal plan would include at least one group lesson a week in addition to the regular private instruction.
Some of the innumerable benefits
See Your Hall Representative or
Don Marietta, 232 Alumni
THINK OVER
Guaranteed Solo Course Free trial lesson — $3.00 Individual Lesson Free transportation to and from airport
Gov’t Approved INDIANA AIR SERVICE Flying Instructors
gained by studying voice in a group are: the development of a finer speaking voice, poise, intelligent listening, and a cooperative social attitude. Furthermore group work effectively provides an op- ’ portunity for artistic outlets, and facilitates a healthy performer-audience relationship. All in all, the method stimulates the student’s creative ability and develops his sense of personal responsibility.
The theoretical number which constitutes a good group is from five to 15 vocalists; this number makes possible a closer association of students and teacher, more opportunity for individual expression in the discussions that take place, and greater efficiency, than is possible in a larger class.
At Juilliard two 60-minute periods a week is the minimum and four periods is the maximum amount of time that is given to group study. Of course morning and early afternoon hours are preferable in this type of work.
In closing I add that I found my work at the Juilliard Institute of Music both enjoyable and beneficial. Whether one’s interest in music be an appreciative or a professional one, a session at one of the finest musical schools in the country should be a superb inspiration and a memorable experience.—Frank Ciolino
Third Order Meeting
There will be a meeting of the Third Order of St. Francis in Dillon Hall Chapel at 7:45 p.m. on Monday.
THE TESTED INK
FOR EVERY PEN
THIS BARGAIN FOR $45
The Notre Dame Scholastic
17
Student Council Seeks
Red Cross Memberships
A million NEW members for 1940! That’s one slogan of the American Red Cross, who open their annual drive for new subscribers on the campus, next Wednesday afternoon. Voluntary collections and membership blanks will be distributed by Student Council members. Subscriptions are one dollar.
Disaster strikes instantly—hurricane —famine—anytime—anywhere. “Every third day,” warns the Red Cross, “disaster strikes some American community.” Last year there were 153 catastrophes in 43 states.
The New England hurricane, for instance, killed 494 people. Through the efforts of the Red Cross, 20,000 families were rehabilitated and 60,000 persons received essential aid.
William Cardinal O’Connell, Archbishop of Boston, sounded the Catholic attitude recently when he said: “I am happy to endorse the annual appeal of the American Red Cross. I deem it not only a duty but a privilege to cooperate in the noble work of this great organization which has brought such credit to our nation. I am sure that all who are able to do so will not fail to heed this call for assistance.”
TOWN AND COUNTRY CLOTHES FOR COLLEGE MEN
Shetlands and Tweed Suitings expressing the character of British Imports
They cost
PARKER-WINTERROWD'S UPSTAIRS SHOP 115	- 117^ North Main Street
For full details consult our campus representatives:
George L. Haithcock—Main Building Harry Stephenson—109 Sorin “Tad” Harvey—11 Morrissey	Jack De Moss—309 Sorin
And before him, St. Paul said: “And now there remain faith, hope, and charity, these three: but the greatest of these is charity.”
Lawyers Convene
Paul Butler, South Bend attorney, is the featured speaker Wednesday evening at the first monthly smoker sponsored by the Notre Dame Law Club. Mr. Butler will trace a law case from its inception in quizzing the clients to the final appeal. Members of the freshman class will be welcomed to the fold by Dean Thomas Konop. William Mahoney will handle the introductions.
Various campus clubs have shown interest in the program undertaken by the club to acquaint prospective law students with the facilities offered at Notre Dame. Club heads are reminded to contact William McNamara for members of the faculty and law seniors who are available as speakers on subjects closely and remotely related to legal problems.
Members of the editorial board of the Lawyer, Notre Dame law quarterly, are assembling articles for what promises to be one of the largest editions ever attempted. The first issue will appear in two weeks. Professor James Kearney is beginning his second year as faculty advisor.
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
The Church, in the words of the rite of ordination of subdeacons already quoted, sees the altar and the altar cloths as symbolizing the doctrine of the Mystical Body of Christ. That is, the supernatural union of each sanctified soul with Christ and with one another in charity.
Throughout the Gospels Christ reveals this mystery under the parable of a kingdom. In the fifteenth chapter of the Gospel of St. John, Christ turns to the parable of the vine and its branches. St. Paul, who is called the theologian of the doctrine of the Mystical Body, in Romans 11, 16-24 uses the figure of a tree. Later in the first epistle to the Corinthians he adopts the analogy of the human body—head and members— to illustrate the interrelation between Christ and the Church. In the epistle to the. Ephesians and the first to the Col-ossians he returns to it with greater wealth of detail both in its outward and its inward signification. Whether we consider the parables or St. Paul’s exposition, the underlying thought is the same.
Two notable feasts this week lend emphasis to the above. Tuesday, of St. Margaret Mary, the apostle of the devotion to the Sacred Heart whose mysteries Our Divine Lord was pleased to reveal to her. Wednesday, of St. Luke, Evangelist, the companion of St. Paul in his missions and his prison, the writer of the third Gospel and of the Acts of the Apostles.
Mass Calendar: October 15-21
Sunday, 15—20th after Pentecost. 2d prayer, St. Teresa, Virgin. 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Monday, 16—St. Hedwig, Widow. Mass: Cognovi (in common). Prayer proper. 2d, of the Saints (A cunctis), 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Votive or Requiem.
Tuesday, 17—St. Margaret Mary Ala-coque, Virgin. Mass proper. 2d prayer,. Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Wednesday, 18—St. Luke, Evangelist. Mass proper. Credo. Preface of the Apostles.
Thursday, 19—St. Peter of Alcantara, Confessor. Mass proper.
Friday, 20—St. John Cantius, Confessor. Mass proper.
Saturday, 21—Of Our Blessed Lady. Mass; Salve (in common from Pentecost to Advent), 2d prayer, St. Hilarion, 3d, St. Ursula and Companions. Preface of the Blessed Virgin. Votive or Requiem.
18
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THEATRE
Every so often Hollywood seems to pause momentarily in its machinery-like production and say to itself: “It’s about time for something extravagant and magnificent.” Cinema moguls have a definite objective determined by the box office. So periodically the great cinema factory dashes off some blood, thunder, flood, and earthquake for the public’s amazement. This must have been the motive behind Twentieth Century-Fox’s “The Rains Came.”
If there was an artistic and unifying motive in the plan of this movie, it failed. How can any single unit of entertainment, outside a three ring circus, expect to be considered plausible when it insists on combining a dash of H. B. Warner, an inkling of Joseph Schildkraut, an introduction to Hollywood’s beautiful Brenda Joyce, Myrna Loy in fine restraint, the genius of Maria Ous-penskaya, Tyrone Power, and a confused George Brent, plus love, hate, plague, a magnificent earthquake, a flood, all in an intriguing musical background in India? “The Rains Came” is a series of scenes, some distorted, some excellent in their own right, some even gripping, but none blended into one uni
fied force. It was as if a stupendous vaudeville show was put to the screen, united only by a common title, and by the drifting of some of the same characters from act to act.
We must credit the master of make-
SAM'L SPIRO AND CO.
South Bend's Most Complete Hat Shop
Features America*s Famous
STETSON HATS
The prices start at $5
believe who created the stirring earthquake and flood scenes; these were the headline acts of the show. All of Maria Ouspenskaya’s work was so excellent, as to seem in discord with contingent scenes. Myrna Loy’s death scene was
STETSON HATS $5.00 and $7.50
MAX ADIER
Michigan al Washington
PARTY LINES
When you’re getting ready for a party or a big game, your best bet is this new Stetson. Its easy, good looking lines and smooth, correct styling will click with your clothes —and your crowd!
STETSON
STETSONS ARE PRICED AT $5, $7.50, $10
The Notre Dame Scholastic
19
moving, and Mr. Power lent to its effectiveness, surprisingly. The latter’s speech to Myrna Loy preceding his discovery of her fever and her electric realization of the contaminated glass after having drunk from it were brilliant acts.
Seeing so little of Joseph Schildkraut, Henry Travers, H. B. Warner, and Nigel Bruce made us resent the unhappy waste. Those characters barely had time to establish themselves. They were slipped in in order to raise the picture’s box office appeal, it seems, and then quietly withdrawn.
As a more appropriate title we suggest, “Cinematized scenes from Louis Bromfield’s novel, ‘The Rains Came’.” Extravaganzas such as this are better dissected and made into a half-dozen other movies.—Vern Witkowski
VINCENTIANS
Into the Community Chest building of South Bend Friday evening went nine men—eight Vincentians and their spiritual adviser, Rev. John C. Kelley, C.S.C. The men were there for the monthly meeting of the Society’s Particular Council of South Bend. Mr. John Hiss, president of the council, welcomed the presidents and the representatives of the South Bend Conferences as well as a representative of the Notre Dame Conference.
When the business of the meeting had been completed, Mr. William Murray, now in charge of the Vincentian Service Bureau which has offices in the building, outlined the program of the bureau for
the coming year, the emphasis to be on child welfare, especially on the care of Catholic children in institutions. Mr. Murray sounded a vital note when he reminded the Vincentians that the proper care of children is extremely .important' if we are to remove social evils. ‘
Frederic Ozanam, founder of the Society although he disclaimed the title by referring to the beginnings of the Society with “We were eight,” left something very beautiful with his wife shortly before his death:
“If anything consoles me for leaving this world, without having accomplished what I wished to do, it is that I have never worked for the praise of men, but always for the service of truth.”
He compared philanthropy in general to a vain woman before the mirror; charity to the mother, who with babe in arms, forgets self and her own beauty
Go!
TO SCHOOL TO TOWN
FITTED FOR ACTION!
Two feet bound to make the grade . . . every step cushioned— every arch supported . . . result: no pinch, pull or break-in! You’ll feel like a million in new BOSTONIANS. Get walk-fitted today from the most complete line-up of authentic university styles to be shown anywhere this season. Step in... step out in good-feeling BOSTONIANS. $7*5° to $10 the pair.
BOSTONIANS
Fit Right... Feel Right... they’re Walk-Fitted
Selby SHOES
130 West Washington Street
20
The Notre Dame Scholastic
&
UaA&KAYWOODIE
f This is one you’ve just got to have— unless you’re a bookish fellow given to staying indoors. The "watch-case” top on this pipe keeps the wind from tearing into the pipe-bowl and "emptying” it. Protects the briar (and that new tweed outfit of yours) from burning.
The slotted grill controls the draft perfectly, and slides back sideways for filling and emptying. The whole pipe is trim as a •watch and tight as a clammakes all other covered pipes look like the Gay Nineties. It’s the smartest thing that’s come through our doors in many years—you’ll agree as soon as you see one. Shown above, No. 33.
KAYWOODIE COMPANY
Rockefeller Center, New York and London
in the love she alone can know.
From the March, 1939, issue of the Bulletin, Vincentian publication, the Particular Council of Louisville, Ky., has taken the following words delivered by Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen speaking at the banquet which brought to a close the National Conference of Catholic Charities in October of 1935 at Peoria, Illinois:
“We can not only be a Social Worker and Vincentian but we can be another Christ. Ours is a tremendous responsibility, and we cannot be conscious of it unless we are mindful that we are members of one another in the Mystical Body of Christ. We must remember that Christ has no other eyes with which to see the poor man than with our eyes; He has no other hands to feed the poor than with our hands; He has no other
HOWELL'S CAFE
Notre Dame Headquarters for Delicious
STEAK, FISH AND CHICKEN DINNERS
211-213 North Main Street
EVERY HOUR
6 A. M. to Midnight
Shoot to Chicago’s Loop over the fast South Shore “Speed Way.”
Dependable—steel-safe—no delays.
All the schedule you need to remember: Every hour on the hour, 6 A. M. to Midnight.
(exception—6:50 A. M.)
For detailed information about routing to any section of the United States call
C. W. VEACH
City Passenger Agent
Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-3111
SKATE FOR HEALTH .	.	.
PLAYLAND ROLLER RINK
(Melody Gardens Ballroom)
TWO SKATING FLOORS — ONE FOR BEGINNERS Every Night Except Monday — Matinee Sunday and Thursday STUDENTS ALWAYS 25c Now booking Private and Group Parties
CHICAGO SOUTH SHOfU. A SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
SONDRE.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
21
feet to go about doing good than our feet. He has no other way of going to Cana, or bringing the Last Supper up-to-date, except by and through us. He fails only in the measure that we fail.” But Christ is the Model of Humility.
—Richard Leo Fallon, Jr.
RADIO
“A Tale of the Red Cross Tavern” by Don Hetzel, will be the first production of Notre Dame’s Radio Stage. Although new to radio writing, Don has turned out a magnificent script, full of dramatic possibilities and promising that much will be heard from this Zahm Haller throughout the year.
The scene of the story is Sixteenth Century England and dashes of plotting and intrigue mixed with heaping quantities of sword play and battle are guaranteed to keep you on your feet, ear glued to the loudspeaker till the last dastardly minion of the king has been dispatched and the imaginary curtain falls on the victorious hero.
Also new to radio work this year is cheer-leader, Wrangler, and all-rounder, Jerry Flynn who takes over the Sportcast, that breezy, up - to - the - minute resume of campus athletic activities. Walt Hagen handled it for the last two years and did it well.JBut we think that Jerry will be there every time with the latest in locker room dope and the campus answer to “Bearskin” and want to warn you that if you don’t hear it you’re missing something.
Log for week of October 15
Oct. 17, 7:00 p.m. Radio Stage
Oct. 17, 9:15 p.m. Music of the Masters Oct. 18, 7:45 p.m. Faculty Talk Oct. 19, 7:30 p.m. Sportcast Oct. 20, 4:15 p.m. Periscope
Oct. 21, 7:30 p.m. Little Jamboree
—Ray Kelly.
THE HUDDLE
Pipe Headquarters" on the Campus
Bookmen
Students interested in contemporary literature may apply for membership in the Bookmen by leaving their names with Al Callin, 307 Alumni Hall, or William DeCoursey, 429 Lyons Hall.
"STEINDL" at Makelski’s Art Shop 117 N. Main St. (3-2409)
Caricatures and Portraits
Drawn from life in one short sitting
RATES N. D. STUDENTS 02 - 05	01 off per person
-HILLJ’-
YOUR LIST
FOR THE BEST PIES	CHILE
HAMBURGERS
317 N. Michigan
216 W. Colfax
109 E. Wayne
Most beautiful new styles — unheard-of-value
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St.
South Bend, Ind.
22
The Notre Dame Scholastic
DISC - CUSSION
Glenn Miller, pretty busy since his superb “Moonlight Serenade,” has come forth this week with a new pair: “Last Night,” and “Melancholy Lullaby.” Both sides feature his inimitable sax section backed up by restrained brass, but unfortunately include a vocal by unique Ray Eberle. Eberle—unique in that he is consistently a half-tone off — should take lessons from brother Bob. (Bluebird).
Brother Bob is featured on Jimmy Dorsey’s .recording of Johnny Green’s “Body and Soul.” The song is one of the best, and while Dorsey doesn’t add much to it, neither does he detract. “Dixieland Detour,” on the other side is another J. Dorsey instrumental. Do you recall “Parade of the Milk Bottle Caps?” (Decca).
Rather than discuss the fact that Bing Crosby wasted his voice on an album of cowboy songs, I might mention a recording issued this summer that I think never got past the taverns and soda parlors. The Mills Brothers singing “Sweet Adeline” and “You Tell Me Your Dream” makes me think that in the novelty of their style their excellent voices were forgotten. Here they are at their best with two songs your father will enjoy. (Decca).
Most of you have heard that the popular “Our Love” was based on a strain from Tchaikowsky’s “Romeo and Juliet Overture.” Probably few of you have heard the original. Even the less initiated will enjoy and be able to interpret the “Overture” as done by the Amsterdam Concert Orchestra under the direction of William Mengelberg. (Columbia)
—Bill Geddes
Here’s the raincoat
with Your style ideas
Loose fitting with full drape!
Z
BY
ALLIGATOR
Roomy pockets—as you like them:
Casual type convertible collar!
Guaranteed waterproof— light weight!
Shiny brass buttons
—fly front!
full 85-tnch sweep for smartness!
$750
At Better Dealers
University Coacher Raincoat
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor to
ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
A “must” for every college man’s wardrobe... because IT’S SURE TO RAIN! And the University Coacher by Alligator gives top flight style along with guaranteed protection against rain, wind and dust! See the style leader today in deep sea green, yellow, and black —at the better dealers.	.
The "Coacher'’ by Alligator also available in
Samihur “Special Finish” . . $14.75 Galecloth ........ $15.50
Other Alligator Ramcoats, $5.75 to $25
'Hie Alligator Co., St. Louis, New York, Los Angeles
ILLI GATOR
The Notre Dame Scholastic
23
Newspaperman Offers
Money For Cartoons
The W. Worthington Wells newspaper syndicate of Leonia, New Jersey, is now syndicating a daily cartoon panel which has as its theme the humorous side of college life. The material for this feature is contributed by amateur college artists, for which they are paid five dollars ($5.00) for each daily release.
Mr. Wells said that the primary purpose of securing the material direct from the student is to encourage this form of art, and to familiarize the student with this lucrative field He said there were few newspaper editors who are satisfied with their so-called comic strips, and that the artists who can develop something new and appealing will make a fortune.
Mr. Wells has had wide experience in newspaper work and has covered for newspapers, the United Press or other wire services practically every important story during the past 15 years. He gave to the world the first authentic
Prs. P^ose and ^Rose
DENTISTS
405 SHERLAND BLDG.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
[■1,iiinlill,iiiuiliiniliiiiiiiniiiiiiuiiiiiiuiiiui,iiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii,f.l
OFFICE 4-5661
RES 3-4080
CRr. ^R. & ^ucas DENTISTRY — X-RAYS
702 J.M.S. BLDG.	SOUTH BEND
Pr. 0. Qrundy
Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments
434 Associates - South Bend
Office Phone 3-2574
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG., SOUTH BEND
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
CDrs. Probst and Sinyler
DENTISTS
405 Associates - South Bend
Phone 3-1254 eaeacacaeaeacaeacacacacacaeacaeaeaeacaneacaaesncaeac
story of the finding of the Lindbergh baby. During the past ten years, or rather during the depression, he has developed and sold ideas, one of which is the famous Grantland Rice football pamphlet, which has sold in excess of ten million copies. Although he gathers sports schedules and records from practically all amateur sports activities, he finds time to write the popular “WORD STORIES” feature which is used in some 22 daily newspapers and some New York City high schools. His Word Stories feature is a new approach to a vocabulary development program. He deals with words that are being used daily in the newspapers. He selects a word, for instance, Dexterity, gives a part of the paragraph in which the word was used, tells who used it. Then the pronunciation of the word is explained in simple language and a short definition given followed by a few simple sentences showing how the word is most frequently used.
Mr. Wells feels that the colleges offer the best possibilities for securing good clean humor and he is willing to work with, advise and assist young artists in getting started. He said he would like to hear from any student who has an idea for newspaper feature regardless of the nature.
The drawings from the humor panel must be line work, eight inches wide and ten inches high. Use India ink if possible. If the student can not do the ink work he should make the best pencil drawing possible for him, and our staff will ink it in. Each drawing should have the name of the person submitting it, his class year, and the name of his college within the panel.
Address all communications to W. Worthington Wells, Leonia, New Jersey.
Announcing:
THE OPENING OF MICHIANA’S LARGEST AND MOST COMPLETE RECORD AND RADIO DEPARTMENT at RODIN, Inc.
132 North Michigan St.
OPENING SPECIAL/
$14.95 RCA Victrola Attachment and 12 Months* Subscription to Victor Record Society
Both for $4.95
Save $10. This RCA Victor attachment plays records through your radio electrically. Its list price is $14.95. During opening you get it for $4.95—and the Victor Record Society membership, worth $2.00, absolutely FREE. But you must hurry, this sensational offer is limited:
years of experience at your command.
years of reliable, competent service.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eyes and the making of fine glasses.
Optometrists and Opticians
314 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
FREE!
with every Record Purchase regardless of size
RECORD BRUSH
Most Complete Record Department in Michiana ... 6 Sound-proofed listening booths ... Electric Machines ... Well informed Clerks ... Complete Stock of
Needles and Accessories.
OPEN EVERY EVENING DURING EVENT
RODIN, Inc.
132 N. Michigan Phone 4-1184

LIGHT UP WITH
... that’s always a signal for more smoking pleasure
An around you, you’ll see that friendly white package .. . that means more and more smokers everywhere are agreed that Chesterfields are milder and better-tasting.. .for everything you want in a cigarette, CHESTERFIELD WINS
^^^^MILUONS
Copyright m», boon** Mms Tobacco Co.