

NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE /'-... Entertainment reviews and previews, Out of Bounds and a Coming Distractions pull-out calendar of events. In-depth news and sports coverage. 
Read one for the Gipper! Campus Watch plus Week in Distortion and On Other Campuses. 
Campus Life stories to keep you informed of what's happening on campus. Remember: If you see news happening ... you're probably reading Scholastic! 
If you don't have time to write home every wee~, let us do it for you: Give your parents a subscription! 
~-------------------------------------­
Please send.__ years of Scholastic to: 
Name: 
Address: ______________ 
City: ______ State: ___ Zip Code: __ 
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x -·_ years = $ ___ 
Please send form with payment to: Business Manager Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, In 46556 
CONTENTS 

NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 

2 Editor's Notes 
3 Opinion 
8 Campus Watch 22 On Other Campuses 23 Week in Distortion 24 ·Final Word 

4 Safe or Sorry 
6 Two's Company, Three's Safety 7 Ribbons of Hope 

9 Behind the Lines 10 Business is Booming 

15 A League of Her Own· 16 Up for Grabs 17 On the Rebound 18 Commentary 

19 Out of Bounds 20 Elvis is Alive 
-'cover photo of Notre Dame Police Officer Robert Stokes wsas taken by Brent Tadsen. 
FROM THE EDITOR 
SCHOLASTIC


Welcome to Scholastic. The magazine may not look any different, but the people working behind the scenes have changed. Some have simply moved up the ladder; others are new. Startingwith this issue, Scholastic will be the responsibility ofthe 1994-95 Editorial Board. All of us are excited to continue Scholastic's tradition as the oldest college publication in the country. 
· It is my pleasure to announce the following new additions to our staff. Taking over the campus life department willbe junior Tim Chasteen. Ournew sports editoris T.Ryan Kennedy, a freshman who worked as an assistant news editor, with last year's staff. Mary Kate Morton, a sophomore, moves from assistant to editor in Departments. Sophomore Collette McKenna is assuming copy editing duties, and juniors Dana Anderson and Elizabeth Hanlon will be working as advertising managers. We are glad to have them on the staffand wish them all good luck. 
On the cover 
As citizens across the country grapple with escalating crime rates, and politicians introduce gun-control bills and new sentencing guidelines for criminals, it is obvious that the issue of personal safety is growing more important College campuses are not immune to crime. Notre Dame, although a protective institution when it comes to morals and student behavior, is sometimes powerless to stop crime from filtering on to the campus. 
This week's cover story on safety and crime at Notre Dame examines some different perspectives of the issue: Chris Lenka writes a general article about crime, Chris Regan takes a look at Safe Walk, an organization dedicated to making the campus safer, and Stacie Jonas previews Sexual AssualtAwarenessWeek, which starts on Monday. Inaddition, a Notre Dame student describes in the Final Word the agony and powerlessness which accompany being raped, and the difficult road to recovery. 
We hope that this issue will remind each student that the best way to be safeis to be infonned. · Take an interest in campus safety. As a community, our duty is to make sure that everyone, regardless of gender or age, is safe. 
Also in this issue 
WithallthemediacoverageoftheconflictraginginBosnia-Herzegovina,itiseasytobecome hardened to the gruesome events ofwar and sufferingofmillions ofpeople. While Notre Dame may seem far removed from the reality ofwar, it is not Notre Dame student Deborah Dinkle is taking a year off from school to do service work in Bosnia In this issue's campus life section, she tells her story. Even more moving are the words of the students she teaches. Bombarded with graphic pictures ofwar, this is a rare chance to read the words ofstudents our age who are caught in the middle of the conflict The story runs on page 10. 
On thelighterside, thereis stillthe Gipp' s irreverent humor,Weekin Distortion and OnOther Campuses. Enjoy our first issue. 
Katie E. Wiltrout 
SclwlasticisP"bllsludwttkly througlwut tlu sclwolyeRr ac,pt utters to Sclwlasticmustbe typed a11d i11cludt tlu writer's •-e,
durillg URminRtiOII RtUl VRCRtiOII periods Rt tlu U,,iwrslty of 
Rddrtss R11d pho11t 11umbtr. U,,iversity studt11ts should illclude · Notre DRme, Notre DRn<e, IN, 46556 RtUl prillted Rt Tiu PRpers, 
tluir ytRT ill sclwol R11d colltge. FRculty mtmbtrs should illcludt l•c. Milford, IN46542. Tiu subscriptiD• rRte is $25.00/yeRr RM 
tluir d,pRrlmtnt. All lttters must bt ,ig,ttd. Name, will bt bRck lssuts Rrt RT>llilsiblt Rt $1.25 /copy. Tiu opilliD•s apresud 
withheld upon request i• certR/11 illstR11ces, ill Scholiutic llrt tlwu of tlu RUtlwrs Rt<d editors Rt<d do 1<ot 
Scholastic rtstrvts tlu right to rtjtct letters thRt Rrt libtlou, or 11eetssRrily r,prtu11t tlu opilllo11S oftlu e11tirt tditorilll boRnl of 
obsct11t by tlu IRWs oftlu U,,/t,d StRtts. SclwliuticRisowill tdit Sclwlastic or of tlu U,,iwrsity ofNotr, DRmt, its RdmilllstrR­
for copyfittillg, gn,mmRticRI or spelling n-,ors ,.,.4 Sclwlastic tiD11, f=lty or .twl111ts, Editorlllis sig,ttd Sclwliutic r,pttu11t 
styIt. BtCRUUofspRCt, Sclwlsistic CR11ftotprillt RII ltttenrtethJtd. tlu opillio11 of tlu 111Rjority of tlu aecutiw tditoriRI boRTd, 
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 
Vol. 135, No. 16 March 24, 1994 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus 
Founded 1867 
/ 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Katie E. Wiltrout 
MANAGING EDITOR Mark J. Mitchell IV 
EXECUTIVE EDITOR Christopher Blanford 
NEWS Editor: Michelle Crouch Assistant: Chris Lenke 
CAMPUS LIFE Editor: Tim.Chasteen 
SPORTS Editor: T. Ryan Kennedy 
ENTERTAINMENT Editor: Miranda C. Sanford 
DEPARTMENTS Editor: Mary Kate Morton 
PHOTOGRAPHY Editor: Brent Tadsen 
COPY Editor: Collette McKenna 
GRAPHIC ARTS Manager: Charlie Kranz 
ADVERTISING Managers: Dana Anderson Elizabeth Hanlon 
DISTRIBUTION Manager: Mark Fitzgerald 

MRt<uscrlpts 11rtwelcon<e. All u1<solicititd materillls bteD111e tlu proptrty ofScholRstic.  Address Rll comspo11dtnct to :  Tiu Editor  
Scholastic  
Copyright1994SclwlasticMRgRZillt. Allrightsrturvtd. R,pro­ LRForfil11t Ct11ter  
ductio11 ill wlwlt ori11pRrtwithoutwritte11 ptrnclssio11 is prohib­ited. .  Notr1 DRn<e, IN46556  

2 
SCHOLASTIC 


LETTER 

Dear Editor:; 
I found Michelle Crouch's article, "Around the World-Partici­pants in Saint Mary's Semester Around the World Program talk about their travels"(February 24, 1994) to be an interesting one, yet I was left with one question. Since the program is indeed sponsored · by Saint Mary's, why wasn't. Dr. Pullapilly, the director of the program and Saint Mary's professor, or even one Saint Mary's student interviewed? IfSaint Mary's wasn't mentioned in either the title, or the first paragraph, people would assume that the program was one of Notre Dame's. With all of the recent hype about improving relations between the two colleges, which by the way I do agree with, I think it would have been appropriate to give credit where credit is due. 
Sincerely, Clare Heekin Regina Hall Class of 1996 

PIZZA
BRUNO'S 
Q

,,at 

.11,1 


,}Open for carry out and del.ivery only Accepting reservations on weekends. from 4 p.m. -1Op.m. weekdays, Available for private parties and banquets. and 4 p.m. to midnite on weekends. 
** THURSDAY MARCH 24 ** 
1fs N. 31 (just North of campus) ALL YOU CAN EAT FOR $4.99 273-3890 261 O Prairie Avenue 
288-3320 
''All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We offer FREE DELIVERY of our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 
. r 
1· i 


NEWS 

CA-MPIJS -GRIN1E-: 
.,. -. '. 
' , , I ' • 



Safe or 



Brent Tadsen 

With the increase of crime on college campuses, students and campus officials are voicing concerns 
by Chris Lenko 
In 1990, frustrated with Brown University's reluctance to investigate in­cidents of sexual violence and harassment, an angry student took matters into her own hands, scrawling the name ofher rapist on a stall in the second floor bathroom of the Rockefeller Library. The action sparked immediate responses; the names of at least fifteen other male students were added to the list. Male students responded with charges oflibel and harassment, and the administra­tion was forced to reassess its policies for handling criminal complaints. While the Brown incident received na­tional media coverage, such occurrences are isolated events. Certainly crime is not a major problem for colleges in rural orsubur­ban areas, or for private schools, and espe­cially not for Catholic schools. Or is it? 
Andrea Gutierrez, a Notre Dame senior, thinks it is. This year on Valentine's Day, Gutierrez distributed copies ofa flyer which she had made for a sociology class assign­ment The flyer featured the silhouette ofa male Notre Dame student with the title "WANTED: RAPIST." At the bottom, it warned women of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's: "You must be aware and protect yourself always." The flyer sparked contro­versy and· prompted an angry letter from Michelle Cummings, co-chair of the Cam­pus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE). 
"Firstofall, it put the responsibility on the women and it's not a women's issue, it's everybody's issue," she said. "And it points a finger at all men, when it's only some men." 
Gutierrez defended her flyer, saying she designed and distributed the poster to stu­dents in La Fortune, the dining halls and her classes because she believes that rape-and crime in general -is not acknowledged at Notre Dame. ''People think so ideally about this campus because of the type of people who are supposed to go here and the whole idea of theNotre Dame family," Gutierrez said. "I think the idea of students commit­ting crimes against other students frightens a lot of people." 

It does. Crime is a sensitive issue on most college campuses, and Notre Dame is no exception. A high rate of criminal activity tarnishes a university's image and can nega­tively affect everything from the number of applicants to the amount of alumni funding a school receives. A 1992 report by the Campus Safety and Security Institute re­vealed that 32 percent of colleges and uni­versities skew statistics and conceal ipfor­mation about the extent of crimes on their campuses. 
Instead of having the police arrest stu­dents, universities often charge offenders with rule infractions, enabling their own administrators to hold court. These pro­
ceedings are closed to the public, records are not made available, and a university's crime statistics remain-low; According to du Lac, disciplinary conferences and administrative hearings at Notre Dame are closed to all but those who are associated with the case. 
The 1991 Student Right-to-Know and Campus Security Act, however, requires 
U.S. universities and colleges to report all campus crimes directly to the FBI and to make campus crime statistics available to students and their families. Statistics result­ing from this law show thatci:ime on college campuses is increasing. Between 1992 and 1993, there were 17 murders, 466 rapes, 448 forcible sex-offenses, 1,322 weapons ar­rests, 1,353 robberies, and 3,224 aggravated ­assaults at 744 institutions with student bod­ies of 5,000 or more. 
However, crime statistics at Notre Dame are below the national average. In 1992, there were two reports ofaggressive assault, five burglaries, eight thefts and 647 larce­nies. There were no reported rapes on the · Notre Dame campus during 1992, and only two charges of forcible sex offenses. 
70 percent of all violent crime on college campuses is directly related to alcohol intoxication. 
However, the host of support services available to sexual assault victims suggests that rape is a much larger problem than the numbers show. 
The Notre Dame Police Department ac­knowledges that crimes involving sexual offenses tend to be underreported; and that the statistics for crimes of this nature are inaccurate. 
· While the university might not be respon­sible for the low incidence of reporting crimes, the statistics can give students and their parents a false sense ofsecurity. 
Safety is a major concern for incoming freshmen, according to associate director of admissions Bob Mundy. When questioned about the crime situation, admissions offic­ers usually refer parents to the security pam­phlet for information, but Mundy said they are quick to stress that "Notre Dame is not immune to crime." 
"Safety is a relative thing," according to Phil Johnson, assistant director ofuniversity security. "In general I think this campus is safe" he said. "But I don't compare the crime statistics, and I don't think compari­sons have much value." Johnson explained that many factors influencing crime statis­tics are not taken into account in such analy­ses. The location of the campus, whether it is in an urban or rural setting and the cam­pus' relations with the community or police agencies affect its crime rate. He also noted 
32 percent of colleges and universities skew statistics and conceal information about the extent of crimes on their campuses .. 
that crimes which occur off campus are not reported. 
Corporal Thomas Williams of the South Bend Police Department said that his pre­cinct works fairly closely and shares infor­mation with the Notre Dame Police Depart­ment, but he was not sure whether off-cam­pus students are more likely to be victims of crime, since "a lot of things that go on on­campus don't get reported." 
A big concern of many students is safety in off-campus housing. The rate of violent crimes on college campuses is still one-tenth that of crimes in the general community, according to the International Association of Campus Law Enforcement Administra­tors. And because the Student Right-to­Know and Campus Security Act does not require the reporting of off-campus crime, statistics on it are difficult to obtain. 
Off-campus students are more likely to have their homes burglarized during fall and spring breaks than on-campus students, ac­cording to Williams, so they should take special precautions to prevent this. 
The recent SUDS (Stop Underage Drink­ing and Sales Taskforce) raid on Lafayette Square has caused many students to ques­thing can happen to them." 

tion the South Bend Police Department's priorities. "It is poor use of your valuable time when your officers are called upon to breakup Notre Dame parties," wrote student government in a letter to the South Bend Police Department. "We respond to every crime problem when it occurs. The incident was causing a big problem and that's why we were out there," Williams said. Football weekends are also a potentially dangerous time for robberies, according to Williams, who cited increased alcohol con­sumption as a factor. A Washington Post study revealed that 70 percent of all violent crime on college campuses is directly re­lated to alcohol intoxication. -The main issue in the discussion ofcam­pus crime, according to Johnson, is the lack of awareness. "Students feel relatively safe here, and because they do, they might do things they otherwise wouldn't, like leave their rooms unlocked or leave valuables unattended," Johnson said. Gina Morse, who has been a monitor in Pasquerilla East for 12 years, agreed: "If students were more aware of what goes on,  i,!  
The rate of violent crimes on college campuses is still one­tenth that.of crimes . in the general community. we wouldn't have to talk to students who go out walking alone at night or tell them to lock their doors. Students still don't think any­ 

The Notre Dame Police Department has tried to make its campus safe. The univers1ty observes the policies outlined in the Student Right to Know and Campus Security Act of 1990, by making statistics available to the public, offering rape prevention education classes and providing on campus counseling for rape and assault victims. Johnson said that in order to make Notre Dame a safer place to live, the university "needs to in­crease the awareness ofpeople who live here in terms of what they can do. Those in the best position to fight crime are the people who live here, and they can do this by taking an interest in one another." 0 

NEWS 


Dame's commitment to ~ety. Along with that gets you out ofDeBartolo every night at a rape in the D-2 parking lot, this attack has 2a.m., we'llhaveaSafeWalkteammeetyou raised concern about the security of the there at 2 a.m.," explained Kipp. 
campus. Ifstudents are concerned about the danger 

Two's 
Company, Three's Safety 
SafeWalk expands to meet safety needs on campus 
by Christopher Regan 
... "the victim was praying at the Grotto at approximately 3:00 a.m. She then left the 
The issue even found its way into the recent campaign for student body president, when one ticket argued for bus transporta­tion from D-2 to campus buildings. Since David Hungeling and Matt Orsagh did not include safety in their winning platform, questions remain as to whether campus se­curity programs will be expanded. 
In the middle of this debate is Safe Walk, a specialized arm of Notre Dame security that provides escort service anywhere on campus. According to Karen Kipp.student coordinator, the Safe Walk program has ex­panded this year to meet the increased con­cern for safety on campus. "We'veprobably doubled the number of walks this year. We've also increased advertising and com­munication with rectors," she said. 
Safe Walk is managed by a combination of students and police. The composition of the teams is an area Kipp has targeted for im­provement Because women may feel un­comfortable walking with two men, Kipp is trying to set up male/female teams. 
SafeWalk faces a variety of difficulties that it handles in different ways. The most· significant problem is ignorance of what Safe Walk can do. 
Members will walk anyone anywhere on ­campus, and they can even be engaged to walk someone regularly, "Ifyou have a job of waiting late at night for a Safe Walk team to arrive, they can call ahead and SafeWalk will meet them. ­

Safe Walk is in the process of improving its own communications on campus with a special emphasis on communication in male dorms. Kipp explained that while female dorms were inundated with information about the Grotto attack, many male dorms were still unaware ofthe incide~thfee days later. And there are very few male students who feel comfortable calling SafeWalk. "Actually, there have only been six or seven male calls in all the years that Safe Walk has been around," said Kipp. 
Anotherkey to improving Safe Walk is the professionalism of the walkers. SafeWalk has extensive bylaws that mandate, among other things, that walkers are not allowed to proposition· the students they escort. The walkers are required to maintain confidenti­ality by not asking the name ofa person who calls or any other questions. 
SafeWalk does have some significant limitations. It is not insured to operate off campus, so students who live off campus will have to wait until police can be dis­patched as an escort Moreover, there is not a large number of teams available at any given time. There is one on campus from 8­10 p.m., three from 10-1 a.m., and one from 
Grotto by walking towards 
1-2:30a.m. the stairs that lead toward the The biggest problem with Freshman Year of Studies. Safe Walk is that SafeW alk is Upon reaching the steps she underused: -There . are only was grabbed from behind. about four walks on weekend She struggled with the suspect _ nights and six to eight on and they both ended up on the weeknights. ground. She was able to free Kipp argued that aware­herself from her attacker ness is the key to improving when she stabbed him in the -safety and Safe Walk: ''Too stomach with a broach pin many people make it tough to and kicked him. She then fled use SafeWalk by saying the area." Jan. 24, 1994 Notre Dame is totally_ safe. 
-Campus Watch Bulletin People need to be aware that Notre Dame is not safe.Welcome to Notre There are no fences around Dame. Midwestern the campus. Anyone can schools in small cities are not walk onto campus whether it known for their crime prob­
Among other Improvements, Safe Walk Is formln~ent Tadsen is noon or midnight People
lems, but the attack described male/female teams because some women may feel -really need to think about above has refocused Notre uncomfortable walkIng with two men. -their own safety." D 

NEWS 
Brent Tadsen 


Ribbons of 


Hope 

Sun., March 27 -Annual "Take Back the Night" march, 7 p.m., War Memorial.
Sexual Assault Awareness Week 
Mon., March 28 -Steve Thompson speaks on the "why's and 
-
aims to broaden· student 
. how's" of rape, 12 p.m., Saintconsciousness 
Mary's Stapleton Lounge; 7 p.m., 
by Stacie Jonas 
Six females sit together in the dining hall, laughingand chatting casually about their days. It is hard to imagine that one of these smiling girls has been raped. Yet according to statistics, one in six women and one in 10 men between the ages of 18 and 24 .will be as­saulted, and approximately 95% ofthese inci­dents will go unreported. The week beginning March 27 is Sexual Assault Awareness Week at Notre Dame. This week was established to promote con­sciousness and encourage discussion about this serious yet often silent issue. Security brochures from 1992 and 1993 indicate that no rapes and only two forcible sex offenses were reported on campus during Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Tues., March 29 -"The Dating Game," 7:30 p.m., Saint Mary's Haggar Parlor. Wed., March 30 -Movie The Accusedand discussion by Professor Ava Collins, chairwoman of the Gender Studies program, 7:00pm, Rm. 120 Law building. 
A pink ribbon symbolizes the week's theme of awareness. 
1992. Does this mean that Notre Dame stu­dents are immune to sexual assault? Groups such as CARE (Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination) and SOS (Sex Offense Services) claim it does not 
"People think that Notre Dame is special, but it's not so different," said senior Michelle Cummings, co-president of CARE and a member of SOS. ''The fact that these support groups exist shows that there is a problem." Nonetheless, many students seem to be un­aware of this reality. 
A 1987 survey of college campuses found that not only had· one in every six female students been a victim of rape in the preceding year, but that one in every 15 maie students had attempted or committed rape. If this statistic holds true at Notre Dame, then in 1993, when 7701 undergraduates were en-types that females develop about other 

women are part of the problem as well, she 
added. . 
Although prevention through awareness is 
ideal, there are services available for individu­
als who have been sexually assaulted. SOS 
provides counseling and group discussion for 
victims. They are also trained as advocates 
and are on call 24 hours a day at 289-HELP. 
In order to bring attention to the issue of 
rape and sexual assault, CARE will be distrib­
uting pink ribbons next week and asking stu-· 
dents to tie them in a visible location to 
symbolize someone they know who has been 
affected by sexual assault In addition, they 
will hold a number ofother activities designed .to increase student awareness. (See inset ·box.) 
According to Jeff Shoup, acting director 
of residence life and CARE faculty advisor, 
the intention is to "get the word out quickly." 
''No campus is completely safe," he said. 
"If one person on campus is raped, it is a 
problem." , 
Sexual assalt is a concern that affects both 
men and women alike. Cummings empha­
sized that students need to "open their eyes 
and close their mouths.'' D rolled, 525 women would have been the vic­tims ofrape or attempted rape, and there were 303 raptists or potential rapists on campus. 
Preventive measures such as SafeWalk, campus lighting and call-boxes have been i implemented on campus, but professor Ava Collins, a CARE executive committee mem­ber, suggested that the problem should be I 
addressed at its roots. 
,1 
''There is a prob­lem with accepted patterns of behav­ior," she said. "All male dorms allow unacceptable banter and conversation that are not stopped or analyzed. There are very high ten­sions between males and females on this campus, and it is hard to be 'just friends.' We need to learn how to treat members of the op­posite sex." 
Negative stereo­


NEWS COMMENTARY 
DON'T ZIP YOUR LIP! TIP THE GIPP! 
mail: 303 La.Fortune 
Crunpus Watch
phone: 219/631-7569 'U' fax: 219/631-9648 fbJ 
· BY THE GIPPER
Eudora: Gipper.l@nd.edu 
Rumor, Attitude and Taoiseach (prono1UU:td"1ui-,J,ocJ:') 

Internet: gipper@darwin.cc.nd.edu Mosaic: in the "Campus Dirt" 
A nTostal (Notre Drune's version of the fl.Celtic spring orgy) is coming and the Gipp has heard rumors of bands on the hori­zon. Latest word has it that ND has allocated money to bring the Violent Femmes. Maybe they'llopenandclosewith"Additup"("Why can't I get/Just one fl'**"). 
THE NOTRE DAME REPUBLIC 
The Gipper often gets a funny feeling that there are shady dealings going on under the Dome. This is often called paranoia, but allow your Uncle Gipper to make his case. 
First, Taoiseach (that's "tea-shock," not "tou-i-seech '') AlbertReynolds,Prime Minis­ter of Ireland, edged out David Letterman as the speaker at the university's 149th com­mencement The Gipp is still savoring the irony of his invitation to the home of the "Fighting Irish." 
Then last Friday, professor Paul McGinn, Domer for life, received the official charter to the first Notre Drune Club in Ireland 
To top itoff,Lou Holtz received a 50-pound chunk of the Blarney stone. This saved Lou the trouble of lowering himself down the side of a cliff, turning upside down and kissing the rock like everyone else. The football field ought to grow like a rain forest Maybe they will rehire Rudy as an extra groundskeeper. 
Now Scholastic is receiving letters from a cheeseball from the class of 1958 advertising Nash's Irish Spring "bottled water with fruit juices" (an unheard-of idea). "Perhaps some Irish Spring will be on hand during the Irish Prime Minister's visit to ND on May 15," he wrote. That's Taoiseach to you, buddy. 

The Gipp's prophesy: On commencement · Sunday, a group of eight students and faculty, fleeing from the oppressive du Lac regime, 
----------------------. willtakeovertheNotre · 

Never let it be said that the Ebeneezer Scrooge Memorial Office ofStudentAccountswon'twringeverylastredcentoutofusNotre Dame kids. Maybe the rocket scientists over at the accounts office forgot to change the batteries in the abacus before they tabulated this student's bill. Whatever the case, .the Office of Financial Mistakes sent the above invoice to a Farley Hall resident 
The Gipper did a quick mental calculation: 23 cents to mail the bill, around 25 cents for the check for one cent, the 29-cent stamp to return ii to the university, plus the forms and labor bring the total to around a dollar. The Gipper hopes our fellow student paid her one cent on time, before Moose and Rocco are sent out to collect God only knows how much the compounded interest adds up to. 
Dame post office and declare Notre Dame an independent state. 
IFITQUACKS 
LIKEADUCK 
The students at the Development Phone Center ( where students are paid to bleed alums dry) workedreally hard this year. Because they reached their develop­men t goal, those telemarketers were re­warded with a "Notre Dame" paper clip holder. 
Never mind that this "paper clip holder" is made of glass, has the samerounddimensions as a shot glass and even has your flushed lepre­chaun decal on it And try to look past the fact that workers could pick these up right before Saint Patrick's Day. Calling a shot glass a "paper clip holder'' goes in the Gipp' s ''Euphemism" folder, right next to calling a neurotic, du Lac-wielding tyrant "Patty." 

MUTANT AGENDA II: TAOISEACH 

ThemysterybehindtheRADIATIONbuild­ing continues to grow. A graduate Crunpus Watcher spied an runbulance hauling some­one away from the Radiation Building. The Gipp called the building three times to fill in the details, but no one answered. No recep­tionist, no voice mail. The Gipp thinks his friend caught a glimpse of the last of many loads of bizarre mutants (including a horribly deformed receptionist). Of course, the gov­ernment will disavow any knowledge of this "accident '1 
PAOISEACH (THAT'S ''PEE SHOCK") 
Depends™ really work! Or at least they should have over this past weekend. In two incidents in two separate male dorms, there were some accidents involving-well, let's, just say it -wee-wee. In the first case, a Flanner Hall resident who· had taken to the bottle wandered into the hall for a drink of water. Notto beoutdonebytheflowingwater of the fountain, the boy dropped his pants and, infrontofseveralgland-witnesses,mademagic water upon the fountain. The Gipp won't reveal the floor on which this took place, but if you're below five in Flanner, take the eleva­tor to find a clean fountain. 
The next night, a Morrissey. Hall resident (also blitzed) felt compelled to urinate all over his roommate's Sega Genesis™. He sort of added a water hazard to John Madden Foot­ball. 
The Domer candies are leaving now and so is the Gipp. Stay on your toes for the April Fool's issue (on a very special Wednesday). Until then, buy some Joop!, avoid the croup, put goop in the soup, then when you regroup, give Gipp the scoop. · . 

CAMPUS LIFE 


Business is Booming 
by Tim Chasteen the graduate students, and the undergraduates Siegfried,joinedto underwrite the constrution willbeinDeBartoloHall,"according toKeane. of Siegfried Hall. 'T"be plans were made. The donors found. This deviates from the purpose University Kelly is the president and the chief execu­
.1 Thecontractorshired. As June 1, 1995, PresidentEdward Malloy described when it's tive officer ofD.P. Kelly & Associates, L.P . the scheduled completion date, approaches construction was announced four years ear­He was the central figure in the $62-billion many people are anxiously awaiting the new lier. ''This new complex will help to ensure purchase of Beatrice in 1986 that was the home ofthe College of Business Administra­continued excellence of the College's under­nation's largest leveraged buyout at that time. tion. graduate program and, at the same time, will From 1981-84 Kelly chaired the Sorin Soci­
''This is something we all have looked foster its growth at the graduate level," he ety, and also served on the University's Board forward to for many years. It will make so said. of Trustees from 1987-91. many things possible that we we've been Although it has 18 classrooms, 13 small­When DeBartolo Hall opened in the fall of unable to do because of space limitations," group studyrooms and a 350-seatauditorium, 1992, itwas lauded as a state-of-the-art teach­said John G. Keane, dean of the college of the business complex will be primarily the ing facility for the College of Arts andLetters. business administration. realm of graduate students and faculty. When Now, at least two other colleges regularly use 
• 
Its 153,000 square feet make the building finished it will contain the offices and support its classroom facilities. There will be no overtwice the sizeofHayes-Healy and Hurley facilities for the 110 member faculty. Its 85 undergraduates taking courses in the new combined. workstation computer classroom/laboratory, building, according to the dean. The class of. 
This new facility is presently not intended audio-visual technology and career place­1996 will be left to verify its true use. . to be the home to the Colleges undergraduate ment center will be centered on the M.B.A. program."This new complex will There are presently about 270 M.B.A. stu­''The new building will dents in the College of Business Administra­
help to ensure continued be used by the graduate
tion, whose enrolment is around 2100 stu­excellence of the dents in both undergraduate and master's students, and the programs.College's undergraduate The building is the $23-million gift of five undergraduates will be donors: former university trustee Donald P.
·program." in DeBartolo Hall."
Kelly of from Chicago and four graduates of ----Fr. Edward Malloy, the Notre Dame business college. Two ofthe -Dean John Keane,alumni, John Jordan and Raymond Siegfried, 
C.S.C,June 1990 currently serve on the university's Board of March 1994 
CAMPUS LIFE 

~ /) 
0 teac!f, live Bosn~erze 

by Deborah Dinkle 
On my last night in Medjugorje in July, Fr.. Svetozar asked me if I would consider coming back for an extended amount of time, doing relief work. I was not sure what he had in mind for me, nor do I think he really knew, but two weeks after I arrived in mid­Octoberhe had found a job for me teachingEnglish at the Franciscan school atSt.Anthony's in Cim, in the province of Mostar [of Croatian occupied Bosnia]. Having never taught English before and having yet to compete my degree in literature from Notre Dame, I was understandably nervous about my first class. But the director of the school, FraMile, came along for moral supportand to introduceme to the students, aged 16 to 26. From the first day, the students and I got along well. I found their English to be quite good, and our classes are conducted only in English. The most advanced students in my class teach English to the lower levels where it is important to be able to switch back and forth between English and Croatian. .None of the levels has any books, and some days I have to hunt for five minutes just to fmd apiece ofchalk. The school is an old warehouse and has no heating. But despite these inconveniences, we oftenjokeand keep class light-hearted, which they relish. And notonly do they learn English, but they also have some sort ofnormalcy returned to their lives in the relative stability and safe haven of the classroom. All of my students have known the tragedy of this war•. Many of them are soldiers. But for one hour in the evening, three days a week, they can forget themselves and the war and know·thatthey are the most important people in the world to me. But as hard as I try to· understand what they are going through, I know I nevercan. It was not my brotherwho was killed by a Muslim or my house that was burned by the Serbs, and I always· have the · reassurance of my American passport and a ticket home. . · 

10 ·· SCHOLASTIC 
Blazenka, age 19: many families were separated: mine War was very strange for us. Two also. My mother and sister live in years ago, we could only see war'on Split, my father and I in Mostar. TV and photos from all over the Many mothers lose their sons be­
world. We didn't know what that cause of the war. Many girls lose was. But one day it happened to us. their boyfriends. I lost one best It destroyed our lives. The war is full of death, blood, refugees, unhappy people and children without their parents, crying in vain for enough food and clothes. We suffer here. Young people are left without hope, their future is destroyed; we have no future in this country. That is sad. We want only a little peace for us. 
Maybe one day the grenades will stop, and then we'll live in happi­friend. My town is destroyed very ness. Now that is impossible. We badly. Before the war, I had so many 

have to learn how to survive in this friends of all nationalities. Now half situation. ofthem have gone to the Serbian side of town. We had been all living Marija Bogicevic, age 18: 
together, going out, and having fun. I live in the most horrible war after When the war started, I was left in my the Second World War in Europe. town and was a refugee in Croatia . . People like me, my friends, and· all Six months ago I came back to 

teenagers in Bosnia know what war Mostar. I see all the terrible things that they have done. All I want at this moment is for the war to stop. 
Ines, age 18: 
War is a horrible thing. People die every day, houses are burned, there are no schools. Young people are without knowledge, they think only about killing each other. They've lost their faith in life, in a better, means. For me it's losing my broth-tomorrow, and finally, peace. It's a ers and my father who were buried in terrible thing, don't you think so? my town's park. I see the suffering of And it's hard to believe in that. I've many people, and I go through it with lost so many friends, and I can't them. There's no one to help us. We believe that they will never again justwantpeaceandnothingelse. But come to me, talk to me, and laugh we're brave people, and we will sur-with me. It's the biggest tragedy of vive. this life. But I believe in a better 
tomorrow, I believe in people, and I Marija Sabljo, age 20: hope that this will all come to an end. War is such an awful thing. So 

Send information for your event to: Mary Kate Morton, Coming Distrac­tions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call 631-7569. 

Thursday 24 
Movie: "To Kill a Mockingbird," 7:30 & 10:30 p.m., Montgomery Theater, Lafortune, $1. 
Acoustic Cafe: 9:00-12:00 p.m., Lafortune. 
Lecture: "Archbishop Romero at Fll'St Hand,11 Robert McAfee Brown, 
8:00 p.m, Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Spring African FIim Festival: "Mapantsula, 1988," 8:00 p.m., Room 129 DeBartolo Halt 
Friday 25 
Movie: "Nightmare Before Cllrist­mas," 7:30 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. 
Folk Dancing: 7:30 p.m., Clubhouse, SMC. Film: "Searching for Bobby Fischer," 
7:30 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. 
Lecture: "Are Keynesian Uncertainty and Maaotheory Incompatible?" Jun Crotty, 10:00 a.m., Room 131 Decio Hall. 
Try-outs: Cheerleader and Lepre­chaun try-outs, 6:00pm, Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Saturday / 26 
Lacrosse: Notre Dame vs. Hofstra, 
2:00 p.m., Cartier Field. FIim: "Searching for Bobby Fischer," 
7:30 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. 
Movie: "Nightmare Before Qu-ist­mas," 7:30 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. 
Concert: "Gin Blossoms," 8:00 p.m., Stepan Center, $10. Film: "Weird Science,"7:00 & 9:30 p.m., Carroll Auditorium, SMC. 


\ 
Touch Four x 1031 for local weather Dial 239-2500, then press: x 6736 for national weather x6050 for news headlines x 6123 for movie reviews 
x6052 for world news x 9463 for thought for the day x6121 for top pop albwns x 6238 for TV sports events ,{./ x6571 for prime time TV x 6230 for national sports report x6129 for video releases x 6263 for college basketball 
~ 
TOUCH

Mass and Breakfast: The 63rd 
Film: "Hairspray," 7:00 p.m., "Xala," 

FOUR

Anniversary Knute Rockne Memori­
9:00 p.m., Snite, $2. al Mass and Breakfast, 9:00 a.m., 

South Dining Hall. 
Spanish Mass: 11:30 a.m., Breen­Phillips Hall. 
Wednesday 30  
Tuesday  29  Fourth Day Meetings: 7:15 p.m., Stanford-Keenan Olapcl. SMC Lenten Serles: 12:15 p.m.,  
Campus Bible Study: 7:00 p.m.,  Stapleton Lounge, SMC.  
Badin Conference Room.  
Film: "The Color Purple," 7:00 p.m.,  
Snite, $2.  
Seminar: "The Politics of Labor  
Nationalism," Laura Crago,  
Kellogg Institute, 12:30 p.m.,  
Room C-103 Hesburgh Center  
for International Studies.  



The new editorial board of Scholastic is looking for more talented members to fill out the staff. 
If you are interested in writing, photography, drawing, // and you would like to become a part of Scholastic's 127-year tradition of excellence, 
stop in our office in 303 LaFortune or cal~ us at 631-7569 for more information. 
Hi SUBWAY Has A Sandwich 
¦ For ANY Size Appetite!!! 


SPORTS 

It is bad-news for the opponents of the Irish softball team when sophomore Terri Kobata is on the mound 
After leavi_ng the game of basketball and attempting to play major league base­ball, one begins to wonder what Michael Jordan will try next. Considering the diffi­culties he has faced in the majors, if he ever decides to try his hand at softball, he should hope that he never has to face Terri Kobata. Kobata, the Notre Dame softball team's ace, would most likely leave Jordan, or anyone for that matter, wondering where the ball went. Coming off a stunning high school career, Kobata has continued her pace in college. As a high school senior, Kobata threw 167 strikeouts, 10 shutouts, and had a 0.08 ERA. While some may expect a letdown in the first year of college, Kobata proved skeptics wrong with an incredible freshman season. She led the nation by averaging 10.9 strikeouts per game, and finished seventh in the nation with 0.51 ERA. Kobata's strikeout capabilities give her the power to talce over a game like few can. Last season Kobata threw a school-record five no-hit­ters, including three perfect games. She also tossed four one-hitters, en route to a 13 game winning streak to close the season. Kobata was rewarded by being named to the na­tional Softball Coaches Association all­Mideast region first team. Unfortunately for her opponents, Kobata has gotten much better. She participated in a strength and conditioning program that will help guard againstinjuries, and she has added to her pitchiog repertoire. Last year Kobata relied mostly on her riseball, which as the name implies, looks like it is going straight, but then jumps up when the batter swings. But with an improved change-up as well as a drop-curve, a curveball, and a screwball, Kobata has become more well-
A 

-
of Her Own 

by Jake Schaller 
rounded. "She has definitely brought her game up to a different level," said her catcher, junior Sara Hayes. 
When one speaks of power or finesse pitchers, one has a hard time with Kobata. "She has a little of both. She has good speed, but she can also move the ball really well," said Hayes. However, there are two aspects that everyone can agree on: the fact that she plays the game intelligently, and that she is very confident. · "She is a very smart pitcher," said freshman Katie Marten. "Whatmakes her a leader is her attitude. She knows she is good and that she can beat the other team," Hayes added. 


Senior pitcher Christy Connoyer rounds out the Irish softball pitching crew. The team Is lead by sophomore pitcher Terri Kobata who threw five no-hitters and three perfect games last season. 
The relationship between Kobata and Hayes is one of the biggest reasons for her success. "They have a great relationship. Sara does a great job catching for her," said coach Liz Miller. Kobata and Hayes speak ofan on-field bond that, according to Hayes, is basically inexplicable. 
This year has not started off as well as Kobata would have liked. She has posted only a 2-4 record thus far, although one of the wins was a no-hitter. Before the Sy­camore Classic at Indiana University, the Irish were 6-11, but the losses came against some of the nation's toughest teams. "We've never played competition like that," said Miller. The Irish competed in the pres­tigious University of South Florida Classic, which included number two ranked UCLA, and also squared off with number three ranked Oklahoma State. 
The Irish, however have high hopes for the future, and are aiming for an MCCcham­pionship and an invitation to the NCAA tournament. With the pitching of All­American candidate Kobata behind them, they may fulfill their goals. 0 




SPORTS 

ing to watch. 
by Warren Junium However, a majority of the teams play be­cause they want to have fun. "We are beingWith a feeling ofspring in the airand March realistic with our thoughts on winning the tour­Madness talcing over television, it can nament," said freshman Paul Heller. "My team
Up

only mean one thing: the king of basketball . has played together about three times and we are 
tournaments is on the horizon. After Easter, all about six feet tall and weigh 150 pounds. So, Bookstore Basketball XXIII takes to the unless we play Casper the Friendly Ghost courts. and Friends, we are going to be steamrolled 
The Bookstore Tournament was started 22 off the court." 
years ago by two Notre Dame students who It is this blend ofathleticism and pure fun wanted a chance to play organized basketball that makes the Bookstore Tournament so in the spring. Vince Meconi '74 and "Fritz" unique. "Bookstore is unique because of 
For

Hoefer '72 developed the tournament and the large representation frorn.,the student introduced it as an event at the 1972 body and faculty," said senior Chris AnTostal. Meconi was chosen by Browning. "Other schools Hoefer to plan the tournament might have something like this, 
' and set the rules, scheduling, and but so many people participate format. or come out to watch, it makes "When I'm in my self-delu­a great atmosphere." 
Grabs
sional state, I like to think that one The Bookstore Tournament of the most intrinsic parts of the is so unique that there is a great Bookstore experience, the 'all-deal of interest in it outside the weather' provision of the tourna-Notre Dame campus. The Uni­ment, was an inspiration on my versity of Minnesota and the
Bookstore Basketball
part," wrote Meconi. "I couldn't University of Missouri have postpone a day or two of games contacted the organizers of
gives all average athletes 
and finish by Friday (at the time Bookstore Basketball about Saturday and Sunday were re-a chance to join in their forming something similar at served for the most prestigious their schools. In the past, ESPN events· of AnTostal), so I had to own March Maddness has inquired about the possibil­
play the games, no matter what" 
The name for the tournament came about through a chance encounter with Jim Brogan '70. Brogan was em­ployedby the AnTostal committee to type out the program for the festival's events. 
When Meconi was dictating the rules of the event to Brogan, Brogan coined the phrase "Bookstore Basketball," not be­cause of support from the Bookstore, but because of the courts where the original j' tournament was held. By now, Bookstore 
L Ii 1 
Basketball has moved from being the least 
1 
important event of AnTostal, to being the world's largest 5-on-5 basketball tourna­
. ment 
Notre Dame students don their basket­ball apparel after spring break when the courts around campus are in constant use. Many individuals and teams are out there night and day working on their mechanics 
. and the trick play that will take them all the way to the final game. This preparation by many ofthe participants makes the tourna­ment very competitive to play and excit-ity of televising the final game 

ofthe tournament. NotreDame turned down ESPN because the network wanted to move the finals inside and change the date, something that tradition would not allow. 
There are approximately 450 teams participating in the 1994 tournament, over 150teamsfewerthanlastyear. "We have lost some of the big teams from last year, like Tequila White Lightening (last year's champion), butthis opens the door for other teams to capture the prestigious Bookstore title," said Bookstore com­missioner-emeritus Andy Sinn; 
With the tournament just around the corner, hoop hysteria is building at Notre Dame. With some powerhouses gone, who knows, maybe "Michael Jordan, and four other guys who can't make it to first," or"John Bobbitt, Dave Hungeling, and 3 other Dead heads," or even "All The President's Men" will capture the championship. It is all up for grabs this spring. . 
SCHOLASTIC 
SPORTS 

On the Rebound 
The basketball team has the winning tradition and the personnel that will get it back into the NCAA tournament -soon 
by T. Ryan Kennedy 
-
Lhave given up on the basketball team. Thelrish lost to teams like St. Bonaventure, Loyola, and Manhattan. They have not been to The Dance in four years. Monty Williams is gone. John MacLeod should have stayed in the NBA... Yes, itwas adisappointing season,_butNotre Dame stunned nationally ranked teams Missouri and UCLA on national television. And they nearly beat perennial powerhouses Louisville, Duke, Arizona and North Carolina. You have a point, but what is Notre Dame basketball anyway? There is no tradition. It's football everyone cares about. Notre Dame began the 1993-94 sea­son ranked eighth on the all-time NCAA Division . I victory list with 1,362 wins. North Carolina was first with 1,570, and was followed by Ken­tucky, Kansas, SL John's, Duke, Or­egon State, and Temple; Penn and Syracuse completed the top ten. Noire Danie basketball has never won an NCAA national championship but they have competed in the touma­ment23 times out ofthe 40 years it has television sportscaster Dick Vitale exclaimed. "He under­stands the game to the maximum, he cares about his players, ·and he's a great practitioner of the game. He coached in the NBA for 18 seasons, and then came in to win 18 games in his firstyearwithNotreDame. IreallylikeJohnMacLeod. He's the perfect man for the job." 
Okay, so they have the coaching and a solid tradition in the program. When are theygoing to makeitback to the bigtime? . The NIT is nice, but when will they break the top-25 and make 
the NCAA tournament? 

The likes ofLamarrJustice, who will be a senior next year, 
·and Ryan Hoover and Keith Kurowski, who will be juniors, willadd experience and talent, and up· and coming sophomore phenoms Admore White and Marcus Hughes will get the playing time to make an immediate impact. Further, the loss of. Jon and Joe Ross, Carl Cozen, and Williams, has made several scholar­ships available. 
"John has two players thatIknow he has recruited and he is waiting to hear from a third," said Rosenthal. ''With only 13 NCAA scholarshipspermitted to each school, nowadays you really have to apportion them more· effec­tively. You can only take three orfour basketball players a year and John 

existed. 'fhe Irish. have been to the Dance as a senior. MacLeod has done a superbjob in that 
Final Four' once, made five appear­
ances in the National Invitation Tournament, losing· in the championship game three times. In 1992 Notre Dame took Virginia to ·overtime in the NIT championship game under first year Head Basketball Coach John MacLeod. 
Macleod was one of only nine coaches in the National Basketball Association to win 700 games (Phoenix 1973-87, Dallas 1987-90, New York 1990-91). But despite a success­ful first season, Macleod has yet to take his team to the NCAAs. In his second season at Notre Dame, the team won a mere nine games, its worst stint since the 1971-72 season, Digger Phelps' first year. This paltry showing raised many doubts about MacLeod's ability to coach at the college level. 
"lthinkJohn MacLeod has done an outstandingjob. He is 
really proud of the effort of the team," remarked athletic 
director Dick Rosenthal. "John Macleod is aterrific coach," 
area also. We are a little further along 
in recruiting than people would like to concede." 
While. many believe joining a conference is necessary, 
Rosenthal is taking it slow. "We've looked into conference . 
affiliation and we have announced that we will consider the 
options.. We really have no preconceived notion against 
conterence play or that of independent. However,· there are some conferences that would be in the best interest of the student-athletes, and that is what we are studying right now.'.' · Vitale insists that joining a conference enhances recruits anii the overall talent on any team. "Okay, number one they've got to get in a conference," said Vitale. "Notre Dame · is one ofthe mostprestigious universities in the country with . regard to its athletic program and they belong in the top-20 every year. They mustjoin a conference to gettherecruits, the competition, and the respectfrom major schools." . 

SPORTS COMMENTARY 
Sorry Carolina, We Know How You Feel 
With a victory over North Carolina basketball, Boston College athletics has become upsetting 
k 
I! 
'! 
by T. Ryan Kennedy 
Did you hear the news? They're erecting a statue of Boston College Basketball CoachJimO'BrienoutsidetheConteForum at BC. The sculpture of Tom Coughlin inside Alumni Stadiwn was just completed but had to be razed because it causes a lot of bad feelings when you spend a few million dollars to add 12,000 seats to a 32,000 seat stadium, and then jwnp ship for an NFL expansion team. The City of Boston should be building a 1993-94 Boston College athletic musewn sometime soon because Chet Gladchuk, di­rector ofathletics at BC, players and alums seem to think this year has been more sig­nificant than the second coming. Sports Illustrated has named BC the college sports team ofthe year. ESPN created an exclusive BC talk show .... but it had to be canceled because of random o~tbursts of laughter. Welcome to Fantasyland, Act I. First, there was Boston College's upset victory -overNotreDameinfootball,afterwhich one of the ten BC fifth-year seniors classily belched, "Who's laughing now ESPN." BC fans trampled their own beloved coach's car and ripped down a goalpost in their own hallowed stadium. 
Welcome to reality, Boston College. The world was laughing at you after that sorry spectacle. Tfien, after professionally handling the departure of coach Coughlin, Gladchuk, wiping the tears from his eyes, hired NFL journeyman Jack Henning, a no­name coach with minimal success but plenty of experience (at losing). 
Intermission: the BC hockey team even won the Boston classic Beanpot Tourna­ment over favored Boston University and Harvard. This victory was capped off with the suspension of several freshman players who hit the bar scene a little bit too hard. 
Enter Act II. The recent upset over #1 ranked North Carolina in the NCAA tourna­ment has given the sports world a migrain~ headache. Coach O'Brien, who was prob­ably on his way out until this victory (and he maybe ushered out anyway), stated that this is BC's greatest basketball victory in his eight years at the helm. The truth is, like the football victory over Notre Dame, it is one of the greatest in Boston College sports history -and they're still four wins away from a national championship. 

Gerrod Abrams foolishly exclaimed that he doesn't "even want to hear about Indi­ana," indicating his and BC'~typical lack of respect for the opponent They may have beaten the best basketball team in the coun­try, but Indiana still has the most champion­ships; a little respect is inorder, Eagles. 
Dozens of upsets have occurred in foot­ball and basketball this year. Why is it BC from whom the sports world has to take flack? Why don't we see Wisconsin-Oreen Bay or Tulsa or the Wisconsin football team foaming at the mouth and embarrassing themselves. 
With all due respect here, Boston College athletics should be applauded for such clas­sic upsets and the excellence ofBC sports in general. But for the little respect that the Eagles give to their certainly more then worthy opponents, BC deserves an equally low level of admiration. The Screaming Eagles have had their say. Let us know when you win a major national championship. . 
FEMALE ATHLETES OF THE WEEK MALE· ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 
Randy Colley: Colley, a senior from Wilton, Connecticut, and tri-captain of the lacrosse team, scored his 100th collegiate career goal with a hat trick against the University of New Hampshire last weekend. 
SCHOLASTIC 



REVIEW & PREVIEW 

by Miranda C. Sanford 
Winona's Latest Success 
When I saw the previews for the movie Reality Bites, I thought is was going to be another Melrose Place takeoff. You know, people just out of college dealing with the challenges oflife -whoopee. I was com­pletely wrong. 
Not only is Reality Bites, starring Winona Ryder and Ethan Hawke, a witty and hilari­ous movie, but the soundtrack is great also! The movie centers around four friends who recently graduated from college and their discoveries about post-college life. This movie is especially good for people in col­lege now or recent graduates, as the script is very sharp and calls forth forgotten bits of Generation X's past 
The soundtrack from the movie is also phenomenal. It ranges from golden oldies like "My Sharona," "All I WantIs You" and "Tempted" to new original songs by World Party, The Posies and Dinosaur Jr. This movie is awesome because not only does it entertain, but the audience can really con­nect with the people. 
Cobain's Coma 
Kurt Cobain, lead singer of Nirvana, neverlearned what happens when onemixes alcohol and barbiturates. The rocker had a brief drug-induced coma in Europe. The· band checked into Rome's for a break from the hectic schedule oftheir whirlwind world tour. Cobain took a prescription for his throat, Valium and an anesthetic. Then, even though he ·rarely drinks, he shared champagne with his wife Courtney Love whom he had not seen for a month. 
When Love awoke at 5:30 the next morn­ing, she found Cobain lying on the floor in a coma He was rushed to a hospital and his stomach was pumped. Fortunately, the doc­tors got to him just in time so he did not join Hendrix and Morrison. He is recovering in 
Seattle and should be able to tour later this year in Lollapalooza '94. 
Future Hall of Fame : No one knows why South Bend was se­lected for the future College Football Hall of Fame's home. Now though, after months of debate over funding, it looks as if it will become an reality. A committee began col­lecting and storing memorabilia before the Hall's construction had been confirmed. Last week, a $2L8 million bond issue was passedfor the project, due to becompleted in the fall of 1995. It will be located west of South Bend, by the airport Hopefully, the hall will be more successful than some projects. I would hate to see something like the neon-decorated Rodeo Hall of Fame or the much-delayed Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. I wonder ifNotre Dame will get their own wing in this one. 
Body of Evidence 

As if things are not difficult enough for tourists in Miami, a recent occurrence tops it off: A German tourist was staying in a hotel near the Miami International Airport. The. next morning hecomplainedofa "foul odor" as he checked out Paying no attention to his complaint, the hotel said nothing to the housekeeping staff. Later, a maid found a decomposing corpse under the bed where the tourist stayed. The cause ofdeath has not yet been determined, and all the house­keeper could say was, "We were looking for the smell ... and thought it came from the roof, not the room." 
Pet Prejudice 

There is something sick and wrong with taking a family's pet of42 years, regardless ofwhat species it is. Pearl and Mel Pedersen of Wauconda, Ill., bought their alligator forty-two years ago and have raised her since. They claim she is "the most lovable, affectionate alligator you'd ever want to meet." However, the Department of Agri­culture said that, under the law, "Alice" was a dangerous reptile and they scooped her up into a duffel bag and took her away. 
At this point, Illinois Governor Jim Edgar said that "those people should be allowed to keep their pet ... Forty-two years is a good track record ofnot being dangerous." After all, Alice was not your ordinary alligator. She took bubble baths with the four Pedersen children when they were little, loved cheese and snuggled inbed with Pearl. Alice was also housebroken. 
A rescue team discovered Alice when answering a 911 call when Pearl suffered a stroke. The paramedics would not help Pearl until Alice was sent to another room and locked in. After assisting Pearl, the medics filed a complaint about the frisky reptile and a week later Alice was taken away. Now, a month after the incident, all Pearl can say is, "I miss her." 
-Up & Coming 

Recently, I received a compact disc fea­turing an artist from Canada. At first I thought that it was going to be folksy/take:­off on / ndigo Girls tunes sort ofthing, but I was happily wrong. Sarah MacLachlan is a singer who has been very popular on the Canadian charts for a while and has recently entered the American music mainstream., Her latest release, Fumbling Towards Ec­stasy, is great The album is in stores now. 
Other than the general abundance of fun available around campus in mid-March, some cultural events should perk interest. If you cannot go home for Easter, an excellent collection of operettas will be performed at the Morris Civic Auditorium by guest sing­ers. Avoid theaters (except for Reality Bites of course) as the pre-summer lull has ar­rived. Other than that, have fun and hang on until Easter. . 

19



ENTERTAINMENT 

E ·ve!!! 
(Along with Beck, Morphine and Mr. T Experience) 


voice for effect in ''Truckdrivin' Neighbor Downstairs," and distorts it beyond belief in "Sweet Sunshine." 
Beck is the ultimate slacker. 

by Kevin Kriner 
Beck: Mellow Gold Beek Hansen has created quite a stir. 
Armed with a dobro, a four-track and Dr. John sample in the background, he gave us Loser, which is still get­
ting extensive airplay. His fondness for nonsense lyr­ics and infectious rhythms wooed many listeners .. Mellow Gold, his debut al­bum, has some of the best grooves in along time. 
One track is outstand­ing: "Beercan" -some­µntes you have to look past the title. Its ethereal begin­ning segues into a shake­your~boots groove. Beck has a fondess for holding the microphone too close to his mouth and for re­cording his voice several times at different pitches to achieve his effect Several vocal samples infest the song, including a «My goodness!" that will knock your socks off. There's even a organ solo at the end. 
Beck even dabbles with vocal harmonies that rival popular folkish songs. contains a 
' 
1 I admitting that someone told him he has no 
! : 
soul. Take that back! 
' 
' 
"Soul Suckin' Jerk" is a grim tale ofa kid who "has a job makin' money for the man throwin' chicken in a bucket with the soda pop cans." Beck has also thrown in some acoustic tunes, which are generally annoy­ing, but the lyrics might hold your interest, such as "Pay Your Mind." "Blackhole" is the one exception; it uses a violin over a modal background. He slows down his 
Elvis Costello: Brutal Youth
Elvis Costello and the Attractions. Elvis Costello and the Dirty Dozen Brass 
Band. Elvis Costello solo. Elvis Costello 
and the Brodsky Quartet Elvis Costello and 
the Attractions. Elvis has come full circle 
with his latest release, Brutal Youth. Com­
plete with childhood photos of a Declan P. MacManus and family, 
· this is his first album with the Attractions -and Nick Lowe-since Blood and Chocolate. Mark this. as a return to fonn ofone of the finest pop · artists pe­riod. 
Mitchell Froom, his pro­ducer on his last several albums, has stamped his signature indelibly on "Brutal Youth." The open­ing trinity of pop gems in~ eludes the first single, "13 Steps Lead Down." It opens with a rhythmic gui­tar intro and Elvis' myste­rious monologue that leads into a tasty, but repetitive chorus.· (That's 52 steps each chorus for those keep­ing track.) "Pony Street" and "Kinder Murder" complete the· hook-laden assault _;_· these are some of his best melodies in 
The · Cynical One never misses a 
Costello's 
"20% Amnesia," which also has an almost Broadway musical-es9.ue quality to it in 

I 
20 SCHOLASTIC 
I . 


parts. 
Nobody else butElvis Costello could title a pseudo-ballad "This Is Hell," his commen­tary about the repackaging ofearlier popular culture for today's gen­
"
eration. 'My Favorite 
the two acoustic numbers. Things' areplayingbutits "Even Hitler Had a Girl­by Julie Andrews and not friend" is a hilarious exag.;. byJohn Coltrane." Ouch! geration ofa guy'spleafor Mitchell Froom shows a girl. ''Nixon had a puppy, his percussive hand in the Charles Manson had his mix, particularly in the clan/But God forbid that I tuned tom-toms and geta girlfriend." Ifthe title weird reverb in "Rocking doesn't give you a clue, Horse Road." "Will You Still Love Me 
The Attractions seem When I Don't Love You" comfortable with each is a rollicking spoofof the other and with Elvis, as if male ego. they had never taken a The resident ear-catch­break. This marriage of ing anthem is "More Than band with artist is no Toast." "I love you more longer separated, and than toast, but less than a Elvis seems remarkably staple gun," makes one high-spirited. If you wonderifMTXjusthasn't stayed away from that matured since high school Brodsky Quartet thing, orare simply mocking that you'll be glad to know mentality. Either way, Elvis lives. they will make you feel 
like jumping around or at 

Morphine: Cure least tapping your toes. 
ForPain (CD "DustbinofHistory" com­
bines an acoustic guitar

single}
Where is the ritual?" inquires the new single from Morphine's album ofthe same name. Your question might be, "Where is the guitar?" Mark Sandman, bassist and vocalist for Morphine, thinks that guitar has been heard on so much music that Morphine has an "implied guitar." Sandman, formerly of Treat Her Right, invented what is called a "tritar," a hybrid instrument that has the body of a bass, one bass string, two guitar strings, and is played with a slide. Theother character of Morphine is Dana Calley's baritone saxophone, an instrument rarely heard in popular music. The interplay be­tween Sandman, Colley and drummer Jerome Dupree speaks worlds ofmusic with one string and one sax voice. Sandman acknowledges the influence of jazz and blues, and wonders when and why they developed into such a marginalized style. Morphine is glad to put the sax in a different context. The title trackmov~ atadecentpacewith 
the sax providing a counterpoint to the bass line. Sandman's voice is liquid over the trio. "Cure for Pain" is probably the most straight-ahead tune on both the single and 

ies Our Selves, and was blown away! The band members, Alex, Dr. Frank and Tim, comprise the ultimate tongue-in-cheek, happy, power-punk band. Theproduction is very clean, especially on 
the album. The marathon "Down Love's Tributaries" features Sandman's cooler­than-cool vocal overdubbed with himself, as well as several other sampled vocal bits. Jerome Dupree also gets to show offa little bit, presumably because of the curious ab­sence of the sax. 
The third track, "Shame," previously available only on a National Public Radio Interview single, is nothing special. The sax doubles the bass while Sandman laments. The congas, played by special guest Rick Barry, provide the backdrop for a spoken­word narrative. This single contains some real Morphine oddities. Also, check out "Good," their debut -you'll become ad­dicted. 
The Mr. T. Experience: 
Our Bodies Our Selves 
Not being very familiar with MIX, I listened to their latest album, Our Bod-

strumming under a catchy guitar riff that you've heard many times before, but it manages to avoid sounding tired. 
The award for best lyrics goes to "Mar­tyr," which alternates between driving and upbeat, melodic styles. "And we'll hang you in the parlor and we'll cut you into squares and we'll think of you when any­body swears." This is meaty fodder for the likes of any band. 
Another curious aspect of this album are the song titles, which make reference to popular adolescents' literary works. "Bridge to Taribithia" and "Are You There, God? It'sMe,Margaret" pay tribute to some of the band's favorite authors, such as Judy Blume. There's nothing new or groundbreaking about Our Bodies Our Selves. If you've ever read a review of music that says, "Intelligent, well-executed punk,"and wondered what it meant, it was probably talking about The Mr. T. Experi­~~ D 
21

. -----­
---~-..,,;....._, ____L. __-_,., ___ • ­

ON OTHER CAMPUSES 
News ofthe Bizarrefrom the Nation's Universities 
Spring Break is in the past now and finals seem like they are around the comer. Just in case you're bored in South Bend already, here are a few stories about interesting events and people at other schools! 
Stop ... Thieves?? 
Did you ever think that you would be arrested for taking something out of the dining hall? Two freshmen at the University of Kansas didn't think so after they "stole" a box of cake mix and icing from a KU cafeteria. But according to the Daily Kansan, the woman who operates the cafeteria was very upset and called the police on these two unsuspecting freshmen. A few hours later, they were cuffed and arrested. One of the perpetrators started to laugh, thinking it was a joke, until a policeman began toread him his rights. It was nojokeand the two are awaiting trial now. Wow, and we thought trying to sneak an apple and an orange out of the dining hall was bad. 
Kramer -Live (sort of) at KU! 
Seinfeld fans, you might want to take a trip to the University of Kansas for a basketball game soon. A KU sophomore has discovered his alter ego-Kramer! The Daily Kansan reports that Jeremy Boldra can be found impersonating the Seinfeld favorite at halftime of KU home games. Boldra has developed quite a following-the campus loves him and most peoplefmd him much more entertaining than the cheerleaders. What does hedo? Evidently, :ie teases his hair, wears crazy clothes and runs around the arena quoting Kramer. The itudents think he could become the next campus mascot. But the question is, does he even ;ompare to our leprechaun? 
edited by Mary Kate Morton 
// 

Future Politicians Choose Lives of Crime 

Andwe thinkNotreDamestudentsprocras­tinate! Well, students at James Madison Uni­versity don't just procrastinate -they'11 do anything to avoid taking tests. According to The Chronicle onHiglu!rEducation, the night before ·a. political science exam, a student broke into his professor's office and glued his door shut, hoping that the teacher would be unable to give the test In case that didn't work, another student made several signs that proclaimed the test had been canceled and posted them around campus. The efforts were in vain, though, because the professor man­aged to pry open his door and administer the test anyway. The signs did have their desired effect, however. Those who saw them around campus believed the test was canceled and didn't show up the morning of the exam. Wouldn't you hate tobe the kid who put up all those signs? He'd better watch his back, because the students who got zeroes for not showing up are undoubtedly out for blood. 
SCHOLASTIC 
.

-' ' 
WEEK IN DISTORTION 
Let's Talk About Stress 
by Andrew J. Horn 
Domer 1: What's up? I hate this place, unless it's football season. I have a ten-page research paper due tomorrow and I'm just starting now. 
-
Domer 2: That's nothing. I've got a 20­pager and a midterm at 8:00 a.m. I've gotten threehoursofsleepin the last two days. 
Domer 3: (after overhearing the above ex­change) Ha! Don't even tell me about stress. I'm still finishing three papers that were due last week, and I have two midterms tomorrow. I got 30 seconds of sleep last night and five minutes the night before. 
Domers 1&2: Wow! Buy that man a coffee. 
Ithink we all either hear or participate in one or two versions of this every day. Why is it so interesting? We all have a lot to do. You would think that when people run into their friends during a typical high-stress week here at our colony of vicious over­achievers, they would talk about something other than their workloads and schedules .. The truth is that nobody cares about what everyone else has to do. In conversations like the one above, no one is really listening to each other. Each just wants to unload some of his or her stress on the other by talking about it But doesn't this simply revive and reinforce the panic feelings? As for this lack of sleep competition, I think a lot of people need some help. SLEEP IS GOOD. It is necessary. You are not proving your strength by not sleeping, and a caffeine tolerance is no more worthy of boasting than an alcohol tolerance. It seems that the average ND student, and many students at many colleges and univer­sities, complain about stress constantly. Yet it is the very thing they thrive on. Personally, I hate stress. It's bad for my health and my complexion. Still, I seem to be most efficient in a high-stress situation. Are we really more productive under stress? 
-Given the natural human instinct to procras­tinate, and the inevitable stress that results from it, either we enjoy this mental and emotional masochism, or we intuitively know that we will do everything, we will do it better, and we may even complete it on time if we wait until it's almost too late. Let'sfaceit weneedstress. That'showwe gotin here, and it becomes moreaddictiveas our college career goes on. Ifit is not there we create it. And then we drink. 
So, aside frnm that nasty little habit men­tioned above, how can we burn thousands of calories from excess stress ( excess meaning more than what is needed to get the job done)? Too bad there isn't such a thing as a low-stress diet two light, nutritious shakes and a sensible dinner. Anyway, now that we are all returned from aweek of basking in the semi-tropical sun, we should start thinking of alternative ways of relieving stress during this final stretch of this academic year. 
One of the most popular is listening to music. You can't go wrong. Music is always better than silence. 
Two genres work for me: classical and techno. Classical calms and causes the imagination to take over. Techno revs you up until you can't stand it anymore, and you collapse exhausted and greatly relieved. Sounds like something we're not supposed to do here. 
Whatever you do, play something with variety. The constant throbbing of Top-40 rock tends to wear on the nerves, and the retro-hippie and semi-country stuff every­one ·is into these days may make life seem fine, but for most of us it is the ultimate hypocrisy. Ifwe wanted to follow the Dead all over the country or move to the Tennes­see hills, we wouldn't be pursuing such an expensive degree, would we, my friends? 
Ifyou have access to a TV, old black-aild­white films do wonders. As a former insom­niac, I can honestly say that they are one of the bestcures. You canbe as involved as you like, and the silver screen's view of exist­ence is often simpler, clearer and more pas­sionate than most of our lives. Or how about mindless TV shows? I mean the real, hard­core vacuous stuff from the '60's and '70's: "I Dream of Genie," "My 1bree Sons," 
· "Family Affair," "Bewitched." As long as it is devoid of any sense of reality and intelli­gence, and contains a hint of the bizarre to distract you and make you ponder it for a while, it will work like a charm. Stress will disappear with a wiggle of Samantha's nose. 
A lot of people like to relieve stress through some sort of physical activity. Ex­ercise is nice and all, but if you're anything like me you need to do something violent Picking fights can be fun, but you might get in troublewith STUDENTAFFAIRS. Ask someone in chemical engineering to help you blow something up. You did itto you're Star Wars figures when you were a smaller kid. Why not do it now? 
Start smoking. OOPS! That's just not 
done on this campus during the week. Shop. Dance. Now this is something few people 
really do here. I'm not talking about flexed­knee bouncing at crowded parties. Put in some techno, hip-hop or anything with a fast beat Ifyou are with other people, establish a dance space. Corne up with a personal set of dance steps, and get your whole body into it arms, hips, everything. You should be sore for two days after. 
Try something new. Many of today's 
· slang expressions tell us to "get" something. Get a life. Get a job. Get a clue. Get a grip. Get a man. Get a woman. Get it on. Get it off. Get thee to a nunnery. Just about anything is worth a shot 
Finally, don't think about your work so much. Justdoit(sorry-itfitsowell). Deal withit Butformysakeandyours,don'ttalk to me about your academic woes. I DON'T CARE! I have enough of my own worries, and when I don't, I am going to enjoy my idleness. 

FINAL WORD 

Living a Nightmare 
One Notre Dame student's personal struggle with rape and recovery 
Angela is a Notre Dame junior who .submitted this personal reflection to Scholastic under the condi.tion of anonymity. Angela's and all other names in this article have been changed to protect their identities. 
Scholastic is now accepting submissions for the Final Word. Call the officefor details. 
The group of friends prepared to set out The trunks of both cars were packed with camping supplies. The passenger space was loaded with eight friends out to adventure. She heard a sound behind her. Turning and rising, she yelled, a brief sharp sound that was not even heard by the people in the car. "Ihavetopee," Angelasaid, "Pullover,Steve." He slowed down and eased over onto the shoulder of the road. He could see the guardrail as Angela climbed out of the car. It topped the ditch that sloped down, thenbackuptoasteep, woodedhillside. Sheslammed the door, and he turned his attention to the radio. Then they were on top of her. There were two. Their dirty hurting fingers were holding her down and ripping her shorts. Her friends were just a few yards away, why didn't they come? Why didn't they hear her yell for them? Why was this happen­ing? It was hurting so much. Two songs later, Steve got out of the car and yelled,"Angela! Are you O.K. up there?" She stumbled out of the woods, holding up her shorts and trying to run. She scrambled and grasped at the slope to reach the road. When she was at the top, Steve saw her face and the bloody scratches. "Angela! What happened?" he said. Then he looked down and saw her clothes covered with dirt and grass stains. He shook her arm, trying to elicit some response from her. She was stone. One went, and then the other. Then they heard Steve yell, and they ran away, leaving Angela on the ground with their filth all over her. She yanked her shorts on and stumbled blindly down the hill, wanting only to get away. Her mind felt like it was going to explode. Angela pushed Steve aside and dove into the front seat. Shewhimpered. "What'swrong,Angela? What happened," Steve repeated again. "Go," she whis­pered. "Did you hurt yourself when you fell?" She screamed 'go' in a huge frightened howl that turned into heaving, never-ending sobs. "I didn'tknow they were there," she tried to explain, "I tried to run butthey were there. They were waiting for me," she tried to tell between hysterical sobs. Steve, who had resumed driving at Angela's last plea finally realized it. "Did they rape you?" ,,/ 
It's been a year and a half since I was raped. My life is as normal as I can make it. But both my family and I bear lasting marks of a night nobody close to me can forget or erase. Two months after I was raped, I wanted to buy a'gun and learn how tokill with it Graphic revenge fantasies spun uncontrollably around my head-ranging from finding my rapists and killing them as brutally as possible, to beating a random guy into unconscious­ness for making a joke about rape. I can still remember how satisfying these desires were to me. They made me feel safer, in a perverse way. But fear immediately crushed the confident feel­ings my. revenge had. created. Gut-wrenching, crip­pling, visceral fear left me helpless and unable to deal with even theslighteststressorthreat. Irememberone hightin particular-I woke up in my dorm room loft, convinced that there was a man in the room who was going to attack and kill me. The door had been locked since before we went to bed, my roommate was sleeping directly below me, and the light switch was two feet from my hand, but I was unable to move. Iwas completely paralyzed. My mental health was dangerously close to the edge at this point. I really don't know what saved my sanity, but my life is slowly evolving back to normal. I still have violent fantasies and panic attacks, but only very rarely and of greatly lowered intensity. I still have a much higher caution level than most of my friends. I turn on all the lights in a dark room before I enter, I check the back seat of my car for attackers, andiconstantlymonitormysurroundingswhenwalk­ing alone. Fora while, the rape surrounded me and blocked out everything else in my life. It will never be gone, but it is now behind me. The part of me who walked through life without fears of what lay in dark comers is gone forever. But the part of me who loves life, laughs and trusts in others is back and stronger than ever. I can look backifl wantto, butlalso have the choice to look ahead. And that is what I have decided to do. 



Grist For The Mill 
SIN 1 CORRUPTION. WJCKEDNESS ... THIS 
HI;RE.'s HOW, 
MANY YEARS 
AGrO 1 "PROF. 
PILAF G-OT THE IDEA HE SHOULD TELL PE.0-PLE WJ-i,l\T TO 
THINK •.. 
Rick Grey 

I, PROFESSOR PILAF SOMETHING. AND I 
SOMEONE. MlJ5T DO 
EMINENT THEOLOGIAN MUST fEN. THE. L00l?.bS -ntAT 
o\14--t -· ~ ~t,~ ~.··r•o .
·' 

WILL SET _, . ,\,r i..:. 
\-;.\ii;!'r~~ '· ·:__ '" 
THINGS r "RlbHT/
=· 
u~t-~J;I
N\N fl ___,-;,-:0'.;..-=-:s:"": 
.ra 

~@@[Pf{l
'\?Dfn}~ooo ~CI i Ck~ 
prof~.sscr pilo.f 1 God_ here.
T\415 15 THE "&llllANT t'RoFESSot. 
1. wa.nt yoL> +-o -tell people Whqf to
-PILAF. I'M NOT IN 'R.\&Hi NOLu. . "PLEASE LEAVE A ME.5SA6E. 
\~ 
Hi1 "I:.. for }-,le • i'\ I ov.>e yw OV\e ( 
~ 
va,: yeo.ltt ! @{f''' ,i,,,_s ,<y-e"'-~a@f?­
·~, ~'¢ 
~ f'lli ~ 
I 
'{•! s \ 'k,cv-~{:,. \ /
:; it\t 
{I l!.\k~• •. ~ 
'. 
&lqek_ 1-r C-l..ocl~ 

' , ~ .,
---~--------~ ---­

FRIDAY, MARCH 25 6PM -MIDNIGHT STEPAN CENTER 
FREE ADMISSION!!! 

lliamE leJJ 


Tuesday, March 29 
7:30 PM Stepan Cen1er 
$3 Students, Faculty, and Staff $5 General Public Reception to Follow in the Dooley Room, LaFortune Student Center 
Tickets available at the LaFortune Info Desk 
Questions?? Call the S.U.B. Hotline @ 1-6171 










