A Gate of Flowers.
BY THOMAS o’HAGAN.
E’en now I see the Lily droop, The Fuchsia hide her face;
O tender flowers! O tender years!
O mornings kindly bright!
Within my heart your memory lives In rays of love and light!
Clouds and Sunshine.
O rosebud morn of other years
How sweet thy golden light!
Far down the path of manhood’s vale
Thy sun beams warm and bright;
I turn me to that morn of youth,
And lingering with the hours,
I feel the breath of childhood’s days Sweep through this gate of flowers.
And entering in—how strange a sight!
The flowers are wither’d low,
The Rose that blush’d at eventide
Is crush’d beneath the foe;
The starry eyes that beam’d with love—
The lips incarnate red—
Those orphans of the early morn Are number’d with the dead. .
O sweet-lipped Rose, so dear to me,
How oft thy pouting smile
Enchain’d my heart with tender love, »
Endear’d me with its wile;
How oft hath memory clad my thoughts With hue of purple light,
Caught from the charms that deck’d thy form, O Rose of morning light!
How oft I’ve walk’d the same old path And pluck’d the floweret wild, And dreamt a dream of peaceful hope
That lull’d me as a child;
How oft in amber light of morn I’ve peeped among the trees. And watched the leaves in sportive joy
Betray the morning breeze.
I love those cheery morns of old— Their sunshine bright and clear—
Fair nurslings clad in rainbow light
Embalm’d with heav’nly tear; ■
But ah! the friends of other days— Those are the gate of flowers
That bloom with tender memories From buds of golden hours.
E’en now I see the blushing Rose— Sweet floweret child of grace—
The traveller who climbs a steep mountain often stops in the midst of the ascent, and, casting- his eyes now over the distance he has gained, and now over that which yet remains to be trod, he delights’ to reflect on the impressions he has-received and on those which yet await him. Already he’ has doubtless been much fatigued; his feet have been bruised by the stones, and his garments’tom by the thorns in the way; but then what agreeable remembrances has he gathered, what joys has he tasted! As he ascended, the sky grew more serene, the landscape stretched out before his eyes with more loveliness and variety; arid if anything- fnore particularly struck him, a more smiling site, a greener meadow, a more limpid strearii, it is this picture he keeps most preciously in his memory and loves most to recall. It is the same as what lies before him. Without doubt his lassitude will increase, and new difficulties await him; but if he is certain off finding at the summit a more glorious view and the repose that he desires, he loves’ to dwell on it in advance, and starts forward with new courage, animated at once by the-remembrance of the past and the hope of the future. *	-
But this is but an image of our earthly career. Stopping by reflection at the point we have attained, we cast our eyes successively on days gone by, and , those which are yet to come.
, Beginning with our past life, we remember the-evil days and the good.	’ .
The evil days—which of us has not known . them, and has not learned by bitter experience that as ike. bird is born to fly, so is man to labor and to suffer?
Our life manifested itself- by tears, and our earliest infancy passed in weeping; then came the labors of youth, the first deceits and discontents of: our early self-love, the first sadness of our . soul, which, as soon as it was; sensible of . existence,, saw
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
almost instinctively the difficulties and nothingness of this being. Soon followed those serious labors that overpower the heart—disappointments, reverses, and, above all, those cruel losses which nothing can bid us forget.. Alas! how many smiled around our cradle over whose tomb we weep! How many among the friends and companions of our childhood and youth have we left by the way! How many who walked behind us in life have preceded us in death! To suffice for so many sorrows, there was needed only a few years, perhaps a few days.
But by the side of these evil days there are some in the past whose memory is sweet unto our hearts. And first, are those few moments of happiness God grants to everyone coming into this world, that there may be none who cannot say, when he has reached the end, “ I have tasted a little honey, and I die.” If infancy has its tears, it has also its sweet joys, when the horizon of life is the family circle, and we know of this world only the father that we venerate and the mother that we love. If youth has its sorrows, it has also its gladness, when the maturing mind forms itself for noble labors and the heart pours itself in holy affections which promise a lasting happiness. But for the Christian, there is nothing he loves so much to recall to mind as the graces he has received from God. He remembers his first prayer, his first alms, and perhaps also the first day when his Christian mother made him kneel in the sanctuary; or,if he was too young to remember these things, he thinks with deeper gratitude that he never lived without prayer, and without loving God and the poor. With what consolation does he .recall the many good works and precious acts he has done before the Lord! They have been the perfume of his life, and he loves to breathe it.
We have gazed upon the past, let us now turn to the future. There we shall likewise find clouds and sunshine. First, sorrows, fears, and evil days: —for as we advance in age, the Infinite Goodness desires in His mercy that we should detach ourselves from the things of this world, which we must soon leave: and as we might be foolish enough to prefer present joys to eternal felicity, He takes from us these joys, oi' changes them into bitterness. We shall see infirmities waste away the body and enervate the soul. We shall see, as we have seen, our illusions vanish, but with much more ruin; we shall see our friendships broken, but with much more anguish; so that we shall no longer have to choose between happiness and happiness, but between the numberless evils of this life and the celestial joys that await us.
So what should make us, the more we advance in life, dread and detest the world, is, that it is not only a soil where germinates every sorrow, as thorns on every path; but it is moreover a cursed land, where the mind is driven about by every wind of doctrine, and where the heart is corrupted in all its affections; whose inhabitants are weak in every peril, resistless against every seduction, preferring the vanities of a day before Him who is the beauty always ancient and always new.
Thus man in the future, as in the past, will have many trials to undergo. But, also, how much has he not to hope for; to what happiness may he not aspire; what good days will compensate for these evil ones!
But now, the Divine Voice vibrates already in our ears and reaches us as the feeble echo of the voice that we shall hear in heaven. What are now to us the riches and evils of this life? The evils we dread no longer, and the riches we contemn; our last prayer opens our eyes to truth.
Oh! happy indeed is he who, animated by such sentiments in his last moments has no other comfort but the remembrance of his good actions. Is not this the most ardent wish our souls could form? If our first prayer was our sweetest remembrance, our last will be our brightest hope. The one was as a precious pearl cast into the ocean of our days, the other will be as a star in the zenith of our sky to guide our fragile bark to the haven of safety: and thus it will be true to say, “ The Lord hath rejoiced the morning and evening of our life.” The morning, since it is to Him our sweetest remembrance is attached; and the evening, because He will then prove our brightest hope.
Our Republic.
The great question that is now occupying the attention and agitating the minds of the best and wisest men throughout the world is that of government. And certainly it is one of the most vital questions that man can consider. Call to mind the leading events of the world’s history since the beginning of the present century and see what are the tendencies of the age. No student of history can fail to notice the ascendency of republican principles. While the principles of republicanism have been strengthened, the institutions and principles of monarchies have been weakened. Otho of Greece, Isabella of Spain, and Napoleon of France have all lost their thrones. Germany has been reorganized, and many others of the great thrones of Europe have been shaken to their very foundations. Even the liberal party in England is gaining fresh victories year by year, and may yet trouble the power that holds the reins of government.
China has been awakened to the progress of the age, and old Japan, with its millions of human souls bound in thraldom and ignorance, has caught the irresistible spirit of progress, as it traverses the globe, and is rising up from its deep slumber of almost countless years, looking forth from its thousand islands and over the top of its ancient wall, eagerly watching the march of modern civilization. There is a widespread and universal disposition and tendency among all nations to become more wise, humane and Christian.
Aristotle, of whom it is said that “he had the most capacious intellect and piercing reason that has ever yet appeared on earth,” makes three things essential to government and the basis of the State:
THE NOTRE NAME SCHOLASTIC.
3
first, the family; second, the city; and third, a collection of cities or the commonwealth. This eloquent old philosopher taught that the same promptings and necessities of our higher nature which lead to the sacred associations of family and home produce and preserve the commonwealth and the government;—a splendid refutation of that old sentiment, born in the darkness of ignorance, and upon which many a republic has been wrecked, that patriotism requires “the disbanding of the family and the absolute subjection of the individual to the State.” If there is any fact established beyond question or cavil it is that the State and family are so linked and wedded together that the destruction of the one is the downfall of the other.
There was a time when the fall of this great and glorious Republic seemed almost certain. When our forefathers began to lay the foundation of our national pyramid they adopted the eagle as an emblem on our national coins, and as a representation of our national strength. But they did not see the reptile of human slavery which began to crawl up and cover with filthy slime the majestic structure they were so intent upon rearing. They saw the proud and royal eagle soaring above and around them, but they saw not the serpent that was slowly growing and creeping—blighting in its crooked path everything it touched, reaching with its deadly infection near the very vitals of the Republic. This, indeed, they did not see until the whole nation became aware of its presence, and alarmed at its power. They then saw that our national existence was endangered and that the whole fabric of. government was tainted. With astonishment and almost frenzy they beheld the head of the horrible reptile resting as an infamous crown upon their otherwise sublime and noble work. Then it was that the valor, the patriotism and the noble character of the people asserted themselves. The deadly serpent was torn from the national pyramid and crushed beneath the feet of an outraged and justly indignant people. The eagle triumphed over the serpent.
The great work of establishing the mostmagnifi-cent piece of government and building up the most wonderful nation the world has ever seen has since that time gone forward with renewed energy and . astounding results. The growth of our country— of which we can now boast—rivals and dwarfs that of any and all other countries of the globe. Nations like individuals are born, grow to maturity, sink into old age, and die; and ours, though we think it eternal, will be no exception. We know that the past is full of dead sects and denominations and governments, over which the sands of time have been gathering for ages, and have buried almost in oblivion every vestige of their existence. Ours will undoubtedly share a like fate. But if we continue in the future as in the past to link and weld together the State and family, the end will be far distant.
But strong as our nation is to-day in wealth, excellent as it is in wisdom, it is far short of what it ought to be. Possessed as it is of the garden of the world,—a domain upon which the people of
the globe might dwell, with its great shores washed by both oceans, with a climate healthful and lifegiving, it has physical privileges and advantages never before equalled by any people.
It has behind it all the wisdom of the ages from which to draw its light. It can profit by all discoveries in art, science, literature and learning; it can avoid the foils and mistakes of the past, that have wrecked governments; it can, in a word, utilize the good, shun the bad, build on this Continent a civilization that shall be as much superior to the present as ours is now to that of the effete monarchies of the Old World. To accomplish such a splendid work, intelligence, not ignorance must reign; intemperance must be throttled and destroyed; the insolence of demagogues must not be allowed to rule the nation; the growing power of wealth should be checked, public education should be fostered, and Christian training enforced.
It has been said that the prosperity of a nation depends “not on the abundance of its revenues; nor on the strength of its fortifications, nor on the beauty of its public buildings; but it consists in the number of its cultivated citizens, in its men of education, enlightenment and character; here are to be found its true interest, its chief strength; its real power.” These are the men who in sunshine, rain and storm, in peace and in war shall
“ Stand a wall of fire around their much-loved land.”
W. H. B.
Clara.
BY MARION MUIR.
The long grey fence that bounds mortality, . Some mounds of earth below a granite wall, And melancholy silence circling all;
A wreath, fresh woven from that cedar tree Adorns one sleeper’s name; whose may it be? One who, by his old Rhine, the battle year Won wounds he sought to find relief from here, With Clara, exiled from the Baltic sea, Whose far, stern music was her childhood’s soul, But here she lost her wedded soldier. There Lies the green tribute of her love’s despair; Men, for the pomp of laurel, sword, or scroll Strive while you may, your memories are cast, In woman’s heart for keeping, at the last!
{From the “Daily Chieftain'' Pueblo, Coloi)
Notre Dame.
HISTORY OF A FAMOUS EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION AND ITS PRESENT PROSPERITY.
South Bend, Ind., August 2, 1884.—This thriving little city on the St. Joseph River owes much of its prosperity to the fine agricultural country surrounding it; but principally to its water privileges, which has been the means of drawing large manufactories in its midst, among.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the principal of which are the Coquillard & Studebaker wagon works, the Oliver Chilled Plow Co., and Singer sewing machine factory.
These are all full of interest more or less to the casual observer, but the most noticeable feature of South Bend—the one which makes it a household word and calls guests here from all parts of the country, is the magnificent University of Notre Dame, situated some three miles from the city. Its piercing spires and stately dome, glistening in the burnished ravs of the morning sun, are the first objects that greet yom- eye as you whirl rapidly to your destination on the incoming train, and the last that fades on the blue horizon, as you leave it, filled with many tendei' recollections, homeward bound.
The founding of Notre Dame dates back to the o _________________
early period of ’42. Two hundred years ago, when Michigan and Indiana were a vast wilderness, it was the site for one of those Jesuit missions, the Fathers laboring among the roving Pottawatomies. In the year 1S30 Father Badin—who, by the way, was the first priest ever ordained in this country— purchased this tract of land from the Government (in all some twenty-seven hundred acres) with the determination of here founding a religious order and eventually a college. With the usual fortitude and perseverance that have always characterized these Christian pioneers, and whose onward march before civilization has dotted our maps'with their patron saints from St. Paul to St. Augustine, and St. Louis to San Francisco, this little handful of priests and brothers erected some small buildings to begin with, and in ’43 laid the corner-stone of their University. Two of these aged pioneer priests live to-day within the precincts of Notre Dame, to mark the realization of their greatest possible expectations. One is the Very Rev. Father General Sorin, a grand-looking old man, with flowing beard and imposing figure (he is the Superior-General, and Founder of the Order of the Holy Cross in this country), and the other is Father Neyron, whose name is a familiar word to nearly every inhabitant of Ohio and Indiana. Father Nevron is a historic character, this aged veteran having served as an officer under Napoleon Bonaparte, and taken part in the battle of Waterloo. It seems almost incredible, yet it is nevertheless true; he retains his faculties and seems both cheerful and spry, and is full of historic reminiscences, passing over the incidents of nearly a century.
It was a lovety morning when we drove up to the University from the Bend, and passing through the wide-spread, inviting gates, traversed the long aisle of shade through whose dim vistas we caught glimpses of fountains, and vases, and the two lovely dimpled lakes beyond. With a broad sweep we turned up to the hospitable porch of the main building, crowned with the immense rotunda we had seen from afar, and took a view of the surroundings. The buildings are so numerous one can only notice the .more prominent, and the work of erection is still going on.
The style of architecture chosen is the. modern Gothic, the center main building presenting a fron
tage of 224 feet, and with its immense corridors and galleries presents an impressive appearance. To the right of the main building is Music Hall and o	__
Science Hall. To the left is the study-hall and the church, forming all together in design, though separate, a crescent or cruciform shape.
Music Hall is a fine building, containing a well-appointed theatre, with a seating capacity for twelve hundred, as well as numerous music rooms. Here also are fitted up the boys’ reading-rooms, with the best literature of the day, irrespective of denominative or sectarian views. I should like to dwell on these reading-rooms with their cosy interiors and inviting air of comfort had I space.
The noble structure known as Science Hall is yet incomplete, but when finished and beautified will be one of the finest equipped scientific repositories in the country. It is built in the Romanesque style of architecture, and is 114x131 feet, with two stories and a basement. The Chemical lecture room, balance room and laboratories will occupy the first floor; the second floor will be thrown into one long magnificent apartment circled by a grand gallery, and will be devoted to the Museum and containing the cabinets of natural history, geology, mineralogy, botany and antiquities. Science Hall is under the direct supervision of Father Zahm, Professor of Natural Sciences, who is so well-known in your vicinity and Colorado in general, and needs no pen and ink introduction. It is really to be hoped that some of the rare fossils and rich mineral specimens, with which your State abounds, will be donated to Science Hall so that Colorado may.be well represented in her Museum. Such contributions are desired I am informed, and gratefully received.
The study-hall is a large building with high ceilings and spacious rooms well kept and ventilated. Just beyond that stands the chapel, its elegant appointments and interior decorations making it one of the most attractive churches in this country. The mural paintings here as well as in the main hall are from the brush of the celebrated Gregori, of Rome, and are of such a high class of art they must of themselves alone cast a refining and edu-eating influence over all who dwell within these walls. The motifs chosen for the chapel are of a religious character, those in the main hall historic, and the pictures either life or heroic size. In the three large refectories (or dining-rooms) the paintings are from the brush of Prof. Ackerman, a German artist, who seems to excel in linear perspective. He is still at work and gradually producing’scenes from the most celebrated architectural masterpieces of the Old World; as, for instance, the old monasteries and abbeys, the Coliseum, Vatican, St. Peter’s and other noted cathedrals.
From the belfry of the church swings the largest bell on this continent, and is well worth the seeing; taking the combined efforts of six men to ring it, and its silvery-voiced tongue transmits its melody thirty miles away.
But the most interesting building of all I have reserved for the last, and that is the Minims’ Hall. This is designed especially forpupils under fourteen
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
years of age, and is under the direct surpervision of the Sisters. The pupils in this department number not a few little folks only five or six years of age, and from that to fourteen; and though this department was only opened two years ago, the “young pioneers,” as they are termed, stood a hundred and twenty strong at Commencement.
All of the buildings have the modern improvements, even to electricity with which the whole of the grounds can be illuminated on gala nights.
After viewing the main buildings and partaking of the wholesome fare—which, by the way, is supplied in a large measure from their own farms— we wandered around the inviting grounds. The seven hundred acres inclosed with the main buildings is intersected more or less with roads and paths, and yet it has quiet, woody dells and tangled slopes enough to make one feel it lies close to nature’s heart. As it is vacation now, one only sees now and then a stray boy or an occasional Religious in his black habit flitting to and fro; but when September comes, what a change! These wide corridors will then resound to the tramp of six hundred restless pair of feet, which now under our solitary tread give out only a gaunt echo. Then the grass upon these wide and level Campuses which has raised its head will lay flat, and these two yachts that creak dismally at their moorings will skim the “shining blue” to the steady stroke of their rival crews. And as for you, reader, if you were wandering by these rippling sheets of water, you would stop involuntarily, and perhaps, catching the tender music of the chapel’s chime, you would musingly ask, can there be a more lovely, peaceful spot to spend one’s school days? What a contrast these healthful, peaceful vales suggestto thetempesfcjossed action of worldly life!
There are three things quite as essential in choosing a school for a son as an able faculty. And that is the removal from outside temptation, a healthful situation, and surroundings that will naturally stimulate a good physical development. Notre Dame is particularly fortunate in this respect; she presents every opportunity for out-door recreation and field sports; she is three miles from the city, and it has been the aim of the Faculty to furnish these amusements at home on a moral basis that outside draw students into the midst of dangerous evils. Thus her games, her sports, her theatres and reading-rooms.
The Course embraces a Classical, Scientific and Commercial, to which has been added a Medical and Law Department. The latter is under the direction of Prof. Hoynes, and it is intended this department will deal with all branches of the law and comprise any salient and material principles recognized in our system of jurisprudence. Moot courts are to be held once a week, and will be conducted with due reference to the actual practice of the courts in the different States. .	Brendt.
A prosperous enterprise is like a great tree which absorbs a large share of the elements of growth within its reach, and has only a stunted vegetation in its shadow,
Books and. Periodicals.
The Young Catholic’s Normal Reader. Illustrated. New York: The Catholic Publication Society Co. 1S84.
This work is elegantly gotten up by the publishers. The lessons given embrace a number of selections from authors of current literature; but were the most of these Catholic authors, we would give the book a hearty welcome.
New and Complete English-German and German-English Pocket Dictionary: With the Pronunciation of both Langfuaees, Enriched with the Technical Terms of the Arts and Sciences. For the use of business men and schools. By Dr. J. F. Leonhard Tafel, and Louis H. Tafei, A. B.' Ninth edition. Philadelphia: I. Kohler, 311 Arch St.
This work accomplishes perfectly all that its title claims for it. We think we can safely say that it excels all other publications of the same kind. We commend it to the attention of students in German.
— The Pilgrim of Palestine is the title of a new paper issued under the auspices of the Commissariat of the Holy Land, of New York,—which is directed by the Franciscan Fathers. The journal is devoted to the interests of the sanctuaries of the Catholic Church in the Holy Land and has for its principal object to kindle and renew in the hearts of the faithful a religious fervor towards the holy places associated with the divine mysteries of the Redemption. It will contain a variety of matters interesting and instructive to Catholic readers. It will be published quarterly by Very Rev. Chas. A. Vis-sani, at 135 West 31st St., New York; Price, 35 cents a year.
— The Catholic World for August is a very interesting number. The Rev. J. Talbot Smith gives the first instalment of a pleasing story entitled “Solitary Island.” Prof. St. George Mi-vart writes on “Phases of Faith and Unfaith”; a legend of Indian life—“Tarwan-dah, the Last of the Pecos ”—is contributed by the Very Rev. J. H. Defouri. In a paper entitled “ Two Miraculous Conversions from Judaism,” the Rev. A. F. Hewit presents an entertaining sketch of the life of Father Alphonse Marie Ratisbonne, with a welldrawn parallel between the conversion of the latter and that of St. Paul. Other articles are: “ Concerning Sir Walter Raleigh,” by Margaret F. Sullivan; “ Cattle-Ranch Life in Colorado,” by W. T. Larned; “Ruskin as a Teacher,” by Agnes Rep-plier; “ The Last of the Irish Bards,” by Alfred M. Williams; “ Katharine,”—Chaps. VII—IX— by E. G. Martin; “ The Cost of Monarchy and Aristocracy in Great Britain,” by W. F. Denehy. Published by the Catholic Publication Society Co: 9 Barclay St., New York. $4.00 a year.
—St. Nicholas for August is a profusely illustrated and seasonable midsummer number. It opens with a charmingly written and illustrated article on “ Old Shep and the Central Park Sheep,” in which Franklin H. North tells about New York City’s sheep farm, and for which Jas. A.-Monks and W. Taber have drawn some beautiful pictures. Blanche Willis Howard writes a simple and pathetic story.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of German child-life, with a happy ending, called “Frieda’s Doves.” The two illustrations by Fr. Lipps, “The Corner of the Cathedral” and “The Dormer-Window,” are of scenes closely identified with the author’s own life in Germany. An interesting and instructive paper is that entitled “Paper: Its Origin and History,” by Chas. E. Bolton, which is accurate without being technical, and is illustrated by W. H. Drake. There is a-thrilling account of a great fire in Constantinople, and of its inadequate fire department. Louisa M. Alcott contributes a summery “ Spinning-Wheel Story,” called “The Little House in the Garden,” with the suggestive subheadings, “ Bears,” “ Boys,” and “Babies”; the “ Historic Boy’s” story is about “ Baldwin of Jerusalem: the Boy Crusader ”; while Maurice Thompson takes “ Marvin and his Boy Hunters” through a quail-hunting trip and a bear adventure.
—The cun ent number of the American Catholic Quarterly Review opens with a learned and interesting paper on “ The Beginnings of Geography,” by Prof. Charles G. Heberman, Ph. D., LL. D. When we consider recent African explorations and Polar Sea expeditions, we admire the wonderful advances which, in these our own days, the science of Geography is making. But, realizing with Prof. Heberman “ that we are only reaping the fruits of seed sown centuries ago, it becomes an interesting and instructive study to go back to the remote past and consider the difficulties which man’s genius then surmounted. This the learned writer does and presents much valuable information. The Rev. J. Ming, S. J., concludes his series of articles on “The Nature of the Human Soul.” He demonstrates the spirituality of the soul, basing his arguments upon the answer to the one question, “ whether man’s rational activity is organic or not; whether exercised by the soul alone, or by the soul conjointly with the body; for all our other vital functions, as sensation and vegetation, are organic, according to general consent.” After stating what-the object of organic faculties must be, the learned writer shows that two grand faculties of the human soul— the intellect and the will—are not organic, and therefore the soul is spiritual. In conclusion, Father Ming presents an excellent treatise on that interesting philosophical question—“The Union of the Soul.with the Body”; and the scholastic system—that the soul is the form of the body—is ably defended. The other articles are: “The Duty of Catholics in the Face of Modern Unbelief,” by Rev. R. F. Clarke, S. J.; “Quid est Homo?—A Query on the Plurality of Worlds,” by Rev. Thomas Hughes, S. J.; “The Progress of the Church in the United States, from the First Provincial Council to the Third Plenary Council of Baltimore,” by John Gilmary Shea, LL.D.; “ The Life and Times of Frederick the Second— The Kingdom of Italy,” by Prof. St. George Mi-vart; “ The Irish Question, Present and Prospective,” by.Thomas Power O’Connor, M. P.; “ Martin Luther and His American Worshippers,” by Rt. Rev. Mgr. Corcoran, D. D.
Art, Music and. Literature.
—The trustees of the British Museum have purchased Milton’s Bible. It contains, in the poet’s handwriting-, the dates of the birth of his children.
—Max O’Rell’s little book, “ John Bull and his Island,” is said to have netted him $20,000. He now contemplates “Jonathan and his Continent.”
—The King of Denmark has in his library an elegant volume containing the play of “ Hamlet,” translated into Danish, and annotated by his Majesty’s own self.
—Larkin G. Meade is at work in Florence on a drinking fountain in Carrara marble, to be presented by Elliott F. Shepard to the city of New York. The subject represented is the Mississippi River.
—The Tariff question is to be thoroughly discussed in the North American Review. Free Trade arguments will appear in the September number, and Protection views in the October. The ablest writers on both sides have been engaged. 00	-
—Signor Giovanni Acquaderni is directing the work of restoring the Crypt of St. Laurent outside the walls of Rome, which enclose the venerated remains of Pius IX of blessed memory. A chromolithograph of the plan of this restoration has been made. The address of the Signor is 94 Via Mazzini, Bologna, Italy.
—Two Frenchmen, the brothers Forre, have invented a new kind of harp, made entirely of wood. Instead of strings, the inventors use strong strips of American fir. The sound is- produced, as in the ordinary harp, by the contact of the fingers; but the player wears leather gloves covered with rosin. The tone of the instrument is said to be of remarkable purity.
—From a paper contributed by the veteran scholar, Dr. Edkins, to a recent number of the Chinese Recorder, it appears that about B. C.. 2200 the Chinese possessed a knowledge of the art of writing a year of 366 days with an intercalary month, the astrolabe, the zodiac, the cycle of sixty, of twelve musical reeds forming a gamut, which also constituted the basis of a denary metrology for measures of length, weight, and capacity, divination, and a feudal system.
—Verdi has nearly finished the new opera on which he has been laboring for several years. The composer speaks of it as his best work. The story which Verdi has taken for his libretto is “ Othello,” a subject which undoubtedly admits of magnificent treatment. The part of Iago is considerably toned down in the opera, the villain being whitewashed to a great extent. An air for Desdemona in the last act, which she sings just before the arrival of the irate 'Othello on the scene, is spoken of as one of the pearls of the opera.
—In March, 1885, will occur the bicentennial of the birth of Johann Sebastian Bach, the gieat musical genius> who gave to his art. its. most compre-
i	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
! -----------------------------------------—____
hensive impetus. It has been well said that nearly every musical development in composition that has taken place may be traced to the influence of his works, for all the modern writers have been close students of his music. In the art centres of Europe, this coming bicentennial will be celebrated by suitable performances of his music. In London the Bach Society will perform selections from his choral works with a chorus of six hundred voices, eminent soloists, a large orchestra and organ.
—A very curious fifteenth-century manuscript volume was recently sold in London for nine hundred and eighty pounds. It consists of two hun-i dred and fifty-seven folio leaves of vellum, and contains miniatures of extraordinary beauty, illustrating the early history of Normandy and early English history. The first of the series represents the arrival of Duke Rollo at Rouen, and among others are the death of Edward the Confessor, the coronation of Harold, the landing of William the Conqueror, the battle of Hastings, burial of Harold’s body at Waltham Abbey, the funeral of William, the coronation of Rufus, and the death of Richard Coeur de Lion at Chaluz, all executed in the highest style of Burgundian art, and with the minutest detail of architecture, costume and armor.
College Gossip.
—A new Catholic college will open in Burlington, Vt., on the first Tuesday of September.
—Holy Cross College, Worcester, Mass., num-I bers among its graduates, since its foundation by Bishop Fenwick in 1849, one hundred and nineteen priests.
—A laboratory for bacterial research has been founded in the Pathological Institute of Munich, and the first course of lectures, founded on Dr. Koch’s latest methods, has begun.
—Rev. Jerome Daugherty, S. J., a cousin of the editor of the Emerald Vindicator^ has been appointed Piofessor of Rhetoric in that well-known institution, Loyola College, Baltimore, Md.
-	—During the past year one thousand four hun-
dred students were in attendance at the University of Michigan, of whom two hundred were women.
. Two women are members of the Faculty—Mrs. Louisa Stowell, Professor of Microscopic Botany, and Miss Margaret Humphreys, D.' S. L.
—It is proposed to organize, under the auspices of the American Social Science Association, during its next annual session at Saratoga, Sept. 8 to 12, 1884, an American Historical Association, consisting of professors, teachers, specialists, and others interested in the advancement of history in this country. The objects of the proposed association are the exchange of ideas, the widening of acquaintance, and the discussion of methods and original papers.
—The Blind Asylum at Drumcondra, near Dublin, Ireland, is the only Catholic institution in
existence which prints books in English for the use of the blind. The inmates receive a good general education, are well instructed in their religion, and are trained to some useful trade, chosen according to each person’s capabilities, which will enable them hereafter to earn their own livelihood.. The place is managed by the Carmelites,, the Superior being Father Nevin.
—At the American College, Louvain, Belgium, many distinguished priests on the American mission have been ordained. It is, therefore, gratifving to see the following notice of the great work that it has accomplished during the 27 years of its existence, in the Bien Public of Brussels. This excellent journal says that the work of the American College, under the invocation of the Immaculate Conception, gives great joy to all who are interested in the important missions of. that great country. The college was established in 1857, under the patronage of the illustrious prelates of Belgium, and since that date 301 priests have gone forth from it to do missonary work in this young Republic. During the past year it has despatched 17.
—Harvard’s prescribed studies for the freshman year are hereafter to be rhetoric and English' composition, German or French, physics and chemistry. The list of electives is large, and is headed by Latin, Greek and mathematics. Latin and Greek are still among the requirements for entrance, but after admission they are to be pursued only in case the student chooses to do so. A generation ago, the ordinarv college course consisted of Latin, Greek and mathematics almost exclusively, with the addition of mental and moral philosophy and logic, and possibly a course of Christian evidences. History was little taught except indirectly; the modern languages and the physical sciences were almost ignored, while subjects like political economy, comparative politics and sociology were almost unheard of by the undergraduate. Now Harvard swings to the op’ posite extreme.
—The seventeen royal universities of Italy are those at Bologna, Cagliari, Catania, Genoa, Macer-ata, Messina, Modena, Naples, Padua, Palermo, Parma, Pavia, Pisa, Rome, Sassaria, Sienna and Turin. The total enrollment during the scholastic year 1880—’81 was ten thousand five hundred and ninety-two students. The largest numbers were enrolled at the universities of Naples and Turin. Then come Padua, Rome, Bologna and Pavia. Pisa, Genoa and Palermo have between five hundred and six hundred students each, and the rest have a much smaller number. There are four independent universities in the kingdom, at Came-rino, Ferrara, Perugia and Urbino, which had a total of two hundred and sixty-five students in i88o-’8i. Besides these there were twenty-one superior institutes, academies and special schools, with one thousand nine hundred and forty-eight enrolled students. This makes a total of twelve thousand eight hundred and five enrolled students in the. higher instituti.QhS of learning in Italy in the year i88o-’8i.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Miff W SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame, August 20, 1884.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Eigii-teexth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate lor the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and. above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.50 fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, ■	Notre Dame, Indiana.
—With this number the Scholastic begins its eighteenth volume. It shall be our aim during the coming year to preserve the interest and utility of our college journal, and as “Excelsior” is ever motto, no efforts will be spared to increase its excellence. We may confidently expect, therefore, not only to retain our former subscribers, but to. see the list still further increased. This number is sent to all our subscribers of last year, who are requested to inform us as soon as possible of their intention to renew.
— The Ave Maria for August 2 presents its readers with a fine engraving of the celebrated Madonna of St. Luke now venerated in the Church of St. Mary Major at Rome. The original picture, said to be the production of the Evangelist, is the most beautiful of all the paintings of Our Lady, even those by the great masters. Its very simplicity of expression, depicting a holy, pleasing grace in the countenances of Madonna and Child, fixes the attention of the beholder and leaves a lasting impression.- The engraving in The Ave Maria is an exact fac siinile of this remarkable painting, an interesting account of which is given in the same number of our popular contemporary.
—Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger of Ft. Wayne will celebrate the Silver Jubilee of his urdina-
tion to the Priesthood on the 4th prox. The esteemed prelate, during the twenty-five years of his sacerdotal life,—both as Missionary and Bishop —has traced a grand record of a time well spent in devotion to the spiritual welfare of souls entrusted to the keeping of the Church. The years of the good Bishop’s administration in the diocese of Ft. Wayne have been marked with grand results,—and most deserving of special mention are his efforts in the cause of Catholic education, as evidenced in the formation of a School Board in the diocese, the members of which direct and control the various schools and encourage and suggest means for their formation wherever they are found not to exist. We cannot at the present moment, and with dur limited space, say all that we would wish to say about our Bishop. His work, however, speaks for itself. We beg leave to extend our own congratulations to the many of which he will be the recipient next 4th of September and, ex intimo cor de, we say, ad multos annos !
&

a;


—Vacation is gliding swiftly by, and in two weeks more it will be numbered among the things of the past. Then the work of the year will begin in earnest, and ye present lonely “ Ed.” will rejoice greatly thereat. After all, the getting out of a vacation number of the Scholastic is a great undertaking. Few realize the stupendous nature of the task, except those who know what it is to-start out with an improvised Staff “ expressly for the occasion,” and then find that “ ye contributors ” think that they have fully met all the exigencies of the occasion by the startling item—“ Hurrah for—’’well, one of the Presidential candidates! We were going to say Butler, but as the Scholastic is not a political paper, we refrain from imposing our favorite upon our readers.
1
s®
Great things' have been done and are still doing during the vacation. We manifested our patriotism in a becoming manner. on the Fourth of July„ Our local editor has given a little item about its celebration, a report of which was telegraphed to-the great press of Chicago. Then Rev. President Walsh left us and started off for the City of Mexico and Rev. Vice-President Toohey sailed across the stormy sea to the. Emerald Isle, on business of the community. During their absence-their places were ably filled by Rev. Father Fitte,. our genial Professor of Philosophy. Of course, the-usual vacation sports and recreations were indulged in, -^hich^ together ^ith moriiing’ classes for.' those

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
9
who wished-to attend, made the time pass pleasantly and profitably. Then came the State Temperance Convention, which met here, and imparted an additional air of liveliness to the surroundings. This was followed by the Annual Retreat of the community, which was preached by the Rev. P. P. Cooney, Miss.-Ap.
* * *
Great interest always centres in the Annual Retreat, especially in the aftei" proceedings of the chapter, when the appointments for the ensuing year are made. We must say here, in explanation of the delay in the appearance of the present number, that we were simply awaiting the conclusion of the chapter’s deliberations in order to chronicle the changes, if any, made in the administration of the College. We are glad to say that Rev. President Walsh will remain at his post which he has so ably and with such magnificent results to Notre Dame filled during the past three years. Rev. Father Toohey will continue in his office of VicePresident, and both these officers will be ably seconded by Rev. M. Regan, who has been appointed to the office of Prefect of Discipline. The latter gentleman is well known to the students, and we are sure that all will be gratified to learn of his appointment, which he is so ably fitted to fulfil.	'
> &
One great source of regret to all of us is the uncompleted state of the Dome and the statue of Our Lady. Though much has been done,—as the beautiful gilding of the statue and ornamentation of the pedestal,—yet the unsightly scaffolding still remains, and we suppose will remain until such time as the Electric Light Company, with whom the contract has been made, are able to meet with their engagements. Now that the general design of the main building of the University is carried out by the completion of the western wing, we do most earnestly hope that but a short time will be allowed to elapse before the electric crown will be the diadem of Our Lady’s statue, and the venerable Founder of Notre Dame see the realization of his long-cherished idea in the most perfect expression—as far as human science can give it—of gratitude and devotion to her to whom our little ©
spot of earth is consecrated.
—The Annual State Convention of the Total Abstinence Union of the State of Indiana was held at Notre Dame on Monday and Tuesday, August the 4th and 5th. Delegates assembled from Indianapolis, Washington, Terre Haute, Peru, Warsaw,
La Porte, South Bend, Liberty, Montgomery, and other towns and cities in the State; Mgr. Bessonies, Vicar-General of Vincennes, was also present. On Monday evening a reception was tendered the delegates by the officers of the University. The Juniors’ Reading-rooms were prepared for the occasion, and with music, conversation and refreshments, a very pleasant time was had.
On Tuesday morning the exercises of the day were opened by Solemn High Mass, sung by Very Rev. Father L’Etourneau, C. S. C., assisted by Father McMullen, of Terre Haute, and Father Fallize, of South Bend, as deacon and subdeacon. The sermon was preached by the Rev. Father Cooney, C. S. C., who bade the delegates welcome, and spoke eloquently of the cause in which they were engaged. It was a feeling production and evinced a sincere desire for the more rapid and extended spread of total abstinence and unbounded faith in the success of the grand work in which the society was engaged. ' •
After Mass, the delegates met in St. Cecilia Hall, where the first session of the Convention was called to order by the President, Rev. Father Weichmann, of Warsaw. The reports of the secretary and treasurer were read and approved, detailing the work of the society and manifesting a healthy financial condition. In the afternoon the following officers of the association were elected for the ensuing year: Rev. Father McMullen, of Terre Haute, Spiritual Director; Father Weichmann, of Warsaw, President; Maurice Hagertv, of Terre Haute, 1st Vice-President; Edward Hennessey, of Peru, 2d Vice-President; D. Eagan, of Liberty, Secretary; T. M. Howard., of South Bend, Editor, and J. C. Williams, of South Bend, Sergeant-at-Arms. The following were elected delegates at large from Indiana to the National Convention: Rev. Father Hagerty, of South Bend; Rt. Rev. August Bessonies, of Indianapolis, Ind., and Father Kelley, of New Albany. The business of the Convention having been con-eluded, a general hand-shaking ensued, farewells were said, and at half-past four o’clock the delegates departed to their respective homes.
—The National Convention of the “Catholic Total Abstinence Union ” of the United States was held in the city of Chicago on the 6th and 7th insts., and was the largest, grandest and most satisfactory in its results of all the Conventions held since the organization of the Union. Most Rev. Archbishop Feehan, Rt. Rev. Bishops Ireland, Watterson, and
IO
THE NOTRE TAME SCHOLASTIC.
Spalding were present, and by stirring addresses lent their powerful influence to the grand movement in behalf of a noble cause. At the Solemn High Mass, with which the proceedings opened, Rev. Walter Elliott, C. S. P., ’59, preached a most eloquent sermon.
The proceedings during the sessions that followed have been fully heralded throughout the country and need no comment here. We may be pardoned, however, for referring to the fact that Notre Dame was proposed and advocated as the place for the next annual Convention. The authorities here are heart and soul in union with the Temperance movement, and it was without thought of affiliation to or recognition by State or National Convention that President Walsh, two years ago, set on foot the organization of Temperance Societies among the students, the results of which have been satisfactory to a marked degree, and of such a nature as to claim for the Associations— without the asking—a place among the regular societies of the Union. It was in recognition of the great impetus given to the cause by the College officers that Notre Dame was selected as the place for the State Convention, and the State delegates to the National Convention were so enthusiastic in supporting the invitation extended to the Convention to meet here next year. Rt. Rev. Mgr. Bessonnies, of Indianapolis, and Rev. Father Weichmann, of Warsaw, Ind., spoke in favoi' of Notre Dame, but withdrew their motion after the remarks of Father Elliott, an old student of Notre Dame, who said that, despite the affection he retained for his Alma Mater, the claims of the East should now be recognized. It was decided then to'hold the next Convention at New Haven, Conn.
Among the resolutions which were drawn up, presented, and unanimously adopted at the last session, as giving definite expression to all the topics which had been brought up for discussion before the Convention, we may be permitted to mention the following:
“ Resolved: Deeply interested as we are in the formation of cadet societies for the preservation of our youth, we feel grateful to the Fathers of the Holy Cross, of Notre Dame, Ind., for the initiatory steps in the introduction of totalabstinence principles among their students in enrolling them in temperance societies, and commend their example in this regard to other educational institutions.”
This resolution was well received, as indicative of a step taken in the right place—in the schoolroom, where the minds and hearts of youth were being trained and formed for the proper fufilment of the duties of life, and where, thus early imbued with firm principles of self-control, they would be
fitted to go forth into the world before them, and with honest, manly purpose follow their vocations, pleasing before God and men. It was remarked in the Convention that hitherto many parents had been afraid to send their children to colleges lest they should contract habits of dissipation; in this respect Notre Dame could allay all fear, enjoying as it does the merited honor of being the first among Catholic educational institutions in which temperance societies exist among the students, and are presided over by members of the Faculty.
Arithmomancy.
In the Greek alphabet every letter had a numerical value, and in order to discover the successful one of two combatants all that was necessary was to add up the value of each name, letter by letter, and see which was the greater. On this principle Hector was bound to be vanquished by Achilles, as their names figure up thus:
A— 1
/=6oo
E— S	, =	10	"
X = 20 I	2 =	30
■ T=3OO	2=	30
0) =800	£ =	5
p =100	0=400
----	'	<7=200	'
1225	---
1276
But the contest would be a close one, owing to the near approximation of the ratio to unity. It is this method of calculation that is suggested in the Book of Revelation, where the “ number of the beast ” is given as 666. Few, however, are aware of the peculiar relation of this number to that of the name of our Saviour, which is 888, thus:
I— 10
8
<7=200
o— 70
U=4OO
<7=200
,	.	888
The number 666 has.- been deduced from the names of various distinguished characters, particularly where there.is a certain latitude allowed in orthography. Thus Mahomet, in Greek, may be spelled	and gives result as follows:
Z^74O .	a= l	-
0= 70 . p= 40	'
' ■	-	£— 5	’
.	T—3OO	.
t = IO	.	.
"	<7=200
666
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
And it is remarkable that of the four original patriarchates of Christendom, Rome, Antioch, Alexandria, and Constantinople, three should have fallen into the hands of Mahomet, three bearing to four the relation of 666 to 888.	.
The Greek orthography of the names of the present candidates for the presidency of the United States is somewhat dubious. Translating “James ” and “Stephen,” however, and leaving out the silent e where it would make an extra syllable in Greek, we have /azw/Jo? TM-za-t />2a<> and 2’-£0ay«S' I'pwjep Kleulavd, and they add	up	as follows:
1= io	6
« = I	5
Z = 20	<5=500
.	•	<=800	a=	1
■	0= 2	>=	50
0 = 70	0=	70
<7=200	<7=200
1= 3	r=	3
t =	IO	,0=100	■
2 =	30	w=8oo
2 =	30	0=400
5	£=	5
<7=200	/>=ioo
-=	80	Ji=	20
1 =	10	2=	30
B=	2	5
2 =	30	0=400
« =	1	2= 30
1 =	10	a= 1 *
y =	50	>= 50
---	5= 4 I564	-----
2780
When <7 and - are written separately they count 200 and 300 respectively, but <7 followed by -r forms a ligature which only goes for 6. The modern Greeks might also substitute ^=2 for 0=400 twice in Cleveland’s name, which would reduce its value to 1984. A further substitution of 0=70 for w=8oo would bring him down to 1254. We await our Greek exchanges, in the hope of finding out the received orthography.
There is a similar system of arithmomancy in Latin, but here the numeral letters are few, only I V X L C D M. Printing the other letters of these names in lower-case, we have laCobVs gILLespIe bLa!ne=259, and stephan Vs groVer CLeVeLanD=y 15. The substitution of the English form IaMes=iooi would turn the balance the other way, but the calculation must be made in the language to which the numerical system belongs. ■
Personal.
—Prof. Lyons is visiting friends in Wheeling, W. Va.
—Walter J. Kelly (Com’l),’81, is a leading physician at Kewaska, Wis.
—George L. Hagan, Com’l Medallist, ’81, is sojourning at St. Augustine,' Ill.
----D. Webster, of *62, is one of the leading physicians of Colorado Springs, Col.
—Rev. President Walsh returned last Monday evening from his trip to the city of Mexico.
—S. Marks (Com’l), ’73, is doing a thriving business at Cheyenne, Wyoming Territory. .
—Mr. J. D. Coleman, C. S. C., formerly a Professor at Notre Dame, made his religious Profession on the 15th of August.	.
—Signor Gregori is passing the Summer months with his family in Florence, Italy. He will return to Notre Dame early in September.
—Rev. J. Rodgers, C. S. C., one time editor-in-chief of the" Scholastic, is now the efficient President of St. Joseph’s College, Cincinnati.
—Charles Walsh (Com’l), of ’79, superintends his father’s extensive mail business in Chicago. “ Chippy ” is as jolly and good-natured as ever.
—J. D. Reach, writing from his home, Kansas City, Mo., desires to be remembered to his Prefects and Professors, and states that he and F. Dexter will be here promptly for the opening of school.
—Rev. A. A. Lambing, of Pittsburgh, who received the degree of A. M. from the University two or three years ago, celebrated the fifteenth anniversary of his ordination on Monday, the 11 th inst.
—J. B. O’Rielly and H. W. Morse, both ( Com’ls) of ’83, were the donors of the Gold Medal for field-sports, awarded at Commencement. These young gentlemen have promised handsome medals for next year.
—On the Fourth of July, after a dinner given to a number of distinguished army officers, the decoration of the Columbian Club was presented to our esteemed friend, Mr. Eugene Amoretti, of Lander, one of the pioneers of Wyoming Ter.
—Rev. T. Sullivan, ’58, spent a day at the College a few weeks ago. Though his visit was necessarily short, yet it was a source of much pleasure to his numerous friends at Notre Dame, who hope sbon to see him again, when his stay may be longer.
—Among the welcome visitors of the past week was an old friend, Mr. Patrick Clifford, of Valparaiso, Ind. He expressed himself surprised and delighted at the many changes Notre Dame has undergone since his first visit, thirty-two years ago. We hope to see him again.
—Rev. E. B. Kilroy, D. D., ’49, was a welcome visitor to Notre Dame during vacation. The Doctor was one of Notre Dame’s first graduates, and, as often as the cares of a busy life permit, loves to visit his Alma Mater. He has now charge of an extensive parish at Stratford, Ontario. •
—Rev. D. A. Clarke, ’70, passed a few days at the College last week oh his way to Columbus, Ohio, where he will resume charge of. that sterling journal, the Catholic Columbian. We were glad to see Father Clarke so much improved in health by his vacation among the “Rockies.” ’
• —We were pleased with a visit from the Rev. Father Fitzgerald, who is passing a few days at Notre Dame. He is travelling through the United
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
States in the interests of the O’Connell Memorial Church, now in course of erection in Ireland. We hope the Rev. Father will meet with all, possible success.
—Mr. J. Brennan, an attache of the Catholic Review, is passing a few weeks at the College, inspecting the workings of our printing establishment. Mr. Brennan is a brother-in-law of Mr. P. V. Hickey, the genial editor of the Review, and is an accomplished gentleman with whom it is a pleasure to become acquainted.
—We were glad to meet during the vacation Rev. Father Corby, ourformer worthy President, and Rev. Father Condon one time Prefect of Discipline at Notre Dame. Both the Rev. Fathers were enjoying the best of health. They will continue during the coming year to direct the extensive affairs of the parish of St. Bernard’s, Watertown, Wis.
—On the 7th inst., Messrs. M. Regan, J. Adels-perger and F. Boerres received Minor Orders at the hands of Bishop Dwenger, in the Chapel of Loreto, at St. Mary’s. We extend our congratulations to these gentlemen, and express the wish that but a short time may elapse before they meet with the consummation of their hopes in their elevation to the Sacred Order of the priesthood.
—The “ Princes ” will be glad to hear that one of their number is winning laurels in the sunny South. The following we clip from a paper published in Jackson, Tenn.:
“The entertainment at the rooms of the Young Mens’ Association, Tuesday evening, was a very enjoyable affair. Master Bennie Lindsey proved himself a real orator by his splendid recitation.”
—Prof. J. P. Lauth, A. M., ’68, of Chicago, visited Notre Dame last week and remained three or four days with his friends at the University and in the neighboring city of South Bend. For several years the Professor has conducted one of the most flourishing schools in Chicago. As its Prin-cipalhe has met with remarkable success and been accorded a prominent place among the best-known educators of that city. His pleasing address, honorable deportment, high character, and sterling qualities of head and heart have secured for him general esteem and confidence.
—Rev. Walter Elliott, C. S. P., of ’59, well known as the most distinguished among the missionaries of the Paulist Order, of New York, delivered the sermon at the Solemn High Mass with which the recent National Temperance Convention opened in Chicago. Among the topics brought up for discussion in the sessions that followed was 'the selection of a place for the next annual Convention. On invitation from the authorities, Notre Dame was proposed, and its praises spoken, among others, by Mgr. Bessonnies, of Indianapolis, and Rev. F. Weichmann, of Warsaw, Ind. But, says the press report:	’
“ Father Elliott, of New York, felt a responsive throb in his heart to every word uttered by the last speaker, for he had passed several years at Notre Dame, more pleasantly, perhaps, to himself than to its Faculty. But he had determined to trample on his affections, and declare in favor x of New Haven. The movement which had received such
a grand impetus at Chicago should swing like a pendulum across the entire country. When the backward swing began, then it might stop at Notre Dame, Ind.” ‘
Father Elliott’s record at Notre Dame, as well as that which has marked his after career in life, is one to which his former President and Professors look back with pride and pleasure. His numerous friends here wish him many years of health and strength to continue in the good work in which he is engaged, o o
Obituary.
Mr. Michael Lyons.
On the evening of the 27th ult., Mr. Michael Lyons, a brother of Professor Lyons of the University, passed peacefully from earth at his residence, Bertrand, Mich. The deceased was an exemplary Christian and an upright citizen. We extend our sympathies to Prof. Lyons and the bereaved family on the loss of a devoted brother and father. May he rest in peace!
Local Items.
—Here we are again!.
—A new burro is expected.
—Vacation will soon be over.
—Students are beginning to arrive.
—I’ll never go down the road again ( ?).
—Prof. Lyons started on an Eastern tour yesterday.
—The weather has been extraordinarily cool all summer.
—Visitors are coming to the College in great numbers.
—Father Maher will continue to be our genial Secretary.
—Prof. Stace spent most of his vacation at Marshall, Mich.
—Great enjoyment is found at present in swimming tournaments.
—The St. Joe Farm is the place to get something extra during vacation, o	o
—Bro. Celestine still retains the position he has held from time immemorial.
—Read our astrologer’s calculations on the presidential candidates. See page 10.
—Will the Notre Dame University Band be buried in the grave of oblivion next year?
—Why are the vacation students of ’84 all Drummers? Because they have all been on the “ Road.”
—Our friend Florian (the lone fisherman) continues to seek the finny tribes, but “they don’t catch on.” -
—Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C., spent his vacation in Galway, Co., Ireland. He will sail to-day for home.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
*—Those “ flowers were perfectly delicious, one was worn to a ball, the other was kept in a glass case.
—Bro. Bonaventure holds his old position—that of gardener, florist, horticulturalist, joker, etc., of the institution.
—We learn that the genial director of the Tailoring Establishment celebrated his 65th birthday on the 12th inst.
—At present there are some 50 or 60 students in the three departments, the Seniors taking the lead with twenty-five.
—Among the presidential candidates, Cleveland is the only one whose election will verify our astrologer’s prophecy.
—Bro. Leander has been relieved from the charge of the Junior department and assigned to the duty on the missions.
—The report of the Alumni Banquet, which appeared in the last number of the Scholastic, should have been credited to the South Bend Register.
—Classes have been going on regularly since vacation set in. The students who remained at Notre Dame feel surprised at the amount of work they have accomplished.
—Bros. Emmanuel, Paul, Hilarion and Augustine will direct the Senior department during the coming year; while the Juniors will be under the care of Bros. Alexander, Lawrence and Marcellus.
—The work of plastering the western wing is being pushed forward, and everything will be ready by the first of September. This new addition now completes the original design of the main building and adds greatly to the beautiful appearance of the whole.
—The floors in the lower corridor have been torn up and new- boards put in. In the upper corridor tile-flooring has been laid between the two study-halls and* towards the main entrance. The appearance of the whole has been greatly beautified by this improvement.
—Vacation is not generally a very lively or exciting season at Notre Dame, but this one is an exception. The students have had several picnics, baseball, cricket and other pastimes, whilst milk and water-melons, have been demolished in a wholesale- manner; the orchards, of course, have suffered.	,
—The Total Abstinence Society at Notre Dame University now has 110 members. It was organized by Father Weichmann, the Philadelphian, who is President of the Indiana Union. The University Society is a special favorite of Bishop Ireland’s. He believes that to have intellectually and morally trained men the exponents and prac-ticers of total abstinence must exert a powerful influence.—I. C. B. U. Journal.
—The last number of the Michigan Catholic informs us that “Prof; A. J. Stace, of Notre Dame University, is spending the vacation with his mother in Marshall,- Mich.” We beg leave to state that
the genial and erudite Professor is again in our midst, and engaged upon a great philosophical, mathematical calculation, which is intended to throw light upon the near future of presidential aspirants, and, at the same time, serve as a guiding star for the voters of our country to direct them over the stormy sea of the present campaign.
—The Festival of the Assumption (August 15) .was celebrated with great solemnity at Notre Dame. Solemn High Mass was sung by Rev. President Walsh, assisted by Rev. Fathers O’Hanlon and Toomey as deacon and subdeacon; an eloquent sermon on the festival was delivered by Rev. Father Spillard. In the afternoon, after Solemn V*espers at three o’clock, a grand procession was formed, and winding its way around the beautiful lakes, carried the statue of Our Lady, while hymns and canticles were chanted, and the immense but devout throng joined in praise and supplication to the Queen of Heaven.
—The “Glorious Fourth” was never so enthusiastically celebrated at Notre Dame as this year. An impromtu Band was formed under the leadership of Moriarty, while Ramsay organized a military company. Patriotic airs were played while marching and countermarching through the College grounds. The “ Declaration of Independence ” was read by Ramsay before a large audience, in front of the main building, and stirring speeches were made. In the evening the proceedings concluded with a grand pyrotechnic display from the top of Science Hall, from which proud and lofty eminence our esteemed vocalist favored the assembled throng with several of his choicest songs.
—Our predictions concerning the contest for the vacation championship were verified beyond our fondest expectations. The 2d game of the series was . played on the Senior baseball grounds last Thursday and resulted as follows: the Seniors scored in the 1st inning on Brown’s home run; in the 4th on 3 singles and a wild pitch; and in the fifth on 2 singles followed by McNulty’s home run.. The Juniors’ run in the 2d inning was obtained by Barnard’s home run; the two in the third by Stubb’s single and Courtney’s four bagger one in the fourth oil Kelly’s home run; one in the fifth on F. Combed double and Proudhomme’s single, and one in the 9th on Barnard’s double and Houck’s out, and a passed ball. The Seniors began the tenth inning by getting Ramsay to third on Barnard’s muff of a high fly and Brown’s single took Ramsay home. By this time it was twilight and the game was declared a victory for the Seniors.
—St. Edward’s Hall.—There is no portion of the venerable Father Sorin’s great work in Notre Dame in which he takes a greater and juster pride than in the “ Palace of the Minims ”—St. Edward’s Flail. A picture of it will be found in our advertising page, but that gives only the outside. Its real beauty is ab intus. One must walk through it to see the really beautiful and thoroughly Catholic home that is provided for the younger boys sent to Notre Dame University. If the associa
^4
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tions that come from an elegant home help to make an American boy a Catholic'gentleman, then certainly the young sovereigns of St. Edward’s Hall ought to grow up such. One who was ill-mannered would soon find himself out of place, and not,at home in its beautiful rooms. In its frescoes and mural decorations which enrich every wall in the “Palace” the Minims have constant lessons to teach them how proud a privilege it is to be a Catholic American. We remember that, last September, on our route to Chicago to be present at the consecration of Archbishop Riordan, we paid a flying visit to Notre Dame; the “ Palace ” of the Minims seemed to justify all the hopes that were entertained of it. We spent some very pleasant hours examining it. Besides a home, young boys need the care of a mother. That was secured to them through the watchful care of a good nun, one of the most motherly and kind-looking Sisters we have ever met. We are not now canvassing for pupils for St. Edward’s, but we recommend every one, particularly in the West, who is looking for a home in which very young Catholic boys may receive a liberal education as well as more than the care of ordinary homes, to send to Notre Dame for a catalogue of St. Edward’s Hall.— Cath-otic Review.
Notre Dame.
[Correspondence of the u Indianapolis People! ]
I have just returned from a visit to N otre Dame University and St. Mary’s Academy. While the odor of the sacred ointment that was invisibly poured out upon me is still fragrant, I will try and describe what I saw. Notre Dame University is probably the leading Catholic college in the United States. It is situated two miles north of South Bend, in the midst of a large farm owned by the Order of the Holy Cross, by whom the University is owned and controlled. A more beautiful landscape is not to be seen anywhere than is visible from this institution. The prairie, now turned into highly-cultivated farms, extends for many miles in all directions. It is interspersed here and there with groves of ash and the beautiful St. Joseph’s River runs a tortuous course through it. The University buildings occupy an elevated site about a mile from the riven, but just back of the buildings are two lovely lakes. These are deep and always clear and fresh, and afford the students fine facilities for boating and bathing.
About five years ago all the principal buildings connected with the University were destroyed by fire. They were, however, immediately rebuilt and were ready for occupancy at the commencement of the next session, so the work of the college was not in the least interrupted. The present buildings are very beautiful and imposing, being constructed, of the .cream colored brick common in this locality. The Dome, which is constructed of galvanized iron, is a striking object, and can be seen for many miles around. ....
Signor Gregori is an Italian artist who has been living in the,University for the past eight or nine years. His chief work has been the decoration of the church and the college walls. I believe he also gives instructions to classes in painting in the University. I cannot describe the work. In the church the subjects are chiefly taken from the Scriptures as well as the traditional life of the Blessed Virgin Mary, though in the panels of ceiling of the nave there are figures of angels, and in those of the side aisles angel faces. Besides these there are two pieces, one representing Peter and our Saviour walking upon the water, and the other the brazen serpent lifted up in the wilderness. In the church the altar-lamp is not only a thing highly prized, but it is also a most expensive article. It is of gold, inlaid and emblazoned with most precious gems.
But it is on the University walls that are to be seen the pictures that will be best understood and appreciated by the general visitor. These frescoes represent six events in the life of Columbus connected with the discovery of America, and his betrayal and death. The figures are life-size, and they tell the history of the great discoverer more concisely and graphically than can be done by. the pen. I should think the chief excellencies of this artist are his skill in drawing the figures, in their combination, and in the coloring.
This institution was founded in 1842 by Father Sorin, who is still living and is now the SuperiorGeneral of the Order. In his present office he has charge of all the establishments of the Order throughout the world. In the interests of the community and of the University he has made almost as many trips to Europe as he has been years in America. When he first came to South Bend, Indians were the only inhabitants of the country where the University now stands, and the first building he erected, which he used for residence, church and school house to teach the Indians (the beginning of this great University), was a small log hut. Signor Gregori has finished a picture to perpetuate this epoch in his history.
I forgot to say that this institution has received large benefactions from Europe. It possesses a very fine telescope, which was presented to them by the Emperor Napoleon, and a full-length portrait of Pope Pius IX which he gave them. Its bell is the largest in the United States, and is the second in size on the North America Continent, the one at Notre Dame, Montreal, being larger.
The growth of this University has been remarkable. It has not bartered its name to any rich man or corporation for any gift of money. Father L’Etourneau, the present Provincial of the Order, says he does not know hardly how they have done so well, only that means have always been provided to enable them to carry out any cherished purpose without contracting any debts. .
Samuel Johnson.
For the Dome.
George Pfleger, South Bend.........■.....$25.00
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
*5
Saint ary's Acabemy.
One Mile J Kes/ of Notre Dame University.
■	—The Rt. Rev. Bishop of Ft. Wayne paid St.
' Mary’s the honor of a somewhat lengthy visit, ! leaving for home on the morning of the Sth.
i	—Mr. I. Howley,j Mr. John Howley, Mr. H. C.
! Crowley and Mr; T. Crowley, of Cairo, passed J- some days at the Academy on a visit to friends.
—The name of Alice Schmauss, who received the Gold Medal for Elocution in the Minim department at St. Mary’s, was, by an oversight, omitted in the Scholastic of July 3d.
—Mrs. Vandyke, of Detroit, Mich., and Mrs. Regan, of Indianola, Texas, Mrs. O’Neal, and Miss Lizzie O’Neal (Class ’78), of Peoria, are passing the summer months at St. Mary’s.
—Beautiful letters have been received from nearly every one of the pupils who were at St. Mary’s last year. Many are models of epistolary correspondence. The tone of affection and sincere gratitude which characterizes most of them is a proof that the labors of their teachershave not been unfruitful.
—It is difficult to resist the inclination to give some extracts from edifying letters received from the young ladies, but space will not permit. We can only say that we trust the good resolutions evidently taken by some will bear them triumphantly through the difficulties of the approaching scholastic year.	.
—The Rev. Chaplain of St. Mary’s passed a few weeks at Holy Cross, in Iowa. His sermons and presence in the congregation were hailed with enthusiasm, and earnest regrets were felt upon his departure. His welcome on his return was, however, none the less enthusiastic. On the 31st ult., Father Shortis also enjoyed a trip to the old chapel of Bertrand, where he offered his second Mass, nearly forty years ago.
.	—The Museum is- indebted to Mrs. Ryan, of
Hancock, Mich., for some rare and curious specimens of iron and copper; among others, two del* icate vases, formed of molten copper poured over quills, which are highly ornamental as well as valuable. Mrs. Black, of Milwaukee, has also kindly donated some uncommon1 specimens to the collection of minerals and curiosities. Among the last-named are several Aztec idols: human faces about, the size of a small Brazil nut. •
—The following-named clergymen have been among the visitors since July 3d: The Rev. E. Kilroy, D. D., Stratford, Ont.; Rev. B. J. Spalding, D. D., Peoria, Ill.; Rev. Father Birmingham, San Francisco, Cal.; Rev. Father, Alphonsus, O. M. Cap., Mt. Calvary, Fond-dii-Lac Co., Wis.; Rev. D. S. Dunne,’ and Rev. Eugene McDermott, Buffalo, N. *Y.; Rev. Thomas F. Hines, -Suspension Bridge, N. Y.; Rev. T. F. Mangan, Freeport, Ill.; Rev. T. J. Abbott, Philadelphia; Rev.
P. J. Timan, and Rev. T. Sullivan, Chicago; Rev. Father Oechtering, Mishawaka, Ind.
—The Fourth of July was observed in a very quiet manner. The national colors adorned the refectory, and in the evening a little programme was presented in the parlor. Miss May Adderly played an opening instrumental piece, which was followed by “ The Declaration of Independence,” read by Miss Grace Regan. Miss Kate Young ( Class ’73), who was at St. Mary’s on a visit, kindly volunteered to play one of her beautiful instrumental pieces, Miss F. Castenado sang, and Miss Mary Lindsey recited twice, to the great pleasure of all who listened. Thus the Fourth of July, 1884, glided into the past, and will be happily remembered by the pupils who remained at the Academy for their vacation.
—The Prefect of the « Princesses ” has received letters from every one without exception. They are all enjoying the vacation. One in far-distant New Mexico, where she found tlie country all flooded around her beautiful home; some in Denver amid the mountains,	-
“ Where the rivers wander o’er sands of gold— Where the burning rays of the ruby shine, And the diamond lights up the secret mine;” some rusticating and gathering health and strength in Wisconsin watering places; some in Michigan; some in Ohio, and some on the picturesque banks of Rock River, in Illinois; three nestled here at St. Mary’s, where they are spending a happy vacation; but all looking back with affection and pleasure on the memory of last year, and awaiting the opening of September with hope and joy, and very urgent to remain in their beloved Minim department.
—The visit of Dr. Kilroy has proved one of the most pleasant events of the vacation. A pioneer of Notre Dame, and warmly devoted to the interests of the two institutions, each evidence of wide-spread usefulness, prosperity and well-earned renown the Dr. counts as only so many victories of his beloved Alma Mater. On the evening of his arrival (July 16th), numbers of his friends and old acquaintances gathered in the pavilion of Mount Carmel to proffer their cordial welcome. Very Rev. Father General, Rev. Fathers Shortis and Saulnier were present. After partaking of the banquet provided, and when the little circle had contributed to the pleasure of the evening by the music of voice and guitar, Dr. Kilroy, in eloquent language, prompted by deep affection, dwelt on the reminiscences of his scholastic career. The names of his former teachers and companions were recalled. Father Cointet, Father Gillespie, Fathers James and Patrick Dillon—all now gone, to their reward—were spoken of with loving memory, and incidents of the primitive times were vividly-pictured to the mind. If the ad vancement of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s in public favor is to the Doctor a cause of congratulation, his rapidly increasing popularity and widely extended sphere of use.-fulness are no less a source of satisfaction to his friends—the “true and tried” of. the olden times;’
i6	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Votive Offerings.*
To make return for benefits received is the natural impulse of every upright heart. To accept, without acknowledgment, favors, even from our best friends, is a proof of a stolidity to which no one would wish to plead guilty. We find from the earliest history of the race that votive offerings have been proffered in return for mercies received. Cain presented the first fruits of the earth, Abel the first of his flock. The deluge came and swept every living creature from off the face of the globe and none but the chosen of God—Noe and his family—were left to show that the human race had ever existed. When the waters had abated, the first act of the Patriarch, after he had stood upon the solid land, was that of oblation. As a proof that his gratitude was accepted, the Sovereign Ruler of the universe deigned to place the irrides-cent arch in the heavens, as if to ratify anew the assurance borne to the ark on the wings of a dove, as with the olive branch he returned to nestle in the joyful arms outstretched to welcome him.
We will wander afar over the wide expanse of the Atlantic: we will in imagination enter those magnificent edifices which have engaged the genius and skill of the master architects and painters of the Old World from time immemorial. What do we find in them all but so many grand votive offerings of loving hearts to God, placed over the relics of His martyrs, or erected to commemorate victories which He has won?
But we need not go over the seas to find votive offerings equally touching, if not equally sumptuous. Our own land itself, is it not a votive offering? To lay a tribute of sublime devotedness before the throne of the Eternal was the object for which the indefatigable “ Viceroy of the Indias ” entered upon his voyage of discovery. He wished, by the treasures here gathered, to secure the restoration of the Holy Sepulchre. Is it not fitting, then, that we should cultivate a corresponding gratitude—we, who people the land for which he sacrificed so much?
We need not linger long over the pages of American history to see the conquests achieved by the Christian power which the daring navigator of Genoa inaugurated. The restoration of the “ holy places” was a most desirable physical result; but far preferable was the establishment of the reign of Christian customs over a proud, civilized nation, in which cannabalism was a part of their religion. When the land of Montezuma—the land of human sacrifices and dark Aztec rites—was at last redeemed by Cortes, and the banner of the Cross waved triumphantly over the city of Mexico, what joy must have then thrilled the courts of heaven over this new trophy offered to the Crucified!
To-day we gather in our sylvan retreat to close the scholastic year, and as we enjoy the presence of Linares’ honored Bishop, a throb of grateful
, * Essay read at the 29th Annual Commencement of St. Mary’s Academy by Laura G. Fendrich, Class of’84.
enthusiasm pulsates through our veins as we recall the grandeur of the edifices—those magnificent votive offerings—reared in his Episcopal city, to the honor of God, who in the rites of the pagans had been blasphemed.
When over the “ Incas Road ” floats the sweet odor of Christian sanctity, and a Rose of Lima is given to Heaven, the New World offers a peerless votive return for the gift of Faith brought by the Spanish caravel to her shores.
We have implied that noble votive offerings are almost as numerous as the shrines scattered over the face of the globe. Noi' need we go many miles away to find them. Yonder Rotunda of Notre Dame, with its lofty Dome, looks down on more than one. In our own cherished Convent retreat we meet them at every turn. In truth, one might almost believe that every step we.take marks some spot consecrated as an offering in return for some grace ob- ' tained, some calamity averted, some mercy ac- 1 corded.	i
Could we open the glowing record of hearts in i our very midst,—hearts now beating high with	I
hopes for future service in the interests of souls,—	s
we doubt not that we should find a votive offering set down to every day in the year; perhaps more than one each day. Are not their lives, their « labors, the noblest of votive offerings?	J
Yonder Chapel of Loreto, that of St. Francis ' of Assissi, the gem-like Church of Our Lady	*
of the Sacred Heart, and all the pearly circle of	J
scientific halls surrounding, do they not, each and all, rank in the same gracious and beautiful category ?	|
The question is already answered, and fitttingly-	I
is the circle clasped by the beautiful statue of	?
the Immaculate Conception which now crowns the | Dome. In September we shall see the culminat- | ing, noble offering to the Queen of Heaven and | earth in the shining stars of electric light with | which the statue will then be crowned. Then | shall the glad tones of the mammoth bell proclaim her final triumph afar and near; then shall the | beams from her brow penetrate and’ shine over | the vast extent of country which, long ago, by | lips revered, was made to her a votive offering. j
O Mary Immaculate! we, who have here learned	|
to love thee with the love of true children, must	|
to-morrow turn away from these hallowed haunts	I
made sacred by thy power! We must bid them	|
farewell. O Mother of “ fair love,” be with us in	fl
our exile! Do not desert us when we are far away	1
from this dear place so favored by thy tender	J
preference; and when, in worldly life and its al-	||
lurements, its pleasures and its perils, the evening	3
hymn shall nightly rise from the lips of those whose lot it shall be to return to this loved retreat, j hearken, oh, hearken to their plea! Let our necessi- g ties be blended in their loving prayer. Day by g day, oh! hear them for our sakes! Accept, O H Mother Mary, the votive offering, of our grateful hearts, and, smiling down upon our cherished Alina g Mater r.cease, oh! cease not to protect-us, and ever g more to	®
Shield us from danger,	S
And save us from crime! ”	8