
IN PRIZES 


1979 LIBERlY SCHOLARSHIP ESSAYC:ONTEST 


OPEN;JO ALL HIGH SCHOOL AND UNDERGRADUATE COLLEGE STUDENTS 

In honor of the re.ce~t p'ub,licotion\of Murray N •. Rothbord's 
provocative new book; For a New Uberty (The Mocmillon Co., 
,~·1978)/ the~Cato lnstiMe is sponsoring the 1979 Liberty Sch~lorship, . 
. Essay Contest: .Through this ·Important. program,. the·. Institute' seeks to encourage a more active cfiscusslon of.the role human freedom should ploy in contemporary public~policy decisions. Students in the high school ond college divisions ore invited to submit original essays on the topic, "What should the status of liberty be In today's America? .. ofter having read Professor Rothbord's remarkable work. A distinguished poriel of judges will then selecffour contest winners in each division;.: For complete information and Contest Entry Form, pieose de-. toch ond returnthls coupon to: Liberty Essay Contest, Coto Insti­tute, 1700 Montgomery Street, Son Francisco: CA 94111. . . 


r-----~-------------------------, 
YES! Please rush me complete information on the 1979 Liberty Scholarship Essay Con­test glus one copy of Murray N. Rothbord's exciting new book, For o New Uberty, at the 
: Special Discount Price of $2.95 (50% dis­count?. Full payment Is enclosed. 
, Nome __________________ 
Address __________________ 
Clry_______.. Srore ____Zlp,_____ 
School ___________Phone ______ 

a....-·--~-----~-~·---.·.:.-------~-~-·... . 111111 J 

THE STUDENT UNION PRESENTS THE 

.STEREO LP's AT COST $4.55 JUST RELEASED. $,i:19 ORDERS START FEBRUARY 19th 

SAVEYOUR,MONEY 





j!Jf~ti?t¼~_ 

CREDITS 
Illustrations: Mike Cantwell, 4, .15, .22; ·Bill 
Reis, 8; Elizabeth Burlage, 28.  ·  
Photographs:  Phil  Johnson,  5;  Mark  
Muench, 5;  Scholastic  Archives, 9;  Jason  

Joyce, 19; Pat Cas·ey, 20, 21 (Courtesy of the Rare Book Room); Theresa Rebeck, 24, 25, 26. . . Cover: Phil' Johnsen and Tom Balcerek. C 

scholastic 
Vol.120, No. 8, February 16, 1979 ·  
Notre Dame, Indiana  
FEATURES  
4  Mightier Than the Sword  Jan Pilarski  
6  Monday Night Movies  John Bondaruk  
8  Traditions and Priorities  Bernie Valenti  
19  · Festival with a 'function  Anthony Walton  
20  Scholastic Paranoia  Tom Balcerek  
24  . Students Take the Stage  Theresa Rebeck  
FICTION  
7  ·Prose Poems: A Quartet  Steve. Podry  
10  Child's Play  Lisa Hartenberger  
13  ~'So Whc1t, Mamasita?"  Joe Carey  
22  Poetry  Augie Jennewein  
Doug Kreitzberg  
27  The Guardian  Jay Coleman  
REGULARS  
16  Gallery  Jim Hofman  
30  The Last Word  Jake Morrissey  

Editor Staff
John Morrissey Cynthia Dykhoff, Keith Caughlin, Anthony Walton, Eileen Durkin, Eddie Holden, Betsey
Managing Editor 
Sheridan, .Sonia Chopko, Clay Malaker, Bob Barnes, Mike Brennan, Mike Greene, TomTheresa Rebeck Lucid, John Cassidy,· Jeff Young, Greg Vansueh, Paul. Theil, Kevin McCarthy, Sue
Art Director 
Micinski, Mary Clare Toffanetti, Bill · Scholl, Jim Trausch, Mike Walsh, Craig Smith, · Mike Cantwell Greg G. Gregory, Leo J. Mulcahey, Dave Mayernik; Sean F. Faircloth, Paul Hurley, Jim
Production Manager 
Trausch, John Bondaruk, Michelle Gerard, Dodee Carney, Paul Mullaney, Lou Severino,Bernie• Valenti !oe Carey. . · · · · · · 
News Editor 
Elizabeth Donovan 
Culture Editor · Hall Representatives: . Eddie Holden, Mark· Sniegowski, · Sean Berry, · Brad Engelland, Keith Caughlin, Ann
Dave Satterfield Gleason, Sonia Chopko, Bill Swift,· Craig Smith, Kevin Courtois, Glenn Killoren, Dave
Sports Editor 
Bartish, Lisa Jaquez, Mike Szkrybalo, John Ryan, Mary Fran Welch, John Cuckovich,Mike Kenahan Fiction Editor · 
. Greg G. Gregory, Leo J. Mulcahey, Dave Mayernick, Dan Letcher. Tom Balcerek 
' '

Copy Editor 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of ScholasticBob So'uthard and. do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire .staff and editorial board of
Layout Editor 
Scholastic .or the -University, of Notre, Dame, ,its administration, faculty, or the studentLisa Hartenberger. 
body. . . . . .. . . . 
Photography Editor 
Phil Johnson 
Business· Manager 
Kimberlie· Gumz The magazine is represented for national advertising· by National Educational Advertising Advertisement Manager· Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published fortnightly during the school year Marcy Weigle . except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back issues are Advisory -Board available 'from Scholastic., Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. Elizabeth· Christman, Mario Pedi, · Thomas • 46556. All unsolicited material. becomes the property of Scholastic. Werge,-Thomas Jemielity, Joh_n Miriam copyright (1) 1979 Scholastic / all rights 'reserved I none of the contents may be repro~ 
Jones, S.C., Edward Fischer. duced without permission. · '•. · · . · · · 
FEBRUARY 16, 1979 

Mightier Than the Sword 
by Jan Pilarski 
.Forget the image of the "typical" creased greatly · over the past two modes . . . the writing workshop writing student as . someone im­or three years. Writing is. an im-aims to create a. receptive coinmu­mersed in the realm of literature, · portant skill and a vital_ means of nity of writers· wiUing to critique and the myth of the technical stu­communication; realizing this, many each other's work." .The tea.cher's dent. as communicating only via students take writing courses for role in the workshop is that _of a formulas. Writing at Notre Dame is practical . reasons. Others enroll out · mentor who · explains . errors, · asks• not an exclusive domain of English of starvation for creative effort or questions of the _students and pro--; majors, aspiring magazine editors, because they are· interested in vides support; the students act as or Observer staffers. A striking fea­. careers which emphasize · writi~g.. tough but good0 natured critics of ture of the University's writing pro­Robinson cited another benefit of one another's work.· · gram is_ the variety of students in­writing: "There is a need on the stu-· 'Nonfiction and creative' writing volved. · dent's part to explore and 'develop . both stem from the urge to express 
On the whole,' writing students himself in relation to .the. :world; oneself in a concrete fashion. Al­escape characterization. Although Writing helps the student deal with though nonfiction deals with hard~ writing courses draw heavily from and define who he is." and-fast realities, it too can· be con-the College of Arts and Letters, The English Department has ex-sidered' creative because' it is the many. classes • include science, .busi~ panded its offerings over··the pasF ·-·embodiment of an individu~l's ideas. ness and engineering stud~nts in­few years in order to meet the in:-However, the key 'difference between terested in polishing their prose or creased demand for writing classes; · nonfiction and creative writing is the trying their hand at creative· writing. This semester, courses on .the intro-. frame of mind into which the writer The reasons for taking _a writing ductory level inclu.de Poetry W~iting, must enter before beginning _to write. course are as· different as the stu­. Writing· · Essays, three sections of . How do Professors Brzenk, Frese, dents enrolled. Pre-med senior Bob Fiction-Writing, and four sections 'of. arid Gemes, teachers of creativewrit­Cleary explained why he is taking a · Nonfiction. Prose Writing.. ~iction, . ing, seek to nurture the creativity fiction-writing course: "I feel that I Writing and Prose Writing are of their students? · have a latent ability to write . . . offered on the advanced level. In · Professor Brzenk's introductory science puts a clamp on the imagina-• addition,. the. American Studies _De-fiction-writing classes are. composed tion, and this class is an· outlet for partment teaches a Writing for Pub-both of students who have written me." An accounting major regarded lication class. ·--· before and those without experience. his writing class as a change of pace Writing classes 'of both the •crea-The challenge of this situation is to from his business curriculum and a tive and nonfiction variety are taught establish a· rapport· between, writers way to ·improve his writing. A his­by the workshop method. No text is of both types. He begins the course tory major and veteran · of three used except the writings of the stu-by assigning short exercises such as creative-writing courses wanted to dents themselves,· which' are Xeroxed dialogues or character · sketches continue the writing he had begun in and distributed in advance. Each which are designed. to get students ­high school and expose his writing class is generally devoted to the writ-to think in a fictional frame of mind. to. the ·evaluation of .,experienced ing of . one or . two . students. The One of his main objectives is to steer writers. · Clearly, the students of· format . involves presentation of a students away from .stereotyped no­
·writing at Notre Dame are a diverse student's ·writing and· class" evalua~ tions of the short story:.· Brzenk's group.. tion of that student's work.•· Accord-· role in the workshop is that of a . 
Professor James Robinson of the . ing .to . writing professor , Dolores catalyst, . provoking discussio'n· and· . English Department noted that in­• Frese, "the study .·of: writing. is not interaction.· between. the students. terest in writing courses has in-properly · transferred · in. didactic The feedback and .critical comment 
·.· -.. ., " 

4 '. ,', ' ,":SdHOLASTIC 
provided by the workshop are essen-skill required in law. tial ingredients in promoting the '. Gernes never suggests topics for creativity of his students. her students. Her exercises are aii:ned : Professor Frese, also a teacher of at helping students discover what's fiction writing, believes .that there is important to them. The thrust of no "right" or prescribed way to write · the course is devoted to helping the fiction. "Fiction is as varied as the student "develop his poetic voice." A 
external contours of a person," said technique known· as "automatic Frese. She makes her st~dents do a writing" is an initial source of poetic lot of writing so that they will be-material. She suggests a word and come comfortable in handling Ian-within a specified time period her guage. Can anyone be taught to students· write whatever they feel is write fiction? Frese remarked that· associated with the given word. This "it's a mode of being to respond with practice helps the student· analyze fictional frames. Most of us enter· the way his mind operates. Other this mode by · being readers. How-exercises familiarize the student with ever, anyone with a developing imag-poetic devices such as meter, rhyme, ination .and the desire has the ca-and sound .. · pacity to write fiction. It is vital Nonfiction. writing is the fastest that the writer take. himself seri-growing dimension of Notre Dame's ously." Frese's advanced students writing program, probably because face "ruthless requirements." They . of the heavy stress employers and must develop a -~c_tional game_plan , educators place on writing well. Pro­and wor~ at a coherent project dur7 fessor Soens' '!Nonfiction Prose Writ­ing the course of the semester. · ing" · course teaches "survival writ-
A. key objective , of ··Professor ing" to students interested in honing Gernes' poetry~writing. course· is. to their skills to prepare for careers help students discover and develop that require writing. The semester's their . talents. She . maintained,. "I work involves completion of a long don't aim to produce fifteen profes-project of publishable quality, inter­sional poets. It is most important spersed ~ith _shorter assignments. that students realize their abiHty." Writjng is taught by an "assembly 
interested in improving. Christman · remarked, "the students in this course are ready to write in the real ·world as part of their career. They aim to apply what they've learned in writing to their field." The goal of the course is to write a publishable article. Past students have had their writing printed in periodicals such as 
Indiana Business and Industry, Michiana Magazine, the Indianapolis Star, and the Notre Dame Magazine. 
Christman believes that writing is "a tremendously vital part of the liberal arts curriculum.". Language is exploited fa our society "and it is crucial that the student develop facil­ity and clarity in writing." 
"Writing Essays" and "Advanced Prose Writing" are offerings taught by Professor Robinson. Although the essay can assume different forms, Robinson does not impose any set form on his students. "It is impor­tant to place the burden of creativity on the student. The student should pull ideas out of himself and write from his own -experience," he com­mented. The Essay Writing course is aimed at helping the student feel self-confident · about his writing. Robinson regards this class as not 


merely a ·writing course,·. but as an "experience leading the student to awareness of self and the world.'' 
The key word in characterizing the University's writing program is variety. The backgrounds of stu­dents enrolled; .the reasons' they choose to write, and· the . courses available are helping to establish · a lively community of· writers here at Notre Dame; D 
Gernes believes that poetry is a-way of perceiving the world other than the strictly rational. "It develops what Ernest Sandeen refers to as the 'intuitive hemisphere'• of one's mind, and spurs the student to think in a different way," she observed. Gernes related the example of a pre-law student who enrolled . in her· course because he felt that poetry writing forced one to use words precisely, a 

line"> method in which materia.L is shaped systematically into ari orga-· nized .prose piece. Mariy students of business, science; and engineering are enrolled in this course. -· · · · · Professor Christman of the Ameri­can Studies··Department teaches the popular "Writing for Publication" course: The majority. of the students enrolled are American Studies ma-'• jors who already write well but are 
M 
0 
N N D I M A G 0 
y H V T, -I E 
s 
by John Bondaruk 
' ­

Recently, a touch of class re­turned to Notre Dame. A new film series is upon us: Monday Night Movies at Washington Hall. Thir­teen major foreign films are being offered to the public now through April 30. They are shown in con­junction with SPDR's ·-"Aspects of the European Cinema of the 60's and 70's." But Mitchell Lifton, who teaches the course, is encouraging everyone to attend. 
The series is not for hard-core film buffs only, as Lifton is quick to point out. He states that the films have been some of the most popular and widely accepted in Europe. Con­trary to the belief that foreign films are esoteric works aimed at a select audience, -these have been highly popular with everyone. _Although the titles_ may appear unfamiliar, Lifton hopes :that students will not be intimidated by them. 
He certainly doesn't want to scare anyone off, and for good reasons. Not long ago, Notre Dame regular­ly screened some of the finest films 
6 
Schedule  
Jan. 22  Day For Night, Francois Truffault  
Jan. 29  Pierrot Le Fou, Jean-Luc Goddard  
Feb.  5  Shame, Ingmar Bergman  
Feb. 12  Belle De Joor, Luis Bunuel  
Feb. 19  If .•. , Lindsay Anderson ­ 
Feb. 26  Red Desert, Michelangelo Antonioni  
Mar.  5  Identification 1\farks: None, Jerzy Skolomowski  
Mar. 12  WR: Mysteries o_f the Organism, Dusan Makaveijch  
Mar. 26  Stroszek, Werner Herzog  
Apr.  2  The Spider's Strategy, Bernardo Bertoloucci  
Apr.  9  The Salamander, Alain Tanner - 
Apr. 23  Providence, Alain Renais  
Apr. 30  Let Joy Reign Supreme.!. Bernard Tavernier  

available. One of its film series had received national acclaim; These were gradually dropped, however, when the Student Union gained full control of film programming. 
Miles Coiner, a notorious profes­sor of cinema at Notre Dame, ex­plains bitterly that the foreign films_ were removed because they did not "pull in the cash." Those on the film board evidently decided that money was more _important than having worthwhile films. Coiner found this decision appalling. Even though · a foreign film might "break · even'' at the box office, it was canned in favor of a movie that would attract the crowds. Coiner feels it was the de­sire of those on the film board to make money and to "look good" doing so which accounted for the death of the foreign film. He ex­plains that it is unfortunate other universities in Michigan or Indiana are "leaps ahead" of Notre Dame in the films they offer regularly. 
When we consider what the cin­emas in the South Bend area pro­vide, the problem is magnified. "They receive only a few of the 'standard Hollywood product,' " says Mitchell Lifton. Because of this, Notre Dame is partly responsible for offering a wider range of films to the community. 
But things are changing. This semester, the Administration grant­ed the Speech and Dra111a _Depart­ment the right to screen films in Washington Hall. In.previous years, the films shown in conjunction with cinema classes could only be seen at Saint Mary's-,they were refused booking on the Notre Dame cam­pus. But supposedly, this is only the first step towards a -large-scale im­provement of the film situation at Notre Dame. 
SPDR's curriculum is presently being revised to accommodate "a serious and comprehensive film pro­gram." Lifton, a former Hollywood producer and the new head of the Department, plans to begin classes in film production and to expand present film-study classes. It is even rumored that the name of the' De­partment will be changed to include ­film studies. Prof. Lifton hopes that the proposed curriculum changes will make students more aware of the ways· in which they are influ­en_'ced and manipulated by films: Be­lieving that motion pictures consti­tute "the principal communicative vessel of the twentieth century," he feels it is ludicrous to ignore the 
medium. ,. And yet, that is what many of us are doing. Monday Night Movies at Wash­ington Hall •are simply the first step in a series of changes. The films are pertinent and enjoyable; many of them happen to be comedies. If you've had only limited exposure to foreign cinemas, you will be getting a chance to see directors like Ingmar Bergman, Bernardo Bertoloucci, -and Alain Renais in action. Or, perhaps you'd like to see performances by Jean-Paul Belmondo or Catherine Deneuve. Of course, you'll still be able to catch Clint Eastwood at the Engineering Auditorium. · But _ you might try stopping. by Washington Hall on a Monday night. · _You'll be pleasantly surprised.-O 
John Bondaruk is a senior English major from Boston, Massachusetts: This is his first written contribution 
• SCHOLASTIC ­

I. Student in Room 
He came in and sat down, stretching his legs, then crossing them at the ankles. He looked at the socks his extended legs revealed, and since his feet had begun to itch, he also wriggled his toes. Casually, then, he shut and held shut one eye with his finger. 
After a moment, his eye left the contented feet and followed ahead of them the lines of the floor, and then vertically the lines of the wall. It was strictly a right-angle game the eye played. 
When the one opened eye met the ceiling where the ceiling met the wall, it travelled across to another wall at his left. There it found a series of windows with half-drawn shades. And the 9 a.m. sun shone through the shades, illuminating one in particular, enough to warrant a longer than usual gaze. 
But inevitably a blink was called for, which inter­rupted his stare. His eye had grown tired, and he had grown tired. He made his eye travel down to where a miniature rope, the tassel of the shade, was attached. But focusing there proved dull, so the eye began its way down the rope, attempting to follow the twisting strands. ,·, 
And then abruptly it stopped. Out of apparently extra shade tassel someone had tied a rather perfect hangman's noose..It occurred to him that he might be in the wrong room. 
III. You're Old 
Suddenly you're old, right? You've been pre­occupied with recollections all day as if you were a child exploring your parent's attic-except, you are old. Your rocking chair is like a slow pendulum. Your yawn is the silent hourly toll. 
You have a feeling something's going to happen: is this a real feeling or a recollection? All day long you've been expecting someone to knock at your door. You don't know who that person could be. 
It's getting late. Right now there's some lightning on. the horizon. It will rain very soon. It will rain terrifically. 
But you're expecting something else. The storm will be its background. When at a long distance lightning has sucked away all the electrical power, your old age will be the candlelight flickering, and the shadows. 
Whenever whoever it is comes, you will offer him red wine in a green· glass on a white tablecloth, and he will refuse it. 
You will sip the wine alone then .. He will sit across from you and wait. 

Prose Poems: 
A Quartet 
by Steve Podry 
IV. Thimble 

II. ·, A Book Seen Before The sunset waned across the lake, and a .wind arose. 
It looks like a book I've seen before and every Birds left the trees one or two at a time at first-moment forward is a season back. It has the yellow the rest following more or less at once, with great smell of eternal silence like mold from the Dark Ages. · flapping. They quibbled and complained. And it turns in my hand like a piece of armor. But Thimble_ slept. The wind slowly blew his hair 
Inside the cover is a name I once knew-a•riame into place, covering the bald spot like a hinged lid. I used to wear like the clothes of an impossible memory .. · -.His hands were folded over his navel; he was peaceful. · The year "1899" hangs underneath the twirls of the . His_ was the peace of evaporating puddles.; Tiny waves signature like a medieval postage stamp. And every . lapped at his feet. moment:forward is a season back. · ,The wind persisted and fingers of shifting sand· 
I put the book down for a spell in a cloud of dust, began to creep across Thimble's chessboard in between ·. and suddenly it_ is misplaced once more in the endless . · the pieces. A leaf scraped across the sand striking a · throat of Time/NowI'm_tired. Every moment forward ,. pawn, felling it. The leaf brushed-up against Thimble's is a season back. ·(I lean my hand on a nearby mirror: : body and stopped. · · · a tidal wave in Pompeii!) Other leaves began accumulating there too, and sand 
creeped into Thimble's cuffs and into his shoes. The pawn was rolling little semicircles into the sand, back ·and forth. 
FEBRUARY 16, 1979 

Traditions are a large part of of the Art department. "The Chemi-igan. But lack of funds and interest Notre Dame and her mystique; tra-cal Engineering building is a very has taken its toll over the years. The ditions help make Notre Dame what usable building." According to Flan-building has been deemed beyond she is, · progressive .yeLinexorably igan, .the actual square footage uti-. repair by· the :Administration,· and linked to the past. One of the build-lized in the Fieldhouse is roughly the no work will be done on it other ings still standing from the time same as_. that available in the CE than minimum maintenance. Though when tradition~ were born will soon building, arid the move will offer there have been suggestions made be. gone.. The Old Fieldhouse, one many advantages. Work areas will of ways to save it, the possibility of of our links, is slated for destruction. be clean (a major probfem with the such projects being used is nearly 
Former site of many a Notre . Fieldhouse is its dirt floor), heating, .nonexistent. Dame event, the Fieldhouse)s the lighting, and water problems will be . · Professor Douglas Kinsey, who present home of the Art Department. , solved, and the move will offer the,. has taught at. Notre .. Dame . for If all goes according to schedule, it· chance for the· entire Art-Depart-10 years, stated that from the b~ will be . demolished in• two years. :ment to be located under one roof as ginning the. faculty and· students· When .the present construction on . the. offices in O'Shaughnessy will be · -have done. much of· the necessary the addition to the Engineering relocated also. Flanigan regrets the ·. work maintaining the building and building is completed, the Chemical• _· loss of the Fieldhouse facility but that many of. the faculty members Engineering Department will move ,said that the Art Department's use ."have to put-in extra-time just to into it, vacating their present build-· of it has always been -a temporary.. keep things: going.'' Kinsey will be ing. Renovation will start on the old one. Yet it pro_vided space for.. the. ·glad to be rid of:.an the problems Chemical Engineering building and . Department to expand. "Since we .which are a· part, of the Fieldhouse soon after the Art Department .wil~ ·started using the . Fieldhouse ten but will feel the loss greatly. "We be relocated there. years ago, our enrollment has dou-really missed the chance to have an 
"It's definitely for the best," stated bled .. ; we never would've grown exceptionalfacility." Kinsey believes Father James• Flanigan, Chairman without the Fieldhouse," said Flan-that the decision to demolish the, 
8 
;, SCHOLASTIC 

. :­
Fieldhouse was made ten years ago 
and because the Administration has 
refused to put money into the build­
ing since then, restoration now 
would be very expensive if not im­
possible. The Administration's posi­
tion has even been seen by some 
as a conscious, deliberate effort to 
bring down the Fieldhouse. "I don't 
think the Art Department has been 
overlooked," said Flanigan, ". . . 
there was no conscious effort." Flan­
igan said that the main problem was 
a lack of money.. Father Edmund 
Joyce, Executive Vice-President of. 
the University, concurred. "At some point in the future we hope to have . a large endowment (for the arts), but right now we don't have many funds for this purpose." Joyce cited the construction of the new Art Gallery as evidence of the University's support of the arts and views the offer of the CE building as proof of the Administration's in­
terest. 
In actuality, the future Art Gal­

lery will have little to do with the 
Art Department except for a base­
ment classroom. Though all depart­
ments feel ·put upon by the Adminis­
tration, some of the disgruntled feel­
ings in the. Art. Department· are. per­
haps .. not · unfounded. A common 
complaint is that the staff ·is too 
small. In the time that the enroll­
ment in art classes doubled, only 
one faculty position.has been added. 
It is ·also claimed that art profes­
sors' salaries do not match those of 
other professors, though Flanigan 
stated that their salaries are close 
to the average of the College of 
Arts and Letters. 

Is the Art Department ignored by 
the Administration or looked upon 
as a decorative feature of a "liberal 
education?'' The popularity of art 
electives attests to the fact that the. 
Department cannot be ignored. The 
Department has become a viable, 
contributing member of the Univer­
sity and has been recognized as do­
ing important work by other schools. 
The move to accommodate it legiti­
mately . is belated, but welcomed. 
Does the decision to· demolish the 
Fieldhouse evidence a co~spiracy? 
Probably not, but the way in which 
the Administration held back an­
nouncing decision which probably 
were made long before they be: came common knowledge shows a -disregard for the people who will live with those decisions. Most of the faculty and students have resigned themselves · to the fact that the. Fieldhouse will fall. Is . there a chance to save it? It is very · doubtful, but no one can. say what 
might happei:i before the cranes are 
brought in. Besides the lack of 
money, there has been more and 
more lack of interest on all· sides, 
especially among the student body. 
The apathy of the seventies toward 
protest and demonstration continues 
on at Notre Dame, but if the students 
help mount a large-scale show of 
support, the situation could possibly 
change. It seems the Administration 
has never intended to save the Field-· 
house but perhaps it is merely ari 
expensive cause, not a• lost one. 
Joe Carey, a senior English major, 
resides in the Fieldhouse and de­
spite the problems and inconveni~ 
ences he's had, he still loves the 
place. un•s been fun living here," is 
how he put it, and that is a feeling 
shared with nearly all who have 
been associated with the building. 
Perhaps Professor Kinsey said it 
best: "There's a kind of elegance 
here that I don't think people will 
see again ... it has to do with heri­
tage, a period of time which repre­
sented quality." 0. 

Bernie Valenti, a senior English ·major, is Production Manager. for 
the Scholastic. This is his first con­
tribution; · 



CHILD'S PLAY 
by Lisa Hartenberger 

Lloyd stepped onto his wooden back porch and let the kitchen screen door slam behind him. He creaked down the grey,.worn steps into the narrow yard, trailing his hand along the peeling bannister. He sat himself on the bottom step, propped each foot in turn on top of his upright knees, and tied, sideways, the rawhide laces in his heavy .work boots. He placed each foot on the ground, and lifting his hunting cap, ran his heavily veined hand over the top· of his thinning grey ·hair. Replacing the cap, he put both hands on his Levi-clad knees and pushed himself up. He took a few steps into the feeble sunlight and said loudly into the yard, ''Hey Scout, come." · 
The frantic scrabbling of_ nails on wood followed, from the direction of the doghouse down by the fence against the alley. Scout poked his head out first, then wriggled the shaggy· length· of' his body into the sun. Clear of the doghouse, Scout shook himself and trotted_ obediently toward Lloyd with· his long plume of a tail swaying behind. , · 
"Gaining a little_ weight there, huh old boy."· Lloyd patted .the big dog's sides heartily _as the dog settled. down at Lloyd's feet. Lloyd bent down to stroke the top of the dog's head. Staring into the dog's face, he looked at the smear of cataracts in Scout's eye. He squatted down, balancing on his heels and embraced the dog. He buried his face in the warm furry neck and Scout laid his nose on Lloyd's shoulder. They did not move, sitting in· the weak sunlight for a few seconds. 
Lloyd straightened up and said, "Well, let's. go!" Scout danced around Lloyd's legs, then dashed to the · fence gate. As Lloyd strolled over, he pulled some_gloves ·. out of the pocket of his corduroy coat.and put them on: He lifted the latch and let the dog run through.· Scout ran over to the rusty Bonneville in the driveway, where he pranced at the back door of the passenger side, flail­ing his tail. "All right, _all right," Lloyd,.laughed as he opened the car door for Scout. As he walked around the back of the car, he rumbled through his pocket for the keys. He whistled a few bars of the _Charlie Parker ballad, ''Don't Blame Me," as he unlocked the door, started the car, and backed out of the driveway. 
Lloyd occasionally checked on Scout in the rearview mirror as they drove along. Scout seemed to be peace­fully enjoying the spinning expanses of watery blue sky above the jumbled streets, amid the warehouses and factories running parallel to the railroad tracks. The sidewalks sprouted crabgrass arid glass littered the dark blocks of crowded houses. Lloyd maneuvered the car through the maze created by concrete viaducts crossing_ and recrossing the street. He pulled into the parking lot· of the factory. The factory lay at the base of the rail­
. road .track incline, camouflaged by piles of crumbling junk and browning weeds. The lot held few··cars,, just those of janitors and other odd-job men. Lloyd parked the car, letting it sprawl across two spaces. Scout 
. jumped into the front seat to set out Lloyd's door. Lloyd walked to the battered metal door close to the trash bin; while Scout followed behind, snuffling like a puppy at the blowing. trash. Lloyd took a well-used . leather leash from his pocket. He fastened it to Scout's collar and secured the dog to· a scruffy. tree near ·the entrance. Scout placidly laid down on, his stomach in the tiny dust square of sparse grass . surrounding . th·e tree. Lloyd went. inside, leaving the dog to nap in· the , dwindling sunlight. · · · 

Lloyd set about the Saturday chores. His thoughts drifted in and ouf around the hours of broken glass panes and leaking toilets. ·. After finishing the · day's assignments; he shrugged into his · jacket, then put on his cap. · · · _· "See you;·Charlie," he tossed out info·the emptiness. 
' · • "You going now?" a voice returned out of the dark. 
Lloyd pictured Charlie's -face, sweating and intent on oiling-some machinery or checking out a faulty elec­trical connection. Charlie had started the job same time as Lloyd had, sometime after the Korean War. Lloyd answered the cheerful voice, "Yeah, it's six. You com­
ing?" :.-·-· · · . · . "In': about twenty minutes. · I'm· in the middle of something." · · "All right; fine. Just lock up then, O.K.?": ·· :uo.K.; sure. See you later, Lloyd;" · . "Yeah; see you." Lloyd turned and walked out the door. -He stepped out into the twilight. The building slid .a long dark shadow across the asphalt parking lot. A styrofoam ·cup scratched along the -pavement. Lloyd looked· to .the little: bare tree whenf he had left Scout sleeping: Only shadows from the building rested there. · Lloyd quickly started over to the tree. No sign of·the leash: Reaching the spot; he looked around the silent lot,­_puzzled. ·•·, ···. . A ragged squeal tore the hush, followed by another, · then ; another. · , Silence;· Lloyd felt . his insides · huddle closer; ·Piteous moans began to rent the quiet dusk; Lloyd half-ran, · half-shuffled in the -direction of the agonized wails.' . His boots twisted and ground on the loose rock as he climbed .up' the gravelly incline, scrab­bling through the weeds, stumbling over heaps of litter 
FEBRUARY.16, 1979 
and rusting metal bits. As Ile came_up over the top of the incline to the tracks, he saw his dog; · 
Six boys; the oldest about thirteen, · circled his dog. : They had tied hini · to the tracks and chained him to · another dog, a yellowish scarred mongrel. Scout cowered and moaned as the kids threw rocks and hit hini with broken lengths of two-by-fours. The rocks landed on 
: Scout's head with sickening cracks and bounced_ ~ff, 1::lattering on ~he wooden ties. "My_ God, my God," Lloyd whispered. His stomach twisted. The biggest kid picked . 
. up a dirty metal rod and rapped Scouthard on the nose: 
Lloyd screamed hoarsely. Alt~ six kids jerked.. One of them began to run, scrambling and sliding down:the steep incline, toward the_ street. The others bolted . as 
• 
Lloyd sprinted over to the dogs. As he pounded .after the boys, scattering them in. all directions, he passed 

• 
his dog. Scout tried to stagger up to meet Lloyd, but : had to sink back onto the tracks. His tongue hung out . and dripped .black, heavy· blood onto the ties. Anger 


. flushed through Lloyd, and he ran, ran hard after the 
boys. · · · · Lloyd followed the· smallest' kid for about a ·block. His heart: contracted·_ deep ,and ·viciously,· -his. breath came to him in sharp gasps. He gave one last effort to lift his legs harder, faster, and caught the boy by the wrist: Lloyd lifted his arm to hit the boy, to hurt him. ''Mister, !"didn't do it, don't hurt me,-i: didn't do•it," the boy whined. Lloyd lowered his ·arm..About nine, the boy wore dirty cords and a.torn.windbreaker; His nose was running: "I didn't do it, mister." Lloyd tightened his grip and~hissed into the ,boy's face, "I saw you." He· dragged the boy back with him to the dogs, _his-breath pointed and erratic. The boy 
kicked and. bit, but -Lloyd could not feel anything. As they approached the tracks and the ~ogs, the other five boys reappeared, holding boards and rocks in their hands. They circled Lloyd and his prisoner. 
"I'm going to kill you, motherfucker," the biggest boy shouted. "I'm going to kill you." 
Scout whimpered into the still. Lloyd screamed, "You're all going to jail, you hear, you're going to go to jail." His legs trembled. His words, weak and thin, quivered against the twilight hush. 
"Fuck you." The biggest boy brandished his_ board. The others stood slightly more together, apart from the biggest boy._ The kid Lloyd held by the wrist was crying; 
Lloyd. bent slowly down to the dogs, never taking his eyes off the kid with the board. His fingers faltered on the knot tied into the leash, but he forced himself to concentrate on working the creaking leather loose. Scout whined feebly. Lloyd whispered, "It's O.K., old Scout. It will be all right." The other dog made no sounds, but shook uncontrollably, in huge wracking waves. The knot gave way, and Lloyd's shaking fingers grasped the freed end. He started to head back to the factory, towing the two dogs and yanking the· kid he had caught. .The five kids trailed him, shouting. One of them threw a rock. It smacked Lloyd on the shoulder, in the back ..Then many stones, heavy, struck Lloyd and the dogs, but he did not turn around or stop, continuing purposefully on. 
He could see the lot. Charlie was walki~g out the door ahd toward his beaten car. . "CHARLIE," . he screamed. · Charlie turned sharply. "CHARLIE," he screamed again, sobbing; Charlie started to run to him. The boys fled silently, dissipating into the dusky alleys and nafrow streets.. "Call the police,. Charlie. Call the police,"Lloyd shouted. Charlie sprang back to the build~ ing, fumbled With his keys.· at the door, then finally 
· opened it. :. · · · · · . . . Lloyd bent. to let the dogs off th_e leash, still holding the boy. The whites of Scout's eyes had turned bright red.and blood·oozed from crushed, ripped spots on his head.and ribs. ··· .. · .. ·_. · . _ . . . "It's 'a game, mister,"the boy whined, gazing at the dogs..• . . . . . . .. _·... _. .. -·. , Lloyd pulled his face from his dog and_ stared at the 
tioy. "What?" His voice sounded faint and fuzzy· in his ears. "What?" . .., _· . . . "We try 'to make the twodogs fight. It's a game,'' 
the boy volunteered defensively, wiping his nose with his sleeve. "It's. just" a game we play sometimes." "Christ," ,Lloyd ;breathed. "qh Christ." 
. , The boy. wiped his running nose with the back of his hand again. Charliewalked upto Lloyd, stood there quietly for some time. A police car.pulled into the lot. Two policemen got out. Charlie · gently. eased Lloyd's fingers from the boy's wrist and sat Lloyd on the pave­ment. One policeman walked the boy· to the car, the other drew _Charlie aside. Lloyd reached out to his dog, softly ruffled the dark matted head. The dog· lifted his 
tai_l once, and let ft. fall, exhausted. -Great •tears crept soundlessly down into the wrinkles in Lloyd's face ~s he continued to stroke -the clotted fur. D 

by Joe Carey 

. He squeezed a ·grapefruit in his right. harid and watched the seeds squirt_ out in the. sluice_ of juice, some flipping vibrantly to the stiff ground, others nestling playfully in the small cracked webbing ~e­tween his thumb and .forefinger. He hadn't_-meant to abuse the piece of . fruit, but before_ his release earlier that week, the -man in the soleless black. shoes behJnd the desk with matching ivory drawer. handles (Buddha~ shaped) had warned him of a dangerous chemical. re­action that could occur if he were to touch this vile, acidic pulp known as Citrus paradisi again;. The man had gestured his freckled right hand emphatically-with this· warning, thrashing his patient's face with the words "... and don't forget to wear gloves at break-. fast, stick to· cantaloupe, and watch for pomelo residue on cafeteria spoons.": These words had angered him, and now,.holding this grapefruit, he felt mean.· • • 
He knew the consequences. A sombrero salesman from. Guadaloupe ·had seen him fall . from· the sacred bridge of St. Croix -into shallow_. waters moments after finishing a peaceful· Mango-root twist, a common· drink of the Caribbean .which contained lethal doses. of sliced grapefruit. The salesman was familiar with this liba~ tion's effect· on tourists over six feet and cresponded with practiced brilliance, pulling the man out ·of the mystic waters with a tree branch, which caused a small gash on the man's neck,just below the chin..He laid the man in the sun, legs facing east, one arm upright, the other at his side, covered hini with sombreros and began to take notes on the man's condition:: (After the man's . recovery, the notes were bought and translated,· and then castin bronze. As the cast dried, the rescued man; 
SCHOLASTIC 

now just .under six feet, rubbed the .scar under his chin, found a place in the awninged shade, and began to read.) 
. . 
"... Ten minutes of puffy eyelids. Rhythmic sniffles. Mentionlngs of swirling , sawdust at two-minute inter­vals. Drooling e:iccessive. One festive s_ombrero los_t to saliva. Humming.of Miles Davis tune, 'So What?' Right hand improvising qoltrane riffs. Somewhat catchy ren­dition. Other natives hear music,, come running. Some piggyback ... All naked. Some bald. Intense clapping. Being jostled._ ..(Notes. become illegible for. awhile.) Ritualistic. dancing._ .Teeth. glowing brightly__ in sun­light. Frenzied. knife twirling. Two blessed sombreros for bishop's gardeners slashed. Man saved is up, eyes closed. Heavy. breathing. Eyebrows ·white. Natives flee, leaving knives behind.. Mari grunts in octaves. Krii_fe in, right hand. Attacks earth, ripping up clods. Attempts to perform ancient Kiplamino yoga ritual.1 (Notes become ·frantic, regress into. dialects not cipher­able w_ith present .linguistic·_ techniques.) Rite com-: pleted. Natives return for knives, camouflaged as grains 
1 Subsequenr research has revealed this rite to be part of the Antivaldlewan bushman's (small rivulet community in the north­ern wilds of New_ Zealand)· yearly fecundity festival, which in­volves the swallowing, whole, of small clods of. earth that had been fertile enough that year to produce_ the bent, leafy shades of the Biacca plant. This cellulose structure was, after harvest, pounded ouf to: make turnquash, a narcotic of s~rts . that was frequently rolled into little balls by village farmers after· long days in the field. It was placed in the curve of the ear and within five hours, was absorbed through the stirrup into the blood­stream. ·There it reacted directly upon the pituitary gland, caus-. ing a fantastic rapidity of body. growth, which in turn tripled the production of sexual hormones and left the natives with curious­ly overdeveloped reproductive . paraphernalia. The bushwomen enjoy creating .. a, pulpy mixture. of -the turnquash .• which. is smeare·d three ·nights running·o~er their entire bodies. Over 'the years, this action has had the effect o( reducing the normal pat~ tern of ovary·pro_duction from 12-14 times a year, to once every five days. ·Researchers we·re asiounded by the enormous village birthrate, finding 'thaf pregnancy lasted only two ·months, and that the miscarriage rate was nil because birth was instantaneous, This necessitated establishing the : post of · Bunhra-rihik. (the fast one) as catcher of these new-borns, to assure the: moth~rs of safe birth; As it was a tiring job, it usually fell t~ ,the younger, 
unniarri~d ~e11-cif. th~. village. · ; ·• _ . : 
Curiously, despite this tremendous fetal activity (one novice researcher's glasses were broken by a -Hak/ido-wupo (surprise child) as he was measuring the woman's pregnant girth) the popu­lation of the village was found· to . be remarkably stable. Re­searchers determined this to be due to the occurrence of ·a birth defect, lkdo, in which children ·were born with three. thumbs on their left hand.· Consequently, with their mothers off in the fields;· the child,, attempting to simulate his mother's, breast, would asphyxiate. The three-thumb death was accepted as-mys­tical, and mention· of-it was-taboo.-The number. three was ·also absent ·from the bushman's numerical · tables, ·and · languag~. Whenever the word "three" would come up,' .the participants in a "three" had to exchange a squirrel, kiss its tail, and then go t()_ the public water-hole to wash and eat. As a result, each vil­lage member had.. a. fair quantity of Eii.:hhornchen.. (The man with the most squirrels was usually the doctor or priest,. as they "three-d''. mor_e often than the average bushman.) Phillips, Max: The Curious Bushman:.· introvert or , Mystic? London/Chicago. 
Dakota Press, Inc. 1972. Pp. 33-35. . 
of sand. Man rescued is oblivious, concerns himself.With replacing borrowed dirt.2 Water offered from skin, Ac­cepted. Drinks all, · demands more. Eyes still closed. Destroys three laborers' sombreros. Tears apart skin· with teeth,. buries in earth. _Pats down with both in­side and outside of thighs. Sombreros retrieved.· Bill extended. Cost: 35 U.S.A. dollars-crisp ones and fives. Bill torn up._ Last straw. See you · in court, .American_ rooster excretion! ! Obscene gesture made twice. Man rescued oblivious again. Doctors come, wrap man in · .light gauze. Tighter, I shout. Gone.·· On their: shoul­ders. Light jog. Rhythmic. Doctors in lead keep cadence. Man rescued frees fingers from gauze and drums Coltrane riffs on doctor's head ...." (Notes end.) 
· He looked at the grapefruit, and then at his thumbs. They were so fine and round .. He was a proud thumb­owner. He stuck them in a small hole in his pants leg, just above the kneecap and wiggled them for a few minutes. Soon the hole was large enough· to pass the bent grapefruit rind through, and he did so With the practiced skill of an orangoutan catching gently lobbed peanuts on his eyelids. He began to feel a tremor in his right hand, and noticed his shoes were beginning to swell. He liked the smell of expanding leather, al­though he wasn't sure that his shoes were made. of this material. Nonetheless, he decide~ that they would be leather for a while, :and hesnorted h_is shoes con­tentedly, alternating nostrils every few seconds. Grape~ fruit juice oozed onto his imagined leather-clad toes and broke his nostrH concentration. _He curs-ed and turned southwest to sweep the ihorizon for his hallucination, which he knew would be brought'on by the frontal lobe chemical reaction. It was not th~re yet. Perhaps the seed size of the fruit had something tc:i do with this 
·delay'. · · · · ·· 
He examined one closely, letting the .. sun -flick. its wet husk, before holding it up_ to his eye. ,There .was an inscription near .the · base of . the_ _seed that •read 
Kumqua vita 

diphthong._ elo, followed by three . periods, one semicolon;· and: two thin blond hairs; ?ne a few millimeters longer than the other. 
. It seemed odd to. receive s_uch, a correspondence· on the verge of a sensory loss; or..-.was he already well into the illlisionary·state? Was it a.'warning? A, cele­bration? Orne~? Or a deletion of words from an idiot's glorious i lar1guage · twist? Why did these messages penetrate the fabric of hiilife? It made no sense to him; to .be there, with . juice running down his leg, wrapped -in swollen leather and ·shrunken· lobes'. Once; though, the missive had come at the proper'time, just 
· after a· shower in a relatively inexpensive pension out­side , the Aihambra. He had a towel around: his · neck and another between his teeth,'to 'strengthen his chron~ ically weak gums, • a recessive ·trait he had once traced back to :a great-uncle :in N_aperville, Illi~?i~, whose la~ 
. 2 "for the bushman, the earth, being sacred, must not be in­jured, and, if used, inust be.replaced,.and, patted down firmly with the outside of the thigh." Jones, Ricardo: The Earth as a Religious-Too/. Toronto..Baker, Holstrom & Phillips..1955. Pp. 20. 
he had dug up ·and filled with mounds of fresh< coco­nuts, lightly covered with dirt, in anger over his poor genes. This uncle had discovered, though, that chewing month-old whale blubber acted as a healing solvent and relieved much of the upper gum pain. Unfortunately, as blubber prices had· recently · bulged due to wharf squabbles over the initial rights of officers to whale spouts (a traditional symbol of each catch made at sea), he · could not ,afford · such a · remedy, and· decided on chewing towels three times daily. · · · -At the time of the message, while glancing from his balcony into a peculiar gypsy cave ·covered with moss, he had been about to brush his teeth, before realizing that the towel was in the way. Enraged ·at such bla­tant irony; .he began smearing toothpaste on all white a·rticles in his room. Fucking whales! He growled. He was about to attack the flushbox, which paintchips.re­vealed to -be white beneath its sickly green tint, but paused to observe the toothpaste as it began to glow in hyperhues of lavender and beige,. assuming -a: dom-­inailt vibrancy in' the washroom·until the words -be­came clear, spelling out -a· messagP identical to the current grapefruit communique, -aside from the -fact that -there was only · one blond hair, instead of the present two. 
-Suddenly, he looked at tlie'seed again, and knew what had transpired, or was transpiring in -th_is slightly warped hallucinatory · squint· of life. The· hairs, -of course. The leetle • blonde strands. They-were Clo­thilde's, his former wife, to· whom he had proposed over an orange daiquiri and two pencil-thin cigar eri.:.. trails. Clothilde · had always smelled of pencil-thin cigar smoke. To him it was an aphrodisiac. 
Th~ first word of ·.the mess~ge was not · clear. 
Kumqua-. · She wanted him to recall the shape of the alabaster ring with which he had sealed their engage­ment, or more specifically, ·the magnificent diamond in the shape of a kumquat. The memory tainted quickly. He spit outside of his left shoe and took a long steady piss. Bitch! His wife had irritated him on numerous occasions · by substituting a ''k" for _a "c" in small, short messages .as though_ she. despised his · choice . of words or actions. She was even more violent and. un­feeling in. her_ reversal of_ consonant orders, . slipping in italic r's· and s's into'liis newspapers:and oral disserta-. tions until he couldn't communicate in dally life. Yet_ she.had_gone too· far. Out of.he~:control, the language . kept twisting until the. _alphabet came between them; "separating them-from each_ other by diphthongs"3 as she had cried a ·few.months earlier as he removed her nightgown to watch th,e sharp sob of her breasts._ :, . 
__ Diphthong. The second. part of the message. :Was 
she just dredging up ,the past to fill his illusion with a 
width. of_ -sadness? ; Was ~t -just a list of numerically 
ordered reasons for her hatred of.him? Was she near.;. 
by, a faun dancing_ on neatly piled copies of -Negro 
chants and spirituals? Had she found a fatal vowel, or 
adverbial inversion-that would cripple a-sensory organ, 
or wickedly manipulate a gland? _He dripp_ed enthusiasm 
:,, 

3 "Language as the Root of Divorce." Journa~ of Court Oddi~ ties. 30 no. 3: 369-75. Spring 1969. 
in his quest. She wouldn't beat him this time. 'He was supreme! · ·-· · •· · · ' · · · . 
For two years h~ _had studied power linguistics at Berkeley with Reinhart Smith, renowned for·~s _criti­cal study on the · gibberish of street corner · yvaifs.4 
Through his studies -with Smith, whom he -revered a11.d exchanged fruit with twice yearly; he had become aware of the Japanese ·suhiginaka merifal property, · which allows one to make love to certain adverbial clauses; gerunds and -passive tenses.6 Through this method, ahd intense concentration; -words become physical_ entities which··do the willer's bidding. Within a month :he had cleaned up' nearly half of all the gibberish. gangs, through a · devilish and : sometimes cruel pattern of "word exposure." 'He'forced them to participate in wild language orgies for the sake of disorientation, 'and the~ caused their final submission through contact with emo­tional and -sexual verbi, provirig his· theory that these waifs were nothing more. than word-abusive vow,el­virgins, in search· of stimulation· for an --archaic w~if­lingo. With this success under -his skin, he felt secure that he woul_d be able to defend hims_elfagainst }?.is wife's verbal assaults. 
But the-word "Vita"? He pondered this,--awhile, and then became increasingly frantic, :for he felt-the hallucination in his toes. Port to starboard; Lower the ­boorri. · Take me soon; mamasita! ' These three_ phrases ran concurrently through his head. Vita? T~~ :vuan­shis?. Oh, -my God! They had -been their neighbors' on the Riviera a few years ba~k. Nick and Ola~dll: Obese, yet -interesting,. they had no mean_ing in thei sentence, structure, unless ... No! Christ No! !.,She had said it ·would never happen, but: s_o -much can' transpire in, a diphthong . separation. · She had ·sold her-ring to Nick for cash. The Bitch! Nick had· always had his eye ·on that: finger of hers, ·always .stroki~g it sensually at odd times·while she sipped her'tonic arid gin through plastic straws' the size of her nostrils. ' ,.:-. ' ' 
Nick w~~-.a contra~t~r-~ho began aline of cemen_t jewelry back in 1965'. It was p_~rsonally cast, on the earlobe or finger, or other flesh,: and became _the ac~ cepted norm,for-a few months,-.making.it·fashionable to appear lopsided. It was not uncommon _for a Parisian woman· to be seen limping. painfully along the .Champs Elysees with her husband, or gigolo; 'crouched be­side her in grotesque wince, under the weight of a ten~ 
• • • ? ~. : ' • : • • --~ i .. .-' •.-• . 
4 " ••• with practice, these youths have de~eloped_ a,'gibberish 
-palate; -capable of emitting voice modulations and sounds at a speed that had, in some recorded incidences, blinded stray dogs, or·crippled unarmed peanut-vendors. They have-formed... gangs which specialize in the perfection of gibberish slang, and who are now terrorizing small towns in the Midwest with their rolled R's. and guttural· tongue twists. They must-be. controlled, ,they_ 
J
must be punishedll" Smith, Reinhart. The Sounds of the· Street Corner Waif: Creativity or Menace? Honolulu. ,Tani Publishing House. 1977. Pp. 96. ' · ·· -· · 
· 6 "Suhiginaka, the physical ·manifestaticfo' of words, can be used to relieve extreme cases of sexual deprivation, bu_t then only under professional· supervision, and with special care. _Us_ side effects are still not known." -lhsoyika, Okihsot, Vowels" of the Mind, translated by Warner Hickok.' Amsterdam. Swets and ' 
· Zeitlinger. 1962. P. _24; · 
'. SCHOLASTIC 


pound gravel-studded earring. Soon, howeveri mishaps caused more than a few public outbursts, which com­bined to form a deadly crowd attack on Nick's home. Nick poured cement on them from his roof, and suc­cessfully sloshed the insurrectionists. They hardened into a marvelous stucco of arms and legs. Nick took photos and headed for Egypt in a. steam trunk when the government authorized an investigation, halted only by the Louvre and_· the Museum of Modern Art, both of which hailed Nick as the new structuralist, and lord of all that creates. Nick began to quarry alabaster among the pharaohs, and began his trade anew. He worshipped this new _stone because, when licked, it 
· reflected light in eight different directions. So the ring was lost? Or was it just a periphery item of his increasing· somnambulance? He thought about this, divided it into three parts, and then thought of_each part separately, theri again, as a whole, stretch­. ing the ideas out and pressing them tight. He wanted to wrap each thought· in cellophane and stuff them neatly (along with three braided hairs from liis wife's head) into'a plastic box .the shape of the Taj Mahal, in front of which he would place a tiny, wind-up figure of Art Van Damme, hammering away on a blue-striped accordion, motioning to a crowd of turbaned youths. Now Art would entice them to speak, to shout, and . as he gesticulated, the sound grew louder and was now, almost, but not quite, audible. The youths removed their turbans and placed lit candles on their heads. The .-wax drooled down each skull and their chant waved toward the plastic temple in loaves. Elo, Elo, Elo, they groaned, slowly, as though to taste each letter. Elo chants grasped his forehead and pummelled him to the · ground. The dirt around him was soft, then granular and white. His feet were buried in sarid, which was sipping them in quiet swirls. Were they still his? Were they still digits of his own devices? Would the leather protect them against the rub of the grain, . or the chaff of his mind? Where was he being taken? 
Who were theese de~ons in his haid, the ones that licked his brain? Three large Saguaro cacti appeared iri front of him, and beckoned toward his queries, giving them .the power to move. Hefollowed his Fragen toward the · cacti ·on his knees, and listened to Art Van Damme · push his motion along; stretching his mind between his accordion hands like-yolk through a fork, unfolding the harmony until it blanketed his soul and chilled his teeth. He reached out, touched a spine, and then punctured the largest Saguaro's middle with his fist. Where were his feet? He had to find his feet. The hallucination was too strong, absorbing him quickly in gulps that were beyond his ability to resist. It had to stop, didn't it? Yep, it had to stop. He laughed in 2/4 time and pulled out · a rich mucus from the spiny green belly and smeared it all over his body. The mucus would stop the motion, curb the wild lurch of his footless form, wouldn't it? He felt the sand at his ankles, the tur­baned chant at a distance, and saw the bushman's earth that he had swallowed. Everything was moving into another's mouth. He felt painfully swollen and· over­extended, his body seemed to verge on a burst, yet his face and -arms were held back by the stiffening mucus, which pinched his features into knots of southern pine. He ran toward the other cacti, oblivious of all, direc­tion, threw what was left of his frontal lobes, onto the needles and sighed· himself into hordes of magnificent transparent bubbles, which ricocheted afinely woven scarf of the sun's hues, while they drifted back and . forth, unable·to choose between the Saguaros for rest, reflecting softly the faded silk band on the cross~legged · man's sombrero. He was writing in a notebook, record­ing the procession of hues, and beating the ground with · his thigh as each new fraction of light appeared. He . whispered grainy words to the bubbles, elo, elo, elo, until 
his mouth was full of sand, until the words blended to­gether and blurred, leaving only the thigh, and its motion, swaying back and forth beneath a bright yellow sombrero,_ blessed and festive. D 
Gallery 


by Jim Hofman 
-My Brother Tom 




.. ··.·-~·,;_ 
-. 

~ 
') -~{ 
. ' 
·1i\ :~~ Mike· 
'·.->-: J 
Cantwell 





Gallery 

SCHOLASTIC. 


Co-chairpersons Dale Atkins and Kevin Green 
· The Notre Dame Black Cultural Arts Festival opens on Sunday, Feb­ruary 25, with a gospel music pro­gram. The week· of events will close out -the following Saturday with a program -by -a national civil rights 
leader. . ­The . festival is sponsored by tlie Notre Dame Black Cultural Arts Coimcil, a student organization dedi­cated to·the improvement of minori~ ty affairs at Notre Dame. The goal of the festival" .is "to J)rovide an awareness of the "black cultural ex­
perience, an understanding-of vari­ous • aspects· of black life, -and an awareness of the achievements and 
talents of black Americans." ' 
This goal · will· be accomplished through a · number• of •events. ·The Council_has planned-round-table:dis~ cussions, guest perforiners··'and •en.:. tertainers/seminars and workshops, guest'speakers, and 'a: display of the various talents :of black 'students within the Notre Dame_ community. 
· The ··opening gospel" music pro­gram is entitled "Gospel ·Soul Ori Sunday.''· -It will involve several South Bend area churches and will be held at' 7:00 p.m. in -the ·Library Auditorium. On Monday, the -26th, 
FEBRUARY 16, 1979 
the Black Cultural Arts Festival will 
focus on black American women, 
and the day will be highlighted by 
a guest-speaking engagement with 
Wilma Rudolph, the first American 
woman to win three gold medals in 
one Olympiad. This function prom­
ises to be an . interesting event, as 
Ms. Rudolph was the subject of the 
recent TV movie, A Girl Named 
Wilma. It will begin at 7:00 p.m. in 
the Library Auditorium. 
On Tuesday, the main event will be a guest appearance by Vinie Bur­rows, a dramatist who has appeared on Broadway. Ms. Burrows wm per­form "Walk Together, -Children," a ·one-woman show dealing with events in black history. !twill begin at 7:30 p.in. -in ·-the Saint· Mary's Little Theatre. : · _-' 
· · Politics, specifically the state of 
African revolution, -will be: the con­
cern ofWednesday's round-table dis­
cussion in the Hayes-Healy Audito­
rium. It·will feature three panelists, 
each· with a different perspective of 
the African political experience; The 
discussion will begin at 7:00 p.m~·­
On Friday, March 2, there will be 
a. variety show consisting of acts by _black students from the·Notre Dame 
Festival 

with 
a 

Function 
by Anthony Walton 
:, 

community. It will begin at 7:00 
p:m. in the Library Auditorium. Ending the week's activities will be a speaking engagement with Benja­min · Hooks, national civil" rights leader and current national director of the NAACP. Mr. Hooks is known nationwide for his work in civil rights, and his appearance will ·pro­vide an appropriate climax for the week's activities. His appearance is tentatively scheduled for 3:00 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
· A fashion show related to-the fes­tival will be held on Saturday, March 10, at 8:00 p.m. in the Mono­gram Room of the ACC. It will fea-_ ture students as• models, · entertain­ers; and coordinators. 
All events, with the exception of the fashion show, are ·free admis­sion; Persons desiring more informa­--tion are encouraged to call the·1979 festival-co-chairpersons, Dale ·At­kins at6886, or Kevin Green at 3498. The 1979 Notre Dame Black Cul­tural Festival is truly·a festival with . a function. There will be something for everyone, 'something 'entertain­'ing, 'something . 'interesting;,, some:. 
thing provocative. All are encour­aged to attend anci enjoy. ·, O ' · 
19 





·SCHOLASTIC 
"May its life be long and snappy, may its wail be loud and lashing, may its kick be so strong that even the most chronic bolshevik will not dare to prmJail against it." 
This little piece of advocacy was offered up by the McClave Printing Company to the Notre Dame Daily on .the auspicious occasion of its first issue dated May 20, 1923. The Daily added 8: little gusto of its own to the first issue stating that, "The weekly Scholastic is dead, killed by the staff of the Daily." Chronic bolshevik or not, the Daily folded the following year under the "gangrenous eye" of the administration. And as you lmow, the Scholastic has survived · long. enough to say "in your eye." Yet, we shall refrain from doing so. Any publication that has ti}~ guts to 
print this joke-
Prof.: Name the bones of the 
skull..· 
Tommy: !have them in my head but I can't think of them just now. 
is worthy of the respect of all in­
volved. 
If .this University seems hautited or even a bit perverse, it's for good reasons:· because it is. Any priest in his right mind would have picked up and left after one. blistering winter on this godforsaken prairie. But NOOOO-:-as John Belushi . might say-he had to found a univer­sityyyyy! And this unlikely univer­sity is Notre Dame, its history rich with stories; most of them lost for­ever, some of them partially pre­served on the. yellowing pages .. of . publications like the Daily. ·Actually, the Daily was a rather good news­paper. even though it only came out 
. three days a .\Veek. 
20 


PARANOIA 

lhndruff on those ~o~cously bi• 
lure<! ~houl<lers 7 Quick! gl't your• ~l'lf a hottfo of "V..i.-.,·line.. Hair , Tonic nrnl ~tnp that he-for•• yourrep­ut..1.tion i~ ruin1.:,l. \\\1rsu~till-have 
\'OU )1i:-,t a hair (1r two from each i.cmpll'? l!l'tnL~ml,t'T Undi? John':1 r,Jund and gli;-;~enir~g 1.::1~.-••an~I ~e fur1..'W:t:"nt·,I. "\ ~-:..,!me Jla:r 1un1_c 
i:-i an inv:ilut.. H1.•·n.id•i11·kPt'l•ing·thc ' :-:L',1.!p in p,•ri.,ct ~:und.ition. ~\t... the_ f.ac>l.! t i:111•, it. g1v<•:t th•• n1fu,~st.· · t.le1~ke~-t Lu1k to th,.. lwad. 

i>!,,•p:-t. 

J.',·,-ry •· 1·,u,•·;,,_.•• ;,,,.. ..,.,,., iJll r,,rom• 
,;.~,,,1,•,i t ,,...-,,111:.,,r,. I ,,·,uu(" t>/ it,1 al,L'v-, ' 
l.,!, ,,... rJtu ,.r,11 r_!<~,:Jtl''.~:'--'·'!'·_ 
Vaseline·
.,, Jir.·:. t.: 5 r..-.T.t't!" __ · : .-· 
HAIR TONIC 

Scholastic, Notre. Dame's oldest student publication, finds itself at a strange· · vantage . point. It . was founded in 1867 and has the distinc­tion today of being the most con­sistent and evocative chronicle of life at Notre Dame. Yet throughout its tenure it was challenged repeatedly · by sporadic journalistic , uprisings claiming a more authentic assess­ment of events and interests at Notre Dame. And, it appears· that these endeavors were warranted. In Arthur J. Hope's book, "Notre Dame--:-100 Years," he describes The Scholastic Year, as it was then en­_titled, as "somewhat pompous and 
.by Tom Balcerek 
florid." Further evidence of Scho­lastic's alleged dubious nature can be found in·. the parenthetical subtitle of The Stub, a short-lived 1910 stu­dent publication. Each issue was headed The Stub (still free from contamination with Scholastic and The Midland Naturalist). The Stub also mentioned the Scholastic in its articles referring to them once as "that dirty rag" and again as "our deceased contemporary." The Stub's motto: "We Protest," its policy: "Purity." 
Notre Dame not only had The Stub at orie time, it also had The Squirt. They, however, left the Scholastic alone. preferring,. instead, . to d11bble in the Ridiculous. H was published for a very short while during the year 1899 at. "lucid intervals of the editors" .one of. whom: was Shifty Mitt. and his, ass<>eiate, o_ne. Thrifty Nitt. The Squirt was a zany collec­tion of articles on everything .from pillows to "a brief history of South Bend." This illustrious tabloid even
. . 
had a woman's .page. within which helpful hints were given as to, the art of. letter writing. P!eferred sta­tionery c~lors are.listed as: lavender, green, copper, . yellow, heliotrope, Sweet William and Pansy. And. as for fudge making---::-"Cut the fudges into small squares, about the size of a cabinet photograph. A pair of scissors will usually do. for the .cut~ ting, but if scissors are not at hand a hatchet will do.» And, of course, there was The. Famous Squirt . Band and roller skating on St. Joseph Lake as soon as the weather got warmer. 
: Not all of these fringe .publica­tions. were oddball. Almost all of them, however, were a reaction to Scholastic's conservative .stuffiness. Animosity towards. the Scholastic surfaced. again as. late as· 1955. :cJn 
.. , SCHOLASTIC 

the September 29 issue of The Thurs­day Throwback abuse was once again ladled out for the perennially misunderstood Scholastic. Com­pletely out of context, the editor in­serts, "We noticed with some dismay that the Scholastic came out last Fri­day. When we heard someone slip it under our door we rushed to the door and threw it open, but it was too late, he had escaped." 
The Throwback was another fly­by-night student publication with high hopes. In its inaugural issue, editor-in-chief James Squire sug­gested; that his newspaper would cause some controversy by poking at a few "false foundations." Squire 

-:·;t;{)}<'::·;:,c 
issue to drugs and everything! The most interesting publication to come out of that era, however, was the Notre Dame Daily Striker, a radical flyer that surfaced at the peak of campus unrest in May of 1970. The Striker concerned itself with inform­ing the students about protest activ­ities such as marches and sit-ins in and around the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community. It also reported on the relative success of these en­deavors and featured anti-war com­mentary by various Notre Dame pro­fessors. 
Although the Scholastic is the old­est existing publication, running con­currently with all the other afore­
'. ~:-;::~}\·/.' .·<, ·_,, .. 

'\;~i'~i(;'·.t':;;'· iS)£ii'j:b:I 
. '/k):~·':,· ·" .:J::,;;;~;ir,.._ 
,, -. 
-~_,,..,,re, 
. 
.. 

.. ~-· y_ r~f :3 , : _ 
L:-.. ·. , . \;r·;
\· '; . ·. , .'.~ ~\"'\:,: 
~f"·:·,, '. ::·-1 ~ ~ 
:,,·,-:<·:, }1-~­, \~-1\ '. .\till~-·-..-=­
. .•. it~ .--. _,:::;:;;;;::-------­
' ' ' ,), -.~...-~------" 
, . . . ;p~ -=~ ~~';::,,Z ~ . ~ "';;,.:··:..c.J-'.:"9"-~~-_:,-.;:~.-;;-~-\ a· •·-;:i -~"'=.
'2'-..-!,.,.'~~-. " -~-. ! ~ ­
lications were very respectable and admired by the administration_. But the students of this time were not without their quirks either. De­scribed as "surreptitious publica­tions" of that time were the Olympic Gazette (1864), the Weekly Bee (be­tween 1860 and 1865) and the Two:. Penny Gazette .(?). Of these, one copy of the Olympic Gazette was salvaged and can be found. in the Rare Book Room of the Memorial Library. The publication was sup­posedly "devoted to intellectual amusement" and it might be worth checking into considering that it was published on Mt. Olympus (Hercules, of course, was sports editor). 
f ·.·. :.:· 
,,
~· 
~~---y~I\\~---=:-7~--~;~iJ~ >fu7,· rtri<'• 

··Tt-f_,gi;.t:l~\fV~_Qg ~~J§Q ~Jf(I.('..l?A.N. P. 
offered the Throwback as a forum for "praise and scorn," promising that this first issue was surely not to be the last. But before you could say "A wop bop a lu bop a wop barn boom," the Throwback had bitten the proverbial dust and, according to . available records, the first issue was the last. 
Of course that was in the fifties and undoubtedly there were · tele­phone booths to be stuffed and golded fish to be swallowed. One simply did not have the time for such frivolities as consciousness. But the late sixties and early seventies changed all. that. and everyone grooved, even ,the, Scholastic. They devoted a -whole mentioned publications, it was not the first. The Literary Gazette, which was started sometime before 1860, holds that distinction. The Gazette was handwritten and read to the students. Another· handwritten pub­lication was The Progress, a fairly successful newspaper that ran from 1860 to.1863. It too·was read to the students en masse at biweekly Sat­urday .night gatherings. These read­ings were agreeably relieved by mus­ical interludes by the band as the reading of -The Progress soon came to be looked forward to as a sort of celebration. ·Apparently, times were hard. 
Both of these pre-Scholastic pub-
The history of student publications at Notre. Dame is strange. Today, Scholastic exists peacefully with two other fairly well established publi­cations,· The _Observer, and the Jug­gler. This tripartite situation has served the University well in recent years but as printing costs go up, 
·· and the funds don't, one might won­der about the general complexion.of the future (The Stub and The Squirt must surely have wondered). Hope­fully, our literary traditions will last as long as some of the other tradi­tions still hovering over this wind­swept prairie. But as Bob Dylan once said, "Now that the past is gone ..." O 




POEMS 
"tension" i feel tensions, of people around me. i feel tensions, inside me. i feel now. 
i have answers, where others have only questions. i have answers, but no explanations. i have answers, which leave me tense. 
i feel tensions, of people around me. i feel tensions, inside me. i feel now. 
these feelings last, till i am no more. till i am no ... 


"suicide of feelings" 
free to laugh i cry free to smile 
i frown free to talk i choke 
i'm a suicide of feelings 
free to see i'm blind free to run i fall free to protest 
i relinquish i'm a suicide of feelings no love in sight nothing to set me right 
i'll die 

by Augie Jennewein 

HAIKU 
"graveside manner" 

find me someone 
to dig up my grave. 
he must be neat 
he must be saved. 
have him wear a yellow ribbon ' in his hair. . 
while i sleep let him dig; _ if i should roll over don't be scared, ­i'm just passing on to the next · dream. 
spade in, spade out you're getting warm: should you happen to crease my skin, no harm. 
now gently raise me out. if i should wink, don't be frightened, it's my way of saying thanks. 
now make sure it's me, no need-. to get the wrong one. ask me my riame, · if i don't respond throw me back, .· i'm not ·worth it 
by Doug Kreitzberg 

A rabbit stands still to nibble a piece of grass. Last stop before home. 
The sun sinks slowly, painting .the sky in slow swirls­Uncaptured beauty. 
The noble spider. Following ancient secrets, weaves rays of light. 
Lights of distant homes flicker and fade as twilight softly blows them out. 
The tree stands proudly, admiring itself in the 
brook's glass surface. 
Students Take the Stage 
·The stage of O'Laughlin opens up wide and bare, set only with two chairs · placed front and center and facing the back wall. An elegant young actress wearing a floor-length brown dress over her turtleneck and blue jeans is seated in the· right­hand chair. As she bends over the old denim jacket she is mending, another young actress skips over from off stage right. She is wearing a wrinkled cotton sailor's top and a thin pink petticoat over her blue jeans. 
"Why have you made my dress so · long, mother?" she wails. 
by Theresa Rebeck 
The seated actress looks up with a fainiliar .. good-heavens-what-next sigh and explains to her "daughter" that it's about time she grew up. The youngster puts up a fuss and an argument ensues. Throughout the_ whole scene, a calm, bespectacled young man has been ,prowling about, observing carefully from different angles. He moves. in and out silently as the ,argument continues, until mother finally gives in, kisses h_er daughter on the forehead a.nd rises to examine, her child's hem length. She· be~ds over to pull at the skirt, ·and the whole garment comes off in, her hands. Both actresses break into hysterical laughter. 



·:"Oh, well," the young man grins; "At least·you made it through the kiss this time.~• ­
. A relaxed; w_e'll-eventually-get-it~ right ·atmosphere surrounds the en~· tire rehearsaL , The two actresses listen attentively to their director ! . but do not hesitate to offer their. own opinions on·.·how .the scene should be done. Th.ey evidently feel very comfortabie with him, ·and• there is no reason they shouldn't; he has been their friend and classmate for 
years.·· Pat~i~k Fanning, a. senior Speech and Drama major, is the'director_ of Frank Wedekind's Spring's Awaken: ing, the third 'presentation of the 1978-79 ·,. ND-SMC .Theatre major season. He is . only the se_cond stu­dent in the history of the depart~ ment ·to have the . opportunity to direct a ~ajor production. The first student to have this opportunity was Mark. Amenta,•-ariother . senior, . who presented Edward Albee's .All Over last December. . . 
Amenta and Fanning are not the Mark Amenta, director ofAII Over · 
only students,.who have taken on . . major responsibHities within the de-.· are contracted to direct or design in technical director whose coritract did partment this ·year.· Jim Houle, a .. the major season, as well as teach, not require that he design the set senior who is specializing in stage and they have traditionally held the· and· lights for every ·major produc­design, designed the set, lights, and -positions which are going to the tion. Weber wanted to concentrate 
costumes for Amenta's production. students this year. The students' on'the set, so Casurella designed the Jim Casurella, also a senior, de-opportunities to · direct or design lights. This fall, he designed the signed the set and lights for the first were restricted to Second.Scene pro-lights and set for Lu Ann, creating' production of ·the year.. Lu Ann -ductions, projects ·for. directing a thrust stage overlooked by a dimly Hampton Laverty Oberlander, . and classes, or summer theatre :Shows. lit collection of country-western he's helping Fanning design the · Last year, Jim Casurella became musicians _whom . he placed . iff a lighting for Spring's Awakening. the first student to do any designing strange,-scrim-surrounded enclosure. Marie Birou · designed the costumes on a major· show when he designed Mark Amenta describes the '.'stu­for L1t Ann, and Dotty Hanrahan the lights for A Comedy of Errors. dent takeover" .as almost a necessity and Lisa· Turco are designing the. Casurella explains that the oppor-·for the.department this year. "There costumes for Fannirig's production. tunity opened up_ for him because was so much work to be.done in re~ · This year, the students of the Speech David Weber, the technical director structuring the Speech and Drama and Drama department have taken for the department, .had too ·much Department ... that they were only over almost· every creative role of· work to _do. Casurella says that going to do two, maybe three at the the depar·tment's major season. Weber's "whole philosophy, outlook, most, major productions. Someb_ody In past years, there have been whatever..::..with everything he has suggested that would be a really occasional opportunities for students:_ done, at• every place he's ever been poor idea, why not utilize. the stu~ to tak~ on some creative responsibil-. . . . the students had always done dent talent that we have in different ity, but. these opportunities were these things."_ Casurella also points areas of production? Have them. do rare; the faculty of the department out that Weber was also the first one or two shows and have a regul~r 
FEBRUARY 16, ·1979 25 
·.•. • 
four-show season." 

Because Amenta and Fanning had bot~ completed the directing courses offered by the department by the end of their junior year-a rare feat­and had already directed two or three ·"minor" shows, they were chosen to direct. As director, each appointed his own designers. Amen-· ta chose Houle, who had already designed several shows (The Mad­man and the Nun, Treasure Isl.and, Y~u Can't Take It With, You, You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown) and Fanning decided to design his show · himself, with help _from Casurella, Hanrahan, and Turco. Each· student was evaluated by a faculty advisor before they took on their appoint­ments. 
While several members of the fac­ulty have had the official title of "advisor" to the students, their in­volvement in the two totally. stu­dent-run productions, All Over and Spring's A wakening, has been min­imal. Both Amenta and Fanning agree that the faculty have been there when they needed them but have generally kept a respectful dis­tance, making sure that they don't impose unwanted advice on the stu­dents. According to Amenta, this. unsolicited advice did arise occasion­ally: "We got a lot of grief all the ­way through-justly so, probably­because I don't think they thought we could do it. I mean, even get by." . No one working on the production was very fazed by any faculty dis­approval, however. "When you're working on a production and some­one steps in somehow ... it's like a locomotive train just ~olling for­ward. · When someone puts in his hand to stop you, he's just going to get knocked out of the way; And we started doing that after a while." 
The faculty hesitated most over Houle's set design and production. Problems arose throughout the process of constructing the set, a massive, cavernous series of plat­forms draped in -felt. Not-enough people-showed up to work, the felt didn't come in, they went· almost $2000 over budget; for a while many people -believed that disaster was imminent. With the help of depart­ment students and faculty, friends; neighbors, and whomever else they could find, they finished in time for opening night and produced one of ­the most stunning and imaginative sets seen on O'Laughlin stage in years. 
_ Fanning is anticipating problems of a different kind with his produc­tion. His set is minimal-not much more than a series of raised plat-­forms for the audi~nce-and his lighting and costumes, while more complicated, should not become a major catastrophe. Farming's con­cerns focus more around the nature of the_play itself. Spring's Awaken­ing deals with the first sexual ex­periences of a -group of German adolescents, and Fanning is anxious to see how his audience will react to some rather controversial scenes. 
Fanning says· that-the department chairman, Mitchell Lifton, has been particularly open to him and his de­cisions regarding Spring's Awaken­ing. "Litton's pretty much behind us 100%," he explains. "He's said to me, 'You just-tell me what you're going to do and why you're going to do it that way; so I can understand and defend you if the heat comes.'" 
Most of the students in the depart­ment hope that the opportunity .to be active as ·designers or directors will remain open. There is, however, some question about the qualifica­tions of the students who could move into major creative roles in the next few years: Casurella points out that there are several costumers and technicians who could become im­
· 
portant designers in the department, such as Dotty Hanrahan,'Mark Har­ris, and Ann Dumas> (Dumas is technical director of Fanning's pro­duction.) All agree, however,· that there are no students coming up in the ranks who would be qualified to direct in the major season.­
The reason for this stems from the present structure of departmen­tal · requirements. Most theatre majors take a directing course, but not until their senior· year; so by the time they are qualified enough to be considered as a director for _the major season, they ha.ve graduated. Amenta _explains that .with'•the re­structuring of the curriculum, the opportunity to study directing will be -available to students in their junior year, so that they could grad­uate to direct a major production if the opportunity presented itself. Still, the department -will not feel the full impact of these curriculum changes for several years. 
Everyone seems to agree that the student takeover has worked . well for all involved. The faculty of the department is less overworked, and the students are. gaining the practi­cal experience they need before gradu~ting. "This should not be thought of as a big concession," stated one student. "Really, it's just kind of natural for us to be_ doing, 
this.'' . 



The Guardian 
by Jay Coleman 
Because no battle is ever won he 
said. They are not even fought. 
The field only reveals to nian his 
own folly and despair, and vie-· 
tory is illusion of philosophers 
and fools. 
-William Faulkner 

Sunday, the second of June, dawned hot, much too hot for that early in the day. It had become op­pressive by ten and had not relented since. Nonetheless, it was a typically beautiful day on Moonstone Beach in the Township of Scarborough, sunny but not humid, and the beach was packed. Radios blared the music of Fleetwood Mac, and an airplane flew over the sea, towing a banner that proclaimed "25¢ DRAFTS AT THE OUTRIGGER ALL NITE." Jason Simmons sat back in his chair and reflected on life. 
For Jason, the day had begun early. Up at eight, he had run three miles on the beach and swam a mile. He did not have to rake the beach this particular morning, so he lay down in the shack that served as headquarters for all the Township lifeguards and read the New York 
Times of the previous Thursday. Ted 
Turner was causing an uproar in 
Newport, and Billy Martin was 
rumored to have lost his job as man­
ager of the Yankees. Before Jason 
could read further, McHugh saun;. 
tered in, another college-aged guard 
like Simmons, but possessed of a 
tendency to pursue good times re­
lentlessly. His bloodshot eyes and 
weary demeanor on this particular 
morning confirmed his reputation 
and prompted the inevitable response 
from Jason-"You bloody hedonist!" 
Jason didn't drink much, didn't do 
much of anything. Except thirik. 
Jason thought a lot, about every­
thing. And that was what he would 
do all summer long. 
The busiest day of the year was the Fourth of July, and by then Jason had thought for over a month. He and McHugh were paired to­gether in the morning, and as usual their conversation ran the gamut from sex to sports-and back again. They always seemed to end up talk­ing about sex: But over the course of many idle conversations, they had learned a great deal about each other. Jason had learned of Mc­Hugh's greatest fear-being con­. fronted with a corpse, as a result of his own incompetence or negligence. 
"I mean, there's a .big difference be­
tween saving someone in a class, a 
simulation, and pulling someone out 
of the ocean for Chrissake ... but if 
I screwed up, I know what I'd do. 
If a corpse ever washed up on· my 
beach, I'd just put it back out to sea 
with the tide, and then it would wash 
up on some other poor bastard's 
beach!" Jason had laughed good­
naturedly at McHugh's plan, not 
wanting to pursue the matter. He 
had pulled a few out, but felt that 
McHugh would fail someday. If you 
thought you would fail, you would. 
If you thought you would win, you 
would fail also, but it would take 
longer. Nobody was a winner. A 
winner was just someone who hadn't 
lost yet. 
Jason's remembrance of that par­

ticular conversation was interrupted 
when a fat, middle-aged woman in a 
bikini came up to the chair and ·asked if her son-a very good swim­mer, she had taught him herself­could swim offshore to her husband's boat by the channel buoy. Jason had said no politely and. returned his gaze to the sea. The woman persisted however, and Jason rather brusquely had inquired if she was at all ca­pable of reading the sign on the back · of the chair. McHugh noticed this, 

but understood, for he had learned some things about Jason too. He had learned that Jason was a hard-ass and proud of it. And one day he had come to suspect that Jason was also acynic, and pretty proud of that too. 
A young and naive teen-aged girl had approached them and started a conversation. "Don't you just love it here?" she had thrilled. "The sun, the sand, the people, the . . . the seagulls! Oh, it must be· wonderful to. watch the seagulls every day, to feel as absolutely free and beautiful as they do!" McHugh had smiled, and asked if she had read Richard Bach, but she had not'. When she had left, Jason had noted that: "Seagulls shit on shiny objects." 
Jason did not think that he was a cynic; he thought that he was a phi­losopher. But the more he thought, the more cynical he became, until the only thing that he respected was the sea. He loved the sea more than anything else in the world, but for very special reasons. 
Infinitely spatial to his finite per­ception, it did indeed seem the source of all things. The only "evil" the sea performed was on men who didn't belong there in the first place. Jason thought it good that thesea attempt toclaim those pretentious enough to try and conquer it-and not because it insured his job. Man was finite, both physically and mentally, and his 
proper place .was to marvel at nature 
and not •to · possess it. Those who 
ventured beyond their place deserved 
to perish, and Jason sometim_es re­
gretted acting as. their savior, and 
especially as their confessor. For 
power was a narcotic, and those who 
overdosed should suffer the con­
sequences. Yet all those that he had 
pulled out maintained that it hadn't 
been necessary for him to do so, that 
actually . they were very strong 
swimmers and. . . 
That was why Jason disliked 
Richard Bach, for Bach · had_ . pro­
stituted the sea .and tried to make it 
a. part of himself.· And· as he sat next to McHugh in the hot sun on the Fourth of July at Moonstone Beach he thought about that, and · about how McHugh should not be afraid of failure, as it was inevitable. Life went on no matter who was wrong or right. Contemplative, he 
. stared idly out to sea, momentarily letting the lull of the waves and the romanticism of his job distract him from his responsibilities. McHugh soon nudged him, pointing out a girl that he had "nailed" two weeks ago. "That one over there, in the yellow. I met her at Thurston's, see, and..." "-Which one, the fat one or the ugly one?." Jason liked to tease McHugh, and McHugh liked to be teased. They got along well. 
The day wore on, and the shifts changed twice around. Jason and McHugh talked of drowning, and Mc­Hugh said that a psychology profes­sor had once told · him that_ man, in drowning, seeks to return to the womb. "Psychologists are idiots, the 
•biggest fools of them all," Jason ex­ploded. "They just put fancy names on things all of us know about our­selves anyway. You can learn more about yourself by reading and think­ing than by listening to · a fool!" McHugh was amused, as· he always was by Jason's· vehement . gospels and inquired as _to what afool was. "Everyone is a fool," Jason snapped. "Why?" "Ask Adam." "I° can't ask him. He's dead." "That's because he never lived." "But if all of us are fools, then what makes •us differ­ent?" "A very few of us are phi­· 1osophers," Jason said, by us mean­
. ing men in general. "Then what's the difference between a philosopher and a fool?" "A philosopher," intoned Jason, "is wise, and knows that he is a fool;· but a fool is. ignorant, and thinks that he is wise." "Oh," said McHugh. 
Soon after, t_he First Selectman of the whole Township walked by in his suit; flashing his Chamber of Com­merce smile. The Fourtll.o(July.was the only day he bothered tocome to


"T,~~;r~{fi; 
;~­
J 

Moonstone Beach. The First Select-September, and the summer had that had inspired Euclid long ago­man was a politician, and Jason did grown old. In the fall the sea be­to the people on Moonstone Beach not like politicians. A politician was comes choppy, and whitecaps appear in Scarborough Township. The teens a fool who was proud of his igno-more frequently, speckling the water were tossing the frisbees between ranee and like to demonstrate· it. like stars on a black night. Such was them, laughing as they dived in the The First Selectman came over and the sea on this day, and only a fool sand trying to catch them. They shook their hands, saying how nice would find it warm and inviting. were his peers, but seemed strangely it was to be in Scarborough at this Dark and bleak, overcast with omi­distant to Jason. The summer had Ume of year. ·When he left, Jason nous skies, the· very day gave the been long, and a weary Jason was made up a poem. It sounded nice, impression of having been created glad that it was over. so he said it out loud: by the Maker for something alto-Some newcomers-a young man, 
Staid and steady ruled the prince, gether different from what Jason his wife, and their small child-were 
Basking in his ignorance. was· doing. McHugh had left for sitting happily on the sand watching "Excellent stuff, Bard,". was Mc-school, and Jason was the only guard the endless motion of the sea. Jason Hugh's ·appraisal. . on duty. He sat high in his chair,· returned to his chore, taking the 
At day's end they began to pack bundled up in a sweater and a red white and red "WINTER BEACH­their equipment into the jeep that windbreaker, lord of a family of five NO LIFEGUARD ON ,DUTY" signs came by every day for that purpose. splashing delicately· in the surf. It out of the shack that served as head­
.quarters for all the Township life­
Ring buoys and torpedo tubes were was brisk out, and he soon grew tossed in, along with empty con-tired of sitting and stood on the guards and carrying them to the tainers of Coke and Sea and Ski and beach, jumping up and down vigor­fences on the seaward side of the zinc oxide. As Jason was placing the · ously to increase his circulation. The dunes. He was busy chipping rust First Aid kit and radio on the front family soon left, to be replaced ·by off them when he heard the screams. seat, a little boy, came by and asked · two teen-aged · couples, toting fris­By the time he reached the surf why a red cross was on them, and · bees and a cooler. They weren't sup­the young man was unconscious. on all their other stuff; "They cru-posed to be drinking beer on the "He . . he was stung by a yellow-· cified Florence Nightingale on a red · beach, but Jason neglected to inform jacket and he's allergi_c to them and cross," Jason told· him; "Who was them,· rationalizing that they were doesn't have his pills," stammered the Florence Nightingale?": "A fool." · doing no harm and that nobody wife, but Jason did not hear. He was "What's crucify mean?" "To make would know the better. They were pounding the man's chest and fun of." "Hey, Jason," McHugh gig-happy, and Jason thought that justi­breathing life into his lungs. He sent gled. ·. "Stop crucifying the kid." But fication enough. one of the teens to the phone to call the child had lost interest and had Nobody was swimming, and no-for help. walked away. · body would, so he busied himself The man died within two minutes. 
The jeep ·left also, as had most of . with winterizing the beach. While It could have happened to anyone: the people 'on the beach. It was past • · he scraped bleached-out paint off He had not tried to conquer the cold five, and only · a man remained, tall the:· chair, he reminisced about the and foreboding sea; he had merely and skinny and clad in Bermuda summer. Nine had been pulled out: lain on the beach, been stung on the shorts 'and a blue windbreaker: He three drunks, a: "sailor from New­beach, and died on the beach. He was shuffling along in the surf and· port," an epileptic, two adolescent was not a fool; he was a Father. His was obviously riot going to go swirri--. girls, ·a scuba diver, and a child­wife was crying, and his small son ming; but· Jason watched him any-eight fools in all. Jason did not think was still playing in the sand, play­way. The man ·walked' under the the child a fool, for innocence per­fully sprinkling it onto his father's receding ·orange sun off into the · mits many vices, including ignorance. corpse. distance, like most beach strollers ·' Two more had died and become phi­When the . ambulance arrived, with no destination, making foot-·losophers, for wisdom-and in death Jason walked over to tell them they prints· in 'the wet sand thaf were· · they had achieved the ultimate wis­were not needed. From far away immediately erased ·by the breaking dom-:-entails despondency. One had ' the body looked like a piece of drift­waves: The sea could send its waves· been the sailor protected by Chris­wood, but Jason did not think that forever, but the man could oniy walk : topher; the other a' very sad and profound. He was sick of fighting his until dinnertime. Jason thought that despairing old woman who n1any contingency; he accepted it and very profound; _but McHugh was im-· thought swam to her suicide. If that promptly forgot it. He had grown patiently calling, so he left too. · -· : were true, .thought Jason, then she old before his time and did not like 
A few ;weeks later was the first ·. had probably spent her final years as _it. It was no fun being a philosopher casualty of the season. A sailor had a philosopher.· Not much else of note and he would wait until he died to gone .out in· rough sea and had not·, had happeried.:..:_McHugh had done become one. Now he would be young returned." He came in with the next " well, but: he had many more sum­· and play the game and be happy. He tide, arid Ja.son was there with the ·mers left in which to fail. was glad that the man had died on others,. waiting. Seagulls hovered Jason soon tired· of· philosophy his beach and not on someone else's. overhead as they recovered the body. and _returned to reality. He shifted Moonstone Beach at Scarborough There was a Saint Christopher'medal his gaze from the endless expanse-­Township would never be the same on the corpse. Jason turned to Mc-it. always reminded him of the au­for him again, and it seemed appro­Hugh -and explained: "They say. thor he had read who saw the sea's priate. The end of summer, the end Christopher is not_ a saint anymore." horizon as the perfect line, the one of philosophy, the end of story. O 
FEBRUARY 16, 1979 


The Last Word:_··_ 
,by Jake Morrissey 
By now anyone within shooting, drinking, ,or spit­
ting distance of the University of Notre Dame du Lac 
has been apprised of that continuing saga known far 
and wide as "pariet_als" and is probably so sick of 
hearing about it that he or she is contemplating shoot­
ing, drinking, or spitting anyone or anything.. So 
what is-this . column about? If you guessed nuclea,r 
proliferation you are farther gone than even I thought 
you were. But wait, there is a catch . .l am not about 
to waste space debating the relative merits of these · 
rules andregulations. I am, rather, much more. 
interested in how the issue sprang up. Ji".or it seems to 
me that a rather amazing phenomenon is occurring: 
the Notre Dame student body has gone populist. 
Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary, in its infinite . 
_wisdom, explains that the word "populist" is"a believer 
in the rights, wisdom, or virtues of the common 
people." The word, it continues, was used primarily 
to distinguish a political party formed in the late nine­
teenth century to represent agrarian interests, whose 
staunchest supporters were the farmers of (you guessed 
it) the Middle West. 
Now it is really suspending reality to say that the 
students of Notre Dame, in their infinite wisdom, are 
"the common people." "Common" is not a phrase 
that is normally· associated with northern Chicago 
suburbs and two-car garages. But taken in a Notre 
Dame context, "populist" becomes a .viable ·description 
of the current parietals debate. For -it was not an 
official arm of the student government that instituted 
a well-executed uprising. Neither was it a force in 
the administration for the loosening of legislated 
morality and institution of morality. · But that is · 
another story. · · · 
What it is, though, is a grass-roots response by 
students who feel that change is more than necessary; 
it is vital to the growth of both the student and the 
University. The students in Carroll Hall seemed to be 
responding to a.growing concern among students that 
there must be change. What is equally _interesting is·. 
the almost universal disagreement in the halls as to · 
how the situation should be improved. There are halls 
that are advocating the complete abolition of parietals, , as ·well.as halls that are pushing for the right of the 
individual dormitories to make their own policy. on 
visitation rights. And, yes, there are halls that think 
it is a great joke, preferring to sit back and say with 
utter confidence that what these students are doing is 
stupid since nothing will change anyway. 
That is both negative and wrong. The fact that . 
there is a genuine interest, among the student body 
about a particular issue. ( one that is potentially 
emotionally charged one), is an indication that there 
are some changes looming under the· watchful eyes of 
our Virgin .. No ·one. knows how long it or how insistent 
the student body's populism is, but the fact that 
it exists, however, is an indication that we are more · __ involved,, intelligent,. and worthwhile than our mommies an~ daddies under in loco parentis ,think we are. O 

.· ~G~21NE . · I\W ;E: 
1nfor at1ve_ ·µr fe_ss1ona\ · . ·. Ou ·1que_ · div rse... · 
.. · . and 
·. · d nom,c ·· · whof!5 m1551/Jj? 




M····. E·.. 
. The. 5[HOLASTI[ rehe.s 011 · .yovr eo11ti"I/J11tions. JIJU 5Vflfl/lJ ·.· 
. what /J/e need -for our maqaz1lfe -· the mtJ11g-and 111e 5/J/lf!IJ 111/Jar ... 
. . you neea 111 yovr reaCltl'J_f -.. .·file qva/tt_y. 


