199
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
g K g S B «
B
E D
K C
	THE SCHOLASTIC STAFF		
	Jac 'jllen, - . Ha jn L. McDevitt,	- - Editor-in-chief - Business Manager	
L*o McIntyre, John McMahon. Richard Elfebs,	- - - Newt Editor - Acet. News Editor Literary Editor	John V. Hinkel, - - Sports Editor John T. Cuixinan, - - The Week J. F. Mahoney, - The CoBege Parade	
Jmhfh Murphy John Boman	NEWS John DeRouiet	Jack Dempsey Raymond Drymalbki Richard Parrish		William Craig Bernard Garber
ADVERTISING W. H. Knapp, - - Local Adv. Mgr. H. J. Noon. - Local Cimdatin Mgr. D. M. MfilNHtT, - Foreign Adv. Mgr.		BUSINESS W. E. Burchill	E. A. O’Brien L. J. WI8DA	H. O’Bryan C. M. Ashman	E. J. Carlin	
VOL
1872
NOVEMBER 4, 1927
INDEX
NO. 7
1927

n
The Week..................... Next Weeks’ Events........... Program for Week-end......... College Parade.. Editorial.......-............ Hobnails........ Symond Lick Loose Again ... Unlucky Candle .............. I Envy Only These (Poem). Sport News......-............ On the Enemy’s Trail.........
John T. Cullinan
Richard Parrish J. F. Mahoney .
..Allan-a-Dale ...
„N. Loti........
..Murray Young .Jasper Brent ... .John V. Hinkel
200
201
204
210
211
212
213
215
216
217
219
Xnttni M NeoHMaN Matter al Notre Dane, Indiana. Aoeaftanea far awfifaf al apodal rata ■ of podnoe, BocUon not. October t, Itlf, aatMariaad Jane U, Hit.
Th Adverlben ia Nelre Dane PnblicatiMs Dewne Ae Primage ri Al Nrire Dem Mee

90
TILE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
200
st
THE WEEK

snsasa
With every available piece of wood in St. Joe County piled before Freshman and Howard halls, externals point to the greatest smoker in the history of the University, not excepting the conflagration of two years ago when a musty old barn and six equally musty truck horses were offered as an holocaust. The S. A. C. will present a nifty loving cup to the hall housing the greatest number of wood collectors. If no
hall qualifies, The Week suggests that the Engineering Building ignite itself to win game, rubber, tournament, and cup. A second trophy will go to the barrack weaving the best looking week-end dress. Anything from a carload of Notre Dame buns to the erratic electrical fixtures may be
used as a snare for the judges.
The football season being well under way, attention is centering on Christmas vacation, Christmas dances, and Christmas double cuts. For the first time we say “Do your shopping early.” Or just to prove that this column is not controlled by the advertising staff, don’t shop at all. It is about time for enterprising club presidents to tie up with railroad companies, insuring a safe, sane, and inexpensive trip to the house of your father. The Metropolitan Club will hold its annual money-making party in the grand ball room of the Biltmore with Roger Wolfe Kahn presiding. Those loyal defenders of Tammany are hurt to think that they must share the profits with any musical combine not answering to the call of "McGoorty’s Singing Six” or “O’Brien’s Octette.”
Members of the campus police organization went to bat with the followers of the Golden Tornado and hope to beat down some of the Gophers to-morrow. Equipped with their menacing looking clubs, they would strike terror into the heart of any man. The efficient Blue Circle chairman led the attack. Result: no hits no runs, no errors.
The hot sales talks from your Knights of Columbus friends are at end—-at least until after Christmas. With eighty candidates as Exhibit A, the .third degree was exemplified last Sunday. Because your correspondent is not a member and because his friends are sworn to secrecy the proceeding can not be passed on. However, the sheepish looks for Monday proved that Barnum was right, that “the
bigger they come, the harder they fall,” and that the creative mind of Dallas Sharpe is not so creative 'while riding a goat.
Ye Gopher Hop is scheduled for tomorrow evening. Two ballrooms have been reserved and as an added attraction there
will be three check rooms. If you aren’t enticed by the extra checking facilities, a 12:30 permission has been granted those buying or borrowing tickets. The PostExam Army Hop, sponsored by the Senior class, will follow. ■ In line with their charities the Seniors have fixed the price of admission at $1.50 per couple. For the stags of the campus, a fifty cent reduction has been made and Bill Konop, chairman of the dance, concedes there is not a Notre name man in captivity who can not bum several dances from his more sociable roommate, ex-roommate, or bridge partner.
The score at the end of the first quarter is students, too many duties; professors, too much ease and comfort. Mid-semester tests will begin the fourteenth and continue through the week. If there is a man on the lot who persists in holding his exams either Friday or Saturday with a view to cutting down Drake bound traffic, we hope that he is not among our instructors. On the results of the quizzes depends much, but what are a few credit hours among friends ?
Cartier Field English: “Let every one remain in their seats for the singin’ of the Victory March.”	j. t. C.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
♦ NEXT WEEK’S EVENTS ♦
Friday, November 4—First Friday—Benediction, Sacred Heart Church—7:30 P. M.
Reception of the University of Minnesota football team at end of the University Road—6:30 P. M.
Conducting of team to Pep Meeting and Bon Fire—Parking field—6:40 P. M.
Addresses by Notre Dame and Minne-' sota officials and players—6:50 P. M.
Minstrel Chuckles—minstrel under the auspices of Notre Dame Council, K. of C. —Gymnasium—8:00 P. M.
Saturday—Judging of best decorated halls on campus—10:00 to 11:00 A. M.
No eleven o’clock classes—Student’s luncheon in the University dining halls.
Plate luncheon for visitors—East Wing of the University dining halls—12:00 to 1:45 P. M.
University of Notre Dame vs. University of Minnesota football team—Cartiei’ Field—2:00 P. M.
S. A. C. award of trophy to hall contributing largest amount of fuel to Bon Fire.
S. A. C. award of trophy to best decorated hall.
Gopher Hop, sponsored by the S. A. C.
—K. of C. ballroom, South Bend—8:30 P. M.
Movies—Washington Hall — 6:30 and 8:30 P. M.
Sunday—Masses 6:30 and 8:30 A. M., Sacred Heart Church—6:00, 7:00, 8:30,— Students’ Mass—and 10:15 A. M.
Interhall football games, starting at 10:00 A. M.
Monday—Meeting of the Scribblers—Hoynes Hall—8:00 P. M..
Commencement of interhall debating— Hoynes Hall—6:30 and 8:30 P. M.
Tuesday—Meeting of Le Cercle Francais— Hoynes Hall—6:30 P. M.
Wednesday—Wranglers’ meeting—Library 7:30 P. M.
Meeting of the Spanish Club—Hoynes Hall—7:30 P. M.
201 ,
Thursday—Meeting of the German Club— Courtroom of Hoynes Hall—6:45 P. M.
Meeting of the East-Penn Club—Library, south room—8:00 P. M.
Saturday—University of Notre Dame vs.
West Point Military Academy football .
game—Gridgraph, gymnasium, 1:00 P.M. '
The Army Hop sponsored by the Senior Class—K. of C. ballroom, South Bend I —8:30 P. M.
Movies—Washington Hall—6:30 and
8:30 P. M.
Beat Minnesota
S. A. C. DANCE
On November fifth, the night of the Minnesota game, the Students’ Activities Council will hold a dance in the K. of C. hall, South Bend. The affair, which will be known as The Gopher Hop, will have two orchestras, both good ones, and will be further notable because students in attendance will be allowed 12:30 pers.
Three check rooms will offer excellent facilities for a large crowd, and two ballrooms will prevent congestion on the dance floors.
Music will be furnished by Art Haeren's Orchestra, and Howard’s Melody Synco-pators.
Beat Minnesota
CHICAGO CLUB MEETS
The Chicago Club gathered in the new lay ’ faculty dining hall last evening and considered club activities with regard to the Min- ' nesota and Southern Calofomia games.
Coach Rockne was present and offered suggestions regarding the entertainment which the club plans to stage between the ' halves of the Minnesota game.
• Aiderman George Maypole of Chicago came here for the meeting, and outlined the arrangements which the city of Chicago is x making to entertain Notre Dame followers on November 26.
Before adjourning, President Dick Halpin announced that the Club would receive Holy Communion in a body at 6:30 Saturday morning in Sorin chapel for the team and for Francis Gallagher, a sick member.	•
The meeting marks the first gathering to be held in the new lay faculty dining room.
>3;
I
202
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
REV. MATTHEW J. WALSH, C.S.C.
President of the University of Notre Dame.
.—a--a--a-a------■-■---—”—---■—»—“~'+
SONGS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
VICTORY MARCH
Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame, -	•
Wake up the echoes cheering her name, Send a volley cheer on high, Shake down the thunder from the sky, , What though the odds be great or small, | Old Notre Dame will win over all, J While her loyal sons are marching I Onward to Victory. E I
HIKE SONG
The march is on,
No brain or brawn,
Can stop the charge of fighting men!
Loud rings the cry,
A grim defy,	!
, Of hard attack let loose again!	|
Oh, it’s Hike! Hike! of victory,	|
The call to rise and strike,	|
For Notre Dame men are winning	|
When Notre Dame hears “Hike! Hike! f
Hike!”	i
!	!
•J * < —— M —— K—Ml—HI •—-• M —— Ml ——• M M —• Ml —• M ““ Ml ”“	— Ml ~

The University of Minnesota is typical at the great North West, its birthplace and its home. Its spirit is the spirit of America, large-minded, fair in sport and business,
and in the contacts of mind with mind. It is as broad in its sympathies as the wide acres of the mighty state which it so worthily represents. We welcome the men of Minnesota to Notre Dame.
ROSTER OF THE NOTRE DAME SQUAD
1	Fred Collins, lull
2	Joe Morrissey, quarter
3	Jerry Ransavage, tackle
4	William McGrath, tackle
6 Frank McCarthy, center
7 Timothy Moynihan, center
8 Charles Riley, quarter
9 George Murrin, guard
10 Chile Walsh, end
11 John Chevigney, half
13 John Law, Guard
14 Joe Benda, end
15 Arthur Denchfield, full
16 James Hurlburt, end
17 John Colerick, end
18 John Niemiec, half
19 Thomas Byrne, end
20 J. M. Brady, quarter
21 Albert Gebert, quarter
22 Joseph Prelli, half
23 Charles McKinney, quarter
24 Edwin Stein, tackle. .
26 Ray. Dahman, half
27 Gus Bondi, guard
28 John Poliskey, tackle
29 Edmond Collins, end
30 Moon Mullins, half
31 T. F. Kennaley, quarter
33 Christje Flanagan, half
35 R. L. Donahue, tackle
36 William Jones, Guard
37 John Doarn, 'tackle
38 Herbert Schultz, tackle
40 Jack Cannon, guard
41 Eugene Mahoney, tackle .
42 George Leppig, guard
43 John Smith, guard (Capt.)
44 Fred Miller, tackle
45 John Frederick, center
46 Joseph Nash, center
47 Thomas Murphy, end
48 John Vezie, end
49 Elmer Wynne, full
50 Joe Locke, guard
51 D. Shay, full
52 James Bray, half
53 Raymond Smith, end
54 Thomas Noon,tackle
55 Greer, guard-
56 William Dew, full z
58 William Cassidy, guard.
59. John McSorley, half
61 John Christiansen, guard
62 Bertram Metzger, guard
63 Thomas Kasais, guard
64 Thomas Qualters, full
65 Edward White, end
66 John Prendergast, center
67 Bernard Hugger, center
68 W. P. Byrne, full
69 J. F. Merak, tackle
70 T. S. McLaughlin, tackle
71 Robert Brannon, half
72 John Harrington, end
73 Sam Richards, tackle
74 Chris Wilhemmy, half
75 Louis Norman, center
76 Marion Hefferman, end
79 Howard Smith, half
82 John Redgate, half
83 John Winberry, end
84 John Elder, half
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
208
SONGS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA
* HAIL, MINNESOTA
Minnesota, hail to thee!
Hail to thee, our College dear!
Thy light shall ever be
A beacon, bright and clear;
Thy sons and daughters true
Will proclaim thee near and far;
They will guard thy fame;
And adore thy name;
Thou shalt be their Northern Star.
Like the stream that bends to sea,
Like the pine that seeks the blue, Minnesota, still for thee,
Thy sons are strong and true.
From thy woods and waters fair,
From thy prairies waving far, And they call thy throng, '
• With their shout and song. Hailing thee their Northern Star.
MINNESOTA FIGHT SONG
On, you Gophers, you fighting Gophers!
Break that line and win this game!
Fight it thru, men, win the Big Ten, , Make them sorry that they came.
For the glory of Minnesota!
For the honor that’s her due!
For Maroon and Gold be warriors bold
For Dear Old “U.”
—------------a-a-a--a-a-a--a-a--a---a--a-4’
PRESIDENT L. D. COFFMAN, of the University of Minnesota Dr. L. D. Coffman, president of the University of Minnesota, has this to say of the University of Notre Dame:
“Notre Dame stands high among the universities of America; indeed, it is an inspiration to other colleges and universities. Its ideals are high and its purposes and traditions are noble. It is an institution that develops the type of manhood America needs.”
	ROSTER OF THE MINNESOTA SQUAD				
17	McQuoid, guard	54	Matchan, full	75	Knoerr, full
19	Grand, end	55	Barnhart, half	76	Gibson, guard
20	Hardy, center	57	Damberg, half	77	Haycraft, end
22	Nagurski, end	59	Riddell, half	79	Cooper, center
27	Gary, tackle	60	Gay, end	81	Walsh, guard
28	Russ, end	61	Kaminski, guard	84	Mulvey, half
29	Tanner, end	62	Stark, half	85	Maeder, tackle
30	Hanson, guard	63	Hovde, quarter	86	Smith, guard
33	Joesting, full	64	Gcrshowitz, half	87	Meeks, tackle
35	Kakela, center	65	Redmond, tackle	88	Geer, half
38	Blustin, end	66	Boardman, guard	90	Frykman, guard
40	Westin, full	67	Almquist, quarter	91	Angvik, guard
41	Pierce, end	68	Ukkelberg, tackle	92	Harris, end
43	Rubel, half	69	Johnson, Lloyd, center	93	Johnson, M. M., half
45	Riggs, guard	70	Pulkrabek, center	94	Robertson, half
46	Emlein, tackle	71	Johnson, L., tackle	95	Bergquist, end
47	Nydahl, half	72	MacKinnon, center	96	Langenberg, tackle
51	Pharmer, half	74	Ziemer, tackle	97	Oster, end.
204
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

WEEK-END PROGRAM
Beginning at 6:30 o’clock to-night with a welcome to the Minnesota football team, featured by a torchlight parade and a monster bon fire, and culminating at 12 o’clock to-morrow night with a dance at the K. of C. home, what is expected to be the biggest week-end of the football season will be under way here at Notre Dame.
The Blue Circle and the Students’ Activities Council, the organizations in charge of • the program, working in close conjunction with over 150 students from the various halls, the K. of C. the Villagers club, and - . various city clubs, had completed all arrangements this afternoon and the success of their plans seemed assured.
A torchlight parade over the campus with the parking grounds and the bon fire as its destination, will serve as the opening event of the week-end program. A pep meeting of gigantic proportions, probably the greatest ever held at Notre Dame, which includes a snake dance, the bon fire, a number of talks by such men as Coaches Spears and Rockne, will then follow. During the evening a decorations committee will inspect the halls to secure a night view, as part of their work in deciding the winner of the large loving cup offered by the S. A. C. .
Classes will be dismissed at 11 o’clock tomorrowmorning and luncheon will be served the students at that time in the dining hall. A plate luncheon for the public will follow, lasting from 12 to 1:45 o’clock, in the dining ‘ halls, west wing. The hall decorations committee will resume their inspection at 10 o’clock and will make a final decision.
Stunts of an unusual character will be presented before the game and between the halves. The nature of these stunts has • been kept secret, but it is believed by the committee in charge that they will prove far from disappointing. The two loving cups, to be held permanently by the winners, will be presented between the halves to represen-
It did so and this artist’s opinion is that it is tatives from the best decorated hall and the the best college magazine that he has had the pleas-
hall which contributed the most timber to./1
■ the bon fire.	' 1
South Bend store windows will be decorated for the day of the game, in keeping
with the annual custom. The Villagers club, which will award the usual prize for the best decorated window, has been assisted by the South Bend Chamber of Commerce in an effort to make the decorations a success. Information booths will be maintained both down town and on the campus by Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus.
Beat Minnesota
JUGGLER COMPLIMENTED
The two following letters, praising the first issue of the Juggler, were received this week by Walter Layne, editor of the Juggler:

1
October 28, 1927.
Mr. Walter Layne, Editor-in-Chief, The Juggler, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind.
Dear Walter:
Acknowledging your letter of October 23:
When Lester Grady was Editor-in-Chief of The Juggler, I did not believe it could be improved. I don’t say it has been but certainly the Freshman number reflects tremendous credit on you in particular and on your associates. There is nothing superior among college publications. I let Mr. Brabazon of our Art Department look over the Juggler and I am attaching his comment and also the remarks of several others, who seem amazed at the general excellence of the publication. No wonder you had a “sell out” on the campus.
Be careful about starting magazines of your own. They are always on the edge of chasms. Before you go into anything like that, I would like to have a chat with you.
Again let me congratulate on the make-up, art work, humorous content, in fact everything about the Freshman number of the Juggler.
With every good wish, I am
■ ’ Sincerely,
Hugh A. O’Donnell, Assistant Business Manager.
October 27, 1927.
Dear Mr. O’Donnell:
A few days ago you asked me fox- a criticism of the Juggler. I first talked to Mr. Dart,, head of the Art Department and he considered both printing and general get-up excellent and suggests that Itake it to our leading caricaturist who is on the staff and see what he thought of it.
ure of seeing. He considered the art work quite professional which is a compliment.
In my opinion, it is excellent in every way. Sincerely,
Albert Brabazon.
THE NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA
The University of Minnesota, a state university, located at Minneapolis, was established by an act of the territorial legislature in 1851, and was opened for instruction in 1869. The present organization embraces a college of science, literature and aits; a college of engineering and architecture; a college of agriculture, including forestry and home economics; a college of medicine and surgery, including a training school for nurses; schools of mining, analytical and applied chemistry, business and music; a department of journalism; the colleges of law, dentistry, pharmacy and education; an extension department and a graduate school.
The management of the University is vested in a board of trustees, of which the governor of the state, the superintendent of public instruction and the president of the University are members ex officio. There are approximately 700 professors and instructors on the faculty and the University’s enrollment may be estimated at ten thousand students. The institution is coeducational, and more than one-third of the enrollment is made up of women.
Publications at the University of Minnesota are: The Minnesota Daily, a student-owned and a student-managed paper; The Gopher, the university yearbook; The Ski-U-Mah, the humorous magazine on the campus; The Minnesota Techno-Log; The Gopher Countryman; The Gopher Business News; The Minnesota Alumni Weekly; The Minnesota Mentor.
Campus organizations at the University of Minnesota are a myriad. Among these are the All-University Council; the All-Senior Commission; the Junior Commission; the Sophomore Commission; the Freshman Commission; the Minnesota Union Board of Governors; the Grey Friars; the Iron Wedge; the Silver Spur; the Mortar Board; Incus; National Collegiate Players; Plumb Bob; Skin and Bones; White Dragon; Mortar and Ball; Scabbard and Blade; Torch and Distaff; Cap and Gown; Bib and Tucker; the Cosmopolitan Club; the Commerce Club; the German Club; Le Cercle Francais; the Trailers’ Club.
SCHOLASTIC	205
The University of Minnesota is ever widening its scope and extending its influence. Since its inception fifty-eight years ago, a gradual expansion of resources and an increase in service rendered to the state and its people have been the motivating forces of the men directing the destinies of the institution.
Dr. L. D. Coffman is President of the University. Edward E. Nicholson is the dean of men; the dean of women is Anne Dudley Blitz.
'	Beat Minnesota
• VILLAGERS MEET TEAM
The Minnesota team will be welcomed today, upon its arrival1 in Niles, Michigan, by the Notre Dame Villagers. A caravan of fifteen automobiles will meet the team and escort them to South Bend and thence to Notre Dame, where the team will work out on Cartier field. After practice the team will be escorted back to Niles where they will be quartered over night. Each automobile is to be decorated with large banners and the colors of the two universities.
The welcoming committee consists of Kenneth Heck, Jack Shively, W. J. Bergan, Burton Toepp, Norm Hartzer, C. Hoenck, Francis Jones and John Marcus.
Beat Minnesota
GERMAN CLUB MEETS
The German club at the University met Thursday, October, 24, at 6:45 P. M., in Hoynes hall. Professor George Wack, president of the club, conducted the meeting.
A very interesting program was presented by the various members of the organization. Membership in the club is open to all men enrolled in advanced German courses and to everyone else interested in the German language.
The club meets every Thursday at 6:45 P. M. in the courtroom of Hoynes hall.
Boat Minnesota
GILBERT’S CONTRIBUTE MEGAPHONES
Megaphones for the cheering section at the Minnesota-Notre Dame game tomorrow were donated to the students by Gilbert’s Men’s Outfitters. The students will probably evidence their appreciation of this favor by the volume of their cheering.
THE NOTRE. DAME SCHOLASTIC
206
DOCTOR WALSH SPEAKS ON LAUGHTER
Dr. James J. Walsh of New York City, eminent author, famous psychologist and speaker of note, talked to the students of the University, in Washington hall, Thursday evening, October 27 at eight o’clock.
Dr. Walsh’s message to the nine hundred students who had assembled to hear him was: “Laugh heartily and laugh often.” He also stated that langhter causes exaggerated movements of the dia, phragm and, as that organ is connected with all the important organs of the body, its movements, when’introduced by laughter, massages the other organs keeping them active, thus promoting health.
Laughter causes the lungs to inhale and exhale from seven to eight times as much air as in the ordinary breathing. This is vital to life because pure air and frequent changes of it are necessities.” Yawning, sighing, sobbing and coughing were classified by Dr. Walsh with langhter, the latter three having an additional phenomenon, that of a catch in the throat.
Present day humor was also discussed by Dr. Walsh. He stated: “There are no new jokes. You can put all of the jokes into twenty-nine categories, seventeen of which you will find coming from the Greek book Atenus. The Greeks were the outstanding humorists of all time.”
Dr. Walsh is the author of many books, the most noted being, “The Thirteenth, the Greatest of Centuries.” He also treated on the subjects of science, history and psychology in his works. He is a professor of psychology at the Cathedral high school, New York City, and is president of the American Catholic Historical Society.
Beat Minnesota
Charles Howard, a member of the Freshman football team, sustained a broken collar bone in the game with the Lake Forest College freshman team at Lake Forest, Illinois, Saturday, October 29.
Howard was injured at the outset of the game, which was won by the Notre Dame Freshman, 8-0
OUR CONTRIBUTORS
Last October, the name of N. Loti first appeared in these pages as the father of Symond Lick, a sort of cowboy Baron Munchausen. Symond seemed doomed to literary extinction, because the story ended with the words: “There is not going to be a next chapter.” But Symond refused to die; here he is, “Loose Again.”
Not all kinds of success are just and profitable, is the original thesis that Murray Young advances in his sympathetic paper on Edna St. Vincent Millay. The writer’s arguments gain added weight from the fact that he is a member of the Notre Dame Scribblers.
Jasper Brent’s “Engaged” drew such hearty appreciation after its publication last week, that we are giving you another verse in a more reflective vein, but with the same smooth execution. R. C. E.
Beat Minnesota
SENIOR CLASS TO SPONSOR ARMY HOP
The Senior Class announces THE ARMY HOP for November 12. This big affair will be held in the K. C. ballroom on the night of the Army game, and special novelty arrangements are being undertaken to make this dance an unofficial victory celebration. Since The Army Hop is the first of the holiday functions to be sponsored by the seniors, the committee in charge is planning entertainment so satisfying that it will make the phrase “sponsored by the Senior Class” a guarantee of “a big time” in the future. A record crowd is expected.
The dance committee includes: William H. Konop, Richard C. Elpers, Burton E. Toepp, Frank J. Holdampf, and Joseph W. Griffin.
*
Beat Minnesota
BOARD OF PUBLICATIONS MEETS
The Board of Publications of the University met Tuesday night in the offices of the Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., vice president of the University and chairman of the publications board. Fathers Thomas Lahey and Kerndt Healy, members of the board, and all editors and managers of campus publications were present.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
CLUB HOLDS FIRST MEETING
The Youngstown Club met Tuesday, November 1, and organized for the coming year. The dub made its appearance on the campus last year, and was active, holding a dance during the Christmas holidays. The following officers were elected for the year: Chester Rice, president; Ray (Bucky) Dah-man, dee president; John Moran, secretary; Ivan Waif, treasurer.
Beat Minnesota
SPEAKERS ADDRESS JOURNALISTS
E. Morris Starrett, ’21, a former track star, member of the Scholastic staff, and publicity man at the University spent two weeks at Notre Dame recently. Mr. Starrett visits here generally on his vacation. During his stay, he addressed Professoi-Cooney’s Journalism classes, telling them of his interesting experiences as editor of the Port Townsend Leader, Washington.
Richard Green, also a former student in the School of Journalism here, and at present a reporter in Muncie, Indiana, spoke to the Senior Journalists, Tuesday morning. He intends to resume his studies at the University next year.
Beat Minnesota
K. OF C. TO WELCOME GUESTS
The Students’ Activities’ Council, through the aid of Notre Dame Council, Number 1477, Knights of Columbus, will extend a welcome to the guests of the University, who will be in South Bend over the weekend. The Knights of Columbus have arranged to have information booths with telephone communication, lists of available rooms for guests in South Bend, and a general committee of arrangements at the Oliver, La Salle and Jefferson hotels, and at a special stand to be erected at the main entrance to the University. They will also arrange for an adequate special reception for guests who will arrive on the '’Minnesota Special” which is due Saturday morning.
The reception Committee of the Knights oi Columbus, as appointed by Howard V. Phalin, Grand Knight, is composed of: James Shocknessy, chairman; E. K. Mori
207
arty; James T. Connors; John J. Mahoney; James T. Morrissey; John Manning; Lawrence D. White; John Winberry; John Brannan; Robert F. Evans; Joseph Mulhall; Robert Knox; Vernon Knox; Tim Hinchey; Robert Cooney; George A. Kiener; Carl Hillenbrand; Richard Moody; Gus Jenkins; William H. Murphy; and Emmett Maddeni.
Beat Minnesota
NEW “CUT” SYSTEM ANNOUNCED
A new “cut” system, which becomes effective at the beginning of the second semester, February 1, was announced this week by the Academy Council of the University of Notre Dame.
The new system, which was adopted after careful consideration on the part of the Council, embraces the following salient features :
The number of class absences permitted before credit for a course is cancelled is one more than twice the number of credit hours of the class.
All bonuses for perfect attendance are to be abolished.
There is to be a limit to the number of excusable cuts incurred by students absent from class because of University interests.
Teachers are to make a weekly report to the registrar of all cuts incurred by students in their classes.
Class report cards of students will indicate the number of absences incurred during the quarter.
Perfect attendance shall be rewarded by an increase of percentage on the general four year average, and imperfect attendance shall be penalized by. a deduction from the same. This increase or deduction of average is also applied in determining to which third of his class a student belongs. This is of particular interest to students who desire transcripts of credit in transferring to another college. By the four year general average is meant the sum of all regular semester grades divided by the number of semester examinations. It may interest some to know that a failure on account of cuts counts as a semester examination with grade of zero.

208
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
K. OF C. INITIATE AND DINE
The Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus initiated a class of fifty new members on Sunday afternoon at the South Bend council’s home and a banquet was held in honor of the new members that evening in the Oliver hotel where a number of noted speakers were heard.
The first degree was given on Thursday evening and the second and third were exemplified Sunday before an unusually large class.
At the banquet which was held afterward in the Rotary room of the Oliver hotel and at which 150 Knights were present, Arthur Bidwill, ’26, Past Grand knight of Notre Dame council, acted as toastmaster.
Timothy Galvin, state deputy of the Knights of Columbus, a prominent alumnus, was the principal speaker of the evening. He stressed the fact that much is expected of the graduates from a Catholic university. He pleaded for suitable preparation upon the part of the student that he might be able to fittingly defend his Church when he has taken his place in society.
Father Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., president of the University, expressed his admiration for the work of the Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, urging them to continue with their activities in the same quiet manner which has marked their accomplishments in the past.
Father John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., in an eloquent address, urged the Notre Dame men to emulate the great outstanding Catholic laymen who have gone before them.
Other speakers of the evening were Professor Charles Phillips of the University;
' John McAuliffe of Chicago; Edmund A. Wills of South Bend, district deputy of the Knights of Columbus; Dr. John Chevigny of Hammond, Ind., and Patrick Robinson of Racine, Wis. Father Raymond Murray j C.S. C., gave the invocation.
Bernard Korzeneski was chairman of the committee which arranged for the banquet and the degrees. Other members who assisted were: Howard Phalin, Grand knight of the local council; William Kearney, Chancellor; Edward McKeown, lecturer.
FIRST FOOTBALL TEAM RETURNS TO CAMPUS
Notre Dame’s first football team came back this week to be honored by the squad that this year is carrying the Gold. and Blue to football supremacy in the United States.
There was no squad of a hundred men then. There were only eleven suits in the University; therefore only eleven men composed the squad.
, No padded pants, no shoulder pads, nor headgears were worn in those days. The suits were of canvas similar to those worn by base-ball players at the present time. There were no mass formations nor passes used in those days. The game was far more open than it is now. End runs were used more frequently.
The personnel of the team of 1887-88 is: Dr. H. B. Luhn, Captain and halfback; H. M. Jewett, president of the Paige Motor Company, Detroit, halfback; Joseph E. Cusack, El Paso, Texas, quarterback; Joseph L. Hepburn, Detroit, end; Edward Hawkins, Detroit, guard; George A. Houck, Portland, Oregon, tackle; Frank Fehr, Louisville, Ky., center; F. H. Springer, Columbus, Ga., end; Ed. Proudhomme, Bermuda, La., fullback; Eugene P. Melady, Omaha, Nebraska, tackle; Patrick J. Nelson, Dubuque, Iowa, guard.
Beat Minnesota
METROPOLITAN CLUB’S FORMAL AT BILTMORE
At the last meeting of the Metropolitan Club of Notre Dame further plans were made for the annual Christmas dance. The dance will be held on the usual date, December twenty-eighth, in New York City. Roger Wolfe Kahn’s music will be supplied in the Music Room of the Biltmore. It was through his playing at the Biltmore that Kahn became known.	.
At this meeting Professor Charles Phillips of the English faculty was chosen honorary president to succeed J. E. McCarthy, Dean of the College of Commerce.
At the next meeting of the club which will take place shortly after the mid-semester examinations, the full committees will be announced.
3

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SENIOR CONCESSION COMMITTEE CHOSEN
John F. Frederick, president of the Senior class, has announced the class’ concession committee as follows:
Joseph P. Kinneary, chairman; Jack Cani-zaro, Eugene A. O’Brien, J. Wingerter, Bart McHugh, Robert J. Hamilton, Peter J. Gallagher, E.( William Brown, Lawrence J. Cul-liney, Rolf Garza, Pierce J. O’Connor, John F. Leitzinger, Frank Van Syckle, and James F. Morrissey.
The first work of the Senior class’ concession committee will be the selling of pillow tops, fashioned from excellent material in the University’s collors with “Notre Dame” woven into the obverse side and the Notre Dame monogram, of satisfying size, on the reverse side. The pillow tops will sell at the low price of $3.50 each.
The sale of the pillow tops will commence Friday, November fourth. All men desirous of buying a pillow top at the present price get in touch with one of the concession committee immediately; for only a small supply has been ordered.
Beat Minnesota
NEW JERSEY CLUB CONVENES
The regular monthly meeting of the New Jersey club was held last Thursday, October 27, in the South room of the library. Russell Riley, president of the club, presided and the first business attended to was the election of Ed Conner as freshman president for the , year.
Following the election, plans for the year were discussed, and, from all indications, this will be one of the most successful years in the history of the club.
Plans were also discussed for the annual Thanksgiving banquet to be held on November 22 in South Bend. A committee, with Robert Hughes as chairman, was appointed for the affair.
It was decided that the annual Christmas ball would be held on the December 27 in Newark. The ballroom, in which the dance will be held, will be announced at the next meeting.
209
FATHER CARROLL AT FRANKLIN COLLEGE
The Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C. S. C., vice president of the University, attended the inauguration of Professor Homer Rainey as president of Franklin College at Franklin, Ind., Saturday, October 22.
Boat Minnesota *
DALLAS LORE SHARPE ADDRESSES STUDENTS
Professor Dallas Lore Sharpe of Boston University talked to about 900 students in Washington hall, Monday evening, October 31, on The Creative Mind.^
Having known John Burroughs, the great naturalist, personally, Mr. Sharpe told the students much of his life, and declared that the simplicity of Mr. Burroughs accounted for his charm.	•
Professor Sharpe urged the students to cultivate the power of expressing their thoughts in writing and declared that the pen was one of man’s mightiest weapons.
Professor Sharpe, who has written many books on the subject of nature, is a lecturer of national note.
Beat Minnesota
ROCKNE ADDRESSES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
In an address given before the Chamber of Commerce of South Bend at its luncheon Tuesday noon, Coach K. K. Rockne pointed out the need of a stadium for South Bend.
“If South Bend had a stadium,” the coach said, “in 1929 Northwestern, Pittsburgh and Alabama would play at South Bend and in 1930 the Navy would come to South Bend. Without a stadium Northwestern and the Navy will be met in Chicago. Even this year 70,000 applications for tickets to the Minnesota game have been turned down.”
Referring to the Minnesota game, Mr. Rockne said: “I am neither pessimistic nor optimistic. There will be a lot of scoring and the team that scores the most will win. Saturday’s game will, be a real test.”
Coach Hartley Anderson also spoke. Regarding the Notre Dame line, he said: “We think we have a good line, but so far we haven’t met any team with a good fullback. Saturday we meet one in Joesting.”
210
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
3
THE COLLEGE PARADE
By J. F. Mahoney
The University of Minnesota is to produce a campus movie, using student actors, directors and cameramen. The title is “Gopher Love.” Well, who doesn’t?
Theological advertisement appearing in current numbers of many college papers:
* WHY GOD MADE HELL , Do you know why? If you don't you should learn NOW—at once. One reviewer has said: “When Dante went to Hell he must have steered clear’ of the roasting apparatus ... it remained for Dr. Sauabrah to interestingly and fearlessly describe the nether regions.” Over 2,000,000 have read it. Why not you? One dollar postpaid.
of gentlemen at all times. Ever since, other colleges and universities have annually found more pleasure in competing with Penn State because of its recognized good sportsmanship, etc.” Interesting if true.
-----$----
Unusual opinion expressed by a student at St. Louis University, referring to the lighting system at a dance. “The subdued, indirect lighting of last week was pretty and added much to the appearance of the gym but such subdued lighting detracts from the . affair when it is continued for too long a time. After dancing about in the semi-dusk for two or three hours, and even before this length of time had passed, left one with a sense of drowsiness. We know that we

Announcement in the University Daily Kansas: “We are going to put a stop to this thing of coming to Lawrence to get drunk and see a football game,” said Sheriff W. J. Cummings.
Ecclesiastical affiliations of students at Oregon University include, besides the well-known' denominations, Full Gospel, Bible Standard, Lighthouse Temple, Brethren and Seventh Day Adventist. There is one student Atheist, one Agnostic, and one Sylvaist.
Coach Howard Jones and the entire football squad of Southern California witnessed the films of the Notre Dame-Navy game, as a means of scouting Notre Dame without the formality of attending the games. The films were afterward turned over to Captain Morley Drury. If they are the same films I saw, I should advise that the players see a game.
Sport news from the Penn State Collegian: “Then years ago Penn State football teams were just being made to realize that . . .it was worth far more to earn the reputation as a clean-playing team rather than a victorious team. They were gradually being made to see the advantage in acting the role
yawned considerably and our greatest wish is that our date did not think that she was the cause of it all.”
The vigilantes at Oregon University, who bear the romantic name of the Oregon Knights, summon Freshmen to task for these dire offenses. No lid, cockiness, wearing cords, insubordination, and pigging under an umbrella, whatever that is.
Weird doings at an Epworth League party at Northwestern: “The program prepared . . . . includes a 'Museum of Death’ 'The Hall of Horrors,’ antics by ‘The Ancient and Corrupt Order of Goblins, Grand Lodge No. 13,” a ghost walk, refreshments, and other entertainment.”
--->;<—
Mr. A. B. See, business man of New York, has published a book entitled “Schools,” in which he attacks the entire American system of education. He said, “The little red schoolhouse turned out better trained youths than the colleges today. I attack all schools, all colleges. None of them is any good. None of them recognize the ultimate factors of education.” The book cost the literary gentleman $100,000 to publish.	,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
211
A DOUBLE WELCOME
Notre Dame and the Scholastic have two welcomes to extend tonight and tomorrow; one to our rivals of three years standing, the Gophers of Minnesota, the other to our own Alumni, some of whom may have left only last June, and others who departed in other Junes for forty years.
In the team from Minnesota, Notre Dame greets an aggregation which is welcome not only as a tried and worthy foe of recent years, but also as one of the most powerful elevens of the country. The Norsemen, like the Norsemen of a thousand years ago, are giants in stature, and they bring with them the type of offense that is especially adapted to their physical prowess. They smash the line. They continue the process of smashing until something breaks. It is the crushing attack that has ended in the demoralization of most Minnesota’s opponents.
But we are glad that the Gophers are here, in spite of the threat of defeat that they bring with them. They come, the friendly envoys of another University, as the athletes of an ancient city might visit another to demonstrate the strength of an alliance in competition on the athletic field.
For the Alumni, we can say they are always welcome. Many do not return often to the University, but tomorrow should see the gathering of a large proportion of them. They come partly for the purpose of watching one of the most notable football games that has ever taken place on Cartier Field, and partly for the purposes of walking once more under the trees and along the paths of Notre Dame and of meeting old friends, class-mates, and instructors.
Most of the grads will find the campus changed; many will think, in all probability, that we ourselves have changed, that the student body is not even a similar reproduction
of the student bodies of ten, twenty, thirty years ago. Notre Dame and the Scholastic hope, however, that underneath a different exterior, the returning alumnus will perceive the old spirit of companionship that has become a Notre Dame tradition.
To-night will see the lighting of bon fires, the official welcoming of the men from Minnesota, and of the old grads of Notre Dame. There will be many reunions. Halls are decorated and doors are open. Tomorrow will witness the meeting of two of the few undefeated football teams in the country in a game that may eventually decide the championship of the Middle West. All of this celebration and spectacle, this sudden revival of spirit, is the result of the simultaneous presence at Notre Dame of the Minnesota football team and a large number of the Alumni. We, in the only way possible for us, wish to extend to these two groups our warmest welcome.	' —J. A. M.
Beat Minnesota
THE “STUDENT” WHO SELLS HIS' TICKET
The student who is so essentially mean as to sell his student ticket to unsuspecting strangers passes classification. He receives his ticket at a student rate, disposes of it at the regular price to persons from outside the circle of the University, knowing that the ticket will not be accepted at the gate. People who rob the dead or steal the handles of caskets are Seventh Commandment morons. The student who sells his ticket which he receives at a special rate by virtue of his relation to the University is some sori of moron also. He is not of the very vicious type, possibly. He is dull, or a cunning half-wit, or oozes saliva at the corner of his mouth. If you discover him, tell the authorities. They will have him conducted home, or to an institution where they teach by signs, pictures and baby charts.—c.R.L.

212
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
2 HOBNAILS । —  J |
»
3
SWEET CELESTE
All in jest	_
Once I pressed To the breast
. Of my blest , Sweet Celeste What I guessed Was the best
' Manly chest In the west.
But my vest
.	Was so messed
She confessed , It distressed (She was dressed In the best She possessed, '	Was Celeste.)
“I detest	,
Such a pest,” She confessed.
All the rest Of my geste You have guessed— Uncaressed Went Celeste, Sweet Celeste.
.	.	—FITZHUGH TITE
Poet Lariat of Sweden.
A HORSE ON- MR. HEARST
Al : Do you ever read editorials in the sheet that Mr. Hearst has seen fit to call the “Peach?" If not, you should. They are really inspiring. Usually they are illustrated by a picture of Col. Lindbergh, a newly discovered type of ape, or an Atlantic City prize winner. If the picture is that of a horse, there will be, in large type underneath it, the cryptic remark: “THIS IS A HORSE.” Reading farther, you will find that a horse has four legs, a head and a tail; you may even discover that it eats grass on occasion, and is used for purposes of transport. Forsaking the field of comparative anatomy for the moment, the writer will suddenly startle you with the information, done in bold-face type: “YOU TOO CAN BE A HORSE. ANYONE can be a HORSE. ALL that you need is PERSISTENCE, and HARD WORK. THIS COUNTRY needs more HORSES. Some day we may have WAR II THEN we will need HORSES. BE A HORSE! Write to your Congressman NOW!!!”
—NICK BOTTOM.
NEIN, NEIN! DEUTCHLAND UEBER ALLES!
Dear Al: You got right into action on the trackelevation program, didn’t you? There’s a lift of two to three inches in the. walk between Sorin and
Walsh, already.
Now, it seems to me we ought to cash in on the current “America First” craze. How do you feel about having a public burning of all books in the Lemmonier Library that say anything about Prussian blue, German bands, Dutch lunches, Munich beer, and the Teutonic tribes?	—the pup.
PIERROT SPEAKS
Why do you pity me,	„
Who need no aid?
Can you not sing for me A serenade?
Why do you weep for me Who leant no tear?
'	Can you not dance for me,
.	Bring laughter near?
Why do you pity me
To soothe my pain?
Will you not dance
Like the sunlight again?
—the luckless lad.
AW; LET SLEEPING DOGS LIE
Hey Al: How Blue can one Week make a Circle?
• —THIMMY.
TO CURLY
I would not have you like as these, With painted lips and lying eyes;
With powdered face and naked knees, ■ With no restraint beneath the skies.
I would not have you run around ■ In aimless mazes, as they do.
Nor would I ever have you count
As yours, their joys—not you.
I'd rather have you as you are, Just sweet, and good, and true, And loving. It were better far That you remain—just you.
'Twere better far that you remain
Just as you are today.	.
And if I can, I will restrain
You from the other way.
—WAZMUS.
YOU TOO CAN BE $1,000,000 EXECUTIVE? Don’t be an ostrich; hold your head up and command the attention of the world! Make your name a byword among thinking people! MAKE HOBNAILS!	_	—allan-a-dale.
t
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
213
Symond Lic^ Loose Again
Dirty Work on the Western Plains
N. LOTI
SYMOND LICK was shot through the the heart but he refused to die. No-siree! a man with Symond’s will-power could stay alive as long as he wished even though his heart was as full of holes as a ford radiator. And besides, if he died, who was going to save our little Nell? This thought as well as the cactus needles he had fallen on drove our hero almost insane.
Briskly jumping to his feet, he pulled out his bandanna handkerchief and plugged it into the bullet hole recently left there by Bled-Eye Pete, boss of Knock-Kneed Gulch. Calmly he proceeded to brush himself and remove the unromantic cactus needles from his body. This done he looked around to get his bearings. .
In a flash he remembered all. Here in this desert he had been followed by Pete, that villain who had sworn that he would marry our little Nell, and that he would lay away our hero under about sixty or seventy layers of stratum. Symond had been waylaid and little Nell taken away from him.
While looking around for clues that might guide him in the apprehension of Pete he found six empty shells and suddenly remembered that these bullets, discharged from Pete’s revolver, had all passed through his heart; all through the hole made by the first of the six. Such was the villain’s marksmanship !
Satisfied as to the general direction taken by his enemy, he whistled for his good “ole” pinto who though two miles distant heard his master’s call and came galloping to him. Symond pulled out a bunch of horse-radish and fed it to his favorite. Yessir, Symond was human, right down to his bullet-plugged heart. The thought of the helpless condition
of our little Nell filled him with desperate resolve. Crunching his teeth he pulled out his two six-shooters, cocked them, and then with an oath permissible to heroes he sprang on the good “ole” pinto and away they flew —into the vast desert.
On and on they rode heedless of hunger and fatigue. For ten days and as many nights they had neither to eat nor to drink. Of course that “ole” pinto began to sag but this was evidently due to the fact that he wasn’t made of so stern a stuff as our hero; or perhaps the horse did not have the advantage of coming from a pedigreed family of heroes as did Symond. Anyway, the pinto was pretty well worn out, but Symond was equal to the occasion. He had this desertscene stuff memorized by heart; so according to chapter four, page ninety-five of “Proper Conduct in a Desert” he took out his water bag, and offered the few remaining drops to the thirst-stricken “pinto.” Refreshed, they flew on—and on—and on— oh, for a considerable distance; and all the while Symond was thinking of sweet Nell and the revenge that was burning in his heart.
At the end of the seventh day he entered the little town of Dog Gone where he eagerly sought information about little Nell from the tobacco-chewers seated in front of the Turkey Trot saloon. Between expectorations he was told that no such “crittur” had passed through the town. Heedless of fatigue and hunger he drove on, and on, but nary a trace of his beloved could he find. It seemed as though Bled-Eye had the girl for keeps this time.
Four years had elapsed since that memorable desert scene and still our hero was
■ THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
214
searching everywhere for his sweetheart. ■Of course we mustn’t forget that he was nuts about little Nell, but even then, if he ' hadn’t been well schooled in the art of Being a Hero our heroine would have been married by this time to that dirty villain, Bled-Eye Pete, boss of Knock-Kneed Gulch. Gee, how I hate that guy!
One day after restless searching Symond dropped into Loony’s saloon, ladies invited, for a shot of fire water. These were bitter days for Symond. Where could little Nell be now, he mused. What was she doing? Was she being whipped by that villain or had she managed to escape him? These were some of the thoughts that passed through Symond’s mind as he waited for the waiter to deliver his liquor. “By Gar,” he suddenly swore, “if that villain touches a single hair of her innocent head, he’ll rue the day.”
“Here’s your stuff,” said the hard-boiled waiter as he planked a shot and three-quarters upon the dirty table. “Three slugs,” he added. As the waiter extended his uncu-texed hand to receive the money, Symond noticed something that almost made his heart stand still. One of the waiter’s finger nails was caved in from picking up thin quarters. Our hero immediately knew that there was only one man in all his acquaintance who had such a finger nail and that was Jim the Slob, Bled-Eye’s right-hand man. Symond wasn’t recognized because he had grown a Van Dyke that had outgrown its original purpose and had now reached the unbecoming proportions of a maladjusted Santa Claus beard. At last he had found a tangible clue. Symond paid for the drink but before putting it to his lips our wary hero tested it’s potency. Into the tumbler he dropped a penny, which immediately began to sizzle and corrode. Satisfied, Symond shot the stuff down his throat with one gulp.
Our hero was back the next day in search of new clues, and although he kept as close to Jim as the skin on an onion he could get no further information. Suddenly the faro tables stopped faroing, smokers stopped smoking; and dancers dancing. Penetrating the heavy silence came wavering a thin . tremulous voice like that of a nightingale. It was singing sweely about Mother. Symond
jumped gracefully to his feet. He knew that voice, and yessiree, we know it too. It’s our little Nell. Heaven be praised; Symond rushed forward in the direction of the voice. “Nell,—Nell,—where are you?” he shouted. “Here,” faintly squeaked that musical voice. When Symond finally located “here," which seemed to be everywhere in this vast hall, his heart stood still. He was suddenly faced by the muzzles of three dozen machine guns, behind which stood Bled-Eye Pete in command of his blood-thirsty henchmen. And the thing that almost made him sick with pity was the sight of our little Nell in a dead faint supported by the villain’s hairy arms. With his free hand Pete was giving orders that if this tin-horn hero moved another step to shoot out the whites of his eyes.
Well, here was a sorry situation for poor Lick. After four years of incessant search he had finally located Nell, and now that he had found her he couldn’t have her. Only three dozen machine guns and the villain separated him from his beloved sweetheart. This situation needed a little consideration, yeah, even deliberation. In vain Symond searched his resourceful memory for the proper conduct in such a situation. The sight of his unconscious sweetheart in the hands of that villain almost drove him insane when, Pop! just like that, on idea flashed into his mind. In the twinkle of an eye he pulled out his gun and shot a smoke-screen around himself. Thus cloaked, he managed to creep up on the bewildered villain, grab our little Nell from him and make for the door. The smoke screen, too large to pass through, was left behind. Our heroes had finally escaped unperceived and it was many days before they halted for a breathing spell.
“My hero,” lovingly cooed little Nell when she finally regained her breath.
“Ay shucks, t’wasn’t nothin,” modestly replied our hero. The inevitable kiss followed, and they continued to live together for a long time afterward.
As for the villain, he is still there in that dirty ole saloon trying to batter down that petrified smoke-screen, still thinking that it contains our hero and the much-sought heroine. I’m tickled to death that he is being fooled. Ain’t you ?
/
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
215
Unlucky Candle
On the Poetry of Edna, St. Vincent Millay.
MURRAY YOUNG
EDNA ST. VINCENT MILLAY has, for so fine a poet, a popularity that is surprising. Belated laurels have grown to be the expected reward of the superior poet, coming either after his death, or else late in life. But Miss Millay, only now reaching her thirties, is as widely known as any other living writer, and is far more quoted than most of those dead. Such wide popularity almost leads one to the conclusion that she is merely a more literary Eddie Guest, where sides are only a shade less blue, where clouds have linings just as silver, if less easily preceived, and where home and “kids” are just as heait-touching behind a slightly less saccharine wording.
If this is not true, and we have such people as Harriet Monroe and Thomas Hardy to tell.us it is not, from whence springs this great bid for so universal an approval? One has only to open “A Few Figs From Thistles” and read the poem “First Fig” with which the book begins:
“My candle burns at both ends,
It will not last the night,
But, ah, my foes, and, oh, my friends, It gives a lovely light.”
It is in that candle, which has become the possession of, one hesitates to think how many, superficial tasters of poetry, that the answer is found. Here in this brief bit of verse, and in others such as “Second Fig,” “Recuerdo,” “The Return From Town,” she has caught with a glittering cleverness certain very definite aspects of the modern attitude—its recklessness,, its superficiality, and its impertinence. And these poems have been taken up and made, as it were, a sort of battle-cry for persons who could not possibly understand Miss Millay when she sings with her truest and loveliest voice. She speaks, so they seem to think, purposely for them, her head being as empty, her personal views as flippant, and her expression as selfconsciously irreverent, as their own. Thus
it is that she has achieved so large and unfortunate an audience.
But when one casts aside these lighter songs, at the same time recognizing their undeniable charm and lamenting their existence, and goes back to her serious work, the reason for her acclaim among important people is easily seen.
In looking at her work it is best to begin with the earliest. Before she was twenty she had published and received high praise for her long poem “Renasence.” It is a truly remarkable performance; starting with a casual statement that seems childishly simple, it rises to the heights of an intensified subjective cry. She tells in the poem of the experiencing -within her own body of all the suffering and joy of the world. From a death of despair she undergoes a rebirth where, standing in a world of newly revealed beauty, she exultantly cries:
“God, I can push the grass apart, And lay my finger on Thy heart!”
It is perhaps as fine as anything she has since done, though she has equaled it a number of times.
In “Second April,” the book following “Renascence,” is found those simple, moving little poems on the death of a college friend. Brief and unpretentious as they are they approach in their slight poignant loveliness anything in this genre in English. It would be difficult to find a poem anywhere to match “The Prayer to Persephone” in which she cautions Persephone to treat her dead friend kindly, and take her by the hands, saying:
“My dear, my dear,
It is not so lonely here.”
“The Harp-Weaver" following “Second April” contains some of her best work. It is in this book that we find a number of her finest lyrics, tinged with the bitterness that is so characteristically hers. Such songs as “Feast,” “The Cure,” and “Keen” are unforgettable bits of beautiful, disillusioned sing-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
216
ing.
Here also is a collection of splendid
sonnets, in which one conies able lines as these:
“and the breath , Gone out of beauty” and
“I know I am but summer
on such, memor-
to your heart
And not the full four seasons of the year,” and the timeless line which opens the sonnet on beauty:
“Euclid alone has looked on beauty bare.”
Miss Millay has given the sonnet a new and individual life, she seems to divest it of the static, quality which so often mars this form. It becomes ■with her, fresh and bright, the flow of its singing blood unhampered by the exacting restrictions.
It is hardly necessary to go into “A Few Figs From Thistles,” for the poem quoted ‘at the beginning of the article is representative of the greater part of the book.
In all of these collections there are inferior verses, and they are in most cases those poems that have the smart attitude of the unlucky candle. But in all of them one will find also poems which have made her name one to conjure with, which have given her
an unrivaled place among living singers. In the best of her work one finds a rare, lyrical singing, that is essentially authentic, a sing, ing that is touched with genius. Love is most often her inspiration, and she writes of it in a manner aching with beauty, yet better with a wise disillusion:
“Who builds her a house with love for timber
Builds her a house of foam
And I’d rather be bride to a lad gone down Than widow to one safe home.”
Everything of hers bears the stamp of real . poetry; whether it be clever attitudinizing or sincere writing, it all seems so natural, so inevitable. Whether she will attain to immortality along with Sappho and the few other women poets, as has been prophesied, is a matter somewhat beyond the power of us, her contemporaries, to know; but it is after all a probability which seems unimportant when, picking up a book of hers, one finds such lines, wrought from occurrences common to each of us, and which, when she touches them with her genius, become so full of meaning.
i
.■J
- ;
4
i
j
I Envy Only These
Four sun still sets behind the hills, but mine Quietly sinks into a purple plain;
You have the roar of surf, and I the whine Of autumn’s wind, and unconsoling rain Drumming upon my house top. You have ' nights
Made to be walked in, never meant for sleep;
I have a hopeless darkness, or vague lights Weirdly illuminating an ebon deep.
I have a dying year, but where you are
Years do not die, but keep their youth and come
One after one, like nymphs from islands far Dancing to joyous pipes, and a mad drum.
That I have missed these things is not my rue;
I envy only them in having you.
1
J
fi
—JASPER BRENT.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
217
T. A. MOYNIHAN
Golden Tornado Only Zephyr; Notre Dame Wins 26-7
Georgians Fight Gamely, But to No Avail—Rockmen Refuse to Yield
JOHN B. LAW
All other proofs to the contrary, a tornado can be stopped. That is, a human tornado in the form of a powerful Georgia Tech football machine. Coach Rockne’s unusually adept pupils of the moleskin art proved this very conclusively last Saturday on Cartier Field when a Golden Tornado which had twisted and torn its devastating way through four of the premiei’ gridiron camps of the South, stormed and battered in vain against a real “Fighting Irish” outfit, and was forthwith smothered under a 26-7 defeat.
In spite of the difference in the comparative scores of each team, the fighting spirit of the gallant Sotherners made the game exceptionally hard-fought. Outweighing their hosts, but outclassed themselves as far as the successful execution of scoring plays was concerned, the Georgians put up one of the gamest battles ever witnessed on Cartier Fields Playing cleanly and battling grimly as only a real eleven can do, the Yellowjackets gave their all in an unsuccessful, but nevertheless courageous attempt to stave off their first setback this season. Georgia Tech had a real team in every sense of the word. However, the Tornado was unfortunate enough to stack up against the Rockmen on a day when they were feeling just right and were playing accordingly.
The Irish flashed the best brand of all; around play that they have exhibited thus for this fall. Functioning with machine-Hke precision and regularity, both offense and defense were well-night as perfect as it
was humanly possible for them to be. The Celtic forward wall outplayed their rival flankers throughout the major portion of the contest. Thomason, Mizell, Randolph, and the other visiting backs who had proved veritable terrors to Alabama, Tulane, V. M. I., and North Carolina in previous games, gained very little on the plays directed through the Gold and Blue linemen. The Notre Dame backfield backed up their flankers in fine style and also exhibited an impregnable defense against Yellowjacket aerial heaves. Indeed ,so perfect was this Irish forward pass protection that Tech could not complete a single pass against them.
Notre Dame’s offensive formations, smoothly operated, even exceeded the defensive proclivities in effectiveness. Fred Collins,.stocky fullback was the main cog in this department of play, although Riley, Niemiec, and Flanagan gave him a stiff fight for the honors. Aided and abetted by wonderful generalship the Rockmen were enabled to push no less than a quartet of six-pointers across the Gold and White goal line, hitherto crossed but once in previous games.
Immediately after the retirement of the second-stringers in favor of the regulars at the beginning of the second quarter, the Irish had secured their first marker. Four plays netted sixty-seven yards and a touchdown. Collins collected the score on a beautiful sprint through left tackle for nineteen yards. The Irish fullback also annexed the second six-pointer. With the third period
218
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
barely five minutes old Voedisch recovered a Tech fumble on the Yellowjacket twenty-six yard line. A twelve yard flank sweep by -Dahman and Collins again crashed through left tackle for fourteen yards and his second tally.
Quarterback Riley made the score read 19-0 towards the end of this same quarter. The Notre Dame signal-barker gathered in a short heave from Flanagan with the ball on the Tornado’s twenty-six yard strip, zigzagged through half the opposing team across the field, and sped down the sideline for a beautiful run and another touchdown. Dahman booted the extra point.
The blue-jerseyed players scored their final touchdown in the last minute of play. The second team played nearly the whole last period and continually threatened the Yellowjacket goal line. Their threat materialized into reality when a series of end runs by Chevigriy and Elder, punctured by Dew’s line plunges terminated when the last named battered through center for the touchdown. Elder kicked the final goal.
It was on this same bunch of second-stringers that the visitors were able to ring up their points earlier in the same period. A blocked punt gave the Southerners possession of the oval on Notre Dame’s seven yard line and three line plays put Thomason across for the Georgia Tech six-pointer. Thomason added the extra point from placement.
Collins’ work shaded the efforts of the rest of his mates by a slight margin. Randolph, Crowley and Thomason were the satellites for the Georgia Tech eleven.
The lineup and summary:
NOTRE DAME (26) • Colerick ____________
Ransavage____________ J. Cannon____________ Moynihan ____________ Law _________________
Doarn _______________ Benda _______________ Morrissey ___________ Niemiec _____________ Chevigney____________ Dew __________________
Score by quai'ters: Notre Dame___________ Georgia Tech_________
GEORGIA TECH. (7)
-L.E.---------;---Crowley
-L.T.,-----------Watkins
-L.G.-------------Martin
—C.-----------------Pund
-R.G.------------Drennon
■R.T.,-------------Speer
.R.E.--------------Waddy
.Q.B--------------Durant
■L.H.-----------Thomason
R.H,--------------Mizell
-F.B------------Randolph
.0 6 13 7—26 _O 0 0 7—7
Substitutions—Notre Dame: Voedisch for Colerick, Miller for Ransavage, Smith for Cannon, Fredericks for Moynihan, Leppig for Law, Poliskey for Doarn, Walsh for Benda, Riley for Morrissey, Flanagan for Niemiec, Dahman for Chevigney, Collins for Dew, Prelli for Dahman, Bray for Flanagan, Cannon for Leppig, Law for Smith, Dew for Collins, McKinney for Riley, Moynihan for Fredericks, Colerick for Voedisch, Benda for Walsh, Ransavage for Miller, McGrath for Poliskey, Elder for Bray, Morrissey for McKinney, Chevigney for Prelli, Brady for Morrissey, Mahoney for McGrath, Donoghue for Ransavage, Murrin for Cannon, Vezie for Benda, Nash for Moynihan.
Georgia Tech: Hood for Speer, Thrash for Watkins, Horn for Durrant, Bullard for Waddey, Holland for Crowley, Rusk for Pund, Oltz for Randolph Faisst for Mizell, Mizell for Faisst, Lillard for Drennon, Durant for Horn, Randolph for Oltz, Pund for Rusk, Crowley for Holland, Holland for Waddy, Shulman for Durant, Hom for Shulman, Read for Thomason, Speer for Hood, Watkins for Lillard, Holland for Crowley, Fitzgerald for Read, Bunch for Drennon.
Touchdowns— Notre Dame,: Collins (2), Riley, Dew. Georgia Tech: Thomason.
Points after touchdown—Notre Dame: Dahman, Elder, (place kicks).
Georgia Tech: Thomason, (place kick).
Referee—Birch, Earlham. Umpire—Streit, Auburn. Field Judge—Carrithers, Illinois. Head Linesman—Wyatt, Missouri.
Beat Minnesota
THINLY CLADS BATTLE PURPLE AND FOG TO 15-40 WIN
The Irish harriers atoned for their defeat at Illinois two weeks ago by squelching the Northwestern “wildcats” last Saturday with a score of 15-40. Of the six Notre Dame men entered in the dual meet, Phelan, the Brown brothers, Vaichulis and Schlickert were tied for first place with their team-made De Groot, close on their heels. It was a most unusual and decided victory having five of our team attain the leading position at the critical moment. The nearest Evans-tonian, Peters, was some hundred yards behind De Groot at the finish line. Another feature that added to the uncommonness of the event was the dense fog that issued forth from lake Michigan and enveloped the field of runners. It was impossible to see more than twenty-five yards ahead.
The blue and gold tracksters stepped off the four and a half mile oval to the tune of twenty-four minutes and thii'ty-seven sec-
THE NOTRE DAME
onds. Coach Nicholson was very pleased with the performance and sees no evident reason for the squad not acquiring a similar victory against the Marquette aggregation tomorrow. The Milwaukee boys are expected to arrive in South Bend today and will add zest to the festivities scheduled for the morrow.—R.P.D.
Beat Minnesota
INTERHALL FOOTBALL FINDS MANY HARD BATTLES
The games for Interhall football supremacy go on. Leo Schrall’s Howard boys defeated Art Evans’ and George Ullrich’s Car-rollites. The fight that the Carrollites fought was a losing one and the final whistle blew when the score was 18-0 in favor of Howard.
Johnny Riley’s Freshmen are still undefeated. They nailed the hide of Milt Wagner’s Off-Campus team on the side of Freshman hall. The “Day Dogs” fought hard but received a short end of a 6-0 score.
The McGrath and O’Phalen warriors of Walsh met and defeated Joe Abbot and Bob Newbold’s Brownson scrappers. Walsh profited the experience they received on the previous Sunday and appeared with at least one substitute. He was necessary to obtain a 9-0 victory over Brownson.
F. J. Culhane’s Morrissey boys, the “CoChampions of the West Coast,” seemed fully recovered from their defeat at the hands of Badin on the previous Sunday and trounced Dave Krembs’ he-men from Corby. The final score: Morrissey 19, Corby 0.
C. A. Costello’s Lyons Tigers, the “CoChampions of the West Coast,” remained undefeated after meeting Ray Mock’s Badin-ites. They left the field with a 6-0 victory.
The Physical Education team, composed of third and fourth string Varsity Frosh were better organized this week than last and they held L. Moxley’s Sophomores to a scoreless tie.
HOW THE TEAMS STAND
DIV. I	DIV. II
W L T	W L T
Freshman________3	0	0	Lyons____________2	0	1
Howard ---------2	1	0	Badin ___________2	1	0
Walsh'----------1	2	2	Morrissey -------1	1	1
Brownson -------0	1	2	Sophomore _______0	2	1
Carroll --------0	2	i	Phys. Ed. _______0	1	1
Off-Campus______0	2	1	Corby____________0	3	3
SCHOLASTIC	219
♦ ON THE ENEMY’S TRAIL *
A powerful Minnesota Gopher clawed a fighting Wisconsin Badger into a 13-7 submission last Saturday at Minneapolis.
The brilliant Joestings led a sustained assault upon the Cardinal line which netted a pair of touchdowns. Haycraft plunged across for the first six-pointer early in the initial period. Joestings battered through center for the second tally late in the third quarter. Powerful line smashes interspersed with short end runs put the oval within scoring distance both times.
Captain Crofoot of Wisconsin, furnished the outstanding individual feat of the day by intercepting a Minnesota aerial heave in the middle of the second period and dashing fifty yards for a touchdown. ——
A vastly improved Army team which lost to the Yale Bulldog the Saturday before, came back to decisively trounce Bucknell, Penn State’s conqueror, under a 34-0 count.
Intercepted passes gave the West Pointers a pair of theix* quintet of markers. Murrill gathered in a Bucknell heave early in the second period and sprinted seventy-five yards for a score. Brenthall duplicated the stunt in the next quarter and cantered eighty yards for a touchdown. Murrell, Nave, and Wilson scored the othei’ six-pointers. Forward passes were employed with great success by the Army. Bucknell could do little offensively against a powerful West Point forward wall.
—«—
Football’s most tragic story, that of a defeat occasioned by an attempted point after touchdown which went awry, was responsible for Drake’s setback at the hands of Kansas, 7-6.
The Bulldogs after being outclassed the first half, came back with a vengeance in the second. Meyers was shoved across with a six-pointer on an uninterrupted march up the gridiron on line plays and
220
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
end runs. The contest was bitterly fought throughout and Coach Solemy’s men clearly deserved a better fate.
/ ------------------$--
Southern California is setting on top of the Pacific Conference heap as the result of a decisive 13-0 drubbing of the University of California. aCptain Morley Drury alone gained nearly two-thirds of the yardage credited to the Trojans during the game. The Methodists split the Golden Bear line from end to end with a dazzling series of line plays. Williams went over for U. S. C.’s first points in the second period. McCaslin accounted for the second touchdown in the last quarter.
*	Boat Minnesota
MINNESOTA’S COACHING STAFF
For the third year, Dr. Clarence W. Spears is the directing general of Minnesota football destinies, which have been for-
HEAD COACH DOCTOR CLARENCE W.
SPEARS of the University of Minnesota tunately on the rise since he took control in the fall of 1925. Dr. Spears is a coach who knows the game thoroughly, but not from the ground up, as it is his theory that each player should have one of the opponents between himself and the ground, at least on
defense. Dr. Spears’ prediction for the 1927 i football season is here given in full: “Ter- * rible, rotten.”
Arthur J. Bergman is the new right-hand ; man to Dr. Spears, having been brought to 1
CAPTAIN HERB JOESTING, All-American Fullback
Minnesota this fall from the University of ; Dayton, where he attracted attention during i several years of successful coaching. Berg- • man was schooled by Knute K. Rockne as a quarterback on the Notre Dame teams of 1915, 1916, and 1919. He played on service ; teams during the war, and after graduation was coach at New Mexico A. and M. College ; before going to Dayton.	;
Other members of the staff are:	,
Vernon Williams, veteran player of the 1916 Minnesota team; and again of the . years just following the war.	’
Edward J. Lynch, formerly a star end at j Dartmouth; Sigmund Harris, much better . known as “Sig,” one of the unforgettable ; Minnesota quarterbacks back in 1902, '03	,
and ‘04; Louis Gross, whose work at tackle in 1922, 1923 and 1924 is remembered by every Minnesota fan; Merton Dunnigan, guard on the 1913 Minnesota team.	: