DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER-VICTURVS---V1VE- QUASI- CRASMORITVRVS
Vol. LI. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, Commencement Number, 1918. No. 33
Commencement Address.
BY EDWARD N. HURLEY, CHAIRMAN OF THE UNITED STATES SHIPPING BOARD.
{Delivered at the Commencement Exercises of the University of Notre Dame, June 10,1918: Giving the present tonnage figures in the shipping program; Disclosing the probable uses to which the vast fleet now building will be put after the war; Some hitherto unpublished data regarding Germany’s recognition of her own weakness and the methods by which world peace can be maintained, under American leadership.)
EMBERS of the graduating class, the nation salutes you. You stan4 today at the threshold of achievement. Upon you and upon other youths with
similar training will largely depend the commercial and industrial, financial and political leadership of the future. What you have learned cannot take the place of character, but unquestionably it has been helpful in forming character.. Those who have not had the benefit of a college course will freely acknowledge your advantage in launching upon life’s battle. Some of them may outstrip you, but it will be -because you have not made-the most of your opportunities, while they, forced to obtain all their knowledge from the school of experience, have made the most of theirs.
One of the chief benefits of the American educational system is that it teaches the need of character and truth. I have been told that there is no word in the German language which precisely corresponds to one of the words which mean most in our life—the word “truth.” German scholars have told me that the German word more correctly corresponds to our word “loyalty.” Yet loyalty, without an appreciation of truth as an objective, may be misguided and morally ruinous. Well-placed loyalty correctly may be regarded as one of the virtues; but loyalty to a false ideal or a corrupt national system must necessarily result in the demoralization of the nation as well as of the individual.
Nothing that you can take out of college can mean more to you or to the nation than character well formed. If you preserve your sense of values, you will understand the great truths upon which this American nation was founded. You will understand why it is today that this great nation, loving peace, is yet engaged in war against the German government. It has been consistent with the principles of America that her people have never engaged in a war of conquest. From the very beginning, the people of the United States have fought only for freedom and for liberty—if not for their own freedom and liberty, then for the freedom and liberty of others.	'
When the United States entered this war, it was for the same principles for which our previous wars were fought. As a neutral nation' we had abided by the rules of war. We had undertaken no aggressions, we had interfered with no nation. We had repeatedly made plain our peaceful purposes. The fact that Europe was at war imposed hardships upon us; but it was not until oiir own peaceful citizens were slaughtered, and until our honor had been impugned that we entered the lists against our ruthless antagonists. -	.
The spirit of Pnissian militarism has frequently -been characterized as the spirit of madness. This is no idle charge. Rather is it the instinctive recognition of mind possessed by ,the Prussian leaders until all of the outstanding signs of insanity, such as might be exhibited by an individual, are seen to be present.
Prussian militarism differs from a sane institution by its complete blindness to any other than its own point of view. True sanity consists in a normal adjustment to environment, with the qualities present which instinctively and intelligently respond to external truths. The result is the manifestation of those wholesome reactions to which have been given the names of civilization, art, culture, and refinement in the
562	Noure Same scholastic
intellectual'field, and lend meaning to the terms - of honor, truth, right and justice in the moral
field. .	5	;
Prussian 'militarism lias' deliberately broken ’ down-the means..of access .to these external influences. There is no longer any right but the German right, as the German military leaders choose' to interpret it. What the German government is preaching to its people is that “the will to power,” “the will to victor}’-” is sufficient to bring victory, right or wrong. There are certain fundamental laws which all clear-headed men recognize as inflexible, but the Prussian military leaders have said that all these must be subordinate to .Germany’s will. The Prussian military leaders have placed themselves intellectually in the position of the insane egoist who persists in believing that he can lift himself over the fence by his bootstraps, in supreme defiance of the laws of gravitation.
Bismark once warned the German people against the danger of ignoring what he described as the “imponderables”—against ignoring the love of truth for its own sake, against ignoring kindliness, charity and unselfishness as necessary parts of a full national life.
The gospel of the German government, especially since the present war began, has been . materialism, and it is the irony of fate that Germany’s frightfulness has now been turned turtle, and caused an internal fright lest, after the war, her national life should be starved for want of raw. materials.
Time as well as righteousness fights on the side of America and the Allies. The forces that are struggling against German militarism have the knowledge that the longer the war continues, . the stronger must America and the Allies become, while the longer it continues the more surely will German}’- strangle all her hopes for regaining her former position in the world’s markets, and respect of mankind.
The Prussian leaders, have taught that Ger- . many’s war, if successfur in a military, sense, cannot fail in any material sense. The business men of Germany, according to well-authenticated statements which are available, are beginning to realize that good will is essential to' world business, just as it is essential. to domestic business. Until slie restores the faith of mankind in her purposes,* she cannot hope to regain her trade. :	/ .	:	.
In the present war, America fights to protect her. own'honor arid liberty, but she fights as
well for the freedom of humanity from Prussian domination. Throughout the world there is ■ recognition of the fact that America has es-. tablished an enlightened and humane code- of international-dealing under the moral leadership of that great statesman, President Wilson.- . - .
If that code of honest and generous dealing is to be maintained in peace—and upon its mainte- ■ nance will depend the future peace and security of the whole world—America must be in a position to maintain it. The vast merchant fleet we are building, the figures dealing with which I will present to you in a moment, must become the greatest instrument of international * probity, honesty and square-dealing at the close of the war. It must become the vast and vital machine whereby America will prevent the oppression of the weak by the strong; the crushing x of right by might. .
To make plain the causes of this war, and the > cure that alone will prevent a recurrence, it is : necessary to make the contrast between Ger- { many’s present position arid the position that ! she held previous to the Avar.	.	.	<
Into her three chief ports, Hamburg, Bremen, and Bremerhaven, there entered in 1913 a total : of 16,546,000 net tons, and there cleared a total ; of 16,643,000 net tons. These figures include only overseas navigation. Germany’s sea-borne imports from" other countries into the two ports । of Hamburg and Bremen in 1913 totalled $1,454,933,000 and her sea-borne exports.from those two ports in ‘the same year aggregated | $1,028,696,000.	-
. At that time the United States with its vast ' coast lines and its many ports exported only i about $2,500,000,000, of merchandise. The । total United States imports and exports by sea ; in 1913 were $3,373,000,000, arid only $381,000,- < 000, or 10 per cent of those were carried in . American vessels. Yet Germany’s-rulers, al- : though having the fullest access, to the sea,, and with the oceans covered with German nzef- t chant .ships, set up the'plea in beginning the war that they were fighting for “the freedom of the seas.” They are still making that absurd । plea.. z
Germany is a country that has always been I dependent on imports of raw material. She , had and exercised the fullest freedom to import 1 all of the raw material she wanted to convert into manufactured articles. Every country in the world was open, to trade with her.
. . Paradoxical, as it may. seem, the fact is that
No^e ©ame scholastic	563
honorable war: Germany would remain overburdened with debts and poverty-stricken. ’
The same note is struck by Admiral von Tirpitz who authentically is quoted as saying that: “Neither central Europe, the Orient nor northern Europe can supply us with the raw materials requisite to our industries. We need to have the sea free from Anglo-Saxon tyranny for that purpose.” To that end he favors Germany retaining Belgium.	'
By mobilizing all the resources of America for after the war, this nation will be able to prevent the garnering of raw materials to be used for any selfish purpose by any selfish nation. The purpose and motives of the United States need no explanation or defense. The life blood of the nation is being shed on French soil for an unselfish purpose, and the whole course of America ’ in this war is a guarantee of the nation’s integrity in safeguarding the weak against the strong after the war.	'
No longer can there be any question that we will have the means, as well as the desire tb safeguard the nations of the world from selfish intrigue and sordid manipulation of the world’s markets in the future. The great fleet we. are building guarantees the achievement of this unselfish purpose. Inspired by the enthusiasm and energy of the greatest organizer America has produced—Charles. M. Schwab—whose un- ‘ matched abilities and splendid services the Government recently commandeered, and Mr. Chas. Piez, Vice-President, who has spent six . months develdping an organization, our shipyards are getting their gait and setting a pace that would have seemed incredible in those very recent times when steamships required all the way from six months to two' years to build.
In the launching of the 5,500-ton collier Tuckahoe from the Camden yards of the New York Shipbuilding Company in the record time of 27 days, from the date of keel laying, we have an illustration of what our American ship workers are capable of. when they get their stride.
It was before the formation of the present Shipping Board that Secretary McAdoo of thT Treasury insisted that our pioneering upon the “ seas must in the future be done by an interest’ having boundless resources; an interest that is not compelled to concern itself with dividends to its stockholders, or returns to its bondholders;
. an interest that can afford to -suffer losses and sustain them for an indefinite period; aninterest that has a single purpose—the general welfare
during the years when German}'' was making her vast military and f naval preparations, her : business men were engaged in a systematic propaganda to cultivate good will abroad for German products. Germany’s business men knew well enough that among their best custom-[ erswere the United States, England, France,
Italy and Russia. But they were assured that the war would be short and won by a quick rush of overpowering forces. They-had thought that they could localize the conflict without Great j Britain coming in, and they did not have the faintest idea that events w'ould bring the • United States and many other countries' into , the war.	•
i Their theory <was that a speedy victor}’ k would enhance their prestige. But what is ? the result?
The result is what might have been foreseen.
The Prussian military leaders, in their failure to ’! see’ the truth, brought about the very condition : which they predicted would never arise. They brought about the isolation of the German ■ Empire from the rest of the world. They | .multiplied the number of nations fighting against . 3 Germany because they refuse to recognize, or | to permit their people to recognize, the inherent | selfishness and cruelty of their cause. They 1 caused the material forces of the rest of the world j! to be vitalized against them.
3 Out of the clearly expressed fears of some of I the German business men, fears expressed publicly and which only recently have reacted this
iJi country—there cfin be found ample proof of the causes of war, and the possibility of applying a
| cure in the future.
j A writer in the Vossiche Zeihmg recently said j that Germany “will still be suffering want when i those, of the Entente have returned to, comparatively speaking, normal conditions. Our'
| industry will be at a standstill, while that of our 3 opponents will be running full time. The in-। dustry of the. Entente will therefore be first f upon the markets of the world. ”
1 Therefore, the writer of the above article says, | it is necessary before all else to secure raw ma-
terial by the terms of the treaty' of peace.» This ( is a matter which hits every German article. He ? adds: “For what is the use of the most brilliant victories, if our economic life cannot, owing to the pressure of our enemies, rise again after the
P: war? In that-case all’the sacrifice would have * - - . - * • • 1 .
if been in vain, and the enemy would achieve with- -| out bloodshed what had been impossible in an
564	Nocre dame scholastic
of the United States as a whole. Obviously, there is but one such interest, and that is the Government of the. United States.
Before the-war ocean Commerce traveled in bottoms owned and operated by private capital. • Now this gigantic merchant fleet which we are turning out is to be controlled by one central body, by the greatest corporation in the Western World—the United States of America.
On July 1, 1916, we had no merchant marine worthy of the name engaged in overseas trade. It is true that we had under the American flag a total deadweight tonnage on that date of 2,412,381 tons, but approximately eighty per cent of this tonnage was engaged in coastwise and Great Lakes trade. Therefore the vast -supplies which we were sending abroad were shipped under terms and conditions laid down by other nations, because the great bulk of our exports was carried in ships flying foreign flags.
We were a great tourist nation, but Americans travelled in foreign ships. We had very few ships going to South or to Central America; very few going to England, France or Germany. We had still fewer going to Russia, Japan and China. There was just one line of old and comparatively slow ships crossing the Atlantic; one line crossing the Pacific and a few lines to Central America and to the Caribbean countries; none to the west coast of South America; none to the east coast of South America; none to our cousins in Australia; none to India; and none to Africa. There were American tourists everywhere. There were, also American products ready to go anywhere, but American ships nowhere. We could not serve the world as we should have served it, because we did not have the vehicles of trade.
Now we are beginning to fulfil our destiny.* On the 1 st of June, of this year, we had increased the American-built tonnage to over 3,500,000 deadweight tons of shipping. In the eleven months from July 1, 1917, to June 1, 1918, we constructed in American shipyards a tonnage equal to the total output of American yards during the entire previous four years. In short, the Shipping Board has added approximately 1,000,000 tons of new construction to American Shipping in the last ten months, for it was not until August 3d of last year that our commandeering order went into effect. We have also added 118 German and Austrian vessels, with a total deadweight tonnage of 730,176. We have requisitioned from the Dutch under the order of
the President, 86 vessels with a total deadweight tonnage of 526,532. In addition we have chartered from neutral countries 215 vessels with an aggregate deadweight tonnage of 953,661. This tonnage, together with the vessels which we have been obliged to leave in the coastwise and Great Lakes trade, gives us a total of more than .7,000,000 tons now under the control of the United States Shipping Board.
In round numbers, and from all sources, we have added -to the American flag since our war against Germany began, nearly 4,500,000 tons of shipping. We are adding to this tonnage rapidly and will continue to do so. It has taken us some time to apply.to the.shipbuilding industry of this country the principles of organization and progressive manufacturing which have made our other big institutions the marvel of the world.
Since January of the present year, when our new quantity production of ships may well be said to have just begun, we have steadily risen in our monthly output until in the month of May we turned out a total of 260,000 tons for that one month alone, making a total for the the first five months of this year of 118 steel ships, aggregating 865,000 deadweight tons. Now, in the year ending July 1, 1915, the shipyards in this country built 186,700 deadweight tons of steel vessels of over 1500 deadweight tons. Thus, in the month of May we produced 53,000 tons more than were produced in the entire year of 1915. During the year ending July 1, 1916, 281,400 deadweight tons of steel vessels were delivered. Adding the 1915 tonnage with the 1916 tonnage gives a total of 468,100 tons. With a tonnage for the first five months of this -year of 805,060 tons,, we delivered in five months 336,900 tons of shipping more than was built in American shipyards in the years 1915 and 1916. I do not believe I am over-optimistic in saying that our tonnage output will continue to increase until before this year closes we will be turning out a half million tons, each month.
We have established a shipbuilding industry that will make us a great maritime nation. We have today under contract and construction 819 shipbuilding ways including wood, steel and concrete, which is twice as many shipbuilding ways as there are in all the rest of the ship yards of the world combined. Our program for the future should appeal to the pride of all loyal and patriotic Americans. In the early part of May the members of the Shipping Board
Tohe Moure $ame Scholastic
appeared before the Appropriation Committee of Congress with a request for additional funds for our extended program. '
Our program calls for the building of 1856 passenger, cargo, refrigerator ships and tankers, ranging from 5000 to 12,000 tons each, with an aggregate deadweight tonnage of 13,000,000. We are also contracting for 200 wooden barges, 50 concrete barges, 100 concrete oil carrying barges, and 150 steel, wood and concrete tugs of 1000 horsepower for ocean and harbor sendee which aggregate a total deadweight tonnage of 850,000.
Exclusive of the above, we have 245 commandeered vessels, taken over from foreign and domestic owners, which are being completed by the Emergency Eleet Corporation. These -will average 7000 tons each and aggregate a total deadweight tonnage of 1,715,000.
This makes a total of 2101 vessels exclusive of | tugs and barges which are. being built and will f be put on the seas by the Emergency Fleet Cor; poration in the course of carrying out the present i program, with an aggregate deadweight ton-[ nage of 14,715.000.	■
i $5,000,000,000 will be required to finish our | program for 1918, 1919’ and 1920, but the exI penditure of this enormous sum will give to the | American people the greatest merchant’ fleet | ever assembled in the history of the world—a J	fleet which I predict will serve all humanity
I	loyally and unselfishly upon the same principles
I of liberty and justice which brought about the | establishment of this free republic. The ex-5 penditure of the enormous sum will give America I a merchant fleet aggregating 25,000,000 tons | of shipping
I’	American workmen have made the expansion
of recent months possible and they will make - possible the successful conclusion of the whole program. On July 1, 1917, there were in the United States not quite 45,000 men engaged in the shipbuilding yards. Today we have a force of 300,000 men in the yards and 250,000 men _ engaged in allied, trades. This force will be continuously increased. From all present expectations it is likely that by 1920 we shall have close to a million men working on American merchant ships and their equipment.
The most liberal estimate of this year’s output of shipping from all countries, except America, does not exceed 4,000,000 tons. One ! of the ablest shipbuilders in the United States, Mr. Homer Ferguson, of Newport News, pre-
565
dieted before the Senate Committee in January that our tonnage for this year would be 3,000,000 tons in the United States alone. Mr. Powell, vice-president of the Bethlehem Steel Shipbuilding Company, agreed with Mr. Ferguson. Mr. Schwab, the Director General of the Emergency Fleet Corporation, has told me that he is going to prove that both,of these good friends of his are somewhat conservative. He believes that the. expert prediction of 3,000,000 tons can be exceeded, and I agree with him. " We have gradually reached the point where we have the facilities for constantly increasing our output.
As I have said, we have a total of 819 ship ways in the United States. Of these 819, a total of 751, all of which except 90 are completed, are being utilized by the Emergency Fleet- Corporation for the building of American merchant ships.
In 1919 the average tonnage of steel, wood and concrete ships continuously building on each way should be about 6000 tons. If we are using 751 ways on cargo ships, and can average three ships a year per way we should turn out in one year 13,518,000 tons, which is more than has been turned out by Great Britain in- any five years of her histoiy.
* When all our wood, steel and concrete shipyards are thoroughly organized, with a keel laid on each of the 819 ways, our fabricating plants driving ahead at full speed, and employees more thoroughly trained in the art of ship construction, it is estimated that we can turn out from each way more than three ships a year.
The United States Shipping Board is not only the greatest shipbuilder in the world but is .the greatest ship operator. In perfecting our organization we not only perfected that part of it which is building the ships but we have also another part which operates the ships. The operating side is called the “Division of Operations;” under the management of Edward F. Carry, Director of Operations; its function is to see that all the ships in the service are well managed-and that rates are properly adjusted. The great shortage in the world’s tonnage and other courses brought about extremely high ocean rates. These high ocean rates have been . felt in. the rising prices of all seaborne commodities. One of the most important phases of the work of the Division of Operation has been to lower ocean rates as much as has been possible. One result of this reduction has been
566	- we Moure dame Scholastic
to make it possible for our Allies to receive their necessary munitions and supplies at much less cost.
The total gross revenue of our fleet is very impressive. From the ships under the control of the Shipping Board a total gross revenue is derived of about $360,000,000, an amount more than the gross revenue of the New York Central Railroad and almost equal to that of the Atchison, Topeka & Sante Fe Railroad, and the N. Y. C. R. R. combined.
The Shipping Control Committee, composed of Mr. P. A. S- Franklin, Chairman, Mr. H..H. Raymond, and Sir Carinop Guthrie, K. B.-E-, was appointed in the early part of February, 1918, jointly by the Secretary of War and the United States Shipping. Board. The appointment was the outgrowth of several mouths’ experiment, which had clearly demonstrated the necessity of having the entire merchant fleet operated under a single head with the one object of winning the war.	’
Since its appointment the Committee has directed the movement of all supplies destined for the troops overseas, which, considering the vastly increased army now in France, is a very great accomplishment.
The Committee has also operated vessels under requisition of the Board and has chartered' neutral shipping to carry essential raw materials to manufacturers in the United States and the various commodities needed here and abroad.
Nitrates have been brought from Chile, manganese from Brazil, chrome from New • Caledonia, hides and wool from the Argentine, sugar from the West Indies and- Porto Rico, and various other essentials from all parts of the world. . -	.	.
The Comriiittee has also supplied vessels to take care of the desperate food situation in Belgium. .
. If in ipip-’ap we have the passenger and cargo tonnage we have planned, we will be in a position to establish a weekly passenger service between New'York and Rio de Janiero, Montevideo, Buenos Aires and Caracas on the east coast, and weekly service between Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and Valparaiso, Chile, on the western coast. On the west coast we now have two fast passenger steamers plying between New York and. Valparaiso. These, are the first to cany the American flag, on that route. .They, have cut the time between these two important cities from 27 to 18 days—a saving of. 9 days.
Our Central American neighbors, Mexico, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Honduras and Costa Rica must all have the very best passenger and cargo service, as must1 all of our South American neighbors. We have planned the class of steamers required for this sendee. The type will serve our Latin-American friends in . a manner that they have never been served before, but which they are entitled to. With the wonderful resources which these countries have; their products should be distributed in the world’s markets and they should have sufficient ships at their disposition and at such rates .that will enable them when it is necessary, to sell their products in competition with other nations. This will give them an opportunity to receive their share of profits which will permit them to further develop their countries.
On the Pacific we must provide sufficient tonnage to' meet Russia’s requirements. ' That, country has many. products which we need. These articles can be moved in bottoms controlled by us at fair freight rates and this will be most helpful to the expansion of Russia’s trade. .	’
China also has many commodities which* we require, and should receive the transportation necessary to move them, not only to our country, but to other countries that she may desire to sell to.
What better use can we znake of our merchant marine than to assure to these countries the best possible regular steamship.service?
That progressive nation, Japan, is rapidly upbuilding her own merchant marine, but the demand for tonnage will be so great on the Pacific that Russia, China, Australia, and other foreign possessions will receive service which they have never been able to receive before.
The building and operating of vast fleets for the United States is not the only work the Shipping Board is doing to create and develop, a great merchant marine. Linked to this work is the work done by the Board in helping to develop our harbor, and port terminal facilities. A Port and Harbor Coriiinissionhas been appoirited with Mr. Edward F. Cary as Chairman, and in * co-operation with the Army, Navy, Railroad Administration and Shipping interests ve expect , to develop and organize our harbors so that the great merchant marine we are creating will have fullfacilities for speedy loading and unloading, and forjthe dispatching of cargoes into the interior arid the receiving of cargoes from the interior.
^he Moure dame Scholastic	567
With that development of drydocks and bunkering and repair facilities, we shall have the most modern improvements, which will enable us, in co-operation with the railroads, to load and unload ' ships quickly, thereby saving time and preventing delays of our ships in port.
All the warring nations now recognize that the chief issue which German}’- will raise when compelled to sue for peace will be the issue of raw materials. There is indisputable evidence that this is now the principal fear of the German industrial and financial leaders.
No nation can participate^n the commerce of the world without an adequate supply of raw materials. Manufacturing nations must have -oil, cotton, copper, steel and iron, if they are to survive industrially.	-
A neutral diplomat who has spent some time in Berlin recently brought back to Washington a report of the physical breakdown- of Mr. Albert Ballin, Managing Director of the Hamburg-American Line, once the shipping master of Germany. Mr.-Ballin, prior to the European i war, was one of those who recognized that the \ Prussian military leaders were set upon trying out their military organization. He had expressed the opinion that it was inconceivable that the Kaiser would agree to such a coldblooded project, especially as Germany had such a great merchant marine, and all the place in the sun that any reasonable nation could desire. Mr. Ballin did not reckon with the character of ■ a nation which had been taught for generations that whatever it wished to do could be achieved . by the military power alone.	-
Mr.Ballin is one of the victims of the German system of militarism. The merchant marine which he built up is swept from the seas. The instruments which might have been of service to the German people, had they used their strength for peace instead of war, are now stripped from, them. Mr. Ballin, I have been told, is a physical wreck. Germany herself must become a wreck, by her own acts, if the war continues. She has been forced recently to commandeer the copper from household plumbing; the doorknobs, kettles, bathroom fixtures, and even, the extra suits of clothing possessed by her citizens. This is her internal s truggle for raw materials. In p eace as well as war, she must have the raw, materials which other nations produce, or she cannot recover industrially. In the end, raw materials wil l mean more to her than the military map to which Hindenburg and Ludendorf have glued their eyes.
We must as individuals and as a nation develop all the strength that God has given us. We must become more and more powerful for 1 the good that we can do. We have always been willing that other nations should work out their destiny .in their own way. We have not attempted to impose our own free institutions upon any of them. It is only when they-inter- . fere with our free institutions, or seek to oppress. people who want to be free, that we have ever unsheathed our sword.
America in the future must play the role of protector to honorable nations whose fault is weakness. '	.
America’s character has taken on world pro-portions-as the result of the present war. 'Always recognized by foreign nations as a lover of fair play on this side of the continent, America has simply carried her love for fair play, into a larger sphere. Other nations are agreed that there can be no temporary peace; that all that has been sacrificed would be in vain if there should ever be a recurrence of the world conflict. The heroic role which America must, .therefore, play is that of. a clear-headed nation which, knowing the essential elements of justice, sees to it that justice is maintained internationally as vvell as domestically.	.
In the great laws which were enacted prior -to the war under the leadership of President Wilson fair play was assured in American busi- , ness. The same fair play must be assured among the nations of the w rid, and it is only through a development of its own strength and character that America can stand firm in her position of moral business leadership.
_ " ------------.«».------- , -
Commencement Address.*	.
BY THE HON. CHARLES C. CRAIG, FORMER
'	CHIEF JUSTICE OF ILLINOIS.
It is the privilege of the old to instruct the young, and the privilege of the young to reject such instruction. During the time that I attended Notre Dame we had many distinguished and learned visitors from whom we received much valuable counsel. I suppose that your worthy President thought that it would be a good idea to get the experience of some of the old students at this time—-good, bad and indifferent—arid my only reason or excuse for. being here is that many years ago I was a student in ' *Delivered in. Washington Hall, Saturday evening, June 8, 1913. '
Noure Same Scholastic
568
this University. It- was the first school I had ever attended away from home and I received during that time some deep and lasting impressions. As events afterwards happened I have always regretted that I did not finish my course here. The most important element that makes for success in any undertaking is to have an interest in that undertaking. This is particularly true in college work. It is absolutely necessary that the student be interested in his studies if he would.profit thereby. Here I found among the student body a choice lot of congenial spirits and a corps of instructors who encouraged their pupils to further efforts, and I became deeply interested in my studies and other work as a student in this institution.
I believe that comparatively few men adopt their life vocations by chance. There are inclinations and impulses which are powerful, although not always manifested, and which work unerringly to shape careers and destinies, and I have always thought that the course of study which I was pursuing here would have better fitted me for the profession I was destined to follow. The mind and morals of a young man can be changed, can be strengthened, weakened, or warped by a course of study in much the same way as the body can be affected by physicial exercise. However, while here, I received an appointment to a military school and much to my regret left this college and many good and true friends, both among the student body and the faculty, and a memory of the college upon which it is pleasant to dwell and an influence which I gratefully acknowledge has been helpful to me ever since. Let me say that it is no small thing to have been a student at this college and leave with the good will of your associates and instructors, for if you do that, no matter where you may go that influence will help you all the rest of your life. And so, in the years that have passed, I have met the students of Notre Dame all over this great country and in many parts of the world. It is somewhat saddening to come back after an absence of thirty-six years and find not one of the faculty of our time living, and out of some 500 students that I knew, to meet but a few and to realize that we may never meet again in this world, and those that have passed to the great beyond were the brightest and the bravest and the best. Oh! If we could turn backward time in its flight, if we could come back and meet again those that we knew while here and loved as true friends, I know that there are
many thousands who have attended this University who would come from .the ends of the earth for such a reunion. You may think me presumptuous, and perhaps I was prejudiced in favor of those I knew by the friendships and attachments that I formed while here—very likely the students of other years have been the same, anyway it is no fault to be loyal to our friends—but I really thought and so expressed myself for many years, that there never could be a set of students like those who were here in the early eighties, nor a faculty like we had then, nor a president like Father Walsh. However, I am open to conviction?
I remember at one of the evening entertainments while I was a student here, a reference by one of my classmates in an oration which he delivered to a military company that was formed from the students of Notre Dame on the first call for volunteers in the great Civil War. A sad instance which came forcibly to me within the last few months has made me concede that the students and officers of the University that followed us were in every way worthy of the traditions of this great college. About a year ago I received a communication from a young man who had about completed the course of study prescribed for admission to the bar in Illinois, stating that like myself he was an old Notre Dame student and further stating that he ex- « pected to immediately enter one of the officers’ training camps then being organized to train officers for the present war, and asking that he be allowed to take his examination for the bar in advance of the time prescribed. On account of those circumstances our court granted his request. This young man, Lieut. Harry Kelly, lies in a hospital on the western front in France recovering from well-nigh fatal wounds received while bravely fighting for his country.
And so, from the time that this institution was founded, to the present day, the students of Notre Dame have left a record which those of the present and those who attend this school in the future may emulate. I have watched with pride the growth of Notre Daine University, and have learned of the success and achievements j of its graduates, and I am glad to say the students of to-day, under the guidance and tutorship of your worthy President and faculty of today, are the equal of any students of this or any other col- | lege that ever opened its doors, and it took your | President and faculty to,make such students | and graduates. It would be impossible for me to ।
Noore Scholastic
speak here and speak truthfully without reflecting in what I said, the impressions which I received in this school from my instructors and my fellow-students. There is something about those impressions and. the effect.of such associations that has been a matter of much thought with me, and, I am free to say, some mystery. You graduates and undergraduates of this school may think that when you leave here to return no more as students that you can put aside your life here and enter upon your work in the outside world, and that the memory of the days spent within these walls will be no different from any other part of your life. It may be many years before you learn differently, but I can assure you that you will realize the effect .of your training here in a greater degree as life goes on, and you approach the age of your preceptors and are enabled in the wisdom .which comes with years to look at things from their viewpoint and more fully and completely understand their feelings towards you and the efforts that they have made to educate and fit you for life.	z .
I trust that you of the student body have availed yourselves to the fullest' extent of your ’ opportunities while here, but if you feel that you have not, do not despair, for many things that you have learned here and apparently forgotten will recur to you with strong and helpful effect in the years to come, and let. me also say to you, Mr. President and gentlemen of the faculty, do not be too quick to judge of the results of your efforts with these young men. You may rest assured in the belief that no act or word of yours has been wasted, and you may be surprised in later years at the results of your teachings upon those youdeast expected. In fact, as l look back now on that splendid bunch of raw material that entered this college when I did, and I remember those green, awkward boys that tried the temper and patience of our instructors in those days, I am very sure that if anyone had told us that there were in that student body those who in the years to come would attain high rank in the business and professional world, we would have considered it a good joke and our . professors would doubtless have thought it a better joke because, of course, they' knew more than we did. But it was a fact nevertheless, and such things will happen again. You young men .will find yourselves.advanced in life before you know it, borne on by the sheer progress of events if nothing else. When another ten or twenty or thirty years will have rolled around, some of you
569
will be here telling the children, perhaps the grandchildren of the students of today, something to the same effect I am now expressing, only doubtless much better. And this leads me to give you briefly some suggestions which I hope will be helpful to you when you go out into the world. Compared to past decades we are moving today at a rapid rate. You will soon -take your place in the ranks of that great army of progress which from the beginning of time has been marching, marching on. What you will do as individuals you have probably already determined; what you will make of yourselves will' depend in a great part on whether you will follow the instructions that have been imparted to you here by your teachers. I can add nothing to that; I can only suggest a line of action in relation to others and to the public. A very important part of the duties of each of you as one of the. people in a government of the people will be as far. as you can to intelligently and earnestly take part in the affairs of government. •
I have neither the time, nor the inclination on this occasion to recount the problems that wait solution at the hands of our law-makers and executive officers, but such problems exist and others will arise, whose prompt and accurate solution will be imperative to our well-being, and .1 advise and urge all practical men who are successful in the administration of their own affairs and to whom this country is indebted for its advancement and prosperity to devote the necessary part of their time to the affairs of government. I .have had occasion in the.last few years to compare the methods of the people of this country in conducting their private business and . the methods of these same people in their relation to governmental affairs. The American business .man will compare favorably with the man of affairs of any other country in the world. Is this true of the American government or.of any of. our state or city governments, and if not; what is the difference? Whose fault is it? I am not here .
, to criticize or find fault with anyone that we have chosen to administer our affairs. And I do not believe that those we have honored by electing to office are as . a rule inefficient-or incapable; Even if they are, the fault is with the people that have chosen them, for this is a government of .. the people, and if anything is wrong the fault is with those who select the officers of the govem-ment. There are, to my notion, two reasons for the inefficiency displayed in the administration of public affairs; first, our laws themselves;
5 7°	Noure dame ©cholasdc
second, the manner of administering and neglect in administering these laws'. In the first place, under our theory of government, it is so framed as to give the greatest freedom for the individual and allow him to work out his destination, unrestrained or unhindered by laws as far as possible. The individual citizen, (or at least some of them) has-taken the advantage of this and has progressed and advanced at all times much faster than the government to which he owes allegiance. The government has always lagged behind the individual. Also it must be remembered that ours is a constitutional form of government. Our fundamental basic law is the Constitution of the' United States, which was adopted and went into force 129 years ago. The framers of the Constitution of the United States were great men. It has been said by some of their admirers that they were inspired, but with all their . learning and honesty of purpose and far-sightedness, they were after all but mere mortals and their vision was limited by the horizon of their times. They could not foresee and did not foresee the future growth and development of this great country, which would be the necessary result with our vast resources under the policy of our Constitution and laws enacted pursuant thereto. At the time of the adoption of the Constitution this was a sparsely settled country, the greater part of which, as we now know it, was a trackless wilderness. There were no large cities, and the settlements were confined to the Atlantic coast. A hundred miles back from the ocean in almost any direction was the primeval wilderness oc- -cupied by savage tribes of Indians. Transportation as we understand it was almost unknown. Measured by the passing of time we were several months removed from communication with most foreign countries.
The Constitution was an ideal instrument for that period, and there was reasonable provision, as far as any one then could see, for the future, but there was absolutely no provision for the conditions in which we find ourselves today when the railroad, the steamship, the telegraph and the newspaper have brought the people of this entire country in touch with one another and almost in touch with foreign competing nations from whom we are separated by thousands of miles of land and sea. Discovery and invention have changed the people and have changed the country; discovery and invention have been taken advantage of and utilized to their fullest extent by the people in their private
business and by the great public service corporations. Have discovery and invention been utilized by our government? Has the government in all cases responded to the needs and changes which have been brought about by modern discoveries and inventions and the conditions which have inevitably resulted therefrom? In short, it is a waste of time to run an express train government on a stage coach schedule.	,
As to the second reason, the fault, in my opinion, lies mostly in the attitude of the people themselves. When a man is elected to office he should be allowed to devote his time to the duties of that office. Instead of that, the average member of Congress, governor, legislator and every other office holder, except judges of courts —under the commonly accepted idea of their official duties—are compelled to spend at least half their time attending to the private wants of their constituents, and a great part of the balance of their time in trying to be re-elected. Under such a condition, how can we expect efficiency? The people should let our public servants alone so that they can enact the laws and enforce the laws and not be compelled to waste their time, and the people’s money by being mere clerks and lobbyists. Fortunately in the accepted order of things our judiciary are not called upon to do these things but are left to perform their duties. As a result the members of the judicial branch of the government work, and they compose the only branch of the government that measures up to the standard of efficiency in public life.
When we seek to condemn anyone for their shortcomings in public positions we are apt to be unjust in our criticism. I don’t know of any better example or illustration of this than the criticism and abuse that was heaped upon President Lincoln during the Civil War. I lately received at a Lincoln Birthday banquet a book containing a number of reminiscences and stories about Lincoln. Most of them were not new to me, but among these stories were many of the Civil War period, and there were extracts from correspondence and interviews with cabinet officers, leaders in Congress and generals in the field, and I never fully realized until that time the position that President Lincoln was in. His position well illustrates the predicament in which many of our public officials find themsel ves. Lincoln was an intelligent man, a hard worker. He had an entire grasp of the situation; he
Zhe Moure e)ame Scholastic	571 .
I
knew what was to be done, but there was never •a time when he was not compelled to get the permission or approval of Congress, or the people themselves, to do what he knew it was necessary and proper for him to do. We were then in the midst of a great war; there were great armies in-the field conducting operations which called for the direction of some one master mind and which called for absolute' and instant obedience on the part of subordinates, and yet our system of government was such and the conditions were such that tb raise those armies, get supplies to those armies, and even in the direction of the actual operation of those armies, the congress and the people of different sections of the country, all of widely different views and ideas and desires, were to be harmonized" and their permission sometimes secured before anything could be done. When we realize the results of that great war, the credit was due. not so much to the soldiers in the field, although they did all that mortal could do, but to that great man, who by his grasp of affairs (made the victory by the soldiers possible.
“So far, generally a more intelligent attitude has been taken in the one great matter of interest today, which is the war in which we are now engaged, and those who are and will be active participants in that Avar. We are all of us most interested at this time in trying to be of service to our country and our allies. On the result of the present war will depend the existence of many nations, and perhaps the existence of our own nation, and whether as a nation or as individuals of that nation we will continue to have the right of life and. liberty and the pursuit of happiness under a democratic form of government by the people. The events of that war have been so tremendous and startling that_we are unable at this time to "appreciate their significance. With the last year we have seen a great and powerful nation engaged in that war go to pieces, and one lesson which we learn from the. collapse of Russia is this—that those in power in the government of any country must deal honestly and fairly with the people, and the people must be solidly behind their government. In no other way can a nation be successful. Fortunately, in our own country'we have confidence in our leader at this time, and in his efforts to 'make the world safe for democracy we stand solidly behind that great president “and great humanitarian Woodrow Wilson, and when the history of America’s part in this great war is
read, I believe we- will learn that the President and his advisers and the Congress and Army and Navy, assisted as they have been by the gratuitous services and advice of,the best brains of this country, have accomplished more work and done better -work than the men of any other nation at any time in the history of the world.1 ■
“This is no time, however, for self-congratulation. We are entering a most critical period of that great struggle. It is a well-known fact-that if our-own country, the United States, had not entered the war, the cause of the allies would have been lost; the eyes of the world are upon us and the hopes of the world today are based upon the part that America will take, and the part that America will take depends upon every man, woman and child doing his or her duty, from the soldier at the front, back to the cap-, italist and the farmer, miner and laborer in the remotest parts of our great country, and helping in every way possible the government to equip and furnish our Army and Navy so that they will lack nothing necessary to put up the best possible fight for democracy.”	•
I have no objection to criticism, but I submit that at this time it is useless to-criticise unless some improvement can be suggested. If anyone' can see a fault anywhere, and point out the remedy, it is his duty so to do, but the notofiety-seeker, the fault-finder, the calamity-howler, are of as much use at the present time as the yelping cur of the streets, and the whispering,' plotting sneak that spreads his vemon and malice in dark places is worse than the poisonous snake that strikes unseen.	•
I do not wish to be understood as believing in any other form of government than that which . we have, but it has been fully demonstrated that the government and the people must go hand in hand in order to achieve the best results.' For instance, an intelligent, industrious, progressive people would be greatly hampered, although hot altogether destroyed, by an unjust system of -laws or a weak, inefficient or incapable government. On the other hand, a barbarous, uncivilized people, or an ignorant, lazy, semi-civilized people would not profit or make any advancement if -they were given the best system of government - that could be devised, if it was left to be ad- -ministered by them according to their own ideas. ; The government must keep pace with the people and the people with the government. Most troubles have been caused by the people’s neglecting their governmental affairs, their lack of .
572
Norre dame Scholastic
interest and neglect to use the means at hand by which they can control the affairs of government. The ordinary citizen, if he votes on election day, considers that he has fully discharged his entire duty. The idea of voting at a primary or giving his whole-hearted support, or otherwise taking any interest in what is being done by the city, state or national administration, never occurs to the’ average citizen. If you were a stockholder in corporations which were organized for your benefit, and which were spending respectively some 20 to 25 million and billion dollars a year of money, collected from you and others, you would take some interest in those corporations. And yet this is exactly what many of our larger cities and states, and the United States are respectively doing, and the matter simply amounts to this, that a city, a state or a nation cannot be run efficiently or properly unless some interest is taken by somebody in its affairs, and if the people of this country are going to take no more interest in the affairs than the interest they usually display by voting at an election every year or two years or four years, then this government in all its branches is going to be a failure; but if on the other hand the intelligent, industrious, God-fearing people of the country and of each city and each state thereof, will devote the time they ought to devote to those matters, then our government, city, state and national, will be something that we can point to with pride, and in the language of the immortal Lincoln, “This government of the people, by the people and for the people shall not perish from the earth.”
Another effect of your college education on your future will depend on yourselves. The knowledge which you have acquired in this institution, while of the utmost importance, is not all, and perhaps not the greatest asset of a college education. I think perhaps this has been realised by the graduates of our American colleges within the past few decades. There seems to be a disposition to keep alive the associations and friendships and the influences which emanate from a college course. Our American colleges are not old, and it is only within a comparatively recent period that many of them have expanded into the great centers of learnings that they now are. Surely if a college education is a great influence for good, that influence should not stop with the graduation. I realize theTact that the men of Notre Dame have been mostly busy men, but they should not be too busy to forget the debt they owe their Alma Mater. Personally, I
have always felt that 1 owed more to this college than I would ever be able to repay, and as years have gone by and I have been able to appreciate the labors and sacrifices of the founder of this institution and those who succeeded him in his .great work, I have felt a great reverence for Father Sorin and those who devoted their saintly lives to this institution. It is a matter of pride to know howthis college has grown and prospered. Almost within the memory of man the site of this college was a primeval wilderness; there was a young priest, a log cabin, roving Indians. Think of the faith of that young priest who could foresee this great institution of learning. Think of the inspiration furnished by his life. I knew Father General Sorin but slightly, but to have merely attended a college that he founded has left me and thousands of others with an ideal of a great life and an inspiration for all that is good. Ah! but he saw more than we see now—the influence of this college extending throughout the world, an influence that will continue and grow as time goes on; a university that will meet every educational demand, that will be abreast of the times in every way; one that in buildings, libraries and equipment will fill every want and furnish a home for every seeker of knowledge that enters its portals. The duty we owe to our college is to assist, each as best he is able, to bring this about. We owe it to ourselves and to the world. The greatest incentive to bring this about is a loyal interest in the welfare of the college and a sense of duty to repay in some small degree what we owe to the college. The rest will follow; the ways and means will be provided. With this closing thought, let us go forward in life, our college and our country, forever.	‘	•
Class Ode—1918.
- BY MATTHEW J. COYLE, ’18.
THIS is our festal day!
With jocund eye, with laughing lip , And woodland song and fairy elf, Fair Comradeship— ’	.
f Thyself	'
Take up the lyre, . "And in thy strong desire Conjure up those past enchanted days That naught ’ere knew but virtuous ways.
Come—a roundelay!	-
Make merry at the feast, . Thy scabbard loose, ■ - Thy sword give truce,
Noure dame Scholastic
Let bonnie friendship be increased.
Haste—a-banqueting we’ll go,	.
And till the reddened dawn doth show
Strong fellowship which warms our heart
Will bond us closer ere we part.
Swiftly be!	'
For Io! the day hath fled, and night doth hie
To dull the azure sky /Ind thee. ’
Drink, O drink the full radiance of this hour
With brimming cup—
And as we sup,	•
Let purple song this galaxy empower
Until embolden’d
The mute shall stand bcholden’d;	,
And with buoyant eye,
Hum a carol of yesteryear	,
.For our good cheer.
Hush!—a sylvan silence clothes the room, -Beaker and timbrel rest; and the quiet moon, With latticed eyes beholds the scene— Ushering in the verdure Queen, Our Hostess.
Mother! what wants thine .eye of full content, Or lacks this festive night For thy delight?	.
Why thy sallowment?	.
Our song is but in flower.
We’re telling of brown autumn days, Of a fair vintage time ~
~ Wrhen every clime
Grew mellow in its ways
. Of scented bower
And daised hill,	■
And of laughter-loving April dawns, when hedging dell	_
Was fragrant still "	•
With hawthorn and the bluebell. Ah! thy gaze the empty banquet chair
Hath seen;
And thy lips, O Lady Queen,
Grow tremulous in prayer, As with falling tear ' You hear	*-
The madding guns
Robbing thee of fairest sons.
What glowing phrase will paint that Mother’s mien ■ Or tell the loveliness of this undying scene?
This night, near some Burgundian town, - Fields of waste humanity, .	.
By war’s insanity,	.
Lie lingering. And thy hand will crown
. With wreathlet bright, Those who have loved thy name— And borne thy fame
'Into the grimly fight. '
Mother! the treasured hour wanes,	.
And the descant of this night,	-	•
With its triumphal strains, .
Draws to an end. Days of golden fellowship fade
From sight
As wre, thy younger sons, helmeted in grace, And with tilted sword, leave this holy place To front what sunrise brings—unafraid. .
573
Rich temple of virtue! which linked its infant life With saintly strife;	.	.
Whose shielding arms '
Hath nurtured sons of bravery, ' Whose'Michaelian lance doth cut and hew
-The charms	,
• That threaten dullest slavery—-	. -
Ah! what wonderment is there in skies of blue That with seraphic love
Caress thee from above.	_
Virgin Queen! we’ll mount the day with staunchest heart, And be the deeds which thou dost treasure most, Aye—-our lives will be thy boast.—	.
Put forth thy hand that we in reverent bliss . May, with chivalrous kiss, Give sign of our devotedness before we part. ’ And when the golden corn stands high;
And summer swallows wing	.
. _ Across the autumn sky, •	.
And newer voices sing
Round	•
Thy cloistral ground, Ah! then, fair Mother, know that memory’s lore Will resurrect for us the days that are no more. .
City Democracy.	...
* (A Trilogy of Bachelor Orations.)
I.—THE PROBLEM OF MUNICIPAL DEMOCRACY
By Francis J. Hurley, ’18 -	.
American government is grounded upon one transcendent principle—the principle which is America’s distinctive contribution to -political thought; the. principle which brought our nation into being and which has attended every step of her progress; the principle which was vindicated in four years of civil war; the principle for which she is contending today,-for whose preservation she has pledged her blood and treasure without stint or limit—the principle that men are capable of governing themselves and of right are entitled to do so. Since we entered the war to protect the democracy which is the embodiment of this principle; since we esteem the fruits of democratic government our chief blessing, it is indeed anomalous that we have been _ content to let the American city stand before the world as almost the last word in governmental inefficiency. American cities were intended to be and supposedly are self-governing, and self-government we know should give maximum efficiency; yet our cities admittedly are among the worst governed communities in the world. “There is no denying,” says that keen observer - James Bryce, ’“that the government of cities is the one conspicuous failure of the United
574	Noure dame scholastic
States.” Conspicuous as this failure is, it is intelligible only when we study our cities in th'e light of their phenomenal growth.
The beginnings of the American municipal system are to be found in the colonial boroughs chartered in the latter half-of the seventeenth century. New York was the pioneer, the first city charter having been granted to it by Governor Dongon in 1686. Tn this charter provision^ were made for a mayor to be appointed by the governor and a number of aidermen to be chosen by popular vote. None of these’ officers had burdensome administrative duties, for the cities were small and public service, such »as police or fire protection, were still unknown. On the eve of the revolutionary war only three per cent of the population was urban. The remaining ninety-seven per cent was rural.. The governmental machinery of these cities was correspondingly simple. Corporate greed and the sinister politics so fatal to our present day cities had not yet developed. .
The successful outcome of. the revolution brought about great changes in both the form and spirit of municipal government. City charters were henceforth granted not by the governor but by the state legislature. These charters being mere statutes were subject-to change at the will, even at the whim of that body. There was no detail of city affairs so. insignificient as to escape the meddling of the legislature. The state capitol became a Mecca for professional politicians in search of special favors. Laws were passed in the interest of the few. To the wishes of the many • this foreign authority was neither responsible or responsive. Moreover, the complexity of city administration was increased, for the success of our government led many cities to model, their charters after the. national plan. A council of two chambers, was provided for and many new offices were created. The power of the city official was so restricted on the pretext of preventing him from doing harm that he was able to dp. scarcely any good. Civic indifference resulted. The control, of affairs shifted from all the com- .
' munity to its least desirable element—the professional politicians. Political corruption was encouraged and accountability for it was.proportionately diminished. .
’ The succeeding, chapter in the story of our cities is known as the Andrew-Jackson era. He introduced the practice of rewarding political service with public office. That iniquitous doctrine that to the victor belong the spoils vitiated
every branch of city administration. Inefficiency resulted from these incompetent officials, men whose claim to office was not fitness to discharge its duties but partisan service for a political chief. By 1870 the dangers of the situation had become apparent. Popular uprising in the interest of municipal reform resulted. Political rings were overthrown. In some cities civil service rules were substituted for the spoils system. Many of the flagrant abuses were abated, some of the minor ills disappeared. The most marked improvement in the American city, however, did not come until the year 1900. In that year Galveston, Texas, was almost destroyed by a tidal wave. The city, already bankrupt, faced an emergency with which the boss-ridden administration could not cope. Five business men were appointed to manage the city. The success of their efforts was the origin of the commission, form of city government which , has already been adopted in more than Tour hundred cities. s *	*	.
In 1911 ’ there developed the city-manager scheme, which consists of a board of commissioners and a chief executive hired by them. The future alone can demonstrate whether either of these systems can eliminate the corruption and wastefulness so prevalent in our cities. Much of course must depend upon the civic interest of the people. Without a zealous citizenry no form of democracy can succeed.
That American cities have, as Mr. Bryce tells us, conspicuously failed in government, is true. It is equally true that they have not failed because they endeavored to govern themselves. The failure of American municipal government is not a failure of democracy. Our misgovernment is attributable to other causes. The chief of these is the marvelous growth of our cities. When the fathers of this republic organized our nation there-was practically no problem of city government. There' were- only five cities with a population exceeding eight thousand,, and the combined strength of these was less than one hundred thousand.. A few years ago only twenty per cent of our population was urban.
Today over fifty per cent live in cities. Contrast this with the cities of Europe, which are noted for their good government'. The cities there have existed for centuries. The people have had an opportunity to understand and solve their problems. Then the English cities are composed of Englishmen only; the German cities are ccm-posed of Germans, but in America there are, in
_ ^eNonv Scholastic
many instances, twenty-five different nationalities in a single city. The foreign-born often predominate. They are unable to speak our lan-' guage. Thousands of them cannot read a libertyloan poster, cannot understand the language in which the commands of defense must now be given. Self-government to them is utterly unknown. Its privileges are taught by the demagogue and the. agitator. Its duties are expoundfed to them only by designing politicians. A New York, boss, whose corrupt practices were attacked by the press, said indifferently, “The newspapers don’t worry me; my followers can- not read the newspapers.” This foreign element has been a great obstacle to our municipal pro-? gress. It is gratifying that these new citizens are being assimilated today faster than ever before. When they become thoroughly Americanized , our cities will have removed another barrier from, the goal toward which • they are slowly though steadily climbing—the true democratic city, a city where the liberty of the people will not be sacrificed to obtain efficiency as is done in Germany, but- where efficiency and liberty will walk hand in hand, a city where the genuine welfare of all will be the sole object of those who
- govern.
But perhaps the most potent factor which has retarded our cities is the spoils- system. Under this: system an incoming mayor would oust all officials belonging to other parties and give their places to men who had helped elect him. Party service, not ability, determined who should serve the city. Clerks, engineers, and city officials’ should be given public office if competent and efficient, and not as a reward for political assistance. This principle was disregarded and the politics of our municipalities became mere squabbles over public office. The men who did secure public office had no incentive to develop skill or efficiency, because they knew they would be turned out of office in a short time. The worst abuses of city government have been the progeny ’ of this spoils system, a system which excludes the best men from public service, .a system which invariably subordinates the welfare of the community to the interests of the political machineMn the last few years the spoils system has’ been _ substituted by the civil service in many cities. When it has been -entirely swept away the people will be able to apply democracy’s cardinal principle, the principle that public office should'be given to those best qualified to. serve. '	. ■ •	.
575
In addition to selecting city officials without regard to merit, but solely with regard to party allegiance, there is stilf another obstacle in the American city which has never confronted the well-governed cities of Europe. This obstacle is the vast number of elective offices which make' it impossible for even the best citizen to choose public servants intelligently. The theory was that the elective principle in all instances would insure responsible democratic government; that the office holder could be controlled only .when elected by the people. This false doctrine has. made many subordinate officials, such as- city auditors, clerks, clerical; officials, arid even health commissioners elective. A confusing and. bewildering ballot has resulted. Some of these, ballots in large cities present hundreds of offices to be filled. How is it possible for any citizen, however conscientious, to know the qualifications of each of this army of candidates? Intelligent voting is out of the question. President Wilson has well said: “I don’t count for any more in the government of the Borough of Princeton - than the veriest bum or loafer in the borough, and I do not know much more about the men I am voting for than he does.”
It is complex methods such as this long ballot, that has taken the government out of the hands of the people and given it to the political machine which is composed of' unscrupulous politicans who choose the candidates. The ballot is only a popular ratification of their choice and not an expression, of the will of the voters. Political machines of this kind have governed our cities; these irresponsible organizations are not representative of the people or accountable to them.	?
The very essence of democracy implies that the people rule; it implies theTormulation of the -will of the people in -the law of the community. Democracy has not failed in the American city; it simply has not. been tried. The people have not been given effective means to make their voice heard or their power tell in city government. Not until the short ballot makes the choice of good men possible; not until pur political methods are changed to eliminate the machine; hot until the people really govern themselves, can any real democracy prevail in our cities. Today we are engaged in a struggle to preserve self-government. If it is to endure in dur national life it rhust be -vindicated in our municipal institutions. Not until we prove democracy a wise and practicable system will it be adopted byother nations. Only when other nations do adopt it
576	Noure ^ame Scholastic
and give their people an effective voice.in goyen-ment; only when peoples everywhere are given the right to determine their own destinies, will American democracy be secure. Then indeed “peace will be perpetual, justice universal, prosperity measureless and unending.”
II.—THE essentials of a city7 democracy7
•	■	By Francis J. Boland, ’IS	■
Democracy is self-government. It is government, in which the governed participate. Though the banner of our republic unfurl itself over the war-fields of Europe in the name of democracy, though American blood to-day drench anew the soil of ancient battle grounds, though Columbia be proclaimed to the world as the “Champion of Democracy,” yet there is no democracy unless the people are really represented.
Under the American democratic system the city is the creature of the state .legislature. Through the legislature it receives its chartered right to existence, its power to act, the very totality of its being. Out of this relation has arisen one of the greatest obstacles to our municipal progress. He who would understand duly the political history of the American city, who would understand wherein lies the error of the past, mustTook to the state legislature. Enforcement of extrinsic authority upo'n our municipalities _ has been the bane of municipal welfare.
Two elements constitute the political entity of the democratic city. They are the policy-de- ’ - termining element and, the administrative element. If we are to have successful government in our cities, then the policy-determining body must be the people or the direct representatives of the people. It is a firm principle of our political faith that public opinion must stand behind the law. This principle prevails-throughout the land. Look to the state statute books and see the’ thousands of laws rendered null for lack of public sentiment. Any enactment that touches the people vitally fails unless there is public sentiment to support it. “No Law,” a great jurist has said, “is stronger than the jury in the jury box.” A city policy is akin to law. Public sympathy is necessary for its success. When the citizens have explicitly supported a definite plan of actionj when they have determined upon a certain policy, then it is the function of the administration to carry out that policy. State interference with the determination of policies is the fundamental cause of the failure of our city government. It eliminates favorable public sen
timent.There is no problem in the life of the city, there has been no policy determined, there is no detail of government, to which the state has not applied its legislation with very unsatisfactory results. “To indicate all the forms which legislative control has taken in the United States,” says the eminent economist William Bennett Munro, “would be to enumerate every detail of city government from the general structure of the city, to the salaries of firemen, or the right of the city to alter the grade or width of street.” It is true that the city is properly a creature of the state legislature; it is true that from the state its powers of action are naturally derived, but here the line of cleavage must be drawn, if the city is to have, in any true sense, democratic government. The essential welfare of the American city demands that it be so. State legislatures have neither the requisite time nor the requisite knowledge to legislate intelligently for the numerous cities under their jurisdiction. Local selfgovernment is the democratic ideal, it is preeminently the American ideal, it is the ideal which must be realized in our cities before they can ever .have efficient government.Wise administrative supervision is necessary on the part of the state, and not long-distance legislation. Before we can expect good city government we must first remove the obstacles to proper civic operation.We must give the city the opportunity for self-government before we may look for the full realization of the city democracy. Officious state intervention of the kind already mentioned' precludes the possibility-of self-government.	•
- Protection against state interference is necessary for every American city. Among the most effective methods now employed to secure this protection is the “home-rule” charter system. This plan originated in Missouri in 1875 and is now in operation in twelve states. Its recent popularity augurs well for its greater extension. Year by year it is becoming more evident that the detailed affairs of the American city cannot get adequate consideration in the state legislatures. In Massachusetts, at the legislative session of 1911, no less than one hundred measures were presented, each of which, if adopted, would have been an amendment to the charter of some city of the state; From nearly every state where the special-charter system prevails comes the same testimony. Under the home-rule system the city may choose its own charter, and municipal legislation receives due attention from
Moure dome Schdasuic
men intimately acquainted with the needs of the city and zealous for-its welfare.The home-rule charter, subject to proper state supervision, is the fundamental basis for good democratic government. In this way and in this way only can civic interest be duly fostered, political education of the people properly promoted, and the responsibility for good government felt directly by the voter. State and municiapl politics become more distinct. The policy of permitting the state legislatures to make, remake, and alter city charters at pleasure has served the one purpose of adding to the confusion of state and local issues. When municipal home-rule has been firmly established, when the citizens of a city may with perfect freedom choose their own form of municipal charter, then the problem of good government rests with the people.
It must not be forgotten, however, that in a democracy, not less than in other forms of government, efficiency demands concentration of power. Diffusion of power is fatal to democratic progress. No mayor, no manager, no expert can achieve success without power. We have inistrusted our public officials. We have diffused their power among large councils and petty committees and expected good government to ensue. This is the delusion of our history and must pass in the light of the new development in city government. Concentration of power is indispensable to an efficient administration.
With the increase of local autonomy many false theories have evolved. Great evils existed in our cities, and the mere formula of a city charter was thought to be an adequate remedy. It was thought that the overthrow of the political boss, the dissolution of partisan politics, the establishment of methods of honesty and justice would follow naturally upon the adoption of a new charter. The absurdity of this assumption was abundantly demonstrated by experience. Then the pendulum swung far to the other extreme. The personnel of the city government was thought to be the all-important eleihent. Experts in administration were in universal demand. The structure of a city charter was regarded insignificant so long as experts administrated the government. This delusion in turn was dissipated by results. Neither the city charter nor the personnel of administration is the all-important element in good city government, yet the need of both is not to be underestimated. We need the expert in administration
577
and we need him badly. Without him successful city government is impossible. In the same degree we need a good city charter. Its chief requirement is that it confer upon the city sufficient powers for good government and leave them without undue checks and restrictions. Complex, cumbrous and unintelligible charters result in nothing but confusion and irresponsibility. Diffusion of power to prevent the misuse of power has proved a failure. Simplicity of structure, with well-defined powers and responsibilities, is indispensable to the city charter. When the power of the city charter establishes proper internal administrative organization, we have the foundation of permanent success.
To have an efficient city government the citizens of the city must be free to govern themselves. A good charter is necessary, as we have observed, but the one all-important element is an intelligent electorate. We may multiply experts, we may reconstruct charters, we may run the whole gamut of city reform, but if we fail to consider the electorate we fail in the essentials of democracy. The political boss does not fear the commission form government, nor the city-manager type, nor the initiative, the referendum, the recall, nor any other reform so long as the people are not in the reckoning. If the electorate is instructed, then inefficiency will no longer be tolerated. Nowhere will the people permit misgovernment if they are aware of it; yet they will never be aware of it if left to themselves. For a large percentage of American voters self-confidence at the polls supplants intelligence and knowledge. Citizens have not the energy nor the opportunity to form intelligent judgment on a firm basis of sound political thought.	,
Reformers deprecate the ignorance of the American public. Administrative matters, they say, are too technical for the ordinary citizen. How can he be versed in such technical matters as street paving, sewage disposal or fire prevention? Let him therefore be content to rely upon the wisdom of those who are educated. Herein lies a grave danger to democracy. Substitution of expert administrators for an intelligent electorate contradicts the very notion of democratic government. It widens the gulf between the office holder and the voter *and occasions that proverbial mistrust so evident in the history of city government. Democracy is allied with intelligence and clear thinking, not with ignorance and mental sloth. The technical mat-
578	^ne Moure dame Scholastic
ters of the city government may be well understood by the voter if they are set before him in plain, intelligible language. Annual departmental reports, however, of fifty or a hundred pages will never educate the. public for the purposes of government. We must compile the facts and get them to the voter in simple form. The citizen asks where the taxes go and what the community gets for them. He receives no adequate answer. But if the proper means of budget exhibits are employed satisfaction must result. The charter campaigns and other local reforms of recent years have revealed the fact to millions of voters that city government is their government. Through these reforms thousands of men have been brought to the polls who formerly considered themselves outside the pale of city politics. Yet none of these temporary uprisings in the political world will ever accomplish the great task of citizen education. We must employ especially the potent educator of the people, the newspaper. It is from the columns of the daily journal that the vast majority of citizens, receive the data on which they base their judgments. When the accounts of the city are concisely, intelligently, and fairly presented to reporters, then they in turn will present the truth fairly to the people.
Other’ means such as finance- commissions, bureaus ofzmunicipal research and similar organizations are all important agents in the great cause of citizen education. Through proper coordination among them even great results can be achieved. The American citizen is glad to learn, he wants to learn, he will learn, if he is given the chance. To presume an enduring and inevitable popular ignorance is the very antithesis of democratic thought. The one outstanding factor in American municipal development is the constant struggle of the people to win the fight for democracy in the- city. When the obstacle of state interference will have been removed, when municipal home-rule will have prevailed throughout the states of the Unionj when the great task of citizen education will have been accomplished, then will thex glorious dream of our democracy have become a1 glorious reality.
The world at this moment is regarding us with hopeful admiration. Can our democratic institutions stand, can they endure, can they conquer, this colossal chaos now enveloping, the world? Democracy is as never before on trial.
. Three-quarters of a century ago the great
Webster asked.: “If we fail in this experiment who shall venture a repetition? If this great Western Sun be struck out of the firmament at what other fountain shall the lamp of liberty be lighted? What other orb shall emit a ray, to glimmer even, on the darkness of the world?” With greater significance may these words be spoken to-day.'We are known to other nations as the “Champion of Democracy”. To us they will look for the ideal. May democracy triumph in city, state, and nation, and the spirit of human liberty and free government henceforth prevail among the peoples of the earth.
Ill—SOME ACHIEVEMENTS. OF CITY DEMOCRACY
•	By William. Henry Kelley, '18	■
Every great century has its peculiar task. Our great President has told us that the task of the twentieth century is to “make the world safe for democracy”. And what is democracy? Have we had democarcy in our cities in the past? Behold .the city of the nineteenth century! Have we democracy there, where the government is not accountable to the people governed; where the machine of the boss is linked with the predatory public utility and the recipient of special privilege; where popular self-government is made impossible by outgrown and cunningly perverted political machinery falsely called democratic; where the city hall is looked upon, not as a center of common interest and a symbol of common hope, but as a partisan stronghold and a politicians’ rendezvous? Is this what we mean by democracy? Is it for this that we are struggling so hard to make the world safe? We are fighting, not for this democracy, not for the democracy of the nineteenth century, not for a democracy in name; we are fighting for the real democracy of the twentieth century. At the same time that we are shedding our life’s blood to “make the world safe for democracy”,' we will use all our energy to make democracy safe for the world, as well.
The twentieth century has been characterized by a breaking away from the old forms and traditions. A spirit of revolutionary reform has pervaded the city. Industrial development, invention, the advancement of science, have created wholly new conditions of life. A new world has come into being during the last one hundred years, resulting in the most marvelous economic and social changes in all history. All-embracing as has been this progress; we can . truthfully say that the American city has not
1
4
'She Noure dame Schdascic	,	579
remained at a standstill, but is keeping the pace and has made more ^progress during the last decade than it made during the preceding half century.
From the chaos and destruction of Galveston, there came the conception of a new kind of city government, a city goverment that was an answer to the ever-growing desire for the truer, the cleaner and the finer. From the demoralized governmental organization of storm-swept Galveston, there came the re-birth of the American city.
The old order was the usual mayor and council. Then Galveston popularized the commission fornj of government. In a little while the evolution of this form produced pleasing ^modifications. Thus matters stood in the old order up to nineteen hundred and eleven. From this genesis the new order sprang. From this more modern trend of thought, resulted those advanced instruments of government, the city charters embodying the city-manager plan.
Disasters have been the land-marks of municipal progress. In the gray hours of earliest dawn, under the soaking valley' mists, a mudladen sea, seven inches deep over four hundred square miles of water-shed, poured down the Miama valley, rose above the crumbling levies around the city of Dayton, and lifted its foaming front into the heart of the helpless town. With dawn came terror, with daylight destruction, with midnight the highwater mark of pitiless devastation.
The city of Dayton stood neck-deep in the icy current. Snow and sleet and rain drenched what would have remained above the sea; no light, no food, no dry land—and assets by the millions hourly following each other into nothingness. Then dawn broke again; now there was no law, no government, no supreme power except the courage of the citizens. The disease of destruction broke, out in fire, and what the flood refused to take was sacrificed in flame, rising in smoke to the steaming heavens. But the terrible toll was only beginning to be taken.
Then the aftermath. Out of the old was born the new. Traditions, old ideals, habits, venerable customs, were relegated to history, for there had. been taught a new lesson in economical, efficient, clean city government. There emerges a city where graft and greed have been led captive; where. privilege and its shadow, poverty, have been driven out through the city’s gates; where the tools of government that do the people’s will are sharp and bright and clean, adapted to
the work they must do; where the city’s streets and-the city’s parks, the public health and the public education are not neglected; where art and music and all types of civic grace and beauty lift up their heads under the kindly patronage of the community; where every man, woman and child lives in life surroundings that do honor to the human race.
But progress is not confined to the cities which have a city-manager. It is broader, more universal and wide-spread than that. All cities are being affected. One by one, they are doing away with that antiquated incumbrance, the large council. When membership in a city council Larger functions in fewer hands command the services of better men—of men, honest, efficient and public-spirited. The American cities of today are concentrating their functions in fewer hands. Men of ability, attracted by the office, are setting new standards of efficient work in the office.
Such a small council of big men, with large powers, is being kept responsible to the people by means of those newer tools of democracy, the initiative, referendum and recall. Responsibility of the chief executive is being enforced by direct accountability to the people. The city of Boston inaugurated a new manner of appointment of department heads, subject to the approval of a state civil-service commission. It has made it possible for a good mayor to do his best, but impossible for an inferior mayor to do his worst. The new, modern methods, the short ballot and nomination by non-partisan primaries are being adopted by an even greater number of our cities. Realization of the existing evil is the first step toward the elimination of that evil. But the cities of America have gone farther than this. They have taken affirmative action; they have made and are now making those very evils things of the past and relics of a by-gone age.
Success is the strongest incentive to further endeavor. Accomplishment and achievement, coming as a result of our efforts, is the magic wand that turns labor into joy. The mere consciousness of the progress we have made and the realization that we are on the right track to true civic greatness,, will spur us on to even further achievements, until at last we shall have attained to that elevation where city democracy will be more than an empty word; where the ideal city will be realized; where a state of happiness for all will be secured.
Moure- ^ame Scholastic
580
This war has. taught and is teaching one allimportant lesson: that “none of us liveth unto himself”, but that we all live for one another. A man must give not-only of wealth and education, but, if need. be, of life itself, for others^ The incubation of this idea will be the greatest contributing factor in the. realization of a real democracy. That spirit of co-operation and disposition to consider the general welfare .will make democracy and liberty realities in the life and labor of men.	-	.
It must be remembered that the opportunities which have been given have been bestowed for the advancement of the common good. It is for us to use our advantages to serve the democracy -that gave, them; to protect and promote the interests of society from whence they came, that by co-operation the. insidious influences in our city life may- be.completely eliminated, and there will be achieved the city of our dreams— a great center of throbbing life, of light and joy, of health and happiness, a city where social justice and the common good are ever the highest temporal objects of human aspiration.
Valedictory.
. .	BY JOHN A. LEMMER, ’18..
1 These exercises which bring to an end our student days, at Notre Dame have this year a peculiar solemnity.. To the classes that have gone before us in days of peace, graduation opened roseate vistas of life; it offered the fulfillment of dearest hopes, the realization of happy dreams. For them, the sadness of parting was softened in the light-heartedness of joyous anticipation. But we men of T8 look out upon the great facts of life and death with a. seriousness
unusual in the college graduate of ordinary and for the familiar faces of dur colleg
-years. We, too, have cherished our ambitions and treasured our hopes; we, too, have dreamed our dreams; we, too, have looked forward to years of peaceful prosperity. But the possibility that the next 5year may see the consummation of our lives;. makes us . pause to appraise the value of;life by standards.lofty and ideal.
In the gloom, of the war-cloud that hovers over us, many of us may fall, yet it is not with the spirit of pessimism that we lookjnto the future, but with the whole-hearted conviction that oiir . country , is worth all that we have .and all that we are; that America is worth jnany times the last drop of the best .blood of her. devoted sons. If
Notre Dame has done, anything for us, it has been to inspire us with a determination and with an enthusiasm to uphold by the influence of our example, by the power of our word-, or the strength of our arm, the principles of freedom and justice, and to oppose with the fullness of our might, the forces of tyranny and oppression. If Notre Dame has done anything for us, it has been to implant within us a patriotism that is enlightened and sincere, a patriotism that recognizes in this war against German despotism the.noblest and the sublimest of the many noble and sublime causes America has ever espoused. Ours is a love of country that is eminently practical, a love of country so genuine and unselfish that, if need be, we will gladly lay down our lives . that the principles for which America stands may
survive and prevail.	.
Fortunate have we been to complete our work at Notre Dame. Grateful we -are to her priests, her professors, and brothers for their counsel and inspiration, for having directed our lives towards the highest ideals of the Christian home. Grateful we are to you, our mothers and fathers, who have made possible this happy hour, who have cheerfully sacrificed so much to give us these years at Notre Dame in hopeful anticipation of this night that should end your heartaches and bring your boys back to you, strong Catholic men. We wish, now, to express publicly and in devoutest sincerity our heartiest thanks.
Men of’18, this is. the end of our college days, that night of nights, never-to-be-forgotten, when mayhap for the last time we shall clasp the hands of friends and hear, their voices and feel the warmth of their smiles. This is the hour in which we must say good-bye to Notre Dame. Often in days to come there will arise within us a homesickness for the old haunts of Our college days e com
panions. Then shall we breathe a prayer -for .unforgotten fellow-students and teachers, and for our Alma Mater that has been so good to us, old Notre Dame. ■	.
. -With our classmates who have gone before us over there, we, too, are now going. We are going, Notre Dame, to beautiful, heroic-France, a land bleeding but undaunted.. We are going to brave little Belgium, a- land of heroes and martyrs. We are going' for the sake of freedom and justice, for civilization, for humanity. We are going, animated by that old Notre Dame fighting spirit, irresistible and invincible. Good-bye, Notre Dame? and God bless you! .	.
Noure dame scholastic	581
^otpeBam^cholastic
DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER-VICTURUS-VIVE- QUASI- CRAS-MORITVQUS
Entered as Second-Class' Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Vol. DI. Commencement Number	NO. 33.
Board of Editors.
Delmar J. Edmondson, ’18
Charles W. Call, ’18 John A. Lemmer, ’18
John L. Reuss, ’18
George D. Haller,’19 Thomas F. Healy, ’io
Brother Austin, C. S. C., ’18
Leigh G. Hubbell, ’ 18	Thomas J. Hanifin,’19 ■
' James H. McDonald, ’19
Wm. H. Robinson, ’20 Alfred Slaggert, ’20
Robert E. O’Hara,’20
The Seventy-fourth Commencement.
SATURDAY EVENING. -
- The Seventy-fourth Annual commencement was singularly quiet and beautiful. Although nearly all of the graduating class were either actually in the service or awaiting their calls to the colors, it was, nevertheless, decided by the University faculty to hold the usual formal commencement. Compared with other commencements, especially the never-to-be-forgotten impressiveness of last year’s^ the exercises were simple and modest. Yet understanding, as • all did, the war-time conditions of things, the days of farewell were hallowed with an atmosphere of patriotism. The commencement did not lack in enthusiasm or ardor. There were beautiful programs, ardent demonstrations of devotion, and great speeches in which significant and epoch-making words were uttered.
■ The gaiety of other years had merely mellowed-into a reverent seriousness.
To the thoughtful, however, .this ex-., pressed more than all else' the 'sacrifice and prodigal generosity which characterizes Notre "Dame in these present days of war. The.scores* of young men which she gave at the first call of-the war, and those who followed after to make a premature commencement in the world of .warfare; vseemed to be present in spirit during- tK.eL three.days. It was fine to feel that what com-4: mencement orators in other days had idealized . was now at last actualized, and that the quiet
of-the commencement wasT^ holy quiet, indi- -cative of great- sacrifice already made and greater sacrifice', shortly to be'made, the Benign, and sacred* stillness, that presages- momentous things. \	' -
The commencement' was formally -opened ’ Saturday ^evening, June 8, in Washington-Hall 4 by Mrs.-. Ellen Ryan Jolly of Pawtucket, R. I.,? national, chairman of the committee for the., erection of a monument in the city of Wash- ; ingtbn.to the Nuns of the Battlefield, and formerly’ President; of the Ladies’ Auxiliary of the . Ancient Order of Hibernians. Mrs. Jolly, in-an ,, address ih which-she spbke intimately to.a large--audience,..assured her hearers of the high-regard/ in which she held Notre Dame, not only for its' record of patriotism but also for th’e type of" manhood which it habitually turns out. She' related the' difficulties and trials,.- encountered during the long process of getting the bill for the monument through Congress, and presented to. the University the pen used by President-Wilson5 in signing the bill for the Sisters’ Monument.: The pen is beautifully encased in yellum, and surrounding it is an illumination-copied from the Book of Kells, a volume written in the sixth century by. St. Columbkill and still preserved. Also in the vellum containing the President’s pen is a miniature protrait, of James Ryan Jolly, a deceased son of Mrs.' Jolly who was lately a student .at Notre Dame and in whose name .the gift was made. Below the portrait is an ancient. Irish phrase “Beannacht de 1-anam.” Mrs. Jolly’s speech was received with intense enthusiasm, the straightforward sincerity of her words and her gentle Celtic humor winning everyone.
On behalf of the University Father Cavanaugh expressed gratitude to Mrs. Jolly for the honor of her visit and for’ the historic donation which she had conferred upon Notre Dame. He promised that the gift would be placed beside'-the sword of Thomas Francis %Meagh'er and the tattered but most revered flag of the famous Irish. Brigade. Father Cavanaugh then eulogized the Nuns of the Battlefield and the- zealous sup--porter of their memory who’ had labored so tirelessly on the field of battle during the Civil War.	■ ’
The- address of the evening was delivered' by' ' the Honorable Judge Charles C. Craig, of Galesburg, Illinois; former Chief Justice of Illinois, who was a student at ’Notre Dame thirty years ago. In introducing Judge Craig, Father Cavanaugh expressed the esteem which the Uni-.
Noure 6ame Scholastic
MRS. ELLEN RYAN JOLLY, LL. D., ’18.
versity feels for the man who, while a judge of the Supreme Court of Illinois, had sacrificed reelection to his office rather than submit to the demands of bigotry and dishonesty. Judge Craig’s speech, which is to be found elsewhere in this issue, was well worthy of the hearty reception it received from the audience. _
SUNDAY.
Baccalaureate Sunday was marked with the usual beautiful program of that day. At eightfifteen the academic procession was formed at the main building, and members of the faculty, graduating class, choir, and clergy marched to the church for solemn High Mass. Side by side with wearers of the cap and gown were to be seen graduates in Army and Navy uniforms. As the procession entered the church the choir took up the tones of a beautiful processional entitled “O Paradise! O Paradise!” and the clergy passed through the standing ranks of faculty and seniors into the sanctuary. There solemn High Mass was celebrated by Rev. Father Cavanaugh, President of the University, assisted by Rev. Father Schumacher, Director of Studies, as deacon; and Rev. Father Joseph Burke, Assistant Director of Studies, as subdeacon. The singing was in charge of Rev. Father Marshall,
C. S. C., Director of Holy Cross Choir, and was a skillful rendering of Gregorian chant and classic four-part music. The program was as follows:
“O Paradise! O Paradise!” Processional, arr. by Fr. Marshall. “Asperges”.........................Gregorian Chant.
Introit “Respice in Me”/.....................
_	' Proper for 3rd Sunday after Pentecost.
“Kyrie” from “Missa Octavi Toni, iV Vocium Parium”
J. Asola (1586) “Alleluia”.........................Gregorian Chant.
“Gloria”, IVth Mass................Gregorian Chant.
“Credo”, from “Missa Octavi Toni” a cappella.. J. Asola. Offertory—“Sperent in Te”..........Gregorian Chant.
Motet,“Cantate Domino”, a cappella, J. Croce (1560-1609). “Sanctus” and “Benedictus”, IVth Mass, Gregorian Chant. Motet “Domine, Non Sum Dignus”..........J. Mitterer.
“Agnus Dei”) “Missa Octavi Toni”, acappella. .J. Asola. Communion—“Dico Vobis”.............Gregorian Chant.
“Holy God” (sung by congregation) ... .Fr. C. Walworth.
The Gloria, the Sanctus and the Benedictus were sung by unison choirs of sixty voices and Propers and all the four-part music were admirably rendered by the four-part Male Choir.
The Baccaulaurate Sermon was preached by the Rev. Peter E. Blessing, D. D., LL. D., Pastor of St. Joseph’s Church, Providence, R‘. I., and Vicar-General of the Diocease of Providence. His text was “He that shall overcome and keep
THE HON. CHARLES C. CRAIG, LL. D., ’18.
.1
tone. Now dame S'cholascic	583
iny words unto the end, I shall give him power over the nations.” (Apoc. 2.26.) “Not in five hundred years has the world stood in greater need of men of brain, of character, of faith, than it stands today,” said the speaker. “We have passed one year amid the loss and stress of war and each day of the year has made clearer to us the demand for- men; men great in .power of body, strong in power of mind, but stronger still in faith.” He warned the graduates that not only during the.war have they stern patriotic duties to perform, but that in all probability the period succeeding the war would bring problems just as grave. He touched upon labor conditions, upon the slum and other evils of poverty, and declared that the problems which; these conditions create must either be met and solved upon Christian or upon Bolsheviki principles.
After the Mass, members of the senior class _ of ’18 brought the large American flag-into the Sanctuary for the ancient and honored ceremony of the Blessing. Father Cavanaugh explained the significance of this beautiful rite—the expression of the two ideals which every Notre Dame man most tenderly cherishes: love-of God and love of Country. The President of the University then blessed the Flag according to the ritual of the Church and the entire assemblage proceeded to the flag-staff. There the .parting gift of the senior class, carried by John Lemmer, president of the senior class, Frank Andrews, Francis McGrain, James Logan, Norbert Monning, O..T. C., and Ensign David Philbin, was raised amid the singing of the national hymn.
'	ALUMNI PROCEEDINGS.
In the absence of President Mitchell, ’02, of Chicago, the annual meeting of the.Notre Dame Alumni Association was called .to order in Brownson Hall, Sunday afternoon by Warren Cartier, ’87, of Ludington, Mich., treasurer of the association. William Mclnerny, ’01, -of South Bend, presided. Members of the T8 graduation class were admitted .to the ranks of the Alumni, and the address of welcome was i delivered by Hon. Robert Proctor, ’04, of Elkhart, Ind. In his report, Rev. Wm. Moloney, ’90, secretary of the Alumni, announced that since the last meeting of the Association eight members had died. A committee including Rev. John O’Hara, C. S. C., ’ll; Knute Rockne, T4; and Edward Cleary, ’09, were appointed to draft condolence resolutions.
According to the treasurer’s report, the Asso
ciation, "has ;^70,000 in the Old Students’ -Hall Fund.,, and the 1918 graduating’ class ’increased the sum by subscribing - nearly’$800. It'. was decided at the meeting that so long as the govern-? ment is not making any appeals for funds toward the conduct of the war, the building committee mav continue to raise funds for the erection of the ,new hall. •	. >
The following officers were elected at the annual meeting: Honorary President, Very Rev. PeterE. Blessing, D. D., LL. D., ’18, Providence, R. I..; President, Harry Hogan, ’04, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Vice-presidents,. J. J...Coifway, ’85, Ottawa, Ill.; Joseph • Haley, ..’99, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Col. William Hoyries, ’88, 'Notre -Dame, Ind.; William Jameson, ’0.5, St.' Paul, Minn.; Max St. George, T2-, Chicago, III.; John B. Kanaley, ’09, Chicagpj Ill.; Secretary, Rev. Wm. Moloney,’90; Treasurer,'Warren A. Cartier, ’87, Ludington, Mich.; trustees, two-ye.ar term; Clement Mitchel, ’02, Chicago, Ill., Robert Proctor, ’04, Elkhart, Ind., and Wm. .Mclnerny, ’01, South Bend, Ind., With Wm. ^Mclnerny, ’01, of South Bend,’ presiding as toastmaster,-: a supper Was served in Brownson Refectory immediately after the adjournment of the business meeting. It was the occasion of a most enjoyable reunion of the alumni. Addresses were delivered by Very Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., Byron Kanaley, Col. Wm. Hoynes, John Lemmer, president of the senior class and others. During the evening a band concert, given’-on the University , Campus, was thoroughly enjoyed by a large gathering of visitors assembled from neighbor- . ing and distant points for the commencement. .
MONDAY.
On Monday afternoon at three o’clock the Bachelors’ Orations were delivered.' The general theme of the orations was “City Democracy,” three phases of this subject being ably discussed by the bachelor orators. The-program was as follows:	:	'
Oraiton—“The Problems of City Democracy”, Francis
John Hurley, Law (Illinois). -	’
Selection—University .Orchestra.	. ■	.
Oration—“The Essentials of City Democracy”, Francis
Joseph Boland, Classics (Massachusetts).
Selection—University Orchestra.	’
Oration —“The Achievements of City Democracy”,
William Henry’Kelly, Jr., Law (Indiana). '	.
Selection—University Orchestra.	y : - •
The final exercises on Monday evening were extremely impressive. After the singing by the audience of the national anthem, the Rev. Presi-
I
584
Noure Same Schotasric
MONSIG. PETER E. BLESSING, LL. D., ’18.
dent, Father Cavanaugh, introduced Mr. Edward N. Hurley, Chairman of the United States -Shipping Board. Father Cavanaugh spoke of the great admiration in which Mr. Hurley is held at Notre Dame, and then—as stress of business made it necessary for the distinguished guest to take an early special for Washington— Father Cavanaugh presented him with the degree, making him a Doctor of Laws and an Alumnus of Notre Dame.
Mr. Hurley conferred a great honor upon Notre Dame when he chose our Commencement as an occasion’ for giving to the public some most epoch-making information regarding the progress of the ship building in the United States. He did not merely suggest but openly stated for all the world the exact figures representing what organized ship-building has done for the United States since our entrance into the war. Moreover, he showed the plans of the Shipping Board, whereby before many months will have elapsed the United States will control the largest and greatest merchant marine in the world. The text of the speech is to be found in the first pages of this issue. After the extended applause accorded Mr. Hurley had subsided, a well-written class poem was read by Mr. Matthew A. Coyle, Litt.
B., of Madison, Wisconsin. The valedictory, delivered by Mr. John A. Lemmer, Ph. B., was stirring and vigorous and touched with the finest emotion. He remarked the peculiar condition under which his class was graduated and expressed the loyalty and devotion which they held for their Alma Mater. He assured Notre Dame that when he and his classmates should join the ranks of their .fellow-students now in the service of their country they would carry with them to camp and battlefield the lessons of life which she had always been so^eager to inculcate. Hon- • ors and degrees were then awarded as listed below.
For the first time in the history of Notre Dame an honorary degree was conferred upon a woman. Mrs. Ellen Ryan Jolly of Pawtucket, R. L, was the one to be so honored. A number of telegrams greeted Mrs. Jolly and congratulated her upon her new honor. Of these one was from Lieut. Father John McGinn, C. S. C., U. S. N. G., formerly of Providence, R. I., and another from Dr.'W. L. Harris, one of the most distinguished surgeons of New England, which reads as follows: “The honor your faculty has conferred on Mrs. Jolly is greatly appreciated by everyone who knows her in this state.’’
Rev. Peter E. Blessing who, on Sunday,'
the hon. Edward n. hurley, ll. d., ’18.
Norre dame Scholastic
585
delivered the baccalaureate sermon and on whom was conferred the degree of Doctor of Laws, received also through Father Cavanaugh the announcement from the Apostolic Delegate that he had received from the Holy Father the title of Apostolic Prothonotary, the highest rank of Monsignor. Father Cavanaugh read the telegram bringing the welcome news. It ran: “Rev. Peter E. Blessing—A letter received after your departure from Bishop Harkins, stating brief received from Rome by which the title of Apostolic Prothonotary is conferred upon Vicar-General Peter E. Blessing. Warm congratulations and good wishes.—Bishop Harkins.” Monsign’or Blessing at the end of the distribution of diplomas was asked by Father Cavanaugh to give the blessing. He complied with the request, prefacing his blessing with a hearty speech in which he thanked Notre Dame, Father Cavanaugh and the Alumni, for showing him such interest and affection. Father Cavanaugh then thanked all who had participated in this year’s Commencement. He paid a beautiful tribute to the graduates, saying that never before had there been, a class in which he had taken more interest and in which he had found such general excellence. As a final word the President expressed his regret that Bishop Alerding of Fort Wayne, who had never before failed to attend our commencement, was unable to be present, but explained that the good Bishop' had remained away only on Father Cavanaugh’s very special request, in order that the exertion might not aggravate his ill-health. A final good word and the seventy-fourth commencement was over.
DEGREES AND AWARDS.
' The following is the list of degrees and awards as read by Father Schumacher, Director of Studies of the University:
/The degree of Doctor of Laws is conferred: "
1 ' On a woman of distinguished achievement, whose brill-/ iance of mind is equalled only by her devotion to. every I good cause, for many years President of the Ladies’ Aux-j iliary of the Ancient Order of Hibernians, a leader of her - people, to whose zeal and piety are due the initiative and the successful issue, in the face of insuperable difficulties, of the movement to erect a monument to the Nuns of the Battlefield, Mrs. Ellen Ryan Jolly, of Pawtucket, Rhode Island^	•
On a distinguished priest who enjoys alike the confidence of his superiors, the affection of his brother clergymen and the enthusiastic devotion of the laity, and especially the poor, among whom he has labored with incredible devotion and success, a noble pastor of souls and [the chief citizen of his community: The Very Reverend Peter Edward
Blessing, Vicar - General of Providence, Rhode Island;
On a gentle priest and scholar who was drawn from the peaceful labors of the lecture-room in a great University to share in the horrors of war who for nearly four years since the outbreak of-the conflict has shared largely in its perils and privations, a hero in the shock of battle, who has been decorated by both the French and English governments, a master of the subtle science of Modern Psychology: the Rev. Lieutenant George Michael Sauvage, of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, Notre Dame, Indiana; -
On an illustrious citizen of Illinois, whose genius has impressed itself profoundly on industrial conditions and who; in this supreme crisis of national life, has nobly responded to the call of America in assuming charge of one of the most vital of the great war activities: Mr. Edward'Nash Hurley, Chairman of the United States Shipping Board;
On an honored alumnus of Notre Dame, a wise and erudite jurist, a powerful and courageous defender of right against injustice and intolerance: The Honorable Charles Curtiss Craig, Chief Justice of Illinois;	-
On a learned priest and Canonist, whose energy "and intelligence have borne noble fruit in the reversal by the Supreme Court of Oklahoma of the decision regarding the use of wine for sacramental purposes: The Very Rev. Urban de Hasque, Chancellor of the Diocese of Oklahoma;
On an erudite and graceful writer, whose contributions to historical study in the United States and Canada have won for him international recognition: Mr. Pierre Georges Roy, of Quebec, Canada.
Degree of Master of Arts in Course—Bernardo Lopez; thesis, “A Comparative Study of the Various Forms of Municipal Government in the United States.” Sister Mary Eleanore, Ph. B., St. Mary’s College, Notre Dame, Ind.; thesis, “Wage Theories of Twenty Contemporary Economists: a Classification and Criticism.” Sister Mary Benedictus, Ph. B., A. B., St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, Ind.; thesis, “A Criticism of the Electoral System in-the United States.” Sister Mary Madeleva, A. B., St. Mary'X. College, Notre Dame, Ind.: thesis, “The Familiar Essay in the Teaching of College English.” Sister Mary Agnes, A. B., St. Mary’s College, Notre Dame, Ind.; thesis, “The Psychology of Prayer.”
Degree of Master in Architecture—William Wirt Turner, B. S. in Arch., 1915, Washington, D. C.; thesis, “Work on Wood Lawn Mansion and ‘Court House’ of Washington, D. C.”	_
Degree of Master in Science—Joseph William Stack, B. S., 1915, Lansing, Mich.; thesis, “Aquatic Life with Special Reference to Entomostraca.”
Degree of Bachelor of Arts—Francis Joseph Boland, Andover, Mass.; George Leo Holderith, Kokomo, Ind.; Leo John Jones, Dowagiac, Mich.
Degree of Bachelor of Letters—Brother Austin, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Ind.; Matthew Aloysius Coyle, Madison, Wis.; Leigh Thomas Graham Hubbell, Croswell, Mich.; Francis Patrick Monighan, Oil City, Pa.: John Louis Reuss, Fort Wayne, Ind.; *Raymond Edward Skelley (1911); Charles John Williams, Oak Park, 111. .	•
Degree of Bachelor of Philosophy—*Francis Leo Cullinan, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Delmar Joseph Edmondson, Marion, Ohio; John Augustine Lemmer, Escanaba, Mich.; Edward Manning McLaughlin, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Thomas Lil-lingham Mott, Jr., South Bend, Ind. '
*The asterisks indicate the graduates who were not present at the commencement on account of being in the military service.
586
Moure Same Scholastic
Degree of Bachelor of Phylosophy in Journalism— Charles Warren Call, Jackson, Mich.; James Patrick Logan, Denver, Colo.
Degree of Bachelor of Philosophy in Commerce—Earl James Clark, Philadelphia, N. Y.; Louis Edward Wagner, Strawn, Kans.; James Gordon Wallace, Nunda, N. Y.
Degree of Bachelor of Science—Brother Austin, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Ind.; Edward John Reynolds, Bellows Falls, Vt.; *Neil James Whalen, Jackson, Mich.
.Degree of Civil Engineer—Clarence Henry Brown, Kalamazoo, Mich.; *Richard Vincent Hyland, Penn Yan, N. Y.
Degree of Mechanical Engineer—*William Joseph Thomas Marshall, Brooklyn, N. Y.; *Leonard Frank Mayer, Chippewa Falls, Wis.; Paul Francis Swift, Day ton, Ohio.
Degree of Electrical Engineer—William Joseph Andres Bridgeport, Conn.; *Walter Elgy Ashdown, Port Byron, Ill, Degree of Chemical Engineer—*Peter John Ronchetti, South Wilmington, III.
Degree of Bachelor in Architecture—*Norbert Gerhardt Monning, Chattanooga, Tenn.
Degree of Bachelor of Laws—Francis Alvin Andrews, Rock Island, Ill.; Leo Louis Cook, South Bend, Ind.; Harold Richard Delaney, Tulsa, Okla.; *Richard Joseph Dunn, Ottawa, Ill.; *Joseph John Feldott, Batavia, III.; Vincent Claude Giblin, Mobile, Ala.; James Francis Hanlon, Telluride, Colo.; George Edwin Harbert, Hoopeston, Ill.; Louis Henry Hellert, Vincennes, Ind.; Thomas Jefferson Hoban, Elgin, Ill.; Francis John Hurley, Woodstpck, Ill.; Earl Francis Jennett, Streator, III.; Maximilian Gregory Kazus, Buffalo, N. Y.; William Henry Kelley, Richmond, Ind.; Thomas Clarkson Kelly, Milwaukee, Wis.; Donato Lepore, Bridgeport, Conn.; Bernardo Lopez, Bacnotan, Union, P. I.; Francis Thomas McGrain, Geneva, N. Y.; Arthur Lawrence May, South Bend, Ind.; *Raymond William Murray, Bridgeport, Conn.; *Thomas O’Meara, Ottawa, Ill.; Albert Stephan O’Sullivan, Mound City, Ill.; *David Philbin, Portland, Ore.; Joseph Thomas Riley, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Francis Xavier Rydzewski, Chicago, Ill.; George Andrew Schock, South Bend, Ind.; *Joseph Harry Sylvestre, Crookston, Minn.; *Clyde John Zoia, Woodstock, Ill.
Degree of Graduate in Pharmacy—Bernado Restrepo, Columbia City, S. A.; Edward John Reynolds, Bellows Falls, Vt.; Alvarez Rene Rodriquez, Santo Domingo City, j	Certificate for the Short Course in Commerce—Carl
Frederick Eigelsbach, Rennselaer, Ind.; Louis Henry Follett, Crafton, Pa.; Claire Robert Gaukler, Pontiac, Mich.; Leo John Welsch, Charles City, la.
The Meehan, Gold Medal for the best English Essay ' (Senior) presented by Mrs. Eleanor Meehan, of Covington, Kentucky, is awarded to Leigh Thomas Graham Hubbell, Croswell, Michigan. Subject: “The Novels of Canon Sheehan.”
!	The Martin J. McCue Gold Medal, presented by Mr.
j	Warren A. Cartier, Civil Engineer of the Class of ’77, for
f	the best record for four years in the Civil Engineering
? program, was awarded to Clarence Henry Brown, Kala-I mazoo, Michigan.
J	The Dockweiler Medal for Philosophy, founded by Mr.
|	Isidore S. Dockweiler, of Los Angeles, California,- in
;	memory of his deceased father, for the best essay on some
j.	philosphical theme (Senior Year) is awarded to Leigh
I	Thomas Graham Hubbell, Croswell, Michigan. Subject:
| “The Lawfulness of Reprisals in War.” .	. .
The Monsingor O’Brien prize for the best essay on some topic dealing with the history of the Northwest Territory is awarded to Arthur Barry Hope, DeKalb, Illinois. Subject: “The Missionary Work of Father Badin among the Pottawotomie Indians.”
The Barry Elocution Gold Medal, presented by the Honorable P. T. Barry of Chicago, Illinois, is awarded to Cornelius Raymond Palmer, Chicago, Illinois.
The Breen Gold Medal for Oratory, presented by the Honorable William P. Breen, of the Class of ’77, is awarded to John Augustine Lernmer, Escanaba, Michigan.
Ten dollars in gold for Junior Oratory presented by Mr. James V. O’Donnell, of the class of ’89, is awarded to Thomas Francis Healy, Limerick City, Ireland.
Ten dollars in gold for Sophomore Oratory presented by Mr. James S. Hummer, of the class of ’91, is awarded to Cornelius Raymond Palmer, Chicago, Illinois.
Ten dollars in gold for Freshman-Oratory presented by Mr. Hugh O’Neill, of the class of ’91, is awarded to Michael Joseph Tierney, Rochester, New York.
Obituaries.
THE REV. GEORGE M. SEARLE, C. S. P.
The Very Reverend George M. Searle, former superior general of the Paulist Congregation, died at the mother house in New York City on July 7th. .Father Searle was a distinguished scholar and a noted missionary. He was graduated from Harvard University in 1857, and during the Civil War was made professor of mathematics at the Naval Academy at Annapolis. He was later professor of mathematics at the Catholic University of America, and the author of many articles on astronomy. At the University of California, he made special observations on Halley’s comet. He was a convert to the Catholic faith, and by his very popular book, “How to become a Catholic,” made clear and easy the way for many others -who sought the light of the true faith. *
DR. WASHINGTON GLADDEN.
The religious and secular press are unstinted in their praise of the late Dr. Washington Gladden. He was a distinguished scholar and a minister of the Congregationalist Church, noted for his broad and tolerant spirit. In 1892-4, when the A. P. A.’s did a deal of bigoted trumpeting about this country, Dr. Gladden, in a series of articles in the Century Magazine,, arid by sermons from his own pulpit, severely condemned this spirit of intolerance as un-Christian and un-American. While holding strongly to the tenets of his own creed, he was broadly tolerant and sympathetic towards all those who thought differently from him. but he had no place in his heart for those who professed to be
Notre dame Scholastic
religious Christians while promoting a campaign of falsehood and calumny. Dr. Gladden received the degree of Doctor of Laws from the University in 1895.	'
LIEUTENANT J. CLOVIS SMITH.
Notre Dame has lost a true son in Lieutenant . Smith. Brilliant, an untiring worker and a born fighter who chafed for contest, Clovis threw himself heart and soul into every kind of college activity at Notre Dame. For three years as a member of the University debating team, he did intellectual battle with representatives of other universities, and in his graduating year he represented Notre Dame in the Indiana State oratorical contest. After completing his work for the degree of Ph. B. at Notre Dame, he studied law at Columbia and was about to begin his career as- a lawyer when America entered the war. Lieutenant Smith joined the Officers’ Reserve Training Camp at Fort Niagara and on receiving his commission as second lieutenant, sailed for France. Any one who knew the ardent spirit of Clovis Smith as Notre Dame men knew it, could easily conjecture that he would not be long away from the fighting; and when the details of that final contest are known, it will be seen without doubt that Clovis and the platcon of machine gunners under his command, have made an envious record in battle. Lieutenant Smita died on June 22 as the result of gas poisoning. The Faculty of the University offers its sympathy to his bereaved parents and assures them of prayerful remembrance of this true, ideal Notre Dame man. _
-LIEUTENANT GEORGE O’LAUGHLIN.
News of the death of Lieutenant George^ O’Laughlin in June came as a shock to Notre Dame last month. George was ever a favorite with the students and faculty of the University, and they deeply regret his loss. Quiet and unassuming by nature; he made hosts of friends among the students and faculty at Notre Dame, and among those who were privileged to be his associates in the American army. Major Christie commanding his squadron wrote of George the day of the accident: “To us he was always ‘Our Larry O’Laughlin’, and no one can fill his place in our- hearts. He was such a clean, decent, lovable boy—and so modest—that everyone in the squadron felt as if he had been especially deputized to look out for him, even in spite of the fact that Larry was well able to take care of himself. As a pilot he had no equal in the
587
squadron, and few in the whole air service. He was a born instinctive flyer and the way he handled a machine was a pleasure-to watch. * * * We will have to get a lot of Bodies to make up, even in a small way, for Larry. * * * Everyone in camp is depressed and blue to-night for we have lost one whose winning smile will always be missed.”	-
This was Larry as Notre Dame knew him . too. He will be long remembered in the earnest prayers of her faculty and students.
LIEUTENANT ARNOLD MATTHEW MCINERNY
Notre Dame mourns the loss of another, .of her sons in the death of Lieut. Arnold Mclnerny, of South Bend, killed in battle on the 18th of July. After graduation from the South Bend High School, Arnold entered the law school of Notre Dame in September 1913. At the first call for volunteers he offered himself for the service, and after winning his commission as second lieutenant in the first officers’ trainingcamp at Fort Benjamin Harrison, he was sent overseas in September of last year. During his course here he enrolled himself among the very-best football players that Notre Dame has had, winning in his last year of play the position' of right tackle on Walter Beker sail’s All-Western. All of the testimony shows that his career in the service was as brilliant as his work on the gridiron. Anyone in the least acquainted with “Big Mac,” as he was familiarly known at-Notre Dame, will appreciate the justice of the splendid tribute paid him by his commanding officer in this letter to Mrs. Mclnerny, announcing the death of her soldier-son:
. Headquarters Ninth Infantry, A. E.'F. France, July 22, 1918.
Mrs. T. C. Mclnerny,	.	'
1725 So. Michigan St.,
South Bend, Indiana.
Dear Madam: '
Lieut. Arnold Matthew Mclnerny was killed while leading his command in action during the Allied advance south of Soissons, July 18, 1918. His death was instantaneous.	>	•
, The regiment has lost a courageous and gallant officer, beloved alike by his fellow officers and by his men. His. conduct during this battle, as in. former engagements with his regiment, has been of the highest order, and an inspiration to all about him.
The officers and men of the Ninth United States Infantry extend to you their heartfelt sympathy.
Sincerely yours,
■	(Signed) L. S. Upton.
To the" bereaved mother and other relatives Notre Dame1 offers her sincerest sympathy, and
588	-	Noure dame ©chdascic
promises to be mindful of the deceased hero in her prayers.	.
Joyce Kilmer.
America has lost by the death of Mr. Joyce Kilmer a genuine poet and a man of the highest character. An ardent patriot, he enlisted, as a private seventeen days after the declaration of war by the United States on Germany, and shortly after sailed with the Rainbow Division to France. He fell in battle on August i. Mr. Kilmer had many friends at Notre Dame where he had frequently lectured, and he will be piously remembered by them in their prayers. In a future number of the Scholastic there will appear an appreciation of the poet and his work. R. I. P.	.
Local News.
—A new high school for boys has been opened at Indianapolis in September under the direction of the Brothers of Holy Cross. The new venture is being undertaken at the invitation of the Rt. Rev. J. Chartrand, the new Bishop of the Indianapolis diocese. Brother Bernard, former superior of Sacred Heart College at Watertown, Wis., has been appointed superior of the new . school. Other members of the Holy Cross congregation assisting Bro. Bernard are Bro, Anthony, C. S. C., formerly professor at the Central High School at Fort Wayne, and Bro. Austin, C. S. C., who was graduated- in letters and also in science at Notre Dame last June.
—The first summer school session of Notre Dame University opened Monday morning, July 1, with a. registration of one hundred and sixty students. One hundred and twenty were teachers, most of them nuns of the various religious orders, pursuing courses in advanced educational work and in philosophy. During the first few days of school the number of students increased to two hundred and twenty-one. Considering present war conditions and other difficulties which presented themselves, the registration presages a bright future for the Notre Dame Summer school. The registration according to states was: Arizona, 1; Arkansas, 1; California, 1; Idaho, 1; Illinois, 36; Indiana, 98; Mexico, 2; Michigan, 11; Minnesota, 2; Missouri, 1; New York, 6; Ohio, 18; Oklahoma, 1; Pennsylvania, 10; Texas, 2; Utah, 11; Washington, 3; Wisconsin, 4; South America, 7; Central America, 1; Philippine Islands, 3; Porto Rico, 1.
—On Sunday morning, June 16, there were raised to the priesthood four seminarians of the Congregation of the Holy Cross—Revs. Joseph Heiser of South Bend, James Stack of Springfield, III., Salvator Fanelli of Louisville, Ky., and William Burke of Chicago. The ceremony was performed in the Church of the Sacred Heart by the Right Reverend Herman Joseph Alerd-ing, Bishop of Fort Wayne, with the Very Reverend Provincial, Andrew Morrissey, and the Reverend Eugene Burke, of the University^ Faculty, as assistants. Although the Bishop, owing to his recent illness, was unable to sing High Mass, the ceremony was lacking neither in solemnity nor grandeur to the parents, relatives, and friends who witnessed this glorious reward of patient sacrifice.
On the following Sunday the new priests celebrated their first solemn Mass in their home parishes—Father Heiser in St. Patrick’s Church, South Bend, Father Fanelli in Louisville, Father Stack in Springfield, and Father Burke in St. Bernard’s Church, -Chicago. The newly ordained, ,who are all Notre Dame graduates in Arts, have just completed a four-year course in theology at the Catholic University. After their vacation they took up the work of the Congregation, and their brilliant success as students gives fair promise of a splendid future.
x—During the coming school year the regular army officers will be assisted in training Notre Dame’s future soldiers by twenty-six qualified faculty and student officers who are now training in the Students’ Army Training Corps Camps at Fort Sheridan; Ill.
The presidents of colleges were requested by Adjutant-General McCain to select a certain number of students and faculty members to attend the sixty-day training camp which opened on July 18. Notre Dame’s quota was quickly filled by men of the highest type, physically and mentally. Applications were eagerly sought and the faculty regrets that more could not have been appointed.
The professors and students are in separate companies, but we have heard that the “profs” are doing their “awkward squad” stunts “en. camouflage” in the “sma’ wee hours,” thus to escape the,smiles of the 3,000 college student, cadets in whose eyes it behooveth the faculty members to maintain their accustomed dignity.
The faculty members appointed from Notre Dame are: Mr. Knute Rockne, South Bend, Ind.; and Mr. William Farrell, South Bend, Ind.
Moure Same Scholastic
The student members are: Thomas Tobin, Cannonsburg, Pa.; Joseph Brandy, Ogdensburg, N. Y.; William Fitzgerald, Highland Park, Ill.; John D. Fitzgerald, Pekin, Ill.; John Powers, Urbana, Ohio; Theodore Rademaker, Marion,, Ind.; Hugh Lavery, Bridgeport, Conn.; Felix Saino, South Bend, Ind.; Leo Lovett, Castana, Pa.; Dale Vohs, South Bend, Ind.; Richard Devine, Roxabel, Ohio; Paul Schofield, Columbus, Ohio; Thomas Beacom, El Reno, Okla.; C. O. Billeaud, Broussard, La.; Edward Meagher, Ottawa, Ill.; James Culligan, West Point, Iowa; Clarence Bader, Whiting, Ind.; Paul Conaghan, Pekin, Ill.; Emmett Kelly, Ottawa, Ill.; Menifee Clements, Owensboro, Ky.; Aaron Halloran, Springfield, Ohio; Eugene Kennedy, Ox- ' ford, Ind.; Gerald Hoar, LaSalle, Ill.; James Dooley, Andover, Mass. '
Personals.
—On August 2, in Columbus, Ohio, Emma Elizabeth Eberle was married to Lieutenant • Raymond J. Eichenlaub. Nine rahs for “Ike”!
—The following message comes from Alliance, Ohio, signed A. A. Knotte (C. E. ’06): - “John Albert arrived on June 1st, 1918.” Here is a prospect for Notre Dame.
—Charles E. Eimer (student 1912-13) Belleville, Ill., was graduated from the medical department St. Louis University at the last commencement exercises of that institution.
—Lieutenant G. N. Noonan of the Royal Flying Corps, who has been attached to the Southeastern Area of the British Air Forces and carrying on raids against Ostend, is now on active service in France.	_
—Lieutenant and Mrs. Twomey M. Clifford announce the arrival of Joseph Twomey Clifford, August 1, 1918. When the young Clifford arrived, he bore the tag: “Future Notre Dame Student.” We doff our hats to him.
—The latest issue of Bethlehem Sparks is dedicated to Edward H. Schwab (LL. B., ’05.) Ed is president of the Silvex Company, founded by himself to manufacture the Bethlehem Five-Point Plug, so popular with those who use aviation, marine or automobile motors.
—Raymond M. Humphreys, Ph. B. in Journalism, 1916, was united in marriage with Miss Marion B. Fitzgerald, at Hinsdale, New Hampshire, June 6. Ray, who was art editor of the
589
1916 Dome, has been associated with the Denver Times as a feature writer and cartoonist, and he has,been unusually successful for a beginner in his difficult work. Miss Fitzgerald was formerly a Denver girl. Shortly after his marriage Ray donned the khaki at Camp Cody, Deming, N. M.
—News comes from. Lancaster, Pa., that Father Anthony F. Kaul of St. Anthony’s Church of that city, has been appointed by the Pope to the office of domestic prelate with the title of Monsignor. The news.is gratifying indeed to those who know our own Bro. Leopold, who is the brother of Monsignor Kaul.
—In a recent letter W. Elbert Carrico, 310 Engineer Train, who is a brother of Rev. J. L. Carrico, C. S. C., and a student of recent years at Notre Dame, writes from the .point of embarkation of the hustle and bustle of outgoing troops and also lays stress on the lamentable fact that more priests are needed.
—On June 13, at the Church of St. Francis in Portland, Oregon, in which he is pastor, was celebrated a solemn high Mass in memory of the twenty-fifth anniversary of the ordination of Father James Harvey Black. Father Black was a student of Notre Dame in the late ’80’s. We wish him continued success and many more years of happy life in the priesthood.
—Joe Gargan, varsity cheer-leader and popular student two years ago, and one of-the first Gold and Blue men to reach the battle front, has been wounded slightly, according to word lately received from France. Gargan joined the Marines shortly after the declaration of war in the spring of 1917, and he was soon advanced to the rank of lieutenant. He has seen much active fighting in the American sector.
—The following item concerning a recent “grad” at Notre Dame appeared in the Detroit News on June 5: “Dolly Gray, catcher with the Minneapolis club of the American Association, expects to leave the club within a few weeks to join the marine corps. Gray is in the next draft call, but probably will not have to go until August. He played football and baseball at Notre Dame, and last season made a splendid record in the Texas league.”
—The following telegram from Lieut. John C. McGinn, C. S. C., was received at the University on the first day of the annual commencement exercises: “Camp Shelby, Miss., June 9, 1918.— Father Cavanaugh: Mental pictures of these days at Notre Dame make Mississippi a desert
Nocre dame Scholastic
following quotation coming from the pen of President Wilson well expresses the regret of Dr. Egan’s numerous friends that ill health has cbm-pelted him to relinquish the important post which’ he has fulfilled with much distinction" for so many years: “I accept the resignation which it conveys with all the more regret because it is due to your health. I hope most sincerely that that may be restored "sooner than you have expected. No doubt resignation on your part and the acceptance on my part, are dictated by public duty, but I must not deny myself the pleasure of saying how sincerely I have appreciated the distinguished and highly successful services you have rendered the Government, or expressing again my personal admiration and confidence.” '
—“We are holding the Hun, have not given him an inch, nor shall we so long as one of us remains.”. These words of determination were penned by Corp. Edmund M. Keenan, of Seattle, Washington. In 1909 Ed was a student at Notre Dame, but for the last three years he has been serving in France with the fighting’ 38th Infantry Battalion of the Canadian Army. He has had charge of a Lewis machine gun in the trenches continually for a year and a half. Corp. Keenan wears three golden stripes on the cuff of his coat sleeve indicating that he was seriously . wounded in battle on three different ocasions. While he was still convalescing from his last wound, which was received on September 2, 1917, the battalion commander sent him a despatch asking him to return to his post to stop the Huns’ advance at Passchendale Ridge. Ed went, the Germans came, saw, and were slaughtered. Corp. Keenan has earned for himself an enviable reputation as a machine gunner, as is shown by the following extract from a letter written by his battalion commander to S. A. Keenan, Ed’s father: “Your son is a most excellent soldier, a credit hot only to his country blit to the entire Canadian Army.” The Kaiser has reason to fear men of this calibre.
—In an interview with Cardinal Farley in the New York World recently, the famous correspondent, Arthur Bennigton, writes:
To illustrate how vitally important Catholic soldiers regard the sacraments of the Church, the Cardinal quoted a paragraph from a letter written by Corpl. E. AI. Keenan of the 38th Canadian, Infantry, from “Somewhere in . France,” to James A. Flaherty of New Haven, relating an incident of the afternoon preceding the Canadians’ famous advance on Lens, as follows:	'
“The general officer commanding inspected- us in the
590
and beget a longing for the old place, the old friends, and the old times: 'Congratulations to the men of Ninteen-Eighteen—a better type does not exist. Affectionate regards to yourself, the faculty, the alumni, Dr.. Blessing, and Mrs. Jolly.—(Signed) John C. McGinn?’
—The following card explains itself:
Introducing	,
; GEN. J. P. MfcEVOY, Jr. A. E. F.
(Awfully Essential Feller)
Branch of Service: Infantry.
.	Sister-in-Arms Dorothy Alary McEvoy.
Nearest Relatives: Generalissima Airs. J. P. AIcEvoy, private j. p. mcevoy.
Born:	July 27, 1918.
Occupation:	Loafing.
Size: 81bs.,-5 oz.‘ Complexion: Rose. Hair: Trace. Teeth:' None.. Eyes: Two. Features:, Resembles father, but is healthy and normal in all other respects.
—William H. Barbour, well-known on the campus during his three years at Notre Dame, writes Father Joseph Burke from Camp Perry: “If this war ends within a couple of years I think I will return to school. I am going to tell you of one of-my first experiences. On our first day of rdrill our company commander, asked how many had had any military experience. I put my hand up and the following conversation ensued:
‘Where did you get your experience?’
‘At Notre Dame.’
‘Notre Dame, eh? then you must have had some d—-— good stuff. Take left guide.’
—Another ’ Notre Dame man has been honored in France.’ Private Leo F. McGuire of Tulsa, Oklahoma, has been awarded the distinguished service cross by General Pershing. The following story oPhis heroism appeared in the Chicago Herald and'Examiner on Saturday, June 15: “He was on duty as an ambulance driver at an advanced post April 19, and during the 19th and 20th made several trips to and from dressing stations over an exposed road. On one of the trips the ambulance was blown from the road by a shell explosion and McGuire was rendered unconscious.; On recovering consciousness he returned on foot. Although injured and not yet recovered from the shock, McGuire, wished to return To duty the afternoon of the same day, but was not permitted to do so until the following day.”
—Dr. Maurice Francis Egan, professor, author, diplomat^ and a loyal alumnus of-Notre Dame, .has, due to failing health, been obliged to resign as" United States Minister to Denmark. The
Noure dame Schokrscte
morning, and, it being Sunday, we had a Church of England church parade at noon. When we returned to billet, several- of us paraded to the one Catholic officer in our - battalion and told him to tell the commanding officer that as we were going ‘over the top’ and were to engage the Hun for a week we wanted an opportunity of going to our church and.performing our duties. Brigade headquarters were communicated with, and we were told to parade to this little village where a priest would be in attendance. The Catholics in three battalions went. There were so many of us-that it took three priests from one o’clock until five o’clock to hear our confessions, and administer Holy . Communion. These thousand men realized that in a few hours they would be going ‘over the top,’ facing bullets and shells, gas and boiling oil; and over they did go for five successive mornings, with a smile on their faces and a happy heart, realizing that they had done their duty to - their God and church, and were doing their duty toward liberty and humanity. Some of them made the supreme sacrifice, but the majority of .us are alive and had the pleasure of advancing our line about two miles, taking three towns and surrounding Lens.”
The E. M. Keenan referred to by the Cardinal is our Edward M. Keenan, (1906), of Clarke, South Dakota.
Letters from Camp.
American Expeditionary Force, France,
May 22, 1918 The Reverend John Cavanaugh, C. S. C.,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Reverend and dear Father:—
At last circumstances make it possible for me to write this letter—an intention which has been mine ever since my landing in France; but I have been working on the double time ever since becoming a.member of the A. E. F. family, that is,, up to the last few weeks, which have been spent in various hospitals “over here.”
While we were in the trenches, the Germans came over to see us. A lively scrap ensued, and when it was all over I was among the number that were “down.” I had a very exciting time, was taken prisoner, but finally escaped to return to my men. Fighting against odds, our boys sent them back with heavy losses after a long hand-to-hand encounter in our trenches.
A week ago Saturday I was evacuated from a French hospital to the place of present writing. Here T was delighted to find your nephew, John. We have had many visits together since then, and I have read from cover to cover the Scholastics that he brought me. I must tell you how well he is and how much he is liked by all of the doctors and nurses, because I know that you will be glad to hear about him. He is very much interested in his work, and, in a few words, is getting along splendidly.
In my wanderings through France, I have met Mclnery, Reeves, Captain Campbell, Nowers, and Perkins. I was for a time in the same battalion with Mclnerny. Cassidy came over with me but was assigned to another division. I hope this letter may find you in perfect health. W7ith the best of wishes' to you and to all at Notre Dame, I am,
Very sincerely yours,
Harry Kelly.
59i
P. S.—Forgot to tell you that I was awarded the Croix de Guerre with palm leaf.—H. K.
Camp Hancock, Georgia, June 10, 1918. Dear Father Cavanaugh:—	.
It seems almost incredible that it is again time for the Notre Dame commencement, and that it is a full year_ since the memorable diamond jubilee, when I was gradr uated, even though I was in the service at that time. It is with the greatest regret that I shall not be able this year to attend the commencement exercises of my dear old Alma Mater, as I believe we shall soon be going “over there” to do our bit towards annihilating Hun Autocracy. I sincerely hope that both our going and the going of Autocracy is not far distant. Just think, it has been almost a year since I entered the service, and I am not “over there” yet.
Recently three Notre Dame boys roamed into this Camp; they were the famous Lieut. Steve Burns, Lieut. F. Kramer, of Louisville, and Sergeant Frank Kirkland, all of them looking splendid. Steve and Kramer are on detached service learning personnel work. It was a morning when I was attending a lectuie given to the Interviewing Board of the Personnel that I discovered Steve. He would never have recognized me had I not spoken, as I have some camouflage now on my upper lip. Other N. D. boys here are EdSMarcus, Tim Galvin, young Murphy of Escanaba, Michigan, and “Big Frank” Rydzewski.
The “Yanks” are sure giving the Huns “Hail Columbia,” and I know that we shall trim them eventually. Lieut. Joe Gargan, the boy with “pep”, must be seeing plenty of action these days with the Marines. He will be wearing a war cross soon, no doubt.
Best regards to yourself, and to all the other members -of the faculty, and to the boys. My only regret is that I cannot be with you for the commencement. With fondest wishes, I am,	.
Sincerely,	.
.	. “Rig” Sackley .	’
St. Nazaire, France, May 25, 1918.
Dear Father Cavanaugh:—	.
No groaning swain ever worked himself into such a lather as I have during these months of waiting for a letter from beloved America. I’ve spent a year over here in the past few weeks and it’s been a leap year too. It wasn’t news I wanted so much, for over here we ourselves do a rather big business in that line. My chief concern was'to know whether, in the opinion of those at home, I had. landed or had taken a berth among the coral-beds of the Atlantic. The suspense ended a few days ago, however, with the arrival of the first of eight letters, among them yours of April 27, and, from now on I won’t care whether we “lick” the Kaiser this year or the day after. Speaking of the Kaiser, we are having to-day a real West-Texas sandstorm and I guess it signifies the “Buddies” are taking on grit and the Germans losing theiis. Anyway I certainly was glad to hear from you and get all the news and as- ' surarice of so many prayers. The only Scholastic I’ve ever^ received directly from. Notre Dame, however, was the Washington Birthday number, a bundle of which you were ' kind enough to send to me. Until the letters came, that
592
Novre dame schoiascic
Scholastic had been my sole supply of news from America. Even one page of that wasn’t very newsy, for I had brought the “original” to France and see much of him every day. Clem Gerber now and then leaves a Scholastic at the K. C. Club for me and though I've only been fortunate enough to see Clem once, his gifts are mighty enjoyable.
... In two days I shall have completed three months of foreign service, army bunk and “chow” included, and I haven’t found yet that the army life has anything on the regime at Notre Dame. In fact no one who has “done time” at N. D. can get much of a thrill in the Army.
We even have Church in the Army too. Early yesterday morning, before I had run the comb through my hair, a young officer knocked at my quarters and asked if he couldn't go to Mass and Holy Communion. So we stepped over a few feet to a six-by-six room where the shelf on the wall had been arranged for Mass the night before by my “stricker”, who is always the Catholic son of a U. S. railroad president—and sometimes a little “son-of-a-gun.” And the server was my old friend Lieut. Jerry Murphy. After Alass, Jerry left for the front, so that Notre Dame may have someone there to take poor Harry Kelly’s place.
I am continuing this after an hour's absence. The Adjutant hurried to my quarters and notified me that a drowned seaman was to be buried at our cemetery a mile away. I rushed off to get a firing-squad, buglers, and ammunition, and then broad-jumped ditches across the fields to the graveyard. As I arrived, six seamen in white rolled up in a bounding truck, two of them sitting on a flag-draped rough-box. All they knew of the deceased was his name. A few prayers, a little talk, three volleys, taps, and away we rushed in the setting sun. So it is every day or oftener.
I reside at one of the camps outside the city, doing the usual work, besides attending the camp hospital and also the military prison (“mill”). At these institutions I do everything from administering the Sacraments to getting back-pay, clean clothes, and tobacco for the white and the “shine” inmates. On Sunday I say Mass and also conduct a general service. Last Sunday I rode eight miles in a bumpy “bath-tub” to say the Second Mass of the day for several hundred Catholic German prisoners in a British compound. With characteristic efficiency these poor fellows had during the week constructed an altar with cross and three-branch candle sticks. Throughout the Mass they sang hymns in four voices, ending with the “Holy God”. 1 spoke to them through one of them, who knew some English, promising them beads, scapular medals, and an opportunity of going to the Sacraments as soon as I can arrange for the production of a card for examination of conscience in alternate lines of German, and English, with which they can confess in lead pencil. I shall never forget how glad they were to see a priest; but I can not get to them oftener than once a month.
Well, it’s about the place to attach my name. I have made this letter long because it is difficult to write often, especially since one must try to get a few lines off now and then to other friends. Remember me kindly to all my folks, Father Boyle, Father Schumacher and the others. Thanks too for all the prayers. I’ll be home when the “job” is done—not before.	,
. Obediently yours, ~	’
E. A. Davis, Chaplain, U. S. N. G.
American E. F., France, July 27, 1918.
Dear Father Moloney.
No doubt you have already heard about the “Fling” we, the Marines, have had with the Huns and the way we slaughtered them. We lost a good many men and officers, as I told you we would, but believe me when I tell you that for everyone we lost, we killed at least ten “Bodies.”
We relieved the French in the position nearest Paris after the “Boche” had driven them fifteen kilometers in six days. We relieved them at night and the “Boche” never knew we were there. After we got set, our patrols reported the “Boche” advancing, and my captain—whose name is Burns, and a braver man never lived (I just got word he lost both legs)—said, “Well, Gargan, let’s go out and have a Fling with the Fiends of Hell.” We advanced about 1,000 yards to a more advantageous position and waited. They advanced and opened up with their machine guns. A few of the boys close to me keeled over. A terrible feeling came over me as I heard the bullets whizzing past and the big shells breaking close by. About this time we could see their first wave, but they could not see us. I forgot to tell you that the French, whom we relieved, begged us as they were going out to go with them, saying that the “Boche” outnumbered us fifteen to one, and that the “Boche” would be in the town behind us in the morning. Captain Burns said his orders were to hold, and that if the “Boche” got into the town behind us in the morning they would have to get there over our dead bodies.
About eleven waves of Germans advanced and eleven waves fell. It was terrible the way they came. At times I was afraid our ammunition or something would give out; but even though they came in great masses, we never felt for a moment that we should not drive them back. It was an awful sight, Father. We took one prisoner and he said that they had orders to take the town behind us at any cost; but since that time we ha.ve driven them back eight kilometers, wrecked three of their divisions, and we were giving two more of their divisions h— when I was carried away.	,
The nurse just came in and told me that my captain is dead, and that the other officers in my company are wounded and are not expected to live. I hope to be back in the line having another go with Fritz in about five weeks.
I got my wound in the most advanced point of the line where I had been sent to get a machine gun nest. They killed eight of the twelve men with me, but we put the M. G. nest out of commission. I “got mine” right through the leg. The operation has been very successful, but at first dressing after the operation when they pulled the packing out of my leg, I almost lost my mind. But I am getting along well now and everything looks fine.
It was such a large battle I shall not try to tell you all about it now, but shall wait until I get settled. I have been in three different hospitals since I got hurt four days ago; hence I shall not send you any address until I get a more permanent one. I lost everything I ever owned and I don’t expect to get any of the mail that has been sent to me within the last two months.
Good luck to you and old N. D.
Sincerely,
-	Lieut. J. F. Gargan,
-	U. S. Marines.