• The Notre Dame Scholastic
r Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing! Lat special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXVIII	February 8, 1935	No. 15
i-KOCTOK HAS LEAH in MEE NOTRE DAME STUDENTS WIN
» the nar PDBUC AFFA1RS INTEKNSHU> fRIZE
“Turn to the Right,” the new opus being prepared for early production by the University Theatre, promises to be one of the most entertaining plays to be presented on the campus for several seasons. The action is divided into three acts and a prologue and the subject matter is a pleasing combination of drama and comedy.
The leading role of the play, Joe Bascom, is played by Thomas G. Proctor, a veteran of the local theater group. The part is that of a misunderstood country youth who is imprisoned for a crime he did not commit. His attempt to return to his home atmosphere without letting any of the home folks discover his disgrace forms the nucleus of the plot.
Muggs and Gilly, two rather shady friends of Joe, formed while at the pen, furnish much of the humor of the play. Muggs will be played by Abe Zoss of “basketball announcing” fame and Gilly will be portrayed by the versatile Joe Mansfield.
• The old Jewish tailor and shop keeper, Isadore, will be played by Irwin Goldman. John Sweeney will play the part of the ambitious country boy, Sam, who has an idea how to make a million, and who, strangely enough, comes very close to realizing it. Other roles in the piece include that of Deacon Tillinger, who is the miserly gentleman to whom the Bascoms are indebted, the Morgan youth who for all melodramatic purposes could be termed the “city smoothie,” a detective, and another minor character.
The feminine parts will be taken over by Miss Irene Pyle, who played Nell in “Gold in the Hills,” Miss Charlotte Maurer, who has assisted in many University productions, and Miss Helen Peterson, all of South Bend.
Professor Albert Doyle is directing the play and Professor Frank Kelly is supervising the staging and the designing of the sets. The definite dates for the presentation have not as yet been decided upon, however the play is expected to be in shape before March.
SCHOLASTIC Issues Call
For Staff Candidates;
Six appointments Made
All members of the present freshman and sophomore classes who wish to apply for positions on the news or sports staff of The Scholastic are requested to report to the editorial rooms located in the Ave Maria Building next Tuesday evening, February 12, at 7:45 o’clock.
The editorial board announced this week, with the approval of the Faculty Board of Publications, the appointment of four men to the news staff and two men to the sports staff. The men added to the news staff are: Franklyn C. Hochreiter, Arts and Letters senior from Buffalo, New York; Antony O’Boyle, Arts and Letters sophomore from Philadelphia, Pa.; Bertram J. Smith, Arts and Letters freshman from Hempstead, Long Island; and Louis DaPra, Arts and Letters freshman from East Chicago, Ind.
The sports staff will be enlarged through the addition of Eugene Vaselett, Arts and Letters freshman from Brooklyn, N. Y.; and John Cackley, Arts and Letters freshman from Ronceverte, West Virginia.
Town Named in Honor of Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C.
The town of St. Edward, Nebraska, the only town of that name in the United States, was named after Reverend Edward Sorin, C.S.C., founder of the University. This fact is revealed in the Nebraska Historical Society records.
Not only was the town founded by a South Bend company but there were also emigrants from South Bend to the town.
In 1872-73 the St. Edward Land and Emigration Company was formed in South Bend with Alexis T. Co-quillard as president and Timothy E. Howard, a lawyer, as secretary. Mr. Coquillard owned a half section of the land which he deeded to the company.
TO STUDY IN WASHINGTON
By Paul Foley
Three Notre Dame men have left the campus during the week for Washington, D.C., as the winners of
Parish and Kavanaugh They may see Roosevelt.
three month Public Affairs Internships awarded for the first time this year by the National Institution of Public Affairs.
Vamum A. Parish, of Momence, Ill., John C. Kavanaugh, of Bay City, Mich., and Walter G. Layden of McAlester, Okla., are the three who rereceived appointments from the Washington institution and will take up study there.
The internships, an innovation of the new Administration, are awarded to college graduates or undergraduates majoring in economics or politics in schools throughout the country. Three months of study and actual participation in the routine affairs of governmental bureaus at the capital along with an insight into the practical workings of government machinery is afforded the student chosen.
Of the three Notre Dame selections two, Kavanaugh and Parish, are undergraduates. Parish is a senior in the College of Arts and Letters. Layden also an Arts and Letters student completed his college course at the end of the semester and is filling the last semester preparatory to getting his degree in the work at Washington.
Kavanaugh, a transfer student from the University of Michigan, is
(Continued on Page 18)
February 8, 1935
One
John A. Breen Named Chairman Qf Washington Birthday Exercises
FR. NIEUWLAND WINS
ANER. INSTITUTE MEDAL
TO SECURE A NEW FLAG
By Lindsay Phoebus
Thomas G. Proctor, president of the Senior class, has announced that the chairman of the committee for the Washington Birthday exercises will be John A. Breen of Chicago, a student in the College of Arts and Letters. The members of the committee are Richard L. Walters, of
John A. Breen
President appointed a president.
Chicago, and John J. Gainer, of Wood River, Illinois, both students in the College of Arts and Letters. The committee will secure the flag for the presentation and will make necessary arrangements for the use of Washington Hall for the exercises.
The exercises this year will be the ninetieth celebration of Washington’s Birthday at Notre Dame. Though the celebration of this memorable day began at the University in 1845 when the Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., was president of the University, it was not until 1896 that the first flag presentation was made by Sam Murdock, president of the Senior class of 1896. Since the days of Father Sorin, when the honor of presenting the program was first bestowed on the graduating' class, the celebration of Washington’s Birthday by the seniors has been an annual occurrence.
All members of the graduating class will be present at the exercises, when Thomas G. Proctor, president of the Senior class, will present the flag to the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., President of the University. An oration will be delivered by the Senior class orator, and a poem will be recited by the class poet. Neither the orator nor the poet have been selected. The complete program will be announced later.
Measurements for caps and gowns were taken this week by a representative of the E. R. Moore Company of Chicago. Walter T. Powers is chairman of the cap and gown committee.
Father Hebert Leaves
Notre Dame to Teach At Columbia University
The Reverend Peter Edward Hebert, C.S.C., head of the department of classics and professor of Latin at the University, has left the University to teach at Columbia University, Portland, Oregon.
Since his ordination in 1914, Father Hebert has taught at the University with the exception of two years, 1917-19, which he spent teaching at Columbia University in Portland.
Although Father Hebert has no degrees in botany or ornithology, he is a member of the Indiana Academy of Science. He humorously describes his interests as follows: “I teach the classics for a hobby, and spend the major part of my time in botany and ornithology.”
He has in his room hundreds of botanical specimens, and a collection of butterflies made by him is now a part of the museum of a large Detroit school.
Father Hebert has also compiled a text, “Selections from the Latin Fathers,” which is used at Notre Dame. The Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, said that Father Hebert would return to the University in June.
Prof. Miller Wins First Prize for Water Colors
At the Eleventh Annual Hoosier Salon held in the Marshall Field Galleries, in Chicago, under the auspices of the Hoosier Salon Patrons Association the following Notre Dame men exhibited their work: Professor John E. Miller of the Architectural Faculty; Professor Stanley Sessler of the Fine Arts Department; William L. Newberry and John K. Tingley architectural students.
“San Andres, Cholulu, Mexico,” a brilliant water color executed during the last summer vacation by Mr. Miller won first prize of 8100 offered by Mr. Peter C. Reilly, of Indianapolis, for the outstanding work from a Catholic school in Indiana either by a teacher or pupil.
William Newberry won the second prize of 875 offered in the same class. His water color was entitled “Indian Woman, Guanahuato, Mexico” and was one of the many he exhibited at Notre Dame recently following a trip to Mexico.
Two gold medals, one to the Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., of the University for the discovery of a process for making synthetic rubber; and the other to Dr. Carl D. Anderson, of the California Institute of Technology, for the discovery of the positron, a new fundamental unit of
Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland
Receives another medal.
matter, were awarded by The American Institute of the city of New York at the annual dinner of the American Institute held in the Hotel Astor, Feb. 7.	;
The medals, awarded by the In- j stitute, are one of the oldest awards in the United States. They were established shortly after the Institute was organized 107 years ago.
The awards were announced by a committee of which Dr. Fred M. Backet, Director of Research of the , Union Carbide and Carbon Co., is g chairman, and the members of which “ are Dr. Albert F. Blakeslee, of the Carnegie Institution of Washington;
Dr. Karl T. Compton, president of : the Massachusetts Institute of Tech- j nology; Dr. E. R. Weidlein, Director i of the Mellon Institute, Pitsburgh; ■ Dr. William Crocker, Director of the
Boyce Thompson Institute for Plant i Research, Yonkers, N. Y.; Mr. Wil-	s
liam M. Chadbourne, lawyer and	;
economist, New York; Mr. Adolph S. ] Ochs, publisher of the New York	■
Times; Dr. M. L. Crossley, Research । Director, Calco Chemical Co.; and	;
Dr. W. D. Coolidge, Director of the ; General Elictric Research Laboratories.
Both of the recipients of this year’s American Institute gold medals occupy unique positions in the field of science. Dr. Anderson is one of the youngest of our leading scientists and has made one of the most important discoveries in physical science— discovery of a new building block of the universe, the positive (Continued on Page 20)	A
Two
The S c h olas tic
SHANE LESLIE TELLS OF ATHLETIC CAREER
Seven High School Orators To .
Come Here for I.C.O. Contest
Notre Dame knows Shane Leslie as a novelist, dramatist, and professor, but up to now, virtually nothing was known of his experience and interest in athletics. This phase of his life was revealed when Mr. Leslie casually mentione'd that he had enjoyed a ten-mile run, while on a weekend visit in Holland, Michigan. He believes in rigorous training and always keeps fit because when he coached running and rowing abroad, he insisted upon strict training rules for his athletes; he felt he should set a good example for his proteges. Since his years as a coach of rowing at Cambridge, he has maintained these principles—no smoking or drinking.
“I am very anxious to see a football game at Notre Dame” said Mr. Leslie. Although his knowledge of the game is restricted to having seen the Army-Navy game of twenty years ago, he is intensely interested in football because of its similarity to rugby. “Rugby, compared with football,” Mr. Leslie remarked, “is more scientific, more speedy, and involves more running; speed is valued over strength.”
Of Notre Dame and English Universities, Mr. Leslie had this to say: “Notre Dame is more democratic, although not so much in athletic activities. In England, the athletes stand entirely on their own.”
The famed Irish author is not a stranger to Notre Dame; he lectured here last May, and was requested then by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., late president of the University, to return. His present visit will extend to June. Among his subjects are: English Literature, Greek Drama, and Celtic Archaeology.
Introduced by the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., as “a boy who never grew up,” Shane Leslie gave the first of a series of twelve lectures on Monday night, at Washington Hall; his topic was “Great Tradition.” Fr. O’Hara mentioned the gap in literature at Notre Dame left by Profes-soi- Phillip’s death, and spoke of Mr. Leslie as the man to fill the gap.
The speaker touched on tradition as it is embodied in education, athletics, and letters. As an example of the formation of tradition, he related an incident of his student days: When Jack Johnson, the colored heavyweight, ruled supreme in American pugilism, a possible challenger from England was seen in the champion of Cambridge University. This promising contender had all the qualifications of a champion—speed, agility, and unusual strength. While being (Continued on Page 5)
Knights of Columbus Plan Next Communion Breakfast on Feb. 17
The Knights of Columbus were entertained last Monday night at an unusually interesting meeting. The meeting was well attended, and business was rapidly disposed of. Plans for the coming K. of C. Ball were discussed, and the date for the next Communion Breakfast was set at Feb. 17. John Busichio is in charge of the Breakfast and he promises to have an excellent speaker. The Breakfast will be free of charge to members in good standing.
Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C., in thanking the council for its gift to him, told several touching incidents about colored people with whom he had come in contact. He told of having received a blessing from a dying colored woman in the South. Father Connerton made strong arguments in favor of eliminating the social position of negroes.
Walter Kennedy spoke on “Mixed Marriages.” He argued against mixed marriages. Rev. Julian P. Sigmar made supplementary remarks. Brother Kennedy’s talk was made in connection with the Catholic Action movement recently stai-ted in the council. This movement has met with great approval, and is the cause of renewed interest in council activities.
Brothei- Ray Martin, Editor of the Santa Maria, announced that this issue of the magazine will be published in connection with the K. of C. Ball. Brother Robert Grogan received promise of wide support in the membership drive which will be launched next week.
Notre Dame Mourns Death Of Rt. Rev. Msgr. Delaney
Notre Dame mourned last week the passing of the Rt. Rev. Msgr. Joseph F. Delaney, of St. Patrick’s church in Fort Wayne, characterized by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., as “a great friend of the University.” Monsignor Delaney’s interests extended outside his own parish, and through his work in the Catholic Youth organization and in his capacity as officialus of the diocese of Fort Wayne, he became to be associated with activities here at Notre Dame.
Monsignor Delaney died on Friday, Feb. 1, in his 75th year from angina pectoi-is. He had been ill since August, and had been in the hospital for several weeks before his death. A solemn requiem Mass was celebrated in Fort Wayne last Tuesday.
M’NAMARA DONATES CUP
By Franklyn Hochreiter
Seven high school orators will arrive on the Notre Dame campus tomorrow as guests of the University to represent their schools and towns in the final contest of the Indiana Catholic Oratorical which is spon-
Louis Hkuby
See paffe six.
sored by the Wranglers, Honorary Forensic Society of the University.
On Saturday the young men will be taken on a tour of the campus and then will be guests of honor at a banquet in the Lay Faculty Dining room, that evening. This will be followed by a theatre party and buffet lunch.
At 2:30 Sunday afternoon, in Washington Hall, the seven contestants will vie for a trophy donated by Joseph P. McNamara, deputy attorney general of Indiana. Mr. McNamara will be at the contest to present the winner ■with the prize.
The contest will be judged by Reverend Francis P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., of the Economics department, Prof. Ronald Cox, of the Speech department, and Arthur L. Korzeneski, president of the Wranglers. Louis Hruby, chairman of the contest, will preside at the meeting.
Because of the conscientious efforts of these boys visiting the campus and their interest in the progress and activities of Notre Dame it is hoped that a sufficient number of the student body will attend the oratorical contest.
February 8, 19^^
Three
CLUBS REPORT RESULTS OF CHRISTMAS DANCES
Fourteen campus clubs whose members danced at Notre Dame function during the Christmas holidays, have answered the call of the S.A.C. and Presidents’ Council and submitted financial statements of their activities. . ,
In spite of rumored financial catastrophe six of the fourteen statements presented show the clubs to have made a profit while one organization balanced its account perfectly and shows an even break.
On the credit side of the ledger the examiners found the Akron, Buffalo, Central New York, Chicago, Indianapolis, and Villagers Clubs, while the Triple Cities Club reported profits.
Chicago Club Shows Profit
On the other side of the financial picture the Metropolitan Club leads the parade followed by the Calumet, . Capital District, Fort Wayne, Rhode Island, Rochester, and Vermont clubs.
While from the standpoint of dollars and cents the deficits rolled up by campus groups far over-balances the profits made, the discrepancy is largely because of the heavy losses of the Metropolitan and Rhode Island clubs who between them managed to accumulate a $350.00 debt—$290.00 against the New Yorkers, and $60.00 against the much smaller Rhode Island organization.
Among the money making organizations the Chicago club is far in the lead showing an aggregate profit of $297.00. Out of this amount they have already liquidated a $100.00 debt and are proceeding with a treasury balance of $197.00.
Walters And O’Brien
Richard Walters and Walter O’Brien, who took charge of the affair when President John Jordan and Chairman John Breen were both away from Chicago during the holidays, compiled by far the best financial record of any of the groups, pulling their organization out of debt and establishing one of the few sizable reserves on the campus.
In line with their new policy of close ’supervision the S.A.C. and Presidents’ Council have also ruled that each campus club must present a statement bearing the signature of each member of the club on or before February 10. The statements may be tendered to either Edward J. Van Huisseling at 117 Walsh hall, or to Phil Purcell at 106 Walsh.
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS TO DANCE TONIGHT AT FORMAL
The Knights of Columbus will dance tonight to the tuneful melodies of Charlie Agnew and his orchestra. From 8:30 until 12:30, the knights and their guests will waltz over the spacious floor of the Palais Royale. General Chairman John Clark will lead the knights in a grand march —
Lawrence Sexton He follows Clark.
this being an innovation to K. of C. Formals. He will be followed by Lawrence Sexton, Grand Knight of the Notre Dame council.
This is the annual Knights of Columbus Formal Ball, which is one of the largest dances held during the school year. This year it is open only to students, making a favorable, contrast to the years in which the dance has open to the public. The restricted attendance assures an open floor and avoids unpleasant overcrowding of the dance floor.
The orchestra is of higher class than is customarily employed for this dance. Few college dances offer such excellent music for the nominal sum of two dollars per couple. The knights have been fortunate in being able to obtain this class of music at this unusually low price. Emrie Anne Lincoln, as famous on the air as on dance floors, will sing with the orchestra.
For several weeks the committees of the dance have been at work striving to make the evening a success. Chairman Clark is sure everything is in readiness for an evening to be remembered.
FRESHMAN ELECTIONS ARE ON NEXT FRIDAY
By Paul Foley
The first salvo in the year’s political barrage is to be fired at 12:30, February 15, in the gymnasium, when nominations are to be held for Freshman class officers.
According to announcement from Charles Schill, chairman of the S.A.C. Election committee, the first year men will convene at that time to place candidates in the running for the four class offices, President, Vice-president,'Secretary, and Treasurer.
After the smoke of the first skirmish has been settled the actual elections will be held in Carroll Hall recreation rooms on Wednesday, February 20.
Announcements of candidacy for nominations must be filed with Chairman Schill, at 409 Walsh hall, before 6:00 p.m. on Wednesday, February 13.
While most of the embryonic politicians haven’t begun to test then' ?rms in public, it is expected that the Freshmen elections will take on the perennial Brownson - Carroll versus Freshman-Dillon feud.
Victory in the annual battle has shifted yearly since the erection of Dillon hall and has given the Gold-Coasters numerical superiority. The “Boys from Under the Dome” or the Brownson-Carroll combine, long supreme in the affairs of yearlings, have had little but tradition to point to after the tabulation of votes during the past two or three years of campaigning.
Whatever the outcome of the next two week’s promises, pleas, counter promises and counter-pleas, may be, the freshmen can be quite certain of qualified representation according to Chairman Schill.
“Candidates for nominations” Schill said, “must have clean scholastic and disciplinary records. Failure in any course will be sufficient reason to bar the student’s name from being placed in’ nomination. Thorough investigation of all applicants is to be made prior to the nominations of the 15th.”
Cap and Gown Notice
All seniors are requested to take notice of the fact that measurements for caps and gowns will take place once again on Saturday, Feb. 9, from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. in the basement of Walsh hall. This will be absolutely the last chance for seniors to get these measurements taken. Caps and gowns secured now can be used at the June Commencement exercises as well as at the Washington’s birthday ceremonies.
Four
The Scholastic
REPORTER INTERVIEWS NEW ITALIAN STUDENT
PROF. MANION PREPARES FOR DEBATE WITH NORMAN THOMAS
PLANNED JUNIOR CLASS SMOKER IS POSTPONED
“I like Noti-e Dame very much,” with these words, Signor Francesco Tamagna, 24 year old law graduate of the University of Pavia with a degree of doctor of law, and an exchange student at the University, opened the interview.
The exchange agreement between the University and the University of Pavia is the result of the “good-will tour” of 300 Italian students representing 28 ’ Italian universities to American universities in September, 1934. The Italian youths reported their reception at Notre Dame as “more hospitable” than any they had received.
He likes Notre Dame because of the peace and dignity of the campus, and because of the boarding school system which gives it an atmosphere unduplicated in any university which he has ) attended. Comparing college work here with that of Italian universities he said, “In Italy all is lecture work, and if you do not desire to attend the lectures, that is all right. In American universities one is required to attend all lectures.”
Signor Tamagna was born at Monza, but now resides in the district of Pavia. His early training was at the schools of Monza, and his university training at Pavia. He sailed from Genoa in October and spent two months in New York, studying banking at Columbia University and the Federal Bank of New York City. At Notre Dame Signor Tamagna will specialize in graduate work studying the credit of agriculture and movement of capital especially during the period of 1922-1929.
He was greatly surprised at the lack of a youth movement in America, and the indifference of young Americans toward government and politics. He said, “In Europe the youth movement is a powerful political factor. It was the youth movement which gave Naziism to Germany, Fascism to Italy, and Communism to Russia, and is directing the conduct of government in France today. In England and America I find no great youth I movements.”
In speaking of the two dictatorships of Hitler and Mussolini, the newcomer said that the two men are the expressions of prevailing sentiment of the peoples of both Germany and Italy. Signor Tamagna said that it was not a question of whether dictatorship was good or bad, but a question as to the need of a dictatorship.
The only custom that he has given up is the drinking of his small demi-tasse of black coffee each morning.
* Signor Tamagna said that in Italy
“Socialism vs. Capitalism,” the outstanding debate in South Bend in many years will be held Monday, Feb. 11, in the Central High School auditorium. The participants in the de-
Prof. Clarence Manion He’ll protect big business.
bate will be Norman Thomas, the nation’s leading socialist and former candidate for President, and Clarence Manion, professor of Constitutional Law, at the University. Mr. Manion was recently recommended for the position as director* of Indiana’s National Emergency Council to succeed Fred Hoke of Indianapolis.
Mr. Thomas, who has just this past year published a book entitled Human Exploitation, in which he delves into the actual conditions existing in the American working class today, is known throughout the nation as one of the foremost American orators.
Mr. Manion’s fame as a speaker, a politician, and governmental authority, ranges from the campus to the White House. He is known among the student body for his inspiring talks at pep meetings and for his address at the dedication of the new University post office. He was a senatorial aspirant in the convention last June.
Tickets for the forthcoming debate are priced at §.50, §.75, §1.00, and §1.50, and may be obtained from Irwin Goldman, 235 Howard Hall.
there was no custom equvalent to the English tea.
Signor Tamagna will probably accompany a Notre Dame man to Italy this summer. The Notre Dame student who will attend the University of Pavia has not been selected. It is expected that the selection will be made in May so that he may go abroad in September to take up his studies at Pavia.
Although the Juniors three weeks ago selected the general chairman and committees for their class Smoker and held a meeting of these committees before examinations to discuss the plans for this social event, they have dropped their intention to hold the smoker during the first few weeks of the second semester. Difficulties have caused them to postpone it until several weeks after the Junior Prom.
Until the past week no definite place was secured for the program, and it is impossible at present to obtain the Engineering or Law Building auditoriums for an evening. Plans, moreover, had assumed little definiteness to assure the posssibility of a completed program within a week. Only a few probable speakers and a few of the numbers that constitute a finished program were decided upon. .
After the Junior Prom of March 1 renewed effort will be put forth to make this strictly class affair a success. The committees that have been appointed will remain unchanged and will proceed with their duties as they have intended.
SHANE LESLIE
(Continued from Page 3)
primed for the proposed bout with Johnson, the English hope had to quit the ring forever. In a match with a professional, he lost his temper and struck his opponent a crashing blow. The bruiser crashed to the floor, and “He did not rise that night—or the next night—or the night after that. He was dead.” That Cambridge .man became a tradition.
In regard to modern literature, Mr. Leslie expressed the fear that it is not going far, and that it will not enter the great tradition of the Latin and the Greek.
“Tradition in letters can be seen through the grammarian’s eyes, or through the poet’s eyes.” The story of Jason and Medea originated the legend of the Golden Fleece. Mr. Leslie stressed the importance of Greek and Latin in the development of English literature by saying that “In the background of great English literature is the thundering, sounding Latin. Every great line in English poetry can be traced back to Latin.”
The purpose of the lecturer’s visit to Notre Dame is to discover seed of style in writing. In his four-month stay here, he hopes to find men who will achieve fame in prose and poetry.
All members of the Football Band are asked to report to Prof. Joseph Casasanta next week.
February 8 , 1935
Five
TRAVEL LECTURE SET FOR THURSDAY NIGHT
M’ALOON IS PREXY OF ST. VINCENT DE PAUL
‘‘The American Student Abroad” will be the theme of a lecture to be given in Washington Hall on Thursday, February 14 at 8 p.m. by William Howe Collins, President of the Intercollegiate Young Alumni association and a member of the executive committee of the National Student Federation of America. Mr. Collins will entertain his audience with a description of student life and opportunities for undergraduate and graduate study in Europe.
Besides this lecture, a free travel show is to be presented at the same time. Depicted in this show will be a complete trip across the Atlantic in a modern, speedy, luxury liner, followed by a journey through continental Europe with visits to Berlin, Munich, Vienna, and Switzerland; and a trip along the historic Rhine.
The lecture is under the auspices of the educational seiwice department of the Hamburg-American Line, and has been arranged by Mr. I. Mitter-mayer, the Company’s South Bend agent.
Eddie Peabody, Banjo Artist, Gives Special Student Recital
Eddie Peabody, internationally known ban joist, gave a special student performance last Monday, Feb. 4, at 12:30 in Washington Hall, at the request of the Rev. Wm. Carey, C.S.C., ■who first met Mr. Peabody some time ago in California.
An exceptionally large audience was pleased by Mr. Peabody’s rendition of several popular songs included in -which were “Stay As Sweet As You Are,” the ever-popular “Star Dust,” and “Blue Moon.”
The stage, screen and radio banjo star then brought out a guitar-harp, a creation of his own upon which he played a few more modem numbers. Mr. Peabody also delighted the student body with “The Bird Son” which he played on the violin.
Before and after the program Mr. Peabody said a few words expressing his pleasure and enjoyment in appearing before the boys of “Notre Dame College.” A certain amount of humor entered into the recital because his student accompanist ‘Charley5 had a little difficulty in keeping up with the rapid rythm of the lightninglike movements of Mr. Peabody’s fingers.
Before the program Mr. Peabody "introduced his wife and his mother who were seated in the rear of the hall. In his words it was “rare to find a case where the wife’s motherin-law accompanied the husband and his wife on a tour.”
A pair of numbei' 12’s hidden by spats flop up to the door of 311 Walsh. Entering the room and ignoring his room-mates he . clumps heavily to his desk. “Huh, I see the mail’s been around.” He picks up two letters, one from St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods, and the other from a semi-famous torch singei- in Cleve-
land: two of his many admirers. With his hat on the back of his head the busiest man on campus prepares to peruse his fan-mail.
Lou Hruby is the son of a well-known family of musicians in Cleveland. He, however, is not inclined towards this art, but has always followed publishing as a profession. Success came early in life when he became managing editor of his high-scrool paper. Other rungs in his ladder of success were appointment to The Scholastic staff in his freshman year and editorship of the 1934 Dome. Besides this writing ability Lou is an excellent speaker both in and out of class. Realizing his forensic ability his fellow Wranglers appointed him chairman of the Indiana Catholic Oratorical contest which is to be held this week-end.
Although never outwardly active in politics he was one of the guiding hands of the winning party in his junior class election. He also supports the Roosevelt administration no matter how trying the circumstances may be.
This is his prescription for passing examinations: Don’t cram, read at least two novels between exams, and see countless movies, and above all avoid work.
His main concern is keeping busy doing nothing, and a serious game (Continued on Page 18)
Selection of new officers and new members occupied the greater part of the St. Vincent de Paul Society’s first meeting of the new semester, Tuesday evening, Feb. 5. New officers are: President, Vincent Mc-Aloon; 1st Vice-president, Ed Owens; 2nd Vice-president, Phil Welsh; Treasurer, Franklin Fox; Secretary, Joseph. Matricia. Retiring officers ‘ are: President, August Petrillo, Secretary, James Gregory; Treasurer, George Hill.
Rules Will Be Observed
President McAloon announced a strict observance of the Society’s rules in the matter of accepting new members, who must first give their names to a regular member, have him bring them before the society for discussion, then have the matter of admission decided by the society. James McDevitt, newly-appointed librarian of the club, will chronicle a history of the society, and will send clippings of the society’s activities to alumni members.
Wilbur Bernard gave an account of a visit of his to a St. Matthew’s Church group in South Bend, to which he delivered a short talk on the society at Notre Dame. His remarks produced enthusiasm and interest in the group, which appointed a committee to confer with the pastor about the formation of a society in the parish.
Cooperate With Government
An adult education and rehabilitation of cripples project is being inaugurated in St. Joseph Valley by the Federal Government, with the cooperation of the St. Vincent de Paul Society of Notre Dame. An illiteracy survey is to be made among the 200 families of this region to determine whether they are qualified to receive . the vocational and academic training from unemployed teachers of the St. Joseph Valley Region, who are to be paid by the Federal Government. These people will have a choice of engaging in some kind of vocational training for which they are adapted, or of taking, courses in such subjects as literature, economics, and languages. The illiteracy test will seek to discover the qualifications and adaptations of these persons. The Notre Dame Conference of the St. Vincent de Paul society will sponsor and direct this drive, but participation in it will not be restricted to that society’s members. Any student who wishes to take part in the program may do sojby leaving his name with Vince McAloon in 218 Lyons Hall.
Six
The Scholastic
; BLANKS FOR COMM.
SURVEY DISTRIBUTED
College Parade With Vincent Gorman
DEBATERS OPEN SEASON AGAINST KENT SUNDAY
The Commerce Forum commodity questionnaires have all been distributed, and tabulation of the results is already under way. The blanks have been distributed personally by members of the Forum so that re-
Frank Shay
He doesn’t ivant a joke.
plies will be, according to Frank Shay, president, “sincere, and accurate.”
“In the past,” he said, “such questionnaires have been taken as a joke. We don’t want a repetition of that.”
The survey which the Forum is conducting will show the tastes of the campus in such commodities as tooth paste, shaving cream, socks, and shoes. Residents of all halls have been canvassed. The questionnaires were given to 50% of the seniors, 25% of the juniors, 15% of the sophomores, and 10% of the freshmen.
Commerce freshmen are now eligible for membership in the Forum. They must have an average of 82% for the first semester, and must make formal application in order to be considered. So far, 24 have applied.
Mr. Riordan Speaks
Mr. Robert -B. Riordan, registrar at the University, attended a luncheon Feb. 7, at the Whiting Lions Club, Whiting, Ind., and spoke on the subject, “Functions of the Registrar.”
During the course of the day he interviewed members of surrounding high schools as prospective students of the University. Interviews were as follows: Central Catholic High school of Hammond, 2:30; Emerson High school, 4:15; and a meeting of the Calumet Alumni, in Hammond, at 6:00.
Today, there will be a gathering of the Notre Dame Alumni of the Calumet District at the Whiting High school.
February 8, 1 9 3 1
CONSOLATIONS
Einstein would eliminate all examinations and drilling of the memory in his ideal university . . . “It w’ould be mainly a process of appeal to the . senses in order to draw out delicate reactions” he explains. . . . Student failures at U. of Georgia were caused, said the unfortunates, by: Having to take courses they didn’t like; studying with difficulty; postponing work; wasting time; being too self-conscious; failing to establish an objective and to concentrate; and being stumped by sciences and foreign languages! ... A Harvard philosophy prof had this reply for the question, “What would you do if you found yourself lost in the woods ?” — part of an ‘Intelligence Test’ prepared by psychologists: “You might,” said he, “sit down on a stump and chew your finger-nails, but it probably would be smarter to look for the moss on the north side of the Ph.D. who wrote the examination.”
University of Richmond students are campaigning strenuously to abolish the system of undergraduate ‘correctors’.
PROM STORY
This one from Vassar will tickle the Juniors. The lassies at the Poughkeepsie college set their Prom date as Feb. 16. Yale, despite requests for postponement, set its annual affair for that eve. Committee Chair-lass Bradley of Vassar then issued this statement: “We feel it was a very unchivalrous action on the part of the Yale gentlemen. They should have changed their date because we had ours selected before they did. But we’re not the slightest degree upset that they won’t be here. There are plenty of others.” The ‘others,’ she said were “many colleges in the east and middle west, including Harvard and Princeton, two other well-knoivn colleges for men.” When she was asked whether the latter two colleges would not have acted differently had a conflict arisen, she replied, “No, they’re all the same!”
A freshman - sophomore barbecue at Michigan State consumed exactly one cow, 7,000 rolls, and 300 gallons of cider. (Statistics on senior smoker requested).	’
The government of China , has made military training compulsory in all colleges in Canton. .But McGill, Montreal, undergraduates recently voted 233 to 83 against support of their government in. any war it might undertake. At Colby College, Maine, the long-resented regimentation courses have been dropped, and replaced by athletics. . . . For
The Notre Dame Varsity Debate season will open on Sunday, February 10, when two negative men from here debate an affirmative team from Chicago Kent College of Law over Station WLS at 9:00 a.m..
Coach William Coyne His men are wondering.
Who the two .Notre Dame representatives would be was not made known by Coach William Coyne when he was interviewed last night. That they would be members of last year’s squad and not new men of this season’s selection, was certain.
On next Wednesday night, February 13, in Washington Hall, Notre Dame negative debates at home against a powerful affirmative team from Stanford University in California. John Locher, junior lawyer, and Joseph Becek, senior in A.B., will debate Notre Dame’s negative case against the visiting team.
The critic judge for the Notre Dame-Stanford debate will be Professor E. Knoblouch of Buchanan High school, Buchanan, Michigan.
It is expected that there will be a large turnout in Washington hall for the first home debate of the current varsity season. The meeting will convene at 8:00 o’clock.
Glee Club to Sing
The Notre Dame Glee Club, under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, will make its first public appearance of the year Feb. 19, when they will appear at the annual Knife and Fork banquet at the Oliver Hotel.
The club which now contains about 60 members will be cut to varsity size after quartet tryouts which will be held one week from tomorrow.
those who find sports too strenuous, such modified exercises as ping-pong and shuffle-board have been suggested.
The Voice of Sweetbriar is expected today featuring the latest news of the knitting craze over thar.
■	. Seven
INTERHALL DEBATE TEAM NAMED BY WRANGLERS
Dome Dust
By William Tourney
FIFTEEN STUDENTS WORK ON FERA POWER SURVEY
For the first time in three years The Wranglers selected an All Interhall Debate team from among the contestants participating in the interhall debating activity this year.
A first and second team of three men each was picked from some fifty
John Lynch
He bewails O’Brien’s absence.
debaters. Five men were given honorable mention.
The men comprising the first team are John Lynch of Walsh Hall, James Nerney of Dillon Hall and Robert Weaver of St. Edward’s Hall.
The second team includes: Clifford Brown of Badin Hall; John Weppner of Freshman Hall, and George Krug of Walsh Hall.
Those receiving honorable mention are: James Hamilton of Corby Hall; Pierre de la Vergne of Dillon Hall; John Donuovan of Walsh Hall; Edward Boyle of Carroll Hall, and Thomas Thompson of Sorin Hall.
In selecting the above men the members of the Wranglers, who were the coaches for interhall debating, considered speaking ability, stage presence and material used.
Two men of the second team George Krug and John Weppner, were successful in making the Varsity debate squad this season. All the men who participate in interhall debating obtain preparatory experience for varsity work as the interhall leagues have used the varsity question the past two years.
Symphony Plans Concert
Under the direction of Professor Richard Seidel the Notre Dame Symphony orchestra is preparing for its second concert of the year. The concert will be a popular one composed almost entirely of light numbers.
In memory of Johan Sebastian Bach’s anniversary year the program will be opened with a suite of “Six Bach numbers.” The second part of the program will be opened with the “Raymond Overture” which will be followed by two tenor solos with orchestra. The program will be concluded with selections from “Countess Maritza” and the famous “Artist Life Walse” by Johan Strauss.
Eight
But Dad!
Our excuse department places the following, with no obligation on your part, at your disposal: “He flunked over fifty percent of the class;” “I didn’t have time to finish;” “Even a senior couldn’t have passed tha one;” “We never had that stuff in class;” “I guess I crammed too much the night before; I was all mixed up in the exam;” “I just went to pieces;” “I ran out of ink and he wouldn’t let me borrow any;” “It was the third one I had that day;” “The even one was simple, but I had the odd;” “The fellow next to me was exempt.”
This semester the University has agreed with an Italian school to exchange a picked student each year.
We would like to see something along that line arranged with our favorite finishing school, not so far distant.
Over from one of the dorms came a freshman to visit a home town in Alumni. Upon arriving he remarked on the beauties of the interior. “But you ain’t seen nothing yet,” said an English major. “Come up and see the double on the third floor.”
Up the pretty steps they skipped, and bounced in upon a junior who was “studying.” He was only too glad to put his room on exhibition. Not to leave anything undone, he threw open a paneled dooi’ and all beheld a glistening white shower bath. Next the visitor was lectured on the sublimity of the view. “If you work hard enough you’ll be able to get this, room when you’re a junior.” promised his host magnanimously.
“Yeh,” answered the visitor, “but did you see the new lockers they put in for us this year?”
Annotations:
Lifted from an A.B.’s book report: “ ... If this novel was placed against a wall and a.revolver fired at it from fifty paces, the bullet would not penetrate the first chapter.” . . . Ditto from a final exam in the Commerce school: “Poetry is prose written with wide margins on both sides.” . . . The conflict between the Academy dance and the Freshman formal caused much embarrassment. Youth Youth won out . . . The indoor track meets are fast becoming social events. The first string pole vaulter was the attraction the other evening . . . Booing in the dining hall is becoming monotonous. High school stuff. ... We witnessed the refusal of a student who tried to change his major to Phy. Ed. because the other line was too long in the old post office . . . What
Fifteen students of the University of Notre Dame working under FERA supervision are assisting the Local Federal Power Commission in a rate survey of 300 local users of gas and electric appliances. The results will be forwarded to the Federal Power Commission in Washington for. analysis.
Students To Canvass Homes
The survey is being made under authority of Senate Joint Resolution No. 74, authorizing the Federal Power Commission to investigate power rates on a nation-wide basis.
In connection with the work, the students have spent the last two weeks compiling from records of utility companies itemized utility bills of consumers for the past two years.
This compilation will be a background for the field survey which will begin next Friday when a house to house canvass of the same customers is begun. Each customer is at present using gas or electric refrigeration and electric cooking appliances.
Students canvassing these homes will secure the following information: number of rooms; floor areas; number in family; number of light sockets which are actually used for lighting purposes; total number of watts of such lights; and check list of other appliances according to schedule.
All students will be equipped with credentials of the Federal Power Commission signed by Frank Lloyd, comptroller of the University of Notre Dame, and by Basil Manly, vice-chairman of the Federal Power Commission.
The students who are earning some part of their college expense by assisting in the field work of the survey are: Paul Hughes, Bernard S. Reardon, Stephen Dietrich, Robert McClain, Samuel Borzilleri, Henry Lipsie, Samuel Lawler, George King, Robert Bryan, John Donohue, Salvatore Trentaeoste, Robert Rumpf, Roderick J. Gillis, Fred Hogan, and Elden Schalliol.
Mr. Lloyd is supervising the survey for the FERA and is being assisted by Professors Louis Buckley, Joseph Apodaca, and William Downey.
Following the local survey will be a survey of electric rates in rural districts adjacent to South Bend.
does Bearskin do in the winter months ?
If The Cap Fits ...
Pepper, salt,
Mustard, Cider;
Bavarian dates
Call either either. .
Th eScholastic
Voice of the Campus
Editor, The Scholastic:
We believe that The Scholastic staff has been unbelievably patient with the Architects. Week after week they print reports on student results in Beaux Arts. Week after week they encounter the mysterious vocabulary of mentions, esquisses, projects, medals and prizes. Week after week they politely and vainly await some explanation. Such patience merits reward.
Nearly every architectural school in America is enrolled in the Beaux Arts Institute of Design which, has headquarters in New York. Notre Dame is a member.
Every school in Beaux Arts works the same problem or project at the same time. On the day appointed the problems are mailed to New York for judgment, hundreds of them from all over the country.
A jury of practising Architects evaluates them as follows: first medal, second medal, first mention, mention, helf-mention, and “X.,’ “X” means nothing.
Each upper classman works about fifteen of these problems in a school year and in the intercollegiate competition of Beaux Arts he knows pretty well how he stands according to the standards of design of the colleges of the country. . The Beaux Arts publishes a bulletin with pictures of the medal drawings and complete records of the awards given with the student’s name and address. •
The Architectural students at Yale or Illinois could tell you more about Bill Newberry of Notre Dame because of his swell record in Beaux Arts than they could tell you about Robinson or Melinkovich.
All in all, when we lick Pennsylvania and Southern California and Yale and Princeton we get chesty . and tell The Scholastic about it. When they lick us we say “0. K.” Notre Dame men can take it, but let’s not tell The Scholastic.
If you want more information come up and see us some time. The lights are on till ten each night and the building is over near the flagpole.
—The Architects.
Italian Club
The Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., will be installed as chaplain of the Italian club at the meeting of Tuesday evening, Feb. 12, in Walsh hall basement. President John Busichio has arranged for Signor Francisco Tamagna, the exchange student from the University of Pavia, to say a few words contrasting university life here and in Europe. The club will then discuss plans for a banquet to be held in the near future.
THE Will
By William A. Kennedy
Shane Leslie
Mr. Shane Leslie, meeting his class for the first time, reiterated his intention of producing, “with the grace of God,” a Notre Dame, democratically-emandated text, version of Hamlet. Possibly, as had been previously announced, in the stadium. It is a commendable plan, indeed.
For the past week, therefore, we have been searching faces and personalities on the campus for a possible Hamlet, but rather without success. And right here and now we would like to go on record as being solidly behind any movement to keep Jim Boyle from the title role. He doesn’t even look hungry, much less diseased in mind.
Matinee
The matinee for the Saturday afternoon stay-at-homes was a step in one direction or other, we feel sure. What we mean is, it proved something. Exactly what, we can’t say at this writing. Maybe there will be plenty to differ with us; maybe the vast majority will refuse to see anything symbolical or indicative about the entire affair. Yet, as we sat and watched the groups of scurrying men make determinedly for Washington Hall in the middle of the afternoon, to witness a picture called “The World Moves On,” it occurred to us how much a body with philosophical tendencies could do with the situation. The world moves on, while hundreds view insignificant pictures; the world moves on while such as we sit and write about it—endless possibilities, but always with the world moving on. At any rate, the halls were quiet and we got some work done.
Exam Weak
Outside of our own exams, in which we had a passing interest, there were a few items that attracted our somewhat pre-occupied attention during the recent hot spell.
For instance, there was the Lyons Arch ceremony, at which we had a necessarily - informal invitation, but the pleasure of which we were compelled to forego. It consisted, we understand, of the very solemn burning of little scraps of paper upon which were even tinier words and numbers and the like. An intense and earnest ritual, signifying an end to all that.
The medal for utterness in some form or other, we feel sure, should go to the Electrical Engineer who consistently misspelled the word “friction” on his exam paper.
One of the best stories, and typical too, comes from the engineers’ arithmetic class. This student, it seems stayed up all night before the exam, studying a mess of differentials, exponentials, and antilogarithms. During the exam, therefore,’ he was nodding all over the place, and he only finished four problems. When he returned for his mark, the Prof took him aside.
“Listen,” he said, “I think you know this work, and that you would have gotten those other problems if you hadn’t been so tired from studying. You almost passed, but you didn’t quite make it. Tell you what I’ll do, though. I’ll give you a break.” The student looked hopeful.
“Yes,” continued the Prof., “the mark still stands, and you fail the course, but I’m going to write a letter to your folks and explain everything. I’ll tell them you knew the work all right, but you flunked because you studied too much!”
Gentlemen, you will all please rise and observe a one minute’s silence for the professor, during which you will let your thoughts run riot.
Challenge
Was it three weeks ago that we said the candy store’s bagatelle game must go? And was it three days later that they installed a second, one? A fine state of affairs, we must say. See the power of the Press? We say one must go, and two appear. Wonder if that would work with other things as well? Take, for instance, that near-beer that they sell. The near-beer must go. Now let us see what happens.
They Play Anything
It wasn’t until recently that we had the opportunity of hearing Professor Casasanta’s troupe do “Tiger Rag,” and then it burst upon us quite without warning. The wires of the announcing system having failed, the immaculately articulate Mr. Zoss was still immaculate, but no longer articulate, and so there we were, eating peanuts, when the let the cat out of the bag. Well, Professor, a fine “Tiger Rag” it was, and we almost died when you double-timed it. Guess you’re not caring about the Ghost anymore, eh?
•
Thanks, Fellers
It was nice of you to visit our “college,” Mr. Peabody. You sure can play the ukelele.
February 8, 193 5
^ine
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1865
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
JOHN D. CARBINE.......................    Editor-in-Chief
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING_____________Managing-Editor
Associate Editors JOSEPH A. BUCCI Chief Associate Editor
ROBERT F. ERVIN______________________LOUIS H. HRUBY
ROY 0. SCHOLZ
Departmental Editors
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY_____________________________The Week
WILLIAM H. TOUMEY ........................... Dome	Dust
VINCENT A. GORMAN Jr_____________ __________CoUeye Parade
MITCHELL C. TACKLEY...................Graduate	Assistant
News Staff
JOHN J. MORAN------------------------------News Editor
CLIFFORD F. BROWN--------------------Assistant News Editor
ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL-------------------Assistant News Editor
ROBERT L. GROGAN---------------------JOSEPH RATIGAN
JOHN W. WALKER--------------------HARRY A. BALDWIN
LINDSAY PHOEBUS.------------------------FRANK KELLY
PAUL FOLEY--------------------------IRWIN	L. GOLDMAN
PAUL BIAGIONI---------------------FREDERICK SHANLEY
PHILIP F. WELSH.l--------------------JOHN	A. GILLESPIE
ANTHONY O’BOYLE__________________FRANKLYN	HOCHREITER
BERTRAM SMITH_______’..............     LOUIS	DA PRA
Sports Staff
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST___________________Sports Editor
CYRIL F. STROKER----------------Assistant Sports Editor
JOHN L. GLANZNER________________ROBERT J. DONAHUE
JOHN L FLANAGAN_________________JAMES A. WALDRON
•EUGENE VASLETT._____________________JOHN GACKLEY
JAMES MCMULLEN
Business Management JOHN F. STOECKLEY____________________Graduate Marutyer
member
Associated ©ollegiate Sress ~ ~	^■•su&Httu or -	r
~51934 Mttucgiafc Digest 1935
HAXXSOM	WISCONSIN
February 8, 1935
A HIGHER LEVEL FOR A FINE TRADITION
Notre Dame has always given her students the best available teachers, professors, and lecturers. Mr. Shane Leslie’s first public lecture last Monday evening not only carried on this fine tradition, but lifted it up to an even higher level. If the general excellence of the first lecture is any indication of what may be expected in the future, the Leslie series promises to be a memorable one.
It is indeed a rare opportunity to be privileged to hear such a lecturer as Mr. Leslie. Never have we heard a speaker with as firm a grasp on his subject, with such an ability to relate anecdotes, with such a wealth of personal experience to draw from, with such a command of r the English language or with such an easily effective manner of orally delivering his thought. It is seldom that we find a man who excels in even one of Mr. Leslie’s varied perfections.
Ten
Mr. Leslie’s audience was a mixed one. There were certainly some who went to hear Shane Leslie deliver an educational lecture. There were just as certainly, others who went for amusement, for the sake of curiosity, or merely because there was nothing else to do. Scattered among the audience were engineering freshmn, Arts and Letters sophomores, science juniors, and Commerce seniors. And yet after Shane Leslie made his dramatic exit to the wings, there were only two comments running through the audience. One was “He’s good, isn’t he?” The other was “When does he speak again?” No greater tribute could be paid to any lecturer.
V
THE NATURAL RESULT
On page two of this week’s Scholastic is an account of the Reverend Julius Nieuwland,. C.S.C., winning another award in chemistry. Some students will undoubtedly pass this story over- on the grounds that they have read about Father Nieuwland winning coveted scientific awards before. These very men — unacquainted as they are with the field of chemistry — in confessing their ennui pay a remarkable tribute to Father Nieuwland. The point is that each of the awards he has won has been of national importance in its scope and character.
Father Nieuwland has greatly enhanced the scientific reputation of Notre Dame. Working almost alone in his own laboratory this Notre Dame priest has discovered a process which for years remained a secret to the other great scientists of the world.
W
IN ITSELF, A COMMENDABLE THING
The Scholastic congratulates the winners of the government internship. The appointments were well, deserved and we take this opportunity to wish the winners boy voyage and express the hope that their stay in Washington will be a profitable and enjoyable one.
The government internship is, in itself, a commendable thing. The college students of today are the government officials of tomorrow. It is only fitting therefore that these students of today supplement their classroom work with some practical experience in government. It is difficult to see how a better plan than the government internship could be devised to fill this need.
A CALL TO ARMS
The Scholastic this week issues a call for candidates for- its news and sports staff. The call was not issued sooner because a large number of experienced staff members returned to school this fall apd it was thought better to postpone the call until the secdnd semester.
The only requisites are that the candidates be willing to work, able to write understandable English and members of either the freshman or sophomore classes. -
The Scholastic
♦ SPORTS ♦
PIMNTEDS
PROA TUG wLpress box
NOTRE DAME TRACKSTERS SEEK
SECOND WIN FROM MARQUETTE
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
AN AVERAGE TEAM
What makes a great track team a great track team? We wondered too so we went searching for Notre Dame’s famous coach, John P. Nicholson, and put the question squarely before him. Nick, being the obliging gent he is, offered the solution by comparing this year’s crew to the squad which boasted the presence of Alex Wilson within its ranks.
As a starter, Nick believes his charges this year are an average bunch. By average he'means they are steady performers capable of giving any opponent a tough evening. The other squad, that which Alex Wilson led to greatness, was also composed of steady performers, but it was the presence, of this Wilson man that lifted the accomplishments above the plain of average.
When Nick found himself in a tough spot he could call on Wilson to run a quarter, half, or mile, and the result was practically certain to be five points f or the Irish. He made that track team a great track team. One such outstanding man does"the trick. Nick’s search for such a performer among his present crop, has not been fruitful and the chances of any of the present Irish thinlies developing to that extent is not to be taken seriously. Nick never gives up though and should another Alex materialize it will be curtains for Notre Dame opponents. It’s a near impossibility to best a team that has a group of men who are certain of placing within the scoring circle and are supported by a star who can gather fifteen points against the keenest competition with a minimum of effort.
Not only is Coach Nicholson bewailing the absence of one great track man, but he is finding it difficult to keep his steady performers active. His middle distance department took a trimming when Leo McFarlane and Johnny Francis were forced to remain idle.' Leo, who performed so well last season, his first of varsity competition, will not see service until the outdoor
(Continued on Page 15)	.
POPULAR COACH
John P. Nicholson
Starts eighth year.
MONOGRAM CLUB ADOPTS A CHANGE IN POLICY FOR INITIATIONS
Under the leadership of Rocky Schiralli, the Monogram Club proposes to embark on an extensive program for the remaining semester. Much criticism was directed at the organization in the past for the excessive treatment received by those candidates who were subjected to the initiation ceremony. All of the so-called ‘rough stuff’ has been abolished, and for the future it will not be conducted as a fraternal ‘third degree.’ By prohibiting the ‘unrefined’ tactics, it is hoped that an increase of good fellowship will be established and less discrepancy manifested among the members.
Although no definite dates have been announced, plans are being formulated for the annual banquet, which will probably be held towards the last of school; for a dance, sponsored by the wearers of varsity insignias; and for the big Monogram show, which in the past has always proved to be one of the most enjoyable presentations staged in Washington Hall during the year.
MEET HERE ON SATURDAY
By James M. McMullen
Notre Dame’s victorious track team will seek its second victory of the present campaign tomorrow afternoon when it acts as host to the Marquette University thinlies.
The Irish are in for their toughest test, and according to Coach Nicholson, a battle can be expected for every point in ten events. Nick goes so far as to predict that less than five markers will separate the well balanced squads, Notre Dame getting his call on the sole grounds of familiar surroundings.
Both teams are exceptionally strong in the middle distant competition, Marquette will present Jimmie Jessel, former holder of the junior 400 meter championship, and veteran George O’Shea, to vie with Paul Rub-ly and Bernard in the one quarter mile grind. This race should be the feature of aprogram that promises close decisions and plenty of them.
Notre Dame's chances for victory depend on then- ability to place in the sprints and the hurdles. Paul Phillips and Dave Booth will carry the hopes of Marquette in the 60 and 220 yard dashes. Both have been outstanding performers. Kimon Pand-jiris, a sophomore at the Milwaukee school boasts a 15.2 seconds performance in the 120 yard high hurdles. Layden and Link are faced with the responsibility for the outcome of the entire meet right here.
The program for field events also looks promising. Captain Vince Murphy, who is seldom called upon to extended himself is to oppose Ward Cuff. The latter has cleared six foot four, and should make the high Jump something more than just that ‘bunch of fellas in the center- during the races.’ Milt Trost of Marquette will be trying for a new fieldhouse record in the shotput, while opposing the present holder of that distinction, Don Elser. There is to be no broadjump, as Marquette’s fieldhouse does not hold provisions for practice in that event. Enough thrills are in store to call for a capacity turnout for this second appearance of the Irish thinlies.
February 8, 1935
Eleven
Keoganites Meet Wildcats
In Evanston Saturday Night
IRISH WIN DUAL MEET WITH CHICAGO MAROONS
HOPE TO EVEN THE SERIES
By Cy Stroker
Tomorrow night the Notre Dame basketball team will meet the Northwestern quintet at Evanston in an effort to even the two game series of the year. It was a great disappointment to the Irish to lose their home game with the Wildcats by a one-point margin, and the team is fully determined to clear itself in tomorrow’s game.
The defeat suffered by Notre Dame occurred at what now appears to have been the high point in the Northwestern season. The Wildcats began this season by defeating almost everyone in sight but they have recently suffered some losses which may point the way to an Irish victory. Considering the fact that Northwestern’s win over Notre Dame was the result of a free throw in the last minute of play it would seem that the teams are evenly matched.
Another factor which will not lessen the Irish determination to win another Big Ten game is the defeat given Notre Dame by Illinois last Tuesday night. The game, also won by a one point margin, was again the result of a free throw. Although Notre Dame’s average from the foul line has greatly improved in the last few weeks, the missing of one or two foul shots has caused at least two losses. ,
The Irish have the mental advantage over the Wildcats in that the loss suffered early in the season should be a spur to drive them on to victory, but at times the performance of the team leaves much to be desired. Individually, the players are excellent. Marty Peters at center is the answer to a coach’s prayer being equally profficient at the tip-off, in bucket plays, and on the defense. Ford and O’Kane at the forward posts click remarkably well. Jordan and Ireland back up the front wall defense almost to perfection. Work ing as a unit, however, the group sometimes lacks coordination.
The team often has a great deal of trouble in breaking into the opponent’s zone of defense and many scoring plays are broken up before they are fairly started. At the other end of the floor, the opposition frequently carries the ball well up in under the Notre Dame basket and it is only hurried shooting and poor aim which prevents greater scoring by the opponents. This fact was especially noticeable in the Washington U game last Saturday night.
Notre Dame Fencers Hang Up Second Win
At Expense of Purdue
By John I. Flanagan
The University of Notre Dame Fencing team triumphed over Purdue University 12-5 Saturday afternoon in the Notre Dame fieldhouse. The final score was as follows: In the foil—Notre Dame 7, Purdue 2; the duelling sword Notre Dame 2, Purdue 2; in the saber, Notre Dame 3, Purdue 2.
Caresio was the high point winner, taking his three foil bouts and losing one match in the dueling sword to the brilliant Lewis of Purdue. Grosso and T. de Landero both won two bouts in the foils, and were each defeated by Silverman, the Purdue star. Kehoe as usual was unbeatable in the duelling sword and won both of his bouts easily. McAuliffe making his second appearance lost his bout in the duelling sword to the experienced Rogers but only after putting up a stubborn battle. Joseph Myron, representing Notre Dame for the first time, stepped on the strip with great spirit and won his first bout from Grimes without permitting the Purdue man to touch him. In his other bout he lost to Huffman, the clever and experienced captain of the Boilermakers. Captain C. de Landero kept his slate clean by defeating both of his opponents in the saber. His bout with Captain Huffman was an exhibition of the cleanest and cleverest saber fencing that could be witnessed anywhere, both contestants being superb in every respect.
On Friday evening Feb. 8, Illinois comes to Notre Dame, and Saturday afternoon Feb. 9 Notre Dame goes to Evanston to meet Northwestern. Illinois as usual has one of the strongest teams in the mid-west, and the Irish fencers will have to do their best to keep their record clean. Northwestern, though it has lost to Washington, has an experienced and veteran team being especially strong in the saber and duelling sword.
Since these faults seem to occur only in games in which the opposition is weak, it is safe to say the Irish play better ball when meeting stiff competition. This being true, Notre Dame can well look for a victory in tomorrow night’s game for Northwestern, while not a group of worldbeaters, will certainly afford the Irish enough competition to make the game interesting.
Notre Dame’s trackmen made a heroic bid for a grand slam in their opening meet with Chicago, Feb. 1, and missed by only a narrow margin. The men of Nicholson, entertaining a crowd of 1,500, captured nine of the
George Meagher He established a record.
carded 11 events, and piled up a decisive victory, 67 to 37. Chicago, hailed as only fair, was no match for the Irish’s well balanced bunch of thinlies.
One track record was seriously threatened, and a Notre Dame indoor field record was broken, during the course of the evening’s festivities. Big Don Elser, tossing the 16 pound shot 47 feet, 7 inches, broke his own mark set last year by a full foot and five inches. Johnny Beal of the Maroons, missed tying the world’s indoor mark for the 60 yard high hurdles by two tenths of a second, when he flew over the route in .07.6.
The Irish captured two places in nine of the eleven events. Chicago placed two in the 60 yard dash, and the 60 yard high hurdles. Mike Layden, winner of the low hurdle sprint, was disqualified in the latter event, and left only Carl Link to sport the Irish colors against the sensational Beal. Jordan of Notre Dame stepped away in the spring, but two Maroons were awarded the place and show.
The two mile race was the feature of the evening. Archie Gott carried Nicholson’s hope in the long affair, and won in a thrilling stretch drive from Johnny Rapp of Chicago. Gott’s early pace could not shake the determined Maroon, who closed very fast to lose a really sensational decision to his nervy pace-setter. Vince Murphy had little difficulty in the high jump, for his unextended six-two was plenty good. Edwards and McCarthy ruled the pole vault, getting the first and second awards, in the height iump that went to twelve feet, six inches.
Jim Shiels’ comeback effort in the (Continued on Page 15)
Twelve
The Scholastic
ST. EDWARD’S LEADS GROUP IN HALL RACE
Boxers Train for Bengal Show;
Max Marek Gives Instructions
By John L. Glanzner
The third round of the interhall basketball race has been completed with a mad race for championship honors. Only Brownson and St. Ed’s, are undefeated in the heavyweight division. Brownson kept her record unmarred with a last-minute victory over Freshman 18-14. It was a ding dong battle with O’Reilly and Ellis leading the attack for the Main Buildingites and with Kennedy annexing scoring honors for Freshman.
The Sorin Tigers lost to their perennial rivals, the Corby Sailors, by the count of 21-18. Phil Arnheiter dumped in a basket with two minutes remaining and the marine lads from Corby controlled the next tip-off and stalled to victory.
Howard trounced Off-Campus 37-16. The downtown men were unable to cope with the speedy attack of the Howardites and could not hold O’Neil in check. The sharpshooting forward dumped in four buckets and two charity shots to win scoring honors.
Joe Waldron and Dillon led the Alumni five to a win over Carroll 19 to 15. Alumni jumped into a lead midway in the second half and coasted to victory.
St. Eds maintained her unbroken string of victories by overwhelming Morrissey 21-12. The strong St. Eds’ defense bottled up Paul Foley, the Gold Coast ace, and completely stopped the Morrissey offense. Gallagher accounted for ten of the winners’ points.
The juniors from Badin defeated Lyons 17-12 in a defensive duel. Neither team displayed a potent scoring punch, but the tight defense of the Badinites throttled down the Lyons attack.
In the lightweight division, Dillon continued her impressive play and stopped Morrissey 17-5. Leonard of the freshmen scored eight points in addition to playing a fine defensive game. Corby forfeited to Sorin. Carroll walloped Walsh 35-20 with high point honors going to Kilrain and Meier. In the most hotly contested game of the afternoon Brownson eked out a 21-19 win over Alumni. Howard met little opposition in overcoming
Freshman 25-12.
High scorers:
Dorsey, Brownson .............  24
Whitecotton, Freshman _________ 22
Meier, Carroll ---------------- 21
Pope, Brownson  20
-Gallagher, St. Ed’s ___________ 16
Herrick, Howard --------------- 16
Arnheiter, Corby ______________ 16
Bulli, Walsh ................   15
Herold, Sorin  14
Foley, Morrissey -------------  14
Free Throw in Last Minute Gives Illini
Victory Over Cagers
Notre Dame’s basketball quintet lost its sixth game of the present court campaign last Tuesday evening at Urbana, Illinois, when Illinois University upset the Irish court machine and won a spectacular 27 to 26 victory.
Roy Guttschow, seasoned performer for Coach Craig Ruby’s proteges who has been in a bad slump all season, regained his form in a glorious manner to assure his teammates of the verdict. His free throw in the last 30 seconds of play spelled disaster for Notre Dame. Besides this very important free throw he was able to register on three other occasions from the charity marker and sink three field goals.
Game Very Close
The game was closely contested throughout. Never did either team assume a lead of more than four points. Near the close of the fray after the Illini had overtaken the Irish and were leading 26 to 22, Don Elser sank an under-the-basket shot to decrease the opponents lead to two points. George Ireland was then awarded two free throws and. heroically came through with two points. This knotted the score at 26 all with but a few seconds left to play. Guttschow then connected with his charity toss and won the ball game.
A crowd of 6,500 witnessed the exciting struggled. The last time Illinois sent a Notre Dame quintet down in defeat was in 1924. Coach Keo-gan’s boys overwhelmed the Illini in 1925 and ’26 breaking off court relationship until last Tuesday’s contest. As the series now stand Illinois has won five and Notre Dame two. Ford was high point man for Notre Dame with eight points, and Marty Peters was next in line with five. In the second half of the game Peters was ejected through his commitment of four fouls.
Summary:
Notre Dame (26) G F P
Ford, f _______3	2	3
O’Kane, f -----1	1	2
Jordan, f _____0	1	1
Hopkins, f_____0	0	0
Peters, c _____2	1	4
Wade, g _______2	0	2
Ireland, g ____0	2	0
Elser, g-c ____1	1	0
Bonner, g______0	0	0
Illinois (27) G F P Froschauer, 12 0 1 Guttschow, f 3 4 3 Riegel, c_____0 1 4 Swanson, c____0 1 0 Combes, g ____2 0 1 Henry, g______2 3 0 Beynon, g_____0 0 0
Totals ------9 8 12 | Totals_________9 9 9
STILL TIME FOR ENTRIES
By James A. Waldron
The Bengal Boxing Show sponsored by The Scholastic will be held on the night of March 15. With the exams over, intensive training will get under way in preparation for the bouts. There are still some fine boxers in the school who have not
Max Marek
.4 uniform makes him tough.
listed themselves among the candidates. All the divisions are almost evenly matched in numbers except the Middleweight. A great opportunity to win the coveted boxing sweater is presented to the fighters in this division. Students who have a mind to enter the tourney should be fair to themselves and get in the best condition possible with daily workouts. Boxing instruction will continue to be given on Tuesday and Thursday afternoons at 4:00 o’clock.
Like a page taken from the life of Frank Merriwell, is the story of the boxing career of Max Marek, instructor of the boxing classes on Tuesday and Thursday afternoons. Max never learned to fight until he was a sophomore in high school. It took a soldier uniform and a tough neighborhood to furnish the plot from which emerged one of the outstanding amateur boxers in the country. The school has an R.O.T.C. unit to which Max belonged, and each day he walked home in his uniform with the taunts of the tough gang in his neighborhood ringing in his ears. In desperation Max joined the boxing (Continued on Pase 15)
February 8, 193 5
T hirteen
IRISH LOSE TO PITT;
SWAMP DETROIT, 41-28
BASEBALL SCHEDULE LISTS 19 HARD STRUGGLES; OPENS APRIL 12
CAGERS BREAK EVEN WITH BIG TEN TEAMS
In the 14th renewal of their annual cage classic, the mighty Panthers, representing the University of Pittsburgh, pulled their usual “jinx” stunt to claw out a thrilling 26-22 triumph over the Fighting Irish, making it the ninth in their current series. Led by “Skip” Hughes, speedy forward, with four goals from the floor and one via the charity route, the Smoky City lads outdistanced Keogan’s men during the last two canto’s after having a 11 to 9 count at the intermission.
Irish Lead Short Lived
For all the action in the game however, the scoring was comparatively light—only six shots registered by each outfit in the initial stanza. Marty Peters carroned one through the hoop just as the half-time whistle blew, to pull Notre Dame -within two points of making it even-stephen. The tallying for the final periods was inaugurated by Peters, as he sank a basket through the net and followed up a half-minute later with, a beautiful toss from the hardwood, to give the Irish a slight lead of two markers. Hughes, Roderick, and Noon came back to counter-attack for a pair of free throws and a field goal to forge ahead, which from then on they never relinquished. In the waning 30 seconds of play, Hopkins cracked through with a double-decker, but the contest was too far gone by that time to alter the win or lose column.
Notre Dame 41, Detroit 28
With Hopkins, Ford, and Peters hitting the bucket from all angles, to register 29 points between them, Notre Dame gained partial revenge from the defeat administered the night before by Pitt, to romp off with a 41-28 victory over Detroil, before 3,500 spectators. The first string piled up a commanding 21-8, lead at halftime, and from then on Keogan used the reserves for the remainder of the game. The Titals fared much better against the “shock troops,” and scored basket for basket with them in the second period, each team annexing 20 points in the last 20 minutes. The Irish showed marked superiority in passing and ball handling, besides utilizing their edge in height to great advantage, in walking off with their sixth straight win at the expense of the 'auto city* five. “Pudge” Cavanaugh, Detroit forward (Continued on Page 16)
Now that the basketball season is half over the sport fan’s attention is turning to the baseball diamond. The Notre Dame 1935 baseball schedule is composed of 19 games.
Jake Kline
Mrs. Kline zvon the trip.
Notre Dame will be host to Ohio State in the initial game on April 12. Last year the Irish split a two game series with the Buckeyes. The next two games will be at Purdue. The squad" will meet Western State and then Chicago at their respective fields. A two game series with Iowa ■will be played at Notre Dame. After traveling to Illinois for one game encounter the Klinemen will return to meet Chicago.
During May the Klinemen will travel back and forth to Ohio State, Northwestern, Wisconsin and Michigan State. The remaining six games will be played at Notre Dame.
The complete schedule.
April 12—Ohio State here.
April 16—Purdue at Lafayette.
April 17—Purdue at Lafayette.
April 18—Western State at Kalamazoo.
April 20—Chicago at Chicago.
April 24—Iowa here.
April 25—Iowa here.
April 27—Illinois at Champaign.
April 30—Chicago here.
May 4—Ohio State at Columhusl May 6—Indiana here.
May 8—Northwestern here.
May 11—Western State here.
May 16—Northwestern at Evanston.
May 18—Purdue here.
May 21—Wisconsin at Madison.
May 23—Michigan State at E. Lansing. May 31—Wisconsin here.
June 1—Michigan State here.
By Eugene Vaslett
The Notre Dame basketeers broke even with Big Ten basketball competition during the examination interim last week. At home, Saturday night, January 26, they succeeded in defeating the Chicago University quintette easily by a score of 32-20. In Columbus, the following Thursday, however, they fell in defeat before the powerful Ohio State aggregation to the tune of 31-22.
Chicago proved to be an easy victim for the Irishmen in their game at the Irish field house. The team from the Midway was outplayed in every department of the game. They were unable to penetrate the defense that Notre Dame had set for them and were confused by the offense of the Irish as well.
Haarlow Silenced
Bill Haarlow, reputed to be the best ball handler in intercollegiate circles today, was held in check during the entire first half by George Ireland who thwarted every attempt of the Chicago ace to secure a field goal. Haarlow was able to score but one point in the first half of the contest, but broke loose momentarily in the second half, scoring two field goals and two free throws, to lead his team mates in scoring.
Marty Peters and Johnny Ford shared scoring honors with eight points each. They were closely followed by Haarlow with seven.
Ford’s swift and deceiving passing during the early minutes of the game was a revelation to the Midway team and the spectators. This pass-work on Ford’s part was instrumental in gaining the large lead of 9-0 that the Irish ran up during the first twelve minutes of play.
Chicago threatened the lead of the Irish only once during the course of -the evening. Successive field goals by Haarlow, Peterson, and Haarlow again, in the second half, narrowed the lead of Notre Dame to four points, but from this time on the Irish drew away from the Chicago team and won easily.
At Columbus, the home of the Bucks of Ohio State, the Notre Dame team once more encountered the “jinx” that pursues them on foreign courts this year, and fell to the Ohio State team, 31-22.
Coach Keogan was unable to accompany his team to Ohio due to a sickness which confined him to his bed. Joe Boland and Tom Conley took over his job for the evening, but their efforts were of little help before the attacks of the Bucks.
Notre Dame took the lead at the (Continued on Page 17)
Fourteen
The Scholastic
WASHINGTON FALLS IN POORLY PLAYED GAME
The Irish basketeers triumphed over Washington University’s basketball representatives, last Saturday night on the home court, in a game that provided amusement if not excitement for the 3,000 spectators present. The final score was 3815 in favor of Notre Dame.
Eleven of the fifteen points made by Washington were scored on free throws, the St. Louis team being able to score but two field goals during the entire game. They were not able to tally their first goal from the field until but one minute remained in the first half.
Coach Keogan sent a scrambled lineup on the court for the openingwhistle. He benched Peters and Jordan, who were badly in need of a rest, and started Elser and Wade in their places. Further substitutions were made as the game progressed and the regulars of the team did not see much action during the contest. The second team did well in the place of the first team as the score indicated.
Scrappy Johnny Hopkins turned in a stellar* performance for the winners and led both teams in scoring, with ten points to his credit. His spirited play provided the majority of thrills for the spectators.
The Irish forged to the lead soon after the game started and led, 10-1, midway in the first half. At the conclusion of the initial period the Notre Dame team was leading 18-7.
Martintoni, of the visitors, although not able to score a field goal for the duration of the game, was the outstanding player of his team. He shared the scoring honors of Washington with Sauer, each tallying four points. Sauer also had the doubtful honor of being one of the two players on Washington able to score a basket from the field.
The lineups:
Notre Dame (38) G F P
Ford, f _______1	0	2
O’Kane, f _____2	3	1
Hopkins, f_____4	2	1
Cunha, f ______2	0	2
Elser, c_______0	1	1
DeMots, c______1	2	1
Ireland, g-----2	1	2
Wade, g _______1	0	1
Bonner, g______1	1	0
Totals .......14	10	11
Washington (15) G F P
Drohe, f ----0	1	1
Ozment, f —0 2 1
Sauer, f ----1	2	0
Zboyovski.f —0 1 3
Martintoni,c ..0 4 3
Moller, g ---1	0	1
Hudgens, g ....0 1 1
Totals .......2	11 10
Joe Sullivan Recovers
Captain Elect Joe Sullivan is making satisfactory recovery at the St. Joseph Hospital. Joe was convalescing from an attack of pneumonia when he was stricken with mastoids. An operation was performed last Tuesday to remove the mastoids. Joe’s father and sister are in South Bend and are constantly at the football star’s bedside.
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 11)
season because of weak arches.
Francis, a youngster for whom Nick planned great things, was taken away by internal injuries that make his appearance this year an impossibility. Joe Sullivan is lost to the shot put department because of his attack of pneumonia. Joe was an outstanding cog in the machine last year and his loss will be severely felt.
To balance this weakness there are bright spots. The field events, long a sore spot, now harbor the hopes of the Irish with Captain Vince Murphy, George Meagher, Don Elser, and Jack Edwards playing the scoring roles. The dashes are on the upgrade once more with a promising field of sophomores supported by Jack Frawley. Other events which make Nick’s life more bearable are the quarter mile, half mile, and one mile relay.
The relay quartet, in particular, bears watching. Last year the one mile team ran faster than any Notre Dame team ever has. The same crew, save Clyde Roberts, is doing service again this year, and Nick predicts a new Notre Dame record and possible further accomplishment for them. On the whole, the setup is average, but Nick insists he needs another Alex Wilson. Well, there are six Wilsons in school, Nick, but there’ll never be another Alex, unless he be a smart alex.
Irish Rifle Team Snaps LosingStreak With Bendix Victory
The Notre Dame Rifle team resumed its winning streak Jan 31 by defeating the Bendix gunners 834 to 789. Joe Minarick again took high point honors with his 177. Minarick’s services have been invaluable to the Notre Dame Rifle team. Although he is only a sophomore, he is leading his team mates in individual honors. He also has the highest standing record in the St. Joseph Valley league.
Messrs. H. J. Bott and R. B. Riordan, two loyal supporters, and the rifle squad are proud that their captain and coach, John McGrath, has been invited to shoot in the Kemper Military school match. Many MidWestern colleges and universities will compete in the contest to be held in Boonville, Mo., on Feb. 22-23.
CHICAGO TRACK MEET
(Continued from Page 12)
half mile was especially gratifying and showed conclusively that the injured leg has responded to care. The effort of the relay team, composed of Frawley, Bowdren, Parsons, and Bernard, was confined to the three quarter mile test, and the boys navigated the distance in the not too slow -time of 2:28.7. The whole card showed a Notre Dame representation that will be dangerous in nearly every event in the three dual meets to follow.
Beal of Chicago carried off the high point honors with his winning of the high hurdles, and his second to Meagher in the broadjump. Had not Layden faced the disqualification, he could have tied the eight points scored by the flashy Maroon.
The summaries:
POLE VAULT—Won by Edwards (Notre Dame) ; McCarthy (Notre Dame) and Abel (Chicago) tied for second and third. Height. 12 feet, six inches.
SHOT PUT—Won by Elser (Notre Dame) : Scruby (Chicago) second; Michuta (Notre Dame) third. Distance. 47 foot, 7 inches.
MILE RUN—Won by Milow (Chicago) ; McKenna (Notre Dame) second: Hennessey (Notre Dame) third. Time. 4:34.5.
60-YARD DASH—Won by Jordan (Notre Dame) : Block (Chicago) second: Krause (Chicago) third. Time, :06.5.
60-YARD HIGH HURDLES—Won by Bea! (Chicago) ; Link (Notre Dame) second: Newman (Chicago) Third. Time, :07.6.
440-YARD DASH—Won by B. Smith (Chicago) ; Bernard (Notre Dame) second; Rubly (Notre Dame) third. Time, :52.
TWO MILE RUN—Won by Gott (Notre Dame) ; Rapp (Chicago) second; Karl (Notre Dame third. Time, 10:12.3.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Meagher (Notre Dame) ; Beal (Chicago) second: Jordan (Notre Dame) third. Distance, 22 feet, 7% inches.	'
880-YARD RUN—Won by Shiels (Notre Dame) ; Ducassa (Notre Dame) second: Fairbanks (Chicago) third. Time, 2:00.4.
65-YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Layden (Notre Dame) ; Newman (Chicago) second; Link (Notre Dame) third. Time, :7.3.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Murphy (Notre Dame) ; Williamson (Notre Dame) and Beal (Chicago) tied for second and third. Height. 6 ft., 2 inches.	•
1320-YARD RELAY—Won by Notre Dame (Frawley, Bowdren, Parsons and Bernard). Time. 2:28.7.
BOXING SHOW
(Continued from Page 13)
classes at his high school. With only a half year of boxing, this 155-pound. kid entered and won the Chicago C.Y.O. Middleweight championship. From this point on his boxing record is one of the finest ever compiled.
In 1932 and 1934 he was runner-up in the Light Heavyweight and Heavyweight classes, respectively, of the Chicago Golden Gloves bouts. The year 1933 saw him crowned (Continued on Page 16)
February 8, 1 935
Fifteen
On Down The Line
By Jitn McMullen
We dropped one to New York University . . . blame that on their coach, HOWARD CANN, who was once designated the greatest eager in the United States . . . and his team this year has played to 70,000 fans already . . . cage appeal, I call it . . . JOHN PORTER, of North Dakota, tied the score, -when he dropped a fancy basket in his opponent’s goal ... he had previously thrown the game into an overtime with a sensational marker . . . RAMESES HI is dead ... for the benefit of the extremely ignorant, Rameses was the mascot of the Fordham Rams ... You have read a lot about DICK HARLOW, new coach at Harvard ... he uses exactly 22 men in his football campaign at little Western Maryland last year . . . and never dropped a game . . . JOHNNY MACK BROWN, Hollywood cow puncher, won $8,000, when Alabama stars fell on Stanford ... A peculiar thing happened out at Parsons, Kansas the other day ... A basketball squad composed of six brothers, coached by a seventh, and cheered on by three sisters, won the fourth place in an annual independent tournament there . . . and nary a twin in sight . . . JACKIE FIELDS, former welterweight champ, is on the rocks financially . . . and the funny part about it is that Jackie has a $100,000 trust fund. He can’t get at it till he reaches 41, at which time the little glove thrower will receive $60,000 and then $600 a month for the rest of his life . . . Jackie could truthfully say that life begins at 41 . . . Richmond University’s athletic teams are called the Spiders . . . got the name when some years ago their baseball team went through an entire season without dropping a single fly- . . -
CARL HUBBELL was supposed to be drawing $18,000 for last year’s work ... truth will out — Carl really drew $12,500 and he has signed for the same price this year . . . There’s a lot of money invested in baseball, but racing the stall walkers has almost twice the total investment — $150,000,000 to be exact . . . GEORGE BOTHNER goes down as the all-time wrestling marvel . . . George weighing 138 pounds grunted and groaned through four hours with 200 pound EMIL SILVA, at Paterson, New Jersey, the match resulting in a draw . . . LOU DARO, the man who for a long time made his living by letting automobiles run over his chest, has entered the wrestling game . . . he’s cleaning up, drawing $250,000 in the' past three months . . . Remember JOHN HENRY LEWIS?
... the man who Maxie Rosenbloom really feared, is now a full fledged minister ... JIM JEFFRIES, that grand old heavyweight battler, is staging amateur fights out at his ranch in California ... He’s holding the festivities in a big barn that not long ago was used for cows . . . The Chicago Cubs have dropped 660 grand the past two years ... A lot of the experts are blaming the deficit on that 22-man board of executives that control them . . . others have no sympathy with CHARLIE GRIMM, manager . . . by the way Charlie says that FRANKIE FRISCH is his favorite manager . . . GRIMM claims that Frank doesn’t know the meaning of the word “quit” ... Alabama U. is grooming DIXIE HOWELL for the big leagues . . . that school has already donated Riggs Stephenson, Ben Chapman, Joe and Luke Sewell, and Fred Sington . . . HUTSON is not far behind Howell either, say the scouts . . . The youngest polo player to engage in international matches was EARLE A. S. HOPPING . . . He was 20 when America met Argentina' in 1928 ... CONNIE MACK tells 'a story about an ace piece of superstition . . . Pete Browning, who won the batting championship back in 1882 never went to bat without a wad of chewing gum stuck — on his eyebrow! ...
SIR MALCOLM CAMPBELL will try to better his speed mark down at Daytona next month, and when he does it will be the first time a supercar was ever equipped with air brakes . . . Have you read “Crashing Through” yet . . . Better get a hold of it . . . Its ONE EYE CONNELLY’S own story of “Gates I Have Crashed” . . . Out at the Santa Anita race track they set aside a separate window to take care of all $1,000 bets . . . after a week and a half, that window was closed up . . . TEDDY YAROSZ is taking time off to recuperate from a broken ankle he received in a bout with BABE RISKO . . . He spends all his spare time practising on his beloved violin . . . just fiddling around, they say — not us . . . WAYNE OSBORNE, a rookie trying out with the Pirates, has only four fingers that may mean something new for batters in the senior circuit to look over . . . Baseball in Japanese colleges seems to be going over . . . Tokyo’s club took in 240,000 yen last season, or about $80,000 . . . While down at Yale squash racquets is getting the call . . . about 4,000 students are keeping 67 courts busy most of the time . . . DOC LEGETT, catcher for the Boston Red Sox, is living up to his nickname . . . He’s jerking molars at Pioneer, Ohio . . . BOBBY GRAYSON has been offered $50,000 to turn pro fighter, and the offer comes from on less than GUS WILSON, the very smart gentleman who handled GORGEOUS
GEORGES CARPENTIER . . . ART DUDLEY, trainer at the Jamaica race track, is feeding his charges goat’s milk . . . they may buck on him in the stretch . . . News from the hot stove league tell of HANK GREENBERG’S severe case of fallen arches, and ROY PAR-MALEE’S sleep walking ... a combination of the two could be bad . . . Southern Cal’s track coach will soon present to followers of that sport a brand new pole vaulter . . . the lad’s name is Sefton, and 14 feet to him is. going to be an everydav affair . . . BOBBY PASTOR, New York University fighter, has turned pro . . . with a record of 50 knockouts. . . .
BENGAL BOUTS
(Continued from Page 13)
Light Heavyweight champion. It was also in this year that he won the National A.A.U. Light Heavyweight championship at Boston, defeating the newest heavyweight sensation, Joe Louis. This same year saw him win both in the Inter-city bouts with New York and the International fights against the Irish champions. With Max as captain, the 1932 team traveled to Panama where a picked Navy team was defeated. With such a record, it is easy to understand why he was picked as an alternate on the ’32 Olympic team. As a reward for his great work, the Chicago C.Y.O. offered him a scholarship to any school he wished to attend. Max Marek has one more great ambition towards which he is concentrating his boxing abilities, the 1936 Olympics at Berlin. Will he make the team? — he’s taking German as an elective.
1
PITT—DETROIT GAMES
(Continued from Page 14)
whose pair of field goals in the final moments of the game brought his total count for the evening to nine, was followed closely by Hopkins with
eight markers.
Notre Dame (22) G F P
O’Kane, f _____2	1	0
Ford, f _______2	0	0
Peters, c _____3	1	0
Jordan (c), g 0	2	2
Ireland, g ____0	0	2
Hopkins, g_____2	0	0
Bonner, g _____0	0	1
Totals ________9	4	5
€
Notre Dame (41) G F P
Ford, f _______3	1	3
O’Kane, f------0	1	2
Wentworth, f -2	0	0
Hopkins, f ____4	0	0
Demots, f------0	0	0
Peters, c _____3	• 0	2
Elser, c ------1	0	0
Jordan (c), g 1	1	1
Ireland, g ____2	0	1
Wade, g _______1	1	3
Bonner, g -----1	.1	1
Pitt (26) G F P
Hughes, f ....4 1 2
Roderick, f ....0 3 3
Noon, c ______1	0	2
Cribhs. g ___2	0	1
Emerick, g ....2 0 2
Wanio, f _____2	0	0
Totals ______11	41	0
Detroit (28) G F P
Tegan, f _____2	0	1
Delodder, f ....1 1 0
Cavanaugh, f 3 3 2
Szac’wski, c ..0 1 0
Chappie, c ....0 0 1
Karpus, g_____1 1 0
Skover, g, f ..2 0 1
Lauer, g _____0	2	2
Luke, g ______1	0	1
Totals ______10	8	7
Totals ________.18 5 13
Sixteen
The Scholastic
Calendar
Friday, February S
Scholastic meeting, editorial staff, 6:30, p.m.; general staff, 7:00 p.m., editorial rooms. Fencing, Notre Dame vs. Illinois, gymnasium, 8:00 p.m. Interhall basketball, gymnasium, 8:00 p.m. Knights of Columbus formal, Palais Royal, 8:30 p.m.
Saturday, February 9
Track, Notre Dame vs. Marquette, gymnasium, 1:30 p.m. Fencing, Notre Dame vs. Northwestern, gymnasium. Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Northwestern, Evanston, 8:00 p.m.
Sunday, February 10
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a.m. Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m. Debate, Notre Dame vs. Chicago Kent College of Law, Station WLS, 9:00 a.m. Interhall basketball, gymnasium, 10:00 a.m.
Tuesday, February 12
Scholastic candidates meeting, editorial rooms, 7:45 p.m. Lecture,
Announcing . . .
A FREE Travel Show
ON THURSDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 14th.' at S P. M„ IN WASHINGTON HALL.
Depicting a complete trip across the Atlantic ... on the speedy, luxury liner "Bremen” . . . followed by a journey across continental Europe . . . visiting Berlin . . . Munich . . . Vienna . . . Switzerland . . . and including a trip along the historical Rhine.
Also
AN INTERESTING LECTURE ON
“THE AMERICAN
STUDENT ABROAD”
Featuring
Student Life and Opportunities for Undergraduate and Graduate Study in Europe by
WILLIAM HOWES COLLINS
President, Intercollegiate Young Alumni Association.
Member Executive Committee, National Student Federation of America.
Arranged by
I. MITTERMAYER, Steamship Agent 904 W. Indiana Ave., South Bend, Ind.
Under the auspices of Educational Service Department HAMBURG-AMERICAN LINE NORTH GERMAN LLOYD Chicago, Illinois
Washington Hall, Shane Leslie on “Style in English,” 8:00 p.m. Wranglers meeting, Law Building, 6:30 p.m.
Wednesday, February 13
Debate, Notre Dame vs. Stanford, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m. Charles Phillips Cracow Club meeting, Law Building, 6:30 p.m.
Thursday, February 14.
Lecture, Washington Hall, Mr. Collins on “Travel,” 8:00 p.m.
Inter-club Basketball League Gets Under Way Thursday
The inter-club basketball league will get under way on Thursday evening when six clubs swing into action. The games will be officiated by sophomore Physical Education men who have been coached in the administrative work by Mr. Keogan. The system of interlocking halves will be used throughout the season.
The schedule for Thursday night: Montana vs. Cincinnati, 7:30.
West. Virginia, vs. K. of C., 7:50.
Irisih vs. Engineers, 8:30.
CAGERS WIN AND LOSE
(Continued from Page 14)
start by virtue of a free throw by Ireland. Soon afterward Ohio State’s players tallied three field goals in rapid succession and forged ahead. From that time on they did not relinquish the lead, although the Irish advanced to within one point of Ohio State’s lead soon afterward.
A second string center of Ohio State, Augie George, turned out to be the star of the game. He did not play until the second half, but during that time he scored five field goals and starred in every department of the game. ’
• Marty Peters was the outstanding player for the Irish quintet; he not only led Notre Dame in scoring but together with George Ireland was prominent on the defense.
A factor that made the defeat more stinging to the Irish was the decision of the Ohio State coach to use his second string men for the main part of the game. The substitutes not only defeated but outplayed the Notre Dame basketeers. Coach Keogan attribuited this to the annual post-exam slump that Notre Dame basketball teams have suffered during the last few years.
Notre Dame meets Ohio State once more this season on the home court, and hopes to avenge the setback that was so decisively handed them in Columbus.
The box scores:
Notre Dame (32) G F P
Ford, f ________3	2	1
O’Kane, f_______2	0	0
Peters, c_______3	2	3
Jordan, g_______2	0	0
Ireland, g _____2	0	2
Hopkins, g______0	0	0
Elser, c _______0	0	1
Wade, g_________2	0	0
Bonner, f_______0	0	0
Wentworth, f -.0	0	0
Totals ________14	4	7
Notre Dame (22) G F P
O’Kane, f ______1	1	1
Ford, f ________1	0	0
Wade, f ________0	0	0
Peters, c ______3	2	3
Elser, e _______0	0	0
Ireland, g______2	2	1
Jordan, g_______1	1	0
Hopkins, g_____0	0	1
Totals _________8	6	6
Chicago (20) G F P
Flinn, f------1	1	0
Haarlow, f____2	3	1
Peterson, c	„2	0	4
Lang, g ------2	0	1
Kaplan, g ____0	1	0
Eldred, c-----0	1	0
Totals 7	6	6
Ohio State .(31) G F P Layhourne, fill Wilson, f_____2	1	0
Peters, f ---2	0	2
Wendt, f______0	0	0
Thomas, c ___0	0	1
George, c____5	0	1
Busich. c____0	0	0
Dye. g ------1	1	2
Owens, g-----0	0	0
Smith, g-----3	0	2
Milligan, g__0	0	0
TntnL _____ 14	3	o
Last
Chance
to secure an intellectual BARGAIN
Plenty of good seats available at only 50c
Hear “Pat” Manion defend Controlled Capitalism in his debate with Norman Thomas, who will argue on the superiority of Socialism in the Economic System.
WHEN: Monday evening, February 11, at 8 p. m.
WHERE: South Bend Central High School’s auditorium.
TICKETS: See Irwin (Buddy) Goldberg, in Howard Hall, or Elbel’s Music Store.
All Seats Reserved
PRICES: 50c, 75c, $1.00, $1.50
February 8, 193 5
Seventeen
Villagers* Club Plans A Banquet for Basketball Team
At a recent meeting of the Villagers’ Club of South Bend plans were discussed, and committees appointed in order to start action on the basketball banquet to be given to this season’s Notre Dame court representatives bv the Villagers’ Club.	'
President Dan Youngerman, of the Villagers’, announces that this banquet will be in the nature of an annual affair much like the St. Joseph Valley Alumni Football Banquet. The exact date has not been determined but will be announced shortly, along with other details.
MAN ABOUT
(Continued from Page 6)
of hearts with his second floor bubblers usually fills the bill. More time is spent dashingly madly to the Main Building for a “conference.” What will he do when the Oratorical contest is finished?
Louis Hruby will graduate in June with B.C.S. degree from the College of Commerce, and hopes to enter the advertising division of a Cleveland publishing house.
INTERNSHIPS
(Continued from Page 1)
a senior in the College of Arts and Letters. He has been associated with the work of the Wranglers and active in interhall debating.
The National Institution of Public Affairs, in a statement released during the past month states the purpose of the internships, and the mechanics of applying for the privilege.
“The Association, which is a nonprofit, non-partisan, organization, offers the benefits of its facilities and arrangements for a first hand study and direct contact with the reality of politics and government. In this undertaking we have secured the cooperation and assistance of the Federal Government and work in direct contact with the many governmental agencies in Washington.”
“Qualifications for the interneships are: a strong scholastic record, a demonstrated interest in government and politics along with qualities of character and ability, especially those having to do with leadership.”
Santa Maria
This week’s issue of the Santa Maria will be a four page number dealing with items concerning the K. of C. Formal.
The high standards of APPAREL MAINTAINED AT HARVARD ARE A TRIBUTE TO THE GOOD TASTE OF HARVARD MEN ... AN EVIDENCE OF THE STYLE-SENSE AND CRAFTSMANSHIP OF CAMBRIDGE TAILORS.
It is significant that outstanding college tailors, arbiters of style, endorse Kover-Zip as the only slide fastener fit for fine clothes..
famous tailors of Cambridge, ^leio Haoen and Tieto york, say—"More and more men are demanding the slide-fastened fly with its smooth flat effect As the uncovered zipper reveals a strip of metal, I prefer to use Kover-Zip, a finished product that serves its purpose well."
COLLEGE
PROM

DON’T miss the fun
in
next Thursday night!
Syncopation. Melody. Campus thrills.
UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA NIGHT
GUEST OF HONOR LAWSON ROBERTSON (fammss Olympic track coach)
THURS., FEB. 14th WJR, SMS P.M., C.S.T. Tune in every week at the game time. N. B. C. Blue Network.
"Best-dressed” seniors at leading American colleges, men whose choice of things to wear has a national influence, prefer and commend Kover-Zip:
WARREN GRACE
Brown, 1935 "Kover-Zip merits attention from all styleconscious college men... it achieved perfection in aclosure by eliminating the exposed strip of metal."
LYLE FISHER Northwestern, 1935 "Kover-Zip embodies the best features of all other types of fly ' fasteners, and also possesses a unique feature, covering the ugly raw metal.
WALDES KOH-I-NOOR. INC. LONG ISLAND CITY, NEW YORK
Eighteen
The Scholastic
Polish Scholarships
A report from Arthur Korzeneski, president of the Charles Phillips’ Cracow Club of Notre Dame, conveys the information that the first district of the Polish Student Organization of America has been endowed with a gift of $9,000. This was given to the organization by the Polish National Alliance of America, the largest American Polish organization, for
scholarships and student loans. Since Notre Dame is in the first district, this donation will be beneficial to the members of the Charles Phillips’ Cracow Club. Applications for scholarships or loans are to be made through the Club here on campus.
The gift was made through the efforts of Dr. Kalsicz, chairman of the scholarship committee of the Polish National Alliance. It is also interesting to note that Francis Siudzin-
ski, a Notre Dame graduate of New York City, founded the New American, the official newspaper of the Polish Student Organization of America. At present Mr. Siudzinski has relinquished the editorship of the paper to study at the University of Cracow, where he has a scholarship.
The meetings of the Charles Phillips’ Cracow Club are held on Wednesday evenings at 6:30 in the Law Building.
February 8, 193 5
Nineteen
Local Boy Scout Council Honors Professor Hoyer C
Professor R. A. Hoyer, head of the Boy Guidance department was the recipient of the Silver Beaver award of the St. Joseph Valley council, Boy Scouts of America, at the annual meeting held in South Bend, Monday evening.
This award is made annually by every council in the United States to the volunteer worker who has rendered outstanding service during the proceeding year to the cause of boy-hood, not only in the field of scouting, but in any other type of work for youth.
In making the award, Judge W. E. Miller, himself a recipient of this award in 1933, cited the following reasons for the selection of Professor Hoyer: In scouting; a member of the local executive board; chairman of the committee on leadership and training; a member of the troop committee of St. Joseph’s church; and representative on the board of direc- f tors of the South Bend Community Fund. In C. Y. 0. work; a member of the organization committee in St. Joseph county.
Cards, Billiards, Pool For Tired Engineers
The Telephone "can take it!”
Your telephone must work 24 hours a day. It must be immune to icy blasts of the frozen north —dry burning heat of the desert—heavy, humid atmosphere of swamp lands.
And it is. For Western Electric—manufacturing unit of the Bell System—sees to it that telephones, switchboards and cable are prepared for life anywhere. Through long experience and rigorous testing, telephone engineers have learned how to make apparatus which is not adversely affected by the whims of climate.
Through pioneering and producing such improved apparatus, Western Electric contributes to the year ’round reliability of your Bell Telephone service.
True to form, the Engineers held their smoker during the post-mortem (post-examination) era, forgot the tension of exams, and enjoyed a leisurely evening of cards, billiards, and pool on Wednesday, Feb. 6, from 8-12, in the Brownson Recreation Room.
The seniors soon demonstrated their skill at cards, and captured the prizes. Tom Weigand, a freshman, exhibited such uncanny accuracy at pool that he was covered “cum magna laude.” Mathias Sagartz, as chairman, handled the meeting very successfully, provided an abundance of refreshments, and gave an expert’s opinion on pinochle.
FATHER NIEUWLAND
(Continued from Page 2)
BELL TELEPHONE OQ SYSTEM
electron. He is not yet 30 years old.
Father Nieuwland, in addition to c being a professor of organic chemistry, is also a botanist. He started in 1904 to solve the chemical riddles involved in making artificial rubber and today it is being introduced as a factory-made product.
Many efforts have been made since 1860 to produce an artificial rubber. In the earliest experiments materials were used that were obtained from the chemical breaking down of the natural rubber. Later, intermediate products such as isoprene were used, # and also similar chemical compounds.
T wenty
The Scholastic