COLLEGE PARADE
By Anthony O’Boyle
We have all by now become rather familiar with the cries of alarm being voiced in Hearst newspapers about the terrible inroads that radicalism is making upon the student life of universities and colleges throughout the nation. However, Dean William F. Zimmerman of Midland College, Fremont, Nebraska, has an entirely different viewpoint on the subject. According to Dean Zimmerman “the students of today are incapable of entertaining radical ideas because of their utter disinterest in the problems which Communists and Socialists do all the shouting about.” It is this gentleman’s opinion that college students are not able to understand such problems.
We are further informed that Dr. Zimmerman gathered his data on “spontaneous conversation from many campuses, derived not by ques-. tionnaire, but by listening in when young people were unaware of being studied.” The calculations of Dean Zimmerman also gave the interesting information that the public affairs only attracted the attention of seventenths of one per cent of the men, while the same topic only interest one-fifth of one per cent of the girls.
"Assets in the making
THE work of Bell Telephone Laboratories might well be called "assets in the making.” It deals with many problems whose solution will be of great future value to telephone users.
The truth of this statement is indicated by improvements already developed and now in daily use. The convenient handset telephone, the dial system, new magnetic alloys, overseas and ship-to-shore radio telephony are just a few examples.
Today more than 4000 men and women are carrying on this work to make tomorrow’s telephone service still better.
When the archaelogists of the future delve into the ruins of our modern civilization around Philadelphia and vicinity they will probably come across the ruins of Mitten Hall, Carnell Hall, the Medical School, and the Library of Temple University. For the purpose of aiding these future students of antiquity, authorities at Temple have placed in the cornerstones of these buildings valuable relics of that institution which will throw light on the present civilization. According to the Temple News there was also placed in these miniature repositories a general catalogue of that school “that will be just as hard to undertand for them as it is for a prospective Freshman of this day.”
—o—
Why not telephone home at least once each week? For lowest rates to most points, call station-to~station after 7 P. M. daily, or any time Sunday.
Two
On March the 2nd, four University of Dayton debaters embarked on a debating tour that will cover approximately five thousand miles. Two men were sent southward as far as Tallahassee, Florida, and the other two were sent east. Between the two teams the University of Dayton will engage in debate about 12 other schools in the south and the eastern j team will meet about 13—all within I 15 days.	f
The Scholastic 1
CALENDAR
Friday, March 6
Fencing Meet, Northwestern vs. Notre Dame, 3:30 p.m., gymnasium; Scholastic staff meeting, editorial staff 6:30 p.m., General staff 7:00 p.m., editorial offices; Bengal Boxing practice, 3:30 p.m., gymnasium.
Saturday, March 7
Track meet, Illinois vs. Notre Dame, 2:00 p.m., gymnasium; Basketball, Marquette vs. Notre Dame at Milwaukee. Movie, “Here Comes the Band,” with Ted Lewis and his band, Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:10 p.m.
Sunday, March 8
Student Masses 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 p.m., Sacred Heart Church; Interhall basketball games, 9:00 a.m. and 1:30 p.m., gymnasium.
Monday, March 9
Broadcast from campus radio station over WSBT 4:30 p.m.; Broadcast featuring Dean James E. McCarthy of the College of Commerce from the campus radio station over WIND, 7:00 p.m.; Bengal Boxing practice, 3:30 p.m., gymnasium.
Tuesday, March 10
Bengal Boxing Show ticket sale opens; Basketball, University of Detroit vs. Notre Dame at Detroit; Broadcasts from campus radio station over WSBT at 4:30 and 7:30 p.m.; Meeting of campus radio group, 8:00 p.m., Engineering Building studios; Bengal Boxing practice, 3:30 p.m., gymnasium.
Wednesday, March 11
Broadcasts from campus radio station over WSBT at 4:30 and 7:30 p.m. Bengal Boxing practice, 3:30 p.m. gymnasium.
RADIO CALENDAR
Monday, March 9
4:30, Readers’ Spotlight; 7:00 Faculty lecture (WSBT-WIND) by Dean McCarthy; 7:30, Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., and Moreau Choir “Musical Liturgy of the Mass (Part II).
Tuesday, March 10
4:30, “The Speech We Use,” Prof. Frank Kelly on “Making a Speech”;
~	7:30, “Headline Personalities.”
Wednesday, March 11
4:30, “Stories of the Classics” by the Patricians; 7:30, “You, The De.	fendant” (Law Program).
,	Thursday, March 12
i	4:30,	“Athletics in Education,” Joe
*	Boland	interviews Coach Keogan;
;	7:30, “Stories of Great Lives,” George
;	Morris	and Tom Kavanaugh.
I	Friday, March 13
7:30, “Science at Work,” Edmund Donoghue on “Louis Pasteur.”
White Is Always Right!
"Semester Shirts”! — That’s what college men call Arrow Par and Gordon. A reputation well earned no less, for these two notable shirts seem to last forever, year in and year out. Furthermore, white is always right — and with Mitoga fit and Arrow’s authentic collar styles, you can’t go wrong.
Call on your Arrow dealer today.
$2 each
ARROW‘US',
MAX ADLER
6 6 The Big Store on the Corner''
Has all the latest Arrow things in a wide variety of styles and colors.
March 6, 1936
Three
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing*] at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXIX
March 6, 1936
No. 18
APOLOGETIC SCHOLARSHIP PLANS ANNOUNCED
Paul Mallon Appearance
To Feature Press Dinner
ARNOLD LUNN, AND SHANE LESLIE TO JOIN FACULTY NEXT SEPTEMBER
By Harold A. Williams
“We hope to have a capacity crowd present to hear Paul Mallon, famous conductor of the syndicated “News Behind the News” column, when he appears at Notre Dame to headline the Press club banquet next Friday night,” President Charles Fitzsimons said this week.
Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., will be toastmaster, and arrangements are being made to provide other entertainment in the form of singers both from the campus and from South Bend. The affair is receiving much support from the many who are anxious to hear a speaker who is in such close touch with national affairs and names that are making current headlines.
After leaving Notre Dame in 1922 Mr. Mallon has been associated with newspapers in the East, and was for several years head of the United Press Washington Bureau. He came into national prominence a few years ago during a Senate investigation when he “scooped” the newspaper world with his reports. Since that time his daily feature has been widely read, and he is considered one of the country’s leading political commentators.
Tickets for the dinner, which is to be held in the lay faculty dining hall, are being distributed by members of the Press club, and may be obtained either from them or at the cigar stand in the cafeteria. Members will be in each hall during the coming week to see anyone desirous of going. The price has been set at $1.25.
MET CLUB
Reorganization efforts by those interested in reviving the Met Club came to an end this week when not enough students attended the meeting called by Robert Cavanaugh, S.A.C. campus clubs chairman.
Assessments, which had been collected during the past month, were returned, and no further meetings will be held.
A two-year graduate course in Apologetics for Catholic lay writers will probably be added to the curriculum in September, the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, announced in the March issue of the Notre Dame Alumnus which appears today.
A brilliant array of professors will constitute the faculty. Arnold Lunn, English Catholic controversialist who recently gave three lectures here, has promised his services. Shane Leslie,
Rev. Daniel E. Hudson, C.S.C. .4 Scholarship in his honor.
Irish lecturer who was at Notre Dame last year, will also return. Christopher Hollis, who will continue at the University on research work in economics, will give special lectures.
The other professors will be chosen from present members of the faculty. Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, and Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., assistant professor of philosophy, who are now studying at the Louvain, will return to lecture. Also on the faculty will be: Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., former president of Notre Dame; Rev. George J. Marr, C.S.C., head of the Department of Religion; Rev. Norbert C. Hoff, former president of
Carroll College, Helena, Montana; Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C.; and Professor T. Bowyer Campbell, acting dean of the College of Arts and Letters.
The committee in charge hopes that ten SI,500 scholarships will be established to insure the opening of the experiment in September. The University will not select the ten can- -didates until the subscriptions are received. One of the scholarships will be named the Daniel E. Hudson Scholarship in memory of Father Hudson, editor of The Ave Maria for fifty-five years.
Strong Demand for Apologetics
Father O’Hara, in explaining the reason for the establishment of the course, wrote, “There has been in recent years a strong demand for a new approach to Apologetics in this country, an approach suited to current needs.
“To meet this just demand, Notre Dame has prepared to undertake a two-year, experiment in the training of Catholic graduate students who have been thoroughly instructed in scholastic philosophy as undergraduates, and who have already demonstrated ability to write. It hopes to gather these men from among the most talented of the recent graduates of Catholic colleges and universities.”
The first part of the new course will be devoted to fundamental problems of Apologetics, and from there the student will branch out to any field for which he seems to have particular talent. These may include social justice, history, principles of government, economics, and writing.
The fundamental courses proposed at present are:
1.	Advanced Apologetics: a structural outline course, with intensive study of the proofs of the existence of God and the divinity of the Catholic Church.
2.	The Holy Scriptures: a), the Encyclical of Pope Leo XIII, Prori-
(Continued on Page 6)
March 6, 1936
Five
BENGAL TICKETS GO ON SALE TUESDAY;
ELMER LAYDEN TO BE HONORARY JUDGE
Debaters In Tournament
At University of Iowa
Admission Will Be 25 Cents
ENGAL BOUT tickets for the fifth annual tournament, to be held Friday evening, March 20, will go on sale this Tuesday under the direction of Senior Manager George Wirry and Managing Editor Joe Prendergast. As in past years,
admission will be twenty-five cents with the proceeds going to support of the Bengal Missions conducted by the Congregation of Holy Cross.
Under the direction of Wirry and
Athletic Director Layden Supports Bengal Bouts
Prendergast, members of the Managers’ organization, as well as Scholastic staff men will canvass the halls this week and next. Students are urged to secure their tickets as soon as possible to avoid a last minute. rush such as occurred last year.
Director of Athletics Elmer F. Layden this week agreed to be Honorary Judge at the bouts. In accepting the invitation, Mr. Layden stated: “I am happy to be of service again this year. The Bengal Bouts deserve the support of the student body for they not only aid the missions but also furnish a great evening’s entertainment.” •
Summer earnings of college students are due to rise in 1936.
New Hall
Excavation on a new $300,000 dormitory, to replace the present Freshman Hall, will begin next Monday, according to information released by Sollitt & Sons, Construction company of South Bend. The new structure, which will be located between the fieldhouse and Washington hall, on the site of the recently razed Phy-Ed Building, will accomodate approximately 200 students. It is hoped that the hall will be ready for occupancy by September.
The plans for the dormitory were drawn by Maginnis & Walsh, well known architects, who have designed many other buildings on the campus. In keeping with the style employed in the construction of Dillon, Alumni, the Engineering Building, and other recent structures, the dormitory will be finished -in a modified collegiate Gothic.
The plans for the new project were approved late Tuesday afternoon by the University Council. Although no name has as yet been selected for the building, nor any definite plans released regarding its occupancy, it is believed that the club rooms of the local chaptei- of the Knights of Columbus ■will be located in the new structure.
ST. MARY'S BROADCAST
Tomorrow afternoon at 1:30 the Columbia Broadcasting System will present a program which will originate in the campus studios and feature the musical -organizations, of St. Mary’s College. " These: organizations include the A Capella Choir, the Glee Club, and the Voice Ensemble. They will be announced by Joe Mansfield, student director of radio. This is the fourth coast-to-coast broadcast to originate in the local studio.
FRESHMEN ELECTIONS
Primaries for the Freshman elections were held in the gymnasium yesterday at 12:45 for the nomination of candidates for the elections to be held next Tuesday, March 10.
According to the Ohio State Lantern Dick Heekin, one of the stars on this year’s Scarlet football team, would like to invite Coach Francis Schmidt to his wedding but he is a bit reluctant to do so because “he is afraid that just about the time he’s ready to say “I do,” Schmidt will substitute Jumping Joe Williams.”
Representing the University of Notre Dame at the University of Iowa’s Invitation Debating tournament at Iowa City is a four-man team composed of Robert J. Schmelzle, Richard Meier, Robert Burke, and John Marbach. The tournament began yesterday and will end this evening. Professor William Coyne, debating coach, accompanied the team.
The question being debated is, “Resolved, that Congress should have the power to override by a two-thirds majority vote decisions of the Supreme Court declaring laws passed by Congress unconstitutional.” Schmelzle and Meier will uphold the negative, and Burke and Marbach, the affirmative.	'
On Monday Meier and Schmelzle ■will present the negative arguments against the Creighton University team before the Omaha Chamber of Commerce.	’
The final results of the debate be-
Debater Robert Schmelzle “Out where the tall corn grows.”
tween Notre Dame and the Kent College of Law which was broadcast from Station WGN in Chicago, Sunday, February 23, are not yet complete.	'
APOLOGETICS SCHOLARSHIPS (Continued from Page 5)
dentissinius Dezis; b), proof of the authenticity and historical value of the Bible; c). supervised reading of the Sacred Text.
3.	Patrology: the study of certain Fathers of the Church who have answered such errors of paganism as are revived in Modernism. .
4.	Church History: an outline course, with special emphasis on events and interpretations called in question by present-day writers.
5.	Ethics: general and special ethics, viewed in the light of current errors in the “philosophy of value.”
6.	The Art of Writing: a practical course.

Six
The Scholastic
Washington Internships Again Open To Students
ELLSBERG WILL LECTURE MARCH 10;
TO SPEAK ON UNDERWATER EXPLOITS
Applications for graduate scholarships in Federal government internship training for the academic year 1936-37 are now being received by the Scholarship Committee of the National Institute of Public Affairs, Professor William Downey, of the Economics department, announced Tuesday.
Three local students received these scholarships in 1935, and Notre Dame was the only university to be represented by three appointees. The students who received the scholarships were John KavanaughiHhe late Var-num A. Parish, and Walter Layden.
A candidate to be eligible must first hold a degree from a recognized university. Seniors are eligible if they are to receive degrees in June. Other conditions of eligibility include a high scholastic standing, an aptitude for leadership, and an interest in public affairs. All applications must be in the hands of the Scholarship Committee before March 16. Seniors and graduate students who are interested should see Professor Downey at once.
The graduate scholarships for internship training in the Federal government were inaugurated in 193435 by the .Rockefeller Foundation. That year 80 interns received training on a three month’s basis. The venture was so successful that now full academic scholarships are given.
The intership program includes experience as full time assistants to Federal government officials, round table discussions with legislators, and individual supervision of the intern’s work by the Educational Director.
ENGINEER'S CLUB
Samuel Reed, senior in the College of Engineering, from Waynesburg, Pa., was appointed general chairman of the Engineer’s Ball at the last meeting of th organization held Wednesday, Feb. 26. No definite date was set for the affair.
Professor Walter L. Shilts, assist-ane dean of the College of Engineering, was the principal speaker at the session. He outlined for the new, members the aims and purpose of the club. He showed the necessity of a broad and varied knowledge of the field open to engineering studnts.
Federal Internships
Prof. William Downey
Works on government scholarships.
ENGINEERS HEAR TALK
One of the many industrial uses for Duprene, the synthetic rubber developed by Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C., was stressed by Mr. Richard Hayes, of the Okonite Company, Passaic, N. J., when he addressed the Notre Dame Branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers last Monday night on the subject, “Cables and their Development.”
The talk was illustrated by moving pictures of the production and laying of cables, showing the immense number and widely varied uses which industry has found foi* them. The meeting was attended by 37 members and guests of the institute.
DENBY SPEAKS
Mr. Howard Denby, art editor of the Chicago Daily News, spoke on the “Art problems of newspapers,” before a gathering of Journalism students in the Library on February 27.
“Pictures in papers may be traced to symbols on walls in the stone age,” said Mr. Denby. He informed his audience that the Neius prints between 400 and 500 pictures weekly.
As an illustration of the commercial rewards of good photography, the speaker mentioned an amateur who took a picture of a kitten and made $13,000 by selling it to picture syndicates throughout the world. This famous snapshot is known as “The Laughing Cat.”
Noted For Salvage Work
By John Hurley
Commander Edward Ellsberg, noted for his work in the salvage of the sunken submarine S-51, will give an illustrated lecture, entitled “Thirty Fathoms Deep,” in Washington Hall, Tuesday evening, March 10.
Boro in New Haven, Connecticut, in 1891, Commander Ellsberg received his degree in engineering from the University of Colorado in 1910. Four years later he was graduated from the United States Naval Academy, and in 1920 he received his Master of Science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
During the World War Commander Ellsberg was detailed to convert seized German trans-Atlantic ■ liners into American transport ships. His salvage career commenced with the rebuilding of the wreck of Admiral Dewey’s flagship, Olympia, which was made into a convoy cruiser.
Following his almost unbelievable success in raising the S-51 from the bottom of the ocean, Commander Ellsberg left the Navy to work for a private oil company. In 1927 he was temporarily recalled to the Navy to assist in the salvage of the S-4. For these two feats he received the Distinguished Medal from the President, and was made a Commander by order of Congress.
In 1934 he resigned his position as chief engineer of a private oil company to devote his time to lecturing and writing. His first book was Salvage Operations on the S-51. Since then he has written several other books and contributed to such magazines as Scientific American, Collier's, Worlds’ Work, and The Saturday Evening Post.
The New York Times said of his first book:
“There has never been written a more stirring story of a battle ‘in the water under the earth’ than Lieut. Commander Ellsberg’s account of the long arid heroic toil in the raising of the S-51.”
In additon to his writing and lec-turng Commander Ellsberg is the inventor of several mechancal devices, and has done much to improve the quality of anti-knock gasoline.
BENGAL BOUTS
Come Clean — March 20
"TUNE IN" REHEARSAL
Three weeks remain before the presentation of “Tune In,” the two-act operetta to be given by the Department of Music under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casa-santa. The regular weekly Saturday afternoon rehearsal will be held as usual tomorrow at 12:30 o’clock.
BENGAL BOUTS
Drop In — March 20
March 6, 1936
Seven
Jacobson Lectures
On History of Art
“The personality of one individual often determines the character" of coming ages,” declared Oscar Brousse Jacobson, distinguished American artist, who lectured in the auditorium of the Engineering Building last Friday night, on “The Character of .Art.”
During an interesting and entertaining fifty minutes, the speaker sketched a glowing portrait of the manner in whch every nation is made to live its art. He also gave his audience a very definite idea of how art can sustain a nation financally, just as industry can.
Character of Art
The speaker opened Iris lecture with an amusing account of the clothes worn by the nobility during the French Revolution, and later-day styles seen in France during the World War. He gave a general explanation of what art is in character, and showed that great men, religion, climate and soil, the epoch, and individual are only some of the things which serve to determine the character of art. '
Following a statement that, even though man’s advance through the ages has been slow and broken, every step of the journey can be traced in the art of different peoples of the earth, Mr. Jacobson presented a brief resume of this progress.
After declaring that machinery, and not the negro, invented our modern jazz, the artist demonstrated how art has formed different nations and left its mark upon them. He then spoke of individual creative artists and investigated them, uncovering their feelings as opposed to the hard sensibility of the scientist, who is unable to probe human emotions, their essences, causes, and effects.
Finally, Mr. Jacobson gave convincing evidence of the artist’s creating financial wealth for communities, countries, and nations just as the world of business does today.
Chief Sunrise, a member of the Sioux tribe, is a student at Washington University, St. Louis.
BENGAL BOUTS
The Year’s Entertainment Bargain — March 20.
Edmund Francis Donoghue, Science man . . . Walsh’s ‘Debutante Delight’ . . . Wears all partners out with his long dance steps . . . No relation to Donoghue, the dancer. . . .
Won the K.C. golf trophy with his clubs in Ins freshman year . . . Too lazy to keep up on his game now. . . . Rathei" play Monopoly . . . Can beat everybody but Joe McNulty, who knows how to deal, the money off the bottom. ...	'
Was a Georgetown Prepster . . . Spends part time in Merrill, Wis., but has legal residence in Florida . . . Likes songs about moonlight and Plum Lake in Wisconsin . . . Goes for checked suits and screaming shorts . . . Sings a different piece constantly for a week until threats make him change his tune.-. . .
Rector once mistook him for the night watchman . . . Led to complica-
tions . . . Lived next door to the prefect one year and was frequently chased off the floor because his identity was unknown. . . .
Only recently allowed to drive the town car himself . . . Used to ride in the front seat with the chauffeur . . . Makes up for lost time now . . . Has the most complete medicine cabinet in school . . . Keeping in line for the practice he hopes to have some day. . . . Will go to Columbia Med. School next year. . . .
Enjoys trying new dance steps much to the sorrow of the fair partners ... A brother preceded him here ... He may be the last of the Donoghue’s but not the least. . . .
Fencing As Minor Sport Endorsed By Students
Ed. note: In view of the fine record achieved by the fencing squad during the last three years, the question proposed for campus opinion this week ivas: Do you think fencing should be a recognized minor sport?
Coach Pedro de Landero: “Naturally I am in favor of such recognition. The boys on the fencing team have to work as hard as the members
Coach Pedro de Landero “Naturally”
of other athletic teams in the University. Their practice sessions must begin no later than October and they continue for the rest of the school year. The sport itself provides proper recreation for many who othenvise might not engage in athletics at all.”
Jack Deane, Carroll Hall: “Certainly fencing should be given this recognition. The men on the fencing team have to train and practice the same as members of other Notre Dame teams engaged in intercollegiate athletic competition. It would be a fine way of acknowledging the record the fencing squad has made for itself in the past few years.”
Splendid Record
Tom Pendergast, Corby Hall: “The splendid record that the fencers have made for themselves in the past three years of competition merits such recognition. Aren’t they representing Notre Dame in intercollegiate competition the same as other recognized athletic teams?”
Joe Kalman, Sorin Hall: “The work of the fencing team ought to be recognized and placed along with the recognition accorded the tennis, golf, and cross-country teams. If any athletic squad in the school is outstanding the fencing team certainly is. They deserve all the praise they can get for three years of fine work.”
Many a girl who looks sweet enough to eat, does.
- The Scholastic
Eight
Bartholomew Discusses
Constitutional Powers
K. of C. Initiate Fifty;
Plan Breakfast March 15
Historic Building Razed In Expansion Activities
“The Constitution places the power of interpretation with the Supreme Court,” Professor Paul C. Bartholomew, professor of politics in the College of Arts and Letters, told his radio listeners in an address over the
Professor Paul Bartholomew Talks on Constitution.
campus radio station on “The Supreme Court and the Constitution,” last Monday evening. .
Prof. Bartholomew pointed out that Congress has only the powers granted it by the terms of the Constitution, and our central government functions in accordance with the doctrine of delegated powers. The federal government may exercise only the powers granted to it by the terms of the Constitution and if a particular power, such as control over agriculture cannot be found anywhere in the Constitution, that power belongs to the states.
The A.A.A. Decision
The function of the Supreme Court in accordance with interpretation of the Constitution, Professor Bartholomew continued, was very well stated in the majority opinion of the recent AAA decision. To paraphrase what Justice Roberts said he explained that the duty of the Court is to compair questionable laws with the Constitution. The power of judgment rests in the court and it does not approve or condemn policies. It is the sole duty of the Court to determine whether laws are or are not being made in conformity with the Constitution.
In concluding, Professor Bartholomew said that the Constitution defines liberties, and if these are violated, their vindication by the Supreme Court is necessary.
On Monday afternoon the third program in the “Reader’s Spotlight” series featured Vincent W. Hartnett who spoke of the life and work of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. The 7:30 program on Monday was that of Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., who spoke on “The Musical Liturgy of the Mass.” On Tuesday afternoon a program entitled, “The Speech We Use,” (Continued on Page 22)
By Robert Grogan
In the second and third degree initiations exemplified in South Bend last Sunday afternoon, fifty candidates were admitted into the Knights of Columbus. The group of new members, composed completely of students, represents each of the four classes at Notre Dame. Following the impressive ceremonies, a buffet dinner was served at the Jefferson Plaza, scene also of the initiation.
Grand Knight John V. Coyne announced that the next Communion breakfast will be held Sunday, March 15. Henry Dendler, who is chairman of this month’s breakfast, promised that the speech at the breakfast will be both brief and entertaining.
The new members were officially welcomed into the Notre Dame Council at the regular meeting last Mon-
Chairman Henry Dendler
As few words ns possible.
day night in Walsh Hall. The class was introduced to the old members of the council, and the meeting was closed after refreshments had been served.
MUSIC CLUB
Reorganization of a University symphony orchestra, under the direction of Professor’ Joseph Casasanta, is to be one of the activities of the newly formed Music Arts Club, it was announced this week by Secretary Leo Boyle.
A meeting is to be held today to formulate initial plans for the revival of the symphony. Plans are being made to carry a full orchestra, and anyone interested in this work is requested by the officers of the club to make himself known.
Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., has been made chaplain of the organization, and will speak at the next regular meeting, scheduled for Thursday, March 12.
The University continued its 19351936 campus development project with the demolishment this week of the out-moded, two-story, brick structure, located between Washington hall and the gymnasium, which in recent years has housed the department of Physical Education and the carpenter shop.
Built in 1885
According to available records, this familiar landmark was originally constructed about 1885 as a combination gymnasium and recreation hall for the students of Brownson and Carroll halls, in which capacity it served for many years.
Around this building has grown up many beautiful Notre Dame legends, for it was here that the famed Brother Leopold, C.S.C., who died March 11, 1935, at the age of 98, ran his famous candy store. About the store and Brother “Leep” there were written reams and reams of poetry published at various times in The Scholastic.
Used During War
The candy store was built midway through the center of the building in such wise that on one side candy and smokes were dispensed to college students, and on the other side candy and cookies to the minims.
During the War, the building was one of the many turned over for wartime emergency purposes, and was utilized as a dining hall for the Student Anny Training Corps.
Since then the building has been used for various purposes. One-half section had been at times an apparatus room for the gymnasium, training quarters for the boxing and fencing squads, and more recently the headquarters for the department of Physical Education.
The old Phy Ed building has a scientific significance in that it served as quarters for the numerous guinea pigs which Professor James Arthur Reyniers, of the Biology department, used in his successful efforts to obtain germ-free, guinea pigs for experimentation.
BENGAL BOUTS
Wait Till McGillicuddy Wins His Boxing Sweater — March 20.
Nine
March 6, 1936
WRECKING OF CANDY STORE THREATENED;
TERROR REIGNS AMONG HUNGRY STUDENTS
Ethiopia Never Peaceful
Hollis Tells Audience
By J. Albert Torribio
Wondering eyes watched a vicious crew demolish a campus landmark . last week. Small groups realized that the old Phv-Ed building had passed.
The activity of the workmen became more significant when one of the spectators ventured that the candy store would be next. Horrified whispers greeted this surmise—sacrilegious! True, the new Notre Dame must go on, but not at the expense of this tradition. The Navy went on without scrapping the good old frigate “Constitution.” Of course, it was saved by a poem, but couldn’t some literary member of our student body compose an “Ode to the Sweet Shop.” There must be some mistake! It’s probably just an idle rumor.
Brother Leopold, C.S.C., founded the first campus candy store on the shores of the lake Father Sorin had selected 38 years before as the site for his university. Today the present building rings with, “Gimme a chocolate milk.”	.
Brother Prosper’s candy rendezvous is still the tops with the boys. The daily marches to the candy store have worn definite paths. Professor and student alike find relief from the skull-sessions merely by dropping in and yelling with the rest, “One chocolate milk.”
Brother Prosper explains that there are peak periods in Ins business just like any other. We agree heartily with him, remembering the times we have been crushed against the cigar-
“What happened to the Phy-Ed Bziilding? It was here yesterday.”
ette ad on the wall. Ten o’clock seems to be the most popular hour. The late breakfast fits in well with either a nine o’clock class, which acts as an appetizer, or with a ten o’clock class, in which case the little snack
bolsters one up for note-taking activities. This ten o’clock gang is made up of men with strong bodies but weak stomachs. Literally hundreds jam the comparatively small room to tuck away some doughnuts, some candy, something to drink, or to just hang around and see what they can chisel—that is, to get all they can for nothing. The most difficult job after entering the store is to eat in peace. The problem is to eat as much as possible' before the “pals” come around for samples.
Another rush hour is experienced around four. The lab boys need a
“What! No dozMe-chocolate goodiegoodies today?”
breathing spell and like hounds they rush over to the little building to bark out their demands to the frightened brother. The boys have only a few minutes to spare at tins time so anything that slips down easily is in great demand. Nothing goes down as easily as a cookie and a dash of chocolate milk.	■
Watching the gluttonous frosh, unmannerly sophs, polite juniors, and the ravenous seniors makes one wonder just what would happen to tins hungry army if the building .should suddenly disappear. “Pshaw! They can’t wreck the old candy store,” comes from a small group in the center of the room. “I tell ya, I got it from a reliable source.” This statement is greeted with shocked silence until a small voice in the crowd acclaims the suggested wrecking. The young lad. little knows the wrath he. is stirring up, but then he is incapable of understanding just what bond exists between the ramshackled building and the student. In time, however, realization will come! His schedule will some day be free of eight o’clock classes and the gnawing that will set in around his midriff about ten o’clock will make him realize the candy store’s service to society. .
By Robert L. Grogan
“Abyssinia, before the Italian invasion, was not a peaceful and smiling countryside like Holland or Denmark, filled with peasants going about their peaceful business,” said Christopher Hollis, guest professor of English history, in his regular bi-weekly .lecture in Washington Hall last night. “The truth is that murder is the normal daily routine of Abyssinia life— that among such tribes as the Dana-kils a man is not considered a man until he has killed.”
Taking as his topic for this week’s lecture, “The Last Ten Years,” Mr. Hollis discussed the relation between the United States and the problems now before the League of Nations. “On the whole it has certainly proved to be a good thing that the United States did not join the League of Nations,” he said.
Americans Not Informed
“American are apt to assume that because they are detached from the quarrels of Europe, any American intervention into European problems would be an impartial one and would necessarily be on the right side. I am by no means so sure of that. To be on the right side it is necessary to have not merely good will but also good information, the latter not being easily available to Americans. Quite frankly, it does not appear to me that there are enough people in America, willing to take the trouble to inform themselves properly about the outside world to make it at all safe for America to have an active foreign policy.
“In Ethiopia-you have a situation where there is a mixed population of Europeans and colored. Of such a ’ situation there is only this to be said. Whenever anyone who has not had personal experience (similar to the Southern States of this country) has a description given to him of the rules by which the lives of the colored people are regulated, he is invariably shocked by what, seems to him the injustice of such rules.
“Whenever he comes to have a personal experience of that life, he invariably comes to the conclusion that it is far more difficult than one not on the spot can understand, and that in practice there is nothing to be done but to abide by those rules. I have yet to meet a European, who has been to Ethiopia who does not think, not necessarily that the Italians have been faultless, but at least that the only practical solution is to leave the Italians to settle the matter for themselves.”
Ten
The Scholastic
Russian Music Recital
Given By Siberian Group
Demeter Zachareff’s Siberian Singers, world famous choral group, presented the first musical recital of the school year in Washington Hall last Tuesday afternoon at 4:30 o’clock.
Under the direction of Nicholas . Vasilieff, the Singers presented a repertoire in which were mingled Russian folk songs, ecclesiastical chants, and operatic selections.
In quaint, accented English, Director Vasilieff explained, before the group began its recital, that there would be some changes made in the program as-it had been printed, because of lack of time. Then, standing in the center of his group of ten . singers, he led them into “Divine Praise,” the opening selection of their first group of numbers. Following this was an excellent rendition of the eleventh century chant, “Hallelujah.” They ended the first group with “In A Cathedral,” and “Lord Have Mercy,” a Good Friday Vesperal chant by Lvoffsky. The singers gave as an encore “Song at Eventide,” by Rimsky-Korsakoff.
Wear Brilliant Costumes
As a contrast to the seventeenth century Moscow Cathedral robes which they had worn during the first group of their program, the Singers changed to their brilliantly colored, silken and satin Russian costumes which they wore for the remaining three groups of songs.
The second group of the repertoire opened with the Volga Legend of the seventeenth Century, “Pirate Song.” After this the singing exiles vocalized “Jolly Merchant,” the traditional “Siberian Prisoner’s Song,” “Soldier’s Song,” and concluded with “Laughing Polka.”	’
In the third group, Michael Batiev, the basso profundo of the group, sang an organlike solo of “Asleep in The Deep,” accompanied by his fellow vocalists. Another outstanding selection in this group was the satirical “Song of The Flea.”
Harvard’s courses in introductory ?	French and German have been mod-
j	ernized to give students a better
‘ chance to get a good reading and oral i ’ command of the languages-. t	•	.
BENGAL BOUTS
For Real Monkey Business, . See Conner and Tancredi at the Bengal Bouts — March 20.
March 6, 1936
THE WEEK
By Andrew D. Hufnagel
Tottering walls crumble slowly and then crash to the ground with a thunder that reverberates across a startled campus. All other sound and motion cease momentarily as the air becomes pregnant with a silent question. Only an overburdened hush fills the ear until suddenly someone blurts, “They’re wrecking the old Phy Ed Building.” Immediately professors resume lectures, students continue on their way to class, and the business of a great university proceeds at an accelerated pace. The incident has been completely forgotten — forgotten, that is, by all except the ghost of Washington Hall. Lurking in some dusty, gloomy recess of the ivy-covered buliding, the wraith shudders apprehensively. The scythe of progress is sweeping too dangerously close. Suppose Washington Hall should follow7 the Physical Education Building in the next swath? But what’s the use of protest! Human ears are deaf to the silent pleas of a shade. Even a specter must stand aside for the advance of a newer Notre Dame.
Being the veteran campaigner that w’e are, the news of the impending Bengal Bouts just naturally sets us to vigorously shadow-boxing, enthusiastically making passes at the roommate, and impudently feinting at our defenseless rector- and prefect. Never have we been able to forget the smell of resin. Nor have we ever been able to forget “Butch” Gooden. It was he w7ho gave us our taste for resin.
In our first and only Bengal bout w7e had the pleasure of meeting “Butch,” then the recognized amateur boxing champion of Iowa, Oklahoma, Texas, and about every other state w7est of the Mississippi. His prestige didn’t mean a thing to us, though. Hadn’t w7e once held the ' championship of the old neighborhood —oneblock long—in Brooklyn? Well, “Butch,” being above everything else a gentleman, suffered our clowning for the better part of one round and then polititely, and very efficiently, bounced us on the back of our hair cut. Ever since that time we’ve managed to restrain our “leather pushing” proclivities for less dangerous occasions.
• > ■
St. Patrick’s Day is approaching. Will it continue to have no more significance for this university of the “Fighting Irish” than that it’s only the day oh which the cook adds fruit cocktails to the menu and garnishes
the ice cream with little Irish flags? Has it ever occurred to any one that it might be a day upon which certain customs peculiar to Notre Dame could be celebrated?
9
The loss of that Ohio State basketball game was pretty bitter medicine for all of us to take. In a way, though, it was poetic justice that the team from Columbus should have been the one to end our enviable winning streak. Besides, the student
body regained something more valuable at that contest than a victory would have been; the ability to take it when an extra helping of bad luck is being dished out. Notre Dame may drop athletic contests now and then, but never does she forget her traditional spirit and sense of fair play.
9
Those, fellow7 Kentuckians, J. Felix Bray and Noiwin Casper, should have been made colonels long ago by the state, whose charms they’re ready to eulogize before one has an opportunity to say as much as “mint julep.” J. Felix, Notre Dame’s own Irvin Cobb, can describe the attractions of his beloved Paducah so enthusiastically that the listener is amazed that Bray should ever have left even the limits of his back,yard. And Norvin prizes Kentucky fox hounds so highly that one wonders that he doesn’t write an epic about them. Now, did we ever tell you about New7 York?
A pugilistic spirit must be in the air; and if it continues, the new infirmary had better be opened for use pretty soon. When over-ambitious flyweights like Joe “Slugger” O’Neil decides to engage in even a friendly bout of fists with men like “Man Mountain” Marty Peters, it’s advisable, in case of emergency, to have a fleet of ambulances waiting at the front door. O’Neil, however, probably realizes that better than anybody else, now that he’s taken to bed with a slight case of broken rib. Moral: Never undertake to combat Marty in anything more strenuous than a gentle game of bridge.
Eleven
IN THE IIGGLEE VEIN
CAF SMOKE
Prom Repercussions: PARKER SULLIVAN, of Alumni, filled his date with tales of his prowess in marble-shooting. Among other things, he told her that he was the north side marble champ of central Lexington, Kentucky, (approximating a one-block area). A few days ago he received by mail a bag of marbles from his thoughtful girl. He blushed, but challenged all comers ... It seems that the Junioi- class dance prompted cruel method of torture. Alumni’s ED HACKETT, trying to arouse jealousy, concocted a fiendish form of irritation. He instructed all his
“Let’s leave George, this is where we came in.”
friends to tell their girls to greet him noisily, when he was dancing, whether or not they knew him. Rather a primitive device, we’d say, but it worked—and how it worked! Ed’s friend waxed furious, thought he knew too many beauties. She went home in a mild huff. Ed, as well as all Alumni, are waiting for developments. ...
AL SCHWARTZ, who can make the scales register only 122, delighted in talking about his Prom date, who, last summer, outweighed him by 34 pounds. Yes sir, 156, add it yourself. This was all before the dance. She showed up weighing only 128—down to fighting trim . . . Seen at the auto show: Hugh Correll “wahooing” it for Anson Weeks while Jim Walsh strutted his version of the Continental; and that gruff voice belonged neither to Olson nor to Johnson, but to “I put them to sleep” Edgar Buck-ley. . . .
TOM GORMAN, Badin’s perfect prefect, pulled the prize pun about one of his lady friends who com
plained that she had been waiting a long time for her mother. “Yep, hours, I should say,” yipped Tom. “Oh, Tom, this is so sudden,” she cooed. . .
Carroll’s JIM SULLIVAN was phoning his darling recently, and was fuming and fretting because she was dated for the next four Saturdays. He complained “Listen, woman, don’t you ever take a bath?” ... It happened at dinner. The Sweetbriar girl droned on, “Don’t you think Browning is deep?” “Yeah,” came back the quick quip, “and so is the ocean.” Which ought to give you an
idea how JACK DEAN’S mind (so-called) works. . . .
SAL TRENTACOSTE, the engineer, is never tired of telling that tale of the hard-hearted goil who boasted that her refusal had sent a man to “booze” for two months, whereupon her catty girl friend (they all are) sniffed in that friendly way, "Well, I call that carrying a celebration too far.”
Andy “The Week” Hufnagel pulled a hidden ball trick on the Knights of Columbus and was too weak to show for the initiation—was the goat mad! The power of the press: Announcer JOE “STATIC” MANSFIELD was handed a coast - to - coast broadcast after being run in the “Man About” column the previous week.
Corby has now entered into competition with Walsh for “sub” recreation halls. Father Ryan decided that his boys might as well utilize the east wing of the Corby “sub” so he had the carpenters in to fix up the place as best they could.
—The Funny Fellows.
Poem
Here lies what’s left of Tom Burle He kept the favor from his Prom girl.
A man of unusual ability, in our opinion, is the one who can put a sheet into a portable typewriter and get it straight the first time.
What the N.D. men are giving up for Lent:
Cars
Dances
Good shows
Parties
South Bend dates (or any others).
Leap Year
A few, we know, were given brains, Others given beauty, To some a sense of artistry, To some a sense of duty.
Some were given fickle ways, Some got ways sincere, Some got wealth, some got health. The spinsters—they got leap year.
When Ivan Petrikowvefski married the girl he loved, the clergyman could not pronounce them man and wife.
Forecast
Official weather forecast for South Bend and vicinity:
Sunday: Rain in the morning with probable showers in the afternoon.
Monday: Showers.
Tuesday: Stormy.
Wednesday: Cloudy, probably rain.
Thursday: Snow.
Friday: Rain.
Saturday: Colder, with rain.
Sunday: Warmer, with rain.
Monday: Colder, with snow.
Tuesday: Warmer, with snow.
Wednesday: Unsettled.
In Indiana, they die with their boots on.
Famous Ties
Railroad —
Marriage —
Christmas —
At the grade crossing.
Family —
— that bind.
Notre Dame 20, Northwestern 20.
Fable
And there was once upon a time (or so long ago) that a Notre Dame street car at the end of the line started toward town without anyone shouting, “Hold it!”
And now it comes out that Horace’s date told him that this last prom was the best she’s attended since 1925.
Twelve
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 421 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C.................Faculty	Adviser
JOHN S. MORAN______________________________Editor-in-Chief
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST....................Managing-Editor
Departmental Editors
Andrew D. Hufnagei________________________________The Week
Irwin L. Goldman___________________________In the Juggler f^ein
News Staff
Paul Foley--------------------------------------News Editor
Robert L. Grogan-------------------------Assistant News Editor
John A. Gillespie-----------------------------Feature Editor
Clifford F. Brown------------------------Anthony O’Boyle
Lindsay Phoebus----------------------------Gregory Byrnes
Harold A. Williams John Hurley
Louis Da Pra-------------------------------Albert Torribio
Sports Staff
Cyril F. Stroker---------------------------Co-Sports Editor
James A. Waldron---------------------------Co-Sports Editor
Eugene Vaslett------------------------Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley--------------------------James M. McMullen
Allen Bride-------------------------------------Arch Gott
Michael Crowe
A rl Staff
William V. Ellis----------------------------------Art Editor
Francis Kroeger----------------------------Daniel Sherrod
William R. Dooley. '26------------------------------Business Manager
Member Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest
March 6, 1936
NOTRE DAME'S CONTRIBUTION
ThE announcement, on page five, of the proposed course in graduate training for Catholic lay writers is Notre Dame’s latest contribution to the cause of Catholic Action in America.
The establishment of these scholarships uncovers a difficulty which the present day Catholic encounters in answering objections raised by those of other beliefs. Within the last twenty or thirty years, the character of the attacks on the Church has changed considerably. Skeptics today do not advance the same objecitons as did those of the last century. Yet, as Father O’Hara has pointed out, our method of teaching catechism has not altogether kept pace with this change. The swiftly shifting world has raised new objections, and offered new substitutes for the fundamental principles laid down by Christ.
With the establishment of this course, Notre Dame offers a practical solution to the problem. As Father O’Hara declared, the young writers who receive a sound groundwork in Scholastic philosophy and Catholic ethics
March 6, 1936
will be able to strike at the root evil of secular thought— modernism.
It is appropriate that Notre Dame should come forward in these troubled times with this reply to the critics of the Catholic Church. A wider and more intelligent appreciation of Scholastic philosophy and Catholic principles would prove an antidote for many of today’s problems.
The proposal to name one of the scholarships for the Rev. Daniel Hudson, C.S.C., is a fitting gesture to the memory of this inspiring Catholic writer who for fifty-five years edited The Ave Maria. In a day when the Church faced more hostile and more prejudiced critics than at present, he was ever prepared to spring to its defense. The establishment of this course will give a great impetus to the task which was his life’s work.—J. S. M.
DESERVING OF PRAISE
The closing of the Notre Dame home basketball season against Ohio State last Tuesday evening signified the end of the collegiate playing careers for five of Notre Dame’s outstanding athletes. The schedule is not as yer finished, but for the students as onlookers finis has been written to the Irish court campaign.
The Notre Dame team of this season has been enjoying one of its greatest, if not its greatest, year of basketball success. The five graduating seniors have had no little measure in making this possible. For three -years the five young men have been playing for Notre Dame. They have conducted themselves admirably, have proved themselves to be true sportsmen and good losers when the verdict went to their opponents. During their travels with the net squad, nothing but favorable comment has been heaped upon their play and conduct. A Worcester, Mass, sports writer said of the 1934-35 team after it had played and decisively beaten Holy Cross in Boston: “The Notre Dame team is as fine a group of college basketball players as has ever visited New England. They have spirit and color. One unthinkingly roots for them because of their fighting spirit. Maybe that is the Notre Dame spirit.”
Three years of worthy service and three years of deserving accomplishments. Co-captain John Ford, Cocaptain Martin Peters, George Ireland, Frank Wade, and John Hopkins have closed their Notre Dame athletic careers.—J. P. P.
Thirteen
ATHLETICS
TWO GAMES REMAIN ON N. D. NET SCHEDULE
IRISH TO PLAY MARQUETTE AWAY TOMORROW, WILL MEET DETROIT FIVE ON MARCH 10
Illinois Trackmen Perform Against N. D. Tomorrow
KEOGAN'S PUPILS TO CLOSE FINE SEASON WITH '
ROAD TRIP
By Al Bride
After losing in the last home game of the current season against Ohio State last Tuesday, the Irish have two remaining games to play abroad before one of the most successful of the many successful seasons undei' the reign of Coach Keo-gan is completed.
Saturday the Notre Dame basketball team journeys to Milwaukee to
Coach George Keogan
Starts to gain weight next week.
engage in a return contest with the hoopsters from Marquette. In the previous encounter the Keoganites were the winners by the impressive margin of 15 points, but the forthcoming game cannot be taken lightly. Regardess of past performances the battle for buckets in the Milwaukee fieldhouse between Marquette and the Irish is always a thriller, and the margin of victory is usually close. 1
The Marquette lads have a formidable aggregation to take the floor, and if they are clicking Ford, Peters, and company will be in for a busy evening. McMahon at forward is a fast cutting, smooth-working floorman that can cause plenty of damage if allowed an opening. Earlier in the season he was bottled up by
ENTRIES FOR BOUTS
Entries for the Bengal Boxing Show, to be staged on March 20, should be filed before Thursday, March 12. These should be turned in to Jim Waldron, 266 Alumni, John Moran, 421 Walsh, Gene Vaslett, 319 Morrissey, Joe Prendergast, 307 Sorin, and Frank Shiavone in the Boxing Room. The entrants should fill in their name, hall, the class to be entered, and previous experience.
the Notre Dame defense and was held to a lone field goal, but on familiar ground he will be a more difficult man to halt. Rasmussen, in garnering eight points and scoring honors in the previous encounter, proved himself to be an offensive threat as well as a defensive bulwark. In Rubado, the other back court veteran, the Irish will be up against an old friend who is more than capable of being a trouble maker for the full forty minutes. The lanky center, Eirich, and Vytiska at forward will probably round out the line-up for the Wisconsin netters.
Foi’ the Irish it is expected that the same five will be on the floor at the opening whistle, that is, Ford, Moir, Nowak, Wade, and Ireland.
On March 10th Notre Dame will close its current season against Detroit University in Detroit. The Titans this year have won 12 and lost three. Five seniors will end their play for Notre Dame with this game. They are Co-captain Marty Peters, Co-captain John Ford, George Ireland, Frank Wade, and Johnny Hopkins.
Bengal Bout Tickets
Tickets for The Scholastic’s Annual Bengal Boxing Show will go on sale next week Tuesday. There will be a ticket seller in each hall on the campus. The price . of the student ticket is §.25.
Coach Nicholson’s spiked shoe artists are getting on their marks to be all set to go against Illinois Saturday in an effort to breast the tape a winner. The Irish thinlies will be after their fourth win of the present season, and will be in perfect shape.
Illinois will bring a team that will try the merits of the Notre Dame runners. They have several consistent winners and many others that can be depended upon to grab second and third place points. For the past week Nick has been putting his boys through their paces in preparation for much harder opposition than was encountered last week against Northwestern.
Arch Gott
A “Scholastic” scribe.
In the pole-vault both McCarthy and Gibbs have been showing improvement and will be gunning for thirteen feet against the Illinois up-and-over boys.
The Irish will be up against stiff opposition in -the shot put, and will have to add inches to last week’s performance if they hope to sweep the event. Elser ought to be good for a first place, and maybe a new record. Michuta has been coming along rapidly, but he will have to be at his best in order to keep the Illinois representatives from collecting three points.
Clifford and Jordan will again try to add to the score by collecting points in the sixty yard sprint. Jordan has been a consistent point gatherer all season, and until the thread is broken, will be in there fighting.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
Ohio State Upsets Highly Touted Keogan Court Five
FORMER CHICAGO C.Y.O. CHAMPIONS TRAIN FOR SCHOLASTIC'S BENGAL BOUTS
Last Tuesday night the Scarlet Scourge of Ohio State visited the Notre Dame gymnasium to close the 1936 home season for the Irish. But no more was the Scarlet Scourge to be reduced to a mere pink rash as they rose up in all their fury to administer a blistering defeat to the Keoganmen, 28-23. Notre Dame’s loss of the game can be laid to the fact that they were not sinking their many free throws nor were they hitting the hoop with their usual accuracy. For the Buckeyes the oustand-ing player proved to be the versatile “Tippy” Dye, football, baseball, and basketball star supreme. Five seniors played their last home game for the Irish, and it must truthfully be said that they played as plucky and as fighting a game as ever was seen on a Notre Dame floor. The outgoing squadmen were Co-captains Marty Peters and Johnny Ford, George Ireland, Frank Wade, and Johnny Hopkins.
Buckeyes Lead at Half
Keogan started Nowak, Ford, Ireland, Moir, and Wade. Notre Dame was slow in getting their offense into action, and the first score of the game • was a long shot from the side by Thomas, big Buckeye center. The game then launched into one of those nip and tuck affairs with Moir, Ireland, Nowak, Ford and Wade countering for the Irish, and Dye, Thomas and McDonald scoring for Ohio State. This brought the score at the half to Ohio State 14, Notre Dame 13.
The second half of the game began (Continued on Page 16)
Bill Whitman, Runnerup For Welterweight Crown, In ’35
FENCING ...
The Irish fencers will be seeking their sixth consecutive victory, tonight, when they entertain Northwestern in the fieldhouse. Last Saturday Coach de Landero’s proteges worked their way to a hard-earned 9 % to 7 % win over Purdue.
The meet started with two sabre bouts in which co-captain Carlos de Landero defeated both of his opponents, Seaborg and Antucshko, by the same score of 5 to 3.
In the epee bouts McAuliffe won from Hamann, 3-2 while losing to Matthews, 2 to 3, in his second encounter. Telmo de Landero garnered a half-point for Notre Dame, when his bout with Hamann ended in a tie, 3-3. Kehoe won the last epee bout by beating Matthews, 3 to 1.
In the foils Kehoe defeated Blocker 5-1, and then lost to Captain Silver-man, 3 to 5. T. de Landero triumphed over Latter, 5 to 3, but was defeated by Blocker, 3 -5. Bob Seco succeeded in winning from Latter, 5-1, but he lost to Silverman, 3 to 5.
Kevin Kehoe duplicated the feat of his teammate, C de Landero, by winning both his sabre bouts from Seaborg and Antucshko. Each match was captured by the score of 5 to 3.
At this stage of the meet Coach de Landero substituted three of his second team, to fight the remaining three bouts. Snooks could not solve the attack of his left-handed oppon-(Continued on Page IS)
Experienced Boxers Entered
By James A. Waldron
Up in Chicago they have a very efficient and worthwhile society called the Catholic Youth Organization of Chicago. It serves as a recreational center to mould the characters and develop healthy bodies among the Catholic manhood of tomorrow. Deserving young men are given scholarships to the Catholic colleges of then- choices as a recognition of achievement. Notre Dame was the choice of Bud Marcy and Max Marek, both Golden Gloves winners, and this year finds four more young men following in their footsteps to Our Lady’s school.
The smallest of the four is Johnny Noto, whose likeable grin belies his ability in the ring. Noto entered the K. of C. tourney in Chicago some three years ago and so impressed Jake O’Keefe, noted fight manager, tht he was induced to join the C.Y.O. where he could be properly instructed. In 1933 he won the Golden Gloves novice championship and improved so rapidly that he was national runner* up in the flyweight class and Illinois Athletic champion, last year. This spring he will fight in either the 118 or 126 pound division.
Phil Kenneally has, perhaps, garnered more fight laurels than any of the others. His boxing in competition takes him way back to his high school days at St. Philip’s in the Windy City. Phil was a regular on the school boxing team for three years, fighting in the C.Y.O. tourneys on the side. The year 1933 saw him crowned the C.Y.O. lightweight champion and also a victor in the intercity matches between the Golden Glove and Illinois Athletic Club championships. He is striving for the Notre Dame welterweight title in the bouts this year. High School was also the starting point of the boxing career of Walter Richter. There was a team at Morton High school in Chicago, but it only had one match —with Morton Junior college. Walt entered and won the middleweight championships of the C.Y.O. and Golden Glove novice divisions, last year. He is entering the Bengal Bouts, however, in the light>-heavy class.
Still another high school product is Joe Goro, who began his fistic career three years ago at the Fenwick school in Oak Park. With Tuffy-Griffiths as his instructor, Joe was the school representative in the welterweight class. His first step into am-
(Continued oh Page 23)
March 6, 1936
Fifteen
INTRODUCING
By Cy Stroker
We have always imagined that there is something wrong with people who actually enjoy contests that tax their strength and endurance up to the very limit. Take the two mile race, for instance. Who could possibly prefer running two whole miles at a pace that leaves the runner in a half conscious state to running, say, the hundred yard dash? But to hear Leo McFarlane tell it you would think there is nothing better in the world. And Leo ought to know. He has been
doing it for three years, and intends to keep on doing it for some time.
Leo is another of those fellows who hardly knew what track is before they come to Notre Dame, but who, through the guidance and patience of Coach Nicholson, have made their names by-words on the lips of everyone who follows Notre Dame track. Born in Lansing, Michigan, twenty-two years ago he attended St. Mary’s grade and high school there. While in high school he played forward and center on the basketball team for three years, but didn’t even try out for the track team. He came to Notre Dame in 1932 and, driven by the spirit that makes freshmen try anything once, entered the crosscountry meet that fall. To his surprise he not only finished the race but won it. That winter, he reported for freshman basketball but didn’t make out very well.
When spring rolled around Leo thought he would have another try at track, and that is how he met Coach Nicholson, and Eddie King, the Irish one-man track team. The one
became his tutor, the other his inspiration, and so began the track career. In the autumn of his sophomore year he ran on the varsity cross country team, and the following spring ran indoor track. That year he competed in but two outdoor meets—the Penn Relays and Ohio State. In the indoor Butler meet he ran the four mile relay with Eddie King, Joe Young, that year’s captain, and Clyde Roberts. In this event he beat Tom Ottey for the only time in his career.
Because of injuries last year he did not compete in cross country or indoor track, but ran in every meet in the outdor season. So far this season he has shown himself to be one of Nick’s best bets. In the St. Louis Relays he placed second in the two mile, but thinks that he could have done even better on a straighter track. He is priming himself for the steeplechase in the Penn Relays this year.
To date Leo’s best time is 9 minutes, 31 3/10 seconds, one second slower than the Notre Dame indoor record which has been standing since 1931. He would like to try out for the Olympics this year, and intends to continue his running until 1940 when the next Olympics will again be held in the United States. He will be 26 then, and he figures that, this is the age when track men are in their prime. At present he is living in Howard Hall, and is a senior in the Arts School where he is majoring in Sociology. He intends to return for graduate work next year and now entertains a secret desire to coach track. Now decorates his room with numberless pictures of track stars. He is also the only track man on record who avoids St. Mary’s.
OHIO STATE LOSS
(Continued from Page 15)
at a faster tempo than the preceding period with Marty Peters at the center position for Notre Dame.
At this point the Buckeyes became inspired and whipped in four shots in a row which left the score at 27-19, and sent the Irish chances aglimmer-ing. Hopkins entered the game with Wukovits to try for a miracle, but it was of no avail. With the great combination of Ford and Hopkins playing furiously it appeared for a minute as if the Irish might have a chance. With less than two minutes to play Ford and Wukovits both missed heartbreakers, and Wade and Nowak scored, setting the count at 28-23 when the gun blasted the final hopes of Notre Dame.
Butler Is Defeated 34-30 For Second Loss to Irish
Playing a fine driving game, the Notre Dame basketball quintet won a thrilling toss-up game from the Butler Bulldogs last Saturday night at Indianapolis. Before a huge crowd in the famous Butler fieldhouse the Irish came from behind in the last half to score their thirteenth victory in a row. Although in the throes of a bad losing streak, Butler snapped out of it last week and for a time it seemed as if Coach Keogan’s five was in for a tough night. Playing before a strongly partisan home crowd Butler was inspired into some early heroics, but later along in the game the Irish ballhawks proved a bit too skilful for the Bulldogs.
Butler (30) B F P
Brafford, f .... 0 0 1
Batts, f ______ 3 3 3
Armstrong, c 4 1 1
Jones, g ______ 2 13
Cosgrove, g .... Ill
Gerk’nsmeyer.f 10 1
Merrill, g ____ 10 0
Notre Dame (34) B F P
Ford, f	____ 3	2	2
Moir, f	____ 5	0	1
Nowak,	c___3	0	1
Ireland,	g....	0	0	1
Wade, g	-_ 10 0
Hopkins,	f	Oil
Wukovits, g	1 0 1
Peters c	-- 2 11
Officials--Kearns (Chicago), Bray (Cincinnati) .
Hard Fought Net Tilts Played By Interhall Fives
By Gene Vaslett
The Interhall basketball race came into the home stretch last week as it passed the half way mark, and now the Sunday ball players have but three more games remaining on their schedules.
Last Sunday the teams ran true to form in nearly every game although there was promise of one of the big
gest upsets of the current season in
Ed McNally
the game between the Sorin Tigers and the heavyweights from Alumni. The members of the Alumni team are going around the campus muttering to anyone who will lend
an ear that they “wuz robbed.” All
during the game with Sorin the Alumni boys led the highly praised Tigers. With but ten seconds to go and the Gold Coasters leading 11-10, a foul was called on an Alumni man who affirms that he was at least a yard away from the man whom he fouled. But the referee’s decision held and the Sorin man sank the free
shot to tie the score at 11 all and
force the game into an overtime period. With this new chance to keep (Continued on Page 21)
Sixteen
The Scholastic
S. A. C. Announces Plans For Annual Swim Meet
The Student’s Activities Council has announced its plans for the annual swimming meet. It is to be held March 30 at 8:00 p.m., in the South Bend natatorium. Reverend Julian Sigmar will instruct all those interested in the meet both in diving and
Rev. Julian Sigmar
He took a dive.
swimming. Three nights a week on Monday, Wednesday and Friday evenings Father Sigmar will instruct the boys.
The different events that will be contested on March 30 are free style —60 yard, 120 yard, and 220 yard races. There will be a three man relay of 180 yards. The first relay man will swim 60 yards free style, the next 60 yards breast stroke, and (Continued on Page 22)	• ।
CONVERTS BEGINNERS-CONVINCES VETERANS!
MILLIONS
OFUSERS
i% interiorkeepsjuices and flakes in Filter and out of mouth.
Prevents tongue bite,raw mouth, kwet heel, bad odor, frequent ^expectoration. No breaking in. Improves thetasteand aromaofany tobacco.
NOVEL S STANDARD SHAPES
(PATENTED)
. This simple appear-< ing yet amazing ' absorbent filter invention with Cello-k phane exterior and

SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By Joe Prendergast
FINEST A? ■ BRIAR ■ MONEY CANBUY UNHEARD OF VALUE
RECOMMENDED BY
HAT basketball game in the gymnasium last Tuesday evening was typical or replical of the Ohio State-Notre Dame football battle. The underdog won the affair, and for sheer thrills and woolly excitement it beat anything which has taken place in the local fieldhouse in the past three years. Being truthful and yet not trying to alibi for the Irish defeat it may be said that they played the worst basketball they have played at home this season. Paul Nowak was decidedly off color with his shots, and the foul shooting was all of what it shouldn’t have been. Tippy Dye and his
mates, many of whom were Lilliputian in physical build, deserved to win the torrid contest. They forced the issue from the offset, and had more composure than did the vanquished throughout the entire ball game.
George Keogan may have some jinx opponent team, but the Buckeyes from Columbus will do right now. They have won three out of four from the Irish within the past four years. Time marched backwards last Tuesday night. Ohio State upset a valiant but game Notre Dame team. Tippy Dye was the Andy Pilney in this particular conflict. Dye was one of the best guards to perform here this season, besides being the finest sportsman of the year. The Buckeyes discovered the forwarad pass on Oct. 13 in Columbus nd lost no time
putting it into effect. Ohio State 28; Notre Dame 23.
A BELLOWING CHALLENGER
I received a rather interseting letter in the mail during the past week. The writer signs his name as Hans Brinker, The Terrible Skate. It has to do with Cy Conner of Bengal Bout wrestling notoriety. The sender challenges Cy’s right to the wrestling championship of the campus, and will be at the ringside the night of the fights to back his loquacious sputterings. The doctrine follows:
“Dear Sir:—
“1 read in the last issue of “The Scholastic” where this Cy Conner is claiming the heavyweight wrestling championship of the campus because of his win over a beginner’s beginner, Tancredi. He will have plenty to yaya about the night of the Bouts when I personally challenge him to a wrestle to the bloody finish after he makes his appearance in the ring. I used to know Conners when I was king of the kids in my neighborhood, and he was just a justa. He hasn’t changed a bit and I, the Terrible Skate, have become bigger and better eating my minced words. I never did like this palooka Conners because he’s afraid of me. He reads all about me-Hans Brinker, The Terrible Skate, and knows I’m looking for him. At present I am hiding in Badin Hall, but I see every move that that short-haired crab-apple-eater Conner makes. Why, I’ll throw that guy so far the World’s Fair of 2000 will be ancient history by the time he lands. Dizzy Dean brags a bit too, but he makes good. Watch out, Conner!!----------------------------*
Yours for Safe-keeping till March 20th,
The Badin Hall Nightingvallee,
Hans Brinker—The Terrible Skate.”
Personally I would hate to be around when Cy Conner reads this letter. There is no telling what he will do, and besides Badin Hall doesn’t look so awful steady in Cy Conner’s tempest. Better follow this readers; it looks like another Crimean War.
SLIVERS FROM THE SORIN BENCHES
The boys are telling this one on Paul Nowak. The team played Butler last Saturday at Indianapolis, and all went to Mass together Sunday morning. As the players were coming out of the church a newsboy who happened to be (Continued on Page 22)
Seventeen
March 6, 1936
Nickmen Beat Wildcats
In Easy Win, 63 I -3-30 2-3
By Mike Crowe
Notre Dame’s strong indoor track team won their third successive dual meet of the indoor season last Friday night in the local field house when they outclassed the track representatives of Northwestern University 631/3 to 30 2/3. Chicago and Marquette were the first two victims of Coach Nicholson’s group of stars.
Buck Jordan still rules the Notre Dame sprinters. A consistent winner both outdoors and indoors last year, Jordan looks better than ever this season.
ANNUALS ❖ BOOKLETS
PRINTED OR ENGRAVED
INVITATIONS
DANCE PROGRAMS STATIONERY AN NOUNCEMENTS
McCLAVE PRINTING CO.
GRAPHIC ARTS CRAFTSMEN 4-7361	435 E. LASALLE. SOUTH BEND
THE BENGAL ECLTJ They’re a Knockout!
Admission 25 cents — Tickets in All Halls
March 20, 1936	University Field House
Bob Bernard, another veteran Irish runner and a reliable man for five points, won his usual quarter mile race against the Wildcats. Bernard wasn’t pressed as he circled the fieldhouse twice in 51.3. Rubly didn’t compete. Parsons finished third in this race. Cavanaugh placed second to Fleming of Northwestern in the half mile.
Two sophomores, Mahoney of Notre Dame and Carter of Northwestern, staged a duel of their own in the hurdle races. Mahoney took point honors. The trim Arizonian won the lows in 7.4. Carter placed third. However, in the highs Carter came back and nosed out Mahoney in 7.8. Mahoney placed second. Carter, incidentally established a meet record in winning the high hurdles. Captain George Meagher of Notre Dame finished third in the high hurdle - event. Jack Frawley showed the fans that he possesses natural ability in the hurdles. The Alabaman took second to Mahoney in the race over the low sticks. With a little more experience, Frawley is expected to develop into an expert timber topper.
Records aren’t complete unless we mention the name of Don Elser. Setting records seems to be Don’s .greatest pastime. He surpassed the meet record when he put the 16 pound ball
47 ft. 9% inches. Michuta and Lill placed second and third to the Gary giant. English tied with McGuire of Northwestern for first place in the high jump.
McKenna wasn’t extended as he won the mile in 4:34.7. Francis ran a conservative race in order to conserve his energy for the St. Louis Relays.
McCarthy and Langton of Notre Dame tied for first in the pole vault. Both men cleared 12 ft. 6 in. Gibbs who has been steadily improving, placed third.
Another meet record was established in the final event of the evening. The Northwestern mile relay team composed of Ensley, Heg, Kau-manns and Keitel were responsible for breaking the record. Their combined time was 3:26:1. A makeshift group ran the event for Notre Dame.
FENCING MATCH
(Continued from Page 15)
ent, and lost by the count of 5-1. Mercado,' a sophomore, in his first intercollegiate bout, lost to Latter, 5 to 3. Doody, the lone south-paw on the Irish squad, was defeated in his initial match by -Silverman, after putting up a courageous battle.
In competing against Northwestern tonight, the Irish will be striving to register their 14th straight victory, since the start of last year. The Purple defeated Purdue, 11 to 6, and a few weeks ago they beat Washington University, 12 to 5. The Irish winning streak stands a serious danger of being terminated in this meet. Notre Dame may be without the services of McAuliffe, consistent pointgetter on Coach de Landero’s squad, because of a wound inflicted on his right arm just prior to the Purdue encounter.
Established 30 Years
LEMONTREE9
OPTOMETRISTS
222 % South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
V
It is our aim to give you everything that is expected in a good pair of glasses.
▼
BROKEN LENSES
DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
Campus Boxing Devotees Prepare For Tournament
The potential champions of the Notre Dame boxing world put more zest into their workouts this week as the date of the Bengal Bouts loomed closer and closer. Only two weeks remain for practice before the bouts and the leather slingers are putting in all the time they can find to get themselves into proper condition for the matches.
Schiavone and pupil
Frank Shiavone i s down in the boxing room every after-noon instructing the newcomers and giving tips t o the veterans who are returning once more to the wars. Shiavone is an ex - champion of the uni-
versity and knows his boxing thoroughly. Added weight, gained during the past year, has caused all the returning champions but one, to move up in their classes and as a result the night of March 20 will see seven new university boxing champions crowned. There is a scarcity of entrants in the lighter weights and the field in these weights seems to be wide open, with the University championship waiting for the man who wishes to fight for it. It is not too late to start training for the bouts at this date and all
newcomers ■will be given every consideration by those connected with the Bengal show. Anyone wishing to enter the lighter events should report to the boxing room any afternoon around four.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
“CELLOPHANE” WRAPPED
A TIN
"Say! ...Fm sticking to Edge-worth Junior. It’s so mild you can smoke it ALL THE WAY DOWy TO THE HEEL!’'
CORN COB PIPE CLUB OF VIRGINIA...Crossroads fun, frolicand music. Wednesday evenings at 9:00 (E.S.T.) over NBC Blue Network, direct from Richmond, Va. (Pacific Coast stations— KFI, KPO, KOMO, KGW.KHQ.)
LARUS & BRO. CO., RICHMOND, VIRGINIA TOBACCONISTS SINCE 1877
1 "J hear Edgeworth Junior is great stuff ... We’ll see . . . First few puffs certainly taste fine.


GOOD ALL THE WAY
Half-way and still good. I used to unload here. Maybe itrs good for another drag or two.”
HE new, mild, free-burnin pipe and cigarette tobacco. So mild that even the heel smokes good. No tobacco wasted.
DOWN TO THE HEEL
March 6, 1936
Nineteen
| ON DOWN THE LINE
* By James A. Waldron DID YOU KNOW:
There is a strong possibility that the CLEVELAND INDIANS will play eight Sunday games in the expansive MUNICIPAL STADIUM in the late months of the coming season. It all ties up with a suggestion that the INDIANS could help make the
CLEVELAND EXPOSITION a success by playing in the big STADIUM which will border the exposition grounds? . . . CITY COLLEGE of NEW YORK, coached by NAT HOLMAN, has been seeded No. 1 in the tourney which will determine the Metropolitan representative in the NATIONAL A.A.U. tourney to be held at DENVER? . . . BILL BON- , THRON, the PRINCETON star, who ' put on such great races with GLENN CUNNINGHAM in the mile, isn’t doing any runing this winter. MATTY GEIS, his coach while at TIGERTOWN, advised him to keep off the boards, it is rumored, lest he ruin himself as an OLYMPIC prospect for the mile and 1500 meters. This view is also shared by LAWSON ROBERTSON, head coach of the OLYMPIC track and field team, who maintains that the stress and strain of winter running as well as the surface upon which the races are run, will . burn the athletes out? . . . An AS- : SOCIATED PRESS poll of the I.C.4-A COLLEGES which voted for • the metric system in the battle of two years ago, shows that most of them will hold fast to their stand? . . . The MEXICAN Y.M.C.A.’s were scheduled to make a tour of NEW
ENGLAND basketball colleges, but the tour was canceled. It was probably just as well because JIMMY KITTS, coach of RICE INSTITUTE describes the MEXICANS as follows: “They run a lot, shoot a lot, and score but little?”
A WOMAN’S PLACE!
EDDIE O’BRIEN, of SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY, seems to be the white hope of the AMERICAN OLYMPIC team in the 400 meters test at BERLIN next summer. Born and reared in ATLANTIC CITY, NEW JERSEY, EDDIE was the star sprinter on his high school track team. Up until the time he entered SYRACUSE, his only coach was a woman, MRS. HERTHA WEISS of the HOLY SPIRIT high school. Her track teams were always at the top of the list among the state schools and won a goodly number of championships at the PENN RELAYS.
RIDE the SOUTH SHORE LINE and SAVE MONEY
A student with plenty of money is about as rare as the proverbial snowball . . 1 It’s no disgrace to have to make your school dollars go a long way . . . every student should practice thrift. And there’s no better way to learn how to make a dollar do double duty than by riding the South Shore electric trains. It’s cheaper than driving a car . . . certainly more dependable . . . and for safety and speed there's nothing to equal it. Get the South Shore Line habit and
save money.
GLASSES Properly FITTED
E»t.
1900
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana
SWEET AS HONEY
THE ONE AND ONCf
LLOBOLE
Starts Sweet
Smokes Sweet Stays Sweet
rodiiik else kbits rum
Also Imperial Yeflo Sols $7.50	'
with REAL
HONEY
ST. LOUIS RELAY RESULTS
As a tribute to Coach Nicholson who started his track career in St. Louis, the St. Louis Athletic Club invited the Irish coach and some team members to compete in the St. Louis Relays held last Saturday night.
Coach Nicholson accepted the invitation and was well pleased with the work of his charges. Paul Ruby made a strong finishing spurt to win the quarter mile in 54.1. Don Elser tossed the big iron weight 48 ft. 8% in. to win his event. Leo McFarlane ran a very good race to place second to Lockner of Oklahoma University in the two mile. The time was 9:59. The Notre Dame two mile relay team gave a good account of itself in placing third to the quartet of runners from the University of Oklahoma. Bob Bernard, John Cavanaugh, Joe McGrath and John Francis ran this event for Notre Dame. The winning time for this race was 9:07:9.
QUICK PICK-UP FOR IRED EYES
Want to give your eyes a lift? Use Murine. Soothing, refreshing to hot, tired, reddened eyes. Great for eyes irritated by reading, dust, wind, smoke, or light glare. Use it daily.
EVES
Twenty
The Scholastic
ever perfect
For 1936 we offer what we think is the finest car in Ford history. But no car is ever considered perfect and finished as far as Ford engineers fire concerned. Once a year we introduce new models—since that is the custom — but constantly we make improvements in our car, for that is our lifelong habit. We don’t wait for Show time to make a better car.
Proof of this is the present Ford V- 8. In basic design it is almost the same as when introduced four years ago. But in performance and economy
there is no comparison between the 1932 and 1936 cars.
Ford engineers do not work with yearly models in mind. The Ford Motor Company does not wait for introductory dates to incorporate improvements. As soon as exhaustive tests prove that a new material is better, into production it goes. When new machining o	o
processes or new inspection methods are proved superior, in they go also.
The purchasers get the advantage of all improvements as soon as we are certain that they are improvements.
INTERHALL
(Continued from Page 16)
their record intact Sorin went into action and paced by the sensational shooting of Ed McNally defeated the Gold Coasters 17-11. McNally, in the short overtime period, swished three field goals through the ring to decisively trounce the Juniors and strengthen Sorin’s lead in the heavyweight division of Group II.
Corby and Walsh also fought an over time game in the heavyweight
March 6, 1936
division. Corby right up there
Bert Baur
was able to keep with Sorin in the undefeated ledger but considered themselves pretty luck to be able to pull the game with Walsh out of the fire and come through to win 2119 in the overtime period. It was only through the work of Wilke on the
offense and Levicki on defense which won the game. Wilke scored eight points during the game to aid in giving his team the margin of victory. Bert Baur shone for the Walsh men.
In the other heavyweight games in Group 1 Badin, co-leader of the heavyweight division, turned back the luckless Dillon five.
Carroll turned back its opponents from Freshman Hall and went into a tie with the freshmen in the league standings.
Twenty-one
S.A.C. SWIM MEET
(Continued from Page 17)
the anchor man 60 yards back stroke. A 360 yard 3-man relay race will also grace the program. There will be a 40 yard underwater swim as a special attraction.
Four required dives off the low board and three optional ones from the four which are required make up the low board competition.
There will be the same number of required dives but of a different nature off the eight-foot or high board. There are four optional dives from the different classes in this event.
The S.A.C. will award prizes and medals to the winners of the meet. Charles Boyle, of Sorin Hall, is the S.A.C. man in charge, and all entries and further information as well as any suggestions can be obtained or made to him in the Sorin sub.
Twenty-two
RADIO STORY
(Continued from Page 9) presented another interesting highlight in the weekly series.	■
At 7:30 Tuesday evening Paul Locher discussed the Rise of Adolf Hitler, the third in the “Headline Personalities” series. The Wednesday listeners heard the Patricians doing the “Stories of the Classics,” and the Lawyers who are giving a weekly program called “You, The Defendant.” Joe Boland in his “Athletics in Education” program interviewed Coach Kline on Thursday afternoon. Tom Kavanaugh and George Morris gave the third in their “Stories of Great Lives series Thursday evening at 7:30. Due to the State Basketball tournament which is being broadcast in its entirety the “Scholastic of the Air” and the other Friday programs were not heard this week.
SNOWBOUND ATHLETES
During the recent cold wave that made the Mid-West resemble Little America three athletic outfits of the Univerity of Minnesota were compelled to take a three days vacation from their studies because the weather made it impossible for them to return to their Alma Mater. The Minnesota swimming team was in Omaha while the Gopher’s tumbling and wrestling squads were enjoying the hospitality of Iowa City when it became definitely known that transportation back to Minnesota was out of the question. The coaches of the erant athletes did report, however, that “their boys were enjoying themselves.”
Columbia’s Prof. Colin G. Fink believes universities should have less “blackboard scientists,” more practical laboratory workers.
The Scholastic
cn
a
o
3
Oq
< ui
3
cn
3
tn
3

re
3
3
3
3
5? o
3
3
tn
5
p <
3 2 wi

3
a
0
3
ui
3
cd
p a
re
re
3
re 3
ui
3
p
re UI Ui
3
3
3- 3
3 re
3 crq
5
3
3 ui ui
3 Bq
3
CD
d 3
CD
p
5 re
0
CD
P
p 3
3
CD W
SL W ’— o
• Ui
CD M
3 3
Ui Ui
ui
3
M
3
£
Ui
w O 3
• . CD
=h 3 re
3
Q o p
tn © 3, tn
P o CD
3 3 Ui
tn
CD
3
3 © Ui
a
CD
3
3
3 Oq
3. re

CD tn
CD
a
o 3
CD
tn CD
3
Ui
© ;
^.QO
S 3
3 3i
p
CD
2
CD
a
3 w /; c
uo o
a

on
A LIGHT SMOKE
OF RICH, RIPE-BODIED TOBACCO
% b
a a
2 u\
3
5 o
3 o eg 3
3
P
3
P tn
CD
2.
CD
09
P a c
3 aq
p
a 3
tn
P Ui
© P 3 ©
-H * (D
CD
CD
P
CD CD
3
©
2
CD w
© 3
tn
t_j. Ui § 3 3. aq o o

CP
5 3 PT re
3
5 o
3 o oq »S 3
5
CD P
tn
tn
P tn
ui
CD P
P
P
CD
P
CD
P
3* rjo 3 tn 2,
(D
ui CD
3
tn
&-U‘ re rjq §
ui o 3
tn Ui
7q
CD
2
O 3
Ui re 3
o
3
CD
3
f/q
CD
a
©
3* P tn
CD P
p
tn
3
p
3
©
?
CD
CD 3
P
N O 3 p
© 3
3 o 3 o tn
3 s
3
P
P
Ui
All kinds of people choose Luckies, each for reasons of his own. But everyone agrees that Luckies are A Light Smoke of rich, ripe-bodied tobacco. It is a rather surprising fact that the leaves of the same tobacco plant may vary far more than the leaves from plants of quite different types. Chem-
ical analysis shows that the top leaves contain excess alkalies which tend to give a harsh, alkaline taste.The bottom leaves tend to acidity in the smoke. It is only the center leaves which approach in nature the most palatable, acid-alkaline balance. In Lucky Strike Cigarettes, the center leaves are used.
Luckies are less acid
'".Recent chemical tests show— ; that other popular .brands ^■■.have'an excess of acidity ■ ^/.■■oyer Lucky Strike ..of frany
.53;? to 1001 J
Excess of Acidity of Other Popular Brands Over Lucky Strike Cigarettes 2	**	o	m	2	-n	°
?—L—1—i—J--3—J-L— 1 I ~	.--L_i-1-4—«->—J--L—i-U-.	?--1-1----L—5
BALANCE	'	*	•.
STRIKE
BRAND B
BRA N D
BRAND D
ttRESULTS VERIFIED BY INDEPENDENT CHEMICAL LABORATORIES AND RESEARCH GROUPS
"IT’S TOASTED"
Your throat protection
against irritation
—against cough