2
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
EVERYBODY OUT TONIGHT
BUT YOU'RE THE GUYS WHO CAN FINISH IT.... you and you and you. .. . the fellows who will put in your two-bits tonight for Bengal and double your money's worth in fun and satisfaction. Remember. . . . all you need is two-bits and the energy to get to the fieldhouse before 8 o'clock. (A tip: get there as early as you can. .. . best seats go first). When you all turn out, WHAT A FINISH IT WILL BE for the EIGHTH ANNUAL BENGAL BOUTS!
Tickets from any Scholastic man or at Gate.
Reserved Section One Dollar
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3. 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
Z 188
Vol. 72
March 24, 1939
No. 21
ORESTES BROWNSON IS INTERRED HERE
•
Written from the notes of Professor Francis E. McMahon, Ph.D., authority on the works of Orestes A. Brownson, grandfather of Miss Josephine Brownson.
Orestes A. Brownson was one of the. truly great men of modern thought. Philosopher, master of Catholic apologetics, and logician of the first order, he deserves to be far better known than he is today. His remains lie in the basement chapel of Sacred Heart Church where they were transferred ten years after his death (1876). A proper place, indeed, because Brownson had wished to spend his last days at Notre Dame, although circumstances prevented his doing so.
Brownson’s relations with the revered founder of the University, Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., were cordial and intimate. It was Father Sorin who pursuaded Brownson to write for the Ave Maria, and the early num-
2___’ - . - *
Orestes A. Brownson
“__unswerving fidelity to Truth...”
bers of the magazine include several of his articles on devotion to the Mother of God, some of the most profound treatises ever written on the subject.
In 1886, followng a formal academic procession, and a solemn Mass of Requiem, the body of Brownson was interred in the lower church. The sermon at the mass was preached by Father Fitte. Father General Sorin also spoke, recounting his long and intimate friendship with the deceased.
At the time of the interment, The Scholastic said:
“May the students of Notre Dame,
JOSEPHINE BROWNSON, PIONEER IN CATHOLIC INSTRUCTION. IS 57TH LAETARE MEDALIST
By Edmund Butler
Miss Josephine Brownson, president of the Catholic Instruction League of Detroit, Michigan, was named the fifty-seventh recipient of the Laetare Medal at ten o’clock mass last Sunday morning. In announcing the award the Rev.
-John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., President of the University, said:
Award Has Been Made In Many Fields of Catholic Action
“Men and women who have added lustre to the name of American Catholic, by their talent and virtues, deserve good-will and encouragement. It is my opinion that our University might well take some definite action in that regard—take the initiative, as it were, ,in acknowledgement of what is done for faith, morals, education and good citizenship.”
From this wish, expressed by Professor James Edwards in 1883, sprang the Laetare Medal Award. Since then the award has been as broad in scope as Catholic Action itself.
The award has been conferred upon journalists, doctors, engineers, lawyers, actors, generals, philanthropists, business men, artists, educators, architects and statesmen.
The 56 previous awards wefit to men and women whose work was accomplished in well defined fields. We have always had generals and business men and statesmen—but we have had too few men and women who brought Christ to little children.
There is a significance' in Miss Brownson’s work, coming as it does at a time when Catholic Action is a frequent word; there is an indication of a stronger Catholic society—a society in which there will be a more active “participation of the laity in the apostolate of the hierarchy.”
for years to come, find herein a constant reminder of a noble example in the performance of life’s duties, through the right employment of Godgiven talent and genius in the service of religion, humanity and country — an example of unswerving fidelity to truth and principle — such as is presented in the life and career of Dr. Orestes A. Brownson.”
“While this year’s Laetare Medal is awarded in tribute to the pioneering spirit and the long and faithful devotion of Miss Brownson to the cause of religious instruction, it contains at
Miss Josephine Brownson
“.... Pioneering Spirit....”
the same time a recognition of a very important section of Pope Pius Xi’s program of Catholic Action. Miss Brownson was one of the first Catholics in this country to organize on an extensive style the catechetical instruction ordered by Pope Pius X in his encyclical, “Acerbo Nimis,” published in 1905... In the intervening thirty-four years, one country after another has organized catechetical instruction on a large scale.”
Pope Pius XI once wrote, “Catholic Action is not new but was born with the Church and has merely undergone fresh direction.” He sought an organized laity working in .cooperation with the clergy; he saw the beginnings of Catholic Action in St. Paul’s references to the women “my fellow labourers . . . who have, laboured with me in the Gospel.”
Miss Brownson’s work is exactly what Pius XI sought. In 1906 she (Continued on Page 26)
4
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
HITLER WILL MOVE WEST: GURI AN
The University Greenhouse is o Worm Retreat
Where Spring is
Just Around the Corner
“The present European Crisis will serve to add more scrap paper in the form of protest notes to the bulging waste basket of the German Foreign Office.” Thus spoke Dr. Waldemar Gurian to the Academy of Politics “Open House” on Tuesday, March 21.
The meeting, first of its kind, was - attended by 65 prospective Politics majors.
Dr. Gurian expressed the opinion that the next annexation move would
Dr. Waldemar Gurian “.___More scrap paper....”
be to the west, it being only a question as to which of the fertile states would be chosen. Also Hitler will continue to remould the old German Empire until he is forcibly challenged, even though he himself may be ignorant of his next plan.
The speaking program was completed with remarks by Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., head of the Politics department; Dr. F. E. Hermens, Mr. Paul C. Bartholomew, and Mr. Maurice L. Pettit. Each speaker presented in brief a picture of the politics curriculum and the advantages of the politics' major.
Encouraged by the approval accorded last week’s radio program, the Academy will present another question and answer series tonight. Bill O’Hare, Ted Kmiecik, and Dave Hol-- man will quiz each other on state and city government problems with emphasis especially on the organization and voting systems.
There is a “Shangri-La” on the campus where winter never comes, where flowers are always in full bloom and the temperature never drops below 70 degrees. Here you can sift clear white sand through your fingers and feel the stinging spray of cool waters. This pseudo - tropical retreat sits at the Infirmary’s front door. If you get a bit disgusted with the weather’s inconsistency, drop into the place where it’s always summer— the University greenhouse.
Once you’ve been lured to our local paradise, you won’t leave in a hurry because there’s a lot to see. And, besides, Ralph Wolf, the genial greenhouse director, is too proud of his “floral kiddies” to let you get away without taking a tour of inspection.
Right now is a busy season for the green house workers because most of their plants must be placed on the campus before May 15. From then on its an almost overnight transformation until commencement week, so that the “men of robed dignity” can walk their guests by beds of Tulips, Geraniums, Petunias, Cannas and Roses.
Because he has a deadline to meet, Ralph Wolf doesn’t care to depend on nature; he has devised a way to “jump the gun.” Instead of planting his cuttings in ground soil, he grows them in a sand mineral which is ordinarily used as a water-softener.
These tiny yellow crystals are mined from the riverbeds of the Rio Grande, and, as yet, no chemical an-analysis has explained their softening powers. Because the crystals retain moisture for long periods of time, Wolf realized that they would speed the growth of plants if used as a foundation.
He finds that his discovery saves him an average of 14 days in the
Linnet Orchestra Airs
The Linnet orchestra made a successful air-wave debut last Wednesday afternoon when they opened their series of bi-weekly dance-music programs from the campus studios.
With a fourteen-man unit the boys are setting out into the field of modem dance tempos attempting to set a new pace in a “jam-crazed” environment. Theii- object is to inaugurate what they call “sensible swing.”
Linnet-master, Orville Foster, has placed the orchestra under the student-direction of Drummer Johnny
growth time of common - variety plants!
Sometimes the growth must be speeded up by extraordinary means. The Easter lilies, for instance, must be ready in five weeks. Three hundred of them are being cultivated to adorn the altar of Sacred Heart Church on Easter Sunday. At the present time their growth is being forced by placing them in a special cabinet that maintains a temperature of from 85 to 90 degrees. Buds are just making their appearance; if they do not show signs of full bloom by Holy Week they will be seated on a nice hot stove.
One of the rarest plants in the greenhouse is a yellow orchid, which was presented to Wolf by the greenhouse director of the local Studebaker estate. This twenty-year-old tropical beauty recently produced 24 flowers and was exhibited in the University library during its three weeks of bloom.
Anybody who has insomnia and a flare for time-perfection would be interested in the “Night - Blooming Ceres.” This pure white lily-like plant projects a dozen seven - inch antlers and shows its beauty only at night. At exactly 7:00 o’clock in the morning the bloom closes and sleeps through the day.
If you’re allergic to comparisons and statistics you’ll get “goosepimples” when you learn that the largest plant in the greenhouse is a bushy “Boganvilia” that is now 25 feet long and, if allowed to reach its full length, would fill the entire place. The smallest is an insignificant “Glox-anium” that just can’t seem to chin itself above three inches.
There are approximately 8000 different plants in the greenhouse and only one out of a hundred attempts is futile to “bring the garden to your University.”
Inaugural Program
Kelley, who brought his “musical knowledge to college” and moulded fourteen freshmen into enthusiastic musicians.
Special arrangements for the band are done by Kelley and Jack Redmond, saxaphonist. Even a bit of composing is offered through the efforts of Trombonist Floyd Richards. To keep the solidity of freshmen in the organization Bob Longpre, freshman announcer, will conduct the broadcasts. These air-shows will be heard every Monday and Wednesday at 5:00 p.m. over WFAM.
MARCH 24, 1939
ALL-WOOD CAST FOR "TREASURE ISLAND11
•
The wooden counterparts of Long John Silver, Black Dog, and Jim Hawkins will jibber and harangue on a tiny stage when Tony Sarg’s Marionettes bring then* version of “Treasure Island” to Washington Hall on April. 20. Amidst a maze of steel wires, bolts, and narrow ledges the mentally familiar scenes of the Admiral Ben Bow Inn and Ben Gunn’s Cave will appear in perfect miniature.
A unique oragnization, the Marionettes have only four persons in their troupe, yet they take the roles of twenty-one characters in “Treasure Island.” Dave Pritchard, manager of the Marionettee, claims that often a player in a dual role is called upon to talk back and forth to himself.
Work in Dark
The puppeteers must know every line by heart. The only light that reaches them on their narrow perches above the little stage is reflected light from the tiny footlights. It would be impossible, however, for the players to read a script and handle a puppet at the same time, even if there were light.
The troupe makes its own costumes, dolls and scenery. The players construct the bodies from wood and mold the hands, feet and heads out of plastic wood.
Dave Pritchard, manager of the Marionettes, says that his troupe could stage a performance in the dark. He claims that the show could even be put on the stage if it were not for the fact that each of the puppeteers plays so many parts.
Library Lenten List
This week the Library lists several new books under the heading of “Lenten Reading”: Conflicts Between Ethics and Sociology, Simon Deploi-gle; Three Ways Home, Sheila Kaye Smith; Questions on Youth, J. G. Kemph; and Cross and the Crisis, Fulton J. Sheen.
The best books of the week are: In the Name of Common Sense, M. N. Chappell; Restoring all Things, J. Fitzsimons; The Refugee in the United States, H. Fields; Humor and Humanity, S. B. Leacock; Shadow and Substance, P. V. Carroll; The Rising Tide, M. L. Skrine; and Susan an’d God, R. Crothers; Through Gentile Eyes, J. H. Holmes; Analyzing Financial Statements, A. Wall; Medicine in Modem Society, D. Reisman; and lastly The Science of World Revolution, A. H. M. Lunn.
ALUMNI PLAN ANNUAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT
•
University alumni will observe the 16th annual Universal Notre Dame Night, Monday, April 17. Ninety local alumni clubs will take part, including Paris, Manila, Havana, Bengal, Mexico City and Arequipa, names as familiar to alumni listeners as South Bend and Buffalo. James E.
Alumni Secretary Armstrong Wants no more wire trouble.
Armstrong, alumni secretary, will supervise the program.
The major portion of this year’s program will be broadcast from Cleveland, Ohio. The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, and Mr. Ambrose O’Connell, ’07, president of the Alumni association will speak. It has been a growing policy, since the advent of the national broadcast, to organize the program in several major clubs of the East and Middle West. Smaller clubs, in conjunction with local radio stations, are featuring Notre Dame programs the same night. WSBT-WFAM will carry the local St. Joseph Valley Program.
Part of the programs featuring the University band and glee club, will be broadcast from the campus. Head Coach Elmer Layden will probably have a “story” to tell. Last year’s campus program never left the campus because wire trouble left the campus performers with a “dead” microphone.
* The Scholastic has been quietly making a survey to determine the most popular form of salutation at Notre Dame. First honors went to that colorful phrase, “Whuddy ya say there,” which seems to have taken the campus by storm lately. Runner-ups included “What’s new” “Hey there,” “Hello there,” and just plain “Hi.” Strangely enough those conventional greetings like “Good morning” and “Good evening” are seldom heard. “How they goin’ ” takes the prize as the most unusual and ungrammatical expression.
5
ALLEN ILLUSTRATIONS IN ART GALLERY
By Dick Metzger
A new exhibition featuring the work of Courtney Allen, famous illustrator, is now on display in the University art gallery. Mr. Allen’s exhibit opens a more broader approach to the subject of story illustration than the recent exhibition of Norman Rockwell.
Although Mr. Allen had limited associations with such recognized art leaders, as C. W. Hawthorne, C. C. Curran, Felix Mahony and W. H. Bicknell he is really a self-made artist. Today at forty-three he ranks among the foremost illustrators of the country. His illustrations appear frequently in Collier’s, McCall’s, Good Housekeeping, and other current publications. He is a member of the New Rochelle Association and the Artists’ Guild.
Allen paints with a restricted palette—frequently employing a red orange color with illustrator’s black and white. The limited coloring of his paintings is occasioned by the restriction as to the number of colors demanded in magazine illustartion. It will also be noted that the paintings are of odd patterns—some long and some narrow, some full, some diagonal, and some split in two. These were obviously the patterns followed in the magazine pages, the spaces left to be filled with the printed story.
The excellent draftsmanship underlies each work. Every object is carefully rendered although it is at once apparent that Mr. Allen does not paint with an eye for detail as does Rockwell. His is a freer interpretation which emphasizes the most important details.
Miss O'Brien on Franco
Miss Aileen O’Brien, who lectured on the Spanish situation earlier this year, defended Franco and the Nationalist cause before the City Commons Club of Berkeley, Calif., last week. Said Miss O’Brien: “Franco has no military alliances with Germany and Italy. He has trade alliances with both countries and with Great Britain. He’s paying for his war supplies with wheat to. Germany and oil to Italy.”
She added: “Spaniards are under no illusion as to why Germany and Italy are supplying Franco with munitions. . . . Spain is self-sufficient and the other countries are not. What would happen to Germany and Italy if they became sandwiched in by a Soviet block in Europe as Russia threatened to do?”
6
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
OUR DAILY BREAD
Scientists Make Use of Mice and Men— and Get New Facts on Animal Metabolism
Liturgy
Under the ancient discipline of the Church the fourth week was the end of the instruction of the Catechumens. Then took place the Great Scrutiny or final examination. The preparatory ceremonies, exorcisms etc., followed, and on Easter eve they were baptized. At this time also public sinners who had fulfilled their penances were reconciled. On Easter Day all received the Sacrament of Love, the symbol and pledge of their own resurrection. “He who eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath everlasting life; and I will raise him up in the last day.” (John, 6:55).
The only reason for living is to await the resurrection of the dead.— Leon Bloy.
“Everyone that liveth, and believeth in me, shall not die forever.” (John, 11:26).
This is the whole story of Lent. To believe Christ is merely to accept his teachings as so many comforting propositions. To believe in Him is to conform one’s life with His.
Mass Calendar: March 26 to April 1
Sunday 26—Passion Sunday. Semidouble. 2d prayer for the Church or the Pope. Preface of the Cross.
Monday 27—St. John Damascene. Confessor. Doctor. Double. Mass proper. 2d prayer the ferial. 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Credo. Last Gospel from ferial mass. St. John defended the veneration of images against Leo the Isaurian.
Tuesday 28—St. John Capistran. Confessor. Semi-double. Mass proper. 2d prayer the ferial. 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. R. Last Gospel from ferial mass. The preacher of the crusade against the Mohammedans, 15th century.
Wednesday 29—Ferial. Simple. 2d prayer for the Church or the Pope. 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Thursday 30—Ferial. Simple. 2d and 3d prayers as of yesterday.
Friday 31—The Seven Sorrows of Our Lady. Greater Double. 2d prayer the ferial. 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Credo. Preface of the Blessed Virgin. Last Gospel from ferial mass.
Saturday, April 1—Ferial Simple. 2d prayer for the. Church or the Pope. 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Dr. Francis G. Benedict, Ph.D., D.Sc., M.D., delivered a series of lectures in Cushing Hall Auditorium last week. The first lecture discussed Animal Metabolism From Mouse to Elephant. The second explained Science and the Art of Deception. Dr. Benedict has previously spoken at Aberdeen, Heidelberg, Stockholm, Cambridge and other European universities.
Mice and Men
For their studies scientists used small mice weighing about eight grams, men weighing about 80 kilograms, a four-ton elephant, and various animals of intermediate size.
A mouse at rest produces one calorie of heat in 24 hours. A man under similar conditions produces 1,600 calories. Animals generate heat to keep warm and lose heat from the surface area. However, it is found that the rate of metabolism is not proportional to the weight of the animals or the surface area. All measurements are made under fixed conditions. As metabolism is high in youth all observations had to be made on adult animals. The heat produced was measured by two methods. One liter* of oxygen in an animal produces five calories. The amount of oxygen taken in is observed and calculations made. The other method was by the amount of carbonic acid, formed from the carbon dioxide, given off in breathing. All measurements, were made when the animals were in repose to insure standard conditions for observation.
Conclusions from the work are: Metabolism is not proportional to either weight or surface area in different species; in a species the metabolism is proportional to the amount of oxygen taken in; in all animals the greater the weight the more heat produced, although not in proportion. A large elephant produces the heat of thirty men.
Wanted — One Perfect Elephant
For their experiments Dr. Benedict and his fellow workers wanted the largest terrestrial animal, obviously the elephant. But the task of finding a suitable animal in America was difficult. It should be good natured and stand quietly (which elephants rarely do). They are almost always in a swaying motion. There are only about 150 elephants in the United States. Zoo elephants were eliminated from the start as being unsuited for the experiment. After several
years the right animals were found in New York City.
Experiments on “Jap,” their new prize, called for a new array of laboratory equipment, part of it being a respiration chamber constructed in a barn. Jap was put in the chamber and the gases given off in respiration measured. To figure basic metabolism the animal should go without food for about 24 hours and lie still throughout the experiment.
Little is known about elephants except that they are big. Dr. Benedict came upon many interesting facts about elephants during the time he worked with them. The next time you visit a zoo, notice the ears on the elephants. The larger ears belong to African elephants.
Elephant Data
Incidentally, the tip of the elephant’s ear is the hottest part of its body. There is very little hair on elephants. The spot where it is thickest is a sparse beard on the lower jaw. Only male elephants have tusks. Elephants are prodigious eaters, consuming 150 pounds of hay per day and drinking 50 gallons of water. The heart beat of an elephant is slower when it stands than when it is lying down.
The inch thick hide made it difficult for the scientist to detect the elephant’s heart beat by ordinary means; so the elephants were made to stand on electrodes. The beats were picked up through their feet and then amplified. Before these investigations even keepers were not certain whether elephants breathed through their mouths or trunks. Experiments showed that both are used.
Science vs. Magic
Dr. Benedict’s second lecture, Science and the Art of Deception, illustrated in an interesting fashion the relation existing between science in general and the art and science of magic.
It took two hundred years to divorce science from the Black Art, but there are still certain compatibilities between the two. Science tries to represent true phenomena. The magician, by deftness, tries to represent the false in place of the true and frankly and cunningly casts doubt on science.
Mystery, today, is more challenging (Continued on Page 30)
MARCH 24, 1939
7
BREAK GROUND FOR NEW DORMITORY
•
Construction of the new Breen-Phillips Hall began this morning immediately behind Cavanaugh Hall on the.east end of the campus. The new hall will provide living quarters for 180 freshmen, and is expected to be ready for occupancy in September. One wing of the ground floor will house the Athletic Association administrative and ticket offices.
Breen-Phillips Hall commemorates Mr. and Mrs. William P. Breen and Mr. Frank Phillips. Mr. Breen was graduated from Notre Dame in 1877 and received an LL.D, in 1902. Mr. Phillips also was a student here, class of 1880.
’ The University was named residuary legatee of both estates, the total amount of which is approximately $400,000. The recent death of Mrs. Breen made the funds available for University use.
This new residence hall is the first unit in a series of three residence Kails which will complete the east end of the campus. Thomas L. Hickey of South Bend is the general contractor. Maginnis and Walsh of Boston are the architects.
The plans of the hall are such that virtually all the rooms are designed for double occupancy. This will reduce the living ccst for first year students.
Mr. Whiteman Objects
The Modernaires returned from a successful St. Patrick’s engagement at Ottawa, Illinois, to find a letter from Paul Whiteman’s agent awaiting them. The letter cheerfully told them that Paul Whiteman has a singing quartet that is known as the Modernaires. Basing their seniority on a four-year survival, the quartet requests oui* campus solid senders to relinquish their title to avoid confusion in the world of jive. The campus Modernaires were non-committal as to their plan of action, but neither were they depressed by this threat to their title.
Reid Contest Closes
The Letters to the Editors prize competition will close Thursday, March 30. All manuscripts must be handed in to Dr. John M. Cooney, head of journalism department by that date. The letters will then be sent to Richard Reid, 1937 Laetare medalist and Georgia editor, who will judge the contest and award the prizes. The topic for the contest will be a criticism, either favorable or unfavorable, of any phase of newspaper reporting or policy.
THE IV EEK	By Bill Donnelly
Design for an Epitaph
IN MEMORIAM
Blessed is "The Week," for it shall possess the land.
Here lies Ed O’Connor, may his soul rest in peace
Eternal rest grant unto him, O Lord;
He achieved great honor, hut his efforts had to cease
Because “The Week” impaled him on its sword.
Progress
We just found out the other day that when Greg Rice was over in Europe last summer wearing his “Notre Dame” warm-up suit, little kids in such countries as Germany, Greece, and what was then Czechoslovakia, would spy the “Notre Dame” and come up and ask him questions in French. “Most of the kids over there seem to know at least three languages,” Greg says. And here we find a perfect example of the way men’s minds tend away from the confusing toward the more simple: there is a fellow over there trying to fix it so that they will all have to learn only one language—German.
You Can’t Beat Fun!
A fellow we know was down to Indianapolis last week-end to watch the Butler Relays. Friday night he had a blind date whom he took to a local night spot, and before a half hour had passed he had followed his usual practice of becoming acquainted with every one in the place. (“I don’t know what that boy is going to do next,” his date is reported to have said, “Look at him over there leading the orchestra now; there must be something wrong with him.”) One of the people he met was a fellow named “Red” (he never did find out his last name) and before long “Red” and his fiancee were inviting our friend and his crowd over to “Red’s” house.
As soon as they got there our friend sat down on the sofa not only with his own date but with “Red’s” fiancee. He began monopolizing her conversation and “Red” finally got sore. He walked over to the closet, took out a baseball bat, and came back and whacked our friend across the toes with it. Our friend was too
busy sitting with the girl to be brought back to reality by one whack, but “Red” brought the bat smashing down on his feet again and again until finally he became aware of the pain. He hobbled to his feet. “AR right,” he said, “I was only trying to be friendly.”
Then “Red” got sore at his fiancee for what she had done and she got sore at “Red” for hitting our friend on the toes, and then she got sore at our friend for getting “Red” sore at her. Then our friend’s blind date got sore at him because he had caused such a scene and our friend was so dismayed by the whole thing he didn’t even go out the next night. Besides he could hardly walk anyhow.
Bottom of the Week
The one Jim Walsh’s doctor slapped.
Milquetoast
An agent of ours was over at the dry-cleaning place the other day when a meek little freshman came in and laid a very dirty gabardine rain coat on the counter. “Did you ever bring this here before?” the girl asked. “No,” he said, “Well, you know,” she went on, “they shrink it, and they fade it, and it won’t be water-proof any more.” After he had looked at her for a few seconds he left it on the counter and asked timidly, “Do I get it back?”
Hero Worship
Dr. McMahon, the philosophy professor, was telling one of his classes last week that Orestes Brownson and St. Thomas Aquinas had always been his heroes. “And who,” he asked one of the members of his class, “is your hero?” “Doc McMahon,” the fellow chirped brightly, and down went a 95 in the little red book.
We would like to take this opportunity of saying that we too regard Doc McMahon as our hero (and we hope that that will counterbalance somewhat the effect of this next story on our grade.) It seems the Doctor has a habit of opening his mail at his desk before one of his classes. He got a large envelope one day and the whole class, aware of what was inside, enjoyed his facial expression as he pulled out a picture of the 1938 football team and read the question written at the bottom—“Is your line as good as this one?”	.
8
Night Watchman is a Man of Few Words— But He Has His Own Way of Saying Them
By Frank Wemhoff
It was the night after the Great Snow. Notre Dame’s free - wheeling street-car had her wavy roadbed covered with two feet of snow and in its stead was a gas-driven liner with leather seats and clean windows io cater to the tastes of the stay-at-schoolers. Lumpy heaps lined our “look-for-a-dime” drive-in horseshoe.
At the little hut by the front entrance stood the night watchman. Quite a character, so I had heard, and supposed to rank with Adolph and Dan Hanley. So knowing ye old Scholastic needs the tales of interesting people to enhance its sweltering pages, the idea of an interesting interview seemed exceedingly good. But now, one just can’t go up and ask blunt questions and expect to receive anything better than the usual “I used to peddle College Humors" line, so a little sublety was ini' order. Result, cub makes effort to start conversation. Result again, below.
Conversation Begins
“Good evening, sir.”
“Good evening.”
Silence. Humph, sounds Irish. Better try again. “Quite a storm over the week-end, huh?”
“Yeh.”
Quite a talker. Guess he must have frozen up in the wind. Oughta give him a good chance to spout a little. “I’ll bet you sure get tired standing here.”
Wedding Bells to Ring for Lonesome Jenny— Meanwhile She Bites the Hand that Feeds Her
By Jack Dinges
On the first floor of the Biology building is a rather ordinary looking cage but in the cage lives an extraordinary animal, Jenny, a Macacus Rhesus monkey, whose ancestors once enjoyed life in India. Jenny came from a New York breeding house about Thanksgiving time. She is now about a year and a half old. The boys in the Biology building expect the arrival of a boy friend for the little lady some time this week.
However, we are inclined to think one monkey is enough. Mr. John Helmer who is in charge of Jenny had sixteen bites to show for his kindness. Jenny also likes to hit visitors on the nose and remembers these visitors who tease her. But don’t misunderstand her; she really isn’t ill tempered. The first night in her new home she picked the temporary lock
“Sure do.”
“How long you on duty?”
“Six o’clock. Too long, too.”
Now he sounds Chinese. Must be the words though, everybody else so far has decided on Irish. Not a nice thick accent like they have in the movies. “Ever do anything besides smoke and listen to that little radio inside the shed?”
“Nothin’ else to do.”
“Well, I think I’ll mosey back to the hall.”
“0. K.”
Conversation Ends
It is men like that who teach us to become good conversationalists. I wouldn’t have traded the value of that conversation for a crinkle-proof crib. I feel that my efforts were most wonderfully rewarded. A girl over at the “rock” once said that I was just the type that people confided in and she told all about how she went steady with three fellows at the same time, including me, and this interview with the colorful night watchman served to impress upon me the splendid qualities I have for setting people completely at ease.
I was so heartened by the whole affair that I think I ought to canvass all the halls and glean other bits of wisdom from the numerous other night-watchmen to pass on to those who are not so fortunate as to know one of those amiable gentlemen.
on her cage and made her way through the building. She was found on a lab desk holding a flask of solution to the light and examining it closely. On noticing the “intruders” she set it down and leaped to safety on a shelf. Jenny, incidentally, can leap a good twenty feet at one bound.
The “monk’s” dearest possession is a small aluminum mirror, aluminum because of her propensity for throwing things. She had broken one of her heavy porcelain dishes the very morning of her interview by throwing it against the bars of her cage. She can amuse herself with her mirror all day, peering into it and gnawing at the edges.
One of Jenny’s most amusing traits is the way she opens her mouth to register a most surprised expression.
(Continued on Page 25)
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
DEBATERS LEAVE FOR WISCONSIN MEET
Today and tomorrow the varsity debaters participate in the University of Wisconsin tournament at Madison. On April 20 they will meet a team from Dartmouth College, here. Two tentative debates with Michigan State will end the 1939 season—a very successful season.
The first debate with Marquette University, on Feb. 15, resulted in no decision. Both “A” and “B” squads
Debater Funk
Florida lost the argument.
began their traveling sessions the following week-end, competing in the Manchester Indiana tournament, from which they emerged with nine wins in 12 arguments. Approximately 476 debaters competed, representing 70 schools.
The results of the University of Iowa tournament March 2-4 were also favorable. The Notre Dame negative team defeated the Northern Illinois Teachers, Kansas, Denver, and Au-gustana, but lost to Hastings and DePauw. The affirmative team broke even, winning from Park College, South Dakota University, and the University of Wichita, but losing to Iowa University, Westminster, and Sioux Falls (forfeit).
At Manchester the various negative teams won 160 debates, the affirmatives 120; at Iowa the negatives scored 61 times to the affirmatives 51. These results substantiate the fact that the negative is the stronger side of the debating question: Resolved “That the United States should cease spending public funds for the purpose of stimulating business.”
Al Funk and Frank Fitch defended the negative side of the argument successfully against the University of Florida last Monday night. Professor W. Norwood Brigance, Wabash College, judged the debate.
MARCH 24, 1939
9
BR-R-R! FROZEN ROBIN SHIRKS HIS BOBBIN1
By Steve Smith
Pliny was the Robin’s name; an early bird, but dumb all the same! For he ventured to trust Hoosier weather, (which makes him three kinds of chump put together). He was smug and obese in an arrogant way and he ached to fly northward on fine spring day...
But his step-daddy Buzzud was cunning and shrewd, and dreaded the country that freezed up one’s blood. “Stay out of the north, crimson vest,” he advised, “Or you’re bound to be fearfully, coldly, surprised!”
Pliny Was Adamant
But our Robin replied, “It is really quite time. We must seek a more bracing, less indolent clime. My wife Theodora and I say adieu. We’ll try to remember some postcards for you.”
With a wave and a flourish straight northward he sped, (the last thing he saw was dad Buzzud’s bald head.) Wing in wing with his spouse o’er Kentucky blue grass Robin soared, (over Covington, Booneville and Cumberland Pass). “Come darling!” he cried, “We must hasten to be the number-one Robins in Indianee!” (His true loving mate cooed a dove-like reply; they were two happy love birds alone in the sky!).
Indiana Pleased Them
They chirped with delight as they viewed with a thrill, the chalky white rooftops of great Evansville. How they warbled and sang in twice-trebled devotion as they sighted famed biblical land o’ Goshen! Mark how faintly the tears of pure joy seemed to beam from the amorous birds o’er Wabash’s famed stream. How they chuckled and cheeped as the skimmed Kokomo and how gleeful their melody up the St. Joe! For at Notre Dame U. was the last of their stops, (where the worms are the choicest, for flavor the tops). Ah, how little they knew! The weather could wither an outing for two! When they reached the gay campus halfdead in a storm, they wondered if ever again they’d be warm.
Poor blue Robin could only croak feebly, (not sing), and sounded too ravenlike to herald the spring. As the snow fell in buckets he buried his head. “My dear, I was fooled,” he sheepishly said. Then his wife reproached him as ladies will, (whose resistance when low developed a chill). So if you have seen the first Robin don’t boast, (for he’s wormy and cold, just a tramp at the most!) Br-r-r!
MAN ABOUT CAMPUS
By Graham Starr
One remembered afternoon five years ago, the Indiana Harbor section of East Chicago, Indiana, had cause to breathe a fervent “God speed.” Louis L. Da Pra had left for Notre Dame. He had whirled through Washington high school with all the deference of a monsoon; his energy being chiefly employed in running for offices, some of which he got, and the rest he didn’t want, so he says. After he had edited the most financially suc-
cessful yearbook in the history of the school, his father cast about for some place where this force could be put to use and decided on Notre Dame. Lou was an Irishman from then on.
Despite some radicalism in his freshman year, which he lost in the presence of faster talkers, Lou really went to work for Notre Dame. He was a member of the Bookmen; a power in the Italian Club, and in his senior year he was managing editor of The Scholastic. Besides all this, he read enough books to maintain an average of 94.59, which graduated him sixth in the class. He remembers his sophomore year when he hit an average of 97 and his father wanted to know what happened to the other three points.
Works for Inland Steel during the summer, and wants to line the boys up when he gets out of Law School. Spends many week-ends in East Chicago; his home is on Ivy Street, but the week-ends are spent on Baring Avenue. Professes to a bored indifference where the other sex is concerned, but still can’t explain those week-ends.
PUNCH-DRUNK ATOMS SMASHED AGAIN
Notre Dame scientists have successfully smashed the atom again. This time, Dr. George B. Collins, and his assistants, disregarded the traditional atom smashing agents, radioactivity, neutrons arid protons, and used the electron, lightest of all particles pervading matter.
Dr. Collins used an electrostatic generator—an apparatus which looks as if it were taken from a Buck Rogers’ comic strip—toi smash the atom. The generator has a capacity of nearly two million volts.
The electrons were released in the. interior of a huge copper sphere, then hurld at a tremendous vlocity down a 25-foot vacuous glass tube. The electrons, accelerated by 1,750,000 volts struck a piece of metallic beryllium and smashed its atoms into two atoms of helium and a single neutron.
Aiding Dr. Collins were Drs. Bernard Waldman and William Polye. Dr. Eugene Guth had previously predicted the result of this experiment.
CALENDAR
Saturday, March 25—Movie.
Sunday, March 26—Passion Sunday; Student Masses, 6:00; 7:00; 8:30; 10:00. Benediction, 7:00; 7:30.
Monday, March 27—Report of Deficient Students. Preregistration for courses in first semester of 1939-40.
Saturday, April 1—Movie.
Sunday, April 2—Palm Sunday; Student Masses, 6:00; 7:00; 8:30; 10:00. Benediction, 7:00; 7:30.
Monday, April 3—Wranglers meet.
Wednesday, April 5—Easter Vacation begins at noon.
Sunday, April 9—Easter Sunday.
Wednesday, April 12—Classes resumed at 8:00 a.m. Technical Meeting, “Career Possibilities in the Field of Iron and Steel.”
Saturday, April 15—B a s e b a 11 : Northwestern at Notre Dame.
Sunday, April 16—Student Masses, 6:00; 7:00; 8:30; 10:00.
Monday, April 17—Wranglers meet.
Wednesday, April 19—Lecture—Dr. Paul Ganz, “Latest Problems in Modem Art.”
Thursday, April 20 — Marionette Show.
Friday, April 21—Knights of Columbus Formal.
10
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COLLEGE PARADE
By Fred E. Sisk
Triple-Crowned Tiara Symbolizes Authority of Pope to Teach, to Rule, to Sanctify
Farther Down in Indiana At . . .
Ball State Teachers one of their newspaper columnists sputtered out a few questions at his fellow students, and the net result was a survey. Question one was, “With whom would you prefer to be stranded on a desert isle?” Olivia DeHaviland was the lucky or unlucky Madam Robinson Crusoe—depending upon whom “Robie” might be—named in first place, followed with a tie between Loretta Young and Betty Grable. The third place winners were not announced, but a notation assures us that some of the Ball State girls came in for high honorable mention.
In the question about favorite bands Kay Kyser swung around the bend into first place and in hot pursuit came Tommy Dorsey and one vote behind swingman Tommy was waltz king, Wayne King.
While We Have More or Less . . .
Guessed what college presidents might do to occupy themselves in their profession, it took one of the members himself to give us the inside track on the life of a college president; from here on it will be Dr. Ralph Cooper Hutchinson of Washington and Jefferson College in Pennsylvania carrying the baton in the “Parade”:
“Being a college president is the greatest job in the world.... But the job has its drawbacks. The college president is likely to starve to death in the midst of plenty. He lives with fine minds but has no time to listen to them. He lives in a world of books, but cannot read them.... He lives a life of abundant criticism, abundant loyalty, abundant fun, abundant everything. But he is like a donkey starved to death between two sacks of hay.”
Latin or English Majors
Might-be interested in this jargon of a short, short story:
“You see a beautiful girl walking down the street. She is, of course, FEMININE. If she is SINGULAR, then you become NOMINATIVE. You walk across to her, changing to VERBAL, and then you become DATIVE. If she is not OBJECTIVE, you make your remarks PLURAL. You walk home together. Her mother is ACCUSATIVE and you become IMPERATIVE. Her brother is an INDEFINITE ARTICLE. You walk in. and sit down. You talk of the FUTURE, and she changes the SUBJECT. You kiss her, and she becomes OBJECTIVE. Her father becomes PRESENT, and you become immediately a PAST PARTICIPLE.”—The SpringhiUian.
The immense throng who witnessed the coronation of Pope Pius XII outside St. Peter’s, and the millions who listened to the ceremonies by radio, heard the history of centuries compressed into minutes. When the second Cardinal Deacon placed the ' triple-crowned tiara upon the head of the erstwhile Cardinal Pacelli, son of that same city of Rome, with the words: “Receive the tiara with three crowns and know that thou art Father of Princes and Kings, Ruler of the World, Vicar of our Saviour Jesus Christ,” it was as if they heard Christ himself say to Peter: “Feed my lambs. . . . Feed my sheep.” (John 21, 15-17).
The first crown symbolizes the universal episcopate of the Pope. He alone is the pastor to whom, as the successor of Peter, the care of both the lambs and the sheep of the Divine Pastor is committed. He is the common pastor of all the children of God.
Pope Has Universal Jurisdiction
The second crown symbolizes the universal jurisdiction of the Pope; from him alone descends directly or indirectly to every last and least minister of the Church the power to act in the name of the Church. On that memorable morning it was again as if the ears of the world heard Christ saying to Peter: “Thou art Peter; and upon this Rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. . . . And I will give to thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven” (Matthew, 16: 18, 19).
The third crown symbolizes the preeminent position of the Pope as arbiter of temporal affairs. This derives from the detachment inseparable from his spiritual office. “Know that thou art Father of Princes and Kings” was much more of a practical reality in the days when Christendom was one than it is in our own.
Still, as the envoy of Pope Pius XI, we have seen Pius XII exercise that influence in the arranging of concordats with secular powers — once again at the coronation it was as if listeners heard Christ saying, “Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s; and to God the things that are God’s.” (Matthew 22:21). Recalling the efforts and accomplishments of his predecessor they would be; heartened by the thought that on - this morning the third crown meant to his successor a firm pledge to go forward seeking to establish “the
Peace of Christ in the reign of Christ.”
To Teach, to Rule, to Sanctify
So much for the symbolism of the three crowns. In sum they mean the । supreme authority of the Pope to teach, to rule, to sanctify. It is the reality behind the symbol that mat- • ters. For this the reader is referred to the first six chapters in Karl Adam’s, The Spirit of Catholicism, especially chapters 3 and 6.
There are many interesting points about the history of the tiara. It is not known exactly when the custom of crowning the pope began. The first instance of a distinctive head dress dates from the eighth century. It was a helmet-like cap of white material adorned with braid. The addition of a circlet or royal diadem took place probably in the tenth century. Boniface VIII (1294-1303), who stoutly defended the unity and supremacy of the Holy See, is said to have added the second crown. The first evidence of a triple crown appears on the tomb of Benedict XII (1334-42).
Pope Julius II (1503-13), who was a great patron of the arts, had a famous goldsmith, Caradosso of Milan, design one which was valued at 200,-000 ducats. It survived the sack of Rome because it was in pawn possibly to protect it or to help out the depleted papal treasury. Pius VI (1775-99) had this crown broken up and refashioned.
Lose Part of Crown
.During the public procession following his coronation at Lyons, Clement (1,305-14) • was thrown from his horse by,a falling wall and the most precious jewel in the crown (a carbuncle) was lost. The incident was looked upon as a sinister omen by the Germans and Italians. The conclave which elected Clement had lasted eleven months.
Curiously enough there is the usual discrepancy among authors as to the material- of the crown. One says cloth of silver, another cloth of gold. Even those who have assisted at papal processions will tell you it is white or it is gold, according as they remember it. Never having been to Rome we cannot do more than incline to cloth of silver as being the consistent development from the white material of the eighth century.
MARCH 24, 1939
II
LIBRARY ADDS PLAYS TO READING LIST
Copies of Paul Vincent Carroll’s prize - winning drama, Shadow and Substance have been added to the University library. Carroll, an Irish schoolmaster, presented the life of Irish ecclesiastics in a simple forward manner. The play won the acclaim of New York critics, and is having one of the longest runs of the current theatrical season.
Other recent plays now in the library are, Susan and God, the Rachel Crothers’ success which starred Gertrude Lawrence, and The Rising Tide, by M. L. Skrine.
Non-fiction includes additions, The Refugee in the United States by H. Fields, which deals with the refugees of the Spanish Civil War, and Through Gentile Eyes, by J. H. Holmes a careful study of the Jewish problem.
Arnold Lunn investigates Communistic operations in France, Spain, Mexico, and other nations during the period following the World War in The Science of World Revolution. The Politics of Modern Spain, by F. E. Manuel; Through Lands of the Bible, by H. V. M. Morton, and Plato’s, Phaedrus, Ion, Georgias and Symposium, are recommended.'
Song of Years, by Bess Streeter Aldrich is pleasant fiction of the bestseller variety. Humor and Humanity, another whimsical collection of Stephen Leacock essays, completes the list of new fiction.
Modernaires Perform
Nearly three thousand Ottawa (Hl.) swing - and - sway enthusiasts danced to the scintillating tunes of the Modernaires from Notre Dame last Friday evening. The Modernaires, under the direction of Carl Hunn, furnished the music for the annual St. Patrick’s Day Dance. Irish folk dances and popular Irish melodies studded the ancient festal celebration.
’Scrip’ Out Next Friday
Scrip, the campus literary quarterly, will appear on March 31st. A slight departure from strictly literary features will be two philosophical essays dealing with democracy as an idea and as a practicality.
Another essay presents a critical study of the work and philosophy of the poet Coleridge.
Four fictional short stories are offered in addition to several brief lyrical poems and the usual Freshmen sketches.
KNIGHTS MAKE PLANS FOR SPRING FORMAL
•
At the Tuesday meeting of the Knights of Columbus Grand Knight John J. Murphy announced plans and committees for the K. of C. Formal which will be held April 21 in the Palais Royale ballroom.
James Rocap will be general chairman. Assisting him will be Robert
Robert Ortale
In charge of the tickets.
Ortale, ticket chairman; James P. Metzler, music chairman; Thomas Hogan, program chairman; Louis Reilley, patron chairman; Thomas J. Murphy, decoration chairman, and Edward Grogan, reception chairman.
Chairman Rocap intimated that this will be the actuality of long-laid plans. A “name” band will provide the music.
Tickets will be placed on sale at the K. of C. office, and hall representatives will have ducats for general purchase.
Letter from an Editor
March 21, 1939 Fellow Students:
Our oft repeated plea for candid campus pictures is being made again with redoubled emphasis as next Friday, March 31st, is the last day on which these pictures may be submitted. We are devoting more pages than usual to this section in an effort to portray life here at Notre Dame as we, the students, know it to exist. Your cooperation is sincerely asked in the matter of submitting photographs of students, campus or events that you may have taken. Pictures, especially those of Freshmen, Sophomores, and Seniors are particularly wanted in order to have a balanced cross-section of student life. This Dome is your year book and hence we feel that all of you should have a part in its make-up. Therefore we ask that those having such pictures be pleased to bring them to 257 Dillon Hall for entry submission.
Sincerely, Paul Hellmuth, Editor, The Dome
GANZ WILL DISCUSS ART OF HOLBEIN
•
On April 19 at 8:00 p.m., Dr. Paul Ganz, professor- of History of Art at the University of Basle, Switzerland, and a renowned authority on the art of Holbein, will lecture in Washington Hall. Dr. Ganz will confine his lecture to “The Latest Problems of Modern Art.”
Last season Dr. Ganz, who is also president of the International Committee for Art History, made a short and successful tour of the eastern educational centers. He is a capable and fluent speaker of English, and combines his profound knowledge with an attractive presentation of material.
Dr. Ganz has spent a lifetime of study on the subject of Holbein and brings that great artist’s personality and entire period to life. He stresses the dramatic relationship between the court portraitist and "the court of Henry VIII.
CATHOLIC ACTION
To my friends of Notre Dame:
So many letters, postcards, telegrams and petitions came to my office on the subject of the Spanish embargo that it was impossible to answer each one individually as I would like to do. I hope, therefore that I' may take this means of acknowledging your communication and thanking you for your expression.
After six years at Notre Dame I believe that I feel the convictions which you expressed in this crisis. There is no question but that the lifting of the embargo would have materially helped the Loyalist government, a government that has, according to press dispatches, closed its eyes to attempts to suppress any religious activity.
Important as that is, there is the further point that we have no business interfering in the Spanish situation anyway. We abhor the thought of the totalitarian state as we do the communistic state, and further we do not want to be in a position of choosing sides or determining the aggressor.
The American people do not want to become involved in any foreign war. Surely our last experience should have taught us a lesson.
We have plenty of work to do here at home. We have important domestic problems to solve. Let us see to it that we are adequately prepared, on land, sea and in the air, for the defense of our own land. Let us not go beyond that and try to police the world.
Sincerely yours,
(Sgd.) Robert A. Grant
12
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
VINCENTIANS
By Richard Leo Fallon, Jr.
“She must be sent to the Sanatorium, Mr. Smith. Her lungs are in bad shape now. Have you always lived like this. ... I mean do you always have so little milk for the family?”
“I’m happy it was not always so, Doctor-. My little ones were well fed until a few years back when all the men at the factory had their wages cut.”
“But these children must have milk, man. Without it they can easily fall into tuberculosis. Isn’t there any way that you can put something aside for milk?”
Milk Is a Necessity
Undoubtedly some families are unaware of the importance of milk in the healthy diet. Perhaps most poor-people look on it as a pleasant luxury that for the most part is to be shunned because the ordinary price of milk skyrockets so much after it leaves the farmer. The retail price is not scaled to the farm value of milk, whereas the retail price of some other commodities is proportionate to their value at the farm.
Milk case work is an important part of the activity of the N.D. Vincentians. With the report of a case at one of the -weekly meetings, a member volunteers to visit the home and determine the need. The Conference acts upon his recommendation, and he is authorized to issue milk tickets to the needy family. The assistance is intended to tide them ovei* until their budget will provide for the milk needed. Occasionally, however, the Conference’s expenditure for milk tickets becomes a regular matter with certain families.
Lighter Side
Vincentians are, aftei- all, rather likeable people ready for an amusing story — they have to be! We might find two of them talking over a case something like this. . . . “You know, Bill, we had a job all lined up for the older fellow in the house I deliver milk tickets to — a dandy job all set for the ‘older brother’ I’d heard about. Then when I practically get the job for him I find he’s away in the Reformatory for three months. . . . And the way the family spoke I thought I could give the fellow a good reference. . . . Here’s the clincher: the job will last only two months. It was some newspaper route affair. Maybe there’s some work at the Reformatory. ... I’ll have him keep in shape so he’ll be ready if I can sneak up on another job. Maybe I ought to take this one myself!”
Me* Rebels in Labors* Clothing — Langford
•
Professor Walter M. Langford of the department of Spanish discusses Mexico’s ever-present nemesis, the private army, in the March 18th issue of Ave Maria.
The article, “Mexico’s Labor Party” states that although government troops recently destroyed General Cedillo’s rebel forces, there are still dangerous organizations in Mexico under the guise of labor parties. The most important of these is the Confederation of Mexican Workers (CTM).
The leader of this group, a communist and former university professor, Vicente Lombardo Toledano, has raised the membership to 100,000 men who receive military training from ex-army officers. Mr. Langord’s point is that this labor group would overwhelm the regular army “if turned loose.”
The CTM continues independent of government supervision only because the Cardenas administration had previously legalized to a certain extent groups of armed farmers, and the labor group points to this legislation as permitting their own existence. They overlook the fact that government officers are in charge of the farmers.
Most competent news publications in Mexico are against CTM, and Mr. Langford concludes that this labor army should be either disbanded or taken under a governmental wing, especially as this might restore national confidence in a severe economic depr 'ssion.,
Chicago Club Holds Easter Dance
The Chicago Club of Notre Dame, through President Daniel J. Ryan, has announced its annual Easter Dance. Edward J. Fanning of Oak Park is chairman. The dance is to be held in the Boulevard Room of Chicago’s Stevens Hotel on Easter Monday night, April 10. Stan Norris and his orchestra will provide the music. Tickets are three dollars and may be procured from President Ryan or Chairman Fanning on the campus, or at the dance. Reservations also can be made on the campus with these men, or at the hotel before the dance.
Sociologists Visit
Professor Frank T. Flynn is making plans to have junior and senior sociology majors visit the state prison at Michigan City, Indiana, where they will attend a clinic arranged for them by prison officials. Those who wish to make the trip are asked to see Mr. Louis Radelet, Walsh Hail, about particulars. Mr. Flynn is a member of the Parole Board at the state prison.
RADIO
By Bernard Feeney
A Special Events Broadcast
The special events department of the Radio Club, temporarily headed by Tom Carty and Henry Penrose, announces a special broadcast for tonight in which Ed Corey will interview Mr. James E. Armstrong, Secretary of the Alum-n i Association i n connection with the annual anniversary held in honor of Knute Rockne.
Also to be heard tonight is the Politics Forum, which
Walter Johnson (after receiving fan mail!!), has decided to regain its new style program. Consequently, Bill O’Hare, Thaddeus Kmiecik, and Dave Holman will continue the quiz on American Government and Politics at 7:30 p.m.
The Man Behind the Voice
Notre Dame’s own Quiz Professor, Walter Johnson, is this week’s “Man behind the voice.” He is a History Major from Bronxville, New York. The self - appointed director of the new “Campus Quiz” show has been announcing locally for the last few years. From most reports his InterHall contest which started last week met with favorable reception, but he himself felt disappointed when his fellow Sorinites lost to Zahm freshmen. Besides radio, Walt enjoys debating, track, swimming, and boxing. He likes to do anything with a thrill to it—his highest ambition being a parachute jump from above the clouds! His present thrill is the Bengal Bouts, he will fight in the finals tonight, and listeners will have to wait until next Friday for their Quiz Master.
Next Week
Professor Ronald Cox of the Speech Department tells, “When to sit down,” when he talks on the Faculty series next Monday night.
Ed Heintz interviews Mr. Bernard Voll, past president of the Alumni Association, next uesday, March 28 at 7:00 p.m.
WFAM-WSBT Log
Mon. 7:45 — Prof. Ronald Cox, B.S.
Tue. 7:00 — Mr. Bernard Voll
Tue. 9:15 — Music by the Modern-aires
Wed. 9:00 — Ray Kelly with the Periscope
Thur. 9:30 — Music Appreciation
Fri. 7:30 — Politics Forum
Fri. 8:00 — Campus Quiz with Walt Johnson
MARCH 24, 1939
13
THEATRE
By Vern Witkowski
"The Queen’s Husband” is finished. As is usual we regret the final curtain. Every cast does when the play it has been working on for so long suddenly comes to an end. . . . The curtain closes. . . . There is noise and confusion backstage. . . . Some actors brood . . . Others smile ... A smattering of the audience drop back to offer a blanket congratulation. . . . Costumes hang limp on chairs and over props. . . . Strewn on the floors are papers, rags, ropes, empty cold cream boxes. . . . An impromptu trio begins singing the chorus of a popular tune. . . . Stage hands try in vain to remove properties from beneath the feet of aimless wanderers. . . . Litter. . . . Muddle. . . . Confusion. . . . The end of another show. . . .
Long Live the Queens
Rose petals to the girls who so ably and willingly did their bit. . . . By way of the parenthetical, let~us mention that Miss Doris Ward (the Queen) majored in dramatics at Wisconsin, whose University Theatre is rated among the top college groups of the country, while Miss Barbara Southard (Princess Anne) worked in dramatics at Wells College of Aurora, New York.
Perhaps some are still wondering at the discrepancy in the program. Jack Collins’ role, that of Phipps, was taken over at the last minute by Vin Doyle, since family illness called Jack to New York. ... We are always puzzled at the state of affairs in the bouquets department when a show is over. The man behind the scenes, although we hear it endlessly, seems to be the least important. Nevertheless we must throw another rose petal in the direction of Walt Hagen who worked harder than any one in the cast to make the production a success.
“Stagecoach” Real Entertainment
We’ve had a real entertainment in South Bend these last few weeks. To release a jet of steam that has been troubling us of late, it is necessary to say a word concerning the Walter W a n g e r production, “Stagecoach.” John Ford’s remarkable direction created effects that movie fans meet very infrequently, if at all. Splendid photography, picturesque setting, excellent cast, well - maneuvered Indian fighting and an exceptional background of music were the tools.
It was as if Ford had taken a blanket of silence into which, at critical moments, he injected a squirt of dialogue here, then there. Meanwhile
the criss-cross of moods was sustained by a guarded look, a cynical smile or a hasty jerk of action. And to rivet all seemingly individual effects into a unified whole, Ford used that faithful element of suspense which worked up an even tempo into a smashing crescendo.
James Stewart Scores Again
From “Stagecoach” to “Made For Each Other” in one week at the same theatre. It happens rarely, this honest emotional enjoyment from week to week, so we must comment. James Stewart and Carole Lombard teamed to provide us with something greater than a joyful, tearful love story. The Selznick studios combined a group of episodes from the troubled life of a married couple, much like the radio folks, “Betty and Bob,” added simple, clear-cut dialogue and Charles Coburn (Judge Doolittle) to produce memorable entertainment. . . .
ART
By Don Driscoll
I have met a number of people who were curious about it; so, I thought I’d write a startling expose of the Art Department. If you haven’t been curious, stick around anyway; the draamtic intensity of this saga of young men and one tube of paint will have you on the edge of the chair.
It’s a romantic setting—easels silhouetted against slanting windows and all that. We’re passing over the dark creaky stairs — four flights of ’em. If you, casual observer, were flattened behind one of the many overturned benches, you would see something like this in the course of a class (four hours).
Don’t Come on Time
First of all, you wouldn’t come on time, of course — not traditional. About a quarter after eight, you would notice a horde (6) of eager young men trudging into the room — or at least part of a horde — and these, with a shudder of horror at being the first to arrive, take their stance at easels. The conversation for the rest of the first hour will always run like this:
“Hello.”
“Hello.” (This after an effort.)
“Jaget (rough translation: did you get) any white paint?”
“No.”
“Oh.”
This noticeable absence of scintillating wit is not the mark of an Artist but rather the paint on the trousers. The latter is always pres
ent except in Freshmen who haven’t started to paint yet — they go in for charcoal dust on the shirt front.
The period that follows is silent, broken only by the steady slap of paint. Not a word spoken, eyes commuting between canvas and model (not a pretty girl) . . . this will ease up as soon as the teacher leaves the room.
My casual observer is getting restless; he wants to know when this painting will be finished. Well, it takes about three and a half weeks, twelve hours a week, that’s — Say, where did that guy go ?
MUSIC NOTES
By William. Mooney
The most important man to devote his time to the spread of music appreciation in America is Walter Dam-rosch. For the past eleven seasons Mr. Dainrosch has analyzed music from beginning to end with the purpose of instilling in young American listeners a greater understanding and enjoyment of music. In one of his recent broadcasts, Mr. Damrosch discussed the symphony, and the following is a summary of what he said.
Haydn Evolved Form
In the second half of the eighteenth century the Austrian composer Haydn, evolved a completely new symphony form, and ever since his time most composers have written their symphonies in the form which Haydn introduced.
Most symphonies have four sharply contrasted movements, as follows:
‘First movement.’ The intellectual movement, requiring the greatest amount of thinking on the listener’s part, and the greatest amount of ingenuity and skill on the composer’s part. In structure, it is the most complex of the four. Because of this first-movement structure is so characteristic of sonatas, it is known as ‘sonata form.’ It consists of three parts.
The first part is called the ‘Exposition.’ In it the musical ideas of the work are introduced. These consists of two contrasting themes, the first theme usually bold and vigorous, the second calm and peaceful.
The second part is called the ‘Development.’ In it the themes are- presented in new guises and in new keys.
The third part is called ‘Recapitulation.’ In it the themes are heard once again in the original keys and
(Continued on Page 29)
14
The Notre Dome Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Mark J. Mitchell______________________Editor-in-Chief
Vincent DeCoursey.___________________Managing	Editor
William P. Mahoney.__________________Literary	Editor
William C. Fay___________________________News	Editor
Donald Foskett_________________________Sports	Editor
Tom Powers_________________,_____________Art Editor
Rev. L. V. Broughal, C.S.C..........Faculty	Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, Post Office Box 155, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Wednesday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Vol. 72	March 31, 1939	No. 21
What Price Gory
IT HAS been eight years since the Bengal Bouts were only a bright idea in somebody’s mind. Yet one phase of these bouts has for at least seven years remained a mystery. . . . Why should seventy men come out each spring, especially when they have seen the bouts of a previous year? Perhaps it is enticing to watch classmates smash each other into a bloody smear! Perhaps there is a certain glamour about a boxer on the morning after with mice for eyes, vegetables for ears a la first-aid kit, and a limp! But will a sweater cover all that glory? There must be a brighter goal.
No doubt the cheering and the sweaters suffice for some of the sixty-seven. However, it is good to think that an occasional glove hit harder for Dacca, that some furtive bloody trickle spelled out India on the canvas floor, that someone’s bewildered brain cleared faster for thought of “Others.”
The Scholastic and all associated with it are proud to thank those who boxed and won or lost. They are grateful, too, for the generous suppoi-t of those who came and paid and cheered—or booed. The cause is good, and unforgetting.	-
So tonight when, enthroned in your comfortable (?)• seat in the gym, you see the announcer point to the “blue” and to the “gold” corner and two very tough young men try to knock each other’s head off, know you well that
-	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
you, as well as they, serve a good cause. There is a rather mystical connection between the right hook that drapes the Bengal Boxer against the ropes and the missionary’s hand extended in aid to the poor, the sick, and the dying of Bengal. The connection, gentlemen of Walsh, of Cavanaugh, of Brownson, or anywhere else is furnished by that quarter which you furnish to be entertained. See you to it that your link in the connection is not missing.
The Fifty-Seventh Laetare Medal
LAST Sunday the University announced the award of the fifty-seventh Laetare Medal to Miss Josephine Brownson, who for thirty-three years has directed the Catholic Instruction League in Detroit. The function of this organization has been to provide proper religious instruction for Catholic children in public schools.
Miss Brownson’s work is, of course, Catholic Action of a very important kind. In recent years especially, economic factors over which parents had no control have greatly increased the number of Catholic children in public schools. At the same time it is a well-known fact that much loss of Faith can be attributed directly to the lack of proper foundation for Faith, and absence of instruction in the fundamentals of the Catholic religion.
The importance of feeding and protecting Catholicism in these, its very roots, cannot be emphasized too strongly at the present time. For the menaces of evil and corruption on every side are really serious threats to the very existence of the Catholic Church. And, if Catholic Action is to be attempted at all, the providing of proper catechetical instruction is one of the first and most essential steps.
The late Pope Pius XI recognized the need for this work, as well as the excellence of Miss Brownson’s efforts. In 1933 he honored her with a Papal decoration. It is, therefore, appropriate that Notre Dame should see fit to recognize and honor this same good work with the Laetare Medal which has come to be recognized as one of the greatest honors a lay person can receive in this country.
Miss Brownson is deserving of the honor which has been conferred upon her. The character of her work has been such that she is unquestionably worthy to take her place along with other women who have received the Medal such as Agnes Repplier, Margaret Anglin, and Genevieve Garvan Brady. To * her The Scholastic extends congratulations and good wishes for success in the future.—Mark J. Mitchell.
MARCH 24, 1939
15
BENGALS TONIGHT; KENNEALLY REFEREE
By Don Foskett
By Jim-Newland
In keeping with an established custom of supplying as much color as possible for the annual Bengal Bouts Championships, the Scholastic brings to the field house as honorary referee tonight Tom Kenneally, well-known Chicago professional heavyweight and former C. Y. 0. champion. At present, in addition to boxing himself, he coaches the boxing team of St. Philip’s High school. The name of Kenneally is not new to Notre Dame, for it was on a certain Friday night just three years ago that Tom’s brother Phil captured the Bengal welterweight crown. Phil was also an international Golden Gloves champion and was consid- . ered one of the very best amateur fighters i n the country.
Previously contacted for honorary referee was Jack Elder former -star Notre Dame halfback, who used to bring the crowds to their feet as he ran wild for Knute Rockne’s great teams. Elder was unable to come to Notre Dame for the bouts because of illness.
Two familiar figures will act in familiar roles tonight when Director of Athletics Elmer F. Layden and University Comptroller Frank W. Lloyd hold forth once more as honorary judges. The other judges are all well-known to Bengal fans, having either served in this capacity in this year’s preliminaries or in the bouts of previous years. They include: Harry Richwine, Bill Sheehan, Eugene Young, Bernie Witucki, Earl Murphy, George Cooper, and William Lubber.
Refereeing the fights tonight will be George Nate, of South Bend, who refereed some of the preliminary bouts. The seconds in one corner will be Joe McKeon and Vince Dollard, while John Nate and Bill Campbell will work in the opposite corner. Timers for the bouts will be Steve Bocskey and Ernest Schleuter. The thunderous voice of Announcer Bernie Fagan will once more tell the spectators who’s who.
The ring for tonight’s bouts and all preliminaries was loaned by the Bendix Athletic Association.
Much credit for the handling of spectators and equipment all during the 1939 tournament is due the University athletic maangers’ organization.
TONIGHTS CARD
155 lbs.
Bill McGrath vs.
165 lbs.
Harry McLaughlin vs.
Jerry Ryan
Jim Ford
Bill Dillhoefer
Bob Duffey
175 lbs. vs.
Heavyweight
Sammy Dolce*
Jim Brown*
vs.
115 lbs. vs.
125 lbs. vs.
135 lbs. vs.
145 lbs. vs.
The sixteeen survivors of preliminary bouts, will be . “on the spot tonight.” They’ll be in there punching their hearts out for coveted crowns, heavy sweaters for the winners and light ones for the runners-up, emblematic of University boxing superiority. The finals of the Bengal show, with their thrills and knockouts are here. And when these battlers loose their big guns in attack, no one who has ever seen the show forgets it.
Opening hostilities at the fieldhouse starting at 8:00 p.m., Johnny Francies will meet Bill Dilhoefer in the 115 pound division. Francies won the right to participate in tonight’s final attraction by defeating Jim Cullather by a technical knockout in two rounds. Dillhoefer came through with a three-round decision over Eugene O’Brien.
In the 125 pound class Bob Duffey, winner over Ervin Stefanik in the preliminary fights by a one-minute knockout, will face Vince Gurrucharri. Gur-rucharri is in the finals for the fourth consecutive time. Duffey is a freshman.	.
“Swingin’ ” Sammy Dolce, three time winner in tournament will defend his 135 pound title for the third consecutive time against Freshman Bill Schickel. Both men looked very impressive in preliminary battles and will throw “plenty of leather” tonight.
The 145 pound division, producer of the most spectacular preliminary fights will give fans plenty of action. Jimmy Brown, three times winner of this crown, will defend it against a very clever boxer, Rod Maguire. Maguire, one of the hardest hitters ever seen in a Bengal show, reached tonights finals the hard way.
Harry John, a semi-finalist in last year’s bouts, will meet Bill McGrath in the 155 pound division. John defeated Joe Barr in the preliminaries. McGrath drew a bye, after defeating Doug Bangert. .
In the 165 pound class Walter Johnson and Harry McLaughlin will do battle. Johnson, a senior, defeated Jack Collins and Joe Costello to gain the right to fight tonight. McLaughlin won over Chester Kwiecien by a technical knockout in his lone preliminary scrap.
Vic Vergera, representing the so-called “St. Ed’s A.C.” will meet Jerry Ryan in the 175 pound division.
Harry John
Walt Johnson
Vic Vergara
Ed Stelmaszek
Johnny Francies
Vince Gurucharri
Bill Schickel
Rod Maguire
(Asterisk indicates defending champion)
16
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE LIFE OF A BENGAL BOXER
I. The education and training of a Bengal Boxer begins about six weeks before the Bouts. For many candidates it is the first experience with boxing. Such a one we will watch as he starts with fundamentals here.
2. Days and weeks of exercising harden the muscles, tone the body of our prospective Bengaleer.
3. Bag punching develops a keen eye, a quick punch.
4.	Actual sparring, perhaps the most important part of conditioning.
MARCH 24, 1939
(7
R ... FROM THE CANVAS UP
5.	His training period over, our neophyte enters the ring for his first fight, sizes up his opponent, receives referee's instructions.
6. The awful moment just before the gong—all hope is lost.
7.	Capable seconds handle him between rounds, sponge his face, help him relax.
8.	But an unfortunate draw paired him with the. defending champ. Like most Bengal Boxers he will try again next year.
18
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
WINDOW WASHER
By ED FULHAM
One could not be justified in saying that Mr. Monk Wertze is a crook anymore than one could be justified in saying he wasn’t. With troubles of his own it is simply that Monk feels that it is not his duty to inquire into the honesty or the dishonesty of any stray dollar that might come his way.
At the moment Monk is not bothered about such matters because he is not only out of the green but deep in the red. Needless to say he is disturbed about this condition, and the management, of the hotel in which he resides feels very badly about it, too. In fact, the hostelry no longer considers him a guest, but more or less a relative.
It is a lovely spring morning, and Monk is reclining on the bed comparing his plight to that of the Spanish refugees when there is a gentle tap on the door. Monk says “Come in,” whereupon a young man enters with the sole purpose of washing windows.
Forgetting the Spanish for a moment Monk watches the young man slosh water around and about when
I	rid?***
he is suddenly taken by the size of the fellow. It is indeed strange, Monk thinks, that a citizen with such big shoulders should be playing nurse maid to a pane of glass, and he remarks about it.
The young man tells Monk that he is just off a boat from S. A., and has made no good connections as yet.
“Do you ever do any fighting?” Monk asks.
“I have fought all my life as a hobby,” Window Washer answers. “In fact, there are few things I am as fond of as the feel of a brass knuckle against a chin.”
Very severely Monk rebukes Window Washer. “I do not mean anything as vulgar as street fighting. I am referring to the honorable sport of boxing.”
“I never fight in the ring,” says Window Washer. “But if there are chips in it I am willing to listen to any proposition you care to make.”
One hour later Monk and Window
Washer are sitting in the office of Stinky Miller who conducts a loan establishment. Mr. Miller is another slightly dishonorable gentleman. In fact, Mr. Miller was once a victim - of sunstroke and is confining himself strictly to shady deals in order to protect his health.-
Mr. Miller listens to Monk’s propo-‘ sition very intently because he is well known for his ability to detect a dollar that has a light taint about it.
“It is like this,” says Monk. “Boxing promoters are looking hither and yon and back to hither again for a fighter to engage in bouts with Torpedo Jones, the colored heavyweight champ. .In fact, White Hopes are worth their weight in one dollar bills on the open market. Now Window Washer here is very white in spite of the fact that he is from South America, and you must admit citizens with such broad shoulders can be turned into White Hopes with scarcely no trouble at. all.”	.
“I am listening to you for some time,” says "Stinky Miller, “and so far I have no trouble in seeing where you have a good thing, and you know I am not one to turn my back on a good thing. But can we trust your fighter? I am always suspicious of broad shoulders.”
“Window Washer is an honorable gentleman, but he is somewhat left- handed from the neck up,” says Monk, “and could in no way give us much trouble.”
“I like your proposition very much, Monk,” says Stinky. “I advance you two thousand potatoes, and you return those potatoes to me, and four thousand more to keep them company in one year.”
For the next two hours Monk and Window .Wosher occupy themselves in a hash house breathing vitamins. Between steaks Monk reveals his plans.
“It takes me perhaps two weeks to arrange the publicity for you,” he tells Window Washer. “In the meantime I am sending you to my mother’s farm in Vermont where you train.
MARCH 24, 1939
I?
When I get things ready I will send for you.”
As they finish the meal Monk tells Window, Washer about the farm in Vermont, and that it is the only thing in the world sacred to him. Never does he slap a mortgage on it although he is down to his last pork chop on more than one occasion, but that he would rather starve than think of his mother being put out in the snow in case he does not take care of the mortgage.
During the next few days Monk spends his time in the back room of Jose’s Tortilla Cafe composing Spanish Press notices. With the aid of Jose, Window Washer becomes the heavyweight champion of Chile, and his exploits in the ring make Firpo look like a stumble bum. An obliging printer does a very neat job with them, and soon Monk has a trunk full of authentic clippings from any number of Spanish newspapers.
The arrival of Window Washer in New York is startling because Monk is making contracts with the right people for two weeks. In fact, Window Washer is signed to fight in less than two hours after he gets off the rattler.
Out of a clear blue sky Window Washer finds himself fighting the
semi-windup on a good card in Madison Square Garden. His opponent is Gunnar Wilson. When Window Washer climbs into the ring Monk is busy crossing all the fingers on both of his hands. It takes his last cent to convince Gunnar that the broadminded thing to do is to fold up in the third round. If Gunnar takes it in his head to remain perpendiucular Monk is preparing to live the life of a Vermont Farmer.
However, the Gunnar is honest, and he dives in the second. It is so real
istic Monk does not complain about being gypped one round. With this purse Monk fixes more fights, and in no time Window Washer is a card by himself, and has quite a following.
The ballyhoo for Torpedo Jones starts. Window Washer wins ten fights in a row. All the fights end in one or two rounds, and there is absolutely no stink about fixed fights. Monk is overjoyed, and his faith in prizefighting is returning because he never sees so many good dives in all his years. Most of the trips to the tank are one or two rounds early, but Monk knows that most fighters do not count so well.
The championship fight is signed, and it looks as if the gate will go close to seven hundred thousand dollars. Monk arranges for the killing. By the time the training period is over Monk’s end of the purse is on Torpedo Jones. He begs and borrows every cent he can lay his hands on, and he even mortgages the farm. Every sou is bet on the Champ. Monk is going to make a quarter of a million dollars in less than ten minutes because Torpedo Jones will blast Window Washer all the way to Times Square in the first or second round.
Monk does not attend the fight. Sitting by a radio in his hotel room he is already spending the money his wagers will bring him.
Two prizefighters come in to wish Window Washer luck. On their way out one of the fighters says to the other: “He is a nice guy even if he is a crook. You remember I fight him, and I am supposed to take a dive in the fourth. We are going along easy when all of a sudden in the third round he crosses me with a right. I do not come to for several hours, and my new teeth cost more than my purse.”	-
Monk sits tight by the radio when Stinky comes in and they plan a few things when the fight starts. It is a short fight as Monk is sure it is going to be. However, Monk makes one mistake. He bets on the wrong fighter. Window Washer wins the championship in the third round by a knockout.
“He is a crook, that Window Washer. After all I do for him, and he double crosses me the first time he
gets a chance.” Monk yells, and stomps around the room. “He is a bum, and bites the hand that feeds him. I lose my shirt and he is probably signing autographs at this very minute. I kill him.... he is a no good crook.”
Suddenly Monk sinks into a chair. “The farm, the farm,” he moans. “I lose the farm, too. That Window
o
Washer, that bum. I lose the farm because he does not act like an honorable man. My mother will be put out in the snow.... I kill that double crosser.”
. Stinky jumps to his feet. “You are crazy,” he says to Monk. “Sure, you lose a lot of money, and a farm in Vermont, but you have the heavyweight champion of the world. In a few days you can buy the whole state of Vermont.”
“You are right,” Monk says to Stinky. “I have the heavyweight champion of the world. I make a lot of money with my champion, and I buy the whole state of Vermont.” Suddenly Monk pauses. “I would like you to listen to a proposition, Stinky.”
“I am always willing to listen to your propositions Monk,” says Stinky.
“If I buy the state of Vermont, and you buy the state of Maine we can make a killing on the next presidential election. We vote just like the rest of the states vote.”
“I like your proposition very much,” Stinky says.
20
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK IN SPORTS
BOWLING TOURNEY IN FINAL ROUND
IRISH NINE MEETS ILLINOIS IN TWO WEEKS LEFT FIELD POSITION REMAINS OPEN
As the University winter sports tournament enters its first week of spring, a tall priest is occasioning most of the conversation among the hot-stovers. Father Louis Ernsdorft, who resides in Walsh Hall, is actually rolling the surface from the alleys in the Knights of Columbus Rec. Bowling a consistent game of 200, Father Ernsdorff disposed of Dillon’s McDonough the other night with considerable ease to gain a sure berth in the final round. The score was 201-138 in the first game, 191-160 in the second.
Little Action in Ping-pong
The winner of the Murray-Kuhar-ich fray had better be unusually good, or the University championship will go very likely to Father Louis Ems-dorff. Or perhaps there is a slight chance that the Father will be off his game. In either case there is some smooth bowling in store for all hardwood fans.
Taking second place in relative importance in indoor circles this week are two gentlemen from Lyons Hall, who defeated two other gentlemen from Lyons Hall, to capture the University ping pong title for doubles in Brownson Rec. Greene and Heckler are their names and their victims were Garvey and Glenn. Rivalling the doubles’ show in Brownson is the single affair. Ed Huff of Howard, by . virtue of a victory over MacDevitt of St. Ed’s., and Schaller of Dillon, who won over Castleman of Alumni are now in the semi-final round. The third semi-finalist will be the winner in the match between Greene of Lyons, and Minogue of Howard. Incidentally this marks the first time in quite a few years that three men will have met in any semi-final contest.
Very little action took place, as expected, in the Carroll Rec this week. In the ping pong doubles an all Dillon match saw Kotte and Schaller win over Fitzgerald and Costello to advance to the third round. In the fourth round of the singles are McNally of Zahm; Sommerer, Off-campus; Frankboner, Off-campus; Heckler, Lyons; Sandmaier, Howard, and Sarch, Off-campus.
Two very fast rivalries will end some time this week as the finalists in the handball championship tour-
(Continued on Page 25)
By Pete Sheehan
Spring arrived last Tuesday and Coach Clarence Kline hopes that it will be accompanied by warm, sunny weather in order that his ball hawks can get plenty of conditioning on Cartier Field. Holy Saturday, April 8, will mark the opening day for the Blue and Gold when they journey to Champaign, Illinois,
Capt. Joe Nardone Goes to center field.
IIUItlllilHtlltllliltttlllllllttllllllilttllllilillinillHtllllHIIIIIIItll
Rice, Leonas Compete fn Chicago Relays
•
Two of Nick’s star performers will carry the colors of Notre Dame into the International Amphitheatre at Chicago tomorrow night as the Chicago Daily News runs off its third annual Chicago Relays. Captain Greg Rice will compete in the two mile, and Ted Leonas will be entered in his specialty, the high jump.
Brilliant is no word for the field against which Rice will be pitted in the two mile. Once more little Greg will run against Don Lash, the Indiana policeman. Rice holds one decision over Lash this season a 9:07 two mile, the second fastest run indoor this season. Lash evened the score in the famous Cuningham-Lash-Rice duel at Madison Square Garden. Others entered in the two mile tomorrow night include: Joe McCluskey, of New York; Walter Mehl, of Wisconsin; Tommy Deckard, of Indiana; and Whittaker, of Ohio State, Big Ten champion.
Leonas is in for a busy evening, too. Facing him will be: Eddie Burke, of Marquette; Mel Walker; Dave Albritton; Bob Dieftenthaler, of Illinois; and Artie Byrnes, of Manhattan.
to meet Coach Wally Roettger’s veteran team. Tuesday afternoon, April 11, Western State Teachers College of Kalamazoo will supply the opposition for Capt. Joe Nardone’s team.
Classes will be resumed on the following day and the squad will begin a long home stand. Northwestern’s Wildcats will be the first visitors on the 15th and they will be followed by another conference team on Tuesday the 18th, when Chicago’s Maroon’s who are always close to the top of the conference race will drop in at Cartier Field for a nine inning tussle.
The starting team has not yet been determined but the pitching staff will probably be made up of the following lettermen: Norv Hunthausen, Rex Ellis, and Mike Mandjiak. The latter gained a place in the “Hall of Fame” last year when he let the Maroons down without a single hit or run. Art Verhoestra, senior letterman, and Bob McHale, peppery junior, will share the catching duties.
In the infield Larry Doyle will be back at first with Farrell, a soph, in reserve. Shortstop Ray Pinelli, son of Babe Pinelli, the famous major league umpire, and Hymie Crane are sure bets for the keystone combination. Chet Sullivan will be back at third base where he will have Crimmins as his understudy.
Captain Joe Nardone has been switched to center field and the biggest problem at the present is to find a pair of suitable companions to keep him company in the outer pastures. Red Oberbrunner, who won a monogram as a right fielder, is expected to repeat this year but the left field post is wide open. Celia and Scovic seem to be the leading candidates at the present. Both were on the squad last year but Scovic is destined to see plenty of action for he is the “handy man” type of ball player who can perform as efficiently at any infield post as he can in the outfield positions.
Northwestern will be especially difficult for they will have ten lettermen, very promising sophomores, and the added advantage of a Southern trip which is a great incentive for all collegiate ball players.
MARCH 24, 1939
21
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By Andy Wilson
FIRST SCRIMMAGES HELD BY LAYDEN
Among Notre Dame track fans, Mr. J. Frank Martin, of Jamaica Estates, Long Island, undoubtedly ranks first. He is the father of John “Red” Martin of Howard Hall, junior two-miler. He has visited Notre Dame for the past three years, and has spent most of his time on each visit in the gym, but this present season has been his greatest so far, as the Notre Dame track team’s number one spectator. He missed the two big dual meets with Indiana and Michigan, but saw Greg Rice in both races against Don Lash in New York, and entertained the Irish captain in his home both times. And since his insurance interests made it possible, he got out to Notre Dame for the Central Conference meet, then turned up again last week during the Butler Relays at Indianapolis.
Down at Butler Mr. Martin—who never has been forced to remain in the stands as a passive spectator yet —shed his derby and chesterfield and went right to work with student trainer Hugh Burns, rubbing the boys down, spreading on liniment, loosening up tight muscles. He is no amateur at this, either, having acted as volunteer - trainer for a couple of years at Chaminade High School, a large Catholic school in central Long Island, formerly attended by “Red,” and now attended by the second and third of the younger Martins.
His most remarkable feats, however, took place in New York, where he saw both the Millrose Games and the I.C. 4-A Meet from the floor of Madison Square Garden, where even Coach Nicholson was not permitted to stay during Greg Rice’s two-mile runs. We are told that at one of these meets, Mr. Martin was sitting with Greg while the Irish captain pulled on his shoes, just before the two-mile event. One of the attendants approached, chasing officials and runners off the Garden floor, and then accosted, not Mr. Martin, but Greg himself, asking him to leave so that all might be clear for the special two-mile.
A carry-over from football and basketball: Back in West Virginia some time ago, a group of young men known as the Salem Catholics defeated Bristol at basketball, 39-34. This of itself, is of little interest to us—but the Salem lineup is. Here it is: Sitca, f.; J. Kelly, f.; Saggan, c.; Piepul, g.; Yontini, g.; Thesing, g. Appropriately enough, “Saggan” was
high scorer with 16 points. We have been wondering whether the several misspellings were the fault of the printer, or whether they reveal a futile effort on the part of the Salem Catholics to conceal the obviousness of their name-thievery.
After the Irish basketball team’s last away game—a 48-42 victory over the University of Detroit, a rather hostile article appeared in one of the Detroit papers, attacking the manner of choosing referees. Notre Dame, the visiting team, it appears, sent Detroit a list of some nine or ten referees from which Detroit picked two to work the game. The writer complains about the rather high-handed “condescension” of Notre Dame, then goes on to show that the referees were no good anyhow. Neither one was from Detroit, and the writer foolishly implies that one at least ought to have been.
Now we hesitate to make any kind of a judgment either way, since we do not and cannot know all the circumstances of the affair. We do think the article is a rather sour one; the author seemingly felt like complaining about something, and then took it out on the referees and the Irish. We do not feel that any implication of favoritism is justified—the Irish were penalized more often for fouling than the Detroiters—nor do we feel that Detroit could have picked any better referees by going beyond the list submitted by Notre Dame.
Sheer school pride prompts us to assert that it is obviously to the advantage of a school with an athletic reputation like Notre Dame’s to recommend only the best available officials, and no school would reasonably do otherwise.
On the other hand, we find the writer’s annoyance justifiable over the manner of selecting the officials. The general custom, we believe, is for the home team to submit its list of men to the visiting team for approval. That Notre Dame should have reversed the process naturally seems a bit peculiar, and truly, rather “condescending.” We dislike anything that seems to put Notre Dame in an unfavorable light, and so disapprove of this whole .matter. We must reserve judgment, however, since we do not know all that can be known; we merely present both sides as fairly as we can.
Icy winds and snow put a crimp in Elmer Layden’s plans to get his grid teams down to serious work last week-end. Practice had been progressing under difficulties what with muddy fields necessitating a change in locale for each day’s work-out.
Tuesday the boys tore up the sod of Cartier, Wednesday did the same for Brownson field, and finally Thursday the squad adjourned to the lot back of Freshman Hall. With the temperature around 20 or 30 it took plenty of exertion to even work up a sweat, so most of the time was spent in dummy scrimmages and in signal drills. Came Friday and even this meager work wasn’t possible—except for the Frosh who crowded in some -work in the gym. Two or three inches of snow drifted over the various gridirons Friday night, so Coach Layden and the weatherman agreed to call off the scrimmage slated for Saturday.
Fundamental* for Linemen
Last week the squad showed plenty of the old dapper in going at it. Nearly all the linemen concentrated on the fundamentals and form of line play. The ends vrere experimenting with defensive charges and position, and later played defensive positions against sets of back who were running through their offensive assignments. Bill McGannon and Farris Saffa excelled in bowling over defensive wingmen, while Phil Sheridan and George Rassas stood out as unblockable.
Down in one comer of the field Joe Boland started the rest of the linemen in the grind of line blocking. Joe had his usual chatter down pat, barking out the familiar, “Come on, Murphy! Get that shoulder in there! Keep that head up! Tail down—close to the ground! Keep those legs driving in theerrrr! Make that contactttt! Get that old lift! And drive your man back out of the play. No-o-o, Murphy, that’s not the way! Your tail was up there waving like a flag!” Et cetera, far into the afternoon.
Monday, starting at 3:30 the first serious scrimmage of the spring campaign got under way. Fifteen teams or more participated with everybody getting a chance to show his stuff. Four teams were kept in action constantly at separate ends of the field. Practically all of the teams showed considerably stronger defenses than offenses. Within a week the squad should engage in some regulation games using the entire field, but until then the varsity candidates will remain somewhat of an unknown quantity.
22
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
TRACKMEN PREP FOR
MISSOURI MEET
By John Quinn
A successful indoor season over, Coach John Nicholson has granted most of the track squad a week’s rest before taking them outdoors for a busy spring season. Nick’s decision to take only two men, Captain Greg Rice and Highjumper Ted Leonas, to the Chicago Relays tomorrow night has afforded the rest of the squad an additional layoff of a few days.
Serious practice will be resumed next week as the squad points toward its first big meet of the season on April 15 at Columbia, Mo. In a triangular meet between three great teams such as Wisconsin, second only to all-conquering Michigan in the Big Ten; Missouri, Big Six champions; and Notre Dame, C.C.C. title holder the keenest of competition is looked for. Among the many outstanding performers in the meet will be Johnny Munski, of Missouri, considered by Glenn Cunningham the most promising miler in the country, and Milt Padway who has cleaned up all Midwest pole vault titles available this year.
This meet has been planned as an anniversary of Missouri’s winning the midwest title when Tom Jones, now coaching at Wisconsin, coached the Missouri team. Coach John Nicholson was a star in the meet that day, scoring two firsts. A banquet will be held after the meet as part of the celebration.
An added note of interest will be the return meeting of two high school rivals, the aforementioned Munski and Greg Rice. Their first meeting was in 1935 when Rice won the 880 yard run at a high school meet in a 2:01 record which still stands, while Munski came in five seconds later. Since then, however, both Montana boys have gone into longer distances meeting last year in the National In-tercollegiates, where Munski got revenge by edging out Rice at the tape. With Munski boasting an official meet record for the mile of 4:10 a great duel is expected.
Mystery Men Replace Kell and "?" on Card
•
Because of unforseen difficulties Paul Kell will not defend his heavyweight wrestling championship won last year from Joe Race. The Bengal Route committee regrets this defection, but announces that other and equally suitable entertainment will be provided, in addition to the boxing contest.
INTRODUCING
By Eddie Huff •
In prize fight parlance he goes by “Swingin’ Sammy” Dolce, his nomme de guerre; when he first came to Notre Dame in ’35 he was Rosario Dolce; but when he gets his B.S. in Accounting, ’40, and his LL.B, in ’41, they will be issued to Russel Joseph Dolce, “Chicago and Bengal Bout fame.”
Sammy is that 135-pound dead-end guy that you never find at home in 228 Sorin Hall. There are four corners in the room; one of the corners
is snowed-in with boxing paraphernalia, another is occupied with touchfootball duds, a third is the seat for touch-football raiment, and basketball togs recline in the remaining nook.
Sam takes in the field of sports. He never expects to spoil Ins fun by becoming professionally addicted, but he demands an unholy quantity of exercise. “After exercising, I return to the room and sleep. That’s why my bed’s never made.”
When Sam was a freshman he threw punches from center field to win the 125-pound Bengal title. He repeated this stunt in the ’37 Bengals, but he continued to telegraph his blows over a national hookup.
Coach Dom Napolitano called Sammy aside during the training sessions last spring, polished his rusty swings, and Sammy breezed through to the 135-pound throne with some semblance of eclat. And tonight, this prognosis being on the nose, you will see Sammy go out for his fourth Bengal title in four starts.
“The ‘Fighting Irish’ ought to make good that ‘Fighting’ adjective by installing intercollegiate boxing,” Sammy says, “because I’d like to see
‘Nappy’ become the best college coach in the sport.”
Then Sammy likes to show you his gold “fillin’s” that were put in by his sister, “Dr. Dolce,” who is the “best dentist in Chicago’s Highland Park section.”
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
LOOK AHEAD in planning your career
The science of the "new dentistry" is still in its infancy. It is a most promising field for constructive thought and work. It calls for the best minds interested in health service careers.
Because of advancing standards, enrollment in Dental Schools in the United States has been reduced during the z	past thirteen years. Today
'	there is one practicing
dentist to approximately each 2,400 of population.
The Marquette University Dental School is one of the 17 dental schools of the s: United States whose diplo-s mas are recognized in all of the states. The close rela-> tionship of dental-medical « study proves an advantage s to students.
* Entrance requirements: Two s years in a recognized College r- of Liberal Arts with satis:: factory credits in biology, s organic chemistry, and 4 physics.
For complete information :: concerning opportunities in dentistry, write to the Secre-± tary, Marquette University
Dental School, Milwaukee, s Wisconsin.
MARQUETTE UNIVERSITY
MARCH 24, 1939
23
S. A. C. TO SPONSOR SWIMMING MEET
The first competitive sports program in the Rockne Memorial will be an interhall swimming meet shortly after the Easter vacation under the auspices of the Students Activity Council.
It is believed that there will be sixteen teams entered in the meet, one from each hall on the campus, and two from off-campus. Individual and team awards which will be announced later* will be presented to the different winners.
There will be seven events on the program: 100-yard free style; 50-yard breast stroke; 50-yard back stroke; 50-yard free style; diving; 150-yard medal relay, and a 200-yard freestyle relay.
In the diving event there will be four required dives and two optional ones. The required dives are front, back, front jack', and back jack. The optional splurges may be two of any group. For the information of the contestants the dives will be “with no degree of difficulty.” (Mr. Reader: this does not mean what it sounds like. “Degree of difficulty” is a technical term of the diving profession.)
Teams in the 150-yard medley relay will be composed of three nien. The first man will swim 50-yards back stroke; the second, 50-yards. breast stroke; and the third, 50-yards free style. Four men will be on the teams
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG., SOUTH BEND

Specializing in the examination of the eye.
in the 200-yard free style relay, each swimming 50 yards.
In the individual events five points will be given for a first place; three for a second; and one point for a third. Eight points will be awarded for a first place in the two relays, six for second, four for third, and two for a fourth.
Preliminaries of the meet will be held in the afternoon prior to the finals. In these preliminaries the field will be held the afternoon prior to the finals. In these preliminaries the field will be reduced to six participants in each event for the finals, the finalists being selected through time trials. Each hall or team may enter as many contestants as it wishes, and this swimmer may enter any number of individual events. However, he may not compete in both of the relays.
NOTRE DAME MEN
We invite you to enjoy GENUINE
ITALIAN SPAGHETTI
30c
Delicious Meat or Mushroom Sauce and Real Parmesan Cheese
“SINCE 1914 —FINE FOOD”
Stratigon Restaurant
114 N. Michigan Street
For
Books	Stationery
Pens Pencils Greeting Cards
V i s i t
Notre Dome Men!
At Cyr’s Barber Shop, corner of Main and Washington Streets, across from the Court House, there are four registered barbers. It is a completely sanitary shop. A lathering machine eliminates the unsanitary brush. Sterilized, individual combs are used for each customer. Compressed air completely cleans you hair after it is cut —and yet at Cyr’s it costs no more!
Cyr's Barber Shop
Corner Main and Washington
COMPLIMENTARY!
COMPLIMENTARY!
Flowers are both— they complete her ensemble and they express your message —which is very much a compliment.
Whichever of the many lovely flowers you choose to send you may be sure your gift is “right.”
SO. BEND FLORAL CO.
114 South Michigan
Enjoy a Longer SPRING VACATION
DR. E. J. CAIN OPTOMETRIST
Successor To
Rogers
Prompt Lene or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
FLY HOME
The Book Shop
130 North Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
by Flagship
A* American Airlines Flagships serve 57 major U. S. cities directly. Excellent connections out of South Bend to points East, Southwest and West. 10% saving on round trip fares. Meals aloft are complimentary. Stewardess on every ship. See- American Airlines representative Frank Itzin, 23 Lyons Hall for full details.	•
Th. American Standard of Service
24
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Fencers Compete in A.F.L.A.. Meet at Chicago; Donovan, Smalley May Repeat First Round Wins
By Joe Palmer
With varsity fencing for 1939 all but over, the men of Coach Pedro de Landero will soon conclude their business and call it a season. The final match of the season took place several weeks ago, and since then the only action has taken place in Chicago where a tournament has been taking place under the auspices of the Amateur Fencers League of America.
Though not setting any records by sensational performances in this tournament, the Notre Dame fencers did give a very creditable performance. Leading the successes was Joe Smalley who won the Junior Epee championship. Also deserving of much mention is the performance of Jerry Donovan who earned a silver medal for second place in the Junior Sabre championship. The others, Gavan, Colgan, and O’Donnell, though failing to win any medals, gave performances indicative of the fine type of fencing that the locals have shown all year. Chief among the other teams fencing in the tournament were Chicago, Northwestern, and Illinois.
On the coming Sunday, March 26, Capt. Scarlata, Donovan, Gavan, and
Smalley will try again in the Senior Sabre tournament, and Gaither and Smalley will enter the foil competition. Should any of these be successful, they will be eligible for the finals which will be held on the following week-end. ■
An interesting note was struck during the past week as the final totals (individual and team) of the past season were issued. The Irish engaged in ten matches, of which they won seven, lost two, and tied one. In the course of these matches, they won 110 out of 179 bouts. Highest individuals were: Colgan (19% bouts won, 11% lost) in epee; McEneamey (16 bouts won, 11 lost) in foil, and Gavan (14 bouts won, 4 lost) in sabre.
Last of the interesting facts is the scholastic average of the members of the varsity fencing team. The 19 men on the squad averaged 85%, and the average of the 13 men that saw action was 86%. Says Coach de Landero, “We’re not so dumb after all.”
While these things are taking place, the local Freshman fencers are con
cluding activities in their own back yard. Throughout the coming week, the annual Freshman tournament (in foil and sabre) will be held. This will hold special interest since it will be the best method of finding out just what Professor de Landero may expect from this year’s freshmen when the 1940 season rolls around.
LEARN TO ELY with JTCCKEKT FLYING SERVICE, Inc.
Bendix Field ‘
STUDENT COURSE, $45.00 Trial Lesson FREE!
Charter trips to anywhere in die United States in Stinson.
See campus representative CHAS. CARROLL
114 Dillon Hall "Our business is in the dir”
YOUR NEW SPRING
Take Home a
Notre Dome SOUVENIR of some kind
A wide selection of gifts as low as $1.00
"OUR SPECIAL FEATURE" Musical Powder Boxes that play “The Notre Dame Victory March" and other popular songs of the day.
BOSTONIANS
BLOCK BROS
CORNER MICHIGAN ... WASHINGTON
MARCH 24, 1939
25
WINTER SPORTS
(Continued from, Page 20)
nament are determined. In the first match Metrailer of Alumni will come up against Trentacoste of Morrissey; in the second Van Hollebeke of Sorin will meet Dillon’s Monahan. Leading the double show is the team of Seniors, Borgman and Metrailer, which went the distance to conquer Bradley and Trentacoste 14 - 21, 21 - 5, and 21 -10.
WEDDING BELLS
(Continued from Page 8)
She will do this and then rush at the bars of the cage in a startling manner as though trying to frighten her visitor away.
She is very dexterous with her hands and nearly as much so with her feet. She has a grip that is surprisingly strong for her size.
Mr. Helmer says monkeys do not have fleas. The familiar scratching is due to an irritation caused by dandruff. Care has to be taken to protect Jenny from colds to which monkeys are susceptible. Jenny enjoys a healthy diet of Dog Chow, tomatoes, bananas, peas and Sundays, peanuts. She not only takes the outer pod from the peas but also is careful to remove a second skin from the pea itself. She is especially fond of raw sweet potatoes. She is able to store extra food in pouches in her neck. As she gets hungry, Jenny merely shoves a little
"With Her Easter Bonnet"
What more fitting than lovely, fresh roses, lilies, violets or any other Spring Flowers you may choose?
The Easier Creeling magnificent is “FLO IVERS’’
SPRING BOUQUETS or GAY CORSAGE
Come in early and we can write to your home town florist — enclosing your own card'— it will save you money.
WILLIAMS. The Florist
Oliver Hotel Building
food from the pouches into her mouth and has a snack. She is fed twice a day: at 9:00 and 5:00.
Jenny, sad to say, sometimes gets
They head the quality class
This Most Spectacular Hat Value By John B. Stetson. They're $5 Featured at SAM’L SPIRO & CO.
Was Tempted to Pass Me With Honors"
“He thought I looked that smart, in this new sport hat. When I told him it was a Stetson, he said I inherited my father’s good taste...then he asked me for the address of my hatter!”
STETSON
*5 to «40
lonesome and coos to herself, but we hope when the boy friend arrives at Notre Dame they will live happily ever after.
26
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
February "Catalyzer"
“Stop, and Think” is the title of the editorial in the February issue of Catalyzer—one of the finest editorials to appear in any campus publication in recent years.
Arthur Guillaudeu, associated with Swift and Company, contributed an important feature on “Fats and Oils,” which deals with the importance of oils in the span of a man’s life and their development in the past thirty years.
An article on “The Houdry Process of Refining Petroleum” treats of a new method of refining petroleum.
LAETARE MEDALIST
(Continued from Page 3) resigned her position as mathematics instructor in a Detroit high school to devote herself to the catechetical instruction of Catholic children in public schools. The Catholic Instruction League which she conceived prospered and grew. Today she has 400 teachers and 13,000 students under her supervision.
Miss Brownson is the daughter of the late Henry F. Brownson, distin-• guished author, who was awarded the Laetare Medal in 1892; she is the granddaughter of Orestes A. Brown-
“ You’ll be the grandest fellow in the Easter Parade”
SHAMPOO and HAIRCUT SHOE SHINE MANICURE
DODDRIDGE BARBER SHOP
124 W. Washington Street
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
*
ASK US ABOUT OUR NEW PLAN TO PROTECT YOU AGAINST THE COSTLY BREAKAGE OF GLASSES.
Optometrists and Opticians Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana

ARROW
son, eminent American philosopher and editor of Brownson’s Quarterly Revieiv, one of the great literary periodicals of the middle nineteenth century.
Miss Brownson has carried on the literary traditions of her family. She has three books to her name, Living Forever, Feed My Lambs, and To the Heart of the Child. In recognition of her life of Catholic Action Pope Pius
GOLFERS
Trade in your old Clubs on a New Set of
WILSON or KROYDONS
Complete 9 Club Golf Sets—steel shafted
Iron Clubs.......$2.39
Woods ........... 2.95
THE "RECO" STORE
113 N. Main St. South Bend “Look for the Log Front”
INDIANA AIR SERVICE
Bendix Field Phone 3-2455
N. D. representative: Ed. Minczewski, phone 4-1913.
In time for Easter
the shirt of the year — AROSTRIPE!
(Featured in Saturday Evening Post)
XI, in 1933, conferred upon her the papal decoration Pro Ecclesia et Pontifice.
FLY..
Notre Dame Students
Many future jobs will require a college education and a pilot's license.
You may now include flying in your ' education if you have the written consent of your parents. The best way to travel is by air. LEARN TO FLY.
LOW RATES—$3 per half hour lesson. Guaranteed solo, $45.00.
HERE’S the perfect companion for your Easter suit—an Arostripe start. White cord stripes on tan, gray, green or blue backgrounds. Tailored to perfection by Arrow. Come in for yours today. $2.
27
MARCH 24, 1939
COMMERCE MEN SEE INDUSTRY AT WORK
By George J. Neumann
The annual tour of the industrial and financial centers of Chicago was conducted last week under the auspices of the Conunerce Forum. The section of the city to which the visitors gave most of tfeir time was the educational and interesting district known as Industrial Park.
Thursday morning a special Mass was celebrated for the students in Dillon Hall Chapel, after which they boarded their special coaches on the New York Central line and arrived in Chicago at 8:15. Chartered busses were used to convey the group about the city.
The Clearing Freight Yard -was the first scheduled stop. A guide in the observation tower informed the students of the routine and purpose of the Yard. Its purpose is to divide incoming freight to various districts of the city by use of the “hump.”
’ The Pepsodent Toothpaste Company was next inspected. The factory
proved the present perfection of the mechanization of modern industry. Efficiency belts served to carry the raw materials through the various stages of production until the finished product is packed and stored. Samples of the various products of the Pepsodent Company were given to the students at the completion of their inspection.
Lunch was served at the Clearing and Industrial Club, after which the tour was continued in the Continental

H. E. BOWLES BARBER SHOP 111 E. Washington
Here’s the perfect companion for your Easter spring suit—an AROSTRIPE shirt.
Under one collar you get two of the most important shirt trends: white cord stripes and chalktone colors, in blue, green tan or grey. You also get the incomparable Arrow collar . . . plus the Mitoga shaped body design . . . plus Sanforized-shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than i%).
Buy this shirt of the year for only $2
Arostripe ties...................  $1
ARROW SHIRTS
Can Company and the Cuneo Press. The tour was concluded about 5:00 o’clock, and the special train left Chicago at 8:15. The tour was the largest of those conducted by the Forum.
The next event of the Commerce Forum will be an illustrated lecture sponsored by the American Aluminum Company, entitled “From Mine to Market in ten easy lessons.” A representative of the company will accompany the lecturer to conduct interviews with propspective employees.
28
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
DAKAR. RYAN UNABLE TO FIGHT THIS YEAR
•
In 1936, there appeared a new name on the entry list of the Bengal Bouts . . . the name of Phil Dahar. Suffice to say, he won the heavyweight championship in that, his freshman year. In the next year, he-was again fighting in the finals, appeared to be headed for a victory, but then lost his title. It wTas in that same year that “Bucky” Ryan, a sophomore, himself was eliminated in a semi-final bout (heavyweight class).
Came 1938, and again Bucky and Phil were beaten, this time in the semi-final rounds. Surely, they thought, 1939 would be the big year, the successful climax. Others thought so, too, and these two seniors were installed as top-heavy favorites in this year’s heavyweight matches. Now, both Bucky and Phil are out of the matches, victims of recent hand injuries. Phil even went to Chicago to have his hand examined but there again the -medical profession said, “Nothing Doing.”
Thus it will be that, when the final bouts are paraded before the public tonight Bucky Ryan and Phil Dahar will be there at the ringside, but not in the ring.
KACZMAREK TESTS TIRED ATHLETES
•
Mr. Kaczmarek of the Science Department is conducting a series of fatigue tests for athletes in room 101 of the Science Building. The research is motivated by the success of similar investigation at the University of Michigan. Mr. Kaczmarek hopes to determine the average athletes’ peak of endurance and to chart the effects of caffein and other drugs on muscular- coordination.
Fifteen men representing the basketball, track and football squads have been selected as experimental subjects. For the next six weeks, a dose of gelatin dissolved in orange juice will be fed to these men immediately following breakfast and lunch, after which they will report for examination. The examination will simmerdown to peddling a stationary bicycle until exhaustion is reached, and the notation’ of the effects on pulse, weight and breathing.
A machine hooked up to the rearwheel of the bicycle registers energy expended; from this the horse-power-exerted by the individual will be calculated. Total peddling time is
clocked by stop watches and charted daily to show improvement or decline. The pulse is checked at minute intervals after the exercise to ascertain the period taken by the pulse to return to normal.
When these tests have been carried on for three weeks, caffein and other-drugs will be administered to the men in addition to the regular dose of gelatin. The second series of experiments determine whether coffee (containing caffein) is as harmful as generally believed.
In the first lap of this 42-day bicycle race, Al McMeen, a cinder eater, is leading the field with a peddling high of 7 minutes, 50 5/10 seconds. Al also earned the mythical watch charm bicycle by stepping out and ringing up a neat 15 horse powerreading.
When the six-weeks’ period expires, Mr. Kaczmarek will have an accurate set of figures on the relative effects of exercise and drugs on endurance.
REMEMBER THE TWO JIMMIES FOR:
WATCH REPAIRING Jimmie Warner
SHOE REPAIRING Jimmy McAllister
(Located next to Candy Store and Telegraph Office)
Get FREE ENTRY BLANK
5 CONTESTS
SCHOLARSHIPS ["« ®
•	rare entdv ma nit 1	i\ Z
One Scholarship Awarded Each Week for 5 Weeks Plus 20 Weekly Cash Awards of $25 Each 105 AWARDS, TOTAL: $7,500
and Rules at any store selling Parker Vacumatic Pens
Gay * Wfn
END SATURDAY, APRIL 8. 15, 22. 29 —AND MAY 6
GIFTS FOR A HAPPY EASTER
Perfumes......1.00 to 35.00
Sheer hosiery..1.00 to 1.15
Charming jewelry„1.00 to 5.00 Exquisite. hankies..25c and 50c Unique handbag$..2.00 to 7.50 “Smartie” gloves.... 1.00 to 5.00 Beauty gifts..:.„1.00 to 10.00,
MARCH 24, 1939
29
MUSIC NOTES
(Continued from Page 12)
more or less in their original four.
‘Second Movement.’ In contrast to the vigor of the opening movement, the second movement is slow, melodic, sustained, song-like. It gives our head a rest and appeals to our heart.
‘Third Movement.’ The simplest, lightest, and often the joiliest of the four movements. It is usually based on a dance, such as the minuet.
‘Fourth Movement.’ The most brilliant and rousing of the four movements, and designed to bring the composition to an effective close. It is usually in sonata, rondo or theme-with-variations form.
.$
Springfield, Mass... 13.05
GREYHOUND TERMINAL
Tel. 3-8283
135 S. Lafayette St.
THE BIG TOWN
SUN ANO STUFF
Buffalo____ Detroit____ Pittsburgh. Memphis...
8.50
3.65
7.35
8.95
You pick the spot-Well take you there AT % THE COST OF DRIVING Whether you’re heading for the old homestead, honoring the room-mate with a visit, ducking down South, or doing the Big City, we’ve got a bus that’s going your way! Another nice thing about Greyhound—our fares don’t look big even to a college-educated pocket book. You’ll have more fun the Greyhound way—and you’ll find plenty of pla*es to spend the money saved!
Sample One-Way Fares
New York______$14.10
Washington____ 12.45
Cleveland______ 4.95
Chicago________ 1.75
St. Louis______ 5.35

HOME SWEET HOME
Variety of Moods
To sum up, the first movement makes us work in order to keep track of its complicated patterns, the second movement sets us dreaming, the third allows us to relax and play, and the fourth raises our spirits so that we
DENTIST
ASSOCIATES BLOG.. SOUTH BEND
are in a cheerful or exalted frame of mind at the conclusion of the work.
Haydn’s symphonies were light, simple, tuneful, dance-like and fairly short in length. Later composers, however, have gradually developed a symphony into a far more serious composition, nobler and more dramatic in character, and of greater length.
The Bavarian Room
offers you Wonderful Food Delightfully served.
Next time you are planning luncheon or dinner in town come in and let us show you what we mean by fine food and service.
HOTEL LaSALLE
Michigan and LaSalle Streets
The
GOLDEN DOME of Notre Dome in a Plastic Wood
Wall Plaque
10 inches long and 6 inches wide.
This is complete with cord ready to hang on the wall. The entire plaque is well made and should retail at a much higher price, hut since we must clear them from stock they are going to you at a special price of
29c each
For your own room—here at school or at home, or— a perfect gift for a friend, be it man, woman or child.
GREYHOUND
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
• Badin Hall
30
DR. BENEDICT LECTURES
(Continued from Page 6) than ever before, due to new scientific developments. More tricks are possible but the average audience is better educated and harder to deceive. The magician resorts to mechanical devices and phsycology rather than the old fashioned sleight of hand. He makes extensive use of misdirection that casts a blank psychological space on the audience giving the magician time in which to work. Children are little affected by misdirection while . adults are very suceptible.
An audience of college students puts the magician on his mettle while a college faculty is rather easy prey for his art. One of magician’s dearest ambitions is to fool his fellow workers for this would be a triumph indeed. Misdirection, while desirable in magic, is one of the blindfolds of the scientific worker who too often searches too diligently for what he would like to find and thus oversees what really exists.
Plenty Up His Sleeve
The most effective illusions are those apparently violating the rigid chemical and physical laws such as destroying and regenerating material. By the use of “magic shears” Dr. Benedict severed and rejoined various kinds of cord, rope and tape. The observer knows this is impossible and his curiosity and imagination are aroused. This is the fascination of magic.
Dr. Benedict performed other tricks for the audience giving them opportunities to discover his artifices but no one could detect them. To the
Thaddeus P. Zachek, Commerce 3, living in Walsh Hall and hailing from Tuxedo Park, New York, was the winner of the DR. GRABOW PIPE AD-WRITING CONTEST, which was announced in The Scholastic issue of March 10th. Mr. Zachek’s winning
ABC is simple £»
DrGRABOW
statement that the magician controls the mind of the audience he answered with a demonstration that only emphasized the remark.
His lecture was illustrated with appropriate effects the climax of which was an illusion executed by Rev. Wm. Cary, C.S.C., and Rev. F. J. Wenninger, C.S.C., under the direction of Dr. Benedict. Apparently, a genuine brand new dollar bill, whose number was recorded for the audience was cut diagonally in two pieces, each piece burned in a candle flame, the ashes collected and placed in Dr. Benedict’s outstretched hands, which were held by the two priests. He rubbed the ashes in his hands and presently the welcome sound of a nice crisp new dollar bill was heard and lo! here was the same dollar with the same number, safe and sound|
We are curious about just one thing in connection with the bouts; what do you, the students at large, think of the wrestling intermission in
advertisement appears in this issue of The Scholastic. It was selected from among twenty which were submitted and forwarded to the Simons-Michelson Advertising Agency, Inc., at Detroit, Michigan, which judged the final winner from the entries.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
the middle of the evening? Take a second or two, sometime next week, write ‘yes’ or ‘no’ on a slip of paper —‘yes’ meaning “I like the wrestling exhibition” and ‘no’ meaning “I don’t” and drop the slip in the mail box outside the rector’s office in Walsh Hall. If you have time to give a reason for your vote, all the better. You might also indicate your year in school. We may be able, through this impromptu poll, perhaps, to make next year’s show even better than this. . . .
For your Vocation...
Go by SOUTH SHORE
Begin your vacation the very minute you leave. Settle back in your seat on a South Shore Line train and watch the landscape whiz by—no traffic or driving worries to bother you. You’ll arrive safe, relaxed and “ready to go.”
CALL MR. C. W. VEACH City Passenger Agent 301 N. Michigan Street Phone 3-3111 for more information about Tickets and Service
... AS ARE THE GREATEST JOYS. If you have never experienced the real pleasure of a
mellow pipe — get a DR. GRABOW today, and become a pipe smoker with the first cool,- sweet puff. It's your FAVORITE TODAY!
PRE-SMOKED quality takes a unpleasant "new-pipe" bite out of your smoke.
CHICAGO SUU1H SHORE A SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
MARCH 24, 1939
Scholarships Available In Social Work
•
The attention of the Seniors in the College of Arts and Letters is called to scholarships available in the Graduate Program of Social Work at Notre Dame. A student who has majored in any department of the College of Arts and Letters, and has shown suitable capabilities in undergraduate work, has all the necessary academic prerequisites demanded for graduate studies in social work. Any Seniors interested in securing one should immediately confer with Rev. John P. O’Connell, C.S.C., who will be available for such consultations in his room in Cavanaugh Hall any evening. The scholarships amount to $300.00, covering tuition expense for both semesters.
The courses offered in the social work program prepare and qualify students for work in both the public and private welfare agencies as well as for positions which are opening up under the Social Security Plan. Courses are so arranged as to enable a student to pursue further studies in either two or three year schools if he prefers to continue his studies rather than take immediate employment in the field.
Bookmen Meeting
Mr. T. Bowyer Campbell was host to the Bookmen at their regular meeting on Tuesday, March 21. The discussion of the evening centered around
HANDKERCHIEF TEST PROVES NESSOR BURRO KEEPS VITAL ZONE SPOTLESS
Always clean and free from goo no matter how often you smoke it. Chal-lenging higher-priced pipes in briar quality and value.
HESSOnGUARO miLflno
war-themes in modem poetry and drama. Messrs. Dave Withey, Gerry Hogan, Frank O’Laughlin, and Vince Doyle read selections from such modem war - conscious poets as Stephen Spender, Archibald MacLeish and Herbert Read. Following this Bob Heywood reviewed and read extensive passages from On The Frontier, a new verse drama by W. H. Auden and Christopher Isherwood.
Play Victor and Bluebird Records Through Your Radio!
in the thrilling VICTOR RECORD SOCIETY OFFER
RCA VICTOR RECORD PLAYER
Amazing new invention that plays records through your radio with full tone of set. Can be connected to any modem AC radio at little or no expense.
List price .... $14.95
<Q nn WORTH OF ANY VICTOR 0R BLUEB|8D records
At least 20 newest dance hits (10 records) for instance, or oth- • er Victor or Bluebird Records.
VICTOR RECORD REVIEW
12 months" subscription, value $2.00. Other Victor Record Society benefits.
See Us Now About Joining The Victor Record Society, America's Largest Musical Club...More Than 100,000 Member* in Ono Yearl
Largest Record Stock in South Bend! Easy Terms. Private Booths, Electric Victrolas.
RODIN, Inc.
132 N. Michigan Phone 4-1184 Open Saturday evenings until 9:00 p. nt.
SPALDING
Squash Racquets
£3.95, £4.95, £5.95, £6.50
BOBBY JONES Golf Clubs
SPALDING TENNIS EQUIPMENT
GOLF and TENNIS JACKETS Water Repellent, £4.95
Sonneborn's Sport Shop
Successor to Mike Kelly’s
Athletic Equipment Distributors
Coming EASTER SUNDAY
JAN GABBEB
JAN GARBER
The Idol of the Airlanes 99c ADVANCE £1.25 at door per person, tax paid Tickets at WALGREEN’S and CLARK’S PALAIS ROYALE
THS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
-LEMSONIER LIBRARY-NOTRE DAME,.LOCAL
He’ll say...Look what it says on the back of the package...
“Chesterfield Cigarettes are a balanced blend of the finest aromatic Turkish tobacco and the choicest of several American varieties blended in the correct proportion to bring out the finer qualities of each tobacco/’
When you try them you will know why Chesterfields give millions of men and women more smoking pleasure... why THEY SATISFY
Chesterfield
...the blend that cant be copied
...the RIGHT COMBINATION ofthe world’s best cigarette tobaccos Tobacco Co.