America:
What Went Wrong?
Attend the lecture — Find out the answer
Donald L.
Barlett
James B.
Steele
February 15,1993
7:30 p.m.
Hesburgh Library Auditorium
A reception will follow at the Center for Social Concerns
Barlett and Steele are Pulitzer Prize winning reporters for the Philadelphia Inquirer and authors of America: What Went Wrong? a New York Times best-selling book for over 30 weeks.
This lecture is sponsored by the Department of American Studies, the Center for Social Concerns, the Hesburgh Program in Public Service, Student Government and Scholastic.
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE


9 9
13 Outback Adventures
3

4	Gallo/Browning
5	Flynn/Wellman
6	Karian/Thomas
7	Kovats/Connelly
8	Murphy/Bloss
9	Reinke/Dickey
18 Don't Look Back
21 Out of Bounds
22 King Missile

10 Combined Total
2	Editor’s Notes
3	Editorial
12 Campus Watch
23	On Other Campuses
24	Week in Distortion
28 Final Word
Cover artwork by Jake Frost
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
,\ ?j
,??\'. "> ~ February 4,1993. .;
?'??■ * Disco Quasi Semper. Victuals
?• .T?- Vive Quasi Oras Moriturus 7
??? ?? Founded 1867
•EDITOR IN CHIEF	/
TPatrlaaK; Doyle
/MANAGING: EDITOR	r ■
? Margaret S. Kenny ''	.. ■ •7 '.'•••
EXECUTIVE EDITOR	;.
••OavidHolsing'er'; ...	.- ?.
; CAMPUS LIFE ? *:	'
?;Editor:. ■:■/ .
^Assistant: Michelle Crouch ;?;.
J<Edit6r^	i
/Editor:.Jim Kuser■ 777. - 7 ? ••••; ■: ■
? Assistent: Amanda Clinton' .a?7
' ENTERTAINMENT,??T;-?:<'
.Editor: J, Bradley Keck ••.? T • ??
T Assistant: Peg Ward..- ' . .?•.; .• •;
^DEPARTMENTS-:.?. ^-.C^ ' > ;?... ?/ ■:: ■ j
Editor: Ken Osgood?-. ?.?\/-; • ’ ??' ?7Editor:ChnsBlanford ??/.
'?GI^PHIG AF^	'-????:?
■Manager: JakeErost :•••/ ;?;?.?
^Manager: Chin Wang 7 ; ?\;T "■?
^ADVERTISING??:.''??
??Manager: Karen Riley... ; 7 -■? 7; y T
-■business"
-JManager:.Eileen Shelley 'v'-/ ,:.
T,;';<'7 :V'-/'; 7.'./ ?	’7"-'7''
bl.sfRIBUTlpN '777. ... 7
|/Manageh'M^kfHtzgerald ,y 7
On The Cover
Although you have probably been bombarded by campaign posters already, Scholastic provides you with coverage of the six tickets running for student body president and vice-president On the facing page you will find our endorsement The interviews contained in this issue are transcripts of the interviews we conducted with each of the tickets. Don’tforget thatMonday is election day — let your vote count
In This Issue
In news this week, writer Dyan Rohol takes a look at the Honors Program in the College of Arts and Letters and the College of Science. Campus life writer, with the help of some students who spent a semester down under, fills us in on life at Notre Dame Australia. In sports, Amanda Clinton interviews swimmer Ryan Seville who has
Applications are now available forthe following paid positions on ,;-■ -v T7?l.?77the:;1'993-i;994; Scholastic editorial board: 7; 7. : 77',y. 7^ Editor4n-Chief ; \ : 7	. .7 Copy Editor :
./:7 Managing Editor 777777 Photography Editor 7'7
;T.777;M-^	,	.	; 7 /Layout Manager 7^^^
A;??7TTSports Editor 77 7-7 ': 77; 7 ■ /Graphic Arts Manager / j7; "77 . Campus Life Editor;7 777777'7 /^ystemsMariager 7/.T 777 Entertainment Editor'/,■ "777'7777 Business Manager■ 7‘ 777	''77 77 7 Advertising Manager '77j
7 Applications can be picked up in room 303,. LaFortune and must be ;; 7777777y7 7 returned by 5 P.M. Friday,-'February 19. ■.
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Noire Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. Thesubscriptionrateis $25.00[yearandbackissuesareavailable at $125 [copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1992 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
made an incredible recovery after an accident that doctors said would leave him injured for life.
In entertainment, editor J. Bradley Keck is back with “Out Of Bounds” and writer Kevin McDonough reviews the new King Missile album, Happy Hour. As usual you will find “Week In Distortion,” “Coming Distractions,” “CampusWatch” and the “Final Word,” written by Jenny Tate.
Football Review
For all of you off campus students who have notpicked up your copy ofthe 1992 Football Review issue of Scholastic just stop by our office at 303 LaFortune any afternoon between 2 and 5 p.m. All you need is your ID. Extra copies may also be purchased here for $5.
Patricia Doyle
Editor in Chief
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty membersshould include their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves therighi to reject letters that are libelous ar obscene by the laws of the Umted States. Scholastic also will edit far copyfilling, grammatical ar spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Address all correspondence to;	’	’
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center
Notre Dane, IN46556

K
vote REINKE and DICKEY
Scholastic endorses the ticket of DavidReinke andLaraDickey for student body president and vice-president We feel that they show a real balance of three key areas: knowledge of the issues, a grasp of what they can actually accomplish and genuine feeling for what the student body wants to see done. While many of the other tickets have either excellent ideas or a good understanding of how to get their ideas implemented, we felt that the ticket of Reinke and Dickey is the only one which showed an adequate balance. Presidential candidate Reinke also earned our respect by stating, “I think they [student government] have a little bit too much self-importance, plus they think their opinion is too highly valued.” Amen to that Even though this ticket is basically an “insider” ticket, that statement shows that these two candidates haven’t lost their priorities to an inflated sense of self-worth that comes from having an office on the second floor of LaFortune.
In terms of specifics, they had plenty, as well as a good working knowledge of how things get done in student government. Placing education as a priority shows a commitment to the one issue which affects all students. Their platform shows a knowledge of both the issues and the channels for dealing with them.
The ticket of Frank Flynn and Nikki Wellmann has what appears to be a very achievable set of goals, as well as substantial experience, but perhaps their goals are too many. They are a friendly and amicable pair of candidates, but we fear that they might disappoint on a few of their promises if they were to win.
We at Scholastic were truly amazed at the amount of time and
energy which the ticket of Gallo and Browning put into their platform. In fact, the packet of information which they gave us was substantially larger than the press kit which we received for President Clinton’s visit. Their desire to trim the administrative budget is a noble aim and certainly deserves further attention. Scholastic feels, however, that this ticket has two major flaws: their detailed knowledge of the issues bespeaks a great deal of inside knowledge that comes from working in student government, but also the lack of perspective that comes from spending too much time on administrative issues. Also, their commitment to multiculturalism, although laudable, seems to be leaning towards an extreme of Political Correctness which most of us would rather avoid. The creation of a “multicultural course” is not really necessary at a time when gender and racial issues already permeate discussions in many sections of Freshman Seminar and the Arts and Letters Core Course. The reading lists of these courses are becoming more sensitive to these issues, and instituting another course would be overkill, as well as a waste of valuable electives.
Two of the tickets showed admirable motivation in running without prior student government experience, but they also demonstrated an apparent lack of understanding of the complexity of some of the issues which face a student body president While we admire these tickets for their enthusiasm and commend their attempts to break into the world of student government without having first risen through the ranks, there is also an element of carelessness in their platforms. The tickets of Karian and Thomas, as well as Murphy and Bloss, seem to ignore the potential of the student government reports to the board of trustees. This is a crucial means for student leaders to communicate the interests of their fellow students to the administration at the highest levels of communication. Without a real grasp of this potential, candidates would be wasting a valuable resource once in office.
The ticket of Kovats and Connelly seemed to be genuine in their attempt to be the representatives of the student body as a whole, but were drastically lacking in both political astuteness and in formulating any concrete suggestions for student government policy in the coming year. Their attempt to represent the student body as a whole is based on a fiction that the student body is in fact a cohesive whole when it is anything but. Their response to the Sinfiad O’Connor resolution is evidence of this: Kovats and Connelly want to represent the whole student body, but they didn’t even comment on the fact that much of the student body disagreed with the student senate’s actions.
We have one warning for the ticket which we have endorsed: we urge you to stand by your commitment to listening to the students. If you win, consult with the “outsiders” who are now running against you. Recruit students to give you their opinions, because our student body is too apathetic to tell you on their own. Try to maintain the perspective of one who has never been involved in student government Take a step back from your roles and look at what’s really going on.
Scholastic wishes good luck to all of the tickets in this year’s election, and we thank them for their concern for the student body.

Flynn and Well man n
Frank Flynn, the student body presidential candidate, is a native of Hampden, MA, and a resident of Stanford Hall. A junior, Flynn is a finance and CAPP major and serves as president of his dorm. Flynn is the Special Projects commissioner for student government and chair of the student storage task force.
Nikki Wellmann, fromDelphos, OH, is a candidate for student body vice president. She lives in Badin Hall and majors in English and CAPP. President of her dorm, Wellmann is a member of the HPCBudget Committee and served on the Sophomore Class Council.
What is the main goal (or goals) you would like to achieve as student body president and vice president?
FLYNN: Our main goal is to perform our platform which we are positive we can do. When we made this platform, we made sure these were attainable goals. We researched them thoroughly so that we wouldn’t be making any promises we couldn’t keep. I think our responsibilities fall under three categories: One, to achieve the platform which we propose; Two, to continue the work that student government has performed on projects so far throughout the year; and Three, to work on long-term responsibilities such as financial aid, campus social life, and other projects.
Basically, this is what we are proposing for our platform. I’ll start off with “The Guide.” Most
of the Ivies and other top schools produce the same sort of a book. What it is, is a student-run teacher evaluation guide. When we go to Dart here every semester, we’re going in mainly blind to choose courses. You can talk to other kids, but you have to do a lot of legwork running around to find out about courses. At the end of the semester, students will perform their own TCEs where they take a certain evaluation form provided in the classroom, it is returned, collected and processed into this form which rates the teacher in different categories. They provide their workload, course schedule
and what they will perform in the course. Students can choose the course based on this information. I just chose a new major last year and I knew nothing about the teachers I was going into at all. What we did, is we contacted Harvard, we found out all the processes of how to do this program and we could afford this through student government itself and do it ourselves, the same way that they do. They have a team of kids who perform it and they spend a few weeks each semester compiling the book and distributing it. I think it would be an excellent addition. It goes along the same lines as the board of trustees report on undergraduate education. It would show our commitment to the fact that we’re not kidding around here. We’re serious about improving education here. This will act as a spur to the teachers in the university. The teachers might not want this, but they really don’t have a choice. I’ll say the good teachers will want it, but the poor ones might not. They won’t get as much response to their classes. It will spur the teachers, in essence, it will act like a catalyst to improve their teaching. They will be almost forces to.
WELLMANN: The next thing is the “Job Bank.” Currently, we think everybody has dealt with a lot of alumni and seen how open they are to Notre Dame students, but I don’t really think we tap thatresource that much. Alotofpeopleatthistimeof the year are looking for jobs and internships or summer work and a lot of alumni are willing to help, but they really haven’t been given the opportunity. What we could do would be to maybe send outroughly
20,000 questionnaires and you would put, “John Doe, I am an engineer at this company, and at this time we have room for 3 full-time engineers, an accountant and this summer we would have room for one intern and one other summer position.” They would send it back to us and we would file it with student government. So say you want to go to Columbus, Ohio, and you* would find that all the networking would be done for you. It’s not anything to step on the toes of career and placement It is just to help them because they don’t have the resources or the manpower to do something that large.
continued on page 26
Gallo and Browning
Stephanie Gallo, candidate for student body president, currently resides in Lyons Hall and is a junior government major. Gallo is the co-president of Lyons and represents the Hall Presidents’ Council on the student senate. On the student senate, she has served on the "Upholding the Mission’ task force, researching the quality, of education and the controversy between research and education. Gallo is also co-chairperson of the student senate survey, has been active in dorm activities, was captain of the neighborhood study precinct and spent October break helping hurricane victims in Miami, FL.
Chris Browning, a candidate for the student body vice-presidency, is originallyfrom just outside New York City. Browning is a junior who lives in Sorin Hall, and he is the co-president of his dorm. Last
year, he was the social concerns com
missioner of Sorin as well as formal commissioner. Browning did a summer service project this past summer at the Center for the Homeless in South Bend and currently recruitsfor the center.
What is the main goal (or goals) you would like to achieve as SBP and SBVP?
BROWNING: Our basic slogan to the whole platform is “Putting Notre Dame to Work,” and we plan on doing that in three ways. The first we’re calling “Putting Your Education to Work,” and what that deals with is an
interactive program centering on alumni connections. We feel that we have such a large and caring alumni base but yet we don’t really tap to its full extent. We feel that we can develop a wide assortment of programs with that alumni base and the one that we’re hoping to develop is a mentor program... It’s not necessarily that they’re going to give you a job or lead you to a career where they’re working, but they can give you advice like, “At this point you should be applying to graduate schools,” or “You should be taking this sort of test” GALLO: This program is currently in place in a lot of what we call Pacific Northwest universities such as Puget Sound University and Colorado University, and in essence, it can be applied to all majors.
... If an alumnus was a
University of Michigan medical school, heor she could writealetter on behalf of the student I think thatrepresents, in essence, the heart of it is pretty much linking students with alumni, in addition to maximizing faculty resources in that area.
BROWNING: That’s just one part of how we’re going to put the education to work. We’ve spoken to both Career and Placement Services and the Alumni Association, and they have both said in a way that they would like to see that there be a person in charge of internships. They both do a little bit with internships in a way. The Alumni Association has their externship program,... but they don’t do a whole lot with summer internships, and Career and Placement is understaffed. They do a great job as far we’re concerned, but they just do not have enough people to do everything which they feel is
necessary. What we’re proposing is a
university employeee who would be in charge of internships who would work with the Alumni Association and Career and Placement services to coordinate everything together. That would include more alumni networking and just internships in general.
GALLO: To expand on that, what we’ve discovered is that right now everyone is frantically looking for an internship. Personally, you go down to Career and Placement, and they say attend the Summer Job Fair. Alumni Relations has some types of programs in addition the different colleges have different types of programs. There has
to be some cohesive place where I go to this individual and I say I’m interested in getting a government internship. In essence, she or he could provide me with this information.
In addition to that, another part of our platform is called “Putting your money to work.” What that implies is that as student body president and vice president, we will be responsible to allocate $400,000, and after talking to several individuals, we believe after researching the past budgets, we believe there is tremendous waste going on. ... we were very careful to research this because we didn’t want to make any accusations regarding this; what we found out is that we believe that we can cut down on administrative costs and
continued on page 25
EtECTION ‘93
Karian and Thomas
Joe Karian is a sophomore student body presidential candidate from Schenectady, NY. He lives in Dillon and plans to major in accounting.
Sam Thomas is a sophomore electrical engineering major, who is running for student body vice-president. He is active in the marching and concert bands, as well as the orchestra. The Dillon residentfromBatonRouge,LA, is also afreshman calculus tutor.
What is the main goal or goals that you would like to achieve as student body president and vice-president?
KARIAN: I think as students, even though we haven’t participated in hall government, we represent the university.... So we naturally have a stake in making this a better place and try ing to make our four years here not only more productive, but more enjoyable. And we’d like to do that for all students. Our really big objective would be to revise DART... with a weighted DART system.... If you DARTed in the bottom fiftieth percentile of your class, you would be guaranteed a pick in the top fiftieth percentile of your class. And after a full academic year, where everyone had started once in the bottom fiftieth percentile and once in the top fiftieth percentile, it would be random, followed by another weighted period. ... We think it restores some equality and I don’t think it should be so arbitrary or haphazard when you’re paying so much money to a school like Notre Dame.... We realize that sometimes there are conditions where athletes start on the first day and that might be a problem, but if that’s the case, we’d just not include the athletes
when they count how many people and divide into percentiles.
THOMAS: Another idea we have is in the form of this teacher evaluation....
KARIAN: Yeah, we’d like a supplement of results that would be sent to students.... What we’d like is just a couple questions that students could use to reference when they select a professor. “Would you recommend the professor?” “Does the testing and grading policy in that class adequately reflect the work that you put into it?”... One other thing we’d like tb do if elected is... visit each hall at least once during our term... Sort of have a forum... where we would present to the students directly, those who wished to attend
these little forums, exactly what we’ve done. We would take their suggestions, their opinions, their concerns, and we would try to answer any questions that they had.
What do you feel has been the major accomplishment of this year’s student government?
KARIAN: ... probably study days. I think it’s an overwhelming majority of students who feel the benefits of study days: the extra time to prepare, I think there is a significant decrease in the stress and the tension.... And I know this semester for taking everything down in your room and removing the furniture. I think a lot of people got better grades because they didn’t feel as rushed or as pressured. So I think that’s their major accomplishment And I think another thing is, because of this accomplishment, more people have interest in student government... They’ve kind ofrejuvenated student interest in finding government solutions to campus problems.
Do you feel that changes need to be made in the structure and/ or functions of the different arms of student government, for instance, the hall presidents’ council, student senate, and the student body presidency?
KARIAN: Not really, I mean, we think the Hall Presidents’ council is a really good idea, getting representatives from every dorm and discussing problems and issues that affect students. ... I think you just need to get more people involved. I don’t think have two presidents would solve anything, it would just create more bureaucracy. If you can’t decide who’s going to be president... so what we would really do is we wouldn’t really change the structure, we would just try to make it more
productive.
What was your r esponse to the student senate resolution regarding Sinead O’Connor, and what would you have done if you were present at that discussion?
KARIAN: Well, we thought what she did was abominable and Ithink there should be some kind of symbol, some kind of statement saying how the campus in general felt about this. Because it’s a Catholic school, because it’s Notre Dame, one of the largest Catholic schools, I thought it was an appropriate action to take. Because our student body is so predominantly I think Catholic, I didn’t have a problem with it.	□
Kovats and
Connelly
Tom Kovats, a candidate for student body president, is a junior from Dillon, majoring infinance. Tom isfromSantaAnna, CA, and he has been a member of the men’s volleyball team for three years. He was also in Navy ROTC for two years and has worked in the Huddle, Dillon food sales and has participated in urban plunge.
Mike Connelly, a candidate for student body vice-president, is a junior biochemistry and anthropology major from Minneapolis, MN. A resident of Dillon Hall, Kovats has participated in the band, the water polo club, the First Aid team andDillonfood sales. He has been active in NVA, a big brother and a volunteer for the Centerfor Social Concerns.
What is the main goal (or goals) you would like to achieve as Student Body President and Student Body Vice President?
CONNELLY: We pretty much want to be a service to the student body. It’s not like we’re out to set up Tom and Mike’s university. We want to set up the university so that the students have more power, what they want. I know that there’s a lot of things here that students don’t feel are right, certain restrictions like pa-rietals. Things like that. We pretty much want to be a mouthpiece between the students and the administration and try to better any connections.
KOVATS: We just feel that the university is here for the students, and sometimes it doesn’tseem that way—the individual student can be ignored. If anyone has any problems, then they can just take it to us.
What do you feel has been the major accomplishment of this year’s student government?
CONNELLY: From a personal standpoint, I really liked the study days. They saved my GPA.
KOVATS: That [study days] was one thing they [Butrus and O’Neill] came out with and got done; that’s what we want to do. We want to accomplish everything we can.
Do you feel that changes need to be made in the structure and/ or functions of the different arms of student government: the HPC, senate and the student body presidency?
KOVATS: We think the student body presidency could be a little more open. We initially intended to on being co-presidents, but we were just told today that that was not possible. I understand why because they have different func
tions and that one of us has to take over certain responsibilities.
CONNELLY: But we did want to run as co-presidents, for some type of — I don’t know, I don’t really want to use the word symbolism, and I wish I could find something else — just as a sense of equality across the board. Students are really subordinated, and I think that would help the student unity.
What was your response to the Student Senate resolution regarding Sinead O’Connor? What would you have done if you were present when at the discussion?
KOVATS: As far as I’m concerned, I thought what they did was fine. What she did was obviously wrong from our standpoint. If I remember correctly, they just didn’t agree with what she did, and as far as that goes, she, I think, overstepped her bounds there. And if I was there, I would have just done what they did.
CONNELLY: I think Keenan Revue had a pretty good response to it. I don’t know if any of you saw that...The Pope came out there and tore up a little picture of Sinead. It was pretty cute.

Murphy and Bloss
Chris Murphy is a sophomore from Flanner, running for student body president. A finance major, Murphy isfromRockville Center, NY.
Emily Bloss is a Farley Hall sophomore, seeking the office of student body vice-president. Bloss is a pre-med major who is involved with the Center for Social Concerns. She went on urban plunge, was in ROTCfor a year and is a member of Students for Environmental Action and the Spanish club.


What is the main goal or goals you would liketo achieve as student body president and student body vice-president?
MURPHY: Basically, we could make the administration have more communication with the student body, and make sure the issues are exactly what the students want. Pretty much to focus more on what the students want, and to help achieve those goals BLOSS: And probably to be involved in that would be maybe to be more involved in the revision
of du Lac, and perhaps just get involved more in the issues of the Alcohol policy.
What do you feel has been the major accomplishment of this year's student government?
MURPHY: They helped a lot to extend the library hours to 24 hours during finals week and they did do a lot of work on something we support which is the debit card—they started the foundation for it, and it’s something we endorse. But I don’t think that so many of the students realize what they did. We want to make sure that we can bring the communication up to the level where we can make people more alert to what we’re doing.
BLOS S: Also the study days were outstanding, a fantastic contribution just because this is a school where academics are a priority and I think this year’s administration enhanced that whole area with the library hours and the study days.
Do you feel that changes need to be made in the structure and/ or the functions of the different arms of student government, for example, the Hall Presidents' Council, student senate and the student body presidency?
MURPHY: I think, as I stated before that there should be more communication.
BLOSS: It should be more unified. MURPHY: Yeah, make it more unified, have it work as one instead of as all three parts.
What was your response to the Student Senate resolution regarding Sinead O'Connor, and what would you have done if you had been present at that discussion?
MURPHY: I really don’t think that it accomplished anything. She did insult us as Catholics but it really didn’t get anything done. I think it was pretty much just a waste of time.
BLOSS: I think that the rest of the student body would agree with that, that it really didn’t do anything, that it was a waste of time. That is basically what we’re looking not to do ... we want to represent what everybody said. I think that was just a rash thing to do.
MURPHY: I think NBC’s apology was sufficient that they made to everyone.	-	□

Reinke and Dickey
David Reinke is a juniorjromKeenanHall, running for student body president. Reinke is from Mishawaka, IN, and is majoring in marketing. The co-president of Keenan, he was also sophomore class president and is a member of the student senate.
Lara Dickey is a junior from Knott Hall, running for the office of student body vice-president. She is from Kansas City, KS, and is a bio-chemistry major. Dickey is co-president of her dorm and sat on the sophomore class council last year.
What is the main goal (or goals) you would like to achieve as the Student Body President and Student Body Vice-President?
REINKE: I think the biggest thing that we want to do is redefine student government One thing that we feel has happened in student goveremment is that it has become more and more professional, which is a good thing. It is no longer students going up and pounding on the administrations doors, yelling “We want this, we want this.” They are working with the administration and that’s a really posistive thing. But what they have done in theprocess is get farther away from the students. They have kind of forgotten to get the student input. We want to get back in touch... We think that student government is going to be more effective in every area when we get more student involvement
DICKEY: We’re going on “Redefining student government” as our slogan. And that really does say what we want to do. Our number one priorities are realigning student government and also making the university rededicated towards undergraduate education....
What do you feel has been a major accomplishment of this year’s student government?
REINKE: They have done an incredible job as far as outgrowth. They’ve got a very large cabinet and
they’ve got a very cohesive team, and I give them a lot of credit for that You look at a lot of their awareness weeks — week for the homeless, prejudice reduction workshop — and once again, like I stated before, they’ve become very professional, and they’ve done a very good job of presenting to the university on undergraduate education, financial aid and a few other topics. I would say, though, that their biggest accomplishment is just the number of activities that they’ve been able to do. They’ve recognized that student government, there’s long-term goals and there’s short-term goal, and they’ve had a good mix of both.
Do you feel that changes need to be made in the structure and/ or in the function of the different arms of the student government, for instance, the Hall Presidents’ Council, Student Senate
and the student body presidency?
DICKEY: Definitely, we feel very strongly that all the branches need to focus more on students and their needs. Throughout our entire “Visions and Values,” we talk about how we won’t have closed student government meetings, how we need to publish the budget in the newspaper so that the students are more responsible to it. Not all of it has to do with the student senate and making the student senate more responsible to the students. HPC has done a good job becoming very service-oriented, and we’ve been very pleased to be serving with them.
REINKE: Beyond that, though, I think what you’re touching on, it’s just a tremendous bureaucracy and no student knows where to go. A student looks at all these different branches and goes, “What the heck is this?” Who are we supposed to go to if we have a concern, if we have a gripe. It’s just really not clear. We have a specific proposal, to try to get back in touch with the student body. Also I think we need to look at how we can restructure, to really, ask ourselves, “Is this the best way to run student government?” I don’t know what the other ways of doing it are, but we need to take a look at it.
What was your response to the student senate resolution regarding Sinead O’Connor? Since you [Reinke] were there, how did you vote on it, and what would you [Dickey] have done if you were there at the discussion?
REINKE: I voted against it. I voted against the resolution to send—I’m not even sure what it was—a request for a formal apology. I understand why it was brought forth, but, in my opinion, that’s not the type of thing the student senate should be dealing with. I think there’s more important things, I think it was a waste of our time and we will
definitely not be dealing in things like that in running the senate. DICKEY: I guess one thing I should say it I’m not Catholic, so that wasn’taparticularly offensive thing to meas itstand. Butl’m sorry it did offend so many Catholics. But I do agree with Dave: if I had been there I would have voted against the resolution. It was a waste of student senate time, and it didn’t have any real purpose other than to say that, yeah, the student body was very upset about it.
REINKE: Sometimes people in student government—and I’m part of student government, so I don’t know if what I’m saying is good here — but I think they have a little bit too much self-importance, plus think their opinion is too highly valued. To think we can ask for a formal apology from Sinead O’Connor, and NBC more specifi
cally, to me is kind of ludicrous.





Combined Total
Uniting advanced studies in both the Arts and Letters and the Science curricula, the Honors Program forms a bridge between the two colleges
by Dyan Rohol
The existence of the College of Arts and Letters and the College of Science is a peculiar aspect of the structure of Notre Dame. Why is the university organized in this manner? Why not have a College of Arts and Sciences, as many schools do? And how can the curricula of both colleges be made compatible?
In 1982, Dr. Robert Bums, dean of arts and letters, and Dr. Francis Castellino, dean of science, voiced mutual concern about the limited interaction between the College of Arts and Letters and the College of Science. In addition, criticism that Notre Dame lacked a sense of intellectual life bothered the deans.
The deans’ solution to both of these issues was the creation of the Honors Program. Planning began in 1982; the first classes started in the fall of 1983. Dr. David Solomon was the original director of the Arts and Letters Honors Program. Dr. John Kozak was his counterpart in the College of Science.
Solomon credits Bums and Castellino with the impetus for the creation of the Honors Program. Honors students, as Solomon envisioned them, would “contribute to the intellectual life at Notre Dame” by bridging the gap between the two colleges.
The structure of the program remains essentially the same today as it was in 1982.
Around the campus, not many know of the Honors Program. Why is there such a program at a school which only accepts students who are of “honors” caliber? Dr. Neil Delaney, director of the Arts and Letters-Honors Program (Dr. David Lodge, who is presently on sabbatical, normally coordinates the ScienceHonorsProgram), sees the program as an academic equivalent to varsity athletics: “Both are designed to provide a service to a relatively small group of people with specialized skills.”
Delaney added that the Office of Undergraduate Admissions uses the program as a tool to attract students who otherwise might not have attended Notre Dame. Delaney continued, “The two colleges also have intrinsic reasons to provide opportunities for some students to do things in a more sophisticated way.”
So just what does it mean to be a student in the Honors Program? Participants are members of small, specialized and particularly challenging courses which fulfill university and college requirements and which are taught by professors at the top of their fields, said Delaney.
As freshmen, honors students fulfill the requirements of theFreshmanYearofStud-ies by taking advanced courses in the re
quired fields and by meeting further Honors Program requirements. For instance, the university science requirement must be met by a two-semester major lab science (only biology, chemistry and physics with lab sections will suffice). Even students in the College of Arts and Letters have multiple science requirements to fulfill. In addition, all honors freshmen are required to take advanced economics which forces two semesters of material into one semester.
However, the freshman year Honors Program does not simply present students with more challenging courses, it also gives opportunities to get to know a familiar group of students with similar academic interests and goals. Senior Kari Esbensen, a biology and theology double major, feels freshman year was the most important year, “I appreciated the chance to know a close knit group of people through my classes in that year.”
The Honors Program facilitates students’ course selection by allowing them to take 300- and 400-level courses in their chosen fields of study, even as freshmen. And after the freshman year, the program continues to facilitate course selection, as well as accommodating the needs of individual majors within both of the colleges.
It is not required but strongly recommended that Arts and Letters honors students spend a semester in the London Pro
gram; the Honors Program makes this option available to science majors as well and encourages them to participate. In choosing majors, students' are strongly encouraged by their advisor in the Honors Program to take a double major.
Yet one of the most distinctive honors requirements, and the one which tends to frighten undergraduates, is the six hour thesis (or research project for science majors) required of honors students. Solomon called it “the capstone of the undergraduate education at the university.” Students often feel that the length and depth which the thesis requires is somewhat daunting. Freshmen speak of it as a distant but pending worry. Sophomores, who discuss the thesis’ benefit in more philosophical terms, also prefer to think of it as a non-immediate threat. But juniors and seniors must become immersed in the work of the thesis while continuing their daily studies.
The question of what the Honors Pro-
opportunities for ■
I	y
gram does and requires is one with many answers, but the question of how a student enters the program is simple — sort of. Students are invited to the Honors Program after they have been admitted to the university. This year, for the first time, Honors Program invitations are being sent to early admittance students soon after their notification of admission.
The first step in the selection of those who will be invited to the Honors Program is performed by a computer program in the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. The
computer searches the complete pool of those who have been admitted to the university for prospective students meeting a formulated set of requirements including class rank and standardized test scores. The dean of admissions then reads through the applications of those who have been selected by the computer's formula and sorts out those whose applications indicate that they are eligible for the program.
The dean of admissions then sends aproximately 75 applications to both directors of the Honors Program. The directors then further sort the applications to derive what they find to be a suitable group, and invitations are sent to these students. If the student who has been invited to the honors program decides to attend the university and completes the Honors Program application, then the directors of the program read the essays and select the final number of honors students. The number is usually no more than 20 from each college.
Students are not accepted into the Honors Program beyond freshman year, except in cases of transfer from another college or university. This means the the total number of honors students hovers around 160.
Delaney said, “The overwhelming majority of students see the program through and are still members as of senior year.” Delaney also noted that reasons for withdrawing from the program include transfers to the College of Business Administration or the College of Engineering, as well as failure to complete the senior thesis.
Why would a student want to take the extra academic step required by the Honors Program? Program of Liberal Studies sophomore Amy Siddons said, “I like the chance to be around teachers who are demanding and who expect you to be intelligent.” Freshman Kevin Minbiole said, “I think the Honors Program provides students with a challenge they would not normally have.”
The “holistic” approach of the Honors Program also permits students to become better acquainted with their options and to make an informed decision regarding their majors. Sophomore Tara Lynch, a government and philosophy double major, said, “I see many parallels between the classes which I have taken, and this compatibility within the curriculum is especially beneficial.”
Siddons and Lynch both list their honors
humanities seminar as the course which provided them with a foundation for liberal arts studies.
Senior economics major Scott Stengel said: “I chose the Honors Program because I wanted the opportunity to meet and work with some of the greatest professors on campus. And I also have the opportunity to learn a lot from my fellow students.” Stengel described his thesis as “the true culmination of my academic experience at Notre Dame.” His attitude toward his thesis reflects his acceptance of what Solomon described as “a commitment to intense, creative academic work.” Siddons also recognizes that her thesis will be an excellent preparation for graduate school. She said, “It ties together a lot of things I’m interested in.”
The completion of the program is mentioned separately on the transcript at graduation. Most honors students claim that they are not in the program simply to gain a transcript entry. They prefer to emphasize : ' 'Ghosc^	;
Program because I opportunity to meet andwor k with some ?
Steng^
that they joined the program because the combination of people and courses with which they come in contact makes for and exciting educational experience.
Delaney said, “The absence of a College of Arts and Sciences an anomoly peculiar to Notre Dame.” However, he continued, “This absence should not mean that students, whether or not they are honors students, should not have the opportunity to take accelerated classes in both disciplines.”
□
Campusl/V&tt
Bleah. The Gipper has returned from hiatus but would really rather be somewhere warm; maybe a Scholastic staff vacation to Tenerife would be in order. No one seems to like February very much, and the Gipper has an extraordinary dislike for this particular month. Therefore, the Gipp (with the help of Scholastic’s editorial board) is happy to bring you:
28 REASONS TO HATE FEBRUARY (to be published in several installments) 28. It doesn’t fit the “30 days hath September” rhyme.
27. Freshpersons have turned into sophomores by now.
26. JPW.
25. The Pope set the month’s length.
24. It’s hard to pronounce properly.
23. February is named after a feast of purification: nobody asked me if I wanted to be purified!
22. “New Year’s Resolution wanna-be” jocks still aren’t out of the gyms.
Coming next week:
14 Reasons to Hate Valentine’s Day.
While we’re at it, here are two more Gipper peeves: does it irritate anyone else when large gangs of Domer yutzes feel that they can monopolize the sidewalks? It seems that every morning when the Gipper is walking to class, he can’t quite go as fast as he would like because there’s a gang of weenies in letterman jackets walking five abreast at a sloth-like pace. Also, the new Indiana license plates have a particularly revolting color scheme. What was wrong with the old ones?
PARIETALS QUESTIONS ANSWERED
Now that I have all that off my chest, it’s back to the mailbox. The Gipper has re
ceived several queries regarding the jurisdiction of parietals and the reasoning behind them. Our crack research team has gone to great length to find the answers to these questions. (Okay, so we opened our copy of du Lac for once.)
First, the Gipper got a letter through e-mail from a Notre Dame student studying in Innsbruck, Austria, who asked whether it was legal that he slept in the same train car as a female student on an overnight trip from Vienna to Innsbruck. For everyone’s information, the policy on parietals states, “Undergraduate residence halls and St. Joseph Hall [emphasis added] will set their visitation hours within the following limits: visiting hours for guests of the opposite sex are not to begin before 11 a.m. on any day and are not to extend beyond 2 a.m. on Friday and Saturday nights, and midnight on other nights” {du Lac: Student Life Policies and Procedures, University of Notre Dame, 1991-1993, p.
28). Nowhere in du Lax [misspelling intentional] is there a clause stating that parietals apply anywhere except in residence halls. The whole rationale behind the
parietals policy is to “foster the personal and social development of residence hall students.” This means that once a student decides not to live in a residence hall, he or she is “personally and socially developed” enough (readers can leave the definition of this to their own warped imaginations) to evacuate guests of the opposite sex as he or she sees fit
To those students who find it necessary to complain about parietals, a word of advice: quit yer yappin’. There are plenty of ways
?CAMPUS5W	\
°F THE WEEK •	<
sThc.University reserves the right to expel studentsforthe : following offense:." Any actions which seemingly affect only the -;. indiyidualsjnvolved but have a direct bearing on the University 1: ^ community and cohcern personal and acadentic growth." ; ■Whoever caneitherexplainthisclauseoritspossibleimplications ; wins a. popy of George Orwell's 1984,	■ >:	. y. ■
around nighttime parietals, and the morning ones are a blessing, whether you realize it or not. The Gipp once had to stay in a dormitory at a smaller, Midwestern, Jesuit university. He was somewhat shocked to see female students in the hallway of a male dormitory at 7 a.m. as he returned from the shower clad only in a towel. It was not exactly a pleasant feeling.
This unsettling feeling of suddenly finding oneself cohabiting was echoed to the Gipp by a ’91 ND grad who worked as a Holy Cross Associates volunteer. Most potential volunteers probably don’trealize that they could end up sharing a room with volunteers of both sexes when exercising their “option for the poor,” but that is exacdy what happened to this volunteer. The university and the Congregation of Holy Cross have apparently decided that these volunteers are “personally and socially developed” to the point that they can freely
cohabitate en masse without any kind of temptation at all.
As always, you can reach the Gipp either through the mail at 303 LaFortune or through e-mail at “gipper@nd.edu”. Apologies to hose who have sent e-mail to the Gipp and not received a response: e-mail was so popular a medium, (critics take note of the proper use of “medium”) for communication that the Gipp couldn'trespond to all of the letters.
OAMPUSgLlFErf^	■
OUTBACK
ADVENTURES
Students at Notre Dame Australia last semester did more than just go to class
by Mollie Mudd
ooking back, Rob Ganz described his last semester at Notre Dame Australia
(NDA) as a “five-month vacation with a few
classes.” Not only was spending a semester in Fremantle, Australia, an educational experience, but it was also a fun-filled, action-packed adventure for 25 Notre Dame business students.
Their motto was “work hard, play hard,” and they did just that. The students had five classes a week that ran from three to six hours a day, after which they had a lot of free time to enjoy the outback.
The students were offered many opportunities to take day and weekend trips with the school. Brent Baker remembers some favorite group outings. “We went down to the beach a lot and took some trips out in the bush and to different country towns,” he said. The trips included stops at a county fair with many farm animals and the major event of sheep shearing.-
They also visited a wildlife park where the animals freely roamed the fields. “There were all types of Australian animals: kangaroos, koalas, wombats and cockatoos,” Bakersaid. He also recalled many bike rides to the nearby city of Perth. “The group would rent a few bikes and just ride for the
day,” he said.
One of the most memorable trips for Kim Rouster was a trip to Margaret River. “It was an estate winery that was owned by one of the original benefactors of ND A,” she said. “We stayed in tents and spent the days on beautiful beaches.” Horseback riding and free wine samples were also some of the weekend’s
Notre Dame Australia offered many bus trips for the students to explore the countryside and tour various outback towns.
highlights.
The students were accompanied by many ofNDA’s teachers and administration. They toured old caves and the wineries and "just had a wonderful time,” Rouster said. She even mentioned that there were many nighttime pranks on that trip, like knocking down
tents and moving a whole bed (with the sleeping person still on it) from the campsite to the middle of a cow pasture. The next morning, the unsuspecting student woke up to swooping magpies and his friends nowhere to be found.
October break was spent exploring the Australian coast. Ganz and other water-intriguied students went SCUBA diving near the Great Barrier Reef. “It was amazing,” Ganz said. “At one point we even had a shark swim right up to us.” This moment and others just as exciting were recorded on disposable underwater cameras. Ganz and about half of the group had become certified to SCUBA dive when they arrived in Australia, so it was one of his favorite weekend pasttimes.
Another part of the break was spent white water rafting in Cairns, also on the east coast of Australia. A group of 12 students, filling
two rafts, spent all of Saturday riding the rapids. Karen Grondin recalled, ‘They gave us helmets and life jackets, a quick lesson, and then left us with our raft to figure everything else out on our own.”
The competition between the two rafts was fierce. “There was a constant fight
The students went white water rafting over October break and spent all day splashing, rowing and falling overboard.
between the two boats, everyone was splashing and rowing, and hardly anyone stayed in their boat for more than two minutes at a time,” Grondin said. The long day of braving the rapids concluded the mid-semester vacation, and the students returned to Fremantle. “It was a really good way to end the trip. Everyone had so much fun,” Grondin said.
Another interesting weekend trip was to Rottnest Island, about 20 miles off the coast of Perth. It is a sparsely inhabited island that has beautiful landscapes and flowers. No cars are allowed on the island, so the group spent the day touring the countryside on bikes and “admiring all of the natural beauty,” Rouster said. Some students went snorkeling and sailing during the afternoon and were entertained at night at the only pub on the island.
Besides trips, there were volunteer community service activities available for the students. One project involved painting a hallway in a small private elementary school. “There was only a handful of us that went to this school to help out. We went twice a week for two months,” Grondin said. The Notre Dame students attempted to draw and paint a “fairy tale scene with an underwater world, a dragon and a castle.” They were each assisted by two primary students. “They were cute in their little private school uniforms, and they thought we did a great job,” Grondin said.
A typical weekend for the students was spent in Northbridge, a section of Perth, where there are about two or three blocks of
restaurants and pubs. “This is where we were able to meet other people our age. In Fremantle, we were basically the only college peoplearound,” Rouster said. The legal drinking age in Australia is 18, so the pubs were a popular place to spend free time and to celebrate birthdays. On Thursday nights,
Grondin said, a student favorite was an
“Anything Goes” show that relied totally on
audience participation in various stunts.
NDA students also tried their hands at sports during their semester in the outback. Three of the male students were recruited by an Australian professional football team, the Perth Broncos... “The coach basically came and sought us out He wanted his team to play American-style football and all the Australians knew how to play was rugby,” said Brendan Maher. “It really helped John Bolger, Rob Ganz and me to meet Australians our age. We were going to classes and out at night with the same American people and did not have that many opportunities to meet Australian students,” he said. They practiced twice a week and had games on the weekends. They even won a few, leaving their team with a 5-3 record.
The first class of NDA also formed the first sports team of NDA, the “Fighting Roos.” There was a volleyball tournament be
tween five local schools that they were persuaded to enter because they thought it was an informal, fun sort of competition. “We got there and saw that these people were on some serious teams with matching uniforms and equipment and they were seriously warming up,” Grondin said. “It was so sad: the girls lost every game and the guys tied only one,” she said. However the Notre Dame team did feel that they had the most spirit by far, Grondin said, “We were just out there to have fun.” They were surprisingly awarded the “Wooden Spoon Award”—for being the biggest losers. “We just got on our bus and went home. We were so embarrassed,” Grondin said.
During the semester a special bond grew between the students and their instructors.
Ganz recalled many evenings when he would shoot pool with David Link, dean of Notre Dame Law School, and think, “If we were at Notre Dame, this would never hap-pen.
The students also grew close to Professor Howard Lanser and his family duringFriday
night meals at his home. “This is when we
would all get together to have a home-
Karen Grondin visited a wildlife park and was able to hold a "cuddly but heavy" koala bear.
cooked meal and to watch 90210. loved it, especially since Australian TV was terrible,” Grondin said. The students are con
tinuing this relationship with Professor Lanser and his family as they join him for their traditional Friday night meal this week.
At the school there was also a “Friends of ND A Support Group” that threw parties, dinners and dances for the students. Maher commented that one of the most popular “Friends of-NDA,” Mark Norman, “helped us out a lot.” Norman’s house was about 20 minutes south of the school and the students were invited there occasionally for authentic “Aussie barbies.” The barbecuing festivities included steak,
sausage and prawns (shrimp). After the barby, the group would “sleep out under the stars and with the wild animals,” Maher said.
It is remarkable that 25 students who met each other, many for the first time, in theLos
Angeles airport in August, became such a close-knit group. “You really get to know people pretty well when you spend a 24-hour
flight with them,” Grondin said. The group
Karen Grondin
Aussie barbies were a favorite way for the students to relax, enjoy the nice weather and eat grilled prawns.
lived together in a remodeled backpacker’s lodge. Almost all had single rooms, but they shared a kitchen and common room and spent almost every hour of the day together. “Everyone got to be really good friends, especially because of the way we lived so
close to one another,” Maher said. Now, back on their home campus, “it is funny, but we are usually more excited to see someone
from Australia on the quad than someone we have not seen in months,” he said.
The interviewed students all gave the program rave reviews. Baker said that anyone interested in the program should definitely go. “It was a different experience than Notre Dame; a great experience.”
These students got a taste of the outback that they are not ready to give up. Many have thoughts of returning to Australia. Rouster has “no definite plans yet” to return, “but I’d really love to go back sometime in the next ten
years when the memories are still fresh in my mind.” Maher said, “I am absolutely, definitely going back.” In fact, he is going “as soon as possible. At the very latest, I’ll be there for the Olympics in Sydney in the year 2000.”Q
■IIIIIIIIIIIIM
Take a break from the dining halls I : • u- • - You deserve :

Every Friday
■ ALUMNI	- J- .>
Subs
Burgers;
Pizza;
12:00-2:00 pm
UNIVERSITY (OF NOTRE: DAME
Wednesday, Froiti 9:00 pm
Lp.\.R^ujreci
SSS5
Thursday
Saturday
Friday
6
5
Send information for your event to: Kate Wiltrout, Coming Distractions Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call 239-7569.
Movie: ,,Flatlmers,,, 8:00 & 10:30 p.m.,
Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Basketball: Notre Dame women vs.
LaSalle, JACC, 7:30 p.m.
Lecture: "How to Help a Friend or Family Member Who Has an Eating Disorder," Notre Dame Room, LaFortune, 6:30 p.m.
Lecture Series: "Pornography as a Form of Sexual Harassment," Nadine Strossen, Auditorium, Hesburgh Library, 7:30 pjn.
Movie: "Single White Female," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Film: "Night on Earth," 7:30 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2.
Address: "Cultural Diversity," Roy
Innis, National Chairman of the Congress of Racial Equality, Room 101, DeBartolo Hall, 11:30 a.m.
Lecture: "Cultural Diversities in Our Nation's Universities," Jesse Jackson, Stepan Center, 7:00 p.m., Admission by ticket only.
Senior Class: Applications available for the Senior Dating Game, Senior * Class office.
Movie: "Single White Female," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. Film; "Night on Earth," 7:15 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, S2.
Basketball: Notre Dame men vs. Duke, JACC, 1:00 p.m.
Basketball: Notre Dame women vs.
Duquesne, JACC, 7:30 p.m.
Swimming: Notre Dame vs. University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, Rolfs Aquatic Center, 2:00 p.m.
Hockey: Notre Dame vs. Ferris State, JACC, 7:00 p.m.
Storytelling and Reading: "Love and Romance, True or False?" Snite, 10:30
a.m.
R
•R
P-a
R
Fil Fil $2.
For MoreliWrmatioii Bail
LaFortune Information Desk:
S^iw Class: 239-5136^^;	5
Student-Union &p
Junior Classi 239-5117 V/,;
Snite Film. Series Hot Line: 239-7361	;
Sophomore;Class:;;239-5225 \ ND News Line: 239-5110 ;;
JACC Ticket Information: • :
ftotre Dame Men^^
Weekend Wheels. Scheduled
. Dial --239^6fy^^
Jk'1211	<<'
. "v-
^xi9.32^or:'toji;p6^^bums|^-:?^i30W	. '
V / *'t z' <.»**< ■: ' ■ / / .'.'■/ * 7^ *	Z -4 \	4	s''?** v*' \ 'y Z	,
^xC1906;foryide<yTeleas^::MZbcl2^	7:?
Sunday
Tuesday
9
ecital: Faculty Violin and Piano ecital, Annenberg Auditorium, 2:00 m, edure: "Beaky Dieting," Foster oom, LaFortune, 6:30 pm.
Film: "Spellbound," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2.
Film: "Breathless," 9:00 p.m., Snite, $2.
Lecture: "Human Rights in Peru," C-103 Hesburgh Center for International
Studies, 12:30 p.m.
TOUCH
FOUR
Wednesday 10
Music Workshop: Sankofa, and African-
American band, LaFortune ballroom, 7 p.m.
Monday 8
in: "Rumble Fish," 7:00 pin., Snite, $2. m: "Kirsa Nicholia" 9:00 pjn;, Snite,
Mb vie Theatres

Jesus Jones's new album, Perverse, debuted last Tuesday on EMI Records
100 Center Cinema I&H:
259-0414
Scottsdale Theatre: ; .	291-4583
Town & Country Theatre i 259-9090 <
University Park Cinema East?
University Park Cinema West 1 .	277-0441
ForumI & IICinema:
277-1522 < :
practices, stares at an empty pool, eager to swim competitively again.
by Michelle Crouch
To a record-breaking swimmer in the Northeastern Zone, coming to Notre Dame may seem like an easily attainable goal. And last summer, for freshman Ryan Seville, it was. Then, three days before leaving Richmond, Virginia, to fulfill that goal, a horrible car accident changed everything.
It was raining hard that night last August when Seville took his girlfriend out to dinner. When they left, he remembers backing his Volvo out of the parallel parking space and driving away. That is the last thing Seville was to remember until at least a week later.
Apparently, he went through an intersec
tion just as the light turned red. A car then plowed into the passenger side of Seville’s car. The force of the collision caused his car to slam into a telephone pole.
Seville’s girlfriend had minor injuries, but he sustained severe head injuries. Doctors said that he would never walk again, and owing to cognitive losses, his brain would never be able to function at the same level.
When Seville realized that his right side was paralyzed, he thought “about all the wasted chances I had to do the best I could. That gave me even more desire to recover.”
As each day in the hospital passed, it was this desire which led Seville to his miraculous recovery that defied all odds.
Today, he walks without a limp, he swims better than ever and he’s taking the same
courseload required for every other freshman at Notre Dame.
Although Seville’s recovery began the moment he checked into the hospital, the first indication of his burning desire to get well came in the third week after the accident.
During that week, he learned that the next step in his rehabilitation was “group therapy.” When he asked what this was, the nurse pointed over to the other side of the room where, according to Seville, there were “a bunch of old people stretching •bungee cords to James Brown.”
Not wanting to participate in what looked like an unnecessary version of the physical therapy he was already receiving, Seville decided to disappear after breakfast when
his group therapy was scheduled. He pushed his wheelchair outside, intending to spend the day in the park across the street.
When he got to the edge of the street, he realized that he could not get his wheelchair over the curb and across. Feeling bold, he tried to stand up, succeeded and then incredibly folded up his wheelchair and walked slowly and unsteadily to the other side, angrily wondering why the doctors had told him he could never walk again.
He got back into his wheelchair and stayed in the park for the remainder of the day, doing crossword puzzles and enjoying the outdoors. He left once to use the restroom and again amazed himself by getting up the stairs of a building with a restroom.
When the doctors learned of this achievement, they still warned that Beville would not gain back his coordination for a year to two years and that he would walk with a limp for the rest of his life. According to Beville, they also “made it sound like I would never return to school.”
Once again, Beville
proved them wrong. On his last day in the hospital, three weeks after the accident,
Beville was put in the pool.
“It felt weird. All my coordination was not back yet, and I couldn’t do my arms and legs,” he said.
But Beville was not one to give up. Every day after that he went to the pool and worked on his swimming for about three hours so that, in conjunction with outpatient rehabilitation, he was soon able to swim 500 meters.
Gradually, he got stronger and began to acquire his coordination again. By the time his club team began practice, he was able to join them in the hopes of getting well enough to come to Notre Dame this semester. He also enrolled in a Japanese class at the University of Richmond to reassure himself that he had not lost his mental capabilities.
Throughout his entire recovery, many Every five minutes during practice you hear might be gaining on you.”	□
■J	~ .y	, -.VA’.. .
Notre Dame students and alumni visited him in the hospital and wrote encouraging letters. Notre Dame presidentEdward “Monk” Malloy, vice president William Beauchamp and football coach Lou Holtz all sent letters to him. In addition, the school kept his room for him in Zahm Hall, and Father King, Zahm’s rector, dedicated a mass to Beville.
A letter from Tim Welsh, the swimming coach, reassured him that “the Notre Dame prayer network already has started, and Notre Dame prays very well!”
Now that he is finally here, the only remaining indicators of the trauma he went
"Ry" is already the fastest swimmer for the Irish in the 200-meter butterfly at 1:53.6.
through are an occasional subtle shake in his right leg as he walks down stairs and a scar
above his left eye.
Because of an NCAA regulation that collegiate athletes can only compete for four years, Beville will be “red-shirted” this semester so that he can participate in competition for a full four years. Although hecan’t compete, he can practice with the team.
He chose to come to Notre Dame over Princeton and James Madison to swim because “they were the same speed as I was, so I’d immediately be an important factor on the team.” He is already the fastest swimmer on the team in the 200-meter butterfly at 1:53.6.
“It’s a real positive atmosphere in practice,” said Beville of Notre Dame’s team. “I’m not used to an atmosphere this positive.
someone yell 'Go Irish!’” He also commented that the practices are harder than what he is used to because they do more swimming in a shorter amount of time.
Beville has also learned from hearing about last year’s bus accident. He said, “Until the anniversary of the accident, I didn’t realize how my girlfriend must have felt after my accident”
In high school, Beville, or “Ry” as everyone calls him, swam the 100-meter butterfly and any distance freestyle on a club team because his high school in Richmond did not have an official team. He broke Virginia’s state record in the 100-meter butterfly, and he was second in the 50-meter freestyle. For the last three years, he has competed in the Northeastern Zone championship, breaking a meet record in the 200-meter freestyle in 1991 and in the 200-meter butterfly in 1992. In addition, he competed in the National Junior Olympics. In the summer of 1991, his 400-meter medley relay had the second fastest time ever in its
age group. They missed the national record by 0.016 of a second.
In addition to this remarkable slate of achievements, Beville attests that “my times are better now than before the accident.” He attributes this to the motivation he acquired as a result of the accident
He plans to swim in the National Junior Olympics again in March, where he hopes to “drop a lot of time.” A long-term goal of his is to eventually make the NCAAs, the collegiate meet of the fastest swimmers in the country.
After the accident, Beville’s girlfriend gave him a quote-of-the-day calender. The first day he got into the pool after the accident, a quote by Satchel Page inspired him to one day swim again. That quote still inspires him today, “Don’t look back. Something
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Mark Schmidt: Schmidt, a senior from Atlanta, GA, beat David Caldwell, the 21st ranked player from the University of North Carolina last weekend at Notre Dame. Despite a disappointing team loss to the Tarheels, Schmidt, playing in the number three spot for the Irish, downed Caldwell after a slow start in the first game with a score of 1-6. But Schmidt came back to topple the Tarheel, 6-3,6-3.
Erica Peterson: Peterson, a freshman from Blairmore, Alberta, led the women's track team to its second consecutive MCC victory last weekend at Notre Dame. She won four of the five events she competed in and set both Notre Dame indoor and MCC records in the 200 meter dashand the 400 meter dash. Her total score was greater than the score of two other teams competing at the meet

CLASSIC
SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY Size Appetite!!!
Sim
LB
Wk
Only $1.69!
Light Appetites:
6 Inch Meatball Sub
From $37.95!

Big Appetites: 6 Foot Party Sub

•SUBWAY*
• SR 23 At Ironwood
US 31 N (By North Village Mall)

20

w
by J. Bradley Keck
ilfllilfc 993
Where Is That
Pretty Woman?
The January 18 issue of Variety magazine featured Julia Roberts in its “Lost and

There is little justice in the world. Here I sit behind the most powerful tool in the universe, pondering the very essence of life, but I am unable to unleash the full potential of the English language due to the “better judgement” of my employers. Then, at the same moment in my life, I can attend a university event where the offering of “Prune”-Tang, the “nailing” of our Lord and the attacking of the admin building “beast” are all condoned. I do have some consolation in knowing that even though those poor Keenanites viciously attacked defenseless Chelsea Clinton, most of their dates were no better looking than the “firstchild.” Great show, guys.
Anaie Gallo
Found” column. They were trying to keep their readers up to date on the whereabouts of the movie industry’s biggest female star. Roberts has all but vanished in Hollywood since her starring roles in three movies of 1991. After the releases of Hook, Dying Young and Sleeping with the Enemy, Roberts has not been in the lime-light at all. Well, the media insider of Notre Dame (yours truly) knows the answer. Roberts has been following the Irish. And what pastime could be more appropriate? I dare say none. So now that the season is over, I’m sure we will all soon find her on the set of her next movie, The Pelican Brief.
X-Mas Blues
Things you might have missed over the past eight weeks without O.O.B. but shouldn’t have: An adventure movie about survival—okay, cannibalism... Spike Lee to Rolling Stone, “AIDS is a government-engineered disease.” ... Marky (the great white hope) Mark, staring down at us, in his skivvies, high above Times Square... The sign-language interpreters at the Lincoln Memorial unable to sign Bob Dylan during America’s Homecoming ... Madonna, too old to star in Evita and too immature to keep her clothing on, anytime ... Harry Connick, Jr. — singin’ like ol’ blue eyes; packin’ heat like ol’ blue eyes ... “Everybody here knows that MTV had a lot to do with the Clinton/Gore victory; I still believe in rock the vote” — our President. Need I say more?
An astute O.O.B. fan caught Julia Roberts at halftime of the Michigan game.
Why CDs Rule
EMI Records sent me the newest Jesus Jones album, Perverse, this week because I agreed to do a review. Well, Friday afternoon I excitedly opened my press kit (okay, I looked in the envelope that someone else had already opened) and pulled out a couple of tapes and a CD. Jesus Jones was on a tape. I was disappointed, but for my purposes I could do without a CD... barely. Sol popped it in the stereo up at Scholastic, began to listen and halfway through the first song (it sounded pretty good) I found myself trying to save the tape from being totally digested. In a matter of seconds, the new tape was mangled, cut and thoroughly destroyed by the friendly cassette player. I had forgotten — tapes suck.
Up and Coming
Friday at Star Plaza, the B-52s with Juliana Hatfield... Ya Kid K, Friday at the China Club ... Cats opened Tuesday at the Chicago Theater ... Harlem Globe Trotters, February 26 and 27 at the Rosemont Horizon ... Tickets now on sale for Jesus Christ Superstar, March 16-21 at Chicago Theater ... Neil Simon’s Tony-award-winning play, Lost in Yonkers, at the Morris Civic Auditorium over the Valentines Weekend... Billboards, the Joffrey Ballet’s interpretation of 13 Prince songs in Chicago on March 16, 17, 20, 21 ... At the movies Friday: Sommersby, starring Richard Gere and Jodie Foster ... Loaded Weapon I, starring Emilio Estevez and Samuel L. Jackson ... The Vanishing, starring Jeff Bridges, Kiefer Sutherland and Nancy Travis ... In record stores Tuesday: Phish, Brand Nubian, Ultra Vivid Scene, CB4 (Soundtrack), Kyle Vincent, Above the Law.	.
■■■■
□
sing/Let us out/let us out.”
1/18/93
12/12/92
King Missile
O.O.B. EXTRA by Kevin McDonough

Oh, the joys of being on a major label and to possess the ability to make fun of everyone and everything that goes on in this skewed world in which we live. King Missile is the brainchild of John S. Hall, and he leaves no one out of his desire to ridicule. The eighteen tracks on their latest release, “Happy Hour,” touch on subjects ranging from heaven, alternative wanna-bes, to even that powerful filmmaker, Martin Scorsese.
This album is a bit different from thier prior releases, however, because this album concentrates on the musical aspect as much as the always-witty lyrical portion of the songs. With Dave Rick on the guitar, Chris Xefos on the bass and Roger Murdock playing solid percussion we have a very talented backing band to complement Hall’s rantings and ravings.
“It’s Saturday” is a hilarious stab at anyone who contemplates the question, “How can I be alternative?” Hall says, “I want to
1.	Velocity Girl—Crazy Town T’
2.	Juliana Hatfield—I See You EP
3.	Edsel—Strange Loop
4.	L7—Lose Your Dignity
5.	Shudder To Think—Hit Liquor 1”
6.	Ween—Pure Guava
7.	Severin—Acid to Ashes, Rust to Dust
8.	Afghan Whigs—Uptown Avondale EP
9.	King Missile—Happy 14 H2
10.	Pond—Wheel!”
be different, Lwant to be just like all the different people.” We then travel through the “Vulva Void,” pass the “Metanoia” into the land of the “Detachable Penis.” This is a trademark song of the King Missile attitude. One may be reminded of the classics “Jesus Was Way Cool,” and “Take Stuff From Work.” The opening line says everything you need to know that this will not be your average album cut. Hall mumbles, “I woke up this morning with a bad hangover, and my penis was missing again/This happens all the time: it’s detachable.” A sad saga that does have a happy ending, thankfully, for he gets his penis back in the end— a relief to everyone involved.
“Ed” is a six-minute diatribe by a man named Ed who really doesn’t like much about his world, and in “Anywhere,” Hall proclaims that he could be “back in the salad again.” (read: Aerosmith, weare making fun of you). The second half of the album takes
t SOH


off with a barrage of serious silliness. “Glass” is a twenty-three second seance concerning the abstract writer Phillip Glass and his legendary(?) “Einstein on the Beach.” See, even King Missile can educate. “I’m Sorry” tells the tale of an individual who apologizes for not doing any-. thing positive in his entire life. He laments,
“I never bought a lion, or a Lionel Richie album...I never laid down for a nap and found the Everly Brothers in bed with me.” What a horrible life to have, I mean, never buying a Lionel Richie album — what a loser. The album closes with the title track, a slow tale of emptiness and loss as only King Missile could sing. They are frustrated and want everyone to know: “On this euthanasia moming/Let us drink delicious poi-son/If they won’t let us, let’s complain.” Words to live by.
This album is one that everyone should listen to at least once. It has great music, goofy lyrics and moments that will probably make your parents feel uneasy or cause student senate to demand an apology from someone. Even if these possibilities do not come true, remind those who close their ears “We don’t belong here/We were meant to
1.	Pavement—Watery, Domestic EP
2.	Jawbox—Novelty
3.	Velocity Girl—Crazy Town 1”
4.	The Gits—Frenching the Bully
5.	Juliana Hatfield—I See YouEP
6.	Nothing Painted Blue—-Swivelchair T’
7.	Nation of Ulysses—Plays Pretty for Baby
8.	Tilt—Addiction/One Day 1”
9.	Arrested Development—Revolution
10.	Come—Eleven:Eleven
• A note from Joe Cannon: Yeah, most of this stuff is real hard to find, so I'm gonna help you out. In the soon to be released edition of WVFI's Luxury I'm going to give you a list of addresses of lables from whom you can order all of this fine music for very reasonable prices. Also, if you want any information about any of the top ten drop me a line. WVFI Am 640, Suite 200 Lafortune Student Center. 631-6888.
																	
11		Illi		SiM						MiMl	||®:				■	■	■
☆ ☆ ☆ ☆ ☆
☆ ☆ ☆ ☆ ☆

News of the Bizarre from the Nation's Universities
Cross-country commutes, education for the elderly, and mascot madness:
Welcome back, everyone! Just in time to cure you of the midwinter blahs, here's some quirky clips from schools around the country. As promised, Kansas is back in the spotlight this week, for all you Kansas fans.
☆ ☆ ☆ ☆ ☆
Popping the Question on ABC
Notre Dame’s bowl game against Texas A&M was exciting for most fans. But the Aloha Bowl on Christmas Day proved to be the best football game Kim Claxton ever watched. It wasn’t the stellar football that wowed Claxton, a senior at Kansas University; it was a marriage proposal. Her boyfriend, a yell leader, held up a sign on national television saying, “Kim Claxton, will you marry me?” Her boyfriend tried to talk to all the cameramen, and he even spoke with the ABC producer to make sure he would get a chance to pop the question. His opportunity came in the fourth quarter. Claxton didn’t even catch on at first, because her family was screaming and going crazy, reported The University Daily Kansan. She finally talked to her boyfriend a few hours later, giving him an emphatic “Yes!”
Graduating Grandmothers
Judy Kepler recently graduated with an associate degree in letters, arts and sciences from Penn State University with a 3.5 GPA. What makes Kepler so special is the fact that she graduated from high school in 1931 and didn’t enter college until 48 years later. Kepler wore the same cap and gown that one of her granddaughters wore when graduating a few years ago. The 77-year- old woman, who put aside hopes of college when the Depression hit, entered college as part of Penn State’s “Go-60” program. The Weekly Collegian quoted Kepler as saying, “I came to realize how hard some of these classes are. I was never able to catch on to the math courses — I enjoyed the classes that dealt more with people.” Said her husband, who graduated from Penn State way back in 1933, “I think I’m going to put her to work now.’
It’s a bird ... It’s a tree... It’s Stanford!
A recent editorial in The Stanford Daily asked a question many have pondered—what’s up with Stanford’s mascot? Are they trees or are they birds? The editorial said that Stanford’s mascot looks “at best, like an asparagus spear.” It also mentioned Miami’s odd mascot mix: dressing someone in a duck outfit to somehow represent a Hurricane. The current Stanford mascot was created in 1971 when the University removed the offensive Indian mascot. Now, said the editorial, ”It’s time for Stanford to own up to the fact that when it chose its new name, it goofed.” Hurray. It’s about time someone realized that. Now, what can we do about the “Fightin’ Irish?”
Moonlighting to the Extreme
Everyone knows that a long commute to work quickly becomes a drag. For Talmudic scholar Tzveew Zahavy, however, “long commute” is an understatement Zahavy taught a course on Judaism at the Universtiy of North Carolina on Mondays and Wednesdays, while teaching a similar course at the University of Minnesota-Twin Cities on Thursdays. The Chronicle of Higher Education reported that Zahavy drew a combined salary of $ 146,400 and was a tenured professor at both schools. Since learning of his dual career, both universities have pressured him to resign. Maybe now he’ll have a chance to get over his jet lag. _______’_________

Edited by Kate Wiltrout
. ■■ ~i
Physical Fantasies
Freshman gym classes — more trouble than they're worth
by Theo Helm
As the second semester of my freshman year began, I found myself forced to make all sorts of exciting decisions. Should I take ecology or go all out and take Plants, ■ Food and Society? Should I buy a brand ? new textbook at the bookstore for $70 or “:	should I scrimp and save and buy the blue-
light special used textbook for the low, low i price of $59.95? Should I go against public ; - opinion and see if my digestive system can i	actually stomach one of the dining hall’s
T	famed chili crispitos? I think what had me
3	the most perplexed, however, was trying to
figure out what in the world to take for P.E.
Of course, to make the decision easier, I i had lots of choices. A couple of them were is knocked off the list for obvious reasons, t	Rugby was off my list because the only
:	thing that comes to mind when I think of
rugby are the times I watched it on ESPN ...	when I was in elementary school. I watched
1	it, and all I figured out about scoring was that
you must be awarded points on the basis of how much of your opponents’ blood you can ;	spill. That right away killed rugby for me—
;	I guess if pain makes you a man, I’m still
;	pretty much a little boy. Water aerobics
।	sounded interesting, but I can just imagine
!	my mother’s reaction when I call her to tell
’	her I’m dropping out of school to pursue a
’	place in the 1996 Olympic synchronized
swimming competition.
After all this, I narrowed down to three ! choices: weight training, social dance and self-defense. My basic strategy behind is	these choices was this: Iflcan’tbulk myself
I up enough to impress the women in weight j training, then I can use charming dance skills to romance them through the night, j And if that doesn’t work, the girls are prob
ably really annoyed with me, and I could use the self-defense to protect myself.
So I took my strapping body (strapping if you’re into men who look like they have no body) and set off for the Rock for my first weight training class. I have never in my life even touched weights, so I wasn’treally sure what to expect I know I’m no Ah-nold Schwarzen-muscle, but I was hoping I would surprise myself by not being a total girlie-man. My ego started to rise as I climbed the stairs to the weightroom. By the time I got to the door I was really pumped. I looked in, and everything seemed to be moving in slow motion. Suddenly, the stereo system began to play “Eye of the Tiger” and I thought to myself “My time has come.” I decided to try the bench press, the place where all manliness is truly proven. I looked around as I walked to the bench, and every one in the room looked like scrawny little geeks, wearing their shorts pulled up to their nipples and shirts that said things like “My mom went to Florida, and all I got was this lousy T-shirt.” My confidence grew with every step as the music reached a crescendo. I set the weight for a huge amount, and with all my strength, I pushed, and then I pushed some more, then, throwing all my weight into it, I pushed for the final time, and ... nothing happened. The music had changed to Barry Manilow: “I write the songs that make the whole world sing....” I looked around the room to see if anyone had noticed, but there were no more geeks in the room. Instead, there was a pack of bikers heavily decorated with tatoos, saying things like “Momma didn’ t love me, so I kicked her in the head.” They were all lifting what seemed to be the weight of several small Japanese cars with ease—training, I guess, for when they have to carry their biker
women up to their bedrooms as a nice romantic gesture.
After a good ten minutes of shock, I regained my composure and decided to try again with a little more reasonable weight (One interesting note about the Rock’s weight room. They have a machine where you can work out your neck. I made a vow to myself: I will work nothing but my neck during P.E. I should look pretty interesting after all is said and done — no muscles on my body, but a200 inch neck.) I woriced out for awhile at levels I could actually lift, and then I went running home to see the results. As I ran to see myself in front of the mirror, once again “Eye of the Tiger” started to play. Screaming “Yo Adrienne!” at the top of my lungs, I tore off my T-shirt, leapt in front of the mirror and flexed. For a moment, I saw some muscles in my arms. Then, just like in a cartoon, the muscle turned into fat and swung down to the bottom of my arms, where it rocked back and forth, back and forth. It reminded me of my third grade teacher, Miss Hanewinkle, who had the most incrediblefat under her arms I have ever seen. She would get really excited writing on the board, and would knock at least a child or two unconscious with her arm.
Anyway, I have pretty much given up on weight training as my ticket to paradise with members of the opposite sex. I’m now counting on social dance to be my savior. And if all else fails^ I’ll be able to protect myself with self-defense.	□
Theo Helm is a freshman who hopes to bulk up enough to play football next year.
)i
continued from page 5
reallocate them into clubs. The numbers are staggering. Over the past years initial club budgets have gone down from $81,000 to $80,000 while the average number of clubs has increased by 16.7%. In essence, we believe that by cutting costs in various different areas and pretty much being resourceful, we can reallocate that money back into clubs... The money needs to go back to the students, and if a great number of students are actively involved with clubs, that money could benefit them even more.... we are going to take the money out of our administrative costs and pretty much tighten up and give it back to the students.
The final part of our campaign is “Putting the campus to work.” In essence, we want to make Notre Dame a little more economical and rewarding for students. There are three parts to this aspect. The first part is dealing with the rising cost of textbooks. We researched it and we’ve come up with some pretty creative and innovative solutions because it is a pretty difficult place to want to conquer. BROWNING: Basically, when we did our research, we found out that, although a lot of students feel they are being really gouged by the bookstore, that is not neccesarily the case. What is the case is that they really do pretty much sell at list price. Obviously, they are making some profit, but they are selling it at what other universities sell it at... What we’re proposing is a program where, first of all, we educate the faculty a little bit more about textbook costs. Often what happens is the faculty member will get... a bunch of textbooks sent from the publisher, they will look through them and decide that this is a good one without even realizing what the price is, and they will order it We feel that we should educate them a little further as to how much there spending and let them know that students don’t have all this money to throw away on books. The second part is that we want to develop some sort of departmental guidelines as to how much can be spent on one course, whether it be just textbooks or textbooks and lab fees. Oftentimes professors might look at it and say, “Well if they are just spending $100 on this course it is okay.” But what happens if each professor wants you to spend $100 on their course. Then you’re spending $500 that semester. And finally, and probably most importantly, we want to develop a “lease-a-book” program with the Bookstore which would involve having the student pay somewhere between 50-75% of what the “new” cost would be at die beginning of the semester, and then they have to return it by the end of the semester or whatever the additional percentage is is added on to their student account. We believe this can be done with just one person and a computer working at the beginning and end of the semester. GALLO: We don’t foresee it being huge administrative costs. I think that that can be one of the objections that the bookstore or the administration would probably use to prevent us from implementing it. But again, in our opinion, students should have the option to buy a book or lease a book. We all went through Calculus 105; do we still havethatbook? Imean.it’sbeenusedoverandoveragain. Sothat’s the logic behind “lease-a-book.”
In other issues, we will propose that the basement of LaFortune be open for 24 hours. Our whole attitude is that Notre Dame needs to provide alternative places where students can meet and interact socially during the week and during the weekend. A lot of students, as you may know, they search for social activities and entertainment
off campus.
BROWNING: We feel that there should be a place somewhere on campus where someone could go get something to eat 24 hours a day. We feel that Allegro would serve that purpose pretty well: obviously it doesn’t have a huge selection, but that could be increased if it were open for 24 hours. In addition, we’re looking for the whole basement, including the game arcade and pool hall, just so that students studying late one night if they’re looking for a stress break for half an hour—where are they going to go, what are they going to do? There really isn’t a place on campus to just go and, basically, relax, chill out for half an hour.
GALLO: Our final issue, so we can move on, is just continued maintenance of security on this campus. Living on the comer of South Quad, and being a runner, there’s this road that’s known on this campus as “Rape Road.” Everyone knows about it, and in our opinion, its a disgrace that the university has a road that’s known amongst its students as “Rape Road.” We would propose establishing a “West Gate” similar to the one at East Gate but manned with just one individual — no cars would be be able to cross back and forth.
BROWNING: It’s just to have an increased presence to deter any possible actions. We spoke with Security and there hasn’t been an incident of stranger rape forafew years now butit’sstillascary place to be walking if you’re going to be walking there at night I mean, I’ve walked there myself and felt a little out of place, I was a little frightened myself.
What do you feel has been the major accomplishment of this year's student government?
GALLO: Molly and Greg have been extremely successful in emphasizing teamwork in their organization. I think there’s a big sense of camaraderie in there. They have been able to implement things that a lot of people thought never could be done, such as study days. And right now their little novel idea of the card is going everywhere — a lot of organizations and administrative bodies want to implement it It’s pretty much only a matter of time.
BROWNING: What I remember from last year’s campaign was those two issues. They told us that they were going to try to get the study days implemented and they were going to try to get this card passed through. Those were the two things that they ran on primarily and in our minds they’ve done that—they’ve been effective. They said they set out to do a couple things and they have pretty much done them. Obviously the card is not in effect yet but that takes time and it’s definitely on its way there.
Do you feel that changes need to be made in the structure and/ or functions of the different arms of the student government: the HPC, senate and the student body presidency?
GALLO: Having sat on the student senate and being an active member on it, we think that the student senate should be more accessible to students. ... And having sat on HPC we’ve realized the benefits of what we’re going to propose. We would like to propose that student senate meet in the dorms and we can rotate it by quads. There are four student senators, so every week it would be at a different dorm. This way we could increase student involvement in
these types of meetings that are effecting students themselves. ... We think that it[HPC] is a very effective body, however, they need to become more effective thoughout campus. They need to be aware, not only on dorm issues, but as well as campus-wide issues. In addition, they need to maximize their power and the potential that they have.
BROWNING: All too often it seems that (and it’s not necessarily the fault of the individual presidents) some people go to the meetings, they take notes and they leave. It seems like with getting a couple representatives from each dorm, so much more could be done, yet it isn’t. For example, one thing this year was the creation of the service fund, which we totally agree with. We think that’s a great program and we’re glad they took some of the profits from the sale of the shirt and put it towards the service fund which goes to all sorts of different service agencies: Logan Center, the Center for the Homeless, you name it. We think that HPC needs to do a little more of that, not necessarily all in the service area.
GALLO: They need to be more proactive within the Notre Dame community. They’re a very powerful body and they need to maximize that power to benefit the students. Also, the last thing is the student body presidency.... The tone of the year gets set by the student body presidency. And in that aspect, I think that, as a result, everything else falls into place.
BROWNING: We’re looking to be a little more accessible, a little more hands-on. They way we look at it, student government, the first word of that phrase is student... one of my ideas was to have bi-weekly meetings which we would open up.
GALLO: We would invite different students from different organizations and different dorms. The logic behind that is students
continued from page 4
I talked with an alumni over break who is an engineer and he said “We had room for three engineers and I called Career and Placement and they never got back to me.” There are probably a lot of instances where that happens — they just don’t have the manpower—but we just want to help the student in their search for summer jobs or full-time positions.
FLYNN: Also, summer storage. We worked a lot in the past semester on the issue pf summer storage. Anybody who worked in hall storages through the years know the chaos that it involves. The students are forced to go off campus every year and the rates of storing off campus goes up and the students are forced to pay more. It’s a pain in everybody neck getting your stuff out of there and he craziest day of the year is summer storage day on campus when you come back and when you leave. What we worked on is that we could build our own building and pay for it ourselves. How we would do this is, this has been done at other schools, where they contract a loan basis through the university. The university can take out a loan and then the students can pay the loan back throughout the years. It would keep the costs low as far as the storage goes and the storage could be on campus, distribution could be collected much differently so that it would be out of everyone’s way. Also the storage facility would be pretty much... free. It came out to three dollars per student each summer to store as much stuff reasonably. It would also be open to clubs and organizations on campus — they have to go off campus
aren’t going to come to us... We need to go out and actively seek the students and ask them their opinions. So, in essence, we believe that the student body president again sets the tone and we would like set ; the tone of being a little more proactive in putting Notre Dame to | work.	'
What was your response to the student senate resolution regarding Sinead O'Connor? What would you have done if you were j present at the discussion?
GALLO: I was one of the few individuals that voted against it. As much as I can understand people’s offense to the action that Sinead did on Saturday Night Live, personally, as a representative of the student body and as the student senate, I voted against it because I didn’t think it reflected the whole entire student body opinion, and the way that the resolution was worded, it implied that, in my opinion. And again, where do you draw the line of freedom of ! expression. I know that it was very controversial, but again, in my ! opinion, it did not reflect everyone’s attitude. People were obvi- i ously divided on the issue, and when you vote a resolution that represents an entire student body, you need to be a little bit more careful on that.	i
BROWNING: Iwaspersonallyoffendedbytheaction.butyouhave ] to draw a line somewhere between where you’re personally offended and what you feel is in the best interests of the students that you’re representing. ... There were only three people who voted against it And if you’re going to vote for something that is representing the students, you need to take into account those students who feel in the way that S tepf voted and in the way that I would have voted on that as well.	□
and it is a real pain. The thing that is amazing is that we can pay for it ourselves, and that is what is appealing. We checked into this with , the task force and it has, so far, been responded to pretty positively. So that’s why we feel really excited about because that is a concrete change we can make and it’s not like we are soliciting it from the university, we are offering it almost.
WELLMANN: The next thing would be the book fair. I think ; everyone has had the experience of complaining about the amount of money that they have spent for books. Personally, I’m an English major. At the beginning of the semester they will say “Buy these ten books,” and at midsemester they send them back, so if you don’t J have them, you don’t have them, so you have to buy them. And, at the end of the semester you didn’t get to the last three books. You paid fifteen bucks for each book, you go to sell it back and they are । going to give you 50 cents for each book and then they sell it for ten dollars again. That’s a complaint of mine. A lot of dorms have run a book fair. What we would do is collect thebooks from the students, take a very accurate record [of what books students bring in] and organize these books by college, major and specific course titles. We would set it up in a designated location, say like the Ballroom, for say the first weekend during classes and have this all set up so people could come in and buy their books at a’much cheaper rate and [ then when they would sell their books,, they would get a lot more i money. Student government wouldnottakeacutatall. Itwouldjust be a service that we would provide. This has been super successful
in the dorms but I think if we could bring this together as a campuswide thing it would be a great project and the students would save a lot of money. It would also probably cut down n the bookstore lines a little bit. I know for me personally that drives me crazy, to stand in line for an hour.
FLYNN: When I bought books this semester, that was all I heard about, complaints about that The book bank is a big hit in our dorm. I know they had kids love it.
WELLMANN: The things that we are telling you about, our issues, are things that we know we can do. We don’t want to say that we are going to run on something we would never have the power to do. These are things we could definitely do and they are things that would affect pretty much every student on campus we feel. And we very much believe in these things that we could get them done. FLYNN: I’ve been involved in student government a lot in the past year. I mean I wasn ’ t involved freshman year, neither was Nikki, but we have been involved a lot and we know all the projects that are going on. A little bit on the card. We came up with a proposal for the officers of the university. Things like this are work that needs to be continued. These are long-term projects that have to be followed up on. There is a, I think other one [projects] similar to this in student government that are things that we should be expected to do. It depends on whether we have the experience necessary to do them or not and I think we definitely do.
What do you feel has been the major accomplishment of this year’s student government?
WELLMANN: I worked on the Board of Trustees report Upholding the Mission, which is the committee for undergraduate education. I think that is one of the primary things that every student has to be concerned with is the quality of our education. And I think the work that they did with that has been very critical. Obviously, they started their presidency last year with the Back to Basics and then Upholding the Mission and I think any work that can be continued with them. That was crucial and that’s why we are here.
Do you feel that changes need to made in the structure and/or the functions of the different arms of student government government: the HPC, senate and the student body presidency?
FLYNN: Y es, definitely. There has been a lot of talk about the role of student senate this year. The one thing about senate is that it has a very critical role, and that is it brings many different student groups on campus together. The one thing, though, is to define better some of the roles of the people in those department, such as the senators and others. It seems that their responsibilities aren’t as well defined and there is not as much activity that goes on in the body of the senate. If the senate itself had more responsibilities other than just conducting meetings and keeping everyone informed, they could do more. I would say HPC is definitely the key part of student government, mainly because it brings together each leader of every dorm. This is a very powerful group when you think about it They have amazing resources. This year we did a lot of work on HPC which can be improved upon next year. We started a service fund,
service project, which was really fortunate because of the money we got from the shirt we got to do so much. If HPC continues to go in that direction, they could do a lot more. Student government, however, I think is the one body which does the main activities that you can see affect campus student life. Certain projects, departments can do concrete things or perform projects that involve students in creative activities or sponsor lectures and things of that nature. So they are all different, but I think senate is an area to work on.
WELLMANN: Just with student government as a whole, I think they have had a little bit of a communication problem. And it is not that they haven’t tried, it is just that the students aren’t really aware of all the things they have done. They have done a lot of different activities, but a lot of the students haven’t known — the communication hasn’tbeen there. The one thing thatFrankand Ihave talked a lot about is that we need to improve the communication lines somehow. Notre Dame Today has been a great attempt at that, but it just hasn’t been well received. Also, we have talked a lot about going more into the dorms ourselves, visiting the hall councils and things like that, so students know we are much more willing to listen to what they have to say. I think the more personal contact we could have between hall council and things like that, the better. I think people will truly be represented.
What was your response to the student senate resolution regarding Sinead O’Connor? What would you have done is you were present at the discussion?
FLYNN: Well, the one thing that I feel about that, and this is only a personal opinion, but senate’s role, is that if they have something brought before them to vote on, they have the right to vote on that. If they didn ’ t have the right, that would be censorship also. In other words, people say you don’t have the right to send a letter stating you feelings to someone else. Wasn’t Sinead O’Connor just expressing her feelings too? If the senate disapproves of what she did, they can express that they disapprove of it. Personally, I would have voted it down. I feel pretty strongly against censorship and if I had seen the bill I would have said, “No, I don’t think we should say that she can’tdothat.” I would have voted against it But, they have the right to vote on that. These are the people that are representing the students.
WELLMANN: I agree with what he is saying. I would just make sure that they talk with the students and knew how the students felt. They are obviously representing the students and they shouldn’t make any decisions based on their personal opinions. It should be based on the students they talk to.
FLYNN: Again, the role of the senator should be defined more, where the senator can make rounds around his quad and talk to students about how they feel about these things. Then they can make an assessment of how they feel and vote in that way. I don’t know of any senators currently who make that trip out to all the doors or send newsletters and try to contact the kids. There seems to be a lack of communication.	□
jhiMBillagp
Neighborhood Housing Services provides Christmas in April on
a year-round basis
by Jenny Tate
Jenny Tate is the co-president ofPasquerilla West.
The sight of 1,000 eager Notre Dame and Saint
Mary students descending upon the South Bend community armed with paint brushes, brooms, rakes and smiles instills a sense of warmth and gratitude to participants, recipients of the kindness and mere onlookers alike. Christmas in April is indeed a wonderful thing where those who have can truly aid those who have not. Unfortunately, Christmas in April occurs only once a year — until recently, that is.
An opportunity exists for students to improve living conditions for residents of South Bend’s northeast neighborhood. It is a Christmas in April-type experience with the regularity of a Habitat for Humanity project. Students can work whenever they are able and can coordinate the projects around their own schedules. Many of the houses in this northeast area, which lies relatively close to the Lafayette Square apartment complex, are in desperate need of painting and other repairs, and are just waiting for able bodies to provide these improvements.
Neighborhood Housing Services organizes projects for groups of students to renovate houses in the area. The housing service will assign the students a house and provide all the instructions as to what the house needs. The housing service does not have the resources to fund the projects, so students interested in participating must provide the money necessary, to purchase the materials, such as paint or brushes.
Because this project constitutes a service initiative, meaning that it is a fledgling project being implemented for the first time, students can receive the necessary funds through the Hall Presidents’ Council’s Service Fund. So, actually, the only responsibility for the student lies in requesting the
money and arriving at the designated house ready to work.
Two weekends ago, members of the Hall Presidents’ Council dedicated a Saturday to painting a house in the northeast neighborhood. The project was wonderful. The house was in desperate need of fresh paint to dispel the gloomy atmosphere surrounding the aging single man who lives there. The work was incredibly fun, and it was wonderful to actually see the fruits of our endeavors. The change in the house was amazing. It was transformed from a dark and depressing domicile into a light and cheery home.
The best thing, however, was the gratitude expressed by the man whose home we painted. He was truly appreciative. He experienced a renewed pride in his home and in himself. As the house brightened, so did the man’s countenance. His elation was evident and his thanks abundant I can honestly say that we enriched this man’s life in a way that he will not soon forget	.
Notre Dame students have a strong reputation for giving their time and their energy to benefit those less fortunate. Let this call to service be received as have so many others—with action. It would be wonderful to see this project carried on by students with a vested interest in benefiting their community.
I would strongly urge any student groups interested in providing a service to those more unfortunate than we are to contact Frank Flynn in order to obtain more information on the program. The need is apparent and the opportunity to ameliorate lives is certainly within our grasp. Get some friends and donate an afternoon of your time to benefit others. You won’t regret the experience.	□
Jack
Wi boys^ds1.
Al <*a exceJ^A-t K bexed a<-ts iHS+l’lu.'tWA like ^ofere/Dvrie^ (A m-bemaJ ca^oKc <~ese«/dh unWe<^U-y "* - u£Ce evfe
-for 4ootba.ll antf/T^reJ.^
tbe erriejudum enables

i Kx/o beaded, "i^L Bcp^Sl-M of Mind CtonTnakm XCo<^ -Vo explore. 4kt muH5 --faceted. na.-tace_ of o Uo-kc "Pame ed^xa^-ran, "Take Aku 4e$+ an A S^_Vi6vd h>ell- rounded you ore:
BUush
Q • F» l\ ikblank.
1$ that____ slide.Yu^eZ
J
J*
fart#1
Q* Sd/eiW irrlcocal:
C. Dba-t ‘5 On
I cnjtA/\ ( uoKaA *i$ U-$ &K*stevt»aJ purpose.?
JI <n4A>x t vSViarV "tKc. Vsk.^ '•S o» ■*©'.’.*-inkyrd?

K^ID Gender. Studies £ok Have Studehts> Qt Phot Is a man ?
a.	5^<ne,
b.	An oppre^Sov- of uon^'s ’Mefieok*
C. CaU US
pocked- pvoteA+or and GHl^e "your1*.
b. "xpuVe?'
Copy off 4k*.	ne&V
-to you.,
d. it doesd-t matter.
X II earn 30poo /^e^r after yoduote^anYUay^
s
Q)
1
1 S

more money -for -the Same y>b.
/^UnTG^nacklyj a$uaMy all &f -five aboVL-*
SoEriCE	MA^RS
Q* Grar;4yiS:
(a)Caused by ov^lc.
b» A^oe.'HmA-tertds'b dcauj all bode£ m -)kc_ earAVs 5pVxJue--taazwd1 4k*. cezAcy <>T 4k*. CarAk *
e, Solemn'Ay o( tn&AAvr or cXaracAer,
d. 1 c>o$e Enjl^k-h gtt cMGy 4Vo*ri AUl	$.5.
IAs -toa hard,
Mammoth Crossing	by Dave Kellett
STUDENT UNION BOARD
non-profit organization
U.S. POSTAGE
PAID
Notre Dame. IN
Permit No. 10
^jnk Ane^
ELECTION YEAR
Student Union Board presents
S^^OSST^ first female (President of the American CivilLiberties Union
...to speak on
"Sexual Harrassment and Pornography"
Thursday, February 4th 7:30 PM Hesburgh library Auditorium Free Admission

