Attention:
Student Clubs and Organizations
Scholastic is again sending out a special summer issue to all the new, incoming freshmen
If you are interested in advertising in this issue please contact Dave Chmiel at 239-7569 or stop by the Scholastic office, 303 LaFortune.
Office hours are 2:00 - 5:00 p.m., Monday - Friday.
Let those freshmen know you are out there — advertise in Scholastic!
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
COVER
18
A Hitchhiker’s Guide to the South Bend White Sox
Though few students know about it, arguably the best A ball minor franchise in baseball is flourishing right here in South
Bend
: 21 .
An Afternoon with the Mayor
Or, why South Bend deserves a Triple A baseball team, by;
Joseph Kernan
Cover photo by Paul Webb
ENTERTAINMENT
7
Defending Your Life
Albert Brooks’s new film is worthy of a serious look
The Jericho Sessions
Not Just For Church Anymore
APRIL 25, 1991
CAMPUS LIFE
9
Moving Out
Reporter Laura Matthias takes a lighthearted look at why students move off-campus
NEWS 14
Keeping a Different Faith
Notre Dame’s ‘Religious Minorities’ are forming their own faith communities on-campus and joining congregations off-campus
16
Selecting a Speaker
A look at how Notre Dame gets its commencement speaker and honorary degree recipients
WEEKLY DEPARTMENTS
2
Editor’s Notes
3
Editorial
4
On Other Campuses
5
Behavior Modification
6
Week In Distortion
12
Coming Distractions
24
Final Word
1
S
® ® H T © IK ' g N (0) T IE g
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Vol. 132, No. 22
April 25, 1991
Disc© Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Ian Mitchell
MANAGING EDITOR
Mari Okuda
NEWS EDITOR
Kate Manuel
SPORTS EDITOR
Jon Paul Potts
CAMPUS LIFE EDITOR
Kristine DeGa ng e
ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR
Elizabeth Graner
ENTERTAINMENT ASSISTANT
Dave Holsinger
DEPARTMENTS EDITOR
Michael Owen
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR
Paul Webb
COPY EDITOR
Margaret Kenny
LAYOUT/SYSTEMS MANAGER
Patricia Doyle
ADVERTISING MANAGER
David Chmiel
BUSINESS MANAGER
Scott Ecker
GRAPHIC ARTS MANAGER
Jeanne Naylor
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periodsal the University of Notre Dame, Noire Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN46542. The subscription rate is $25.00[year and back issues are available at $1.25 / copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial boardof Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame,itsadministration, faculty or students. FxHtorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited materials become the properly of Scholastic.
Copyright 1991 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
2
In this Issue
The South Bend White Sox may be minor-league to you, but they’re important to Michiana. Sports writer Jeff Weghorst presents a spectator’s guide to South Bend’s ballclub, which is now petitioning for AAA status. Sports Editor Jon Paul Potts interviews South Bend Mayor Joe Kernan to find out what the Sox mean to the ‘Bend. Kernan has made the Sox’ AAA upgrade an election issue.
In News, Elizabeth Costello trys to unravel some of the mystery surrounding the selection of a graduation speaker. The choice for 1991, the university’s “Year of Women,” was Margaret O’Brien Steinfels, who was picked through a complex process. Elizabeth Hayes also writes on how nonCatholics at Notre Dame keep their faiths alive at a school where 90 percent of the students are Catholic.
Over at Campus Life, Laura Matthias takes a lighthearted look at just why students move off-campus. Entertainment Editor Liz Graner grades the new campus bands compact disc, The Jericho Sessions. The disc goes on sale today for eight dollars. And of course, the usual departments and entertainment columns reappear.
SUFR and Harassment
At the last meeting of the Scholastic editorial board, one topic of particular concern was discussed. People claiming to be supporters of SUFR have been making harassing phone calls lateatnightto magazinestaff members.
I write “claiming to be supporters” because I cannot believe that any real S UFR supporters would think that such behavior helps their cause. Il would be ironic if the very group campaigning against harassment on campus was also practicing it.
I have also heard that when contacted for interviews, SUFR members have been complaining to Scholastic reporters about our coverage of the group’s concerns. While it is certainly their right to complain, they should be aware that individual reporters have no control over the magazine as a whole. Such complaints should be directed to the editorial board, and ultimately, to me.
If you do have a complaint about the magazine, the best way to make sure your input will be heard is not through harassing phone calls, but by visiting or calling the Scholastic office (303 LaFortune, 239-7569) or sending in a letter to the editor. SUFR members call forrespect; they should not expect to achieve that goal by disrespecting others.
Eat, Drink and Be Merry, for Tommorrow...
There’s little time left between now and the end of the year (you knew this, I’m sure), so be sure to take advantage of what’s left. Pay no attention to the looming threat of those ever-nearing finals casting their dark shadow over the weeks to come. Study, sure, but check out the year’s last “Coming Distractions” for some ideas and take some out lime lo enjoy the end of AnTostal. As always, enjoy the issue.
Ian Mitchell
Editor in Chief
Letters lo Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. All letters must be signed. Nameswill be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United States. Scholastic also will edit for copyfitting, grammatical or spelling errors mid Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Address all correspondence to:
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556
SCHOLASTIC

liDH’ITOIBIIAlL
Anyone but Quayle
We’ve heard the grumblings on campus concerning the selection of this year’s commencement speaker. “Who is she?” is perhaps the most common question/complaint. “Last year was Cosby, the year before was Peter Uberroth, this year is nobody.”
Margaret O’Brien Steinfels has already spoken on campus this year, and those who heard her generally came away impressed. We have no doubt that the class of 1991 will also be pleased on graduation day.
Our primary concern about this year’s choice is not for the end result, but rather the method of selection. The choosing of a commencement speaker is shrouded in mystery — the entire process, like many at Notre Dame, is unnecessarily complex and confusing.
Graduation is a special time for students and families; you only graduate from college once. Students’ voices must play not only a contributing, but a dominant role in the selection process.
That being said, we do have a second concern about the selection of next year’s commencement speaker. 1992 is an election year. It is all but certain that one of the candidates on the Republican presidential ticket will be from Indiana. 1992 is the graduation of Notre Dame’s sequicentennial class, and Notre Dame will seek a high-profile speaker. When George Bush was a vice president, he visited Notre Dame on the campaign trail. All this adds up to one frightening possiblity: Dan Quayle.
Attention juniors: The junior class newsletter is being sent out with a place for your top three speaker choices. Be sure to fill it out and let your voice be heard. Scholastic asks that you fill out one of the blanks “Anyone but Quayle.” Let’s hope the message gets through to whatever university body actually makes the ultimate decision.
— Scholastic
Wanted: Sportswriters
If you'd like to join next year's sports staff of Notre Dame's student magazine, call 239-7569 or Sports Editor Jon Paul Potts at 283-4115.
♦PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS
♦FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN
♦IN ROOM MOVIES/VCR (over 50 titles)
APRIL 25,1991
Poof Your Hair and Chow Some Road Kill
Hair Scare at ASU
Here’s an epidemic not just confined to this state. According to the National On-Campus Report, fire and smoke alarms were accidently setoff recently at Arizona Suite University. The official cause was labeled as “EXCESSIVE HAIR SPRAY.” Apparently the spray was emitted from the rooms of several Arizona Suite women’s rooms. Fire department officials explained that the spray becomes similar to smoke when concentrated. No injuries were reported. If there is one thing CrimeStoppcrs could actually solve it would be this Perma-Hair-ovcr-Ozone layer attitude. Stop using that disgusting stuff!
NYC Student Reimbursed for Bad Date
A Civil Court judge in New York recently ordered a law student to pay his half of a dale reports the College Press Service. The student had promised to pay for a hotel while his date would pay for the car rental for a weekend in New England. It turns out that his date ended up paying foreverything and suing. Thcjudgcstatcd,“I might have identified with the claimant and thought, ‘If I had to spend a weekend with him.’” This marks the 23rd fair and kind act to occur in NYC history.
Bud’s Not From the U.S.A.
Everyone’s favorite American brew, Budweiser, is actually not American, reports the University of New Hampshire’s Mainstreel magazine. In an in-depth and highly worthwhile study, Mainstreet's editor found out that the pilsner style Budweiser was borrowed from a potent Czechoslovakian beer called Budvar in the 1870’s. When Adolphus Busch created the draft-style Michelob, he borrowed the name from the Czech town Michalovce. In this sea of foreign invasion, it’s still great to know that Old Milwaukee still come from the Brew City, and still tastes like it.
Road Kill Not Just for Gourmets
Several stales, including Michigan, are allowing road kill animals to be taken by hunlers, reports the Daily Kansan. George Burgoyne of the Michigan Department of Natural Resources explained that the idea is to prevent the animals’ fur and meat from being wasted. “I guess to some people it might sound unappetizing, but thousands of road-killed deer are collected every year; And it’s belter than just letting the animal go to waste and create a stench or a nuisance or an eyesore.” Hope you weren’t having dinner during this one.	□
Edited by Michael Owen
SCHOLASTIC
Ml AV H (0) IB
Mr. Manners Receives Passionate Love Note
Dear Mr. Manners:
You have no manners and that is why I am head over heels in love with you. The slash of your sarcastic tongue makes my body quiver. At night I stay up late to reread your witty comments and my mind creates fantasies about you, my mysterious dream man.
Insult me, cut me down, and question my morals. It turns me to fire like a match near gasoline. In the words of Marsha Brady, “You’re Groovy.”
Stimulate my inner most passions and answer these two petty questions with your most royal excellence. One—do you wear tighty-whities or boxers? Two — do guys really utilize that barndoor in front of their underwear when they need to (CENSORED). Be rough, rude, and make my body pulse with the rhythm of your words.
Crazy in Love With You,
P.W. Freshman
XXOO
Dear Crazy in Love With Me,
I must start off by telling my devoted readers that, although some of you think I make up all of my mail, this is an actual letter. And second, Ms. Crazy wrote me in calligraphy just as I ordered. It was, however, written on dishrag quality paper which gets a big minus.
You requested that I respond to you in my sarcastic, mean-spirited attitude. You’relosingmorcpopularityherc. Idonotinsult anyone. As the heading will tell you, I modify behavior and am paid enormous sums to do it. I can’t help the fact that my firm tone and sharp ideas turn you on.
I’ll begin by answering your questions even though they arc both centered around men’s underwear. Hmmm. Anyway, if you must know, Mr. Manners only wears 100 percent cotton plaid boxers. My thong-sporting days are long gone after the accident, but we don’t want to talk about that. As for your second question, it got censored but I think my readers arc smart enough to figure out what you meant. The answer is: Depends™. A little known secret is that none of us use the bathrooms. We just wear Depends. Actually, it really depends on the individual, and I’m not about to go lake a survey for you.
As for your desires and fantasies, Mr. Manners is quite occupado with the future Mrs. Julia Roberts-Manners so don’t pester me with your love notes.
Dear Mr. Manners:
This may sound silly, but I’m addicted to Noodle Kugel. I just can’t get enough of that stuff. Since Food Services only offers this treat once a week, I’m left hungry all the other times. It’s hard for me to find anything that compares to feasting on those noodles in that tangy sauce.
These days I’m fear ing what I’m going to do over the summer. Mom’s a great casserole cooker, butl don’t want to over-burden her with this complicated, exoticlndiana delicacy. What should Ido?
Mama Casserole Sophomore Walsh
Dear Mama,
Nothing is weird to Mr. Manners. I’m sure your yearning is shared by countless lens of people on this campus. My only question is, how docs one become addicted to Noodle Kugel? Isn’t that campus-wide Domino’s™ night? I haven’t tried it, so I can’t critique it. But 1 do know its origins, which may help those of you who avoid being Kiigeled. Noodle Kugel is a Norweigian dogsleddcr’s delight. It’s served cold with a pound of salt. Its origin can be detected in the Norweigian anthem“Watch out where the huskies go and don't you eat that Kugel snow.”
My first suggestion would be to immediately fill out a suggestion form at your dining hall. Tell them how much you need to be Kiigeled and suggest some alternative varieties. In addition to casserole, you can have N-K omelettes, hot cereal, lunch salad, soup or even Kugel ice cream.
When this dream becomes realized, save as much of it as you can. En list your friends to save theirs for you in all varieties. Bring it back to the dorm and place it in a vat of N-K. By the time the semester is over, you’ll have enough to last you the entire summer. Mom (or Dad) can simply microwave the stuff or, on a hot day, just drink it! Problem solved.	□
Write Monsieur Manners at: Scholastic, 303 LaFortune, Campus Mail.
5
APRIL 25,1991
Bewildered By Bookstore
Junior Nate FitzGerald tries to figure out the Domer |	tradition of Bookstore Basketball
I	'	" ■	■	.	.
I	By Nate FitzGerald
A couple of Fridays ago, I had some spare time on my hands and was debating whether I should actually do some homework or get some exercise or what. Then, all of a sudden, my roommate rushed into the room, threw an orange bandana on his head, stripped off his jeans and changed into biking shorts and gym shorts, then pulled his hightops out from under the bed and dusted them off. In awe, I watched this Superman-speed change as he looked up at the clock and said, as he panted for breath, “All right, two minutes till our bookstore game.”
A week or so before that, an artsy fartsy -type girlfriend of mine told me that she and some friends had spent a Saturday watching some Bookstore Basketball games. “You went to one of those?” I thought to myself. I thought artsy fartsy types weren’t allowed near the courts. I usually breeze past the Sports section in The Observer any way, and even the test-Notre Dame’s-censorship-power team names aren’t that enthralling, except for the guy that wrote about his team, “We like sex a lot.” I suppose the Uni versity prefers to stop students venting their sexual frustrations through lewd team names rather than crack down on the poor sap who is raking in Domer dollars selling the “Sex Kills-Come to Notre Dame and Live Forever,” T-shirts.
It does seem that bearable weather is finally here to stay, and with it we can
6
welcome the end of the school year. However, in the last few weeks, when the bookstore pot was boi ling off its excess teams, we were still bearing rain and cold that offered no viable reasons for spring fever and study ; blow-offs.
The warm ND socks my parents bought me during JPW provided enough reason to blow, so I treaded my way over to the bookstore to see my roommate and his team in action.	’
There was my roommate prancing about worriedly, his orange bandana flying up in the wind. They were losing.
Tasked a guy I knew in the stands, “They play to 20?”
“Twenty-one,” he told me, and that’s when I knew I was so stupid that I should write about not knowing anything about such vibrant Notre Dame traditions. .
The members of thcopposing team all had five-day scruff on their faces. A friend explained their “Beard-off’ to me, and though it is apparently unrelated to Bookstore Basketball, I think maybe it should be. One guy, Pasquale (Isn’t that a great name, “Pasquale”?), had sideburns to rival Elvis, though this is only because he is “balding of the face,” my friend explained, and couldn’t grow any more beard. ■
Is there a team who’s dedicated themselves to.the King? They could have a Pasquale Elvis (or Elvis Pasquale) team for all the men here with balding faces.
As my concentration on the game waned, I noticed a Preston truck backing noisily up to the loading dock of the Bookstore. Doubtless, it was delivering emergency ■ supplies of Notre Dame sweatshirts to the Hammes Money Vacuum for Sophomore Siblings weekend. Its deep rumbling sound overtook shouts of the players and I noticed “The 151 Line” written on the side, all I could think of was how nice a Bacardi 151 and coke would be out in that cold.
Ouch! A guy got the ball bounced off his head. (Actually, that was kind of funny) Yeah, it was getting pretty crazy toward the end. I see my roommate flying across the court, landing on his knees, desperately trying to salvage their game. Then, another guy on their team goes’to the sideline to pull on a black leather jacket for the last few minutes. You’ve got to look good whether you win or lose, I guess.
“The Annoying Men” were up next, and ri took that as my cue to leave. For some reason, though, after the game, I was inspired to inquire “What’s up?” of every persop I passed on the way back to the dorm. I even looked at Father Sorin and said “What’s Up?” to him. (He didn’t answer). I felt good, I had done a truly Domer thing. -	:	.	□
SCHOLASTIC
mi o v n is
DEFENDING YOUR LIFE: Albert Brooks’ New Film is Worthy of A Serious Look
TXT elcome to Judgement City. Hereon V V the first stop on the wild road called the afterlife, you will enjoy attractions like the Past Life Pavillion where you can see who you were in past lives. Also included in your afterlife package are lectures on the Origin of the Universe and all the food you can eat because.you can no longer gain weight. “What about Flatliners and Ghost!” you say. They were not even close.
Defending Your Life, written and directed by Albert Brooks, presents the past-death experience in a very unique and comical manner: When you die, you are sent to Judgement City, where you must defend your actions in life in order to “move on” to the next mysterious stage in the afterlife. You are on trial, complete with both defense and prosecuting attorneys and two judges, for five days in which they review specific incidents from your life in order to decide if you are free from fear, the main criterion in determining advancement. We are told, luckily for Andrew “Dice” Clay and the New Kids, that there is no Hell.
Albert Brooks plays Don Miller, a yuppie who dies by accidentally swerving his new B .M. W. into an oncoming bus. He is greeted in Judgement City by Bob Diamond (Rip Tom), his slimy lawyer. 'Prosecutor Lani Foster (Lee Grant) reveals evidence of his inability to overcome fear through showing Miller’s life experiences oh a movie screen to the judges. Miller confides in Julia (Meryl Streep), a fellow defendant, about his anxiety over his unconvincing life and present trial. Of course, love can conquer all even in the afterlife, and the two hook up. Julia, however, is a sure thing to advance, while Miller is in danger of “Being sent back
down” to Earth in another life (this is apparently Miller’s ninth lime in Judgement City). The rest of the film involves Miller’s desperate defense of himself so that he can advance with Julia.
Make no mistake, this is not any deep, introspective look into the post-death experience. Rather, Brooks handles it in his classic tongue-in-cheek fashion. He dodges the question of God completely and makes the defendants feel no grief or guilt so as to “concentrate on the trial.” What about the people who keep getting sent back down? After 100 trips, an ominous orgainization simply “gets rid of you” (maybe the New Kids should start worrying again). So much for theology.
Brooks does treat the afterlife with respect, though. The film is not a slapstick comedy, but rather relies on Brooks’ dry humor to save it from its more sentimental parts. Brooks never gets loo sappy as he intersperses his quick one-liners with longer, hilarious sequenses, like Shirley MacLaine (in a cameo role) guiding defendants through the Past Life Pavilion, where an elderly woman discovers that she was once a sumo wrestler.
Brooks as Miller is very good. He plays the exact same character as he did in Broadcast News and Lost in America. His sharp wit jumpstarts the film in several dead spots. His constant paranoia about the future and how he relates in the big scheme of things makes for enjoyable viewing. Brooks is a harmless, confused puppy as he longs for sympathy and affection in his trial. You can not help but cheer for him.
Streep is surprisingly very much at home in a comic role. Although Brooks’ screen
play leaves her part limited, she makes the most of it and has a great time doing it. It is extremely tough to play the straight woman opposite Brooks (just ask Holly Hunter), but Streepdoesnotgetoverwhelmed whileeven getting in a couple of decent lines herself. Streep continues to prove she is the best actress working today (sorry Ms. Close...).
The supporting cast is nothing special. Tom is passable, Grant is one-dimensional, irritating and Buck Henry, as a substitute defense attorney for one of Miller’s sessions, has a role so undefined that he might as well be absent from the film.
For all of its various moments of hilarity and thought-provoking presentation of the afterlife, Defending Your Life never finds its identity. Brooks, in his respect for the difficult and touchy subject of the afterlife, chooses neither a sentimental rior a strictly comic focus. As a result, he gets lost in between in a very muddy film. The trial scenes are long and mushy. These scenes are then rendered moot by Brooks’ humor. Brooks’ uneasy mixture of sentimentality and one-liners creates an uneven, choppy film that excels in neither category.
Brooks’ fans will not be disappointed, however, and the whole idea of Brooks’ afterlife provokes some interesting questions. While Defending Your Life will not make anyone’s Ten Best list for the year, Brooks’ novel view of life after death is worthy of a serious look.	□
by Noah Cooper, Scholastic's resident deity and expert on film. He will neverforgive the Academy for picking Jeremy Irons over Robert De Niro.
APRIL 25, 1991
jjmsS ff©? ©ffaaai?©i}D Amvm©r© ।
I
Coining from a high school where the bands seemed to cover either
Creedence Clearwater Revival or R.E.M. limits one’s optimism for campus bands, i	While some loved the twangings of altema-
i	tiverock, otherequally sensitive folk raged
■ about such foreign things as talent, guitar i licks (my favorite flavor is Rickenbacker), J and the lost age of the sixties. If only we |	knew what was to come.... My first expe-
j	riences with the bands here at Notre Dame
were more of an “Ugh” rather than a “Wow.” I had descended from Coverland into Hell. Infrequent bar visits prompted many a nose-dive into a Labatt’s rather । than aesthetic pleasure.
j The past academic yearhas restored faith J in creativity under the Dome. WVFI ex-]	ecutiveboard members Kevin Flaherty and
j Chris Walter have organized and compiled i	a compact disc which shows what a little
|	initiative and effort can do. The disc,
entitled The Jericho Sessions, includes ,8 music ranging from jazz to punk as heck, j and touches upon those genre in-between. I The Ralph Falbo Trio performs
“Swingin’ in the Chapel,” which would make any fan of Mister Rogers’ Neighbor-3 hood happy with its amazing piano and
grand use of hi-hats. Another interesting cut on the disc is S.Y.R.’s “By My Side,” which, although predictable, has some swell harmonizing. Finally, the third recipient of the Scholastic Uniqueness Award is Don McGahn, who with the help ।	of Glenn Fogarty on vocals, pulls off “Hide
Away,” the archetypal Whitesnakesque
power ballad.
Some of the all-stars on The Jericho Sessions include Jester, Bone Forest, Chronic Desire, The Five O’Clock Shadows and Chisel. Jester’s performance is surprisingly un-Jesterish in that “Love Lay Down” is beyond the usual Janis Joplin incarnate. The band features brother and sister team Stella and David Schindler, talented musicians who should take this effort a step further, pursuing this more individual sound.
Bone Forest’s cut, “Autistic for the Night,” although not very politically correct, is dam powerful with its distortion and lyrical imagery. Any song with waterslide references is worth a listen. Chronic Desire’s “Strange Addiction” has an interst-ing riff and an impressive guitar solo. The Five O’Clock Shadows prove to be a promising group of young musicians with “Bee Slippers.” Finally, Chisel dispels the myth of classic cover bands with “Swamp Fox/ Spike” and will undoubtedly continue their regime next year. Watch Chisel and the Shadows, kids.
The acoustic acts included on the disc range from the pretty to the transcendental. Dominic Campanella and Chris Norborg perform “And She Rides On,” both sentimental and Shellcycsque, although not an accurate representation of Campanella’s amazing talent. Sigi Loya’s “Scream,” another nice and harmonic number, is what happens when Bob Mould decides to join Kansas. Brian Muller’s optimistic creation, “Spacey Floater,” another definite must-hear, reminds the listener of a spruced-up
“Feelin’ Groovy.” Tony Graffeo’s “God’s Answering Machine,” meshes excellent guitar with the most clever lyrics on the disc.
The Turquoise Sidewalk does “Walk in the Streets,” a bassy progressive-hinting accomplishment. “Another Mission,” written and performed by Greg Jeffrey, is another cut which borders on the poppy. Little Geneva, an offshoot of Jester, comes off bluesy arid more classic than on the Jester original. “Moon Blues,” while braving no new musical horizons, is catchy and other- ■ wise impressive.
X.Y.Z. Affair, consisting mostly of freshman South Bend natives, cranks out “World Ori Its Side.” In the words of Kevin Flaherty, they’re “a pretty damn young and talented band.” Exit?7’s “Better Off Dead” has a strange, sequenced beginning and incorporates horns with their unique sound. Finally, Doghaus adds a politically correct flavor to the disc with “Censorship is a Lie.” Joe Cannon proves yet again, with his roar and his guitar solos, that the freshman class has much talent.
The Jericho Sessions will be on sale start-	't
ing Thursday for $8. Proceeds go to United [ Way for The Emergency Shelter for Adoles- i cents through the Youth Services Center. | We commend the artists for their efforts, but i mostly Kevin Flaherty and Chris Walter for their dedication and determination in making the disc a reality. Yes, there is a music scene here at Notre Dame. If you look hard enough and give it a chance, some cool things can happen.	□
by Liz Graner, entertainment czarina for Scholastic, who does not lie in saying that Chris Infante idolizes Rick Springfield.	j
SCHOLASTIC
8
MOVING OUT
Reporter Laura Matthias takes a lighthearted look at why students move off-campus
by Laura Matthias
Consider this article to be the students’ guide to off-campus living. If you’ve been noticing a severe lack of on-campus revelry and are sick of dorm life or just looking for a change of pace — something new and different, look no further. Off-campus living could be the answer to all your dorm life blues, but it’s not for everyone. Take a closer look, and you may decide to join the exodus to the greater South Bend area.
More and more students are making the move off campus. Perhaps one of the main reasons is entertainment. In order to appropriately research this article, I attended several student house parties in the area. I figured I should find out just what it is about Rex Street, Campus View and Castle Point that is attracting so many students away from their happy domestic setting in the dorms. So I went to a Marion Street block party.
Along with senior stomp, Masters’ parties and the perpetual Campus View tailgater, last week’s block party gets three and a half stars in the entertainment category. Where else but at a house party can students meet, drink and socialize in the privacy of someone’s back yard to the beat of one of the newest campus bands? The music was great, the beverages were abundant, there were no hassles from RA’s, and they even threw in a neat for $5 with a map of the neighborhood in case wandering guests got lost. My deduction: there is no question that
APRIL 25, 1991
those who want to entertain themselves and others on an acceptably large scale should make the move off campus as soon as they possibly can. No more of this sweaty bodied / claustrophobic, dang-it’s-parietals -and-thc-rcctor’s-gonna-find-me stuff, rules catering mainly tocilhcr quiet individuals who study religiously or those who need their sleep. If your extracurricular needs are not met by this slightly overbearing and prudish housing situation and you can brave the dangers of early-morning commutes and doing your own cooking, you might want to start looking off-campus.
So step number one: Weigh the options. Sure, living in the dorm is convenient and easy. It’s 6.2 minutes from O’Shag, you don’t have to cook or wash dishes and the maid takes out the trash. Many students prefer thisquietcr setting. Kristin Miller and Carrie Poeppe are two examples.
“We were thinking about moving off-campus to a house, but we decided not to because everything is done for you here. There are no hassles of landlords and no neighbors that steal your stereo.” According to Carrie and Kristin, there are also economic reasons for remaining on-campus. There are no parking fees or car costs, food is ‘Tree” and everything is much more convenient because campus is in the middle of die action which saves time. But many other Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s students have apparently decided not to spend another year worrying about room picks and are ready to
experience a more independent lifestyle. Of course, there are typical reasons people make describing why they shouldn’t move O.C. Let’s see the top five ...
#	5 “I don’t have a car.”
#	4 “My parents won’t let me.”
#	3 “I’ll never make it to class.”
#	2 “I can live O.C. all the rest of my life.”
#	1 “I want to be RA/my buddies got RA, everyone else bugged out on me and even though I still want to move O.C., they’re too lame to go through with it.”
Step two, let us dispel some of those typical off-campus myths that have been floating around. Here are the top five reasons why you should move off-campus.
#	5 One of your friends has a car / bike / roller blades to get you to campus.
#	4 Forget your parents, get some guts and tell them this is your life. After all, you’re saving them 1/4 the cost for campus housing, and it’s about time to assert your young adult independence.
#	3 Never say never. Someone else will lake notes for you, anyway.
#	2 Don’t think of it as “off-campus housing” so much as “a community of students bonded together in the spirit of Notre Dame, just without all the silly rules.”
#	1 Yes, RA positions save you money, but wouldn't you rather experience a change of pace and have a great year living off with your friends?
In all seriousness, moving off campus has quite a lot of advantages. I talked to several
9
Paul Webb
Rich Riva and Linda Enright relax in a less structured, off-campus environment.
students who either live off campus now or who plan to do so next year. They explained to me why they chose to abandon the green quads of Notre Dame in exchange for independent living.
Junior Becca Swartz, who lives in Siegfreid Hall, comments, “This is the time to be learning everything.” She feels that a university education should not exclusively pander to the virtues of dissertations and problem sets. By moving off-campus, she feels as though she is more of an autonomous adult. Becca claims, “We are old enough to take on responsibility and only want to be treated like adults.” Like Becca, many students prefer the increased freedom of independent living.
Some feel that getting used to independent living is a step toward adulthood which the university ignores. Becca, who spent last year in Innsbruck, Austria, is accustomed to living, shopping and cooking on her own without the attendance of an RA. One day we will leave this self-contained microcosm and will need to assimilate into the adult world :— with no maids or sheet exchange. Becca, like many other students, sees a need for experience with the world beyond Notre Dame before the fateful day of graduation. Practically speaking, living on your own is a smart move to avoid the shock of “real world” immersion in the first years after college. Studying abroad gives many students an advantage in the self-reliance department. But, many times, the shift back to dorm life just does not work.
Becca and several of her friends plan on
moving to the popular Campus View apartments next year. In order to understand the advantages of living in the “campus dorm off the campus” I talked to the director of Campus View, Doreen Muszer. Surprisingly, Campus View really is all students. There is not one “regular” tenant in the place. Doreen calls the apartments “an on campus situation with the privacy of your own home.” Although most students who move there tend to bring their own cars, Campus View is a ten minute walk from school and there is a shuttle to and from the complex three times a day. Students can choose from a one or two bedroom unit with either a nine or twelve month lease. The rent for four tenants in a two bedroom unit is $230 each, $275 for three people, and $330 for two, including all utilities and furnishings. These costs tend to be significantly less than the housing costs of on-campus housing. Or, as Becca says, even if she and her friends end up spending the same amount of money on living costs in an apartment as they did in the dorm, they at least spend it on things they want and need rather than on mysterious dorm taxes or unnecessary meals they never cat.
Senior Joe Clair, who spent this school year at Castle Point apartments, agrees with Becca about independent money management. He says that living off-campus makes you more responsible about what you spend and where you spend it. You become more careful because you actually see what your hard earned dollars are going toward. It’s your own investment. You can only blame yourself when the checkbook doesn’t bal
ance.
Castle Point is quickly becoming one of the most popular student residences. In the past few years, the establishment has seen more and more students applying for apartments as they are seeing the benefits of off-campus living. Although C.P. isn’t the “dorm off-campus” that Campus View is famed for, they now reserve 60 out of their 740 apartments for Notre Dame or Saint Mary’s students. One of their biggest advantages is their security system. This system makes
Castlc Point particularly attractive to female students looking for apartments. Also the character of the apartments attracts many students to the area. You can choose from a one bed unit at $318, a two bed / one bath for $466, and two bed / one-and-a-half bath for $477, the popular lofted apartment for $512 or the three bedroom unit for $542. Parking is only $17 more and parties are allowed.
Despite the fact that Castle Point is further away from school than Campus View or Turtle Creek, residents claim it is only a twelve minute drive. When asked if the distance caused him to miss much class, Joe admitted that living off-campus actually forced him to go more often. “I get a ride from my roommate to campus and since I can’t go home until the end of the day, I might as well go to class while I’m there.” And, he admits, since he doesn’t run into people in a domestic atmosphere, he finds that moving off-campus forces him to meet more people than he would otherwise. Castle Point offered Joe an opportunity to experience independence and a break from the monotony of dorm life after three years. Applications are due May first, and the assignments don’t come out until July.
A mere one-fifth of a mile from campus is the ever-popular Turtle Creek. This apartment complex is home to a large fraction of outward-bound students this year. In general, 85 percent of the tenants there are students, and the percentage is on the rise. In the coming year,Turtle Creek will be able to boast the nearest location not only to campus blit to the shopping complex that will be
10
SCHOLASTIC
built on the corner of U.S. 23. Thecomplex will include a supermarket, drug store, cleaners and several other retail stores as well. Such an addition may precipitate even more student tenants for Turtle Creek in the years to come. .
Turtle Creek has a similar price range as most other apartments near campus. A studio costs $390, a one bedroom is $430, a two bedroom is $480, and the two bedroom town houses are $530 and $615 for three tenants. Again, there are shuttle services to campus and to Saint Mary’s, laundry facilities, pool and parking, as a part of the package.
Finally, some may want to consider the option of renting a house in the upcoming years. Popular neighborhoods to choose from include Rex Street, Marion, Navarre, California, Notre Dame Avenue, St. Louis, just to name a few. Who knows what crazy bunch maybe the new tenants of the Alumni house next year — inheritors of years of tradition and beef logged carpets -—or of the Morrissey house — with its famous porch and legal history. Or some may prefer a more subdued existence in a more residential neighborhood, away from the violence of the bar area and the noise of N.D. Avenue, as in the case of Kent Olson.
Although Kent forgot to mail in his housing contract from France in time to be included in the dorm lotteries, he claims he
©art
did intend to get away from campus life anyway. As he explains, his move was in order to “avoid the Mickey Mouse rules.” And he goes on, “I didn’t want to be babysat in an oppressive dorm system.”
Kent lives in a residential neighborhood with two other students off Riverside Drive. Although this is not the wild party atmosphere of Marion, St. Louis, Kent appreciates the opportunity to have his own house where he can entertain if he wants and where he can kick back in privacy just as easily. He doesn’t have to worry about landlords or security guards, and at the same time he gels the experience of a real residential neighborhood before he has to actually become a degree carrying resident himself. In this area, Kent doesn’t have to fear for the safety of his high tops and gets to play with the next door kids when he comes home from class.
When asked to sing the glories of off-
Ib^oinejre^dhsib^
: j enrt^g	provided
campus living, Kent was more than happy to comply. He prefers the flexibility and independence that living away from campus provides. You don’t have to conform to dining hall or library hours. You set your own pace, eat when and what you want and are responsible for everything. Having your own kitchen and bedroom are great benefits which we tend to take for granted when we are at home. Kent says that when you have your own hours and your own kitchen, you learn to budget your time and money much better that you otherwise would on campus. Kent will be living on California Avenue next year in a similar situation. With three other friends, he claims the lease will be a mere $200 a month. According to Kent, it seems that there is no better deal than your own college house.
The figures are rising. According to student housing, 19.4 percent of male students and 12.2 percent of female students moved off-campus this year. Next year the numbers tire expected to rise again. Although there are the disadvantages of distance, car-maintenance and parking stickers, the so-called off-campus “alienation” syndrome appears to be really no more than a myth. Off-campus students do attend class, they do participate in school functions and they do involve themselves on-campus. We cry and whine that there is nothing to do at Notre Dame and that the social situation is so stigmatized and wrong. Perhaps the lack of acceptable “fun” alternatives on-campus provides a greater incentive for those living both on and off-campus to experience a less restricted environment. So go ahead, make a change. Living off-campus sheds a new light on Notre Dame social life and provides opportunities to become involved in a new way. □
APRIL 25, 1991
COMING
HEY SENIORS! JOIN USFORTHISWEEKS SENIOR MONTH <
Activities «;$
APRIL 25 9:00 PM- SENIOR?; NFIN ALE AT BE ACON-< /// BOWL-/
APRIL 26 NOON'?j//-//J ’/SUITCASE PARTY AT /SENIOR BAR J j L APRIL 27 11:30 am-l:30 pm-< : PRE-BLUE & GOLD GAME ? JlCNlC,SENIOR BAR /April 28- bookstore //J rd WALS ..„ J;
APRIL 29<^NldR^ . /
SPECIALS AT THE J/; < ;
/Commons / ''
APRlL 30 9:00 pm- SENIOR:
///OUTSIDE OF CARROLL/ /
ziSWTW® s ■-J
MAY 1-SENIOR SPLASH/-//PARTY AT‘RbLFS/;/'O/; //^UATIC CENTER : . /MAY2- A WINE TASTING
/CLASS? ti me and



placement;//
OOOW
:	. •'	' y ‘ ■,	'
Thursday, April 25
Missouri Valley Quilt Show, Savannah, MO.
Birthdays:
The croonin'Ella Fitzgerald
Events:
8:00 & 10:30 pm- movie-
"Say Anything," Cushing, $2
8:10 pm- COTH PRESeNTS
THE GOOD WOMAN OF SETZUAN,
WASHINGTON HALL, $5
9:00 pm- Senior Finale At
Beacon Bowl
Friday, April 26
Colorado celebrates a day in honor of its favorite convicted cannibal, Alfred E. Packer... YUM ...
Heart of America Single Square Dancing Association Festival, Oklahoma City, OK.
Hug and Australian Day
Events:
12:00-2:00 pm- SENIOR SUITCASE : PARTY, Senior Bar
7:30 & 9:30 pm- film- "Icycle Thief," Snite, $2
7:45 pm- Latin Expressions, Library / And. $2:advance, $3 door
8:00 pm- Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company presents "The Comedy of Errors," Theodore's, $1 donations
8:00 & 10:30 pm- movie-
"The Rescuers Down Under,"
Cushing, $2
8:10 pm-COTH PRESENTS ’ .
THE GOOD WOMAN OF SETZUAN, WASHINGTON HALL, $5
Saturday, April 27
Herb Festival, Mattoon, IL.
Birthdays:
County coroner gone copier salesman, JackKlugman
Events:
11:00-l :30pm- Senior Blue & Gold Game Picnic
Blue & Gold Game
An Tostal Picnic
7:30 & 9:00 pm- film-'Tcycle Thief," Snite, $2
8:00 pm- Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company presents "The Comedy of Errors," Theodore's, $1 donations
8:10 pm- COTH PRESENTS
THE GOOD WOMAN OF SETZUAN, WASHINGTON HALL, $5
Sunday, April 28
Kiss-Your-Mate Day
Birthdays:
That Doritos guy Jay Leno
Master Thesbian Lionel Barrymore
Red Smith award winner Jon Paul
Potts
Events:
Bookstore Finals
2:00 pm- Baseball vs. St. Louis, Co valeski Stad.
2:00-4:00.pm- Thesis Show Opening
Reception,Snite
3:10 pm- COTH. PRESENTS
■THE GOOD WOMAN OF SETZUAN, ' WASHINGTON HALL, $5
l/iOMcLAssticMS
SCHOLASTIC
12
DISTRACTIONS
Monday, April 29
American Bowling'Congress Masters Tournament, Toledo, OH.
1913- Gideon Sundback invented
the zipper
Birthdays:
Duke Ellington
The Unbearable Lightness of
Daniel-Day Lewis
Events:
8:00 pm- Brass Ensemble concert, Washington Hall
Senior Specials at The Commons
Wednesday, May 1
Beginning of Correct Posture Month
International Labor Day
International Working Class Day
Save the Rhino Day
Events:
Senior Splash Party, Rolfs
5:00 pm- Baseball vs. Valpo., Covaleski Stad.
Orchestra Concert, Washington Hall 7:00pm- film- "Annie Hall," Snite, $2 9:00 pm- film- "Fire Maidens Of
Outer Space," Snite, $2
Friday, May 3
Crawfish Festival, Breaux Ridge, LA.
International Tuba Day
Lumpy Rug Day
Birthdays:
Rich Italian guy Niccolo Machiavelli
Artistic Italian genius Frankie Valli
JAMES BROWN
Events:
7:30 & 9:30 pm- film- "Pump Up The Volume," Snite, $2
8:00 & 10:30 pm- movie- "The
Meaning of Life,”"Cushing, $2
Tuesday, April 30
1900- Casey Jones killed in a
train wreck
Birthdays:
Willie Nelson
Wherc-is-he-now Gary Collins
Events:
7:00 pm- film- "Perceival," Snite, $2
9:00 pm- Senior Movie Night, "Grease," outside Carroll Aud., SMC
9:30 pm- film-"The Terror of
Tiny Town," Snite, $2
A TVz.,'-	■, .■_< :	-.'A. A A;, A
i ror More Informa^ ■ T
X"';Oh C^puA-'AFAA '- A A? /F LaFortune
T SUBI39-7757':. N AT	■
A<Snj:te:FilnyH()tline 239^7361 aaT
•FFCampus Events/239-5liOA : A yqACC Ticket! nfo.239-7354 • A A ?AND'MenuLinA283-FOOD a F
Av’- .w - A fT-.A' a .*■? -a a . A-
F Theatres ' ATA AA T A • A? a ! '
TAWCenBr:259-6414TTr A<y fFScSttsdal^ThcAfre29^583^ A 5
FFjAToiAnT^
A;. ; University Park East 277-7336' : AT University Park West-277-044ly'<
Thursday, May 2
Birthdays:
That child psychologist guy
Dr. Benjamin Spock
David'Bowie's friend Bing Crosby
King Hussein of Jordan
Events:
Senior Wine Tasting Class
8:00 & 10:30pm- movie-"Parenthood,"
Cushing Aud., $2
QUESTIONS? COMMENTS? DIRTY JOKES? UPCOMING EVENTS OR DISTRACTIONS?
We welcome your input to our literary masterpiece. If you have a Distraction that you would like us to publicize, please drop us a line at Scholastic, 303 LaFortune, or give us a ring at 239-7569. Our shiny, happy staff would love to hear from you. Please leave a message on our groovy machine if we're not in. Hang-ups are for stupid people.
Saturday, May 4
Kent State Students Memorial Day Lobster Race and Oyster Parade, Aiken, S.C.
Birthdays:
Goddess of the Universe
Audrey Hepburn
Events:	:
SENIOR CLASS PICNIC
12:00 pm- Baseball vs. U. of Detroit, Covaleski Stad.
2:00 - 9:00 pm- Men's Outdoor Track Central Collegiate Conference, Monogram Track
4:00 pm- Model Airplane Show, JACC 7:30 & 9:30 pm- film- "Pump Up The Volume," Snite, $2
MS
APRIL 25, 1991
13
N ® W 0
Keeping a Different Faith
Notre Dame’s ‘Religious Minorities’ are forming their own faith communities on-campus and joining congregations off-campus
by Elizabeth Hayes
At a university as predominantly Roman
Catholic in character and composition as Notre Dame, members of other faith traditions often face the challenges of holding onto their differing beliefs and practices. SomeofNotreDame’s “religious minorities” meet these challenges by joining together to form “alternate faith communities” on-campus or by joining congregations of their own religious traditions off-campus.
The applications of incoming freshmen reveal that roughly 90 percent of the university’s current student body is Roman Catholic, said Father Tom McDermott of campus ministry.
The other ten percent — who are not Roman Catholic — face the possibility of “slipping under the spiritual cracks” on a campus that is this religiously homogeneous, McDermott stated.
He added that campus ministry has tried to play a guiding role for these non-Roman Catholic students. It helps them join churches of their own affiliation in the South Bend area, hold ecumenical services on-campus and arrange Bible study groups.
“Our general approach has been to help non-Catholic students to join with the congregations oftheir own religious tradition in the city for worship,” he said.
Shahzad Asghar, a senior from Bahrain and president of the two-year-old Muslim Student Association, said that campus
ministry has helped the association with finding a place to hold its Friday prayer services.
Fellowship is one of the main focuses of the association — which presently has approximately 25 members, including nonMuslims, Asghar said.
“It’s nice to be with each other ... (because) you don’t have your own mosque .
Shahzad Asghar, president of the two-year-old Muslim Student Association said, “It's nice to have your friends here in a similar situation.”
here. It’s nice to have your friends here in a similar situation,” he said.
The association also helps its members face more secular problems—such as those the Gulf War brought to Muslim students on-campus. “They (non-Muslim students) just saw you as an Arab or a Muslim and thought you were anti-American, which wasn’t true because there were so many
14
SCHOLASTIC
Paul Webb
Elizabeth Bird, president of the Baptist Student Union, said it was hard to go from a predominantly Baptist and Methodist area of Oklahoma to an all-Catholic school.
Arabs fighting on the American side,” he said.
He said that part of the association’s service to its members is facilitating discussion about Islamic and Middle Eastern issues. The association holds group discussions, which non-Muslim students have joined, on the politics and religions of
“It’s nice to bewith each other (because) you
■ don’t have mosque here. It’s nice to have friends here in a > similar situation?’ z -
■—Shahzad Asghar	? 5
the Arab world.
“I hope we can gel more non-Muslim members because that is the best way to create understanding,” he said.
Asghar would also like to see more Muslim students at Notre Dame, and he points to Georgetown University as a Catholic institution which has a high population of Muslim students.
Baptist students on-campus have also joined together to form a group similar to the Muslim Student Association. Elizabeth Bird, a senior American Studies major who is president of the Baptist Student Union, said that the group was founded over a decade ago as a “time to build a spiritual background.”
The Baptist Student Union, which presently has ten members, holds
weekly Bible studies and prayer services and is open to students of other faiths.
“We’ll share how we’ll teach the Bible and share insights,” she said.
Bird, who came to Notre Dame from a primarily Baptist and Methodist area of Oklahoma, said that being in an all-Roman Catholic area can be challenging.
The Baptist Student Union works to provide a “faith community.” “They’re (non-Catholics) looking for some people who arc loving and caring and they find that in our group. It has been my outlet,” she said.
Charles McCarthy, a junior science and theology major, belongs to the Melkite Church of the Eastern Catholic Rite. The Eastern CatholicRiic is united to theRoman Catholic Rite by its allegiance to the pope, but differs in its liturgical practices and in allowing priests to marry.
McCarthy said that he has felt “no discrimination (al Notre Dame), but people give inc a variety of responses. People think I am Protestant or something like that or not Catholic. The Roman rite is ignorant of the
‘‘Peoplegivemea variety ^f’^res ponses .People think I am ferptestant or f something likethat ornot
CatholiCi Tbe Roman rite ignorant offfi
11^ churbb. I find myself ? in these things (debates 10n married priests), and the fact is my father is a
^priest.”’? -
— Charles McCarthy; <
rest of the church.”
“I find myself in these things (debates on married priests), and the fact is my father is a priest. In Israel, for example, most of the Eastern Catholic priests are married,” he said.
McCarthy attends St. John of Damascus Church in South Bend, where Father Robert Kerby — a married Melkite priest who is also an associate professor of history at Notre Dame — presides.
Thirty people typically attend the services, McCarthy said. Most of these people are Notre Dame faculty members and their families.
“There is a deacon there, but most of the people aren’t Eastern Catholic. They just sort of like the mass,” he said.
McCarthy sometimes attends Roman Catholic services on-campus. “A Catholic mass is a Catholic mass, there’s no difference,” he said, “(the Byzantine or Eastern mass) takes about an hour and a half ... Western masses are shorter,” he said.
The Melkite Church and the Eastern Catholic Rite have “complete allegiance to the pope. But we also have our own patriarch, who is second to the pope," he said.	□
APRIL 25, 1991
15
Selecting a Speaker
A look at how Notre Dame gets its commencement speaker and honorary degree recipients
by Elizabeth Costello
Every spring there comes an announcement telling who will be the commencement speaker and who will receive honorary degrees at graduation. Because students do not know who is being considered — and why certain women and men are chosen — the selection process seems mysterious to most Notre Dame
students.
Paul Webb
Associate Provost Isabel Charles said that nominations
for commencement speaker are kept secret so that
alternates do not feel like second choices.
However, there really is not that much to the selection process, according to Associate Provost Isabel Charles. Women and men are nominated by the junior class student government and by the different colleges within the university, she said.
Jennifer Switzer, president of the junior class, has sent out a newsletter to all juniors
asking them to subm it their top three choices
for next year’s and sought after by many universities and commencement speaker, colleges, it is necessary to begin the process
Jill Beth Hayes, who will serve as secretary for next year’s senior class, said the letters were sent out April 17.
The dean of each college can appoint a committee or council to nominate individuals. A person may be an obvious candidate to a
certain college — The board of trustees becomes involved depending upon the at this phase and may make world and national recommendations or submit additional
events in which the person is involved, Charles said.
Charles said that the Graduate School Council may also submit a nomination.
Thccandidates’ names are then given to Dr.
Charles, who said she ' nominee may not be able to deliver the
then submits them to commencement address or receive an
Roland Smith, Jr., the executive assistant to the president.
The decisions are made a year in advance of graduation, Charles said. The university used to begin the process in the fall, but found that — because most graduations occur in the same two week period — many candidates had prior engagements.
Because the nominees are well-known
early, Charles said.
Once Smith has received the list of nominations, he and Fr. Malloy review the choices and discuss the possibilities.
The university officers group — twelve people including Malloy, Smith and the University vice presidents — conduct ballots on the nominees. They then contact the agreed-upon candidate to see if he or she is available and willing to accept the degree, Smith said.
nominees, he said.
While he was president of Notre Dame, Fr. Hesburgh took a special interest in the people receiving honorary degrees, and Fr. Malloy is following in this tradition, Charles said.
Due to the competition among colleges for commencement speakers, Notre Dame may not always get its first choice. A
16
SCHOLASTIC
honorary degree, she said.
The university officers group must then select another of the 25 to 30 people originally nominated to invite to commencement, Charles said.
Charles said that it is important to keep all nominations secret—particularly those for commencement speaker.
This secrecy keeps an alternate nominee from feeling like a second choice. Charles said that it is an honor to be on the list initially and that releasing the list would only lessen the respect of the position.
“No one likes to be known as second choice,” she said.
Charles said that the university has a history of having the president of the United States as commencement speaker and an honorary degree recipient. Presidents Ford, Carter and Reagan have all participated in Notre Dame commencement exercises. However, the University’s commencement cannot always be accommodated to the president’s schedule, she said.
Most nominees are extremely honored when asked to be the commencement speaker or to receive an honorary degree from Notre Dame. Some candidates who had to decline because of previous commitments have specifically said they would like to be asked again, said Charles.
Smith said that the process takes its own character every year because of domestic and foreign events.
According to both Smith and Charles, recipients of this year’s honorary degrees reflect current events. For example, Charles said that Jane Pauley, NBC news correspondent, has reached the top of her
field. Pauley is a worthy model to a young woman, a mother and “an intelligent representative of the broadcasting industry,” she said.
Margaret O’Brien Steinfels, the editor of CommonwealMagazine, became this year’s commencement speaker by such a process of nominating, balloting arid confirming.
“Under Margaret Steinfels’ editorship, what was already a fine periodical has strengthened its reputation as an indispensable voice in the conversation of our Church,” Malloy said in a December press release.
“It seems appropriate, especially during our Year of Women celebration, that we hear an indispensable influence in that voice,” he said.
Courtesy of Public Relations
Margaret O’Brien Steinfels, the 1991 commencement speaker, has been the editor of Commonweal since 1988. President Malloy said, “It seems appropriate, especially during our Year of Women celebration, that we hear an indispensable influence in (the conversation of our Church).”
However, Malloy’s involvement with the process was not finished when Steinfels was selected as commencement speaker.
In a letter to Steinfels, Malloy asked her if she could possibly address the issue of gender in the contexts of contemporary church and societal life.
To help ensure that the speech relates to Notre Dame graduates, Malloy also asked Steinfels if shecould discuss what the future holds in store for men and women of this generation and the challenges they will face both as participants in the work force and as committed Christians.
Steinfels said she was “quite honored” to be requested as the 1991 commencement speaker and was “happy to accept” the invitation.
Steinfels has headed the editorial board of Commonweal — a lay-edited Catholic journal of public affairs, religion, literature and art — since 1988.
She has previously been editor of Church, a publication of the National Pastoral Life Center; executive editor of Christianity and Crisis; editor of the, Hastings Center Report; a reporter and columnist for the National Catholic Reporter and a movie reviewer for Today.
A 1963 graduate of Loyola University, she studied art and film history at Columbia University. She also took courses at the Sorbonne in Paris before obtaining her master’s degree in American history from New York University in 1971.	□
APRIL 25, 1991
17
A Ini59©[hfa5Ik©f3§ ©yS^I® 9© Sih© '^ou:lh	WIW®
’	. .	’	'	•	; -	■-■ PaulWebb -
j!	Stanley Coveleski Stadium, built right into the heart of downtown South Bend, opened four years ago as
B	home to the Single A White Sox and Notre Dame basball.
h. . • '	’	■	.	’• ■	■	' ■	'	■ ■ ’	•	. v . .	. • •
Though few students know about it, arguably the best A ball minor league !	1 franchise in baseball is flourishing right here in South Bend
i	byJeffWeghorst
I t’smid-April, 1994, and a typical Notre Dame male bonding/sports-oriented ।	conversation is taking place. I know this
i	may surprise you, but this is what will be
; said. All prophecies must come true.
. “The South Bend White Sox have begun ■ ■ their season,” I announce.
“No way!” shrieks my friend with a high-: ' pitched scream.
P . “You’re kidding?” asks another^ explod-: ing with excitement.
< ; : “I’m not joking,” I reply with a calm, cool < < look which hides my own giddiness. The ; < Triple A Sox are now my favorite team.
> > “That’s just too prime. We’ll have to get t < down to Coveleski.”
“Way cool man. Way cool.”
“I’ve waited all year for the South Bend White Sox to get started. It’s what I live for. If I didn ’ t get my yearly fix of the Sox, I’d just shrivel upanddie. You know, likea worm on the sidewalk after a long night’s rain/’
Finally, one of my friends gives into his emotions, and a tear rolls languidly down his face. “It’s... it’s just too good to be true. A miracle...”
. Okay, okay, I know that this doesn’t exactly sound like it’s possible. The words “South Bend White Sox” probably don’t really excite you that much. So, I’ll stop my prophe-sizing. Anyway, it’s probably for the better. This article may be sounding a little bit too
silly by now.
But things are changing on the South Bend baseball scene. As the Sox become more popular in -the city, this squad will gain increasing interest from the Notre Dame student body. Brace yourselves and be prepared for this wave of minor league Sox-mania about to wash ashore. In the future, no one will be frowned upon more than those who are not up to snuff on their Sox trivia.
First, the formalities. The South Bend White Sox are now in their fourth season. They are presen tly a Single A affiliate of the major league Chicago White Sox, and they play a 140-game schedule in the Midwest
[-•:: 18
SCHOLASTIC
League.. The Midwest League is composed of Single A teams from other major league organizations such as the Cedar Rapids Reds and the Quad City Angels.
The Midwest League is divided into two divisions, the Northern and the Southern. The Sox are in the Northern. At the end of
Paul Webb
Nineteen year-old outfielder Charles Poe from West Covina, CA, is one of the hopeful minor league players vying for a promotion to “The Show.”
the season, the winners of these two divisions square off in the best-of-five Midwest League Championship Series. This is the minor league equivalent of'the World Series.
But before this can happen, the winners of each division must be determined. This is
where.it gets a little tricky. Here comes a Diamond Girls perform at each curve ball: The teams in each division play Sox game. They’re kind of like two seasons per summer. The 140 game cheerleaders. They sometimes schedule is divided into two 70-game sea- do performances between in-sons. The team which has the most wins in nings, and you can have them its division during the first half meets the sing Happy Birthday to one of team with the most wins in the same division your friends if you like. Also,
during the second half in a best-of-three divisional playoff. The winners of these two divisional playoffs meet in the Midwest League Championship Series. Got that? Okay, we’re rolling. Read on. I’m building momentum,	.
The South Bend White Sox, in their second way from his home in San season ever, were the Midwest League pedro de Macoris, Dominican Champs. Last year, they won the Northern Republic to play ball In “the division. They have sent two players to “The Cove.”
Show” (a.k.a. the major leagues), Scott Radinsky and Rodney McCray.
So, for a mere three dollars, you can go to Coveleski and sec future major leaguers playing for one of the minor league’s premier franchises. The price is great, but you’re still not interested? There’s more to
Sox games than just baseball, lots more.
’ “What’s more?” you ask on the edge of your seat.
Other forms of entertainment arid, that’s right, promos.
First, the entertainment. The
some famous guests will be visiting South Bend this year. The Famous Chicken, the Philly Fanatic and legendary pitcher Bob
Domingo Ramos came a long
Feller are all coming to town.
And, of course, the promos.
April 29: All Faith Night Bring your church bulletin and get into the game for just a dollar.
May 8: Rally’s 99 Cents Night. Get a voucher ticket at Rally’s for 99 cents.
May 9: Auto Sun Shade Night. The first 1,500 fans receive sun shades for their cars.
May 10: (tentative). ND/SMC Seniors Night. ND/S MC seniors receive free admission with a voucher from the Notre Dame Credit Union.
May 11: Toronto Argonauts Night. If you can prove that you’ve seen them on TV, you get in for free! Get there early. A big turnout is expected.
Just kidding.
But now, let us return our attention to the team. After all, the team is the main attraction here. These are the guys who give it 100 percent day in and day out. These are the guys taking a shot at The Show.
The Sox are managed by Tommy Thompson, an aggressive coach who believes in “Give It All Ya Got” baseball.
Said one observer, “I call him TNT, because of his fire.”
“He’s done an excellent job this year,” said an usher named Pete.
Paul Webb
APRIL 25, 1991
19
The players? Well, it’s kind of hard to discuss individual players because minor league teams do a lot of lineup shuffling. This year, the Sox only have three players returning from last season.
However, it is possible to give you a feel for what these guys have to deal witfi. So, I asked them some general questions about the minor leagues, and I got some pretty interesting answers.
First, I inquired about spring training. For the Sox, this is in Sarasota, Florida.
“Spring training is tough, getting up at 6:00 a.m. and playing until 4:00 p.m.. It’s like boot camp.”
“It was brutal. They just drill you and drill you and drill you. It’s the repetition.”
“You can work in the off-season, but there’s nothing like spring training.”
And after spring training, the Sox come home to South Bend and begin their minor league season. When these players first started in the minors, they were in for a few surprises.
“Playing with a lot of great players surprised me. You just don’t have that in high school.”
“Switching to the wooden bat. Playing everyday.”
Ahh. Playing every day. This is something the Sox definitely do. They have just five
20
days off between now and September. Il’s no place for the lazy or malingers.
“You gotta be ready to go everyday.”
“You can’t play around with the nightlife.
This is your livelihood.”
“Playing every day is good. You get more experience. But it would be a lot better if you got paid better.”
South Bend White Sox players earn S950 per month, and I thought money would have
a lol to do with the attitudes of these players. The real money in baseball is in the big leagues, and I thought a player’s desire to increase a his salary would be his main motivation. I figured the pressure to cither survive or be cut from the team would be a killer.
“It’s a pressure that should make you do well. You gotta know your job.”
“The pressure can work for you.”
“They don’t pul any pressure on us at all really. We have fun.”
This is a tribute to the managing skills of Tommy Thompson. His guys are loose, but focused — relaxed, but ready to give it 100 percent.
So there you have it. You know all about the team, the minors, the entertainment, and the promos. You’re ready to go, right? Wrong. There are still a Pew lips for you to
follow when you attend your first Sox game.
1.	Eat before you go, or save some money. This may be a minor league game, but you can only buy food at major league prices. It’s a buck and a half for a hot dog, $2.50 for a Super Dog. (This is really the only unavoidable negative of going to a Sox game. Everyone deserves a dog at the ballpark).
2.	Pay heed to page 30 of the program. It reads: “Persons present are subject to the possibility of being hit by a flying object from the field. Balls batted from the playing field, wildly thrown balls, a thrown or broken bat, or even a ‘doughnut’ swinging off the end of a warmup baiter’s bat, often times make their way into the stadium seats. Baseball is an inherently dangerous game....” So be careful.
3.	Follow rule number two even when you’re not in the stadium, and park your car far away. If you leave while the game is still in progress - watch your head. Therearekids who stand in the streets outside and wait for foul balls to fly to them, but don’t expect them to warn you if you’re about to be hit. If you see them pointing at you and laughing, then it would be advisable to duck.
Paul Webb	4- Take a jacket, espe
cially this early in the season. Whenever I’ve gone, it’s been dam cold. In my opinion, Coveleski Stadium should be renamed Coveleski Frozen Tundra.
Okay, you’re ready to go to the game, and you’re ready for the future South Bend White Sox Craze. You’ll be a first class fan of a first class team. That futuristic conversation will take place. It is unavoidable. All prophecies must come true. □
You can watch the game—or you can listen to your favorite-Diamond girl sing “Happy Birthday.”
SCHOLASTIC
0 IP O B T
-
Afternoon
with the
(Or, why South Bend deserves a Triple A baseball team, by Joseph Kernan)
Mayor
Paul Webb
Kernan played baseball for Notre Dame back in the ’sixties for the famed coach Jake Kline.
carry a AAA franchise?
Well, we have proven in the last three years that minor league baseball ... That we can support it to an outstanding degree -minor league ball. The question becomes, can you take that support and increase it and build on what you’ve got?
The answer kept coming up yes. Last year we outdrew three AAA cities and the year before, four. So from a support standpoint, we have a good track record - that’s been established - and established that it’s not a fluke. In the first year, we had a great year of 170,000.
This is the fourth year of professional baseball in
South Bend; the fourth year that the Cove (S tanley Coveleski S tadium) has been open. We went from 171 to 203 to 212 (thousand) in overall attendance. You obviously try to sit back and take a look at what a community has to offer and whether you can be successful. It’s as nice a ballpark as there is in the country. To me it is in the Fenway or Wrigley category in terms of being close to theaction. It’s built for baseball. It’snotone of these bulls—t multipurpose stadiums where you end up with Astroturf and the fans
Editor’s note: The town of South
Bend is currently in the hunt for a AAA baseball franchise which would replace and upgrade the South Bend White Sox which currently play on the A ball level in Stanley Coveleski Stadium downtown. Scholastic sports editor Jon Paul Potts interviewed South Bend’s mayor, Joe Kernan, ND ’68, in his office at the city/county offices downtown where Kernan discussed the efforts the city has made thus far to achieve this
goal, and the city’s prospects for a successful franchise hid.
What are your personal connections to baseball?
I played high school ball and I played just three years at Notre Dame, because freshmen were ineligible. So, I played for three years and I lettered for two under Jake Kline,
What made the town council and yourself think that the city of South Bend could
APRIL 25, 1991
21
are sitting 150 yards away from the game. Obviously you can do other things there, but the bottom line is thatCovelcski is a baseball
park.
When you are in a multipurpose stadium, it like the house boat - you end up with a sh— y house on a sh—y boat. So, I think that’s one of the advantages. Secondly, we have good ownership. The guy who is there right now, Alan Levin, is very involved. Although he does not live here, he has got local partners and has been very involved in wanting a AAA ball club. There is a good
day-to-day guy, in John Baxter the general
manager so that part of the equation is to-
gether.
Paul Webb
Kernan is cautiously optimistic about South Bend’s chances of being one of the lucky cities when the new AAA franchises are announced in September.
And the final piece, to go back to what I said before, is the community and whether, not only if it’s inclined to support it, but if there is enough of a base io support it. And, the inclination is certainly there on the basis of our attendance and the support that has been generated. It has caused us to become well known in the baseball community. Not justbecause of the ballpark but also because of the support. If you try to look at it from an objective standpoint and ask whether there is really enough people in this area it obviously has to go beyond the city limits of South Bend. We are only a city of 106,000 people. But if you look at the evidence, it would lead you believe that wc can support a team in this area at the AAA level.
Some of the examples would be the Mi-ciana Regional Airport, the second busiest airport in the state of Indiana. The Univcr-
sity Park Mall/Grapc Road area is the fastest growing retail area in the Midwest. Obviously that means that there are people com
ing in from out of town that could support a baseball team. There tire enough folks inclined to come and support it. We are trying to look al South Bend as the center of this geographic area and we have got nine or ten cities around us and some good-sized towns, so, again, you start adding those things up and you gel a really significant base out there on which to build.
The last part of the equation is whether you
are going to sit back or be aggressive and go
for it. So, why not go for it where you have
nothing to lose and everything to gain if you
succeed.
Is that the pitch that you have given, to the minor league search committee?
No, the pilch that we have given them is the things that I have mentioned earlier. Objectively we can support it. The second part of our pitch has been to
o u t h u s 11 e everbody else-to work harderalconvincing them that this is the place to be, to do everything in our presentation as well as we can. We used as a model Adama and their efforts to get the 1996 Olympics. They got the Olympics away from Athens on the one-hundredth anniversary of the Olymics when it should have been in Athens, where it began.
Have you talked to people from Atlanta? Well, we have had some conversations, but really, the presentation has been based more on what wc have read and whal wc have been able to glccn from whal we have seen on public television about it. What we have wanted to do is put the voters, the folks who want to make the decision, in a position where they have to make up there minds and it has been very difficult for them to say no.
We have done our homework and shown that we can get the job done.
What has been your constituent feedback?
Very positive. The public reaction, the public bodies, have all been unanimous in their support. There have been no remon-stralors. Because we have provided for the expansion of the ballpark without using property tax money and relying on funds from the ballpark itself, we have had support. There have been no public debates in terms of public finance problems. I think the support has been very broad based and almost unanimous. There have been occasional letters to the editor (of the South Bend Tribune), but the support has been outstanding.
How do you see a AAA franchise helping the town financially and image-wise in the Midwest?
Well, we view it as another thing that we will be able to point to that is an objective determination that the community has got something going for it. Obviously, it has additional financial rewards because it is a better product than A ball is. A ball has proven to be good economically for Ihe community. It provides us with another form of entertainment for folks who live here and puts the name South Bend in the USA Today 140 days a year. You simply take that to the next level by going to AAA. It is just one more thing to put on the pile in terms of what the commmunity has to offer and how it is percieved by folks outside the community.
What has been the process so far? Has there been a visitation or any formal cere-monies to demonstrate South Bend’s worthiness to be a AAA-franchise city?
First there was our expression of interest and that was actually made by the owner of the (South Bend) White Sox...
Did he have to check with the White Sox major league team first?
No he did not. He had to check with us though, because if weren’tall together, it did not make any sense to do it at all.
So that interest was expressed in September. And then in November, we made a presentation to the nine members of the expansion committee, and that committee is made up of seven owners or general manag-
22
SCHOLASTIC
crs of existing AAA franchises, and then the two league presidents of the Pacific Coast League and the Triple AAA All iance, which is actually composed of the American Association and the International League. So there are nine guys and we made a presentation to them.
We made our presentation to them in November. It was an hour long and we were one of 18 cities at that point Al the end of the year, the list was cut to 15. Four of those cities had completed the technical requirements which means that they already have the ballpark and ownership in place. We were not on that list, we were on the “must perform” list which said, but for, really the expansion of the ballpark, we would have been on the short list. So we then got the necessary comitttments from the public bodies to expand the ballpark. In March, the list was cut from 15 to nine.
So what happens next?
We expect that there will be a site visit by some members of the expansion committee. They will come here for a ballgame and be shown around town, and that will take place in the other nine cities as well. Then, at the
AAA All-Star game in July, they will cut the list down to four cities.
That’s for two spots, maybe three. Outside, maybe way outside shot that there will be four. The key to this whole process, what got us interested, is that there is a window that’s open now due to expansion at the major league level. Because of that expansion, the two new teams will have to outfit minor league systems. So there’ll be two new teams at the A A A level, two new teams at the A A level, and two or more at the A level. So that’s why the window is open. If one of the existing AAA cities gel a major league franchise, then there could be three cities that will get AAA teams. The favorites at this point arc Denver, which has a AAA team, and St. Petersburg, FL.
Thal’s what we hear, we don’t know for sure.
We hope Denver is one of them, because if Denver gels a major league team, than there is another AAA franchise that needs to find a home. So our odds increase if there is three cities. If Buffalo gets the other one (major league team) then there will be four AAA openings; But we understand that Buffalo is kind of a long shot. So we're probably going
to be looking at three spots.
When would the first AAA season if South Bend gets a franchise?
The first season would be 1993. The first season at the major league level would be 1994, but the minor league systems would be up-and-running in ’93. They tell us the final decision will be made in September.
It will be a big day for South Bend.
Yeah. You know, it’s been an interesting process, but a good one for us. It’s been an interesting way for the community to articulate, for ourselves, some of the things we have going for us.
Has it drawn the community together?
I think so. It’s one of those things where you say, “Hey, we’re playing with the big guys now. Let’s give it our best shot.”
Wc may not get it That’s a definite possibility. But if we don’t, the process has been good, and we still end up with, what I think, is the best A ball franchise in the country. And for the next thing that comes down the road, we’ 11 be in a better position and maybe a little wiser.	□
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Joe Binkiewicz: Binkiewicz, a junior from Wintersville/ OH, returns as Athlete of the Week riding a white-hot streak at the plate for the Irish basball team. Last week,Binkiewicz hit.600 with four homeruns whileslugging an overall 1.160.
For the season, the team captain has 11 home runs and 29 RBI in 28 games.
Missy Linn: Linn, a junior from Allentown, PA, pitched the Irish softball team to three victories last week. Against the Sycamores of Indiana Slate, Linn tossed a 4-0 shutout. The following day, she combined with Carrie Miller to no-hit St. Joseph's. She finished off the week with an 8-1 victory over Loyola to improve her record on the season to 10-10.
APRIL 25, 1991
23
IF H H A IL W©B®
Cultural Differences and A Common Bond
Four Notre Dame women discover advantages of diversity by working together
Four women are silting in a dorm room and sharing popcorn, soda pop, laughs and memories. As these women discover common bonds and grow closer as a result, differences are less visible. The scenario seems like a typical situation that most college students encounter. However, at face value, some may find the scene rather peculiar.
These four women are Cambodian-American, African-American, German-American, and Irish-Scottish-Gcrman-ctc.-American. But these diverse heritages are insignificant to us because we see each other as equals and respect one another. H o wcver, at the same time, we learn much from each other’s experiences. We are not trying to hide our uniqueness; instead, wc all share our stories that help us to further unite us. By sharing our backgrounds' wc realize how fortunate we are to be in this diverse society where, if we want to learn about other cultures. For instance, if we want a different. perspective on the Cambodian people aside from the fact that they once were starving,, we only have to reach out to a Cambodian-American to find out the truth.
This conversation has made us realize the importances of cultural diversity on our society which have often been taken for granted. Cultural diversity is an asset because we can gain insight that books alone cannot provide. One can read about the events such as the Holocaust, but more can be learned by talking with a survivor of such an occurrence. With this insight, wc can learn to rise above these mistakes and, never forget, but forgive and learn to prevent history from repeating itself.
Since our present existence has primarily been limited to Notre Dame, wc are
attempting to live as a community on . article, we are compromising and working campus. Our task is to respect one another together, not against one another.
and to work for the good of the whole. As Early this morning, as we hurry to catch individuals, we have given of ourselves somepreciouszzz’s,wearenotonlyleaving openly and have unconditionally earned with this article, but we find that we have each other’s respect. For example, although gained’a new perspective. Wehave grown
the German-American had not previously met the African-Amcrican and the Irish-Scottish-German-etc.-Amcrican prior to the conversation, we found ourselves working together in completing the article. Even though we have some differing views, these contrasts do not stop us from learning about one another. Moreover, we are not afraid to learn about ideas unlike our own. Wc each have our own opinions, but wc tire not trying to force them on each other. Our philosophy is that other views should be understood and respected. Instead of demanding that our own personal opinions should be put in this
tonight, but we have not finished the process. In addition, we will continue this growth throughout life. For instance, Malcolm X learned from his actions and grew because of his experiences. However, his maturation did not occur overnight. Likewise, diversity at Notre Dame cannot occur overnight. Yes, we have our differences, but we have a common bond— we are ND!	Q
By SusanBushnell, Kellie Hungerford, Alva Lewis, and Chhpmroth Un
24
SCHOLASTIC

non-profit organization
U.S. POSTAGE
PAID
Notre Dame. IN
Permit No. 10
S I I I >1 N I UNION Bi JARI)