
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus. _

Vol. XVI. J	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 24, 1883.	No. 24.
The Muse. .
Why do they call me, I, who walk alone Up where the ruins of the world are thrown? Far over me the dark-blue ether rolled, And far below the cloud-sweeps, fold on fold.
1 hear their voices, sounding through the glen ’ Ever most blind, but lost and wandering then.
My chosen, mine from all eternity. He comes unchecked, through life and death, to me But,—shepherds piping to your flocks beneath. Oh, happy maids who bind the rose-bud wreath,— All happy hands that till the fields and live, Ask not the crowning thorns that I can give.
Marion Muir.
The Law.*
.	(Concluded.)
The actual decisions of the common law courts referred to—supplemented by the decisions of our own _ appellate and supreme courts—constitute what we recognize as the common law in the United States. There is no written code—not even the fragment of a written code or system—that embodies obligatory principles of common law. It consists in opinions rendered and decisions given in actual cases adjudicated in the higher common ’ law courts. These decisions and opinions are carefully collated and published in books known as reports—and they afford a guide, they are made use of as precedents, by judges and lawyers in - connection with other cases, other combinations of disputed facts—as these arise from time to time. If the researches of the attorney are rewarded with success in discovering in these reports a number of . decisions, the facts in which arc reasonably analogous to those in his own case, he examines them with care; and if he finds that they are favorable, to his theory and embody principles that he wishes to establish as the foundation of his case, he cites them in his brief, and confidently rests the purely legal features of his case upon the guidance they afford. As a rule, too, the judge defers to the de. cisions of the higher courts and decides in accordance with the weight of authority, or the side presenting the larger array of parallel cases and pertinent .facts. Hence, we- may say that, the weight
♦A Lecture delivered Feb. 5 th' by Prof. W. Hoynes.
j of these decisions, bearing upon questions actually F decided, and not opposed to statutes enacted by the s State Legislature, or Congress,- forms the common i law. which extends to and- is recognized in all the States of the Union excepting: Louisiana, where the civil law obtains. In describing it we may borrow a word from the calendar and refer to it as a “movable” system. Founded upon the customs of the people, it follows these customs and undergoes modification as they do. The statutes are the opening wedges to which it yields. When these break the uniformity of its adjudications and precedents, it readily accommodates itself to the . varying conditions of commerce, customs, arid social usages.	.	.......'
The English law commentators of a century or more ago were very fond of expatiating upon the imperfections of the civil and canon laws. They claimed matchless superiority for the common law. Blackstone occupies a conspicuous place among that class of croakers. They make statements so plainly untrue—so palpably false—that one who investigates must wonder at their mendacity or obtuseness. The fact is, the civil and canon lawshave had nearly as much to do in supplying principles to the common law as the Latin language had in giving shape and supplying elements to'the English. Nearly all the legal maxims which are employed from day to day with almost axiomatic conclusiveness are derived from the civil law. The rules governing the descent of property are borrowed from the canon law. Our admiralty courts follow the principles of the civil law in the administration of justice, and the canon law mainlv directs the deliberations of our probate courts.
Third.—The statutory laws consist of, 1st, certain acts of the Parliament of Great Britain, passed before the settlement of the American colonies; 2d, statutes passed by the colonies.during the existence of the colonial governments; 3d, the Constitutions of.the several States of the Union; 4th, the statutes or acts passed by the Legislatures of the different States since their organization; 5th, the Constitution of the United. States; 6th, the statutes and acts passed by Congress; and 7th, treaties w’ith foreign governments. The acts of Parliament referred to concern general rights recognized in this country as ’ well as in Great Britain. They have stood the test of legislative supervision and been re-enacted in several states. Hence they form, in
37°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
such instances, a portion of the statutory law, and can he modified or annulled only by act of the Legislature. The statutes adopted by the colonies stand upon a like footing with respect to authority. Such of them as seemed compatible with our interests and rights after the Revolutionary war were retained. The others were discarded. As • before stated, the' common law always yields and accommodates itself to the provisions of the statutes.
Fourth.—In looking for the origin of the Canon and the Civil Law we must go back to the time when the glory of the Roman Empire was in the ascendency and its sway predominated a large portion of the civilized world. The one system relates to the government and discipline of the Catholic Church; the other, to the government of the State and the administration of justice. The canon law consists of rules taken from the Holy Scriptures, the writings of the ancient Fathers, ordinances of general and provincial councils, and decrees of popes in former ages. The Church, being a complete and independent organization, has her own laws; rights, and rulers. Such of these laws as were given by Christ, or the Apostles in His name, are held ,to be immutable. But such as were promulgated by the ordinary ecclesiastical authority can be modified or abrogated at will. Consequently the discipline of the Church is partly changeable and partly unchangeable. A vast and powerful organization, whose ramifications extend to all parts of the globe must necessarily, while retaining in all essential points the same practice and laws, allow in minor things for those local differences which are required by climate, education, national characteristics, and multifarious circumstances. Therefore, in addition to the een-eral law of the Church, there are in different countries peculiar local rights, customs, and practices which form the code of churches in such countries. The decrees of the council which meets at Baltimore obtain throughout the United States. Bishops, assisted by the pastors of the most important parishes, have the right to prescribe rules of discipline for the government of their respective dioceses. While one small volume contains all the decrees of a dogmatical or immutable nature, many ponderous tomes might be filled with rules and regulations pertaining to discipline. The canon law is still in force in the ecclesiastical courts of England as well as in the courts of Oxford and Cambridge universities. ’
.The civil law comprises the constitutions of ancient kings;, the twelye tables of the Decemviri, laws or statutes enacted by the senate and people, edicts of the prsetors, opinions of /learned lawyers, and imperial decrees, or constitutions of successive . emperors. About the year 438 a code was compiled under direction of Theodosius the .Younger; and .nearly a century later, or in. 530,. Tribonian and his associates compiled .the celebrated code of ; Justinian. The code takes its name from the fact that Justinian, w(hq was then emperor, ordered the ’ work to be ;perfof med. This-comprises, 1st, the Institutes, which embody tHe elements of the
. Roman law, and consist of three books; 2d; the Digest or Pandects; which cohiprise 50 books, and contain the opinions and writings of eminent lawyers; 3d, a new code dr collection of imperial constitutions in 12 books; and 4th, the novels or new constitutions, which contain the latest laws. Altogether there are 168 books and 13 edicts comprised in the famous Corpus Juris Civilis. The courts of the prastdrs were, in many particulars, similar to courts of chancery or equity; as they exist among us at the present day. On the breaking up of the Roman Empire and the subjugation of its provinces by the barbarians, the people inhabiting these provinces were permitted to retain and be governed by their own law—that is to say, the civil law,—while the conquerors retained the laws of their respective nations. Gradually, however, the comparative superiority of the. civil law became manifest to them, and, little by7 little, they and their descendants adopted it. , Hence, the- civil law may be regarded as the foundation of* the laws obtaining at the present time in nearly all the nations of Europe. In France, Spain, arid Germany codes have been compiled and adopted, but-they are all founded upon,.and draw their inspiration from, the civil law. The most important of these is the Code Napoleon, and it is, indeed, an admirable compilation.
Napoleon was wont to say that posterity' would be more likely to do hiin honor for his services in compiling that Code than for all the matchless victories he won for France. In his celebrated speech on law reform, in .1828, Lord Brogham very- elegantly7 and eloquently7 refers to this. fact. • We may7 quote from it as fending to show, by7 its clever antitheses, not only the languid condition of the common law in England at.that time, but also the comparative vigor arid utility df the Code. Say7s he:
. “ You saw the greatest warrior of the age—conqueror pi Italy, humbler of Germany7, terror of the North—saw Him accountall his matchless victories poor compared with the triumph you are now in a condition to win—saw him.contemn the fickleness of, fortune, while, in spite .of her, he could pronounce his memorable boast: ‘I shall go down to posterity with the code in my hand!’ You have vanquished him in the field; strive now to rival him in the sacred arts of peace! Outstrip him as a law-giver whom in arms you overcame. J. . .. .. It was;the boast of Augustus— it formed part of the glare,.in which the perfidies of .his earlier years were lost—that he found Rome of brick and left it of niafble. But How much nobler will be'the sovereign’s boast, when he shall have it to say that he found law dear, and left it cheap; that he found it ia sealed .book, left it a living letter; found it a patrimony7 of the rich,.left it the inheritance of the poor; found it the Kvb-edged sword ■ of craft and oppression, left it tbie staff of Honesty arid the shield of innocence?”-
Fifth;-AThere ‘ is sometimes much confusion manifested in respect t'd a proper understanding of the difference between ihilitary "and martial laws. Military.law is the code enacted by the supreme legislative authBnty-^Cdrigfess. Tf is intended for the regulation ano g&vernnierit of tHe army and navy. It ‘tides ’not supersede or override the general law of tlie land—bn the contrary, it is,.practically a ^branchpfit. ..While more limited in the range of its Operation than the chancery7

THE NOTRE TAME SCHOLASTIC.	371
and admiralty laws; nevertheless it has a well-defined authority. Every man in the military service is amenable to the common law of the land; but, as a soldier, he is also subject to the military law.
. Martial law is called into requisition in a broader signification, as when war is in progress, or when revolution or insurrection seems imminent. The operation of the writ of habeas corpus being suspended, men who are suspected of cherishing active sympathy with the public enemy and entertaining treasonable intentions, may be arrested; consigned to prison, and kept there without trial until the apprehended danger shall have passed. When extreme measures of this nature are adopted; it is common to refer them to the operation of martial law. Practically, however, it is no law at all. In fact, it is virtually tantamount to the sus. pension of law. Inter anna silent leges, as a distinguished Roman pithily expresses it. As a rule, martial law is arbitrary and unjust in its methods. In-this country it is put into effect by act bf Cbn-
, gress. But in time of riot or grave and imminent peril, a state legislature may invoke its operation within the limits of the State. Under certain circumstances the executive, or even a military commander might proclaim and proceed to enforce it; but his action would be subject to review by the legislative body, which would be convened immediately should such an emergency arise; and if he failed correctly to anticipate its temper and purposes with regard to the extreme step taken, his action would be rendered void and condign punishment would be visited upon liim.. If he. acted prudently, however, his course would be sanctioned and .martial law would be formally proclaimed by the legislative power.
Some of the more, important classes of the law have now been briefly considered; and from the beginning of these remarks my purpose has been to place you in possession of additional information bearing upon this great subject. That must be my excuse for referring to the canon, martial and military laws. Under ordinary circumstances they would be regarded as foreign to a treatment of the subject under consideration. However, the few remarks made with reference to them are warranted, considering the motive that actuated me in speaking, namely, to impart additional information upon a number of obscure points in connection with the growth and development of the law. Besides, to borrow a figure from Cicero, there is a common chain running through, connecting, and binding together all laws. Each subserves its use and assists the others in holding together and strengthening the .great social fabric. In short, the law may be regarded as.the bulwark of security, the personification of justice, the’mother.of peace. Ashas been eloquently said: “ The Law —Her seat is the bosom of Gjod; her voice, the harmony of the world. . All things in heaven and on earth do her homage—the very least as feeling her care, and the very greatest as not exempt from her power. All—angels, and men, and the creatures—of what-condition soever, though each in a
different sort, yet all, with one consent, admire her as the mother of their peace?’
.	A Conalcon -Poem.
[In memory of the late Charles James -Kickham.]
[A Conalcon poem .is.one in the style of Amergin, son of Milesiiis and brother of Heber, Heremori arid Ir. .He alone bf Irish poets of bld wrote in this kind ofverSe. The last word of each verse must be the same as the first word of the following verse. I, merely attempt this style in English as an experiment.—T- K-	■
Kickham, thy halo’d grave is made, Made bn Ireland’s Holy soil;
Soil on which the fruits did lade—
Fade despite the constant toil	_
Toil and prayer. Prayer arid vow,	;
Vow’d and pray’d for the Island.fair.
Fond of the land that saw thee born,	• .
Born in the land that saw thee die;
Die and to see but the flush of morn, '	-
'	f 'u	■	,	'
Morn of freedom .on her sky,—	..
Sky and streams, Streams andtowers,	.
Towers illum’d in the golden beams. ■	v	‘	_
Thy harp is broke, thy-spirit fled,	_	'
Fled to thy home with God above;
Above thy tomb our tears are shed;	-
Shed for the fiard ’we learn'd to love,—	/ =
Love arid praise,	*
Praise and pride;—	.
Pride in thy noble Irish lays.	.
Sleep in peace till the trumpet sound,
Sound a call to the buried dead 1
Dead thb’ thou art, from thy sacred mound,.
Mound of death,, thou shalt raise thy head;
Head and heart,	.
Heart arid harp,—
Harp whose spirit now is fled.	.
Of sleep till thy country’s chains are broke, Broke by meh with hands like thine;
Thine object won; a gleam ’of hope—	.	-
Hope for’Erin’s fate may shine,2—
Shine on the tomb—	..
Tomb and hom'e,—	-
Home no longer deep in gloom._	;	.
Leave thy harp till then “ on a willow bough,” : Bough .that droops to the silver waye,—
Wave that sighs and speaks the.yew—	.
Vow that was spoken o’er tfiy. grave,—■
’	Grave and sod,	•
. Sod and rest! .	.	.
Rest thee till then above with God!	_ .
Joseph K. For ax.	<
—Theharf. .	t
Lesson in Eolitical -,EcoNbMY:—“ Is time money?” ; “Yes, .sir, .it is?’ “ Prove it.by anillustration.” “ Well, if you give-twenty-five cents to -a. couple of tramps, it’s a quarter to two.”—Ex
yp	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Art, Music, and Literature.
—Clark Mills, the sculptor, died in Washington, on Friday, January the 12th.
—Richard Wagner, the eminent “musician of the future,” died last •week, aged 70 years.
' —Goathe’s grandson, Wolfgang von Grethe, died lately, at^re age of sixty-three, at Leipzig.
—A translation of “ Hiawatha ” into Greek verse has been published at Leipzig, by M. Pervan-oglou.
—A statue of the late Prince Imperial was unveiled at the Military Academy, Woolwich, by the Prince of Wales, on the 13th inst.
—Hannibal Hamlin has given to Colby University a copy of the Christopher Columbus oil portrait in the .Naval Museum, at Madrid, supposed to be the only authentic likeness of the great discoverer.
—It is not perhaps generally known, and it may be of interest to learn, that Planter’s Hotel, St. Louis, which has been burnt down, had the honor of sheltering the late Charles Dickens during his first tour through the States, and that it was in this hostelry that the eminent novelist wrote a portion of “ Martin Chuzzlewit.”
—Gustave Dore was buried at Pere-la-Chaise, after a religious service at the Church of Sainte Clotilde. The chief mourners were his two brothers and his brother-in-law, Dr. Michel. Three orations were pronounced at the grave, including one by Alexandre Dumas. The statue of the elder Dumas, Dora’s last work, on which he was engaged all last year, is now being cast in bronze.
—A new Chinese newspaper has made its appearance in New York. Mr. Wong Ching Foo is the editor-in-chief, and the publishers, at No. 189 and 191 Chatham street, are Messrs. E. P. & L. P. Cole. The Chinese American, is a four-page weekly paper somewhat smaller than The Sun. It is to publish the news, or so much of it as is likely to interest its readers. The matter it will contain is written or selected by Mr. Wong Ching Foo, who dictates it to a Chinese scribe. He in turn prints dr paints it with India-ink and a pointed stick upon sheets of paper, from which it is photo-lithographed, and then printed from the stone .in the shape in which it appears. The publishers say that but for this process the publication would be impossible by reason of its cost.
—The American tariff on works of art is without precedent in the civilized or barbarous world of to-day. Other governments exert themselves to obtain works of art from abroad, and to hold fast those which conquest, purchase, or native genius has given them. The one great country of the world that has neither inherited nor produced great works of art is the one country in the world that, through the. short-sighted selfishness of a passed, or passing, generation of artists, and the proverbial ignorance and stupidity of. its legislators in all aesthetic matters, sets up a troublesome barrier against the admis-'
sion of art works to any part of its enormous do-	?
mains! And it does it-by means of a law which	;
in effect discriminates in favor of the rich, and	•
against the poor man,—who might be content	;
with a photograph, a plaster cast, an engraving, or	;
an original not made costly by an excessive im-	:
post. The Tariff Commission has openly declared	j
that the present duties are for the protection of	!
home artists. Every American artist who avow-	:
edly or tacitly consents to the tariff as it is, and	,
who refuses to join in the movement now started	1
for its entire abrogation, should be down on the
*	J
records, and descend to history, as an obstruction-	:
ist, as a child of darkness, not of light.—From	;
“ Topics of the Time” in the February Century.	i
—We learn from a private letter addressed to	L
•the Rev. Nicholas Stoffel, C. S. C., that Father	;
Michael Muller, C. SS. R., has completed his new	;
series of popular theological works entitled “ God	;
the Teacher of Mankind; Or, Popular Catholic Theology, Apologetical, Dogmatical, Moral, Liturgical, Pastoral and Ascetical,” in nine volumes, and that the three concluding volumes are ‘	r
now in the hands of different printers and will be	•
ready in a few months. Father Muller is an in-	'
defatigable worker. The amount of literary work .	I
that passes through his hands is surprising, the	|
more so when it is taken into consideration that he	I
can only write after the fulfilment of his duties as	1
priest, religious and superior. The general titles of the volumes'of the series are: I, The Church and	1
tier Enemies; II, The Apostles’ Creed; III, The	t
Greatest and the First Commandment; IV, Explanation of the Commandments Continued, the Pre-	|
cepts of the Church, Vices and Virtues, Christian	I
Perfection, etc; V, The Dignity, Authority, and	!
Duties of Parents; Ecclesiastical and Civil Pow-	I
ers; Their Enemy; VI, Grace and the Sacra-	|
ments; VII, The Holy Sacrifice of the Mass;	I
VIII, The Sacraments of the Holy Eucharist and	|
Penance; IX, Sacraments, Prayer, etc. Father	|
Muller’s style is pleasing and attractive; his books	I
are so enlivened with the historic and other in-	1
cidents with which they are so liberally inter-	|
spersed that the reader’s attention is held through-	I
out.	I
—Among the ancient MS. poetry in the British	I
Museum one on the Escurial {temp. Charles I)	|
has been brought to light. We present- the fol-	i
lowing extract. It may possibly have some in-	|
fluence upon those who seek the conversion of the	I
benighted Romanists.	*
, Within the Covent everything is pure;.	*
! No ornament profane into that doore .. ...
May press, nor hysfory'but of some Saint' Dye the Religious wall with blushing paint. There holy vestments many a coffer fill y (Rich in the matter, richer in the skill)
To decke the Spouse. There thousand Relicks are, . Sought by the king, whose gripeing hand did spare . Nought that was sacred. Above all behold
The Pictures there, too num’rous to bee told, ’	-	'
Too pretious; and; they are all of the Blest, -	-
And all Christ’s Acts are lively there exprest.	-
Behold Him borne a man, or God Exild,
* The Doctors taught their lesson by a Child,-	-
HisFather’s wisedom. See, the Temple purg’d, .	-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
373
The money-changers from their Boards being scourgd.
Loe there His miracles successively;
Loe here His Supper, there His Agony.
Ah, how the bloody pencil here doth wound
His tender body, to the pillar bound;	'	-
There crucifyd, alas, He yeilds His breath. . ‘ Butt here He triumphs over Hell and Death.
You have Him all; and by Him (as was meete) The Magdalene who bathd His blessed feete.
But oh, her Teares! and could he paynt them too?. A sinner wisht them his, they seemd so true.
Yet what so hard but Art, made prowd, essayes? Since Heav’n it selfe (whose outward Beautys daze Many feeble Eyes, butt from whose inward light The Angells with their wings must skreene their sight When in the dreadfull Presence they doe stand) Is there decyfer’d by bold Tytian’s hand;
Where, though it fay Id, yett something heav’nly takes Our sence, our soule, and love of Heav’n awakes.
Such is the Covent. On the other side
The Col ledge is with Library s supply’d:
One stord with printed books, another fraught With Manuscripts from divers Countrys brought, Butt most which in Arabicke letters writt Contayne the deepest misteyrs of witt From the Turks’ hands the Christians didgaine; So Mars his spoiles Minerva intertayne.
And round their Pictures fittly placed bee
Whom their great Learning from the darkedoth free; And shee, who robs from none his envyd prayse, Posterity......	'	'
Breath here; unto the Palace then proceede.
There other Paintings, other objects feed
The honour-starred mind.	’
Books and Periodicals.
—St. Nicholas for January and February have been on our table for some time, but on account of the semis and other matters we have been unable to call attention to them. With'one notable exception, the stories and pictures in these numbers are of the highest order of merit. Clara Erskine Clement’s interesting “ Stories of Art and Artists” are continued in the February number,—with illustrations, as usual. Frost’s illustrations of “Fairy Wishes Nowadays” are nearly as good as Palmer Cox’s “Cat and the Mouse” in the November number,—the funniest thing we have seen in a long while. Mr. Cox’s illustrations of “ The Brownies’ Ride ” are also godd; and Taber’s pictures of t(ie Norwegian skee-run-ners, in “Work and Play for Young Folk” will be enjoyed by the boys. Barnes’s pictures in “ The Jingling Rhyme” are splendid specimens of the' graver’s art. While these and other pictures, and the stories of “The Tinkham Brothers’ Tide Mill” and' “The Field’of the Cloth of Gold” will be enr: joyed, we think’ the sketch of Elizabeth Thompson Butler and the groups from her famous “RollCall” will be the attractive feature to the older readers. " St. Nicholas is quite an Art Gallery for the young folks,-but it is. a pity that it should sometimes be used for a bad purpose—slander. The one notable exception mentioned above is “The Story of Viteau,” by Frank'R. Stockton, which contains a’ direct insult to the Catholic readers of St. Nicholas, repeated and re-repeated, and moreover illustrated^ by one Birch, with a
fanciful idea of one of the most unlikely things in the world, a fierce monk—a wolf in sheep’s clothing—angrily shaking his fist at the steward and young master of the house he has just left, and in which he has been kindly treated! This is not all; beneath the insult there is the injury, of course, for people do not insult others gratuitously. The editor, it is true, disclaims, in. ariswer^to .a private remonstrance against the Inquisition episode, any. intention on her part or that of-the writer to wound the feelings of others, but, all the same, the injury is done, and Mrs. Dodge and'Mr. Stockton must consider their Catholic readers very stupid not to be aware of it and feel it keenly. We quote the Freemanis yotirnal:
“The ‘Story of Viteau,’” writes-the editor, “was accepted, not because of the introduction of the Inquisition episode, but in spite of it.”- She regards that episode as an objection to the story. “ But when,” she writes, very courteously—“ as with ‘ The Story of Viteau ’—a completed serial is offered us which has in it an element of this kind, subordinated, but yet so woven through that its omission would necessitate the re-writing of nearly the entire story—then we are forced (like all other editors in similar cases) to make choice between taking the story or foregoing it in-favor of some rival publication. We are . sure, too, that in the present instance, the author has made use of this element in nowise dogmatically, but purely as literary material. Mr. Stockton could have had no intention to press or present a one-sided view.” We are sure that Airs. Dodge would not wilfully insult the religious belief of' any of her admirers, who are legion, and we hope that in future Mr. Stockton, the creator of the delightful “ Pomona” in “ Rudder Grange,” will not meddle with Church history.
Mrs. Dodge is certainly fairer in this respect than , Charles Dickens, who refused a story from Harriet Martineau—and, to her credit be it said, she never sent him another—because a Catholic priest was favorably presented in it. This is the first time we have seen anything objectionable in the 37. Nicholas, and we hope it will be the last. As to the author’s using the episode as “purely literary material,” we can assure him his statements and implications are false in every point. We sin-, cerely hope Mr. Stockton “ will not meddle with Church history” again until he knows whereof he treats, for he has been greatly misled in regard to the Inquisition and its relation to the Church. In regard to the Inquisition, because it was not such as he supposes it, and because it was not upder the government of the Church or Church dignitaries. Moreover, property confiscated by the tribunal of. the Inquisition did not go to the ’ Church, but 'wholly to the state. The Inquisition was a royal affair, created by the king and not by the Church. As the French Protestant historian Guizot remarks (Hist. Mod., Leet, ii): “ L’lnquisition, 2 fut, d’abord, plus politique, que religieuse; et .destinee a maintenir 1’ordre, plus tot qu’a defendre la foi,”— it was a tribunal created by kings in time of se- . rious trouble to aid the police, and tolerated by the Church on condition that some of its members be . ecclesiastics, in order to check excesses of the temporal power on the score of religion; for the chief, disturbers of the peace in those times were the Moors, the Lollards, and the Albigenses, thus bringing the-question of religion into play. We could very easily prove that the Inquisition, such as it
374
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
was, an arm of the secular power, was not the iniquitous, blood-thirsty tribunal represented in Protestant books, but this is not the place to enter into a lengthy historical review. Besides the overwhelming weight of Catholic testimony that could be ad- ; duced, Protestant and infidel evidences of the most | unquestionable kind are not wanting. Voltaire, Montesquieu, Bourgoing, and many others who have inveighed'against the Inquisition, candidly allow that its enemies have attributed to it a multitude of cruelties and excesses of which it is wholly guiltless. Voltaire even reproaches these men j with having forged a number of false tales and doubtful facts, for the express purpose of inflaming । the public mind and rendering the institution hate- j ful. Count Pollnitz, in his “Mcmoires ” says, ad- ! dressing a Protestant'friend on the Inquisition, “ I i cannot ’ imagine in what that barbarity consists ; which you Protestants attribute to the Inquisition. Oh the contrary, it is, in my opinion, the mildest and most lenient tribunal that exists.” And he gives his reasons for thinking sb. And as to those against whom the Inquisition was called into existence, the English Protestant Southey, in his “ Book of the Church,” speaking of the sect of Lollards, savs: « Undoubtedly the’Lollards were highly dangerous. The greater number of them were eager for havoc; and held opinions incompatible voith the peace of society. They would have stripped the churches; de-strdyed the monasteries; confiscated the church lands; and proclaimed the principle that the. Saints should possess the earth. Public safety required that sqch opinions should be repressed, founded, as they were, upon gross error.” Of the. Albigenses, ( another Protestant historian, Mosheim (Eccles. 1 Hist., Vol III) says: “Certain writers who have accustomed themselves to entertain a high idea of the sanctity of all those who, in the Middle Ages, separated themselves from the. Church of Rome, suspect the Inquisitors of haying attributed falsely impious doctrines to the Albigenses. But this suspicion is entirely groundless. ’ Their shocking, violation (f decency was a consequence of their pernicious system. They looked, upon decency and modesty, as marks cf inavard. corruption. Certain enthusiasts among them maintained that the believer could nof sin, let his conduct be ever so horrible or attrocious.” Aiid these were the saints that the Ipquisitiqn was called into being, by the kings, tow^ch and examine! How different the idea entertained of the Inquisition by Mr. Stockton, that it was.composed of monks or priests who sneaked themselves, into the houses of Catholic families to s.ee whether some of the old ladies did entertain some “ strange, religious ideas,” in order that they might he punished, and their property confiscated—to the Church! Count Pollnitz’s opin. ion, of the. leniency of. the tribunal of the Inquisition is confirmed by the fact' that the Knight Templars, >yhen seized by Philip of France, earnestly petitioned to be tried by the Inquisition, “Knowing, well,” say their" historians, “ that if they could only succeed, in. obtaining it§ members for their judges, they should- nun no I'isk of being condemned to <^athf Aiid* why? * Bycause there.
were ecclesiastics in that tribunal, and no ecclesiastic could give even his consent to a sentence of death, under pain of being suspended. Count de Maistre asserts, in his “ Letters on the Inquisition,” that that tribunal11 never, itself, condemns anyone to death; and on no occasion will there be found' the name of any priest inscribed on any warrant for such execution.” It is an eternal axiom of our religion that the Church abhors violence and bloodshed. Pascal, well known in certain Protestant circles chiefly because he opposed the Jesuits, says:
“ The Church, the chaste Spouse of the Son of God. is always, in imitation of this merciful Being, prepared and ready to shed her blood for the sake of others, but not to shed that of others for her own sake. She entertains the most decided horror of bloodshed, proportioned to that particular light which God has communicated to her. She considers men not simply as men, but as the images of the God whom she adores. She cherishes for each and every individual that holy respect which renders them all venerable in her sight, as haying been purchased and redeemed at an infinite price, in order to become, one day, the temples of the living God. For these reasons it is that she looks upon the death of an individual, inflicted without an order from God, not only as an act of murder, but more- . over as a sacrilege, depriving her thus of one of her members; because, whether the person thus sacrificed be one of the faithful or not, she still ahvays considers him cither as being one of her children or as capable of becoming such?'
Hence it can be seen that the Inquisition was not as it is generally represented ; but even with all its leniency it was thought too severe by the Popes. Rev. Michael Muller, C. SS.R., in the last of his admirable books, “ The Church and Her Enemies,” lately issued, savs in a foot-note:
“From the beginning of the action of this political institution [the Inquisition] Pope Sixtus IV was exceedingly displeased with it. He urged his objections so strongly that the ambassadors of both courts were ordered to leave their respective stations, and Ferdinand commanded all his subjects to leave Rome. The Pope also commanded that the Inquisition should not be established in any other province. The Holy Father did all in his power to stop the persecutions, and to lighten the punishments in other cases. He also insisted that the 'civil rights and the property. of every condemned person should be restored to that person, or, if he was dead, to his children. Pope Leo X excommunicated the Inquisitors of Toledo. Pope Paul lit lamented bitterly the severity of the Spanish Inquisition, and assisted those who opposed its introduction into Naples. Pope Pius IV aided St. Charles Borromeo in keeping it out of Milan. These facts are verified in Llor-ente’s work, and in Prof. Hefele’s Epitome of Llorente in his ‘Ximenes.’ . ; . It would-be great folly in any one to blame the Church-for the .excesses committed by her members, which she disowns, abhors, and condemns. No one can produce a brief from a Pope or an act of council sanctioning religious persecution. The Catholic Church is, indeed,’opposed to heresy, but the only -weapons she opposes to it are the explanation of her doctrine to non-Catholics, and charity, and meekness toward them.”
From all this it can be seen how far. Mr. Stockton has been misled, and how far he has, consequently, misstated history in “ The Story of Viteau.”	_
They had quarrelled, and she was waiting for him.to begin the peace; at length he said, “ fefa-doref^ “ Shut it yourself,” saijl she. He did, and she. isz still waiting.—Ex, '	’ -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Exchanges.

—The holiday number of Brownes Phonographic Monthly is an exceptional issue, containing portraits and brief sketches of 20 pioneer Stenographers, and will, no doubt, obtain a large circulation. Among other interesting reading-matter is a sketch of “Pennsylvania Pioneers,” by E. D. York, and a long list of excerpts from introduc-tories of short-hand authors. The subscription price of the Monthly is $2 a year. Address, D. L. Scott-Browne, 23 Clinton Place, New York.
—The average enrollment of the Northern Indiana Normal School is about 1,200. Within the past two years we have receiveci 1,250 subscriptions.to the Penman's Art Journal from this institution alone.—Penman's Art Journal.
The Hoosiers know how to appreciate a good paper when they see it. The Scholastic has persistently advocated the claims of the Penman's Art Journal upon students everywhere, and although we have not been the means of obtaining as many subscribers in the University as we could wish, we are glad to know that our efforts have at least been more successful elsewhere. We advise all our readers interested in good penmanship to send 10 cents for a specimen copy of the Penman's Art Jotcrnal to 205 Broadway, New York.
—The Harvard Herald a few days ago published the following item: o
“ The students of Boston College have begun the publication of the Boston College Stylus. But what is Boston college, and where is it? ”
And here, sure enough, we find the Stylus, among a pile of exchanges that had accumulated on our desk and hidden it from sight. It is a handsomely printed twelve-page sheet, and from the manner in which the new editors enter the field we judge they will be able to speak for themselves and their college. From the tenor of the Herald's item we think it was high time for the Boston College to start a paper. Boston College is, of course, located in Boston, a suburb of Cambridge, and noted in history foi- a little tea episode. We extend the new Boston paper a cordial welcome and hope it will in time become the “boss” tony paper.
—The Phonetic Journal, published and edited by Isaac Pitman, the inventor of the art of Phonostenography, is published weekly from the Phonetic Institute, Bath, England. The January numbers contain the excellent “ Lecture on Phrase-ography” recently delivered in London by Thos.,; Allen Reed, the world-renowned reporter and writer on stenography, and in the issue for January the 27th is begun the publication in serial form of “ The Reporter’s Assistant and Learner’s Guide,” a work that will prove inyaluable to reporters anti students. Like the “ pradus ” and everything coming from Mr. Pitman, it fills a void, and should be in the hands of eyery phonographic student. It -wjll undoubtedly bring, large lists of new subscribers to The Phonetic Journal. Besides the Reporter’s Assistant,!’ articles in the
Corresponding, Easy Reporting and Brief Reporting styles appear weekly in the Journal. Price of subscription, $1.50 a year.	'
—The enterprising publisher of The Illustrated Catholic American issued on the 10th a splendidly illustrated “ Hughes Memorial Number,” to commemorate the transfer of the remains of the Most Rev. Archbishop Hughes from the old to the new Cathedral. The editor of the Hpustrafed American truthfully says that “no more fitting resting-place could be found for the dust of "the great and holy man than beneath the noble Cathedral whose magnificence he planned ’and whose foundations he blessed.” The first page of the Memorial Number of the I. C. A. is taken up with a splendid picture of Archbishop Hughes’s body as it lay in state previous to burial. This illustration is given, says the editor, because so competent an authority as Dr. John Gilmary Shea pronounces the sketch from which it was taken the best and most characteristic likeness of the Archbishop that he had ever seen. Besides this, there is a full-page picture of the new Cathedralj which Archbishoo Hughes had begun. The memorial matter is excellent. This number also contains a fine full-page portrait of Wm. Cullen Bryant, from a pen-drawing by Steinhaus. The Illustrated Catholic American is a high-toned picture and story-paper. Price of subscription $3 a year.	.
—We clip the following from the Otterbein Record's “Round Table”:
“1 With shining morning face ’ comes regularly to us the Notre Dame Scholastic, and we do not object, as some carping college critics do, to the numerous ‘Rolls of Honor,’ seeing that there is always in the other pages enough of good and timely matter, editorial and contributed, to satisfy a reasonable taste. However, a little less of the ‘ Church ’ and a little more of ‘pure and undefiled religion ’ would be more to our fancy.”
Thanks for your kind compliment, friend Otterbein. As to the “ Church ” matter, however, we shall continue to crave your forbearance until such time as our confreres of the college press, and the editors and contributors to the non-Catholic newspapers and magazines generally, cease the fe-hash- . ing of old and oft-refuted slanders against the Catho-lie Church. Even in the stories for children these slanders are brought in, as vou will see from the comments on the St. Nicholas magazine in another column. Our writers are on their mettle, it seems, and their spontaneous effusions are—we were going to say in self-defence, but the routing of a host of calumniators seems to have changed the aspect of affairs from the defensive to'the aggressive.7 On '
' such, questions as the Church and the Inquisition, Galileo and the Inquisition, the Church' and the St. Bartholemew Massacre, the Church and Civil and Religious Liberty, etc., etc., as generally put forward by the majority of non-Catholics, we have by all odds the advantage,—lying’ “historians” to the contrary notwithstanding—and it is our fault if we don’t soon silence the calumniators'. So we pray you, and others who are kindly dis-pbsed, to have patience with us;-there is more of the same sort coming, but the fault is not purs. "
376
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC."
Notre Dame, February 24, 1883.
:The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre. Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Sixteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the' favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry. Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Siyo per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Our Staff
Geo. E. Clarke, ’83.
Albert F. Zahm, ’83.
T. Ewing Steele, ’84.
Wm. H. Arnold, ’83. R. M. Anderson, ’83. J.Larkin (Law),’83.
The Thespians.
Washington’s Birthday is one of the days that will never die at Notre Dame. Through a strange, though perhaps explicable reason, the observance of the day by the community at large has fallen into almost absolute neglect. But here it is celebrated with all possible eclat; it is raised to a plane upon which it stands among Notre Dame’s festal days, second only to one other—and that may be styled our family festival. We need not dwell upon the good influence which this commemoration is calculated to produce upon the minds of all; suffice it to say that, especially in a country like ours—so vast and extensive—the determinino-*	o
motive actuating the thoughts and deeds of our citizens should, next to the love of God, be the love'of country. And-what nobler example1 of patriotism . can be set before us than that given -by him whose memory we seek to perpetuate—■ George Washington?
From time immemorial—we might say by prescriptive -. right-—the Thespians have undertaken the celebration of this day, and invariably with credit to. themselves. This year was no exception. At half-past .five, on Wednesday evenings a large and critical audience—such an audience as one ' might expect to see at Commencement—was found ■ gathered-in the Academy of .Music.. The exer
cises were opened by the Band with a very appropriate piece, a medley of national airs. Barring a little “stoppage in transitu” at the outset, the piece was well rendered, and the unique and hu-\Ncri6x\sinterlocking of-old familiar ditties received great ap'plaiTse'J' Next came the Grand'Chorus by:s the Orpheonics, and it was given in a style that reflected careful training. ■ We- are-glad to note the interest that has-been awakened in vocal mu sic; its good effects are already apparent. The chorus by the Vocal Class, and the beautiful duet from “ Norma,” rendered later in the evening bv Masters Johnston and Schott, constituted a very agreeable feature of the Entertainment.
The Oration of the Day, written and delivered by Mr. William H. Arnold, was a creditable production. It was, indeed, regrettable that the arrangement of the stage was such as to compel the speaker to stand so far back that at times he could not be .heard. Notwithstanding this defect, the speech merited and received great applause. When Mr. Arnold had concluded, Mr. J. P. O’Neill stepped forward and, . in graceful style, delivered the “Prologue,” an original and appropriate effort. Rossini’s beautiful. Overture to Semiramis was rendered by the,Orches-tra with all its wonted taste and skill. With this closed the first part of the program.
The second part consisted of the play, our notice of which may be prefaced with the following critique of its subject:
Julius Caesar.
Caius Julius Ciesar was born in Rome 100 vears before the beginning of the Christian era— or, to be more specific, on the twelfth day of the month ^icintilis^ or Julius (July), as it was subsequently named in his honor. His father, who likewise bore the name of Caius Julius Caesar, was a man of praetorian rank, though in no way noted for great deeds or brilliant qualities. The mother, however, -who belonged to the family of Aurelius Cotta, was a woman of marked force of character, and the impress of her nature and disposition may be discerned in many of the traits that signalized the son. - .	■
Even in early youth, Cassar was distinguished by extraordinary precocity.. He was noted for capacity to learn readily; while his memory was exceptionally retentive. His imagination was characterized by ah oriental warmth and richness; but, above all, he was indefatigable in diligence and industry. Many-a man who has written his name in conspicuous ahd- ineffaceable' characters, not-.alo'ne. upon -the pages of his: mation’s- history; but also upon the pages of the-wofld’s brightest annals, has-defined what' men- call - genius ” as -nothing, more than “a capacity for hard'work,” supplemented by a willingness" to engage and persist in if. And this capacity Caesar possessed in an extraordinary measure. . When necessary, in connection ■with his duties he could-work;-i8 hoiirs or more daily without -manifesting . umisual : fatigue. His singular^ power of endurance, as- thus exhibited, - was 'Te-" garded'by" his^edntemporaries as inexplicable, and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
in
even so it has seemed to students of history in later ages, when viewed in connection with his comparatively imperfect physical development. Tall and spare in person, with face pale, body weak, blood meagre in quantity, and epileptic fits, a persistent and incurable infirmity, he was far from conforming to the physical standard of a typical hero and great leader. It was next to impossible satisfactorily to understand whence he derived his marvellous energy, matchless adaptability, indefatigable endurance, and signal depth, breadth and brilliancy of mind. Even in a more marked degree than Cassius, “he had a lean and hungry look”; and, judging by outward appearance, it was indeed difficult to invest him with the attributes of “ foremost man of all this world,” or regard him as at all entitled to so exalted a distinction. But, nevertheless, this “demoniac man,” as Niebuhr terms him, so bore himself toward the world—so squared himself and his acts toward his contemporaries and the events of his time—as to force-a general recognition of his claim to even that distinction.
In the case of Caesar the mind, and not the body, constituted the man; and in range and power his mind bordered upon the phenomenal. Nature seems to delight from time to time in interrupting the established order of things. Her freaks are occasionally witnessed in nearly all her operations. Not unfrequenth', as everybody is aware, she gives scope to her freaks even in connection with operations relative to mankind—and giants, men and women of gigantic stature, come into the world and grow up among us. And sometimes, too, she shows as much inclination to exhibit-her wonders in the domain of intellect as in that of physical development. Of this Caesar afforded a striking example. Nature accomplished in his case one of her freaks, and associated a giant intellect with a comparatively indifferent and feeble frame. But it was not the mind alone, remarkable though it was, that made him “ the foremost man of the world.” Frequently men of the strongest, richest, and most profound minds accomplish but very little, make only a slight impression upon their age. Circumstances mav be unfavorable-'to stimulating them to an exhibition of their latent powers. There may be no incentive to arouse their reserved force or induce them to'pass beyond the circumscribed boundaries defining the acts and thoughts of their contemporaries. The physical and the mental parts may not co-operate harmoniously, as when a man is naturally indolent and averse to putting forth any effort not manifestly necessary. But with Cassar and in Caesar’s time .it was different; The physical part of his nature was wholly subordinate-and .obedient to'the.mental. Faction had ruled in the state, and corruption permeated the government. The Senate and the plebeians were not in accord. Affairs were in an unsettled condition, and everytning was in readiness, if directed by a vigorous mind and strong hand, to undergo a radical change. Sb stood public affairs in Caesar’s boyhood, and so they remained when he attained to manhood.
At a very early age Caesar exhibited much in-
• terest in politics. In fact, when only 17 years of { age, he procured a divorce from the wife of his.
* boyhood, a girl -named Cossutia, in order that he: might marry Cornelia, a daughter of Cinna, who -was a distinguished leader of the democratic or popular party. He‘ aimed thereby to strengthen himself politically and further his influence with that party. Some time prior -to Caesar’s-second„ marriage, his aunt Julia had become the wifeZ'bf Marius, who was also a noted leader hythe popular party. Sylla was the recognized - chief of the opposing political organization—the party of the ■ patricians and aristocrats. He was among the first to discern “ many a Marius” in young Caesar, and. . he sought to persuade him to repudiate his wife Cor- J nelia and abandon the popular party. Caesar declined to comply with Sylla’s suggestions, whereupon he was deprived of his wife’s dowry, the little fortune he had inherited, and the office of fla-men dialis—priest of J upiter—which he then held. Soon • afterward he fled to Asia Minor, and found refuge with Nicomedes, king of Bithynia, until after the death of Sylla, when he returned to Rome. One of his first acts after returning was to indict Dola-bella for extortion in Macedonia, and he made a
' powerful speech against the accused before the ' senate. But the senate, acting as jury in the matter, naturally shielded and saved its friend and patron. The fame he acquired by this speech made him seriously think of cultivating eloquence and devoting himself to oratorv. With this view he set out for Rhodes, proposing to study under Molo, Cicero’s teacher. On the way, he was captured by a band of Sicilian pirates, who detained him 38 days and forced him to pay a ransom of $30,000. He was then set on shore, the landing being effected at the Island of Delos. Immediately after-’ ward he organized a small fleet and pursued the pirates. Overtaking them, he forced them to surrender, took them ashore, and crucified every one' of them. He then, at the age of 26, entered upon his studies at Rhodes. He remained there but a short time. Learning that he had been chosen one of the fo?itificcs at Rome, he returned to that city. He made himself very popular by his affability, careless deportment, and open-handed generosity.' When 31 years of age he was chosen a military tribune, and in the following year he was elected quaestor. In his 35th yeai* he was elected aedile. While serving in this capacity, he ordered magni- ' ficent games for the people at his own expense, and gave numerous costly festivals. And thus, his debts accumulated in great, magnitude—some say several .million dollars... He next became Pontifex • Maximus and Praetor. In the latter capacity he se-. lected Spain as the province he preferred to gov-T -em; but before he could leave the: city his friend. Cassius had to become his security for nearly $5,- ■ 000,000. his debts.reaching that enormous amount. He waged a cruel war against the Spanish tribes. . In a few months, however, he returned to Rome \ . in order .to become a candidate for Consul. He ' ’ was elected, , and he greatly increased his pop- " . ularity by the evident leaning of .his sympathies with the plebeians. At this - time he formed the- *
THE NOTRE DAME 'SCHOLASTIC.
' triumyirate, associating with himself Rompey and Cassius. When his term of office closed, he was given the government of Cisalpine Gand, for five years. Afterward the whole of Gaul was added to his charge. And then, in his 41st year, he began to distinguish himself as the greatest and most successful soldier Rome ever produced. He conquered Gaul and invaded Germania and Britannia The quarrel between him and the Senate party haying become extreme, he marched upon his enemies at Rome, and they dispersed before him. At the age of 52 he was “ the foremost man of all the world.”. The battle of Pharsalia had been fought, the senate party had been ruined, and Pompey had been killed. Everywhere victory perched upon his eagles. “ Veni, vidi, vici” fitly expressed the rapidity and result of his campaigns. The people of Rome meanwhile flattered him in every possible manner and raised him to a plane with the gods. It was then that a few earnest men—persons of prominence, and friends of the Republic and the old patrician party—determined to take his life. They formed a conspiracy, and then killed him in the Senate. The people at large naturally sympathized with Caesar, and Shakespeare’s great drama tells the rest.
The Play
has been presented several times in years past, but old-timers say that the representation on Wednesday evening was the best they had ever witnessed. The “ title role ” was taken by Mr. Elmer Otis, who appeared with grace and dignity. Mr. W. S. Cleary was very effective as 11 l^Iarc Antony ”—in particular, the speech over the dead body of Cassar , was excellently given. “ Brutus ” and “ Cassius ” the two great characters of the drama, found skilful interpreters with Messrs. C. A. Tinley and G. E. Clarke. Both of these gentlemen entered with earnestness into the spirit of their parts and displayed a perfect command of voice and gesture. The famous “ Quarrel Scene ” was given in a manner to elicit rounds of applause. The role of Octavius Ciesar was well sustained by Mr. H. Noble. Joseph O’Neill as “Casca,”~T. F. Steele, as “Cinna,” Albert Zahm, as “Lepidus,” W. S. Bolton, as “ Trebonius,” W. J. O’Connor, as “Cimber,” Frank Quinn, as “Ligarius,” Joseph F. Grever, as “ Titinius,” D. C. Saviers, as “ Lucius,” O. B. Spencer, as “ Artemidorus,” j. B. O’Reilly, as “ The Soothsayer,” and J. R. Marlett, as “the chief citizen,” played their parts with, spirit. On the. whole, the performance was a success, and creditable alike to the actors and their energetic director. As Judge Hubbard said in his closing remarks, so realistic was the performance made, that the audience were brought, back to* the days of an7 cient Rome. - ” .	'
D,tiring the evening, a pleasing diyertisement was occasioned by the appearance' of Mrs. Hr. Schep-pers, of- Chicago, who, faypred the audience with sonje of hex .yocal gems. The lady has a fine, well-cultiyated soprano voice of great poxyer and compass, which she displayed to’great advantage. * Qn th^, conclusion.|ne play, president. Walsh arose
and introduced the Hon. Lucius Hubbard, of South Bend, who made few pointed and well-timed remarks concerning the anniversary commemorated, at the same time.complimenting all who took part in the exhibition.
* *
A painful accident occurred early in the evening, which, if it had been generally known, would have put a speedy termination to the performance. The worthy Director, Prof. J. A. Lyons, was frightfully burned in face and hands by the explosion of a package of gunpowder which was being used to pioduce lightning effects. Through the earnest efforts of the Professor, all excitement was allayed behind the scenes; and, though enduring terrible pain, he withstood all entreaties to be conveyed to the Infirmary, until he had every assurance that the play would proceed without interruption. It was at first thought that serious, if not fatal, results would follow; but, with the care and attention which he is receiving, his condition is gradually improving, and, in a short time, we hope to see him once more in our midst. Mr. C. C. Kolars was slightly burnt, but was soon able to be around.
Obituary.
Brother Thomas, C. S. C.
On Sunday last, the remains of one long and familiarly known to many a student, old and new, of Notre Dame, were consigned to their last rest,	7	•_	o
ing-place. Brother Thomas, whose duties foi- almost the last twenty years had brought him into close contact with the students, has passed away to receive, we have every confidence, the reward of the years spent in the service of his God. Quiet and retired in disposition, he was respected by all who knew him, and we are sure that the old students of No'tre Dame, when the sad news reaches them, will say from their hearts: May he rest in peace!
. Personal.
—David Hyland, ’65, is chief of the Electric Fire Department in Chicago.
—James Norfleet, of ’78, is studying law at ‘ Tarboro, North Carolina, and doing well.
—Wm. Howland (Cpm’l), ’65, is in the wholesale Hat & Cap business in Denver, Colorado.
—Wallace A. Dodge, ’65, is at the head of a large manufacturing business in Mishawaka, Ind.
—John A. Gibbons, of ’80, is a student in the College of Physicians and Surgeons, Keokuk, Iowa. . ‘	*	...	.	.
—Frank	Baldwin JQorn’l),J6i, holds an im-.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	379
portant position in the office of the C. & W. R.R., [ Chicago.	'
—AV. H. Longley (Com’l), ’65, is in the dry- i goods establishment of Mr. John Brownfield, j South Bend, Ind.	j
—Thos. EI. Bulla, ’65, is Book-keeper in the ; celebrated Studebaker Carriage & Wagon Manu- ! factory, South Bend.
—Rev. M. B. Brown,’62, one time Professor of Philosophy at Notre Dame, is now the popular and energetic rector at Wellsville, Ohio.
—Geo. Nester, ’79, of Detroit, paid a short visit to his brothers, students here, last week. George is looking as well as usual. He is assisting his father in the lumber business.
—AV. Adams Widdicombe, of ’78, has gone abroad for the benefit of his health, which, we regret to learn, has been failing for some time past. We hope that he will return greatly improved by his trip.
—W. J. McDevitt, ’82, writes, from his home in Dewitt, Iowa, to have his Scholastic con-, tinned. ‘‘ Mac ” is engaged in business in his native town. He reports E. J. Ryan and AV. Flan-nerv as also being in business, while J. Donegan is speculating in Boone, Iowa. Let us hear from others of ’82 in the same manner.
—Charles C. Echlin (Com’l), ’82, writing to a friend, under date of Feb. nth, informs him of the death of a voting and beloved sister. Charley has the sympathy of a large circle of friends here in this his hour of sorrow. He desires to be remembered to all his old friends, and would like to hear from some of them. His address is Oakland, Cal.
—Master Eugene Dillon, of the Junior department, has the sympathy of all in the affliction which has lately befallen him in the death of his brother, Francis Patrick Dillon. The sad event occurred at Inspruck, Tyrol, whither Mr. Dillon had gone to complete his theological studies. The deceased was a young man of great talents, and gave promise of a brilliant future. May he rest in peace!
—Among the visitors present at the Entertainment on AVednesday evening, were Rev. Father De Rome, Oregon; Rev. P. Johannes, South Bend; Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Black, Decatur, Ill.; Mrs. Dr. Scheppers and Miss Louise Henrotin, Chicago; Lewis C. AVatson, ’72, and George Nester,’79, Detroit, Mich.; J. A. Rothschild, Chicago; R. M. Lyon, South Tend Tribune; Hon. L. C. Hubbard and others.
—Our esteemed cortfr'erc of last year, Daniel Danahy, paid the College a flying visit this week. Dan is as fat, jolh' and good-natured as ever. He is now an active and prosperous business man in Arkansas, where his father and himself have over five hundred men employed on large contracts. Dan missed ‘‘Julitis Caesar.” Too bad! AVe wish him the success he deserts, and hope he will always have a thought of the days lang syne.	.	•
Local Items.
—Hail Caesar!
—Norma heard them.
—“ Good night, Bob.”
—The House was packed.
—The French horns did nobly;	’ y
—Our Grange[r} has returned.	.
—The ushers were an able corps.	.
—“ Semiramis ” was excellently rendered. •
—“ The climax of civilization is barbarism.” ? ,
—“ Erin go Bragh ” and the Band were there.
—“ Brutus ” and “Cassius ” carried off the honors.	.
—Competitions next week in the Commercial Course.
—The Stars and Stripes were “still there” on the 22d.
—All agree in asserting that the “ Supe ” was. immense.	’
—“ He may come, if he is not good-looking.” He went.
—“ The wolf was on the hill ” again, last AVed-‘ nesday evening.	' '
—The palor of his countenance lit up the studyhall, so frightened was he.	' " 7
—Again, the wrong end ..of the cigar,! When will smokers learn to be prudent?
—The “beautiful electrics”, occupied'much of his time during the entertainment.
—The Band sallied forth, Thursday, on a . serenading tour, and met with great success.
—AH say it was the best representation of the “ Quarrel Scene ” ever given at Notre Dame. '
—Schott and Johnston held the audience spellbound in their beautiful duo, “ Hear Me, Norma.”
-	- -	•	-- - 7 - f	-•
—“ Muldoon” actually said “the callidity of the. atmosphere, is becoming unpleasantly oppressive.”- -
—Our friend John had a little picnic all alone by himself one day hist week. Dejeuner saris 'le -' fourchette.	’ ■	•
—The Grads, return thanks to -their unknown benefactor for a fine plate.of Centennial cheese lately given them.	'
—Prof. Ackerman has the heartfelt sympathy of everyone at Notre Dame in his affliction at the; loss of his little child. '	f” J
—Andv was the critic of the evening, and although he discovered mistakes, he says they were ... of a.pardonable nature.	”	' ’	'	-
—Some of our South Bend friends were minus . a sourer on AVednesday evening. Very sorry, but don’t let it happen again.	.
—He heeded not the admiring looks nor heard the beautiful compliments. He was deaf, dumb and blind, and prayed to become .invisible. -
—A beautiful' and’ necessary ornament: the bracket' clock presented by AV. ~B. - Ratterman "to' A
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the Senior’Reading-Room. The Director returns thanks.
—When the entertainment commenced Wed-nesday^evening, the weather was delightful. On emerging from the Hall everyone was surprised to see it snowing.
—The Curator of the Museum has just received another valuable donation from B. John Chrysostom, C. S. C., ".Father Zahm says if he only had a few more collectors in the field like B. John, the Museum would soon be filled.	’
—The Scholastic has been favored by Mr. Beal, of the La Porte Herald Chronicle Printing Co., with some splendid specimens of ornamental printing, in colors. Among the samples sent was an embossed business card in three colors, which took our fancy.	-.
—-It is time our friend John’s much-abused moustache had a rest. It is, to say the least, painful to read week after week some stale allusions to the three or four bristles which monopolize the entire attention of our unhappy friend and his •would-be witty companions.	.
—Prof. Unsworth is quite an expert stenographer, we are told, and those who understand the mystic script say that he writes a beautifully regular hand. Prof. McCormick is also an adept at the business, having l&arned it in England, years ago. Both of these gentlemen write the Isaac Pitman sjrstem.
—The 2 ad regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Association was held Feb. 13th. Masters G. Seegers and C. Foster presented themselves for membership and were • unanimously elected. Declamations were delivered by Masters Caveroc, E. Wile, F. Fishel, L. Gibert, A. Brewster, and H. Metz. After a few remarks from the President, the meeting adjourned. .
—Next week some time—we do not yet know the exact date—Father Zahm will give a second art entertainment. It will consist of select views of Colorado, New and Old Mexico, and of works of art, including some of the masterpieces of our local artists who have been busily engaged the last week. Connoisseurs pronounce their work perfect. Juniors and Minims, as well as Seniors, come in for a share of the artist’s attention.	.
—At their regular weekly meeting, Thursday evening, Feb. 16th, the Columbian Literary and Debating Society held a Moot Court. The case, a civil suit, - was tried before Prof. -Hoynes, N. Comerford acting as Clerk and Wi Ruger as Sheriff. The attorneys in behalf of the plaintiff were J. E. Farrell and J. C. Larkin; those in behalf of the defense were J. J. Conway, C-. Kolars and. J. R. Marlette. The attorneys upheld tlieir respective sides with much credit to themselves and their Law Professors. After impartially considering every-. tiling, the jury rendered a verdict for the defendant.
—Our astrologer replies as follows to the query of a. reader:	.	.
To the Editor of the Scholastic:	■
Dear Sir:'—-As there appears to be nothing'disrespectful or flippant in the enquiry put by-“a Constant Reader ” in your last issue, I will, state that'although the nth
November, civil time, is Sunday, the same date,'astronomical time, begins at Sunday noon ?and continues until noon on Monday- Some persons, of course, are always discovering wonderful mare’s nests, but I have no objection to answer any questions put in accordance with the dictates of propriety and decorum.
With kind -regards, I have the honor to be. Mr. Editor, Your most obedient servant,
The Astrologer.
—A special meeting of the St. Thomas Aquinas Academy was held Feb. 15th, for the purpose of electing officers for the second session. The result of the election was as follows: Very Rev. E. Sorin, Supreme Director; Rev. President Walsh, Honorary Director; Rev. Father Fitte, Director; Prof. McSweeney, Assistant Director; M. E. Donohue, President; J. Molloy, Vice-President; C. A. Tinley, Treasurer; T. E. Steele, Recording Secretary; W.J. O’Connor, Corresponding Secretary; F. Gallagher. J. Farrell, Censors. Rev. N. Stoffel, Messrs. Burke and Irman, C. S. C., and all members of the Faculty were unanimously elected members. The following thesis was given by the Rev. Director for the next meeting: “ Is a True Miracle an Infallible Proof of a Religious Doctrine”? The disputants are: “A. Zahm, affirmative; J. J. Molloy, and W. H. Arnold, negative.
—The most accurate weather-prophet who has yet appeared is the astrological compiler for the “ Scholastic Annual” issued at the University of Notre Dame, who said: “February will be windy and warmer. The quartile aspect of Neptune and Saturn to the sun indicates a general thaw in the second week of the month, after which open weather and frosts will be very trying to winter wheat.” The remainder of his prognostication, to the effect that Jupiter is stationary on St. Valentine’s-Day and engagements made then will be fatal, mav be left for verification to those who contracted matrimonial alliances on that date, but so far as the weather is concerned he has hit very accurately. If the weather bureau of the Signal Service is ever transferred to some civil department, as it should be, the claims of the astrologer of Notre Dame ought to have early consideration.— Chicago Tribune.
—The fine weather of last week brought the burros back, and “ Thil,” who was delighted to see his pets once more, and ignorant of their newly-learned habits, hastened to mount his beloved “ January,” who stood looking very dejected and mild, in one corner of the Campus. But no sooner was he mounted than the burro, “ who never in that sort had been handled before,” began to trot and soon to gallop over the smooth field, which so pleased “ Thil ” that Jie' never “noticed the muddy pond towards which the iburrd was galloping. ’ And it was not till “January ” stopped on a sudden .to admire, as it were, the yellow water, that “ Thil,” who, of course, didn’t stop, realized the full extent of his disaster. This was not all: his friends who had witnessed the performance crowded around to console “ Thil,” who sat in the middle of. the pond, gazing in silent contempt on the crocodile tears which coursed down the cheeks ’ of his companion.	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The South Bend Register gives the following report of the exhibition on Wednesday evening-: -
o
“ Last evening Notre Dame was the scene of another of those literary, musical and dramatic entertainments for which the University is becoming justly famous, and an invitation to which is always more eagerly responded to than is a complimentary offer of a dress-circle seat at leading opera-house entertainments. The entertainment was given in honor of Washington’s birthday, an annual event at Notre Dame. The exercises partook largely of literary and musical features, but the dramatic formed the principal part of the program. But of this more anon. The opening hour of the entertainment was announced at 5.30 o’clock, but an hour prior to that time, people began to gather in from all directions, and when the time arrived for the commencement of the exercises, the new Music Hall in which the entertainment was held was filled to its utmost capacity, gallery and auditorium, with an eager expectant audience. A great many of the city’s leading business men, with their ladies were present, as were also the parents and friends of students from various parts and places. The new Music Hall, though still incomplete as far as its internal embellishments are concerned, presented a neat appearance, all profuse decoration being dispensed with. The hall was brilliantly illuminated with the electric light. The accoustic properties of the new hall are remarkable, and the ventilation and heating features are excellent. The exercises opened with a grand march by the University brass Band, which was enthusiastically applauded. Then followed a song with full chorus by the “ Orpheonics,” a most delightful number. W. H. Arnold’s oration of the day, a grand eulogy upon the character and life of Washington, was well received. Mr. Arnold possesses the fault, which he will overcome by practice, of not speaking loud enough. J. P. O’Neill’s prologue to the ensuing play was pertinent and well delivered. Part first closed with an Overture, “ Semiramis,” by the University Orchestra of twelve pieces, one of the grandest numbers of the evening. By this time the audience were doubly'eager and expectant, and, as the curtain rose upon the first scene of Shakspeare’s matchless “Julius Caesar,” the hall resounded with enthusiastic applause. We forbear presenting our readers with the details of the presentation as given by the students to whom parts had been assigned. Sufficient to say that from the beginning to the end, lengthy as it undoubtedly was, the performance of the tragedy held the undisturbed attention of the audience. The dramatis persona were forgotten and also the fact that they were amateurs, nothing but the character and its surroundings being recognized. This may be said of all the students who figured in the play; but we cannot forbear giving special honorable mention to the superb acting and splendid natural oratory of William S. Cleary as “Marc Antony,” the fire and energy of George E. Clarke as “ Cassius,” and the calm, cool courage and pent-up force of character of Charles A. Tinley as “Marcus Brutus.” There are others also who in minor character were, as amateurs, simply remarkable. In fact a much . poorer entertainment has frequently been given by much lauded professionals from the stage of the city’s opera-house. The spirit .of prophecy is not upon us, or we might be tempted to say that the splendid histrionic talents of several of the characters of the entertainment will yet be known to the world. Faculty and audience all agree that the last exercise excelled by far any that have heretofore been held at Notre Dame. At the close of the tragedy, Mr. Lucius Hubbard, a former student and graduate of the University, in behalf of the audience, in a few, well-chosen words, thanked the students for their charming entertainment. Between the acts Madame Schcppers, of Chicago, a graduate of the Paris Conservatory of Music, delighted the audience-with two of three operatic numbers. The lady possesses a charming and wonderfully-cultivated voice. The Fathers and Faculty in full were present at the entertainment, and also the pastors from, the city churches and other clerical visitors. The new Music Hall is well fitted-for theatrical representations. The stage is well arranged, and the scenes are good. The costumes employed were simply elegant and most appropriate.”	•
Answers to Correspondents.
“Verd Antique:”—You are quite correct. The figures you find after the names appended .to articles in-this and other college papers indicate the age of the respective writers. But, you ask, why the apostrophe? Well, that is'a mere figure of speech. See “Hart’s Rhetoric.” From the frequent recurrence of- such high numerals as ’83, ’84, ’85, etc., you are inclined to - think .we. must have a jolly lot of old boys here. True. The air at Notre Dame is favorable to longevity and general baldheadedness.	.
“Academy Girl:”—You are disgusted with the insufferable arrogance of your Latin dictionary in pronouncing “mind” to be exclusively, mens.
. Well, you needn’t study Latin-if you*don’t like it.	- -	‘	‘	■
“Cow-boy:”—Your western narrative contains sufficient incident, but your metaphors - are a little perplexing. Where you say: “ The solemn silence of the trackless forest was unbroken save by the occasional holler of a tree,” it is difficult for ordinary minds to follow you.
“R. R. R:”—You complain of the fashionable, neglect of your favorite letter. You think it a. sign of the effeminacy of the times. Well, no. The r must have been dropped by our ancestors at an epoch the reverse of effeminate. Knowing as we do that the heathen-divinities personified the great forces of nature, when we read, of the contest between the Scandinavian deity Thor and ..the Frost Giants, can we doubt that it was really “Thaw” and the Frost Giants? Hence the r in Thor must have been dropped at a very early— perhaps prehistoric—period.	.
“ Suaveolens: ”—You wish a portable-perfume for the handkerchief. Take of orris root 3 drachms and the gall of a kangaroo. Pound, in a mortar until soft, and add a pint of bay rum and' some mustard. Let it simmer a few hours, and decant it carefully for use. Or consult “ Common Scents ” by A. Scunckin D’Esperre.	*
“ Versificator:”—Pope is not the author of the lines you mention. The most correct version is as follows:
“ The noonday gongs their thunder now begin; ' The cause is dinner the effect-is din. . .
Thus may we see, if sagely we reflect, .	...
That cause is always greater than effect..” .
The Professor of English Literature will probably aid you in determining the- source of this popular passage. . r	.	J: • ,
“Gallicus:”—You think that “ Bunker Hill” is a mere corruption of “ Bonne querelle,” and that Lafayette is responsible for the application. We, are not accustomed to regard Bunker Hill as in. any way connected with corruption.
“ Muggins : ’’—You are anxious to have us make a pun on the words “ throughout,” and “ threw^ out.” We are not in that line of business." Go West “	.
j82	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
.. Messrs. Ashford, Anderson, Arnold,. Bailey, Bowers, Brady, Burn's, E. Burke, Browne, Buchanan, Comerford, Cavanagh’ G. Clarke, A. Coghlin, W. Coghlin, Conway, Carripbell, Clements, Chelini, Claftey, Cole, Jas. Delaney, Dickerson; jno. Delaney, Eisenhauer, Eaton, Ewing, Fogerty, T. Flynn, Tl Fenlon, Fleming, Fitzgerald, Far-^rell, Freeze, F. Gallagher, Gray, Grever, Golonski, Grange, Guthrie, Godfrey, Gooley, Grout, Hofstetter, Johnston, Kaufman, Kleiber. Kolars, Koehler, Kuhn, Kavanagh, Kelly; Larkin, W. Lally, W. J. McCarthy, Mason, McCabe, Monoghan, McErlaine, Muhlke, Mullen, S. Murdock, McIntyre, Magoffin, Morse, J. McNamara, T. McNamara, Morris, Martin, Mathers, Noble, Nelson, Ott, O’Dea, Orchard, O’Connor, O’Neill, Otis, O’Brien, Pour, Parrott, Piefer, Reid, Ratterman, Rodgers, W. Ryan, Stull, Schol-field, Stover, C. Smith, Solon, Tinley, Terazzas, Twohig, Walsh; Whalen; Warner, Wendel, Wall, Yrisairi, Ziihnle, Zurbuch, Galarnean, Meyer. .
...	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Arnold, Browne, Berthelet, Bacon, Bush, Curtis, Brewster, Braunsdorf, Cain, Cassily. Chirhart, Dolan, Dorenberg, Dillon, Dunn, Darling, Eisenhauer, M. Foote, Fishel, Foster, Grothaus, Hagerty, Hermann, Halligan, W. Henry, .Hibbeler, Hess, Hagen. Howard, Jeannot, Kah-manh, Kehgel, M. Kelly, Livingston, McCawley, Mug, Jt McGrath, McDonnell, Mulkern, -Nester, M. O’Connor, Ohnick; C. Porter, Robb, Rhodus, j. Ryan, Schott, Schillo, Smith, Seegers, Shannon, Schaeffer, Stark, Subert, Wilkinson, Wright, Wallace, Walsh, Weber, Waixel, Zeigler, Taylor, Hetz, J. Kelly, C- Cavaroc.
•	x . MKIM DEPARTMENT. ■
Masters Ackermann, Adams, Beall, Bunker, Chaves, Colwell, Cummings, G. Costigan, E. Costigan, Coad, Chir-hart; Dirksiheyer, Devereux, W. Devine, A. Devine, Doherty, Fix; Hopkins, Huestis, Harris, Johnson, A. Kelly, Krause, Keeffe, Kellner, Kane, Luther, Landenwich, Lare, -B. Lindsey, C, Lindsey, McNaughton, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, J. J.. McGrath, ' McGordon, McPhee, McGuire, Morrison, Moss, Masi, Metz, Nester, Noonan, B. Otis, F. Otis; Papin, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, Quinlin, Rc-J>ori, Roberts, Spencer, Stange, Sommer, Schmitz, Smith, Studebaker, F. Stamm, G. Stamm, Schmauss, Shicker, Thomas, St John, Whitney, Warner, W. Walsh, Wright, Welch, L. Young, C. Young.
'	Class Honors.
.'	.	. PREPARATORY course. .
Messrs., Wall ace, Ohneck, Subert, Seegers, Schillo, Kah-man, .Grothaus; Halligan, Schaeffer, Hess, J. Smith, Fend-rich, M. Foote, Hagen, Brewster, W. Henry,1 Cavaroc, KainL, J; Kelly, Hagenbarth, Curtis, O’Donnell, Shannon, W. Wright, Darling, Weber, Foster, Arnold, Jones, Mar-Jett, O’Brien, Saviers, Grever, Spencer, S. Murdock, Haus- -berg, E. Yrisarri, Kleiber, Wall.
List of Excellence.	.
PREPARATORY COURSE. ,
Reading and . Orthography—Messrs. Godfrey, Martin; Penmanship-^Messrs. Rhobus, J. McErlaine; -Arithmetic —Messrs. Darling, Grout, Kane, Wall, M. Kelly, Major, Sefegers; Cavaroc, Fehr; Hermann, Shannon;.Grammar— Me?srs. J, Devine, Grothaus, Wagner,. Kerndt, Wallace, Brice, Freese, J. Gallagher, Buchanan, Harris, A. Brown, Handy, J. Hetz, D. Armijo, M. Kelly, Hermann, Bush, Duffin,Murphy-; Geographyand History—Messrs. Ohnick, M. Kelly; Algebra—Messrs. W. Henry, J. Smith, Halligan. Devereux, Bertheliet, Mason, Bacon; Latin—Messrs. Shannon, J. Keegan, J. Heffernan. '	.
For the Dome.
AFnenff Of the Mother sbf God..................	$200.00
Hdri-P. B.:Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio ............ . .$100.00
. -P- Cavanagh..................        .......:	50.00
Two Friends...................1............... £2.50
James Brady, Versailles, III..................   i&oo
Saint ftlaty’s Acabemy.
- ■ One Alite West of Notre. Dame University.
—The reading at the regular Academic reunion was “ Ce que j’aime et ce que je hai’s,” by Miss Catharine Lancaster, and “ The Lenten Vigil ” (Eleanor C. Donnelly), by Estelle Todd.
—The literary societies on Tuesday evening sent in interesting reports. A new impetus has been given to the desire of the young ladies to profit by the rare advantages afforded in the literary department.
,	—Among the notable visitors of the week were,
Mrs. Hawkins and daughter, of Earle Park; Miss McGrath, (Graduate, Class of ’80); Miss Gleeson (a pupil of ’68), of Chicago; and Miss Oechtering, of Mishawaka.
—Heartfelt condolence is extended to the esteemed family of Mr. A. C. A. Rosing, of Hyde Park, the painful intelligence of whose death was telegraphed to St. Marv’s on Thursday last. In the death of Mr. Rosing, society has lost a worthy member. His rare traits of mind and heart, his superior cultivation, combined with the manners of the perfect gentleman, made him an object of universal esteem. To his daughters, former pupils of St. Mary’s (Miss Etta being a Graduate of 1880), and to his bereaved consort, the teachers and pupils of the Academy proffer their riiost affectionate sympathy. ,
—On the 15th inst. a cablegram announced the death of Mr. Francis Patrick Dillon, a gifted and saintly student of theology and an aspirant to the Doctorate, at Inspruck, Tyrol. His afflicted parents, brothers arid sisters will please accept our sincere and ardent wishes to afford them all the consolation in the power of poor mortals to impart at the loss of this noble youth, in the fair morning of life’s prorhise, with such bright hopes blooming in his opening career. Most touching demonstrations bf loving sympathy were rnanifested toward his two sisters, Miss Agnes Dillon, of the Graduating Class, and Mary Dillon, of the First Preparatory Class, by their young companions.
—The Phonography Class was.duly examined. One of the Professors from Notre Dame, who was on the examining committee, said: “The pupils have a correct idea of the general, pririciples of the ‘ Aft. of Winged Words,’, and, if they persevere, will undoubtedly become,good short-hand writers; they show careful training; and db their teachers credit as well as themselves. I wish some of qiir pupils would do as well; but, as a rule, young ladies are more painstaking than young gentlemen. It is a pity that a much larger number do not appreciate the advantages of Phonography as a mental exercise, an accomplishment—and a useful 'one To every, person,—and a sure-means of . lucrative and honorable employment in case it should be needed.”
TitE itiotRE &A&A S&tbLASTfC.
—On Thursday evening an interesting and instructive entertainment was afforded the young ladies in the exhibition by Rev. Father Zahm, of the University, of his new and magnificent stereoscopic views, just received from Mr. E. L. Wilson, of Philadelphia. The scenes were chiefly Oriental, and of truly Oriental loveliness. Among the most remarkable we will name “ The Ferry Boat on the Nile;” “A Boat Load of Water Jars;” “A Nile Steamer;” “Alexandrian Quay—a Custom House on the Nile;” “European and American Quarters at Alexandria; ” “ The Temple of Luxo;” “ Citadel, Cairo; ” “ Mosque of the Sultan Hassan, Cairo;” “Collossus;” “ Obelisk;” “The Sphinx— Anterior and Posterior. Views;” “The Pyramids;” “ Rosetta Stone;” “The Convent of St. Catharine; Mount Sinai;” “The Pools of Solomon;” “.Hesekiah; ”, “ Bethsaida,” etc.; “ The Tower of David;” “The Tomb of Absalom.” Among others, much admired, were views of Jericho, The Jordan, Hebron, Joppa, Nazareth, Bethleheni; Jerusalem, Byrout, The Sea of Galilee; the Sea of Tiberias, Via. Dolorosa, The Garden of Gethsemane, The Tomb of Lazarus, The Women of Bethlehem, a Gentleman of Cairo, a Dragoman, Bedouins, etc., etc. Above all; we must mention the grand transparencies of Thorwaldsen’s “Four Evangelists ” and “ Christ Blessing Little Chilo ________	o _	.
dren.” The last closed the charming evening, Rev. Father Zahm promising that at some fixture day he would present other and equally beautiful views. This announcement was greeted with evident delight on the part of the young ladies.
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT. t	'
, . Par Excellence—Misses Adderly, Beal, Clarke, Chirhart, Comerford, Dillon, Donnelly, Duffield, Dunn, Dickson, Edgerly, L. English, Evarts, Fox, Feehan; Gove, L. Hene-berry, Hamilton, Heckard; Harrigan, M. Hawkins, Halter, Harris, Johnson, M.. King, Kirkham, Kearns. Lancaster, Leach, Legnard, Mohl, Munger, Madole, McCoy, McCauley, McCarten, McKenna, Mooney, Maginn, Neu, O’Brien, O’Connell, Quinlan, A. Ryan, V. Reilly,\Ramsey, M. H. Ryan, Reiser, Sullivan', Semmes, E. Slattery, T. Slattery; Sawyer, Schmauss, Steinem, Todd, Taylor, Van Patten, Wiley, Wright, Walsh, Wallace, Williams. 2d Tablet— Misses Barlow, Black, Babcock, M. Campbell, Call, 'Crawford, Danforth, Dolan, B. English, Eldridge, Fendrich, C. Fenlon, Gallagher, Hunt, Hunter, L. .Hawkins, Keenan, Laffer, Murphy, Pampell, Stackerl, Shickey.
_ JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Best, Coogan, Chaves, Dignan, Dillon, E. Donnelly, Fritchen, Hawkins, Halsey Haney, Johnston, Morgan, Naylor, Otis, Richmond, Spengler, Van Horn. 2d Tablet^Misses Brown, Considine, M. Ducey, Ewing, Hibben, Hfetz, Lucas, McGrath, Nevius, Shephard, Schmidt, Snowhook.
•'	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Mi§ses/Barry., Bur'tis, tliapin, Ducey, J..English, Lindsey, J. McGrath, McKermon, Otis, Prescott, Sawyer, Schmauss, G. Wallace. .
Class Honors.
Graduating .CLASs^-Misse's Clarke, A. Dillon, Fox, Wiley, A. .Ryan, Feehan, Wright.	. ’	,
1st . Senior Class—-Misses Edgerly, Todd, Laffer.
2D Sr'<Class—Misses Slattery, Keenan, Mohl, Call, J. Reilly; Dunn, V. Reilly, Semnies, Gove, Barlow, Sp'engler, Crawford, Ramsey, L;incaster, Hehebeiry. .
, <3p Sr. Class—Misses L. Wallace, O’Brien, Morrison, Muiiger, Halter, Fenlon, M. Dickson,- Stackerl, Danforth, Picks, O’Connell. -■	. ...	\	.
, ist Preparatory Class—Misses Chirhart, Cohsidine, Coogan, Harris, A. Duffield, McCarten, Quinlan, Fritchen, McCauley, Legnard, L. Hfeneberry, Gavan, -Comerford, Adams, Reiser, C. Ducey, Morgan.
. 2p Prep. Class—Misses - McKenna, Kirkham, Van Horn, Schmidt, E. Wallace, .Fehr, Snowhook, Eldridge, J. McGrath, Hibben, Dolan, Mdshier, Halsey, Hinz; Spotwood, Richmond, Rodgers, A. English; Johnston, Kearns.
, Junior Prep. Class—Misses Best, Mary Otis; Chaves, Robinson, A. Sawyer, Campaii, Hetz.	,
. ist Junior Class—Misses J. English. Barry, Schmauss, M. Ducey, Lindsey; G. Wallace; Chapin.	•
1 FRENCH.
ist Class—Misses C, Lancaster, M. Feehan.
2D Div.—Miss J. Reilly.	,
2D Class—Misses Clarke, Campbell, Barlow, Leydon.
3d Class—Misses Call; Beal, Walsh, Sullivan, Wallace, ShickeJr, M. A. Ryan, C. Donnelly, A. Ryan. ..
4TH Class—Misses Crawford, Bathrick, Dunn, Slattery, Mohl, Morrison, Adderly, Fenlon. .
. 2b Div.—Misses. H. Ramsey, Laffer, Babcock,. Hunter, Pampell, O’Connell, Edgerly, Dignan.
5TH Class—Misses E. Wallace, Richmond, Duffield, Snowhook, Vari Horii, Moshier, Barry, Browne, Chaves, - Alexander, Best. ... .. .	-
6th Class—Misses Robinson, Campau, Paul, Gertrude Wallace, Chapin.	...	-
GERMAN. . .
ist Class—Misses A. Dillon, E. Mohl.	. :
. 2D Class—Misses Todd, Van Patten, Keenan, Chirhart, Hinz, Pick, Unger, Fehr.
3d Class—Misses L. Wallace, Eldridge, Considine, M. Ryan, Coogan, Spengler, K. Ducey, McGrath. .
4TH Class—Misses O’Brien,-Danforth, Munger, Stackerl, Bathrick, Black, Reiser, C. Sawyer, McCarten, Halter, Harris, T. Slattery, Williams, Adams.
5TH Class—Misses Mooney, Walsh, Hunt, Hamilton.
“Judge not that you be not Judged”:— The moment we meet a stranger we form an opinion 'of her, and sometimes are none too careful in. giving it expression when such opinion is riot flattering. Often individuals are pronounced eccentric or Odd, who; on a longer acquaintance, cease to appear eccentric. Early associations, education .arid occupation, ;have much to do with manners, as well as with ideas; and w’hat may conform with the tastes of one, may look very singular to another. The customs of nations differ. The cultivated arid considerate geritleinan is looked upon as “ very odd ” by the rude back-woodsmah. .Among the ignorant, the educated are pronounced eccentric. On.the other hand, the “red man of the .for-'est ” is o'dd; because uncivilized.' We should be cautious in remarking upon individual traits. It is like playing with fire-arms to speak disparagingly of those who are not to our liking. Great geniuses have often been regarded as eccentric. Perhaps this has been the case when they have been deprived of society with their equals. Where the sympathies are not answered, the manners are constrained. W ater seeks its level: so does the human mind.	-	.	:
384
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Kimball Organs.
It has..become.,necessary for us to greatly enlarge our manufacturing facilities, and O’	O'
it is probable that during the coming year our factory will turn out over one-twelfth of the entire production of
PARLOR and CABINET ORGANS
on the American Continent, which demonstrates beyond a doubt the superiority of the Instruments manufactured by us.
We are sole agents for the W. W. Kimball Pianos, Ballet &, Davis and W. P. Emerson Pianos.
Address,
W. W. KIMBALL,
CHICAGO, ILL.
Or,
S. D. ROBERSON,
.	General Agent,
SOUTH BEND, IND.
FOR TUITION PURPOSES. THE
DENVER
Scientific Museum
CAN FURNISH A FULL LINE OF
Skeletons, Skulls, Skins of Native and Foreign Birds and Animals.
MOUNTED SUBJECTS and ALCOHOL PREPARATIONS ALWAYS ON HAND.
Choice, Well Crystallized Minerals a Specialty.
Taxidermist and Dermoplastic Work
DONE.IN A SUPERIOR STYLE.
Orders promptly attended to. The best Preservative for Zoological Specimens for sale.
Address	.
RUDOLPH BORCHERDT,
eol-88	DENVER, COL.
L. 8. & I. 8. Railway.
On and after Monday, Jan. i, 1883, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.32 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m.: Cleveland, 2.30 p.m.; Buffalo, 8.05 p.m.
11.23 a.m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 -p.m.; Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
9.10 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.45 a.m.; Cleveland, 7.05 a.m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m.
12.20 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.40 p.m. Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 4 a.m.	.
6.35 p.m. Limited Express. Arrives 2t Toledo, 10.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.45 a.m.; Buffalo, 7.25 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.32. a;m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m.
Chicago, 6.10 a.m.	-
4.35 a.m. Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.4.5 a.m.
Chicago,.8.20 a.m«r, ’	-
8.o2.aan Accommodation..--Arrives at Laporte, S.44 a.m-.
Chesterton, 9.40 a.m; -Chicago,:!i-3o a:m.".
1.30 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrivesat Laporte, 2.15 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.10 p.m.; Chicago, 5.00 p.m.
4.35 p.m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.18; Chesterton, 6.07 p.m.; Chicago, 8 p.m.
F-. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
A. G. ARNSDAM, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent; Chicago.
P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland.
JOHN -NEWELL, Gen’l M’ger, Cleveland.