day ifatU wmiC[ ! n2cu/ot ui a ciqoAette,!
WINSTON
j
like a cigarette should !
4
4
4
AND DRAWS SO EASY!
ITS GOT REAL FLAVOR!
4
I
ftt
l^vOr
tastes good -
r---M
Winston brings flavor back to filter smoking!
winston Ut	jjSt&L etya/tefe! |
t"5

D
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.
@ No wonder Winston has changed America’s mind about filter cigarettes! Winston tastes good — like a cigarette should! It’s got real flavor — the full, rich flavor real smokers want. You’re sure to enjoy Winston’s finer flavor!
@ Winston also introduced a finer filter that works so effectively, yet doesn’t “thin” the taste. The fine tobacco flavor comes clean thru to you because Winstons are easy-drawing. You’ll really appreciate Winston’s finer filter!
Pii-TEr.ci
IGA«ETTEs

r
GILBERT'S “BRAND NAMES” INCLUDE THESE LABELS
Hickey Freeman Society Brand Botany 500 GGG
Alpagora
Burberry Eagle Cricketeer MacGregor Sportswear Dobbs Hats Wilson Bros.
Arrow
Jockey by Cooper Mallory Hats Hickock Belts
Paris
Stradivari Sportswear
Countess Mara Neckwear
Florsheim Shoes Swank Jewelry Phoenix Hosiery Alligator Rainwear and many others
The Scholastic
G OOD Clothes Open
ANY Door!
One of most important things that any young man learns is the value of a good appearance. Here at Notre Dame, where many of you are preparing yourself for successful careers as business men, scientists, lawyers, doctors and $	teachers, you can learn a lot too, about good grooming
. . . good clothes. Learn that good clothes will open any door . . . make it easier for you to "sell yourself" ... to your employer, your clients, your associates . . . even to that lovely young miss with whom you eventually hope to share aII of the successes of your life.
OPEN NEXT FALL In the Shopping Center on the Campus!
South Bend’s Largest Store for Men! at 813-817 South Michigan Street
GILBERT'S
SHOPPING CENTER—ON THE CAMPUS
Q April 29, 1955
5
The ARROW points to
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
Headquarters for Your Arrow Shirts
IT'S A PKNK N A HNE ARROW MERE-LAN
When relaxing time rolls around, the most comfortable shirt you can own is an Arrow Mere-lan. Mere-lan is cotton at its finest, but looks and feels like cashmere. You know the minute you slip on an Arrow Mere-lan... here is the most luxurious, smoothest feeling shirt in the world.
Mere-lan is available in long or short sleeves, in muted cashmere tones, original patterns, and solid colors.
Wear your Mere-lan with a pair of Arrow walking shorts, and you own the perfect combo for the casual life.
Your campus dealer has Arrow Mere-lan now; priced from $3.50. Arrow slacks, from $5.00.
1^^^
CASUAL WEAR
SHIRTS & TIES UNDERWEAR HANDKERCHIEFS
Scholastic
Vol. 96 April 29, 1955 No. 20
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Mortiturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame^( Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate 013 postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate and Sports Editor PAUL FULLMER
' Associate Editor FRED C. ECKART	%
JOHN ADAMS ..............   News
ROBERT KAUFMAN .... Assistant News ( PAUL J. LaFRENIERE  ________ Copy
CHARLES McKENDRICK ...........   I
................... Assistant Copy JOSEPH CONNOLLY ...Features KEN WOODWARD .. Business Manager PETER STURTEVANT... Photo Editor j JIM FITZGERALD ....   5
___________ Photography Coordinator CARL SCHAEFER	Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT .. Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.	j
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the । school ^rear, except during vacation and examina- ! tion periods at the University of Notre Dame. Adyt dress all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185,3. Notre Dame, Indiana.
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Buck Harriss, Jerrold Hilton, Jack Hough, Francis Hurley, Ed Joyce, David Kubal, James Lenox, Jim Loeffler, James McDonald, John McMahon, Joe Mocarski, James Murphy, Arthur Price, Thomas Quinn, Dick Rust, Jim Steintrager, Paul Underkofler, Ray Walsh.
SPORTS STAFF: Dave Davin, Bob Early, Kit Eckl, John Glavin, Jim Goethals, Jack Gueguen, Ray Lescher, Joe Madigan, Bob McDonald, Jim Merz, m Vince Naimoli, Joe Norton, and Bob Parnell. *' BUSINESS STAFF: Harry Conlon and Loran 1 Sheffer.	। <
===—
Our Cover: With the fresh air and green grass of Spring comes a lightness s to a body which makes him want to kick up his heels and realize the exuberance of living. Gayle Baumer and Jim Kinnane, leads for the forthcoming Seventeen, are caught in some practice faddidlin’ by the quick camera of John O’Brien. Art work by Al Balmer.
The Scholastic^
the week
by John O'Brien
Top of the Week
Fred Dale plays for the Freshman Frolic . . .
Welcome
The WEEK would like to extend its official welcome to all the lovely “imports” now on campus as guests of the Class of ’59. They’ll be kicking off the big formal season tonight, and the WEEK’S best wishes are with them until the car permissions expire and the final “alohas” are said come Sunday. It’s always great sport to wager on which one of the three big May dance weekends the skies will let loose with “Indiana dew.” Good luck to the Freshmen, but those clouds better be gone by Friday, the 13th! Yeah man, the Senior Ball
^fARLtW^OiDICK
by AL CAPP
.had better be dry. . . .
Shake, Pal. . .
You’ve probably noticed that all the people that have been so cordial lately, speaking to everyone, and shaking hands all ’round . . . aren’t, anymore. Yep, the elections are over, for the most paid;. The only ones remaining are for the amateur politicians, the officers of clubs and such. The real winner of the elections was WNDU, with all those paid commercials. ... I hope they were Ipaid, anyway ... if they said some of those things gratis, they ought to be shot. . . .
A Plea . . .
After several unsuccessful attempts to play a little tennis in the past two weeks, the WEEK would like to send out an urgent plea for a little assistance. No, it’s not the Indiana weather .this time, but dire shortage of tennis courts on the campus. With some 130 acres of the campus’ 1700 devoted to our beautiful golf course, it seems only right that we have at least a few more courts for the “other” sport. At least as many would like to enjoy a “yes” answer to “tennis, anyone?” occasionally as those who now bask in the sunlight of the local greens. Perhaps someone would like to contribute to the “WEEK FUND” for tennis courts, which is of .course completely unauthorized . . . but it sounds like a good idea, anyway. . . . It wouldn’t cost too much to get the clay courts in shape. ... I can’t ever recall their being in shape to play in the last four years. . . . How about it?
That Seven Percent . . .
Speaking of funds etcetera, it’s a shame that 'Student Foundation WEEK could get only 93% cooperation from the student body . . . that seven per cent that
IF YOUSE CAN LICK OUR-C^oG^e NEW MEMBER, TH'WHOLE GANG f-WILL SURRENDER, FOSDlCKf?
didn’t contribute must have really been hard up. . . . I’m sure that if there are 350 guys here that haven’t got a nickel to spare, we could arrange to put them on some sort of relief . . . maybe it’s not too late for the “sad seven” to come through and make it an even 100%. . . .
Number Three
On the list of Washington Hall presentations gets under way this WEEK . . . with a full schedule of perfonn-ances coming up this WEEK, plus another on the night before graduation, Seventeen might be setting some sort of a record for length of run at ole Wash Hall. . . .
Flub of the Week
Lil’ Texas gal arrived for the Freshman Frolic . . . last Friday . . . ! ! seems there was a little mixup in dates. . . . “But you said the 23rd!” she said as she called from the airport. . . .
NIT Again
Comment overheard on the “Bed Rider” bus as it came bounding up Notre Dame Avenue recently: “Gosh, this thing sure is rough . . .” with this terse reply . . . “You ought to be thankful . . . costs twenty-five cents for a roller coaster ride.”
Hint
... to the brilliant WNDU news staff who read the same news bulletins over and over every afternoon . . . interrupted only by the noxious nausea of one V. Boatman . . . got so tired of hearing that little David Eisenhower got his polio shots and said “That didn’t hurt” I finally switched over to the polkas . . . but they’re all the same, too. . . .
Bottom of the Week
. . . Who is Fred Dale???
OUCH5 MV SHREWD LEGAL SENSE TELLS ME THIS FIGHT 1S-G°‘-P.?- f NOT ENTIRELY FAIRZf— BUT-- J
ONLY A CREAM DRESSING GROOMS HAIR THE NATURAL WAY!] ft' ABSOLUTELY NON-alcohouc.wtth I
tApril 29, 1955

YOUR Headquarters
FOR
AFTER-SIX Formal Wear
'bye.george!
Enjoy yourself—it's lighter than you think! AFTER SIX formals light on shoulders—light on budget! 'Stain-shy" finish, too! For that "up-in-the-clouds" feeling—go
FRIDAY, APRIL 29
STUDENT CENTER (9 to 1)—About 500 tenderfeet come of age to the “Collegiate” rhythms of Fred Dale at the 1955 Freshman Frolic—“Hawaiian Holiday.” If it’s raining as you squire your damsel up the steps of the “Ritz,” just remember that it rains in Hawaii, too, if that would help any.
ST. MARY’S (8:30-11:30)—“Blossoms in the Dusk” is the mood Don Gels will set tonight for the St. Mary’s Junior Prom.
COLFAX (ends May 6)—The dance might have been the rage, but the facsimile in the flick just hasn’t got it. Mambo (B), starring Silvana Mangano, Michael Rennie, Vittorio Gassman and Shelley Winters, gets off to a shaky start and fast finish as Silvana learns that life just wasn’t made for her, not to mention little things like marriage and family life. Sordid.
AVON (ends May 2)—You’ve heard this one on the air, and a few of you more-gifted-with-fortunes have probably seen it. Sophia Loren and Lois Maxwell bellow forth with Aida (A-2). It’s a great production of a great opera that you can’t afford to miss.
GRANADA (ends May 1)—For the shut-ins who are straining at their bits the management informs us there are only a few more days for you to see that saga of the watery depths, that fight for life and limb in the deep, that precipitous extravaganza, Underwater (B), starring that unheralded star Jane Russell and the necessary partner, Gilbert Roland. The usual Hollywood show-woman-ship ruins what could be a good movie.
PALACE (ends May and Cult of the Cobra!
5)—How are these for drama . . . The Looters,
DRRWTURB0W
\OPTOMETRIST
-- OPTICAL REPAIRS -
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
- EYES EXAMINED —
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
QUETICO-SUPERIOR
Canoe Trips
Only $5.50 per person per day for complete camping equipment, aluminum canoes and food supplies. Write:
Bill Rom, Mgr., Box 757C, Canoe Country Outfitters, Ely, Minn.
SUNNY ITALY
A Notre Dame Tradition
“Rosies”—
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles Avenue
STUDENT the Champions’ A word to the recklessly into your last!
CENTER
Ball 'with
SATURDAY, APRIL 30
(8:30 to 11:30)—Dance with her, Henry! It’s Don Gels and his orchestra providing the music.
budding Gower Champions on campi: don’t go reeling too a cluttered dance floor; that “Moose” you bump might be
WASHINGTON HALL (regular times)—Everyone under 150 pounds who finds the rigors of the football players’ ball too much can relax to that favorite of over-55’s, Young at Heart (A-2), with Doris Day and Frank Sinatra.
SUNDAY, MAY 1
GRANADA (ends May 7)—Gregory Peck and a newcomer, Win Min
Than from Plain (B). killed in an that follow
Burma, combine talents for a war-and-love story, The Purple Peck, an RAF squadron leader, loses hope when his wife gets air raid. After meeting Win his outlook changes, and the events provide many thrills and proof of Peck’s rejuvenated hope. The
film could use some prudent cutting.
RIVER PARK (ends May 3)—Try the Bridges of Toko-Ri (A-2) and Athena (A-l) on this one. Bill Holden and Grace Kelly star in the first and Jane Powell and Ed Purdom have the latter.
STATE (ends May 3)—The Racers (B) with Kirk Douglas and Bella Darvi, and Outlaw’s Daughter (A-2), a rip-snortin’ western, make it back for seconds on the local screen. Pretty meagre seconds. . ..
WEDNESDAY, MAY 4
RIVER PARK (ends May 6)—We have here an original, or should I say an aboriginal: Tarzan and the Ape Man (B), a reissue of the first Tarzan picture by Johnny Weissmuller, with Maureen O’Sullivan. Because it isn’t an original, Witness to Murder (A-2), with Barbara Stanwyck and George Sanders, has to play second fiddle in our books. Eat ’em up, Tarz!
STATE (ends May 5)—Richard Burton and Maggie McNamara return in the excellent drama, Prince of Players (A-2). This is worth seeing if you missed it the first time around. Sharing the overhead costs of the theatre is The Other Woman (B), with Cleo Moore and Hugo Haas. And that’s that.

is l"
The Scholastic^
HI
Hit or's Page
Congratulations
. . . and ... Aloha!
The Scholastic extends its congratulations to the four 1955 Dome Award winners: Forst Brown, Joe Daley, John O’Meara and Dick Burke. This, we feel, is the highest award that is given to students at Notre Dame. The fact that they were the four selected by a committee of juniors who carefully considered many candidates speaks for itself in showing how deserving they are of this honor.
Tonight “Hawaiian Holiday” will attract the freshmen, as they embark upon their social career as a class at Notre Dame. We wish to welcome their dates and wish everyone who attends a most enjoyable time.
The Honor System: Do You Want It?
Next Thursday you will decide in a referendum whether or not an academic “Honor System” should be installed at Notre Dame. Almost everyone knows something about the Honor System at West Point Military Academy; some proposed rules for a similar system here are contained in a story on page 17. It must be noted that these rules are only proposed and might very well be changed should an Honor System be adopted by you and accepted by the University. The final drafting of the rules would be up to you and dependent upon approval by University officials.
All the work that has gone into preparing a list of rules and conducting the referendum has been done by students; University officials will not enter the proceedings unless you voice approval of an Honor System next Thursday.	,
Ideally, your vote Thursday will show whether or not such a System would work at Notre Dame, for the criterion in casting the ballot lies in your answer to the question: “Would 1 observe and keep the rules of the Honor System?” Ideally, the tabulation of the ballots will show to what degree the Honor System will work (if accepted) or that it is not desired here. Of course, should it be approved, a number of you who vote against the System would undoubtedly be willing to follow the majority in keeping it.
Practically, it is to be expected that many ballots will be decided by saying: “I’d follow an Honor System, but I don’t think a lot of the other fellows would.” After all, though a very small number cheat in tests, there is some cheating. Under the Honor System, as proposed, the cheater must either turn himself in or any one of his fellow students must turn him in. The first is rather unlikely to happen and the second almost equally so. No one would like to report a friend, a mere acquaintance or a stranger—even under the secrecy that an Honor System must necessarily involve.
As said before, there is some cheating at Notre Dame. None of us can deny that. Cheating in its essence is unfair to those many students who are honest. If a person will cheat with a professor in the room (watchful or unwatchful, as the case may be) , we can only wonder if the incidence of cheating would rise or fall under an Honor System.
The opinions against an Honor System, as expressed above, are those held by a number of Seniors and probably by others who were not approached on the question. It seems only proper to present them since we feel it best to take a very critical approach to this serious question.
In its essence, the Honor Svstem is a stood thinst and the Scholastic cannot but desire its presence at Notre Dame. But the decision is for you to make and keep.
Next Thursday remember: “Would I observe the rules of the Honor System?” Vote on that.
^April 29, 1955
9
r
“i
A Campus-to-Career Case History
He keeps up with
440,000 customers
“I used to think accountants wore green eye shades and sat on high stools,” John Merrick will tell you. “That’s before I started working in a modern accounting department.
“I trained for about a year and a half in different phases of telephone accounting. Then I was placed in charge of the section which maintains telephone service records. I have more than 60 people in my group with four supervisors reporting to me. Our job is to keep a running record of monthly charges for 140 exchanges in Central
Massachusetts. That comes to 440,000 different customers.
“Customers expect their bills on time and they want their charges to be right. So on my job my primary concern is to maintain constant and rapid production and at the same time keep our work accurate and reliable. One of the best ways to do this is to be sure that ‘the right person is on the right job at the right time,’ an old cliche. But I found it works and it gives me a chance to use my Sociology training since it means handling all sorts of personnel situations.”
John finished Bates College in 1952 with a degree in Sociology, and started with the New England Telephone and Telegraph Company. His work is typical of many assignments in the Bell telephone companies. The opportunities open for college graduates with other operating companies of the Bell Telephone System are many and varied —also with Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. Your Placement Officer has full details.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
0
The Scholastic^
f scmiAsm
Volume 96, Number 20
Notre Dame, Indiana
April 29, 1955
•FRESHMEN FROLIC TONIGHT IN TROPICAL AIR
M Fred Dale to Play for I! Freshmen From 9 to I
| A tropical air will pervade the Stu-I A dent Center tonight, as 350 first-year I men and their dates launch into the I “Hawaiian Holiday,” accompanied by I the music of the nation’s top college dance band, Fred Dale’s Collegians. The ■j Dance will get underway at 9 p.m. and ■ will end at 1 a.m. The semi-formal ■ , Freshman Frolic will highlight a week-11 end of activities planned to usher in II frosh social life at Notre Dame.
Il A night in Hawaii will be brought to I the Center by Decorations Chairman I »Bob Duffy and his committee. The ■ ^couples will dance under a simulated ft outdoor pavilion and palm trees, which K will add to the Waikiki atmosphere. IB Refreshments may be purchased in the IB “Cocoanut Grove” and “Hawaiian” II rooms.
U At 11:30 p.m., Miss Mary Lee Laugh-11 bn will be crowned “Queen of the u - Frolic.” Miss Laughlin, date of Dance n Chairman Dave McMahon, resides in ft ^Bellport, Long Island, N. Y., and is ■ now a senior at Seton Hall High ft . School in Patchogue, N. Y.
■ Saturday afternoon the girls will -H watch their dates as they parade in B the ROTC Presidential Review. That ■ night there will be a dance, “The ■ Champions’ Ball,” in the Navy Drill ■ Hall. Music will be provided by Don [I Gels and his orchestra.
| The Hawaiian Holiday will come to 1 an end with a Communion Breakfast in Athe Morris Inn immediately following the 8 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Il Church. Henry McCarthy, breakfast chairman, has announced that Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will address the class members and their dates.
Aiding MdMahon in the presentation of the Freshman Frolic, are the committee chairmen: Bob Duffy, decorations; Frank Manzo, business manager; Pat Kiley, tickets; Gerry Pastula, en-
MISS MARY LEE LAUGHLIN
Frolic’s Queen Wahini
tertainment; John Higgins, publicity; Nick Bartolini, refreshments; Henry McCarthy, Communion Breakfast; and Dave Kubal, hotel accommodations.
Car permissions and 2 a.m. residences have been secured for Frolicgoers. Favors will be given at the dance. No corsages will be permitted. All those attending the dance must be in the Student Center by 10 o’clock and no one may leave before midnight.
ATTENTION, FRESHMEN
The annual freshman oratorical contest open to all freshmen will be held this year on May 5 and 11 it was announced this week by Prof. Leonard F. Sommer of the Department of Speech. The preliminary contest opens on May 5 at 4:30 in the student center. The contest comes to a close on May 11 at 7:30 in the Center with a cash prize awarded to the winner. Applications will be accepted by Professor Sommer until May 2.
Foundation Drive Gets Near Perfect Results
Ninety-three per cent of the Notre Dame students living on the campus contributed funds to their alma mater during Student Foundation Week, March 28-April 2, the University has announced. The campus-wide drive was launched by the Student Senate to acquaint the student body with the pressing financial problems of the University and the work of the Notre Dame Foundation which coordinates University development and public relations activities.
According to Chairman Jack Moyna-han, LaGrange, Ill., sophomore, 3,668 of the 3,940 students living in campus residence halls participated in the unprecedented campaign. A survey of other colleges and universities indicated that the Notre Dame campaign was probably the first of its kind conducted on a campus.
Moynahan stressed that no goals or quotas in terms of dollars were set in advance and acknowledged that funds realized from the drive were relatively small. “We did strive for 100% student participation regardless of the amount of the gift,” he said, “and we are heartened that we approached a perfect participation record.”
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, commended Moynahan, members of the Hall Council and Student Senate officials who planned and conducted the campaign. “Your remarkably successful Student Foundation Week demonstrates,” he said, “that our students place great value on the education which Notre Dame provides and realize, too, that the University must receive support from its friends to insure that this caliber of education will be available to thousands of other young men like yourselves in the years to come.”
Helping Moynahan,in the Foundation drive were senior Harry Edelstein, junior John Engler, and freshman Charles Clesi.	' '
J &Lpril 29, 1955
!
11
Jim Sherer Elected Top Senator of Year
Jim Sherer was elected “Senator of the Year,” seven stay-senators were elected, the concession for summer storage was awarded and two Student Center managers were appointed Monday as the 1954-55 Student Senate moved into the final week of its tenure.
Sherer served as Social Commissioner of the Senate this year. He was president of his Junior Class and is a member of the Blue Circle. He was selected for Who's Who in American Colleges and Universities last fall. The Senator of the Year Award is traditionally given to the senior not an officer, who has done the best job on the Senate throughout the year.
Elected stay-senators for next year were Charles Clesi, Jerry Murphy, Frank Pedace, Dan Devine, Tom Cre-han, John Engler, and Peter Campbell. Stay-senators are elected by the outgoing Senate each year to provide continuity between Senates. All voting Senators who were not already staysenators were eligible for election.
Mike Wade was selected for the position of Student Center Manager by the Senate on the recommendation of the Concessions Committee. Wade is a junior accounting major. Dick Male-sardi was approved as assistant Center manager.
The summer storage concession was awarded to the Sailing Club. The contract provides that the rates shall be: $2 for the first large item, $1.75 for additional large items, and $1 for small items. The Senate agreed not to share in the profits of the undertaking so that cost could be reduced to a minimum. The Sailing Club plans to use the profits
NSA Convention Held at Denison University
Two Notre Dame students were selected for regional offices and a series of resolutions on national policy were passed at the Ohio-Indiana Regional Assembly of the National Students Association held Saturday. Denison University in Granville, Ohio, was the host school for the conference.
Peter Sturtevant was elected International Affairs Vice-President of the region for the 1955-56 school year. His responsibilities will include foreign student programming, stimulating, interest in international affairs on the campuses, and taking part in American students’ relations on an international level. Sturtevant is a member of the International Commission of NSA at Notre Dame, the International Relations Club, and is photo editor of the Scholastic.
12
from the concession to reduce the club’s debt.
The Senate amended the Dance Constitution to provide a rotation system for the selection of fall dance dates. Under the amended constitution the Sophomore Cotillion will always be given first choice, and the other dances will rotate the remaining choices. Next
JIM SHERER
Gets Top Senatorial Salute
year the choices will be made in the following order: Military Ball, Engineering Ball, Science Ball, Commerce Ball, and AB Ball. The following year the Military Ball will be given last choice, the Engineering Ball first choice, the Science Ball, second choice, etc.
At an earlier meeting of the Senate, a motion prohibiting students from being members of both the Senate and the Circle was defeated by a 13-10 vote.
John Curry, a junior in the General Program, was appointed regional administrator of the Canadian-American weekend exchange program. The program, which has been developed by Curry, calls for the exchange of students between Canadian and American universities for the purpose of promoting better understanding between the two countries and facilitating exchange of ideas on problems which confront students of both nations. The exchange visits would last from three to five days.
The convention also passed a resolution calling for the re-establishment of G.I. benefits for undergraduates conscripted by the armed forces. A proposal recommending that a council composed of representatives of the three branches of the service be established
to promote better use of specialized 1 skills in the armed forces was referre^^ to the national convention for furthe^y j study. The proposal also called for a jg । change in the draft laws to require that 81' student deferments be given to all stu- s \ dents meeting the present academic ;| standards. Deferment is left to the dis- J cretion of the draft board under pres- 4 ent legislation.	|
Newman Given Grant
For Graduate Study
Francis X. Newman, a Notre Dame senior from Brooklyn, N. Y., has been X awarded a Woodrow Wilson Fellowship for the 1955-56 school year, according I to word received from Dr. Robert F. | Goheen, national director of the fellow- | , ship program. The Wilson Fellowships are awarded annually to scholars demonstrating “marked promise for the ■ teaching profession and possessing th^ highest qualities of intellect, character and personality,” Dr. Goheen said. t
Newman, who has majored in English as an undergraduate at Notre Dame, will study for an advanced degree at Princeton University. Fellowship win- I ners may elect to study at any graduate school in the United States or Canada. I Grants were awarded to 159 young men 11 and women presently enrolled at 109 American colleges and universities. More k
than 1500 students competed for th^ awards.
Scheduled to be graduated from Notre f Dame “maxima cum laude” in June, 1 Newman has been active in a number | of campus organizations. He is associate I editor of The Juggler and president of | the Wranglers. He is also a member of i the Student Advisory Council of the College of Arts and Letters.	Jg
Noted Concert Artist to Plaw^
Tonight in Liberal Arts Hall
Mr. Theodore Ullmann will be presented in piano recital this evening at 8:15 in the O’Shaughnessy art gallery. The recital is being sponsored by the Concert and Lecture Series.
Billed as “America’s outstanding concert pianist,” Ullmann is here under the auspices of the Music Foundation Artist’s Bureau. He is a graduate of Co

i
i
lumbia University and of the Juilliar^ School of Music, and was decoratec i
11 times while serving in the U. Army. Besides appearing in all states, he has also given recitals Canada and Western Europe.
S.
48 in
Mr. Ullmann will present a varied program, consisting of selections from Bach, Brahms, Mendelssohn, and three Shostakovich preludes. Highlight of the program will be the B Flat Minor Sonata of Chopin.
$
The Scholasti^^ i
7 SS Exam Applications Open Until May 9;
| *Test Compulsory for Draft Eligible Students
All eligible students who have not yet taken the Selective 'Service College Qualification Test will have the opportunity to do so on Thursday, May 19. ; The test will not be administered after ip, that date until late fall this year. £ \ The Selective Service System has ; . V made this test compulsory for all uni-,4 .Wversity students except those who are ; ' enrolled in the pre-med course or those in any of the ROTC units. Also, the '> students considered by the administra-\ tion to have a very high academic standing will be exempted from taking the i exam; everyone else must take the test ' sometime before they graduate.
j 11 Mr. Edward R. Quinn, head of the ’ Guidance and Testing Service, particu-5 larly urges eligible students whose av-. Werages are below acceptable to take the test now, as the quota of students 1 drafted out of school depends upon the world situation and the whims of the draft board.
These examinations are that much more important for the poor student be-i cause they may enable a man who might otherwise be drafted to stay in school. * Mr. Quinn also hopes that students whose averages are in the 80-85 bracket will take the test as soon as possible for ^double insurance as a means of protect-i I ing themselves from being unfairly drafted.
If a student does not pass the test, he is not subject to immediate draft; he may stay in school providing he can maintain the necessary average.
Application blanks for the Selective
Service College Qualification Test may be obtained from the Department of Guidance and Testing in Room 251 of Gthe Administration Building. The deadline for mailing the application blanks for the May 19 test is May 9.
In regard to the test Mr. Quinn stated, “A large number of students are procrastinating unduly about taking the ‘draft test.’ If you are one of them, you had better reconsider. Sooner or later your draft board is going to catch up with you. It is the better part of wisdom to be on record as having taken the test when that time arrives. Fear “of the test is uncalled for among Notre
MAY DAY
Monday Evening, May 2, at 7:55 Campus-Wide May-Day
Observance
For Further Details, See Monday’s
Religious Bulletin '
Dame students; seven out of ten freshmen pass it easily.”
The test will begin at 8:30 a.m. on Ascension Thursday, a day on which there will be no classes, and end at 12:30. Although it is not definitely known what type of material will be included in the test, it is not expected to be any more difficult than the test that nearly 250 students handled comparatively easily last year.
O'Donnell Medal Goes To Journalist Cohen
The Department of Journalism has announced the recipients of its annual awards, which were given at the Press Club Banquet last week, for department majors showing outstanding ability in special journalistic fields.
The O’Donnell Medal, an award given to a journalism senior attaining the highest academic average for a four-year period, was given to David R. Cohen, of Chicago, Ill.
The Myers Award, a prize of the annual income from $500, went to Lawrence Brehl, senioi- from Washington, Pa., for demonstrating the best ability in editorial work.
Four distinct awards of $25, the F. A. Miller Awards, are given each year by the South Bend Tribune, in memory of its late president and editor, F. A. Miller. One of the awards, given to a junior for superior work in journalism design, was given to John Gueguen, of
COHEN, BREHL, GUEGUEN, DOWDEN RECEIVE PRESS AWARDS Father Sheedy, Franklin Schurz and Edgar Kobak Guests at Banquet
Lexington, Mo. Another was given to Senior Carrol Vincent Dowden, of Louisville, Ky., for having done the best writing in the Department of Journalism.
The two remaining Miller awards, for outstanding work on the department’s experimental newspaper, The Journalist, and for complementary journalism in the fields of radio and -television, will be announced at a later date.
Annual Champions Ball Honors Varsity Athletes
The annual Champions’ Ball will be held tomorrow night in the Navy Drill Hall from 8:30 until 11:30 pan. to honor members of the teams representing Notre Dame in the seven majoi- varsity sports. Don Gels and his orchestra will provide music for the informal dance, which will be an added highlight for the “Freshman Frolickers” and their dates.
All of the 600 expected couples will receive favors, and one of the dancegoers will be given a door prize.
Chairman of the dance, Pat Logan, wishes to remind members of the student body who wish to attend, but have not yet obtained tickets, that they can be purchased at the door for $2 per couple. As was the practice with Saturday Night Victory Dances, bus transportation to and from St. Mary’s will be provided for 50 cents.
Having been run previously by the Monogram Club, the dance is being managed by the Student Senate for the first time this year. Assisting Logan with preparations is his committee of John Reardon, Jerry Hornback, Dick Lewis, and Jack Moynahan.
April 29, 1955
13
DICK BURKE AND JOE DALEY
Excel in the spiritual, academic and extra-curricular . . .
1953 Dome Awards
WNDU during the 1954-55 term. Daley, who is from Girardsville, Pa., has also received recognition in his capacity as© president of the Student Senate. Besides these demanding duties, Daley is a member of the Blue Circle. He will receive his degree with honors from the College of Science.
O’Meara Heads Blue Circle
John O’Meara, a Hillsdale, Mich., i product, will be a cum lauds graduate j of the College of Arts and Letters. He^J is the chairman of the Blue Circle Honor Society. O’Meara guided the Circle in activities ranging from ushering at University productions to the extensive orientation program for incoming frosh.
In his junior year, O’Meara served as campus representative for the student insurance program. This year he has been a member of the Bookmen, NROTC, the Activities Council, and a member of the Arts and Letters Advisory Board.© O’Meara represented Notre Dame nt the National Students Association Congress last year at Ames, Iowa.
Juniors Make Selections
Campus beaders Gain Coveted Honors
All four of the Dome Award winners were honored earlier this year when their names appeared in the Who's Who in American Colleges and Universities.
Bernard LaLonde, Dome editor, has announced the winners of the 1955 Dome Awards made annually to the four outstanding members of the graduating class. Forst Brown, Dick Burke, Joe Daley, and John O’Meara have been chosen to receive the awards this year.
Brown Is Top Senior
The Dome Awards are made yearly to the outstanding undergraduate at Notre Dame who excels in spiritual, academic, and extra-curricular activities and viewed as typifying the ideal of the true Notre Dame man.
Forst Brown will graduate summa cum laude in June with the highest average in his class. Brown, who comes from Springfield, Ky., has served as secretary-treasurer of the Blue Circle this year. He also acted as the general chairman of the freshman orientation program in the fall of 1954. He has attended Notre Dame on a Ford Motor Company Scholarship Fund and will receive his degree from the College of Science.
Dick Burke, a Chicagoan, held his first office here as president of Sorin Hall. In the present school year he has served as president of the Senior Class, vicepresident of the Student Senate and president of the Hall Council System.
14
He will take his degree from the College of Arts and Letters.
During his term of office as Senior Class president, Burke guided the Washington Day Exercises, Senior Retreat, and class excursion to the Iowa football game.
Joe Daley was sports director for
JOHN O’MEARA AND FORST BROWN
. . . typify ideal of the true Notre Dame man.
The selection of the recipients of the Dome Awards was made by the junior ^ board and representatives of prominent campus clubs with ths editor of the Dome acting as the non-voting chairman jf the group.
Blue Circle, Student Senate, Junior Class President, WNDU, Dome and Scholastic were the organizations represented.	i

The Scholastic
Noted Lawyers Form Law Advisory Council
The creation of an advisory council for the Notre Dame Law School was announced here recently by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.'S.C., University president. The seventeen-member group held its first meeting on the campus on April 22.
l Formation of the law school advisory ^council -will -bring prominent members of the bench and bar and other leaders into closer association with the University, Father Hesburgh said. They will share with us, he continued, “the responsibility of training professionally competent, moral and intelligent lawyers and leaders.”
Those who have accepted membership on the council include Judge Hugh C. Boyle, Allegheny County Orphan’s Court, Pittsburgh; John E. Cassidy, Peoria, Ill., attorney; Judge Charles S. Desmond, New York State Court of Appeals, Buffalo; Oscar J. Dorwin, vice president and general counsel, 'The Texas Company, New York City; Judge Charles Fahy, U. S. Court of Appeals, Washington, D. C.; Harold S. Foley, president, Powell River Co., Vancouver, British Columbia; Paul F. Hellmuth, Boston attorney; and John T. Higgins, Detroit attorney.
Also Aaron H. Huguenard, South Bend, Ind., attorney; H. Clay Johnson, executive vice president and general counsel, Royal - Liverpool Insurance Group, New York City; Harry F. Kelly, Detroit attorney and former governor of Michigan; and Robert F. Kennedy, chief counsel of the Senate Sub-Committee on Investigations.
Other members of the advisory council are Judge Roger J. Kiley, Appellate Court of Illinois, Chicago; Frank J. McCarthy, assistant vice president, The Pennsylvania Railroad, Washington, D. C.; Judge Walter V. Schaefer, Supreme Court of Illinois, Chicago; Ross D. Siragusa, president, The Admiral Corporation, Chicago; and Edmund A. Stephan, Chicago attorney.
ROSARY FOUND
From a passenger who spent some time on a Pennsylvania Railroad train with some Notre Dame men traveling to Plymouth, Ind., comes a note that he found an expensive rosary apparently lost by one of the students. The loser may recover the rosary by describing it in a letter to: Mr. J. C. Langley, 303 North Kenilworth avenue, Oak Park, III.
BUICK’S FABULOUS “WILDCAT”
Engineers Unveil New Progress in Automotive Design
Engineering Open House Welcomes Visitors Next Friday; Auto Show Tops Attractions
An auto and an air show, a stage production, a chariot race, and exhibits of all phases of engineering developments will highlight the 1955 Engineering Open House during May 13-15, General Chairman Berkeley Cooke announced recently. He explained that the activities of the open house are such as to enable eveiyone to see that engineering is the “Key to Progress.”
The open house will commence Friday afternoon with talks in Washington Hall by Karl E. Schoenherr, dean of the College of Engineering, and James C. Zeder, vice-president in charge of engineering for the Chrysler Corp.
These will be followed by a 40-minute stage production sponsored by the Delco-Remy Division of General Motors Corp., Anderson, Ind., which will feature some of the latest discoveries in the fields of science, engineering, and research. The show includes such demonstrations as sawing wood with a piece of paper; changing the human voice to light; and a jet engine for automobiles. The production attempts to show the part the engineer and the scientist play in raising America’s standard of living.
Through the cooperation of the automobile dealers of South Bend, there will be an auto show in the Navy Drill Hall in which the latest model sport cars will be exhibited. Chairman Jim Shane said that seven to eleven of the cars representing the leading auto-makers will be on display.
Saturday afternoon a chariot race will be held on either the football field or
along the main boulevard. The engineering departments will compete against one another in chariots which are designed, constructed, pulled, and driven by the students.
On Friday and Saturday evenings the architects will sponsor talks in the Architecture building. The first lecture will be delivered by John S. Jacobs, of the Jacobs and Kahn architecture firm of New York. Saturday Mr. Richard Nuetra, a nationally known architect, will speak.
The aeronautical engineers will present an air show Saturday afternoon at the air field. Among their exhibits in the Aeronautical Building nearby, will be a Link trainer in operation, four aircraft engines, including jets, and three wind tunnels.
Among the exhibits of the chemical engineers will be demonstrations of electroplating, water softening, and coke making. The mechanical engineers will have demonstrations in their machine shop and in the heat-power lab, while the electrical engineers will have exhibits of “hi-fi,” playback telephones, six-way lights, etc. The civil engineers will conduct tours through the new hydraulic lab which the department designed and constructed. They will also offer such exhibits as the “tilt-up slab” and a model of the St. Lawrence Seaway.
Other chairmen, besides Cooke and Shane, are Jerry Driscoll, engineering show; Terry McCafferty, tours and guides; Orlando Malone, publicity; and Pat Payton, air show. '
f,April 29, 1955
15
for God’s blessings on youi- life in the days to come.
would like to thank all of you who have contributed to and have helped all of us grow during it. We’ve all had
From the Desk
of the President
Office of the President
Dear Men of Notre Dame:
I would like to take this opportunity in one of the last issues of the Scholastic to wish all of you a safe passage through the exam period, a happy, restful, and fruitful Summer, and, to those who are graduating, a
fond au revoir, the promise of a daily prayer, and a wish
I think it has been a good year at Notre Dame. I the many sides of Notre Dame life during this past year
our gripes on occasion, but I think we all experience the warm emotion of friendship and the realization of the blessings of this place when the time comes to leave.
I just learned the results of the Student Foundation Week. We are all proud of the fact that 93% of our students residing on campus contributed to Notre Dame. The actual amount of the contribution is not very important at this point in your lives, but the fact that the vast majority of you did contribute is truly wonderful because it shows that, even in a small way, you want to join the thousands of alumni and friends of Notre Dame who help balance the budget and keep this place going. The task would be financially impossible without all of you and your help.
It would take practically a whole issue of the Scholastic to thank, by name, all of those who have contributed to so many fruitful student activities during this past year. But I do want to tell you, one and all, that we are grateful and also very proud of you. Notre Dame and Notre Dame spirit must be a living reality. And if it is to be a living reality anywhere in the world, it must be so primarily right here under the Dome in the lives of all of our faculty and student body.	•
It is a great source of joy to those of us who remain here, as well as to those of you who leave, to know that each day we are together in the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass that is offered on this campus for all of our Notre Dame family. May God bless and keep you and may Our Lady continue to smile upon you.
Devotedly yours in Notre Dame,
(Rev.) Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., President
16
The Scholastic
Self-Discipline Challenge Offered to Students • In Honor System Referendum to Be Held May 5
Do the students of Notre Dame want an Honor System?
That is the question which next Thursday’s student referendum will ansiver. In the interest of clarifying and .. explaining certain controversial points \ concerning the proposed adoption of an Honor System, The Scholastic presents the following facts.
The idea of an. Honor System for Notre Dame is entirely student-originated. It is not a brainchild of the Administration. In fact, that is precisely the point of the referendum: the students must approve the Honor System before the Administration will take any action. If the System is rejected at the polls, the Administration will not lend its support in establishing one.
What the student body -will approve or reject next Thursday is not the detailed plan of the Honor System; it is merely an outline, augmented by pertinent ideas necessary to make a judgment concerning it.
The proposed Honor System plan, as drawn up ' by a student committee, follows:
I.	All classes taught ordinarily to juniors and seniors should be adminis-A tered in the future under the code popularly known as the Honor System to be more fully explained below. This would rule out all proctoring at exams and other activities for which the student is graded.
II.	Any violations of the privilege of the above method, that is, infractions of the rules now in the Student Manual outlawing plagiarism and assistance given or received on tests, would make • the violating student liable to report himself to the reporting officer noted below. If another student is aware of his cheating and requests twice of the violator that he report himself without result, it becomes this student’s obligation to report the dishonest student to the proper authority.
III.	Penalties for violations of the privilege would be specified later by the Office of Academic Affairs working _ in conjunction with the Student Honor w Court. All violators would be adjudicated by either the Student Activities Court or an adjunct of this court (a special Honor Board). Only those violations which might result in the dismissal of the accused student would be originally referred to the Office of the Prefect of Discipline for action. However, all judgments would be subject to review by the Prefect of Discipline.
IV.	It is desirable that one qualified
student in each college at Notre Dame, probably the college senator, be designated by the dean of that college as honor representative to which all reports of violations would be made. This man would be pledged to complete secrecy in matters involving reports except as he is required to present the facts to the court for judgment.
V.	Reports made to the college honor representative would be automatically referred to the court established as the Honor Court where the accused would be required to appear alone and receive judgment. If he had not turned himself over to the court, a statement signed by the person reporting the violator would be needed by the court. The reporting party would not appear before the court. It would be necessary to have two signed statements of the accused’s dishonesty if the accused pleads “not guilty.” Two signed statements against the accused would not, of course, make conviction mandatory.
VI.	The judging board itself should consist of three well-qualified senior un
Establish $50,000 Miller Memorial Scholarship
Checks totaling $50,000 to establish a Frederick C. Miller Memorial Scholarship Fund at Notre Dame were presented by representatives of the brewing industry to Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, and Miller’s widow, Adele, at a luncheon on the campus April 5. Making the presentation were (left to right): Edwin J. Anderson, president of Goebel Brewing Co., Detroit, and Edward V. Lahey, president of the U. S. Brewers Foundation, New York City. Scholarships provided by the fund will be available to sons of employees in the brewing industry. Miller, president of the Miller Brewing Co., Milwaukee, was a prominent Notre Dame alumnus and his son Fred, Jr., was a student at the University when they were killed in a plane crash last Dec. 17.
dergraduates, representing three different colleges who would be sworn to the privacy of the court. (N.B.—This could well be the Student Activities Court.)
VII.	In the case where a student is found “not guilty,” or is acquitted by the court, the fact of the proceedings will be known to no outside body save the Department of Discipline. Where conviction is found, only parties directly concerned with the execution of the judgment should be notified. The professor should not be notified unless the student is disqualified from the class involved.
Again, it must be emphasized that the above plan is not complete. The penalties, the very detailed processes of judgment, the practices which would be prohibited, and other details would have to be ironed out by joint student-Adminis-tration action during the summer months.
But first, the proposed plan must be approved by the student body; only in such case will further action be taken.
Because the Honor System, if approved, would have to undergo a trial period, it was decided to limit the code to junior and senior classes.
Upperclassmen, because of their ma-(Continued on Page 33)
April 29, 1955
17

M ?!



A few scenes from last week’s dress rehearsal. .
. ABOVE:
“If a fellow feels romantic, it’s romantic he should be,” suggests Gayle Baumer to Gene Leyval, Phil Donahue, Dan Liddy, and Jerry Dodge. . . . BELOW LEFT: Bob Vrancken reminds Alys Lacour that “After all it’s Spring.”. . . BELOW RIGHT: Phil Donahue (apparently a quick-change artist), Jim Kinnane and George O’Donnell all agree "I could get married today.”
K
Seventeen
Humor of £
Highlights
Photos byU
Beginning next Wednesday, the University Theatre will present the long-popular stage production, Seventeen. The Theatre will use the Sally Benson ft musical adaptation of the novel and play by Booth Tarkington; music and lyrics were written by Kent and Gannon.
Seventeen is the humorous tale of ! the “growing pains” of one Willie Bax- j ter who has reached that “difficult” ’ stage of life. His young, peaceful life is ' disturbed when a sweet young thing of the opposite sex arrives on the scene. Like any of his red-blooded American buddies, Willie becomes enraptured with the charms of this Lola Pratt. Willie’s strange exploits along the rough but amusing path to young love should provide a delightfully spent evening for the anticipated Washington Hall crowds.
S'
W
The Scholastic^
5
fy •
i ^wing Pains
A
wks Musical
HN O'BRIEN
1 In its continual parade of talent, the University Theatre will feature Jim Kinnane, a junior from Wayne, Illinois, ©as the adolescent Willie. He is ably costarred with Gayle Baumer, a junior from St. Mary’s. Gayle, a familiar vet-■ eran of the University stage, could hardly be more captivating than in her role as the “fetching” Lola. Other im' portant roles are played by Jerry Dodge, Bob Vrancken and Gene Leyval; that feminine touch is added by Hildegarde Vargyas of South Bend and Freshmen Merrill Richard, Alys Lacour and Peggy Maher of St. Mary’s. They are sup-sported by a large cast of singers and ' dancers.
Musical accompaniment will be provided by Charles Armbruster at the Hammond organ, along with twin pianos manned by Terri Steinhoffer of South Bend and Ed Thomas of Cavanaugh Hall. Choreography is being handled by Allan Powers of the Notre Dame Foundation. The Choral Director is Eugene Leahy. Other unseen contributors to 9 Seventeen include Fred Syburg and his assistant John Harrington who handle setting and lights; Miss Catherine Gaf-figan, the stage manager; Terry Nieuw-landt, in charge of carpentry; Mrs. W. P. Walsh, the costume designer; and stagehands John Caster, Tim Murphy, Larry Rex, Paul Barritine, and Dick , Boff.
Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C., the director of the University Theatre, has announced a very encouraging advance ©sale of tickets. Center section and orchestra seats for Friday and Saturday have already been sold. The musical will close on Sunday evening. Regular prices are $1.50 foi- the orchestra and $1.00 for balcony seats. Reduced prices of $1.00 and 75 cents for the same are available to faculty members, students and University employees. Ticket orders may be made by mail, phone or at the ticket booth in Washington Hall.
I
April 29, 1955
Our pouting hero Willie Baxter (Jim Kinnane) finds little consolation in the words of his sister (Marilyn Chapleau).
Merrill Richard and Jerry to express their feelings
Dodge dance into the spotlight about the wonders of Spring.
Forty-five Years of Columbianis^
Pope Pius XI once called the Knights of Columbus “the right arm of the Catholic Church in America." Last Sunday morning almost 150 members of Notre Dame Council No. 1477 attended a Communion breakfast celebrating the fortyfifth anniversary of this, the first college-level Council. Featured speaker at the breakfast was James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Notre Dame Foundation and member of the Board of Directors for the Council's Building Corporation. Mr. Armstrong discussed the history of the Council and the personalities responsible for its successful development. To commemorate this anniversary, the Scholastic is grateful to Mr. Eli Shaheen, a trustee of the Council, who has ■prepared the following brief history for our readers.
SOON after the turn of the century, a group of faculty members and upperclassmen started working on the idea of organizing a Council of the Knights of Columbus here on campus. Since this would be the first college council in the history of the Order, there were certain misgivings on the part of both the University Administration and the national Supreme Council. The Administration felt that there might arise certain conflicts with school policies because the council’s general activities would have to be governed by certain laws and regulations of the Supreme Council of the
Knights of Columbus. Conversely, the Supreme Council felt that a college council might be too transitory in nature ■to permit the stability desired of a sub--ordinate unit of the Order, and also thought that its general and specific activities might be too circumscribed by the University.
After five years of preliminary work —headed by such illustrious men as the former president of the University and present Archbishop of Philadelphia, His Excellency, Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., the fears of those apparent conflicts were soon dissipated and a charter of the Order was issued to the fortyodd charter members of Notre Dame Council No. 1477.
It was a happy day on that occasion when many dignitaries and national Knights of Columbus leaders visited the University and joined hands with Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Notre Dame’s president who was himself a member of the Order. Thus was
launched the first collegiate council of the Order. Later events proved the wisdom of that decision, for Notre Dame
20
Council to this day remains the first and largest of all collegiate councils and serves as a model for future councils on other campuses at both Catholic and non-Catholic universities.
Slow Beginning
It would be foolhardy to think that the early stages of this unique Council were easy or that growth was phenomenal. The job was tedious and slow, but it was growth with a purpose and with a tradition that has kept each succeeding year alert to that needed development. Nothing is done in haste and considerable thought is given to each and every activity that the Council undertakes. In all of these activities, there are always several priests on campus who lend their wisdom, effort and support to insure success for the ventures.
The Council grew slowly until the advent of World War I, when activities were limited; by then, however, a firm and lasting foundation had been established. So, at the end of the war, full activities were immediately resumed under the direction of George Schuster, Tom Tobin and Vince Mooney. Incidentally, Mr. Schuster is now President of Hunter College and the other two entered the priesthood; Father Tobin is presently Chancelloi- of the Archdiocese of Oregon, and Father Mooney is an executive of the CYO and one of its early organizers—just further examples of the leadership training provided by
the local Council.
During those Council usually
first ten years, the confined most of its
Deputy Grand Knight Dick Miller, District Deputy August Dossman, Grand Knight Lou Basso, Trustee Eli Shaheen, Father Thomas Brennan and Jerome Smith meet at speakers’ table during Sunday Communion breakfast.	»
NOTRE DAME
1477
Ka5U>
work to the campus proper except when I called upon by the State and Supreme Councils for support in majoi- efforts such as the Oregon School Case, the persecutions of the Church in Mexico and similar activities. Then, little by little, it began to gain the recognition of the University officials as a solid, well! organized group that could be depende™^/ on to undertake and carry through on i any possible assignment.
Perhaps the era of the twenties has been its period of greatest growth and participation in campus life. Every ; Council of the Order, including Notre • Dame Council No. 1477, was basking in I the reflected glory of the Knights’ heroic I works during the first World War. The i history books of that War wrote a bright chapter for the Order in the relief won* that it did for soldiers both at home and on the battlefields of Europe. Fresh from i war glories and blessed with active lead- j ership and very cooperative University officials, the Council began to make rapid advances.
The ‘Golden Era’
It established itself in private quarters ( in Walsh Hall, which to this day have I1 served as its meeting place. Likewise, it j was given an official office on the second^' floor of the Main Building for its day-1" I to-day operations and keeping of its	il
many and varied records. Its income | grew, enabling it to engage in many <■ social activities for the members and to )
contribute to many worthwhile causes both local and elsewhere. During this period many events took place under the 1
The Scholasti^
«
auspices of the Council: a concert by John Philip Sousa’s famed band; organ-Wzation of the K. of C. orchestra known
as the “Knightingales”; establishment of the K. of C. Vod-vil which was an annual event; and the Council’s annual Spring Formal which, until very recently, was the outstanding social event of the school year.
A high point was reached in 1924 when, through the efforts of the Notre Dame Council, the national Supreme ^Council established its Boy Guidance ^Scholarships for ten graduates who could qualify for masters degrees in this type of work. Professor Ray Hoyer was placed in charge of this program until its abandonment in 1940.
The Last Quarter Century
Ever since the Council began, successive years tended to embellish and to improve the activities already established. Nevertheless, each year found •he Council engaging in various new local activities consistent -with the growth of the University. The field of activities on the campus was gradually narrowing and, as is logical, other groups began to assume some of the activities previously performed by the Knights. The early years of 1930 limited the growth and, in fact, the Council sustained considerable losses due to the nation’s depression and its general effects. Its finances and membership had •o undergo a drastic change; it was obviously rough going for several years.
But the Grand Knights during those hard times were genuine leaders engaged in the process of keeping the Council alert and active, and at the same time operating it on a limited budget. Several innovations were added to their projects. The Knights also organized the Council’s bowling league and participated in two national bowling tour-™aments.
Just as the Council was beginning to gain momentum after the depression years, the second World War was upon us. During the early stages of the War, the Council was assigned the duty of selling War 'Stamps on campus. A large committee headed by Grand Knight Jerry Killigrew, who was later killed in action, collected thousands of dollars for Stamps and Wai- Bonds. Also, in 1940, ^he Council sponsored “The War Charity Carnival” which raised nearly $5,000 for war relief. Notre Dame’s now popular Mardi Gras festivities have been modeled after that first venture.
In that decade preceding the United States’ entry into World War II, a number of recognitions came to the campus Council and its members. The first of these was the appointment in 1932 of Professor Louis Buckley as District Deputy of the Knights. In 1937 Mr. Eli
Council leaders gather with Father Schaerf in Walsh basement to plan future.
Shaheen, now a trustee of the local Council, assumed a similar term as District Deputy; he was also appointed state chairman for the organization of the Columban Squires, the Knights’ Junior Order, and by 1940 eight Columban Squire Circles had risen in Indiana. At the same time three former members of the campus Council were sitting on the Supreme Board of Directors of the Order. They were Ray T. Miller of Cleveland, Ohio, Leo F. Craig of Sioux Falls, So. Dakota, and Timothy P. Galvin of Hammond, Ind. Mr. Galvin later became Deputy Supreme Knight of the Order, and Mr. Craig was assigned the task of reorganizing the insurance department of the order, a position from which he resigned just a year ago.
Today there are two more former members on the Supreme Board: John T. Rocap of Indianapolis and C. Conroy Scoggins of Houston, Texas. Among other alumni of the campus Council are six State Deputies and a host of District and local officers. A survey made during the thirties disclosed that 90% of the 3400 councils of the Order had Notre Dame men in their ranks, including many office-holders.
When our country entered World War II, the Council turned over its facilities in Walsh Hall to the Navy. But in 1946, Professor Robert Sullivan, who had already served as Grand Knight in 1938, returned to the Law School and again resumed the post of Grand Knight. Within that year the Walsh quarters were restored to the Council and all activities were resumed.
Then, too, the Knights took over sponsorship of the annual Bengal Bouts tournament. This student boxing program yields each year from $3,000 to $7,000 for the Bengal Missions. This event generally pre-occupies nearly half of the membership for four months of the year in planning.
Since the start of its post-war ‘boom,’
the Council has also formed an ushers club to handle the crowds pouring into Sacred Heart Church for Sunday Masses. Other activities include assisting during May devotions, and directing clothing drives for needy families. Several Holy Cross Fathers have been particularly active in Council affairs in this period. These include Rev. John Reynolds, Rev. Charles Carey, Rev. Thomas Brennan, Rev. Edmund Murray and its present chaplain, Rev. Philip Schaerf.
Hopes for the Future
So this month the Notre Dame Council has completed 45 years of continual activity. Never resting on past laurels, the Knights are currently looking to the future with hopes of further growth. More specifically, they are looking for the day when a Knights of Columbus Building will be erected on campus.
To reach this goal a building fund was started in the early twenties. By 1930 it had accumulated nearly $30,000, most of which was invested in real estate; but a substantial loss was suffered during the depression. It was reorganized in 1934 as the Building Corporation composed of nine directors, seven of whom are elected by the Council annually while the current Grand Knight and Financial Secretary serve as ex-officio members.
This Board of Directors is now composed of Professor Leo F. Kuntz, James E. Armstrong, Rev. Charles Carey, Mr. Eli Shaheen, Rev. Thomas Brennan, Jerome Smith, Grand Knight Louis G. Basso and Financial Secretary George Zimmerman. And, whereas in 1934 the value of the assets was about $10,000 the net assets of the Building Corporation as of Dec. 31, 1954 amounted to $181,747; as of today they are approximately $200,000. It is the fondest hope of every Knight that the dream born in the twenties may soon become a reality.
pril 29, 1955
21
Faculty Payroll Will Be Increased Next Year; Duration of Contract Shortened to Ten Months
A quarter-million dollar increase in Notre Dame’s faculty payroll for the 1955-56 school year was announced here recently by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of academic affairs.
The increased faculty budget will provide greater annual income for virtually all of Notre Dame’s 335 lay faculty members, Father Moore said. It also provides for the addition of a number of new members to the faculty. A separate fund has been earmarked to engage scholars under the University’s Distinguished Professors Program.
Notre Dame professors will benefit from the §250,000 faculty appropriation increase in at least one of several ways, Father Moore explained.
Faculty members previously on a 12-month contract will be offered a new contract for two semesters or 10 months, "but they will receive the same pay they formerly received for the 12-month period. This shortening of the contractual period without a reduction in salary is evidence of the University’s “genuine concern” with the financial problems of its lay teachers, Father Moore said.
Approximately 200 professors engaged to teach or conduct research during the summer will receive additional income amounting to one-sixth and one-fifth respectively of their pay for the two semesters or 10-month period, Father Moore said. He pointed out that in this
CHAIRMAN McMAHON AND HIS FROLIC COMMITTEE MEET
Tonight the Frosh Will Dance in a “Hawaiian Holiday”
way the income of the majority of our lay faculty members will be increased “several hundred dollars annually.” Faculty members who do not teach at Notre Dame during the summer will be free to teach summer school elsewhere or seek other professional employment during that period, he added.
Over and above this, new and higher minimum salaries have been established for each of the four faculty ranks, Father Moore announced. These new minimum salary scales were determined, he said, after the University studied the salary levels of instructors, assistant professors, associate professors and full professors at 75 other colleges and universities. These newly adopted salary scales, which become effective in September, make the pay of Notre Dame faculty members “competitive” with comparable institutions, Father Moore asserted.
Pointing out that Notre Dame is a private institution which receives financial support “neither from Church nor State,” Father Moore said that salary increments for faculty members had been made possible only by the contributions of alumni and friends of Notre Dame as well as corporations and other groups to the Notre Dame Foundation. In committing itself to substantial salary increases, the University is relying on “continuing and increasing support” from these sources, Father Moore said.
“Assured of this support, Notre Dame g can strengthen and develop its faculty 1 still further in future years,” he said®!
The University vice-president noted | that another phase of the University’s ; faculty development, the Distinguished Professors Program, has enjoyed “marked success” during the past year. t Several eminent scholars and artists I have accepted permanent or semester I faculty appointments, he said, while others have agreed to lecture regularly I at the University.
Representatives of the Notre Dame-1 Foundation will continue to approach corporations from coast to coast in the , interest of the Distinguished Professors Program, Father Moore said. With financial support from business and indus- , try, the University hopes to complete the engagement of 45 such scholars in the foreseeable future, he continued. “We are confident,” Father Moore said, “that this support will be forthcoming — and that it will be commensurate with ~ Notre Dame’s growth and aspirations.”
TV Trip to New York Won by Ve+ville Wife
What United States president’s former occupation was that of a painter? That was the question which Lou Wood, master of ceremonies on WSBT-TV’s “Cinderella Weekend,” put across the — cameras to Mrs. Jessie Young. The-Vetville housewife thought for a second, then tallied with “Andrew Jackson.”
Little did the 17th president realize that his name could bring such joy to a Hoosier housewife. It was by answering this key question that Mrs. Young was showered with gifts ranging from a beautiful watch and a complete wardrobe to products for the home. The grand prize was an all-expenses-paid^ trip for two to New York City.
Mrs. Young, formerly of Raleigh, N. C., had the full support of her “home , team” of Mr. Young and their two children, Mary and Dennis. A graduate student in physics, Young found that , the vacation came as a pleasant Easter i surprise.
Both he and his victorious wife flew by United Airlines sky-coach to New York City. Since the couple had both visited the metropolis before, they knew^ exactly how to space their time and see*" i as much as possible. They found the United Nations Building the most in- | spiring office on their tour. Before re- £ turning home they were treated to Radio I City’s gala Easter show.	>
When the airliner finally touched t down at home Mrs. Young summed up t the whole trip by saying, “It was won- 3 derful to get away for a while, but good j to be home again.”
The Scholastic^
22
1a Dr. Fitzsimons Named Political Review Editor
The appointment of Dr. Matthew A. Fitzsimons as editor of Notre Dame’s Revieiv of Politics was announced here recently by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. Fitzsimons succeeds the late Dr. Walde-। ( mar Gurian who founded the quarterly V publication in 1939 and served as its ^editor until his death last May. The '^Revieiv is a general cultural journal with a dominantly political and historical appraisal of current problems in i world affairs.
Father Hesburgh also named Prof. । Frank O’Malley and Dr. John J. Kennedy as associate editors of the publication and appointed Rev. Thomas T. ■ McAvoy, C.S.C., managing editor. O’Malley and Fathei* McAvoy, who heads ^Notre Dame’s Department of History, Wiave been associated with the Review
of Politics since it was founded.
Fitzsimons, a Notre Dame faculty member since 1937, is author of The Foreign Policy of the British Labour Government, 1945-51 (1952). Currently he is in England gathering material for a second book on British foreign policy. With Dr. Gurian he was co-editor of The Catholic Church in World Affairs (1954). For several years Dr. Fitzsimons has been a member of Notre ®Dame’s Committee on International Relations.
A native of New York City, Fitzsimons holds degrees from Columbia University, Oxford University and the University of Chicago where he received his Ph.D. in 1947. He is a member of the American Historical Association, the Catholic Historical Association and the Indiana Academy of Social Sciences.
•Higgins, Slevin Take First In 'Success Story Contest'
Jerry Higgins and John Slevin of WNDU were awarded first prize for their entries in the IBS-CRC Success Story Contest as recently announced by Thomas M. Blaisdell, sales promotion manager of the Intercollegiate Broadcasting System. WNDU will receive 25 reels of recording tape as first prize. । The Success Story consists of presenting a sponsor’s campaign from first contact to final “checkback.”
Nabichts’ Restaurant and the Avon Theatre were the subjects for Higgins and Slevin’s story. Blaisdell said that “The judges felt that one of the deciding factors in both entries was the ‘follow-through’ that each sponsor was accorded.”
By winning the contest WNDU will
receive a $50 cash prize.
t^Lpril 29, 1955
Fran Allison of Kuklapolitan Fame Will Speak |
At Junior Class Communion Breakfast May 8
Fran Allison, nationally known television star, will be the guest speaker at the Junior Class Communion Breakfast to be held on May 8 in the East Dining Hall following the 8 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church. The breakfast which will climax the Junior Prom weekend, will also present Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University. There are still a number of tickets on sale.
Miss Allison, whose home town is La-
*
MISS FRAN ALLISON Where’s Kukla and Ollie?

porte City, la., got her start in show business after attending Coe College in Cedar Rapids where she studied music and education. She began singing on a local radio station in Waterloo, la. At the same time she was teaching in a rural school. In 1937, four years after the start of her professional career, Miss Allison went to Chicago. There she obtained several singing and dramatic roles on network radio shows. It was while she was in Chicago that Miss Allison got her first real big break. She appeared on the “Don McNeill Breakfast Club” as “Aunt Fanny,” an absentminded, gaudily dressed, and laughable gossip. She quickly became a regular on the popular McNeill show. In 1941 Miss Allison married Archie Levington, a music publisher.
On Oct. 13, 1947, Miss Allison made hei- television debut in Chicago with the famed Kuklapolitan Players created by Bun- Tillstrom. By 1948 the show, now known as “Kukla, Fran and Ollie,” was seen all over the Midwest on the NBC network. With the completion of the co
axial cable in 1949, “Kukla, Fran and Ollie” went nationwide. At the present time the show is seen coast to coast on the ABC network and Miss Allison still plays “Fran.”
Previous to the Sunday Communion Breakfast will be the Junior Prom, “A Thousand and One Nights,” on Friday, May 6. The Prom will feature the music of Capitol recording artist Billy May and his band and will be held in the Student Center. Several bids for the dance which will take place from 9:30 p.m. until 1:30 a.m. still remain on sale. There will be 2:30 a.m. hall permissions the night of the Prom.
On Saturday night at 6:30 p.m., a dinner-dance will be held at the South Bend Country Club. Don Gels and his band will provide the music for dancing which will last from 8:30 p.m. until 11:30 p.m.
Local ROTC Units Vie For Honors Tomorrow
Army, Navy, and Air Force ROTC units of the University will compete in the annual Presidential Review tomorrow. The parade will be held at 2 pan. on the fields west of the Stadium.
Before the troops pass in review, rewards will be given to 48 outstanding cadets.
Among the many dignitaries present will be Lt. General Hobart R. Gay, Commanding General, 5th Anny; Maj. General Matthew K. Diechelmann, United States Air Force; Rear Admiral E. P. Forrestal, United States Navy; Mayor Scott of South Bend; Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University; Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of Notre Dame; Col. Fredrick B. Mann, Commanding Officer, Indiana Military District; Col. C. J. Letzelter, U.S.A., professor of Military Science, University of Notre Dame; Col. Milton M. Towner, U.S.A.F., professor of Air Science, University of Notre Dame; Capt. Frank P. Luongo, U.S.N., professor of Naval Science, University of Notre Dame; and many outstanding men and women of industry and the press.
Among the awards to be given will be the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh Award, the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell Award, the Notre Dame Award, The Chicago Tribune gold and silver medals, the William Randolph Hearst ROTC Rifle Competition award, and many others.
23
Traded
©1955 Paper-Mate Co,, Inc., Culver City. CaUL


D£^OPR'£^.m v
FOP
TIP
v Paper
F Mate’
Famous Paper-Mate De Luxe. Your choice of seven colors. With Paper-Mate's exclusive Silvered-Tip in either “Fine-Point” or “Medium.
The result of five years of research! Paper-Mate’s amazing, new “Fine-Point” Silvered-Tip flows clean, crisp words or figures in an unbroken string. No misses.
No skipping. No pressure needed. No scratch. Lays down such a neat hair-line, it almost doubles your writing mileage!
Fully guaranteed by Paper-Mate. Won’t leak, smear or clog. Ink can’t transfer or fade. For the “finest” writer you’ve ever known, get Paper-Mate’s new “Fine-Point” Silvered-Tip today. Available in both Paper-Mate De Luxe and Capri.
SOTRE MME Mil Badin Hall

% I

24
The Scholastic^
• Scholastic Sports
KLINEMEN MEET PURDUE, INDIANA NEXT
• Stout Pitching Carries Irish Through South;
( Hitters Show Strength Overpowering Glenview
By JOE NORTON
Coach Jake Kline’s Irish nine opened the home season in grand fashion on Cartier Field last Saturday afternoon by walloping Glenview Naval Air Station, 15-2. The Klinemen scored six runs in the first inning on four hits and five Glenview errors and tallied at least once in each succeeding inning.
Northwestern defeated Notre Dame, 8-1, Wednesday afternoon at Evanston.
Tuesday the Irish will face Purdue at Lafayette and then will travel to Bloomington Wednesday to battle Indiana. Coach Kline says he hasn’t been able to get much of a line on either one of these two intra-state rivals, but states that he expects them to be “very tough, as usual.”
Indiana’s hurlers have tossed two nohitters this year and the Hoosiers’ hitting has improved. Hal Summers, Woody Ratterman, and Bill Dooley have
REVAMPED INFIELD PROVIDES SPARK IN EARLY GAMES
Left to Right: Don Sniegowski, Jim Carideo, Ed Hurley, and Jim Cusack
figured in these pitching chores.
Don Domenic is the leading Indiana hitter as the Big Ten swings into action.
Jim Carideo, sophomore shortstop, led the team at the plate against Glenview with four for four and five runs driven in. He singled in the first inning with the bases loaded and repeated his performance in the sixth. Catcher Elmer Kohorst, who led the team in hitting after four games at a .444 clip, drove in three runs with a double and two singles.
Sophomore left-hander Dick Bunker started on the mound for the Irish and pitched flawless ball for three innings, striking out six Glenview batters before being relieved by Paul Besser.
Besser kept the Sailors off balance with his tricky motion, but they got to him for two hits and a pair of unearned
NO ARGUMENT HERE
Kohorst Nipped in Run-Down
runs in the sixth. He struck out five, however, and gained credit for the victory. Senior Ron Mottl pitched the last inning, striking out three and walking two.
The Irish opened the regular season at Ohio State in a three-game series which the host team took, two games to one. Ron Mottl went 15 innings in the first game to notch a hard-fought 4-3 decision.
In the southern exhibition series, Coach Kline’s charges won two and lost three as they attempted to iron out some of the kinks. The team beat Ohio U., 3-2, and V.P.I., 8-5. The losses were to Duke, 4-1, Yale, 8-3, and West Virginia, 5-3.
During the series Don Sniegowski was switched from pitcher to third base and has since shown up very well at the hot corner position. Jim Carideo moved into the shortstop job and if he continues to hit as he did against Glenview, Kline says he will hold the job.
Ron Mottl had been the workhorse of the pitching staff after four games. He had pitched 16 innings, giving up eight hits and striking out 18. Dick Bunker had toiled 12 innings in regular season play, yielding a total of seven hits and chalking up 13 strikeouts.
In the hitting department, after four games, Elmer Kohorst’s .444 is tops for the team. He is followed by Ed Hurley with .388, Don Sniegowski .355, Jim Carideo .316, and Bill Teschke .277.
First baseman Jim Cusack has filled in well for injured Mike Lesso. The -outfield of Jack O’Drobinak, Dan Nespo, and Bill Teschke has not given Kline the hitting he expects from the trio.
April 29, 1955
Jordan Drills Cagers in Spring Practices;
Freshmen, Sophomores Vie for Stephens' Slot
Coach Johnny Jordan is currently getting- an early look at his 1955-56 Irish eagers, who began a two-week spring practice period last Friday.
The main point of concentration during this brief workout is to adjust the players to the new 12-foot free throw lane rule. Next year an offensive player will be allowed only three seconds inside of this widened lane. Coach Jordan states that this “necessitates more movement on offense and will make the pivot post much more difficult to play.”
Consequently, during these sessions, Coach Jordan is running through plays with different combinations of players to familiarize them with this new ruling both on offense and on defense.
“This change in rules makes the zone defense very effective,” asserts Coach Jordan, “but we will continue to use our shifting defense.”
Captain John Fannon, Bill Weiman, John Smyth, and Lloyd Aubrey are returning from this year’s outfit.
As for the big guard slot vacated by graduating Captain Jack Stephens, Coach Jordan lists sophomores Lee Ayotte and Joe Morelli, and freshmen Bobby Devine and Ed Gleason as the leading contenders for this varsity post.
Other freshmen who are highly regarded by Coach Jordan and who may see action as reseiwes for the Irish next season are forwards John McCarthy and Jim Williams, and center Don McNeill. Accordingly, the freshmen of this year will play a big role in Jordan’s future plans.
In comparing next season’s squad with this past season’s, Coach Jordan affirmed, “The starting five might not be better than the past season’s, due to the loss of a great player like Stephens, but the ball club on the whole will have much better balance. Last season we had a good front line with little reserve
ATTENTION, SWIMMERS!
A Swimming Club organizational meeting will be held Thursday, May 5, in Room 1-B of the Student Center at 7:30 p.m. in response to the March 25 column, ’“Splinters From the Pressbox.”
There will be an election of temporary officers. Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C., will serve as club advisor.
All those interested in participating in intercollegiate swimming next year are urged to attend this meeting.
26

power to back them. Next season we will have much better depth supporting an experienced starting five.”
Following this spring practice, workouts will resume next fall on Nov. 1, with the 1955-56 basketball campaign opening against the University of Detroit at Detroit on Dec. 3.
The season will be highlighted by an Irish return visit to New Orleans to defend their crown in the annual Sugar Bowl tournament. Alabama, Utah, and Marquette will also compete in the Christmas holiday classic.
Irish Face Glenview In Home Golf Opener
The Notre Dame golf team will open its home season tomorrow afternoon at 1 p.m. with an 18-hole match against Glenview Air Station on the Burke Golf Course. -The Irish will be striving to continue their steady play which has merited them victories in two of their first three matches. Rev. George Hol-derith, C.S.C., coach of the team, hopes that -Saturday’s match will be an eightman contest, instead of the usual six-man team.
Tee Off on Louisville
The Irish opened their season successfully on April 15 with a 15% to 11% victory over Louisville at Kentucky. Chuck Gordon led the team with a 74, while Co-Captain Bob Filipiak and Joe Mulflur came next with 76.
Last Saturday the Irish split in a triangular match at Peoria, Ill., beating Western Illinois, 14i^ to Bi^, and losing to Bradley, 19i/2 to 7i^. Father Holderith believes Bradley has one of the most powerful teams in the Midwest, if not the best.
Father Holderith expects Leo Matt, Sam Merra, Wayne Vercellotti, Bill McGuire, and Owen Sodetz to provide solid support during the season.
The matches were played under inclement weather conditions as high winds and rain swept the course all day.
The freshman golf team defeated Culver Military Academy, 20i/^ to 6y2, in a home match played last 'Saturday. Lloyd Syron came in with an even par 72, Charlie Thum 73, Tom Garside 74, Joe Grace 77, Jim Mrus 77, and Pete Loda 79. Father Holderith expressed optimism about the potential of these boys in the coming years. “They are the most promising all-around freshman team I have ever had the pleasure of coaching.”

Five Softball Leagues } Open Interhall Action
Interhall softball competition opened I its 13th season April 19 with the most I intensive schedule in history under the i direction of Mr. Frank Maxwell of the I Department of Physical Education. j
After the first week of play, Farley 1 and Walsh, both representing the Gold , loop, are the only two teams to post two J victories in their first two outings. Far- ,» ley scored the most runs for the week bjl^t blasting out 11-5 and 17-5 triumphs I over Alumni Gold and Morrissey Gold. [ Meanwhile Badin Green put on the big- t gest single-game slugging exhibition | ■while routing Lyons, 24-11.	|
This year the contesting teams have 1 been sliced from 41 to 36 and are seeded . I into five loops. Games should be underway by 4:30 p.m. Tuesdays and Fri- ' days, while Wednesday and Thursday night play will begin at 6:30 p.m.
Represent Halls and Clubs
Three of the leagues, the Gold, Blue, j and Green, represent the various halls / throughout campus, with several halls ( fielding squads in each of the three associations. The remaining two circuits ; comprise the various clubs and city or ! state organizations.	;
Last year, Alumni Blue emerged vic- : torious in the double elimination play-^ . off tournament held at the conclusion* , of the season. The Knights of Columbus and Detroit clubs held down second and third place, respectively.	j
This season Mr. Maxwell “plans to । have each team play every other squad I in their league once. Then, barring rainy weather, we will have our double
elimination series comprising the five winners from each of the respective
leagues.”	,
f
K. of C. and Detroit Favorites	''
Although all of the halls and many of ■: the clubs have a completely new align- 11 ment of player personnel, Mr. Maxwell I singled out the Knights of Columbus and ; | Detroit Clubs as “potential pennant j | winners.”	|
“The Knights always field a "winning team, and Detroit is one of the few clubs { to retain much of their manpower from i last year.” As a darkhorse, Mr. Max-^i well gave the.nod to the Texas nine for | ] “they have both experience and talent.” 11
Mr. Maxwell also believes that this [ year there is “a more general active par- I ticipation in softball than ever before.” ’ In fact, problems have arisen because of * a shortage of playing area to accommodate the expanding popularity. j
A new interhall committee has been
organized to handle
any problems.
The Scholastic
■> Tracks+ersatDrake;
A
Allard Wins at Kansas
The Notre Dame tracksters compete in the Drake Relays today and tomorrow after meeting with only moderate success in the Kansas Relays last Saturday.
Notre Dame sent nine men to Kansas to compete in five different events. Ap-\ proximately 60 teams from all over the ^:ountry were represented.
‘The bright spot of the trip was a first place in the high jump for Bernie Al-i lard. The lanky junior cleared 6 feet 7% inches, nearly one inch higher than Art Carder of Washburn who finished I second. It marked the second consecutive time Allard has hit 6 feet 7 inches.
1
/ Enter Usual Combinations
A team of Dick O’Keeffe, Al Porter, •Bill quires, and CoJCaptain Al Schoe-nig ran in the two-mile and distance । medley relays. Alex Pestrichella, Bill Keegan, Frank Hall, and the other Co-Captain, Jim Pitcavage, entered the 440 and 880 relays. But the Irish speedsters ! failed to finish in the top three in these four events.
This week’s Drake Relays are de-| scribed as a “big one” by Coach Alex ' Wilson, pointing out that Oklahoma A. & M. in the distance runs, and Texas •and Houston in the sprints will be the teams to beat.
Wilson says he will probably use the 1 same men he used at Kansas, and that Notre Dame would enter the sprint medley relay in addition to the events run ■last week. Bill Squires will run the 880 in this event, Schoenig the 440, and Pitcavage and Pestrichella in the two 220s.
Wilson commented on the presence of •^Ves Santee, “He’s running unattached ... no trouble to us.”
i
Schedule Spring Sports Fete For Faculty Dining Room
| The annual spring sports athletic banquet will be held May 11 at 6:30 p.m. in the Faculty Dining Room, it was announced by Herb Jones, Business Manager of Athletics.
The purpose of the banquet is to honor the spring athletic teams in appreciation for the jobs they have performed in their respective matches. All the members of the track, baseball, fencing, tennis, and golf teams will be present, along with the student managers, who are invited guests.
Director of Athletics Edward Krause, team coaches, and a University repre-sentative will speak.
J&April 29, 1955
r
Brennan Faces Sophomore Question Marks In Job of Building Experienced Grid Machine
By DAVE DAVIN
“These sophomores still need their trial by fire,” Coach George Dickson said this week about the football team.
The backfield coach added, “We can’t really say we will depend a lot on them, but we will be using them when we can next fall.”
Singling out two of the more promising men who are for the first time seeking a spot on the Irish varsity, Dickson spoke of end Dick Prendergast and halfback Aubrey Lewis. “Prendergast,” Coach Dickson said, “is a real hustler. He’s been in there and right
JIM MORSE
“. . . . could be one of the best . . .”
now his leg injury could be called an ‘occupational hazard’.”
As for Lewis, runner-up to Milt Campbell in the decathlon last spring, Dickson asserted that “speed is his big attribute, but he has much to learn yet.”
The first week of drills after the Easter holiday gave the patrons at Car-tier field practices a team of “shuttle” players. The coaches kept trying to keep the freshest 22 men on the field. These watchers saw Paul Hornung handling the signal-calling chores foi- the most part, Don Schaefer, two-time letterman, seeking his second year as first team fullback, and halfback Paul Reynolds seemingly back in his old running form, and a completely new line.
“Hornung,” Dickson said, “might have been harmed by his stints at fullback last fall. He must now develop the calling ability and skill of working the automatic plays and analysis that Gugli-elmi was such a master at. One thing that must be remembered,” Dickson
went on to say, “is that the job of quarterback of a Notre Dame football team is one of the most responsible in the country. And you just don’t make such a quarterback in no time.”
Ex-quarterback Dickson added about Hornung, “Paul has much physical ability but he is untried and untested. And after him, the quarterbacking section could definitely be strengthened.”
One other returning backfield lad who carries many hopes on his back is Jimmy Morse, a junior-to-be. He ran well at the start of this young spring session, but lately has been slightly hobbled by a leg injury.’
Of Morse, Coach Dickson said, “If he improves, he could be one of the best of Notre Dame backs. He is a good back whom we will count on, but he can improve.”
The interested people who have been watching Terry Brennan’s second crop of gridders have something to delight them. Paul Reynolds, not quite recovered from a knee injury last season, now can be called “cured.” All he must regain, in the words of Dickson, is “the necessary reckless attitude of a good runner. If he begins to favor that leg and worry about it, he won’t be back where he was three seasons ago. Physically he is.”
Up front, a whole new line must be molded. Captain-guard Ray Lemek will be the only returning full-time veteran, but his leg injury from the Southern California game last December holds him in doubt.
Pat Bisceglia could be the other guard come next fall, or perhaps sophomore Al Francis, a reconverted center, could hold down the slot.
Jim Mense returns as a center, but, as Coach Dickson said, “None of the positions are definite. They all could change because no one has his job assured.”
As usual, injuries have played a big hand in the spring drills. Byron Beams, tackle, John McMullan, guard, and Bob Scannell, end, have felt the pesty sting. Coach Dickson says none of them is serious, just the regular bumps and jolts.
When asked if the backfield potential could shape itself into a good quartet, Dickson stated, “A backfield is only as good as the guys up front. Those seven men must be real supporting players if the ball carriers are to be good.”
IF seems to be the key word this spring. It may be erased May 14 on School Field in the Old Timers contest. -
SPECIAL STUDENT
RATES
Serving ND Students and Faculty for the Eighth- Year
fmsbn
by Paul Fullmer
The last time this column appeared we plugged for a swimming team, and plans along this line are already in the fire. An organizational meeting will be held next Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in Room 1-B of the Student Center to get the ball rolling. Already a strong nucleus has been lined up, but anyone interested in intercollegiate swimming should make it a point to attend and get the lowdown on the club’s activities. This year’s groundwork will be all-important in formulating next season’s activities.
SOONER OR LATER
That Old Bugaboo Again
If the swimming idea grows into club form next year, the old bugaboo about club and team status will pop up again. Right now wrestling and gymnastics are struggling along under mere club status, i.e., almost completely independent and without University suppoi-t. Teams, of course,
get complete backing from the school, a qualified coach, monograms, favorable schedules, and NCAA recognition, among other things.
The wrestling and gymnastics clubs now must pay their own way and have coaching help only through the generosity of Tom Fallon and Ray Runkle of the Department of Physical Education.
1.000 suits in stock
•	All the newest styles
•	Boys’ size 2 to Men’s 56
•	No Deposit for ND Students
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
A Very Embarrassing Situation
The University shies away from giving these clubs recognition for various reasons, but it can’t ignore their existence. Officially the clubs aren’t recognized as University representatives, but naturally they are billed as hailing from Notre Dame. The results are carried locally and regionally the same as the fencing or tennis teams. Sooner or later the Athletic Board will have to face the situation and come through with the meager sum needed to keep these sports on a worthwhile basis. .
The Wrestling Club, for instance, figured that its operating expenses didn’t run much over §150 this year. Of course, this doesn’t cover a coach, or needed equipment, but this still shouldn’t run up the budget excessively. The club has been using discarded equipment, hardly the way for a school to operate that has the athletic name that ND carries nationally.
Special price on new Single Breasted Tropical Tux including tux shirt, $55.50
LOGAN'S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
The Talent Is Already Here
Advisor Fallon states, “There is no doubt that we would attract much better talent if we had team status. The idea of winning monograms would bring out many boys who don’t think it is worth the time now. There are usually about 30 experienced wrestlers enrolled here, and only about ten come out each year under club status.” Only a few of these would pass up a varsity sport. There would be no need to incorporate scholarship aid into the picture, for the teams could compete successfully without aid.
It appears that the Athletic Board wishes to put these clubs through a “probation” period before admitting them into the charmed varsity team circle. The wrestling and gymnastics clubs have shown good faith in persevering under almost unbearable conditions.
s
And now it looks like swimming will have to go through the same drawn-out process before it can crack the charmed circle.
28
The Scholastitf^ /i
Rasmussen
MEN’S SHOP
Main and Washington Sts.
Has Your
AFTER SIX Formal Wear
more men wear
32.50
Tennis Squad Faces Heavy Weekend Slate
Coach Charlie Samson’s tennis team opens its home season today with a match against Tennessee A. & I. State. Tomorrow, Marquette will provide the opposition in a match that will begin at 1:30 p.m.
The Irish netters will be busy all next week as they face five teams in six days. All home matches are scheduled for 2:30 p.m. except those on Saturday which will start at 1:30 p.m.
The recent southern trip gave Samson a chance to get a good look at his play-
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
EDDIE'S for the very finest STEAKS and CHOPS STEAK HOUSE 602 S. WALNUT
mints
LIBRARY aid BOOK SHOP
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
*-------------- &April 29, 1955
WALLY CLARKE
Number One Singles Man ers in action as well as working them into top physical condition for the coming grind.
The Irish broke even in four matches. Four other matches were cancelled because of inclement weather. They defeated Marshall College, 8-1, and Xavier, 9-0, while dropping 9-0 defeats to both Duke and North Carolina. Each of the six Irish singles players won two and lost two as did the three doubles combinations.
As of now, Wally Clarke is Samson’s No. 1 singles man. Captain Maury Reidy is No. 2 man and Harry Smith gives the Irish the strong third man. Other top singles players are Bill Reale, Dean Richards, and Jim Rich.
Clarke and Reidy again teamed up to give the Irish a strong doubles team. The Smith-Reale combination also looked very good in the south.
The Irish face Indiana here on Monday and then move down to Purdue on Tuesday. The Irish return home to meet Cincinnati on Thursday, Detroit on Friday, and Kalamazoo on Saturday.
I Want to trawl and study abroad?
Take a univurifty-spoMorad four via TWA tlm tunuaur and earn full coMugo credit while you travel
Visit the countries of your choice ... study from 2 to 6 •weeks at a foreign university. You can do both on one trip when you arrange a university-sponsored tour via TWA. Itin- . eraries include countries in Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Africa. Special study tours available. Low all-inclusive prices with TWA’s economical Sky Tourist service.
For information, write: John
H. Furbay, Ph. D., Director, I Air World Tours, Dept. CN, I 380 Madison Ave., New "York I 17, N. Y Be sure to mention I aountries you wish to visit. I
The Spring issue of
Juggler
Now on sale in the Bookstore and Cafeteria 25c
Department of Publications Basement of Farley Hall Notre Dame, Indiana
29
YOU'RE A BETTER GOLFER THAN YOU THINK!
Bobby Jones registered woods and irons, and Jimmy Thomson registered woods are SYNCHRO-DYNED® clubs.. . the only clubs made that offer you perfect balance . . . and an identical contact feel.
Because every one of these clubs swings and feels alike . . . your golf becomes more uniform, your shots consistently better. With golfers reporting handicaps cut by as much as Vs • • • these are the clubs to play.
Make your next round a better one... with Spalding.
Special Laundry Service
Colored Hose Washed FREE liiwwte 218 East Jefferson Drop Off Service
Sailing Club to Enter f Midwest Eliminations
The Sailing Club will compete this weekend in the Area B eliminations at Ann Arbor, Mich., with hopes of enter- , ing the Midwest championships May I 13-14. Boasting one of the strongest j crews that has represented Notre Dame i in the past few years, the Irish will com- j pete with sailors from Michigan, Michi- 1 gan State, Wayne, and Detroit. Th<^| I top two teams will then sail at Ohio ’* State for the right to represent the Midwest in the national championships at Kings Point, N. Y., in June.
The Notre Dame skippers will probably be Commodore Ray Nelson, Paul Miller, Bernardo D’Almeida, Tom Rice, and Al Fisher.
On March 27, the veteran club battled ’ freezing temperatures to capture the Indiana championships at Purdue b^ nosing out Purdue, 55-54. This score is not official yet, because Purdue has ’ made a protest to the North American Yacht Racing Association.
The Irish sailors lost to this same ' Purdue crew, 64-50, in the Notre Dame ! Invitational Meet on April 2-3. Xavier placed third while Michigan State had to settle for fourth.
The Sailing Club went to Annapolis on April 16-17 for the Navy Invitational i Regatta which included some of the besjg J dinghy sailing crews on the Eastern j seaboard. Navy sailed to victory, fol- j lowed by Georgetown and Webb. Led by / Nelson, Miller, and Fisher, the Irish I crew finished sixth in the field of eleven.
Next weekend the club will host a I snipe regatta on Diamond Lake. In addition to Notre Dame, seven other col- । leges will compete.	'
----------
NCAA-Champion Tadrowski I Elected Captain of '56 Fencers / (
Don Tadrowski, who made Notre i
J Dame and Midwestern fencing history I by capturing the NCAA epee champion- \ ship, will captain the 1956 fencing team, t Coach Walter Langford announced at | the recent team banquet.	’
Coach Langford presented monograms ; I to the award-winners at the banquet^ ’ Co-Captain Jim Waters, Bill Fox, Don [ Dixon, and Jack Friel won letters in | the foil division. Co-Captain Tom Dor- [ win, Gene Gase, Dave Friske, and Bob j Eichelman received awards in the sabre | class. In addition to Tadrowski, Jerry Isaacs, John Brogan, and Denny Hem- : merle picked up monograms in epee.
Only Co-Captains Waters and Dorwin and Dixon will graduate this year. This year’s team placed seventh in the NCAA ,,
The Scholasti^'/j
30
and won 12 out of 15 during the regu-lay season.
V The freshman fencers received their numerals at the banquet. Waters served as toastmaster and presented Coach Langford with a ND monogram jacket. The fencing squad will present Tadrow-ski with a gold epee for bringing the first national title to ND and the Midwest.
kiEE and Toledo Win ' Kampus KeglerTi+les
In a final burst, the AIEE nosed out the Toledo Club by one point on April 3 to win the Gold League championship of the Kampus Keglers. The Air Cadets won the Blue League title by one point over the Architects.
John Riley of Detroit captured the individual high triple game score with ^47 pins. Bob Filipiak of Toledo and । Jim Haering of the AIEE were second I and third with 632 and 619 pins, respectively.
Charles Shockley of Delaware turned in the highest individual total for a single game with 254 pins. Toledo’s Filipiak and the Rochester Club’s Russ Bonnadonna were close behind with 247 ' and 239 pins.
In the individual averages, based on 25 or more games, Filipiak had a 178 ^pverage for 42 games. Haering posted a 175 for 45 games and John Battel had a 173 for 29 games.
, Detroit recorded the team high triple score with a total of 2,902 pins. Toledo with 2,835 and the AIEE with 2,804 pins pressed the leading Motor City five.
Toledo showed the way in the team high single game with 1,041 pins while Detroit’s 1,012 and the Architects’ 998 pins were good for second and third places.
A banquet was held on April 20 for award presentations.
The final standings are:					
GOLD	LEAGUE				
Team		w.	L.	Pts.	Pins
AIEE 			29	16	41	38738
Toledo 							29	16	40	38899
Met Club 					27%	17%	35%	37646
Delaware 			27	18	35	38316
Cleveland 				25	20	33	38390
La Rasa 					24	21	32	37269
Wisconsin 			23%	21%	31%	36881
ASME 			20	25	27	37055
Xlivil Engr			19	26	25	36386
■Milwaukee 				15	30	22	31518
isletallurgy 								15	30	21	34045
Kansas City 			...	16	30	19	32633
BLUE	LEAGUE				
Team		W.	L.	Pts.	Pins
Air Cadets 					31	14	41	38016
’ Architects 				29	16	40	37774
Detroit 				28	17	37	37933
Chern. Engr. 				28	17	36	37238
Irish 						26	19	35	37346
Chicago 			23	22	31	37024
California 					23	92	30	37609
.Accounting 			19	26	26	37024
Columbus 			17	28	24	33451
		16	29	21	35408
Wash.. Md., Va	-		16	29	20	31462
/Rochester 		 \ ^pril 29, 1955	....	14	31	19	33236
*8” to *17”
As advertised in LIFE and ESQUIRE
ALSO ask to see the new WESBORO Shoes for young men. Own a complete
3-pair WESBORO SHOE WARDROBE for as little as $23.85.
KEEP ALERT FOR A BETTER POINT AVERAGE!
Don’t let that "drowsy feeling” cramp your style in class ... or when you’re "hitting the books”. Take a NoDoz
Awakener! In a few minutes, you’ll be your normal best... wide awake . . . alert! Your
doctor will tell you—NoDoz Awakeners are safe as coffee.
Keep a pack handy!
15 TABLETS, 35c
•Phi-Beta” i pack 1
35 tablets 1
in handy tin
NODOZ
AWAKENERS
<8
Fish, Steaks, Chips aid Chickei
At Prices You Will Appreciate
☆ -
Our Specialty “Chicken In the Rough” Golden Brown Fried Chicken
Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey
Hot Buttered Rolls
A1.3O
Joe Nabicht’s
Restaurant
213 N. Main Open Sunday
31
Two Interhall Leagues ! Open *55 Baseball Seaso^
The familiar cry, “play ball,” officially | opened the 1955 interhall baseball season, now in its 20th year. The participating teams have been divided into Eastern and Western divisions.	• |
Each circuit is comprised of six : teams. Eleven of the clubs are hall or- , ganizations, with the LaRaza club being - J the only exception. The schedule con- J sists of five rounds of play, in whi<^|» each of the contesting teams vie witn^ every other squad in their own division.
Upon completion of the fifth round
FILTER TIP TAREYTON
gives you true tobacco taste... is smooth and easy-drawing!
on May 12, the pennant winners from the respective leagues advance to the “Interhall Series,” a three-game touma- || ment to determine the campus cham- I pions. The tournament is scheduled to । ii begin Wednesday, May 18, with the sec- I ond and third game, if necessary, slated ! for Friday and Sunday of the san^> week.	■.
Mr. Ray Runkle, in his second season 1 as league supervisor, said that, “this is f the first year that we’re using the round- : robin system in league play, and it should prove more successful than the ,i former arrangement of double elimina- I tion.” Mr. Runkle looks to Walsh Hall i I as “the strong contender this year, since I ji they have much of the same experienced personnel that brought home the cham- | pionship to Badin a year ago.”
The freshman class again supplies th™ bulk of the league competition, represented by six of the 12 participating . clubs. Cavanaugh leads the ranks with three teams, two in the Eastern circuit and one in the Western, while Zahm fields one club in eacli league, and Breen-Phillips sends a single outfit into competition.	!
Stephens Wins Tour Award;* Boasts Second-High Average
The VAGABOND SCHOONER (above) invites you to join its amateur crew of college men and women this summer.
7 week Caribbean cruise, $485	3 week Bahamas cruise, $213
For full details, write to: Vagabond Schooner 11307 Church Street, Chicago 43, Illinois
Jack Stephens, Notre Dame’s AllAmerican guard, won a trophy as second most valuable College All-Star on the recent nation-wide cage tour with the Harlem Globe Trotters. Tom Gola, LaSalle’s renowned star, copped the most valuable award.
Stephens averaged 11.6 points per game and was the second highest scored 1 trailing only Gola’s 14.5.
Junior, who played his best ball of the I year on the trip, established a new tour I record by netting 16 out of 18 free throws at Cleveland.
Stephens, commenting on the award, ; said, “There was no question about Gola getting the top-man award. He’s everything that has been written about | him, and a great guy to play with.” I
The Scholas^K
32
Honor System
(Continued fi’om Page 17)
turity, would be able to see the consequences of dishonesty, its effect on the Honor System, and, more importantly, its effect on the integrity of the individual student. Furthermore, the freshmen and sophomores look to their upperclassmen for leadership, integrity, and honesty. If embodied in the juniors ^and seniors, it would be more readily P^parent.
The concept of secrecy is a necessity for the execution of the Honor System. Without it, the system would be vulnerable to various verbal attacks, e.g., that it was being utilized for political and personal reasons. Those students who would participate in the execution of the system would take an oath to keep secret the names and situations which would occur in the functioning of the ^onor System. Trustworthy students can be found to fill such positions.
The positive, rather than the negative, aspects of the Honor System must be stressed. The Honor System is seen to do three things effectively:
1) It would strengthen the family spirit of the Notre Dame campus by putting the virtue of honor, now obscurely present, in the open and showing it to be an indispensable part of every Christian gentleman.
t2) It would lessen, to a great extent, e notion of competition between professor and student. The idea of “getting away with as much as one can” is present to some degree. Such an incorrect concept is a perversion of justice, honesty, and the whole scheme of social virtues. Under the Honor System the innate qualities of justice and honesty would be developed and upheld.
3) The Honor System would ad-^nce the integrity and honesty of the student so that he will better live up to the ideal of a true Christian man. Without a sense of honesty a man is false to himself.
The referendum next Thursday will be conducted according to the usual manner of campus elections. Polls will be set up in the sophomore and junior halls and off-campus men eligible to vote will do so at a place to be designated soon. Eligible voters are requested £ watch their hall bulletin boards for further information.
DOCKWEILER MEDAL PAPERS
Dockweiler Medal Competition Papers will be accepted until May 1, the Department of Philosophy has announced, at Room 372 O’Shaughnessy.
------------------------------------ \ ^pril 29, 1955
Flamingo Mairait 610 N. Mich. Open Sundays Tuesday and Thursday SPECIAL ON T-BONE STEAK
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trefliewey JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
the beck page
by Don Yeckel
memory is encouraging cheating. Per- | haps sometimes it is useful to test®, on fact to see if the students are aw least reading the material; and perhaps.s.| sometimes the subject matter does not» admit any other kind of test, although it | is a worthwhile course that emphasizes | understanding. These are the excep- ? tional cases, however. One feels that j the exception sometimes becomes the :
think that it will work.
It’s a Shame
On May 5 there’s going to be a student referendum on the honor system. It’s really a shame that such a question has to come up—not only in a Catholic university, but in any institution that deserves to be called a university at all.
Why do we have to have a special system which we call the honor system? If schools were what they should be, there wouldn’t be any need for such a term. Every system would be an honor system, whether there were profs in the classroom during tests or not. The mere fact that we have such a term as “honor system” implies that there is another system which is apparently not honorable.
Most of the students I have talked to agree that the honor system is good “in principle,” but they don’t This conclusion
reinforces the implications of the term “honor” system, that is, that the present system—or rather the student who is involved in the present system—is not honorable. In plain words, he cheats.
The Conclusion
So we have a regrettable conclusion. Students cheat on exams. Some students cheat on exams. This isn’t what bothers me, though. You could learn that people cheat by looking around or by talking to other students. It bothers me that cheating is built right into our educational system. This is shown by our concern for the “honor” system.
For it seems to me that we shouldn’t have to worry about catching or punishing the habitual cheater. Cheating should mean cheating oneself. If our education really means anything, then cheating is senseless. College is supposed to give us something, otherwise it’s an expensive way to waste four years.
Of course you could say that cheating is immoral, that the cheater is sinning, and thereby corrupting his own soul. It seems to me, though, that you don’t even have to bring in moral or religious principles when talking about cheating. Even apart from moral considerations, cheating should be useless and harmful to the individual.
Why?
Why do students cheat, then, not only here but at other schools too? Why should anyone have to cheat or want to cheat?
The first class of those who cheat, I think, are the incompetent. I don’t mean anything derogatory by calling them incompetent. They just shouldn’t be in
34
college. Maybe they’d be fine plumbers or carpenters or miners. There can be nobility in plumbing or carpentering or mining. I merely mean that they are incompetent for college work, just as some of us are incompetent to be carpenters. Nor do I mean that everyone not able to do the work cheats. I do believe that this provides a tremendous temptation to cheat, and some don’t resist the temptation.
Well, what’s the advantage of staying in school when you know deep in your heart that you aren’t suited for it? The most obvious answer is that it’s for the sake of getting a degree.
The Degree
The DEGREE has assumed a tremendous place in our society. I’ve capitalized the word because that’s the way we think of it. Why, without a degree it just isn’t possible to get anyplace anymore. It doesn’t make much difference how you get it, you’d just better have it. I sometimes get the impression that the degree has some kind of magical power that transforms the person who gets one. This tremendous emphasis on getting a degree and all the social pressures that it puts on the individual are a major reason, I believe, for cheating. It makes us forget what a degree is supposed to mean, and makes us think of it only as a prerequisite for getting a job.
Another class of cheaters is that of the lazy. Why bother to memorize a mass of facts when you know that you will only forget them the minute you step out of the classroom anyway? Now this argument has some cogency. Any course or prof that minimizes understanding and emphasizes sheer brute
rule.	I 1
Finally
Another class—perhaps the largest—^; is made up of those who are neithei- incompetent nor lazy. They work hard, are in no danger of flunking out, and ( yet they sometimes cheat. Why should । this be so? 'The obvious answer here is that they want high marks.	|
High marks are like the degree—they ! have some kind of mystic significance h all out of proportion to what they really I mean. Why should a cum laude or a magna cum laude mean so much? Th<® seniors don’t have to wonder — they ; know. Marks make all the difference in
staying out of the army, for a while, or going to grad school or med school or ; law school, or in getting a job. In the . practical order, marks are something like sanctifying grace: they elevate a person to a higher level.
So we have two different types of wrongs. On the one hand we have a J society that makes a degree and high j marks too important, and sets up al^.1 sorts of social pressures on young j people; and on the other hand we have ! an emphasis on memory in education itself. Both of these characteristics pro
vide incentives for cheating.
I’m not by any means excusing cheating. It’s a vicious practice. But I am | trying to make it intelligible, at least to | myself. In itself, it’s unintelligible. If 1 college has something to do with devel- I oping the intellect, and if cheating mean®, a lack of such a development, then cheat- | ing is senseless.	:
The System
And I’m certainly not opposed to the installation of the honor system at Notre Dame. I think that it can work. If it | can’t work here, it shouldn’t be able to | work at any other school. But it has J worked, and is working, at a number of other schools, some of them very large a schools. I would be very ashamed t<^* admit that the honor system had worked at Stanford and West Point, but that I i didn’t think it could work at Notre •’
Dame.	,
But I am opposed to a society that ! makes us talk about the honor system J as if it were something very extraordi-nary and very difficult. As I said, I don’t 3 think that we should have to talk about J
it at all. In education, honesty should I
be a necessity and not a virtue.
7.
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRE
Jerry Loucks asks:
What sort of work would I do on my first assignment with Du Pont?
CHARLES W. LOUNSBURY, Jr., worked at Du Pont's Chambers Works for three summers before he received his B.S. in Chemical Engineering from Rensselaer Poly. Inst, in 1940. Since then he has taken an M.S. from Carnegie Tech., and has been continuously employed on interesting assignments at various Du Pont plants. Today Charlie Lounsbury is Technical Superintendent of the Grasselli, N. J., plant of Du Pont’s Grasselli Chemicals Department.
R. GERALD LOUCKS is currently working toward his M.S. in Chemical Engineering at Carnegie Institute of Technology. Jerry has served as president of his student chapter of A. I. Ch. E. and participated in intramural sports—besides finding time to play the trumpet in the R.O.T.C. and Kiltie bands. Right now, Jerry is giving a lot of thought to the selection of an employer.
Charlie Lounsbury answers:
There is a great variety of first assignments at Du Pont, Jerry, depending on a man’s field of training and the general area of work he has selected. For example, I understand you’re interested in plastics, and you might start in development work on plastics, as I did. I worked with a team of more experienced engineers to increase the capacity of equipment used in producing "Lucite” acrylic molding -powder. This was a natural prelude to my next major assignment, where I acted as a liaison between Du Pont’s Design Division and the plant group—on the design of a new plant for making another form of "Lucite” plastic.
Or take research work. Here a new man is generally assigned to minor research problems until he becomes fa-
WANT TO KNOW MORE about working with Du Pont? Send for a free copy of “Chemical Engineers at Du Pont,” a booklet that tells you about pioneering work being done in chemical engineering—in research, process development, production and sales. Write to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Del.
^EG.U.S.PAT.OFK
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER UVING ... THROUGH CHEMISTRY WATCH “CAVALCADE OF AMERICA” ON TELEVISION
miliar with the general features and requirements of an industrial research program.
A young man interested in sales may start in a plant or laboratory dealing with the products he will later sell; or he may join a group of trainees to learn selling techniques right from the start.
A man aiming for production supervision may first spend a year or so in laboratory or plant development work. Or he may start as an operator—in a plant producing nylon or "Dacron” polyester fiber, for example. In this way he obtains firsthand knowledge of his process, and establishes a bond of mutual respect with the men he’ll be working with on his major assignments later.
In general, Jerry, a man is chosen for a specific job within the scope of his major field of study. His first assignment is intended to help him make the best use of his abilities as promptly as possible.
II
today!
Put a SMILE in your SMOKING!
Buy
CHESTERFIELDS
You'll SMILE your approval of Chesterfield's smoothness —mildness—refreshing taste.
You'll SMILE your approval of Chesterfield's quality— highest quality—low nicotine.
In the whole wide world no cigarette SATISFIES like Chesterfield
® Deem & Myus Tobacco Co.