w naira dote
SCHOLASTIC
umu OPUS HELUS [WIPE
COACH GEORGE KEOGAN — His Boys Take the Limelight
IN THIS ISSUE . . .
ALUMNI OPEN COMMUNIST DRIVE
VARSITY DEBATE TRIALS NEW LAUNDRY MANAGER NAMED
BASKETEERS OPEN SEASON FOOTBALL TEAM CLOSES ON COAST RIFLE CLUB FORMED
THE WEEK
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX ON DOWN THE LINE
DECEMBER 4. 1936
.UNDER ALL CONDITIONS
WHEN WINTER COMES, with its added hazards to all forms of transportation, the trains stand out by reason of their exceptional dependability and safety. • Railroading is based upon all-weather principles, sharpened by foresight. Railroads build track and equipment solidly. They provide ample power, warmth and comfort. They clear the way with snow plows, thaw out switches, inspect signals, keep in touch with trains by telephone and telegraph. Theirs is a devoted and resourceful personnel, accustomed to winning battles against the elements. • While some regions of the Illinois Central System are more fortunate than others as regards the severity of winter, the same care for safety and pride in performance hold true
throughout. Shovels for snow, sandbags for flood, freight and passenger cars as havens for storm refugees—all are parts of Illinois Central experience. • Such a background leads to constant preparedness for the unexpected. That is why those seeking winter transportation consider it both smart and safe to patronize the railroad.
REMINDER ...
Students going home for the holidays will find railway transportation admirably suited to their needs.
Low fares invite acquaintance with carriers that ought to be better known to young people today.
New patrons will observe many travel refinements, and they will learn how great an emphasis our railroads place upon dependability and safety.
ILLINOIS UNTRAL SYSTEM
■	AN INDIANA RAILROAD....
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing -at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 70
December 4, 1936
No. 10
ALUMNI PLAN COMMUNIST DRIVE
ATOMS CONTRASTED
TO UNIVERSE BY
DR. A. E. HAAS
•
The smallness of atoms and the immensity of the astronomical world were discussed Thursday night in Washington Hall by Dr. Arthur E. Haas, professor of physics at the University of Notre Dame, in a lecture dealing with, “The Atom and the Universe.”
Dr. Haas pointed out that if all the atoms contained in the air of an empty drinking glass were poured out and enlarged to the size of peas, these peas would cover the whole area of the United States to a height of 100 yards.
In illustrating the size of the astronomical world the former Vienna professor declared:
“If all the fixed stars, except the sun were suddenly extinguished nothing would be revealed to the astronomer before the spring of 1941.”
Dr. Haas is co-editor with Professor F. G. Donnan, professor of chemistry at the University of London, of a two volume scientific work, Gibbs Commentary, which has just been published by Yale university after eight years work.
Dr. Haas and his co-worker were selected for this important work by a committee of scientists who canvassed the entire list of available scientists in selecting the editors for the Commentary. Associated with these two in the preparation of the publication were professors of Yale and Harvard universities, and the California Institute of Technology, as well as numerous European scientists.
During the second semester Dr. Haas will give a series of lectures on “Philosophical Aspects of Modern Physics.”
A. I. E. E.
The members of the A. I. E. E. met last Tuesday night and listened to Mr. Joseph Quinlan, the district plant superitendent of the Indiana Bell Telephone Co. His talk consisted mainly of the intricate workings of dial equipment.
THIRTEEN RADIO BROADCASTS ARE SCHEDULED AS OPENING WEDGE IN WIDE CAMPAIGN; TO START EARLY IN JANUARY
By Harold A. Williams
The University of Notre Dame’s Alumni Association will sponsor a series of 13 radio broadcasts as part of its intensive fight against Communism. This announcement was made by the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, in the sermon he delivered at the annual Pan-American Thanks-
giving Mass for members of the Latin American diplomatic corps in Washington.
The broadcasts, which will begin early this month, will be arranged and financed by the New York chapter of the Notre Dame Alumni associa-
Reveals Plans
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C.
tion, through its president, Norbert J. Gelson. The Paulist Fathers station, WLWL, will carry a main portion of the 15 minute addresses. Plans are being made to have a Chicago station serve as the Mid-Western outlet.
A partial list of the speakers who will deliver these addresses, which are prepared by faculty members of the University, include: Judge William Walsh, former mayor of Yonkers; Frank C. Walker, chairman of finance of the national Democratic campaign committee; and Mr. Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., member for New Jersey, port of New York authority.
The fight against Communism by the Alumni association was started this summer when Mr. Arthur J. Hughes, president of the Alumni association and a prominent Chicago attorney, had a private audience with His Holiness Pope Pius XI, at his summer palace, Castle Gandolfo, on Sept. 19. Mr. Hughes discussed the threat of Communism with the Holy Father, and pledged the aid of 10,000 alumni members, the faculty and student body of the University.
The opening note of the campaign was sounded by Father O’Hara in New York on Nov. 15, when he delivered a sermon on the evils of Communism from the pulpit of St. Paul’s church.
Latest action taken was a conference held in Chicago last Monday and Tuesday in which Mr. Hughes and Mr. James E. Armstrong, Alumni secretary, drew up final plans of the campaign.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, DECEMBER 4, 1936.
VARSITY DEBATE COACH ISSUES FIRST CALL FOR CANDIDATES; QUESTION CHOSEN, TENTATIVE SCHEDULE ARRANGED
By Robert McClain
With a tentative schedule arranged, Professor William J. Coyne, coach of
the varsity debating team and associate professor of speech at the University
is preparing to bring together another winning debate team. The varsity question is, “Resolved: That Congress should have the power to fix minimum wages
and maximum hours for industry.
With the loss of three regulars by graduation, Coach Coyne has three veterans, Richard Meier, John Mar-bach, and Robert Schmelzle left from last year’s team. The debaters will inaugurate their schedule at the Midwest Invitational tournament at the University of Iowa, Iowa City, March 4 and 5.
Because of a change in the varsity question at the state tournament which is held at Manchester College, Manchester, Ind.,'the varsity debaters have been tentatively scheduled to attend the Delta Sigma Rho tournament at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, March 18 and 19. Arrangements for debates with Michigan State have been made for some time in March. The final schedule will be announced in February.
The first tryouts for the varsity debate team will begin Thursday, Dec. 10 at 8 p.m. in the auditorium of the Law Building. These tryouts are open to all undergraduates. Constructive speeches will be limited to six minutes and rebuttals to four minutes.
Those who survive the preliminaries will change sides and participate in the finals following the Christmas vacation. A varsity squad of from eight to 12 members will be chosen.
The schedule for tryouts is as follows: Thursday, Dec. 10, 8 p.m. affirmative: Robert Heywood, William McVay, George Morris, and Thomas White." For the negative: William Duggan, Francis Frame, Richard Meier, and Charles Osborn. Friday, Dec. 11, 4:10 p.m. affirmative: Charles Colgan, John Marbach, Matt Merkle, and John McDonough. For the negative: Norbert Aleksis, Frank Fitch, George Flynn and Thomas Mulligan. Friday, Dec. 11 at 8 p.m., affirmative: Paul Larmer, Charles Meyers, and John Schemmer. For the negative: Patrick Bannon, Robert Schmelzle, and James Waldron.
Coach William J. Coyne Begins Looking for Arguments.
Council Issues List Of
Recognized Clubs
o
President Gene Ling of the Presidents’ council announces that the following clubs have been officially recognized by the University:	•
The Notre Dame Aeronautical Society, Accountant, Akron-Canton, Boston, Charles Philips Cracow, Chemistry, California, Central New York, Cleveland, Chicago, Detroit, Engineers, Fort Wayne, German, Indianapolis, Iowa, LaRaza, Law, Maryland-District, Missouri, Metropolitan, New Jersey, Press, Philadelphia, Patricians, Rhode Island, Southeastern Mass, and Conn., Toledo, Villagers, Youngstown.
It was announced that any club holding a dance on Christmas Day would automatically forfeit its charter. President Ling also desires any club president whose organization is not listed above to see him in 107 Walsh at once.
JOHN McCORMACK'S PROGRAM PLEASES AUDIENCE
•
Returning to South Bend for the first time since he was awarded the Laetare medal at Notre Dame in 1933, John McCormack, world renowned Irish lyric tenor sang before 500 at the Palace theater Monday night.
On what will probably be his last concert tour, McCormack sang a difficult and beautiful program. His selections ranged from the Latin “Panis Angelicas” to the perennially popular “Londonderry Air.”
Displaying all the famed McCormack technique, the verve of attack, the lilting quality of his lyrical style, McCormack was enthusiastically acclaimed by his audience.
As is usual in a McCormack concert, the encore numbers were the best received. He sang the program in four divisions, the first consisting of two Handel selections “Caro Amor” and “Where E’er you Walk.” The second group opened with the famous “Memnon,” and closed with “Panis Angelicas,” which was a departure from the prepared program. The Latin number was substituted
’ (Continued on Page 21)
ists club when
Joe McIntosh
"Bactericides" Topic For Chemist's Talk
•
William Griffin, senior chemical engineer, will face the microphone during the fourth of a series of thirteen lectures being broadcast by the Chem-he discusses “Bacter-_ icides” with his ■ interviewing re-■ porter, Lewis ■ Smith, senior radio ■ announcer, on ■ Monday evening, ■ at 7 p.m., over raH dio station WFAM I from the campus H studios.
■ Last Monday’s | chemical sketch was delivered by Edward Kuth,
senior chemical engineer. With Smith asking the questions, Kuth discussed “Insecticides and Their Related Products,” during the quarter hour broadcast.	■
The president of the Chemists’ club, Joseph K. McIntosh, announced the monthly meeting for December will be in the form of a smoker to be held on Thursday, Dec. 10.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, DECEMBER 4, 1936.	5
AFFIRMATIVE TEAMS HOLD TOP POSITION IN INTERHALL DEBATES; DILLON, SORIN, HOWARD SURVIVE
STUDENT APOLOGISTS ACTIVE IN NEWLY FORMED GROUP
Team standings as announced by George Morris, general chairman of the interhall debates, show that the affirmative side of the question, “Resolved, that the extension of consumers’ cooperatives would contribute to public welfare,” is leading. The affirmative teams of Sorin, Dillon, and Howard halls,
of the Senior-Junior division, are the only survivors of that group at the end of the second round of the second week of debating. The negative teams of Walsh, Alumni, and Brownson-Carroll were eliminated as a result of losing two debates. These teams were respectively eliminated by affirmative Dillon, Sorin, and Howard halls.
The second round of the FreshmanSophomore division has not yet been finished, as Morrissey and Lyons have still to face each other. In this division, St. Edward’s have not actually debated as yet, although, they are rated as having one loss and one win to their credit. Both the loss and the victory were credited to them by default. The other halls in this division: Affirmative Cavanaugh, Negative Freshman, and Negative Badin each have a record of one loss and one win.
With the completion of the second round of the Senior-Junior division, the first debate of the third round will take place when Affirmative Dillon meets Negative Howard, Monday evening, Dec. 7. Sorin is to face the winner of the Dillon-Howard debate, on Thursday, Dec. 10. The winner of that night will meet in finals at St. Mary’s when they debate the. winner of the Freshman-Sophomore bracket.
Because of the second round of the Freshman-Sophomore division is not complete, the schedule for future debates is indefinite. Whatever the outcome of the Negative Lyons-Affirmative Morrissey debate, Wednesday, Dec. 2, it is definite that Negative Badin will have to match word and wit with Affirmative Morrissey on Friday, Dec. 4.
In the Senior-Junior division: Dillon is coached by James K. Nerney, Howard by Charles F. Osborne, Sorin by Richard H. Meier, Walsh by Robert C. Weaver, (Weaver also coaches Lyons in the Freshman - Sophomore division) Alumni by William R. Bowers, and Brownson-Carroll by John D. Heywood.
In the Freshman-Sophomore division: St. Edward’s-team is coached by Robert J. Schmelzle, Morrissey by Pierre de la Vergne, Cavanaugh by Charles F. Meyers, Badin by Clifford Brown, and Freshman by John Mar-bach.
ABOLISH OLYMPICS LUNN URGES IN FOURTH TALK
“Olympic games should be abolished because they are held not so much for the love of sport but for the individual prestige of the nation represented,” declared Mr. Arnold Lunn to an audience in Washington Hall last Tuesday night, December 1.
Surveying the old games in contrast to the modern, Mr. Lunn traced the origin of the games and the spirit which fostered them. The dates of
Prof. Arnold Lunn “Olympics made professional—”
the first are clouded, but the consensus of opinion places the time about 868 B.C. The first real records are those of the Olympics of 777 B.C.
The first were not international, being limited to Greeks and to those of Greek ancestry. In reality they were social gatherings, and the competition of nations did not come into prominence until about 500 A.D.
All competitors had to take an oath to uphold religion, to have humility, and to protect women and children, A sporting atmosphere was prevalent in the olden games, in sharp contrast (Continued on Page 8)
By Thomas Marker
When Arnold Lunn leaves the Notre Dame campus for England next week, he leaves behind him a spirit of Catholic apologetic interest in the Chesterton Society, a newly organized group of student apologists. To its six meetings, in the nature of debates and open forums, the group has drawn capacity attendances, and in the course of these, three main topics have been discussed : Communism, Birth Control, and Business Ethics.
Willis D. Nutting, a Rhodes scholar and a convert to Catholicism— teaching this year at Notre Dame, will advise the group after Mr. Lunn’s departure, it has been announced by Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University.
Complete plans for the society’s activity this year were formed at its last meeting Monday night; James Nerney, an active member and ace speaker in the early forums, was chosen president and chairman of all forums and discussions. Also, the methods of gaining membership in the group were outlined; anyone who speaks twice in a creditable way before any meeting of the group, which are open to the public, will be notified that he is eligible for membei*-' ship. If he wishes to join the society he may then prepare a short address to be delivered immediately after the formal debate at the opening of one of the following meetings. The second speech is to be longer than the remarks made in the open forum. After the meetings, the members are called together to vote upon the candidates for membership; by this means two new members have been added since the organization of the group; eleven have given their first creditable informal speeches. Whether or not these first speeches are satisfactory is determined by the faculty adviser and the officers of the club.
In Monday’s meeting, Rev. Norbert C. Hoff, of the department of philosophy, contributed to the. discussion of Business Ethics in the capacity of . special referee on ethics. The meeting was concluded with the decision that the subject for debate at the next discussion should be the proposition, “Science Disproves Miracles.” Defending miracles will be William Botzum; Vincent Hartnett will defend the scientific position. President Nerney urged that all members be prepared on both sides of the question, particularly the case against the । Church, which will be discussed in I the open forum.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, DECEMBER 4, 1936.
AESCHYLUS MODERN JOHN DEANE TELLS CLASSIC GROUP
Weirdly Grotesque Generator Harnesses Power of 2,000,000 Volt Charges in Copper Ball
Matthew Bruccoli, president of the Patricians, and John Deane, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters from Milwaukee, Wis., delivered two papers on prominent literary figures at a recent meeting of the society.
Deane, who two years ago presented a forcible study of Martial, read an analytical paper concerning the form, technique, and subject matter of the
Patrician John Deane “Aeschylus Startled the Eye.”
play “Prometheus Bound,” and an exposition on its author, the famous Greek poet, Aeschylus.
In discussing the outstanding tragedian and producer of early Greek drama, Deane compared Aeschylus to modern theater producers, offering proof that Aeschylus, too, startled the eyes as well as the ears of his audiences. Many present day stage innovations, he remarked, might find their origin on the stage of Aeschylus.
Previously Bruccoli had delivered his paper, the third in the series to be given, in which he recounted the various episodes in the life of Oscar Wilde, famous English author. Many of Wilde’s manners, Bruccoli said, were the result of his mother’s insistence in rearing him as a girl.
Summing up Wilde’s colorful career, Bruccoli concluded by stating that his whole tragic life was a paradox of sheer nonsense and excess; but that there is no one who can doubt his brilliance and profundity.
At the close of the meeting Bruccoli announced the appointment of John Marbach, varsity debater and golfer, to the post of vice-president to succeed Thomas Doody, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, who resigned in order to assume new duties.
Connecticut College is joining hands with Wesleyan University this year as far as drama is concerned. The former school, a women’s college has had to cast females in all roles in the past. With cooperation from Wesleyan men, the performances should be more realistic.
By Vincent
If in some nightmare you’ve ever seen a 12-foot copper grape mounted on three 30-foot long toothpicks and blowing rings of metal down a long glass straw, then you would immediately recognize the electrostatic generator.
This apparatus (complete in all details except seeds) is found in what is probably the highest ceilinged room in the University, in the south east side of the Cushing Hall of Engineering. In size, it is the third largest in the United States, capable of manufacturing, potentially, two million volt charges of electricity. Try to imagine that 2,000,000 volt charge coming through your light socket instead of the routine 110 volts you now get. But if it would be of any comfort—you would get almost exactly the same results when hit with two million volts of electricity as you would with 110, neither being necessarily fatal.
It is interesting, but hardly encouraging, to note that the sparks shooting from the apparatus will fly a distance of 20 feet from the point of origin. The first indication one has that the huge sphere is charged with electricity is the realization that his hair is standing on end—because of the highly charged air—a not too pleasant sensation at best.
Roughly the operation of the electrostatic generator is this: charges of electricity are carried into the copper sphere over a rubberized fabric belt which is traveling at the speed of some 50 miles per hour; the electricity is carried in exactly the same way that you used to do when sliding your
Californians Attend First Meeting
On the night of Dec. 1 the Cali
fornia club held its initial meeting of the year. This is the first time in the
history of the University that a club
representing this
Lloyd Stouch
state has been organized. Under the leadership of Lloyd Stolich of Salinas, who was elected president, the club is expected to go far in developing the interest of the University in the Far West. Other officers elected were: Jack Crowley of San Francisco,
vice-president; Carl Rausch of Los
De Coursey
feet across the rug to give your kid sister the jitters by touching her with your hand. The only difference is that in this case the belt transmits the charges continuously and there is no point on the sphere from which the sparks could jump, therefore a powerful electric pressure will result within the sphere itself.
From the sphere the electron charge is conducted by a glass tube from which all but 1/1,000,000,000 of the air has been removed—an almost perfect vacuum. This tube is sui’-rounded by metal rings which carry the sparks to prevent them from piercing the tube and thus breaking it. The electrons finally strike a sheet of lead at the end of the tube and produce X-rays. The terrific power of the charge can be understood when we know that it takes a four inch lead plate to stop it completely. The X-rays herein generated in turn reduce themselves into electrons and positrons.
The last Nobel prize for science was won by Dr. Carl Anderson of the California Institute of Technology for his discovery of this positron. The positron is almost exactly the same as the electron except that the electron will light your radio tube since it is a negative charge, while the positron will not, being a positive charge. No one as yet is familiar with the secret of the positron or any of its characteristics, but it is hoped by Professor Collins and his assistants, Mr. R. J. Shager and Mr. A. L. Vitter, that Notre Dame will have the honor of being the first to discover what these charges will do.
Angeles, secretary; and George Wilson of Whittier, treasurer.
This is the first time that it has been possible for the students from California to go home for the Christmas holidays at a special reduced rate. This was made possible by the club members through Mr. Angus McDonald of San Francisco, an alumnus. The members intend to leave in a special car on Thursday, Dec. 17.
This year’s enrollment from California has been the largest in the history of the University -with 32 Californians enrolled.
Honor Priests
The Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., and Rev. John J. Reynolds, C.S.C., were the guests of honor of the Missouri club at its banquet held last Wednesday evening at the Morningside hotel, South Bend.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, DECEMBER 4, 1936.	7
BAND AND GLEE CLUB SHINE ON RADIO
VARIETY SHOW
•
The Notre Dame Band and Glee Club, both under the direction of Prof. Casasanta, made their radio debuts together this year, on last Tuesday evening when they broadcast the second of a new series of campus radio programs, the “Notre Dame Varieties.”
The half-hour program, beginning at 6:45, consisted of:
“Fanfare,” “Irish Washerwoman,” “Washington Post,” “King Cotton,” “La Golondrina,” “Stepping Along,” “Song of the Vagabonds,” and “Wearing of the Green,” by the Band.
“I Won’t Kiss Katy,” “The Peasant and His Oxen,” “On Down the Line,” “Victory March,” “When the Irish Backs Go Marching By,” and “Song of the Vagabonds,” by the Glee Club.
Jim Waldron commented on Notre Dame sport news. Norbert A. Aleksis, student manager of radio, was the announcer.
The Band and Glee Club are to be featured in the “Varieties” on the second Tuesday of every month.
Sullivans Lead Irish Clans To Victory In Race For Lead In Student Directory
By Richard Riley
The Sullivans have it. According to the new student directory recently released, these hardy sons of Erin have 31 names in their group, more than any other clan on the campus.
Other Gaelic names are pressing this group for its place of honor at the head of the list. The Kelley’s with 28 and the Murphy’s with 17 are next in line. Other typical names from the land of St. Patrick with more than ten in their group are the Ryans, Brennans, Foleys and Doyles.
The large number of students with Irish ancestry is particularly noticeable this year. Some of the typical Gaelic names appearing in this issue of the directory include O’Connell, O’Hara, O’Laughlin, O’Toole, O’Shaughnessy, Mulligan, Casey, Rooney, McGuire, Gallagher, Moriar-ity and Flannagan.
The two places of honor, the first and last are held by Eli Abraham, a graduate student from South Bend, and Joe Zwers, senior commerce student from Grand Rapids, Michigan. Between these two there are nearly 3,000 names of various kinds from all 48 states and 12 foreign countries. New York state leads the other states
Gallagher to Aid Alumni On Detroit Dance
Peter Martin will be chairman of the Detroit Club’s communion breakfast Dec. 8 in the Faculty dining hall.
Joseph W. Gallagher has been ap-nointed co-chairman of the club’s Christmas dance by President Henry R u en. The dance will be held jointly with the alumni group in downtown Detroit Dec. 28 or 29. Gallagher will act with Lincoln Wur-zer, ’35, who is in charge of the arrangements for the members of
the Detroit alumni club.
Definite arrangements both for the dance and a private dinner party also to be held during the holidays will be announced later.
The committee on health at Mount Holyoke has issued this annual warning to students: Drink only cider that has been boiled or pasteurized, and eat only fruit that has been thoroughly washed.
with 473, while Nevada and Delaware are represented by one student each.
Several of the trades and professions are represented in the directory. Among the laborers, we have a Baker, Barber, Carpenter, Mason, Miller and Tanner. Two Judges and a Merchant, are among the middle class representatives. The “400” have seven Kings, two Kaisers, a Duke, and for the clergy, there is a Pope.
Famous names are conspicuous by their absence in this directory. John McCormack, William Shakespeare, Walter Hagen and John Braddock are the only ones listed. The longest name listed is Schiappacasse while the shortest is one with three letters of which Beh is one of many. There is a Brew as well as a Beer listed. The directory includes a Good and a Gentle, and then there is a Meaney.
If you are thinking of building a house, the directory offers the following materials: Brick, Glass, Woods and a Crane. The comic sheet has its representatives in Tillie and Mack with that viper Fagan hovering in the background. We have a Bride but diligent search failed to reveal a Groom.
Such conventional names as Brown,
GERALD HOAR NAMED NEW MANAGER OF LAUNDRY
Gerald J. Hoar of Chicago, a former Irish track luminary and for years a prominent figure in the laundry industry, this week was named manager of the University laundry to succeed the late Frederick J. Arnison who was stricken with a fatal heart attack on Oct. 24.
Originally a LaSalle, Ill., resident, Hoar received his B.S. here in 1921
Mr Gerald J. Hoar Returns to Home Campus.
and for three years was a monogram man in track, specializing in the quarter mile, high jump, and hurdles. He also played football.
While here he served as secretary to the late Knute K. Rockne for two and a half years as well as being president of his class for two years. America’s entrance into the World -War disrupted his college career.
After graduation Hoar entered the laundry industry and became a prominent figure in that field. For two and a half years he was field secretary for the Laundry Owners National association during which time he conducted several chemical researches.
For outstanding achievement he was granted the Laundry Owners Fellowship in the Mellon Institute of Industrial Research, following which (Continued on Page 23)
Jones, and Smith have their forces considerably dwindled in this directory. Of course, if you want to go to the other extreme, you might wrestle with Czizek, Ptak, Hrachovec, Sem-czyszyn, and Niespodziany.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, DECEMBER 4, 1936.
KNIGHTS INAUGURATE CHRISTMAS SEAL DRIVE
•
Students of the University will have opportunity to aid in the cure and prevention of tuberculosis by purchasing the annual Chrismas seals, which are issued by the National Anti-Tuberculosis Society, the proceeds of which are used to fight the disease.
This year the sale of the Christmas seals on the campus will be conducted by the local council of the Knights of Columbus in conjunction with the national anti-tuberculosis organization.
At the meeting of the council last Wednesday night, members were appointed to sell the seals. Beginning today and continuing until the Christmas holidays, the selected members will solicit the halls. The full cooperation of the student body is asked in the purchase of the seals.
The members of the council were shown a twenty-five minute motion picture at their Wednesday night meeting. The picture displayed the recent cures made in the prevention of tuberculosis. On hand was Doctor Herr from the South Bend AntiTuberculosis League who gave a full explanation of the illustrated matter as the picture progressed.
In addition to the conduct of the sale of the Christmas seals announcement was made that the local council’s first initiation of the year will be conducted next Wednesday evening, December 9, at 7:45 in the club’s rooms in Walsh Hall.
At the ceremony 40 initiates will be inducted into the first degree membership of the organization, and, as usual, the initiation will be in charge of the officers of the council.
Corcoran Chairman Of Maryland Dinner
A banquet Monday evening at one of the leading South Bend restaurants will be the first social function of the newly formed Maryland-Dis-trict of Columbia Club. Eighteen club members will attend. Following the dinner short speeches will be made by the club’s officers. James Corcoran, of Washington, is chairman of the affair.
The second social function of the Maryland - District Club will be a dance in Washington on December 28, either at the Shoreman or the Hotel Mayfair.
Charles Brosius, president, has contacted the-secretary of the Washington alumni association to secure their cooperation.
John Joseph Manning, Sioux City, Iowa (Central High School), says the Student Directory, John J. Manning, president, says the roster of the Academy of Science, “Jay” Manning, head manager, say all the basketball addicts.
Officially that’s his record . . . unofficially his accomplishments are even more numerous.
John arrived on the scene in 1933, one year behind brother Robert “Spots,” he was enrolled in the College of Science, and immediately signed up for the managerial corps. He is still undecided which is the tougher.
Three years of caring for the wants of basketeers have taught him plenty . . . to use his own valuation. He has traveled several hundred miles with the team, and will probably cover even more ground as head man this year.
In spite of his imposing list of activities John J. finds time for the social life ... is not above frequent visits across the lake . . . but he is reported to have other interests, probably in Sioux City where the corn grows tall.
He has by no means been loafing since school started . . . even before Coach Keogan unveiled the basketball floor, John J. was measuring for uniforms, stocking up sweat shirts, poring over railroad time-tables, worrying about out-of-town meals, and in general, getting set for the battle.
He persists in wearing green hats. . . . always smoked that pipe ... always flashes a ready and winning smile,. . . looks surprisingly little like this drawing . . . and yet at times he does. . . . John is something- of a puzzle . . . but not to himself.
VINCENTIANS DRIVE FOR OLD CLOTHES STARTS MONDAY
•
The annual drive for discarded clothing conducted by the St. Vincent de Paul Society will begin Monday, Dec. 7. Members of the society will canvass the halls, and each member of the student body is asked to have his contribution ready.
“Each student is asked to cooperate with the society in gathering the discarded goods,” President Joseph Drolla said. “The worn clothing will be turned over to the needy families in South Bend and vicinity before Christmas vacation.”
Bus tickets to any section of the country are now available at the society’s office in 10 Lyons Hall. Students planning to ride home for the Christmas holidays by bus are asked to purchase their tickets through the St. Vincent de Paul Society. The entire profits from this concession will be used by the society in its charitable work.
Lunn's Olympic Talk
(Continued from Page 8)
to the bittei- competition which has made the modern games a show of racial pride rather than the true love of sport.
The games of ancient Greece served as inspiration for the best sculptors, painters, and writers of the time. The hero of the game was sculptured, and the artist placed his genius into the subject. Many of the epics of the ancient writers were written around one of these Olympic heroes. Then, the reward- of victory was simply an olive branch, and this made the victor a made man, free from taxes, honored by a statue, and overwhelmed with great prestige. While today the individual is lost in the glorification of the nation, and the whole affair becomes a test of national importance. In dictatorships the victory of the individual is related to the strength of the ruling power, and the power of the nation is strangely shown to be the outcome of victory.	\
In concluding Mr. Lunn^stressed the advent of commercialism into the games, and the use of professionals in the last Olympics. The United States stayed clear of this stigma, but most of the other nations entered the games with a war-like spirit and the idea of gaining prestige for the country. Because of this, there was a loss of true love of sport and a degrading of the ideals of the Olympic games.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, DECEMBER 4, 1936.
SESSLER SPEAKS AT PLYMOUTH. IND..
TODAY
•
Starting a tour of 26 schools in five midwestern states, an exhibit of the work of Notre Dame art students was shown at Mishawaka High School last week. Mr. Stanley S. Sessler, associate professor of art, spoke there
Professor Stanley Sessler Travels With Art Exhibit.
describing the paintings in detail. After his lecture he interviewed students interested in art.
Consisting for the most part of oil paintings, with some drawings, watercolors, and designs, the exhibit was done by former art students at Notre Dame.
The collection left Mishawaka High School on Tuesday, November 24, for a week’s exhibition at Plymouth High School, where Professor Sessler will lecture on Friday, December 4. From here the exhibit will go to Culver Military Academy at Culver, Indiana. During the Christmas holidays the ' paintings are expected to be at the high school in Fowler, Indiana.
Professor Sessler hopes to lecture at all the schools where the paintings will be shown.
The Notre Dame' exhibition has so far attracted the attention of large audiences, and is proving popular wherevei- exhibited.
Bookmen Hear Lunn
“Catholic Writers” was the subject of Arnold Lunn in a speech to the regular meeting of the Bookmen held last Wednesday night in the Hurley Hall of Commerce.
In his discussion Mr. Lunn covered the most prominent Catholic writers of the past and present. Among these was the late Gilbert Keith Chesterton, one of the most prominent in the field of contemporary prose and poetry.
THE WEEK
Challenge
If you heard agonized squeals coming from Sorin hall last week, you were in on the first kill of the hunting season. Sorin is that hall which needs sandstoning, but which couldn’t stand it, and each year, mid ceremony and excitement, the residents declare open season on rats. Weapons must not exceed one pound in weight, and rats must be given at least a running start. Yes, the first rat has been killed, but, personally, we see no cause for getting breathless. Now, if you were in Walsh hall during last Christmas, you know that the sight of a single, badly scared rat wouldn’t have brought so much as a ripple to its even flow of life. A prefect in that building told us that, in December of last year, when he was alone on the third floor, he trapped no less than forty-four (44) mice. The little beasties swarmed to his room at the start of the vacation period. We’ll grant that the use of traps wasn’t exactly sporting, but you can’t kill 44 mice by throwing things at them. So, Sorin, you’ll have to do better. One rat indeed!
* * *
Courtesy Note
We’ve hesitated for a long time be-' fore making this statement, but it must be said: Notre Dame is turning soft. On Saturday night, directly after steak and potatoes, we were convinced. A long stream of men bound for the first campus movie bustled past, shouldering and kneeing us un-apologetically. We thought to ourselves “Ah, this is what we like. Every man for himself.” Then our shoulder was tapped, and a voice said mildly “Excuse me.” Amazed and heartbroken, we stepped aside and let the sissy pass. We didn’t know him so there’s one hope: maybe he wasn’t a student. If he was, the implications are horrible.
Clyde McCoy II.
There’s a trumpeter in Carroll hall who is good. He blows his best every night after supper in the locker room. His instrument is unharnessed — no mutes, no derby—just an open horn artist. We’ve never seen him, because of the opaque windows, but we’re sure that he feels for his notes. We watched his shadow and we could see his fingers groping. Even without music, he gets in some unique licks. There is nothing martial about his tunes; he’s not that kind of a musician. But for pure, low-down, hot music, we’ll take him.
* * *
Lost and Found
Just when classes and routine were lowering our morale, we got an extra
By John A. Gillespie
handkerchief in our. laundry, and the horizon brightened. The handkerchief had totally foreign initials, but we kept it. It would require many more mistakes like that to even the score; we’re about six handkerchiefs short to date. Upon investigation, we learned that opening the average laundry package is much like picking out of a grab bag. An. acquaintance reluctantly confessed that, early in October, he acquired four pairs of socks. They were good socks, the kind that you’d be glad to get or give at Christmas. He pleaded for anonymity because, as it is, he’s a hunted man. Each time he wears one of the pairs, he expects to feel a hand on his shoulder. Whenever he visits Badin basement for his package, he wears dark glasses and disguises his voice. Now that you are aware of the delightful uncertainty that prevails, you won’t bother to write an itemized list of your washables. ’Taint no use.
The Scene Changes
Now that Indian summer has gone to the happy hunting grounds and the football team has gone to the Pacific coast, it’s time for our quarterly review. Freshman are orientated; sophomores are bored; juniors are slightly punch-drunk with major subjects and electives; seniors are—just waiting. All in all, these 70 odd days haven’t been so bad. There have been unusual happenings: the boost of taxi fares, about which everybody complained and which we still have with us; the pathetic quiet that has gripped Corby hall; hundreds of men shouting for -admittance to Washington hall and to the Sheen talks; the slow extinction of corduroys; the frightening zeal of the Dome workers, that promises to bring the annual out by March, at the very latest. Remember the pleasingly different Scrip cover, and the mysterious P. -Q. Wylie; and the improved Scholastic cover (or had you noticed?); the strange case of the white slabs of chicken on the Sunday following the Northwestern game, supplementing the usual assortment of wings and legs (let ’em eat cake). Don’t go away yet; there is more to come. We haven’t referred to the amazing persistence of the diggers on the campus, who, having dug in every conceivable site, finally swarmed on the touchball arena between Walsh and Badin; and the selection of the Army game as the student trip, stunning several hundred New Yorkers and opening new vistas to the men from the far West (at last, a chance to get that bottle of salt water from the Atlantic). Remember—only 13 more griping days until Christmas.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, DECEMBER 4, 1936.
CALENDAR
Friday, December 4
“Scholastic of the Air,” 4:00 p.m., campus radio station in the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering through WSBT, South Bend; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; Scholastic staff meeting, editorial staff, .6:30 p.m., general staff 7:00 p.m.; First Friday Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00 p.m. and 7:30 p.m.; Old Dominion club meeting, 7:45 p.m.
Saturday, December 5
Mass for the football team, Sacred Heart Church, 6:30 a.m.; Football, Varsity vs. Southern California, Broadcast starts 3:45 p.m.; (C.S.T.); Opening basketball game, Varsity vs. Kalamazoo, University Gymnasium, 8:00 p.m.; Band concert at game, University Band under the direction of Prof. Joseph Casasanta; Iowa club smoker.
Sunday, December 6
Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; St. Vincent de Paul meeting, Knights of Columbus chambers, Walsh hall, 11:00 a.m.
Monday, December 7
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; S.A.C. meeting, basement of the library, 6:30 pan.; Chemists’*club radio talk, “Bactericides,” campus radio station through WSBT, South Bend, 7:00 p.m.; Maryland-District club dinner, South Bend, 7:00 p.m.; Chesterton Society meeting, basement . of Law building, 7:45 p.m.; Radio group meeting, ' campus radio station in John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering, 8:00 pan.
Tuesday, December 8
Feast of the Immaculate Conception; No classes today; Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; Conununion Breakfast, Detroit club, Lay Faculty dining hall; Basketball, Varsity vs. St. Mary’s College of Winona, Minn., University Gymnasium, 8:00 p.m.; Band Concert at game, University Band under direction of Prof. Joseph Casasanta; Banquet, Cincinnati club.
Wednesday, December 9
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; Minnesota club meeting, Carroll “Rec,” 7:45 p.m.; First Knights of-Columbus Initiation, Knights of Columbus chambers, Walsh hall, 7:45 p.m.; -Boy Scouts meeting, Room 22, John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering, 7:45 p.m.; Chemists’ club smoker, Carroll “Rec.”
Thursday, December 10
Glee club practice, 12:30 pan.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; Final lecture by Arnold Lunn, English apologist, Washington hall, 8:00 p.m.
COLLEGE PARADE
By Anthony F. O'Boyle
The Future of American Opera
The Purdue University Exponent recently quoted Lawrence Tibbett, famed baritone of opera and screen, on what operatic institutions will have to do to adapt themselves to the dictates of the American public. Because of his blunt reply and refusal to concede that popular tastes were below the standard usually associated with opera we offer you a part of the interview.
In Mr. Tibbett’s opinion little attention has been thus far to the “strongly individual tastes of Americans” and unless such a condition is remedied the true spirit of opera in this country will nevei- be fully appreciated. To illustrate his point the Metropolitan star said, “At present for several hours American people listen to singing in a language of which they understand little or nothing. They see things happening on the stage but they have only a vague idea of what it is all about, except that at odd moments the soprano kicks up a terrific row, the tenor waves his arms excitedly, and the baritone scowls at everyone indiscriminately. They look at scenery, lighting, and staging that would cause Ziegfield to turn -over in his grave.”
As a solution Mr. Tibbett offered the idea of giving opera to the American public in the English language and staging operatic presentations in the style to which audiences in this country are accustomed.
Not Interested in Phi Beta Kappas
Because they are too prone, to worry about all grades that are not straight A’s, and because text books demand too much of their leisure time Phi Beta Kappa students are not wanted for the football squad of Harry Bell, gridiron mentor at Illinois Wesleyan University. It is the opinion of the Titan coach that such men are so eager for “emblems of scholarship that they cannot become interested in reaching the top physical condition that is no necessary to ward off football injuries.”
Continuing on this theme Bell maintained that the average college student obtains a better college education because in his leisure time he is more apt to spend a portion of it in extra - curricular activities that tend to make for a greater all-around development of one’s personality.
Speaking Briefly
An Australian University professor traveled 12,000 miles to attend the Empire Universities Congress at London only to find out that he had arrived a year ahead of time. The mistake in the date was caused by a typist’s carelessness. . . . The University of Southern California re-
Clevelanders To Hear Castner At Smoker
The Cleveland Club smoker, previously scheduled for November 21, will be held some time before the beginning of the Christmas vacation, President Gene Ling announced at a meeting of the club last night.
Paul Castner, varsity football letterman in 1921-’22 who was placed on several All-American and AllWestern teams, will be the principal speaker at the smoker which is to be held in the Lay Faculty dining hall. A feature for the Forest City Club’s smoke session will be a release of movies of the Notre Dame-Army football game.
The Ohioans gave consideration to . student railroad rates for the impending holidays and also drew up plans for the Christmas dance, which is tentatively scheduled for the Rainbow Room of the Hotel Carter under the joint sponsorship of alumni and campus groups.
Name Bruno Chairman Of Jersey Dance
Final arrangements have been made by the New Jersey club for a Christmas holiday dance, to be held
President Joe Quinn
Appoints Bruno to Dance Post.
at the Essex House in Newark on Saturday, Jan. 2. The cost of tickets is $3.50 a couple. Bill Bruno was appointed chairman of the dance by the president, Joe Quinn.
Although there has been no information about the railroad rates to New Jersey over the Christmas holidays, members of the club will be told about it as soon as anything definite is known.
cently mailed 30,000 letters to her alumni inviting them to return to the Trojan campus for the 1936 Home-coming Week. ... A student poll at Duquesne University a few weeks ago showed that 83% of the student body approved of the revival of the NRA.. The undergraduate newspaper of Yeshiva College of Washington Heights, New York City, has. for a slogan, “Don’t buy Hearst publications.” . . .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, DECEMBER 4, 1936.
11
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
l	■
CAF SMOKE . . .
Shear Nonsense—The Best and Worst—JIM MANION (Alumni) the golden tenor of that hall, can be seen iin the Cafe always—what’s the attraction. . . BOB LEMIRE, (Walsh) is still a sucker for taxi drivers, while in New York, he rode and rode and the meter clicked and clicked—seven million people in New York but not one girl could Bob find. . . Why does Father Farley call JOE LOFTUS (Sorin) “Sissy” Loftus, ask him some time, you’d be surprised. . . BILL NOLAN (Dillon) hires himself out as an entertainer, his idea of working his way through college. . . BILL “FITZ” FITZPATRICK, (Alumni) has finally come. out with the' fact that he is a second “romeo.”. . . Then there’s a freshman over in Freshman Hall, to be exact BILL MALONEY who bought a student directory to find out who this student A. A. BOOKS is—woo-woo. ..FRANK KELLY (Morrissey) resorts to “Lonely Hearts,” and BOB ALBERTS (Alumni) still refuses to talk. . .
One of those comic highlights which pop up—The lad who stood at the cemetery gate directing N’Westem rooters through the graveyard to the trains—did he know a high fence enclosed the grounds????. . . . What’s wrong with this sentence? “And then I got stuck for three dances with ‘AUGIE’ BENEDETTI, (Morrissey).” . . . RAY LONGSTRETH, (Howard) must have a half interest in the hall phone... SAM MINELLA, (Sorin) and his shoulders that reach from “Thar to Thar”. . . JOHN MURPHY, (Sorin) can find more things to gripe about in ten minutes than you can in four years. . . HUGO MELCHIONE, (Sorin) roller skating at the Playland Park “rink”—tra la la. . .
Things we could do without:
Letters asking for football tickets; The 55 cent cab fares; .
The weather of Inidana;
Phone calls for the fourth floor;
Classes (especially eight o’clocks); Mystery and bread balls;
“Pink” slips.
Only 21 more shopping days before Christmas. . . .
A Perfect Sillygism
We go to college to improve our faculties
Our instructors are our faculties Therefore we go to college to improve our instructors.
Christmas Dance: The people who run these dances aren’t trying to
make money—they just do, that’s all.
MR. LOUIS ALAMAN (out of respect for his age) (Sorin) wants to know who will trade him a green Italian 10 lira for a brown India water buffalo stamp. . . That pooch doesn’t hang around PAUL WADDELL’S room in Alumni anymore. . . Then there was St. Mary’s Charity Ball week end with its broken promises, broken mirrors and broken hearts . . . Heigh Ho!! Gotta Go. . .
’Miff Shot and Shell
Snaking down the St. Joe Valley Through the hills and caves,
Occasionally through a South Bend alley,
Go the N. D. braves.
No bows so strong, nor arrows true Are slung across their backs,
“So I shoivs him my bank shot . . .
A shotgun or a twenty-two They carry in their pack.
First in line is Roggenstein, A Mohawk from New York.
He saw a crow but let it go, He thought it was a stork.
And next we see from Tennessee, A Memphis trapper here.
The only thing he ever trapped Was a glass of lager beer.
Ed English is their leader bold .
Who bravely blazed the trail,
But when the going gets too cold He fishes from a pail.
Hunters, trappers, fishermen three, Men of outdoor task,
Just keep your bullets away from me, And that is all I’ll ask.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, DECEMBER 4, 1936.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas M oritur us Founded 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 233 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C.........................Faculty Adviser PAUL FOLEY................................  ..Editor-in-Chief
CYRIL F. STROKER......................  Managing	Editor
Departmental Editors
John A. Gillespie____________________________The Weel(
Anthony F. O’Boyle College Parade
John Hurley_______________________________Feature Editor
Robert L. Grogan"Scholastic of the Air"
News Staff
Louis DaPra__________________________________News Editor
Harold A. Williams______:____________Assistant News Editor
Michael Mongoven Frank Reilly
Richard Riley--------------------------------------Robert McClain
George Haithcock_____________________Vincent de Coursey
Frederick Sisk------------;________________________John Callaghan
Thomas Marker-----■________________________________James Hufnagel
Gregory Byrnes____________________________Graham Starr
Vincent W Hartnett]_______________________Literary Editors
Harold A. Williams J
Sports Staff
Eugene Vaslett_______________________________Sports Editor
Andrew M. Crowe----------------------Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley---------------------------------------Mark Mitchell
Allan Bride--------------------------Nicholas Lamberto
Frederick Digby___________________________John Clifford
Charles Callahan---------------------William A. Donnelly
Arch Gott----------------------------James A. Waldron
Francis Kroeger______________________________Art Editor
William R. Dooley, 26______________________________Business Manager
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Vol. 70	December 4, 1936	No. 10
ATTACK BY AIR .. .
IN THIS week’s news section the president of the
University announces that under the sponsorship of the Notre Dame Alumni association, thirteen radio addresses will be broadcast as the first broadside to be fired in the fight against Communism.
With European nations torn by war, rumors of war, and simmering hatreds, it is encouraging to realize that Americans can still carry on the fight through peaceable means. It is somewhat discouraging to realize that in the final analysis the grimy soldiers of Europe and the radio orators of America are fighting one and the same thing. Much depends on whether the American approach is victorious.
The war against Communism is the war of religion against the godless. Stripped of all the many intricate ramifications that have been used to cloud the issue— that is the basic conflict. In Europe the belligerents have masqueraded under “isms” of one kind or another, in this country we have not yet approached the open fight. But when and if we do, it will be under much the same circumstances, with much the same victories to be won.
The psychology of the situation should make the Alumni Communist fight easier. To strip Communism of its glamor is easy, to divorce it from its glowing prom
ises is to leave it stripped without a single recommendation.
Communism has borrowed many an idle trumpet to blast for attention. For countless years there has been a growing sentiment against many of the abuses of today’s economic system. None of these protests is new, all of them have been chamiponed by various groups. It would be futile and reactionary to deny that many of these protests cry for legitimate reforms. But Communism has nothing to offer. Communism has wailed to the heavens with pleas it did not originate. Communism as a counter-irritant would be more fatal than the original malady.
The radio speakers who will be heard under the auspices of the Alumni association can wield a telling scalpel. With a few deft strokes it should not be hard to rob Communism of its aura of “progressiveness.” Nothing could be less progressive than this outmoded system of bloody revolution to achieve an unworkable communal state.
Radio is the newest weapon the world has to offer, it should be effective, even against as ancient an enemy as Communism. For basically it is ancient, the old evils have been coated with new oratory, aimed at new people and new institutions, but they have the same old vulnerable rotten spots.
THE BAND—AND ITS AUDIENCE. . .
THIS week we received a letter in which the writer went to great lengths to compare the University band with the musical units representing other schools. In fact the letter stated: “Our band seems feeble and slightly amateurish when compared to the bands brought to the stadium from other colleges.” We believe the letter deserves prominent answer.
In the first place our band is disinctly not feeble. The band has been increased to one hundred pieces—and each one of these men is playing an instrument, not merely lugging it around for show as is the practice in units boasting more than a hundred pieces. In the second place the University band is far from amateurish. Under able direction, through long hours of practice, the band has always been recognized by critics as comparable with the best in collegiate music circles.
Tomorrow night, just about one hour after the football season closes, the basketball team will open a season —and, with perennial faithfulness, the band will be on hand to give a concert before the game and again during half time. Regardless of how much these concerts are appreciated, the band men put in long and tedious hours of rehearsal before attempting to entertain even the letter writing element of the audience.
There is probably no extra-curricular activity that demands more time and attention than band work. Nearly every afternoon throughout the Fall the musicians drilled formations and programs for football games. Now, with that season over, they swing right into just as tough a schedule of indoor rehearsals and concerts.
It takes relatively little effort to write letters. It takes even less effort to be smugly critical—but this writer shot at a most invulnerable target when he criticized the band.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, DECEMBER 4, 1936.	13
A First View of Bremen
By Robert Mullen
Editor's Note: This is the second in a series of articles to be zvzitten for The Scholastic from Heidelberg, Germany, by Robert J. Mullen. Mullen zvas a sophomore here last year and was azuarded a scholarship to Heidelberg. In this article he tells of landing in Bremen in September. His later articles will deal with the life of an American student in a Ezir-opeazi zmiversity. Mullen’s home is in Milwaukee. He zvas graduated from Pallattine Seminary.
*
Sept. 12 — 8:00 a.m. — Bremerhaven. My first sight of Germany! It scarcely seemed possible and yet— there I was. A bright, crisp fall morning greeted us. The very air seemed charged with excitement and adventure. From the deck of the S.S. Bremen we had a magnificent view of the town. Color—a riot of color —struck the eye! ’ Every house top was a bright red. Every house was painted vividly and differently. Some of the homes were enchantingly picturesque. On the other hand some of their color combinations were glaringly incongruous. The picture as a whole, however, was delightfully picturesque and novel—novel because in America it is impossible to see such a striking panorama.
By 10:00 a.m. I was through the customs. Everything worked so systematically that no trouble whatever was experienced. The custom officials were very considerate and made everything as easy as possible for us. I should explain here that the ships do not go directly to Bremen but only as far as Bremerhaven. Passengers are brought by train from Bremerhaven to Bremen. It was 11:00 when our crowd boarded the train. Fifty minutes later we were in Bremen. During the trip we again had an excellent view of the colorful landscape. The homes had such a cheerful atmosphere, and the tiny farms were neatly and compactly arranged.
Bremen is one of the most interesting towns in Germany. It is the oldest seaport of Germany, the Bishopric of Bremen, having been founded in 787 by Charlemagne. The city joined the Hanseatic league in 1276 and reached its height of importance in the sixteenth century. But soon
after Hamburg rose to even greater heights of importance, and Bremen had to be content in being the second most valuable seaport in Germany.
The first place we all headed for was the popular Rathaus of Bremen. This building with its famous “cellar” is known the world over. Its style is mainly Gothic and was erected in the early part of the fifteenth century. The Ratskeller is unlike anything seen in America. Everything —the windows, walls, wood-carvings, tables, chairs,—is mellow with age. There are many remarkable wood carvings on the huge wine casks, the oldest of which dates back to 1653. German wines exclusively are served here—and good wines too! I ought to know!
Immediately in front of the Rathaus stands the colossal eighteen foot statue of Roland. The present statue was erected in 1404 on the site of an earlier wooden figure.
The Dom or Cathedral is, to my mind, the most interesting “sight” in Bremen. The church was erected in the latter part- of the eleventh century, greatly altered in the thirteenth, and the whole exterior restored in 1888-98. The interior is always dimly lit, which makes the huge vaulted ceiling seem ever so far away. There are many beautiful reliefs decorating the walls, and the stained glass windows, while being modern, are exceedingly colorful and life-like. Toward the rear of the church the entrance to the famed “Lead Vault” is found.
In the course of the construction of the church (1450) a workman fell from one of the steeples and was instantly killed. For some reason or other his corpse was not removed, but was left in this room. Several years later it was found that the body had not decomposed but had become mummified. The state of mummification is different from that of the Egyptians in that the bodies are left exposed to the air. In time the skin becomes very hard, somewhat like leather, and finally it takes on the appearance and hue of lead. At present there are four other corpses in this vault, and all are likewise mummified. The bodies were placed here during the period from 1590-1788. Likely the carcasses of several small animals, without being
“prepared” in any manner, have been placed in this room to see if the latter still held that necessary “something to mummify bodies. It would seem that the experiments are a success, for these carcasses are gradually becoming like the corpses of those placed here much earlier.
One of the crypts has recently been changed into a museum. Here can be seen many relics which formerly were parts of the cathedral’s interior and had been removed’ during architectural alterations. After having completed the tour of the inside of the Dom several of us ascended the stairs—275 of them—to the steeples. That was really work, but our efforts were well rewarded. From here we had an admirable view of town—a view I will never forget.
That night we attended a fashionable cabaret which was supposed to have a fine floor show. Unfortunately we found it to be terrible. It. was an attempted imitation of our nightclub shows, but the attempt was a miserable failure. At least the wine was good—and cheap!
Since my train to Cologne did not leave before 2:00 PM I had the opportunity to see a little more of the town Sunday morning. I strolled through many beautiful parks where, to my surprise, I found roses still in bloom. The streets are not laid out systematically like ours, but zigzag, twist, and turn in all- directions. One thing that was ever apparent to me was the absolute cleanliness of the town. The homes were really beautiful, and there was not one that did not have a flower box decorating the windows. The color, cheerfulness, and cleanliness of the little old town makes it very inviting and pleasant. I should not.forget to add that the absence of “billboards” was most conspicuous. All advertisements must be placed on special large posts. These are usually found on the corners of important intersections. Apparently the Germans do not have the unbounded confidence most Americans do in the oft-quoted slogan, “It pays to advertise.” And I must confess that I admire them for it.
With a fond “auf wiedersehen” to this attractive little town, I boarded my train at 2:00 (Sept. 13) and began my four hour journey to Cologne.
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, DECEMBER 4, 1936.
A THLE TICS
FIGHTING IRISH INVADE MEMORIAL STADIUM TO MEET TROJANS OF SOUTHERN CAL.
IN LAST GAME OF SEASON
By Fred Digby
The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame, having toppled the Northwestern Wildcats from their perch at the top of the football world, invade the Memorial Stadium tomorrow to do battle with the Trojans of Southern California in the last game of their 1936 season.
Though the Trojans have lost two games—to Washington and California—the team that Howard Jones will place on the field has been reported to be improved in every department of play over the team which the Irish licked last year, 20 to 13.
At the head of the U.S.C. attack will be David Davis and Amby Schindler who have been touted as the greatest Trojan quarterbacks since the days of Cotton Warburton, Both triple-threaters, they alternate at the signal calling position and have been hailed by many writers as prospective All-Americans.
The boys who clear the way for these two back are Coye Dunn and “Beans” Russell, two sophomores. Angie Peccinati and Jimmy Jones hold down the fullback position on the Trojan team.
The Trojans have a powerhouse of a line built around Captain Gil Kuhn at center. There is little to distinguish between the first two lines. Hansen and Rosenburgh are the running guards, and Radovich and Hass, the standing guards. To more sophomores, Don McNeil and Ray George, have wrested the tackle positions from their older teammates. At the flank positions will be Gene Hibbs (another prospective All-American) and Chuck Williams.
The Trojans have also been tied twice, by Washington State and by U.C.L.A. They will be fighting to redeem themselves, and if they are able to take the Irish, will consider their season a successful one.
There is a possibility, on the other hand,, that the Irish, who have shown themselves to be a “hot and cold” team this season, may be a bit off for (Continued on Page 15)
Hall Hoop Hopefuls Start Practice
Interhall basketball practice commenced last Tuesday evening, with Walsh and Sorin being the initial outfits to work out on the hardwood. Practice periods will be held from now until Christmas vacation. After the holidays the regular schedule will get under way.
On Wednesday evening the Howard and Dillon aspirants had their first opportunity to get back into condition. Morrissey and Lyons put on their sneakers and shorts for the primary time last night. Tonight the “Gold Coasters” of Alumni, and the “Cardboard Palace” outfit, who will play under the name of Freshman Hall, get their first tryout. Sunday, all the rest including Brownson, Cavanaugh, Off-Campus, Badin, St. Edward’s and Carroll will get their chance. Each hall team will be given an opportunity to work out once a week. All hall hoop hopefuls are advised to watch for bulletins puh-
N. D. SHARPSHOOTERS FORM RIFLE CLUB
•
By John Clifford
With a strenuous drive for membership being made throughout the campus, the organization of a Notre Dame Rifle and Pistol Club is slowly taking form. At a meeting of the St. Joseph Valley Rifle association held in October, the Notre Dame club was given membership and the right to compete in the “Any Sight Rifle League” of that association.
Interest in a Rifle and Pistol Club is not altogether new at Notre Dame; for in 1934 and 1935 Notre Dame was represented by a rifle team that lost but one match in the two years of competition. John “Gunner” McGrath, captain of the 1935 team, won the Indoor Championship of the Invitational Camp Perry Rifle Meet in which some of the best marksmen in the country competed. Joe Minarick and Mike Sheedy were also members of the 1935 team.
It is the goal of those organizing the Notre Dame club to obtain 25 members and divide the squad into A and B groups, so that all may have. an equal chance in competition. There will be ten men to a team and prizes will be awarded to the first three winners in each match. Lack of practice facilities will force the members of the club to practice on some South
(Continued on Page 22)
lished by the Physical Education department, if they wish to know as to when their club will be practicing.
The plan of dividing the halls into two groups will be followed again this year. At the end of the regular season the group winners will meet to decide the school championship. There will be a lightweight division for the boys under 150 pounds. A year ago, Sorin won the heavyweight title, and Walsh the lightweight.
Following are the halls as they are grouped, and their respective coaches:
Group 1—Coaches of Heavyweights: Freshman, Gormley: Brownson, Collins ; Cavanaugh, Macaluso ; Off-Campus, Murphy; Badin, Langton ; St. Edward’s, Micklich; Carroll, Cavalier.
Group 1—Coaches of Lightweights: Freshman. Condon : Brownson, Arboit: Cavanaugh, Tobin; Off-Campus, Serge; Badin, Ely; St. Edward’s, Straad; Carroll, Horomanski.
Group 2—Coaches of Heavyweights: Sorin, Puplis; Howard, McCarty; Walsh, Schrader; Morrissey, Marshall; Dillon, Kuharich; Lyons, DiMatteo; Alumni, Salerno.
Group 2—Coaches of Lightweights: Sorin, Hart; Howard, Sullivan ; Walsh, Guggisberg; Morrissey, Broseoe; Dillon, Galleta: Lyons, Kiszeli; Alumni, Psik.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, DECEMBER 4, 1936.
15
TRACKSTERS TRAIN FOR INDOOR
SEASON
•
The Irish thinlies began their daily workouts, starting last Monday, in preparation for the coming indoor and outdoor seasons. Coach John Nicholson is finding it extremely difficult to replace such men as Meagher, Elser, Frawley, Michuta, McGrath, Rubly, McFarlane, and Bernard, who were lost by graduation.
Captain Bucky Jordan, a sprint and hurdle participant, leads a group of imposing monogram winners on the ’37 combine, that shows promise of developing into a well-balanced organization—one of the notable attributes of Nick’s reign as mentor of the Irish tracksters.
In the dash events there are Bill Clifford, Eddie Boyle, and Jordan. Mahoney is the outstanding candidate for the hurdles, while John “Buff” Cavanaugh is the mainstay for the half-mile. Jim Parsons, Francis, McKenna, Herb Kenyon, Gormley, and Arch Gott loom as potential pointgetters in the mile and two-mile grinds.
The pole vault will be ably taken care of by Boots McCarthy, Dan Gibbs, and Langton. Chick Levicki will return to toss the shot, capably assisted by Lill. Eddie Boyle is slated to perform in the broad jump, while Joe English will be seeking a place in the high jump.
The 440 in all probability will be run by Parsons, Sheehan, and O’Connor. Three new men that are unusually prominent in the shot-put and distance events include Faymonville, Rice, and Szumachowski. At the present Gibbs is nursing an injured leg, Faymonville has a bad arm, and Szumachowski is suffering from a growth on his heel. It is hoped that they will not be bothered by serious complications that would prevent their competing in the winter meets.
Coach Nicholson will be striving to emulate his 1936 undefeated record, when the thinlies went through eight major exhibitions without experiencing a loss. Preliminary work for the first days is to consult mainly of limbering up exercises.
(Continued from Page 14.)
this, contest. They were only able to get in two scrimmages before leaving because of the cold weather. The major part of their work for the game was done indoors. Moreover, they have had a long cross-country jaunt during which they only had one workout at Tuscon, Arizona. The game promises to be a fighting battle in which anything can happen.
KEOGAN'S MEN OPEN BASKETBALL SEASON AGAINST KALAMAZOO TOMORROW;
MEET ST. MARY'S TUESDAY
By Arch Gott
Approximately 2900 students of Notre Dame will turn off their radios at the close of the Irish-Southern California pigskin tussle tomorrow night and will shuffle en masse over to the gym for the gala opening of the 1936-37 basketball season. Coach George Keogan’s frisky five will act as hosts to the
Coach Elmer Layden
de Landero Presses Fencers1 Practice
•
Coach Pedro de Landero, the man responsible for the undefeated fencing teams during the past two years at Notre Dame, put his men to work on their pre-season matches last week and emerged smiling. With the results of two-thirds of the RoundRobin tournament now known his smiles are more than justified.
In the foil matches two qualifying rounds and one final round were held last week. Jack McAuliffe won his four matches in the first round to lead. Bob Seco was second with two victories and one defeat, and Gene Kiefer took “show-money” with two wins and two losses. Gruenenfelder also competed and emerged with one victory and four defeats.
The second qualifying round saw Captain Telmo de Landero uphold the family tradition by winning his four matches against no defeats. McEn-
(Continued on Page 21)
team representing Kalamazoo College from up Michiganway. The great Notre Dame band under the baton of Musician Casasanta will be there 100 strong to play a 30 minute concert before the game. At 8:00 o’clock sharp the hoopsters will go into action at the impetus of the referee’s whistle and the hardwood season will be on its way. Should the students become a little hoarse after yelling at a defenseless radio all afternoon there will be a large crowd of South Bend rooters on deck to lend them a little vocal support.
Evidently Kalamazoo prefers to be known as a mystery team this year but they may have something up there in the nature of a surprise. Last season Notre Dame rode through them to a 63-17 score with hoops popping in from all directions so an easy Irish victory is expected tomorrow night. That game was played as the opener of the first double-header in basketball ever to be held at Notre Dame. Johnny Moir, then a sophomore playing his first collegiate game, served notice on future opponents by piling up 17 points in the first half before he was taken out of the game. At the half the Irish were leading 44-8 so a reserve team was put into the game to breeze through the second period. This was fortunate for the scorekeeper had cards marked only up to 65.
The Fighting Irish team personnel still has a conspicuous opening in the absence of Paul Nowak, All-American center of 1935-36, whose recent appendectomy has kept him from active workouts. John DeMots may get his weak knee into shape for the game and his experience at the middle-post would be of great service. The man with the uncanny eye, Johnny Moir, has been filling in at the center post and will doubtless start at that position. Coach Keogan is in a sort of a minor quandary just now as to his actual starting lineup but we may see Moir at center, Captain Ray Meyer and Red Allen at the forwards, flanked by Tommy Wukovits and Tom Jordan at the guards. This of course is only an opinion. Others who will possibly see action are Crowe, Carson, O’Connor, Muens, Shields, Du-(Contimied on Page 21)
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, DECEMBER 4, 1936.
INTRODUCING
STEP ON GRID FOR LAST BATTLE
Go back in fancy, to the colorful old country of Mexico and the year 1910. It was a momentous year for Mexico. The “grand old Man” Diaz, after a rule of benevolent despotism that had
Louis Alaman
Retiring Band Leader.
lasted for forty years, sensing the growing unrest of the people, abdicated his office in favor of Benito. Juarez so that civil war and bloodshed would not harm the people he loved so well. Although it was not realized at the time, Juarez was bringing in with him the start of a political fever that was to culminate with the utter- destruction of political, religious, and social freedom. But the people of Mexico in 1910 were thinking only of Juarez and the progressive spirit he represented.
In that year, in Mexico City, there was born to a family made famous by the -writings of the historian Lucas Alaman, a boy who was later to become one of the colorful figures of modern Notre Dame campus life. He was christened on the feast of Corpus Christi, and in honor of the day was named Luis Gonzaga del Sagrado Corazone Sebastian Segura y Alaman. The boy grew up in Mexico City, and attended school taught by the Marist Brothers.
In 1918, Louis and his .mother moved to the United States and set
tled in New York. Continuing his education in the Christian Brothers’ School and Military Academy in Orange, New Jersey, Louis quickly learned to speak English. Today it is his proud boast that he has not the slightest trace of a Spanish accent, although there is a faint strain of Manhattanese in his speech. While in Military Academy he played guard on the basketball team, end on the football team, and ranked high in his classes. In addition, he competed in New York Silver Skates ice-skating tournaments under the colors of the Metropolitan Skating and Swimming Club. One of his most persistent and successful opponents in these tournaments was John Dunnigan who later fostered the sport at Notre Dame up until his graduation in 1934.
Louis came to Notre Dame in 1930 on a working scholarship, and worked for two years in the book store before starting into classes in 1932. In his freshman year, after enrolling in the Engineering School, he applied for and secured the position as bandleader. He has been' at the job for the ensuing five years (no three year eligibility in the band). His success at throwing the baton over the cross bars on the football field has been so remarkable that visiting bandleaders turn sick with envy at the sight.
Most satisfying to this Latin from Manhattan was the job of leading the band up through Times Square last year when the band made the
A Later Louis Alaman Number 2 of the 3 Uniforms.
Army trip. Intended to repeat the performance this year, but the train was late. Graduating from the College of Commerce in February, Louis wall -work for the Allis-Chalmers Company of Milwaukee, which has two advantages: (1) it -will bring him-nearer an attraction in Milwaukee. (2) it will pave the way for a return, as a company representative, to Mexico.

Supper Late Tomorrow
On tomorrow evening, Dec. 5, at the request of the S.A.C., supper will be served at the conclusion of the Notre Dame-Southern Cal. game, instead of at the regular time.
At the S.A.C. meeting on Monday evening, winter sports’ festivities were discussed.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, DECEMBER 4, 1936.
17
ON DOWN THE LINE •
By Mike Crowe
Wisconsin had the best conference team met by Minnesota this year, according to COACH BERNIE BIEEMAN of the Gophers. This is a great compliment for HARRY STUHLDREHER because Minnesota played both Northwestern and Purdue this past season.
Louisiana State’s trainer MIKE CHAMBERS, says that the Louisiana State University team could win the Rose Bowl game if it was invited to participate in that rousing finale. Chambers was the trainer for the Georgia Tech team of 1928 that defeated the California Bears in the Rose Bowl contest. He considers this year’s Louisiana State team to be three touchdowns better* than the 1928 Georgia Tech squad.
Alertness was the big factor in Northwestern’s success in winning the Big Ten championship. The Wildcats intercepted 17 passes and recovered 19 fumbles by opponents in their drive to the Conference title.
In the 1915 and 1917 Army-Notre Dame games, the Irish used only 11 players, winning 7-0 and 7-2.
St. Thomas (Minnesota) students are poor backers of their football team. In a recent game against Mac-alester, only 50 turned out for the game.
TONY BARABAS, brother of AL BARABAS the former Columbia star, is playing a backfield position for Georgetown.
Though MARCHY SCHWARTZ is doing a good job at Creighton, much credit must be given to the line coach, JOHN POLISKEY. Poliskey played tackle for Notre Dame in 1926 and 1927. -
Villanova’s lineup is dotted with such names as SALA, RIZZO, GALA-ZIN, MELLUS, BUEK, STOVIAK and RAIMO.
JACK TOSI, Niagara center, is an expert on pass defense. In the first seven games this year, the Purple Eagle pivot man made 12 pass interceptions.
BRONKO NAGURSKI, who is still one of the greatest fullbacks that ever played football, has a size 19 neck.
BILL BORRIES, brother of BUZZ BORRIES, is playing an end position for Washington and Lee. Eye trouble prevented Bill from gaining admittance to the Naval Academy last year. He is only a sophomore and promises to ’develop into as great a star as his more famous brother.
When Pittsburgh played Notre Dame, there was one person in at-
( Continued on Page 21)
IRISH OUT TO WIN THIRD STRAIGHT FROM SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA; HAVE WON SIX OF ELEVEN GAMES WITH TROJANS
The cross-continent home and home arrangement between Southern California and Notre Dame has been one of the friendliest rivalries in modern football. The series began in 1926 and has been an annual feature ever since. In their eleventh meeting tomorrow the two teams should hang up some sort of modem attendance record for a A complete series of games.
LAUTAR SELECTED ALL-AMERICAN BY U. P.
o
Notre Dame, even though suffering two noticeable setbacks from Pitt and Navy, respectively, nevertheless has attained a high rank in not only the season’s record but in also the individual stars. Dick Dunkel (page
John Lautar All-American Candidate.
Gott) one of the country’s ace football predictors, placed the Irish fourth among the nation’s teams and second in the mid-west.
Although few All-America elevens have been chosen, as yet, several that were recently released have contained the names of Notre Dame’s gridiron participants. Captain Johnny Lautar received a distinguished rating by being selected on the United Press, composed of approximately 1,200 newspapers throughout the United States, starting line-up. Lautar also gained prominence as one of the outstanding guards during the past fall, when he was picked on Hearst’s AllAmerica second team.
Various members on the Irish squad have been awarded Card of Merit by Christy Walsh, of the Official All-America Board of Football. Included in this group are Larry Danbom, Joe O’Neill, Bob Wilke, Bill Steinkemper, and Lautar. The Board meets early in December to tabulate the votes for the initial eleven, and
In previous meetings the games have been marked by the clean, hard play of the contestants. The outcomes have been close in many instances. Notre Dame has won six of the previous contests, three of them by one point margins. Southern California has emerged victorious in four games, three of them by large margins. So the series now stands 6 to 4 in favor of the Irish.
The Trojans have the distinction of being the only team in modem football to beat the Irish three years in a row. They turned the trick in ’31, ’32, and ’33. Since that time the Irish have come back to beat the Trojans two years running, ’34 and ’35. They’ll be gunning for their third straight tomorrow. ’
The opening game in 1926 was marked by the strong second half comeback of the Irish which enabled them to win 12 to 7 after trailing most of the game. In 1927 the Irish again corralled the Trojan war horse before a record-breaking crowd of 117,000 fans at Soldier Field in Chicago. The score was 7 to 6.
The Trojan's first victory of the series came in 1928 by a 27 to 14 score. This was followed by Irish victories in 1929 and ’30. The scores were 13 to 12 and 27 to 0 respectively. In 1931 the Trojans thrilled the crowd with a 16 to 14 victory made possible largely by the toe work of Johnny Baker. The Trojans were successful in ’32 and ’33 and won by large margins in both games.
In 1934 the Irish inaugurated a Layden custom and beat the Trojans 14 to 0. They followed suit last year by trimming the sun-tanned lads from California 20-12. This year the Irish hope to reach their come-back peak against the Trojans and continue an old Layden custom by walloping the men of Troy in good old Irish fashion.
their decision will be known within the next ten days.
Lautar’s Card of Merit contained this quotation: “The leadership and poise of this splendid lineman explains to a great extent the astonishing rise of Notre Dame following the wreck at Pittsburgh, in late October.”
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, DECEMBER 4, 1936.
Seniors End Grid Careers
Before a colorful crowd in Los Angeles’ huge coliseum fourteen of Elmer Layden’s Irish will trot onto the field for their final fling at collegiate football. Led by Captain Johnny Lautar these veterans hope to make the finale a fitting climax to and up-and-down season.
There is a senior ready to step into every position on the team with the exception of the quarterbacking post. In the backfield such stars as Danbom, Miller, Wilke, and Wojci-hovski will be making their farewell. The front wall has O’Neill and Hickey at ends, Steinkemper, Cronin, Kopczak, and Ely at tackle; while in the guard position we find Lautar, Martin, and McMahon, with Mundee the lone senior center, to make the trip.
Danbom and Miller have been names to connect up with the fullback position for the past two seasons. Danbom has stood out in every game the Irish have played this year for his all-around offensive and defensive performance. His vicious
blocking and tackling as well as his line plunging has earned him the respect of every foe. Miller, who at the beginning of the season, shared the fullback with Danbom has been handicapped throughout the season with injuries, and as a result hasn’t played as much as was expected. Last year Miller teamed with Elser to carry the burden of the fullbacking and was counted upon to be a decided help this season.
After playing understudy to Shakespeare and Pilney for the past two seasons Wilke has finally come into his own. He has been the spearhead of the Irish attack all season, climaxing his performances with brilliant exhibitions against both Army and Northwestern.
When the season opened the right halfback position seemed to be well taken care of by Vic Wojcihovski. Up until the Pitt game, in which he sustained an injury, Vic was one of the steadiest player on the club. Not only did he fulfill the blocking requirements of the right half post,
but was a dangerous ball carrier as well as an excellent pass receiver. The Pitt injury has healed very slowly resulting in very little duty for Wojcihovski, but it is expected that he will wind up tomorrow with his usual performance.
Tomorrow Joe O’Neill will hold down the varsity left end for the final time. Playing with last season’s famed second string line Joe played a major part in the Ohio State contest. This year he not only took over the varsity position but the kicking responsibility as well. His sparkling offensive play and pass catching ability earned him All-American rating by the official All-American board. Lou Hickey is another end who will be donning the Irish uniform for the _ last time. Hickey, although not a regular, has seen service on numerous occasions.
Four tackles of varsity caliber will be lost after tomorrow’s contest. Steinkemper, one of the two receiving monograms in his sophomore (Continued on Page 21)
Action as Irish battled Trojans last year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, DECEMBER 4, 1936.
19
Splinters From The Press Box
By Cy Stroker
Tomorrow’s game with Southern California is bound to be a contest typical of those in the series between the two schools. The games have never been ties, — either the score was so large that strangers looking* at it were unable to grasp the tenseness and spectacular thrills that always characterize the games, or on the other hand the games were won by one point margins, — dramatic contests decided by a conversion sailing through the goal posts. As things stand now the Irish have the edge on the Trojans, 6-4 in the series. We hope that tomorrow will make it 7-4.	.
V
Like Notre Dame, Southern Cal has had an up-and-down season this year. In September, things never* looked rosier for Coach Howard Jones and his men, and optimism reached its height on the Trojan campus when the campus daily blithely announced its certainty of an undefeated season. Time and a combination of Washington State, U.C.L.A., and California made some radical changes in this idea. The situation is similar at Notre Dame in one respect only. That is, the season has turned out to be vastly different from what was generally expected. After a pre-season outlook as gloomy as Coach Nicholson on the eve of a C.I.C. meet, the Irish turned in a record of six wins and two defeats which is more than satisfactory, competition considered. And so tomorrow, whilst we nestle close to Joe Schilling’s radio, we shall join you, gentle readers all, in fervently whispering, “Happy landing, Irishers.”
Nor can we neglect the activities in the gym tomorrow night when Coach Keogan sends his men through some romping exercises against the Kalamazoo College basketball team. We don't expect to see an exciting game because of -the vast difference between the two teams. But it will give us an opportunity to size up Keogan’s offerings for the 1936-37 season. From advance reports, we understand that Johnny Moir is doing more passing and less shooting this year, that the offense should be better than last year’s, and that the defense will probably be not quite so good as last year’s. We shall see.
V
Our mail this week included, or rather consisted of, an anonymous contribution typed out in a very precise manner. It even had our name spelled correctly. After* a very formal heading which informed us that the place was Professor Coyne’s Speech Class (which we thought to be rather superfluous inasmuch as Professor Coyne teaches only speech), that the student was a Senior in the A.B. school, and that the subject was an after-dinner speech— “choose own subject”—the contribution went on to point out defiantly that since every man and his brother were choosing All-American teams there is no logical reason why he (the contributor) should not do likewise. Being of a complacent nature, we did not think it vise to make an issue of this point. The missile then listed the following team:
Ends: Bing Crosby and Stepin Fechit. Fechit is an ideal end man, and Crosby can still boom forth. Tackles: J. Edgar Hoover and Elaine Barrie. Neither have ever failed to get THEIR man. Guards: Mayor La Guardia and Philadelphia’s Mayor Davis Wilson. Both of these men lend dignity to the team, and the public can feel certain that the whole thing is not a farce. Center: Ted Husing, a first class football man even though at the end of the season he was a little punchy,—called Shamrocks three-leaf clovers, and mixed downs and yards. Halfbacks: One-Eye Connelly and Dick Powell. Connelly is the most elusive man we have seen in years. Powell’s rating is based on his showing in the picture “College Coach.” Fullback: John L. Lewis, a man of "brawn and courage. No opposition too strong for this plunger. Quarterback: Jim Farley. Jim was the brain of a mighty successful team this past season etc. etc. etc.
(Continued on Page 22)
Father Cunningham To Talk To Scout Club
On Wednesday evening, Dec. 9, at 7:45 p.m. in room 22 of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering the Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., will give a talk to all those interested in Scouting activities as well as those students taking boy guidance work at the University. ‘
The topic to be discussed by Father Cunningham will be “The Four Fold Development of the Scout” and will treat of the moral, religious, athletic and educational aspects of a boy’s development. Because of his wide experience in the field of education Father Cunningham’s lecture will undoubtedly offer some valuable informative tips to those men planning to be connected in some manner with boy guidance work in the future.
Although chiefly intended for those students who were former scouts and who still retain an interest in activities pertaining to scouting, any student on the campus wishing to attend is cordially invited to do so.
Lawyers To Hear Care At Meeting Soon
Under the chairmanship of Arch Graham, senior lawyer from South Bend, the next meeting of the Law Club will be run off on schedule on next Thursday, December 10, at 8 o’clock in the Lay Faculty dining room.
The principal speaker of the evening will be Mr. Lenn J. Oare, of South Bend, who is a member of the State Board of Bar Examiners. His subject will be entitled “Bar Examinations.” After his talk he will answer general questions from those in the audience.
Mr. Thomas F. Konop, Dean of the College of Law, as well as the rest of the members of the Law faculty will attend the meeting.
Plans for the Lawyer Ball, which will be held on January 15, at the Jefferson Plaza, are going forward but as yet there is no definite information concerning the orchestra and other details.
Hoosiers To Dine
Plans for a dinner dance to be held during the Christmas vacation . have been laid by the Indianapolis Club. It is to be held on Monday, December 28, at the Indianapolis Athletic Club.
The committee, with Leo Walsh as chairman, has not as yet secured an orchestra, but will announce their selection wtihin the next two weeks.
OCCASIONALLY a telephone wire must be run under a rug or carpet. The twisted wire formerly-used made an unsightly ridge.
So Western Electric—manufacturing, distributing and purchasing unit of the Bell System—produces a flat cord only one-eighth inch thick, seven-eighths of an inch wide. (Like this	Within this
tiny space are four conductors of insulated wire. Under the rug or carpet this cord is not seen, not even felt with bare feet.
Even to the smallest detail, the Bell System is constantly on the lookout for the better way to make telephone service more satisfactory to the customer.
College men and women find after 7 P. M. a convenient time for making long distance calls. Moreover, most rates are lowest then.
Met Clubbers To Dance At McAlpin Hotel
The Winter Garden room of the Hotel McAlpin will be the scene of the gala Metropolitan club Christmas dance, on Dec. 28. Chairman George P. Lane announced the Alumni club’s choice this week.
As was expected, Francis “Bugs” Walther, ’26, will lead his orchestra for this affair. Walther’s orchestra has played for many of Notre Dame’s New York dances in the past, notably for the dance held in New York, Saturday evening, Nov. 14, following the Army game.
The price of this dance, as was announced last week, is to be four dollars a couple. Bids will not be sold on campus but may be purchased at the door, the evening of the dance.
At a meeting of the Met club, held this week, details of the dance were disclosed. - Reduced railroad fares for the Christmas holiday trip were also discussed. It is hoped that the railroads will grant a substantial reduction if groups of students travel together.
Small Fire Threatens New Construction
The new Biology Building was threatened by fire a few days ago when a canvas used to protect a stone sculptor from the wind caught fire and the flames spread to the scaffold. Mr. William A. Swan, sculptor, had a small fire built in a tin receptacle inside the canvas, and the wind blew the canvas into the flame.
Workers hurrying to the scene attempted to pull the canvas from the scaffold, but it caught fast and their efforts were unsuccessful. Some excelsior, in which Mr. Swan’s model was packed, also caught fire, and the blaze began to spread with remarkable speed. Finally someone brought a fire extinguisher and the flames were quenched.
Further danger of fire has been averted by surrounding Mr. Swan with Masonite as he continues his work on the stone symbol over the entrance of the new building.
Set December 28 Date Of Minnesota Dance
In conjunction with the Twin Cities Alumni club, the Minnesota club will hold its Christmas dance at the Radisson hotel in Minneapolis, on Dec. 28.
The final meeting before the dance will be held next Wednesday evening, at which time a date will be decided upon for taking the group picture.
Joe Shiely, chairman of the dance committee, is being aided by the officers of the club who are, Tom Bohen, president; Frank Winter, vicepresident; Jack Mullowney, treasurer, and Burnett Bauer, secretary.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, DECEMBER 4, 1936.
21
Grid Careers End
(Continued from Page 18) year, has warded off all opposition throughout the season and held on to his starting post because of his first rate performance Saturday after Saturday. Kopczak was firmly entrenched in the other tackle position until an injury received early in the season forced him to the sidelines. Art Cronin has played steady ball all season, finishing up with yeoman service against Army and Northwestern. In the latter encounter he spent more than fifty minutes in breaking up the Wildcat’s reverses.
Captain Lautar has been holding down the left guard post for three years, and will wind up a brilliant season against the Trojans tomorrow. His all-around play has placed him on several All-American teams. Martin, and McMahon will also play their final game at the guard positions.
Mundee will be catching his final glimpse of Wilke, Danbom and others as he passes back the ball in tomorrow’s intersectional contest. After two years of being just another center Mundee finally jumped' into the vacancy created by Solari and Poj-man, and has held on to the position although pushed hard by McCarthy.
When the final whistle sounds tomorrow in Los Angeles these fourteen seniors will join the many other greats of the past who have added to the glory of the Fighting Irish on the gridiron.
Fencing
(Continued from Page 15)
eamy, McKean and Leising ended in a three way tie with two losses and two defeats each. In the fence-off McEneamey won two matches and lost none to take second place in that qualifying round and Leising took third. Bill Mahoney also fenced but failed to place.
These six men fenced on Monday and Tuesday with the following results:
W L
Capt. Telmo de Landero ... 5	0
Jack McAuliffe ........... 4	1
Bob Seco ................. 3	2
Gene Keifer .............. 2	3
Bud McEnearney............ 1	.	4
Joe Leising............... 0	5
Next week the Round-Robin in duelling swords will be run off. Jack McAuliffe is the favorite fencer in this event but he will be hard pressed by his teammates Seco and deLan-dero. The schedule for the ensuing season has been completed and will be released as soon as the Board in Control of Athletics approves it. This will be done when Director of Athletics Elmer F. Layden returns from the Southern California trip.
On Down The Line
(Continued from Page 17) tendance who was taking his first vacation in 20 years. He was JOE MAGIDSOHN, who has seen more service than almost any other Big Ten official.
Creighton, defending co-champions of the Missouri Valley Conference, will again put a strong team on the court this winter. Five lettermen, are returning to help defend the title.
Ten seniors on Duquesne’s football team have played under four coaches in their college career. They were freshmen players under the direction of ELMER LAYDEN. JOE BACH coached them as sophomores. CHRISTY FLANAGAN was head man in their junior year. Now JOHN P. (Little Clipper) SMITH has charge of their gridiron activity.
Basketball
(Continued from Page 15) charme, Knobel, Conrad, Gaglione, Walker, and Attley.
On Dec. 8, the Notre Dame gym will again be the scene of attack when Ed “Moose” Krause brings his St. Mary’s team from Winona, Minn. The former Irish super-athlete will be bucking his team against his alma mater for the second time, Notre Dame capturing the initial tilt last season 45-22. At the half Keogan’s team was ahead only 19-11 but put the pressure on later to run up a sizable margin.
St. Mary’s promises to put a stronger squad on the floor Tuesday night because they have lost little of last year’s team. A further point in their favor is a conference rule allowing them to use men for four year competition. One of the outstanding men is a veteran of three seasons, “Whitey” McGuire, 6 ft. 4 in. center. He is always dangerous and caused the Keoganmen a number of anxious minutes in the first half of last year’s tilt. The rest of Krause’s team is tailored to fit in with the play of this big middleman. Notre Dame will attempt to have the steamroller in working order at this game and may need it.
McCormack Concert
(Continued from Page 4)_______ for “When Night Descends” by Rachmaninoff.
McCormack reached the height of his renditions during the third portion when he presented such favorites as “Green Grows the Laurel,” “The Star of the County Down,” and, as an encore, “Believe Me if All Those Endearing Young Charms.” One of his • most popular numbers was “The Bard of Armagh,” sung also in this group.
Edwin Schneider, who has accompanied the famed tenor on many tours, was again the accompanist. His
piano solos, three in number, were very well received, while he showed his recognized artistry as an accompanist.
The concert was sponsored by the Concert Guild of South Bend, as the second in a series which will present Gladys Swarthout, Frank Forest. Father Lach’s Boy’s Symphonic band and others. Fritz Kreisler was the first to appear.
STOP worrying about Chicago Traffic Ride the SOUTH SHORE Line
Speeding is legal on the South Shore Line . . . there’s always a green light for the fast electric trains. Go the fast, safe way----via South Shore Line — and pocket the savings.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD

/
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, DECEMBER 4, 1936.
Splinters—" (Continued from Page 19)
The whole business left us gasping. We haven’t had such a setback in years. Not, indeed, since our Freshman year when we heard an embryonic English major put an Engineer in his place by screaming, with superb contempt, “And what, sir, is YOUR contribution to Art?”
Last week we made a final attempt to prophesy the outcome of a few football games. Our efforts were snowed under to such a degree that for a time we thought we were Landon. There wasn’t even a Maine or Vermont to help us along. That predicting business isn’t what it’s cracked up to be. Besides suffering the humiliation of seeing ourself wrong in black and white, our loss of prestige was enormous. Also it practically ruined a beautiful friendship between this column and Wally Fromhart. We suffered untold agony in the dining hall, too, having to face the sneers of our table mates each week. Even the waiter, one “Googy” Bond, joined in the finger pointing. The football season leaves us with a sense of frustration.
Baffling Baggage
and
Troublesome Trunks...^
Comptroller Announces Jewelry Salesmen
The office of the comptroller has again assumed responsibility for the jewelry concession on the campus, and announces the appointment of the following representatives: Martin Burns, Walsh hall; Maurice Kennedy, Carroll hall; William P. McGowan, Freshman hall; John S. Reilly, Sorin hall; Robert G. Starr, Morrissey hall; William Struck, Sorin hall; and Joseph Welch, Walsh hall. Jewelry will be supplied by the L. G. Balfour Company of Attleboro, Mass.
“The experience of the past three years has made possible considerable improvement in the jewelry line, and it is my opinion that the articles carried this year are uniformly of good quality and appearance. In order to render better service to the students a considerable supply of jewelry will be stocked just prior to the Christmas holidays so that immediate delivery may be made,” Mr. Lloyd, comptroller, stated.
Rifle Club
(Continued from Page 14)
Bend range.
The Notre Dame club will meet the rifle clubs of Bendix, Elkhart, Michigan City, LaSalle, and Studebaker on the second and fourth Thursdays of each month. The members of the local club will decide whether they will affiliate with the National Rifle association; and if they so decide postal matches will be arranged with the various member teams of the National association. The club will use .22 caliber rifles in all the matches.
You'll shed a vacation vexation at one economical stroke. Simply pack up and phone Railway Express when to come. Your baggage will be picked up, shipped on swift express trains, delivered promptly at your home. For the return trip, you merely reverse. No extra charge for pick-up and delivery in cities and principal towns, and the shipping costs are practically negligible, when compared with local draymen's charges, etc., and the time you spend waiting. Also, Railway Express rates always include insurance up to $50 on each shipment, without extra expense. The main thing is to notify Railway Express when to call. That done, you can climb aboard the train and enjoy the scenery. You'll be off for a Merry Christmas.
506 W. South St., South Bend, Ind.
'Phone 3-6121
Railway Express
AGENCY INC.
■— NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR wict-
Established 30 Years
OPTOMETRISTS
222South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
REASONABLE DEPENDABLE PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, DECEMBER 4, 1936.
23
Italian Culture Is Great Mangelli Tells Club
Joseph Mangelli, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters from Bayonne, New Jersey, and president of the Italian Club, gave the principal address at the last club meeting held Tuesday night in Carroll “Rec.”
In a stirring discussion of Italian culture in all its phases, Mangelli dealt chiefly on the glorious age of the Renaissance and the reawakening of interest in the development of Italian culture under the present Fascist regime.
“Italian culture still maintains a tremendous influence on American life in both academic and domestic circles, and it is our duty and our purpose to uphold this culture,” he told the members.
An interesting travel talk was presented by Pasquale Pirchio, associate professor of drawing and Italian and sponsor of the club, who recounted tales of his journey through Italy this past summer.
At the business meeting which followed, the' club decided to hold its annual banquet after the Christmas vacation. Plans for this banquet will be arranged at a meeting to be held before the Christmas holidays.
Holiday Crowd Attends Villagers' Dance
More than 150 couples enjoyed themselves at the Villagers’ Turkey dance held on Thanksgiving eve at the Columbia Athletic club from 9:00 to 12:00 p.m.
James Lahey, Commerce 3, acted as general chairman of the dance. Music throughout the evening was played by Myron Walz and his orchestra.
The Thanksgiving Dance is among the many social events given by the town-boys. Other affairs given by the Villagers are the Christmas dance and the annual basketball banquet.
New Laundry Head
(Continued from Page 7) he became superintendent of the American Institute.
After years of research, Mr. Hoar became superintendent of several large laundry establishments in the Middle West. He was the head of a laundry in Joliet, Illinois, for one year before becoming the manager of the large Calumet Laundry in Chicago where he served as manager for nine years.
Previous to his acceptance of the post here, Hoar has been for the past seven months superintendent of the Lake City Laundry also a Chicago establishment.
Mr. Hoar is married and the father of two children. It is expected that he will move his family to South Bend about the first of the year.
Maloney Heads Ticket Sale For Formal
Chicagoans are looking forward to the Christmas Formal of the Chicago Club to be held December 28, at the Lake Shore Athletic Club.
Musical background for this popular Windy City affair will be supplied by Emil Flindt and his orchestra who have recently concluded a very successful season at O. Henry Park, Chicago.
Tickets are now on sale, and can be obtained from John F. Maloney, president of the Chicago club, at 123 Walsh hall. They are priced at three dollars each. Reservations for the Formal can be made with Maloney until the Christmas holidays; and in Chicago on December 27 and 28 at the Lake Shore Athletic Club, West Lake Shore Drive (Phone: Whitehall 4850).
The campus group will hold a smoker in the Faculty Dining Hall, Monday, December 14. Plans will be discussed for the Father-and-Son Luncheon sponsored jointly by the campus organization and the Chicago alumni to be held December 26. Tentative speakers will be Edward Gould, president of the Chicago alumni, Francis Olerich, secretary, Jack Elder and others.
Consider 'Name' Bands For Holiday Dance
The Hotel Statler, Buffalo, N. Y., is to be the scene of the Buffalo club’s Christmas dance, Paul Sheedy, chairman, announced this week. The date has been set for Saturday evening, Dec. 26.
No orchestra has as yet been selected, but it is understood that several popular “name” bands are under consideration and the final decision will be made at a meeting to be held next week.
Chairman Sheedy also announced that several star features are to be presented at the dance, details of which will be announced shortly.
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
The John Marshall
LAW
SCHOOL
FOUNDED 1899
AN
ACCREDITED
LAW SCHOOL
TEXT and CASE
METHOD
•
For Catalog, recommended list of pre-legal subjects, and booklet, **Studyof Lavr and Proper Preparation address: Edward T. Lee, Dean.
. COURSES (40 weeks peryear) Afternoon—3 years 5 days...4:30-6:30
Evening — 4 years Mon., Wed., Fri., 6:30-9:20
Post-graduate 1 year..twicea week Practice courses exclusively.
All courses lead to degrees.
Two years* college work required for entrance.
New classes form in Feb. and Sept.
315 Plymouth Ct., Chicago, III.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight ’ Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
Protect Your Home from Tuberculosis
BUY CHRISTMAS SEALS
they’ve got a hearty good taste that makes a sailor happy. And listen, they’re milder.
Buddy, t pay a higher compliment than that.
Girl or cigarette...when
* I tumble that means I’m
... for the good things a