
.. ... ,· .---..,-,._ 
Scholastic.·.:,: 
Special Issue March I, 1974 
To the Reader: 

Literature, from its earliest moments, was intended to entertain, to distract,. and to speak truly of the human condidon.:Re­cently, much · of literature . has become subject only to scholarship: Our purpose is not to ignore the scholarship, but rather to present literature and its scholarship to a .r general audience. We . wish to thank the · Scholastic and its editor Kerry McNamara for. giving us this issue to give birth to the 
Notre Dame Review. 

-The Editorial Board 
Notre Dame Review 
Ronald ~eber Bruce Jay Friedman Thomas Werge 
Diane Wakoski Robert Slabey 
Ernest Sandeen 
T. C. Treanor 


Sean Lucy 

Francis J. O'Malley Norman Mailer (with David Young) Sean Lucy (with Sean O'Riada) 

At Christmas  4  
An Interview  5  
Incident on a Rail Journey  10  
Liam O'Reilly  11  
Late Sleep  11  
Seeing Signs  12  
An Interview  16  
Solzhenitsyn: His Book and  19  
His Readers  
To Harry Lewis ...  22  
John Cheever: The Swimming  23  
and His Readers  
Posture  28  
Invitation  28  
Undone, Doing  28  
Images and Shadows of  29  
Divine Things  
Visitation  39  

Editor-in-Chief, Francis J. O' Malley Student Editors, Joseph Runde and John Wenke 
Editorial Board Carvel Collins Katherine Sullivan Edward Vasta Ernest Sandeen Richard Sullivan Ronald Weber 
Art Director, James Purvis Layout & Cover Design, Nan ·Smith 

Acknowledgements 
Kip Anderson Thomas Furlong John J. Niederman 
T. J. Clinton Professor John Garvick James F. Pauer Professor Donald Costello James Gresser John Phelan Janet Cullen · Karen Kolber Patrick Roach Jean deSmet. · Mark Luppino Professor0 J~mes Robinson 
_Professor Joseph Evans Eileen MacKrell George Stratton Ray Funk -Mrs. Connie Maher Gary Zebrun John Murphy 
Second-class postage paid at Notre Dame,  
Ind. 46556.  The magazine is represented for  
national advertising by National Educational  
Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue,  
New York, N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly  
during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC ·  Seltolastie  
is printed.at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00  Volume  115,  No.  10  March  I,  1974  
a year and back numbers are available from the SCHOLASTIC. Please address all manu­ Notre  Dame,  Indiana  
scripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the  Kerry S.  McNamara,  Editor  
property of the SCHOLASTig',_  ..·  
copyright© 1974 Scholastic Vall rights  
reserved /  none of the contents may be re­ 
produced without permission  

,. 


·Francis J. O'Malley 

i 
I 
At Christmas.· 
Let the Christbrand burst! . Let the Christbrand blazon! Dartle whitel/under the hearth-fire, Unwind the wind, furn the thunderer, And never, ~ever thinning; · Forfend fear. Flare up smartly; fix, flex, bless, inspire, lnstar the time, sear the sorcerer, And never, never sparing, Save all year. Let the Christbrand burst! 
· Let the Christbrand blazon! ­
NOTRE DAME REVIEW
4 

,,


A Section of 
An Interview Between 
Norman ,Mailer and. David Young 
David Young is a painter who lives in New York City,-and is a long time friend of Norman Mailer.· 
Interviewer: Well perhaps the best thing we can do as artists now is to persist in making that notion available. For example, a lot of the movements, ecological, et cetera, are spreading and are, I think, positive, but there seems to be a lack of a coherent vision going on when you think of all the different groups which are trying to make the different · changes. I think that lack of vision is fundamentally a religious one,· I mean the lack of the religious notion. The whole notion of God has become suspect; I think partly because so many of the church systems have degenerated into bureaucra­cies. The Catholic church is very guilty ofthat, even though they do it with great flourish and 
pomp, et cetera: · · · 
Mailer: Except that the Catholic church has these enterprising ministries. The Berrigan brothers with their enormous influence on young Catholics. While there are·many more radicals among the · Protestants, such intensity of thinking among devout Catholics has to be impressive because the Church is so structured. Since Catholicism is also closer to magic than Protestantism, profound changes· in the power..:structure of the Catholic church,are exciting. Given the· Church's extraor­dinary ability to pass down all the rapids of history; it may end by leading people out of ecological disasters; ·. • 
Interviewer: Of course the worst thing about· Protestantism is it eliminated magic. · 
Mailer: Yes, it eliminated magic. 
Interviewer: Church in the 15th Century was a pretty lively place. It was a place where everybody connected. All deals were made all kinds of-it was a big.,catch-all. And there was the center of life and celebration involvea: Iri present day times you find that in voodoo in Haiti-no:t voodoo in any of the __ mu.mbojumbo, but a voodoo sessiqn. It's a 
MARCH 1, 1974 gathering. It's·a Saturday night party and it's profoundly religious and a: tremendous amount of leg pulling being put on as music, dancing, this eroticism, this healing-it's an all around bag. And it's the onfy experience I ever had directly that I would ever consider profoundly religious and extremely human. It made me think back on the nearest thing we had to it years ago in places like the Land Ho Bar in Orleans. And it seems to me • that what's happening here now, with God is Dead arid all such stuff is that there has been an incredible decline, co-incidentally or not, an incredible decline in feeling itself.· And I say that in terms of ordinary people-to-people contact, not in a: broad sense. But that's what I've noticed in, for example, bars, which used to be I can remember 10 years ago much warmer places to be, much 
-more fun, much more• social intercourse going on ·and a lot of gaiety, and there would be fights and all of that sort of thing too but more vitality. Seems to me now.·... ·. 
Mailer: Yes: Ten years ago, particularly in New York, one could feel we were moving toward an exciting world because we knew more about a good life than we saw ·in our society. And we were beginning to have a glimmer of the possible success of that life. I think the magic of the Kennedy years was precisely the feeling that, yes, we're getting into an interesting world where the government is going to be not that far away from us. We're going to be working in the same direction. We used to use words like expanding, and all too many spoke (badly) of getting into human possibilities; or enjoying the richness of an interesting relationship. So on. I think we were gettingrid of that old dead · traditional Fifties baggage, absolutely dead. What's happened of course is that as this liberation"began · to develop, the drug revolution came along and completely accelerated us out of any natural orbit between man and his government, and flung us into some extraordinary place where nothing is related to anything else any more. Not by measure, morals, or proportion. So nobody has the faintest confidence today that they contain knowledge, or at 
5 
,-11 
least nobody I know has the confidence they have knowledge which is necessarily going to improve the world. Of course, there are any number of revolutionaries, black revolutionaries and women revolutionaries who feel they have an experience which will prevail. But there's something in the character and style of their arguments which doesn't give us this confidence. They're so harsh and angry. The tone is nihilistic rather than revolutionary. Still we listen. For nihilism is speaking to the fundamental suspicion that there's too much human material on earth. It may still be a valid revolution but for reasons other than the revolutionaries are arguing. The future real function of such a revolution might be that it cleaned-a lot of people out of there. Too many people around, too many products, too much pollution. In fact we reach a real cure for some of our ecological diseases by wiping out nine tenths of the people on earth. It may be easier for the earth to rid itself of. nuclear wastes from an absolutely disastrous war than for it to go on suffering in our over-labored, poisonous system of economy and technology. So .one of the things one begins to question in many revolutionary movements is whether their collectively unconscious intent is not to rid the earth of excess. That's one reason we're respectful of these movements. It may also be why one doesn't feel any greaturge to cry out, "They're evil." We've lost entirely the notion that we have some idea of who the good and evil are, or who even the funny people are. At least in the Fifties we used to have a feeling that Eisenhower was funny and there was warmth in the underground, that much we knew. A lot of America didn't know it, but they were going to find out. 
Interviewer: All of the black humor came out of that period, Lenny Bruce, Mort Sahl, and those guys. The violence of those various revolutionary groups now would indicate to me an eruption of despair. 
Mailer: Well, we feel that we've lost any idea that we might be of use to the world, that our ideas are good, and the real problem is to get our ideas out to people..! mean now, whenever we have a new idea, • the first thing we say to ourselves, is "My God, should we send this out? Wouldn't it be better to avoid polluting the intellectual waters?" It's as if we've become part of the plague. And yet for years · I've been writing that a plague is coming. Of course it's more than a metaphor, but still the metaphor I use is cancer. Cancer is the disease which transcends other diseases. I've even argued that other diseases are solutions. When you get into a chronic psychic imbalance, when the ways in which your body and mind are collaborating are warped and out of tune, then the local disease comes along· literally as your friend. It stops you. It makes you . face your own reality. 

Interviewer: I think you're right. 
l'\lailer: Of course, what's happened with antibiotics and with the technology of medicine, is that we · keep evading such a confrontation. I've always felt the main reason cancer keeps increasing in spite of all the money, and research, that goes into it, is we've gotten so much better at destroying the old · diseases that we keep displacing measles and ·. ·_ 
· scarlet fever into unlocatable viruses. Finally we get to that one disease we can't displace, because, by God, it's there. Cancer. The body has revolted against the mind; the body is now developing its 
· own cells, body cells free from mental organization, going off into some biological future which nobody can begin to comprehend. Well I think you can say: one of the comparable things happening socially is · all sorts of metastasis in the body social, all sorts of ideas which would have been considered straight-. out nihilism a hundred.years ago ( of the sort that Dostoevski was always attacking with such accurate paranoid fire)~are now viewed with . dignity. Is it because of this feeling that the world as we know it has to be destroyed? Has to because we've lost the way, and the only route to find that way again-so goes the unspoken argument of the nihilist-is to see what survives? · 
Interviewer: Don't·y~u feel that there is one thing we can do now, I mean improve education for· __ children? That's a way of seeingwhat survives. 
NOTRE DAME REVIEW. 

Mailer: I don't know if it's possible. The gulf is in the tap root. For instance, we can't evenbegin to teach"arithmetic until we are able to abstract the object we're looking at. That means we have to divorce ourselffrom any intimate notion of its . presence. The reason many sensitive children (black children particularly!) have a terrible time with numbers or arithmetic is because they're giving up a vital faculty of perception about the time they come to say that three apples and four apples make seven apples, and three horses and four horses make seven horses. What they have had to do is alienate themselves from the presence of the apples and the horses. Which is to say, ignore objects that are communicating to them. Seven horses in a meadow speak of many more vital matters to a child than numbers. 
So if the faculty of measure in science is a · species of communication, existential communica­tion1had to be destroyed in order for scientific measure to begin. Natural communication destroyed to proyide mechanical communication.· The false assumption that's been made by society was that mechanical communication (which is, by now, ubiquitously, electronic communication) was an addition to all other forms of communication. It's not. It's at the expense of other forms. The ability to measure comes out of the fact that we have· destroyed those faculties which once gave a more acute sense of measure. To primitive man, it wasn't of first importance· whether there were seven horses or five horses in a field. More important was the communication that he got off that tribe of horses. That herd. Five-horses in a powerful and dangerous mood are· obviously much more · meaningful to him than seven horses placidly eating. Again, the mood. That-was the only kind of measure to primitive man and it was a true measure l would think because it was a non­psychotic evaluation of. the field of environment before him. Number cleaves the brain and· encourages psychosis. If we are to talk of.teaching children, the present permissive notions of instructionby which children learn have something, I think, fatal in them. Fatally dull. For example, . , you· were talking to me earlier, while we were not recor~ing, about some friend ofyours who ha?· 
studied· with Lamas, and how the Lamas would beat the students with bamboo rods if they weren't learning the lesson. I was pondering that, and it seemed to me, of course! that was indispensable. The modern pedagogue would exclaim, "What an awful way to-instruct; these people are learning in fear." And the students will of course be in fear, will have a certain, let's say, ugly incentive to learn as well as a fine incentive. That may come closer to matching the dualities of the student's nature. Perhaps beating with rods is also done for the instructors because, well these instructors are trying to instruct students in spiritual matters of the utmost delicacy. There's nothing will destroy everybody's delicacy more than deadening the teacher. A teacher who's determined to be kind and tolerant and humane to his pupils at any cost to himself, while certainly a lady or a gentleman, is not necessarily refining his own qualities. · · 
Interviewer: By not communicating, in effect. 
Mailer: By not communicating the rage a pupil arouses in him at an inability to learn. It may be a purification rite for the teacher to whip those students. Think of the way in which an artist turns on himself or turns on others when they fail to embody his vision, or how most theatrical stage directors or movie directors are sadistic to their artists when they fail to deliver the work. Perhaps the master is entitled to.whip his students. At least let the question remain open. I don't think we're going to be able to teach children.a great many things so long as we have notions of letting them advance at their own rate in a gentle atmosphere, advance in the confidence that whatever expression issues from them is going to be a happy expression, and that all expressions are equal. Perhaps the most intense expression of education is to go· through the experience ofbeing afraid of ateacher, dominated by a teacher, fascinated by a teacher, · and yet be able to transcend that teacher . ultimately. It may be the only true education is. through transcendence.-Parents can.bring every good to their children, can try to teach them in the tenderest way. But it isn't necessarily incumbent on the educational system to also present childrenwith 
~faRCi-rl; 1974 . 
tenderness, because to bring up a child in an atmosphere of vastly greater geniality than exists in the world is a dubious venture. You wouldn't send armies into battle without having given them rigorous training. I think the direction for future • education may be for the disagreeable aspects of . · school to emerge more than they do today. Let kids show what it is to wrestle with a closed system. To have that closed system killing things in them literally, so that they have to fight back, develop powers of adaptation to cope with a repressive and difficult system. In compensation, let's have other parts of the educational system freer than today. We need a sense of opposites. I don't trust any concept of education which assumes there is a way to teach children better than all other ways. 
Interviewer: I think children have to be taught to • be agile, to be able to keep their wits, and learn to preserve that center of their being, allow it to flourish. The education of our future is possibly the one thing that is going to allow a future to be. 
l\lailer: I have a different notion about a viable future. I repeat: I think we've lost the way.,! suspect we're only going to find outwhat works by allowing more variety to the notion of society than any previous civilization has even begun to conceive. 
Interviewer: A hundred different life styles. 
Mailer: Yes,.but not embodied in sects and cians and groups and secret societies. Rather; have open societies founded on other notions than the political and the economic. That was the idea with which Breslin and I were working when I ran for mayor in the Democratic primary. The only way New York could begin to save itself;we argued, was to let people have a little power over their immediate environment. Indeed that's the only way you ever · learn. I think one reason why artists sometimes live to an old age and are rather. nice looking old men is because they are able to try an idea and see the result of it. A man who doesn't have the life of an artist lives in this___:_it seems to me.:..._almost · unutterable anguish, in an almost implacable hostility toward any idea that's new because of the fact that he, poor ribbon clerk or hard hat, has had no chance whatsoever to test out his own ideas; I mean, the closest an ordinary. man can come to such verification is if he gambles, which is one reason for a passion for gambling. If you think a team is better than another, the only way you're likely to remember your perception is if you win or lose money that day. Well I think if we could get to a point where people could gamble on the kind of society they think might work, I think we might begin to see some way of opening new possibilities. For example, why can't people who think their, children should be brought up strictly havethat right in their schools justas people who want a permissive system of education should be able to create their schools from .the bottom up. People who believe that policing city streets is a voluntary activity ought to be entitled to Hvein a particular community where they can do that, where they each serve a certain number of hours. a week as policemen on a voluntary basis; Other people who think that a slightschizophrenic element to modern life is healthy, and they don'twant to see the dirty work, could hire the best or the· cheapest police. force that they want, or even the worst gang of bullies they want. If they prevail where societies· founded upon more idealistic impulses don't work, that's .interesting too. At least we'll know ,that much. Because we don't know anything now. · 

,, . : , ...·. 

Interviewer: In other words; allow more possibili­ties.... 
l\failer: It's not a matter of allowing it. You know,· one of the notions we could never get across in this. mayorality campaign is.that if we had everwon, it isn't as if we then.would have sat down with twenty brain-trusters and parceled up New York, here a little plot for such an idea and this nice terrain for that cause. New Yorkwould have become, in the ·. notion we had, the 51st state-at that pointvarious groups of people might have chosen to incorporate themselves as hamlets, towns, sees, or compounds .. But the peoplein these places would have had to come together and 'decide :what was the common _ denominator for their enclave. These particular __ towns, hamlets, principalities, whatever.you want 
NOTRE DAME REVIEW 

to call them, would have come into existence only by people forging them, choosing to create them out of hard work. So it would have been a pioneer endeavor in a highly developed urban environment. To the extent people didn't do it, to the extent that people were apathetic, New York would just have changed over from being a city to being a state and would still be administered from the top. In other words, as groups of people came together and decided that they wanted something for themselves, wanted a society in which they could live within a . larger society, so we would have relinquished power to them. But it wouldn't automatically have been conferred upon them. . 
Interviewer: In other words you would set a lot of forces in motion presently stalemated and stagnant. · 
Mailer: Forces now in statis would have been able to crystallize. Black people by the way often loved our idea. "Give us the power. We'll show you what we can do." I heard that over and over again. Of course the big argument liberals always advanced against us was that we'll justhave black ghettos again. Well, we wouldn't be a white authority setting up the black ghettos. Black people would be choosing to have territories in that city which were · theirs, where they would run things their way. When it was pointed out that of course there would be white areas which would make it very hard for a black man to enter, they would laugh. Because, . they would say, we don't get onto that turf anyway. · Of course there would be probably a great majority in the. city to sit on the sidelines and say, c"Hey, look, I work hard all day. When I come home at night I don't want to get in\Tolved in local government. Give me an apartment, a nice big anonymous building; let me do what I want my own way." And they would. These crystallizations into. self-elected power would possibly occur very slowly· in the beginning. If the notion worked. It would · grow only if people began to believe that"these societies forced by mean and/or women having one collective notion on which they could agree, or · even just one collective compromise on which they could agree, were working more interestingly than a lot of anonymous societies. · Interviewer: Because they were creating a kindred sense and thereby an enthusiasm? Perhaps the beginnings of a spell? 
1'\failer: Well just suppose for example that you have a community which decided that police were too expensive, and they wanted to have their own voluntary police system. They had nothing terribly valuable to protect in the area. But they wanted security out on the streets. So they had their own volunteer-their own vigilante system, if you will. Suppose what happens is these guys discover they have to put in one night a week working as a cop after work. They go out and they're scared stiff and they work, and they come back, and they're feeling pretty good. Let us say that night their sex with ­their wife is a little better. Because the guy feels a little closer to a western range rider. Now that might begin to illumine a community. Maybe you can measure a good society by the number of sweet fucks that take place on a given night. Science wants to measure society, do it that way. It's as good a measure as money. Of course you could also argue that a lot of these vigilantes might go in for freaky or corrupt activity. At least a professional cop, corrupt as he may be, has his professional standards,no matter how tarnished they have become. And you say what is the answer-'-! say I don't knows the answer. I'm not going to sit here 
. and claim vigilante cops are going to be better than professionalcops. I don't know. It may be that it won't work and people will find they have to hire 
. professionals again. If it does however work, what . · we will have learned _will be incomparable .. And if it doesn't, the police, at least, will be honored with a _bit more value. . 
· · Interviewer: It would also force people a little more · into their own resources. ·... 
; ·Mailer: Of course, that can not only be healthy but killing. People who have been living a lethargic life for too long can be wrecked by becoming too energetic. That's. why apathetic people sometimes cling to apathy \Vith the last passion left in them. They hate the whole idea that you want to make them run in the street. 
MARCH 1, 1974 ·_ 

Sean. Lucy_ 

Incident on a Rail Journey 
He lay in straw and smell Stretched on his side ~ One eye to a crack in the thundering cattle-truck, To see the world again before he died. · 
Around him his companions in the purge · Sighed, cursed, prayed and cried · In desolation; clouds of misery, · 
Crowds of fear with stiff eyes wide. 
But he watched blue plains under a milky moon· Swing far through ripples of posts, · Distant lights gentle as moist stars And lines of leafy trees marching like cloudy ghosts. 
"Content," he thought, "it is as still as love. Pain is a pilgrim. Silence a waiting friend. Content. Even my pity must be quiet I will be quiet now in this until the end." 
And so it was. And in that grace he later died, Comforting many in the slaughterplace. Salute him armies, He. held onto peace. 
Lying in straw, With loving eye, Watching through shaking boards; To see the world again before he came to die. 
. NOTRE DAME REVIEW. 

Liam O'Reilly 
You remember that day then · With the streets full of horsemen Of priests and of friars On the way to my wedding; The fiddle at the table, And the harp's stimulation, And a threesome of fair women To bring my love to his bed. 
;~~ , 
Awidow and a virgin I am left still so young, And go say to my people That my treasure was drowned; Had I been in the boat then And my two hands on the sheet Take my word, Mrs. O'Reilly, I'd have cured all your grief. 
No wonder it's a bitter story · . For your mother and for your father And the nurse of the white breasts Who would tell of your childhood; · Not t6 speak of your own wife Who never made your bed, my own, You went shoreward that same day... 
The eels have your eyes And the crabs have your mouth Your two shining white arms Under sway of the salmon; I'd give five pounds to anyone Who would lighten my sorrow, A sad solitary woman . Poor bright· Nelly Sheridan. 
Translated from the Irish by · Sean O'Riada and Sean Lucy 

..... 

Late. Sleep 
Lying at random on a wide bed, 
In a late morning, 
In a pink room, 
His back is coiled in loops of ease, 
His hands are slack, · 
His feet are sfone. 
All a warm log he lies in folds, 
And still the fallow of his brain 
Lies snoozy in a dozy swoon, .. 
His sleep is sweet with lazy sighs 
His eyes are darkly down as wells, 
His ears are hum with busy far, 
His nose is soft with morning air, 
His feel is peace where the shed swells. 
"' 
Incredibly, deep in his dark 
His action loaded like a gun 
To rouse him where he lies, 
So like a tiger itwill come · 
And raise him in three minutes time 
And with these feet walk on the sun . 
And with these hands pull down the. skies. 
r 
11

MARCH 1, 197 4 

Seeing· Signs 
A modest knocking at first, then a powerful 

rap. He thinks at once: Kittleson. He looks at his 
watch and though the light in the room is bril­
liant, golden, moments pass before he decodes the 
message: six forty-five. 
Again the solid banging at the door and he 

thinks: Kittleson, the fat fairy, is on his way to 
Mass. I'm not up to it-neither he nor Mass. He 
remains quiet, motionless, fearing the creaking of 
bed springs, imagining Kittleson outside the door, 
dressed in jogging clothes, heaving for breath, 
e~itting oily sweat. 
When the knocking ends he turns cautiously 

on his side, falls into heavy sleep. 
When Brother Worden next examines his 

watch the morning is gone and it's afternoon. He 
has missed breakfast and lunch, to say nothing 
of Mass and Miles Letterman's workshop. Dis­
gusted with himself, he sits up quickly, is nearly 
felled by blistering pain at the top of his head. He 
steadies his head in his hands, waits for the pain 
to subside, awed by:the realization that he's suf­
fering an authentic hangover. For the first time 
in a not-young life. _ _ 
Despite the misery and the wasted morning it 

has to be counted a good sign. A sign of progress,: 
of joining the human community. Beginning to. 
But at the moment he can't.think seriously about 
it, truly inspect the sign, for fear his head will 
shatter again. Save it for later on. 
Shaving with deliberate care, holding himself 

stiffly erect, he decides he's fit for one thing only. 
The beach. Lying very still,_ soaking up sun, he 
can get himself back together. The hangover may 
be an encouraging sign but he can't endure long 
in such tender state. . . . --_ 
At the snack bar in the dining hall he downs two cups of black coffee, proceeds to the campus book store, the Book Nook, for a pair of sun­glasses. There's no mirror available so he tries imagining how the glasses· will look on him. He doesn't ·want an enormous pair-:.:....:.a style for the young or those pretending to be; but he doesn't want something that looks skimpy on a large head either. When he catches a view of himself in a plate-glass window of the store he's pleased· enough with what he finally settles on, a wrap­
_around pair with thick plastic rims. 
Ronald Weber 

He checks the campus map to get his bear­ings, sets out for the lake, walking slowly to avoid jarring movements. The day is bright, warm, high sun in a cloudless sky; sprinklers arch through the air, the spray violet through his new glasses; birds sing, nuns pass, lovely smiles for him, even a word now and then; tacked to a tree a cardboard sign: Coffee Hour Every Afternoon-Come Meet Your Fellow Man. But to all, though moved, he gives scant consideration. Not up to it. Can't muster a response, to beauty or anything. Badly in need -of the serenity of the beach,-a broiling sun to wring out the remains of several martinis. He may be on 
· -the right track at Hennipen College but a price is being exacted-a head racked with pain. 
* '* * 

The bath houseis.open, a life guard perched on an elevated chair·at the end of the dock, skin brown as tree bark. Few bathers about. The con­ference members where they should be, attend­ing afternoon lectures_ and discussions, while he's . here preparing to sun himself; Can't be helped. One of the things to do at the beach, if and when his head stabilizes, is reflect on the article require­ment in Miles .-Letterman's workshop. Give thought to something·h~ might do'. 
In the bath house Brother Worden pulls on his trunks, a faded green pair, boxer style, that have seen better days. WherFhe gets the rest of his wardrobe in hand he'll have to get something new. A_little more modern styling. And probably in white. For some reason. 
He spreads a towel on a piece of beach where the sand gives way to '-a tangle of bushes, eases onto his stomach, gently works his toes int!) the sand, adjusts his face to the sun. Drowsiness ­comes on at ·once, bearing him down through 
-waves of dry heat. He thinks briefly of Sister Grace and Father Finewine -. an attractive -couple, if that's what they are-drops off to sleep. 

·* * * 
"Leonard! Hi there!" 

Less than fifty.feet away, maybe a hundred, not far, are Sister. Grace and Sister Dorothea. Brother Worden pushes the sunglasses onto his 
· forehead to make sure. Yes, on the beach. Sun­ning themselves. In bathing suits. Waving at him.· -"Leonard!" Brother Worden rapidly _calc~lates whether 
NOTRE DAME REVIEW 

he should go over to the nuns, extend greetings. Depressing idea. Maybe the hint of a bad sign For their part they don't seem inclined to move as well. The articles and the book are behind him; from comfortable positions. Propped on their el-(Lord, grant that they are!) To show past work bows, sharing a blanket. Smiling, waving, but to Miles Letterman would mean hauling out all· content to stay where they are. his foolish mistakes, his blindness ... hauling it 
"Hello over there!" he calls out, and lowers out for a stranger and revealing himself for what his chin to his folded arms, able from there to he has been, fraud, deceiver, hollowing-sounding see the nuns through a corner of his sunglasses. gong. His germinating hope would never with-They must have come to the beach while he was stand the shock. · dozing. Have they been watching him? Their -Brother Worden rouses himself, makes for the greeting seemed spontaneous, as if they just dis-water. Unflattering trunks or not, bad head or covered'-him. He hopes so. Unsettling to think not, he's getting baked by. the sun. The sand they might have observed him for some time, burns his feet as he hurries across it. He prefers sprawled in the sand, badly hung over. to test the water with -a foot but instead, con-
On the other hand, how about them? He scious of the nuns behind him, marches boldly in, didn't keep track but the nuns drank nearly as dives through the green surface; · · much as he did-and it wasri't likely (is it?) they * * * were more used to it. than he. Brother Worden "How is it, Leoriard?" glances across the· sand for hangover signs, -in-It takes him a moment, standing at the stead is struck by the fine figures of the nuns. How water's edge, to locate the nuns in the carpeting lovely! Sister· Grace wears a two-piece bathing of _sunbathers. The beach is crowded. Radios suit, a bikini nearly; a bit plump-nothing seri-play, the odor of sun-tan lotion laces-the hot air ous, hardly a major defect-yet a striking woman. . .. he marvels at the beauty of it. Bodies open to Thin legs and enormous bosom, as he has ob-the sun, open to each other, free, relaxed. Living. served before, but both accentuated by the bikini. . .. Yes, maybe this is what it's like" Though no grounds for-· thinking so, he decides Sister J?orothea calls again, ."Is it cold?"­Sister ,Grace has recently lost weight, possibly a The nuns, pushed forward. on their elbows, good · deal. To his inexperienced eye she's a shielding their eyes with flattened hands; gazing woman who was once larger. Not so Sister Doro-· expectantly toward him. Lovely sight. thea. Long and thin in a one-piece suit that ap-"Just right! Perfect!" pears a shade old-fashioned; in fact about the __ He should go-up to them, thread his way same vintage as Brother Worden's. Delicate bones, across the sand, talk a bit-after all, they spoke long straight girlish legs, very white skin, sharp-:-to him, spoke first, and given Father Boyle's party featured face turned to the sun, eyes clenched last night they're certainly more than casual ac­shut-an attractive woman too, more so than he quaintances. But his wet trunks sag from his hips, thought lastevening. The opposite of Sister Grace water drains on his feet, and his head hasn't been ... but attractive nonetheless. improved by the swim.-All things considered, he 
He gives up spying on the nuns, tries to_ slip still isn't in proper condition. -. -. . -·· back into drowsiness. But the sun is fiercely hot "Just perfect!" he says again, smiles broadly, on his back and he has the uneasy feeling the heads off to find-his towel. nuns may be watching him, noticing_ his dis-* * * ' , 9rdered state. He considers taking a swim, but The Book Nook is deserted. Everyone at the with his delicate head is he up to the exertion? beach or lectures. A good thing; if others were Regrets· about his bathing -suit too. Loose and around he wouldn't have the nerve to look. floppy about the legs, even worse when wet. He Paperbacks arranged by author. Iri the reli­turns over on the blaf!ket, face to the sun, tries gion section Brother Worden locates the l\lI's and _ to lose himself in thought. What should he 'think proc;eeds slowly;. l_ingering over-a title here and about? The article for Miles Letterman, for one · there, heading cautiously for the W's. He's cer­thing. He doubts there's time to write anything-tain the book wori't be here, silly to even bother. and writeaboutwhat?He hasn't a single thought. Gone the way of missals, holy cards, scapulars-And even if he did, could he afford, the time and swept away_ by the tide of renewal, returned to effort when he has more important things on his publishers, burnt. Goodriddance to bad rubbish . 
. mind? He didn't come to Hennepin College to On. the ·other hand, his. eye hits on titles, not write articles; it's just the otherway-he came to .-exactly avant-garde, that have somehow been get away from the ones already written. But that spared-something about the Catholic · Student gives hi,m an idea..He_ could .. submit to Miles , 11ission Crusade, an·autobiography of Monsignor Letterman one of.his old printed pieces. Brother Thomas Courtney Rourke, a tour guide to Fa­Thorne might serid_ hiin one in time-or he might _--'Hrna. More of this hanging ·around than he knew. see if the Book Nook hasa copy of:his book. : Maybe they don't know what to do with_it, can't 
MARCH 1, 1974. · 
bring themselves to let it go. His mother was 
riever able to get rid of funeral crucifixes that 
accumulated in the family, let them pile up, com­
plicated sliding crucifixes with candles and holy 
water inside, let them pile up until you couldn't 
open an old box without finding one. What will 
happen to them? Will they ever decay, return to 
the blessed anonymous dust? Will his book? · 
By the time he reaches the W's Brother 
Worden is convinced his book· will be there. He 
can feel it, a strong premonition. Yet when he 
finds it-and not one copy but two-he's struck 
with surprise. There it is, familiar glossy cover, 
his book, but .who can believe it would find its 
way here, to a college book store? More surpris­
ing, remain after all this time? Incredible! 
If he has ever been in the presence of a sign, 

this is one. His hands are wet with perspiration, legs rubbery. Does he have the strengt~ to take the book off the shelf, confront the baldmg, self­satisfied figure on the jacket? But what the sign means, means exactly, eludes him. In one sense it suggests, suggests strongly, that he'll never be able to flee his mistaken past, never get the book and all it implies, his whole empty self, never get it completely behind him. Melancholy thought, dark and tempting. Yct it can't compete with a new interpretation, rising abruptly into clarity. Brother Worden thinks: Appearance to the con­trary, I'm no longerthe man pictured on the book jacket. A man can change his life, he can stop living a false life, and I'm doing that now. Begin­ning to. All I have to do is look at the photo­graph, observe the eyes closely, and I'll feel the · measure of the change that is already taking place. That's the meaning of the sign. It's meant to give me courage. Resolutely, Brother Worden 
reaches for the book. 
"Father!" 
His hand recoils, crowds into a pocket with 
his tobacco pouch. The elderly nun with the black 
briefcase, the one from the lake, has materialized 
beside him: She smiles up from below, flashing 
brown eyes set in a dough-colored face; Hoping 

she hasn't noticed the book he's after,. Brother Worden turris so that he's blocking her view of · the W. section-_ a movement he knows is silly as soon as he makes it. The nun doesn't even know his name. She doesn't know anything about him. 
"I'll bet you thought I wouldn't remember 
you. Now didn't you, Father?" Brother Worden 
returns an affable smile but gives the nun no en­
couragement. She's obviously" the kind who'll 
talk your leg off if you give her half a chance. 
"I knew you the minute I saw you. Tall man of 
sturdy bone." · 
"I beg your pardon?" _ 
"That's what I call you in my poem. Tall man 
of sturdy bone." ·· 

Brother Worden doesn't respond but the nun lowers her briefcase to the floor, provides an ex­planation whether he wants it or not. "It was so lovely the way you threw that stone . . . such strength and authority .· .. that I had to write a poem about it. l get,m_ost_of my inspiration while I'm out walking. I sat down on a stump and wrote the poem straight out." 
When Brother Worden still doesn't respond the nun cocks her head fo the. side, looks up at him quizzically. "I hope you don't mind, Father. I didn't mean to invade your privacy." 
"Not at all," he says quickly, feeling he's_ behaving foolishly. He doesn't have to encourage the nun but it can't hurt to humor her. He asks if she's in the poetry workshop. 
She is. All her life she had been a second­grade teacher, but when she retired she decided to take up a hobby and chose poetry. She has come to Hennepin College for six summers in a row to study under Justin John Smith. "Arc you· acquainted with him, Father?" · 
"I'm afraid not," Brother Worden says, and explains that he's new to ·the conference. 
. "Oh, I knew that. I'd have noticed you be­fore." The nun takes a step back, examines him for a· moment with a professional eye, then draws close, confides to him, "If you don't mind my say­ing so, Father, you cut a distinguished figure." 
Brother Worden denies• it but the nun insists. "Vcry distinguished. You have wonderful things ahead of you." 
"If you say so." 
"I do." 

To change the subject ·Brother Worden asks about Justin John Smith. 
"A glorious man. He has written fourteen vol­umes. of poetry." The nun draws even closer, touches Brother Worden's:chest with a pointed corner of her head dress, says in a confessional tone, "I don't mind telling you, Father, he has changed my life. He has brought me to see the world in a new way. When I was younger I would have passed you by at_ the _lake .without a second thought. I just wasn't aware of the _beauty and wonder in the world." -· · 
"Hmmm," Brother Worden muses. "Justin John Smith is helping me put together a book. My first one." 
Brother Worden-studies the nun carefully. At her age making the discovery of the world ..-. a figure of hope if ever he has encountered one. Yet_ strangely he feels ho hope. Maybe it's his book -·· hidden behind. him, his awareness of it. The knowledge of futility. If one confidence deserved another he should take his book from the shelf, say to the nun, Look, J wrote a book once -and it was the biggest mistake of my life. You have nothing to look forward to but regret. 
NOTRE DAME REVIEW 
"Would you like to see it, Father? The poem 

I wrote about you?" He can hardly decline. The nun searches her briefcase, removes a 
looseleaf notebook with the name Hennepin Col­lege embossed in gold lettering. She explains she keeps notes and jottings in the notebook plus drafts of poems done in the field. She finds the page, hands him the book. The poem is carefully Jettered in purple ink. 
Tall man of sturdy bone . Searching the weed-strewn path alone · Finding at last his child's desire: Speckl'd, smooth, well-shaped stone. 
He rises to dignified height Sends the missile on skipping flight Flat across a mirror-blue surface: Bless'd man-child in my sight. 
Brother Worden reads the poem twice, passes 

the notebook back. "You see the idea I'm working with?". "I'm not sure." "Of course it needs more work. It's 'only a 
first draft." 
Brother Worden explains he's a poor judge of poetry. Of most other things too, he could just as welLadd; 
The nun closes the briefcase, fastens the thick straps. She's late for a poetry reading by Justin .John Smith in Gilley Hall of Fine Arts. Would Brother Worden like to join her? 
Again he summons a smile. "I'll pass this 

time." '.'You'd love it, Father;" "I'll keep it in mind." "That's a promise now." 
. * * * It didn't seem very good, the poem, though Justin .John. Smith would know more about that than he. What he wonders .is what it means. Means for him. It isn't every day that someone picks you out as subject for a poem, someone you don't even know and who doesn't know you. (he should have told her at. once he wasn't a priest; now it would only embarrass her) ; it's the sort of thing you have to give serious thought to. You have to inspect it .. ~ for a sign. But not just now. Not in his present condition. Best to leave it alone until he's back to normal. As for his book, best to leave that alone too. He knows where there's a copy if he decides . to show an article fo Miles Letterman. Even if he doesn't he can come to the book'store just to look at the photograph: of the . balding fellow on the jacket ... just to prove to himself he's making progress. If that's what his. 
r . ... ·* ..· * * -~ . 

In his room,· slid under the. door, a letter. He knows the ·handwriting at once as Brother· 
MARCH 1, 197 4 
Thorne's. 
Dear Len, 
Just want to say hello (hello!) and tell you all goes well back at the shop. Election still set for Monday a.m. God, you should see the campaigning! One thing you have to say about our colleagues: their bad taste is con­sistent. 
Brother Harold and Sister Mary Alma­heavy-set one, in. Social Studies-have been named poll watchers. They can be trusted. 
How goes Hennepin? Isn't it everything I said? I erivy you being surrounded with truly creative people. Take advantage! 
Yours in .John Bosco, .J. T. 
P.S.: Brother Maurice hangs on. Strong as a bull. The doctors say he should have been gone two weeks ago. 

Sighing deeply, Brother Worden lowers the window shade, removes clothing . down to · his shorts, eases himself into bed, folds a damp cloth over his eyes. The room is hot but the best place to recuperate; he shouldn't have left it in the first place. Good of Brother Thorne to write; a true friend. But the letter seems as remote as if it came from Mars-sent from another life, at least ·a different one than the one he's trying to live'. Is living. Again he sighs, adjusts himself to the bed. If and when he has to write to Brother Thorne, write him the truth, explain everything, it's going to be the hardest thing he has ever done. 
* '* * "Dinner time, Brother. You in there?". He lifts an edge of the wash cloth, orange­

gold light still burning against the shade, recog­
nizes Kittlesori's voice beyond the door. "Brother?" . . . . Still limp with sleep, he takes cautioiis stock 
of his situation. Head better but skin flushed, in fact fiery, and a hint of nausea on his stomach. New symptoms. Would. the martinis ever drain from his. system? With delicate care -he turns the cloth over, seeks a lingeririg·coolness. 
"Brother Worden?" Silently he compo~es a prayer: In your mercy, Lord, send that man away.· . . ­
Later, the room pitch dark, there's another rap at ~he door, Father Boyle calls in to him, "You there, Leonard?" Brother Worden holds his breat_h and the priest, getting no response, has the good sense to give it up at once. · · 
· This is a segment of a longer work of fiction with the same· title. ' 
, 15 


An Interview 
Notre Dame Review interviewed Bruce Jay Friedman during his appearance at the 1974 Sophomore Literary Festival at Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame Review: With regard to Steambath, where do you place yourself in the tradition of American drama? 
Friedman: I don't know. I don't pay very much atten­tion to traditions.. That was simply the next play I had to write. I don't see a tremendous amount of theater. I . don't feel required to answer that. For example, that's one of those ·questions that's just too . grand to answer.. Can you ask it another way? i. 
NDR: Why Steambath as a play instead of a novel? 
Friedman: Weli; I have to wind the clock ba~k a bit. I'm· essentially a ·prose writer: ·My first love is prose. I got involved in theater quite accidentally. I wrote a play called Scuba Duba. It· took place over one eve­ning. It seemed to have a single dramatic conflict, and it seemed to work out best withdialogue. It took place in one room. All that sounded like a play; So, I just took a nm at it. I wrote it very, very quickly, and it was produced modestly .. My wildest ambition was to have it run for a couple of months. And, i had this shattering experience. I had no idea that it would have that kind of impact;· It had a long run, 'and I began to.think more in terms of theater. I've found that, in working as a playwright, I can hold certain delicate issues at arm's length, whereas working in prose, working in the novel form, there is a require­ment to dig down very much deeper. 
NDR:. You talk about the novel, and there's talk today 
that the novelis dead or dying. As a novelist, how 
do you feel about this? 
Friedman: Well, you have to be some kind ot'weird person t~ closet yourself away for two years or how­ever long it takes to write a book. You have a mini-. mum amount of social contact and you have to live. totally .within the atmosphere of a· serious novel. It puts great pressure on your personal llie. There are just more jobs today that are avail~ble _t~ the· writer; ­
Bruce Jay Friedman. 

more jobs that give you more instant gratification, more instant financial reward. I think that's one of • the problems. But, there are people who believe that the theater is dying until Jason Miller writes That Championship Season; the novel is dying until Mario · · Puzo writes The God/ather. If the· novel is dying, I'm going down with the ship,.because that's.still my first love. I don't think I've-mastered that form at all. I have a novel being published in May, and I'm groping my ,way into another one. I would just like to give one example of the power of the novel, the first one that comes to mind. Recently, I read a book by a_ woman named Ruth Jhabvala, an English woman .who lives in India. It's called Travelers, and it seemed to nie when i finished that novel.that I had the clearest argument as to how a single book can capture the spirit and essence of an entire country and the sen­sibility· of that country.· In other words, that single novel totally outweighs in importance five John Gun­ther guidebooks plus a hundred New Journalism ap­proaches to India. 
-. -4o -_. __ • . 

NDR: So you see the novel as something that can 
put a whole age into a very. few pages? 
' . . 

Friedman: Whenit's right, there's nothing to surpass 
it in my _view. I think there have been occasional . plays that were able to do this throughout.the years; 
but I'm a:snob, and I still feel that when the novelist 
is working in high gear; he's doing a job that no one 
else can do. . -' · · ·
1 

NDR: What .novelists have influenced you•f'. 
Friedman: When I was a young man, I went through school without paying very.much attention to litera­ture. When I was in the Air Force, I ran into a commanding ·officer who touted me on to three books thatturned me around on a dime, and made ·me feel what a wonderful thing it would be to be _a writer. I don't know whether they would affect me if· I read them·today, ·or if I'd careto read them again: One was Catcher in the .Rye.. Another was From Here to Eter­
. nity. Another was a Thomas Wolfe novel. I was 21 and my ambitions at that time· were to be anews-. paper reporter,and I saw these. three monumental· 
NOTRE DAME REVIEW 

efforts, and I was never the same after reading those books. Now, I usually think of influence in terms of taking courage from someone else· rather than being stylistically influenced. I think my influences are more social, geographical, familial, film, early-radio oriented. When a book influences me, it's generally a matter of having seen a writer take a chance and come back alive and welt I take courage from that. 
-. 

NDR: When he was here, Norman Mailer made a statement about how he sees the new age of the novel coming because the governmental structures are ~ear-·· ing down. He feels this is going to make more writers go into themselves and come up with the great Ameri~ _ can novel. Do you see that as a viable idea? · 
Friedman: Well, I don't think American novelists have to be driven into themselves because I believ~ the foremost American novelists begin by· being too inter-­nal, too claustrophobic in their world..Unfortunately, when we get a· social and political cataclysm, a Watergate, it's the third-rate novelist who takes on . that subject. Serious contemporary American writers never seem , to work on that Tolstoian scale. We haven't had any. It would be nice to think that ~e situation in high government would produce a turn­around .. But if we go along the way we've been going, I'd say the_ Watergate novel or the Nixon Adminis­tration novel, whenit's written, wiU be written by the Jacqueline Susanns. It would be nice if Mailer took,that on. , He may be someone with enough size and enough vision. I think the key American novelists, normaJly, in this situation, would tend to work on a small scale, to wait_forthe appropriate Watergate 
metaphor. . ,_ 
NDR: Who do you think are the foremost novelists? 
Friedman: · I pay attention to the same people you pay attention.to. I'm always interested in what Philip 
· -Roth has ,to say, Bernard Malamud, and Nabokov, and I think right now you have a man here whom I, consider a-giant -Isaac Singer, whose worth, un-­fortunately~ I.hope I'm wrong -but it's almost as though he's one of those fellows who has to be gone · before we appreciate his size. He's someone who speaks to me.. . 
I think right now the people I pay most attention ­to, rather peculiarly, are the women; The most in­teresting drift I see in fiction right now is in the female· area. It's not the attacking and abrasive quality I'm talking about, but there are a number of young writers who are potentially important that I've been··sort of paying attention to. They don't have majestic names as of now, but one healthy spin-off of the so-called women's movement· is probably the release of. these ­voices,, so that you're finally getting a look at the real female sensibility. I don't mean the Germaine Greer­Kate Millet axis. I'm.speaking about people like Joy . 
-Willia.ms, particularly. Esquire recently published an· anthology called "Secret Life of Our Times," and it's ­twenty-five short pieces of fiction publishedin recerit , years in Esquire. The most.fascinating pieces to.me were the ones-that were written by the women. 
MARCH 1, 197 4 
NDR: Singer primarily tells a story. But there's a drive now to move away from that type of thing and get into more of an aesthetic mode. 
Friedman: Well, I think Singer combines both. To me, the ideal writer, the quintessential writer, must strike that midpoint between the animal and the intellectual, ­between the story-teller, if you will, and the thinker. Of all the writers I can think of, he gets closest to that center. He jumps in and tells his "simple" story which -turns out to be not that simple. At the same time he has all these currents of myth and legend and intellect bubbling through his work. I can think of some writers who are too intellectual for my taste and some who are too close to the instinctive and the primal. 
The most attractive thing that's ever been said about me was said by Nelson Algren, who said that I'm dangerously effective because I don't know what I'm doing. The truth is that I know more than I let on, and I know less than I'd like to. 
NDR: Earlier you mentioned influences, such as radio and TV and film. -Do you see these in any way as alternatives to writing? 
Friedman: Well, I was rather rigid on this subject,. but television, for· example, ·is something which you absolutely must pay attention to. It's just too all­consuming to close your eye to. Now commercial tele­vision is, no matter what they say about "stepping on ­the gas" and getting into adult themes, still twenty_ years behind the other media. But I think they'll· be brought, kicking and screaming,-abreast with film · and the print media._' And the reason I have to take something like television -seriously -I never have before -is that on a single night, in Los Angeles 
_County alone, at orie showing of Steambath on educa­tional television, more people, that is maybe a · million one hundred thousand people, saw Steambath, which is by far more people than.saw it in its run in the theater. And so the presentation on teleyision pretty. much b·ecomes Steambath, in many ways. Now, of course, that was educational "television, and in normal theater terms this was not an especially shocking play, but it produced almost calamitous results when it was shown on television. It was a writer's dream. You divided the audience in half; you had half of them marching on.the station, wanting to burn it down, and the other half saying it was refreshing, or what-­ever. 
NDR: · How do 'yciu think you're going to get the American. people ·to move into··_bringing forth Steam­bath and other similar things that will make television march forward? 
Friedman: I don't feel any sense of responsibility to do that. .Tiie only responsibility I feel is to work honestly and well and continue working. I don't know how that's going to be. done. -In my own case I've · made a couple of passes at commercial television, be­cause I've been• encouraged to do so, and I've been paid for my efforts, and tharwas the last that was ever heard of the work. I have faith that when you do good work, and important work, work that rings a bell, strikes a chord, that it will win. out somehow. For example, I've had two full-length plays that were actually produced. One was Scuba Duba, which had a long, h_ealthy, prosperous run, and disappeared. Steambath had a much bumpier time in New York, and we kind of limped along for a while. _The audiences 

-down there seemed to like it very much, but it was a struggle. And yet that play, which seems to have something in it that strikes that chord that I'm talking about, just keeps.bobbing to the surface, and won't go away. And that play, with a much more modest run, is_ performed all over the place, because there's some­thing in there, for all of its imperfections, that• speaks to people, whereas the other play had that effect temporarily, but addressed itself to a particular time, and the issues in it no longer seem to be germane. 
NDR: Well, what do you think is-that central core,_ as the father of that play? 
Friedman: I think it's a play that struggles with the central question of existence. John F. Kennedy made a speech to the Military Academy before he died, and he said, "Life is unfair." And that's what this play addresses itself to .. You have a situation in Ameri­can cities, America generally, where violence is usually senseless, nameless, committed without cause. It's impossible to understand. A character in the play says to God: "Well, you know I've turned my life inside_ out. I've done this wonderful job on myself, and here I am, dead. It's wrong, it's unfair." And the entire play is a struggle to come to grips with that. It has_ a comedic overlay, but to me it's a very serious play. It tends to have ferocious impact on people who've had some unexplainable loss, who absolutely _ can't deal with it. This is my attempt to wrestle with that question. 
NDR: My response was that it moved something between man and God which can't be lost, and which is hard to do for a human -to give a human being something to plug into, for meditation, some way of explaining. That's what the play did to me. It made me laugh, too, which is good, and I guess that is the effect you were shooting at. 
Friedman: I never feel particularly funny. I never think of myself necessarily as a comic writer. It's just that my way of looking at the _world strikes people as funny, makes them laugh, But, if that were the be-all and end-all of the work, I wouldn't feel as if I were doing my job. ·I'm usually after some game or other. 
NDR: !'felt sort of strange reading all the press that preceded you here which referred to you as a "black comic." I couldn't figure out what.that might b_e. Black humor is·_ something that means practically nothing. 
Friedman: Well, it was a tag, that's.all. I don't know whether it was a mistake or what. I guess _I don't · . 
18 
really regret it. It came-about this way. I became editor of an anthology !Ilany years back called Black Humor. It. wasn't my idea. It was an excuse, an opportunity, really, · to ·read some writers I hadn't read. -I did find some echo going from one to the other of a certain rage against social imbalance, which was treated in a somew,hai harsh. comedic way. That part of it, I think, still holds. I wo_rk tliat way sometimes. In other words, sometimes I take a cold-blooded look at some ridiculous aspect of society, and use a short story form, or short play form, to take it to its ultimate lengths, and show its ridiculousness. ·1 still do _that. But the main thread .of my work is, I think, or I would like to think, in the formal tradition, Uwould seem to me, of telling a story, using my particular view, my own voice, in the traditional framework. 
NDR: To change the subject, there has been an un­usual strain on this Festival week,. with the happenings in the USSR. As a writer, how do you feel about the way Solzhenitsyn has been treated? How do you compare your situation in this country to his there? 
Friedman: I read the press accounts -here are people using words like "deplorable." It makes me aware of the inadequacies of language. It's almost as if you said, "What do you think of the elimination ·of six million Jews in World War II?" and I answered, "I think it was deplorable." It seems to me that lan­guage becomes obscene in that case, and it makes us regret all the times we've said "great" and "terrific" and used language casually.. To me, we have no_ lan­guage to dear with the incomprehensible idea of a man being unable to do his work. It would be like stopping his breathing' apparatus. It's totally unthink­able. So that's how I feel on the one hand, and I'd feel idiotic if I were to say I find it very "unattractive." That's the same as saying when it rains, everybody gets,~et. On the other hand, I don't feel smug, and I don't think any of us here should feel smug about it, because there are other ~ays to stifle, to .imprison. We shouldn't say "naughty, naughty" to the Soviet Union, where we have a situation in which we now know an administration takes writers with unfriendly views and looks at their tax returns with an eye towards crippling them economically. That's another form of imprisonment. We don't know at this moment what the real story is on Abbie Hoffman, for example, awaiting trial on drugs._If it were to come _out at the trial that he was set up ... That wouldJ~ave,been a paranoid thought in the Sixties, but we now have the record before us; It's almost logical to assume on the basis of· daily evidence -in the press that he's been set up by the narcotics people. _That represents another form of imprisonment. I'm not feeling very -smug, at-the moment. I don't feel like saying "Russia's bad 
· -we're good.llWe're not so.terrific eithero:.One other­thing I'd like to say, one thrilling thing is the idea : that a writer can more or less bri.ng a country to its 
·• knees. There would be no equivalent in this country. -· If. someone calls Nixon and Ford homosexual lovers, he is. patted on the head, and. given an assistant professorship. at some university. What it _shows in a · curious way is that they have more respect for writers 
NOTRE· DAME REVIEW 


in the Soviet Union than we do here. Here we have a tendency to co-opt writers, to pull out their teeth by somehow. absorbing them. Tom Hayden's not a writer, but you find him now lecturing politely before senatorial committees. We do that to radical politicians and we do that to writers. That's one reason why I myself would be leery of involving myself with foun­dation grants or whatever. In my own way, I try to be as• independent as possible, which is not so possible. 
NDR: Well, this is a question getting back to courage and Solzhenitsyn, regarding his image of courage rather than of America's deplorableness. The way I see it, and I'd like to have your response, the response of America is deplorable insofar as it takes some­thing like that to make a country like America free to see the work ofa writer capable of bringing a country to its kriees. It's almost absurd to think that could hap­pen here. Do you win a sense of courage from Solzheni­tsyn's plight? What can Solzhenitsyn niean to a writer? If tomorrow you find yourself in that situation, would you have the courage to write, to say your truth? 
· Friedman: I'd like to feel I could. But you never know what. you're going to do until you're tested. 
I like to think that it will be unthinkable, incomprehen­sible, to have to live within certain restrictions. In professional writing you do have certain restrictions that you have to pay attention to in order to survive. You have to pay some attention, whether you like it or not, to the nature of the various publications, et cetera, et cetera. You do have an editorial check. There are the requirements of certain magazines that you have to keep an eye on in order to function. But, in the fictional world, the purely creative world, once again it's very easy to sit here at the Morris Inn and be brave. No one knows what he'd do under the gun, when the ante goes up, and the personal stakes become excruciating. You'd like to think that you simply couldn't look at yourself in the mirror if you changed as much as a semicolon in deference to some outside authority in a purely creative work. I know 
that in the few instances I can think of where I've altered my work, and once again I put fiction and a purely creative work in a somewhat different category, but in those few instances where I've literally altered a single word to placate some standard which I con­sidered outlandish, I've paid a heavy, heavy price, 
and I·lost something as a result -lost sleep, self­respect -and became less of a man in those few instances. · 
Solzhenitsyn: His Book and His Readers 
"The idea ofmaking the century's gr_eat crime[s] look dull is not banal. Politically, psychologically, [it was] an idea of genius.. The banality .was only camouflage. ·What better way to get ·the• curse out of murder. than to make it look ordinary, boring, or trite? With horrible political insight they found a way to disguise the thing. lntellectuaT,s do not understand . ... Banality is the adopted disguise of a very powerful will to. abolish conscience. In such a project. trivial? ·. Only if human life is trivial." :-Mr. Sammler, replying to the glib use of Hannah Arendt's phrase, "the banality of evil,"-inBellow's 
Mr. Sainmler's Planet. · · · ~­
"Few people, having read The Gulag Archipelago, will be the same as whfJn they began the first page.In this respect, it seems to me that nothing. in Russian and world .literature can compare with Solzhenitsyn's book.~'-R01.J Medvedev 
Thom_e1s Werge 

. The sales. staff of Harper and Row, we learn 
from Time, is busy "drumming up" advance orders 
for the first . volume of the English translation· of 
Alexander Solzhenitsyn's The Gulag Archipelago. 
To be sure, Solzhenitsyn wishes his revelations to 
affect as rriany ·readers · as possible. But Time's 
phrase locates the reality: books are commodities, 
readers are consumers. The pitches are endless: in­
stant liberation; instant mental health; instant sex.:. 
ual·ecstasy; instant demonism, exorcism, salvation. 
They are hawked like pennants at a ball game. 
The suffering and the soul of Gulag may meet the same end. Medvedev's claim will not be won­dered at as profound and astonishing; it will be a useful blurb. It is ·not exaggerating to suppose that the ad man's dream would be to "book" Solzen­itsyn, who is now a "personality," even a "hot _property," on the talk shows. He might be sand­wiched between Venerable Comedian and Newest 
19

MARCH 1,.1974 .. 
Starlet. "Heeere's Alex ..." 
What makes the scenario grotesque is that Solzhenitsyn has been willing to suffer and even to die for the words we cheapen. He has said that the Soviet destruction of the manuscripts he left be­hind . would be '!spiritual murder." He has "de­clared" the present regime in Russia to be illegiti­mate and a mockery. Our talk shows -hideous phrase, when one thinks on it -babble forever; ads shriek; print is everywhere, the banal rhetoric of this week's performer inescapable: Riggs, Ali, Ervin, Simon, Baker, Buzhardt, Steinem, Whoever. " 'Personalities,' " wrote T. S. Eliot, "succeed one another in interest. It-is difficult to conceive of any age (of many ages) when human beings cared. ~ . about the salvation of the 'soul,' but not about each other as 'personalities.'" The media as barkers, reality as medicine show. · · .· 
Solzhenitsyn's words, like Dostoyevsky's, ·are written to "save" others, and, . again like Dostoy­evsky's words, they almost killed their author. Dos­toyevsky was to be shot for three crimes: knowing of plans to set up a printing press; conversing se­cretly about the censorship; and reading a letter de­clared to be treasonous. Solzhenitsyn spent eleven years in prison camps for a single phrase. In a 

· letter, he called Stalin "the man with·. the · mous­tache." Eleven years for a sardonic phrase. At least one of Solzhenitsyn's friends · committed suicide when discovered by the KGB as she was reading the manuscript of Gulag. Several others may have been executed or· incarcerated in insane asylums for the same crime. His words were born in pain and redeemed in suffering. They have meaning and value. When Solzhenitsyn says in his Nobel 
· speech that "one word of truth shall outweigh the whole world,'' he means it. To us, it may seem abstract; to him it is, as we sometimes say, a mat­ter of life and death. 
The power of the word remains for Solzhenitsyn as awesome as it was ·ror the prophets. Whether we hear his voice is another question. We are in a hurry, and the din and speed .of our time are tre­mendous. 'The characteristic discovery of the age," writes Kierkegaard, ''is felt everywhere: the speed of the printing press; it is even noticeable in the . ·.. .· form · of reflection into · which this. age has fallen, as a result of which its expressions are ai-. ways being limited and in the end ipean nothing." Solzhenitsyn's image of his oppressors, "standing 

· on their lies behind a fortress of newsprint,'' poses the problem. Newsprint· ~s propaganda, _person­alities· as momentary. soporifics . deceive· and are gone. How then locate the fruth in the midst of the lies? How forget, and discard the ·person~ alities even while seeing, ·remembering, and keep­ing the soul? 
Solzhenitsyn -would have his readers begin by 

presupposing the. existence· of the truth and the 
soul. Orwell once remarked that the twentieth·cen­
tury frightened him not so much because it found 
it difficult to write the truth about history, but be­
cause it assumed that there were no such things as 
truth and history. Solzhenitsyn's vision, like Dos­
toyevsky's, is rooted in the soul and in the soul's 
struggle to see the truth of its. world. Virginia 
Woolf rightly says that the soul is the main char­
acter in Russian literature, and that this precise 
fact often makes Russian literature alien to us. The 
soul is not a statistic. It cannot' be bought, sold, 
peddled. Its utterances are . speech rather than 
prattle, religious and not slick. Its suffering does 
not respond to glib cures. But Solzhenitsyn's knowl­
edge of its 'reality anchors his insistence ·that his­
tory, or the story of literal souls in a literal past, is 
as real as the . souls who comprise it. Truth is • 
equally real. Dictators may dismiss them as fic­
tions and commit the greatest obscenities on the 
grounds that they are fictions, but, as Solzhenitsyn ·has shown, their substance and reality will not be denied. . 
In these days, the corruption of language and 

meaning.,;, and the corruption of man are synony~ 
mous. Our · malaise . runs far deeper 1.hari such 
symptoms as the infamous "inoperative." But see-· 
ing Solzhenitsyn's work as the result of his act of 
faith may allow us torecover some sense of what 
"the word" once meant and what it still may mean, 
for him and for us: His book would become a rev­
elation rather than an ·item. It would be a real 
truth uttered by an equally real voice and soul.· 
. The presence~ of Solzhenitsyn seenisto be a re­. alization of the first and· hopeful part of Kierke­gaard's earlier statement on the disjointed speed of our age and the dominance of print rather· than 
"word": "We shall hope for the appearance of . strongiy armed men ·who·. will win. back· the lost. power and meaning of words, just as Luther ·won back the concept of faith.for his age.'' His analogy is significant. Thea.ct ofwriting or speaking neces­sitates a faith that one'swords possess some degree of significance; tci lose an faith in'language is not a semantic but a religious crisis. Conversely, Sol­zhenitsyn sees the act of writing as a religious·act, an act of faith. He is "strongly armed.'' 
. In 'the nineteenth century, the. Russian and 

American souls were close. They still have strong 
·and. profound ·affinities, including ·their mystical 
and ambivalent· sense' of their . nation, and their ­
deepest consciousness of man as · a religious and 
suffering creature. whose salvation. or destruction 
'·' ' . ' 
NOTRE.DAME REVIEW. 

is bound up with t_he spirit and not with the polit­ical state. It would be altogether appropriate, if miraculous, if America were to read Solzhenitsyn with the insight, recognition, and ultimate concern his book demands. 
There is no denying the difficulty of individual Americans committing-themselves to such an act of faith. "Our America," writes Emerson, "has a bad name for superficialness. Great men, great na­tions/have not been boasters and buffoons, but per­ceivers of the terror of life, and have manned themselves to face it." Solzhenitsyn ends The First Circle with a fatuous observation by a West­erner in -Russia. He sees a meat truck and notes that provisions in Moscow must be excellent. The "meat truck" in fact is loaded with people who are destined, like cattle, for the slaughter or for a slow madness in one of Stalin's prison camps in the vast 
_ "archipelago" of Stalinist terror and death. 
r. Yet Dostoyevsky and Solzhenitsyn indict their own land in the same way Emerson indicts Amer­
l ica. The enemy consists ofthose who will not see the clear and hidden terrors of life as well as those whose tyrannies are satanic. In the framework of seeing and blindness, we ought to anticipate the English publication of The Gulag Archipelago not as /a financial coup for. a:n American P,Ublishing house or as a literary "occasion," narrowly_ de­fined, but as a kind of religious event; It is a large but just claim. It would also. be a large but just claim to suggest that our right reading of Solzhen­itsyn would join us to him in a dialectic of recogni­tion: In recognizing and thereby overcoming the corruptions of relative political languages, · we would be affirming once again an absolute and uni­versal moral language. 
Our physical risk, of course, will be less than Solzhenitsyn's has been and continues· to be, and less than that of his sympathetic readers in Russia, for whom the act of reading is a crime against the state. But if his own faith is to be even_ parUally vindicated on earth, it will be no less important. Solzhenitsyn in a real sense has resurrected in his words all -of those Stalin had killed and-buried. He has said that he has fulfilled his obligation to the dead. Yet for the living to fail to hear Solzhen­
-itsyn, and, through him, the dead, would be a great­er betrayal and torture than any the Soviet state could inflicton him. The state, at least, -knows and fears the _potential power of Solzhenitsyn's word and book. .It has been as vicious in attacking Solzhenitsyn as our government, and all govern-_ ments, who do not risk their interests to speak for individuals, has been· mute in defending_ and prais­ing him. In seeking to crush or to discredit his 
_book -and him -the state acknowledges t~at 
r 

MARCH_ 1, 1974 
power. It views and fears its publication not as a literary game .but as an apocalyptic event The Soviet state takes words seriously as vehicles of propaganda whose only meanings are those as­-signed them by the Party. It takes words even 
more seriously when they are written and spoken 
by one who believes that writing is an act·of re­
ligious rather than socialist faith, that words are 
moral, and that they are given their deepest sig.; 
nificance when they are made to serve the truth. 
The Soviet government, however, has no pre­

mium on the use of language to obscure and to de­
ceive. In the same way, neither the terrifying nor 
the redemptive quality of Solzhenitsyn's "one word 
of truth" may be restricted to a narrowly polemical 
or political interpretation.· This does not excuse or 
minimize the monstrous sins of Stalinism. It was 
to reveal those sins that Solzhenitsyn wrote Gulag. 
Yet the ultimate revelation goes deeper still. 

The oppressions and terrors ofmoral blindness and 
deliberate evil are inner and universal. .They are 
embodied in certain political regimes as assump­
tions and as conscious policies. In Stalinist Russia, 
those policies of terror and evil brought about 
suffering and death on an unimaginable scale. 
Solzhenitsyn asserts that the evils of Czarist Rus­
sia did not begin to compare to Stalin's systematic ·murders, acts of terror, and devastating programs whose victims were selected by Stalin's caprice alone. 
If Solzhenitsyn's vision of hell begins and ends 

with a particular political state, however, his vision 
is not itself limited to political forms. Solzhenit­
syn's great and continuing theme is the struggle 
between demonic evil -and goodness, falsehood and 
truth, in the human heart and in the manifesta­
tions of the human heart in history. The 11god and 
devil'' within man's nature struggle for dominance. 
The political structures man creates reflect -the 
dominance of one or the other of those forces, or, 
indeed, reflect a precarious balancing of the two. 
The structures themselves may and do intensify 
man's inclination to good or evil. But they do not 
impose or create his polarities, his capacity. for 
goodness and malevolence, and his inner conflicts. 
These forces are in Solzhenitsyn, as they are in 
Dostoyevsky, the elements of the soul, the battle­
ground,. where good_ and evH wage their war for 
supremacy. . . · 
.. Solzhenitsyn's theme pervades our own 'tradi­
tion. His preoccupation with the soul echoes our 
literary and religious history and his teacher, Dos­
toyevsky. · To hear Solzhenitsyn's voice and to see 
his vision may be to recover our· own memory as 
well as the Russian past. To hear it will be to re­
discover --or to discover -our own souls. _ 
TO HARRY LEWIS WHO SAID, "Art cannot ask for indulgence. It must in fact be an attack on that very thing." 

begging the indulgence of Ted Enslin who invented this form 
Have you, by the way, .. looked up the meaning of that word, Harry7 
"indulgence"? 

. something which is g~anted out of generosity or compassion a pardon leeway or tolerance 
And what can art ask for? 
(As much as th~ artist needs?J Yes, you are right. I am twisting your words. Deliberately. For you have deliberately misrepresented mine. Chosen to ignore what is really there, if words are facts and ideas are landscapes. You have chosen an easy, · 






Diane Wakoski
shall we say -, 
"indulgent" way of looking at me. 
But would it be fair to deny you? No, of course. And I am indulgent. · You have said so yourself. Not examining, perhaps, as most poets would the roots of your words, their literal meanings;· Adopting a pose as serious researcher looking for 
OBJECTIVE TRUTH. Well, sorry old man, . poetry doesn't have any to offer. But I will indulge in the.most decent way I can ... Responding to your accusations . which are either too sweet or too sour, like home-made wine. 
Where I live right now, 
one only mentions the weather when it isn't mining. 
And you always smile and say hello to someone you've met, 
even when he is your neighbor · · 
arid you kno_w he beats his wife, 
or is a thief. 
22 
NOTRE DAME REVIEW 

• 
John Cheever: The Swimming of America 
"... the story of Rip Van Winkle has never been finished, and still awaits a final imagi­native re-creation."-Constance Rourke 
"Indeed, the ·central fact about America in 1970 is the discrepancy between the realities of our society and our beliefs about them. The gap is even greater in terms of our fail­ure to understand the possibilities and poten­tial pf American life."-Charles A. Reich 
I 

More than a century after Washington Irving described the Catskills as "fairy mountains" with "magical hues" produced by seasonal and diurnal atmospheric changes, John Cheever has taken that enchanted vicinity as the locale for some of his best fiction. In this continuation of Hudson River · mythology, Cheever's territory, like Irving's, is somewhere between fact and fantasy, the mundane and the marvelous, "modern" life and ancient leg­end. And while both writers mix comedy and sad­ness, Irving's vision gravitates towards the first pole, Cheever's towards the second. They are both in the company of· American writers who find "reality" at the crossroads of actuality and myth. In . addition, Cheever's magical transformations have cultural roots in Ovid and Cotton Mather as well as in American Romanticism. Like Irving­Hawthorne, Mark Twain, Faulkner-Cheever has taken a region and a time and, without diminishing their importance, has made them stand for the larger meanings of American reality. His basic exploration has been into the depths of the Amer­ican experience; he can see the meaning of the country in the way ordinary people live their daily lives. 
In a career spanning more than four decades, Cheever -has published over one . hundred short stories (most of them in TheNewYorker),sixstory collections, and three novels. A conscious craftsman and a brilliant stylist, he has encountered ·substan­tial success but only spare attention by academic critics. ''The Swimmer," a fifteen-page tale which will be the focus of the present study, is, according 
· to its author, the product of two months' work and 
150 pages of notes. He is, I think, probably the 
· • most u~derestimated ~ and sometimes .misunder­stood -of contemporary fictionists. Cheever's mastery of art and theme places his best work in···· 
MARCH J,, 1974 ·. · 
Robert Slabey 

touch with basic forms of existence as well as in the center of our culture. He charts-the peregrina­tions of American life -from town to city to the suburbs to Europe to "America." His special theatre, . however, is suburbia where the meta­morphosis is not of Irving's sleepy Dutch into busy Americans but of workaday city businessmen into weekend "country gentlemen." 
On one level, Cheever's fictions are comedies of manners recording the objects and occasions of suburban life: supermarkets, swimming pools, com­muter trains, thruways, cocktail parties. Beha­vioral nuances function as in manners fiction; for example, a "loss of social esteem" can be discerned when a hired bartender gives rude service at a party. In spite of satiric possibilities too nu­merous to be resisted, Cheever's primary impulse is not to ridicule the silly surfaces. He suggests and sometimes depicts loneliness and despair as well as mysterious and sinister realities. Suburbia is built over the abyss from which the powers of darkness occasionally emerge. Recall the strange accident in Bullet Park-when a commuter waiting on a station platform is sucked under the wheels of the Chicago express; Cheever's reality here and elsewhere is closer to Kafka than O'Hara. He exposes -the nightmare behind Norman Rockwell's Saturday Evening Post "America." Though Cheever's alle­giance is to the tradition of Romance, -his vision (though not his style) resembles William Dean Howells' depiction. of the troubled day-to-day ex­istence of the middle class: those who live on the thin surface hiding terror and violence and pain in their endlessly renewed attempts to plug along with honor in a chaotic world. Cheever depicts the "more smiling aspects of life," which· (according to Howells) were the more American -and some­times the more terrifying. 
Cheever's people are ordinary, weak, foolish, shallow;. for the most part lonely, sad, disap­pointed, . inarticulate, they muddle through after barely avoiding disaster.. But since they_ have a capacity for love and goodness, to their creator their lives are, finally, worth saving. In Cheever's · view Good and Evil are both powerful forces. Life, he writes, is "a perilous moral journey." The freaks along the way are those . who have fallen from grace. William ·Peden : calls Cheever. "a wry ob­server of manners and mores [who] is more sad­dened than amused by the foibles he depicts with understanding and grace."-Cheever attempts to define "the quality of American life" or •~How We the unconscious, and the imagination. Both men Live Now." His stories, according-to Alfred Kazin, meet regional "natives" there whose "hospitable are "a demonstration of the amazing sadness, futil­customs and traditions ... have to be handled with ity, and evanescence of life among the settled, _diplomacy."," Rip's overnight sleep covers twenty moneyed, seemingly altogether domesticated years, Ned's. ,·long · day's journey compresses people in [Suburbia]." Cheever's people, latter­several years. The _· Big Sleep becomes the Big day neighbors of Irving's and Wharton's, in class Hangover, each signifying the central hollowness and consciousness closer to Howells' and Lewis' of each man's middle years,· the American empti­are revealed in the mode of Hawthorne with the ness between the Pepsi generation and the Geritol 

set. -. ·insight of Fitzgerald. · 
-

rr Rip's encounter and sleep and Neddy's suburban 
One of Cheever's most famous, most striking, swim are mythic experiences that have indexes in and most original stories "The Swimmer" ·eluci-both psychology and reality. On one level, Rip's dates his characteristic artistry as well as his ver-afternoon in the mountains and Ne¢Idy's swimsaga sion of American existence. The basic situation is epitomize their lives, each experience significantly well known: Neddy Merrill's decision to swim initiated with drinking. For Cheever every subur­eight miles home via a series of pools. But by the ban Sunday is the same, duplicating the sameness time he is finished, years have passed and his house of every business day in the city. _While Rip has is empty. Neddy's arrival home is an example of an aversion to all profitable work, Ned represses all Cheever's suburbanite, . here falling through ·the unpleasant facts from his consciousness. Both time-surface into the abyss over which his life has been travellers escape because of similar psychological precariously structured, while others undergo inabilities to face adult responsibilities and to com-magical transformations. Neddy makes the once-mit themselves to dull actuality. They want to in-a-lifetime discovery that he has won the race leave behind everyday existence, domestic troubles, but lost )1is "life." He is the seemingly self-confi-loneliness, advancing age./ Like generations of dent conformist whose life-style is identified with Americans they have taken to the woods -'-to his environment; he is a thorough creature of his hunt, to fish, to camp out, to contemplate the culture. Neddy -is, moreover, athletic, with "the wild.erness, and/or to' find the "real America." especial slenderness of youth.... He might have Neddy's swim is obviously just a more domesticated been compared to a summer day, particularly the form of woodcraft. He leaves ).'echnopolis for Ar-: last hours of one, . and while he lacked a tennis cadia, history for pastoral; but now the machine racket or a sail bag the impression was definitely -has been set up in the garden (in the form· of the one of youth, sport, and clement weather." pool filter). · · · · The · purpose of his swim is to enhance the Irving's storied Hudson is replaced by the fan-beauty of the summer day, but his experience turns. tasied Lucinda; a "river'' ·of swimming. pools. Both out to be closer to Houseman's Athlete Dying "Rip.Van Winkle" and -"The Swimmer" contain Young_ than to Shakespeare's young man. His mythic thunderstorms and cyclic seasonal imag­newly _discovered route home will be named the ery. For Ned the starting point in· a fine midsum-Lucinda .River (to honor his wife), but it is ac-mer day at the Westerhazys'. Cheever, like Irving,. tually to be a celebration of his own fading youth· manages subtle and skillful shifts from actualtime and an expansion of. diminished possibilities. · . and -place to the world of Nature, myth and the 
The narrative begins on "one of those .mid-imagination, tiine measured by sun and season in-summer Sundays when ·everyone sits around say-stead of clocks and commuter trains.. But the key ing: 'I drank too much last night.' " And like "Rip to meaning in Nature's rhythms and rituals' is Van Winkle" there is a description of "magical lost to Ned as it had oeen to Rip. At the first pool hues": "It was a fine day. In the West there was a where the apple trees are in bloom, Ned has al­massive stand of cumulus cloud so like a city seen ready gorie back even further than spring -to from a distance-from the bow of an approaching Eden, which had beep a "world of apples." From ship -that it might have a name. Lisbon. Hack-· here he progresses· to the Bunkers' party where ,_ ensack." Cheever's .· protagonist, along . with . he is welcomed, to the Levys' where the party. is Rip,• is an avatar of the amiable good fellow, the over and the maple leaves are red and yellow, to· shallow American who drinks too much and "lives" the Lindleys' riding ring ·overgrown·. with grass. too little. Neddy Merrill is not the· lazy dropout,· Then. the · Welchers' pool is dry, .the bathhouse but he is an escapist and a dreamer (and part-time locked, and the house:· "for sale," prefiguring, the "pool bum".). Ned has material abundance, butthat,· end of his journey. Ned's most difficult portage is he finds, is not enough; he shares with many of. the highway where the motorists harass and Cheever's protagonists a vague · discontent. His · ridicule him, but by then he has reached the point · ·­escape froni' cares and responsibilities and from_ of no return. His desire for a drink is mocked when time is similar to Rip's, the cocktail party Ned's he. is assailed by an empty ·beer can.. To mobile equivalent -for Rip's pub. Rip's dream of a per-Americans (as H. L. Mencken prophesied) Nature petual men's club has its correspondence in Ned's has become a place to toss beer 'cans on Sunday-.· dream of, a permanent poolside party. Both go ·on_ afternoons. But all those cars on the Turnpike are to have ·extraordinary experiences · in the "en.:.. · . -if we believe Paul Simon -looking "for Amer-chanted mountains," in adream-world of the past, ica." · · · · 
24 
NOTRE DAME REVIEW 

At the crowded, regimented Recreation Center the pool reeks of chlorine (in contrast with the pure waters of private pools) and Ned is subjected to the lifeguard's rebukes. America's natural re­sources have become crowded, polluted, and "col­lectivized,". troutstreams cut up and sold by the yard (as at Brautigan's Cleveland Wrecking Com­pany). Next, at the Hallorans', the beech hedge is yellow; Ned is cold, tired, depressed,. and his trunks feel loose. It is definitely autumn with falling leaves and woodsmoke; . At the Sachs' he barely finishes his swim and, desperately needing a drink, he heads for the Binswangers.' The Merrills had al­ways refused their invitations, but now Ned finds that he is the one. to be snubbed at the party. In addition, the dark water of the pool has a "wintry gleam." Then after his former mistress refuses his request for· a drink, he is exhausted and for the first time he has to use the ladder getting out of a pool. The flowers and constellations are unmis­takably those of autumn. He . is unable · to dive into the last pools. Miserable, cold, exhausted; bewildered, he weeps. He has been "immersed too long." The temporal drift is ever downward, with summer, the time of physicality and material pros­perity, giving way to. the season of decline and de­cay. During his odyssey Ned loses a sense of time just as ('his gift for concealing painful facts let him forget that he had sold his house, that his children were in trouble, and that his friend [Eric Sachs] had been ill.'' His affair with Shirley Adams had been terminated "last week, last month, last year. He couldn't remember." 
During Neddy's swim, he loses everything ­wife, children, home, friends, mistress, job, invest­ments, youth, hopes, dreams, self. At the end he "had done what he wanted, he had swum the coun­try,"· but his house is dark, locked, and empty, recalling Rip who discovered his house abandoned and in decay and found himself alone in the world, puzzled by "such enormous lapses of time." The Lucinda River, like the Hudson, represents time and change; the waterway of "light" and new be-· ginnings becomes the river of darkness and de­spair. Cheever has carried the identityless, which Irving ultimately averted, to its finale. The con­stituents of actuality have slipped away. All that he thought he had is lost; all relationships have come to naught.. · He is left with emptiness. "Every­thing" was never enough: now it is nothing. While Irving's tale ranks not only as a classic· but as a national ·resource for cultural · reference, "The Swimmer'.' is no less rich and includes areas beyond Irving's attention. 
· Neddy is the depthless dreamer and organiza­tion· man, but he also acts out the frontier myth of exploration, -independence, ·individualism, ·endur­ance, and self-reliance.· He even sees himself "as· a_: legendary· figure." "Making his way home by an uncommon route gave him the feeling. that he was a pilgrim, an ·explorer, a man with a des­tiny." Another Columbus, he has only -imagi­nary charts to follow. A pioneer, he confronts the challenge of nature. alone. And as a pilgrim, his 
MARCH 1, 1974 
journey recalls Bunyan's archetype ubiquitous in 
American literature. Neddy, however, faces not 
the primitive forces of the wilderness but pools, 
gardens, and highways. His pool expedition is a 
Madison Avenue packaging of Emerson's call to 
"enjoy an original relation to the universe," his 
naturism just as ersatz as the nudist Hallorans 
reading the Times. By the 1960's the Frontier is 
something not lived but read about, . a vision en­
riched by memory. Ned's desire is to go back in 
time and space, to move outward and inward, while 
an onerous world moves forivard and downward. 
Cheever omits the final movement of the arche­type (Rip's reconciliation with the new life of the town), but he plays out the full, darker implica­tions. The everyday world, re-established at the conclusion of "Rip Van Winkle," is irretrievably lost at the end of "The Swimmer." Irving created a legendary past (based on European myths) to enrich the texture of a raw, new present. Cheever imagined a mythic alternate to explode an unreal present. Irving's dream-world is, finally, not be­lieved in, while for Cheever myth, dream, and the unconscious are more "real" than objective exist­ence. After 140 years, Cheever has replaced his­tory, Irving's primary allegiance, with mystery. According to Richard Poirier the most interesting American writings are an image of the creation of America itself: "They are bathed in the myths of American history; they carry the metaphoric bur­den of a great dream of freedom -of the expan­sion of national consciousness into the vast spaces of a continent and the absorption of those spaces into ourselves." By taking his protagonist outside of society and by moving his fiction into myth, Cheever has secured a place in the major tradition of American literature with its minority, counter­culture vision of society. Through action, image, and allusion he creates a literary, mythic, and cul­tural context. The Hudson, Concord, .Mississippi, Thames, Nile, and Ganges mingle in· the creative consciousness. 
III 

.In his fiction Cheever presents the symptoms of 
contemporary anxiety·and ennui·· but only implies 
the causes. His men suffer from that American 
inability to make sense out of life that derives from_ 
a failure to recognize the unreality of their lives. 
They are, however, evidently tired of an existence · 
that does not fulfill, of living without imagination. 
They have been working and residing and playing · 
in artificiality, regimentation, in a plastic "unre­ality.'' All of their life-pursuits -·success, status, sex-ignore' reality and are in fact fantasies._Free.;. dom, ··happiness, achievement are ·illusions. Sub­stance is frittered away through· absorption in de­tail; The suburbanite, above all, dwells in cultural deprivation, ·-in a synthetic environment, with "neither the beauty and serenity of the country­side, the stimulation of the city, nor the stability and sense of community of the small town." Ned has the civilized man's psychic need· to rebel · against his plastic surroundings and the organized 
world of logic, reason, and technology. He seeks ad­venture, freedom, and peace in nature. Filled with euphoria and wanderlust, a need to expend energy and experience, a richer mode of response, he wants to re-establish contact with life. His attempt­at renewal is analogous to mythologized sex, "the supreme elixir, :the painkiller, the brightly colored pill that would put the spring back into his step, the joy of life in his heart." His swim, more­over, expresses an artistic impulse, the attempt to do something unusual, to create an alternate re­ality. It illustrates the subconscious knowledge Cheever described in "The Seaside Houses": ". . : we are, as in our dreams we have always known ourselves to be, migrants and wanderers." Neddy's swimming the "quasi-subterranean stream that curved across the county," seems like a movement through the womb-like unconscious. 
There is also nostalgia for an old innocence and for the "green breast of the new world." Ned wants to start again, to make a new beginning and would swim nude if he could. His epic swim, like· his morning slide down the bannister, is an attempt to · slow down the encroachment o{ age. Youth is, after all, the best time ~ the brightest and most blessed. He wants neither to grow old nor to grow up; he regrets lost youth and fading machismo. His athletic prowess is his last valuable possession. A return to nature ("In the woods is perpetual youth,"· according to Emerson) also betokens a re­turn to the "childhood" of America and to a sim­pler, more "real" existence, the evolution of the race encapsulated within American . history. Neddy feels the need to believe in the myth of a Golden Age, a legend accepted as fact, and has the opti­mist's faith that all problems have solutions. Sim­ilarly the Lucinda•River, like the Northwest ?ass­age, exists, and all he has to do is swim it to make it real. "America" itself was named before it was explored. 

In "The Swimmer" the American Dream is the creation of one's own reality -the dream of living out one's imagination. Americans, in their minds, are still en route to the Promised Land. In the present the only way to start anew is via the imag­ination. The mythic America that never existed is now lost; the good old days have only led to the bad times. With the closing of the Frontier, the dreamer-explorer is left with nowhere to go except "passage to more than India," no guide to· follow except the · Transcendentalist injunction: "Build therefore your own world." Ned shuts exterior ·malice out of his personal wonderland -a neigh­borhood Disney-world sufficient to satisfy a middle-: class "capacity for wonder." He creates a myth of · private satisfaction to counter a public despair (a situation recent surveys have found characteristic of contemporary Americans). Ecology again gets 
26 

' 
' 
' 
I. 
! 
converted into ego-logy. 
.--Cheever's story, probably the most important use of the swimming pool in American literature, is an imaginative vision of American reality in the interplay of person and object. (To Cheever's people, of course, the pool is an index to affluence and status:Y In Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby the swimming pool is also connected with the pro­tagonist's character and quest. Gatsby and Neddy are the lustrous but naive American fools doomed by time, mortality, and history. Both wish to achieve the transcendent moment when dream and reality are one. But both attempts at transcendence are foiled by transience, water in the pools symbol: izing flux and mutability. All quests for El Dorado, like DeSoto's, end at the grave. The whole world is insular, only an island in time. Neddy's swim, like Gatsby's final plunge, is an encounter with that new world, but one already fallen. The dream­er is betrayed by reality and by his own dream. "The Swimmer" like Gatsby-ends with a deserted house in a Paradise garden overgrown with weeds. Gatsby's mansion is not only the millionaire's palace with an obscenity. scrawled on the steps but also an epitome of Western European culture. Neddy's, on the other hand, is the family domicile; it is revelatory to recall that his swim included parties, neighbors, friends, and a mistress, but only casual references to his family, with. whom his con­cern had been as shallow as Rip's with his. Like Fitzgerald-Faulkner, ·Hawthorne, Irving-Chee­ver believed and proved that the real -history of America, not yet recorded in. history books, is in our literature. "The Swimmer" is an elegy not, as Mark Schorer suggested "for· Sundays in Subur­bia" 9ut for America and for life. · 
--Neddy's personal dilemma has both· psycho­logical and cultural roots. His crisis of conscious­ness is shared by his culture. "The Swimmer" ·­probes a trauma-. deep in the national· character. The story of the American is, like the many adap­tations of "RipVan Winkle," an "unfinished" story still awaiting its· '!final imaginative re-creation." "The Swimmer" is neither rewriting nor updating of "Rip,''. an~. more than "The Enormous Radio" is a modernization of "Young Goodman Brown"; both stories are re-visions of archetypal Americans and situations which link the destiny of characters with the meaning of American history. Like Ir­ving's classic, Cheevei:'s tale endures in the reader's memory with its artistry, fts psychological impli­cations, its cuUural resonance, and its penetration of. the currents of existence. Cheever,. moreover, gives the reader many of the rewards of traditional fiction along with the peculiar pleasures of contem" porary metafiction. There is probably more in this story about "How We.Live Now" than in any other_ work of comparable length. Swimming has become_ 
· NOTRE DAME REVIEW. 

a new metaphor for the westering impulse as walk­ing, floating, running, riding, and driving had served other writers. The quest for the real Amer­ica (if one exists) is again an exploration of inward shores. Neddy's westward swim is into the eternal country of the imagination. 
IV 
Cheever's aesthetic credo requires that he pre­

sent not the facts but "the truth"; his role is not 
that of the historian but that of the storyteller re­
capitulating "the verities." His novels and stories 
are, therefore, less· a depiction than an expression 
of his time. The fictions in Some People, Places, 
and Things That Will Not Appear in My Next 
Novel explicitly concern the writer's problem in 
rendering modern life in fiction: 
... Fiction is art and art is the triumph over 
chaos (no less) and we can accomplish this 
only by the most vigilant exercise of choice, 
but in a world that changes more swiftly 
than we can perceive there is always the 
danger that our powers of selection will be 
mistaken and that the vision we serve will 
come to nothing.· We admire decency and we 
despise death but even the mountains seem 

/ to shift in the space of a night and perhaps 
the exhibitionist at the corner of Chestnut 
and Elm Streets is more significant than the 
lovely women with a bar of sunshine in her 
hair, putting a fresh piece of cuttlebone in 
the nightingale's cage..Just let me give you 
an example of chaos and if you disbelieve 
me look honestly into your own past and see 
.if you can't find a comparable experience. 

The absurd events which .he narrates in "The 
Death of Justina," Cheever· claims, could "only 
have happened in America today." "The Brigadier 
and the Golf Widow," the first and titular story in 
the volume containing "The Swimmer," begins: "I 
would'not want to be one of those writers who begin 
each morning by exclaiming, 0 Gogol, 0 Chekhov, 
0 Thackeray and Dickens, what would you have 
made of a bomb shelter ornamented with four 
plaster-of-Paris ducks,· a birdbath, and three com­
position gnomes with long beards and red mob­
caps?" 
"A Miscellany of Characters That Will Not Appearf' in his next novel includes, as examples, the pretty girl at the Princeton.;.Dartmouth Rugby game, all parts for Marlon Brando, all homosexuals, and all alcoholics: "Out they go, male and female, , all the lushes; they throw so little true light on the way we live." The narrator of "A Vision of ·the World," who finds that the externals of life have 
"the quality of a dream" while his reveries have the "literalness of double-entry bookkeeping," wants "to identify . . . not a chain of facts but an essence ... to grant [his] dreams, in so incoherent a world, their legitimacy." He finally accepts the ~­world in which he lives as a dream and the dream he has as real. In Cheever's view fiction is that intersection of "reality" and the imagination. 
With increasing frequency he has commented on the challenges that the American fictionist faces today, suggesting that the "trumped-up" stories of generations of storytellers can never "hope to cele­brate a world that lies spread out around us like a bewildering and stupendous dream." In his later work the discernible progress is into more inno­vative techniques and a bleaker vision. He has moved deeper into the darkness of the American funhouse. Many of his best later stories are self­conscious, reflective, metafictional. Prose narra­tive forms, which date from about the same time as explorations of the New World, have always been journeys of discovery: new worlds and new modes of perception and new forms. Fiction is, as Lionel Trilling has said, "a perpetual quest for re­ality." And for the postmodernist writer Reality itself is the theme. 
John Cheever follows in the line of fabulist and mythopoeic writers, participating in the chief busi­ness of American fiction: the creation of American Reality. America -and Reality -are composed of change, flux, chaos, contradiction. Reality some­times seems like a comedy of the Absurd. The American experience has been ·an existential · en­counter with the dark territory of a continent, with history, and with the self. America itself is an absurd creation: Is it a place? a people? a· fact? a faith? a disease? a nightmare? an idea? a moral condition? To Fitzgerald, France was a land, England a people, America an idea. Richard Braut­igan, who like Cheever always writes about "America," suggests that it is "often only a place in the mind," echoing Emerson's America: "a poem in our eyes." At the conclusion of "Boy in Rome" Cheever has his young American, whose planned return home has been foiled, remembering an old lady in Naples "so long ago, shouting across the water [to a departing ship], 'Blessed are you, blessed are you, you will see America, you will see the New World,' and I knew that large cars and frozen food ·and hot water were not what she meant. 'Blessed are you, blessed are you,' :;he kept shouting across the water and I knew that she thought of a place where there are no police with swords and no greedy nobility and no dishonesty and no briberies and no delays and no fear of. cold and hunger and war and if all that she imagined was not true, it was a noble idea and that was the main thing." 
MARCH 1, 1974 · 

Posture 
He hammers his tambourine against his ankles, "not abjectly," he says, "but serenely, _ 
risking what foy posture may confess . . . 
that I don't know." 
His look just shy of pride, he bangs his rhythms inside the dance, 
he stoops among those bodies vertical, aswirl, those upright leapers, snatchers at stars. 
The bones of his spirit he bends down. "The_ many mouths _of God," he says,_ 
"must breathe along this floor where feet are twinkling." 

Invitation 
Murderer, I welcome you. I read of your exploits every day. I save the clippings. I know you are always at large taking your joy. 
Why then do you deny me? 
I keep my doors carefully 
· unlocked. The dark night darkens with my desire. I offer my blood free. I'm unarmed, I'm naked, I'll be asleep. Please come and enjoy yourself. 





Ernest Sandeen 
Undone, Doing 
When he helped her carefully undo 
.., her dress, she _would not admit ­of any but minor. creatures scurrying; would contend how kittens swirled to hide their eyes in paws of small fur. 
When he kissed, lightly of course, e,ich nakedness unleafing one by one,_ she stiHfelt only in miniatures .. a~ if to define a shrill of crickets · warming into nooks of an autumn house . 
. And she allowed gladly, , still in praise of little scamperirigs, when he folded the whole body of love (he called it) completely 
_over her, fantasy to_ foot. ­
She wo~ld h·ave argued the·n . to remember the first-year squirrels·, _that they circled grass and bark _ 
and kept balance, twig to branch. _ _ _ Her mind, bulging with body, fingered 
the hard-shelled meats pouched in their jowls; And some of.these (as she lay playing) she guessed the tiny claws would bury and forget so that solemn-rooted trunks might gro~ to the shade of_ hickory or of oak. 

-! 
NOTRE DAME REVIEW 

Images and Shadows of Divine Things 
I am Edward T. Lattimore, archaeologist and historian. I am thirty.:four years old; 
We have ·reached lande this mourning; throughe ~ the vertue and grace of Almightie GOD. We bowed downe upon a colde and rockie shore, and there gave thankes. · 
I have recently been employed by the Uni­

versity of Pennsylvania, as an assistant professor 
of history. I have· done, work for National Geo­
graphic, and have been published by several 
scholarly magazines·· (American Historical Re­
view, Journal of the American Archeologist, Sci­
entific American). My specialty is colonial North 
America. · · · · 
Bartie .a thirde is left of our partie, and we have been seperated for three monthes from our syster s~yppe. Yet our safe landyng at thys deso­late place must surlie meane that GOD's holie plan is moving along its inexorable pathe. 
I am fourteen years married, to the former Kathrine Johannes. vVe have two children-Me­lissa, ten, and Sean, eight. 
· ·Up_on the termination, of our worshyppe, we began to gather sticks for a fyre, that. we my{?ht be warmed . 
. There is a legend, now given some credence 
by the scientific community, that those Puritans 
who escaped from. England left in not one but 
two ships -·. the famous M ayfiower, and her 
doomed sister ship; the Veritie. According to the 
legend,, the Veritie was blown even more off 
course than the M ayfiower, and was driven to 
the southern lip of the Hudson Bay -where a 
colony established itself, prospered, sickened, and 
perished inexplicably-. all within the space·of a . year. 
We have beene on thys lande, that GOD gave us, for three montfies now. The lande is riche in vergin forrest; and the stronge backs and younge arms of thys Cf!mmunitie· have lashed together 
MARCH_ 1, 1974 
T.C. Treanor 

logges, that we myght have shelter. Nor have we beene pestered ·by the Salvages, thate otheres have made so muche of. Once my sonne thought he saw a salvage hiding in the bushes, but we gathered some men together, and marched out there, and saw· nothing. 
. This, then, was my assignment-to seek out the convoluted waterways of the southern lip of the Hudson Bay, and to search for the signs of past civilization. It was easily the most exciting assignment. of my career-a chance to definitely and definitively prove or lay to rest this long­standing rumor. Myrecent work had kept me out of touch with my family, so I took them all with me for a working vacation. 
At this point I think I should try to tell you something about myself-·why I· am what I am. I'm an archaGologist.because-I don't know. I'm not certain. I'm an archaeologist because .. : it's a distraction. I don't know what I'm distracted from. It's just that when I have my hands on some artifacts I can think about them. Just them. It's the closest thing to purity I've ever experi­enced. I guess that's why I'm an archaeologist. 
My wife is a puffy beauty, with artificial rosy cheeks and chemical black hair. The cheeks have little valleys in them, marks of tear-erosion, flesh erosion, and of the barren soil in the valleys. 
Herlips are puffy, too, and plastic-red. There is a blind glea·m to her eyes-I. forget what color they are. She's plump, and loud, and smells. like a powder factory. She used to be prettier. . She rode in the front seat with me,·and sing­songed my life's instructions: turn · right at the . intersection; Melissa shutup; Ed you're going too fast; I think they should go to the bathroom now . And soon.. . 
I come now to my personalnarrative, wherein I e:'JCplain how it is that I set out into thys wilder­nesse, and submitted mys~lfe to the great GOD I set out wyth my wyfe, my lyfe's helpmate, and my two smalle childeren, a fulle year ago. We were torne asunder from alle that we kenned; our Lande, and our h~mes, and our.families. My Kathrine had teares in her eyes when she left her aged parents, for she knewe that she would never see them again in this worlde. Yet gladlie did she suffer to go with me, and meeklie did she subject herselfe to the wille of the Father of us alle. So too did my two childeren, Jonathan and Melissa, sturdilie meet theire fate, saying good-bie to theire childe-ish friends and to all the thyngs of theire childe-hood, for they knew that it was time to put on the thyngs of an adult. 
We were about 150 miles into Canada when I pulled over to the curb and lost my temper. I don't like to talk about it now, but I was really angry, and the combination of bad conditions and bad company drove me to action. I pulled Me-". lissa out of the car, and warmed her backside. Since she had hit me on the back of the head with a block, I figured it was an even trade, ·but Kathrine kept a stone quiet sulk on for a hundred miles-a mixed blessing-I missed two turnpike connections . . . 
I founde, that the journie into the wildernesse had drawn us alle together. Where,• priorly, I hadde thought of my wyfe onlie as my helpmate; I could see she was the beloved of GOD as much as 1. And as for my childeren, they, seeing my . obedience to the Father, were obedient unto me. Thus we all shared in the Father's love. 
Kids can be a pain in the ass, sometimes, and Melissa · certainly was this time out. While her mother was mercifully silent, she sang television commercials, as~ed to eat every two hundred feet, taunted Sean who God-love-him ignored her, and generally made herself a candidate for execution. How many more miles? and: What time is it? and: Vi'hat time is Captain Wilmo on? and: Can we see him in Canada? 
She was getting fat. She looked like her mother, but with none of her mother's saving sexuality. She was a lump of plastic, with loud­speakers set in the middle of her head and no volume control. She was one big want, one black­haired_ candy-smelly pug-nosed whelp, and I helped whelp her. She was a radio set· at the wrong station,· and I would have preferred to listen to static. · 
God knows I had tried to do all I could with her; I had taken time off from work to play with her, I had read to her, I had tried to plumb every possible hidden recess of her mind for merit. I even took her to a 'shrink' once. But it didn't work. All there was to Melissa was jabber-jabber­
jabber! 
Sean was a different matter, I think. Sean was-diffident, -a little, and-gentle, a little ... he ... this is difficult to put down ... he sur­prised me, and . · .. he comforted me, sometimes, in ways I'd never expect and, never be able to thank him for. It was like-his eyes were fixed on something distant, that I couldn't see, and whenever conditions seemed intolerable, he'd just put his eyes on that thing and draw all his strength and gentleness in and all the bitterness. out. Nothing ever excited him much, or shocked him; all the stuff that sent Kathrine and Melissa into frenzies were just-part of everything for him. He-I don't know what to describe here; I'm an archaeologist, not a psychiatrist or a poet or anything. 
I don't think there was anything dark about him.· It was as though he took all the oil in his hair and)n his eyes and· in his skin and gave it to Melissa. His eyes we~e just God's. blue, and his hair was almost white .. It was the same for fat. It wasn't there: before he was born he said to Kathy and Melissa: Here mom. Here sister.Take all this stuff. I'm not going to need it! 
1 would lyke to descrybe the special relation­ship I developed on. the days of the journie, wyth my sonne. He, even above other members of my owne familie, won, my special love with the bynding love of his owne. While the childeren of the journie struggled with theire scriptures, he absorbed them as theough he were the prickley­bush, and they water. He grew fat with God's w·iird, and wyth His lo-ve. When the other chil­deren played games . amoung themselves, , he would speake in ·a quiet corner wyth me, and aske me of the great Father of us Aile. I would answer those questions tis best I could, alle the while thynking: Fair-haired childe of love, I ani well pleased wyth thee. · _ 
We hit our destination-a backwater town called Back~ater-at 4: 56. It took us 10 hours and 43 minutes· from ·Philadelphia, and r·was bushed. Melissa had to go to the bathroom, so we stopped at a gas sfation. Sean went into the garage, and picked up · a comic book -THE MAGNIFICENT. HULK. But the things he could see-that we all could see-never seemed to hold his attention for .very long, and t_hus he put it down after a few seconds. He stood up,­stretched, zipped his fly, turned , around, and walked into the janitor's nioppail, knocking the mop and himself over. 
"Edward," Kathy said, breaking a two-hour silence, "what's wrong with Sean?" 
We had done this before. "Nothing's wrong 
NOTRE DAME REVIEW. 

with Sean." 
'· "Normal boys," whispered urgency in her 
voice ( that's how it's done in soap operas) "don't 
walk into pails. Normal boys don't sit silent for 
hours at a stretch ..." 
"No, you're getting mixed up. For you to sit 

for hours at a stretch and not talk-that's· not 
normal. Sean, however, has picked up the absurd 
notion that if one has nothing to say, one says 
nothing." 
"Sean," she shrilled. "Come over to your 

mother." · 
Sean was picking himself leisurely from the 

cement. He wasn't hurt, wasn't distressed. He was 
vaguely-.distracted. 
"Sean," she said, crossing her arms protec­

tively around his shoulders when he arrived, 
"why didn't you say anything on our ride? Were 
you sulking?" 
"No, mother," he said, respectfully removing 

her arms, "no." 
"Then why didn't you say anything in the 

car?" She was hurt, but it would take her a while 
to understand why she was hurt. 
"I was thinking/' · · 
"Thinking! About what?" 
"About," he formed his words slowly, and 

suddenly I realized: he doesn't think in words, 
and that's why he spoke so cautiously, "moving." 
"Moving?" 
"Moving. When you're dead. Daddy,'' he said 

decisively, and asked, "do you move-on the in­side-·when you're dead?" · "I --··. what do you think?" I asked weakly. I glanced at Kathy, who glared back at me, and · then I closed my eyes. 
"I think you don't. 'Cause if you're in heaven 

you're just at the place you're the happiest, and 
if you move, you move, you go out of that place, 
you· know? And if you're in hell, it's the same 
thing, only it's the unhappiest." 
I opened my eyes. I was full of the day's 

sweat, and sick with the smell of the highway. 
But he seemed as clean and as dry as he was when 
we left at six this morning. 
"That-makes sense, Sean. vVe'll talk about it 

later. You,get candy for all of us-here's half a 
dollar." 
When he had gone Kathrine turned to me, 

really frightened. "Ed, that boy needs help." · 
·. I shook my head ruefully. "We wanted him 
to take his religion seriously," I joked weakly. · 
. "Not so that he becomes morbid," she spat, 
"not until he's thinking about death for hours on 
end. Not' ..." and then she made some inarticu­
late squacks: p!uph quick shizzle. She had run 
out of words. 
At that precise moment, Melissa came back 
from the john. We did not have a pleasant ride 
to our motel. 
Our supplie of the fruites of the ground wille 
soon give out, and we must raise a goodlie crop 
of short-season vegetables. Elseways, there wille 
be scurvie-and I do not want that. I saw the 
dread scurvie in my youth, when I sailed on 
HMS "the Sir Francis Drake, and it was· not 
prettie. The victim growes great red blotches 
underneathe his skin, and the blotches grow unto 
each other, until! he is a masse of red, at whiche 
pointe, he expires. 
These days are the rriost difficult: I have men~ 
tioned them before, and! sumineryze them here: 
we· landed, made campe,. made worshyppe, and 
settled. 
I have been able to make some observations 
about the fauna of thys, our new home. Thursday ·last my sonne and I travelled downe to a swamp­lande, to findefood. Whyle we were so travelling, we chanced upon a cat-lyke creature, consuming an herbivore. My minde thought, "how can the goode GOD permit such disorder." My sonne, theough, rebuffed my unspake thought, saying, "How lyke ourselves does this animal kill to eate! 
I lower myselfe before.the Lord's nature!" 
We repaired to 'John Haggerty's for a drink, 
which I, for one, needed. The kids soon disa p­
peared with John's trio, and Kathy and I joined 
John and his new girlfriend, Paula somebody, in 
his living room. 
They were playing Rachmaninoff. I hate Rachmaninoff. Rachmaninoff is waiting in a liv­. ing room while your dinner is being cooked. The smell . is coming in and · you're, saying hungry hungry hungry but the food is· always cooking, never ready. Rachmaninoff is waking from a dream just as you are about to make love to Racquel Welch. 
Anyway, the Rachmaninoff. And the seven­
and-sevens. And John. John was, and is, my 
neighbor in Philadelphia, a forty-seven-year-old 
two-time divorce. He's like the aerosol pine scent 
you put on aluminum Christmas trees. He has the 
Cadillac hearse dealership for Eastern Pennsyl­
vania, and he's richer than hell. He's· always giv­
ing parties for people who aren't as rich as he is, 
and showing off one new thing or another: an 
addition to his art collection (his taste is hor­
rible), a new stereo, a new· car, a new woman. 
He's the sort of person who doesn't surprise you 
when you find out that he wears a toupee-but 
you're certain that he bought it at the best place. 
Looking at him, I wasn't sure that his moustache 
MARCH 1, 1974 
was real, or that his gold tooth wasn't actually 
plastic. 
Gold tooth: his two ex-wives should have 
been. recalled before they were issued. Either of 
them, with a little practice, would have been a 
very good vacuum tube. They were doomed with 
the advent of transistors. At that point they were 
both floating along on John's alimony, waiting 
for someone to subsidize them. 
John has three of the scariest kids I ever met. 
None of them actually talk. The oldest kid has a case of terminal acne. I don't think she's worn shoes in three years. I keep looking fi;>r hair be­tween her teeth, but she never opens her mouth . long enough for me to look-except when• she's 
eating, and then looking wouldn't be polite. 
If she is a Coolidge, her two half-brothers are 
worse. I've visited John at his home, looked at 
them stretched-out staring into space on his den 
floor, visited with John for an hour and a half, 
and seen them in exactly the same positions when 
I left. Now, Sean is quiet, too, but when he isn't 
doing something active he's thinking. I don't 
think these kids think at all. I don't think they do 
anything. They certainly don't do anything I did 
when I was nine or seven. There's no innocence 
there. There's no ..-. 
"A T-group !" Kathy gushed. "What about 
that, Ed? How very interesting!" . · People were expecting me to say something. For the first time that afternoon I broughtthe room into focus. There, beyond John's and Paula's anxious peering faces, beyond the fatuous red couch, was the plastic panelling that looked just like real wood. Somewhere, vague in the air, was the smell of aerosol pine. The Rachmaninoff was over. The ice had melted in.my seven-and­seven, making it watery and impotent. 
"I_say, old· man," John said uneasily in en­
forced limc:y, "you seem to have gone off into one 
of your academic trances;~' 
· "No. No. I'm sorry," I said, reddening for 
Kathy's benefit. "Really. I was just looking at 
your-view. Please tell me about your tea group;'' 
"You were thinking· about your grand proj­
ect," John said slyly. "Or about some wench 
you're keeping on. the side." He leered at Kathy. 
"I'm reasonably certain· it's not a . wench," 
Kathy pronounced dryly. -­
. "Well; then, tell us about those investiga­
tions,'' .John said,. while Paula looked anxiously, 
first at John, then at me, as though the words we 
exchanged would have any bearing upon her ca­
reer as a groupie for quasi-millionaires. , _ · So I told them the legend of the V eritie: how ·it set 0off with the Mayflower ... and that was quite enough for Kathy, thank you,.with all those Puritan oppressions and repressions. She; God ·1ove ·the .child of Freud, wanted· to hear· more 
about the tea groups. 
Which we did. John and Paula, having dem­onstrated enough social grace to listen to my obsession, returned to their own. The tea ·group, it turned out, had nothing to do with tea at all. Instead~ it was a meeting of people . who had undergone psychoanalysis. They sat around, as near as I could understand, discussing each other's neuroses. It struck me that receiving ad­vice from a man who was no more stable than you was no better than receiving no advice at all, but instead of giving voice to that objection, I excused myself to fix another seven-and-seven. 
These past several days, I have thought often, · that alle we see is but an image or a shadow of a Divine thing. Thate is, God, who is in alle places, makes Himselfe manifest by each thyng. whiche He creates. Therefore, I have applied myselfe to the seeing of GOD, not only in my sonne and in the rest of my familie, but in His most humble ' creations-the rocke, the shrub, and. the· toad. Trulie, as the philosopher says, there are "ser­mones in stones, and bookes in running brookes." 
I was forciblie remin.ded of thys Truthe, as was usuall, by-my sonne. Thys mourning, when the aire was heavie withe the wette, he en­treatieth me to joine him in a walke about -the valley. I upbraided him on account of the wette, but he reproached me, saying, "Father, out there the hand of GOD wil be palpable upon us, for the wette is just one aspect of His greate selfe.?' 
Aye, my·sonne. And you are the chiefest as­pect. -­
John keeps his liquor in the kitchen, so ·that you have to be fairly ostentatious about helping yourself to seconds. He usually has only one drink, 
which he nurses over an--intolerable length of time. That is-he only has one drink at his house, when he's buying .. 

I was surprised .. to see · Sean at the kitchen table, puzzling over a chessboard. I had· taught him how to play two years ago, but he quickly reached a stage where beating me is no real big thing-if it1 ever_was. He had just the introspec­tive personality that was perfectly suited for chess -or for art, for -that matter.: '­
. "Sean! Why aren't you with the others?" · 
"I didn't want to have any." 
"Any what? Who's winning?" 
"Bobby Fischer." Fischer· was always white, Spassky black, as they played an eternal series in this boy's mysterious mind. ·He looked up.: "I didn't want to have any pot." · -· 
1 have been strucke, during our lyfe on' thys rockie shore, bie how much .we have all growen to truste and to. love one another: I meane not . onlie the charitie whiche GOD has commanded eache to have tirthe :other, buf an agape.I have · come to relie upon, but not take for granted, my 
. NOTRE DAME REVIEW 

f ellow-pilKrirris to this Cytte U pan a Hille. And not once has one of them betrayed me, or I them. We have had differences, but we eache know that the others onlie carie is for our wearie groupe. We, like our brother reformers, knowe that we have been sent to found a comm uni tie of love, so that some day all Europe will stare to the west, and say, "these, surely, are GOD's chosen peo­ple." 
These past several weeks I have gone to bed late so that I would not have to have sex with Kathy, and so that I would be spared the indig­nity of allowing her to see me lose grips on my consciousness. I had fallen so deeply out of love with her that my sexual performance had been affected. So she -had bought a manual. "The male-superior and female-superior positions are hardly the ,only ones which have given couples satisfaction over the years," it said, "some couples have been satisfied by sex standing up, with one partner's wrists lashed to the shower nozzle. Others report their extreme delight with what we call the_ "whiplash" position, in which the male squats on the fl.oar with his back to the bed_, a_nd the female wraps herself around his thighs, buttocks, and genitals like a boa constrictor." 
Kathy had turned our bedroom, thus, into gym­nasium. Well, -if she wanted· sex like that, she could go lay Batman. 
And I didn't want to have any more children. Ever. 
A kid · ten years· old is too young to smoke marijuana. Period. No matter what John Hag­gerty and Paula whatshemame from the psy­chotic group has to say. No matter, even, what my own wife has to say. 
I was livid when I broke into their den. I called John loudly enough for him to hear me in Alberta; And he-_to his everlasting credit-put on a good show, coldly silencing them and send­ing them to their rooms. 
I dragged Melissa into the car, and hardly thinking, locked her in. She could have gotten out, I suppose, but what would have been the point? She knew we were going to leave, and she must have gathered that there would be little solace for her.at Haggerty's. 
"We had better·go, John," I huffed when I · returned to his _summer-home. "And· I'm sorry about blowirig up like that just now." 
--''.That's all right,_ fella," he said, doing an mi­conscious parody of Nelson Rockefeller. "I. was pretty upset the first time I caught my kids doing 
it." --. '., "This isn't the first time?" I said uneasily. _ ''Hell, no," he boomed, "but what are you go­-ing to _do? -It's ·the current thing, I•-guess. Every:­body's smoking it, everybody's turning on; To tell the -truth," he lowered his .voice confidentially, 
MARCH 1, 197 4 
"I even tried it once." 
"Indeed?" I said, hoping to sound dry. Kathy_ was wide-eyed. She had never seen a grown-up as adventuresome as John. "What was it-like?" 
_ "Frankly, it didn't do a thing for me," he said, and he looked genuinely baffled. It didn't do a thing for him, and it was supposed to. Then _, his face brightened. "But hey! If I-a respectable businessman-can ..." 
_"John, your're not ten years old," I inter­rupted impatiently. "If you were, and if you were my child, I'd be plenty mad." 
Paula's tennis-match eyes were following us again, but Kathy, surprisingly, spoke next. "It seems like ... such hypocrisy-you know, for us to drink, and to denythem ..." 
"Dammit, Kathy, if Melissa was drinking at age ten I'd be just as angry. When you're ten years old you're supposed to be ..." but I looked up and saw Kathy" and John and Paula Psycho­drama staring at me, and I concluded that my lecture on ten-year-old innocence would have to wait for a less strenuous moment. 
"Let's go," I said in a weary voice, and turned my back. -"Don't go away mad," John said anxiously. I forced a smile. "I'm not," I said. "I'll get in touch with you later this week." · We rode home in silence. 
I have just finished reading Jonathan -Ed­ward's essay, Images and Shadows of Divine Things, in which he attempts to find the hand of God in everything he sees in· the world-an echo of Augustine's "sermons in stones, and books in running brooks." But the. hand of God is not in the broken rocks and the plastic plasma para­dises we see around us. Maybe the hand of the devil is. More likely, the hand of indifference, of wholly random series riot amenable to any at­tempt-human or divine-to putit in order. Not sermons in stones,· and books in running brooks, but stockholders in sorrow, and dialectics in dying eclectics. __ _ ­
What was it in these early. Puritans that gave them such great faith? vVhy did. they so believe in their God, _and in themselves? What made them believe that they were about to find a City Upon the Hill; that the America for which they lay the groundwork would someday be a moral beacon? Where could they find -such a will, to fight the_ evil and· keep the faith? 
Oh, 1Pilgrims, if you could see your America now! If you could see hard Cleveland and oily Detroit; bilious Chicago and vacant Los Angeles, and-the nightmare vistas of New York! Where, then; would your "irriage'.' be, and your shadow? And your faith-what would happen to that? A shadow? All of America is in a shadow! It is in the shadow of a transparency; the shadow of television and business and huri.dred-thousand­dollar summer cabins; it is in the shadow of distractions; booze, pot, academics, romance, op-: timism; it is in the shadow of the invisible mist of an aerosol pine can. 
Puritans, how could you have faith? 
I would, I thought with grim resolve, stake myself upon this mystery, staying with it until either it or I am broken: not just the mystery of the Veritie, but the mystery of faith •. 
So resolving, I went to ·bed. 
Watching her sleep, I remembered air the things that had drawn me to Kathy. The moon­light streamed across her face, touching her long black hair and streaming with it to the edge of the bed. Her face-ivory-white in the moonlight --was unlined. Her lips parted in thick half­opened innocence. I knew that she was naked underneath the covers. Her stated dislike of clothes-any clothes-·had excited me beyond measure fifteen years ago, and the fact that she wore the legal minimum in any situation kept me in a state of constant agitation. Long after I knew that part of her to be an artifice, I knew that beneath all the contrivance was a sort of caramel · loveliness. Impulsively. J bent down to· kiss the mother of my children.· -· · 
But just at that moment she let out the most· malodorous fart.I have ever experienced, and it set me bolt upright: So noxious were the fumes that I was obliged to op~n the window before I went to sleep. · 
We are all doomed. ­
We learned of our fate this. mourning, at a counsell meeting. Mr. BROCKINGTON, who had served as captain's mate while we were braving the Atlantic, tolde us that our holdes had no short:-seaso__n vegetables. Some-one on the May:. flower, in order to assure that boate of safe passage, had taken our seedes. 
Withoute seedes, and withoute vegetables; we wille surelie die. Thys is as fin all as anything that hath been writ. Thys is as finall as judgemente. T~e scurvie shall triumph over thys bande of pil­grims. 
Never in my lyfe have I felt closer to despair. 
We moved into a cabin three days after our arrival in Backwater-and four days after our arrival we had a party. The party was Kathy's idea-implicitly, to make up for my behavior. John and Paula were invited; of course,~ arid al­most everyone else who was to come was their · friend, since we knew hardly anyone in the com­
munity. · · · · I say hardly anybody-I knew somebo.dy. 
34 

Ebenezer Dalton' Mourningstar, town derelict. I met him as I walked to the town's general store to pick up a copy of the Toronto Star. · . 
He had a corrugated, desiccated face and a waxy, flaxen-beard, white sparse hair and craven blue eyes. His µiind was more suited for bridge than for chess, so eager was it to grasp at first impulsive utterances, so disdainful was it of the mental convolutions of reflection. He sat on a three-legged stool, blank-faced. He was dead 
drunk. . . ­As I walked past him, he stood up like a supermarket door opening. His face lit up. i~ automatic animation, and, putting out his hand like a Disney creation, he said, "Hi! Wanna spit on the ground for Gillette?" · 
"What?" . 

"I'd like you to help me show our apprecia­tion for Gibby Gillette, star of stage, screen, ·and television. I'd like to ..." suddenly he spat on the ground. . ­
I grinned. "Old-timer, you look like you haven't seen Gibby Gillette for several years." He laughed uproariously. He put his hands on 
my shoulders; and was barely able to stand. "Seen him?" he choked, "Seen him?" and suddenly his hand tightened around my shoulders; he stood bolt upright and glared full furious into my face. 
"I haven't been able to escape him for twenty-sev~n years!" . 
Then, just as suddenly, he sat down ai:id stared straight· ahead, as though ·someone had unplugged the drain on his energy. He was ·a Lincoln model after the show, all empty. 
I backedaway uneasily, walked into the Gen­eral Store, bought a Star and a cup of coffee. I spent-the_ rest, of the -morning finding out about Mr. Mourningstar.. · _ 
And what was that?-Not much. I reviewed it as I drove back home; he used to be a Classics pro­fessor at an Ivy League university, he had written a glittery best-selling novel, and had, through a long chain of-events, ended up in Backwater. For ' a wild moment, I though of inviting him to the party ( ! ) what an impression that would be-_a retired Ivy League· Classics professor (-! )-on John and his friends. But I· gave up the idea; as too precarious-given the state of things between Kathy and me. ­
For me, the day passed in desultory fashion. Kathy busied herself with makework projects. Melissa practiced screaming. I read my abstracts, formulated a plan of attack, mentally ran dowr.i_ the list of locals who l knew had archaeological experience. And Sean .· -. . · Sean seemed .to be thinking harder than ever that day, staring over the stiff cliff that fronted our cabin, staring across the clear and fresh. water that flowed gently in front of us, staring across it as it mirrored the sun · 
.NOTRE DAME REVIEW 

I. 
in a thousand different, crisscross patterns, star­ing across it, sweet and fresh. He stared across the air, the naked air, the invisible substance, that love of God which cast no shadow; stared across the sweetness of the air, the hickory smell of growing things, the sugar coldness of the air; Stared underneath the blue cloudless sky, stared beneath the unhindered sun, stared beneath the sky of strength, of pure blue and yellow, of real blue and yellow, stared across to clumps of green; tiny islands of real ·. and unhindered life, strong and fresh and good. Stared there, and beyond. Stared. All day. Stared. · 
When the· darkness came, when the glittery moon arose, when our first guests arrived, Sean and Melissa had already gone to bed. They were going to stay awake in their rooms instead of downstairs where they would be in the way. 
John Haggerty . and Paula were the first to arrive, ·along with a dry-goods operator and his wife. Those two looked like toadstools· with glasses, and smelled like bad cheese. 
They were followed, in their turn, by some­body who did Alka-Seltzer advertisements for tele­vision, an insurance executive, a professional art­ist and critic, another insurance executive, and an undertaker. And wives, wives, wives-pushy, de­termined women armed with gush, swinging the gush around like pillows at a slumber party. Kathy, with much wasted motion, got them all drinks-and gushed right back at them. 
They weren't doing anything, and I was afraid that John was going to starta party game, so I broke right in and told them about Ebenezer :J\1ourningstar. 
It worked. In order to avoid talking with me, they started a little conversation among them­selves-_and thus saved us all, for the nonce, from John's in_ane games. 
Meanwhile, ·Kathy had let five or so more guests in, and I got them drinks. They . were all pasteboards from theshadows of Philadelphia, apologetic and crude, obnoxious and bubbling, full of stupid questions: ( "Well, how are you lik­ing this ·temperature we're having?" My re­sponse: "Are we voting on it this year?" my real response: "Why, it's lovely! Is it like this all summer?"), vaguely stupid themselves. The un­loveliest from unlovely America, sitting semi-live on my living-room couch. •-· · . · . 
It had grown noticeably hotter, and I had taken off my sports coat. The glasses were pre­cipitating little water bulbs on their exteriors. Kathy was in the corner with John and the un:­
. dertaker's wife. They were laughing loudly and sweating. More people came. Another undertaker. A contract engineer. An interior decorator. Wives. 
MARCH 1,·197 4 
A . hairdresser. Another hairdresser. Drinks. Drinks. Drinks. It was hotter. I gave Kathy an­other highball-and noticed three empties next­to her. She was intent on John; ignoring me. 
More people. More drinks. More heat. Over near the window, someone was trying to get a songfest started. 
My wild Irish Rose, The sweetest Rose I know ... More people. My head hurt. The room 
smelled like an underarm factory. Haze from stale cigarettes obscured my vision, but I thought that the corner Kathy and John had been in was now unoccupied. An insurance executive grabbed me by the arm. . 
"You the host? Great little party you have here!" 
"Thanks. Thanks. I'm glad you like it." 
"Yep." He patted himselfexpansively. "Sure is good to get into the great outdoors and smell that fresh air. Sure is good to get out of the city. You from Philadelphia, too?" 
"Um-yeah." When it became apparent that more would be required, I said, "Philly; born and raised." 
"Me, too. City you love to hate. C'mon­where would we be without Philadelphia? Got my start with Metropolitan Life there-workin' on the ol' actuary tables...." 
I strained to see the center of the room. The artist-a huge Russian bear of a man, with wild eyes and wild hair and carelessly beautiful fea­tures-was booming out a story. I could catch it -fragmented, and within the framework of the other man's history. 
"Right. In America, there are artists and there are artists. But as far as I know, there was only one real artist. ..." 
"... used to have to update the actuaries every day in '62~ They don't train you for that in ·the Universities! 'Course, I have nothing against higher education...." 
"... he used to paint horses and carriages. They were beautiful horses, and beautiful car­riages. If anyone ever got the horse down to its most essential form, he did ...." 
".. ~ can you imagine anyone doing that? Cheat-the actuaries-by trying to fix 'em. Of course, if they-hey, do • you mind if I have another drink?" 
The haze grew thicker. 
"Here. Finish mine." · 
· "Thanks. Hey, you look kind of pale ...." 
"Beg pardon?" · . · 
"I say, you look kind of pale. Are you sure you're all right?" <'Huh? Oh,-yeah." "... but eventually, people got tired of look­
ing at horses drawing carri~ges. Besides, the auto­mobile was coming into common use, and ..." 
"... no kidding, I've seen people-perfectly 
healthy-feel a little sick at a party or dinner or 
something, and excuse themselves, and a few min­
utes later-bingo! they're dead!" 
"... consequently his sales fell off. Sensitive 
man that he was, he vowed to go into seclusion 
until he had created the 'finest work of art Amer'." 
ica has ever seen.' Which he did ..." 
"... listen, buddy, how old are you? I'd be 
able to tell you from the actuaries how many 
years you should have left. I memorized them my­
self. Watch. I'm fifty. A man born in 1~34 should 
have a 54.8o/o chance of reaching age seventy at 
this point in time. Same guy, y'know-·he should 
have a 53.3 o/o -chance of making the age of 
seventy-one, 5 l.9o/o of making seventy-two, 49.1 o/o 
of hitting seventy-three,· providin'-he lives right 
-·_-'look, give me a year, any year ..." · 
"... he went into seclusion for three years, 
and when he finally came out, he had invented 
something completely original. A beautiful car­
riage, driven by a delightful young boy, and ..." 
· ".. -. are you sure you're all right, buddy? 
Listen, can I get you a drink? Where's the host 
" 
• "I'm the host."­"You are? Well, listen, mind if I have a drink?" 
"... drawn by two huge sheep! Two of the 
biggest, horsiest . . . " · 

· I tore myself from the grip of the artist and 
the actuary tables; tore myself from the haze and 
the heat and the humanity, tore myself to the 
back of my cabin, tQ my own room, for air, for 
comfort, for rest. -· -· 
I staggered into my room, closer to death 
than· I've ever been. Blindly l opened the door, 
swirled around, and, once in the room, leaned it · 
closed. Then I turned to face the room. · 
. John arid Kathy, half-naked, writhed on the bed. . 
' ­

·John saw me first, and had the decency to _take her breast out of his mouth. Kathy was 
ardently giving his ear a sponge bath with her _ 
tongue, whispering_ unintelligible nonsense. 
John shoved-her upright, not gently. ''Good 
evening," I said, dazed. -· 
"I hope we can be civilized about this/ Ed­
die," John said uneasily. Good old John! Even 
with his shirt off and his pants looking like a pup 
tent,. he managed to .sound like he was in the 
House of Lords. · · . 
· Kathy was drunk but very quick_. "Ed; I want 
a divorce," she said with finality.· -' -· 
. ''An appropriate statement, urider -the cir'." 
cumstances," I said; still dazed. We stared, frag­
mented, across the room at each other. Theri I 
36 

said, "Excuse me,''-and left; -. · 
lwould get back to the living room, I thought, before the hurt hit, and drink more than l ever drank before. t would get wild drunk. I would get' so drunk that I would· dance . around the room stupidly, propositioning forty-year-old women and being John Haggerty's friend. 
A scotch-and-water; And another. Now a shot of scotch. Somebody left a seven-and-seven · in front of me. That goes do~n the great lobotomy pit. And .another-I think. I'm not sure; · · 
The guy who wanted to start the song has finally won hjs way. Three or four-undertak~rs, insurance executives, I don't know, are standmg .. tog_ether, singing · -· · 
Buffalo gals won't you come out tonight Come out tonight .· · __ Come out tonight . . ­Buffalo gals won't you come out tonight And dance. by the light of the. moon_. 

I bound across the· room, embr~cJ'~ne of the singers, and caterwaul again · · 
Buffalo gals won't you come out_tonight _-_ Come out tonight 
Come o~t tonigh! 

They hesitate-they are confused-·. they don't know who the hell I am. But they soon join ii:i ... they don't care who the hell I am. · :_ _ ' 
_Buffalo gals won't you come out tonight And dance by the light of the moo~_. · · 

. We are an infedioh, spreading. We lirika~ins .. We reach around the:room, grabbing: everyone·. Buffalo gals, come on. Nobody escapes. One by one they straggle into.our little circle, one by one they join in the song. · · · 
· Buffalo gals won't you come out tonight · -­
.. Come out tonight__ · Come out tonight'. ­Buffalo gals won't you co.me out tonight And dance by the light -of the moon. 

We are dancing; a sort of mad shuffle, Faster and faster. Click shuffle shuffle Buffalo gals. Click shuffle shuffle . 0c• .crash! · 
"Don't worry,"l-shout, "It's my house!"··•--­Click shuffle shuffle Buffalo gals. Click shi1ffie shuffle . . . __ _ _ -. • _ · 
· Buffalo gals won't you come ou_t tonight Come· out tonight ·. . . · . -.•·. .-·. Come put tonight and then another crash. 
NOTRE DAME REVIEW 


Stupid Buffalo women, I think, and then · I see Kathy, hair disheveled, blouse half off, mak­ing frantic hand signals. 
"Don't worry," I shout, "It's my wife!" Buffalo gals won't you come ·out tonight And dance by the light of the moon. 
"Ed!" she screamed. "Ed! Ed!" 
Something primal made me stop, and m a 

strong voice I shouted, "Quiet, please!" Curiously enough, everything stopped. Sweat and tears flew. from her as she shook 
her head wildly. "Ed! Ed! Ed!" she cried, as though I still couldn't hear her, "Sean's missing!" · Somebody ler the air out· of the room, and we all collapsed. · 
Archaeologists don't describe being alive on the pages of a nightmare. And l am an arch~eol­ogist, nothing more. I remember fragments, re­membrances, dreams. I remember sitting wide­eyed and drunk on the side of a motorboat, cry-. ing out for my lost child. Every few minutes the motorboat operator would turn down the motor so that l could hear the answering cry. Very con­siderate of him. There was no answering cry. 
It was only much later that I .learned that I was the operator of that motorboat. 
I remember driving wildly to the town, to police headquarters. The police were-closed! for God's sake! They were closed for the night. And I banged and I banged on the door, until I heard a familiar wild laughter behind me. 
"Spit! Spit!" said Ebenezer Dalton Mourn­ingstar. "Spit on Gibby Gillette!" . · . . • 
· Suddenly I was off after him, certain in some visceral way that he knew what had happened to my son. But the old derelict seemed amazingly quick _:and agile, racing just a few feet in front of me.· ·: ·. . . 
"Spit! Spit!Spit at Gibby Gillette!" laughed Ebene~er Mourningstar. . . . . 
·· I .chased him up streets and around corners, down alleys and side streets until once he stepped somewhere :and ... was gone. Was completely g01.1.'e.. Was t~acelessly gone. 
·· '· I got back empty to review an empty living room: Empty, that is, of anything except human excretions; •. crashed tables on the floor, empty glctsses, empty bottles, ice pails half filled with 'dirty water.. . · · . · . . "Disgorge.Sean/' I .said ·calmly. . 
Nothing happened. Nothing happened. Things · were !l).Ute, and silent, and .inscrutable. . · .. I picked up a glass, vacant of anything recog­
nizable. "DisgorgFSean, please," I told it. It did nothing. So, casually,.! tossed it toward MARCH 1, 1974 
the middle of the living room, where it described a p~rabola, broke towards the floor at ar~'s end, and smashed on the hard surface, obeymg the· natural law. · 
I put my head in my hands. When I took it out, I couldn't believe what my eyes clearly told me was true. Somehow, everything-vacant glasses, empty bottles, slosh­ing pails-had grown little legs which were tak­ing them into a closed formation. Little mou~hs twisted and curdled on each one of them. Tmy arms stuck out on each side, and with fingers pointed in the air, they tilted to forty~five degrees, the pails spilling water on the floor. And they sang. Buffalo Gals. .. . Except it wasn't Buffalo Gals. The m~s1c w:is Buffalo Gals, but the lyrics w~re somethmg dif­ferent-ghastly. · · 
We all obey the Natural Law 
Natural Law •. 
Natural Law 
We all obey the Natural Law 

So stick it up your fucking craw 
I reached for a stick with which to smash them. But I was still in a state of shock, and they began again almost immediately, a horrible tenor cocktail glass taking the lead · . · 
And we don't truck with.you my friend 
You my friend · 
You my friend · 
And we don't truck·with you my friend 
So Go~Get-Bent 

I staggered back to a chair, but it had moved, and joined the others. A disagreeable baritone balefully bellmved from an ice pail,· anticipating me just as my mouth formed a wordless prayer 
And we don't traffic with the Holy Ghost 
Holy Ghost 
Holy Ghost · · · 
We don't traffic with the Holy Ghost 
So stick it where it hurts the most. 
And once again, in perfect harmony: 
We all obey the Natural Law 
Natural Law 

•Natural Law We all obey the Natural Law So stick it up y.our fucking craw. 
And so I grabbed my eyes, and ... 

I humbly prostrate myselfe before GOD;and con/ess my synfullnesse. I have beene tempted, and I have surrendered to that tempt~tion. Our communities hath beene tempted, and it, also, has surrendered to the devil. Since we have knowen, that our brothers on the :Mayflower tooke our seedes, we have given ourselves up to 
--asperitie and despair. I am likewyse guilty of _ those syns. I have spente days trying to forgyve those o-n our syster shyppe, and I have failed. At nyghte, I cursed the darknesse, I cursed the May­flower, and-have mercy!-] cursed GOD. Likeways hath our communitie delivered it­self e into the hands of dread Satin. When we were fyrste tolde, thate we hadde no vegetables, manie helde forth in their faithe, proclaiminu: "GOD will stand by us, and preserve us from dread scurvie, until! we growe' more vegetables." I, however, had seen how fast the scurvie works, and was less sanguine. As time progressed, and as scurvie strucke downe our townespeople, including manie chil­deren -blameless infants, rotund lyttle ones healthie just hours before-/aithe slowlie left our groupe. Manie women -my .owne Kathrine amoung them-also died, and wythe them died muche of the gentle-nesse and spyryt of f orgyve­nesse that had so marked our communitie in · earlier, happier days. We begane to trade re­criminations, and our mistruste of eache other made the cooperation we needed to survive im­possible . ... There is a sort of bog nearbie, which sucked downe anythynge thrown into it. In our lassitude and despair;this is where we bury our dead, so that none may know they had ever seen the lught of day. It was shortly after my wyfe died-and shortly before Melissa contracted the scurvie-that my sonne Jonathan appr.oacheth me. "Father," he sayeth, "myght; it be true, as was spake earlier, that some Salvages are in this area?" ­"Trulie, it myghte," I sayeth,shaking my head wearilie, "but how doth that helpe us, in our present condition?" 
Wyth those wordes his features spreadeth wyth joy. "See you not the sweetness of the planne of GOD, father? Surelie he has sent us thys scurvie, so that we myghte push out of our Lyttle fort, and go and.meete the Salvages. For, in so doing, we can teache them the true f aithe. If we are to be a Cytte on a Hille, every one of us must be a lyttle beacon. Lette us go down to the valley, and exchange our faithe with the Salvages for their vegetables!" -. · 
I then embraced him~ saying, "Surely Jona­than, you must be beloved of ·God to thynk of such a thing. But who amoung us can undertake such an enterprise? Manie are sicke, and those of us left are. either too younge or busy with the. · ill." · _ -. ' _ · 
38 
Calmly he replied, "I shall go, Father." 

I protested that he was too younge, but he reminded me, thate Our LORD was but two years older when,He taught at the Temple. Then he 'asked for my blessing, but I said that it was he who should bless me. Thys he did, saying, "Re­member, Father, that howevere evyl thynges ap­pear, GOD's approval makes them goode. For­gyve the trees and forgyve the bushes; forgyve those on the Mayflower and fo-rgyve our enemies in England, and p_erhaps GOD will forgyve thee." 
I shall so forgyve, my sonne-if thou wilt for­gyve me for bringing thee into thys worlde. 
"The cut worm forgives the plow." William Blake:-Proverbs of Hell 

Stories. I could tell you how we ranged into the night; I could tell you of the sacrifices we made that week. I could tell you of days of asperity and nights of despair, of endless re­criminations, of shady days beneath the grey of the clouds. I could tell -you of futile energy, of · convoluted waterways· tortuously and then tedi­ously explored, ·of grasslands walked fresh and stale, of forests punctured and penetrated and sucked dry, of the horrible possibilities of a quick­sand swamp we found, and of caves. Yes, I could tell you about the caves. Yes, I could tell you about the caves. . · · 
Stories. I could tell you of the after~ath; of our divorce, of Melissa growing every day more alien, of my drinking, of the tenure denial-of my loss of reputation, of my advancing :derelic­tion, of my progress toward the station of Ebe­nezer Mourningstar, of my approach toward death. Bu_t what would be the point? · _ . _ 
· No one ever found ~ean. Anywhere. No one found a trace of him, except-but I'll tell that later, or not at ·all.·They found-caves and rriead-. ows that hadn't been explored before. And they found-God· help us !--some tenuous remains of a C~ty upon a Hill, which had once existed... ; 
-. Caves. What could I-tell you, about the caves of our little'.Xanadu? There was no·beauty there; no craft. A cave can challenge the imagination with its strangeness, but this one.challenged· rn:y sanity with its sameness. And darkness. And thickness. The lights we brought illuminated only that which was directly in front of us. Nothing else. Nothing . . . · · ·­
Illumination: shall I tell you what we found? \Ve found a thing. The thing was wearing the· -­~lathes of my son Sean. The thing'.was ... there, a desiccated skeleton -of a human being Sean's size ... but with a hideous grin of the long dead ... and a dried asparagus stalk in_.its hand.... God help me, it had been dead-for at least two hundred years . .... 
NOTRE DAME REVIEW 





Sean Lucy 

Visitation 
/, 
Small feet you go · · In night wind suddenly And move in leaves. 
· The mastery of a moment. 

Clouds blown away from moon at nearly full, The 1T1astery of a moment Moves in the lime tree 
·Black against the window 
·Andgoes · Leaving· the stillness Of the dark air. 


Bruce Jay Friedman Sean Lucy_ Norman Mailer _Francis J. O'Malley Ernest Sandeen · -· Robert Slabey :_ 
T.C. Treanor -­Diane Wakoski 
Ronald Weber _Thomas Werge . 



