The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 81
APRIL 21, 1944
NO. 6
Barney Ross Honorary Bengal Referee
Barney Ross, former lightweight and welterweight champion of the world, will ^e' the honorary 'third man in the ring when the finals of the Notre Dame Bengal Bouts start at 8 p.m. tonight in the University fieldhouse.
This will he Barney’s second appearance as honorary referee at the Bengals. He has appeared on the roll of honor before with such greats as Danno O’Mahoney, former world wrestling champion; Billy Conn, number one contender among the heavyweights; and Max Marek, a Notre Dame man who licked Joe Louis.
Fights With McLarnin
Barney will probably be best remembered in ring circles for his famous series of fights with the king of the welters, Jimmy McLarnin, who conquered Young Corbett III. And it was Barney you remember, who took the lightweight title from Tony Canzoneri.
Following his retirement from the ring, little was heard of Ross until he turned up as a marine hero on Guadalcanal. Then, the game man of the ring came back in to the limelight when war reporters recounted his feats. He was wounded in action and since has been discharged from the marine corps.
Barney was in South Bend last April when he appeared at a local war plant.
Once more Barney Ross will separate them ....
U. N, D. Night Observed
The 20th Anniversary of Universal Notre Dame Night was observed both nationally and locally, last Monday evening, as Notre.Dame clubs around the world united at meetings.
In South Bend the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley met in the Bronzewood room of the Hotel LaSalle. Following dinner at 6:30, club officers for the ensuing year were elected. Speakers at the meeting were Rev. Matthew Schumacher, C.S.C., of St. Mary’s College, newly elected chaplain of the club; Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., assistant prefect of religion at Notre Dame and retiring chaplain, and Bernard J. Voll, alumnus and member of the board of lay trustees. Frank Miles spoke on the scholarship program. Walter Langford, retiring president of the club, presided at the gathering, and introduced Frank Oelhoffen, new leader of the group.
Entertainment was furnished by Miss Marion Holaves, of Danville, Ill., a coloratura soprano and student at St. Mary’s College, accompanied by Miss Mildred Zabrecky, and by a quartet from the University of Notre Dame, featuring Bernard Slater, John Cockweiler, Richard Ames, and Robert O’Toole.
Many speakers from the University attended other gatherings of clubs in the Midwest.
Tomorrow morning at 11 o'clock, weather permitting, every uniformed man at the University will line up in the center of the campus for photographers. The line is estimated to extend from the Rock to Dillon hall.
Flying low over the congregation will be two photographer's planes taking pictures of the naval unit here in full array. Lieut. (J.G.) Paul T. Sprinz will be in one of the planes. Other photographers will roam the lines for fancy angles of marching feet and military stance. Be sure to smile for the birdie I
Golden Jubilee Observed By Rev. Bernard III. C.S.C.
Rev. Bernard Ill, C.S.C., professor of German here at the University, Thursday celebrated the golden jubilee anniversary of his ordination to the priesthood.
Father Ill celebrated m a s s in the sisters’ chapel, behind Sacred Heart" church with the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, as assist-.
Rev. Bernard Ri	PriesL Rev‘
Charles Doremus, C.S.C., was deacon, and the Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, was sub-deacon. Master of ceremonies was Rev. Leo Gorman, C.S.C., superior of Moreau seminary.
Father Ill has spent most of his life at Notre Dame. He was president of St. Joseph college, in Cincinnati,-O., for seven years, and spent brief periods at St-Edward’s University hi Austin, Texas, and at Portland University in Portland, Ore.
Practically every Notre Dame football game at home has seen Father DI in the stands, and he witnessed the first Irish-Michigan contest when the Michigan team came down to teach Notre Dame the game. Michigan won, but “we paid them back, with interest, last season”-Father Ill said.
Father Ill at one time was prefect in Walsh and Sorin halls and now resides in Corby. He has seen the erection of all major buildings on the campus except the Main building, Washington hall, the front part of Science hall, and the present architecture building, which formerly was. a three story. edifice. For 17 years he has been chaplain of the sisters here at Notre Dame.
3
"KING" SOLOMON PAYS A WAGER
Student Council Meets
Grover “King" Solomon kneels before his victor, Hugo Lunkwist as he is “knighted" for his good sportsmanship in fulfilling an unusual bet lost in the Bengal Bouts.
In order to make all the necessary facts known of this extraordinary happening in Breen-Phillips hall last week, the following story is presented:
Grover Cleveland “King” Solomon ■stood in a hallway of B.-P. arguing with his friend Hugo Lunkwist.
“I tell you ‘Lunk’ your fighter hasn’t •got a ghost of a chance with mine in that ring.”
Lunk shook his head negatively.
“King, you don’t know what you’re talking about. My boy will run yours clear out of the ring.”
A bystander stepped in and took momentary part of the discussion.
“You guys have been arguing for fifteen minutes. Why don’t you make some . sort of bet; then you’ll end it all — at least till after the bouts.”
. The two friends agreed, and the bet was that the loser had to get his hair cut like a Mohawk Indian. Well, the bouts were fought, and Mr. Solomon’s protege lost; consequently, Solomon lost his bet A crowd gathered in one of the rooms in B.-P. and watched the “haircut” performed. He indeed, looked funny, as the picture above clearly and soundly confirms.
Even though this episode caused the campus to be in uproarious laughter for over three days, we suggest to future students who wish to engage each other in a friendly wager that they had better refrain from such “Mohawk hair-cut”' bets if they intend to keep a clean slate with the discipline department. (Ask Mr. Solomon.)—Stephen Loyacano
Public at Service Center
On Wednesday evening, from four till ten o’clock, the staff at the South Bend Service Center held open house for the public. The affair marked the second birthday anniversary of the center.
Exhibits of the food treats which are sent every week by the center to the sick bay at the Midshipmen’s Training School at the University of Notre Dame, were a feature of the open house. Usual week-day activities were carried on through the hours of open house in order that the public might see just how servicemen and women are entertained.
The surprise registered by the public at the manifold service offered at the center was equalled only by the surprise of the Service .Center staff at the interest manifested by the public in the center’s work.
Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., this week was announced as faculty moderator for . the newly formed civilian student council.
The council held its second meeting in the lounge of the Rockne Memorial building Monday evening and outlined plans for the current semester. (Present were 11 council members. Four members were absent.)
Discussion at the meeting centered around several themes including:
1.	Making the University war. time graduations formal.
2.	Investigating the possibilities of obtaining later lights for students in Breen-Phillips hall and obtaining one o’clock permissions on Saturday for seniors.
3.	Activities involving intramural competition.	•
Reports of committees investigating the proposals were read, and it was indicated that the question of formal graduation would be taken up before school authorities later this week.
A fourth proposal, concerning Notre Dame rings, was referred to a committee who will discuss the feasibility of setting up standards for purchasing the official school ring. Several spokesmen pointed out that the ring privilege had been considerably abused, and all were in agreement that the sale of rings should be limited to persons qualified to wear' the ring. This is expected to be acted upon before the next meeting.
Presiding at the meeting was President Joe Murnane. He stated that the council constitution is in the hands of school authorities and will probably be signed before the week is completed.
Advocating one o’clock permissions on Saturday was Harry Berliner, council representative from Sorin hall, who felt that another hour might allow greater and more complete enjoyment of such activities as South Bend might afford. He said that in the face of competition from students who might stay out later, civilian students were hard pressed to pursue the causes of their heart. In this the council concurred.
A representative of the Scholastic was in attendance at the meeting and suggested that the council had' overlooked one possibility when it failed to plan some local observance of Universal Notre Dame night.
Action on the council sponsoring the selling of war bonds and stamps to civilian students was deferred until a later date. This possibility will be taken up before the various clubs on the campus by the council representatives. .
Next meeting of the council is set for Monday, May 1.
4
Plan May 26 Weekend
By BILL BYINGTON
“Week-End Maneuvers,” promises to be the most spectacular event to hit this campus since the arrival of the Navy itself. The Executive Committee forwarded the idea to make the occasion a week-end affair rather than a one-night stand. Shattering all precedent, this move will he a great boon for those who plan to import dates.
The Military Ball, as usual, will be the top attraction of the week-end. The Ball will open the week-end activities on Friday night, May 26, in the Navy Drill Hall. Last semester men will recall the magical transformation of the Drill Hall from a hall of physical exertion to one of romantic inspiration. Seaman George Nesbitt, who was in charge of the decorations for the Ball of January 15, has been recalled for this dance, and he promises to surpass his efforts of the past.
After going over a list of the name bands of the country, the Committee has made its choice. . . .
Listen to “Reveille Review" Monday morning, April 24, at 0630, over WSBT, to learn the name of the chosen band and to hear a half-hour of his recordings.
Saturday morning, May 27, will bring a military review of all V-12 Units, so that the guests will have an opportunity to see the Navy and Marine boys at their best.
Saturday afternoon and evening will feature a picnic and a musical production. The picnic will be held at Potto-wotamie Park, one of South Bend’s most scenic and romantic spots. Recreational facilities will be available, including softball, tennis, and swimming. A picnic supper will be served, utilizing the twenty-five fireplaces at the Park.
In case of inclement weather, plans have been made to hold the affair within doors, at a comfortable club in South Bend.
The musicale will begin as soon as it grows dark. This show is to feature entertainment provided by talent from the old “Nights and Days” show. Any Trainees interested in appearing on this show should contact Casey Snyder, Dillon 368.
Sunday afternoon, a tea dance is planned to bring everyone together once more before the first V-12 Week End is over. A local orchestra will play for this dance, which will be held in South Bend. “Week-End Maneuvers” will come to a
Al Kavalin to Play for Engineers Ball Two Weeks from Tonight; Dance Open to All
By AL LESMEZ
“Scholastic” Managing Editor
Plans for the Engineers Ball are reaching their final stages, as two weeks from tonight the 200 odd couples who are estimated to attend will begin their night of dancing and merry-making.
Each of the committeemen is happy to report success in his own department, promising that the details of his particu-
“Music Maestro please"
lar assignment will be the outstanding feature of the dance.
Al Kavalin and his band has been secured for this annual affair. He comes with his “Cascading Chords” from such well known spots as the new Rio Cabana Club in Chicago, the Blackstone Hotel and Essex House in New York City. His smooth type of dance music is a favorite wherever he plays; his outstanding quality is pleasantly termed “dancability.”
One big misconception on campus is that since this is an Engineers Ball, only engineers can attend. This is completely false. The engineers merely sponsor it, plan it, and make it worthwhile attending. It is the others, the bulk of the
close immediately after the tea dance.
A point which cannot be overemphasized is the necessity of getting hotel reservations now for your week-end guests. Since Midshipmen graduate at that time, tomorrow is not too soon to be planning ahead.
campus, that attend.... and make it a success. Consequently tickets will be sold to all students, “civvies” as well as servicemen.
Following the practical pattern laid out by preceding dances of this war-time era, the committee has wisely chosen to have this affair a semi-formal one. This will allow for comfort and ease in meeting the relatively small expense.
The cost of the tickets will be $3.90 and they will go on sale Friday, April 28.
The phrase “St. Mary’s Can Go” is .. again in vogue. The girls have been granted late permissions. Therefore, there should be no reason for anyone being without a date...-. especially with the spring here.... and the birds... and the flowers.____ah!
For the civilian students this will positively be the only affair of the semester, and therefore they are especially encouraged to give some serious attention to the things of the heart, mend their differences with the little girl, and invite her to this evening of fun and dancing.
Due to the fact that the Scholastic takes its spring vacation (without pay) next week, the next details of the dance will have to be posted in the halls and on the bulletin boards of the University. The next story about the dance will appear in these pages in the next issue, two weeks from today. Be sure to read the details published then.
C.AS. General Meeting
All those who are interested in the aims of Catholic Action Students are invited to attend an open meetting Monday, April 24, at 7 o’clock in room 3, basement of the Law building.
The meeting will be general, strictly informal and brief, and will acquaint those interested in Catholic Action with just what it is, how it operates, and what its plans are for the year.
—By Chuck Russ
.j. *	.j.
❖ ❖
❖ NO "SCHOLASTIC" NEXT ❖ ❖	FRIDAY	❖
❖ ------------------ ❖
❖ Because of the mid-term tests, ❖ there will be no SCHOLASTIC next ❖ week. The next issue will appear ❖	on May 5.	❖
« The Editors.	❖
❖	*
<£♦
5
Catholic Science Meet
By EDWARD H. MADDEN "Scholastic" Associate Editor ’
The 21st meeting of the Chicago Catholic Science Teachers’ association was held recently at St. Thomas the Apostle school, 5467 Woodlawn Avenue, Chicago. . The general session began in Tighe hall with an address of welcome by the Rev. Charles A. Murphy, pastor of the St. Thomas the Apostle church. Brother Reginald, C.S.C., of the University of Notre Dame, president of the association, introduced Father Murphy.
Following an address on the effects and causes of earthquakes by the Rev. Alphonse E. Schmitt, S.J., chairman, of Loyola University, the following schedule was observed in the business meeting:	,
12:00 Luncheon.
1:00 Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament at St. Thomas the Apostle school.
2:00 Section meetings — St. Thomas the Apostle school.
The section meetings included one on biology, with Sister Mary Anthony in charge, on the questions: “Why just one text in biology?”; “Teaching by Analogy”; and “Laboratory Techniques.”
Brother Neil, C.S.C., directed chemistry and physics, while the topics discussed included: “The Marvels of Electronics,” “The Introduction of Methods of Teaching,” and “Experiences in Teaching Physics.”
Mathematics had Sister Mary St. Ida in charge with “The Effective Teaching of Ratio and Proportion in Algebra and Geometry” as the main topic.
The association elected Brother Reginald as its president to complete the 1943-44 term of office.
Crash Claims Life of Former Student
Word of the death of Lt. James Riley Veeneman, U.S.M.C.R. has been received at the University.	.
AAX (The death of Lieut. Veeneman brings to 90 the number of Notre Dame men who have perished in the cause of God, country, and Notre Dame.
The 27-year-old lieutenant was killed in an airplane crash near El Centro, Calif.	,
Lt. Veeneman attended Notre Dame from 1936 to 1938. He is the son: of Mr. and Mrs. Harry A. Veeneman of South Bend. .	.	.
At the time of his death, Lieut. Veeneman was stationed at Fort Lauderdale, Fla.	‘	.
"Stars and Stripes"
Offers Money Prizes
Chief J. J. Broderick has made an announcement that the “Stars and Stripes” radio show, that is sponsored by the Studebaker Corporation from the service men’s center each Saturday evening, has changed their award to the lucky winners by substituting war stamps for the cigarettes previously given the participants.	■
Under the new plan it will be possible for each contestant to win at least $10 in war stamps and sometimes more. If there are two stars appearing on the show then there will be $20 in war stamps to be divided $12.50 and $7.50, and if there are three stars on the show then $30 in stamps will be divided $12.50
Rules and Golf Etiquette to be Observed
With the coming of war, there has been an acceleration in almost every field and in every nook and corner in which you care to look. So too has the situation infested the William J. Burke Memorial Golf Course. Trainees and students alike have found it necessary to play their regular rounds of golf in a much more limited time in order that they be in attendance at their musters and schedule classes. Consequently, there has been an increased tempo forthcoming on the golf links and in order to facilitate this condition, there are some words of courtesy and kindness that can be well expressed under the term of "Golf Etiquette."
1.	EACH PLAYER must have a set of clubs, i.e., no two or more players are to use the same set of clubs. In general, there is a tendency to slow up the group that follows by waiting to use a club that another fellow is also making use of. Keep the game moving along by arranging to have a full set of clubs on hand for your own use when you play.	’	.
2.	TEE OFF between markers.	...	.	•
3.	PLAYERS looking for LOST BALLS should signal the following players to pass and THEN SHOULD NOT CONTINUE TO PLAY until those who have passed are out of range.	,
4.	PAR THREE (3) HOLES, please signal the following players to drive when you reach the green.	’ ’	’	’ '
5.	PLAY IN FOURSOME on SATURDAYS AND SUNDAYS.	'
6.	A FIVESOME is never permitted on any golf course. By blanketing the fairway with too great a number of players, you slow up the game for the following players and at the same time slow up yourselves by not being able to progress as rapidly since you have to wait on others in your group. This use of a fivesome becomes burdensome to all concerned.	.	.
7.	IRON CLUBS should not be used on tees except on the par three holes (Nos. 6 and 15.)	.	.
8.	Players finishing the FIRST NINE have preference on NO. -10 TEE. ■ Those who have had the intention of playing the course in regular succession should have the courtesy of going ahead on the 10th tee instead of having to, wait for players who are making that 10th tee their point of origination.	.	,
9.	CUTTING IN is never permitted. After finishing a-few holes, don't skip a few holes thus cutting in somewhere else. Play the course in succession. -	.
10.	BAGS are not to be placed on the greens. •	• -. -	'	'
11.	PRACTICE CHIPPING SHOTS onto regular greens is never permitted—use the practice green in practice fairway.	.
12.	PRACTICE PUTTING ONLY on putting greens (Side of Rockne Building and back of No. 18 green and on the green in the practice fairway.)	' '	'	'
13.	Practice fairway and green (West of No. 2 green and parallel to No. 3 fairway.)
14.	Local rules—back of scoreboard.	.	.
Let's speed up the game by common courtesy and at the same time prolong the life of the course!—BILL WADDINGTON.
$10.00 and $7.50. As it is plain to see this is a great improvement over the past plan and gives each participant an opportunity to cash in on a more tangible reward.	-
With this new means of reward it is hoped that more men will take it upon themselves to enter the contests and make them worth hearing over the radio. The men may enter by simply- contacting the Chief who will take care of all arrangements.
Chief Broderick, who had numerous offers from Hollywood aftei' his shows on campus last ' semester\ once again promises to don the garb of Cecil B. De —Broderick and produce a happy hour to top all happy hours of the past, present, or future.—Robert Fanning
6
College, Parade-
Thanks to Bob O’Toole, Dick Murphy and a few others the traditional Bengal Bouts rose to an enthusiastic height in the minds of the student body last Friday night at the Semi-Finals; but now a week has slipped by and looming up before us are the finals. Throats are once again normal; the Marines have a larger whistle; the Navy men have promised to toss their white hats and the civilians still possess the spirit of the John Yon-akor-Billy Huber fight.
THIS COLLEGIATE WORLD (ACP)
' What is the present-day collegian’s version of an “ideal professor?” To answer this question the Holcad, student publication of Westminster College (Pa) conducted the following survey:
. Co-eds prefer a man, not necessarily young and good-looking although that does ease the strain of an otherwise dull lecture, but one who understands “why I can’t comprehend the intricate workings of a motor,” the newspaper learned.
Expecting to find a unanimous appeal among the males for glamorous young graduates of universities, surveyors were surprised to learn that men would rather have middle aged women standing before them in the classroom. “Less distraction from the books,” one male explained.
Other requisites for the ideal prof are punctuality and accuracy, interest in his subject and humorous incidents to brighten up dry textbook material.
....’Nuif Said....
SCOTCHMAN'S EPITAPH	'
Beneath this stone our baby lays, He neither cries nor hollers;
He lived just one and twenty days
. And cost us forty dollars.;.
OR, FROM FALSTAFF HL
I eat my peas with honey, _	'
I have done it all my life;
They do taste kind of funny, But it keeps them on the knife.
A doctor fell in a well, And broke his collar bone.
The doctor should attend the sick
■ And leave the well alone.
WHAT WOMEN WON'T DO
Professor Sally Beals at Mary Baldwin College took glamor shots, portfolio
Qq, Hill
shots or any kind of shots of students or faculty for 25 cents in a YMCA sponsored project. “You bring the chassis; Beals’ll make it classy,” was the campaign slogan.
THE PINK POODLE
Wife (to late returning husband) : “Is that you, John?”
John: “It better be.”
BEAUTY AND THE BEAST
Lovey: “Can you drive with one arm?”
Dealer: “Sure.” .
Lovey: “Okay, have an apple.”
YIPE !
To Broaden. Your Minds	-	.
Bostonian: An American, broadly Speaking.
Co-ed: A girl who “also” goes to college.
Criminal: One who gets caught.
Friend: One who has the same enemies you have.
BETWEEN THE BULKHEADS
C.O. “And where have you been this past week?”	.
A.W.O.L. “Stop me if you’ve heard this one.”	.
WHICH REMINDS ME	.
That the cave men at Wabash college have selected Marilyn Maxwell as their AWOL girl. It is their notion that spring would be a wonderful season to spend with her. In fact a 200 word telegram was sent Hollywood way to inform Miss Maxwell that she had won the hearts of the Wabash V-12 unit. .	-
AND FINALLY
“Why the toothbrush in your coat lapel?” - .
“It’s my class pin—I go to Colgate....
Don’t worry; I’m 1-A.__
To Sing at Healthwin
The Notre Dame Glee Club will appear at Healthwin county hospital, near South Bend, on Friday, April 28,, it was announced today. Time set for. the concert is 7 p.m. Twenty-eight men will appear with the club.
Bereolos Lost in Action
Latest news from the South Pacific area indicating that Lieut. Hercules Bereolos, former football and track star, met death when his plane crashed into the sea, cast a pall over the campus, this week.
“Herky” whose remarkable physical strength went well with his name was a guard on the football teams of 1939-4041, and enlisted in naval aviation immediately after his graduation in 1942. He put the shot for the track team during those years.
Lt. Bereolos is the third Notre Dame football player to lose his life in the present war. Lieut. Howard Petschel, army airman and former end, disappeared over the Southwest Pacific nearly two. years ago. And Col. Vince Harrington, monogram lineman during the era of the Four Horsemen, died of a heart attack in England last December. Sgt. Motts Tonelli, former fullback, was captured on Bataan, but at last reports ■ was still alive, and in a Jap prison camp. •
The late Hercules Bereolos
65th Anniversary of
Great Fire Next Sunday
Sunday, April 23, will be the 65th anniversary of the great fire which destroyed Notre Dame’s main building on April 23, 1879, during the second administration of Father Corby. Destroyed in the fire were the college building, the Infirmary, the music hall, and several minor structures. The loss was only partially covered by insurance. Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., founder of the university in 1842, however, refused to be discouraged and started work on a new building. Thirty plans for the new building were submitted, the Schola.tic of 1892 tells us, and by September the new building was able to accommodate returning students.	. -
7
CHAPEAU
They’re either too big or too small.... And not only that, they don’t fit! Like white caps on the ocean; like foam on a short beer, the Navy wave at Notre Dame has been topped with white hats. Even the neoterist of V-12’s can obtain that nautical appearance with this bit of tarboosh clinging to his curls. With the innocence which only Freshmen have a number of the uninitiated went to the Stadium to get their hats last week.
As you walked in a pessimistic individual armed with a size 4J/2 sample tried it on with all the artistry of a plow salesman. As this usually covered only the spot most people shade with their ears, he indicated a stack containing the big hats (10J4-5): “Take three.”
If the thing fits you are told to report someday when that size was in. If it was too small you are given a queer look, and a slip to report to the medical officer.
HEAVY DEW
“Water, water everywhere, And I forgot to wear my rubbers!” .
—Confooziz.
At the drill hall assembly last week for all Protestant men on the station, the Midshipmen and NRQTC were conspicuously absent. Speculations that they might have been swallowed up while crossing Badin Bog have now been definitely disproved. It seems our brothers of the deep, upon observing the soggy, aqua saturated campus, decided not to get their feet wet and declined to come. Guess the V-7’s are getting so near the sea they can’t stand the rain. Anyhow, the V-12s are now definitely established as the only really waterproof outfit of the bunch.	.
VINTAGE OF 1930	. :
The plight of one Grover Cleveland Solomon, 319 Breen-Phillips, reminded us last week of goldfish swallowing seniors,’ and pot wearing freshmen. Having first shaved all his hair but a Comanche streak down the center, he now is even devoid of this, making up a picture vaguely reminiscent of a cue ball. To all newcomers whose,college life has been, necessarily restricted due to war, we
8	-	N
strongly recommend you to view this relic of the good ol’ days for educational reasons if nothing else.
PINPOINT POISONALITIES	'
Ed Faust: Upon being told to wear his rubbers, this conscientious individual did so, for two weeks. Seeing the rubber footwear of Ed’s one sunny day, the chief finally told him to take them off.
Pete LaFata: Anyone got any complaints to make? Take them to Pete, for he’s got one twice as good. Also all war experiences topped, like the time Pete
Sgt. Santos, 'Tm not so sure I'm glad I made the finals in the Bengal Bouts" '
slept in a fox-hole with an admiral.... and nothing on but a T-shirt at that!
Sam Kitchen: In case you read the Religious Bulletin of Friday the 14, Sam wants to advise that the character therein described was not him. “I never go into a bar unless I am alone, or with somebody else.”
Don Davis: The barber of Company I! It seems everyone, wants a hair trim at 1200 each day. You ought to go into the business, Don.
Bill Dunn: Bill, of whom it was once said he had never kissed his girl, was,, up to last Friday, a contender in the Bengals; One thing we are wondering about is his newly developed ability to fight in the clinches.
Jim Dougherty: Another past Bengal Bout threat, after winning two of his bouts Jim had developed quite a little fan club. We saw the crowd waiting for him at the door of Alumni last week. He got a few extra bottles of milk out of the deal, if nothing else.
“Nell” Nelson: This astute command-' - (Continued on page 10)
i i
1
* M
N
THE GREEN BANNER J
BY JIM CASEY
IN THIS CORNER
Tonight, starting at 8 o’clock in the fieldhouse, the spectators will see the crowning of the 1944 Bengal Bozits Champions. The losers will also take something of a crowning, and puffed eyes and split lips will be “all the rage” for a week or two. The Student Council has the leech concession.
One of the gallant losers in the semifinals last week claimed that during the final round he hit his opponent with everything but the ring post. He would have used that, but his opponent thought of it first. Sounds like a new kind of boxing club. Some of the boys, on entering the ring, were shaking with enthusiasm. Others were just shaking. A few didn’t even get into the ring. One of these boys concentrating on a way in which to get the proverbial “kitchen sink” into his corner, overlooked the time. When he finally arrived, sink in tow, the arena was dark, the crowd had left, and he lost the fight on default. He later found out that he picked himself up 25 demerits for being AWOL after taps.
A word or two about the Prelims — we’ve seen better scraps between Ma and Pa. (Now we’re just kiddin’). But don’t miss the Finals tonight!
LOCAL CAPITALISTS
It’s getting near the end of the month and, as usual, the navy trainee -with money is more scarce around this campus than a McAllister-issued sweatshirt. Result, Dick Kneller, Jack Rousseau, Art O’Brien and John Lujack are drawing up a plan whereby they can rent their beds during the daylight hours to defense workers on the swing shift. If this idea should materialize, it will no longer be necessary for the boys to make their beds. Furthermore, it is . unpatriotic to disturb defense workers; therefore, all future room inspections will have to be called off. Not bad! Not bad!
v t
SPRING ROMANCE!
The other night, “Doc” Gillespie was forced, for the first time in his long romantic career, to break a date. Reason given: the first time in his long Notre Dame career that he has ever been cam-pused. Incidentally, speaking of being campused, we’re seeing an awful lot of Frank Kent, these days. Yessir! You can spot him morning, noon, or night,
»♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦<
as he ambles his lonely way about this huge Indiana prairie — and no farther. The fellow’s mad about the place, or soon will be.
Dick Froeter, Ed Ferricks, Harry Keegan, Bob Welch and Jack Clark have a novel hobby. Every few weeks, whenever the bucks are scarce, they invite girls from colleges not too distant down to entertain them by showing them the wonders of South Bend. Clark is the lad who arranges most of these dates. The frosh claim they enjoy these blind dates, but do find it difficult dancing with the girl — they keep tripping over their seeing-eye dogs.
Dan Dancewicz, a blond-haired youth, has been trying for weeks to grow a mustache. The other night before leaving the hall, to visit his girl friend, Dan touched up the fuzz on his upper lip with a brown pencil. He’d tired of her ridiculing his attempt at beard growing. What he desired was admiration. A half hour later, the little lady greeted Dan, at her home, with a welcoming kiss. On entering the living room she wore the mustache; Dan wore lipstick.
AT SPRING PRACTICE
The waiters in the west dining hall have a football team.. They challenge anyone, but to date, have yet to complete a single game. John usually hustles the boys back to “work” before the first quarter can be completed.
HERE AND THERE
Bob Reynolds doesn’t know whether to buy a Notre Dame ring, or import a date for the Engineers’ ball. . . . Bet your bucks on the referee tonight, Bob, and have- dough. . . . At a recent prohibition lecture, the effect was ruined when the lecturer tried to blow the
■ foam from his glass of water.. . . “King” '. Solomon had his hair shaved from the top of his head. Instead of hair tonic, he is now using Johnson’s wax. . . . A piano is going to be installed in Breen-Phillips. Washington Hall is getting, a little old for that fast stuff Loyacano and a few of the other key benders from the freshmen halls give out with. . . . Who is the “Trots” Johnny Meyers, the beer baron, is talking about? .... LaRaza is rebelling in Sorin Sub. Is George Strong losing his strength? . . . Maripat, you seem to have a way with the boys. ... If all
the college men in the country were laid end to end, it sure would take a lot of liquor. ... Al Lesmez, Paul Smith, and Paul Wood are the best fed men on campus. They eat in Corby dining room. . . . The Disciplinary Department is willing to cover any bet, regardless of the size, at the bouts tonight. . . . You may even have your pick of fighters. . . . We’re taking a week-end. .. . We’re hoping St. Mary’s comes to the bouts, this evening; nothing like a little screaming to wake up the show, or brighten up the local scene. But any unruly stuff, violence, or throwing of pop bottles, and we’ll have the local gendarmes throw ’em out. And no climbing into the ring, either. But we warn them against competing tonight; only honest weights will be recognized — all of which would give us too many “heavies” for a pleasant variety. Yes, we’ve seen nothing but “heavies” over there all year; but then, of course, we don’t get around too much. And it is just possible we don’t know it all.
MOVIE SCHEDULE
DRILL HALL
“UP IN ARMS,” (Goldwyn-Fox) with Danny Kaye and Dinah Shore. His screen debut; her latest and best. Time says: “He’s . . . fun to watch, she is tod.”	• ■
COLFAX
“WHAT A WOMAN” (Columbia) with Rosalind Russell and Brian Aherne. Romantic farce. Down-to-earth- entertainment. Starts today for a week’s run.
. PALACE	.	’
“THE LODGER” (Fox) with Laird Cregar, Merle Oberon and Sir Cedric Hardwicke. Horror drama, alive, baffling, entertaining, and . . . it’s plausible. “TIMBER QUEEN,” (Paramount).with Richard Arlen and Mary Beth Hughes. Both playing now through Sunday.
❖
GRANADA
“WOMEN IN BONDAGE” (Monogram) with Gail Patrick, Nancy Kelly, Anna Neagle, and Alan Baxter. “CHAN IN SECRET SERVICE,” (Monogram) with Sidney Toler and Gwen Kenyon. Both start today for the week.
❖
STATE
“OLD ACQUAINTANCE” and “NEVER 'A DULL MOMENT,” Now through tomorrow. “SAHARA” and “TOP MAN” start tomorrow, run till Wednesday.
9
The All-American Captain Scoots Around End to Gain Valuable Yardage
Creighton Miller to Receive All-American Captain's Award this Evening at Bouts
Creighton Miller, Notre Dame’s AllAmerican halfback, last fall, and winner of the All-American Board of Football “Captain’s Cup,” will receive the trophy, this evening, at the intermission of the Bengal Bouts Finals, in the Fieldhouse.
Christy Walsh, head of the All-American Board of Football, brought the cup to South Bend, last Sunday, together with five All-American sweaters. Only Jim White, now stationed at Great Lakes, was on hand to receive his award. The other three Irish players who merited places on the team—Angelo Bertelli, John Yonakor and Pat Filley—found it impossible to come to Notre Dame, since they are in Marine Corps training down East.
It was the first time in the 20-year history of the Board that five players from one team made the All-American Board’s first team.
It is likely that Coach Frank Leahy will make the formal presentation, this evening, to Miller who was virtually a unanimous All-American choice last fall.
THE PERISCOPE (Continued from p. 8) er of Co. B, has reduced this astute body of gentlemen to “My laaaads.” (through the nose) Typical Nelsonian comment: “Why laaaads, its fundamental!”
George Deslodge: Also known as itching pajamas. We understand he took a shower the other evening, pajamas and all.
NOISES	_
Yep, that’s what they are, and strange ones at that. The queer sounds emanating from the vicinity of room 234 Alumni each 2200 have every one wondering. Even Father Schaerf had a puzzled look the other evening. Guess these Southern rebels never learn.
10
Continue Spring Practice
Despite the fact that the football team had its first practice session over a month ago on March 17, there still remain about two and one-half weeks of spring training-. The team is scheduled to work out 30 days in all, but because of the inclement Indiana spring (?) weather only half of the scheduled drills have taken place.
The large part of the drills have been devoted to the plain fundamentals of football, with the newcomers being made acquainted with the Notre Dame “T” formation. This rigorous drilling is all in preparation for- the series of scrimmages which will be held probably starting next week. It is these drills that will show the coaching staff what ability the large group of newcomers among the 70 candidates possess.
Bob Kelley, Fred Earley and George Sullivan, all monogram winners last fall are expected to be with the Irish for- only the first half of next season’s schedule. Frank Dancewicz and John Adams are the only monogram men who are expected to be available all season. Other members of last year’s squad who are participating in the spring drills are Frank Ruggiero, Steve Toczylowski, Ed Mieszkowski, Pete Berezny, Mike Ganey -and Art Statute, all linemen, and Steve Nemeth, Walt Kondratovitch, Elmer Angsman and George Terlep, all candidates for backfield posts.
Backfield Coach Ed McKeever has been in charge of the majority of the drills in the absence of Head Coach Frank Leahy. Assisting Mr. Leahy and Mr. McKeever in the spring session is George Wilson, end for the Chicago Bears, in addition to the other members of the coaching staff, Hugh Devore and Walt Ziemba.
Baseball Team Wins Two
By JOE MURNANE "Scholastic" Baseball Writer
Starting the longest diamond season in Notre Dame’s history, the Klinemen clouted their way to a double victory last week-end, downing the Indiana Hoosiers, 10-5 in the first contest while taking the second encounter 4-0 behind the two-hit pitching of Bill Martin, Irish hurler.
Following in the footsteps of his famous father, Frank Gilhooley showed the traditional Gilhooley speed on the base paths by stealing second after making the initial sack safely for the first time. Frank, who started at left field post and showed up well for that hotly contested spot, was just one of the members of a red-hot ball club that knocked Indiana around in the pair of games.
The whole Irish outfit showed that their batting eyes were undimmed as they slammed out nine hits. However, the wildness of Earl Siefert, Indiana moundsmen who walked five men in the fourth frame and allowed five runs, abetted our stalwarts in no slight manner. Our powerful right hander, Frank Zieminski, threw the opening ball, and later on was backed up by some very effective relief pitching by Barrett, a newcomer to the club.
Gains Shutout
A three bell performance was rung up by Bill Martin who limited an experienced Hoosier squad to two measly hits and bagged a 4-0 triumph, gaining the first Irish shutout of the young season. A former fistic champion, having achieved success in last year’s renewal of the Bengal Bouts, Bill showed equal ability as a tosser, serving them up in a none too welcome style as he completely baffled the downstate array of swingers who stepped plateward only to be denied. Bowker, the shortstop getting the only two safeties allowed.
Lefty Spence, star pitcher of last year’s Bloomington outfit, did not make an appearance in either game. Veterans Len Scarpelli and Bob Klein were the big guns in the attack that netted four-runs and seven hits.
'	At Madison
Despite training difficulties which kept the Klinemen indoors most of the time, the Irish looked capable in their first two games. With such an auspicious start, the boys intend to keep the ball rolling as they make a jaunt to Madison this ■week-end to take on Wisconsin’s Badgers in a pair of games over Friday and Saturday.
What looked like a big game of springmarbles turned out to be Sgt. King’s afternoon drill class looking for the set out of the Sgt.’s ring. Evidently the Sgt. was putting too much in his demonstrations of the manuals and the set took leave. Fortunately the set was found and everybody is happy, especially Sgt. King and the guy who found it, — hmm, some guys have all the luck.
Rumors are running rampant regarding the future of Cavanaugh’s own “Muskrat Maulers,” whose leader and organizer, “Pappy” Maggioli, has been ordered to the Great Lakes Naval Hospital for an operation. The question in everybody’s mind is, who will be selected to replace “Pappy” as composer, arranger, conductor, and chief bottle washer of his aggregation of super-sensational senders? Confidential sources hint that U.S.O. Eggbeer is organizing his Seiv-ice Center backing to support his candidacy. Others claim that Bob McMaster, the slip-stick .arH^ fs attempting to obtain the choice' "position and reorganize the band with a Glenn Miller influence. Last and most highly favored is the reported plot of Scotty to use force to purge the band of all instruments other than the tuba.
FROM THE COMPANIES
AROUND the camp fires of company “A” the hearts are warm and gay for they are the proud possessors of three finalists in the Bengal Bouts. These hearty stalwarts who not only battle for the glory of the “Corps” but as well for their beloved company are: Bob “Red” Blair, Frank “Tomato” Amato, and Ray “John L.” Engberson. Men, your company is truly proud of you!
BETTER watch out Paris, company “B” is fast becoming a proving grounds for the latest thing in hat styles. Critics, namely the N.C.O.’s, favor those hats conforming with regulations as modeled by Bruce Butler, Co. B’s leading mannequin, over the “goofy” creations resembling a tambourine wrapped about the head as worn by such shapely models as Sammy Miller and A. B. Kohn.
COMMOTION a-plenty took place on the second deck around 2210 one evening last week when Bruce Sumner’s radio decided to come on- with a healthy blast just as the duty N.C.O. was strolling down the hallway. Bruce’s explanation for this slight occurrence wasn’t quite good enough from the looks of the demerit list, but that’s life.
ON THE BALL
Waltz me around again, Willias, at the V-12 ball. Week end maneuvers begin May 26 aboard the S.S. Navy Drill Hall. Famous bands at this moment are at each others’ throats for the privilege of blowin’ their brains out at the local stiff -shirt frolic. Scuttlebutt has it that the committee have outdone themselves. It has been said that Annapolis will blush with shame at June week.	.
Follows the dance Friday night ... a picnic Saturday afternoon . . . with-eats ... at a big park . . . with animals and see saws, (ants optional . . . they may come if they wish.). Follows the picnic Saturday afternoon . . . well, what do you usually do on Saturday nights? Follows Saturday night . . . headache Sunday morning. Then comes the tea dance. That’s all brother!
The committees are prepared to give you all this in one week-end for the measly sum of 33.75. Molder on that for a time ’cause you’re going to get the chance to vote on it, and it ain’t every day you get to tell them what you want.
Have a Coca-Cola = SkaI
(HERE’S TO YOU)
... in Iceland or Idaho
Have a “Coke” is the American fighting man’s way of saying Here's to you in every clime. It’s the high-sign of friendliness. That’s why Coca-Cola always belongs in your icebox at home. From the equator to the poles, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes,— has become the global symbol of those who wish well to their fellow men.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
15
ture was especially kind in designing the head so that a white hat can be hung on it anywhere at any angle; however, the Navy is equally unkind in having made officers who insist that they be worn squared. In short, a white hat looks sporty any way except squared.
Keep your hats clean. A sailor never wears a soiled white hat. Keep them clean, even if it means staying aboard to wash them out. What comes first, your girl or your white hat? Your hat! Don’t go around in a grimy hat, or you will be mistaken for a midshipman. Don’t wear your hat round and perched atop your head like that of a bell hop (do you want to look like a Marine?). Wear your har awry. Wash it. When it is drying, keep the flies away from it. Throw your girl’s picture away; put your white hat in its place. Which is more beautiful? About your flat hat — throw away the hat box and jam your flat hat into a crumpled, heap so that it will look salty for the fall season (you might throw it into the shower a few times).
I had the craziest dream last night. Having gorged myself on a gigantic steak, consumed a double helping of ice cream, three bottles of milk in the chow hall, and made a date with Evelyn, I was rambling down the front steps of the cafeteria singing, “Obremski is a friend of mine;” when suddenly, a distinctly southern voice barked: “You come heah.” Terror pounced upon me, slapping away my carefree smile while the wrinkles of joy slid into the deep, fear-carved furrows on my face and hid. What had I done? Would some raspyvoiced chief inform the dining lads tomorrow that I had been separated from the V-12 Program?
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ♦> <• ❖ ❖
❖ MEET THE CHIEF *
- * ♦> $
By SEAMAN TOM PAYNE
Introducing Chief' Specialist (A) Nathan J. Marx, navy physical instruct-\ or at Notre Dame.
Two striking features about Chief Marx are his geniality and cheerfulness. . The chief was born in Louisville, Ky., in 1915. He went to Louisville High school, where he graduated in 1933. In high school he won his letter in football, but ■ his main athletic interests were confined to swimming. For three years he worked at the Lakeside swimming club, where the N.A.A.U. swimming meets were
held. In 1933 and 1934 the chief went to Indiana University where he was active in swimming but not in football. Since his original purpose in going to college was to study he felt that he couldn’t spend the time on football. At Indiana University he held the mid-state 50 meter free style dash in swimming for three years and he also held the record in the mid-state N.A.A.U. 200 meter relay.
After attending Indiana University the chief went to work for his father in Louisville where packing house byproducts were manufactured. He was not active in sports then however, but he did a lot pf swimming in the summer time.
Feb. 2, 1943 found the chief bound for Norfolk, Va. on his first assignment in the navy. There he took the regular physical instructors’ course which lasted for eight weeks. He was then transferred to Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. where he taught swimming at the naval air station. After two and a half months in Florida, he was
“She falls for any man who tvears an Arrow Tie!”
Nothing looks so well on a male chest as an Arrow Tie. Arrow ties arc bias cut for perfect-knotting and wrinkle-resisting. The fabrics (whether khaki, black, or crimson and gold) are top quality, the kind you find in more expensive ties. Be sure to see your Arrow dealer today! SI, S1.50.
SHIRTS • TIES • HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR • SPORT SHIRTS
* BUY WAR BONDS AND STAMPS *
sent to Bainbridge, Md. prior to being transferred into the new V-12 program. He was transferred to the University of Notre Dame, on June 8, 1943 as one of the original group of navy physical instructors at the V-12 unit here.
|	BUY WITH CONFIDENCE	|
|	at	I
=	South Bend’s Leading Jeweler	|
|	A wide selection of =
1	Desirable Gifts	j
1	on display.	=
j	Use our lay-away plan.	=
f»)iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiitiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiinffi
17
N. D. Marines Best
By JOHN KNUTSON
Marines from the Notre Dame detachment are still considered the best of the V-12 men who go to Parris Island. This was proven when the men who left in February were split up in three platoons. The men from other schools were kept together. But our boys were divided equally in an effort to prevent the creation of another all-time outstanding platoon as was number 829 of last November.
Some of the men have sent back words of advice for future P.I. Boots. The prospective O.C.S. boots are required to learn more than the ordinary boot. O.C.S. men must not only know how to field strip the M-l, but also the detailed assembly and working of the M-l. This includes the gas cylinder, the trigger housing, and the rear sight. They also must be able to describe the functioning of the M-l from the moment it is fired until the butt returns to its original position.
Several of the men have said that there is not time to learn all that is required in the first few weeks. Therefore, they advise all seniors to spend a little time each day learning the red book. They suggest the following chapters as being the most important: Interior Guard Duty, A Sentinel on Duty, Extended Order, (these three must be known perfectly), the first five chapters, First Aid, Personal Hygiene, Field Sanitation, Military Courtesy, Outpost Security on the March, and Close Order Drill.
.......................    a
Campus Centenary Publications
E Notre Dame—100 Years____S4.00 E
1 Collected Poems of	=
= Charles L. O'Donnell____52.50 E
1 ... at the Bookstore
i..............................1
SIX CONVENIENT CHICAGO STATIONS
The South Shore takes you direct to downtown Chicago. Six convenient stations — Kensington, 63rd St., 53rd St., Roosevelt Road, Van Buren St., and Randolph St. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
That White Sombrero
If you are new in the Navy, learn how to wear that white sombrero before you go ashore. liemember this: never square that hat! Never wear that hat unless the brim has been shaped. Noth-.ing constitutes a more impressive sight than a salt nonchalantly strolling on a busy thoroughfare with his white hat clinging precariously to the back of his head, yet never falling overboard while at that very moment pudgy business men chase their cartwheeling chapeaus and that interesting opposite sex hang on to their skirts as a sailor clutches his pay receipt. The curly-haired sailor looks best when his waves leap out from beneath his hat and gleefully push it into the background; the sailor whose hair has fallen out because of too much worry about which of his girls he really loves, looks dapper with the small round object cocked jauntily over an eye. Na-
JOSIE and JIM'S
TUNNY ITALY
NOTHING CAN TAKE ITS
SUNNY ITALY 601 N. NILES PHONE 3-0678
A TRADITION AT NOTRE
CATE
PLACE
DAME
SERVICE MEN: Make This Your First Stop on That Night Off!
KXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
16
Know Your Navy
Battle talk!
Editor’s Note: — The KNOW YOUR NAVY column of last week contained the concluding' article of a series of articles concerning United States Naval history. This is Lieut, (j.g.) J. J. Collin’s first installment of another series of articles — naval phraseology.)
Abaft—A term used to describe the location of one object in relation to another. Thus: The mainmast is abaft (farther aft than) the foremast.
Abandon—For all hands to leave — as abandon ship.
Abeam—The bearing of an object 90 degrees from ahead.
Abreast—Abeam of.
Accommodation ladder — Portable steps from gangway to water-line.
Adrift—Loose from the moorings; out of its proper place.
Aft—At, near, or toward the stern.
After — A term, usually part of the name, used to describe an object abaft a similar object. As: After turret, after deckhouse.
Ahoy—A term used in hailing a vessel or boat.
Alee—To the leeward side.
Alive—Alert.
All-hands—The ship’s entire company.
Aloft—In the top or upper rigging; on the yards; above the decks.
Alongside—Close to the ship’s side.
Amidships—In or towards the middle of a ship in regard to length or breadth.
Anchor lights—The riding lights required by law to be carried by vessels at anchor.
Anchor's aweigh — Said of the anchor when just clear* of the bottom.
Anchor-iuatch—A detail on deck at night when at anchor to safeguard the vessel.
Arming—The tallow placed in the cavity at the bottom of a hand lead for the purpose of bringing up a sample of the bottom.
Astern—The bearing of an object 180 degrees from ahead.
Athwartships—At right angles to the fore-and-aft line.
Avast—An order to stop or cease hauling.
Aye Aye, Sir—Reply to an oificer’s order signifying that it is understood and 18
Battle Talk! . . . tliat is what he handles on this portable switchboard. Close behind our advancing troops, he holds the life lines of men in combat. Through these lines, flow reports from outposts, orders from command posts—helping to win objective after objective on the road to Victory, Home and Peace.
As the nation’s largest producer of electronic and communications equipment for war, Western Electric is supplying vast quantities of telephone and radio apparatus for use on land, at sea and in the air. Many college graduates—both men and women—are playing important roles in this vital work.
Buy War Bonds regularly— all you can!
^ANNIVE/?s
aT Western Electric
■Dt] IN PEACE...SOURCE OF SUPPLY FOR THE BELL SYSTEM.
•MP I IN WAR...ARSENAL OF COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT.
will be obeyed. Not to be confused with:
Yes Sir—An affirmative answer made in reply to a senior’s question.
Very well — Signifies assent and is made only by a senior to a junior.
Back—Said of wind when it shifts counter-clockwise.
Ballast tanks—Double bottoms for carrying water ballast, capable of being flooded or pumped out at will.
Barnacle—Small shellfish which adhere to the bottom of a vessel.
Barge—A large motor boat for the use of flag officers.
Batten down—To make water tight, said of hatches.
Battlelights—Lights used for illumination during “darkened ship.”
Beachcomber — The expression today connotes tramp of the sea, unreliable drifter.
Beam—The broadest or central portion of a vessel.
Bear a hand—Speed up your work; to assist.
Belay—(1) To make fast, secure. (2) To rescind or cancel an order.
Belaying pin—A wooden or iron pin fitting into a rail used for securing gear.
Bend—To make fast, such as bending a cable to an anchor; a knot used in joining two lines.
Berth—An area or position for a ship to moor or anchor.
Bight—Any part of a rope except the end; usually refers to a loop in a line. A cove.
Bilge—The space just inside the inner-bottom. (A slang term usd at the Naval Academy equivalent to the term “flunk out.”)
"Scholastic." Too, Held Story on Frank Leahy
Coach Frank W. Leahy, director of athletics and head football coach, once more assumed the role of the mystifying gentleman of the sports world, as newspaper men sought to learn what the future held in store for him.
For a long time, Scholastic editors, as ethical as the South Bend Tribune, withheld the information that there was a strong possibility that Mr. Leahy would leave Notre Dame for the duration, after his proposed tour of army camps had been cancelled. A Chicago columnist stated last week that Coach Leahy would enter the Navy. On Saturday night, a radio report said that he would be assigned to the pre-flight school at Iowa City as coach of the Seahawks.
Another self-styled authority had consigned him to the pre-flight school at Georgia. After these gossipers had run the gamut of possibilities, the South Bend Tribune released its modicum of information, believing that it no longer was obliged to hold the story in confidence that Mr. Leahy had applied for a navy commission. This decision was reached after the Tribune office had been swamped with calls, last Friday night, following the broadcasts from Chicago stations.
The Scholastic, in printing this story on the uncertain future of Mr. Leahy, does so with the express intention of putting at ease the minds of its readers. Many possibilities have been suggested for Mr. Leahy—but they are all no'more than rumors. Nor does Mr. Leahy himself know whether or when he will receive a commission, or where he will go, should the commission arrive.
Meantime, the head coach goes about his usual chores in spring practice on the greensward of Cartier field. And when something new, and something accurate, develops regarding Mr. Leahy’s future, the Scholastic will have an accurate and reliable report for its readers.
Commerce Forum Meets
The United States should avoid all special alliances with particular countries and should strive toward a world union of all countries after the model of the Pan American Union. Thus spoke Frank McManus during the course of an address before his fellow members of the Commerce Forum at a combined regular and social meeting in the Blue Room of the Oliver Hotel on Thursday evening.
The speaker proceeded to discuss various proposed plans for international peace including those of the Atlantic Charter, Herbert Hoover, Hugh Gibson (career diplomat), Cordell Hull, Wendell Willkie, Sumner Welles, Vice President Wallace, the Knights of Columbus, Ferdinand A. Hermens (Notre Dame political economist), William Hard (International writer), and Walter Lippman (author of U. S. Foreign Policy).
In concluding his talk Mr. McManus supported “the use of force with justice, where necessary to prevent a member government of the world union from violating the peace.”
Dr. Ferdinand A. Hermens, of the department of politics at Notre Dame, contributed many enlightening comments during the following discussion in which all the members participated.
The formal proceedings were brought to a close with a social gathering.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg.	South Bend, Tnd~
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
‘ GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-Rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend. Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M.D.	M. J. Thornton, M.D.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes..
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair u service in our own laboratory. (4
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP____TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS Sl.OO.
Phone 4-148! Y
| HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP I [■hiiiiiiitiiitiiiniiniiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiininiffi
19
CHESTERFIELD

1


WHEN THEY GET CHESTERFIELDS
On fightin" fronts the world around and'from smokers all over America you hear... Chesterfields are Milder, they sure Taste Better. Yes, join , the big swing to Chesterfield and make the most of your Smoking Pleasure.
It 's Chesterfield’s Right Combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos that makes the difference.
NOT A SLOGAN
—BUT A FACT
1944, Liggett & Mye^s Tobacco Co.
4