JANUARY 16, 1942
Volume 75
Number 12
Murais in the cat — nothing could be finer than to have your ham and eggs in South America.
Teaching a new Army old "tricks" in telephony
The telephone plays a vital role in army communications. So the Bell System is helping to school Signal Corps men in practically every phase of telephone construction, operation and maintenance.
This training job is but a small part of the tremendous task Bell System people are doing in this national crisis. They’re setting up telephone systems for new camps,basesandfactories—handling an enormous volume of calls needed to coordinate the Nation’s war effort.
Throughout the country, Bell System people are wholeheartedly cooperating in the drive for victory. To
COLLEGE PARADE
By ROBERT LeMENSE
By this time everyone should be resituated and the supply of Christmas vacation yarns should be nearly exhausted. Climatically speaking, we received a cold reception on our return, but everyone seems to have survived. True, some of our sun-tanned southerners shamelessly wore three sweaters and two coats for their trek across the quadrangle but their act was balanced by the nonchalant, biology-building-bound premed who had only a suit coat for extra protection.
As the “Parade” is being written, the exact Notre Dame statics quo in regard to the war situation is not known. But there have been rumors.... However, before you read this, official facts and figures on our scholastic future will probably have been announced. So we thought you might be interested in the set-up at other colleges and universities.
Up at Madison, the University of Wisconsin has gone on an all-out war time basis. Their first semester final exams have been jammed into a five day period of time instead of the originally scheduled nine days. The second semester has been shortened by 21 days, but at the expense of the student’s holidays. Also a 12 week summer session has been planned.
Purdue University abolished all final exams for the first semester and started their second semester this past Wednesday. The second semester there is slated to end on May 2. Plans are rapidly being formulated for a 12-month three semester system.
From the Jan. 7 issue of the DePautv we find that the University of the same name had not at that time announced any definite plans. The students there, like ourselves, and the students at many other colleges and universities, were awaiting the outcome of the meeting at Baltimore. From time to time the “Parade” will mention procedure plans of other institutions.
$
The Echo
The only thing that can deprive a woman of the last word.
❖
Parachute Troop Test
Out of one of the many “sessions” with cronies from other colleges came this tale.
A certain fellow from Michigan Tech and his roommate took turns sleeping in
the upper bunk of their double-decker. My friend had the lower from the beginning of the year to Thanksgiving. Naturally it was his duty during that time to jump out of bed and turn off the alarm clock in the morning.
The two changed bunks after Thanksgiving vacation. The first morning back my friend was awakened by the alarm clock and from force of habit, although still three-quarters asleep, jumped out to turn it off. His lower bunk roomie, aroused by the crash, awoke, extricated my friend’s head from the waste basket, unwound his legs from a chair, picked splinters from various parts of his anatomy, gave him artificial respiration, turned off the alarm, and went back to bed.
Moral: Look before you leap.
The Shadow Knows
A woman and her son boarded a street car. Upon approaching the fare box, she deposited ten cents. Said the conductor, “Another fare please!”
She: “My son’s name is Crime, and ‘Crime does not Pay’!”—Maroon Bee
The Hot Dog on the Train
Boy: “Hello.”
Girl:
Boy: “Oh, well.”
Here’s one that has gone the rounds.
Prof: “Is this an original work?” Student: “Yes, sir.”
Prof: “Then I am very pleased to meet you, Lord Tennyson. I thought you died years ago.”
"88"
A farmer was telling of his trip to a college town last fall: “I walked up to a big concrete barn. Some smart guy yanked a five dollar bill put of my hand, gave me back two and one half dollars and a piece of cardboard. I got shoved in by a mess of people in fuzzy coats. Another guy took the piece of cardboard, tore it in two pieces and gave me a piece back. When I got inside I found that the barn didn’t have a roof on it. There were a lot of seats surrounding a big lawn. Out on the lawn there was a bunch of boys in red knee pants and leather hats throwing leather things around. On the other end of the lawn another bunch of boys in blue knee pants were doing the same thing. Pretty soon four men in black and white shirts and
white knee pants came running out on the lawn and the two bunches of boys lined up. One of the boys started yelling at the other side and it started one of the worst fights I ever seen.—Oredigger ❖
Burma Shave
“I had a beard like yours once, but when I realized how it made me look I cut it off.”
“I had a face like you’m once. And when I realized that I couldn’t cut it off I grew this beard to cover it.”
❖
Not Here
Traditional All Male Band Will Now Have Women
—Ohio State Lantern ❖
Can You Take It?
There were three men in a boat with four cigarettes but no matches. What did they do? They threw out one cigarette and made the' boat a cigarette lighter.—Drexerd
❖
Post Vacation Laugh Lines
“I finished my term paper and studied for two finals during vacation.”
“I made a New Year’s resolution not to go downtown until after the exams are over.”
“No, I didn’t go out much—I spent most of my time with my folks.”
“So I was going to come back three days early but my folks persuaded me to stay until the last day.”
“No, I didn’t have very much fun on the train. Most of the passengers were students from various girl’s schools.
“So I said, ‘Go ahead and get mad, there are hundreds of beautiful girls at St. Mary’s and I’ll date one of them for the Prom.’
“I told the folks I’d rather walk and keep healthy for national defense but they insisted that I use the car most of the time.”
❖
G. S. told us this one just before a class one day.
“Say,” he said, “did you hear about the corrector for an accounting prof?”
“No,” we said, “what about him?”
“Well,” said G.S., “this fellow was coming out of the Commerce Building with an armful of papers to correct. Just as he came out the door, a blast of wind hit him. Woosh! There were the papers in all directions and disappearing fast.”
“Did he get them all?”
“Yes,” still with a straight face, “and there’s absolutely no truth to the rumor that he gave 100 to the paper he found a few feet from the Commerce Building and 0 to the one he finally caught up with over by the stadium.”
3
THE WEEK
NEXT WEEK
By J. Q. O'Connell
Top of the Week:
The V’s have it!
"This is Straight Stuff...
We were hardly out of Chicago when the first whisper reached us. The conductor on the South Shore let it out of the bag. “Boy, just wait ’till you get back,” said he as he punched our ticket. “Boy, oh boy, will you be surprised!” Then with a nasty grin he was off down the aisle. When we reached Alumni we found 47 men studying for the semesters, and one experimenter sleeping under his bed, to get the feel of a double-decker.
The advantage of getting close to the vine while the grapes are being picked, was thrown into bold relief last Monday. Mr. Sullivan complained that all he got was rumors of rumors.
One sociology major revealed that the difference in reaction between the now famous “Fifteen-Days-Half - The - Fare” rumor, and that old favorite, “Camel Caravan to California,” amounted to .72 sigma. He didn’t say what that meant, but he seemed quite excited.
♦
Ah, Ha, The Cavalry
Jim O’Donohoe, over in Sorin was batting the books the other evening, when two burly men, armed with tape measures, marched in. Without a word, they
4
measured everything in sight—the floor, the walls, the ceiling, the window— everything. Then one of them pulled a book out of his pocket and began to jot down figures. Jim, burning with curiosity, hopped up on a chair and perred over the man’s shoulder. He had written: “Volume, 840 cubic feet; 40 hammocks, or eight stalls.”
Oddities In The News
Our agents report that the various club Christmas dances were universally successful, but D. Casey says New York can have its Conga chains, Chicago, its early curfews, and Louisville, its Defense Bond raffles—the Fox River Valley Club made $52 in Appleton, Wis., with a real orchestra, too.
Someone else we know made a profit, yesterday. Slipped five cents in a campus phone to call one of those three magic numbers, and out dropped a couple of quarters. He says he doesn’t mind getting three oranges from a telephone, but the girls don’t need to go that far. The Christmas card we sent to Bob Le-Mense, way up in Iron Mountain, Mich., came back the other day. Over “Iron Mountain” the Post Office Dept, had stamped: “Don’t Make Us Laugh.”
A Sad Story
The most touching news we’ve heard lately concerns Commerce Club president, John Moriarity. John’s number is coming up soon, and he hasn’t got a single angle to work on, not even a second lieutenancy. Friends are planning a fare-well party for the man who may turn out to be N. D.’s only private. Commander Matthews, John’s next door neighbor, is scheduled to be toastmaster.
<£♦
Communique I74B
Usually reliable sources, close to the main office, have informed us that Monday, Jan. 19, is designated as M-Day, although this is emphatically denied in some quarters. Contradictory reports lead us to believe that enemy propagandists are fishing for information. However, one thing is certain, says our informant: Regulation blue books will be used.	•
❖
Bottom Of The Week:
How’s it, Junior, what’s your rumor?
SATURDAY, JAN. 17:
Movie, Washington hall, murals that move, 6:40 and 8:15.
SUNDAY, JAN. 18:
Symphony orchestra, Washington hall, 8:00 p.m.
MONDAY, JAN. 19:
Exams.
Three thousand students wail “I’ll Get By”—2,999 wish they sat next to Albert Abraham Plotkin.
TUESDAY, JAN. 20:
Exams.
Freshman takes exam without a crib.
WEDNESDAY, JAN. 21:
Basketball, Northwestern tries again, 8:00 p.m.
Exams.
Exam takes freshman without a crib.
THURSDAY, JAN. 22:
Exams.
Dean-emeritus Roscoe Pound lectures, Washington hall, 8:00 p.m.
Caulkinites demand retrial.
FRIDAY, JAN. 23:
They’re still going on.
Dean Pound lectures again. .
Class of ’41.5 holds Senior Night.
Glee Club Concerts
Three concerts are listed for the Glee Club in the next few weeks. The first of these is a scheduled appearance next Monday at the football banquet, to be followed by the second appearance, Wednesday, Jan. 21, at the Palace Theatre in South Bend. The third concert is set for Feb. 8, at Rosary College, River Forest, Ill.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered aa second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for malllns at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized Jnne 25. 1918.
Volume 75	JANUARY 16, 1942	Number 12

Father O’Donnell Attends
Convention at Baltimore
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, attended the 28th annual convention of the Association of American Colleges in Baltimore on Jan. 3, 4, and 5.
Originally scheduled to be held in Cleveland, this important meeting of the Association, of which Notre Dame is a member, was changed to Baltimore after war was declared, so as to be close to the offices of the national government, from which was expected specific instructions as to the related programs through which all colleges will be expected to contribute to the war effort.
Many colleges and universities have already introduced various defense courses, as has Notre Dame, in anticipation of the requests of the government, and have also offered their facilities, as Notre Dame has, to the government for whatever needs that may be most pressing at this critical time.
Other Notre Dame representatives who attended the meeting were Rev. William Cunningham, C.S.C., chairman of the Church Related College branch of the Association; Mr. Clarence E. Manion, dean of the College of Law, and Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C., secretary of the Graduate School of the University.
—J. 77. Johnston
National Emergency Will
Change N. D.'s Curriculum
Courses are now being considered to supplement the present curricula in order to best prepare students for commissions in the various branches of the Army, Navy and Marines. These courses will be taught beginning with the second semester.
Assurance has been made those students entering the armed forces through draft or enlistment during the school year that they will be given individual consideration by the University in foregoing academic requirements for credits or for degrees.
It has been announced by the academic
council of the University that “the extent of academic consideration to be given, rests with the deans of the respective colleges, who will base their decisions largely on the quality of the student’s work.”
In making this decision the Council desires to be as liberal as possible with the undergraduates who are called to service. But at the same time the Council desires reasonable precautions in preserving academic standards, especially in regard to degrees awarded. This is only for the best interests of the service, of the individual, and of education.
The program of the University has already shown efforts over last year in the direction of preparedness—work in the laboratories, the Navy R. O. T. C., courses for defense workers. Despite recognition of the importance of continuing to train leaders for business and the professions, the University fully recognizes the necessity of taking many present students from the campus for service.—Charles Kleibacker
Print Supervisor's Dissertation
A book entitled The Curriculum of the Catholic High School for Boys by Brother William, C.S.C., Ph.D., member of the Provincial Council and supervisor of schools of the Brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross, was issued in December by The Ave Maria Press. The volume, a doctoral dissertation written at the University of Chicago in June, 1940, is an objective appraisal of the curriculum of the Catholic high school on the basis of data gathered by questionnaires to pupils, graduates, and principals of schools, by. examination of textbooks and school records, by giving intelligence tests to samples of boys, and by visiting a selected group of schools in the Middle West. Articles on various topics included in the book have appeared recently in The Catholic School Journal, The Catholic Educational Review, Journal of Religious Instruction, The School Review, The American Catholic Sociological Review, and Zeta News.
December Meeting of ASM
The Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals held its December meeting on Wednesday, Dec. 10. A dinner was held in the Notre Dame Dining Hall followed by the technical session in the Engineering Auditorium.
The guest speaker of the meeting was Dr. C. A. Zapffe, research associate of the Battelle Memorial Institute, Columbus, Ohio. Dr. Zapffe’s research work concerning the effects of hydrogen upon the properties and behavior of steel have proved to be of value in connection with this important subject.
Dr. Zapffe presented the highlights of Battelle’s research program for a study of the behavior of hydrogen in iron and steel. This research program indicates that hydrogen is a factor in many iron and steel defects. He discussed such defects as low ductility, flakes, shatter cracks, and thermal cracks in forgings; blisters and brittleness in steel and electroplate; fisheyes and cracks in welds and castings; abnormal malleableizing of cast iron; and blistering and chipping phenomena in paints and vitreous enamels on steel and cast iron.	.
Recent work, as yet unpublished, was presented by Dr. Zapffe to clarify the relationship of hydrogen to these defects and to reveal the role played by this gas in the crystallography of steel.
Safety of Holy Cross Missionaries Feared
Much concern is being expressed here for the’ welfare of two young Notre Dame priests, Robert F. McKee, C.S.C., and Rev. Jerome Lawyer, C.S.C., and also for Brother Rex of Dujarie Institute, two Sister from Saint Mary’s, who together with ten other missionaries from the Canadian branch of the Holy Cross Congregation, were last known to be in Manila, P. I. enroute to the Holy Cross Missions in India. The group left San Francisco Nov. 7 and are believed to have arrived in Manila the day after the declaration of war.
Rep. Clarence E. Kilburn of Malone,
5
N. Y., Father McKee’s home town, is engaged in an effort to ascertain something regarding the welfare of the missionaries.
Mr. Kilburn said that he had asked the assistantance of the state department in ascertaining whether or not the missionaries escaped injury during the attacks on Manila.
The State Department had no news regarding their safety but the insular division of the Department of Commerce is now making inquiries for Mr. Kilburn with the hope that news may be forthcoming.
It is believed that the missionaries were ordered back to the United States by Rev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., provincial and it was first thought that the ship returning from Japan with Ambassador Grew and his diplomatic staff would also bring them back to the United States. But Mr. Kilburn was told by the State Department that this ship would land at various places in the Orient taking only members of the diplomatic and consular corps. Latest reports indicate however, that all of the group are safe in Manila.
Besides the human assistance and relief for the tired, laboring religious in Bengal, the new missionaries also carried with them many religious articles and literature, and many other necessities so sorely needed in the remote for-ing missions of the Holy Cross.
Fathers McKee and Lawyer were ordained to the Sacred Priesthood in June, 1940 in Sacred Heart Church, here on the campus.
Professor Wilcox Entertains
Last Sunday evening ■will be remembered by the seniors in mechanical engineering as one of the most enjoyable evenings of the year. .Fourteen of the power plant prodigies were dinner guests of Prof, and Mrs. C. C. Wilcox. After heartily enjoying a splendid dinner, the engineers listened with interest to Prof. Wilcox’s vivid recollections of his many trips and out-of-the-ordinary professional experiences. Tom Geselbracht, Bill House, and Jack Chung formed a trio to lead in the singing of many old favorites, ft was unanimously agreed that the party was a real success.
Dean Pound to Lecture
Wide interest is being aroused in the lecture topic of Dean Roscoe Pound of the Harvard Law School, who will speak to the students of Notre Dame’s College of Law in a series covering Jan. 22, 23, 24, and 26. For Dean Pound will speak on natural law and the rights of man, vital topics in view of the existing democracy-axis conflict.
6
The eminent jurist, author, and authority on natural law is the first of a group of distinguished American scholars to be invited annually to lecture to law students, says Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.
Sidelight of the series is the invitation of Dean Clarence E. Manion of the University’s College of Law to members of the bar in Indiana and nearby states to attend the lectures.
FACULTY PORTRAITS
By Paul Carr
Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., efficient, philosophical, amicable, appreciative Inter-americanist. There are a few men on campus to whom this brief personification of Father Cunningham will suggest many things, for each word stands for a quality in him which none who know him can overlook.
Thoughts of Father Cunningham somehow can not be separated from Notre Dame. Back in the days of the horse . and buggy and 200 students at Notre Dame, he came here with his brother. After four years they moved out of St. Edward’s hall and high school and went to college. Four years later, in 1907, brother Jim went to live in Chicago and William F. enrolled in the seminary of “Notre Dame” priests. Today Jim’s son, Jim Jr., lives in Morrissey Hall, while Father locates his office across the “Mall” in 109 Dillon Hall. But there is considerable more to the story than just fact.
From his earliest teaching days, Father Cunningham’s special interest has been in the field of education, though from 1912-1918, at the University of Portland, he was listed as a teacher of philosophy. Though he soon outlived this title he preserved its implications in the teaching of his favorite subject. No matter what the subject, his attitude is philosophical.
Father has held top educational positions at the University of Portland, the College of St. Thomas, and at Notre Dame from 1919 to 1928 and since 1933. Last year he was appointed to the newly created post, director of the faculty. By about 1926 his talents had surpassed campus limits and he was appointed to regional and national educational societies: last month he retired from the chairmanship of the National Association of Church Related Colleges. In 1927 he made a study of European educational systems in France, Germany, Belgium and England. And at Notre Dame his name has become synonomous with edu
cation and with his favorite course, the philosophy of education, for which he wrote a widely acclaimed text two years ago entitled The Pivotal Problems of Education.
Scholastically he has' accomplished a great deal. But Father Cunningham’s active interest in all around him has always involved him in many other things. “Why I’ve ice skated since I was four,” he says. And so he has— and proves it by figure skating on the lake these days. Back about 1923, when Angelo Bertelli should have come to Notre Dame, Fr. Cunningham coached the hockey team—and a good one too, with Jimmy Crowley as its star goalie. But when that ice melts Father is still right at home. His canoe trips with Father Hagerty, C.S.C., are legendary.
But Father Cunningham, as the outdoor man, is not the only result of his enthusiasm for many things. There are 32 Spanish speaking students at Notre Dame. Together they form the LaRaza club. Father Cunningham is their chaplain. But to most of them he is also the man to whom they go very often for consultation. Several years ago Father’s enthusiasm was aroused in things South American. At the time he was avidly studying French'. But with typical fervor, he turned to this new interest and began to act on it. And when Father Cunningham acts on something he does not spare his energies. About four years ago he traveled through northern South America with Bishop O’Hara, then president of Notre Dame, both members of a Catholic Educational Committee. The things he saw on this trip brought him back to Notre Dame with added interest in this new avocation.
More and more he delved into the subject. At Notre Dame he sought the company of the Latin-American boys and drew out those most talented and most interested in Interamericanism. Eduardo Alcayaga, a graduate student in education, came to Notre Dame last year from Chile. This year and last Father Cunningham has met Eduardo every day after lunch for a 45 minute class, conducted one day in Spanish and the next in English. Both are now bi-linguists. Many instances of Interamerican enthusiasm on campus may be traced directly to Father. Last summer he accompanied four Notre Dame students and one other -priest on a two month trip to a Pax Romana (Catholic student) conference in Bogota, Colombia.
But vivid as it is this Inter-American zeal is not an essential part of Father Cunningham. It is merely a firm conviction applied by the essentials of the tireless energy and unwavering faith of a man, a priest, and a friend.
Onward to Victory!
Address on Notre Dame and the war program, by the Rev. Hugh Ol,Donnell, C.S.C., president, to the students of the University, January 13, 1942.
A week ago I attended the joint session of the Senate and the House of Representatives as the guest of Postmaster General Frank C. Walker, whom you know as a loyal alumnus and a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees. I can not tell you anything about President Roosevelt’s message on the state of the nation that you do not know already. You heard it on the radio, or you read it in the newspapers. Although you were impressed by its solemnity, you would have been even more deeply moved had you been able to see the President as he delivered his message in that historic setting. The theme, to put it most bluntly, was “all out for war.” And, unless I am mistaken, one passage fell upon your ears with a familiar ring:
“We are fightins,” said President Roosevelt, “for security and progress and for peace, not only for ourselves, but for all men, not only for our generation, but for all generations. We are fighting to cleanse the world of ancient evils, ancient ills.
“Our enemies are guided by a brutal cynicism, by unholy contempt for the human race. We are inspired by a faith that goes back through the ages to the first chapter- of the Book of Genesis —‘God created man in His own image I’ We on our side are striving to be true to that divine heritage. We are fighting, as our fathers have fought, to uphold the doctrine that all men are equal in the sight of God.”
This war, by that declaration, is in defense of principles which you and I hold dear, not only as Americans, but as inheritors of a cultural, intellectual, and religious tradition that began with Christian civilization. Our duty is clear; all that remains is to determine the best way of doing our duty.
It was in this connection that I went East about ten days ago to attend a -meeting of presidents of 900 American colleges and universities. Our schools accept a two-fold obligation: first to assist to the utmost in the prosecution of the war; and second, to help students, in every manner consistent with sound practice, to complete their education. Actually, the two obligations overlap. It is ’ impossible to achieve one without the other.
A Council of War
Our meeting today is literally a council of war. I have called it in order to allay the rumors that you have been hearing, and perhaps helping to circulate, since you returned from the Christ
mas holidays. I will give you the facts about the part that your school—and that means you, the faculty, and the administration—must play in bringing the war to a successful end. I did not speak to you sooner because I did not have definite information. Even now
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.
some things are yet to be decided. I shall tell you what I can, but I warn you that what I am about to say applies to the situation only as it exists noiv. You understand that things may change very quickly, not because of action by the University, but because of conditions over which we at Notre Dame have no control.
Don't Put Faith in Rumors
I urge you again to remember that it is foolish to believe all you hear. You know how easily fertile minds—and they are unusually fertile at a time like this— concoct stories that are swallowed as truth by persons who should know’ better. Keep your -wits about you. Nothing serves the enemy’s purposes better than to have large, representative, normally intelligent groups of our people wandering around in a fog of their own making. As I told you in my letter of Dec. 9, there is no reason why students should become unduly alarmed at this time, notwithstanding the swiftness with which war has come. Do not be carried away by violent emotion, which leads to
confused thinking and acting. Go about your normal ways until such time as your country calls. Let the usual social and recreational programs continue. Of course there should be a senior ball, junior prom, and other social events. Of course there should be intercollegiate and interhall athletics. Such programs are necessary for good morale at a time like this. But, through it all, don’t forget to pray unceasingly.
In order that there may be no reason for irresponsible talk and fruitless speculation, I have taken steps to keep the student body informed about developments as they occur. If news is not forthcoming from my office or from my authorized representatives, it will be because there is no news, and not because I, or any member of the administration, wants to “hold out” on you. You have my word for this, just as you have my word that Notre Dame will protect your best interests.
Those of you who are not of draft age should remain where you are. A stampede to enlist and leave your college work is not what your country wants. That was made clear by General Hershey at the Baltimore meeting of college presidents, when he pointed out how completely the selective service system is in accord ■with the American way of life. Of course if it is possible to enlist and. remain in school at the same time—and that can be done under some circumstances— patriotism might dictate such a course, and one would be unpatriotic if he did not endorse such a program.
The University and the War
The discussion at the presidents’ conference fell into two main divisions. One dealt with cooperation with civil and military authorities; the other with the best academic program to be followed for the duration of the war, and the special consideration to be given to men who interrupt their college careers to go into the service.
Notre Dame is already offering courses in mathematics to men who expect to enter branches of the armed forces in which mathematical skill is required. At the beginning of the next term we will offer a special course for those who plan to enlist in the Navy so that they may
7
qualify for certain positions open to college men. There will be a special five-hour a week course in radio to train operators and technicians for the army and navy. Other courses will be inaugurated as they are needed. In passing, I might add that a number of upperclassmen have expressed a wish for additional courses in languages. Should there be enough interest, I shall be happy to make the proper reconnnendations to the Director of Studies.
Captain Burnett has received instructions from Washington asking him to interview applicants for appointments as Ensign' in the engineering classification in the Naval Reserve. The Captain informs me that thus far the response to the invitation has been disappointing. Accordingly, I urge juniors and seniors in the College of Engineering to take advantage of the opportunity, and to call on Captain Burnett as soon as possible. Neglect of the opportunity might be a cause for regret in the future.
While I am on the subject of emergencies that have arisen out of the draft, I want to say a word to those of you— the seniors especially — for whom the army is more or less imminent. If you are called to service before the end of the term, see the dean of your college and explain the circumstances to him. I assure you that you will receive a sympathetic hearing and every possible consideration.
An Accelerated Program
Because of conditions that the war has forced upon us, the University Council has decided to accelerate Notre Dame’s academic program by adopting the policy of dividing the schoolyear into three terms. This system, recommended by the presidents’ conference in Baltimore, is being put into effect by several other schools. Under it, the academic year will coincide almost exactly with the calendar year. There will be sufficient time between terms for whatever vacation seems to be in order for a nation at war. Accordingly, the semester examinations will begin Monday, January 19th, and the date of registration for the next term will be the following Monday. And compete details relating to the three-semester program will be announced very soon by the Director of Studies.
By all means those of you who expect to register for military service next month should enroll in the second semester. The reason is that you may not be called until the semester is over, but if you should be, and your academic work is satisfactory, I shall direct the deans of the colleges to give special consideration to your case, so certain credit may be received for work done.
What will be the advantage of an
accelerated program? Its major purpose ■will be to give the student of military age a better chance to finish his education before he is called to the service, and to prepare him to discharge the duties that his country may place upon him. The boy who must leave school for military or other reasons, furthermore, should experience a minimum of inconvenience in withdrawing, or, for that matter, in re-entering.
Notre Dame's War Activities
Long before actual hostilities began— even before the period of unlimited emergency was declared — Notre Dame was devoting a large part of her energies and facilities to national defense. That is what you would expect from a school whose record of patriotism began on the very day that Father Sorin first landed in the United States.
For the past two years we have been offering some sixty college-grade courses in defense to industrial workers in the St. Joseph Valley area. Within the past twelve months more than 150 students completed the ground courses given at Notre Dame in the Civilian Pilot Training program. Our scientists and engineers have been working overtime. Last September we were happy to welcome to the campus the unit of the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps. Under the capable direction of Captain Burnett and his efficient staff it has become, even in these few months, a part of the family of Notre Dame.
Now that war has actually come, the Notre Dame program is being enlarged and intensified, not for defense, but for victory. For that reason, we have formed the Committee on War Activities, with Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., as chairman. In adition to its duties of coordination and correlation, this Committee will issue, from time to time, information of general interest to the student body. When necessary, I shall supplement its bulletins with personal messages.
Several members of the faculty who hold reserve commissions in the army
The Academy of Science has announced an essay contest for its members. Manuscripts are to be turned in before March 21. They are to be general scientific papers, and will be judged from every aspect: topic, treatment, critical integrity, and so on.
The. winner of the contest will receive a substantial money award and his paper will be published in the Scholastic.
have been called to duty and have been granted leave of absence. Others have been assigned to other institutions where they are working on defense projects. Many of the priests whom you know are now chaplains, and several more have offered their services. Hundreds of students, former students, and alumni have answered the call, and the war is brought very close to us each time we remember in our prayers the eight Notre Dame men who have already given their lives for their country.
Notre Dame and the Navy
Now I come to a matter that apparently has been giving you great concern. I refer, of course, to the rumor that the Navy Department will soon begin to use Notre Dame as a base for training naval aviation cadets. Over the years I have learned something of the students’ genius for elaboration and decoration, but I must say that this time you broke all known records. I can hear you say, “Why didn’t somebody in authority tell us what it was all about?” And to that I can truthfully answer that you have known just as much about the matter as the administration did, or does to this hour.
Now these are the facts. Last month the Navy made a survey of Notre Dame, as it did of some other schools, with the tentative idea of using our facilities— provided they were suitable, and if arrangements could be made — to train cadets. There the matter still stands, all rumors, broadcasts, and newspaper stories to the contrary notwithstanding.
If the Navy does decide that Notre Dame’s facilities can be used to advantage, we will accept the opportunity to be of service as an honor that comes to us because of our cooperation with the government in the Civil War, the Spanish-American War, and the first World War. If you doubt that Notre Dame has felt the impact of past wars, or if you think that we are faced by conditions which are entirely strange to us, study the history of Notre Dame, or, better still, take another look at the mute testimony that you will find on the bronze tablets of the Memorial Door.
Naturally, you want to know where you stand if the Navy should decide that a medley of the “Victory March” and “Anchors Aweigh” would bring discomfort to the enemy, and I can answer your question without hesitation. Contrary to rumor, you will not be asked to leave; neither will you be asked to seek living quarters off the campus.
Whether or not the naval cadets become our guests, I grant you that life here at Notre Dame may not be as comfortable as it has been in the past. Undoubtedly you will be asked to make some sacrifices. So will the president, the
(Completed on page 21)
Wallace Ford, Arch Ward, Warren
Brown Honor 1942 Gridders Monday
On Monday evening, Jan. 19, the Notre Dame football team and their amazing Coach-of-the-Year Frank Leahy will be honored at the annual civic testimonial dinner sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley. For the 22nd successive time Notre Dame’s gridiron warriors will be feted, but not since 1930, when Knute Rockne turned out his last great team have the honored guests achieved an undefeated season. In 1941', however, they have, and this year the Notre Dame glee club, Jack Molloy’s orchestra, and an imposing array of speakers will pay them tribute.
Navy Grid Coach on Program
Topping the speaking program will be one of Hollywood’s ace comedians, Wallace Ford, while doing duty as toastmaster will be Warren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Sun. The remainder of the great speaking program will include the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University; the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president and chairman of the faculty board in control of athletics, who will give the invocation; Coach Frank Leahy; Commander John E. Whelchel, U.S.N., new football coach at Annapolis; Arch Ward, alumnus of Notre Dame and Chicago Tribune sports editor; Mayor Jesse I. Pavey of South Bend, who will give a short welcoming address; and Floyd Searer, president of the local Notre Dame club, who will introduce the toastmaster.
Senior monogram winners, who will sit at the speaker’s table, are Steve Juz-wik, right halfback; Capt. Paul Lillis and Jim Brutz, tackles; Bob Maddock and All - American Bernie Crimmins, guards; Johnny Kovatch, end; Bob Hargrave, quarterback; Ray Ebli, tackle; Joe Laiber and Hercules Bereolos, guards; and Gordy O’Reilly, center. Juzwik and Hargrave have enlisted in the Naval R.O.T.C.
One of the featured attractions of the entire program will be the stirring rendition of Jack White’s (’41) “Song of the Free” by the 60-voice glee club under the direction of Prof. Daniel Pedtke, which will be accompanied by Jack Mol
loy’s orchestra, especially recruited for this occasion. Francis Jones is general chairman for the affair, and Robert M. Cahill, Notre Dame ticket manager, is chairman of the ticket committee.
Banquet Custom Is 22 Years Old
The custom of grid banquets here at Notre Dame originated in 1920 when a small group of interested South Bend business men feted “Rock’s” undefeated eleven, then led by the immortal George Gipp. As the years passed the dinner grew into an affair which annually is a sell-out. Some years ago the sponsorship was assumed by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley, and since 1927, when the dining halls were completed, the banquet has been staged there. Great names have adorned the speaker’s platforms in the past 21 years, most illustrious of whom have been Knute K. Rockne, “Babe” Ruth, and Will Rogers.
—Frank Keenan
Junior Prom is On
War or No War
Ignore the snow, the cold; ignore for the moment talk of war, cadets, and three semesters and step into 370 Dillon and a new world. For here the subject of the hour is the annual Junior Prom, scheduled for Feb. 6, and the speaker is Edward E. (Bud) Doyle, general chairman of the Prom.
The dance, to be held in the Palais Royale is the highlight of a week-end which includes a tea-dance on Saturday afternoon and a basketball game with the University of Kentucky in the evening. Bobby Byrne and his orchestra will play for the Prom while Jack Molloy is the maestro for the tea-dance.
Despite their pre-occupation with the week-end, news of the war must have influenced Doyle and his publicity chairman, Bill Brady, for this week they released their first Prom communique, outlining plans and rules.
The complete and official communique reads as follows:
“Bud Doyle, general chairman of the Junior Prom, which is to be held Feb. 6, announced this week that only 350 tickets would be sold for this year’s dance. The bids will be sold only on Feb. 2 and 3, the Monday and Tuesday immediately preceding the dance, in the basement of the dining halls. A strict o policy of “first come, first served” will be followed, and it is expected that the
He couldn't get a ticket . . .
supply of tickets will be exhausted before Tuseday night of Prom week.
“Since both juniors and seniors are eligible to attend the dance, all men anticipating attending are advised to buy their bid either on Feb. 2 or 3 because there definitely will be no advance in the number of tickets available.
“The Prom will be held at the Palais Royale, with music by Bobby Byrne and -his orchestra. School officials informed Chairman Doyle that men who attend the Prom will be allowed the use of cars for the entire week-end. A further announcement stated that St. Mary’s girls, may attend the affair.
“Special invitations for the dance, a souvenir of the week-end for Prom guests, may be purchased at either 351 or 370 Dillon.
“Walt Jones, chairman of the tea dance committee, announced that the tea dance this year would be a candle light -affair, held in the Gold Room of the Hotel Oliver. Music will be furnished by Jack Molloy and his orchestra. This
9
dance will be held Saturday afternoon, and the week-end will close Saturday night when the Prom men and their guests attend a basketball game between the University of Kentucky and the University of Notre Dame.”
And come the week-end of Feb. 6, Bud Doyle will have the company of 349 other juniors and seniors when they ignore for three days all talk of studies, weather, and war.—Ted Weber
Exam. Schedule
The semester examinations in all Colleges of the University will be held on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday of Jan. 19, 20, 21, 22, and 23, according to the following schedule:
Classes taught at 8:00 on Monday 9:00 on Monday 10:00 on Monday 11:00 on Monday
1:15 on Monday 2:15 on Monday 3:15 on Monday
Classes taught at 8:00 on Tuesday 9:00 on Tuesday
10:00 on Tuesday 11:00 on Tuesday 1:15 on Tuesday 2:15 on Tuesday 3:15 on Tuesday
Will be examined at S :00 on Monday 8:00 on Friday
10:00 on Monday
10:00 on Wednesday 2:15 on Wednesday 2:15 on Monday
10:00 on Friday Hill be examined at
8:00 on Tuesday 8:00 on Thursday
10:00 on Tuesday 10:00 on Thursday
2:15 on Thursday 2:15 on Tuesday 2:15 on Friday
A class taught after 4:00 p.m. on any day is to be examined at 8:00 p.m. on Monday, Tuesday, or Wednesday.
Any examination outside these five
days assigned in the University Calendar will not be valid for credit. The period of each semester examination is one hour and fifty minutes. Monday in the left column of the schedule above means Monday, Wednesday, or Friday; Tuesday means Tuesday, Thursday, or Saturday. Students must take their examinations with their proper sections in all instances.
Initial Step in Depicting History of University Completed As Murals Appear in Cafeteria
During the Christmas recess, the first section of a series of murals, executed by Augustin C. Pall, the French artist, was erected on the east wall of the Cafeteria. The mural, about 45 feet long and covering the entire east wall, is just one-third of the whole work projected by M. Pall in cooperation with the University’s plans for the commemoration of the Centennial which is to be celebrated during the next school year. Though this painting was the first to be finished, in reality the scenes depicted are events which occurred in more recent times. M. Pall began work on it last summer and completed the mural in December.
Three memorable events in the history of the University and two of her greatest scholars are depicted. The first shows Father Zahm, Notre Dame’s priest-scientist, on one of his expeditions into the interior of South America to research the production of rubber. The second scene is an authentic picturization of a rubber plantation showing the native men and women workers collecting the sap from the rubber trees. The third scene is an insert at the lower right-hand corner of the second mural, depicting the great chemist, Father Nieuwland, in his laboratory, doing research in finding a method to make synthetic rubber, which formula has brought him fame and is being utilized by the Dupont Company in cooperation with the country’s 'war program. The two South American scenes are imaginatively done in bright green and copper colors and the river in the background gives it a realistic touch.
Two other paintings are planned by M. Pall for the west wall and the noi-th wall of the cafeteria. According to the preliminary sketches of the west wall which are to be developed later and are subject to changes, there are two scenes representing the early life of the settlers in South Bend and at Notre Dame. The first chapel is shown being constructed and the main occupation of the day, furtrading, is symbolized by several hunts-
No ’’Scholastic'’ For Next Two Weeks
Due to a set of circumstances beyond the Editor’s control, the advent of examinations next week and the printing of Scrip on Friday, Feb. 6, there will be no Scholastic for the next two weeks.
men carrying furs. The other half of the painting is to contrast the modern industries of this age as they affect Notre Dame with the old-time ways. Perhaps some of the University’s modern buildings will be depicted as well as the engineers who have made possible the great advances in modern life. In the centre of the piece M. Pall depicts graduates and the traditional commencement week.
The mural for the north wall is to be the largest of the three paintings, about 70 or 75 feet in length. The theme for the work is the motto of the University, “For God, Country and Notre Dame,” and centers upon a group of great clerics and presidents of the University who developed the school from its beginning, from Father Sorin up to the present day. The various branches of activity and study in the University will also be symbolized in the scene. Above this group is the picturization of an angelic figure representing the religious and intellectual spirit of man. All along the top part of the mural are to be seen the modern buildings of the Notre Dame of today, forming a background for the whole picture. On the right-hand side of the painting will be shown Father Sorin’s early attempts to establish a school and his first meeting with the Indians. Another scene is to depict the rebuilding of Notre Dame after the great fire, when Father Sorin himself helped to clean the bricks and set them one upon the other again. On the left of the mural the spiritual life is generally pictured showing students in the chapel and other similar scenes. The whole is divided into six parts. All of these murals are painted in oils on canvas and then glued to the walls. Besides these three works M. Pall plans to place smaller paintings along the side walls of the small partitions beyond the arches. They are to indicate other historical events as well as the important athletic activities at Notre Dame.
The importance of this mural work may be seen in the fact that not since Father Sorin engaged Gregori to do artwork for the church has there been a similar project to add to the art treasures of Notre Dame. Conceived by. the members of the Congregation and brought into being by Augustin Pall, the murals are merely a first step towards a review and an affirmation of the intellectual and spiritual virtues which Notre Dame has developed through her founders since her birth a hundred years ago.
—Richard Powers
10
Whelan Highlights Tea Dance at St. Mary's "Jim O’Neal asked me to provide a half-hour’s entertainment this afternoon. I see that my time is up. But I’d surely like to show you a few more tricks—so I think I will.” That was what Jack Whelan, N. D.’s notorious man of magic, told a responsive audience in St. Mary’s sitting room last Sunday.
The afternoon was half over, and in front
of him were freshmen from Notre Dame and St. Mary’s who had become acquainted during the dancing before. The second eager battalion of first-year men —from Brownson, Carroll, and Cavanaugh’s top two floors, had stuffed three buses, and upon arrival across the way, followed much the same pattern of action as had their predecessors.
So expert, chattering, magician Whelan “showed them a few more tricks.” He was definitely the highlight of an affair that proved once more a success.
Freshmen from Breen-Phillips and off-campus will be given an opportunity to participate in the “Four-Year Plan” very soon.—Charles J. Patterson
N. D. Speakers Bureau
Helps Red Cross Drive
Doing their part to further the St. Joseph County Red Cross drive, seven members of the Notre Dame Speakers Bureau gave short talks before South Bend and Mishawaka audiences Tuesday, Jan. 13, explaining the role of the Red Cross and the use of the money being collected by this drive.
Fifteen percent of the money collected will be held for use by the Red Cross office in this county and the rest will go to the national office for use on our distant battlefields and also at home, for the aid of the families of those servicemen lost in battle. A somewhat startling and yet vital plea made by the speakers was for the donation of blood to the Red Cross for its medical store of blood plasma and blood banks. Another significant note was the fact that the International Red Cross, founded in 1863, and the organization from which Clara Barton copied the original American Red Cross, is the only powerful office through which Americans can help their own soldiers held in enemy prison camps. All donations by the groups addressed, which were mainly parent-teachers clubs, will go to the South Bend office of the American Red Cross.	.
The Notre Dame Speakers Bureau, which sends its student speakers out to any local group on request, was asked
by the South Bend Red Cross office to donate its speaker’s services to the drive. The speakers who gave the addresses were: John Specht, who also spoke for the same cause yesterday, Charles Murphy, John Utz, Lou Kurtz, Lou Burns, Mark McGrath and Frank King.
Kurtz to Grand Rapids
The youth of Grand Rapids, Mich., will assemble at Aquinas College on Sunday, Feb. 8, to participate in a discussion of decent literature. The meeting will be presided over by Louis Kurtz, Dillon Hall, president of the Student Commission for Decent Literature. A short talk by Kurtz on the decent literature program as set up by the national headquarters at Notre Dame will open the meeting. This will be followed by a floor discussion of the problems met through the program.
Naval Reserve Offers
Hope of Graduation
Notre Dame seniors and juniors who have registered for the selective service act and those who will register soon have been offered the opportunity of joining the United States Naval Reserve, shortly after Christmas vacation started, it was announced this week.
The announcement which set up the classification, designated as V-7, to be composed of 7,000 seniors and 7,000 juniors for the naval reserve, and the V-5, a naval reserve aviation classification open to sophomores as well as juniors and seniors, will allow many students to make plans to complete their work for a college degree.
The men who gain entrance into V-5 may be deferred from active duty until completion of their current college year while entrance into the V-7 will allow deferrment until graduation.
Commander Bishop of the Navy was scheduled to interview many applicants from Notre Dame for the V-7 yesterday and today on the campus.
Those attempting to meet the necessary qualifications for entrance into this reserve are required to have three letters of recommendation, a birth certificate, and a transcript of college credits. Included in their credits must be those for a year of college math including a semester of trigonometry.
In addition, the men should be able to pass a rigid physical examination. If the applicants are minors, their parent’s or guardian’s written consent is necessary.
Following graduation from college the man in reserve will undergo a 30-day training period before going to a midshipman school for three months. Upon successful completion of this school they
will be commissioned as ensigns and be entitled to a base pay of $1,500 yearly plus allowance for maintenance and clothing.—Lennon Kelly
Senior Engineers Find Job Hunting Easy
While the Navy branch of the military services is tempting many of the-gradu-ating engineers with attractive offers of Naval Reserve commissions in its technical fields, the big industries of the country are likewise offering desirable positions in defense plapts to the somewhat puzzled seniors. This week the interviewers from United States Steel Corporation, General Electric Company, and Westinghouse Electric Company were kept quite busy talking to prospective engineering employees from the chemical, electrical, and mechanical senior classes.
Besides these interviews the seniors in these departments have also talked with the representatives of the E. I. duPont de De Nemours and Company, and the Union Carbon and Carbide Company. Of these companies duPont has presented the most offers having tendered positions to some nine or ten seniors most of which will be in munitions plants located in widely separated cities and included in the vast duPont organization. Naturally, these defense jobs will carry with them military deferment under the present Selective Service regulations. Next in line in the number of jobs offered is the Union Carbon and Carbide Company which has approached at least seven different senior engineers with attractive job offers. Because of the present crisis and the unsettled con- -ditions that have existed since Dec. 7, the Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company has been forced to recall any offers which it has given to Notre Dame students.
Further interviews with leading companies in the larger industries seems quite likely for all the graduating engineers. In fact representatives of Texaco Oil Company and Sylvania Hygrade Tube and Lighting Division are already counted on, the chief uncertainty being the exact dates of their arrival.
The offer of Naval Reserve commissions to all engineering students has proved quite inviting to several seniors and these men have already submitted their applications for entrance into the technical branches of the rapidly expanding Navy. Beside having distinctive financial advantages not offered to the Selective Service draftee, these jobs will _ permit men eligible for military service to complete, their present courses and graduate before being required to serve in the specialists division of the Navy.
II
Larry Kelley Announces That
Senior Ball Will Be Held
The Senior Ball will be held as usual this year, according to Larry Kelley, the chairman of the affair, who should know if anyone should.
The exact date of the Ball is unknown as yet, but it will probably be held about the first week in May, as it always has been in the past.
The regular dinner before the dance will also be held this year, and arrangements are being made for an orchestra.
No price has been agreed on for the tickets as the paper goes to press.
Due to priorities, there is some doubt as to favors and decorations but these difficulties will probably be ironed out within the next few weeks.
The attendance will be a little smaller this year than in previous years because of the draft and because of the large number of Seniors who enlisted in the Ail' Corps but, as Larry Kelley says, “The important thing is that there will be a Ball this year and it will definitely be the biggest event of the year.”
Breen Oratorical Finals Set For This Evening
Rev. Regis O’Neill, C.S.C., announced this week that a new date has been set for the finals of the Breen Oratorical Contest, and at the same time released the names of the ten men who will compete for the award.
The contest will be held in Washinton Hall, Jan. 16, at 7:30 p.m., The ten men selected to compete from the 53 who tried out in the preliminaries follow:
William Connelly, C.S.C., Henry Malone, C.S.C., seniors; Robert Kasberg, Robert Nenno, Norman Van Site, John H. Morrison, and James Doll, C.S.C., juniors; Mark McGrath, sophomore; and Daniel Morgan and John Shannon, freshmen.
The Breen medal, award given to the winner, has been given since the turn of the century when the contest originated. Included in the list of recipients are many of the University’s outstanding alumni.
Engineers' Ball Postponed
Tonight, as many engineers know, was to be their night to dabble in the social whirl which is so seldom contacted by them and even less often considered associated with their supposedly limited activities. The real reason for this sudden change in plans by the dance committeemen is, as you might guess, studies. With final semester examinations only three days away the thought of a
formal dance was beyond the comprehension of any right-minded engineer.
All plans for holding the dance have not been completely abandoned, but only tepmorarily have been laid aside. The engineers still hope to hold their annual affair sometime during the next semester but as yet it has not been possible to set an exact date.
Radio Club Installs
New Transmitter
This week Radio Club president Bob LeJeune announced that a new transmitter is being installed in the studios on the third floor of the Engineering Building. The 15-watt transmitter will completely revolutionize the local radio setup if plans reach completion.
Heretofore the Radio Club has been dependent upon South Bend’s WSBT for program time. With the new transmitter, they will be able to go on the air any time they please. LeJeune stated, however, that programs aired off the new mechanism will go to a campus audience only. For this reason, more important programs will still go through WSBT’s facilities.
Preliminary activities for the installation have been in process for the past two months. LeJeune said the transmittei' has been under construction for some time and that it was only recently that permission was obtained from school authorities for its installation. He said the mechanism is completely paid for and that only a few details remain to be arranged before the first program is aired. According to information the new outfit will receive its initial test some time after exams are completed. Thus far listed on the incomplete schedule of activities are campus news and recorded musical broadcasts.
The transmitter has been constructed at a minimum cost by students belonging to the Radio Club. Once it is installed, LeJeune hopes to widen the scope of activities of the club to include many more broadcasts which heretofore have been impossible because of the small number of program hours allotted each week.
The Radio Club, founded in 1936, has sponsored a variety of dramatic and educational programs.
"Scrip"—Again!
Students interested in contributing to the prose or poetry departments of Scrip, the campus literary quarterly, are asked to bring their manuscripts to Charles Kirby, 430 Alumni Hail, before Thursday, Jan. 22.
Dance Communique No. 3
If you’ve ever gone over to see the genial dean of the College of Commerce you’ve met “Pat” Bannon, the guardian of the outer office. But did you also know that you were meeting the president of the Epsilon Sigma Alpha sorority?
Anyhow, Pat announced this week that her sorority is giving a tea dance in the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel on January 25 from 2:30 to 5:30 p.m. The music will be furnished by Bob Richardson’s orchestra which recently went “on the road” to play a successful one-night stand at the St. Mary’s Cotillion.
Pat cordially invites all Notre Dame students to relax from the strain of final exams—for $1.10 a couple.
Infantile Paralysis Drive
The University has been asked by the St. Joseph Valley Committee to participate in the drive being held for the National Fund for Infantile Paralysis. • Through the cooperation of Rev. John Burke, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, the campaign on the campus will take the form of a solicitation through the halls within the next two weeks. The campaign is to run from Jan. 17 to the 31st. (It will supplant the usual Birthday Balls). The South Bend drive will also start on the 17th. The Civic Committee is headed by Robert E. BonDurant, general chairman, an alumnus of the University. The Executive Chairman is Mr. Kenneth B. Elliott, vice-president in charge of sales for the Studebaker Corporation.
The Notre Dame Committee is comprised of Mr. James E. Armstrong, Publicity Director, Mr. James Kearney of the Law School, Mr. Herbert Jones, Bus. Mgr. of Athletics, and Mr. J. Arthur Haley, Director of Public Relations.
Fred Hoover, first year law student, heads the student committee which will solicit funds in the residence halls during the week beginning Jan. 26.
South Bend was one of the hardest hit communities in the country during the epidemic of Infantile Paralysis a year ago last summer. During that time the city was able to secure from the National Fund sufficient money to purchase the treatment materials necessary to affect the number of recoveries from this dread disease. Directly after this scare a treatment tank was purchased for Epworth Hospital by the Rotary Club of South Bend. The money subscribed in the city and on the campus during the solicitation campaign to be carried on this year will be used toward the purchase of a similar treatment tank for St. Joseph Hospital.
12
INTRODUCING
By JAMES A CLEMENS
It is fitting that a brilliant team should have a brilliant leader, and so it is that Raymond Lawrence Roy, Oak Park, Ill., senior, and crack quartermiler of the Notre Dame track team, was elected to the captaincy of this year’s cinder squad.
Bom September 20, 1920, in the little town of Williams, Iowa, Ray Roy moved with his family to their present abode in Oak Park, at the age of five, and has made his home there ever since. With a population of over 65,000 people, Oak Park is known as “The Largest Little Village in the World,” a fact to which Ray points with pride.
Attending Oak Park high school, young Roy had no chance to participate in varsity athletics during his first three years, as he spent his afternoons doing odd jobs about town. However, he made a name for himself as an outstanding athlete in physical education classes, and soon attracted the attention of Don Harshbarger, Oak Park track coach, who saw in the lanky youth, the makings of a great cinder star.
Upon the coach’s persuasion, Ray joined the track squad in his senior year, and under Harshbarger’s expert tutelage
rapidly developed into one of the fastest quarter-milers in Illinois schoolboy history. Undefeated in some 20-odd races that year, he annexed the high-scoring honors of his team, which boasted such stars as Bill Williams, now Big Ten pole-vault champion at Wisconsin, and set an all-time school and league indoor record of :52 flat—the fastest indoor quarter-mile ever run in Oak Park his-history!
Ray gives all the credit in the world to Coach Harshbarger for bringing out in him ability which he himself never realized he had, but also has high praise for the late John P. Nicholson, Notre Dame track coach, who promised to bring the youth to the School of Our Lady, if he annexed the state championship in high school. With the ambition
of a lifetime within his grasp the youngster did just that, and enrolled at Notre Dame the following fall.
One of "Nick's Boys"
Always a keen judge of championship material, “Nick” worked patiently with the youthful Roy, and saw his efforts rewarded as the sophomore flash anchored the fastest Notre Dame indoor mile-relay team to a new mark of 3:19, in the Hoosier Relays in 1940. Mr. Nich
olson was soon to pass on to another world, but he had molded a true champion who had yet to reach the full apex of his potentialities.
Last year as a junior, with Bill Mahoney in his first full year as head coach, Ray enjoyed outstanding success and was one of the main factors in presenting the youthful mentor with a winning team.
It Must Have Been Wheaties
It was in the first outdoor meet of the season last year, the Drake Relays, that Ray experienced his greatest athletic thrill. The event was the mile-relay, and the Irish quartet of Gene Fehlig, Dick Tupta, George Schiewe, and Ray Roy, had no better than an even chance of winning in a brilliant field. This fact was soon made apparent as the first two
men lost 16 yards to give the baton to Schiewe in last place. Schiewe edged his way into fourth place before passing the stick on to Roy, who in anchoring the team had some 12 yards to make up. Then and there Ray ran the greatest race of his career, as his flying feet swept past man after man, finally breasting the tape a full six inches ahead of Collins of Ohio State, to give Notre Dame the race, and also help establish an all-time Irish outdoor milerelay record of 3:15.9. Unofficially, the slim black-haired youth was clocked in :47.5, from a flying start, but there is the possibility that he even eclipsed that mark.
Ray ranks this race as the most important of his life, for it was carried all over the United States over two nationwide hookups, with Bill Stern and Ted Husing telling millions of its thrilling climax, and establishing Ray as a great quarter-miler in sections of the country where his name had never been heard before.
Ever willing to bestow praise on his rivals, Ray ranks Roy Cochran as his ideal college athlete. More than any other person Roy has great respect for the Indiana flash, who is the only quarter-miler ever to beat the Notre Dame speedster with any degree of consistency.	' ‘
Quiet and unassuming, spreading 160 pounds over his 6 ft. 1 in. frame, Ray looks every inch the fine athlete he is. However, the cinder path does not claim all the youth’s attention, for a fine business head makes him an outstanding student in Accounting, in which course he is working toward a Ph.B. degree.
Upon graduation in June he hopes to forego these plans pending his status in the Army. Due to register in February, he may enlist in some branch of the Naval Reserve, although he hasn’t made up his mind yet which branch it will be.
Among his memorable experiences he lists his job with the Kraft Cheese Co. in the New York World’s Fair during the summer of 1940 as tops, with his trip to the National Collegiate Conference meet in Los Angeles last summer, a close second. Racing in the greatest quarter-mile field of all time, Ray placed only seventh in the Nationals, but promises to do better if he gets a return crack at it this year.
Ray spends most of his off-campus time in the company of Miss Geraldine Ellis, a petite, blue-eyed Irish lassie, who teaches music in South Bend, and to whom roomies Bob Burke and Johnny Kilbane give full credit for turning the good-natured athlete from- a carefree, practical joker, into a conservative, mature young man. .
(Continued on page 20)
'	13
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus Founded 1867
John A. Reilly, Editor
Thomas V. Powers William Scanlan . John Binges___________ William Baader-.... Robert E. Brooks .
_____Managing Editor _Promotion _Sports Editor _Art	Editor Administration Editor
Don Heltzel.............................Campus Editor
Ed DrinKARd .......................Staff	Photographer
Leo Lee...................................Advertising
Frank Kiener..............................Advertising
Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C...........Faculty Advisor
‘Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest._ Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. TELE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 225 Walsh Phill or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P. M.: General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
FR. O’DONNELL'S MESSAGE
On behalf of the entire student body we wish to thank Father O’Donnell for the very laudable consideration he showed in personally speaking to us last Tuesday. His candor in revealing the policy adopted by the Administration and the reason for such a policy is an indication of confidence in us which we are proud to receive. Throughout his entire speech ran that “we” element which characterizes a Notre Dame united effort—in peace or war. He spoke to but at the same time for all of us when he addressed—as he termed it—our “council of war.”
His promise, too, that we shall be notified immediately of any action which directly affects us should put an end to the A-l priority which has been given to rumors. From now on there is absolutely no excuse for believing these fugitives from a mirage.
QUIZ-KIDS ON THE QUAD
Not many people on the campus are unaware of the fact that snowballing is one of the most popular mid-winter sports. There are quite a' few, however, who do not know that it is a. sport, which like all other physical recreational activities, has its proper place and its own peculiar set of rules. Unlike the football gridiron or the baseball diamond, the snowballing field of action needs no particular specification other than open space sufficiently removed from the spectators to insure the latter safe enjoyment of the proceedings. The. rules are very simple. One individual or group of individuals makes arrangements with another individual or a group of individuals. They choose an open spot, face each other, and proceed to throw snow-packed missies of varying sizes at each other’s person to their mutual delight until fully satisfied, at which time the contest is ended.
There are a few snowball enthusiasts on the campus who aren’t playing the; game according to the rules and who insist upon playing it in the crowded quadrangle like the Quiz Kids . who hide in the crowds at the football rallies and who hoot in the darkness of Washington Hall on Saturday nights. We think these lads are the same Quiz Kids because they, too,' are hiding. They’re the mental and, in most cases, physical midgets who heave snowballs at the crowds of students going 14	/-
away from them in front and on the side. They utilize the Axis technique of surprise attack upon the unsuspecting to bring some measure of pleasure to their childish minds. They belong in the same class with the high school kids who throw firecrackers into crowds and rocks at moving autos. And they’re usually the ones who get all their exercise walking to and from the dining hall.
One of the bigest thrills we got out of being a; freshman was getting in the middle of the terrific snowball fights we used to have in the Zahm-Cavanaugh court and out in front of Breen-Phillips. Then, as now, the Quiz Kids were those who stood on the side watching, when it was a case of facing someone and deliberately tossing a snowball at him. Then, as now, they preferred the coward’s refuge of anonymity.
One thing is certain. If these snow-mortar attacks do not stop soon, someone will be seriously injured. Then we shall have to change the name from “Quiz Kids” to “Jap Kids.” Because—after all—they have a good deal in common already.
BILL CERNEY
It WAS with regret that we read of the resignation of Bill Cerney from the Irish coaching staff. His departure marks the severance of the last remnant of the “Thin Man’s” regime —which certainly was a happy era at Notre Dame.
Cerney entered Notre Dame in 1921 and played fullback for the next three years, unfortunately the same three that a slender lad named Layden galloped over American gridirons. Rockne,'however, deemed him worthy of the title of The Fifth Horseman, because of his work with the shock troops and as Elmer’s understudy.
He returned to Notre Dame in the fall of 1934 as coach of the “B” squad, and freshman baseball coach. With the passing of the “B’s” Cerney became freshman football coach of a squad that will do 'much to shape the destiny of next year’s Notre Dame team. His capable guidance of -so many of the boys who were B team “regulars” will doubtlessly be one of their best memories of Notre Dame.
In personality we’ve always , found Mr. Cerney to be a most pleasant, helpful and kind man and a credit to his school and profession. We don’t know just what his future plans may be, but wherever he goes and whatever he does, we’re sure that he will succeed. ■	.	;
m-'-fz-.
NOTRE DAME SPORTS
Teammates Honor Brutz As "Most Valuable"
Old No. 73 — James Charles Brutz — holds , the singular , honor of being Notre Dame’s most valuable player of 1941, year of the first unbeaten Irish campaign since 1930. Twenty-four gallant monogram men voted Brutz the honor which is culminated when he receives the ScHOLASTic-sponsored Most Valuable Player trophy at the football banquet in the University dining halls Monday night.
■ Brutz, who won- monograms at left tackle the past three seasons, wore the name number carried elegantly the three previous seasons by twice All-American Joe Beinor. Brutz gained the verdict in a spirited race which saw votes cast for such outstanding performers -as Bob Maddock, Dippy Evans, Bernie Crimmins, Harry Wright, Capt. Paul Lillis and Steve Juzwik.
The Niles, Ohio, senior, who labored so hard that he lost 27 pounds during the past season—he’s gained back 14 pounds since the season closed—once weighed 230 pounds. In the five-man line employed by Coach Frank Leahy, Brutz . performed at the all-important left tackle slot which encountered the major share of plays since most teams have a tendency to run to the right. With the interference generally massed, Brutz could, usually be found at the bottom of a pile—and his mates verified the fact at the conclusion of the season.
. Even before the season was a game old, Brutz had won the acclaim of Notre • Dame students—on the balcony in the fieldhouse. His slow, magnetic manner, plus a dark beard that resembled a.Man . from Mars, infected his audience with - such hilarity that Brutz had little opportunity to speak much—but he made rival backs , and linemen speak plenty by his defensive play on Saturday afternoons. Another Brutz is coming up next year, Jim’s brother, Guard Marty, defensive . star of the 1941 Irish frosh Jine.
' - He's Made a Touchdown Too
Coach Earl Blaik of the Army singled . out Brutz as the best lineman on the field bne stormy day last fall. Jim had crashed through to block Hank Mazur’s punt-in New York’s Yankee Stadium to give the \ Irish their chief scoring opportunity. A year earlier, against Carnegie Tech he blocked. a punt, caught it in mid-air.
and looked like the “Galloping Ghost” as he dashed the remaining 15 yards to score. .
Notre Dame followers get another chance to pay tribute to Jim when ballots are cast next summer for the annual Collegian All-Star vs. Chicago Bears extravaganza in Chicago, that is, if Brutz doesn’t join Gene Tunney’s forces in the Naval physical education corps before that date.—Bill Scanlan.
... No. 73, magnetic, bearded Brutz. . .
Veteran Cage Official Airs Views on Game and Irish
How many times have you glanced over the box score of a Notre Dame basketball game, and found the name “Nick Kearns” posted- after “the referee?” ' Quite a number, we’ll wager. In fact, the Washington University struggle of January 7th marked the 289th game, this husky Big Ten whistle blower has “called ’em as he’s seen ’em,” during a ‘ 23-year period.	. .	.
Nick Kearns prepped at De Paul Academy on the north side of the city of Chicago,. and upon graduation entered De Paul University where his rangy .build enabled him to become a chief, point-getter on the varsity cage squad.
.. In 1916 Nick started refereeing highschool games, and by 1919 numbered among the four Big Ten.referees. That same-year .Kearns wandered: down South Bend way to officiate a few of the Notre Dame basketball games. “That was when . they played the .varsity games on the
dirt floor at the west end. of the field -house,” he recalled, “and they were lucky to draw 200 spectators. As the sport grew more popular they moved the home court down to the YMCA in South Bend, . and thence back to the field house where the court is today.”
The "Winless Wonders"
Taking advantage of Mr. Kearn’s rem-, iniscing mood, we asked, “Of all the . Notre Dame teams you’ve seen, Nick, which one do you rate the best?” His face beamed. “Haven’t you ever heard of the ‘Victory Five?’ he bellowed. Hurried mental research failed to revive any recollection of this aggregation which we said must have been before our time. “Yes, I guess it was before your time, but that ‘Victory Five’,” marveled Kearns, “composed of Roger Kiley, Eddie Anderson, now head football coach of Iowa, -Hunk Anderson, who succeeded Knute Rockne in directing Irish elevens and now line coach of the Chicago Bears, Harry Mehre, head mentor of the University of Mississippi, and .Hector Garvey, never won a game as long as I can remember, but .they were the ‘tighten-est’ bunch of basketball men NJ), has had.”	' ■
The interviewer’s old stand-by ques- . tion when quizzing a basketball notable, “Do you think the game is too fast today,” brought a surprising answer. .
* “No, I don’t think so,” offered Nick, if the coaches would concentrate more on the sports angle instead of ‘win that game’ ideal and give all the boys on the bench a chance to play rather than only seven or eight, more would get a chance to win their monograms and at the same time the game- wouldn’t be so hard on . .just a few.”	.
He Predicts
. With six teams fighting for the top 5 rung in the Big Ten race, Kearns predicted that the team winning 11 of the 15 conference games either will be champions or co-champions. A bad night for any team in that loop is just too bad.
_ He labeled Otto Graham of Northwest. ern and Don Blanken of Purdue as the
-outstanding hoopsters of the Western . Conference.	.
In reply to “How does Notre Dame rate alongside the teams of the Big Ten : this year,” Kearns said, “Notre Dame = . always rates, and in many years,” he re-
7 called, “was far superior.”	'	.
.	,	.	—Jack Denniston	:
’	• - - ■	*	'	-	• ‘ - V15 '
Cagers Continue Winning Streak;
Butler Tomorrow, Then N. U. Again
Tomorrow night Notre Dame places its January string of victories in real jeopardy when it travels to Indianapolis to play Butler. So far this year the Bulldogs haven’t fared too well against their Big Ten competition, losing to Iowa, Northwestern, and Illinois. However, they came within four points of N. U., and missed the.Illini hy only 2 points, 52-50. This is the last chance senior center “Effie” Quinn will have to walk off that long Butler floor as a member of the winning squad. In the four years the Indianapolis boy has been here, Butler has won on their home floor each year, after being beaten here, and for three years it’s been tough for an N.D. fellow to show his face around Butler. Take it from your writer who lives three blocks from the Butlei- fieldhouse.
Wildcats Are Persistent
On Jan. 21, it’s Northwestern here. They now have the football and the basketball defeat to avenge. This should be the best game of the season here, and will give us a chance to see one of the leading teams of the Western Conference in action. Following this, Notre Dame will be host on Jan. 24 to Michigan State. The Spartans are one of two teams who have beaten the Great Lakes quintet, and certainly will provide plenty of opposition.
SINCE THE LAST "SCHOLASTIC" Wisconsin 43; Notre Dame 35
In their last pre-holiday game the Notre Dame quintet bowed to last year’s NCAA champs, Wisconsin, by the score of 43-35. Butler opened the scoring, but the Badgers quickly came back, and took the lead which was 25-23 at half-time. The 8-point margin at the end was the-■widest lead held during the game which saw Wisconsin’s sensational Johnny Kotz score 20 points. Faught was high man among the Irish with 9.
Notre Dame 46; Michigan 40
A better showing was recorded in their next game, as the Irish travelled to Ann Arbor on Dec. 19 to down the Michigan Wolverines, 46-40. The first half of the game was hotly contested, ■with Notre Dame in front by a one-point margin, 25-24, at the intermission. Coach Keogan evidently dished out some inspiration, as his boys came back to pile up a nine-point lead in the first three minutes of the second period, and eventually wound up on top. Charley Butler was high man for the Irish, netting 14 points. Rensber-ger and Quinn followed with 10 and 8 respectively.	.
Notre Dame 29; Illinois 48
Next comes a chapter which could better be omitted. On the night of Dec. 23 our boys journeyed to Champaign where the Illini ambushed them to the tune of 48-29. Despite the use of all 15 men by Coach George Keogan, the outcome was never in doubt. After 11 minutes of play, Illinois led, 21-7, leading 23-13 at the half. Kuka led the Irish scoring with a diminutive 6, Capt. Art Pope and Faught following with 5 each.
Notre Dame 40; Northwestern 36
New Year’s Eve the Keoganmen made a short trip to Evanston where they met and defeated one of their keenest rivals, Northwestern, by a score of 40-36. This was despite the fact that the ’Cats were seeking some sort of revenge for the football lacing absorbed this fall. Several of the vengeful gridders were there, notably Graham, the soph sensation. The first half went to N.U., 17-14, but the Irish, led by Cy Singer with 12 points, came back to win. Doubt clouded the final result until the last gun, but smart ball handling and guarding enabled Notre Dame to demonstrate their superiority to the mingled dismay and delight of the capacity holiday crowd.
Notre Dame 39; Harvard 31
Starting the New Year right, Notre Dame topped Harvard Jan. 3, by a score of 39-31. It was the case of the teacher’
... Against Butler, it's always like this...
giving the pupil an additional lesson, as the visitors were coached by Earl Brown, Notre Dame All-American end in 1938, and captain of the 1938-39 quintet. The Irish led at the intermission of a slow game, 18-14, but Harvard pulled up to 23-22 early in the second period. “Buster” Hiller was sent into the line-up, and sank two quick baskets which enabled the Irish to stem a temporary threat. Charley Butler, not long in the game, was N.D.’s high-point man with 7 points.
Notre Dame 34; Washington U. 31
Jan. 7, two days after the students’ return to the campus, the Irish met and defeated the highly-rated Washington U. of St. Louis, 34-31. It was a thriller all the way, and kept the Notre Dame three-year record of January victories intact. The proceeds of the game, went to the fund for the memorial to Dr. James Naismith, inventor of the game of basketball.
In the final analysis, it was Cy Singer who single-handedly sparked the team to victory. The charging Notre Dame guard scored 11 points in the first 11 minutes to help his teammates to a 2313 lead at the half. The visitors, led by high-scoring Jack Darnton came back to trail by the narow margin of 32-31 with seconds remaining. At this point Junior Bob Rensberger sank a field goal to end . the scoring. The scoring for both teams was led by Singer with 15, closely followed by Darnton with 14. Both Singer and Darnton each scored more baskets than their- respective teammates combined.
Notre Dame 51; Syracuse 35
Monday night, Notre Dame lengthened its victory string to four at the expense of Syracuse by- the score of 51-35.
With four minutes of the first period, remaining, and with the score tied at 14-all, Coach Keogan inserted his wonder soph quartet, which, with the capable aid of Rob Rensberger, ran the score to 26-14 at half-time. Seconds before the intermission, Bob Faught started from under the Irish basket amid the inevitable shouts of “Shoot!” Although about 60 feet from the hoop and near the right sideline, he fired, a long, looping, arching shot that swished the net -without touching the rim as the gun barked. It is. said to be the longest basket made on the local floor which was installed in 1928. The feat should be placed with Creevy’s pass against, the Hlini this fall in “Things I Saw at Notre Dame.” The Irish went on to "win without encounter-iny any difficulty after this surge. Stanton, Syracuse center, was high-point man of the evening with 13, followed closely by Faught, who tallied 12. This gives the Irish a season collegiate record of six victories and two defeats.
■	. —Coleman McGuire
16
JC€CP*N JPLINTERJ
FROM THE RREJT BOX
BY BILL. SCANLAN
HONOR UNBEATEN PLAYERS, COACH OF 1941
Notre Dame joins well-wishers from across the nation in congratulating Coach-of-the-Year Frank Leahy and Players-of-the-Year at the annual football banquet Monday night. . . . Jim Brutz, the hard-working, aggressive, capable successor in uniform No. 73 to twice All-American Joe Beinor, gets the Awai'd^of-the-Year. . . . Jim receives the SCHOLASTic-sponsored trophy as the Most Valuable Player of Notre Dame’s first unbeaten team in a decade . . . being voted the honor by his teammates. _. . . Take a long bow, Jim. . . . The finest team in the nation thinks you are tops. ... So do we.
NO TENNIS TOURNEY FOR EVERT
. Jimmy Evert, defending titlist for the National Junior indoor tennis championships,, had his racquets packed for a trip to Camden, N. J., when officials announced the 1941 tourney had been called off. . . . The Breen-Phillips freshman tuned up his strokes at Chicago late in December by mastering Bob Riggs, No. 1 amateur, last year and currently a top pro performer, 7-5, 4-6, 6-4. . . . Bob Jake, one of tennisdom’s rising stars, is currently a member of Northwestern’s basketball team which plays here on Jan. 21—a game expected to be the highlight of the 1941-42 season.
IT CAN’T HAPPEN HERE — BUT DID
Eyebrows were lifted one day shortly before the Christmas vacation when freshmen noticed this sign on one of the official bulletin boards: “Heavyweights, St. Mary’s vs. Breen-Phillips, League I, Court 1,” . . . Bill Sullivan, Coach Frank Leahy’s secretary, returned this week after a Florida trip. . . . He was married in Boston during the holidays. . . . Coach Leahy, and Harry Elmore, University photographer, have also been vacationing in the Southland’s sunshine. . . . Basketball Coach George Keogan’s one-sentence description of Francis Curran, speedy soph forward: “He’s as fast as a flea on a hot griddle.”
CERNEY RATES 1939 TROJANS TOPS
William J. Cerney, popular coach of Irish B squad teams during the Layden regime, frosh mentor last fall, and Notre Dame’s No. 1 football scout the past eight years, rates Southern Cal’s Rose Bowl-Bound eleven of 1939, with Harry Smith, Lansdell, Schindler, and Co., as the greatest offensive team, he ever scouted. . . . But rated the 7-6 Irish 1941 triumph over Northwestern as the hardest and most vicious game he ever saw.. . . Cerney resigned as a member of the Irish coaching corps during the holidays, and said in leaving, “My stay at Notre Dame was almost pleasureable one. ... I was glad to be able to attend Notre Dame, and one day to return to coach there. . . . My biggest regret is leaving all the fine fellows I’ve worked with.” . . . Cerney witnessed about one N.D. game a season, being away on scouting trips eight times in nine. . . . He was the “Fifth Horseman,” in 1924, sharing the fullback spot with Elmer Layden. . . . Cerney once got off an 80-yard punt against Princeton that the old-timers are still talking about. . . . Bill recalls that current trends aren’t new. ... In 1924 Notre Dame used the T-formation, double and triple flankers, and never employed the huddle. . . . Cerney’s many friends, particularly those students who had the good fortune to work under him on B teams and frosh squads of the past, are sorry to see him leave. ... A fine gentleman, a real friend, and a great leader.
TENNIS CAPTAIN STARS IN GOLF
Capt. Dan Canale, the Memphis, Tenn., tennis leader, Bengal Bouts champion, and student extraordinary, competed against Ellsworth Vines, one-time national net titlist, in the Memphis Open last summer. . . . Vines earded 71 to capture top honors, but Dan, playing golf seriously the first time, came home with 77. . . . When Father George Holderith, C.S.C., golf coach, needs a good man to fill a foursome, he need not look far to find a lad who could give a fine showing. . . . Canale, who sandwiches in a 93-plus average with sports participation, again has his eyes focussed on a 1942 Bengal Bouts crown. . . . Correct name of Ed (Moose) Krause, prominently mentioned as the most likely successor to Coach Cerney, is Edward Walter Kraucinaus. . . . The Moose won eight monograms here, coached three years at St. Mary’s College, Winona, Minn., and served three seasons as line mentor at Holy Cross, Worcester, Mass. . . . Floyd (Slush) Richards, band member, rode back from his home in Farmington, N. H., with a 240-pounder who listened with much interest as Slush told of 1941 exploits of the Irish. . . . Shortly before he left the train, Richards introduced himself— his friend did likewise. ... It was Ed Krause. . .. Moose, by the way, is Notre Dame’s modern iron man. . . .He played 521 of a possible 540 minutes during the 1933 season.
Gridmen Are St. Ed's Ace Cagers; Memorial Schedule
St. Ed’s Hall looms a favorite to capture both light' and heavyweight titles in the Interhall Basketball Tournament which opened Moonday. Their showings in the practice round games stamps both teams as having top chances.
The A. C.’s heavyweight ensemble boasts height, plenty of speed and a wealth of material. Bill Stewart, the Saint’s cage tutor, can put such boys on the floor as; Wally Ziemba, all state cage star from Hammond, at center; Owen Evans, an aggressive player along the lines of last year’s Eddie Riska, at forward; Bill Earley, a scrappy set shot ace at the. other forward, and steady Dick Creevy and husky Lou Rymkus, both' guards, round out the first five. Stewart also has football captain-elect George Murphy and a pair of speedy guards in Dudley and Hurley to fill in. “Morrissey and the Law Club should be plenty tough but if the boys play as a unit we will give ’em a fight to the finish,” commented Stewart.
Big Start for Lights
The lights, under coach and forward Roy La Forge, decisively beat every team they encountered in the practice round. Don Guiney, accurate center, Ed Hock, smooth shooting forward, Johnny Greene, rebound threat, and Dan Hagan along with La Forge comprise the number one outfit, with Jerry Sweeney, Bob Corrigan, and Bob Dunlay listed as reserves.
A doubles tournament in handball as; well as the Interhall Swimming Meet are scheduled immediately after the examinations.
The schedule for the week of Jan. 19 appears below. In the event the “exams” are next week these games will be moved up to the first week school resumes.
Monday: Jan. 19. (Light League 1)—7:30. Court 1, Dillon vs. Brownson; Court 2, Alumni vs. Carroll. 8:30, Court 1, Walsh vs. Zahm; Court 2, Sorin vs. Morrissey (Heavy League 2).
Tuesday: Jan. 20. (Heavy League 2)—7:30 Court 1, Alumni vs. Breen-Phillips; Court 2, Zahm vs. Off-Campus. 8:30, Court 1, Howard vs. Navy ROTC; Court 2, Dillon vs. Lyons.
Thursday: Jan. 22. (Heavy League 2)—7:30, Court 1, Cavanaugh vs. Walsh; Court 2, Brownson vs. St. Ed’s. 8:30, Court 1, St. Mary’s vs. Howard (Heavy League 1) ; Court 2, Badin vs. Law Club.
Dissipated Dukes Debunked
On December 14 of last year, “Ollie” Hunter, Irish star speedster from the Irish track team, ran a three-mile race against Howard Hall’s Dissipated Dukes in the not-too-bad time of 14:55. Thirteen days later on December 27 in the Sugar Bowl in New Orleans he ran the best three miles of his career to date in 13:42. However, Ollie won the race against the Dukes but had to be content to come in fifth in the Sugar Bowl con-
17
test. Reason: The Dukes were Jack Reis, Robert Kasberg, William Wood, Robert Sullivan, Walter Krawiec, and John Wood, six definitely out-of-shape scoffers; the four men ahead of Ollie in New Orleans were Greg Rice, two Indiana U. runners, Wilts and Mitchell, and Joe McCluskey. Rice one of the greatest distance runners of all times, set a new American record with the time of 13:15. Wilts and Mitchell are N.Y.U. Les MacMitchell’s closest competitors in collegiate circles. McCluskey holds more national distance titles than any of the other men.
In the December 14th debacle each of the Dissipated Dukes ran only one half-mile while Hunter ran the entire route. The contest evolved out of a bull-session challenge as to whether constant training actually meant much in athletics. If you are in doubt as to the answer consult one of the Dukes.—Robert LeMense
Behold—Optimistic Coach— And With Good Reason
In their pre-holiday practices the present Notre Dame track squad looked good enough to beat any of the top-notch mid-weatern teams that will probably be listed in the as yet unreleased schedule. Too much home-cooking and all the other delicacies synonymous with vacation pleasure have removed the team’s edge. A great deal of work will be necessary if the Irish are to win their first meet which will probably be held early in February.
Notre Dame has a well-balanced squad this year, being weak in only the sprints and the pole vault. Jay Gibson is the only remaining sprinter from last year’s team. Gene Fehlig, former quarter-miler, has been shifted to the sprints, but he will also run on the mile relay team.
Jack Wietoff returns as the number one pole vaulter, while Bill Dillon, who set an N. D. record in the high-hurdles last year, will double as a vaulter.
Newcomers, who will be counted on to round out the squad, are: Austin Jones in the 440, Bill Kelly, half-miler. Brehmer and Barry, the Walts who will run the distances, and Frank Murphy, a high-jumper who recently did well over 6 feet in practice.
Added to these fellows, are such capable varsity performers from last year as Capt. Ray Roy, Dick Tupta, and George Schiewe, quarter milers; Ollie Hunter. Frank Conforti, and Tony Maloney, distance-men; and a host of field event men headed by Jim Delaney and Keith O’Rourke, Barring a substantial loss due to the defense program, this galaxy of stars should give a fine account of itself throughout a tough schedule.
—Bill Rogers
WHAT ABOUT SPORTS?
by Red Lonergan
One of the most interesting characters in sports today, whose life story reads like a Frank Merriwell tale, is Les MacMitchell, N. Y. H.’s star middle distance runner. Coming from the sidewalks of New York into an unequaled position in trackdom, Les gained his goal through hard work, and a love for competitive sports and a willingness to give up everything foi' his big chance. The son of a poor widow, he grew up with no better chances for fame than the average tenement - trained kid. All through. grade school and high school Les had a strong desire to become a great skater or baseball player but he received no encouragement. Some friends urged him to switch to track. Les thought he should be a dash man, But his coach saw in him a middle distance runner and started him on the road to fame. Les started the laurels rolling by pacing the relay team to fame throughout the East. He continued to improve and crowned his high school career by winning the National Scholastic Mile. He entered N.Y.U. and in his freshman year won the I.C. 4A Cross Country race. He met a great honor and suffered much disappointment in his first varsity race. He was to run against Fenske and Cunningham but because he was sick he was waved • off the track. He refused to be downed and the next winter saw him in the running again. He was invited to run in the Baxter Mile, a prize indoor mile of the season, and he won. He started slow but soon pulled ahead of Becalli and Mehl. He equalled the indoor record, 4:07.4, set by Chuck Fenske. For a poor boy, Les did all right for himself.
Sports Questions
1.	Can you give the nicknames of these National. , ; A.A.U. teams? a) Denver; b) Tulsa.
2.	Has bowiing always been an indoor game?
3.	What country is given credit for the origination ■ - of bridge? .	' , .	..	- -
4.	Who is called the greatest boxer, of all time? • o. What country is given credit for the origination
1 of fencing?- . ’	\
6. Where and approximately when did hockey, begin? •	'	, .
(Answers on page 19)
Haircuts Cut!
Without waiting for. orders from Leon Henderson, price control administrator, the Badin Hall Barber Shop announced their scale of prices which would be maintained for the duration of the war:
Haircuts, 50c; shave, 25c.... and positively no double-decker chairs!
Dame s campus
30 Murphys on
MUHPl/V
South Bender
it's a Murphy Leading the Irish in 1942
The most common name on Notre is Murphy and of the the student roster it is only right that one of them be selected to captain the Irish football squad. This particular Murphy was christened George Edward just 21 years ago.
A graduate of South Bend Central High school, George becomes the fourth » captain the Irish. He
was elected almost unanimously by 23 other monogram winners and is without doubt one of' the most popular of all Irish leaders.
The new captain was chosen at a meeting on Dec. 12 immediately following Coach Frank Leahy’s announcement of the 24 monogram winners.
This season George rose from near obscurity to earn a starting berth on the Irish eleven in six of the nine games. It was his ability to. snag the passes of Angelo Bertelli that won him his acclaim. Weighing only 175 pounds George sometimes had to give way to the heavier John Kdvatch when defensive strength was more imperative.
George caught 13 passes for 130 yards during the campaign, only once, however, did he reach pay dirt. In the Georgia Tech game George caught three of the four completed passes that Bertelli threw in the first quarter, the last of which . was an end-zone affair.
When asked how it; felt to be captain of the Irish Murphy said he didn’t know that it felt any different but that he realized the honor and responsibility his teammates had given him. In Murphy’s own words: “I only hope I can do as good a job as Paul Lillis whom I consider a truly great leader.”
The list of monogram winners follows:
Ends: Bob Dove, Matt Bolger, Jack Barry, John Kovatch and Geo. Murphy.
Tackles: Captain Paul Lillis, Jim Brutz, Lou Rymkus and Ray Ebli.
Guards: Bob Maddock, Bernie Crimmins, Bob McBride, Joe Laiber and Will Riordan.
Centers: Walt Ziemba and Tom Brock.
Backs: Harry Wright, Angelo Bertelli, Steve Juzwik, Dippy Evans, Bob Hargrave, Jack Warner, Bill Earley and Creighton Miller.
Managers: Jack Bermingham, Pete Stewart and Ed Walsh.
18
Monogram Club News
President Herky Bereolos of the .Monogram Club announced this week that there would be no Club dance this year and the Japs can be blamed for it. Bereolos maintained that there was quite a lot of uncertainty on the part of members as • to whether or not they' would be around if a dance were held.
In the matter of potential members who are allowed to wear their sweaters, Bereolos ruled that these could sport their monograms only around the campus. He ruled that these potential members must be prepared to undergo the regular Monogram “initiation” at any time.	-
Reorganize Italian Club
To start off the new year right, the Italian Club of old 1941 has been completely reorganized, according to the new president, Frank Vignola. So far the . club has 40 active members, but a drive is being made to “draft” as many as possible of the 400 students of Italian descent on the campus.
Meetings are to be held every two weeks with a program at each that will, entice every member to be present. Besides a communion breakfast on the first Sunday of the month, frequent dinners are being planned at some local restaurant which specializes in spaghetti.
Other officers of the club are Walter Romito; vice-president, Al Zoilo, secretary, and Ben Brunetti, treasurer.
650 Notre Dame Men Now
Serving in Armed Forces
Notre Dame representatives in the service of the United States today number 650 men, the largest concentrations of whom are at Corpus Christi, Texas, and Jacksonville, Fla. Others may be found in nearly any other location where enlisted men are training.
Located in the battle zones of the Pacific are Sgt. Thomas P. Foy, ’38, Pvt. A. R. Martin, ’39, and “Motts” Tonelli. ’39, all of Stotensburg, P. I., and Ensign
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS
E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 South Michigan Street
DRIVE SAFELY AND SAVE A LIFE
Joseph A. Durkins, ’34, attached to the U.S.S. Chicago at Pearl Harbor. It is believed that other Notre Dame men are seeing active service on naval ships whose locations are unknown at present.
La Raza Club
The La Raza Club, an organization consisting of the students in attendance at Notre Dame from the Spanish speaking countries of the world, has enhanced its activities under the efficient guidance of its moderator, the Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C. Designs are in order for the printing of the magazine Noso-tros which will be issued by the club at random. The book will be printed entirely in Spanish and should prove interesting to those students concerned with inter-American affairs and with some knowledge of the Spanish language. Roberto de Romana was elected earlier this week as editor of the forthcoming mag- . azine.
The members of this 18-year-old organization also favor the publishing of a year book concerning their club during the centennial celebrations of the University. The printing of such a book is still under discussion among the some 30 members.—Paul Carr
Answers to Sports .Questions
1.	a) Safeways; b) Oilers.
2.	It was played on the grass from the middle ages up till the nineteenth century when it was brought. inside.
3.	Turkey.	'
4.	James J. Corbett.
5.	Germany is, though Italy weakly objects.
6.	It was first played in Bury Fen, England, in 1813. The game was played for years only in this little sector.	.

Tweeds, coverts and Shetlands — in suits or topcoats > . . distinction in quality, and style — at a. price, that will surprise you.	. .	.
Authorized representatives, for Naval Cadet uniforms through D. Klein & Brothers.
PARKE R-WI NTERROWD 115^4 - II7A4 N. Main Street (Upstairs) *
CAPTAIN PAUL LILLIS 321 Alumni Hall
LARRY KELLEY 334 Alumni Hall
Col. DuBois, Former Prof.
Writes of Canal Zone
“Our cry has been, beat Notre Dame and we.didn’t succeed; then it was, beat the Navy and we didn’t succeed; but now it is beat the Japs, and I’ll be damned if we won’t succeed in this.”
Thus did a former West Pointer now stationed with the Caribbean Defense Command in the Canal Zone express his feeling about the war to a former Notre Dame professor, Lieutenant Colonel Benjamin DuBois, for many years an instructor in French.
In a-letter addressed to James Armstrong, Alumni Secretary, Col. DuBois told of how the Canal Zone has taken the attack on Pearl Harbor. Adhering to a strict military censorship,' he wrote • “events have been popping in this locality” as defense of the Panama Canal goes ahead. .
The letter continued:
“We haven’t had a N. D. club meeting since the visit of Bishop O’Hara, 'Nov. 1, the date of the Army and Notre Dame football game. By the way, the boys and the Bishop listened to the broadcast in my quarters. The results were not entirely satisfactory, but instead of Irish stew or Army mule for dinner that night the army and Notre Dame enjoyed a turkey dinner.
“Things do not look too bright for a meeting of the club in the near future: blackouts work havoc with our plans. . . ’. The Japs have been causing us some inconvenience at this time, but they will ■ pay dearly for them when the machine starts rolling.”
Start the New Year in the right kind of clothes—
You know good cloth and cut when you see it — and you will see it in ADLER-ROCHES- . TER made-to-measure clothes.
neil j. McCarthy 115 Sorin Hall
19
Chill
Chasers!
Sale of Sweaters $295
When the thermometer.zooms down, you feel mighty comfortable in one of these slipover sweaters. They're all wool "Skippers" by Wilson — now at a special price, $2.95.
Shirt Sale
$2 values in Wilson shirts at $1.55 each or 2 for $3.	.
WYMAN'S
INTRODUCING
(Continued from page 13)
A member of the Student Council in his sophomore year, and two years in the Monogram Club, serve as Ray’s connections with campus societies, though his fine character and winning personality have gained him the esteem and admiration of fellow students all over the campus.
Now on the threshold of the final stage of his athletic career, here at Notre Dame, Ray Roy faces the “jinx” year of all college runners — his senior year. However, the same flaming spirit that has won him unmitigated success in the past, promises to carry him to even greater heights in the season just ahead. Flanked by a great team the Irish Captain appears ready to knock all his previous records into a cocked hat, and the entire student body as well as the members of the Scholastic staff, join in wishing him the best of luck and good fortune. -
South America is Topic
of Informal Spanish Class
An informal class begun last February by Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., and instructed by Eduardo Al-cayaga, graduate student from Chile, for students and for professors and their wives, all of whom are anxious to obtain a conversational ability in Spanish, has continued with great success this year and looks for nothing but an added impetus from our recent entry into war. The class is a very concrete attempt to do something more than just talk about Pan-Americanism and anyone interested is invited to attend.
Meeting every Wednesday in the basement of the law building, the class is conducted solely in Spanish. Each week a “charla” or short talk about Latin-America is given by one of the “students.” To date the following “charlas” have been given: Father Norbert Hoff, concerning his recent trip to South America; Luis Flores, concerning his country, Peru; Armando Pacheco, concerning his country, Brazil; Miss Agnes and Miss Anna Meyer, concerning their visit to the ancient Inca city of Cuzco, Peru; Lorenzo 'Hughes, concerning his country, Argentina; Mrs. James Dincolo, concerning Puerto Rico.
Francesco Cabrera spoke Wednesday, Jan. 13, on his country, Mexico, and the following “charlas” have been scheduled for the second semester: Ramon Araujo, concerning his country, Colombia, and Mrs.‘ Thomas Barry, a talk about Mexico.
—Mark G. McGrath .
BIGGEST STOCK IN TOWN—TRY US
Popular and Classics ALL MAKES
FINEST SERVICE
5000 Records 1000 Album Sets
ELBEL BROS.
234 N. Michigan St.	Cor. LaSalle
THE
Huddle
A Variety of Pipes — A Variety of Prices—
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Dr. Grabow ________:__$ 1.50
ydlo-Bole Regular_____ 1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial __  1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless .1_ 3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor __ 4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran__ 5.00
Hollycourt ____________ 3.50
Compy _______;_________ 6.00
Corncobs—— 10c and 25c
20
ONWARD TO VICTORY
(Continued from page 8) officers of administration, and the faculty. But if you are as honest with yourselves as I know you are, you will he the first to admit that our hardships, whatever they may he, will be trifling as compared with those of your friends and classmates who are already in the service. Naturally, if the resident population of Notre Dame has a sudden increase, we shall have to make more intensive use of our housing facilities.
Now you know as much about the rela-, tions existing between the Navy and Notre Dame as anybody on the campus. You will be told as soon as anything develops. I shall see to it personally.
Before leaving this subject, I want you to know that I am not finding fault with you. On the contrary, I understand your very natural concern and sympathize with it. Your spirit since Pearl Harbor has been everything that your parents, your school, or your country could ask, and I honor you for- it.
The Purposes of the University
Notre Dame is not going to operate under a new dispensation. Any changes that she may make in your interests, and in the interests of our common cause, are matters of policy that do not affect the character, purposes, and integrity of the University. Notre Dame can make no changes in principle. As long as there is a Notre Dame she will continue to train, in her own way, engineers, lawyers, chemists, accountants, teachers, linguists, and philosophers. For the present, she is putting special stress upon work being done in the Colleges of Science and Engineering because of its immediate importance to the task at hand, which is winning the war. But Notre Dame insists today, as she has always insisted, upon the education of the whole man. Notre Dame still emphasizes the discipline of the spiritual, the intellectual, and the moral. At Notre Dame you will always find applied the first principles from which all intellectual development proceeds. You will also always find importance given to the training of the will.
As Notre Dame men you know why. The university worthy of the name plans not for a year or a decade, but for generations and centuries. It survives dictators and dynasties. Its goals depend, not upon the rise and fall of temporal powers, but upon the unchanging relationship of man to the final end ordained by the God Who created him.
Just now we are engaged in a struggle against forces that, denying God, deny the dignity and integrity of the human . personality. In this crisis the University
has two duties. The first is the obvious duty of helping to overthrow the false principles that make man the creature of the state. The second, though more remote in its effects, is equally binding. It is to train men for post-war leadership. Peace, when it comes, must be a lasting peace built upon fundamental morality with its concepts of rights and duties as they apply to individuals and nations. To neglect the second obligation, or to be placed in such position that it can not be discharged, defeats the purpose of the first. Please God, Notre Dame will survive this cataclysm as she has survived cataclysms in the past.
The Joy of Giving
The joy of living is the joy of giving. Our birth is a gift from God made possible through the medium of our parents.
I N
KUEHN’S
MENS
6 SALE
65
ONE WEEK ONLY
As much as we would like to assure you of this quality at these prices through 1942, present conditions make it impossible to do so.
STARTING WEDNE
In Tans and Blacks with leather and some rubber or composition soles. Wing tips . . . Straight tips, moccasin toes, all desirable winter shoes.
This group consists of sharkskin, sealskin, cordovan, imported pigskin and calfskin leathers in grain or smooth finish.
Not all sizes in each pattern but all sizes in this group.
SEE OUR WINDOWS
120 South Michigan Street
Our growth and development, under God, is usually a gift from father and mother until we become of age. God-given talents must be developed if we are to fulfill our purpose—and there is joy in the quest. The society in which we live, with the family as the unit, is a gift from our ancestors, and the joy they found in helping to create it is known only to God and themselves. It is our sacred duty to preserve it.
All through life we give of ourselves in order to receive earthly recognition, assuming,'of course, that our donation is based on true principles of thinking and acting, with our objective as children of • God, our destiny. And then, realizing as we should that here we have not a lasting city, there come every so often the horrors of war for the purpose of chas
D E N
21
tisement to nations that have forgotten their God. Such is permitted by the Creator to bring forcibly to mind that God is a great and jealous God Who will not have strange gods before Him.
It is all-important, therefore, that our beloved country get back to God as it sets out to defend itself against the hordes of gangsterism. The struggle may be a long, hard, bloody one. It may exact of some of you the supreme sacrifice. Most assuredly it will, in the long run, call for sacrifice, privation, and suffering from all of us. Yet, in the refining process we recognize our patriotic duty which has been a glorious part of our
“The MEN’S Corner"
HOME OF NATIONALLY Accepted MERCHANDISE
ROSE & KATZ
Present
ARROW'S
big news for the month
Here's the new Arrow ensemble. The Tandem Stripe Shirt with all the benefits of Arrow parentage.
Then, there are specially designed Arrow Ties to match .and a Tandem Stripe Handkerchief to complete the ensemble.
Shirt	$2.25
Tie	$1.00
'Kerchief 35c
educational heritage. Religion and patriotism are intimately entwined in Notre Dame’s philosophy. The joy of giving is the joy of living because this old school has always insisted on training its students not only in how to make a living, but also in how to live well in order to die well.
The past is gone; the future is hidden from our eyes; only the present is with us. If contains a challenge which Notre Dame accepts. And she accepts it, not in a spirit of defeatism or fatalism as the false prophets of materialism who caused this war would have us accept it. She accepts it with the realization that there is a Divine Providence that guides and protects her as It does her sons everywhere. She accepts it with a true appreciation of the philosophy of the Cross, that to suffer is to live, not here, but hereafter.	,	,
Onward to Victory
Onward, therefore, with the Command-er-in-Chief in the course that he will chart for the nation to attain its goal though the horizon at times be dark and the day long.
Onward with Notre Dame in answer to our country’s call until victory is won, so that together we may write another page in the annals of Alma Mater.
Onward, united, to preserve the American heritage, conceived in the Declaration of Independence, born in struggle and sacrifice, and handed down to us for safe-keeping so that, in Lincoln’s words, “government of the people, by the people, for the people shall not perish from the earth.”
DISC-CUSSION
By Ed Roney
HAPPY NEW YEAR! ! !
As was to be expected, the New Year has brought us many War Songs. Every song writer wants to write the ’42 “Over There” with the result that the present crop should multiply at a steady pace.
A couple of them are very good, One, “Remember Peaar Harbor” has received plenty of press notices and it deserves them all. Written by Sammy Kaye and Don Reid and recorded by Sammy, it is in “College Marching Style” with a mighty catchy tune. The other, “Good Bye Mama, I’m Off For Yokahama,” is relatively unknown although just as good and has a catchy tune coupled with some very clever lyrics, and is recorded by Frankie Masters. Either one will have you singing in a very short time. Backing up the first one is a sentimental number in typical Kaye style about a slightly homesick soldier- boy writing his
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory. ■
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
9^ 'ike.
Dining Room
You will enjoy fine food — distinctive appointments and excellent service.
ORVILLE FOSTER at the ORGAN
Sunday, 12:30 to 2:00 p. m.
• and 6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
Week days, 6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
WIT 1 JAMS

Just West of The Oliver
22
“Dear Mom.” Really excellent, it is already selling like hotcakes to soldiers who want to send it home. Coupled wifh the second one but not in the same class with the first two is “The Sun Will Soon Be Setting On The Land Of The Rising Sun.”
But to get on to other music. Both Glenn Miller and Dinah Shore have released excellent recordings of “Everything I Love.” I favor Miller’s slightly because of his chorus in the background
19 ARRIVALS DAILY!
Yessir! Nineteen South Shore trains every day—breezing right through congested business districts into the heart of Chicago. No stop lights. No detours. No traffic problems.
Six convenient stations in Chicago — two in the Loop.
For information call
C. .W. Veach Ticket Office 301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-3 I l-l
to Ray Eberley’s voice. Miller backs his up with a lullaby from “Dumbo" called “Baby Mine” done very well while Dinah gives out with a bright and snappy “Happy In Love.” You’ll be well satisfied with either.
Harry James has another record with two good tunes released. These are Helen Forrest singing “He’s 1-A in the Army But He’s A-l in My Heart” done in just the way that you wanted to hear it. The flipover' is that smooth number “Day Dreaming” sung just that way with Dick Haymes on the vocal. Very much worth listening to any time.
Glenn Miller has recorded a sure bestseller in coupling “Moonlight Sonata” with his sign-off piece, “Slumber Song.” If that isn’t a bargain then what is? Beethoven would be proud of the way Glenn does his Sonata while you all know the second one as he used it as his signature during the ASCAP war.
Everyone remembers Artie Shaw’s “Begin the Beguine” but no one has ever recorded a better vocal for it than Sammy Kaye just has. With Tommy Ryan and the chorus it’s really top-notch. Tommy also sings “Sometimes,” a new sweet tune on the other side.
Big Joe Kennan, Notre Dame’s'greatest Andre Kostelanetz admirer, came down the other night all excited about Andre’s newest in 'which he takes his great orchestra through the paces of “Tiger Rag” and “Bugle Call Rag.” The marvelous thing is that he does the nigh impossible by giving out with some really nifty swing and when you can do it with an orchestra the size of his you really have something. After you list&i to them you, like Joe, will hope he makes more of them.
Freddy Martin has recorded two new numbers that are as good as his usually are. The first is his Fitch Bandwagon special, “Popopocatepetl” that snappy tune heard oftener every week. Backing it up is a brand new one called “I’ll Never Forget” which is very sweet and sentimental. The quartette sings the first while Clyde Rogers handles the vocals on the latter. Both of them are good and you’ll like the latter especially.
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
702 J.M.S. bldg. South Bend, Indiana
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
Phone 3-1254	South Bend.' Indiana
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT ORTHODONTIST
314 J.M.S. building Telephone 4-3601
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
S25 SHERLAND BUILDING
E. FISHER'.
M.D.
M. J.THORNTON M.D.
Phone 3-2805	.Residence 4-1544
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY FOOT AILMENTS
X-RAY EXAMINATION 609 J. M .S. BUILDING HOURS BY APPOINTMENT SOUTH BEND. IND.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard a. Rose, d.d.s.
Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s. peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
623-629 sherland Bldg.
South Bend
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Bldg. Phone 3-2S74
23
' MARION HUTTON Glenn Miller's Moonlight Serenade "rings in the new"
with Chesterfield


Milder and decidedly
f	Better Taste ... first for (
Cooler Smoking
... and right you are because everything in Chesterfield ... every bit of material used, is put there to give you just what you want in a cigarette ... from the Right Combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos © © to top-notch manufacturing methods.
make Chesterfield your Smoking Pleasure of the year
Copyright 1942, liccrrr & Myras Tobacco O