NUFWMnB-MB—
----MHPWMTa-MEM—
n^MoMriTWau
-----HEIF WANTED-MiN —
—ItaieijavaatIMii —
----HUFWAimi-MW—
Viwimfoa* eat fiata —
---HHPWANIM^MEN
—VMttme «at IMm
ESTIMATOR
and
echanical engineer
XCELtENT OPPORTUNITY FOR ADVANCEMENT.
SSTANT FOR THE PLANNING DEPT. MANAGER OF A VERY AGGRESSIVE UTFKT 0BURBAN CHICAGO PLANT.
d at cr.ce. for a permanent posltfe* tustnous, ingenious man vita some -nicai enameenac and cesignmg .enee, oom on procuets ana production processes in inga» wire forming wits ttlon fcacaieery.
CHEMISTS OR HEMICAL DIG
nbveicai exasnisanea. i?** for a near. o cat utek. startir vita us ter mtn vita tier Mtrel iaborttorlee. Flea 1 wettoo of Chicago.
JRESS MBJ 303 TRIE
OPENINGS FOR
DESIGN ENGINEERS
’• bairn several immediate penlags for design or devel-psjeni engineers. Mechaalcal ad electrical engineers vim saalderable experience in oe-Ign cf Instruments er control reftrred. Excellent epportun-lies vWUeadlas manufacturer t automatic Controls; Attrac Ive salary, l/rauoa: Minoe-
CgntBlMT
JWU1
jatm^cn
DIE CUTTING
PRESSMAN
CARDBOARD MERLE CYLINDERS
KOHL INDUSTRIES
4220 W. SCHUBERT AttayMZQD
INFILCO INC.
CAMERON CAN CC. 240 X. AbhLAND
HAyrcarne: 1-6820
JECT
TO
Hl
ATE
GRAND AV- AM
THER PMVS
DIE AND TOOL
APPRENTICE. Hith S «b» has majored in e CHICAGO DIE 4001 WRTG
DtdlGNtK-opporiuraty for young man to pin experience, advancement with company producing permanent point of sale displays. Knowledge of lettering, rendering, wood construction desirable. Convenient location- Pleasant working* conditions. State age. background
Address 7EM M Tribune__________
DIESEL Chief Engineer to supervise maintenance, operation, nd repair of diesel generating plants using various type engines. Must be capable to enurne full reapcfWiblllty. Must be capable ad-‘mlnlstrator and instructor of large group of diesel operator*. Work cos-oitlona include eubeUtnce —*
ENGINEERS DESIGNERS DRAFTSMEN
Structural-Architectural Experience in Power Plant or Industrie] Building* ADDRESS MBL 285 TRIBUNE
FIELD (.■SUbUMii* Ce.
Structural-Architectural Experience in Power- Plants or Industrial Building* Address MAG S3 Tribune
ENGINEERS
teeUeat opportunities far (rotatechemical, neebaniesl er teetalurgicaX
DRAFTSMEN CHECKERS Mechanical Experienced in Piping, Plate Work and Light Steel for Power Stations. SARGENT & LUNDY ENGRS 222 W. ADA
DRAFTING INSTRUCTOR Architectural Tc instruct colege su« dents. Days Calendar year Good * opportunity
CHICAGO TECHNICAL COLLEGE
2000 S. V.O.lnsi
CAI
DRAFTSMAN
With tome estimating experience, tor large general contractor's office A good opportunity for yrnat er.f.r.eer having college cr equivalent training. Apply by letter only, stating qualifies tioss-	_
X C. WIEBOLDT CO
ENGTNEER-Sales Representative-are an engineer or technically t man, particularly one who has b Ing or experience with highway construction or paving materials desire to become connected for work with a national firm that b est rating, we suggest you write int tout nullifications, pest exp etc. U possible, a^o sens recer shot. Prefer man 25 to 95, or t Will arrange personal in cation fills requirements. iress mdm 3o Tribune.
ENGINEERS
Insurance company has gs for marine or stationary f t operating engineers with i operating experience, t :tors cf colters, engine electrical machinery ust be Meh s:>ool gr ate age, exper’ence, her qualifications, cs MEM 30 Tribune
ING DRAFTS um cf 3 veers exnerlenc-elaea steel tanks and struetui Must be able to calculate wail cess, head design, baffle nd s support. M.E. or C.E. deslrabl will consider man witb 2 year: neerlne education.
32S-W. 25
ENGINEERING DRAFTS
SOME COLLEGE TRAININ' Excellent opportunity for voung wltn some experience to start ’ forte natisnal steel firm. Jnh i voive work on vie board, detail Irforcing steel. Good ataneemt prospects.
ADDRESS MBJ 538 TRU

and all of them made possible through profits!
In the last eight years, International Harvester has increased the number of its employes in the United States from 60,000 to 90,000.
This means that 30,000 new jobs have been created—good jobs at good pay for junior executives, engineers, draftsmen, technicians, among many others. And every one of these jobs carries with it plenty of chance for advancement.
This great progress in jobmaking has been made possible by the profits which over the last 20 years the company has plowed back into the business. That is why we like to say PROFITS MEAN PROGRESS for everyone.
For example:
During the eight year period in which our force was increased from 60,000 to 90,000 employes, the average straighttime hourly earnings of our non-salaried factory employes have increased 92.6 per cent.
Customers have benefited from the fact that our margin of profit on sales today is two-fifths less than in 1941.
And our stockholders have had a fair return on the savings they have invested in our company. Dividends on common stock this year are 4.65% on the book value, as compared with 4% in 1941.
In 1948, the company had profits, after taxes, of 4.7 cents from each dollar of sales.
We know it is our continuing ability to earn a reasonable profit that has made it possible for International Harvester iij , the past year to serve more people— customers, employes and stockholders—in greater measure than ever before. Profits mean progress for everyone.
We hope to be able to continue to make a reasonable profit with each succeeding year in the future—to keep right on creating more and more jobs at good pay for young men entering industry, just as we have done in the past.
INTEKIUTIONAL
Hi MTtMATKMlAl wuwttttv
HARVESTER
2
The Scholastic
Mistaken Identity
Dear Editor:
I wish to bring to your attention an error which occurred in the Feb. 11 issue of the Scholastic. On page ten at the bottom left you printed a picture of an Indian student receiving his degree from Father Cavanaugh.
First of all, the Indian student receiving the diploma was not Mr. Krishnamurti, but N. Sidheswara Setty. Secondly, if I am not mistaken, the degree obtained was a mastei* of science in engineering, not a doctorate of philosophy. Hoping that you will correct this mistake in your next issue, I remain
Cordially,
Stephen J. Galla, Jr.
Scholastic apologizes and recommends a Student Directory for its photography editor.—Editor.
Pennies From Harry
Dear Editor:
In his otherwise competent column of last week the Browser took an oblique swipe at federal aid to education. His terminology was so curt that it is difficult to determine exactly what he was condemning: federal aid in principle, or federal aid extended to higher education on an aid-to-the-institution basis.
' A complete condemnation of federal aid to education on the college level is very unwise. Perhaps the Browser did not so intend his remarks; however, they are subject to that interpretation.. Granting that aid to state schools, or certain selected private schools as well, would undoubtedly toll the knell of many small or impoverished private institutions, it remains a fact that some sort of federal aid to the student is both wise and imperative.
I am not pointing out any milestone in the class struggle, but few would deny that the majority of non-veterans at Notre Dame or, for that matter, at any privately endowed college, are rep
resentative of a single class in American society. For obvious economic reasons, that class is the so-called upper bourgeoisie. An economic depression, which some purport to see in the offing, would curtail that class to the extent that the colleges presently existing because of federal aid from the G.I. Bill, would find the going very rough indeed. These remarks are aside from the higher aim of providing education for worthy students, whether of high or low economic position. For those reasons, educators would do well to press some sort of universal G.I. Bill for all worthy students, particularly for those who would otherwise be unable to afford a college education.
Not unmindful of the objection, well-taken, that colleges are at present populated with some students who are wasting time — theirs and the college's, as well as public and private monies — I admit that any federal grants would have to be conditioned upon high academic qualifications. Certainly, nobody should crusade for an idyllic “college for everybody” scheme, which would make
Glad Hand Department
Dear Editor:
We have read with great interest several issues of your Notre Dame Scholastic.
Could you lend us the excellent cover photo used for the Jan. 14 issue of the Scholastic? The photo referred to is a composite picture of a student sitting at his desk ostensibly studying, but actually having a pipe-dream.
If permissible, we would like to use this picture for our Campus Life Cover Page. This photo would be returned to you undamaged.
We would greatly appreciate your help in this matter.
Arthur H. Church, Editor, TRICOLOR ’49
Year Book, Queen’s University Kingston, Ontario
Said photo will be on its way as soon as we find the dam thing.—Editor.
BECOME A POPULAR DANCE PARTNER!
It's Easy... It's Fun!
Are you missing out on being a popular dancing partner? Why put off your dancing fun any longer? You'll be amazed at how quickly you "catch on" . . . how swell you feel with new confidence, new friends, newfound fun and popularity!
FREE
Half-Hour Lesson
Phone for Appointment or Come In!
4-0801 •
Former Dance Director ’ ARTHUR MURRAY STUDIOS
Chicago
Another Teddy Bare
Dear Mr. Vierhile:
Please send me two free admission tickets to the “Teddy Bares Pique-nique” for Feb. 29, 1949. I am a faithful follower of your column, and would follow it to the end of the earth, I hope.
The “NUMB” skull
P.S.: I don’t know Joe Wilcox.
Feb. 18, 1949
Open Daily 10 A. M. - 10 P. M.
Saturday 10 A. M. - 6 P. M.
345 Lincoln Way West, South Bend, Indiana
3
a college hard to tell from a home for the feeble minded . . .
I suggest, therefore, that the government give serious study to a program not of aid to institutions, but of aid to individuals on a plan similar to the G.I. Bill. This would obviate the dual problems of the welfare of the small college and untoward governmental interference with college curricula. It would also benefit a large and worthy class of students who have hitherto been unable to pursue higher learning. It would, I venture to suggest, save many colleges which will find the end of the era of the G.I. Bill the end of their aca-demis existence.
Joe Wilcox Off-Campus
A Word of Thanks
Dear Editor:
Thanks for the BIG “blow” for the Engineers’ Ball.
Ray J. Rusek, John F. Donlan, H. L. Troy, John C. Murphy, Jack Young arid ten others.
You’re welcome.—Editor.
Gripers on the Carpet
Dear Editor:
Maybe it is a little indiscreet when you have been here two weeks to start off criticizing something, but still when
it is meant to be beneficial, one hardly refrains from saying something.
I am referring to the local edition of the “gripers” union, who beef about the food, they complain about the discipline, the football home schedule and so forth ad infinitum. No doubt these gentlemen are in the minority, and equally true, theii’ gripes are sometimes justified. I don’t say you shouldn’t gripe at all, because it is actually good to get things off your chest at times.
But the type I am referring to are those who have the habit of griping in and out of season. “Why?” I asked myself. The reason is very simple, theii* poor little “ego” is getting stepped on and that magnifies things otherwise normally regarded as trifles.
Let’s examine the food gripe, no doubt it is sometimes justifiable, but do these gentlemen realize that if each of our 4865 students would gripe, the administration would have an all-day job just handling the students and the other administrative problems would have to sideline themselves. If everyone would start simultaneously to gripe, our well-known Notre Dame spirit would go on the rock pile. In general, let’s be grown up enough to realize that the administration is not out to antagonize the students in the food situation or any other one which might come up. Let’s be men,
like we claim we are, and realize that running a place is quite a complicated affair. ,
As a closer, since we are Catholic college students, realize that a promise to Our Lord and Mary not to complain excessively might be a good Lenten resolution. Think it over, gentlemen.
Yours for a more contented student body,
Henry Mayer 134 Dillon
Reader Mayer has a point; whining just for the sake of whining is a waste of time, energy, and emotion.—Editor.
I.D. Bracelet Lost
Dear Editor:
This morning on my way to the dining hall my identification bracelet slipped from'my arm, and consequently it was lost. The purpose of this letter is to ask you to kindly print this letter in your “Letters” columns.
The bracelet has great sentimental value attached to it. It was given to me by my mother quite a few years ago, and naturally I’m anxious to find it.
The bracelet has the name of “Jack ’ Mahoney” imprinted on the surface, and on the under side the serial number 627334 has been carved in.
Thank you very much for helping me (Continued on Page 33)
Special Purchase for "Browsers"
ALL WOOL GREY FLANNEL SLACKS
7.93
Just arrived! . . . These smartly tailored slacks have continuous waistbands, pleated fronts, change pockets, zipper flys and are made up of fine all wool Evey flannel ... ideal for school, dress or lounging. Should be 10.95 ... a Browser special at only 7.95.
This Week’s Browser Winner
TOM HYNES, JR., BROWSER NO. 752
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
4
The Scholastic
tl
The Week
By Bob Vierhile
Station WND is unique among radio stations in the way it sends a signal through a plumbing system instead of the customary tower. It is also unique in the vast assortment of music it plays. From 7 to 10 p.m. there is a stylish assortment of some really listenable jazz, popular, and classical music. To us there is nothing like a round of you-were-mine-and-I-was-yours tunes to put a glaze like a slippery pavement on the eyeballs. These evening programs are lorded over by some first-rate radiomen who are interested in playing the kind of music that goes well with an accounting lesson and doesn’t bother a Railroad Rates major (a favorite in the commerce college). The afternoon programs, however, are dismal. Mostly music, they are reconstructed from FM broadcasts originating in Elkhart and South Bend. These two stations, it seems, cater entirely to Iwo Jima’s immigrants who love tangos, and bugeyed bobby soxers who love ootsie-koot-sie Frankie Laine and bubble gum. It is regrettable that WND does not possess an FM set capable of picking up the unusually good jazz, symphonic, and classical music played daily, without commercials, over Chicago’s Zenith-owned FM station, WEFM.
Enough! — Close the Libraries
At a recent discussion of Marxism by a political science prof, Messrs. Marx and Lenin got kicked around a bit. It was revealed that both of these famous radicals were exiled from their mother countries, Germany and Russia. Marx went to England and spent years poring over the works of Hegel in the London library. Lenin lit out for Switzerland and spent most of his time browsing through Hegel in the Bohn library. Well, now, if libraries are sanctuaries for radicals; and if there is further danger of a new philosophy sprouting up that would make communism look as conservative as Chicago Tribunism, then we have a suggestion on how to kill this threat to democracy, world peace, and the rest of those things. Close all libraries. Shut them up, right now. They, and they alone, are the breeding places of these revolutionary vermin. Besides, they turn honest, decent, happiness-loving men into professors. Lock the doors! Ha!
The enigma of the radio telephone
quiz has set us spinning. No longer are we able to wiggle up to a receiver and start a brazen conversation with an enemy. Remember? “Say hello and your chances go.” For days now we have been toddling about the Scholastic office waiting for the bell to ring, only to cringe with fear when it does sound, thinking we have lost $10,000, a Frigidaire, a Ford convertible, and a ticket to Zombola, New Guinea, because we failed to answer: “Zweigler’s Liver-wurst.”
Pat on the Back for YCS
Tomorrow’s “Ice Breaker,” the YCS affair which brings St. Mary’s girls and Notre Dame men together on the same thin ice, sets a sort of precedent in Noire Dame social history. It is one of the first, if not the first, inter-school social which doesn’t require a tux and the mortgaging of the wardrobe to foot the bill. What we like about the affair is that it’s cheap enough so that a student doesn’t have to fast six weeks afterwards to make up for the splurge. For two bucks-a-couple, the YCS group is offering ice skating, supper, and dancing tomorrow. We think there’s something to be learned here. The ND social calendar should be sprinkled with more of these dance parties and fewer formals. Right now the formals cost the go-big Notre Dame male about $20 (including phone calls, cab fares, dry cleaning etc.). And the school year is saturated with them — Engineers’ ball, N.R.O.T.C. Ball, Military Ball, Law Ball, K. of C. Spring formal, Senior Ball, Junior Prom, Cotillion, etc. Few Notre Dame men can afford these splurges more than once a year. The result is that 75 per cent of the students pass up these socials and head for a B-picture at the Palace. We think there’s plenty of room for more of these inexpensive, victory dance-like affairs over in the drill hall or, better yet, the Vets’ rec. These unpretentious socials would certainly give the boys with slim allowances and dads with similar paychecks an even break. By knocking out some of the formals (limiting the field to, say, the Cotillion, Junior Prom, and Senior Ball), the Student Council — or some other organization — might find a date once or twice a month to throw one of these shebangs.
(Continued on Page 29)
HOLIDAY
An Adventure in Good Smoking
Fine Repairing
Nationally Advertised WATCHES, DIAMONDS, JEWELRY
126 N. Michigan Street South Bend 9, Ind.
^tJaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaataaaaaaiaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaiaaaaaaaaaaaaiamaaaamaaHaaaaaiaQ | SPAGHETTI CARD |
|	SPECIAL OFFER	I
I	to	|
I NOTRE DAME MEN I
$£.00 worth of
Italian or American food for...
$5.00
= Purchase your card from | | our Campus Representatives: = | Mike DiCicco	|
|	Nick Barthalomeo |
I	Rocco Romeo f
E	Papandrea's	|
| SPAGHETTI HOUSE |
|	(formerly THE CAPITOL)	|
|	415 NORTH MICHIGAN |
z	Jimmy and Rose Papandrea	S
Q«»u»n»n«>n»niu»»>u»*»»,uu>i»»u»umuu»uH»MuiQ
Feb. 18, 1949
5
Entertainment
We have:
FEBRUARY 18
COLFAX (through 23)—Adventures of Don Juan. Errol Flynn is back in his skin-tight tights, leaping, dueling and ogling the beauteous beauties of long-ago Spain. In a rather expurgated form, the technicolor film tells the story of the old roue replete with every cliche that the brothers Warner have ever hatched. Viveca Lindfors, Ann Rutherford and even Flynn’s wife get into the tussle sooner* or later. If taken as a burlesque of the ever-continuing costume melodrama this isn’t half bad.
PALACE (through 19)—Forever Amber. That amorous lady returns to town with a new and cleaner bill of health but remains the same old dull and tiresome strumpet. Linda Darnell looks sharp in those Restoration glad rags but that’s about as far as the recommendation can go. Variety Time is a slow paced musical that isn’t worthy of much attraction, either.
GRANADA ( through 19)—Unknown Island and Last of the Wild Horses. The first is about a mythical island that reeks with artificial dinasours as well as artificial actors. One can only wish that the title of the second flicker were true, but Flicka or one of her progeny will undoubtedly shatter our dreams to shreds.
STATE (through 19)—Sorry, Wrong Ntimber and Disaster. Barbara Stanwyck is back in her plushy bed again, wildly tearing her hair out but doing a decent job of emoting while Burt Lancaster chums around with some dope peddlers. The co-feature can be missed.
FEBRUARY 20
PALACE (through 23)—Roadhouse and Indian Agent. Richard Widmark tries to make things difficult between Ida Lupino and pretty-boy Cornel Wilde in the former epic while the Apaches receive some employment in the latter rootin’ tootin’ Class Z western.
GRANADA (through 23)—Hills of Home and Sofia. Lassie, Edmund Gwenn and Donald Crisp help to make this technicolor idyll of Scotland an uncomfortable endeavor. The only thing missing is Robert Burns and some consistent burrs among the actors. Gene Raymond returns to the silver screen but his re-debut falls flat on its Bulgarian face.
STATE (through 22)—Hairy Ape and Wolf Man. The adapters of the feature fail to bring the integrity and forcefulness of Eugene O’Neill’s original into this disappointing picturization. William Bendix, in the title role, and Susan Hayward do competent jobs as the stars. Wolf Man is one of those old chillers that, like old soldiers, never die.
WASHINGTON HALL—Time of Your Life. For a refreshing change, the movie moguls have successfully transformed a stage hit onto their usually prosaic screen. Saroyan’s spoof succeeds in possessing its original spontaneity and freshness. Jimmy Cagney heads a large and well directed cast with James Barton, as the tall-tale-telling Kit Carson, turning in one of the most memorable bits of all time.
FLOWERS for ALL OCCASIONS
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
South Bend Floral
114 S. Michigan Phone 3-8227
$2.00 or MORE! Every Hour!!
Sell name plates for front doors
Every order pays you — in cash — immediately!
Free Sample
Write Dept. 158
NATIONAL ENGRAVERS 214 Summer St., Boston, Mass.
The Scholastic
Matte Staata SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 90 February 18, 1949 No. 16
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Editor ROBERT T. STOCK
Associate Editors
JOSEPH S. HERRINGTON KENNETH A. THOREN
VICTOR DORR ______________________News
JOSEPH DUKERT__________Assistant News
W. GREGORY HALPIN_____________Features
HARRY MONAHAN.__________________Sports
RALPH H. WRIGHT________Assistant Sports
JOHN WALKER________________Photography
WILLIAM GORMAN_______________Librarian
L. A. KYSER________________Advertising
ROBERT J. VIERHILE_________Advertising
JOHN T. CLARK--------------Circulation
GEORGE M. KORHUMEL_________Circulation
JOHN S. BRENNAN-_Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Scholastic Opinion
'Command Decision' Was a Bad Decision
The Scholastic has always been a strong supporter of the University Theater. In an editorial in last year’s April 23 issue the magazine championed its cause and sat at the top of the rooting section when the revitalized group was put into operation this fall. Its rather disappointing debut did nothing to dampen the outlook for the future and the announcement of the soon-to-be presented three one-acters stirs us with great anticipation.
The authors and themes of these one-acters foretell an evening of o varied and enjoyable entertainment. The final choice for the year, however, moves us to the opposite end of the pole of enthusiasm. The University Theater has anounced tryouts for Command Decision. This undertaking could only be called courageous; we feel that the spirited theater group is defeated in this production before it even begins preliminary preparations.
The original opened on Broadway to huzzahs exclaiming it the World War II What Price Glory? Until Mr. Roberts entered the scene, it was unanimously declared the best play to come out of the war. It was a piercing piece of dramaturgy; tense, sincere, and pungent.
It still remains one, if not the best World War. II play. Why then, one might logically ask, are we so vehemently opposed to its production in Washington Hall? Our primary’- reason is because we feel that the campus thespians are incapable of essaying the leading roles -with conviction. Since most of the leads are concerned with mature men, it appears impossible to us that the local actors, largely peach-fuzzed freshmen, could do justice to the demanding parts. Another reason why we feel that the! production would fail is based upon the language that permeates the script. Its strictly Army-talk will undoubtedly be sheared to the skeleton in order to comply with the stringent rules of Catholic entertainment.
COVER: Big Red Kirchner’s girl Wis-
teria late.
finally came through — four days Big Red has claims to fame other than girls like Wisteria who send belated valentines. His is a long and checkered career. His bulk will easily identify him as one of Coach Handy’s prize shot put men. He can throw it with ease. Bill is also the Lyons Hall
on the Student Council where he
man
If Command Decision is produced and should prove a success, then we would be the first to extend our apologies and congratulations. But we continue to feel that the odds are insurmountably against it.
The Scholastic will always be behind the University Theater. There is a definite place for such a campus enterprise as this, but until it achieves the excellence that is synonymous with, say, the. Catholic University’s group, then we feel it unwise to attempt such an undertaking. Wiser selection of plays will help to bring about this end.
The University will be around for a Jong time. Why then must the
serves an admirable combination of NS A chairman and bouncer. Before “he came to ND, Bill served with the Marines. Wisteria will live to regret her faux pas.
—Photo by Bruce Harlan
University Theater get too big for its sock and buskin at this early date? If the group would only be in less of a hurry to’ grow up its life span might very well be longer and more noteworthy.
Feb. 18, 1949
7
ever
before
completely satisfying
C8
GET set for surprises! You’ll find plenty of them in the New Parker “51”. For this pen has 14 remarkable new advances.
Filling is extra fast and easy. A special window lets you see the ink supply. The New “51” holds more ink, too. And this pen is safeguarded against leaking, even at highest flight levels.
But there’s much more. So try it
9
is me
new
NEW . . . FOTO-FILL FILLER . . . VISIBLE INK SUPPLY . . . PLI-GLASS RESERVOIR . . . PLATHE-NIUM-TIPPED POINT... “AERO-METRIC CONTROL” . . . PLUS 9 OTHER GREAT ADVANCES.
MUI
yourself. See the New “51” today at your Parker dealer’s. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wisconsin, U. S. A., and Toronto, Canada.
wtifa ofay
Copr. 1949 by The Parker Pen Company
8
The Scholastic
/laite
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 90 - Number 16 FEBRUARY 18,1949
Maritain Here Soon
Jacques Maritain, eminent teacher, author and lecturer, and one of the greatest Thomistic philosophers of modern times, will deliver an address at Notre Dame on March 23 under the auspices of the Mediaeval Institute, it was announced recently by the Rev. Gerald B. Phelan, director of the Institute.
Dr. Maritain, who became a professor of philosophy at Princeton University last year, will speak on the subject of “Human Rights." His lecture, which will be open to the public, will be given on the campus at 4:30 p.m. at a place yet to be decided.
While he is at Notre Dame, Dr. Maritain will also give an address at a banquet on March 23 in honor of the tenth anniversary of the Review of Politics.
Council Names New York as Student Trip Choice; Blasts Mindszenty Trial; OK's NSA
Church Sign
This church sign designed by Architect Willoughby MarshaU received first prize in a contest sponsored by the Te Deum International Society. The sign, of stamped metal will indicate the proximity of a Catholic Church and will give the hours of Mass and the name of the church.
The Student Council, after carefully sampling student opinion, decided that Notre Dame’s 1949 student trip would be to New York’s Yankee Stadium to watch newcomer North Carolina awe the expectant hordes of subway alumni and ex-Army fans.
The hope was expressed, after a consideration of the fate of the 1946 Army game in New York, that the arrangements committee make doubly sure that they know what they are getting when they select tickets. Students will remember how hard it was watching Blanchard and Davis slam into Lujack and Connor from the depths of a foxhole.
The New York Met club will be asked to participate in the arrangement of festivities, housing, guiding, etc.
Rap Mindszenty Treatment
Telegrams were sent to President Truman and Secretary of State Acheson protesting the treatment of Cardinal Mindszenty by the Hungarian government. These messages were a part of a telegram barrage from Catholic colleges, inaugurated by John Carroll University (Cleveland), on the State Department condemning the Hungarian communists’ so-called “justice” in sentencing the Catholic cardinal to life imprisonment.
After much discussion, the council agreed to pay up its dues and get Notre Dame back into the NSA for the 1949-50 school year. Several delegates will be sent to the organization’s conference in August.
The Notre Dame bowling team (made up of the top five bowlers in the Kam-pus Keglers league) was awarded $49.50 to enable it to get down to Champaign, Ill., for the Intercollegiate Bowling Tourney to be held at Illinois in a few weeks.
The shower situation in the Rockne Memorial got a going over. Seems there are two big showers down there and only one is used—something about the extra cost of soap and hot water. A one-man committee investigated the ruse and reported that he had got the word of Mr. Scannell that Shower No. 2 would be turned on when needed.
Basketball Dinner Up to Villagers
Basketball testimonial for the 1949 team was again considered. It was agreed, after reviewing food costs tendered by the dining hall staff, that such an affair would doubtlessly entail a loss to someone. It was decided that the Villagers, who ran last year’s all-sport testimonial, would be given first chance at the affair this year. The council agreed to underwrite any deficits which may occur.
Possibility of a credit union at Notre Dame was discussed. Most members felt that poverty was not a major worry of Notre Dame students. Councilman John Walker reported that the University has a $15,000 Ioan fund. It was suggested that this matter be tabled until the next business recession.
Second showing of old Notre Dame sports films will take place next Thursday (Feb. 24) in the Engineering auditorium. Featured: Last year’s Notre Dame—N. Y. U. basketball game at Madison Square Garden. This is the one that Notre Dame copped in the final minute, stopping N.Y.U.’s win streak at 21.
Waugh Talks Feb. 23
Evelyn Waugh, one of Britain's most distinguished contemporary novelists, will appear here in the Drill Hall next Wednesday, Feb. 23, at 8 pan. under the sponsorship of the University Concert and Lecture Series. The subject of his lecture will be “Three Convert Writers."
Mr. Waugh, a convert to Catholicism in 1930, is best known for his novels, which include “The Loved Ones," “Brideshead Revisited." “Vile Bodies" and “A Handful of Dust." hi his lecture here, he will discuss some of the peculiar characteristics of English Catholicism by examining the lives and works of the three eminent convert authors. G. K. Chesterton. Monsignor Ronald A. Knox, and Graham Greene.
Feb. 18, 1949
9
Mardi Gras Queens To Rule Ball. Feb. 25
The clock in the Sacred Heart’s steeple will chime midnight, announcing the beginning of Lent on the night of March 1. Four nights earlier the winter social season at Notre Dame will come to an official close with the gigantic Mardi Gras Ball in downtown’s Palais Royale. It is also one of the only campus dances that is open to all classes.
Miss Kathleen O’Brien, a brunette colleen with laughing blue eyes from Iowa City, Iowa, and a sophomore at St. Mary’s, and Miss Sylvia Wiersma, a blond, blue-eyed Nordic type from South Bend, will be the dates of co-chairmen Pat Gallagher and Phil Finnegan and will reign as Queens of the Ball.
KATHLEEN O'BRIEN St. Mary's Gaelic Lass
Five New Instructors Added To ND Faculty
With the coming of the spring semester, five new instructors were added to the faculty at Notre Dame, two in the Coliege of Arts and Letters, and one each in the Colleges of Engineering, Commerce and Law.
Marcel P. Gaspar, doctor in political science from the University of Frankfort, Germany, has been appointed an instructor in economics. A native of Luxembourg, Dr. Gaspar studied at the Universities of Liege (Belgium) and Frankfort, and taught taxation and public finance at the University of Breslau. He was the chief of the Financial Division of the Institute for Economic Research at Berlin, is the author of two monographs (“Finance of Greece” and “Finance of the Netherlands”), and a book, Cooperation of Central Banks.
SYLVIA WIERSMA South Bend Pride and Joy
The dance will be held on Friday night, Feb. 25, from 9:30 to 1 a.m. St. Mary’s will have 1:30 permissions, while Notre Dame gallants will be allowed to flit around the landscape until 2 o’clock. Bob Ruehle’s orchestra has been signed for the second straight year for the Ball.
Under the chairmanship of Bob Moriarty, the decorations committee is making last minute preparations to transform the downtown pleasure barn into a colorful scene comparable to variegated, happy-crazed N’Orleans at its height of Mardi Gras madness.
Tickets may be purchased at $3.00 a bid, in the basement of the dining hall, or from hall representatives. Jack O’Brien is in charge of bid sales, while programs are being handled by Dave Schoen.—Ken Thoren
In the Department of Civil Engineering, William A. Nash of Chicago has been appointed Assistant Professor of Mechanics. He is a graduate of the Illinois Institute of Technology, where he took his master’s degree, and of the University of Michigan, where he received his doctorate last month. During 1944-45 he worked on various government projects for the Armour Research Foundation.
Boleslaw Szczeniak, a native of Poland, was appointed assistant professor in the Department of History. He is a graduate of the Oriental Institute in Warsaw, and of Waseda University in Tokyo, Japan. He has lectured at the University of London and at the American University in Japan, and is considered an expert in far Eastern history
Bartholomew Leads Tour of Capital
As Easter vacation comes near again, Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, professor in the Department of Political Science, has announced that he will conduct a six-day tour of Washington, D. C., during the holidays. The visit to the nation’s capital was an annual event before the war, and was resumed last year with a high measure of success.
This year’s trip will run one day longer than the previous visits. The group will leave South Bend on the afternoon of Friday, April 15, on the New York Central Railroad. Connections will be made with the Chesapeake and Ohio in Toledo, the same evening and the following afternoon will bring the group to Williamsburg, Va., for a tour of the colonial capital. Later the same evening they will arrive in Washington.
On Easter Sunday morning, Mass has been scheduled at the Franciscan Monastery, followed by a full day of sightseeing. All the major governmental buildings will be shown to the group during their stay, and tentative arrangements have been made for a reception at one of the embassies, as well as for special talks by several top men in government and business circles in the city. In addition to this, the tour will watch Congress in action and observe the Supreme Court in its full dignity. Tuesday has been scheduled for leaving the capital, but a stop in Charlottsville, Va., will show the group Jefferson’s “Monticello”, Monroe’s “Ash Lawn” and the University of Virginia.
The entire trip will cost $91. This covers round trip coach rail fare, dining car meals, hotel accomodations, and all sightseeing in special buses, as well as guides and lecturers and admission fees to grounds and buildings. In accordance with the precedent set last year, St. Marys’ students are cordially invited to take advantage of the trip, and, needless to say, all Notre Dame students are more than welcome to take this opportunity to see the historic city. All who are interested in this trip and who wish further information or details should contact Dr. Bartholomew, room 230 of the Social Science building.
and affairs.
In the College of Law, William C. Prekowitz, a graduate of Notre Dame (LL.B., ’48) is instructing a course in torts.
Another graduate of Notre Dame, Charles W. Wagner, (B.S. in Accounting, ’40), is teaching part-time in the College of Commerce.
10
The Scholastic
35 Airmen to Take Off On Last Social Flight
The first Air ROTC seniors in the history of the University to receive the commission of second lieutenant upon graduation, will attend their last military ball here tonight. These seniors— 35 in all—will be hosts to the rest of the Notre Dame Air ROTC unit, and have invited the Naval ROTC, all Naval Reserve officers and English and Canadian Reserve officers on campus to attend the affair. Beginning at 9 o’clock in the Rotary Room of the Hotel Oliver, Tony Papa and his orchestra will provide four hours of music for the uniformed Notre Dame men and their dates.
Privileges for the evening are set at 2 a.m., for campus students and 1:30 a.m. for St. Mary’s students. Special busses between here and S.M.C. have been arranged. Decorations for the dance include a large Air Corps insignia above the door to the ball room, various parts of airplanes decorating the inside of the room, emblems of the different Air Forces and a goodly quantity of red, white and blue crepe paper, augmented by a large American Flag. Adding to the color, the men attending will come bedecked in full dress uniform, arrayed in ribbons. Refreshments will be served in the hotel’s Rose Room.
Chairman of tonight’s dance is Tony Ray. This will mark the second year that Ray has been top man in providing such a dance. Ray and his three technical advisors, Larry Heuser, Jim Ford and Bob Campbell, were chosen by the unit earlier in the yeai- to arrange all social functions and carry them to fruition. Their job has included a total of three “smokers” and a communion breakfast so far, in addition to tonight’s shuffle.—Walt Collins
'CALENDAR' ENDS PUBLICATION
The University Calendar, weekly mimeographed list of activities at Notre Dame, will no longer be published. Its work has been superseded by the hew “Bulletin Board" column in the SCHOLASTIC.
' News' of lectures, seminars, spe-ciaU- movies, ^departmental programs,' and' other events formerly handled by the Calendar should now be submitted to the Publications ' Office in the Main Building. The deadline is Friday for items to appear in the following week's issue.
FATHER GABRIEL Tagged for UNESCO
Mindszenty Appoints ND Priest to UNESCO
A member of the Notre Dame faculty was named to represent Hungary on the International Catholic Coordination Committee in a letter from His Eminence, Joseph Cardinal Mindszenty, Archbishop of Hungary and the storm center of international indignation in the Communist treason trials. The Rev. Asztrik Gabriel, of the Mediaeval Institute, received notification of his appointment to the committee recently in a letter written before the Cardinal’s arrest.
Father Gabriel served as professor of old French at the University of Budapest prior to his exile from Hungary, and was also a former director of the French school in the Hungarian capital. He joined the staff of the Mediaeval Institute at Notre Dame in 1948.
The International Catholic Coordinating Committee, a Vatican office of UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization), was established in Paris in 1947 under the presidency of Monsignor Blanchet, Rec-tor of the Catholic Institute of Paris. The primary aim of the committee is to give necessary information to the UNESCO about the international Catholic organizations through delegates appointed by the hierarchy of the Catholic Church.
Support the Student Relief Campaign
Glee Club to Present First Annual Dance
With a 4,000-mile Southern tour just completed and an extensive Easter trip through the East on the agenda, the Notre Dame Glee Club announces a formal dance to be held at the Rotary Room of the Hotel Oliver in South Bend on Feb. 26. Committee members, John Sullivan, Lou La Mair, Joe Schneidler, Al Gavan and Guy Perenich have made extensive plans for the evening including the signing of Gene Hull’s orchestra.
As the theme of the dance, the committee has decided upon, appropriately enough, “In The Still of the Night.” Ranking among the highlights of the dance, which is restricted to Glee Club members, will be a program featuring songs by the members for the entertainment of their lady guests and also the coronation of the dance queen, Miss Donna Hazelton. Miss Hazelton will be accompanied by Roy O’Neil, president of the club.
The Glee Club plans to make the dance an annual tradition for both members and alumni. In order to make the occasion a lasting remembrance, the committee has made plans to have novel leatherette dance favors in picture frame form to be given to each couple. During the dance, pictures will be taken to make the favors complete.
Regarding the trip to be taken by the club during the Easter period, Roy O’Neil states that the itinerary will take in, among other cities, Philadelphia, New York, and Boston. It is hoped that the approaching tour will meet with as much success as the recent Southern trip. Concerning the trip through the South, president O’Neil commented, “I think our trip made a lasting impression on the South; it gave these people a new significance of Notre Dame.”
—Jack Ward
Electric Blanket Designer, ND Grad, Honored by GE
The man who helped design the electric blanket — a Notre Dame graduate — was recently honored with General Electric’s highest achievement award. George C. Crowley, a 1942 graduate of the University, has been presented GE’s Charles A. Coffin award for his “technical knowledge, application, ingenuity and aggressive action in . . . developing a suitable electric circuit” for .the control of General Electric automatic blankets.
Crowley is a designing engineer in the automatic blanket and sunlamp division of the appliance and merchandise department of GE.
Feb. 18, 1949
11
DEAN MANION AND HIS NEW STUDENT, THOMAS BAMFORD A Man Can Get What He Wants No Matter How Old He Is
desire for some more education and to be able to help out any one who may need it. If any of his relatives get stuck, however, he will quit school and help them.
He does not feel strange about going to school again after so many years. “I feel right at home,” he says. He admits, though, that all the legal terms were a little confusing at first. This didn’t stop him from enjoying school, however: the students are “a darn good bunch” and the professors are “A-l.”
Mr. Bamford believes anybody can get what he wants if he has guts enough: “I wanted to show that a man can get anything no matter how old he is.”
—Bill Weir
Never Too Old...
Persistent Scholar, 65, Enters ND Law School
Lecture by Father Peyton Opens '49 Aquinas Series
The Rev. Patrick Peyton, C.S.C., director of the Family Theater and promoter of the Family Rosary devotion, opened the fourth annual Aquinas Lecture Series in the Drill Hall last week.
Father Peyton began his talk on “The Family That Prays Together Stays Together” with recollections of his childhood in Carracastle, County Mayo, Ireland. He recounted the chain of events —his coming to America, his vocation, his recovery from tuberculosis and his gratitude to the Blessed Mother — which led to the establishment of his modern crusade.
“I saw a man adding up a row of figures, and I couldn’t add two fractions. I said to myself, ‘Tom, you’re a damn Tool!’ ” So Thomas Bamford decided to get some more education. He liked what he got so well that after he retired, he decided to get a little more and entered the Notre Dame College of Law this semester- at the age of 65.
He moved to South Bend to go here, and he and his wife live at 718 Eckman in a house he bought last year following his retirement. The couple have two children: a son, Thomas F., who just graduated from Annapolis, and a daughter, Mrs. Alice Tleenor. They also have a grandson, Tommy, whom Mr. Bambord intends to train to be the world’s first four-minute miler.
Mr.' Bamford was born in Lancashire, England, in 1883. At eleven, he had to leave school because of bad health. He came to this country in 1906 and worked in Newark, N. J., as an iron moulder, a trade he had learned in the old country. When he, in 1918, decided he needed more education, he went to Mt. Herman, a school on the Massachusetts-Vermont border that specialized in teaching boys who had not been able to
finish their education. Every student had to work at least two hours a day, but Mr. Bamford had to work even more; he had to drop out of school at intervals and work in a foundry to get enough money to live. “It was a peachy school,” he says. “Like here—you really got an education.”
After he left Mt. Herman, Mr. Bamford spent a year at Cornell, then transferred to Illinois. World War I interrupted his education, but after* 18 months in France, he returned and graduated from Illinois. He supported himself through college as he had at Mt. Herman. He had no money to start with: “I started my first semester at Illinois with 28 cents in my pocket.”
Following graduation, he worked for a while in Richmond, Va., until he took a job as salesman for the Warren Featherbone Co. which he held until he retired last year. He almost lost his job the day after he was hired, because of his pro-labor sympathies, but he convinced the company he was worth having around, in spite of his views.
Mr. Bamford does not plan to practice law when he gets his degree; he is merely taking the course to satisfy a
The next Aquinas lecture will be delivered by the Rev. Harold C. Gardiner, S.J. His talk, “Ideas and Ideals in Current Literature” is scheduled for March 4 in Central High School Auditorium.
FATHER PEYTON A Chain of Events
12
Tlie Scholastic
Next Week
Film Classic Slated
Douglas Fairbanks, Sr., djinns, and a flying horse are scheduled to cavort noiselessly across the screen of the Engineering Auditorium Thursday night in a revival of the old silent picture, The Thief o.f Bagdad. First on this year’s film classics program sponsored by the Department of Journalism, it starts at 7:30 p.m.
Admission is by ticket only.
NYU Game Movies
Films of last season’s cage contest between NYU and Notre Dame will be shown Thursday at 2:30 and 3:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. Watch the Violets turn purple as ND snaps their 21-game victory skein.
Marine Reserve Group
Ex-Leathernecks at the University will be eligible to join a proposed volunteer" Marine Reserve unit to be discussed Sunday at a meeting of the St. Joseph’s Valley Detachment of the Marine Corps League. Also under- consideration at the meeting, at 2102% Lincoln Way West, Mishawaka, will be the Marine Reserve Retirement Plan.
Audio-Visual Movies
“Working for Fun,” a short movie feature on the making of athletic equipment, will make up the program Monday and Wednesday at the Audio-Visual Center in the Main Building. A film entitled “Family Affair,” dealing with the applications of Papal Encyclicals in industry, will be presented Thursday and Friday. All showings are at 4:15 p.m.
Also . . .
The Mardi Gras Ball, the Glee Club Dance, a lecture by Evelyn Waugh in the Drill Hall, the K. of C.-sponsored Bridge Tourney, and the Washington Day exercises. For details of these, see the news pages of the Scholastic.
This Week
Forum on France
Conditions in post-war France and French North Africa were the topic of discussion in a seminar arranged by the Department of Modem Languages.

The Bulletin Board
James A. CorbetJ, Professor of History; Professor Michael Aime, of the Department of Architecture; and Robert D. Nuner, Professor of Modern Language, took part in the discussion.
Church in Mexico
Relations between the Church and State in Mexico were discussed by George Marcos, graduate student from south of the border, at a meeting of the Inter-American Affairs Club. A movie on the same subject was shown in conjunction with the talk.
Trio Presents Recital
The Ablenari String Trio presented a recital last night in Washington Hall, sponsored by the University Concert and Lecture Series.
Chemist Talks on Hydrides
Dr. H. I. Schlesinger, Professor Emeritus at the University of Chicago, spoke on “Recent Developments in the Chemistry of Hydrides” at a meeting of the N. D. American Chemical Society chapter in the Biology Auditorium.
Mediaeval Institute Lecture
The Mediaeval Institute guest lecture program brought to the campus Professor Gaines Post, Professor of History at the University of Wisconsin, who offered a series of talks Monday through Friday on “Roman and Canon Law and Representation in the Thirteenth Century.”
Lecture-Recital
Professor Daniel S. Pedtke and Mr. Charles A. Biondo, of the Department of Music, presented a lecture-recital program in Washington Hall. Selections played were Beethoven’s Violin-Piano Sonata Number 7 in G Minor and Sonata Number 8 in G Major.
Donation for Lab Received
A gift of §25,000 for the construction of an electronics laboratory in the new §1,750,000 Science Building, was received from the Kresge Foundation of Detroit. The donation was secured through the Honorable Harry F. Kelly, ’17, Notre Dame Foundation committeeman, and Mr. Paul W. Voorhies, President of the Kresge Foundation.
Last Week
Father Peyton Speaks
The “Radio Priest,” the Rev. Patrick Peyton, C.S.C., spoke in the Drill Hall on the theme of his Family Theater Program: “The Family That Prays Together Stays Together.” His appearance opened the ’49 Aquinas Lecture Series.. • .
Tax Talks
Taxes 1 Taxes I Taxes ’ More than 200 lawyers and judges attended an all-day session here on: the impact of the Revenue Act of 1949 on income, estate and gift taxes; claims and suits for refunds; and Federal income tax problems of estates and testamentary trusts.
The Federal Tax Institute was sponsored by Mr. Aaron H. Huguenard, of the Indiana State Bar Association, in collaboration with Clarence E. Manion, Dean of the Notre Dame College of Law. Jack B. Miller, ND Professor of Law, presided over the meeting.
Busses to Chicago
The Chicago Club resumed operation of their special week-end bus system. Busses leave the Circle each Saturday at 12:30 p.m. and start the return trip from 170 N. State St. in the breezy city at 8 p.m. Sunday, with stops at 63rd, 79th and 92nd Sts. Round trip costs §4.45.
Trade Confab Planned
Plans for the second annual World Trade Conference at Notre Dame were formulated at a special luncheon called by Mr. Wesley C. Bender, Head of the Department of Marketing of the College of Commerce. The Conference is scheduled for May 5.
Opportunities
Scholarships
Tuition scholarships for advanced study in audio-visual instruction at N.D.’s ’49 Summer Session are being offered by the Encyclopaedia Britannica. Films Scholarship Board. The Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., will select the scholars to whom the awards will be: made. Only teachers and administrators are eligible; applications should he made to Father Kenna.
Graduate scholarships and teaching fellowships in 15 subjects will be awarded this year by Bradley University. Scholarships include remission of all fees, with no service required. Assistantship grants involve teaching from 6 to 12 hours a week and range from §900 to §1800. For details, write to the Director of the Graduate Division, Bradley University, Peoria 5, Ill.
Stanford Law Scholarships worth §600 to §1000 will be presented to students entering in the fall of ’49. Applicants for the grants should contact the Dean of the School of Law, Stanford University, Stanford, Calif., before April 1.
Summer Schools
The University of Fribourg in Switzerland has announced a Summer Ses-
(Continued on Page 32)
Feb. 18, 1949
13
Slide Rule in the Klondike
By JIM KINGSLEY
“I was alone, hunting deer on Mt. Bradley. Silly thing to do, I guess, in view of what happened . . .
“It got dark early, so I bedded down at the timber line, with my rifle wrapped up beside me. I was falling asleep fast when I heard a noise in the bushes.
“I sat up to see a brown bear not 20 feet away, just crouching there baring his teeth — I thought sure he was com-
Bare Stomach, Brown Bear Add Spice to Alaskan Life Of ND Engineering Student
ing over to kiss me good night. I pawed at my rifle but couldn’t get it out ...”
An awkward moment, you may surmise; and among the first to agree will be Cy Weiler, a 22-year-old Badin Hall engineering student, who laconically admits he was “terrified.” (The bruin, incidentally, took a long look at Cy and ambled back into the woods.)
Activities Varied
But scenes like this became prosaic even to Weiler, during the twelve cold months he served as a consultant engineer in the glacial wastes of Alaska. The off-hour wanderings of this modern Gulliver— or Dan McGrew, whichever you may wish — saw him scaling mountains, .sleeping in Indian burial grounds, and stranded in ghost towns.
A native of Aurora, Ill., Weiler took off for Alaska in January of last year. He was bent on finding work, but apprehensive of what he had heard about others who “roamed the poles”: those who had sold their guns and even their clothes to escape starvation, who had returned disappointedly to the States — saved only by Red Cross relief.
Cy was to evade this fate, thanks to a Notre Dame graduate.
In Juneau, a civil and mining engineer named Toner (Class of ’39) took Weiler on as a consultant engineer. For the ensuing year Cy lent his talents to projects like the laying of a 23-mile power line between Auke Bay and Tee Harbor, a usually uncomplicated endeavor which required six months, as the ant crawls, over rivers and around mountains.
Fish Flown In
While enjoying comparative prosperity, Cy nonetheless counted - himself among the unfed more, than once. Dur
ing a longshoremen’s strike in Juneau, for instance, he survived on a meager diet of fish provided by the Alaska Airlift from Seattle.
One day later in the summer, he found himself famished — but for something more imperative this time: Ice cream.
“We drew straws,” he recounts, “with the result that another fellow and myself had to cross Khaz Bay, climb Mount Butler, chip ice from a glacier, and bring it back to use in a hand-crank freezer.
“Now I can appreciate bouncing over to the caf to buy a chocolate cone.”
Weiler’s most memorable days were passed while marooned in the town of Cobol, on Chichagof Island. A tumultuous gold-rush settlement at the turn of the century, Cobol’s sole claim to ex-
CY WEILER Bruins, Ice and Snow
istence now is a U. S. Post Office, a radio station, and a population of three.
One of these is a grizzled prospector named Ben Cox. Ben was a great bear hunter, Cy remembers, whose oft-expressed secret of success was simply: “Never shoot a bear unless you have to, but when you have to, break down his front running gear first.”
Cy will grin when he tells you of Ben’s reaction when an over-anxious salesman offered to install indoor plumbing for him. “Who ever heard of having that junk in the house!” the old man
roared. “Leave it here till I can build a shack for it.”
The greater mass of Cobol’s citizenry are a Mr. and Mrs. Bolyan. The latter, a bent old woman of 60, is the most fabulous huntress in Alaska, having to her credit more bears than most men in the entire territory. Cy photographed her in what she proudly claimed were “the first woman’s clothes I’ve worn in 12 years.”
Cy did some hunting on his own, but usually confined his quarry to deer and seals. He confides that there is no greater sport than seal-hunting.
Weiler cleaned up his work in time to return home by last Christmas Eve. He came back to Notre Dame in February, and faces three more semesters of civil engineering before he will be graduated.
“I’ll go back,” says Cy. “It might be a while yet, but I’ll probably return to Alaska. There’s nothing drab about that place.”
Bridge Fanciers Aim For 2 Goals In Tourney
Big things are in store for all acehandy Irish. The campus bridge tournament is set for the coming week, and Notre Dame card sharks, who are up on Culbertson, will aim for the twin goals of the campus championship and a possible crack at the National Intercollegiate Bridge Tournament in Chicago.
The first part of the tournament is scheduled for 7:30 p.m., Sunday, Feb. 20, in the K. of C. clubroom in the basement of Walsh Hall. By elimination 14 pairs will be selected for the campus finals. Losers will have a chance to re-establish their reputation in a consolation round, for the winning of which a prize will also be awarded. Entry blanks for the Sunday contest may be obtained from the Student Council office, from the K. of C. clubroom, or from the hall representatives, whose names are on the hall bulletin boards. In case anyone should neglect getting his blank until the last minute, he still may obtain one at the tournament Sunday night. The campus finals for the twentyeight winners of the preliminary bout will be held later in the week.
The winning pair, who will receive trophies, and the next three highest pairs will then start in the intercollegiate tournament proper. These men and the leading players of the other schools in the Great Lakes Zone will battle it out for a chance at the national finals in Chicago.
Dick .Soisson is the student chairman of the bridge committee and Mr. John P. Turley is faculty adviser.
'	;	—Dave Driscoll
14
The Scholastic

Irish Pick Far-Away Places
Oampui Qlahe-Qa^&iA. Pielei Va/Md £«alei
When the pseudo brain-trusters of the Scholastic landed upon the idea of interrogating some of the local luminaries on the question — If ND could be any other place than South Bend, where would you want it and why? — they should have taken into account the pro? vincialism and Chamber of Commerce-ism that prevails in such a national student body as ours.
Through loyalty and understandable preference, most of the inquirees chose their particular home town plots of heaven. There were some, however, who turned their eyes to other, and perhaps greener fields. Paul Wells, of 447 Zahm, unknowingly put himself into the Francophile contingent when he chose Nice, France, because “it is the center of the Riviera, the center of culture and beauty; the climate is perfect, the scenery magnificent, and the general atmosphere is such that it lends to an intensification of learning.”
European Sites Extolled
Walt Pfeiffer, of Howard and Pine Lawn, Mo., is another Frenchman at
Freshman Study Lounges Nearly Set in Three Halls
For the past three weeks painters, furniture men, and interior decorators have been working in the basements of Breen-Phillips, Farley, and Zahm halls. Now, as the projects near completion, the elaborate reading and lounge rooms in the freshman halls are attracting much favorable comment.
The Breen-Phillips lounge with its new paint job, end tables, floor and table lamps, rugs, curtains, and leatherette furniture rivals many hotel lobbies in beauty and comfort.
Although the rooms in Farley and Zahm halls are not as near completion as the Breen-Phillips, they have also been painted and are being equipped in much the same way. All three halls have house committees which have set up certain rules to insure a minimum amount of damage to the furniture.
The rooms are to be paid for by the students of each hall over a period of three years. Each room is expected to cost approximately $1400. For the present the money has been borrowed from the University. The students in each hall have pledged a certain amount of money which is expected to meet one-third' of the\tbtai.'cost—^t7n^^ . -	'	. - -	<1	.
heart for he says, “Give me Paris; wine, women and plenty of late privileges!” Dick McKenna, of Louisville, Ky. and Farley, says, “I’ll take Heidelberg—beer steins held aloft, dueling, singing schmaltzy Romberg melodies—that’s the life for me.”
In bringing the moot question back closer to home, Jack Ward, of Zahm, picks Richmond, Va., where “the student could find innumerable southern belles.” Other Rebels included Tom Roney, of Sorin and Detroit, Mich. He says, “Put me down for Atlanta, Ga. There are two reasons: the climate is better, and there is a tall blonde there named Martha.” Bringing up the Confederate rear is Eugene O’Brien, of Zahm and Atlanta: “The South, son! Anywhere in the South.”
Roger Vorce, also of Zahm, would go above the Mason-Dixon line for a new site. He says, “For beauty and good water, in New England; for excitement, near New York City; for enjoyment, about a mile closer to St. Mary’s.”
Of all the foreign students that were queried not one chose his native land. A Zahmite, however, wouldn’t mind seeing ND settle down “somewhere in Ireland” while Jerry Costello, of Breen-
STA PI I'M
Maybe Even Heidelberg
Phillips, prefers “Lower Slobbovia (because) maybe it’s warmer there.” “The school should be moved to the lost continent of Atlantis,” says Jack Lambert, of Darien, Conn., without qualifying his decision.
Sunny Cal Gains Ned
The cheering section for California is a loud and demanding one. Mike Swis-towicz, of Alumni and Chicago, says, “The University should no doubt be in the best place; Southern California.” Tom Veech, of B-P, laconically says, “Southern California, because of South Bend!”
With tongue in cheek, Dave Wilmot, of Zahm, contends that “he likes South Bend. I think the people are very friendly and that it’s the most hospitable place I’ve ever been in. I also like the low cost of living and the mild climate.”	•
This question, like politics, might be discussed long into many lightless campus nights during the future weeks, but don’t let this poll be misconstrued as a rumor, for the University will never pack up its grips and move. It’s glued to this flat pan-cake ground, and here it will stay!
Feb. 18, 1949
15
New York Company Presents 'Barber of Seville1
For One-Night Stand in Drill Hall Feb. 26
Music
When Charles L. Wagner’s complete opera production of Rossini’s Barber of Seville rings back the curtain in the Naw Drill Hall on Feb. 26, it will give many a chance to see a first-rate opera for a minimum of expense. Sponsored by the University Concert and Lecture Series, this opera-comique will be at Notre Dame for a one-night stand, beginning at 8 p.m., next Saturday.
According to present plans, student ticket booths will be set up in the basement of the Dining Hall, open to all comers between the hours of 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m., and 5:30 p.m. to 7 p.m. Ducats for the Feb. 26 performance will set students back 75 cents, three-fourths of a dollar. General admission tickets for the public run a flat $1.20 all the way, and will also be offered for sale at stores in South Bend.
Mr. Wagner’s production of the Barber of Seville brings to Notre Dame a talented group of young American artists and musicians. In the role of Rosina, will be Marylin Cotlow, gifted young American coloratura soprano. As Count Almaviva, her lover, will be Edward Nyborg, tenor, reported to be one of the most promising American tenors to come before the public since the war. The famous and irrepressible Figaro, generally the most memorable character of the opera, will be sung by baritone Frank Cappelli.
With a fine supporting cast, and a twenty-five piece orchestra of New York musicians, The Barber of Seville looks like a good bet for anyone with a free evening come Saturday, Feb. 26.
MARYLIN COTLOW
Rossini's Rosina
FRANK CAPPELI Seville's Barber
700 Seniors to Attend Washington Day Fete
Nearly 700 members of the June graduating class will take part in the traditional Washington Day exercises next Tuesday in Washington Hall. Pat Costello, president of the senior class, will make the presentation of an American flag to the Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., Vice-President of Notre Dame, who will accept it in the name of the University.
Chairman of the ceremonies will be George R. Schrodt, of the College of Science, who holds the highest academic average in the graduating class. The principal address will be delivered by William W. Pfaff III, an honor student in the College of Arts and Letters.
The seniors will assemble by colleges on the main floor of the Main Building at 9:45 a.m. for the academic procession. At 10:15 they will begin the march to Washington Hall, and ceremonies there are scheduled to get under way at 10:30.
According to an announcement from the Director of Studies’ Office, all seniors included in the candidate list posted on the Main Building bulletin board are required to attend. Caps and gowns will be distributed in the basement of Walsh Hall Tuesday morning from 8 to 9:30 a.m., and must be returned immediately after the exercises.
By VERNE KELLEY
This Saturday at the beauteous Palais Royale you can see for a small charge one of the most entertaining entertainers in the music business . . . Herbie Fields. . . . He has six men with him but when playing together on something like “Jealousy” or “Flying Home” they sound like a fifteen piece band . . . not that they’re just loud . . . they blend the three horns and the four rhythms and what comes out sounds bounciful . . .
Blue Note Department
King Cole Trio has left the little groundhogs at the Blue Note and Sarah Vaughn has moved in. . . . We think she is being accompanied by the Lester Young quartet which should add to the enjoyment. . . . Sarah is the young singer with the different style (sounds like an instrument and voice combined) who has won so many of the popularity polls about girl singers last year and this. ... If you like your music in smoke-filled basements, and that is really the best way for jazz, then drop in or down at 56 W. Madison and tell the manager you want a table on the aisle.
Huddle Muddle
This is a new section devoted to the selection of records in the Huddle . . . the coffee house situated between Cavanaugh and Washington Halls . . . though we abhor the absence of tables and booths in our favorite breakfast spot, we do realize that public opinion about the vic there has reached an all-time high . . . newest addition to the standbys is the “The Teddy Bear Song,” or “Teddy Bear’s Picnic,” or “Don’t Go Down to the Woods Today,” or “See Them Gaily Gad About” or “You Better Go in Disguise Until Six o’clock When Their-Mommies and Poppies Put The Tired Teddy Bears To Bed”. . . . This has reached the proportions of the “Three Little Fishes” and we predict that it should near “Deep in the Heart of Texas”. . . . Other choices for caffein cacophony are “Blue Tail Fly,” the “Hey, Joe” polka, “Snatch and Grab It,” “Two Meat Balls,” “Ooi Ya Koo,” “I’m A Bad, Bad Man,” “Orchi Chornya,” “Cement Mixer,” “Ain’t It A Shame About Mame,” “Stop That Dancing Up There,” “Yes, We Have No Bananas,” “Annie Doesn’t Live Here Anymore,” “Beer Barrel Polka,” “Ragtime Cowboy Joe,” and “Shortnin’ Bread.” . . . any other suggestions will be wholly welcomed . . . send to Music Column, Scholastic . . . maybe we can change the records there even if we can’t change the prices.
16
The Scholastic
Can We Do It Again?
The Whys and Wherefores of Student Relief
By KEN THOREN
It's Easy Here
The sometimes small and crowded rooms at Notre Dame are often complained of, but one has only to see the often dirty, often unheated, often uncompleted cells that the foreign students are forced to live in and the local problem would be forgotten.
For months now the Student Relief Campaign has bludgeoned the campus with its posters, donation books, door-to-door convassing and publicity releases. The student body has heard about the campaign until it’s blue and gold in the face. But how many really know what the Student Relief Campaign accomplishes? How many know of its concrete gains in foreign lands?
Everyone realizes that the cause is a charitable one and one that is worthy of
Greek Students Find Sleeping Space in a Crowded Classroom
contributing to unstintingly. But the ignorance concerning its successes is almost universal in the student body. Who, for instance, knew that the total allocations in hard cash came to a whopping $141,025 last year? And all of that out of the pockets of either hard-pressed students or their* generous friends. How many knew that it was Notre Dame which contributed the largest single offering to the national committee last year? The amount was $30,600, but that was last year.
Slops and Gruel
The destitute students of war-wracked lands are still praying for our help. They are continuing to suffer from tuberculosis and malnutrition. They are still eating nauseating slops and gruel in order to maintain a bare existence. Their schools are still in ruinous condition while their educational implements are few and crudely basic.
Germany has received aid with the food, clothing, books and magazines that have been sent to her war-torn centers of learning. Vitamin pills and medicines comprised the first shipment that was sent to China’s destitute last year. Intellectual relief in the form of pamphlets followed. Polish students in Lebanon depend upon the help they have been given from America to maintain their indispensable canteen.
A cash grant was sent to the Philippines and is being administered by a five-man board actng out of Manila to meet emergency needs of students. Austria, bleak and barren, remembering her waltzes and schottisches, has received food and clothing for allocation to her needy students.
Beans to Philosophy
And so it is also with Japan, Italy, France, Spain, Belgium, the Netherlands, Poland, and to what many con-sidei* the most destitute of all, the DP students. Everything from underwear, to toilet articles, to philosophical treatises, to sacks of flour, to beans, ad infinitum, has been and is being sent to our more unfortunate counterparts.
The tribulations that the foreign students are encountering are dramatically expressed in every letter that is received from them. Pre-meds, for instance, should understand the plight of some Freiburg students who . . . “have no way of cleaning their hands after having handled bodies of people, who died of contagious diseases, because the water freezes in winter.”
A Polish Student Works to Rebuild His Damaged University With Tools Bought by Student Relief—Photos Courtesy of Concord Magazine
All in all, the American student has it pretty soft. Warm clothes, adequate food, warm housing, a comprehensive
WHAT HAPPENS TO YOUR DOLLARS?
From the Notre Dame relief chairman it is . . . Sent to the national relief headquarters in New York, where the . . . Executive Committee, together with experts from War Relief Services — National Catholic Welfare Conference, confer on relief needs and determine allocations to specific countries . . . Relief supplies are then purchased wholesale and . . . Shipped to foreign countries in care of the local War Relief Services—National Catholic Welfare Conference representative. where . . . Supplies are turned over to the officially recognized campus student organizations for specific distribution to impoverished student victims of war.
education all go toward creating a happy and satisfied college community. What, however, if we were in the straits that the foreign students now find themselves in. To whom would we look for help? The answer of course is to God.
Notre Dame came through with flying colors last year. It cannot let the suffering students of foreign origin down now. The act of charity will surely be taken into consideration when our universal King separates the cockle from the wheat.
Feb. 18, 1949
17
£
Reel an
With K
4 Dance C^if
is
This is a story of an underdog, an epic of a much-abused soul, the sad saga of a defiled citizen. This is the chronicle of some days in the life of a dance chairman. Our story begins one bleak winter afternoon in the barren wastes of Indiana.
“Heh!” said the guy. The other guy turned around.
“Huh?” he said. “Heh, Herman,” the guy came up to him. “Herman, you are just the man I’ve been looking for, just the man.”	■->
“Huh?” said Herman.
“Herman, old man, you are about to become a celebrity. You have been elected to a great honor.”
“You mean,” said Herman gathering his wits for the effort, “You mean I’ve been campused? What did I do?”
“No, no, Herman, nothing, like that. I am about to bestow a great distinction
18 '
upon you. You have been chosen as chairman of the dance the club is throwing next month.”
“Huh?” said Herman. He had been too extended by his prior labors to come out with more.
“I knew you’d do it, Herman, old boy. I just knew you’d come through for the club. That’s the spirit.”
“Listen,” started Herman.
“No, don’t thank me, Herman. Don’t thank me. You were chosen on your merits alone. We wanted someone with drive and initiative, someone who could i^^put this thing over.”
“Now listen!” Herman tried again.
- "y “I’ve got to run now, Herman. You take It from here. We want a big name band — remember that — nothing but the best. And see if you can get the Country Club maybe or the Palais — any place. Do a good job bn the dec-
■ orations and no one will know where he is. And Herman, try to get something different for favors and bigger and better programs. You can put it over Herman. Bigger and better all around — you can do it.”
“Heh, now listen!” Herman was getting emotional.
“Oh, by the way, Herman, old man,
>
'i
“I’m “Tre “All simple
“W1 giving
f e
&
great <
Story by Greg Halpin Cartoons by Jim Bauer
1
crawli: Jimmy Dunhs
keep it under $750 will ya? That’s all the Student Welfare Office will allow us. Well, get to it Herman, and good luck.”
“Huh.” Herman was taking his great honor with epic calmness. His moment had come.
Herman Has Troubles
Three days later finds Herman in his room in Sorin, amidst all the casual chaos that is distinctive in all Sorin rooms. The guy rushes in.
“Herman, how’s it going. What’s the latest on the dance? Ya got a band yet? Elliot Lawrence maybe? Where’s it going to be? How about the bids? Charge more than $2.10 and the boys won’t come, you know! Haven’t seen any posters — publicity boys laying down on the job?”
“Huh?”
“What’sa scoop, Herman? What ya been doing—sitting around?
“No.”	'
“Well, what ya been doing? Nothing seems to be happening.”
“It isn’t.”
“Well, why not? The dance is only three weeks away and we haven’t even got any bids to sell.”	.
The Scholastic
“I < ond t $750,’ “W rence.
“I\ pensr Milto:
“M Milto:
“M
Feb. 1
£
lid Retch
Milton Bletch
Airman Has His Troubles
is



“I’m having trouble.”
“Trouble? What kind?”
“All kinds,” said Herman out of his simple heart.
“What ya mean ‘all kinds’? We’re giving you everything you need!”
“I need a band,” said Herman with great effect.
“A band? A band? The country is crawling with bands — Woody Herman, Jimmy Dorsey, Elliott Lawrence, Sonny Dunham. ...
get Elliot Lawrence’s secplayer for one night for
I couldn’t ond trumpet
B
8
$750,” said Herman, truly inspired.
“Well, we don’t have to have Lawrence. Try someone else.”
“I’ve tried them all. They are too expensive. I think we will have to have Milton Bletch.”
“Milton Bletch? Are you crazy? Who’s Milton Bletch?”
“Milton Bletch just happens to be the
Feb. 18, 1949
hottest thing in Berrien County right now. You must have heard his slogan — “Reel and Retch with Milton Bletch.” He’s in great demand and I’ve gone to a lot of trouble to —”
“Milton Bletch,” said the guy. He flopped weakly on the sofa. The sofa flopped weakly on the floor.
“Now listen to me,” said Herman, obviously intoxicated with indignation. “I’ve written every musician in the country. I’ve written so many letters that I’m punching a typewriter in my sleep. I have stayed up after lights with a candle — typing. Everybody costs too much. The bids cost too much. The decorations cost too much. We got to have Milton Bletch!”
“They cost too much.”
“Cost too much? We gave you $750 to work with. Ya want Fort Knox?”
Herman stood amazed at himself, sat down again.
“OK, Herman, don’t get sore — Milton Bletch it is. We’ll bill him as the
new sensation or something, about the rest of this stuff, the decorations, the hall?”
“More troubles?”
“I have troubles.”
“Many more. There’s no
But what The bids,
place to
hold the dance. The Palais is taken by the South Bend Fire Department for its Hook and Ladder formal; the Country Club has been rented by the LaRaza Club for a Jai-alai game; the Dining Hall won’t let us in — they can’t get the smell of the flowers from the Senior Ball out of the place; the ROTC is firing canons off in the Drill Hall; and the freshmen will be frolicking all’over the Rock floor. We could hold it in Dujarie Hall if the Brothers wouldn’t mind.”
“This is no time for jokes Herman.
You’ve got to move fast.”
“Where to?”
“I con t know. Just move — and fast. You’ve got three weeks and $750.”
Bid Sale Bad
So it was. Herman had troubles. AU that next week he had troubles. Milton Bletch was signed on Friday. On Saturday the programs were ready and, holding his breath, Herman had the bids printed (at $2.20 apiece). But there was no place for the dance and, after two days of sale, the bids weren’t going very well. The Office of Student Welfare was calling for a financial statement; the guy was screaming; the bid salesmen were slow; the posters were being torn off the bulletin boards; Milton Bletch was having union trouble with a tuba player; and Herman still had no place to hold the dance. On Wednesday inspiration struck.
Inspiration was something radicaUy new for Herman and he didn’t quite know what to do with it now that it had come. But he was a desperate man and he had to act fast.
The next day the guy hustled into Herman’s room again.
“Herman!”
“Listen Herman — you are crazy, you are insane and out of your little mind. You have made with a disaster.”
“I had an inspiration.”
“You- shouldn’t have had. Inspirations are too much for an idiot like you to handle. Are you crazy holding the dance in the swimming pool at the Rock?”
“I had an inspiration,” said Herman stubbornly.
“Oh, brother, dancing in a swimming pool. Who ever heard of a stunt like
. that!”
“That’s it!” cried out Herman seeing an opening. “Who ever heard of it, indeed. It’s new and different and ... new.
19
And besides — we’re going to drain out the water.”
“Oh, no! Herman, you can’t do it!” “I. am doing it,” said Herman. He was a desperate man.
His Greatest Hour
And Herman did it. He worked all day and up until twelve for two days and nights getting the pool drained and decorating it. He put Milton Bletch on the high board stand with the tuba player playing out on the board. He put lights in the drains of the pool — all different colors. He spent his own money on crepe paper for a roof . . . and there were flowers and ferns and he called the whole thing The Dance of the Sunken Gardens. Everyone thought it was a great success. Herman didn’t know. He had been so busy working that he was still in old clothes when the people began to arrive. He hurried to the room to change, fell asleep while trying to tie his shoes, left his girl waiting and the tuba player blowing sweetly on the diving board.
The guy came in the next morning.
“'Herman, it was great. I knew we could do it. We certainly put on a great dance . . . great. But where were you last night? We needed someone to give out cokes. At least you could have seen the thing through. You know Herman, there were times when I think you didn’t put everything you had into this.”
“Huh?” said Herman. This had been his finest hour.
* * *
Herman’s case may not, in many particulars, be true to life at Notre Dame. But the hard work and long hours of worry and sleepless nights and the lack of appreciation from all concerned make Herman our typical dance chairman of the bustling post-war years at ND.
Chesterfield Winners
For January
1.	Richard Otter, 701 St. Vincent St., South Bend
2.	William Delaney, 427 B-P
3.	Tom Hynes, Jr., 414 Peashway, South Bend
4.	Anthony Carmola, 211 Alumni
5.	J. F. Vitkushe, 209 Alumni
6.	E. A. Steffen, Jr., 710 E. Jefferson, South Bend
7.	Albert Eilers, 451 Presbytery
8.	C. R. Kann, 107 Howard
9.	D. T. Mahoney, 107 Howard
10.	J R. Cleary, 458 Morrissey
University Theater Picks 'Command Decision';
Tryouts Begin Sunday for May 8 Production
One of the most successful stage productions to come out of World War II, Wililam Wister Haines’ powerful Command Decision, has been selected by the University Theater to be produced in the spring with a student cast. According to William J. Eisen, head of the University Theater, the play will be presented in Washington Hall May 8 through 11 under the guiding hand of Leonard Sommer, professor of speech.
Haines’ three-act drama, one of the biggest hits on Broadway during the 1947 season, closed down its cross-country road tour last month and has just been released for production by nonprofessionals. Students desiring a place in the cast will have their chance beginning Feb. 20. Tryouts will begin Sunday at 2 p.m. in Room 241 of the Main Building, continuing through Monday at 4:15 p.m. and Tuesday at 2:15 p.m. Reading copies of the play may be obtained at the reference room desk in the Main Library.
The play itself is the story of high echelon air command in England during World War II. Briefly, it is the story of the brass of the Army Air Force; the problems they have to solve when commanding a combat bomber outfit; and

“University Styles” ... in
Menis Shop... Main Floor
the pressure brought to bear on them by congressmen, newspapei- correspondents and the men they control. It is a cross-section of the air war on Germany, concentrated into a single setting —a Quonset hut at an air base in England.—Vic Dorr
Commerce School Aided
A total of $3,100 was received in 1948 by the Outdoor Advertising Foundation of the College of Commerce, it was announced by the Notre Dame Foundation.
In addition the Commerce Forum student field trip to Adrian, Detroit, and Flint, Michigan, was sponsored by Mr. James Gerity, Jr., of Adrian, Michigan. Mr. Gerity was also the donoi’ of the film, In Balance.
Other donations to the Commerce School included Case Materials in Advertising from Mr. Neil Hurley, Chicago; Case Studies in Outdoor Advertising by the Outdoor Advei-tising, Inc.; and two volumes, “Federal Taxes on Corporations and Partnerships, 194849” and “Federal Taxes on Estates, Trusts, and Gifts, 1948-49” from Mr. James P. Colleran, Jr., ’35, of Cleveland.
Arrow
Put up your best front in Arrow “University Styles.” Perfect \ styling . . . proper fit.
Shirts...............3.65	up
Ties...............J.00 up
Handkerchiefs . . . 3.00 up
20
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Handymen Host Bradley Tracksters Tomorrow
JIM MILLER CLEARS 13 FEET AGAINST PURDUE But Busby Zoomed 13 Feet 4 Inches
Braves to Highlight High Jump Heintzman
By JIM HOWARD
Notre Dame’s powerful track squad will attempt to extend its early season superiority tomorrow when it plays host to the mediocre Bradley trackmen at 1 p.m. in the Irish fieldhouse. The high jump and the shot put will again open the afternoon’s activities.
The opening event will he the feature of the afternoon, with Jack Heitzman of the Braves, one of the nation’s most bi-illiant jumpers, the star attraction. Three weeks ago the Peoria aerialist soared to top honors in the difficult Millrose games in New York with a jump of 6 feet, 7 inches. Opposing Heintzman will be leading Irish scorer Bill Fleming, who topped 6 feet 2 inches last week against Purdue.
Coach C. M. Hewitt will enter a full team, but will be minus the efforts of Paul Unruh, ace quarter-miler who is also a crack basketball player on Bradley’s strong team. Last year Unruh set a new Bradley record in the meet with Notre Dame by traveling the 440 yards in :49.7 seconds.
Irish Pitchers Take Wind-Ups in Fieldhouse; Seven Catcher Candidates Report for Drills
By RAY FITZGERALD
While the baseball schedule is still in the fuzzy stage, some 25 or 30 pitchers and catchers reported this week to the fieldhouse for indoor baseball practice. Until the weather permits, the battery candidates will do all their throwing in this gloomy structure.
There may be some big “ifs” on Coach “Jake” Kline’s varsity this season, but the mound staff shouldn’t be one of them. Gone are monster chuckers John Creevy and Bill Sherman. Gone also is southpaw Eldon O’Brien. But back for another year are lettermen John “Soup” Campbell, Walt Mahannah, Dick Smullen, and Dick Kluck. Campbell, a lefthander, and Mahannah drew most of last year’s starting assignments, and handled them well. Memphis Walt, incidentally, also found time to bat a convincing .304.
Kluck, whose capers with “Moose” Krause’s eagers will force him to miss indoor* drills, is also being counted on as a starter. Dick Smullen, a curve-balling lefty used mostly in relief last year, rounds out the big four. Smullen, groomed as Sherman’s successor, suffered a siege of arm-trouble a year ago but he’s ready to go this season.
Backing up this quartet is Jack Hill-brich, Tony Lipton, who divides his time between pitching and the outfield, and four sophs—Bob Nemes, Skip Rosser, Bob Hensler, and Jack Voit. Nemes, who topped the varsity twice in intersquad games as a freshman, is especially promising.
Behind the bat it’s a different story. Buster Hiller and Tom Cochitti, who shared the job last year, have graduated, and Johnny Rattay, promising young
(Continued on Page 26)
Irish Captain to AAU Meet
Notre Dame may also lack the support of one of its great performers, Bill Leonard, who may compete in the National A.A.U. contest in New York. The Irish captain was not sure whether he would enter either the mile or half-mile in the strong Metropolitan field. Leonard indicated that he may not participate at all, if it is decided that his presence is needed in the local clash.
In place of Unruh, the Peoria school will rely on J. Ray who finished behind Paul Schwetschenau and Ray Sobata of ND last year. Bob Smith of Notre
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
Feb. 18—FENCING at Case.
19—BASKETBALL at DePaul. TRACK, Bradley here.
23—BASKETBALL at Mich. State 26—BASKETBALL at Canisius. FENCING, N'western here.
28—BASKETBALL at N.Y.U.
Feb. 18, 1949
21
Dame will duel with L. Organtini in the 60-yard dash, and will also run on the mile relay team. The Braves will use R. Grieve in the barrier events, and he may offei* strong opposition to Bob McDavid, Leo McKillip, and John Worthington of Notre Dame.
ND May Sweep Distance Events
Pat Kenney, Vai Muscato, and Gerry Johnson of Notre Dame will face an excellent half-miler in Cobb of the Braves. The Peorians are extremely weak in the distance runs, and Coach “Doc” Handy may be fortunate in having sweeps in these events.
Jim Miller, the constantly improving Notre Dame vaulter, will oppose Stamps and Hanks of Bradley. Last year, Miller surpassed both of them in a triangular affair at Peoria. In the broad jump, one of the Irish tracksters’ major weak spots, particularly since the injury of both Ray Espenan and Worthington, the Bradley thinlies will feature Heintz-man again. He bested all of the locals last season.
Helwig Continues to Improve
A new fieldhouse mark may be established in the shot put, as John Helwig continues to surpass his previous records. He will compete with 0. Beherns of Bradley. In the wind-up event, the mile relay, the Braves have a better than average quartet, and may force Steve Provost, Schwetschenau, Ray So-bota, and Bob Smith to a new mark.
Next week, the Irish cinder kickers will again face the most powerful dual meet squad in the nation, when they travel to East Lansing for the Central Collegiate Champions.
JOHN HELWIG Records May Fall
DePaul Favored Over Irish Tomorrow Night For Thirteenth Renewal in Deadlocked Series
By RALPH WRIGHT
It should be a hot time in old Chicago Stadium tomorrow night when DePaul and Notre Dame play the rubber game in one of the roughest, hardest fought cage feuds in the country. The series now stands at six wins apiece, and both teams have won two-thirds of their ball games this season.
On paper, however, DePaul must be rated the favorites, mainly because the Blue Demons routed Notre Dame here, 59-38, on Jan. 11. And secondly because, on several occasions, the Chicagoans have looked close to unbeatable. They held mighty Oklahoma A. & M. to one field goal in the second half to topple the Aggies, 39-32, and upset Illinois’ Big Nine leaders early in the season. Then last Saturday Coach Ray Meyer’s boys humbled Loyola, their strong city rival, to avenge a previous loss. The score of that one was 55-45. Two of the seven Denton losses (in 21 games) have come at the hands of Kentucky.
Demons Spread Scoring Honors
Veteran Charley Allen and Bato Govedarica, the squat sophomore, shine in the aggressive, close-guarding style used by Meyer. Govedarica has been the most consistent scorer from long range, but the point-making is usually evenly divided. In recent action, Lefty Bob Benson, another fine soph, showed signs of becoming a prolific point producer.
Spartans Should Be Breather
Undoubtedly Coach Ed Krause is much more worried about the Demons than he is about the Michigan State melee in Jenison Fieldhouse next Wednesday night. The Green and White outfit lost nine of 17 engagements and must mix with Virginia tomorrow night and Minnesota on Monday. Last Saturday Purdue had the nerve to use its second team for the whole first half against the Spartans. They got away with it though; then the first stringers breezed in, 6648. Bill Rapchak and Captain Bob Gea-han have been the offensive stars of late. Geahan’s the speedy, blond forward who got 15 markers up here. The top defensive performer for Coach Ben Van Alstyne is Robbie Robbins, a slendei' guard who held Leo Barnhorst without a field goal for one half.
MSC and ND have been tangling since 1908-9 when the Michigan five won, 3420. But since then, Notre Dame racked up 44 wins to only 16 for the Spartans.
The loss to St. Louis was no surprise, but it was rather disappointing to lose by so much after a fine first half showing. For the first 20 minutes, Coach Krause annoyed the Billikens and throttled long Ed Macauley with a zone defense. After that, long one-handers by Joe Ossola and Marv Schatzman moved
CHARLES ALLEN
Irish Invade Demons' Den
the Irish defense out and Easy Ed moved in.
When Barnhorst looped in 16 against the Bills, he increased his comfortable margin in the local scoring race. Barney now has 202 points (not including Marquette game) and will have to average about 13 a game to surpass his 290 total of last season.
Fencers Meet Case Tech; Expect Little Trouble
Notre Dame’s undefeated fencers are in Cleveland tonight for a match with Case Institute of Technology. The Clevelanders are not expected to end the nine-match winning streak of the Irish, which includes the five matches fought this season.
The only previous meeting between the swordsmen of the two schools came last season when Notre Dame won, 18%-8%, here.
Coach Herb Melton will likely depend on Lou Burns, Nick Scalera and Dan Parisi in the foil; Ralph Dixon, Jerry Dobyns and John Vincent in the epee; Capt. Ralph Witucki, Bob Schlosser, Bob Bosler and Joseph Eusterman in the sabre.
22
The Scholastic
Familiar Fists To Fly In Bengals March 28
There will be no lack of familiar names in the 1949 Bengal Bouts when the lads square off in the fieldhouse beginning March 28. Among the early entrants are such men as Bill Roemer, George Dickson, Dick Cotter, Mike Conley, Tom Carroll, Bob Wagner, Jim Farrell and Dick McGoldrick.
Roemer has one of the finest records in Bengal Bout history — three titles in three years of fighting. In 1944 the rugged South Bend product punched his way to victory in the 165-pound class. Then came a tour of service in the
Marines.
Following the war, Bill returned to Notre Dame and promptly annexed the light heavyweight title in 1947 and ’48. In these two years Roemer has knocked out every one of his opponents. Not one man could stand up for the full three rounds against the sledge-hammer left of the southpaw Roemer. He is entered in the heavyweight class this year.
The boy who came closest to upsetting Roemer’s applecart was Dick Cotter, football monogram winner from Austin, Minn. A knockout victim of Roemer in the 1947 light heavy finals, Cotter battled his way to a repeat match in the 1948 finale.
Cotter gave Roemer a boxing lesson fox' the first two rounds last year, darting inside where the Hoosier could not land his haymaker. But late in the third round, Roemer came through like a champion and exploded two hard lefts to Cotter’s jaw, and that was all.
Mike Conley, the Boston Battler, has won crowns in the 135- and 142-pound
(Continued on Page 26)
CHRISTY WALSH. JR.
Fistic Promoter Takes Encore
SPLINTERS
From the Press Box by Harry Monahan
Advertisement
Attention college basketball coaches! Is your contract up for- renewal? Do you want a raise in pay? Send us your name printed plainly on the back of a S20 bill and this department will list you as the leading contender for the Notre Dame basketball coaching job soon to be vacated by Ed Krause. Results guaranteed. If this doesn’t get you a raise nothing will. For references see Ray Meyer of DePaul.
Sophomore Sharpshooter
He may be “Thirty-Seconds” O’Connor or “Butler Back-breaker” Marty now, but with the pending graduation of many top Irish cage performers at the end of the current season he rates as one of the brightest sophomore prospects on the squad. Marty O’Connor came out of the shadows in much the same manner as Billy Gay did during the grid season. Without the abnormal run oi injuries that have plagued the Irish this season it is likely that he would have seen little action. Of course Marty’s reputation is made now with that last second field goal that snapped an imposing Butler winning streak and culminated a close fought game with an Irish win.
We haven’t had a look at Coach Krause’s plans for next season, but if the 5’10” hustler from Kewanee, Illinois, doesn’t have an important role to play it must mean that Krause, Tom Foley and Tom Brennan are going to leave their sideline assignments to sneak into uniform and play next season.
Musings at Halftime
Bill “Zip” Roemer has signed up for the Bengals and we understand he will try for the heavyweight crown. What a bout that would be — Jim Martin vs. Roemer, if Jim will defend his crown this year. . . . This week’s news brought the report that the NCAA is meeting with the professional baseball leagues to reach terms concerning the drafting of college players. Which only proves ■what we wrote on Jan. 21; the NCAA can do big things for the good of college
athletics if it would only use its influence in the right places.
We have never gotten such quick response to one of our suggestions, unless it was the student council’s reaction to our warning about the 1949 student foot-
MARTY O'CONNOR
More Game Time Next Year
ball trip. Another warning here: You have started on the right track, don’t let the plans get bogged down in some indolent committee or held up by front office red tape. You are starting early enough to plan a smoothly operating trip, don’t muff it. . . . Memo to the ticket office: Don’t reserve too many seats for the general public for the St. Louis game. We think student attendance for the Billiken contest will top any the Fieldhouse has seen this season. . . . How about that rally before the St. Louis game? A few Blue Circle gyrations and the eagers will get some recognition they deserve.
Rumor Department
We wonder how many rabbits will scurry for their burrows after this shot. Does St. Louis University have Ed Hickey sewed up so tight he could resist an offer from Notre Dame? ■
Feb. 18, 1949
23
Coach Langford Fears 'Worst Season Since '39'
At the first sign of good weather, Notre Dame’s 1949 tennis team will take to the concrete courts to begin practice for what Coach Walter Langford terms “will probably be our poorest season since 1939.”
“We’ve lost some of the best players in the country through graduation,” points out Coach Langford, “and with the schedule we face, the odds for a winning season are against us.”
Heading the list of prospects are returning monogram men Robert David, Gene Biittner, Jim Rogers and Bart O’Brien. Backing up this quartet are sophomores Herb Hoene, Bob Hensler, Pat Tonti and Ralph Witucki.
The racketmen will open their season against Purdue at Lafayette on April 29 and will be host to Northwestern the following day, April 30. The tentative schedule calls for matches against Michigan State, Wisconsin, Michigan, Western Michigan, Kentucky, Marquette, and DePaul. Notre Dame will also send representatives to the Central Collegiate Conference matches at Western Michigan June 2, 3, and 4, and to the NCAA matches in Philadelphia June 20-25.— Jack Meaney
ZAHM WINS CAMPUS RELAY AQUACADE Interhall Tankmen Make Big Splash at "Rock"
Zahm Tankmen Win Relay Crown
Taking all but two first place decisions in eight events, the well-balanced fin team from Zahm hall fashioned an easy triumph in the interhall relay swimming meet last week.
Lyons hall’s tankmen were the only ones able to oust the Zahm splashers from the two events they did not capture. Paced by Murphy, Keough and Meyer, the Lyonites rallied to collect the 200-yard sweat shirt event, but Zahm pressed them all the way and took second. Lyons, Cavanaugh and Badin placed in that order in the butt-and-tube relay.
Zahm took an early lead by winning the 200-yard crawl and backstroke relays. Tom Durand and Elmer Layden, Jr., bolstered the victors’ cause in these events. Russ Dages led the Zahm breaststoke squad to another victory and then an eight-man contingent kept up the parade of Zahm wins by a slim vic
tory over Cavanaugh in the obstacle relay.
Durand, teamed with Dages and Tom O’Connell, edged Cavanaugh’s Ray Monaco in the last leg of the 150-yard medley relay. It was O’Connell who put on the final sprint in the gruelling 400-yard crawl relay to take a close decision from Lyons.
Summary of scoring: Zahm, 88; Cavanaugh, 74; Lyons, 72; Badin, 44; St. Edwards, 28; Off-Campus, 22.
Bob Rubery
Campus Cage Tourney Opens Feb. 21
Interhall basketball is entering the last two weeks of practice games at the Rockne Memorial. From a starting field of 45 teams, the number has been cut to 36 teams.
These teams will be seeded on the basis of the practice games and will enter an elimination tournament which will commence the week of Feb. 21-25. The tourney will end just before Easter vacation with the crowning of the 1949 campus cage champions.
The following results were posted in games last week:
February 9: West Virginia 32, Dillon-31; St. Edward’s 33, Farley 26; K. of C. forfeit over Rhode Island; Walsh forfeit over Sorin.
February 10: Dillon 44, Cincinnati 18; New England 38, Washington-Maryland 29; Generation forfeit over Cavanaugh.
February 11: Toledo 53, Indianapolis 28; Chem. Engineers 40, Metropolitan 30; Morrissey 37, Alumni 28; Breen-Phillips 27, Zahm- 23; Air ROTC forfeit over Aesculapians.
Schedule for Next Week
FEBRUARY 21
3:00 Morrissey (Gold) vs. Dillon 4:00 Kentucky vs. Rhode Island 5:00 Walsh vs. St. Edward’s 7:45 Dillon vs. Cincinnati
FEBRUARY 22
3:00 Detroit vs. Cavanaugh
4:00 New Jersey vs. Washington-Maryland-West Va.
FEBRUARY 23
3:00 Morrissey (Blue) vs. Generation 4:00 Central Illinois vs. New England 5:00 Breen-Phillips vs. St. Edward’s 7:00 Cavanaugh vs. Sorin 7:45 Lyons vs. Dillon
FEBRUARY 24
3:00 West Virginia vs. Generation
4:00 K. of C. vs. Central New York 7:00 Zahm vs. Farley 7:45 Morrissey vs. Howard
FEBRUARY 25
3:00 Metropolitan vs. Aesculapians
4:00 Indianapolis vs.- Air ROTC
5:00 Zahm vs. Walsh
7:00 Chemical Engineers vs. Buffalo
7:45 Farley vs. Morrissey
24
The Scholastic
Fire in the Fieldhouse
Red Foley Paves Way for Irish Cage Wins
By TOM McNALLY
The basketball team may have its ups and downs this year but one thing’s a cinch; a redhaired Irishman from Brooklyn is on the way up, and he’s going places fast. His name is Tom Foley. As assistant to “Moose” Krause, Foley eats, sleeps, and lives basketball every day. That ’round the clock activity has earned Tom his reputation as one of the outstanding coaching prospects in the country.
His coaching work really started in 1946 after Foley had returned to school from the seiwice. He felt his playing days were over and jumped at the chance when Coach Krause asked him to coach the freshman eagers.. But that wasn’t his only job. Evei- since that first day Foley has personally scouted almost all of the teams on the Notre Dame schedule.
'Trained Eye/ Fast Pencil Charts Foes
“During the past three years I’ve covered more territory and seen more basketball games than I’d care to count,” says Foley.
On these scouting expeditions he has
FOLEY ADDS POLISH TO FROSH CAGERS Always Looking for a New Gimmick
developed what he calls a trained eye. “Trained eye” is a slight understatement. To write one of his comprehensive reports would require three normal sets of blinkers and a crew of stenographers.
“First, I try to get the general pattern of the team, whether it uses a fast break, pivot, or what-have-you. Then I spot the individual characteristics, each player’s strong and weak spots, the key men in the attack and their functions.”
Notes From Little Black Book
To give you some idea of the complexity and completeness of these reports here are a few samples: the names are fictitious and the men are not all on one team but the information is from the “Foley File” (a little black book that is worth its weight in uranium) :
Smith plays hard for eight minutes but tires easily. Keep a fast and fresh man opposite him at all times and run him ragged. . . . Webster, a guard, draws his left foot back before faking to the right and driving to the left and vice-versa. Tell defensive men to watch
RED AND MOOSE "Pleasant past . .
his feet. . . . Anderson is a great., faker and dribbler but drives main- . ly to the right and only shoots effectively from the right side. Overplay him that way and let him go to the left. . . . McFarland is a good rebounder and defensive man but is a poor ball-handler and worse shot. Float on him on offense. . . . Noyes gets jittery if talked to. Lacks experience. Rattle him.
Once Foley gathers the material he and Coach Krause evolve their own offensive and defensive strategy, complete with elaborate diagrams. The boys catch on fast. Foley did not see Denver and Vince Boryla until the night before their game with us and the Irish received only a black-board analysis of the Denver attack. But the defensive strategy was perfect, each man performed his job, and Leo Barnhorst prevented Boryla from getting even a close look at the basket.
Foley’s worth to the team goes beyond his scouting brilliance. He is a keen student of the game and knows each phase inside and out. He calls basketball a game of analysis and he is a sharp analyzer who is constantly seeking to learn more. On nights off he frequently sees other games, hoping to observe some new defensive tid-bit or offensive gimmick. A friendly, easy-going Irishman, he’s all business when the word basketball is mentioned. He tries to correct a basketball error as grimly as Ben Hogan tries to straighten out a wayward five iron.
Keogan Tutors Cocky Brooklyn Lad
Tom was born in Brooklyn and went to Brooklyn Prep where he earned three basketball letters. After gradu
Feb. 18, 1949
25
ating in 1941 he came to Notre Dame. He was on both the 1941-42 and 1942-43 squads but did not letter either year. Instead he earned infinitely more. The ’‘infinitely more” was the friendship of a man whom Foley considers one of the greatest coaches and one of the greatest men who ever lived, George Keogan. Keogan took a liking to the cocky redhead from Brooklyn and taught him basketball from the ground up.
“Mr. Keogan, besides being a great man, was a master psychologist. He knew every man and knew him intimate-
FOLEY AND KRAUSE
. but What's Ahead?"
ly. He also knew how to get the utmost out of his men: If the man worked better under ribbing, he was ribbed; if under encouragement, he was encouraged. He extracted the last drop of basketball from each of us. And .we loved it.”
Shortly after Keogan died the season ended and Uncle Sam beckoned. Foley joined the Navy and served as quartermaster aboard a submarine in the Pacific. After the war he returned to Notre Dame and graduated last June with a degree in Business Administration. For a time it appeared that his days at Notre Dame were over, but Coach Krause wanted him back and Tom wanted to enroll in law school. So last fall he returned. He hopes someday to combine both coaching and law.
Tom Foley’s not sure what the next step will be but it will include one item before too long. It seems there’s a redhead in Kansas City named Therese DeCoursey whom he’d like to marry soon. One thing sure: Those redheaded kids are going to have one'of the finest basketball coaches within miles.
Track Records Fall As Boilermakers Bow
Meet records fell like autumn leaves and when the fieldhouse dust had settled the Notre Dame track team had topped Purdue by a 69-48 score. Every winner either broke or tied the old meet record showing the quality of competition.
Individual star was Bill Fleming who after equalling the Notre Dame record of 7.3 seconds in winning the 60-yard high hurdles, galloped to a :7.0 triumph over the low obstacles. Bill opened the meet by seizing a tie for first in the high jump at 6' 2W.
One of the day’s best performances was turned in by Paul Schwetschenau in the second leg of the mile relay. Taking the stick from leadoff man Steve Provost two yards ahead of his competitor, Paul spread the Irish lead to 20 yards during his quarter. His teammates, Bill Leonard and Bob Smith finished with a 3:23.3 victory.
Leonard and Jim Kittell turned on the steam in the last lap to take first and second spots in the mile run from Purdue’s highly rated Lew Blanchard. Leonard’s time, 4:21, broke his own meet record set two years ago.
Murphy. Tracy Take Two-Miler
Two carrot-tops instead of the familiar one showed up in front of the finish of the two-mile. Lou Tracy ran a well paced 9.40.7 race to finish in an intentional tie with Jim Murphy who has been winning most of Notre Dame’s two-mile runs the past few years.
Purdue’s Bill Klink ran a brainy race in the 880, but Pat Kenny unleashed a last-minute kick to win by a whisker in 1:59.0.
Johnny Helwig completed the winners list with a 51' 1%" effort in the shot put.
One of the high points of the meet was the showing of soph Leo McKillip who totes the ball for Mr. Leahy in the autumn and tops the timbers for “Doc”
Bengofs
(Continued from Page 23) divisions in 1947 and 1948, respectively. He’ll be back again on March 28.
A natural left-hander who fights from an orthodox position, Conley has one of the fastest left jabs in Bengal history. Conley usually stalks his man into a cornel' and then unleashes a barrage of lefts and rights to the head. Mike will be a favorite in whatever class he enters this year.
Dickson copped the 165-pound title in 1946. He was not entered in the 1947 fights, but he came back last year only to lose a split decision in the finals to Jim Brennan in the same class. A fast boxer with a nice left hand, Dickson has proved awfully tough to hit.—Jim Butz
Handy in the off season. Leo took second place in the high hurdles behind Bill Fleming and won his heat in the lows.
Irish Sophs Injured
Two promising sophomores suffered injuries. John Worthington pulled a hamstring muscle after taking second place in the broad jump with a 22' 1%" leap and third in the lowhurdles. Bill Kupfer was leading in his heat of the 60-yard dash when he pulled a muscle which kept him out of the finals.—Ted Prahinski
Baseball
(Continued from Page 21) backstop from Cleveland, signed a pro contract. Number one man could be Tom Boland, lanky soph catcher who batted clean-up for the classy 1948 freshmen club; it could bd either Dick Maher or Jim Pressley; both saw a little action last year. It could be Harry Goheen, Tom Benedict, Kuss Skall, or soph Joe Stasch, all former squad members. The job is wide open, and will be the number one battle in spring practice.
BUBBLINGS: Coach Kline lectured the uninformed on the intricacies of infield play at the recent coaches clinic in San Francisco. . . . John Rattay, in his first pro season, batted .325 for the Class C Pittsfield (Mass.) Electrics. John is property of the Cleveland Indians . . . freshmen are looking for a new baseball coach. Bill DioGuardi, last year’s mentor, is coaching at Montclair Teachers College in New Jersey. . . . Bill Sherman, sheepskin in hand, reports to spring training camp in Florida next month. . . . Bill signed a Minneapolis contract last summer.
WALT MAHANNAH
Memphis Moundman
26
The Scholastic
Names Make News
Last Monday Rev. GEORGE M. LINK, of Springfield, Ill., presented an illustrated lecture on “Alluring Alaska” to an audience in Central High School. The program was one of a series of wildlife screen tours sponsored by the South Bend Audubon society and the South Bend-Mishawaka Indiana university extension center.
Father Link has directed summer
PROF. BROOKS SMEETON Sold: an idea
courses in boy guidance at Notre Dame. He is an executive in the Boy Scouts of America and the founder of the Springfield Nature League in Illinois. He served for a time as state naturalist at Pere Marquette State Park in Illinois.
St. Joseph County probation officers received the first of a series of in-service training lectures last Friday. The series is being conducted by Professor HUGH P. O’BRIEN, professor of sociology and director of the curriculum in correctional administration in the graduate school at Notre Dame. The first lecture traced the history of probation work and compared the problems of Chicago’s first juvenile court set up in 1899, with those of present day juvenile courts throughout the nation. Among those attending were Police Chief Dean Bolerjack of Mishawaka and Detective Elmer Sokol, head of the juvenile department of the South Bend force, as well as probation officers of the county courts.
Professor BROOKS SMEETON, of the Department of Marketing at Notre Dame, recently conducted a detailed sur
vey among the 10,000 members of the National Federation of Sales Executives. The resulting findings have been published by the NFSE in a visual report entitled, Portrait of a Modern Sales Executive. This report gives a comprehensive view of an average modern sales executive — his age, his experience,-his education, his position, and his earnings.
A new revised edition of the textbook American Government Under the Constitution, written by Doctor. PAUL C. BARTHOLOMEW, professor of Political Science at Notre Dame, was published last week by the William C. Brown Publishing Company, of Dubuque, Iowa.
Additions, including a political vocabulary and an enlarged teachers aid section, have brought the book up to 16 chapters and 380 pages. An appendix contains the Declaration of Independence, the Articles of Confederation, the Virginia and New Jersey Plans, and the Constitution of the United States.
He joined the faculty as a member of the Department of Political Science at Notre Dame in 1929 and is the originator of the quadrennial mock national conventions and the University’s Washington tours.
The Rev. RAYMOND ROSELIEP, graduate student in the Department of
~ J
______O
_________ a
--------- b
i ~	c
_____________ h
------------- t3
-------------	5
English at Notre Dame, addressed the Catholic Poetry Society at Marquette University, Milwaukee, last Sunday. “The Lyrical Technique of John Dryden” was the subject of his lecture. Father Roseliep is from Loras College, Dubuque, Iowa.
NOTRE DAME REVERSIBLE JACKETS $1295
LIGHTWEIGHT
NOTRE DAME JACKETS BOYS' SIZES $£95
SONNEBORN'S
SPORTS SHOP
121 West Colfax Phone 3-3702
CHICKEN =
IN THE
ROUGH =
“Served, Without Silverware33 -
From II a. m. to 8 p. m. Closed Mondays 
213 NORTH MAIN	—
Steaks — Sea Food — Chops -
Feb. 18, 1949
27

Eager Engineers Slip-Stick Ball...
Eager got out his best Gilbert suit and lorded over last Friday's Engineers' Ball in the Drill Hall. Dance Chairman Joe Harkins engineered the affair. Musico-Politico Gene Hull engineered the music.
Pin Leaders Win in Hot Kegler Race
Buffalo and Texas maintained their leads in the Kegler’s race during last Sunday’s bowling. The New Jersey club lost three games to the Buffalo squad giving the Blue league leaders an opportunity to push three points ahead of the number two squad from the New England club.
The previous three-way tie for the second spot in the old league was shaken up by the weekend’s play. Clean sweeps over Cleveland and the Prop & Wing clubs allowed the Chemists to seize a slim hold of second place and the Met club to move above Detroit and Philadelphia for the third spot.
To add to the honors that the Buffalo boys collected on Sunday was their move into third place for high three game series with 2,708 behind the Pittsburgh and Metallurgy clubs. They also went into a tie for third place on high single game team honors together with the Syrian-Lebanese team. Both rolled a 951 to displace the Chemist and Aero clubs in this scoring division. The Pittsburgh and Metallurgy clubs also hold the top spots in this division.
The current league standings are as follows:
BLUE LEAGUE
W	L	Pts
Buffalo  17	4	23
New England  16	5	20
Metallurgy ......................   14	7	J9
St. Louis ________________________  14	7	19
Rochester  .......................— 14 7 19
Toledo __________________________   13	8	18
Central New York _________________  13	8	17
Vetville __________________________ 11	10	14
Kansas City  10	11	14
New Jersey_________________________  9	12	13
Minnesota __________________________ 9	12	12
Utica ______________________________ 8	13	11
Youngstown  8	13	10
A.I.C.E. ___________________________ 8	13	9
Generation  7	14	9
K. of C.  6	15	9
Kentucky  6	15	8
Indianapolis ----------------------- 6	15	8
GOLD LEAGUE
W L Pts
Texas ----------------------------- 16	5	22
Chemist  15	6	21
Met Club--------------------------- 15	6	20
Philadelphia  13	8	19
Detroit --------------------------- 14	7	18
Rockford -------------------------- 13	8	18
Italian  13	8	17
Pittsburgh ------------------------ 12	9	17
Fox River Valley __________________ 10	11	13
Aero ------------------------------ 10	11	13
A.S.M.E.---------------------------- 9	12	12
Intel-American  8	13	11
Architects  7	14	8
Syrian-Lebanese 7	14	8
Cleveland -------------------------- 6	15	8
Prop & Wing ------------------------ 2	19	2
Columbus  6	15	8
Purdue Class Studies Motion Picture Values
West Lafayette, Ind.—(ACP)—“The Purdue Exponent” reports on a class given by the Purdue English department and thought to be unique. The class, Motion Pictures, studies films from the point of view of the effects the movie director gets from the medium used. The pictures are compared with the novel and scenario, and it is shown how the author differs in his treatment of the story from the movie producer. The techniques of production are of minor concern, with the major emphasis placed upon the origin, history and aesthetics of the motion picture.
WANT TO EARN $9000 A YEAH?
Then here’s your chance to enter a business offering an opportunity for unlimited earnings . . . plus the satisfaction of rendering a worthwhile community service. Many of our representatives earn $4,000 to $9,000 a year, and more!
To find out more about the opportunities offered to you in a life insurance selling career, send for our free booklet. If you appear to have the qualifications for success, our manager in or near your community will explain our excellent on-the-job training course and the famous Mutual Lifetime Compensation Plan, which provides liberal commissions, service fees and a substantial ret’^ment income at 65
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY of NEW YORK
34 Nassau Street SSy NewYork5,N.Y FIRST IN SA AMERICA
FOR FREE BOOKLET ADDRESS DEPT. 7
KAME ■ — — —	AGE__
innovoq — -
28
The Scholastic
hills
Clevelanders Commune
Sixty members of the Cleveland Club were up and doing last Sunday with a group Mass in the Dillon Hall chapel and a communion breakfast in the Oliver. The Mass was offered for the club member Len Zaller’s father, who died early this year. A small choir, composed of Bob Wink, Dick McGowan, Bud Powers, Bill Gordon, and John Healy, directed by the Rev. Robert J. Lochner, C.S.C., sang responses to the prayers of the Mass. Father Lochner and the Rev. James I. Birkley, graduate student, both native Clevelanders, spoke at the breakfast. Vince DeCrane, club president, was toastmaster. Several St. Mary’s girls from Cleveland attended the Mass and breakfast.
Geologists Hear MacAlpin
Meeting in the LaSalle Hotel in South Bend, the newly-organized Geology Club heard the head of Notre Dame’s Geology department, Dr. Archie J. MacAlpin, and two other members of the faculty discourse on subjects interesting to the assembled members.
Rudy Kuzmic, the presiding officer, stressed the need of a descriptive name for the young society, during the business meeting which followed the speakers.
Anhui Named Detroit Prexy
Elections were the order at the Feb. 8 meeting of the Detroit Club and Bill Anhut was named president. The rest of the new slate includes Stan Insley, John Moore, George Weber, and Tom Roney.
In the accompanying business discussion, plans were discussed for both the Mardi Gras Carnival and an Easter Dance. The club determined that the “Dunk ’em” project, as' used in last year’s carnival, will be revived this year. Appointed as chairman of the second annual Easter Dance was Jim Groves, who immediately announced that the dance, in Detroit, will be held on Easter Monday.
Financiers Hold Elections
Lawrence Gallo was elected president of the Finance Club at a special meeting on Jan. 13. His associate officers for the spring term will be Vince O’Reilly and Robert Kane.
Assistant Dean Edmund A. Smith of
the Commerce School addressed the club, on Feb. 10, concerning the past, present and future course of the Commerce School. He stressed extra-curricular activities and the need for clubs devoted to the various fields of their major subjects. After the main topic had been discussed, an invitation, to the Club, to take an industrial tour of Detroit was placed before the assembly, and a committee, to investigate and report on the proposed trip, was appointed.
La Razas Choose de Castro
Eric Rey de Castro and Rogelio Cas-tiello have been chosen president and vice-president, respectively, of the “La Raza” Club. Their supporting officers will be Maximo Fernandez, Adolfo Cordon, and Guillermo Denegri.
This semester’s schedule will be headed by a program entitled “History of Architecture in Mexico.”
The Week
(Continued from Page 5)
Events of the past week indicate quite conclusively that our civilization is laboring under a critical attack of dyspepsia. Signs of an impending national crackup are visible everywhere. Let’s look around:
... Courtesy of Mr. and Mrs. Eager
Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Weishapl chaperoned their charming son. Eager, to his first honest-to-goodness dance. They took him home promptly at eleven, before he had a chance to engineer his first kiss.
Especially Dick Tracy
Press. Thousands of Chicago Daily Tribune readers were sleuthing along the trail of a funny-paper villain reputed to have hidden a black bag containing $1,000,000 in treasury notes and Chicago Rocket bonds. Finder of the loot will get a $5,000 reward and a year’s psychiatric treatment.
Business. In New York, a front-office radio executive announced to the world that “Calvert had switched to CBS.”
Music. Americans from Abilene to Anchorage were throwing themselves against juke boxes and radio speakers as strains of the Teddy Bear's Picnic nursed them into an esthetic stupor. (Even radio station WND was overcome. Campus fanatics were going ga-ga over the continued replaying of the ditty on Walt Garrity’s moronic Kiddy Korner disc show.)
Sports. The rumor that the Chicago Cubs had signed Jake Kline, local baseball mentor, to play shortstop this year were denied with an emphatic “no, no, no” by Mr. Kline.
Motion Pictures: Hollywood, feeling the urge to repent for its many injustices toward the American Indian, announced the making of a new movie in which the Indians will win. It will be called: The Last of the John Waynes.
Feb. 18, 1949
29
ACTIONS AND PASSIONS by Max Lerner, Simon and Schuster, New-York, $3.50.
This book is a series of columns and articles written by Max Lerner in his capacity as a staff writer of the now defunct New York Star (formerly PM) during the period from November 1944 to August 1948. It is also a rallying cry for “progressive liberalism”—that fantastically flexible theory of political practice.
It is a book of criticism and hope. It criticizes the way the country is run and the people who are running it. It hopes that things will be changed — the “liberal” way.
The collection of essay subjects range far and wide, from Yalta to Atlanta; from Churchill to Leo Durocher; from morality to the sports “fix” to the political philosophy of the New Deal. It is held together by its common theme — that it is time the country woke up to the threat it faces. That threat is described variously as “Big Business,” the “Robber Barons” and, at its basest, “the reactionaries.”
Max Lerner is not one to pull a punch. He hits hard at Pegler and Dewey, Jim Crow and laissez-faire, fascism and Republicanism. He is apparently driven in writing by a spirit of crusading. He writes in belligerent defense of what he considers the prostitution of democratic government; the abridgment of rights.
He believes we need a good, stiff shot of limited socialism to get us out of the decadent capitalistic rut; he wants cooperation with Russia and always, militant socialism. He extolls Roosevelt, tolerates Eisenhower, vilifies Col. McCormick.
If you believe in what Mr. Lerner has to say, this book should be joyous reading. If you do not. it may be a little hard to take for there’s nothing gentle about it. But either way it is required reading for a student of the times. Nowhere in any other single book will you find the cause of modern liberalism so clearly stated and defined and defended. Nowhere is the battle cry raised so loud and hoarse.—Greg Halpin
Speaking of Books
Buckle Down
On Brother Conan‘s
February Bargains!
4.	PILCHER COMPACTS $3.50
5.	NOTRE DAME RINGS $10.00 up.
6.	PERSONALIZED STATIONERY
Another Notre Dame prof has hit the publishing news. Mr. John T. Frederick of the Department of English has collaborated with two colleagues on a two-volume set of American Literature. . . . Publisher Scribner calls it “superb.” . . . it is aimed at college use. . . .
The Notre Dame
BOOKSTORE
30
The Scholastic
Mardi Gras Festival To Include Free Dance
With cooperation at a maximum, plans for the Student Relief Mardi Gras were in high gear this week.
Chairman Jack Dempsey announced that there would be a dance in addition to the concessions already planned. Gene Hull will furnish the music, and girls from St. Mary’s College and the Co-Hop have been invited. There will be no admission charge for the dance.
Campus clubs are scratching the bottom of the barrel for novel ideas to coax coins from the pockets of those who attend. The Monogram Club will sponsor a football throw. Future Lu jacks can show ’em how by tossing a football through a rubber tire.
Students who still have donation books are urged to return them in the basement of the Dining Hall from 12 to 12:45 p.m., and from 5:30 to 6:45 p.m. The awards will take place the evening of March 20.—Dick Rosenga/rten
For Appointment Phone 3-0678
W. E. Cyr. Prop.
CYR'S BARBER SHOP
“South Bend's Leading Barber Shop" SAVE TIME BY CALLING FOR APPOINTMENT
100-102 South Main Street
Chair No. 5
Sunny Italy
A Notre Dome Tradition
Mature Emotions Count In Marriage, Says Prof
Providence, R. I.—(ACP)—“Nothing determines the degree of success in courtship and marriage more than emotional maturity,” said Dr. Vera Behrendt in a lecture on “Marriage and Courtship” at Brown University.
Dr. Behrendt gave some criteria for judging whether or not a person is emotionally mature. The ability to weigh the value of “long time gold against immediate satisfaction” was said to be important in this respect. Listed as lacking this virtue are those students who read a mystery novel the night before an important exam.
“The capability to give affection and love to another individual” was mentioned as another criterion. The emotionally immature person shies away from making any deep emotional attachments. In a girl, she said, this tendency manifests itself in the form of collecting boy friends much as an Indian collects scalps, while boys who always try to date a much sought-after girl also exhibit this insecurity bora of immaturity.
5 Barbers Manicurist
"Rosie's." Here You'll Always Enjoy the Italian Accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE 601 NORTH NILES
Radio
By BO CONNOR
WND celebrated its first birthday last week as a station with a permanent location and a daily (except Saturdays) broadcasting schedule. The boys on the staff were justified in looking back on the past year with pride, but they didn’t waste too much time doing so. They (65 of them now) were too busy with schedules, training new men, and maintaining equipment.
Just the same they knew that the station was clicking: the students were listening to them, and that was satisfaction enough. They knew they were getting large audiences and they had proof of it. The phone (361) was ringing constantly after 7:30 with calls from students'all over the campus requesting records on Walt Garrity’s Requestfully Yours, an hour (8:00 to 9:00) program of straight music. This feature—WND’s most popular — is the local station’s antidote for the noisy disc jockey shows that emit from the larger stations. Garrity, the latest M.C. (Frank Venner worked the show last semester), believes the students want music and a minimum of chatter, so he obliges.
He receives an average of 50 requests a night, but can play only about 18 of them. The boys often ask for the same records, so not too many of them are disappointed.	.
It’s just because of this repetition of requests, though, that the hit parade is possible. On the Friday broadcasts Walt plays the ten records most requested during the week. Tastes on the campus pretty much follow the pattern throughout the country on the newer numbers, but there are always a few calls for the older records of Tommy Dorsey and Glenn Miller. Right now honors for the most popular vocalists go to the perennially heartbroken Billy Eckstine with his I’m Out to Forget Tonight and the latest corn queen Evelyn Knight, who -gets a call for any number of records.
Sunday afternoon continues to be the best time for classical and semi-classical music. Have you heard the Wittnauer Watch half-hour at 4:00, CBS; fine choral group, excellent orchestra, and nice variety in their musical selections.
Wonder what it would be like to sit through that full hour and a half of comedy CBS is offering on Sunday evening? Think of all the stomach aches around the country caused by so many belly laughs!
Feb. 18, 1949
31
Ye Saintly Days of Yore
The SCHOLASTIC'S motto of “anything for a picture" was just as true back in the days of '08 as it is now. Only the personalities have changed. ND men then were a much more fastidious group of dressers. Who among the present student body would venture out to sink in a nice soggy snow drift or to throw snow balls in his prize derby? Despite their genteel appearance this was the generation of Notre Dame men who burned the Hill Street Car. (No one yet seems to have attempted to blow up any of the N.I.T. rattlers. Cowards!) Perhaps the man on the right was one of the perpetrators of that dastardly deed and feared the photograph might expose him. Otherwise it's a little hard to figure out why he's acting so coy about the whole thing. Maybe cameras were so new then that he didn't quite know what was going on.
Bulletin Board
(Continued from Page 13) sion, open to American students, from July 18 to August 26. Theme of the courses will be “Europe Today,” a survey of present-day European thought, religion, politics, economy and social challenges, augmented by guided excursions. Details may be obtained from the Joint Committee for Student Action, 1312 Moss Ave. N. W., Washington 5, D. C.
American students who have completed their sophomore year are also eligible to attend the summer school at the University of Oslo, Norway. Classes will be conducted in English and will treat Norwegian cultural trends from .1000 A.D. to this year’s election campaign. Address inquiries to: Oslo Summer School Admissions Office, St. Olaf College, Northfield, Minn.
Jobs
Summer positions for some 400 student engineers on construction projects in 17 western states have been announced by the Bureau of Reclamation. A Civil Service exam to select men to fill the 60 to 90-day jobs will be scheduled in this area soon after the closing date for filing applications, which is March 7. Blanks may be secured from the dean of the College of Engineering.
Graduating seniors interested in obtaining permanent jobs with the Bureau may address queries to the Executive Secretary, Central Board of U. S. Cjvil Service Examiners, Bureau of Reclamation, Denver Federal Center, Denver, Colorado.
Woman Researcher Named To Mediaeval Institute Staff
A new member has been added to the staff of Notre Dame’s Mediaeval Institute, the Rev. Gerald B. Phelan, director of the Institute said last week. She is Dr. Eva Maria Jung, of Berlin, Germany, who has been appointed to the historical staff of the Institute as research instructor and senior librarian.
Dr. Jung, who began her new position Tuesday, holds a degree in paleography (the science of deciphering ancient writings) from the Vatican library in Rome. She received her doctorate in history from the University of Rome, and has also studied at the University of Berlin, the University of Freibourg-in-Breslau, and the Universities of Munich and Geneva.
Photo credits for this issue: the Engineers Ball by Spinney; the Red Foley shots and Interhall Swimming Meet by Munger; Christy Walsh by Harlan; Marty O’Connor, Dean Manion and Thomas Bamford by Kunkle; and Cy Weiler, John Helwig, Jim Miller, and Father Peyton by Rundey.
“One thing about Murphy—he hasn't been late for a class in three years!"
32
The Scholastic
Letters
(Continued from Page 4)
in my search of this bracelet. Oh, yes, the bracelet was lost on Feb. 14 between Farley and the dining hall. Keep up the good work in your magazine endeavors.
Sincerely yours,
Jack Mahoney 252 Farley Hall
Band Letters
Dear Editor:
In the Feb. 11 issue of Scholastic, there appeared a question in Harry Monahan’s column asking how the band was to earn its letters for this year.
This letter is to clarify the question. It is not the question of how are we to earn our letters, but how are we to get the letters we have earned? It seems to me as though our band is taken as a campus fixture, and not as an organization. The only time the band is heard of, is when someone thinks of a new reason to attack it. Criticism is welcome, of that I am sure, but unjust criticism, no!
Mr. Monahan is asking two questions: First, why doesn’t the band play at more basketball games, and second, how does the band expect to get its letters if it is inactive. The first question is criticism, the second is an attack. The first question will be answered if Mr. Monahan
will go to H. Lee Hope himself. The second question is wrong. The band has earned its letters, but it has not gotten . them. The letters you see on campus being worn by the band members are fast becoming memories.
A good question for any column in Scholastic is, “Where are the band letters?” We have a good idea. They are bound up in a big ball, with an elastic covering known as “red tape,” and are gleefully being bounced from one department to another; where this ball will come to rest, or when, no one knows.
Meanwhile the band will play on, fixture, or organization.
Dave O’Leary Morrissey Hall
CAREERS at GENERAL ELECTRIC
General Electric is not one business, but an organization of many businesses, offering opportunities in virtually all the professions. Here three G-E men brief the career-possibilities for the engineer, the x-ray specialist and the business trainee.
ENGINEER IN MANUFACTURING _
C. H. Linder (Texas), Ass’t Manager, Apparatus Dept.: “An important part of my work is developing men for Manufacturing Management. For this we have a Manufacturing Leadership Program, in which we assign young men to serve‘personal apprenticeships’ to seasoned, successful managers in varying phases of manufacturing.”
X-RAY SPECIALIST
R. F; Wilson (Yale), of the G-E X-Ray Corp.: “For electrical and mechanical engineers, physicists, chemists, and industrial designers who enter x-ray work there’s a double satisfaction—that of contributing to a technology having direct benefit to humanity, plus the challenge of unusual engineering problems.” _	.
BUSINESS TRAINEE -
John McCallister (Indiana), of the Business Training Course: “Graduating as an accounting major, I had the usual choice: public or industrial accounting? I chose industrial with G.E., and, after a year of work in Tax Accounting and of study with the BTC, I’m more sure than ever that it was a good choice.”
For further WormotiM about a BUSINESS CABEEJt with Gooeral Bectrni write Bommss TraoMog Coarse, Scbeeectnfy—a career it TECHMCAL FIELDS, writ* TkUoI Ptnaaatl DMuoa, SAtattiair, H Y. GENERAL^ ELECTRIC
Feb. 18, 1949
33
BROWSER’S Column
by Max A. Browser
An Idea
If there is one thing which seems to thrive and multiply on Notre Dame culture it is that small, parasite-type organization or committee which clutters up club rosters and student council meetings. There are a whole mess of them existent at the present time. There are too many campus clubs; too many subdivision committees within clubs and organizations. Everyone but the bird watchers are organized. If you put them all together you might have something. But we’ve taken off on that tangent before. Let us now climb aboard the band wagon and propose another humble little group to join all these others.
This collection, however, would be different. Its purpose would be clear; it could, in potential, accomplish something. We are thinking of a working committee of campus leaders. You may abhor the term; you may prefer campus ■“wheels” but whatever you call them they would be the men who are at the head of the leading campus activities — the Grand Knight of the K.C., President of Student Council, etc.
We would band these gentlemen together for purposes of meeting -with a similar group from the “other side of the fence,” a group of University professors and administrators. We would have them meet once or twice monthly (or oftener if the need required) in an informal atmosphere and talk about Notre Dame. We would have them talk about student relations with the administration; about problems of discipline; student opinions and gripes — all the various little problems that make for tension between the powers that are and the students here at school.
We could fill this magazine •with the list of colleges and universities which have a similar set-up. We could fill volumes with their accomplishments.
It seems to us an absurd occupation for any student here to labor towards getting “some changes made” until there is a meeting of minds on the point that there “should be some changes made.” It seems utter nonsense to talk about getting later permissions, longer lights,
34
etc., until the principles behind these moves are either defended or defeated in open discussion between students and University.
In other words a committee such as we are proposing would come to the “heart of the matter.” This University is being run on a rational level. If we are to believe St. Thomas (and we are!) this implies a purpose for every act. It is only through a hashing out of these purposes, making changes where they are feasible and doing same in a spirit of intelligence and calm that anything will ever be done here. “Griping” is an adolescent answer to the many problems of student life here present. We offer the intelligent solution to both students and administrators — a working committee of student and University leaders.
If anyone on either side is as enthusiastic over this idea as we are, let him step forth. This column will offer personal assistance in any efforts toward the fulfillment of the idea. It would even clean up the cigarette butts after every meeting.
This, to us, is the solution to a very pressing problem of student-University relations now existing here. It is, in a sense, too, the fulfillment of the whole spirit and idea behind the writing and printing of this column.
Here and There
Is it true that Student Relief Program is going slower than last year? . . . Could very well be. . . Novelty is a great selling point. . . . Anyone interested in joining a “We Want a New Fieldhouse If We Have to Build It Ourselves” movement please contact this column or Mr. Harry Monahan of this publication. . . .
We have yet to see the expected flash of energy from the Freshman Class. . . . University Concert and Lecture series seems to be outdoing itself this year. . . . What’s the latest on the Vetville Maternity Fund? ... It couldn’t be an off season for babies!
Nation's Best-Sellers Are Campus Fiction Favorites
According to Bill Setty, the library’s authority on current literature, five books at the moment are leading the list of fiction favorites here on campus.
Among them is First Citizen written by Richard Sullivan, associate professor of English at Notre Dame. He relates a realistic and powerful story of one Kingsley Bond, ‘first citizen’ of a small country town.
Another of the top five, The Loved One, is by Evelyn Waugh who is lecturing at the Drill Hall next week. The author describes this short novel as “a purely fanciful tale, a little nightmare produced by the unaccustomed high living of a brief visit in Hollywood.” Lurking in the center of the novel are the immense motives of love and death in the love story of a British poet and a young American crematorium cosmetician.
The remainder of the list includes Mary Jane Ward’s The Snake Pit, The Heart of the Matter by Graham Greene, and Thomas Merton’s story of a trappist monk, Seven Storey Mountain.
For Sale —
STENOTYPE MACHINE
Used very slightly. All necessary instruction material.
Wanda Hartel, Phone 6-9383
Dr. Ralph A. Berman
DENTIST
Mon. 9-12; Thurs. 9-12, 1:30-5 Fri. 1:30-5; Sat. 9-12
408 Platt Bldg.	Ph. 6-3627
105 W. Wayne St., South Bend
For the One and Only
Flowers ly Williams
ORCHIDS and GARDENIAS
Specializing in Corsages
Williams, The Florist 219 West Washington “Just West of the Oliver”
The Scholastic
'Flight Line1 Briefs Airmen On ROTC Unit Activities
Swelling the list of campus publications is a short monthly resume of “news and views” entitled Flight Line, published by the Notre Dame unit of the Air ROTC. First published last December, Flight Line is under the editorship of Robert Shafer. On the managerial end of the undertaking is Phil Shea, and handling the news and sports departments is Larry Smith.
Although only one issue was run off for the months of December and January, the men in charge of the project hope to start putting out the paper on a semi-monthly basis. The paper is indicative of the closely knit spirit of the newly and greatly expanded unit at Notre Dame. From a start of 55 men last year, enrollment has climbed to 220.
More 'Juice1 for Lab
A 10-k.w. AC-DC generator for the new Hydraulic Laboratory in the Engineering school has been presented to the Notre Dame Foundation, it was announced recently. The machine is valued at $5,000. The generator is a gift of James and Robert Hamilton, executives of the Dumore Company, Racine, Wis., and alumni of Notre Dame.
Look to
Gilbert’s
Fan Heusen
A new shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP.. NEWYORK 1. N. It
White tie affair or black. Van Heusen dresses you for the occasion. These special shirts have snowy ■white pique fronts, French cuffs, fine handkerchief-. cloth bodies, all tailored with that extra magic of Van Heusen sewmanship. Van Tux in two collar-attached models—widespread and regular. Van Dress is neckband only. Your dealer has these hard-to-find shirts right now!
Van Heuser,.,
the world’s smartest Olllx 10
for the
occasion •
Van Tux Van Dress
S5.95


It’s Adler’s
for
Fan Heusen
Alberts
813-817 S. Michigan Street
W®k... MKNMN f MMNMDH
Feb. 18, 1949
35