Volume 75
Number 18 March 20. 1942
V
Lull before the storm: Bengal Bouters Hear Nappy Read the Pairings
V
THE WEEK
BY J. Q. O’CONNELL
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Top Of The Week:
Boxing for Bengal!
All In A Week, or So. . . .
We’ve got lots of stuff to write about this week. First of all there was that Senior Party, a while back. You remember the Senior Party, don’t you, “Mama”? Larry Aubrey apparently got a big kick out of one of those cigars that were passed around. He took ten puffs and it kicked him right under the table. Everyone was so busy having a good time that poor Larry wasn’t found until the following morning, when someone picked him up, thinking it was a new • kind of sweet roll. Speaking of the Senior Party, has anyone seen George Blatt lately? We hope he’s still around.
Then there was the opening of spring football practice last Monday or Tuesday. It was good to hear once again those agonized screams coming from old Car-, tier Field. Kind of sets a man’s blood to tingling on these blustery March days. In fact, it tingled our blood so much that we impetuously threw our thesis up for grabs and ran down there, scrunching up near the fence, (on this side, of course), just to get in the spirit of it all. We can’t swear to the accuracy of our hearing through a board fence, but when we listened yesterday there was one cry that stood out above all others. It was a monotonous refrain, repeated over and over by somebody with a fine baritone voice, and it went like this: “Alley OOP, tiddley bum, alley OOP, tiddley bum, etc.” We think it’s just the way they set the timing, but, by golly, we’d like to make sure.
And how about those Bengal Bouts that have been going on for the last three nights? By this time the Freshmen know what that Bengal Bout business is all about, but one man from Breen - Phillips, who had originally planned to watch from inside the ring, ended up as a common spectator. He’s a big strapping boy, this fellow is, and he once had aspirations in the heavyweight division. Knows his boxing, too. But as soon as he found he was slated to meet Coach Hines in the eliminations, he gave. : up. You see, he- also hopes to make the Freshman Baseball Squad, arid he figured that thrashirig the coach might possibly delay the recognition of his talents on the diamond. He has you. all wrong, doesn’t he, Coach?
A REPORT ON “H.M.S. PINAFORE,” OR “Who’s Going to Watch the
Night Watchman?”
Somebody advised us the other day to drop into Washington Hall, and see how the Savoyards were getting along with the operetta, which reminds us that we* forgot to ask Mr. Birder what “Savoyards” means. Apparently, it was an off moment, because there wasn’t much going on. Tony Donadio was off in one corner memorizing his part, or taking a snooze (we couldn’t tell which), and Jerry Heinlen was up on the stage going through a dance routine. The only other people around were Professor Birder, the director, and Jim Purcell, who plays “Dead-eye Dick,” or some character like that. Jim has to go all through the proceedings stooped over in what Mr. Birder called a “low-comical” position, with one hand on his knee and the other twisted up somewhere behind his neck. He was worried about the purity of his tone, and Mr. Birder was trying to alleviate his fears.
“Why, Jim,” he said, “think of Jeritza. There’s a spot in “Tosca” where she falls flat on her face, and sings high E with her hair spread out over the foot-lights.” He then sang high E to demonstrate, but we can’t reproduce the effect here. “And Jim,” he went on, “if Jeritza can do it, so can you.”
We’re looking forward to “H.M.S. Pinafore.”
“The Charge of the
Homeless Orphans”
Uncle Jake, down the corridor, suggests that Mr. Easley make a kind of Oklahoma Land Rush out of the Grand Hegira coming up. He wants the refugees from all evacuated halls to line up in front of the Cafe on moving day, at which time some reliable, disinterested person — Father Ryan, for instance — would fire a gun and set them off. What a spectacle! Imagine 500 men, with their beasts of burden, roaring madly down the East-West quadrangle, pouring into Dillon, thundering into Alumni, galloping over to Cavanaugh! And as soon as a man found a vacant upper berth anywhere along the route, • he would stake out his claim, and make that little spot his home.
Non-students like -Mr. O’Malley and Father Claridge, who have a lot of books to carry, would, of course, be given a 10 or 20-yard head start.
Thomas V. Powers, Editor Don Heltzel...........Managing	Editor
William Scanlan...............Promotion
John Dinges.............Sports	Editor
William Baader.............Art	Editor
Tom Clemens.......Administration	Editor
Dan Downey..............Campus	Editor
Ed Drinkard........Staff Photographer Leo Lee............Advertising
Frank Kiener...................Advertising John Lynch................Photo	Editor
Rev. C. M. Carey, c.S.c., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate P'reas, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty-three times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 228 Walsh Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame. Ind.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Bnillding: Sunday through “Wednesday at 7:15 p.m.
IN THIS ISSUE
PAGE
NEWS
ADMINISTRATION
Bengal in Jap Invasion Path.......5
Fenlon Resigns--------------.----- 6
CAMPUS
Compulsory Phy.-Ed. Seen _________10
St. Ed's Moves Dillon—To Laugh____12
SPORTS
Bouts Finals Tomorrow Night_______ 3
Hines Named Frosh Diamond Coach..26
FEATURES
The Week ______________________.... 2
College' Parade	    7
/ Man About the Campus ___________20
Introducing ...„..L......„._L___ 27
Scoops 'n'Splinters ............. 24	'
What About Sports? ........  :...24
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
Volume 75
MARCH 20, 1942
Number 18
NOTRE DAME'S FASTEST HUMAN, JACK ELDER, IS HONORARY REFEREE AT 11 TH BENGAL TANGLE
Notre Dame’s fastest human, the fastest man ever to play football, and secretary of the Illinois Athletic Commission — Jack Elder — returns to his Alma Mater tomorrow night in the role of Honorary Referee at the 11th annual Bengal Bouts, University boxing championships.
Elder assumes the role of Honorary Referee which has been capably filled in the past by such men as Jerry Hefifer-nan, Loyola University boxing coach; Billy Conn, Joe Louis, chief threat to boxing supremacy; Barney Ross, lightweight champion; Packey McFarland, also once of the Illinois Athetic Commission; Gerald (Tuffy) Griffith, heavyweight contender; Max Marek, one-time student here and also a Golden Gloves champion; Danno O’Mahoney, wrestling’s titlist; and Frank Leahy, “Coach of the Year” and Notre Dame athletic director.
The Chicago guest captained the 1929 Irish track team and acquired a position
among all-time Notre Dame football greats though he had never competed in high school football. His 97-yard pass interception and runback for a touchdown against Army is still ranked as the highlight of a long Cadet-Irish rivalry.
In track, Jack was one of the greatest indoor sprinters of all time. He tied the world record in the GO-yard dash (:6.2 seconds) at least 20 times during his career. He also ran the 100 in :9.6, tying the Notre Dame record. His coach, the late John P. Nicholson, says that Elder, had he wished, could have broken the 60-yard dash mark any time he wished. However, Elder consistently refused to get the “lift” or beat the gun as most sprinters do. That same fair play has won him a position on the Illinois Athletic Commission, a post he was appointed to by Hlinois’ Governor Dwight Green on March 25, 1941.
Trackmen, newspapermen and foot-
Frank E. Hering
ball coaches gathered together a few years ago at a Central Collegiate Conference track carnival were unanimous in naming Elder the fastest man ever to compete in collegiate football. On sev-
Bengal finalists: Notre Dame's
best will meet in the old gymnasium tomorrow night.
eral occasions some official watches clocked him in :6.1 for the 60-yard dash. Jack, before succeeding Barney Ross as secretary of the Illinois Athletic Commission, was athletic director of the Chicago Catholic Youth Organization.
Frank Lloyd
A galaxy of well-known officials join Elder at the ringside.. Among the judges are: Bernie Witucki, coach of South Bend Washington high school’s confer-, ence football champions; William Sheehan, former manager of the “Huddle;” Prof. Albert Doyle of the Speech department; Eugene (Scrap) Young, University trainer; Albert Tellson, veteran A.A.U. judge; and Earl Murphy of Elkhart.
Honorary Judges
Honorary judges are Athletic Director Frank W. Leahy; Frank Lloyd, University comptroller; > Frank Hering, editor of the Eagles Magazine, Notre Dame’s first football coach, and donor of the Hering awards at spring football practices; Joseph Boland, sports announcer of the South Bend Radio Station WSBT, a former Notre Dame line coach under Elmer Layden.
Elmer Tepe and Hany Rich wine of South Bend are timers; George Vander Hayden and George Nate, A..A.U. officials, are referees; Charles Hafron, . coach at Riley high school, South Bend, is tournament clerk; George Cooper, member of the department of physical -education and physical director at the Y.M.C.A., is Indiana State A.A.U. commissioner; medical examiners are: Dr. J. E. McMeel and Dr. Joseph R. Caton; William P. Mahoney, track coach, has been announcer at the preliminaries. .
Woman Writer, Teacher, Receives Laetare Medal
Charles Kleibacker
Helen Constance White, University of Wisconsin professor, has been announced as the winner of the Laetare Medal awarded annually by the University of Notre Dame to the person recognized as an outstanding member of the Catholic laity in the United States. The name of the recipient is announced on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent.
Miss White was educated at Radcliffe College, and taught at Smith College un- til 1919 when she went to the University of Wisconsin to receive her Ph.D. She has taught there ever since. In the literary field Miss White is best known for The Mysticism of William Blake and A Watch in the Night.
The Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., University president, was generous in his praise of this year’s medalist:
“To the. gifted and scholarly Helen Constance White, a brilliant professor in English at the University of Wisconsin and the author of important literary works, the University of Notre Dame is proud to award the Laetare Medal.
“Miss White’s literary successes have been remarkable, but none more so than the devout Catholic life which she has achieved and which she admirably exemplifies through her talented mind and heart.”
The medal was first awarded in 1883 to John Gilmary Shea, historian. The idea was suggested in 1882 by Prof. James F.-Edwards who took his.plan to the Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., founder of Notre Dame, and the Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, C.S.C., president of the University at that time. Inspiration for the idea was the papal practice of bestowing the Golden Rose on some member of the Italian nobility on Laetare Sunday.
-	The medal itself is composed. of a solid gold disc hung from a gold bar bearing the inscription “Laetare Magna -est veritas et, praevalebit — Truth is mighty and will prevail.” The profession of the recipient determines the design of the medal. :	.
. Selection, for the award is' made from a list of outstanding lay members of the Catholic Church whose' achievements have in some way cast glory upon the ■Catholic faith. The list is submitted to ' the president of Notre Dame and a Laetare Committee. The committee se- . lects one for the high honor after close .
-	examination of the accomplishments of. the recommended persons. . ..	• ‘ '
. Among the 59 distinguished recipients .
of the Laetare Medal since 1883 are: 1896, Gen. William S. Rosecrans, Union leader in the Civil War; 1902, John B. Murphy, surgeon; 1907, Katherine E. Conway, journalist; 1910, Maurice Francis Egan, author and diplomat; 1914, Edward Douglas White, at that time Chief Justice of the United States.
In 1917, William Shepherd Benson, admiral and chief of naval operations; 1929, Alfred E. Smith, former governor of New York; 1933, John McCormack, famous tenor; 1940, Gen. Hugh A. Drum; 1941, William Thomas Walsh, author.
Radio Inspector Jobs
Open in Civil Service
The position of radio inspector in the Federal Communications Commission has been added to those jobs in the field of radio for which the U. S. Civil Service Commission is seeking qualified persons. Salaries range from $2,000 to $2,600 a year. The maximum age is 45 years. Applications for the written test on radio and electricaL engineering must be filed with the Commission’s Washington, D.C., office not later than April 21, 1942.
Applications will be accepted from senior students in electrical or communication engineering or physics, or from graduate students in communication engineering, if their courses will be completed by Oct. 1, 1942.
For assistant positions ($2,000 a year), completion of a 4-year college course in electrical or communication engineering or physics is prescribed. Provision is made for the substitution of radio engineering experience for this requirement. To qualify for the $2,600 positions, applicants must have had in addition at least one year of appropriate radio engineering or teaching experience, or one year of graduate study in communication engineering. All applicants must be able to transmit and receive messages in the International Morse Code.	-
Fr. Putz Leaves
The Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., third-floor prefect of Cavanaugh Hall, has been appointed assistant master of novices, St. Joseph’s Novitiate, Rolling Prairie, Ind., during the illness of the Rev. William M. Robinson, C.S.C., master of novices. It is expected that Father Putz will return to Notre Dame when Father .Robinson recovers and is able to resume his duties.
. . Father Putz received his A.B. degree from Notre Dame in 1932, and four years later an S.T.B. from the Institut Catho-lique in Paris. He taught philosophy at the seminary of LeMans, France, before coming back to Notre Dame in 1939.
11	-	■■	MtTIJ
....... ".'. '-' - - — 1 ----------------------------------------- '- ___________ ■____■■■■ _ ■■» . _ . ■ ■■—■«»
BENGAL MISSIONS ARE IN PATH OF JAP INVADERS
Prof. Smith Takes Wartime
Stand on Labor Relations
If the Japanese invade India by land, they must drive straight through Bengal, ‘ the land of the Catholic Missions. Already the Japanese are in western Burma and Rangoon. From these points it is only a short distance in to Bengal..
But the Japanese must make their invasion of Bengal before June 1, if they expect to be successful. This is because of the great monsoon which annually floods the delta country to Bengal. Here . the water rise's from three to four feet in the north to from 40 to 50 feet in the southern part. Under these conditions invasion at this time of the year would be impossible. .
Bengal is a province of northeastern India which is nearest to Burma and China. In size it has about the area of Indiana.
The mission sections of Bengal are divided into three parts. Dacca is the center of the Holy Cross Missions. This is a city of about 150,000, and is only
If India were as well prepared as these two Bengalese, there would be no invasion. ...
300 miles from Calcutta. Akyab, which is now being bombed by the Japanese, was given to the La Salette Fathers of Hartford, Conn., by the Holy Cross Congregation in 1936. Chittagong missions are run by the Canadian priests and Brothers of the Holy Cross Order.
In the Holy Cross mission section of Bengal there are about 40 priests, 20 brothers, and 75 sisters. About 30,000 natives have been converted in the last 20 years.	.
The Dacca section of Bengal has a population of about 12 million people. It has an average of, 700 people to the square mile. This is the third most dense- . ly, populated section in the world.
India is primarily an agricultural country. In the Holy Cross part of Bengal there are only three cities of any size; Dacca, Mynenshing,. and Maran-garj. Dacca is considered as the student town because it has over 20,000 high school and college students. Marangarj is the greatest jute port in the world.
Paul Carr •
On Tuesday evening, March 10, Professor Edmund A. Smith, associate professor of business administration at Notre Dame, was the guest speaker at the dinner meeting of the Industrial Club of Elkhart, Ind. He spoke on the essentiality of cooperation in the war. effort stressing the importance of good relations between management and labor.
After a member of the organization had introduced him to the industrial group, Mr. Smith launched immediately into his talk by first citing the specific goals which have been set by the Administration in war production. He spoke pessimistically of the shipbuilding program and after comparing the number of completed vessels to date with the sum total of the 8,000,000-ton construction goal for 1942, he surmised that “notwithstanding the fact that new shipping is being launched faster than the old is being sunk, that is not enough.”
Among the tasks for managementlabor cooperation listed by the speaker 'were: the decreasing of industrial accidents; transfer of workers from civilian to war industries; expansion and streamlining of training-within-industry programs; and a more enlightened effort on the part of both employers and employees to compromise their industrial disputes.
Good faith on both the part of the employer and employee is necessary in this victory drive, Mr. Smith said. While management must guarantee to labor that it will do all in its power to mitigate unemployment maladjustment after the war, “labor for its part must refrain from attempting to assume management control.”
Professor Smith admitted that most of America has been doing a splendid job since “the Japanese mistake,” but he stressed the point that unless all executives and all workers sacrificed their own self interest to their obligations to our fighting forces, victory will not be achieved. “Without the vision of deep purpose,” Mr. Smith far sightedly concluded, “we shall perish.”
During the open forum - discussion which concluded the evening’s program, many of the 300 members present questioned Professor Smith about various ideas which he had presented on the subject.	.
5
« « UNDER THE DOME » »
Fenlon Resigns
The resignation of Paul I. Fenlon, professor of English, as assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters, was announced this week by Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. Father O’Donnell said that Professor Fenlon resigned in order to do special work, in connection with the University Centenary.
At the same time, Father O’Donnell announced the appointment of Louis L. ■ Hasley, associate professor of English, to the new assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters.
Sullivan's Novel
Summer After Summer, a “first” novel by Richard Sullivan, ’30, assistant professor of English, has been accepted by Doubleday Doran & Co., for publication next summer. It is a story of family life in a small town.
He wrote a story of family life....
Mr. Sullivan’s short stories have appeared in many leading publications including The Atlantic Monthly, Columbia, Midland, Scribner's and the New Republic. His play, Our Lady’s Tumbler, has also been published and is produced frequently.	-
A member of the English faculty at Notre Dame since 1936, Mr. Sullivan is . president of the Holyrood Chapter of the Cathoic Poetry Society, which draws its members chiefly from the faculties of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s College.
6
Dean Manion Will Speak on NBC Sunday Night
A chain of NBC stations linked to WEAF, New York City, will carry a nation-wide broadcast inaugurating a campaign for Americanism in education, Sunday night, March 22. The program, sponsored by the Knights of Columbus, begins at 9:30 p.m. CWT.
Presiding will be Timothy Galvin, Hammond, Ind., a Notre Dame alumnus and supreme master of the Fourth Degree Knights. Participants in the broadcast will be Archbishop Spellman, dean of the New York hierarchy, and J. Edgar Hoover, chief of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Dean Manion is the author of the slogan, “America Fights for God-given Rights,” which has been adopted by the Knights of Columbus as the key of the educative program. His address will explain the purpose and organization of the Americanism program, while Mr. Hoover will give official sanction to a comprehensive plan for Americanism education as opposed to subversive activities.
Navy Hosts Fr. O'Donnell
Guest of Rear Admiral John Downes, Rev. Hugh O’Donnell appeared as the principal guest on the program “Meet Your Navy” aired over station WLS Tuesday night, March 3, from the Great Lakes Naval Training Station on Lake Michigan in Chicago.
In speaking to the Bluejackets in the enormous 9th Naval District Training Center, Father O’Donnell observed the great credit to the country that this excellent training school affords. “Last fall, as a guest of your commandant, Admiral Downes,” Father O’Donnell said, “I was privileged to inspect the whole of this station, and all of its. excellent educational and recreational facilities. And I came away convinced that the Navy has solved the problem of maintenance of good morale. Here work and play for the men are well distributed and varied so that each night, physically tired, they welcome their hammocks to dream of what they will soon experience when they . go to sea.”	' \ '
Bishop O'Hara Appointed
The Most Rev. John Francis O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., former president of the University, now auxiliary bishop of the special Catholic diocese of the United States army and navy, has been ap
pointed a member of the national board of directors of United China Relief. His acceptance was sent to Paul G. Hoffman, president of the Studebaker corporation, chairman of United China Relief.
Bishop O’Hara was invited to represent the Catholic faith on the national board following reorganization of United China Relief on a permanent basis for the duration of the war and will have a prominent part in the campaign to raise §7,000,000 for relief work in China in 1942.
Deep in Montana
Rev. Norbert C. Hoff, former philosophy professor here, was called back to parish work by his bishop at the close of last semester. The parish bulletin an-
Rev. Norbert C Hoff
nounced that Father Hoff is now pastor of the Immacuate Conception parish and ' is active in the formation of a Newman Club (a club of Catholic college students) at the Montana School of Mines.
Professor of a history, modern guage of modern
JACKSON CHUNG
Jackson Chung
course in the culture, conditions, and lan-China, which is now being offered to students is Jackson Benedict Chung, graduate student and native of Canton, China. If the appeal of the course, taught two periods weekly, meets anticipated proportions it will become a part of
the University’s curriculum. .
Jackson Chung, dubbed “Mick O’Brien” by his Sorin Sub hallmates, is a senior mechanical engineering student. He is among a group of Chinese college - students in the United States who have been, urged on to action by the Chinese government so that the new China will not.be lacking in post-war leadership.
COLLEGE PARADE
By ROBERT LeMENSE
A Sequel:
THE CASE OF THE FRUSTRATED GENIUS or
HORATIO ALGER WAS WRONG
A Tragedy
Scene: Office of the head of the department of English of a very well-known Midwestern university.
Characters: A pair of horned rimmed glasses with a tall, dark, curly-haired fellow behind them and the head of the English department.
Note: Any resemblance betiveen the characters in this play and any real personages, living or dead, is purely coincidental.
As the play starts the F. G. (Frustrated Genius) is standing belligerently in front of the H. E. D. F. G. holds a grimy piece of paper in his hand and he continually waves it as he rants and raves.
F.G.: But, you have to accept this! I spent a month and a half writing it.... I stayed up nights.... I missed meals.... I even missed morning check! Besides the Scholastic published it so I don’t see why you can’t accept it as my senior thesis!
H.E.D.:I know, Quentin, I know, but you must calm yourself now. In the first place, in regard to the Scholastic, “space-filling” is not a looked-for quality in theses. Secondly, it is hardly of sufficient length. And finally, though it would hardly make any difference, if the playlet was really autobiographical as you claim, why didn’t you write it. as such?
F.G. (practically sobbing) : But I did not want anyone to know*.... and, and you have to accept it.... I won’t get another inspiration like that in years.... a month and a half.... (he raves on incoherently).
H.E.D.: There now, son. If you don’t want to try again maybe you can switch to accounting or engineering or...
(F.G. rushes to the window and lets out an agonizing shriek as he dives through.) .
Curtain goes down.
From 'Cross the Way—
Came another Static recently. This latest journalistic effort by the girls of St. Mary’s came almost as a rebuke to the Parade of a couple of issues ago. However, to take no chances, this latest January - February copy will be placed in the rare-issue file. Among other inter
esting items contained therein was a short sketch with a moral. The moral was not explicitly stated but could be gathered from the conversation between two girls getting ready for the N. D. Prom. Maybe the concluding dialogue in the sketch will be sufficient to let you get the point.
“Well, Mary, I guess you good little girls really have something on us glamor girls. Could I have just a dab of your perfume? Maybe it would take a little of the siren out of me. From now on, I am going to try a little pink net instead of this black satin. Then maybe Ted will start acting chivalrous.”
"Passed by Censor"
What was it?—the Nov. 21st issue of the Scholastic addressed to the Waseda Guardian, Waseda University, Tokyo, Japan. The other stamp on the envelope read “Return—Return; Postage Guaranteed; Service Postal Suspendu.” Evidently the magazine hasn’t any military importance. .
In the spring a young man turns over to fancy what kind of weather he will have today.
Fan Mail
From Lieutenant Colonel R. Otto Probst, C.E. and N.D. 1911, comes a request for the printing of the. poem, “Prayer of an English Major” which was mentioned in this column—sorry, sir,' we’ve misplaced the issue of the Cormont in which the poem appeared.
George Meltzer, ’41, now in the air corps, wonders about his old pal John MacCauley, also mentioned in the Parade. Our information indicates that John can be reached by addressing the “Student Defenders of Democracy” paper in New' York City—he is one of the editors.
"Scoops" Requests—
A blow for the Bengal Bouts. The Parade is happy to help you out, Bill. The Bouts are the University’s only venture into the fisticuff field—all for charity. Any freshman who thinks the Bouts won’t be exciting are advised to consult the upperclassmen. Get some of the seniors and juniors talking about “Terrible” Rod Maguire; he of the lethal punch. And don’t believe that any champ is a cinch to repeat; maybe the sad lad who sits next to you in Religion class vrill be in the finals tomorrow night.
- 7
CatnMMi, Naupi
"PINAFORE" SHOW WILL MAKE FOUR-NIGHT STAND FROM MONDAY TO FRIDAY IN WASHINGTON HALL
Starting next Monday the Notre Dame Savoyards will stick their necks out for four days. They are staking a lot of reputation on this year’s production of Gilbert and Sullivan’s if. Ilf. S'. Pinafore and a lot more optimism. For the first time in more than a decade Washington Hall has been booked for a four-night stand, which means Director Cecil Birder’s outfit thinks it will get more audience than any show at Notre Dame in recent years. Director Birder’s optimism is well-founded: 1941’s Gondoliers was one of the best received shows -ever staged at Notre Dame. His belief that Washington Hall will be filled Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday nights has a good background.
But, Mr. Birder did have a talented
group to work with. Anthony Donadio, who takes the part of the hero, Ralph Rackstraw, has been for three years a featured soloist with the University Glee Club. Jerry Heinlen, Captain Corcoran, last year played the part of Antonio in the Gondoliers and is also a Glee Club soloist. James Purcell, president of the Glee Club, plays the part of Dick Deadeye this year in the Pinafore as well as he played the part of Don Alhambra last year in the Gondoliers, which means that “Jim” plays the part of a despised hunchback to perfection. There are, in addition, many members of the Glee Club in the chorus, and the chorus is the back-bone of any Gilbert and Sullivan operetta.
Dave Curtin, who takes the part of Sir Joseph Porter, though a new comer to the ranks of the Savoyards, easily justifies his presence among them with his splendid portrayal of “the monarch of the seas.”
Richard Conrardy and William Z. Murrin, the Boatswain’s Mate and the Boatswain do a great deal toward making the show a success. Mr. Birder gives rhe former credit for being the outstanding authority on Gilbert and Sullivan in the cast, and the Pinafore will be the fifth operetta by G. and S. that Mr. Murrin will have appeared in.
Though many of the girls in the cast are new. to Notre Dame, they certainly
are no novices as far as the theater in
general is concerned. Mr. Birder’s daughter, who plays the part of Josephine, or, “the lass who loved a sailor,” gave students a lot to think and hum about by her excellent portrayal of Gianetta in last year’s show, has been appearing in Gilbert and Sullivan productions since she was a little tot.
Agnes Haney, last year’s Tessa (or, “the lass who married Bischoff”) has since appeared in other shows, most noteworthy of which was the Riley High School Waltz Dream, in which she played the part of Kay and was very well received.
Ruth Baumbaach played the' part of the Princess in the same show. A very
The Savoyards dressed up
as sailors to launch "H. M. S. Pinafore"
pretty blonde, she thinks “Notre Dame boys are very friendly.”
. The Misses Nelson, Marilyn and Barbara have also appeared in many shows. The one that they liked best was the Sorceror under the direction of Antonio de Pina.
Nancy Henderson, a native of Roanoke, Ka., who now lives in South Bend was in Greig’s Music Box, but likes the Pinafore much better.
Margaret Calloway has appeared in many shows and is a rabid Gilbert and Sullivan fan, as is Alma Schellinger, who has seen service in The Mikado, The Yeoman of the Guard, as well as the Pirates of Penzance.
June Anderson, who plays the part of Buttercup in this year’s Savoyard production, has also appeared in many Gilbert and Sullivan operettas and last year played Tessa in the Gondoliers at Purdue University.
S
The scenery (which is just five pounds short of being a ton) was all supervised by Mr. Hanley of the department of art with Mr. Birder acting in an advisory capacity.
One of the most inspiring songs in the production is sung by Bill Murrin. “For He Is An Englishman.” Tony Donadio’s songs in the production are even better this year than they were last year when
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS CASEY BALL WILL BE HELD APRIL 10; THE LAST DANCE OPEN TO ALL STUDENTS
Who’s Casey?
He’s not Casey at the bat, he’s not Casey of the Bengal Bouts, he’s not Casey at the throttle—but he’s Casey the typical Notre Dame man in the armed forces of the United States, be it the army, the navy, the marines, or the air corps. In honor of this rollicking, this energetic, this ambitious Mr. Casey, the annual Casey’s Ball is being held this year—on Friday, April 10, at the Palais Royale.
Casey, a Catholic lad, welcomes the sight of a Catholic priest. He wants to receive the benefits of the Sacraments; and he wants to see the priest equipped with the needs for saying Mass. At present, there is a shortage of those needs— but, proceeds of Casey’s Ball will go to the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., military bishop of the U.S. armed forces, for the Mass Kit Fund. Bishop O’Hara was the immediate predecessor to the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S-.C., as president of the University.
Every Notre Dame man of today is potentially a future member of the
It seems that Casey wants to go to a dance. . . .
he played the part of Marco in the Gondoliers. Jerry Heinlen has some lively selections that are well done in, “I am the Captain of the Pinafore,” “Pretty Daughter of Mine,” and the “Bell Song.” The Trio sung by Murrin, Donadio and Conrardy is one of the most difficult trios ever written by the great masters of the light opera, yet this group does a splendid job.
American Fighting Forces — a future Casey. By helping the Mass Kit Fund now he may be helping himself in the future.
General Chairman Paul Kashmer of the Knights of Columbus Council of Notre Dame—sponsors of the Ball—announced 1 a.m. permissions will be granted. All classes of the University are eligible to attend, including freshmen; and the event is an open affair, open to all students desiring to attend. Dancing is from 8:30 to 12:30; the event is formal; and the price of bids, including a favor, is $2.50.
Bids are now available at the Knights of Columbus club rooms in the basement of Walsh hall, and at the rooms of the ticket chairmen—Jim Danaher, 210 Morrissey; and Ed Hickey, 251 Dillon. Those students who haven’t found a potential “Strawberry Blonde” to take a-courtin’ in the true Casey manner, have been invited to make known the problem to the man with the tickets who contacts you. The theme song goes something like this:
When the ticket man comes around Tell him, and a date will be found!
Seniors Show Talent At
Annual Informal Party
The Senior Informal Party held Tuesday, March 10, in conjunction with the annual Alumni Banquet proved to be a rollicking success. The festivities started at 5:00 p.m., when the seniors assembled in Washington Hall to receive an address by Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. After a movie, they retired to the dining hall, where, according to Class President Jim O’Neal, they were given a royal spread with service “a la king.”
During the course of the banquet, the Seniors were kept in high spirits by their own humorist, John “Mama” Clark, who acted as master of ceremonies. Entertainment, headed by the orchestral music of the Cavaliers, was at its best. Those who furnished the fun were: Ed Sullivan, who received a big hand for his comical impersonations of local celebri-
Bill Fallon—George Blatt
ties; George Blatt, Paul Kelly, Bill Fallon, Bob Allen ; and Angelo Armato and Sig Wesolowski, who put on two skits; Dick Sullivan and Bob Sinon, who gave a piano duet; and Henry Van Sile, who sang a number of selections.
The coveted class ring, which was presented as a door prize, was won by Ed Kirchman, an engineer, while Bill “Scoop” Scanlan walked away with the next best prize, a Senior Ball ticket. Numerous other gifts, donated by South Bend merchants, were raffled, until almost everyone in the hall was a winner of something.	’
Sig Wesolowski—Angelo Amato
Credit for the arrangements for the banquet is given to the co-chairmen, Ed Mangelsdorf and Jim O’Laughlin. Besides the three rectors and the various prefects of their halls, the seniors had as guests Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., and Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C.
9
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
INTERHALL ATHLETIC BOARD CONSIDERS PROGRAM OF COMPULSORY PHY.-ED., GROUP CALISTHENICS
Editor-in-Chief
Notre Dame Scholastic
University of Notre Dame
Notre Dame, Indiana
Subject: A GENERAL MacARTHUR DAY FOR DEFENSE STAMP BUYING.
Dear Sir:
A plan which should add tremendous impetus to collegians’ support of the National War effort has been evolved by the undersigned seniors, constituting an official committee of the Michigan College of Mining and Technology., The success of this plan requires your collaboration.
We realize that all colleges have made individual efforts toward defense stamp sales, and are to be commended. This plan, however, involves a unified campaign by all colleges. It is as follows:
To make Saturday, April 11, 1942, General Douglas MacArthur' Day, in honor of MacArthur’s heroic stand in the Philippines.
On General MacArthur’s Day we propose, in our own vicinity, to:
1.	Cause the purchase of one dollar’s worth per student of defense stamps during the morning.
2.	Sponsor local college defense demonstrations and a parade in the afternoon.
3.	Hold a dance in the evening with the cooperation of local civic groups, admission to be gained by the showing of the stamps purchased that day.
It is emphasized that the dance will be held in conjunction with local civic organizations. This will encourage public participation and show solidarity be-
(Continued on page 31)
Triple Cuts
Triple cuts/will be in effect before and after Easter vacation according to word from the Prefect of Discipline’s office.. Last issue, the Scholastic said Easter vacation would begin Thursday noon, while a bulletin from the office of , the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, said
, it. would begin Thursday afternoon, -after classes. Father O’Donnell is =
, . right.	.	.	.
Included in the wave of news and rumors that swept the campus last weekend, necessitating an enlarged edition of the Scholastic, was the revelation of a little-known University board. Not so incidental was a news report of this board’s recent activities. Title of the group: Board in Control of Interhall Athletics. The news report: a suggested program of mass calisthenics starting with the summer semester.
The plan, if it is put into effect, will be part of a rejuvenated interhall program of athletics. The whole set-up is in . line with the efforts of the government at whipping the youth of the country into the best physical shape possible.
The introduction of mass calisthenics into the campus curriculum, if approved by the proper authorities, will include all the students living at Notre Dame and will be compulsory. The campus will probably be divided into two or three areas, with the residents of halls in each area required to be present when the drills are held. Thus, all residents of the • Gold Coast area, the residents of Alumni and Dillon, would be required to report at a certain place to participate in the drills.
Unconfirmed rumors say the drills will take place in the morning, just after the students get up and before they go to breakfast..
Chairman of the Board in Control of Interhall athletics is the Rev. John Burke, prefect of discipline. Other members of the board are Frank Leahy, director of athletics, and John Scannell, director of interhall athletics. Father
Burke said early this week that the , lor, . Tri-State, Wabash, together with board had met last week to discuss the four other Catholic colleges, Marion, St. proposed interhall athletics emphasis. He Francis, St. Joseph, and St. Mary’s of said that nothing definite could be said the Woods. - .
in regard to the story, other than that , it is being considered.
Father Burke said the mass calisthenics, are recommended as body condi-
tioners and will greatly benefit students. _	—	.	.
He inimated-that; the move may not be . Eco Comprehensives
an entirely popular one, .but that stu-
dent interests will be served, under such The department of economics depar aprogram	ment announces that the comprehensives
,	. examinations for the major students in
Along with the same story came a. the department who are to be graduated
report that the field along Notre Danie , May 10, will be held, on the afternoon Ave., on the stadium side, will be leveled of Thursday, March 26, from 1:30 to and used as a . training ground^ for. the-5:30 p.m. in Room 4 of the Law Build-Navy’s large group of V-7 candidates for officers commissions.,	.
Inter-American Club
Holds Speech Contest
Six undergraduate students of the University of Notre Dame will take part in the district elimination of the National Extempore Speech Contest -on InterAmerican Affairs to be held at Purdue University, Lafayette, Ind., on March 19. Fifteen colleges and universities of northern Indiana have been invited to send representatives to this district meet.
The contest, inaugurated by the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Relations, for the purpose of fostering and improving Pan-American relations, is open to undergraduates in schools of higher learning throughout the nation. General topic for the speech making will be, “The best ways to promote cooperation and friendship among the 21 American nations.”
Two students will be picked from the district contests to be held throughout the country, and these will compete in . six regional contests. The six regional winners will be given all expense tours of South America.
Notre Dame students entered include: Mark McGrath, of New York City; Joseph Ryan, of Albuquerque, New Mex., Rafel Alducin, of Mexico City; Leo F. Raymond, of Oak Park, Ill.; Jack Morrison of Indianapolis, Ind.; and Robert Nenno, of Buffalo, N. Y.
Other Indiana schools invited to the meet at Lafayette are Anderson, Ball State, Goshen, Huntington, Indiana (Calumet Center), Manchester, Purdue, Tay-
The Notre Dame group is preparing under the direction of George M. Reichle, of , the department of speech.
of Thursday, March 26, from 1:30 to
- ing. Further information can be obtained . frdm .any member of the department.
10
NOTRE DAME INFIRMARY IS ONE OF BEST IN THE COUNTRY; BUT TO STUDENTS IT'S A PILL WAREHOUSE
been reliably reported that the trouble isn’t worth the price. Scholastic staff members believe the rumor authentic.
DAVE CONDON
This reporter has been over at the Notre Dame pill warehouse—the student infirmary, twice. Once for a cold, when they gave him two pills, and once for a broken leg—two more pills. That such a fine looking building—at the risk of being shotgunned by the Gold Coasties, one would say the finest on the campus— should be used for such sinister purposes, is beyond human comprehension.
But the building is there, and is ex- • tremely popular -among the ailing students, especially at this season of the year. Notre Dame students pay for the infirmary privilege in the general tuition, which includes board, laundry, lodging, and a 49-14 victory over Illinois.
The new student infirmary, built in 1936, replaced an old infirmary adjacent to St. Edward’s hall. The 1936 Ave Maria magazines in the new waiting room replaced 1903 issues of the same publication, which were standard equipment in the waiting room of the old infirmary.
At the first sign of sickness, the average Notre Dame student does two things: first, he tries to get out of physical education; if that doesn’t work, he goes to the infirmary.	.
A student going to the infirmary for treatment, (treament, from the Egyptian word tortus, tortoise, torhire) has his choice of any doctor in South Bend,
Infirmary Repast: A movie director would call it super-colossal
as long as that doctor is Dr. J. C. Me-* Meel, senior medicine man, or Dr. J. Caton. Dr McMeel and Dr. Caton are assisted by the rest of the infirmary staff, consisting of three graduate nurses, two Sisters that are graduate nurses, and 13 football players who force down the castor oil.
This beauty spot of the campus can normally accommodate about 75 patients and it would be possible to treat 100, it was stated by one of the infirmary staff. During the month of February, 218 patients were quartered in the infirmary, and 218, unless you are batting for the Yankees, is a high figure. Most of the cases treated were for colds.
The doctors are on duty most of the day and are subject to call at all times. Most of the cases are handled at the infirmary, although surgery is done at St. Joseph’s hospital in South Bend.
The first floor houses university guests, which of late have ranged from a movie director to visiting bishops. Two professors and three postgraduate priests are quartered on the third floor of the “pill warehouse.”
Well prepared meals served at the infirmary are cooked in the building’s modern, up-to-the-minute, and, as the movie director would put it, super-colossal, kitchen. Although these meals ate a change from the dining hall fare, it has
Notre Dame’s infirmary has been
. . . . tortus, tortoise, torture.
praised highly by visiting dignitaries, and has been acclaimed as one of the . finest seen at any university in the na-
tion. Even Samuel Goldwyn couldn’t do better. So if you go to the infirmary, be solaced in that fact—and beware of the pills.	.
At Wisconsin
Rev. John A. O’Brien, professor here, . declared in an address to the student body at the University of Wisconsin last week that the present concept of the ab- ' solute sovereignty of the State has ■ brought untold evil to the world. and ’ should be the first casualty of the pires- ..
. ent war.	. . .	.
“An association of nations,” contihued. Father O’Brien, “obedient to interna- ; . tional law, implemented with internation-. al force, must replace the present anarchy if humanity is to survive the .everrecurring slaughter of the masses. As -the peace and order of a county demands, a county court and a county sheriff, so ; the peace and order of the world de- . mands a world court and a world sheriff. There can be no escape from that. con-elusion.”	-	/.	-
We Are Not Aone	<
1200 Navy Men Coming; '	.	. :
Will Occupy Men’s Halls \
Radio Code School Housing, Feeding _ ‘ Will Begin April 1 . Raise Problems .
—headline in Wisconsin ;	:
Daily Cardinal .
7 ' -	•'	.	'	. ' '	11	.
ST. ED'S A. C. THREATS MOVE DILLON—TO DERISION;
COMING STRUGGLE VIEWED AS ANOTHER PUSHOVER
(Special to the SCHOLASTIC)
Dillox Hall, March 20—The recent dire predictions against Dillon Hall, uttered hy Bill Earley, in behalf of the St. Edward’s A. C., local campus organization of doubtful reputation, and unsound membership, set Dillon corridors ringing with derisive laughter. So lightly did Mr. Earley’s forebodings take Dillonites that two Scholastic reporters found it exceedingly difficult to get even half
Something set Dillon's corridors ringing with laughter. . . .
respectful statements of Dillon’s reaction to the scorching threat hurled by the voluble Mr. Earley. Their visit coincided with the tea hour; and over and above the terrific tinkling of teacups, however, and the pounding of molars against cookies and cream puffs, came such nonchalant phrases as:
“. — an excellent example of Dead. End drivel. Why must they insist on being so juvenile?”
“.... St. Ed’s A. C. is obviously of the strong-back type. A smattering of scientific fisticuffs by even our medium talented members here in the hall will bewilder those hulks; furthermore, this will be the exact manner in which to answer them. It is the only way to make them understand. It will be coming down. to their own level, painful as it will be for us to descend so low.”
Said one of the light eaters: “We shall not be frightened by any big talk, empty threats and diatribe, of which St. Ed’s appears to have an over supply. We shall teach them that boxing can be a gentleman’s pastime; that it can even be an art. We shall inject a modicum of intellect, and thus bewilder them. St. Ed’s has committed itself in a very highhanded manner with no small amount of braggadocio. Let me also state that their drooling has quicqued us not a little. Obnoxious as they are, we hesitate to have anything to do with them. But now,
matters have arrived at the point where it would be ungallant for us to retreat. Now, nothing remains but that St. Ed’s be made.to eat those words. It is even too late for their A. C. to back out. And we of Dillon are just the ones to make St. Ed’s do this eating. I hope that the so-called athletes in question will be men enough to put in an appearance.”
Said another Dillonite: “We shall meet their challenge, word for word, man for
man, blow for blow. But we shall insist on this point only: Namely, that their conduct in the ring be more gentlemanly and decently logical, than have been their conversation and threatening utterances to-date. It is regrettable that they have committed themselves so blatantly. Now they must face the issues. It is comforting to know that a measure of justice will at last find its way to the surface and to the minds of the impartial men on the campus.
From another huddle came this opinion: “We welcome this opportunity to vindicate ourselves before the many upper-classmen who have passed through Dillon, no less than before the younger students who dream of the day when they will be privileged to share in the Dillon traditions of both learning and culture, no less than athletic achievement. St. Ed’s has proved itself illogical, unreasonable, thoroughly unfair, and not a little uncouth. Mr. Earley has led us to a point where we are itching to get at his A.C., gloves or no gloves. We were somewhat reserved until this latest verbal blitzkrieg. Now, nothing short of a good sound thrashing will satisfy us, and avenge our campus reputation.”
The conversation turned once more upon the St. Ed’s representative—“That tub-thumping Bill Earley sounds like an echo out of Flatbush during an unhappy Dodgers’ spectacle. His attack on Dillon
reminds us of an anemic Brooklyn attempt to down the Yankees with whatever weapons are nearest at hand. Honestly, in my mind, St. Ed’s is really that puny. Their threatening is nothing short of ridiculous. To be wrong is bad enough. But to persist in error, after having been better informed, is sheer stupidity. I think it would be a good thing if they knocked out that east wall in the hall and absorbed some of the Minor Logic which must now be abroad among their yearling neighbors. It is time that the St. Ed’s A. C.—that unwashed and be-whiskered lot—be put in its place; and we are just the ones to do it. After the Bengal Bouts, I can assure you, we shall have put a quietus to the rantings of the disgruntled peasantry.”
When approached for a statement on the impending struggle, Mr. Hillebrand, eidtor. in chief of the Dame, breathed a sigh of relief and merely observed: “At last I shall be vindicated.”
Said his associates: “Tomorrow evening we shall all be vindicated—at St. Ed’s expense, too.
Clothing-Preference
Poll to Award Prizes
The Gallus Poll, a questionnaire pre
pared by the Max Adler company to im
prove its customer service, is receiving
JIM O’LAUGHLIN
widespread attention on the campus. Several hundred of these questionnaires, which are being distributed by the company’s camp u s representatives, have been filled out and handed in. Information contained in
them has been very helpful, according to the store management.
“It is generally recognized that university men are more style-conscious and have a greater appreciation of customer service than any other group in America,” said a representative of the Max Adler company. “For this reason the university group is qualified to give valuable information. Questionnaires already received bear this out. The information they contain is well thought out and very helpful.” .
Prizes will be given in the near future to men who fill out a Gallus Poll. Everyone filling out a questionnaire will have an equal chance to win one of these awards.
Distribution of the Gallus Poll is in charge of the following Max Adler representatives on the campus: Jim O’Laughlin, 407 Walsh Hall; Jim O’Neal, 411 Walsh Hall; Tom Clemens, 244 Morrissey Hall; James Carroll, 241 Breen-Phillips Hall.
12
NOTRE DAME "JUGGLER," LEADING COLLEGE HUMOR MAGAZINE, WAS N.D. VERSION OF "NEW YORKER"
RICHARD POWERS
(This is the first of two articles by Mr. Powers on the history of the Notre Dame Juggler, former campus humor maga*-zine.—Ed.)
For 15 years, after the horrors of the first World War were over and Notre Dame took to convalescing in a time of peace and reconstruction, the bright spirit of a rogue called the Juggler of Notre Dame roamed the campus, performing for the students every month or so. The most remarkable quality of this famed publication was that, during all of its all-too-brief existence, it maintained a consistent, high standard of clever humor and satire which faltered in comparatively few issues. It is true that some of the humor was a bit tarnished from overuse, that some of it was borrowed and that some of it was not even funny. But on the whole its humor had a certain tang of gentle satire, which was sharply observant, and a certain cleanness and freshness under its sophistication which never tended toward the off-color style of humor popular at the time. In comparison to the other publications of college wit at the time the humor of the Juggler was quite harmless and free from any malice.
It was during the precarious twenties that the Juggler flourished for the most part, from 1919 to 1934, an age when such magazines as Judge, the old Life, College Humor and the New Yorker were in vogue and when college life and sports were the most important things of the day and were greatly idealised. Naturally, the cartoons, verse and jokes of the magazine were patterned after them for the most part, but more in a local way, of course. The founding fathers, so to speak, of the first Juggler were Delmar Edmondson, Laurence Cook, and Andrew Moynihan, who put the “funny man” through his first per-. formance just before Christmas in 1919. The most interesting piece of -writing in this first issue is the Prologue written by the editors to explain the purpose of the magazine. It is done in a mock pompous style, after Lamb, and the illusion is that the Juggler himself is speaking to the students. Incidentally, this particular illusion is one that failed to carry itself through the other later years of the magazine. The title of the Juggler of Notre Dame is probably the finest and most appropriate name for a humorous publication at the University. The allusion to the simple yet fun-loving Juggler of Our Lady in Anatole France’s famous
tale seems to have been lost in later issues when sophistication demanded brevity and the magazine was just the plain Juggler. The title and conception of the whole work were equal, comparatively speaking, to those of Punch and the New Yorker with perhaps a certain swagger typically American, as well as . the sophistication and whimsy of those famous weeklies.
There is a certain quaint, sly humor in the gracious and intricate phrasing of the Juggler as he makes his apology for his appearance:
Let me begin by paying due respects to the long-established and revered Scholastic. May her shadow never grow less! My show does not presume to compete -with hers. I aim to fill needs which the Scholastic of her nature is unable to fulfill ... In her sphere she cannot be equalled... At this time the Scholastic was the
literary magazine of the period as well as an outlet for some student humor and sport comment. Like Scrip today, it received the cream of the student essays, poems and other literary contributions.
The Juggler then issues a plea for help from the student body:
. . . With ‘ the cooperation of the students my ministrations will become permanent, will increase and broaden, my costume will become more gay and attractive; without your help I shall “die aborning.”
He states Kis case as the ideal outlet for student humor since neither the Sqholastic nor the Dome were intended to fulfill this necessary function nor -were they able to. The rest of the Prologue consists mainly of some pleasant, whimsical comments on humor:
Other sections of the introduction contain a typical complaint about the poor quality of the food in the campus restaurant and a bit of satire on the struggle of the Scholastic against the title “Fighting Irish,” with a few exaggerated suggestions tendered as substitutes. The first issue of the Juggler wasted no time in getting its humor and satire under way. The very first issues were a success and subscriptions and advertising flowed in. At first it was intended to come out quarterly according to the seasons, but soon it became monthly, the price was reduced from 25 to 15 cents and contributors were never lacking. There was no doubt as to the need and popularity of such a publication at the University: the Juggler soon became the most well-loved character on the campus.
When the Juggler was born, American youth -were just ridding themselves of the shackles of the mauve era and the fin-de-siecle malady of the old century and the tempo of living became increasingly faster and more sophisticated. The very first issues of the magazine had a tinge of sentimentality and coy humor typical of pre-war and World War days. As has been pointed out, some of the satire had a bit of pompousness and old-fashioned elaborateness about it which as the years came faster, was shaved down and stream-lined until it was pointed and piercing. In its outward appearance, The Juggler looked very much like the present-day Neto Yorker both in size and length. Brightly colored covers which changed from month to month were executed by the many excellent artists on the staffs. As the years changed hands, the cover drawing became not merely a decoration but a pointed cartoon, as is the style with most of the humor magazines of today. New departments came into existence and the monthly took a definite shape: like the New Yorker, the magazine opened with a listing of the goings-on about South Bend and the campus, then came Caf Smoke, a campus-gossip column, Encores, then Portraits of prominent students done in caricature, and other departments which were quite regular; for example, a column on the latest jazz of the day. Movies, stage-plays, books and authors were also commented on and impaled on the barb of satire. Interspersed throughout all these more or less regular sections were contributions which went mostly unsigned or under a pseudonym. These were mostly verse-parodies or burlesques and either straight satire or short stories or playlets satirising football, art, literature or movie stars. To fill out the rest of the magazine many of the jokes or cartoons from other college magazines were printed.
(To be continued next week)

SCHOLASTIC POLL"
Dillon Hall, Feb. 28, 1942.
Mr. Thomas V. Powers,
225 .Walsh Hall,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Dear Mr. Powers:
The following is an “open” letter that represents a widely held opinion concerning the Scholastic, of which you are editor. Since these views are shared by many others besides myself, I am making this an “open” letter to you.
In an early edition of the Scholastic this year, it was stated in an editorial that the Scholastic would hereafter be the mirror for student opinion arid would not try to mold opinion in any way. Obviously you have changed your policy because the last few editions have done anything but reflect opinion and in general the magazine has tended to be somewhat of a fraud or “phoney.”
I do not have to look far for my examples to substantiate these convictions of mine.
The numerous articles that have appeared recently concerning a certain campus dance band are a classic example. Being written up in the Scholastic regularly is good “cheap” publicity. It is my belief (not exclusive with me) that this news is entirely trumped up ■with the purpose in mind of keeping this band in the public eye. The rank partiality of the Scholastic in this matter leads one to the conclusion that the manager or members of this band have a definite “in” with some Scholastic editor. The result of this is seen in their frequent “Blows.” If what they want are plenty of notices try giving them one every time they hit an off-key note. This way they will fill the entire Scholastic.
However first prize for completely phoney and fraudulent articles goes to that recent one about the best-looking girl at the Prom. Ten friends of the one who wrote the article
no doubt!! I can just imagine the thrill that the lucky ten received by seeing their name in the Notre Dame weekly as being the ten best-looking girls at the dance; that will certainly put their dates in solid with them. I am sure that not one of those ten girls’ dates failed to send them the Scholastic that week.
There was no beauty contest at the Prom, the writer of that article could - not possibly have, scrutinized all girls there, and is he any judge of beauty in the first place? The only logical answer is that this article like countless others in the Scholastic concerning certain big men on campus, editor’s friends, etc., is 100 per cent phoney!!!
The Scholastic has certainly not been , a mirror of student opinion. It would not dare! Ask the students what they think of the Scholastic.
Begrettable as it is, it appears that the. Scholastic has fallen into the hands of just a few self-ambitious students who are now using it for the attainment of their own ends. How about returning the Scholastic to its proper place as a “student” weekly. There is so much material of genuine interest available that it seems a shame that you have to make up news to fill the magazine.
I sincerely hope that you accept this letter in the manner that it was intended, namely, as constructive criticism. Because many acquaintances of mine are on the Scholastic staff I choose to sign this letter anonymously. However, I expect to see this letter in print. To ignore this would amount to your convicting yourself.
Very truly yours,
A Junior Dillonite
(Not Sean O’Sylvian)
P.S.: And not an English major seeking publicity, either.
"SCHOLASTIC" CAMPUS POLL INDICATES 99.7% OF THE STUDENT BODY FAVORS NEWS MAGAZINE
In a poll taken last week by the Scholastic to determine the popularity of the Notre Dame weekly, and also in connection with a letter received by Scholastic’s editors, 99.7 per cent of the men polled said they liked the magazine. Twenty residents of each hall on the campus were approached with three questions, and the final tabulation shows that 272 liked the publication while eight did not..	.
The three questions asked were:- Do you like or dislike the Scholastic, gen-' erally speaking?. Do you read the Scholastic more this year than formerly? (asked only of upper-classmen.). And, what particular like or dislike. do you . have in regard, to the Scholastic?
The reactions to the second question,
asked only in upper-class halls, were: 105 students said they read the magazine more this year; 43 said they read it about the same as formerly; and 52 said they do not read it as. much as they did.
Other reactions are printed on this and page 15.
Between the classes there seemed to be no distinct separation of thought. The four Freshman halls, Cavanaugh, Zahm, Brownson, and Breen-Phillips, were 78 in favor and two against the Scholastic. The four Sophomore halls, Carroll, Lyons, Badin, and Morrissey, were 100 per cent in favor of the publication. The lowest percentage was registered among the Junior class where 56 voted yes, while four were negative. The Senior class was 58 in favor and two not in
-favor of the magazine.
The above letter came to Scholastic’s offices too late to be published in the last edition. However, its tardiness gave the editors a chance to clear up the charges made by the apparently sincere writer. Specifically, the writer said, first, a partial Scholastic editor had attempted to publicize a local band; second, the story on the ten best-looking girls at the Prom was a put up job; thirdly, the Scholastic was afraid to ask students what they thought of the magazine. An investigation brought out the following facts:
L There is only one Notre Dame band which can be recognized on the campus. This is the Cavaliers, about whom two stories appeared in the Scholastic recently. The other band, the Modernaires, has been temporarily banned. See Father Burke for further details.
2.	No one man, but ten men, formed the committee in judging of the charms of Prom guests. The ten girls chosen were not the guests of these ten men, but represented the ones who garnered the most points among the committee.
The story was checked against the opinions of about 15 other Juniors, who agreed that it was fair, and was then published.
3.	In a poll taken in every, hall on the campus, students were 99.7 per cent in favor of the Scholastic (See other stories on this page).—Editor.
Sports Section is Best Feature of "Scholastic"
In the Scholastic poll, the best liked thing about the magazine was the Sports section which was praised by 28 students for its make-up, articles and writing. Close on its heels came the Campus section with 23 favorable tallies, the comment generally being made upon its informality. The “Week” and the “Parade” ran third and fourth, two votes separating them from each other.
Complaints were registered by students were in reference to the Campus section, the Sports section, and. several of the columns, such as the “Week,” “College Parade,” “Disc-cussion” and “Sports Quiz.” Each of these received a relatively small amount of complaints.
The complete list of this phase of the poll follows:
Sports, 28; Campus, 23; The Week, 16; Splinters, 15, College Parade, 14; Disc-cussion, 4; Introducing, 4; Next Week, 2; Sports Quiz, 2; Chesterfield Ad, 2; Cover, 1; Cartoons, 1; Man About the Campus, 1.
"Daily Maroon" to Hold "Bull Session" Saturday
Four students from the University of Chicago will be guests on the second in a weekly series of radio “Bull Sessions” Saturday at 4:30 p.m. over Chicago radio station WHIP (1520 kilocycles), when they will express their opinions on “Campus Democracy: Does It Exist in Wartime?”
The series is sponsored by the Daily Northwestern and WHIP with the cooperation of the Scholastic.
Two of the students will represent the Daily Maroon, campus newspaper, while the remaining students will speak for the student body at large.
Each week four students from a college or university in the midwest conduct their own informal session on a question of current student interest. The broadcasts begin while the discussion is under way and carry 30 minutes of the conversation. The program is unrehearsed.
Editors and student leaders of colleges throughout the Middle West have expressed their eagerness to co-operate in this series. Succeeding programs will be announced when scheduled.
AS LONG AS THE MIKADO GRINS, AND ADOLPH'S MUSTACHE STAYS PUT, NO MORE SENIOR BALLS
There will always be proms, and cotillions, and dances and even hops at Notre Dame, but, after April 24, 1942, there won’t be any Senior Ball until a
Ed Mangelsdorf—J. Q. O’Connell
lock of Adolph’s mustache rests in the Smithsonian Institute with the rest of the relics of things gone by. As long as the Mikado keeps on grinning, Notre Dame will pop graduates out three times a year, and there just isn’t any sense in trying to run that many -Senior Balls. The thing will become too complicated.
So the present cannon fodder for the oratory of May 10 will have the added honor of being the last of the pre-war Ballites. Knowing this, Larry Kelley, general chairman, and his flock of assistants have been working hard towards giving the men of ’42 a weekend that will be really worth remembering.
Music Chairman Tom Walker, now in complete, charge since Don McNally started to fly army bombers, and Kelley, have been working especially hard. Kelley and Walker have been dickering with some of the best agencies in New York and Chicago, but have not been able to get anyone to sign definitely. These two men have been trying since last fall to find a band worth dancing to. Contrary to all rumors that Joe Zilch and his boys will be the final selection, the seniors may be sure that whoever it is, the' music will be nothing but the best.
Contrary to rumor, Zilch has not been signed.
“Cy” Miller, Chicago promoter of anything at all, and his committee are moving along, and promise some top-flight decorations to make the Rockne look like something more than a bashful basketball court.
Despite priorities, war, and everything else, one thing has definitely been decided—the favors. Sorry, though, what they are just isn’t to be known until that night.
Bob Finneran expects to have a good dance lined up for Saturday afternoon despite the handicap of tea, and for Saturday night—well?
It looks like it’s going to be a great affair to wind up those four years, so you’d better get moving in on that blonde unless you want to spend the night playing a fast set of tiddleywinks. Remember seniors, it’s five weeks from tonight— April 25.
Jack Clark—Lee Burby
A complete list of committee members follows:
MUSIC: Dan Shouvlin, Springfield, Ohio; Byron Kanaley, Winnetka, III.; Howard McIntosh, Greenfield, Ind.: Bill Regan, Wharton. N. J.; Bob Cole- -man. Shaker. Heights, Ohio; Bernard Marbach, White Plains. N. Y.
PUBLICITY: Jim O’Laughlin, . Washington, D. C.; Jack Clark, Cleveland, Ohio; Ed Monaghan, Denver, Colo.: Jim Brutz, Niles. Ohio; Phil Richards. Alpena, Mich.; Jack Dinges, Downers Grove, III.	•	.	.
DECORATIONS: Jim O’Brien, New York City: Matty Byrne, New York City; Ed Mangelsdorf.
(Continued oh page 30)
15 \
SCHOLASTICS SPORTS EDITOR ENTERED IN BOUTS;
TELLS OF BLOOD AND SWEAT AS HE SWAPS PUNCHES
JACK DINGES, Sports Editor
You’ve sat on the edge of your seat
yelling during the Bengal prelims, cheering a buddy or characterizing his foe as
JACK DINGES
something of a “bum.” You’ve had a good tune; the boys that won seemed to enjoy the event too, even if •they had to smile through bruised lips and gently finger a shiner as they talked. The losers are not
crushed by the disappointment; if they were why would so many come back next year? But just how do the fighters, both winners and losers, feel about the whole thing. What makes a fellow practice for six weeks to rim the chance of taking an exhausting pounding for six minutes before his college mates? Is it just to help the Bengal Missions?
We’d like to think so, and that probably is the answer—to a small degree. That might be the fourth reason, with three other greater ones preceding it: the chance for glory; the experience, win or lose; and last, some good exercise.
Sweaters Rated High
No one would dare claim that a Bengal sweater approached a Notre Dame monogram in sanctity, but it would rate above numerals. A football man’s knitted jacket certainly is one to be revered, and he should do well against most Bengal Bout-ers but the champ has proved his'ability against all who cared to oppose him. And the boys who are too small for intercollegiate competition can win sweaters in their division.
But before any climbing into a ring, there’s a great deal of preliminary work to be endured: rope skipping for the arms and legs, running around the lakes to develop the wind and those ever important legs; pulleys for the arms, chest and shoulders; calisthenics that, to the lads a bit out of shape, seem lifted from a handbook for Nazi concentration camp administration. Shadow boxing is a device that at first appears a bit silly, jumping around jabbing at imaginary foes. After the third or fourth round of this mythical fight, though, you think Coach Dominick Napolitano is pretty smart to make you do it.
Those Sparring Bouts
Finally . come the sparring bouts. You’ve waited around the ringside for Nappy to ask if you “want to put.’em on.” Suddenly you find, Nappy’s assistant, Bill Badon, lacing the big black mitts to your sweaty hands. Your anxious eyes search for the sparring- partner. “He’s a well built son of a gun, not as big as that heavyweight I butted into last night. Those 145 pounders would be so much nicer to fight; I wonder if I look as big to him as he does to me?” Such thoughts come with fever.
Those reactions to fear and excitement you studied in psychology are on the level; knees do quiver, intestines do knot up and expand and you wonder if you’ll make a fool of yourself out there. But then you think of the other guy’s fears and you’re okay.”
Padon Calls "Time"
Suddenly Padon calls “Time.” The lightweights quit and Nap says your bout is next. You and your partner go to opposite corners of the ring,' and come to the center. You’ve forgotten about your knees and stomach. There’s a guy out here to pound the daylights out of you. He wants to learn the quickest and best way to polish an opponent off and he expects you to be his guinea pig.
“Well, show him a thing or two and pull the same stunt on him,” snaps a voice from behind you.
Wham! A crack on the. side of the head brings you around. Up goes your . left and you feel him out with that right. You drive in a right that just misses, catch another lighter one on the head. You duck low, leading with that left, and loop around with the right, bringing the left back and driving the right and body in together. Look at that surprised expression on his face! You learn that you can hit too.
Tired—But Interesting
You warm up to the action and it goes on for two minutes; you’re tired, but it’s fun. What if that is blood from your nose on his glove; there’s more where that came from. Maybe Nappy will break it up once or twice if things get too rough or if he can point out a particularly apt point of technique and after the round he’ll probably tell both of you how. you may improve. Both sparring mates respect each other, either for ability or courage.
You’ll want to remember Nappy’s pointers; they will be mighty handy when you’re out in the ring in the fieldhouse playing for keeps, and one of those sweaters. And if you’re defeated, it won’t be fellow bouters who’ll kid you; they’ll know what you’ve accomplished, win or lose.
That sweater -will tell the folks at home that this guy’s a champ at Notre Dame. Dad can tell the fellows at the office about it and the kid brother will mention it at school. Mother might shudder, but she’ll feel proud that she didn’t raise a weakling or a coward.
The experience and the exercise paral-el each other. Never, have the novices undergone anything, like this before. Maybe they were in high schooL dramatics and felt that first loneliness of an actor behind the footlights or had the : winning point in their hands in a basketball dr football game, but there is hardly a more self-dependent man than a boxer .when he climbs into the ring.
16	.	>
"I wonder if I look as big to him as he does to me."
NOTRE DAME BAND PLANS EASTER CONCERT TOUR
c. s. coco
For the second time in over 50 yeai-s of its history the University of Notre Danie Band, now under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, will take an extended concert tour. The first such venture was made in 1940 when a 40-piece concert band toured the east during the Easter holidays.
“The fellows in the band have worked hard this year under trying circumstances,” commented Mr. Casasanta in announcing the intended tour. “I think that they deserve credit for their achievements and that they have earned a reward of some kind. This trip is a means of showing them gratitude for their fine work and splendid cooperation,” he continued, “In the 23 years that I’ve been at the head of the band, I’ve always wanted to take the • fellows on such a trip. Our first venture was a success, and return engagements have been requested from various cities.”
Present plans are under way to take a concert band of 50 men to be chosen from the regular 100-piece organization. These men will be picked according to their musical ability, instrumentation, number of years as band members, dependability and regularity in attending practice sessions.
A varied, well rounded program is rapidly taking form for the occasion. Numerous symphonic arrangements are to make up the body of the program with marches by John Phillip Sousa and other well known composers to be used as fillins. Among the most famous composers to be represented ’ on the program is Ferde Grofe. His “Song of The Bayou” and “Mardi Gras,” both from “Mississippi Suite,” will be on the list. The immortal Victor Herbert will occupy a place of distinction with “Victor Herbert’s Favorites,”. a medley of some of this great composer’s most popular numbers, including “March of The Toys” and “I Can’t Do The Sum” from “Babes in Toyland,” “Absinthe Frappe” from “It Happened in Nordland,” “Because You’re
You” from “The Red Mill,” “When You’re Away” from “The Only Girl,” “I’m Falling in Love with Some One” and “Italian Street Song” from “Naughty Marietta,” “Gypsy Love Song” from “Fortune Teller,” “Kiss Me Again” from “Mlle. Modiste” and “The Irish Have a Great Day Tonight” from “Eileen.” Arrangement is by Maybeu L. Lake who admirably does full justice to the spirit and charm of'Herbert’s best known melodies.
Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta
The climax of the program will be “Universal Judgment,” a symphonic poem by Camillo De Nardis, long time director of the Conservatory in Naples. This composition won' first prize in a national band contest at Naples in 1878, and in a competition at Turin, Italy, in 1880. Arrangement was specially prepared .from the original score for the Goldman Band by Antonio Cafarella. The work itself “is extended in form and made up of a number of well-contrasted melodious movements. The first of these is an Allegro con fuoco, in a well-developed fugal form; this is followed by a
Moderate assai, descriptive of the heavenly hosts; and in turn by a recurrence of the first movement in altered form leading into an inspired Maestoso .and Choral. A spirited Allegro brings the composition to a close.”
The itinerary of the trip, to date, is as follows: Saturday, April 4, leave South Bend Central Station on the “Pacemaker”; Easter Sunday, concert in Milford, Mass., home town of Professor Casasanta; Monday, concert in McAlpin Hotel Ball Room, New York City; Tuesday, concert in Brooklyn; Wednesday, Scranton, Pa.; Thursday, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.; Friday, Johnstown, Pa.; Saturday, Altoona, Pa. Definite word has not as yet been received from Pittsburgh, Pa., where a concert is being considered. The entire trip is to be made by train.
Stanford Debates Here;
Team Goes to Wisconsin
The Notre Dame affirmative debate team -will unleash a verbal barrage at the Stanford University ’ negative two- -some this coming Tuesday at 8 pun. in the auditorium of the Engineering building. The debaters will argue on the government regulation of labor unions question. James O’Dea of Lowell, Mass., will be the first speaker on the Irish team with Robert LeMense of Iron Mountain, Mich., speaking second. The last meeting between Notre Dame and Stanford in debate was about three years ago and the N. D. team won. '
Next Friday and Saturday both' “A” debate teams will attend the debate tournament conducted at the University of Wisconsin in Madison. The negative team of Mark. Lies, Riverside, Ill. and William Meier of Faulkton, S. Dak. together with the O’Dea-LeMense affirmative combination and Professor William J. Coyne will make the trip.
Last year’s debate squad chalked up a good average at the Wisconsin tournament despite the fact Thomas O’Grady, “A” negative man, came down with the measles and a substitute had to be rushed from Notre Dame to Madison to take his place. ‘
Aeronautical Meet To
Be Held Today, Saturday
Student aeronautical engineers and their teachers from colleges and universities throughout the Middle West will participate in a unique aeronautical science convocation here today and tomorrow.
Branch members of the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences from seven schools will begin registration tonight, March 20, from 7 to 9:00 p.m., in the Cushing Hall of Engineering on campus. Registration will continue Saturday morning until noon to accommodate the more than 150 students expected to attend the meeting, which is the first student session of this type to be held.
An open house will be held in all the departments of the College of Engineering at Notre Dame in conjunction with the sectional meeting. All laboratories and equipment will be in full operation from 2 to 9:00 p.m. Saturday in both Cushing Hall and the new Heat Power Laboratory, with engineering faculty members and Notre Dame students in attendance.
Prof. Frank N. M. Brown, head of Notre Dame’s department of aeronautical engineering, has announced a speaker’s program for the convocation to include Major L. D. Gardner, executive vice-president of the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences, and William B. Stout, widely known head of the Stout Engineering Laboratories.
The convocation itself will be held for the benefit of the participating students! At 9:30 Saturday morning, Prof. Bradley Jones, head of the University of Cincinnati aeronautical engineering department, will preside over a student technical paper session. The best student papers read at this meeting will receive prizes at the conclusion of the convocation.
Prof. John D. Akerman, head of the University of Minnesota department of aeronautical engineering, will preside over the luncheon session at 12:30 in the Hoffman Hotel. Guest speaker will be Major Gardner, and films covering several phases of aeronautical science will be shown.
The afternoon session, with Prof. G. H. Tweney of the University of Detroit acting as chairman, will begin at 2:30 p.m., and will feature discussions by engineering professors and visiting technicians.
The complete list of participating schools includes the University of Cincin-nati, the University of Detroit, Iowa State College, the University of Michi- . gan, the-University of Minnesota, TriState College and Wayne University, besides Notre Dame.
"Scoop" Scanlan Brings Out "Scholastic" Extra
This week, for the first time in the 75-year-old history of the Notre Dame Scholastic, an extra was published. It appeared last Tuesday and was a special issue to publicize the SCHOLASTic-sponsored Bengal Bouts, which began that day. The issue was more of a surprise to the editors than to the student
WILLIAM SCANLAN body They ha(j nofc seen it before it was published.
Credit for the extra belongs with Promotion man “Scoop” Scanlan, Walsh Hall senior, who brought it out. This year’s terrific barrage of publicity is also the work of Scanlan, who is the official promoter of the bouts. Scanlan baptized William Edward, hails from LaCrosse, Wis., is a Journalism Major, and handles all of Scholastic’s promotions. He has recently been appointed secretary of the class of ’42 and mentions that all correspondence after graduation can reach him in an army camp —“somewhere in the States.”
South America Offers
Jobs to Skilled Workmen
Good jobs with the Brazilian government, guaranteed for three years, with transportation from the point of sailing paid for the employee and his dependents, await a few who can qualify as skilled tradesmen in a selected list of occupations, Manager John W. Limbert of the South Bend United States Employment Service office announced. recently.
“As a part of the government’s good neighbor policy, the United States Employment Service has been requested to .find a limited number of skilled tradesmen to open and staff schools in Brazil to train youths in various occupations,” Mr. Limbert said. He added: “The men desired must be willing to sign a three-year contract with the Brazilian government, and must be tradesmen familiar with one of a selected number of industries.” ./
Skilled tradesmen in this area who are interested in such employment may receive full information regarding wages, hours, and the selected industries at the United States Employment Service office, 216 North Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana.	~
What happens to a collegiate guest star after a trip to New York and a $200 cash award for appearing, on Fred Allen’s radio hour?
Various Departments Try
To Recruit Sophomores
Sophomores who haven’t as yet had to register with Uncle Sam learned last week what conscription is really like. As pre-registration time for summer courses rolled around, the various departments in true last minute fashion desperately tried to present the beneficial side of their courses to bewildered sophs.
This time the attempts at conscription took place in the classrooms. Second year men hustled from one to another, trying to decide which subject they would major in and changing their minds at each class. English professors, calmly determined to keep their department exclusive as ever, let it be known that their proteges must have recommendation from everyone but the president. Tactful teachers of philosophy dared not mention their department lest someone remind them that such deep thought as scholasticism requires is definitely out of the question. Economists, sociologists, and politicians, besides the usual classroom speeches, posted oh all bulletin boards important communiques concerning their courses.
Still, when all the campaigning had subsided, the sophs were at sea in regard to their major subjects. Most of them waited till they were in line at the offices before deciding this delicate problem. One befuddled fellow, when he reached the window and was asked his choice of majors, got his signals crossed and sputtered nervously at the dean: “Physical Engineering!”
Cleveland Club's Skating Party Hailed as Success
That the Cleveland Club’s recent skating party proved to be successful was certainly no surprise to the campus. Not
VIC GULYASSY
since the Knights of Columbus Carnival has any activity received such publicity as the Oh ioboys, headed by Vic Gul-yassy, gave to their venture. Artistic posters on all the main bulletin boards were
only half of it: every student was personally honored with a mimeographed copy of skating particulars.
Those who responded to the call of the Clevelanders were not disappointed. The party turned out better than had been planned, in spite of the small rink and the large crowd. All participated in games, including couple races and circle skating, to the winners of which prizes were given. All arrangements, together ■with the selling of tickets, were in the hands of Griff Allen and Joe Shea.
18
GLEE CLUB CONFIDENT OF WARING CONTEST; FLORIDA TRIP CANCELLED; WILL GO TO YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO
Notre Dame’s Glee Club is prepared to accept the challenge which Fred Waring presented to it and to colleges all over- the country when he invited the singers to try out in his new contest which he announced in an open letter to hte students of Notre Dame printed in the Scholastic two weeks ago. According to Waring’s plans, the entire country is to be divided up into 150 sections or groups, with ten colleges in each group. The best club in each section will win a trip to New York to take part in the final competition. These 15 Glee Clubs will appear on various radio programs and one rated the best among them is to be awarded a complete radio and recording set of the latest and finest make, for the use of the college.
Mr. Pedtke, the director, and the members of the Glee Club are quite confident of ■winning the prize for this particular section in which it has been placed because there are very few other colleges with singing standards to compare with those of Notre Dame. However, there is always the chance that some “dark horse” Glee Club, whose college favors and pampers its singers more than anything else in the school, may give Notre Dame something to worry about. The competitions within each group are to take place by means of recordings which are to be sent to the judges of the contest. The Notre Dame group plans to make its recordings March 26 or thereabouts.
Because of the accelerated semester, the original plans for a Glee Club tour had to be modified. A trip to Florida had been planned at first, but now preparations for a trip to Youngstown, Ohio, seem to be quite definite. Concerts will be given within the next week or so at St. Mary’s and in Mishawaka.
On Sunday, March 15, at three o’clock, the Glee Club assisted at a Naturalization Program held in John Adams high school auditorium, South Bend. The program was held in honor of those foreigners. who have become naturalized Americans recently through the efforts of the National Citizenship Education Program, the director of which is Dr. William F. Russell, dean of Columbia University, who delivered an address on this occasion. The program of the Notre Dame Glee Club was well received and consisted of the following selections: Hymn to the Madonna by Kumser; The Lost Chord by Sullivan; Anchors Aweigh and the Victory March; Marine Hymn, Original; Ho, Jolly Jenkins by Sullivan; and finally the Star Spangled Banner.
Inter-American Group
Holds Open Discussion
The Open Inter-American Affairs Discussion Group meets tonight, Friday, in Room B of the Law Building from 7:15 till 7:50. The program will consist of three five-minute talks and 20 minutes of discussion. The speakers are: Bob Davies, “The Reasons For Argentina’s Contrariness,” Wilbur Puhr, “Do Foreigners Own Latin America?” and Paul Toland, “Does Latin America Wish to Expel the Foreigners?”
The group met last Friday night. The program consisted of three talks and a discussion period. The speakers were: Bob Millett, “Some Characteristics of Latin America from 1929 to 1940,” John Ryan, “General Differences Between the Americas,” and Jim Cunningham, “Looking at Inter-American Trade from 1890 to 1940.”
At one of the recent meetings, the group drew up a tentative schedule of speakers for the remainder of the year: March 18, Fred Gore; March 25, Joe Ryan; April 1, Jim Cunningham; April 8, Vincent Hogan; April 15, Paul Toland; April 22, William Puhr, April 29, Bill Scanlon. The meetings will begin at 7:15 and end at 8:00, as stated, consisting of 15 minutes (maximum) speeches and 30 minute (maximum) discussions. No dues are charged. Any student wishing to contribute a talk to the meetings should hand in his name to 39 Carroll, so that a date can be assigned. If necessary, the speeches will be limited to five minutes, having three per meeting.
March 17: There Was
Green in Gray Indiana
The middle of the official Notre Dame Student Directory has long read like a litany. This year is no exception. Starting around page 100 a casual reader runs into a series of McLaughlin, Mc-Leese, McLoone, McMahon, McNally, McNeill, McNerthney, McNevin, McNulty, McPadden, McQuaid, McQuiston, Mc-Quoid, McShane, McSweeney, McVay.... etc. So it was a great day for the micks last Tuesday.
Green blossomed prematurely in grey Indiana that day. And there were Irish smiles and Irish parties. There was also a dinner in the Notre Dame Dining Halls, courtesy of another Irishman, Mr. Connolly, who provided the cocktails
and desert at 12 noon and the main dinner at six in the evening.
There were other evidences of St. Patrick’s Day: a green issue of the Religious Bulletin, along with a shamrock; “Scoop” Scanlan’s Scholastic extra — also in green; and Torn Ryan, Breen-Phillips watchman, Ireland, ’28, dressed in his best Sunday style. Only thing to mar the day, from the Bengal Bouts came some Irishmen with black eyes.
March 17 is traditionally the best proof that Notre Dame has what merits for her the name “Fighting Irish.” 1942 was no exception. From , the pages of the Directory came the following names, Irish to the core: Eamon deValera, Mac-Devitt, Badin; Donnelly Patrick McDonald, Lyons; Martin Michael McLaughlin, Cavanaugh; William Grogan O’Connelly, Morrissey; Kevin Brendan O’Doherty, Moreau Seminary; Murray Joseph O’Toole, Sorin. The Murphy’s run high again this year with 30 straight.
Mess Time at Dining
Hall May Be Changed
Mr. Connolly didn’t know. Mr. Armstrong in the Alumni Office wasn’t sure. It looked as if another Notre Dame rumor was bound for the, factory. But on the ground floor of the Administration Building, amid dusty Domes and nervous students, there was a man who knew. Father John Burke, at 11 a.m., Tuesday, said: “Student hours at the Dining Halls may be shifted after the Navy comes in.”
What would the shifts be? Father Burke wasn’t sure. They might call for breakfast at 7:30 a.m., for lunch at 12:30 pan., for dinner at 6:30 pan. University authorities would decide on the matter in a little bit; would then make an announcement.
This shift would work in nicely with the proposed mass calisthenics drills in the early mornings. It would also give the Navy men time to eat and go about their duties, before Notre Dame students moved in.
Concurrent with this speculation came another rumor: classes might be shifted up half an hour to jive with the reorganized mess schedule. About this there was no definite word.
Score at the end of the interview: there is a very good possibility that student dining hours will be moved up to accommodate the Navy; there is some basis, but no authority, for classes being moved up.
One rumor killed before it got a chance to jive was a story about classes being held from six a.m. until noon, leaving the afternoons free during the summer semester.
If
Edward Joseph Sullivan
He’s every inch a man, literally and physically. It’s not Tom Thumb we are talking about, but Notre Dame’s Tony
TONY DONADIO
Donadio.
The fellow with the short stride and heavy girth gives you the impression that New York’s mayo r has suddenly packed up and taken residence at Notre Dame. The only thing that Tony walking image of the of New York, is that
black ten gallon hat. But the crop of black curly hair is the pride and joy of Tony and even at the cost of being different from the mayor, Tony struts about without any chapeau.
lacks to be the “Little Flower”
To all his classmates, Tony is a very well known figure. He’s the one fellow , in four years that I haven’t heard gripe about somebody or some condition. Some may claim this is abnormal, but I think it graphically shows the true personality of the mighty mite from Baltimore way. Affable and friendly, Tony can’t be beat for a big “blow.” Even in the early morning Tony seems to have that ever familiar pleasant way. But this statement ought to be qualified because the early mornings in Tony’s life are few and far between. He’s the only guy I think will be given an honorable dis- charge from Uncle Sam’s forces, because of the inability to find the solution to oversleeping. They say Tony’s idea of heaven on earth is a good spaghetti dinner, done home style, and secondly, a soft bed with the usual accompaniment of bells.
. I think the biggest question about Tony is whether his grand personality outweighs his talent as a singer. For if you are in doubt as to whether you know his voice, recall the few evenings before Benediction — the soloist was the same Tony we are talking about. For those of you who saw the ever-remembered University version of “The Gondoliers,” our man about the campus stole the show, his r part of the king would do justice to any professional performance of this show. But Tony aspires some day to the unique "bracket of singing — the opera. Many ;. have been the hours spent under com. " petent instructors in New York. If the : 'success of his,career is measured by the .
YfL	-	?; ~~	_
amount of effort and enthusiasm spent, there is no doubt that his name will be emblazoned in the history of opera.
However all hasn’t been milk and honey for “Two Ton” since Tony has been a victim of that “pencils up, pencils down” man. But now that the cro-magnon and neanderthal man are familiar buddies, he has continued in his sociological studies. Just how many molars were found in the Piltdown remains is somewhat a mystery for Tony, but being that he mastered the chart of prehistoric creatures, he was found not wanting and allowed to continue on his academic road.
Future plans call for the pursuit of a law degree to follow in his father’s footsteps as legal advisor for the Baltimore and Ohio railroad, this to be accompanied by a continued voice training in quest of the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow. Right now though, Tony is busy preparing for his role in H.M.S. Pinafore to be given next week. But, of course, Tony’s future like everyone of similar taste is pretty much controlled by what Uncle Sam thinks best. If Tony wanted to pull a heroic Hari-Kari and climb in one of those torpedoes, like the Japs, we think all designs for torpedoes would be changed from their cylindrical type to a short stubby job.
Catholic College Student
Group To Meet in April
Notre Dame students will be given the opportunity next month to better acquaint themselves with the National Federation of Catholic College Students when, on Saturday and Sunday, April 18 and 19, the Fort Wayne Region of the Federation will hold its first regional congress at Nazareth College, Kalamazoo, Mich., headquarters of the region. The Federation, already functions on the campus through the Student Commission for Decent Literature, the Catholic Action Students, and the Liturgy Society. However, all students, whether affiliated with the Federation at present or not, are invited to attend the congress.
The congress will officially open Saturday morning -with a council meeting of the delegates from the regional schools. Registration will be early in the afternoon and will be followed by a general meeting of all students, at which Betty Navarre, Nazareth, regional president, will preside. Talks will be given by Sister M. Kevin, S.S-.J., president of Nazareth College; Rev. Paul Tanner, representing the National Catholic Youth Council in Washington, D. C.; and Mary Agnes Bier, St. Mary-of-the-Woods College, national third vice-president.
At the late afternoon session Notre Dame students will lead discussion on Catholic Action, and representatives of Nazareth will speak on the study of the liturgy. Saturday night an informal dance will be held in downtown Kalamazoo for all students attending the congress.
Louis Kurtz
The Rev. William T. Craddick, C.S.C., regional chaplain, will open the Sunday meeting with Mass. That morning the . general meeting will feature a discussion of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine Study, presided over by Nancy Sackley, St. Mary’s of Notre Dame. In the afternoon the program of the National Commission on Decent Literature will be presented by Louis Kurtz, Notre Dame, regional vice-president. Following a council meeting, at which regional officers for the coming year will be elected, the congress will close with a banquet.
To enable as many Notre Dame students as possible to attend, their ex‘ penses for the congress have been limited to §5.50 per person. This will cover : bus fare to and from Kalamazoo and Nazareth, hotel lodging for Saturday night, the banquet, dance, two meals, and registration fee. Further particulars will . be announced in the near future.
Caseys
To Eli Abraham in the Knights of Columbus chambers in Walsh Hall there came a present last week. To the Casey’s financial secretary the Navy presented a -brand new torpedo room. Said the Navy: we would like to use your council chambers as a class-room for our torpedo section. Said worried Secretary Abra- . . ham: Where do we go from here? , ,
Navy Moves in on
NOTRE DAME SPORTS
Morrissey, Lyons Win
Interhall Cage Titles
Morrissey won the Light League'title and Lyons the Heavyweight crown of the Interhall basketball competition in the finals played Friday, March 13, in the Fieldhouse. The Lyons eagers were deprived of a complete sweep of both leagues when Morrissey nosed them out of the Light League finals during the . overtime of a 23-19 game.
The Lyons Heavies beat a St. Ed’s team which played typically rugged ball by a score of 28-23. The members of this winning team are Dehner, Gaffney, Scheuch, Smith, Pilawski, Anton, Kiefer, Dohr, Bauchman and Rigney. They beat St. Mary’s, 30-28, to annex the Heavy League I title although Desmond of the “Rock” collected 15 points in that contest. St. Ed’s were the undefeated champions of League IL .
Morrissey and Brownson tied for first place in Light League I, but Morrissey mobbed Brother Pat’s boys in the playoff, 43-20. Van Dyke scored 18 points for the winners and Donovan connected for . eight for the losers. There was a three-way tie for first place in Light League II among Lyons, St. Ed’s and Badin. In the playoffs, St. Ed’s avenged an earlier defeat by rolling over Badin 41-29. But Lyons squeezed through 27-22, over the St. Ed’s boys to ■win a place in the finals . against Morrissey.
This final game was one of the best of the year. Lyons led, 19-18, with 20 seconds remaining, but committed a technical foul and Kuhn sank a free * throw for Morrissey, so the game ended, 19 all. Then, in the five-minute overtime, ;; Smullen sank two baskets to pull Mor-f rissey out a winner, 23-19. Members ■_’of Morrissey’s championship team are:
Cook,. Smullen, Kuhn, Vander Wegen, ; Stumpf, Hoffman, Martin, Mahoney, Van "Dykeand Younghaus.
- ",	FINAL STANDINGS
; Heavy League I	Heavy League II
	w	L		w	L
-Lyons.		...-9	0	St. Ed’s ...		7.	f!
' St;-' Mary’s 		...8	1	Morrissey .		6	1
-Dillon 		...6	3	. Cavanaugh		4	3
Carroll	...6	3	Walsh			....4	3
.^Naval’ikO.T.C.	3	6	Brownson .			3	4
- Alumni- 	:	...3	6	Badin 			2 1	5
. "'Howard	...3-	6	Law Club ..		2	5
	. -		’ J		
		-	- - '		
	. — •				
Breen-Phillips ....3
Zahm ___________2
Off-Campus _____2
6 Sorin 7
Heavy League Champions: Lyons. Light League I	Light League II
W L	W L
Morrissey -----5	1	Lyons __________5	1
Brownson ------5	1	St. Ed's________5	1
Carroll _______4	2	Badin __________5	1
Dillon ........3.	3	Breen-Phillips _3	3
Zahm __________2	4	Sorin __________2	4
Walsh _________2	4	Howard _________1	5
Alumni ________0	6	Cavanaugh ------0	6
Light League Champions: Morrissey.
Results of Last Week
Light League I: Morrissey 43, Brownson 20.
Light League II: St. Ed’s 41, Badin 29; Lyons 27, St. Ed’s 22.
Playoff: Morrissey 23, Lyons 13.
Heavy League I: Lyons 30, St. Mary’s 28.
Playoff: Lyons 28, St. Ed’s. 23.
Interhall netters: The going
was tough under the basket. . . .
Sports Quiz
1.	Who is credited with the origination of the present-day boxing rules?
2.	What is the name of the other colored heavyweight champ of the world-
3.	What is considered the symbol of hockey supremacy in North America?
4.	What country has produced the most ping-pong champs of the world? (We asked this before).
5.	Who was the first great figure skater? (Answers on page 31)
IRISH CELEBRATE ST. PAT'S DAY IN REAL FASHION;
FIGHTING LASTS THREE NIGHTS; ONLY 16 MEN LEFT
Sonnebom's Win Campus Pin Meet; Funk Rolls 657
Seventy Fighting Irishmen climaxed St. Patrick’s Day activities here at Notre Dame by opening the Scholastic’s 11th annual Bengal Bouts tournament on Tuesday evening, March 17, in the Notre Dame fieldhouse. Fights on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday evenings narrowed the field to 16 finalists who will meet for the 1942 Bengal Bout championships Saturday night. In Tuesday’s encounters George Nate was the third man in the ring.
Curtain opener . . . bloody and furious.
The 1942 festivities were opened by a duo of scrappy lightweights, Tom Spencer of St. Edward’s, and Frank Keenan of Brownson. This bloody and furious curtain-raiser brought the large opening night crowd of 1200 to cheers as Spencer, who hails from Indianapolis, hammered out a close decision over Keenan, a Dover, New Hampshire, lad.
Dapper Arnie Nunnick, Badin, and Paterson, N. J., resident, took a close nod over Louis Schmitz, of Morrissey and Willmar, Minn.
The Bronx Decisioned Chicago
Another lightweight, Joe Farrell, Bronx, N. Y., resident of Morrissey, decisioned a fellow hallmate, George St. George, Chicago, Hl. The evening’s’ final 135-pound encounter saw Sam Atwater, Brownson pride from St. Augustine, Fla., win a t.k.o. from South Bend’s Jack Jackson.
In the 155-pound class Ted Burke, Evanston, HL, and Dillon hall, won over Phil Harbert, of Carroll hall and Park Ridge, DI. Carroll’s Frank Lombardo, New York City, won by default over Charles Lohr, Dallas, Texas, habitant of Sorin. The tourney’s first bomber was discovered as Farrell Quinlan, Badin bay boy from Lake Bomeseen, Vt., blitzed Dave Walsh, South Bend, to the
floor twice in the first stanza to win by a technical k.o. 1 min., 10 sec. after the opening gong. Al Kleinschmidt, Merrill, Wis., Cavanaugh halier, grabbed a close one from Graham McGowan, 155-pound off-campus battler from Burlington, Vt. Gunnison, Colorado’s Pete Yoklavich, Morrissey, won over John Schaeffer, Carroll hall and Dearborn, Mich.
Dahill—Unofficial Lawyer Champ
The 145-pound division: John Kuhn, Evanston, Ill., and Morrissey, won from John Kersten, Howard battler from Fort Dodge, Iowa; Dan Dahill, Walsh hall and Logan, W. Va., won the “unofficial lawyer’s championship” by a t.k.o. in 1 min., 50 secs, of the third round, over Leo Linck, Ravenna, Mich., and Sorin. Jack Padon, pride of Tulsa, Okla., and Zahm, decisioned game Mario Massulo, St. Ed’s warrior from Youngstown, Ohio. The last junior welterweight battle on Tuesday’s card brought Kermit Rous-seve, Badin halier who comes from New Orleans, La., and at present Indiana state champion, a decision over Carroll’s Frank Spiegel, Tuckahoe, N. Y.
In the evening’s opening heavyweight spectacle Pete Mancini, Connersville, Ind., and Howard, won from Bob Nelson, Auburn, N. Y., and Badin. In another heavyweight encounter Eugene Kane, Brownson battler from Rocky River, Ohio, defeated Weir McQuoid, Badin resident from Faribault, Minn.
I	Jan "them	rTdiA*
Sonneborn’s won the championship of the Campus Bowling League in a close match a week ago Sunday. The winners were led by G. V. Funk of Morrissey who shot a big 657 series to walk away with the individual honors of the day. Captain Joe Palmer followed with 564, George Barsa 562, and Bob Flynn had 535.
Tom Halligan had the high series for the losers, 570. He.was followed by Cy Tlusty with 562, Captain Nib Trimborn 559, and Dick Klee of Morrissey with 524. The match was very close all of the way as the final tabulation of scores show—Sonnebom’s 2318, The Champs 2215.
At a meeting of the new Campus Bowling League last Wednesday, officers were elected as follows: President, Quent Marshall, a senior from Walsh Hall; secretary, Jack Jaekel, a junior from Dillon; and treasurer, Ben Mammina, a sophomore from St. Edward’s.
The K. of C. bowling team will journey to Cleveland this Thursday to compete in the K. of C. National Bowling tournament. The team will bowl exhibition matches at Western Reserve, Lorain, O., and two top notch teams in Cleveland before competing in the tournament Saturday and Sunday. The traveling team is comprised of Cy Tlusty, Tommy Four-my, Captain Jim Fayette, Tom Halligan, Bud Gans, and Vic Gulyassy.
22
Managers Again to Help At Bengal Bouts Meet
“The manager’s system, always anxious to help a worthy cause, will gladly cooperate again as in the past at the eleventh annual Bengal Bouts tournament,” Jack Bermingham, head manager, announced this week.
Manager Bermingham has called out his entire force of about 40 men to alternate
J. BERMINGHAM different nights for auxiliary services wherever needed during the tournament.
Hall Trophy
William Lubber of the Reco sporting goods store has again offered a trophy to the winning hall team in the 11th annual Bengal Bouts program. The Reco trophy is awarded to the hall whose members score the highest number of points during the four nights of the bouts.
Modernaires to Play
The Notre Dame Modernaires orchestra, directed by Bob Richardson, will provide the musical accompaniment for the 11th annual Bengal Bouts at the Fieldhouse Saturday night.
Coach Langford's Fencers Close Successful Season
Notre Dame’s fencing squad brought the curtain down on a successful season
CAPT. VEIT
March 6 when they outpointed Marquette 16-11. The preceding evening found them on the short end of a 16% -10% score with the Badgers of Wisconsin.
The semi-final meet for this year’s squad was strictly a case of a superior squad
whipping a fighting Irish team. Turning point of the meet were the sabre bouts in which the Badgers gave the Irish sabre team its worst beating in several years, winning 7-2. Despite Wisconsin’s lead, Captain Veit came back to win 2% of his team’s 4% points in the epee bouts. Angel Gonzalez won two out of three foil bouts to record the second best percentage on the Blue and Gold team.
The trip to Marquette the following night presented an entirely different
story. Paced by Johnny Flynn and Angel Gonzalez the Irish got off to a 7-2 lead in the foils. After this decisive start, it was only necessary to hold the home team even and this they did in the remaining sabre and epee bouts to record the final score of 16-11.
For the Seniors this victory was the last to be fought under the Blue and Gold. Graduation is expected to take several fellows who have contributed greatly to the Irish record of five wins and three losses. Captain Frank Veit, Mike Humphreys, Angel Gonzalez, Tom Tearney, and Jim Leising will all be taken this May. There also looms the great possibility the current three-semester ruling will graduate the present Juniors before they have another season of fencing. This would take Johnny Flynn, Herb Melton, and Jim Madigan and presents a dark picture for next year’s fencing prospects.
Freshman Meet
It was announced this week that Coach Langford hopes to send several men to the National Intercollegiate Fencing championship at Washington University in St. Louis on March 28. In addition the annual freshmen competition will swing into action this Monday. This is designed to give the first year men a chance in actual competitive fencing. Foil bouts will be the main feature with the possibility of some good matches in the sabre
events. Medals are to be awarded to the winners.
Coach Langford commented on the season as a -whole when he stated, “Considering the relative inexperience of the fellows when they started as freshmen and the strong opposition which they en-countred, I consider it a very successful season.” It is interesting to note that not one of this year’s team ever fenced be-for coming to Notre Dame. In view of this fact the 1942 squad is a distinct tribute to the skill and patience of Coach. Walter Langford.
Langford Plans Tennis Season
Mr. Langford, who takes over the coaching duties of the tennis team upon completion of the fencing season, announced that the spring tennis schedule will be officially released in the near future. It is probable that the Irish will have a nine game schedule which will include six Big Ten schools. At the present, tentative opponents are Chicago, Northwestern, Illinois, Wisconsin, Michigan, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan State, and Western Michigan. Captain Dan Canale will lead one of the strongest squads ever to represent Notre Dame. It will include Olen Parks, Bob Faught, Bud Ford, George Biittner, and Lyle Joyce. Freshmen Jimmy Evert and Bill Reed, although not eligible for varsity competition are capable of matching point for point with any of the varsity men.
23
n i IMI II
H2CM THE PKEJT BOX
■ — —	-	- — --	--------------BY BILL SCANLAN
HONOR GUEST ELDER HOLDS PASSING MARK
Jack Elder, Notre Dame’s fastest human and honorary referee at the 11th renewal of the Bengal Bouts boxing tournament holds the all-time Irish long-distance passing record. . . . Before 120,000 spectators at Soldiers Field, Chicago, in 1929, he flipped a 55-yard touchdown pass to Tom Conley, right end, to help defeat Southern California, 13-7. . . . That was the same season Jack intercepted a pass and ran 97 yards against the Army to beat the Cadets, 7-0, in Yankee Stadium, New York—a feat ranked with the all-time individual performances by an Irish athlete. ... On March 25 he celebrates his first anniversary as secretary of the Illinois Athletic Commission. . . . He succeeded Barney Ross, 1937 honorary referee at the Bengals show.
FOOTBALL TICKET SALE BEGINS AUGUST I
Bob Cahill, custodian of tickets for Notre Dame’s greatest football program in history—the 1942 schedule—emphasizes that the general sale does not begin until August 1. . . . Already applications are coming in. . . . None are accepted until August. . . . Season tickets go across the boards June 20. . . . Coach Justin (Sam) Barry of Southern California announced at a Father-Son banquet in Los Angeles last week that the intersectional games with Notre Dame, Ohio State and Tulane would be played even if Lt. Gen. John DeWitt’s wartime directions against public gatherings of more than 5,000 persons on the Pacific Coast is continued during the football season. . . . Barry, however, may become coach at St. Mary’s, Calif., naval air school. . At this writing, Southern California is host school. . . . There are possibilities it may be shifted to Soldiers Field, Chicago.
REFEREES OUTSTANDING IN RING
Both George Vander Hayden and George Nate, A.A.U. referees from South Bend who have been capably handling the Bengal Bouts, have registered outstanding records in the ring as fighters as well.. . . Vander Hayden is a former Chicago Golden Gloves and International champion while Nate was a ranking professional flyweight at one time. . . . Jim Kearns, current ace columnist of the Chicago Sun, sports editor of the Scholastic for the first Bengal Bouts show in 1932, forgot to assign someone to cover the fights for the Scholastic’s own show. . . . Jack Dinges, current sports chief, probably won’t forget the duty—he’s been battling in the 175-pound division. . . . And one of his ace assistants, Frank Keenan, competed in the 135-pound section.
DUJARIE CLAIMS CAMPUS CAGE CROWN
. When the campus starts considering the best hall team, the Dujarie team, known as the “Dux,” gain a lot of respect. . . . They recently defeated Lyons hall, Interhall loop titlist, 55-48. . . . Coach George Keogan of the varsity has Iiis Faught, Rens-berger and Butler, but Brother Gerontius McCarthy, the “Dux” coach, has his Brother Elstan of Anaconda, Mont., as the current scoring whiz. . . . The latter has totaled 240 points this season. . . . Brothers Climacus, Ludwig, Malchus and Ellis form the major scoring threats but the Brothers always have a handy man to send in if necessary, Brother Aurelius, a good-sized lad who stands a mere six feet, 7 inches. . . . St. Mary’s gave Lyons the best campus game, succumbing, 30-28, a week ago. . . . Frank Ralph, one of the scoring stars of the “Roost,” claims the St. Mary’s club would have done better if it had a fellow who could score like Dot Sheets, No. 1 pointmaker in the St. Mary’s girls competition.
SIGN OF SPRING—GOT YOUR MARBLES?
James Patrick O’Laughlin, Walsh hall senior, produced the first authentic sign of spring the other day when he rolled out his bag of marbles to challenge roommate. Danny Holwell. : . . Dan didn’t have time to accept, he’s a Bengal Bouter. . . . And Father William Cunningham, one-time coach of Irish hockey teams, bemoans the passing of the ice. . . . Coach Frank Leahy signed his first Notre Dame contract a year ago on Feb. 14, his wife’s birthday. ... Ed Riska, last year’s Irish cage captain, tallied 11 points as his Oshkosh team beat Detroit, 43-11, for the recent Chicago Pro championship.
NAME THE ROUND—THE FIELDHOUSE—SATURDAY
Last call for the Bengal Bouts.
24
t WHAT ABOUT SPORTS? I $	X
^•j**********^****^*^*^**************^****^*******^***************^***
Week after week for the last two winters indoor track fans have been thrilled by the sensational races of the short barrel-chested Greg Rice, who has set world records in practically every distance from the two to the five mile races. However, in the past few months Greg’s supremacy has been challenged by a divinity student named Gil Dodds.
This lad hails from Fall City, Nebr., where as a high school student he showed signs of being a distance runner. However, when he entered Ashland College in Ohio he dropped out of sight, for his alma mater had no facilities for indoor track, and weather there does not permit year round training. Gil got his big break after graduation when another famed Nebraska trackster, Lloyd Hahn, got Coach Jack Ryder of the Boston A.A. to take the divinity student under his wing. Ryder immediately began to prime Dodds for the mile. The coach sold himself on his pupil so much that he wanted to get him into top competition within a short time. It took a lot of persuasion to get him into the Wanamaker Mile at New York but the officials finally let him in. He was accepted with the condition that he submit to an optional entry in the two mile. The rest of the story reads like fiction. At the last minute he surprised everyone by changing to the two mile and by finishing a scant four feet behind the little bullet, Greg Rice. This was only the beginning, for he raced Greg to the tape in each of theii' later meetings. This bespectacled lad continued to surprise people, and in late February he came around the last curve and hit the tape ahead of Les Mac--.Mitchell. This ended Mac’s 19th victories streak in the Cunningham Special. Dodds is now as convinced as his coach that the two mile is his race. He has been training at this diligently near his suburban home in Bean Town. His coach believes that Gil is going to stop Greg’s string of victories as he has MacMitch-ell’s, perhaps the night of the Chicago Relays, March 20. Coach Ryder also thinks that he will succeed Greg as king of the two mile. But the late Coach Nicholson who developed “the little bugger” (as he used to call Rice) also made a prediction. He said that Greg would reach top form at the age of 28 or 29. Rice is now going on 26.
Yes. Coach Ryder, we can hardly wait to see.	.
Frosh Halls Dominate Interhall Track Meet
Frank Keenan
Breen - Phillips’ stalwart freshmen swept the entire field as they ran away with the Interhall indoor track and field recently. Led by Jerry Cowhig, with a first and two seconds, Breen-Phillips scored 33 points. Their nearest rivals, Carroll and Cavanaugh Halls, had 14 each, while Lyons totaled 13.
The summary:
1. Breen-Phillips, 33; 2. Carroll. 14; 3. Cavanaugh, 14: 4. Lyons, 13; 5. Zahm, 10; 6. Off-Campus, S ; 7. Brownson, 6 ; S. Badin, 6 ; 9. Morrissey. 3 : 10. Howard, 1.
"Track" means efficiency under Mahoney
The “B.-P.” men scored in nine out of 12 events, including first place in the relay. Besides Cowhig, who won the quarter mile in :55.5, and finished second in the 60 yd. dash and the high jump, the freshmen had two other winners. Luke Higgins put the shot 43 ft. % in. for a winning effort in that event, and Purcell flew over the 60 yd. low hurdles in :07.8 to finish in front. Big John Yonakor garnered a second and a third for his hall, tying- his hallmate Cowhig at 6 ft. for second place in the high jump, and showing in the broad jump. Holland, with a second in the pole vault, Oppenheimer, .who finished third in the 440 yd. dash, and Lundergau, who took third place in the 880 yd. run, were the other pointgetters for Breen-Phillips.
Perhaps the biggest upset of the meet came in the high jump. Birder, a freshman off-campus student, leaped 6 ft. 2 ini in the high jump to beat out Yonakor and Cowhig who failed to do more than 6 ft. Walsh’s second in the quarter-mile
completed the scoring for the off-campus men.
. Miller Stars For Lyons
Football star Creighton Miller, running under the colors of Lyons Hall, ranked with Jerry Cowhig as the two top performers of the evening. Miller accounted for ten of fourth place Lyons’ 13 points. He won the 60 yd. dash in -.06.5 and leaped an even 20 ft. for a first in the broad jump. Smith came up with a second place in the shot put for Lyons’ remaining three points.
Carroll Hall’s Currie and Ring, and the relay team, together amassed 14 points, which was just enough to give them an even break with Cavanaugh Hall for second place. The relay team came in second, following Breen-Phillips. Ring scored a first in a very fast halfmile—2:03. He also finished third in the one mile run. Currie won his 5 points in this same event, covering the course in 4 min. 31 sec.
Huber Leads Cavanaugh
Four men and their relay team gave Cavanaugh Hall their 14 points. Huber was top man, negotiating the 60 yd. high hurdles in :08.5 to win, and crossing the finish line second in the low hurdles. Coffey garnered a second in the broad jump, Clatt a third in the pole vault, and Limont also a third in the 60 yd. dash. The relay team finished third.
The two mile run was the source of all of Brownson’s points. Bob Crowley covered the 16 laps in 11 min. 31 sec. Gordon Forrester came in third. Barry of Badin Hall, with a place effort in both the mile and half-mile accounted for all his hall’s points.
Zahm Hall took in 10 points, as Zilly won the pole vault, going over the bar at 11 ft. 6 in. Pat Sutherland added four points, finishing second in the high hurdles and third in the lows. O’Connor got a third in the shot put.
Morrissey Hall’s three points came from a second place in the two-mile run by Carver. And Howard’s lone tally was due to a third place by McKin in the high hurdles.
All in all the freshman halls did very well for themselves: Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, Zahm and Brownson totalling 63 points. Sophomore Halls, Lyons, Carroll, Badin and Morrissey, accounted for 36 more.
Under the efficient direction of Track Coach Bill Mahoney, and the corps of managers, the meet sped by entirely on schedule.
Conditioned Irish Start
Spring Drills Tuesday
“Haul out the camera and hop over* to Notre Dame, Joe, the Irish open Spring Practice today.” So went the call around well known news reel companies and newspaper offices last Tuesday as the mud spattered Irish scampered through the puddles of Cartier Field in their spring debut.
Coach Frank Leahy looked over the parade of material that poured through the gates with many questions in his mind. Within the next few weeks, if the inclement weather subsides, the Irish master will have to decide whether the material he has on hand will be sufficiently adaptable to install the powerful “T” formation for next fall’s battles. He will have to recast many competent lads in new roles to fill the line gaps caused by graduation. He may have to build a team strong enough to handle a program of 11 games during the coming fall. These problems whipped into one big bowl make the current “Irish stew.”
Gridders Ready for Drills
Unfounded rumors have circulated through many lanes setting off wild sparks concerning gridiron competition this coming fall. It has been made known, however, that the great training bases in the Mid-West will have elevens representing their units. Great Lakes at Chicago with an array of former college and professional stars will be able to, raise one of the toughest teams in the nation as will the Iowa training base led by Minnesota’s Bernie Bierman. Should Notre Dame decide to play these two outfits there would have to be a great shifting of previous schedule arrangements. An enormous shuffle of every Mid-Western college schedule would result in order to meet these service units on successive Saturdays. The Big Ten is staunchly supporting any venture of this kind and is offering the services of Major John L. Griffith, their commissioner, Harry Stuhldreher, of Wisconsin, and Kenneth Wilson of Northwestern. '
Another problem which may result is the fact that some teams, including Notre Dame, may be plagued by an eight game home slate, but the present arrangements call for a shifting of other games to different sites. Southern California, it is definitely known, will be played here because of the West Coast anti-Nipponese prohibition against grouping together more than 5,000 people in one congregation, at least until the blue birds are over the white cliffs again.
25
High Riding Track Team
In Chicago Relays Tonight
One of the greatest track teams in Notre Dame history, the 1942 Butler Relay and Central Collegiate champions, heads for Chicago tonight and tomorrow, where they will make their strongest hid for the championship of the 1942 Chicago Relays. Under Bill Mahoney, who might aptly be named track “Coach of the Year,” the Irish have amassed an amazing season’s record indoors, which has brought them widespread recognition as one of the best track teams in the country, if not the very best.
The season, up to tonight, was climaxed last Saturday by a brilliant vic-, tory at Indianapolis where Notre Dame unseated the University of Michigan from their eight-year reign in the Butler Relays. And at Chicago, Mahoney is counting on the same dependable stalwarts who have so far brought such success to the team to add to the glory of Notre Dame track. The strong mile-relay quartette, composed of Capt. Ray Roy, Dick Tupta, Gene Fehlig, and George Schiewe; the always dependable shot putter, Jim Delaney; and the potentially great high jump artist, Keith O’Rourke; bolstered by miler Ollie Hunter, Austin Jones, Jack Wiethoff, Bill Dillon, Murphy, Maloney, Gibson, Conforti, Kelly, and all the rest, will lead the squad on its bid for the championship. Competing at the same Chicago Relays will be two of the world’s greatest track men, Greg Rice, Notre Dame’s own, and Cornelius Warmerdam. Experts predict that Rice, ' greatest two- and three-miler in history,: and Warmerdam, only man ever to clear 15 feet in the pole vault will make their strongest bids to better their own existing records.
Relay Team Saves the Day
Last Saturday the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame succeeded in preventing Michigan from successfully defending her 8-year hold on the Butler Relay’s team title. The Irish by scoring 33 1/3 points, beat Ohio State’s 27; Indiana, with 21; Nebraska, 181/3; Michigan, 171/3; Illinois, 17; Pittsburgh, 15;
- Northwestern, 1; and Purdue, 1. It was the mile relay team that cinched the title for the Irish in the last event of the meet by winning in 3:21.4. Jim Delaney again proved his supremacy in the shot put with a winning heave of 49 ft. 1114 in. In the high jump Keith O’Rourke returned to form and won. His leap of 6 ft. 3% in. was still rather low, however. Murphy tied for third in this event for Notre Dame. Other point winners were the four-mile relay team which finished' third, the distance-medley relay team, 26	? - -
which came in second behind Indiana, Bill Dillon, third in the 60-yd. high hurdles, and John Wiethoff, who tied for fourth in the pole vault.
And Again, the Relay Team
One week before at Lansing, Mich., Notre Dame defended her title successfully at the 16th annual Central Collegiate Conference Championships. Again it was the mile relay team of Fehlig, Tupta, Jones and Schiewe, who sewed up the meet for the Irish. Going into this final event Notre Dame and host Michigan State were stalemated at 43 points apiece. But the N.D. foursome was victorious while Michigan State finished fourth. That made the final score read, -Notre Dame, 48; Michigan State, 45;
Michigan Normal, 22; Marquette, 20.
Three fieldhouse records were sent down the river by Notre Dame. Ollie Hunter, defending his 2-mile title, ran it in 9:42.2. Jim Delaney put the shot 49 ft. 6%in., and the mile relay team covered the course in 3:21.8. The only other Irish first was Dick Tupta’s victory in the 880 yd. run. Michigan State also took the four firsts—the mile, 440 yd. dash, high jump, and the pole vault. Charley Hlad was the only double winner of the day, and that for Michigan Normal.
Conforti and Maloney finished second and third in the mile for Notre Dame; Gibson was fifth in the 75 yd. dash; O’Rourke ended in a three-way tie for second in the high jump, and Murphy was fifth in that event. Other pointscorers for the Irish were: Schiewe, fourth in the 440; Dillon, third in the 75 yd. high hurdles; Maloney fifth in the 2-mile; Kelly, fourth in the 880; Dillon, second and Gibson fourth in the 75 yd. low hurdles; and Wiethoff fourth in the pole vault.
Huddle Awards Trophy
For "Sportsmanship"
Coincident with tradition of the past, the “Huddle” will again present a sportsmanship trophy to a competitor in the 1942 Bengal Bouts program.
’ “May the most sportsmanlike contender vnn,” E. F. Connolly, director of the University dining halls and manager of the. “Huddle” announced as he made the offer to the Bengal Bouts committee.
In addition to the sportsmanship trophy, other awards will be given competitors. Sweaters carrying the Bengal Bouts - insignia will be given to the two finalists in each of the eight divisions.
- All entrants in the tournament 'will receive Certificates of Award, appropri-- ately authenticated by tournament of- . - ficials, a souvenir suitable for framing.
Mike Hines is Named
Frosh Baseball Coach
Mike Hines, popular senior athlete, took one of his first steps toward reaching his ambition to be a coach, when he was named freshman baseball mentor last week. A formal announcement of the event was made at the recent Senior Banquet. His assistants will be Bob Kehoe, of Walsh hall and Bill Scanlon of Sorin hall.
Kewanna will be proud....
Mike will call a meeting of all freshman candidates tonight and expects about 150 to attend. Uniforms will probably not be issued until after Easter vacation. Any boy caring to try out will be welcome since Mike knows none of the men he is to handle and hopes to pick his squad from a sizeable group.
When practice is called, the first few days will be devoted to calisthenics. Then inter-squad games will give the new coach a ’ chance to determine players merits; three teams will comprise the squad. They will practice frequently with the varsity, and •will also play Dujarie Institute and Moreau Seminary.
. It is important that there be a strong freshman team to supply Coach Kline with players for the possible summer schedule. The freshmen who return for' the summer semester will be immediately eligible for the varsity.
, .As a background for his new position, Mike earned four letters playing ball for the Kewanna High school team. He earned freshman numerals here, but football duties occupied his time in the spring for the last three years. Last summer he managed a team of students attending summer school here. This will be the last chapter of Mike’s local sports career for he has enlisted in the Marine Corps and expects to be called to service soon after graduation.
INTRODUCING
By JOE PALMER
Today, it’s up to the Introducer to tell you a few things about Bernie Crimmins. Frankly, it seems that we might just as well try to tell the folks in the White House about F.D.R. as. tell you about Bernie, but we’re game and, in the hope that there are still some things that haven’t gotten into his many press notices, we’ll make a stab at it.
Bernie is a Commerce man, will graduate in May of this year with an average approximating 83%. Major in Business Administration. When he’s at home, he hangs his hat in Louisville, Ky., in the heart of the Blue Grass country. Received his high school training at Xavier High, in Louisville, and therein begins his athletic record.
While in high school Bernie played football, basketball, and baseball. In his Senior year, he made the All-State team in football and basketball. In that same year, the Xavier basketball team wended its way northward, went back home only after it had won the National Catholic Turnament (in Chicago). In that tournament he was named on the All-Star team.
Played Three Positions
Then came high school graduation, and Bernie had his mind set on Notre
Dame. After taking his
bumps with the Freshmen, he spent his Sophomore year as a right halfback, then was changed to a fullback in Elmer Layden’s final campaign with the Irish. In that post, he turned in several fine performances, but his star was still hidden under a bushel known as Milt Piepul. Then came 1941, and, with no more Piepul, it looked as if the Kentucky boy would really have things his own way in that fullback spot. Again, the fates (and Frank Leahy) had other ideas. Notre Dame had plenty of good backs, but a scarcity of first-class guards. So, Bernie Crimmins, erstwhile fullback, became a right guard, and we need say no more than that he was a standout
from the opener with Arizona to the thrilling climax with Southern California. At the end of the season, he was spread over the All-American teams like Democrats over the Solid South. He’ll tell you that was a thrill he’ll never forget.
But that still wasn’t the end of his football. It wasn’t long before he was chosen to play for the Eastern team in the annual East-West game at Kezar
Stadium, San Francisco. The fact that the Japs stepped in and caused the game to be changed to New Orleans didn’t stop Notre Dame’s star guard. He was a standout all the way. As “Roundy” Coughlin, the fellow who gave up being a janitor to write sports for the Wisconsin State Journal, put it, “Crimmins was all mud from head to foot in the EastWest game, but the way that guy Crimmins was stopping those West plays was a sight to see.”
Over his three years of varsity experience, Bernie has won monograms in three different positions. That must be some kind of a record.
When the Indiana weather gets good
and ready and baseball practice starts at Notre Dame, Bernie will captain the team from the catcher’s spot. If he does as well as he has done in past years, Jake Kline won’t have much to worry about as far as catching is concerned.
Getting a few personal facts: Bernie has five brothers, three of them older than he. is. He has no special hobbies, but he is never too busy to listen to dance music, especially that of Glenn Miller. Won’t tell us much of his social activities, but you can generally see him at the school affairs. . ..
Among his most pleasant memories of' home are .Kentucky Derbies of past years. He saw the last six of them before he' came to Notre Dame. Among his personal friends', he claims Harold, “Pee Wee” to you, Reese, up-and-coming shortstop of Brooklyn’s Daffy Dodgers, but that doesn’t sway him away from his partisanship for the World Champion New York Yankees.
On the subject of the past football season, Northwestern and Navy seemed to be the toughest opponents of Notre Dame, while Clark, star Navy back, came in for Bernie’s highest individual praise.
After graduation, Bernie will take up training in the V-7 unit of the Naval Reserve in which he enlisted last February. After the war he wants to take up coaching. Anyway, after watching his for the past three years, we had better dig up a little pity for any of the Japs that get in his way.
John McCabe, M. Kelly Win Bengal Ad Contest
John F. McCabe, senior from West
Chicago, Ill., and Maurice S. Kelly, senior from Buffalo, N. Y., tied for first in
JOHN MCCABE
the Bengal Bouts advertising contest held last week. Gerald Cosgrove, associate editor of the South Bend Tribune, judged their entries tops in consideration of the following points:
Inclusion of perti
nent information; headline punch; tie-up of headline and text; typographical suggestions; possible general appearance' of ad; and forcefulness of words in text.
McCabe’s entry depicted three bombs dropping to earth, each emphasizing vital data concerning the Bengal Bouts. Kelly’s ad centered around the theme, “.... though the odds be great or small.”
Honorable mention awards went to
Robert Uhl, South Bend, Ind.; William Scanlan, LaCrosse, Wis.; and George Westenberger of Springfield, DI. All received a ticket to the Bengal Bouts pro
gram.
27
MALLOY, NOLAN, TWO DEFENDING CHAMPIONS
BILL REYNOLDS
Paul Malloy came to Notre Dame from Cascia Hall, a Catholic high school in his home town of Tulsa, Okla., in September 1939. The previous summer Bill Padon, also a Tulsa boy and “Nappy’s” right hand man in handling the Bengal fighters, had taught Paul the fundamentals of boxing. So when Paul came to Notre Dame Bill told him that he was going to fight in the Bengals. Paul wasn’t much in favor of it but decided to give it a trial.
Malloy and Nolan will defend their titles.
Under the watchful eye of Mr. Napolitano the little 120 pounder developed into a real champion. “Nappy” says that Malloy is the best little man he has seen in his ten years of the Bengal Bouts. Paul will be shooting for his third bantamweight title in the Bengals this year.
Last year he also won the 120 pound championship in the South Bend Golden Gloves..
This past Saturday Paul lost a close, three round decision in the 120 pound division of the Indiana Intercollegiate bouts at Valparaiso. Kermit Rousseve, another Bengal Bouter, won the 145 pound title.
Twenty years old, the English major pugilist registered for the draft in February. His best friend and roommate, Adrian Padon, who won the lightweight crown in the Bengals last year has already been called into the service.
Paul spends most of his spare time in the Rockne Memorial but when the weather is nice he would rather play golf. In high school he won three letters at golf; last year he was a member of Father Holderith’s varsity squad. Paul plans to do a little better this spring . and earn a monogram.
Tom Nolan, defending middleweight A glance at the complete results shows champion, was bom 19 years ago in that either Cavanaugh or Off-Campus Minneapolis, Minn. He attended Saint won every race but one, which gave the Thomas Military Academy in St. Paul whole contest the appearance of a dual
where he starred in three sports—football, baseball, and hockey. In his senior year he captained the St. Thomas football team to the Minnesota Catholic championship.
The shortest man in the Bengal Bouts, the diminutive architectural engineer has always liked rough going. At football he played fullback and backed up the line on defense; he was a catcher on the diamond team and goalie on the hockey sextet. That he was no flash in the pan is shown by the fact that he won four letters in baseball and three each in football and hockey.
His first boxing experience was gained at C.M.T.C. camps at Ft. Snelling, Minn, in the summer of 1940. When Tom left camp he carried with him a second lieutenant’s commission and the Fort Snelling 175 pound boxing crown.
The five feet three inch Badinite says the Bengals are much tougher than the. bouts at the service camp. He credits this to the excellent training the Bengal Bouters receive from Mr. Napolitano.
The Knights of Columbus, of which Tom is a member, are strongly backing up their miniature Herculean champ who is going to have some really tough going . in defending his championshp. Yes, it’s going to be tougher defending the title than it was winning it but Tom Nolan likes ’em tough.
Cavanaugh, Off-Campus Tie
For Interhall Swim Title
Cavanaugh Hall’s and the Off-Campus swimming teams, led by Bill Brown and Bud Russell respectively, tied with 31 points apiece for the Interhall swimming title in the meet held March 10,11 in the Rockne Memorial..	•
Behind the winners were ranged: Alumni hall with 14 points, Dillon, 10; Zahm, 3, and Lyons, 1 point.
Brown and Russell led their teams’ scoring by splashing to two victories .apiece in singles races, adding a couple of seconds and thirds and then swimming in the relay and medley. Russell broke his own pool record for the 200 yard free-style by four seconds, covering the distance in 2:18.02. Bill Brown set a new pool record of 30 seconds flat for the 50 yard backstroke. In personal standings . Brown . collected 27 points, Russell 25, Hoyer, Off-Campus, 19, and Culhane of
. Dillon, 17.	.
meet, although Alumni and Dillon pushed pretty closely for third and fourth places.
The complete summary of the meet follows:	‘
. 100-YD. FREE STYLE: Won by Bud Russell, (Off-Campus) ; Bill Brown, second (Cavanaugh) ; W. Webb, third (Cavanaugh).
50-YD. FREE STYLE: Won by Bill Brown (Cavanaugh) ; Tom Miller, second (Dillon) ; Creighton Miller, third (Lyons).
150-YD. MEDLEY: Won by Cavanaugh (Brown, Culhane .Coffey) ; Off-Campus, second (J. Walsh, Caparo, Hoyer) ; Alumni, third (Guillame, Pollnow, Dillhoeffer).
200-YD FREE STYLE: Won by Bud Russell, (Off-Campus) ; Bernard O’Connor, second (Dillon) ; John Doerr, third (Dillon). New record, 2:18.02.
DIVING: Won by T. Hoyer, (Off-Campus) ; Zilly, second (Zahm) ; Russell, third (Off-Campus).
50-YD. BREAST STROKE: Won by Pollnow, (Alumni) ; Culhane, second (Cavanaugh) ; J. Walsh, third (Off-Campus).
50-YD. BACKSTROKE: Won by Bill Brown, (Cavanaugh) ; Doerr, second (Dillon) ; Guillame, third (Alumni). New record, 30 seconds.
200-YD. RELAY: Won by Off-Campus, (Russell, J. Walsh, Caparo, Hoyer) ; Cavanaugh, second, (Coffey, Cbstello, Culhane, Brown) ; Alumni, third (Guillame, Dillhoefer, Pollnow, Bergen).
34 Pass Red Cross Test
Hats off to the 34 gentlemen who recently completed and passed the grueling Life Saving Course held in the Rockne Memorial Pool.
Gil Burdick, who has charge of the Rockne Memorial Pool, and his student instructors John Lanahan, one of the N. D. football centers, Bud Russell, regular life guard at the Pool, Stanford Murray, and Ed Storck along with helper Joseph Becker, put these boys through a rigid course which covered a period of . nine days. Each evening’s workout of one and a half hours consisted of swimming a fourth of a mile, a one-half hour quiz, one-half hour on breaking “defense,” and a half an hour of practice drags. The final exam called for the candidate to drag the person 150 feet in the water. Ordinarily the drag is only 50 feet, but Gil Burdick explained the . reason for the extra 100 feet. . “Five years from now they will be able to pass the test. They’re all in fine shape now, and know just what to do in case of such an emergency,” commented Mr. Burdick.
Those who passed the course and who will be awarded Senior Life Saving Emblems are, Jim Bryon, Gene - Otlewski, Bill Madden, Bill Everett, John Hirliky, Ed McBride, Joe Gasoline, John Carvel, Ed Delana, Frank Wilson, Charles Tur-vey, Wes Forman, Roger O’Rielly, Ed Melia, Ed Reidy, David Thornton, Ed Gits, Jack Grentzer, Gene Slevin, William Farrell, John Doerr, John Costello, Jim Heffernan, Dick Terry, Bill Huber, Jim Schmid, Joe Knickerbocker, Joe Becker, Ed King, Jerry Marbach, William Webb, Frank Cusick, Jack Zilly, and Tom Peloso.	.
28
. . . . Shades of the Past
Bengal Champions In Other Years. . . .
19 3 2
Featherweight—Joe Ciavirclla Lightweight—Bill Malloy Welterweight—Jim Krause Middleweight—Art Cline	.
Light heavyweight—Howie Waldron Heavyweight—Jerry Duwnn Honorary Referee—Jerry Heffernan, Loyola XL boxing coach.
19 3 2
Flyweight—Russ Torrell Featherweight—Hal Gooden Lightweight—Bill Mulloy Welterweight—Nick Cartan Middleweight—Bart McKernan Light heavyweight—Phil Purcell Heavyweight—John Michuta Honorary Referee—Gerald (Tuffy) Griffith, ranking heavyweight contender.
.	19 3 4
Featherweight—Bud Marcy Lightweight—Hal Gooden Junior welterweight—Bill Whitman	.
Welterweight—Lou Purcell Middleweight—Bart McKernan Light heavyweight—Harry Marr Heavyweight—Reno Zarantonello Honorary Referee—Max Marek, Chicago GYO champion.
19 3 5
Bantamweight—Jess Roces Featherweight—Howard Gooden Lightweight—Tommy Durkin Junior welterweight—Hal Gooden Welterweight—Lou Purcell Middleweight—Bart McKernan Light heavyweight—Phil Purcell	•
Heavyweight—Max Marek Honorary Referee—Packy McFarland, Illinois Boxing Commissioner.
1936
Bantamweight—Hugh Riley Featherweight—John Noto Lightweight—Tommy Durkin	■
Junior welterweight—Oliver Helland Welterweight—Phil Kenneally Middleweight—Joe Gora Light heavyweight—Walt Richter Heavyweight—Phil Dahar Honorary Referee—Danno O’Mahoney, Irish heavyweight wrestling champion.
19 3 7
Bantamweight—Jack McGurl	■
Featherweight—Sam Dolce Lightweight—Gabriel Velez Junior welterweight—Jim Brown Welterweight—Oliver Helland Middleweight—Jim McGuire	‘
Light heavyweight—Tom Leahy Heavyweight—Walt Runte
Honorary Referee—Barney Ross, world lightweight champion.
19 3 8
Bantamweight—Bob Sanford	■	'
Featherweight—Sam Dolce Lightweight—Tom O’Malley Junior welterweight—Jim Brown Welterweight—Dick Leahy-Middleweight—Bob Runstadt
For years, telephone cable has been hung by stiff wire rings from its supporting strand. But repeated expansion and contraction caused by temperature changes sometimes proved too much for even the best cable sheath. Fatigue cracks developed near the poles—this meant leaks—possible service interruptions—expensive repairs.
Recently, men of the Bell System developed a machine that lashes the cable and strand together in such a way that the concentration of strains near the poles is minimized. The Cable Lasher has also proved a great aid in the speedy installation of some of the new cables needed for airfields, camps, bases and war factories.
There are many opportunities in the Bell System for men with the urge — and the ability— to do a job better than it has ever been done before.
Light heavyweight—Bruce Hebenstreit Heavyweight—John Cavalier Honorary referee—Max Marek, Chicago CYO champion.
19 39
Bantamweight—Bill Dillhoefer . Featherweight—Bob Duffey Lightweight—Sam Dolce Junior welterweight—Rod Maguire Welterweight—Harry John	.	'
Middleweight—Walter Johnson Light heavyweight—Jerry Ryan Heavyweight—Jim Ford Honorary referee—Tom Kenneally, Chicago Golden Gloves champion.
194 0
Bantamweight—Paul Malloy Featherweight—Bob Steele Lightweight—Sam Meyer Junior welterweight—Rod Maguire Welterweight—Joseph D’Ambrosio Middleweight—Bill McGrath Light heavyweight—Jerry Ryan Heavyweight—Louis Rymkus Honorary referee—Billy Conn, former light heavyweight champion.
194 1
Bantamweight—Paul Malloy Featherweight—Dan Canale Lightweight—Adrian Padon . Junior welterweight—Roderick Maguire Welterweight—Bill McGrath Middleweight—Tom Nolan Light heavyweight—Bill Hoyne Heavyweight—Charles Kralovec Honorary referee—Frank Leahy, Notre Dame football coach and athletic director.
SENIOR BALL (Continued from page 15) St. Louis. Mo.; Charles McMahon, Tulsa, Okla.; Art Pope, Chicago, Ill.
TEA DANCE: Jack Gordon, Columbus, Ohio; Norb Moore. Bolivar, N. Y.; Emmett Moran, Chicago, DI.; Bill Hickey, Chicago, DI.; Neil McCarty, Kaukauna, Wis.; Tom Hennigan, St. Louis. Mo.
DINNER: Tom Gesselbracht, Park Ridge, III.; Jim Burke, New York City; Gus Hardart, Pelham, N. Y.Bob McFarland, Oklahoma City, Okla.;
With Spring coming ...
— choose your Easter Parade outfit from our new egfijja shipment of ADLER-ROCHESTER tweeds, Shetlands ' and flannels. Many patterns from which to choose.
The three-button, single-breasted Brooks coat is still in high favor with college men . . . we have it in sny doth you select . . . also slacks to match or contrast.	.	.	;	.
Authorized representatives for Naval Cadet uniforms through D. Klein & Brothers.
PARKER-WINTERROWD
. J 115% - 117% North Main Street (Upstairs)	.
Visit our upstairs shop or see our campus representatives: .	%.
CAPTAIN PAUL LILLIS . LARRY KELLEY -	-	• NEIL J. McCARTHY
. 321 Alumni Hall - - - ' 334 Alumni Hall	'	116 Sorin Hall -
Bernie Crimmins, Louisville, Ky.; Hank Dahm, St. Louis, Mo.
FAVORS: Ed Buenger, River Forest, III.; Ed Griesedieck, St. Louis, Mo.; Bob Hargrave, Evansville, Ind.; Vince Daigler, Kenmore, N. Y.; Joe Dimond, Detroit, Mich.; Bob Raff, Oak Park, Ill.
ARRANGEMENTS: Don O’Brien, Tulsa, Okla.; J. Q. O'Connell, Chicago, Ill.; Paul Tafel, Louisville, Ky.; Bud Wolfe, P'aris, Ill.; Don Martin, Toledo, Ohio; Bill Minges, South Bend, Ind.
PROGRAMS: Leo Burby, Allison Park, Pa.; Bob Burke, Teaneck, N. J.; Ray Roy, Oak Park, 111.; Pat Fitzgerald, Indianapolis, Ind.; Jim O’Donohue, Grand Rapids, Mich.	'
TICKETS: Joe Sheedy, Eggertsville, N. Y.; Tom Fitzharris, New Rochelle, N, Y.; Joe Ragolia, Trenton, N. J.; Larry Hickey, Brooklyn, N. Y.; Jim McNulty, Chicago, Ill.; Jim Doyle, Beardstown, Ill.
PATRONS: Ed Glaser, Brookville, Ind.; Ed McLoone, Santa Monica, Calif.; Bill Grady, Holyoke, Mass.; Andy Chlebeck, St. Paul, Minn.; Stan Litizzette, Helper, Utah; Jack Bergen, Paterson, N. J.
INVITATIONS: Bill House, Bay City, Mich.; Jess DeLois, Millinocket, Maine; Don Guyette, Fond du Lac, Wis.; Joe Rorick, Oneonta, N. Y.; Bernie Wasilewski, Nanticoke, Pa.
On Parodies
For a moment we thought we were getting somebody else’s mail by mistake but a closer scrutiny revealed the truth. It was not the real New Yorker but the Northwestern Purple Parrot parody of that magazine. We were warned by John Reilly, former Scholastic editor and now of the U. S. army, never to say anything derogatory about the Purple Parrot because—well, John had personal interest in the magazine. Anyway the point is we never even received a copy previously because (as evidence now points) John confiscated the copies before we could get them. Relax, John, it’s a “big blow” for the magazine.	-
DISC-CUSSION
Ed Roney
Now that it’s Coca Cola’s record of the week, I think I can take a big chance and announce that Harry James has a nifty version of “I Don’t Want to Walk Without You.” But then I don’t have to any more; so I’ll just say that “B-19” on the B side has been sadly neglected. A number as “big time” as the bomber it’s named after, it has had no small influence on the buyers of the first. There is no vocal on this one, while Helen Forrest handles the former.
Maybe I’m saying too much about one number. But James’ version of “I Don’t Want To Walk Without You” is going to need that extra punch on the other side in order to beat out Dinah Shore’s recording of the same. That gal certainly knows how to use a voice. There should be a real sales battle between these two records, if Dinah isn’t too late with hers.
Jimmy Dorsey carries the musical background while Helen O’Connell pleads for all you fellows to “Drop Me a Line” because she’s oh, so lonesome. And if you don’t, you’ve no feelings. Bob Eberle tells all about “When The Roses Bloom Again” on the reverse.
If you like your music in a strictly slow lights-low vein, try “I’ll Pray For You” by Tony Pastor’s orchestra with Eugenie Baird on the vocals. Eugenie also handles “Not Mine” on the reverse and it’s almost as good as the A side.
For a vocal with a new twist on the love angle try Vaughn Monroe’s “Don’t Tell A Lie About Me, Dear,'and I Won’t Tell the Truth About You.” Sung by Vaughn himself, the tune is as good as the lyrics. “All For Love” on the back is also sung by Vaughn and is slow and easy as is the first-side.	.
Benny Goodman has- released two tunes that are. all jump, with no vocals, if for no other reason than because he didn’t have time to include any. These two are “Jersey Bounce” and “A String of Pearls.” Benny lets go with his clarinet on. thesej and Mel Powell’s piano . gets a good work-out on top.
•Hal McIntyre, that up and coming leader who is very close to the top, has still another good record. This time, it’s . “Tangerine” and “When the Roses Bloom Again” with Carl Denny’s vocals feat-ufed with some nifty cheek-to-cheek mu- sic on both sides. This band is worth listening to. ... . : *
.. , A band little heard about but. very good is that of .Muggsy Spanier. He has . J just finished recording two "of his instru
30.
mental numbers, and they are really something to hear. The better of the two, but only by a small margin, is “Can’t We Be Friends?” while backing it up is just plain “Chicago.” This Muggsy really has, something.
Joe Reichman puts his famous hands to work on those ivories for “A Fireside Chat,” a tune .with a confidential cheery sound with Siggy Lane on the lyrics. “Wherever You Are,” on the other side, is a smartly put together piece that sounds like a hit. Siggy also sings this one.
A new semi-novelty tune is Johnny Long’s “I’m Breathless” and that’s what anyone would be after singing those lyrics. Really a swell tune by an orchestra that is improving with every record.
Take Home for Easter
a
MUSICAL POWDER BOX
with
“Notre Dame Victory March” (Other tunes available)
BLOCKBROS
CORNER MICHIGAN ahd WASHINGTON l
SONNEBORN'S
SPORT SHOP
121 W. Colfax Ave.
Spalding and Goldsmith Distributors
Buy your Sport’s Equipment early:
• Baseball
• Golf
• Tennis
• Squash
•Handball
• Badminton
• Ammunition
• Bowling Supplies
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR (Continued from page 10)
tween youth on the campus and the man behind the man behind the gun.
The above outline of events is offered merely as a suggestion. The plan itself is the important thing; details can be worked out by the schools to suit their own localities.
There is no other organization or group in the country that can do as much for the nationwide sale of defense stamps as a united college front. The success of this movement, therefore, depends on your cooperation -with the 275 other schools that have been contacted throughout the nation.
Will you, through the columns of the Notre Dame Scholastic and in other ways, announce, publicize, and promote this all-college contribution to the victory campaign?
THE GENERAL MacARTHUR
DAY COMMITTEE
(Signed) Leslie W. Pullen, Chairman Carl E. Granfors
Norman 0. Kates
The General MacArthur Day Committee c/o Leslie W. Pullen, Chairman
1307 Ruby Street
Houghton, Michigan
Notre Dame’s most recent contribution to the war effort was the War Charities Carnival which poured $1,900 into the coffers of our leading charities.
Proceeds of SCHOLASTIC’S recently finished one-and-only promotion, “Bengal Bouts,” will go to war-stricken Holy Cross Missions in India.
Answers to Sports Quiz
l.John G. Chambers drew up the Queensbury rules for boxing in 1866.
2.	Jack Johnson was world champ of boxing.
3.	The famous Stanley Cup was given . by Lord Stanley to the best Canadian team for efficiency. It was first won in 1890 and is now battered and rusty., In spite of its condition it remains the supreme award in ice hockey.	J
4.	Czecho-Slovakia.
5.	Jackson Haines, a Chicagoan, was the greatest figure skater the world, has known. He was the originator of the international style.' -	- ,
WYMAN'S
On Michigan at Washington — separate entrance, south door* *
Spring Styles ’ present Wilson Brothers V-SHAPED SHIRTS
Soft, unfinished Broadcloth checks will blend well with your Spring wardrobe. Shades of blue, green, and brown. . -
$2.25
Botany wrinkle - resistant Cravats in popular colors to harmonize with these shirts. These ties have planned patterns, made of all wool, and add that final touch on your Easter parade —
$1.00
. See Mr. James O’Neill for suggestions.
THE
FROM OTHER FRONTS
Huddle
A Variety of Pipes — A Variety of Prices—
Jack Denniston
In the annual shake-up of college coaches a few Notre Dame alumni have come into the spotlight during the last ■ few weeks. Former Notre Dame AllAmerican Ed “Moose” Krause returned to his alma mater last week. Krause has just concluded a successful term as basketball mentor at Holy Cross College in Worcester, Miss. Three years ago, he grabbed the reins of the slipping hardwood set-up at Holy Cross and brought the “Purple Men” back to the top of the New England Intercollegiate League. A
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Dr. Grabow ____________„$I.5O
Yefio-Bole Regular______ 1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial ____ 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless ____ 3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor ___ 4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran_____ 5.00
Hollycourt _____________ 3.50
Comoy __________________ 6.00
Corncobs__________10c and 25c
Ed Simonich
FILTER in ROYAL DEMUTH makes pipe function superbly ( ULTRA FINE \ IMPORTED BRIAR ■MNffiN FILTERS FOR
ROYAL DEMUTH PIPES
Our Stock of
Golf and Tennis Supplies
is Now Complete
GOLF BALLS____35c to 85c each
GOLF BAGS_________from $2.19
CANNED TENNIS BALLS____$1.50
TENNIS RACQUETS______$1.00 up
We Carry Complete Sets of WILSON - KROYDON - H & B GOLF CLUBS
RECO
SPORTING GOODS 113 N. Main So. Bend “LOOK FOR THE LOG FRONT”
few years back, Krause started off with a small squad of eager but inexperienced hoopsters, who had more enthusiasm than talent.
Today H. C. is represented on the court by a smart passing, slick playing aggregation that need apologize to* no man. As Earl Brown, ex N. D. All American football wingman and basketball whiz states, “the 1942 edition of the Crusaders are the best passing ball club in New England.” Good coaching has been the major factor in the amazing transformation in this three year span. Holy Cross has lost the man responsible for her re-birth of glory on the hardwood court.
Unfortunate, as it may be for H.C., _ their loss is our gain—and to Ed Krause, a warm welcome, and may your stay as varsity line coach and assistant basketball advisor be a long and successful one.
Also last week, Washington University of St. Louis, Mo., welcomed two former Notre Dame gridders, in assistant coach < Andy Pilney, and William “Bud” Kerr, newly signed end coach. It was Pilney who executed that heroic run on that bleak Saturday afternoon in Columbus, ' Ohio, late in November of 1935. Andy, you will remember, grabbed the pigskin late in the final canto on the N.D. 12 yard line and drove courageously to the , Ohio State 23 yards marker before he
Write for chart picturing I 18 beautiful styles.
It describes advantages of MARVELOUS PATENTED FILTER Wm. Demuth & Co., Inc., N.Y.C. y
tk&'
Dining Room
You will enjoy fine food — distinctive - appointments and excellent service.
ORVILLE FOSTER at the ORGAN
Sunday, 12:30 to 2:00 p. m. ’ ’ < and 6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
_ Week days, 6:30 to 8:00 p. m. -
Patronize Our Advertisers
32
was whipped out of bounds. Bill Shakespeare replaced the injured Pilney and on the next play fired a hot rivet to Wayne Millner for the winning tally. We know Andy still has the drive and undoubtedly will help push Washington U. on to newer triumphs. “Bud” Kerr, All American N.D. flanker man on the ’38 squad, helped lead the Irish to eight wins in his senior year before dropping a thriller to Rose Bowl-bound Southern California, 13-0. Aggressive Kerr closed his stay at Goshen High School (Ind.) with a successful season last fall. He should produce fine wingmen at Washington U. next fall and during the many seasons to come. ...
Coach Ed Simonich, former Notre Dame power fullback on the ’38 Irish football outfit, piloted Carroll College of Helena, Mont., to the basketball championship of the Montana Collegiate Conference this year. Simonich also coached the football eleven which won the conference title last fall. . . . Hank Madson, columnist for the Minnesota (University) Daily, questions the proper guid-
The MEN’S Corner
HOME OF NATIONALLY ACCEPTED MERCHANDISE
ROSE and KATZ
Complete New Stock
of
Arrows
including
Arrow Formal Shirts
$2.25 up
Rvsi k Katz
MAIN AT COLFAX
MAX ADLER
“ON THE CORNER”
Michigan at Washington
ITS A COMFORT . . .
to know that there is one place in South Bend that carries a complete stock of ARROW shirts and underwear. Come in and see the new styles.
Remember . . . It's ADLER'S for ARROWS!
JJERE’S a very comfortable fact about
Arrow shorts—that rear center seam has been eliminated by a special seamless crotch construction which banishes riding, creeping, and chafing. Arrow shorts are cut roomy, but not bulky. They are labeled Sanforized (fabric shrinkage less than 1%) and come in several styles and many patterns—some to match your shirts. A buy in comfort.
Try Arrow shorts today!
• 35
EMERALD ROOM
"WHERE DINING OUT IS AN INEXPENSIVE LUXURY"
Complete dinners (week days) from 90c
Complete Sunday dinners - from $1.00
SPECIAL $1.00 DINNER
Sunday, March 22nd
Chilled Tomato Juice or Soup du Jour Baked Ham, Orange Sauce, Spiced Crabapple ■ Candied Sweet Potato
Bon Ton Salad, French Dressing
Rolls and Butter
Ice Cream and Cookies or Fruit Jello with Whipped Cream , Coffee	•
ance of the Minnesota basketball team from the bench under Mentor Dave MacMillan this past season. Madson claims their real stars, Tony Jaros and Don Mattson were used sparingly, thereby causing Minnesota to finish in a tie for fifth place in the Big Ten, rather than first, the slot where most of the sportswriters and coaches picked them to wind up when the Western Conference schedule was closed. We wondered, too, what happened to the “Golden Gophers.” Maybe Madsen has hit on something, for upon further investigation into the record books we found Jaros finished third in team scoring and Mattson was up among the first seven in scoring, which ■ seems to indicate theii' effectiveness and yet .both were used only as substitutes.
Al Menke, younger brother of Bill Menke, Great Lakes Basketball’s big gun, was elected co-captain of the Purdue Boilermakers along with Bob Riley at the annual hoop banquet in Lafayette. Frosty Sprowl, stellar high scoring forward was voted “Most Valuable Player” by his teammates at the same banquet.
Several other Big Ten teams have cast their. ballots for the successor to last year’s winner, Gene Englund of Wisconsin. We predict the trophy -will remain up in 'Madison, this time Johnny Kotz being recipient of the Big Ten’s Most Valuable Player Award. . . . Recently Kotz tied the Wisconsin fieldhouse record by bombarding the nets for 31 points against the Iowa Hawkeyes. By pitching 12 baskets and dropping in 7 charity tosses in the Iowa rout, Kotz ran his total to 262 points in 15 Big Ten games or 17.5 points per contest; which is a new Big Ten record. . . .
Indiana has lost only one basketball game on its home court since 1938. Last
Excellent Cuisine, served well and unobtrusively — these are our contributions to your dining pleasure.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
THE OLIVER HOTEL
Prompt Liens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
.	212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
34
year’s Wisconsin outfit spilled the Hoosiers with Gene Englund pacing the Badgers. . . .
Otto Graham of Northwestern and Glenn Miller of Butler won places on the University of Pittsburgh’s All-Opponents basketball team this year. . . .
Al Blozis, Georgetown shot put might, chucked the shot 57 ft. % in. in the National A.A.U. meet in Madison Square Garden recently. This heave lacked % of an inch of the All-Time outdoor peg made by Jack Torrence, now -with the Chicago Bears, then of L.S.U., at Oslo, Norway, in 1937. This was only Al’s second competitive effort of the season, so he has a splendid chance of shattering plenty of records before the outdoor season starts. . . .
Al Serverance, basketball coach at Villanova College, recommends basketball as an excellent conditioner, especially in times such as these. We agree with Mr. Serverance, so long as it isn’t overemphasized. This is one game that if over-played is definitely hard on the “old inside clock.” ...
Noticed where Joe Benda, ex Notre Dame end coach under Elmer Layden, has just concluded a successful season coaching St. John’s University, Collegeville, Minn., basketball team. ...
Illinois, with Phillips, Vance, Menke et al. enter the NCAA tournament soon. We still feel the Illinois boys on the Notre Dame squad, Curran-, Butler, Nie-miera, as well as the rest .of the Irish would like another try against the mini,
only this time on our home court, and. it wouldn’t necessarily have to be played in the month of January....
A Daily Californian sport headline read: “three straight for bear nine as BRONCHOS whipped 7-3.” That’s right; baseball’s under way on the west coast, and it’s only a matter of a few weeks before the mid-west nines are battling for keeps. . . . See you next week with a few baseball notes on the Big Ten and other mid-western colleges....
“ONE FOR THE BOOK
Today's speed-up at school and tomorrow's great pervading question-mark entitle you to an "all-out", completely relaxing, unforgettable spring vacation this year. And that is the kind we have in store for you at the South's largest oceanfront resort-estate. It is a grand "houseparty" in Florida's golden sunshine, planned by college people for college students—the
INTER-COLLEGE SPRING PARTY
WHENEVER YOU CAN COME
FROM MARCH 16 TO MAY 1
There'll be swimming, golf (no green fees), tennis, surf fishing, other sports . . . dancing, parties, floor shows, moonlight boat rides, beach dinners and "side trips". Your own sort of crowd will be there helping things along. The special rate of $10 per day per person includes everything — room, meals and all the romance and fun you can pack into a few long-to-be-remembered days in a sun-blessed tropic paradise beside the Gulf Stream.
Talk it over with Dad and Mother, and your friends. See your travel agent — or write today for details.
HOLLYWOOD BEACH HOTEL
ON THE OCEAN
AT HOLLYWOOD
‘•GREATER MIAMI'S GREATEST SHOWPLACE”
It ain't so much the hours — it's the WOIK . ."
You said it, Butch — driving .to ’ Chicago these days is just plain woik! That’s why so many people prefer to ride the South' Shore Line. It’s the carefree, sensible way to go. No traffic congestion. No driving jitters. And when you get there, no parking problems.
Next time you go to Chicago, ride the South Shore and relax!
For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St. Phone 3-3 III.
TO CHICAGO
Plus Tax
,ONE WAY
| FROM SOUTH BEND
35
SAM'L SPIRO & CO.
w- Feature
Manhattan
Shirts, Pajamas, Handkerchiefs . . . Mansco Underwear
!■■■■■■■■■ ■ ■ ■ ■■BBBBB ■ B a t > ■ » !■ I 13 I I II a I C I 111 > I MS »8 It I I f Illi UI
WHAT’S THE MATTER WITH
GINGER-BREAD?
PLENTY—if it’s in shirt design!-"Keep it simple for smartness,” says Manhattan—America’s leading authority on shirt styles. Look at any one of the Manhattan shirts your dealer carries and you’ll know that Manhattan never compromises with good taste. And hear in mind that Manhattans fit better, because thev’re Size-fixt", Man-formed to vour figure, and Collar-perfect. More and more college men are wearing Manhattans. Are You?
Local Anglers Retire
As Spring Sun Melts Ice
Spring is on the way: the days are -getting longer, the weather warmer; the robins have returned, and buds are appearing on the trees. But even if all this wasn’t here to herald the arrival of the vernal season, we would know that tepid times are staging a comeback. For some of our “landmarks” have suddenly disappeared: no longer do we see the familiar fishermen huddled over holes in the ice on St. Mary’s lake.
For three months now students have been wondering at the fortitude these anglers possessed. Even when local thermometers dropped to a new low and Jack Frost himself sought an open hearth, these stalwarts braved the bitter wind and stuck to their posts. On chill nights when it seemed as if the very fish must be frozen along with the lake in one solid block of ice, weird lights from the lake vouched that these men were still there determined to outlast the fish.
But what seemed to spectators to be more surprising than the rugged constitutions of these anglers was the fact that their patience could be rewarded and their desire for aquatic animals satiated by fish that never measured more than a meagre six inches. Indeed, some of the victims were so small that they were promptly dropped back into the water wriggling on the hook to serve as a bait for more sizable specimens.
As the ice slowly retires into the water, and with it the favorite sport of these familiar figures, we can’t help feeling sorry for them, wondering what they will do during the summer months. We hope they will be able to get along with rowboats and null welcome them back next winter.
SHIRTS
THEY BELONG IN YOUR WARDROBE
* Average fabric shrinkage 1% or less mini mu rumi mu nun
Poet-Laureate Contest
Unknown poets null have the same chance as professionals to win in America’s Poet-Laureate contest, as names will be removed from all entries before being judged, Claude B. Coldren, committee chairman, announced this week.
New awards—in response to many requests from schools and colleges—include a college division, junior college, high school and junior high school division.
First, second and third place will be named in each of these divisions, and all entries will be considered in the general division.
Entries should be mailed immediately as the contest will close March 15. Ten cents should be enclosed to defray clerical and postage costs. Poems should be mailed to H. M. Hudson, secretary, Poet-- Laureate Committee, Broadway Building, San Diego, Calif.
36
Kingsbury Ordnance Chief Addresses Chem. Engineers
Tom Degnan
The March meeting of the student chapter of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers was held last Monday night in conjunction with the monthly meeting of the St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Chemical Society. The speaker was Mr. Jacob Borab, head chemist of the Kingsbury Ordnance Plant.
President Bob Finneran opened the meeting and announced the appointment of a nominating committee for the elections to be held next month. Professor Rich then made an award to the junior in Chemical Engineering with the highest scholastic average for the freshman and sophomore years, Robert Carnes Blackman.
Mr. Borab’s speech was entitled “Explosives . and their Applications.” He explained that the oldest writings existent in the western world on explosives were written by Roger Bacon in 1250, when he wrote about black powder, made from saltpeter and sulfur. The first commercial application of explosives was made in 1627 in the mining industry. The revolutionary development in explosives came in 1870, when Alfred Nobel discovered dynamite. His father, a Swedish chemist, was engaged in making torpedoes to be used in the Crimean War. Young Alfred took over the plant and tried to make nitroglycerine on a commercial scale. His first plant was blown up, but he did not become discouraged. Next, he had trouble in transporting the explosive, since jarring detonated the charge. The problem was solved when the nitroglycerine was absorbed in a porous material.
Ninety percent of all high explosives such as cordite and smokeless powder have nitroglycerine as a basic material. Other explosives involving liquid oxygen, liquid carbon dioxide and potassium chlorate-sugar mixtures have yet to be successful on a commercial scale.
More aluminum up there, less in new telephones
First Class
Shoe Repairing
James McAllister
Watch Repairing
Jim Warner
All work done promptly and at reasonable prices.
Next to the HUDDLE
“ for VICTORY!
Many materials used in telephone making are listed as "critical” for war purposes. Bell Telephone Laboratories and Western Electric have redesigned apparatus and changed manufacturing methods to employ available materials.
Take aluminum. The reduction in its use in a year’s telephone output is enough to build 294 combat planes. This program has been replacing critical materials at an annual rate of 7,747,000 pounds. Though it grows steadily more difficult to maintain as shortages increase, the program helps to meet the greatest demand in history for military and civilian communication equipment.
„ £1^
. IS 1 '
37
Dynamite has been called “the greatest instrument of progress and servant of mankind.” Without it we could not have the vast quantities of copper, iron and coal that are necessary to modern industrial life. Road building and oil drilling are also dependent upon dynamite.
Dynamite must never be used, except by an experienced handler, not only because of the safety factor, but also from the Anew of efficiency. When this Avar is over, undoubtedly many new uses aaHII be found for dynamite Avhich will have the purpose of benefiting mankind instead of seeking its destruction.
A. S. M. E.
At a recent meeting of the Notre Dame branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers important questions concerning the program for the coming regional conference of midAvestern colleges and universities Avere placed before the club’s Honorary Chairman, Mr. C. R. Egry. Each year the students of all the more important technical schools in this section of the country gather together under the sponsorship of the parent society for the purpose of sharing engineering ideas and of promoting a greater interest among
Anile. SHAW > WITH HIS Pu-Smoltl Dr. GRABOW pipe .
Dr.GRABOW
I THE Pie Smekesi PIPE
The only correct way to break in a pipe is to smoke it. Linkman’s mechanical smoking machine Pre-smokes every DR.. GRABOW with fine tobacco.
NO BITE
MADE BY M. LINKMAN A CO. MakvU e/ jceurt Pip**
BREAKING IN
SHEUGtAIN
NO BITTER TASTE
You trust its quality
The taste of ice-cold Coca-Cola is pleasantly exciting . . . with no after-taste. It brings a feeling of complete refreshment ... all you want and you want Holl.
WE CARRY Not only DR. GRABOW and HOLLYCOURT Pipes but also KAYWOODIE YELLO BOLE DUNHILL SASIENI and many others
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND 1107 Beyer Avenue
BRUGGNER'S CIG4R STORE IION. MAIN ST. (Opposite Oliver Hotel)
38
the students in their own chosen field. The Notre Dame branch has been selected as host for this conference this year and therefore its members are becoming more and more alive to their responsibility of preparing an interesting and educational program for their guest engineers.
The dates of this conference have now been definitely set for the 20th and 21st of April. It is expected that there will be representatives from such outstanding schools as Northwestern, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Illinois, and Armour Tech of
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
702 J.M.S. Bldg.	South Bend. Indiana
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
Phone 3-1254	South Bend. Indiana
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT ORTHODONTIST
314 J.M.S. Building	Telephone 4-3601
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER, M. D.
M.J.THORNTON. M.D.
Phone 3-2805	Residence 4-1544
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY FOOT AILMENTS
X-RAY EXAMINATION 609 J. M.S. BUILDING HOURS BY APPOINTMENT SOUTH BEND, IND.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard a. Rose. d.d.s.
Cyril’ F. Rose, d.d.s. Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG.	SOUTH BEND
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Bldg. Phone 3-2574
Chicago, to mention only a few. The complete list will include approximately 15 colleges and universities.
A committee of four men has already been formed for the purpose of arranging the details of the two-day program. Large cash prizes are to be provided for the best student papers presented during the conference; and the committee also plans to entertain the visitors with a banquet on the evening of the 20th and a luncheon on the final day.
Following the discussion of the Regional Conference, the members of the club were shown two films on the operation of gasoline and diesel engines.
Chi. and South Bend Tribs Outsell Other Papers
In an effort to determine what Notre Dame students read, (besides the South Bend telephone directory), the Scholastic recently sent a reporter to the cafeteria newsstands. The cafeteria newsstand is a newsstand extraordinary, since any daily paper one desires can be purchased there. (As long as the paper desired is a Chicago or South Bend publication.) The reporter came back with 37 copies of the South Bend Tribune and the following results:
The cafe newsstand sells the following morning- papers: Chicago Tribune, Chicago Sim, and the Chicago Herald-American. Which makes it Chicago all the way to win, place, and show. The Tribune outsells all morning papers.
In the evening the South Bend Tribune leads the field over the Chicago Herald-American, Chicago Daily Times, and Chicago Daily News.
On Sunday the stands are filled with extra papers, including the Philadelphia Inquirer, New York Times, Indianapolis Star, two Detroit papers and, when the occasion demands, the Tombstone, Ariz., Epitaph and the Nome, Alaska, Daily Gnome. It all adds up to the fact that all we know is what we read in the papers. (Quote Will Rogers who probably got it from Shakespeare.)
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS
E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 South Michigan Street
DRIVE SAFELY AND SAVE A LIFE
NEW Columbia
MASTERWORKS ----' ' •
Jerome Kern’s “Showboat” — a scenario for orchestra with Arthur Rodzinski conducting The Cleveland Orchestra. This is the American Composers’ Series of the National Association of American Composers and Conductors. Set M-495—$3.68.
“Forward March”—The Goldman Band of Fitch Bandwagon fame playing the popular military and naval tunes of the day— “Anchors Aweigh”—America—U. S. Artillery March—Star Spangled Banner—The Leathernecks March and other tunes.—$2.63
Don Cossacks Sing Two Stirring Folksongs—“Parting”—old Russian folk melody and “The Regiment Was Riding”—a rousing Cossack song. A ten inch record for $0.79.
Columbia Records
“Easter Parade” and “Crazy Rhythm” played by Harry James in his inimitable style.
“The Caissons Go Bolling Along” and “The Lamplighter’s Serenade” by Horace Heidt and His Musical Knights. A rousing tune of a famous military air.
“Skylark” and “The Clipper” by Harry James—two smooth hit tunes.
Okeh Records
“My Little Cousin” and “Zoot Suit” played in the novel manner by Benny-Goodman.
“Wherever You Are” and “Uncle Sam Gets Around"—new smashing successes by Dick Jurgens.
HODINS
/It	.
Open every Saturday evening.
59
Over 90,000,000 is Basketball’s yearly attendance... tops for any American sport...and this year 'marks the celebration of its Golden Jubilee. The game teas founded by Dr. James Naismith and had its modest start in 1891 in Springfield. Mass. Such popularity must be deserved
Copyright 1942. Liggett & Mras Tobacco Co.
for Cooler Smoking
jfiiat’s what millions of Chesterfield smokers get every time they light up...and that’s why these millions . are saying Chesterfield gives me more pleasure than any other cigarette I ever smoked.
Make your next pack Chesterfield and you too will enjoy everything you want in a cigarette...made to your taste ivith the Right Combination, of the ivorld’s best cigarette tobaccos.
Every time...