SCIENHHC TESTS PROVE
UICKY STRIKE MILDER
THAN ANY OTHER
PRINCIPAL BRAND!
Confirming these scientific tests, an independent consulting
laboratory with more than 15 years’ experience in cigarette research reports: “Lucky Strike mildest of 6 major brands tested.
COPR., THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY

Yes, Luckies are milder... proven milder! And here’s one good reason why:
Lucky Strike means fine tobacco—fine, light, naturally mild tobacco that gives you real deep-down smoking enjoyment—yes, the smooth, rich taste of fine tobacco. Prove to yourself what science has proved. Get a carton of Luckies today!
ELLA RAINES says:
"On the set and at home, I always smoke Luckies
"3^0*92©^
LET YOUR OWN TASTE
AND THROAT BE THE JUDGE! FOR THE RICH TASTE OF FINE TOBACCO...FOR SMOOTHNESS AND MILDNESS...
There’s never a rough puff in a Lucky
1.5./MF.T4feani Fiu 7e6acce
So round, so firm, so fully packed — so free and easy on the draw
2
The Scholastic
NEXT YEAR
The first issue of the SCHOLASTIC for the 1950-51 year will appear on Sept. 22.
Today's issue, the last of the current semester, was published by next year’s Editorial staff.
MASS SCHEDULE
Saturday. May 20—white—Semidouble—St. Bernardino of Siena, Confessor: 2nd Coll, for the Octave of the Ascension, 3rd for the Blessed Virgin during Paschaltide: Credo.
Sunday, May 21—white—Semidouble — SUNDAY WITHIN THE OCTAVE OF THE ASCENSION; 2nd Coll, for the Octave: Credo: Preface and Communicantes for the Ascension.
Monday. May 22 — white—Semidouble—Mass of the feast of the Ascension: 2nd Coll, for the Blessed Virgin, 3rd Against the Persecutors: Credo.
Tuesday, May 23—white—Semidouble—Mass of the feast: 2nd Coll, for the Blessed Virgin, 3rd Against the Pers. Credo.
Wednesday, May 24 — white — Semi-double—Mass of the feast: 2nd Coll, for the Blessed Virgin, 3rd Against the Pers. Credo.
Thursday, May 25—white—Major double—Mass of the feast: 2nd Coll. Comm. St. Gregory VII, 3rd Comm. St. Urban I: Credo.
Friday, May 26—white—Double —St. Philip Neri, Confessor: 2nd Coll, from the feria, 3rd Comm. St. Eleutherius, 4th Against the Persecutors: Preface for the Ascension.
in these
A.
formal
favorites!
You're the guy the gals love
to have cut in ... when
VanHeusen ...
"the world’s smartest” SllirtS
PHILLIPS- JONES CORP.. NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
no wallflower
you

you’re in Van Hensen’s famous dress-up shirts. Van Tux (with black tie) has snowy white pique front, French cuffs ... and attached collar in two low-setting models— popular new wide-spread and regular. And Van Dress (for white tie affairs) is neckband only (but of course!) and stiff bosom {naturellement}. Van Tux, Van Dress S5.95.
A new shirt free if vour Van Heusen shrinks out of size!
Choose your VAN HEUSEN SHIRTS $2.95 up from the complete selection in the Men's Shop at
First Floor
ROBERTSOrS
of
The Place to Go for the Names You Know
GILBERT'S
for V4N HEUSEN
May 19, 1950
3
Walsh Hall Memorial Will Honor Donahoe
A movement for a memorial in honor of Jack Donahoe, Notre Dame student who accidentally met his. death on the campus last March 26, has culminated in a plan to redecorate Walsh Hall chapel. Relatives and friends of the 22-year-old law student have donated the funds necessary for the project.
Students of the College of Law raised $100 and friends in Oak Park, Ill., Jack’s home town, have contributed nearly $1000. With this amount a new “mensa” type altar, tabernacle, winecolored cathedral glass windows and a chalice will be obtained for the memorial.
Prof. Francis Kervick, head of the Department of Architecture, plans to conduct a contest among architecture students living in Walsh who would like to submit a design for the chapel. Redecoration of the chapel will begin as soon as plans are completed.
Geology Majors Take Trip To Turkey Run State Park
Twenty geology majors last week took part in the annual Indiana Geologic Field Conference. Three faculty
members accompanied the students on the trip.
Headquarters for the tour was the inn at Turkey Run state park in west central Indiana. Led by the head of the Indiana Division of Geology about 200 people in all participated in the conference.
The subject of the conference was the unconformity between the Mississippian and Pennsylvanian formations which are the coal and oil-bearing horizons in Indiana and Illinois.
Council Names Yanics
Stay Council's Chairman
Ray Yanics, Bill Anhut, Jim Garvin, and Dick Clancy became this year’s Stay Council by action of the Student Council at this week’s meeting. Yanics, present Junior class prexy, was also elected Chairman of the Stay Council, slated to meet with new Student Council members coming from last week’s class elections.
Next year’s Blue Circle officers were announced by Ed Farrell. They are Tom Carroll, Chairman, Ward McCabe, Vice-Chairman, and Dave Schoen, Secretary-Treasurer. A motion by Farrell to increase Blue Circle membership from 36 to 45 was approved, in addition to the okaying of 21 new members for
next year. The Blue Circle’s budget for next year, totaling $303, received the nod from the Council.
Symposium on Medicinal Chemistry Meets in June
The second National Medicinal Chemistry Symposium will convene at Notre Dame June 15, 16, and 17. Sessions will be held in the Engineering Auditorium where recent developments in the more important fields of medicinal chemistry will be discussed.
The lectures will cover such topics as antibiotic research, drugs used in the treatment of arthritis, the use of radioactive materials in the treatment of disease and in research, and others. About four hundred people interested in the field of medicinal chemistry — chemists, pharmacologists, and clinical £ men — are expected to attend.
The symposium is sponsored by the Division of Medicinal Chemistry of the American Chemical Society. A number of well-known scientists, including R. H. Ing of England, A. Stoll of Switzerland, and E. H. Volwiler, President of the American Chemical Society, will speak.
Notre Dame’s Dr. Kenneth N. Campbell, who is also chairman of the Division of Medicinal Chemistry of the American Chemical Society, will be chairman of the symposium.
The Passionist Fathers Ask You to Leave Everything for
a While • • • Vh Re&i ami IIuhJi AImI Saul
Have you made a retreat recently?
Why not take a vacation from the work and the temptations of the street, to go to a quiet place and be alone with God? Leave everything for awhile —to rest and think about your soul.
For information concerning week-end retreats for men conducted by the Passionist Fathers contact the Father Retreat Director at the monastery in your locality.
St. Gabriel Monastery Boston 35, Mass.
Lady of Sorrows Monastery West Springfield, Mass.
Immaculate Conception Monastery Jamaica 3, L. L, N. Y.
St. Paul Monastery Pittsburgh 3, Penn.
Holy Cross Monastery Mt. Adams Cincinnati 2, Ohio
St. Paul Monastery Detroit 23, Mich.
Mater Dolorosa Monastery Sierra Madre, Calif.
Christ the King Retreat Sacramento, Calif.
The Scholastic
’ THE WEEK
by flack McGoldrick.	~	"
Top of the Week In articulo mortis.
Down the Home Stretch
In a few days, the main part of the student body will pack up, and after borrowing enough money to store their chairs, etc. for the summer, will go off to their summer vacations. The remainder, being Seniors, will stick around for a few days, pick up their sheepskins, and go off to face the world. . The WEEK has obtained advance press ' releases on how the graduation will be covered by various famous publications:
Time magazine: Headline: For seniors . . . diplomas . . . From South Bend last week came the news that for the 105th odd time in some 108 years, the University of Notre Dame graduated 750 Seniors. A warm sun smiled on black caps and gowns as the exercises were held in the stadium (football stadium, of course) . . .
Reader’s Digest: 750 ND grads rec’d } degrees Sun.
Life: (full page picture of football team).
Chicago Tribune: Headline: Free Ireland. (Special) Col. Robert McCormick passed over Portugal last Sunday afternoon at the same time gradution exercises were being held at the University of Notre Dame. Altho privately owned electric lite and power companies serve northern Indiana, the ceremonies were . held outside, where lite and air are free to everyone. Other than this, Tribune reporters could find no indications of socialism at the affair.
Scholastic: Last (censored) some 700 (censored) received their degrees in the stadium after (censored) years at Notre Dame (censored). Many of the graduates’ mothers, fathers, brothers and sis-(oops, censored) were present. The exercises were held on two days, Saturday and (censored). The censored, censored censored and censored were ' (censored).
Notes
Many of those who attended the Senior Ball last week wondered about those two little woolen objects that were hanging from the ceiling. We investigated and found out that they were a pair of Ken Donoghue’s socks — the only pair of socks on the campus that had made 46 successful round-trips to the laundry . . .
May 19, 1950
Rip Dolan of Dillon had trouble over the week-end with the eternal triangle . . . no, he didn’t have two dates — it was just that he and his girl were both in love with him . . .
Week End
This issue marks the last Scholastic and the last WEEK of the year. Writing this year’s 26 WEEKs was a lot of fun. To those who liked some WEEKs, we say thanks. To those who didn’t, you can meet us behind the old gym on June 5. Form a single line. To those who read this column and are in the market for antique furniture, there will be a ‘lost our lease’ sale in 35 Sorin next week. An old chair, rug, floor lamp and bureau — all priced for a quick turnover, (paid adv.)
Bottom of the Week
All the potential bottoms of the WEEK that we didn’t get around to using.
Graduates...
Get your Tailor-Made Shirts at T. M. Geraghty.
SHIRTS START at $3.00 and up
Reduced rate for Shirts in groups of three.
Ten days to two weeks for service.
Thomas M. Geraghty 1013 E. Fairview ' Phone 6-5884
MIN WtMUN AND CMIUMDI 209 W. Colfax Avenue
Paul Whalen_ Mgr.
IT’S NOT TOO LATE!
You Can Still Make That Summer Trip to Europe
With International Youth
PARIS by AIR $360 Round Trip Flights to LONDON and ROME
Write or Phone INTERNATIONAL YOUTH, Ine. 150 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.
COrtland 7-0362	To assure passage write immediately
Entertainment
MAY 19
COLFAX (through May 27)—Samson and Delilah (Legion of Decency Rating A-l) is as solid a package of entertainment as anyone can handle in one sitting. It’s got just about everything: a melodramatic story, color, some never-before-filmed scenes, handsome sets and costumes — you name it; S', and D. has it. Who else but Cecil B. DeMille could be responsible for such a supercolossal, magnificent, tremendous extravaganza? Here’s one pic you won’t worry about getting your money’s worth.
PALACE (through May 25)—William Bendix is the star of Kill the Umpire, a comedy about — yup, you guessed it — umpires. Captive Girl is a Class Z product of the jungle, starring Johnny Weismuller.
AVON (through May 23)—England has sent us one of the type comedies it is so adept at making. Tight Little Island won’t make you howl until your blood turns blue — but if you like a batch of quiet little chuckles, then this bit of whimsy is for you.
JUGGLER AWARDS
The 1949-50 JUGGLER award winners have been announced by Frank O’Malley of the Department of English and approved by Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C... Head of the Department.
Stephen G. Bolger will receive the award for criticism, James C. Curran for fiction, and Earl Rauen for poetry.
MAY 20
WASHINGTON HALL—Mickey Rooney turns dramatic in The Big Wheel (B), a sloppy melodrama about auto racing. Thomas Mitchell tries to save the Mick, but after his Lorenz Hart role in TFords and Music, everyone should know he’s beyond saving.
MAY 24
AVON—Another British product for South Bend consumption is Quartet. It is divided into four separate parts, all written by that master-storyteller, Somerset Maugham. This is an exceptionally fine motion picture.
MAY 25
CAMPUS (through June 1)—That academic week of agony begins — finals have arrived. Although they can hardly be classified under Entertainment, it is this magazine’s policy to keep the student body aware of all coming events. But if you haven’t been aware of this coming event since February, then it’s probably too late to do anything about it now. Warning: Don’t shed your tears near either of the two lakes — bass have already been found swimming in the ND bull-ring, or is it a skating rink?
MAY 26
PALACE (through May 26)—Two rootin’-tootin’ westerns: The Eagle and the Hawk (B) and Young Daniel Boone (A-l). The former is not so hot and the latter is even colder.
COLFAX—Daughter of Rosie O’Grady (A-2) is a techni-colored musical pretty much like every other technicolored musical. June Haver, Gordon MacRae, James Barton and a new dancer named Gene Nelson aid the flimsy plot more than it deserves. For cram-weary students looking for some much-needed relaxation, this might be a good Rx.
JUNE 1
CAMPUS—That last blue book will hardly reach the prof’s hands before the thundering herd has left for home. Three and a half months of assorted work and loafing and then once again — back to our home in Indiana.
JUNE 4
CAMPUS—The Seniors, with gowns flowing and caps slightly ajar, receive their diplomas. Then they cross the threshold into that “dark, dank world of uncertainty.”
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised
Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
r*? r
aft /»« ,i,is
Write for Free Dr. Grabow Catalog - Dept. 31
The Scholastic

The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 91
May 19, 1950
No. 26
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dante, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.	.
Editor
JOSEPH HERRINGTON
Associate Editors
KENNETH A. THOREN WALTON R. COLLINS
JOHN H. JANOWSKI  News JOHN J. POWERS__________Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE  Features JOHN F. MEANEY  Sports JACK R. VARLEY Assistant Sports RICHARD CULLEN Photography
LEON GARDNER__________________Librarian
0 M. A. ALEXANDER________________Advertising
LOUIS P. LOURO Advertising EDMOND FOLEY  Circulation ROBERT WILDEMAN ___________ Circulation
DALE FRANCIS__________Faculty Moderator
NEWS: Rod Belcher. Frank Blanch. Roger Blatz, Justin Bolger, Jack Bradshaw, Dan Brennan, Bob Butler, Don Carbone, Jim Carrig, Jim Clark, Joe Conerty, Jay Conlon, John Corrigan, Frank Cotter. Bryan Coughlin, Dave Driscoll, Charley Dullea, Carl Eiberger, Bob Finney, Tom Foote, Bill^ Gorman, David Hayes, Jerry Hou ell, Tom Kelley, John Kelly, Rik Klein, Joe Lang, Lou Meece, • Don Mulvihill, Jim Murphy, R. O. Murphy, Tom Murphy, Jim O’Brien, John Quetsch, Tom Reedy, Neal Scarlett, George Schwartz, Roger Vorcc.
SPORTS: Jim Brislin, Joe Deiss, Bill Delaney, Ray Dittrich, Jack Economou, Jack Keane, Joe Moresco, Ted Prahinski, Bill Reidy, Frank Ronnenberg, Bob Rubery, Joe Straub, Rudy Unger.
FEATURES: Jim Carroll, Jim Kingsley, Larry McDermott, Robert Romaker, Jack Ward, Bill Weir.
Member of the Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. Printed at Ave Maria Press.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: This montage heralds the “Review of the 1949-50 Year,” which is featured in this year’s final issue. The theme is Foui- A’s — Academics, Activities, Administration, and Athletics — working together as a unit, making ND life what it is.
—Photo by McLaughlin
May 19, 1950
From the Editor’s Desk..
A Year in Review	..
This is the first time since the war years that the Scholastic has attempted to review the year. The review insert in this issue was not published to vie with the Dome. There has been no attempt to include all the many and varied activities of the school year. Instead, we have tried in the space of a few paragraphs to indicate trends and major occurrences in the University’s four main functions.
All in all, this has been another good year for the school of Our Lady. It marked the last big stand of the veteran as over a thousand smooth-checked, blue jeans-clad Freshmen entered the East side of the campus. For the most part, however, the student body maintained the serious veteran attitude in classes and outside activities. Classes were not a thing to be endured for the pleasure of playing golf and waiting for four years to pass. Extra-curricular organizations were not just playthings, but definite attempts at integrating all phases of campus life.
The Foundation came to fruition this year as funds were raised for four new buildings: an inn. a science building, a liberal and fine arts building, and a residence hall. Three of these came through large gifts. Fred J. and Sally Fisher contributed a million dollars, as did E. M. Morris. I. A. O’Shaughnessy donated a million and a half for the arts building. These large donations plus the gifts of other friends and Alumni should give a fine start to Notre Dame’s very necessary building program.	• •
Student activities were comparable to any year in the past. The University could boast of national champions in debate and riflery as well as in football. The University Theatre improved with plays like The Gentleman From Athens and the Glee Club and Band toured the country, appearing before thousands of people: the Student Council reached its highest point since the end of the war. All the other activities, too many to mention individually, came through equally well. As a tribute to the campus leaders of these organizations, the Scholastic is again naming “Men of the Year.” Thev’re not the onlv leaders, but we believe they were the most outstanding this year.
But, as always, the biggest achievement of the University is the turning out of another graduating class. A class that has been trained in Christian principles under the shadow of Our Lady’s statue, they are ready to bring this knowledge to bear in outside life.
It has been a good year for the Scholastic, too. Thanks to a very interested and .energetic staff, the magazine has continued to grow and develop. Cooperation from the various organizations and administration departments has increased, though there is still plenty of room for improvement.
Special thanks must go to Brother Sabinus, Joseph Guentert, and all the other Ave Maria personnel, to Robert Lehman and the Indiana Engraving Company, and most of all, to the tireless staff members who get an occasional byline and not much else for their weekly reporting efforts.	‘	.
.	7
WE DARE THEM AU!
Philip Morris l ■■
brand
€
In Just ONE MINUTE...you can prove to yourself PHILIP MORRIS is definitely less irritating—therefore MORE ENJOYABLE—than the brand you’re now smoking*
K\.
■ . .. light up a PHILIP MORRIS.
THEN, just take a puff—DON'T INHALE—and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose. Easy, isn't it? And NOW ...


jSl... light up your present brand. Do exactly the same thing—DON'T INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
MAKE NO MISTAKE . . . Only ONE cigarette is recognized by eminent medical authorities as definitely less irritating. That cigarette is PHILIP MORRIS I

NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER
MORE SMOKING PLEASURE! I



PHILIP MORRIS

The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
VOLUME 91, NUMBER 26	MAY 19, 1950
Graduation Exercises Set (or June 4th
Frosh Student Dies After Auto Collision
A tragic auto accident Saturday brought death to Patrick J. Thomas, an 18-year-old Freshman Commerce student from Kokomo, Ind. The car, driven by Thomas’s Breen-Phillips roommate, James' E. Tierney, 18, also a Commerce Freshman, crashed into the rear of a tractor on U. S. Highway 6 near Wawaka, Ind.
After the Old Timers Game Saturday, the boys drove to Jim’s home in Wawaka with his father, School Supt. John Tierney. At 9:30 that evening, Pat and Jim were driving along the highway when they were momentarily blinded by the glaring headlights of an approaching car. Tierney was not able to see the slowly-moving tractor ahead in time to avoid a collision.
His neck broken, Pat died en route to the hospital. Jim sustained only cuts and bruises and was released from the hospital after treatment.
A solemn requiem Mass at 6:45 a.m. Tuesday in Sacred Heart church headed (Continued on Page 28)
Four Men to Receive Honorary Doctorates
Sunday, June 4, will see approximately 750 Notre Dame men receiving their diplomas from the University. This, the University’s 105th commencement, will be held in the Stadium in order to accommodate the large crowd expected to attend. In case of rain, however, the ceremonies will take place in the Navy Drill Hall.
Following a series of preliminary activities, the main program will start with a Solemn Pontifical Mass at 9 a.m. in the Stadium. The Baccalaureate exercises will be followed in the afternoon by the conferring of the degrees at 2 o’clock.
In addition to the degrees which the Notre Dame men have earned, four honorary doctor of law degrees will be conferred on outstanding guests. One of these will go to the Most Rev. Francis P. Keough, Archbishop of Baltimore, who will deliver the Baccalaureate sermon. Archbishop Keough has headed the Baltimore diocese since 1947, having previously served as Bishop of Provi
dence, R. I. He now is vice-chairman of the administrative board, and chairman of the department of education of the National Catholic Welfare Conference, in Washington, D. C.
A second honorary doctor of law degree will go to the Honorable John J. Hearne, First Ambassador of Ireland to the United States, who will deliver the principal commencement address. Mr. Hearne has had a distinguished career with the Irish Government, being best known for his work as high commissioner of Ireland in Canada.
Charles F. Williams, president of the Western and Southern Life Insurance Company of Cincinnati, will receive the third honorary degree. Mr. Williams has served as a government advisor during national emergencies, and as an advisor to the governor of Ohio. He has twice been honored by the Vatican, being a Knight of Malta and a Knight of St. Gregory. He is also a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees of the University of Notre Dame-
The fourth honorary degree will be presented to Mr. F. A. Miller, president and editor of the South Bend Tribune, which newspaper- he has served since 1887.
Archbishop Keough
Charles R. Williams
Name Editors for Student Publications;
Thoren, Kelleher to Head 'Scholastic,' 'Dome'
Appointment of editors to the Scholastic. Dome. Juggler, The Lawyer, and the T echnical Review were announced today by Dale Francis, faculty director of all student publications.
Kenneth A. Thoren will be Editor of the Scholastic for the 1950-51 school year. Janies F. Kelleher, Jr., has been named Editor of the Dome. Walter C. Clements and David K. Yerex will be co-Editors of the Juggler. The Lawyer will have Mark H. Berens as its Editor and John Elsbrie will be Editor of the Technical Review.
Thoren, currently an Associate Editor, will succeed Joseph Herrington as Scholastic Editor. He is a 23-year-old Junior in the Department of Journalism and comes from New Rochelle, N. Y. Walton R. Collins will return to his staff position as Associate Editor- for the coming year. John H. Janowski, presently News Editor, will become the other Associate Editor in the Fall.
Collins is a Junior in the Department of Philosophy, 20 years old, and a native of Philadelphia, Pa. Janowski hails from South Bend, Ind., is also 20 years old, and is a Junior in the Department of Journalism.
Other Scholastic appointments include: John Powers, a Sophomore from Stewart Manor, Long Island, N. Y., as News Editor, and Charles Dullea, a Sophomore from Staten Island, N. Y., as Assistant News Editor.
John Meaney, from Braintree, Mass., and a Sophomore, will remain in his Sports Editor post with Jack Varley, from Youngstown, Ohio, and also a Sophomore, remaining as Assistant Sports Editor.
Associate Editor John H. Janowski
Editor Kenneth A. Thoren
Alphonse Laporte, a Junior from New Rochelle, N. Y., will continue as Feature Editor. James McLaughlin, from Pittsburgh, Pa., and a first semester Senior, has been appointed Photography Editor.
The editorial staff of the 1951 Dome was also announced today by Mr. Francis. Kelleher, a Sophomore from Wilmington, Del., and presently Sports Editor, will succeed Dennis O’Neill as Editor. Other positions will be handled by John O’Brien, Associate Editor; Joseph Conlon, Managing Editor; Francis Haendler, Copy Editor; V. James Richmond, Business Manager; Charles Lenz, Art Editor; John Kinville, Photography Editor; Edward Waters, Sports Editor; John Hynes and James Jacobs, Activity
APOLOGY
In last week’s issue, “Your Future in Education” was improperly credited to Al Laporte. It should have been bylined Dr. Bernard Kohlbrenner, the Head of the Education Department.
co-Editors; and Raymond Earls, Hall Editor.
Co-Editor Clements of the Juggler is from South Bend, and a Junior in the Department of English. Yerex, the other co-Editor, is also a Junior English major and is from Lower Hutt, New Zealand.
The Lawyer staff under Editor Berens includes: John L. Blobensky, Associate Editor; Lenton G. Schulthorp, Note Editor; William B. Wombacher, Assist-ant Case Editor, and Henry M. Shine, Jr., Secretary.
ND Units to Parade On Armed Forces Day
Marching on America’s first Armed Forces Day, the Notre Dame Band, NROTC, and AROTC will partake in South Bend’s commemoration of the occasion May 20. Preceded by an air demonstration from 12:45-1:45 p.m., a $1) parade composed of over 2,000 people and seven bands will begin at 2 p m. and be followed by speeches at 3 p.m.
The ND contingent, in step with various veteran, patriotic and reserve organizations, will proceed up Michigan street to South street and down Main street. Following the Notre Dame band’s rendition of the National Anthem and songs of the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps, the me-morial parade will continue with Mr. John Scott, Chairman for the Mayor’s Committee for Armed Forces Day, acting as master of ceremonies.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., has been requested to give the invocation, following which Brig. Gen. Fay B. Pritchett, Deputy Inspector General of United States Army, will give the principal address. Also speaking to the assemblage will be Mayor George Shock.
In charge of the ceremony is Capt. T. F. Conley, Jr., USN. Armed Forces Day has for its purpose the familiarization of Americans with the state of national defense and the organization of the armed forces. Whereas in former years the nation’s four defense groups had separate “Days,” ceremonies have been combined with the unification of the services under the Department of Defense. The motto for the day is “Teamed . . . For Defense!”	_
■'$
The Scholastic
10
Music fills the Drill Hall
Senior Social Spree
“Dancing in the Dark” was the theme of this year’s Senior Ball held last Friday night in the refurbished University Drill Hall and more than •500 couples shuffled and swayed to the danceable music of Charlie Ventura’s orchestra. It was the night of the year for the Seniors and their dates. The weatherman cooperated with perfect
weather and underclassmen in uniforms served as doormen and waiters. The girls received ND monogrammed jewel boxes as favors of this memorable dance. The weekend festivities after the dance Friday night included the annual Old Timers game, and a buffet supper and dance in the Drill Hall with Gene Hull and his campus band providing music.
May 19, 1950
Welcome fills the atmosphere
Flashbulbs fill the pauses
11
New Class Prexies
To Fulfill Promises
Definite planning for next year’s activities is already underway, according to next year’s class presidents, Jim Hennessey, Jim Mannion, and John O’Connell. All promise to carry out the platforms which they offered the voters at the recent elections.
Highlight of Senior class plans, according to Hennessey, is a homecoming dance for students and alumni to be held on some home football weekend. Also planned are “beef sessions,” in which the class officers will meet with anybody who has a “gripe.” Extensive social plans include a possible Fall picnic, basketball trip to Chicago, and another successful Senior Ball.
Part for Everybody
Jim Mannion promises a part for everybody in next year’s junior class. He and the other officers plan to carry out the best proposals from other party platforms in addition to their own, with all plans to have the approval of the class. Greater use of the hall councils will be made to insure representation for everybody.
The Sophomore class of next year got off to an early start with a general class meeting this week to discuss plans for the Sophomore Cotillion. Class policies throughout the year will be determined by the class as a whole, announced prexy O’Connell, and he promises “bigger and better” social activities and closer cooperation between halls.
The newly elected class officers for next year. (Above) Senior officers: Bob Klingenberger, secretary; Hank Madden, vice-president; Jim Hennessey, president; and John Worthington, treasurer. Sophomore officers (Below left): Dan Collins, secretary; Tom Reedy, vice-president: John O'Connell, president; and Gerry Marshall, treasurer. Junior officers (Below right): Jack Daut, treasurer; Jim Mannion, president: Chet Ostrowski, secretary; and Jay Fox, vice-president.
• May 19, 1950
13
SCHOLASTIC’S
M EN 0/ the Y EAR
The Editors of the SCHOLASTIC present their third annual selections for Notre Danie Men of the Year honors. These men and the one organization have been chosen on a basis of leadership of and contributions to Notre Dame and its student body and on a basis of their news value during the year. As in the past, athletes, publication members and Dome Award winners were not eligible for consideration.
Bill Anhut
STUDENT COUNCIL . . . Each Monday night a group of men meet in room 101 of the Law Building. Through their hands pass matters big and small, precedent-making and routine, all combining into one great picture of life at Notre Dame. These men are the Student Council. . . . Council meetings are always busy with funds to be appropriated, dances to be underwritten, committees to be ; formed. But, despite this unending pressure, the Council has never been too busy to listen to the queries, the requests, and the gripes of each Notre Dame student for it is him that the Council represents. . . . Perhaps the biggest single accomplishment of this year’s program was the formation of the Campus Charity Chest. Still in the embryonic stage, the Chest aims at relieving the individual -student of the burden of contributions to outside agencies. But, more than that, • it aims at fulfilling the true Notre Dame spirit — that of charity. ... A new social institution received its inception by the inauguration of the series of Council dances. These gatherings, the first of their kind, have admirably changed Saturday evenings from just so many nights downtown. . . . Another in a long series of smash-hit Mardi Gras was put over by the assembly in conjunction with NFCCS, approximately $5,000 accruing to the Charity Chest. A grinding task, it was presented efficiently and effectively. . . . Add to this the handling of a student trip comprising some 700 men, the running of class elections, the outstanding cooperation with the Administration, and the innumerable small but vital tasks, and it is readily seen that another in a long chain of jobs-well-done has been performed by this year’s Notre Dame Student Council.
Jim Garvin
BILL ANHUT . . . Anhut might well be called “Mr. Efficiency.” In any organ- . ization, a thorough, prompt manner of conducting affairs is essential and such applies to the Student Council. The Council, beset by many varied interests and problems, sometimes displays a tendency to be sidetracked. Probably no other member of this body has shown greater capability toward expediting the innumerable matters which come before the Council than has this year’s Secretary. ...	■
Each meeting this year found Bill poring over voluminous minutes, rapidly recording each move, skillfullv guiding and counseling members in the course of . debates. Possessing an inside-out knowledge of the Constitution, the Secretary was able to render invaluable service in advising as to the legal standing of pro- _ posals and directing the flow of parliamentary procedure. ... In addition to his w regular post, the Detroit Accounting major assumed the vital task of putting the Student Council office in shape, a job entailing long hours and tedious labor. Under his guidance matters came to be handled with greater speed and facility, both in the handling of requests and in the filing of records. . . . Besides his . work in making the Council “click” as a whole, Bill, a Junior, also acted as	:
ticket chairman of the Mardi Gras Carnival and was instrumental in the handling	>
of the class elections.	,
JIM GARVIN . . . Chances are that Sophomore Class president James F. Garvin will do a great deal more for Notre Dame before he leaves, but his contributions this year have already proved him one of the best leaders on campus. . . . The 20-year-old A.B. student was born and raised in Toledo, Ohio, where he attended Central Catholic High. He served as president of the Student Council in his Senior year and also as president of the Toledo District Student Council, and class valedictorian. ... As general chairman of the 1950 Mardi Gras Carnival, Jim’s organizational talents and his willingness to work proved a big factor in making the drive a success. He served as senior delegate to the NFCCS conven-	|
tion this year and also as vice-chairman of the Council’s newly-formed Charity	?
Chest Committee. As one of the chief backers of the Hall Council system insti-	j
tuted in the Fall, he drew up the final plans for same. . . . Jim co-chairmaned the	1
Soph Cotillion in November and has had much to do with the success of his	I
Class’s activities. It was his work on the Student Council, however, that really brought him the spotlight.
-	The Scholastic H
14
BILL CAREY ... To the impressive list of Notre Dame All-Americans a new name has been added. Though the young man so honored is not an athlete, his style has been likened to those of his more publicized schoolmates. As the South Bend Tribune said, he is “as aggressive as Leon Hart, as shifty as Emil Sitko and as shrewd as Bob Williams.” He’s the National Individual Debating Champion, William Carey. . . . Chicago-born, 20-year-old Bill began his rise to the top of the debate and discussion heap shortly after his arrival in the Fall of 1947. During his first two years he teamed with Frank Finn, diminutive Texan who led the Irish debaters in ’47, ’48 and ’49. It was last year that Bill came into his own with individual wins at Iowa (Discussion) and Purdue (Debate). Q ... In Pittsburgh, his present home, Bill received a grounding in speech and dramatics by playing child parts on radio station KDKA and by debating in high school. He enrolled in the College of Commerce at Notre Dame and, as a Finance major with an eye toward law school, has kept a Magna Cum Laude average for three years, despite debate trips which cut out 32 days of class a year. Next Fall Bill takes his seat as Senior Class Representative on Student Council after a landslide victory in the Spring elections. . . . Captain of this year’s Debate Team, Bill has done much to add glory to the name of the University in his transcontinental tours. He achieved personal glory at West Point this April when he copped the National Title, bringing home All-American rating for standout performance.
AL GAVAN . . . The Notre Dame Glee Club during the past year has travelled more miles, sung before bigger audiences, and done more than any Glee Club in the University’s history to acquaint the people of the nation with the cultural aspect of ND life. . . . Their mid-semester tour of the Southwest and their Easter tour of the East were the highlights of the year. In addition they gave concerts in Detroit and Chicago, sang joint programs with St. Mary’s and Rosary Colleges, and appeared on coast to coast broadcasts on NBC radio and CBS television. . . . Much of the credit for the club’s great achievements must go to its quiet, unassuming president, Allan Gavan. ... Al Gavan was born in Milwaukee, Wis., 25 years ago, but now calls Ridgewood, N. J., home. During World War II Al ) served in France and Germany as an infantryman. He was captured by the Germans and spent seven months in Prison Stalag VII, Moosburg, Germany. . . . When he’s not singing second tenor in the Glee Club Al collects bird specimens for study purposes in the Department of Biology. He has been ND’s official hunter for three years. . . . When he’s not killing birds Al likes to paint them. Several of his water-colors and oils of birds have been awarded prizes. ... Al will graduate from the Department of Foreign Marketing in the College of Commerce this June. After graduation he would like to work in the advertising field. . . . His inspiring leadership of the Glee Club in 1949-50 will be hard to surpass. His untiring work of promoting the University will never be forgotten.
DONAL MURPHY . . . This year for the first time a Notre Dame team represented the school in the field of rifle competition and regardless of its yearling status amassed a highly favorable record as they lost but one match in nineteen. This is an amazing record for such a young team to boast in a sport that has so many schools participating in it. . . . Probably one of the best reasons for the team’s great success is one man — Donal J. Murphy. Ever since his prep days at Xavier in New York, Murphy has been a handy man with a rifle. There he earned two letters on one of the best high school rifle teams in the country, a team that encounters such opposition as the Cadets of West Point. . . . Thus, when he entered Notre Dame three years ago and enrolled in the NROTC he was a welcome sight to Captain John Daley, U.S.M.C., coach of the Navy sharpshooters. . . . Last year as a Sophomore, he garnered such outstanding trophies as the Hearst Award, given each year to the outstanding rifleman in the NROTC., and led his team to victory in the Secretary of the Navy Award Match as the top team in NROTC competition besides gaining the individual award. . . . This vear he again won the Hearst Award with a 196 out of 200 and led his Navy champions against the Air Force champs of Fordham and the Army champs of Duquesne in the Secretaiy of Defense Match to name the best ROTC team in the country' — Notre Dame placed second. . . . Donal, a native of Hawthorne, New Jersey, besides being a member of the University Rifle team and the NROTC team is a member of the Met Club, the New Jersey Club, and the Monogram Club. He expects to graduate next June with a B.S. degree in Business Administration.
| May 19, 1950
Bill Carey
Verne Kelley
Ray Yanics
VERNE KELLEY . . . Probably few students can boast of a bigger activity record than this year’s Senior Class vice-president, Verne Kelley. Beginning his Freshman year, when he registered for the marching band his first day on campus, he has thrown himself behind just about every organization on campus at one time or another. . . . Not content to concentrate his efforts in any one, he spread his abilities over a large territory. However, Verne did manage to climax his stay at Notre Dame by being elected to his class office and by heading the important Student Council social committee. The work of this committee is one of the most important parts of the Council’s duties. This Spring, the committee inaugurated a series of successful informal dances at the Palais Royale. An innovation at Notre Dame, they were successful and should become a definite part of the 9 school year. . . . Kelley’s biggest job, though, was putting Charlie Venture and the Senior Ball across to his class members. Taking on the promotional end of the dance, he managed to sell the affair to nearly 500 Seniors. His effort combined with that of the other co-chairman and all the committee heads made the Ball the biggest social night of the year. . . . The Council recognized his ability by naming him to Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities. With this and his experience in the band, radio club, University Theatre, Student Council, Press Club and Scholastic, Verne Kelley is ready to take his A.B. degree in June and return to Oak Park, Ill., full of confidence in the future.
....................................................................................  c
BILL KIRCHNER . . . On a campus where big men are many, William Kirchner stands out like a mountain. But, where most of the “moose” put their talents to use on a football field or basketball court, “Big Red”— all 6’6” and 240 pounds — has not confined himself to athletics but has made a name akin to his size in various campus activities. . . . Bill, a 24-year-old Marine Corps veteran of some three years’ service, began his extra-curricular work in his Sophomore year when he was elected to the Student Council as Lyons Hall representative. From there the redhead moved up to become President of Council this year, first Vice-President of the Chicago Region. National Federation of Catholic College Students, and University representative at two NFCCS and one NSA National Congresses. ... A Philosophy major in a combination course of A.B.-Law — he hopes to practice in Florida — Bill has breezed through his undergraduate work with a Magna Cum Laude average of 93 per cent. He played Freshman football on Cartier Field under the tutelage of Mr. Leahy and Co. and was a candidate for a shot putting berth on the track team. “Moose” kept his status in the Marines by enlisting in the reserve and will receive his commission this Fall. ... In addition to his executive duties on the Council, Bill wrote the new constitution last Summer and had complete charge of the Student Trip to New York for the North Carolina game. His numerous jobs have, as a consequence, cut down the time he can devote to his favorite pastime of photography. . . . National honors came Bill’s way when he was selected to Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities this year.	fl
RAY YANICS . . . Like the Cardinals, St. Louisan Raymond Yanics has been a contender for top honors for the’ past few years. Ray, a 6’2” ex-member of Leahy’s Lads, has been a campus figure since his entrance in the Fall of 1947. . . . Though his Freshman year was packed with football and participation in YCS and the Liturgy Club, it was not until the end of his second year that Ray achieved class and campus recognition and acclaim. He won the elections easily for Junior Class president and, consequently, became a member of Student Council. Here, on the Council, Ray showed his capabilities. ... As vice-chairman of the Social Committee Ray was instrumental in the scheduling of Council dances. He was Chairman of the Campus Charity Chest and is co-author with Jack $ Thornton of the new Student Council Budget. . . . But, though he worked hard and effectively for the Council, it is in the record of the Junior Class that his name receives its prominence. The class picnic started the year off well and was followed by a highly successful Mardi Gras dance. The traditional Prom closed out the social side, the third big event of the year for the Juniors which Ray directed. . . . Though he lives off campus with his wife, the former Joan Birdrow, Ray keeps in touch with the campus scene. And, though he has attained due recognition for his labors in class and Council affairs, Ray has kept a Cum Laude average as a Finance major in the College of Commerce for three years, bringing into the classroom those qualities of leadership and hard work which have gained him campus renown.
The Scholastic £
16
In the day-to-day life of the ND student, Academics played an important role. Classes and study took up the greater part of his time. But there was more to the Academic side of his campus existence than books and profs.
High on the list of Academic “big news” were such stories as the establishment of the Notre Dame Committee on International Relations, the third annual Natural Law Institute, the Russian Symposium, a Rhodes Scholarship, the Concert and Lecture Series, better Washington Hall movies, Lenten retreats, and the announcement of a new General Program of Arts and Letters.
The University set up its Committee on International Relations with the help of a §69,000 grant from the Rockefeller Foundation. The purpose of the Committee was to further the study of international relations at Notre Dame with particular interest in the influence of ethics, philosophy and ideologies on world affairs. The Committee was placed under the directorship of Dr. Waldemar Gurian.
The main project sponsored by the Committee in the first semester was the presentation of three outstanding lecturers on American foreign policy. In November, Professor Bernard Brodie, foremost academic authority on atomic energy, was brought to the.campus for a Washington Hall lecture on “American Foreign Policy in the Atomic World.”
Early in December, Professor J. K. Galbraith, leading American authority on the Marshall Plan, gave a campus talk on the consequences of this plan, and he was followed within two weeks by Professor William Y. Elliot of Harvard University on the United States’ relation to a World Community.
Russian Symposium
The biggest job undertaken by the Committee, however, came off in February when it sponsored the Russian Symposium. Treating the general theme “The Soviet Union: Background, Ideology, and Reality,” the two-day symposium attracted nation-wide notice and boasted such noted authorities on Russia as Dr. Michael Karpovich of Harvard, Dr. Philip Mosely of the Russian
By WALT COLLINS
Institute of Columbia University, Dr. Vladimir Petrov of Yale, Dr. Naum Jasny of Stanford, Dr. Nicholas Tima-sheff of Fordham and Rev. Franz Dvor-nik of Harvard.
Another campus gathering which attracted nation-wide recognition was the December third annual Natural Law Institute. This Institute was attended by over 600 jurists, lawyers, educators and students and featured, among a number of widely known authorities on natural law, the expected presence of General Carlos P. Romulo, president of the United Nations general assembly. General Romulo was unable to attend the meeting at the last minute because of the pressing duties of the assembly’s final sessions, and his address to the Institute was read by proxy.
Students assemble for open-air Way of the Cross during one of Lenten retreats.
A number of deaths hit the student body during the year. One of them was the result of a wave of polio cases in Veiville. John W. Bellis, 28, a graduate student from Oradell, N. J., succumbed to the disease after five days’ hospitalization. His death was the only fatality from polio.
The second student death was the unexpected passing of 23-year-oId Ray Espenan, Senior from New Orleans, and end on the ND football eleven. His death was the result of a fall from a trampoline on which he was doing a backflip at a South Bend high school.
Within a month, this death was followed by another. John J. Donahoe, Jr., 22-year-old Senior from Oak Park, Illinois, died in March as the result of a head injury sustained while playing handball at the Rockne Memorial. The loss of these four students was deeply felt by the entire student body.
A fourth death which affected the campus only a bit less directly than
May 19, 1950
17
those of the three students was that of William E. Zerbe, a University policeman known as “Bill, the Watchman.” He died in April after several weeks’ illness.
Lilienthal Speaks
Two famous lecturers staged Washington Hall appearances during the first semester. Early in November, David E. Lilienthal, Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission, spoke on the “Brighter Side of the Atom.” He asserted his faith in the ability of man to cope with his greatest problem and stressed the beneficial, non-military uses of Atomic Energy which are being studied under the direction of his Committee.
Later in November, Rev. Walter Farrell, O.P., well-known to students as the author of A Companion to the Summa, required outside reading for several religion courses, discussed Theology in a series of lectures.
Life magazine visited the campus a couple of times during the first semester. On its first visit, it took stock of Notre Dame’s LOBUND activities, running a feature story of the germ free experiments. Its second trip to the campus was to cover the Irish-Tulane grid fray. Some say Life expected the upset of the season.
The Vanishing Vet made headlines in January. The gradual disappearance of the veteran from the University was given recognition in a feature Scholastic article which predicted that the veteran of World War II has seen his day and that Notre Dame will soon return to complete pre-war normalcy, with a few permanent changes.
Also making headlines in January was the award of a Rhodes Scholarship to an ND student. Herman H. Hamilton, Jr., AB student from Montgomery, Ala., won a Rhodes Scholarship entitling him to two years of study at Oxford and extensive European travel during Summer vacations. Hamilton was the third student in the history of the University to win a Rhodes Scholarship.
January of course, brought final exams and a break in the routine that was short but welcome. Came Feb. 2, and a new semester had begun.
In the line of Academics, the Lenten retreats were the first big thing to come along in the Spring term. Beginning with graduate students and following along through the residence halls at the rate of three a week, the retreats covered the entire student body and were generally well-attended.
Another activity sponsored by the Department of Religion received praise during the year for- an excellent job.
Plans for the Third Natural Law Institute are being discussed by, left to right, John Noonan, Francis Peluso, Dean Manion, Prof. Edward Barrett and Daniel Long.
Two series of Marriage Forums, one held each semester, were open to married students, graduating Seniors, and graduate students and featured lay and religious authorities on the various phases and aspects of the vocation of marriage.
The Audio-Visual Center marked the end of its second year of operation in March with a continuous one-day showing of Rome — The Eternal City. Since its inception, the Center has increased its facilities and activities and is under the able directorship of Orville R. Foster.
The existence of student watchmen for the first time in the history of the University was also acknowledged in March. Six campus residence halls are now manned by student watchmen at the sign-in lists.
In March came rain and bad weather and a flu epidemic on campus. Although individual cases of influenza were relatively mild, the overall situation was the most extensive epidemic here for a long time, according to Dr. John W. Karn, University physician. At the peak of the epidemic the infirmary was handling 65 cases.
The College of Commerce put on the third annual World Trade Conference late in the year, bringing a number of authorities on World Trade to the Campus.
An Engineer, John Machinchick, received a double honor for a paper on “The Problem of Stability on Power Systems.” In March his paper won him
a prize from the AIEE, and the following month he copped the Fathei' Steiner prize and certificate of merit for a speech based on his paper.
New AB Course
Undoubtedly the biggest story of the year in the field of Academics and probably the biggest story of the past few years was the announcement last week of the new General Program of Arts and Letters to be initiated next Fall under Dr. Otto Bird. This program hopes to provide students with a general and liberal education in the significant thought which has contributed to the greatness of Western civilization. Its approach to this thought is through the great books of Western culture and the object of the program is to produce men capable of understanding the many facets of today’s culture and civilization and to live successfully in this civilization.
The Notre Dame Concert and Lecture Series boasted a highly productive and successful year. The first big show sponsored by the Series was the Shakespearean play Julius Caesar. Produced by the Margaret Webster Shakespeare Company, the play received a highly favorable reception in Washington Hall in November.
It was a good year for Shakespeare in Washington Hall. Three performances of Much Ado About Nothing were presented to the student body by the University Players of Catholic Univer-
(Continued on Page 33)
18
The Scholastic
1 At one time or another everyone has heard a state-school friend say with a voice dripping with pity: “Gosh, how I feel for you . . . going to Notre Dame. There mustn’t be anything to do down there; at least in comparison to what we have here.”
If those guys only knew how wrong they were.
True, we don’t have convertibles or r souped-up jobs in which to tear around. ? True, we don’t have all-night permissions. True, there isn’t a big dance going on every weekend. Sure, we don’t have a lot of things. But just the same there’s plenty we do have and more than enough to keep the average student hoppin.’
State-school friends would see how wrong their visions of a Notre Dame student’s life is, if they were to see a resume of the activities-laden year of 1949-50. Contrary to the common conception, ND’ers are far from being ' stuck out in the sticks with nothing to do.
It didn’t take the incoming Class of 1953 long to find this out. They were met at train and bus depots last Fall by committeemen of the Blue Circle and Young Christian Students Freshman Orientation group. These upperclassmen gave the Frosh a welcome and tips on how to get to the campus. When the newcomers arrived on the campus
By KEN THOREN
they were met by more men serving on this group to expedite their arrival.
For the next three days the Freshmen were offered tours of the campus, movies, and talks on Notre Dame life, and were finally feted with a get-together in the Fieldhouse. By the time classes started the Freshmen knew they belonged to the Notre Dame family.
Regardless of the other big events during the year, there’s nothing quite like the football season — especially football weekends. The crowds start arriving on Friday afternoon. By the time the pep rallies are held a festive mood has gripped the campus. The Blue Circle did an excellent job in running the rallies. Credit also should go to the Freshman band and certainly to Jim Martin who took charge of Ziggy’s crown of humor.
Most students will remember the Tulane rally as the highlight of the season. Electrical charges seemed to run through the crowd that night. Everyone was “up” for- the game.
Classes are held on Saturday mornings, so the excitement has to be postponed until they’re over. By twelve noon the campus is jammed with visitors. The Dining Hall at lunch hour is
generally noisier than usual. Then everyone starts heading for the Stadium, skirting peddlers, concessionaires and officials’ cars as they go. At the games the student body proved again that none can yell as loud as it-
The end of the games doesn’t mean the end of celebrating. There’s always a Victory Dance in the Drill Hall — or some sort of celebrating downtown. After the Southern Methodist game several hundred students converged on South Bend, formed a tremendous snake-dance line, and held up traffic for nearly an hour.
Then when the team returned from Texas as undefeated National Champions nearly 25,000 students and local fans met them at the South Shore station. The turnout gave the team a welcome they’ll never forget.
Football Trips
Also on the football agenda last Fall were side trips to Lafayette for the Purdue game and to East Lansing for the Michigan State game. Large contingents from Notre Dame followed the team to both games. There was also the memorable student trip to New York for the North Carolina game. Some 700 students made the journey. Although they had only 48 hours in the big city they jam-packed those brief hours to the brim: a pep rally at Times
Seniors don blue-jeans and plaid shirts for square dance hoedown. These rustic affairs attracted large crowds this year.
Notre Dame's Marching Band executes a star formation during special halftime ceremonies honoring "Four Horsemen" of '24.
J May 19, 1950
19
Student trippers en route to New York.
Square, the game at Yankee Stadium, a Met Club party at the New York Athletic Club, and then sundry celebrations throughout the city. It was a weary crew that climbed on a special train on Sunday afternoon — weary, but satisfied.
There was also plenty to do last Fall for those who like a good party. The Law School held its annual Law Ball in the Indiana Club. The Senior Class sponsored an old-fashioned Barn Dance in the Drill Hall. The Juniors held a class picnic out at Potawatomie.
The big social event of every Fall is, of course, the Sophomore Cotillion. And,
ND's Glee Club sings on coast-to-coast TV broadcast from New York City on Easter.
as always, this year’s Sophs put on a dance equalling any of the past. They decorated the Palais Royale to jibe with theii- theme of A Alight in Old Erin. A sell-out crowd of 500 couples danced to the music of Griff Williams.
Before long it was time to head home for Christmas vacation. A mass exodus left the campus in search of home-town fun and rolic. Many geographical clubs held dances throughout the country. The fun-sated student body trudged back to Indiana . . . and found semester exams staring them in the face.
The local ROTC group were brave enough to forsake their cramming and ■ held their annual ball in the Drill Hall. Then a blanket of inactivity covered the campus until all blue books were handed in. A short week’s vacation was permitted before the student body returned again — this time to start the Spring academic session.
While the underclassmen were away, 384 Seniors took their last walk across campus, went into the Drill Hall, and came out as alumni. The Honorable John F. Kennedy, member of the U. S. House of Representatives from Massachusetts, presented the commencement address.
Also during the short vacation, a group of 37 Notre Dame men made a retreat at the famed Trappist monastery of Our Lady of Gethsemani, Ky.
Once everyone was back, the troubles produced by Indiana weather were forgotten and plans were under way for more activities. One hundred sixty-five Engineers and their dates attended the
annual Engineers’ Ball at the Palais. @ A few weeks later 500 couples headed for the Palais — where else? — for the gala Mardi Gras Dance. The Junior Class assumed responsibility for this charity affair.
On Feb. 20 and 21 the third annual Mardi Gras carnival was held in the Drill Hall. The huge barn was filled with booths. Large crowds turned out for this event and swelled Notre Dame’s contribution to the NFCCS Student Relief drive to $10,000. The highlight of this year’s carnival was the appearance of movie star Ann Blyth. The stunning star usurped the usual fanfare given to the winner of the carnival’s prize car. This year John Brady, a Freshman from Mobile, Ala., won the Chevrolet convertible and his father won the Buick Riviera. The carnival closed at 12 o’clock and Lent had begun.
King Basketball
Basketball held sway during Lent and then the crowds rushed home for Easter vacation. Although you would have never known it from the weather, Spring had arrived at Notre Dame by the time the student body had returned.
April 21 was the night of the Junior Prom. Appropriately enough, they used April Showers as their theme. Jimmy Palmer and his orchestra provided the music. Nearly 300 Juniors and their dates enjoyed the dance and the weekend filled with events that followed.
Two weeks later the Freshmen held their annual dance. Although this “tradition” is only three years old, the Frosh presented a dance that will be hard to beat by succeeding first year men.
Last Friday night the Senior Class refurbished the Drill Hall beyond recognition. Using Dancing in the Dark as their theme, the Seniors filled the Hall with 500 couples who danced to the music of Charlie Ventura.
There, if that’s not enough to change a state-schooler’s idea of life at Notre Dame, then there’s more.
Foi’ instance, the campus radio station WND. It has provided entertainment throughout the year. Also, the University Theatre. They presented three plays during the year: Whistling in the Dark, Holiday, and The Gentleman From Athens. Each succeeding production drew larger and more appreciative houses. There was also the Sophomore-sponsored Talent Show.
And you certainly can’t leave out South Bend. Even though it just offers either movies or shows, it’s always a good place to go when the routine of studying gets you down.
A nod must also be paid to the girls of neighboring St. Mary’s. They come closest to filling the bill of Notre Dame
20
The Scholastic Oi
Junior class president Ray Yanics crowns Miss Kathleen Gill, one of the co-queens of this year's annual Junior Prom held April 21.
The 1949 Dome was issued in the Fall and a large staff worked throughout the year on the 1950 issue. The Technical Review, an engineering magazine, made its debut and was received warmly from
co-eds. They presented many affairs during the year with large numbers of ND men always on hand. The girls also opened up their rec room on Saturday nights during Lent, which was an altruist move in behalf of skimpy wallets.
Campus organizations hit a peak during the year in regard to activities. Geographical clubs held many dinners and Communion breakasts. Colleges also improved during the year, offering affairs for the men. Several halls showed signs of life, too. Dillon threw a bantam-sized carnival to help pay for their new rec room. Zahm installed a TV set in their basement. Intra-hall sports, too, perked up in comparison to the past few years.
Both the Band and the Glee Club went on extended tours. The Knights of Columbus did a fine job in helping out wherever they could — ushering in Church, aiding Devotions, the special May Day program, and in many other ways. They ended their year with their annual Spring Formal.
Student publications hit a new high during the year. The Scholastic came out 26 times, the Juggler three times.
May 19, 1950
the start. Neophyte lawyers put their magazine, The Lawyer, and won acclaim.
Who was responsible for all
out also
this
work? It would be hard to limit the names to a small group — for it was more than just a handful. In reality, it was the entire Notre Dame student body that made these activities a success. But it can’t be denied that the students didn’t have fine men serving as leaders.
Student Council Scores
The Student Council put in a year of hard work. Much of the rapport between the students and the administration was a product of their capable qualities. It’s been a long time since Notre Dame has seen such an excellent Council.
There were also unusually high-calibre class officers. Officials of the many campus clubs and organizations proved
be a
The
success without support. (Continued on Page 30)
their worth, too. And, then, you come right back again to the support given to these men and the affairs they held by the student body. No activity can
Graduates walk down traditional steps.
21
The past year was a big- one in Notre Dame Administration circles, probably bigger than any similar nine-month period in the University’s history.
When the student body returned in September, 1949, they learned of the appointment of five new vice-presidents to the administrative organization by Rev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., Provincial of the Indiana Province of the Priests of Holy Cross.
Those appointed to the new executive positions were Rev. John H. Murphy, c.s.c., vice-president in charge of public relations; Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., executive wee-president; Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., wee-president in charge of academic affairs; Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of business affairs; and Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, c.s.c., vice-president in charge of student welfare.
There were other changes early in the past school year, namely in the fund totals for the proposed new Science Building drive. On Oct. 7 the Notre Dame Foundation announced that 1949 contributions to the Science Building Fund surpassed the §400,000 level. By the end of November 1949 the Science Fund donations reached $646,138.
With the ushering in of 1950 came the announcement of a $1,000,000 donation to the University by Mrs. Fred J. Fisher, widow of the founder of the
By JOHN H. JANOWSKI
Fisher Body Company, Detroit, Mich. Of the total, $750,000 will be used to construct a new residence hall on cam-
I. A. O'Shaughnessy
pus and the remaining $250,000 will be made available for loans for students.
The new residence hall will be named the Fred J. and Sally Fisher Memorial.
With the Fisher donation the 1949
total received by the ND Foundation & exceeded the $1,800,000 figure.
On March 19, Laetare Sunday, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of the University named General J. Lawton Collins, Chief of Staff of the United States Army, the 1950 recipient of the Laetare Medal.
General Collins became the 68th distinguished American to receive the Laetare Medal, the oldest American Catholic medal, awarded annually since 1883 by the University of Notre Dame to an outstanding American Catholic layman.
In March Father Cavanaugh outlined the proposed building program for the University. He spoke to a newly-appointed executive committee of the ND Foundation and disclosed long-range plans for eight new buildings in addition to the Science Building and the Fred J. and Sally Fisher Memorial.
Included in the long-range building plans were The Notre Dame Inn, a J Liberal and Fine Arts Building, an Auditorium, a Union Building, a Memorial Library, an Administration Building, and Bacteriology Laboratories.
The long-range building program neared reality in April when E. M. Morris, South Bend executive, donated funds for the construction of the Notre Dame Inn, a 100-room campus guest (Continued on Page 33)
Sally Fisher
E. M. Morris and Fr. Cavanaugh
22
Notre Danie’s 1949 football team, probably the greatest collegiate eleven of all time, provided the highlight of • the sports year by sweeping through ten opponents without defeat to bring the National Championship back to the campus of the Golden Dome for the third time in four years.
Another National Championship was won by the University NROTC Rifle Team which successfully defended its title, and another undefeated season was hung up by the Irish fencing team.
A team that, in the words of Frank Leahy “could lose seven games this fall” looked as though they might in the first half of their opener against Indiana. But it turned out to be just first game sluggishness, and before the afternoon was over, the Irish were off again with a 49-6 win.
By JOHN MEANEY
before they could put away the Mustangs in the Game of the Year.
Leon Hart corralled every football award but Back of the Year and teammates Emil Sitko, Jim Martin and Bob Williams were named All-American.
Notre Dame had a basketball AllAmerican, too, as Kevin O’Shea made his last year his best by setting three all-time Irish scoring marks. High flying Kentucky was jolted by the Irish and a five-game losing streak to St. Louis was stopped with a win dedicated to footballer Ray Espenan, who passed away the afternoon of the game. Their
23
15-S record was the poorest in years but is sure to be improved upon next year.
While the basketball season wasn’t as successful as usual, the track and fencing teams made up for it. For the first time in Notre Dame history, Coach Herb Melton’s Musketeers took the measure of ten straight opponents to give Notre Dame another undefeated team. In the NCAA Tournament, the Irish took sixth in the nation and were acclaimed as the best in the Midwest.
Coach Doc Handy piloted his track team to an undefeated indoor dual season as they downed Missouri, Purdue and Indiana. Top performers for the Irish were hurdler Bill Fleming and shot putter John Helwig. Fleming also (Continued on Page 30)
Washington ended a brief series by falling before the Green Shirts, 27-7. Purdue was next but cries by Boilermaker rooters for a ’48 repeat were silenced by drumming Irish cleats as they tore out a 35-12 win.
Up from New Orleans came a confident Tulane, picked by many as “team most likely to succeed” in breaking the long winning streak. As Time magazine so aptly commented, “Week after week Notre Dame has to face an opponent that is 'up’ for the Irish. For once it seems that Notre Dame was ‘up’ for an opponent.” Final score: Notre Dame, 46; Tulane, 7.
After that it was Navy, tough Michigan State, determined North Carolina and stubborn Iowa. Southern Cal arrived with the first snow and were frozen out, 32-0.
Before they boarded the train for Dallas the Irish were named National Champions. And at Dallas they had to show all of their championship class
W May 19, 1950
Scholastic Sports
Km
Old Timers Win Spring Classic, 25-7
Bill Gay picks up yardage as Mutscheller (85), Ostrowski (87) and Barrett clear way. Speedster tallied Varsity's lone touchdown on 27-yard run in first period.
Irish Outdoor Track Season Nears Finish; Handymen Enter Indiana State, CCC Meets
By TED PRAHINSKI
Purdue University will be host to the Indiana State track and field championships to be held tomorrow at Lafayette and Coach Doc Handy has high hopes that his lads will be able to repeat their winning performance of last year. But as far as the home folks go the highlight of the 1950 Cartier Field track season comes one week from tomorrow when the closed Central Collegiate Conference Championship will be held here at Notre Dame.
The CCC is holding two meets this year, the closed one for members only and the open one, to be held at Milwaukee June 10-11, for both members and non-members. For a good many years the Conference has welcomed nonmembers, such as the Big Ten schools, to their championship meet, but this usually resulted in squeezing the smaller
member schools out of the picture in most of the races. It did, however, give the powers of the conference, Michigan State and Notre Dame, a chance to show that they were just as strong as the Big Ten schools. Last year for example, State and Notre Dame took the first two places in team scoring despite the presence of five of the Big Ten’s best track teams. This year the conference figures that holding two meets will keep everybody happy.
Next week’s meet should be one of the most thrilling Cartier Field has seen in years — if Michigan State shows up. The IC4-A championships are being held in New York and the Spartans, defending IC4-A as well as Central Collegiate champs, are likely to go to the Eastern meet instead. Bill (Continued on Page 26)
All-American Alumni Outplay 1950 Varsity
By JACK VARLEY
A parade of All-Americans and Notre Dame greats of the past marched up and down Notre Dame Stadium last Saturday afternoon to the tune of Auld Lang Syne to subdue the Varsity eleven ■ of Frank Leahy, 25-7. Over 25,000 spectators watched as the Old Timers, coached by Bill Earley, completely outplayed their green shirted opponents and scored a touchdown in every period to annex the third win for an Old Timer eleven in the 22 year history of this annual Spring classic. Combining the talents of most of last year’s first string with those of Panelli, Conner, Strohmeyer, O’Connor, Smith, Dove and Gaul, Notre Dame’s old men displayed experience and determination to completely crush the Leahy forward wall.
It was the Varsity that started the scoring, but after that it was all Old Timers. The Varsity, led by Quarterback Bob Williams, battered their way down to the Old Timer 27-yard line from where Bill Gay dodged and bulled his way over the goal. Joe Caprara’s conversion was good and the Varsity took a lead which they held until the last seconds of the half when Old Timer Quarterback John Mazur passed to Tackle George Conner (who had been moved to end for this play) for the second touchdown. Oracko’s kick was good and the Old Timers led. 13-7.
The first Old Timer touchdown came eight minutes after Gay scored for the Varsity. Earley’s crew drove 72 yards to the Varsity one from where Halfback Larry Coutre scooted around end for the TD. Oracko missed the conversion and the Varsity still held a 7-6 edge.
Then in the third quarter the Old Timers took advantage of a Varsity fumble on their own 33 and started a thii'd touchdown drive with Fullback John Panelli driving to the four and Coutre scoring from there. The last marker of the game came in the fourth quarter when Fullback Emil Sitko


24
The Scholastic ->»
scored from the one after he had carried the ball 29 yards.
The Varsity had to loan second string Quarterback John Mazur to the Old Timers when Frank Tripucka was delayed in New York because of the rail strike. Mazur played top-notch ball all afternoon as he outpassed the Varsity’s Bob Williams. Williams attempted 19 passes and completed three while Mazur attempted nine and connected on four.
Even in the statistics department the play of the Old Timers was dominant. They outrushed the Varsity 217 yards to 110 and garnered 12 first downs to the Varsity 10. However, Williams’ punting average of 42 yards was high for the afternoon.
Diamond Squad Wins ® Three Out of Four
By BILL DELANEY
Once again the Notre Dame baseball team has reached the .500 mark. By taking two out of two from Wisconsin and then splitting a pair with Minnesota, the Irish nine brought their season’s record up to six wins and as many losses. As we go to press only eight more games remain on the regular season schedule.
The first game of the four game western trip was an arc-light tilt with the Wisconsin Badgers at Madison. This was the first night game in which a Notre Dame baseball team has played since the war years. The Irish batters pounded out 14 hits for a total of 22 bases to take the game, 10-5.
Tony Lipton went all the way for the second time this season and picked up his second win. He gave up 12 hits, two being homers, and six walks but was able to get out of most of his troubles without being hurt. This is evidenced by the fact that 12 Badgers were left stranded on the basepaths.
Notre Dame scored two in the first and were never behind after that. Don Grieve was the individual batting star with a triple and a double, the three bagger coming in the seventh with the bases loaded and the game still close. Pitcher Lipton also unloaded a triple to help his own cause. His came in the ninth with a man aboard.
The next day Mike McGrath came in to relieve Bob Stefkovich in the third inning, after Wisconsin had jumped off to a 5-2 lead, and held the Badgers scoreless for the remaining six frames. In the meanwhile his mates were racking three hapless pitchers for 14 runs on as many hits. The final score: 14-5.
The clincher came in the fifth inning when, trailing 5-2, the Irish put to-(Continued on Page 28)
May 19, 1950
SPLINTERS from the Press Box by flack Meaney
Leahy Was Right
So the Old Timers beat the Varsity. So what? Will there be a college team in the country next Fall that could have beaten the Oldsters last Saturday? Not on your life. It’s doubtful whether any college team ever ran up against such a powerful outfit as the one the Varsity took on. Their line-up read like Notre Dame’s contribution to All-Americana. There were six All-Americans on that squad; count ’em: Dove, Connor, Martin, Sitko, Hart and Strphmeyer. How John Panelli got left out was a mystery to the fans last Saturday. And to think that with the Detroit Lions he does nothing but back up the line. John showed that he was as good at breaking through holes in the line as he was in plugging them up. If that team had on the green jerseys last Saturday we’d predict another undefeated season right now.
But even so, 1950 shouldn’t be too bad a year for the Irish. That Old Timer team is the best they’ll see this year (so theoretically, if they do get beaten it won’t be by more than three touchdowns). This team certainly does • not measure up to any of its undefeated predecessors of the past four seasons. But then, what college will be able to field a team this fall that will be better than anything they’ve had since the war?
The situation at Notre Dame is a reflection of the football situation throughout the country. Everywhere coaches are dreaming and moaning — dreaming about all the material they had to work with during the past few years and moaning about the green team they’ll be forced to field in September. The game is going to lack the polish it had but there ought to be more exciting ball games than ever.
There will be a lot of mistakes that will decide games this Fall. There were some mistakes made last Saturday, but if they have to be made, that was the time to make them — when they don’t count. It’s a lot better to pull boners against the Old Timers in the Spring than in the Fall against teams like North Carolina or Southern California.
But the Irish can be beaten and there’s a possibility that it may be this year. The question is, who’s going to do it? Michigan State and Southern Cal, to name a couple, aren’t making room on their shelves for the O’Donnell Trophy. North Carolina might do it in the very first game. They were plenty tough in Yankee Stadium last year and they didn’t have Charlie Justice then either. Just like every other coach that will send a team against the Irish this Fall, Carl Snavely wants to be the one to end the long Notre Dame undefeated streak. He gets first crack at it and you can be sure the Tarheel mentor is going to make the most of it.
Varsity Comebacks
Just for the record, here’s what other Varsity squads have done in the Fall after losing their game with the Old Timers. In 1934, the score was 6-0. That Fall, the Irish had a six won, three lost season. Johnny Lu jack led the Oldsters to a 20-14 win in 1948, the only other time the Varsity was beaten prior to this year. So what did the Irish do in ’48? They missed the National Championship but they did have an undefeated season. The only blemish on the record was a 1st game tie with USC. Billy Gay saved that one for us and he’ll be back next year. Maybe that’s a good omen.
Back in 1942, the Varsity had Angelo Bertelli but the Springfield Rifle didn’t throw for any TD’s that day. The game ended in .a scoreless tie. And in the Fall, the Irish hung up a seven won, two lost and two tied record. But in ’43 there was another National Championship.
If there are still some pessimists in the crowd, here’s another morsel to chew on. Frank Leahy will still be around and Frank has a funny habit of not losing ball games if he can help it.. He’s been batting at a .952 clip here at Notre Dame and he’d sure like to improve on it. As he one time sagely remarked in true Leahy style, “The price of victory will be paid on the practice field.” There’s 29 days in September before the first game; you can be sure the Irish will field a “representative team.”
25
Track
(Continued from Page 24)
Fleming is one who is hoping that the Spartans show up here for he is after the scalp of Horace Smith who beat him in the high hurdles in last week’s dual meet. One of the two is almost sure to break the Cartier Field record of 14.3 seconds that Smith tied last week. Bill Mack of the Spartans will be gunning for the field’s 4:11 mile mark, and Notre Dame’s Jack Murphy may have a chance at the school and field javelin mark of 202’7” if his sore arm improves.
If Michigan State competes she must be regarded as a heavy favorite on the basis of her dual meet triumph over Notre Dame and on her showing in the indoor conference championships last March. The Spartans won then with ease over Michigan Normal and Notre Dame. However, because of the heavier emphasis on the field events in the outdoor meet, the results won’t follow the indoor pattern too closely.
As far as tomorrow’s state championship goes, Indiana and Purdue will be the teams to beat. Notre Dame beat Indiana by six points and Purdue by 1-5 to take last year’s outdoor state crown, and during the indoor season the Irish beat both in dual meets. Neither of these circumstances stamp Notre Dame as the favorite, however. So far in the outdoor season the Hoosiers have a much more impressive record than Notre Dame.
In ten of the 1-5 events tomorrow defending champs will be competing. Leading Notre Dame will be Bill Fleming, who won the high and low hurdles and tied for first in' the high jump last year. John Helwig was first in the shot put and second in the discus and Jim Kittell won the mile that day. Among other returning point scorers are Jim Miller, second in both the pole vault and the javelin, and Bob Smith, second in the 220 and third in the 100.
Indiana’s returning champs are Charley Peters, 100 and 220, and John Robertson in the discus. Purdue has Ronny Meyer, 440 champ, and Ed Jones, who tied Fleming for first in the high jump, back as well as their mile relay team, another* winner from last year.
The rest of the outdoor season includes the open Central Collegiate Championships June 10 and 11 and a dual meet with Bradley University at Peoria on June 2.
Doc Handy will also take a few stars, like Bill Fleming and John Helwig, and perhaps Jack Murphy out to the National Collegiate Championships on June 16 and 17.
Sailing Team Sets Sights on Midwest championship
Notre Dame’s sailors will finish out a successful season when they compete for the Midwest Championships May 20-21 at Ohio State. There will be nine schools present, representing the finest sailors in the midwest. The boats used will be 12-foot sailing dinghys. The top three schools from this meet will be eligible to compete for the National Championship to be held on the West Coast some time this summer.
Selected to represent Notre Dame at Ohio State are Jim Amy, Tom Star-shak, Wally Christopher, Bill Jonak, Joe Shepherd, and Dick Reynolds.
The Notre Dame Sailing Club has existed since Spring of ’48. Since that time it has represented ND in over 30 intercollegiate competitions, always finishing in the top flight. The membership has increased from 12 sailors in 1948 to over 40 this year.
Almost half this number are men with little or no sailing experience. For these men the club maintains a shore school whereby the experienced sailors can pass on their knowledge of sailing and racing tactics to the novices. These lectures are supplemented by an occasional regatta away from home where the novice can get some practical experience.
For the experienced racing skippers, these regattas involve competing with
Members of the Irish Navy. First row (l-r): Starshak, Brotherson, Jonak, J. Crowe. Second row: Raymond, Barron, Murphy, yatuni, Christopher, Hammes, P. Crowe. Third row: Amy, Schaefer, Bergman, Bird, Griffin, Anderjaska, Shepherd, Kraemer.
the hottest sailors in the country. The sailing team receives no financial help from the University and members pay all expenses out of their own pocket. Steps are being taken by the club toward the acquisition of two boats. These boats will be used to complete the instructional program and also to provide the racing skippers with an opportunity to perfect their racing techniques. Temporary sailing waters will be St. Joseph Lake.
I SPORTS FINALE
May 19—BASEBALL, Ohio State here
—TENNIS at Marquette
20—BASEBALL, Ohio State here TRACK, Indiana State Meet
at Lafayette
GOLF, Washington (St. Louis) here
22—GOLF at Michigan State
23—BASEBALL at Michigan
24—BASEBALL at Michigan State
26—BASEBALL, Illinois here
27—BASEBALL, Illinois Here TRACK, Central Collegiates
(Closed Meet) here
29—BASEBALL, N’western here June 3—BASEBALL, W. Mich, here
TRACK at Bradley
10—TRACK, Central Collegiates (Open Meet) at Marquette
25—GOLF, NCAA Tourney at Albuquerque, N. M.
26
The Scholastic
9 .
Michigan State Beats ND Trackmen, 83-58
Michigan State gave the Notre Dame trackmen an 83-58 licking last Friday out on Cartier Field. The Spartans’ ■ superiority in the running events from BL the 440 on up to the two-mile accounted for most of their big victory margin. By sweeping the quarter and taking the first two places in the 880, the mile, and the two mile, Michigan State dealt the Irish a blow from which they never recovered.
Captain Bob Smith made the dashes a little more pleasant for Notre Dame than the other running events by taking firsts in the 100 and the 220. Michigan A State’s Horace Smith rocketed into the •	start, but Notre Dame’s
Smith kept bearing down on him all the way and took the lead just short of the finish. Smith didn’t have tso much trouble taking the 100 but Paul Ewing had a fight on his hands to take third in that race.
Bill Fleming suffered his first defeat on Cartier Field in the high hurdles in almost two years, but came back to take the 220 lows in the meet record tying time of 23.5 seconds. Horace Smith of the Spartans had to tie the Cartier Field record of 14.3 seconds to beat Fleming by an eyelash in the high hurdles.
•John Helwig and Bob Smith were the meet’s only double winners. Helwig spun the discus 143 feet 4% inches to finish first after taking the shot put.
The high jump, usually one of Notre Dame’s weakest points, turned into a real score producer when Tommy Devine and Hughes Wilcox tied for first at six feet.
Javelin thrower Jack Murphy was the only other Irishman to win an event. He heaved the spear 177’4” to beat two Michigan Staters. The field events also brought a few other places to Notre Dame. Jim Miller and Don Mahrt took second and third places respectively in the pole vault while John Worthington and Ewing did the same in the broad jump.
The mile relay went to Michigan State in the meet record time of 3:19.9, but Notre Dame didn’t look bad. Jack Wagner, a Soph running one of his first varsity races for Notre Dame, did especially well.
In the ill fated running events Jerry Johnson, Jim Kittell and Ben Almaguer took thirds in the half, one, and two mile races. Johnson ran the 880 in a spectacular 1:55.3, the fastest of his life, but it went for naught as Michigan State’s Bill Mark and Warren Druetzler hit a meet record of 1:54.3.
May 19, 1950
CHESTERFIELD
Contest Winners for Moy:
Bob Vignos—228 Zahm Hall
George Schmidt—338 Alumni Hall Jim Smith—333 Howard Hall Louis Bourjaily—312 Farley Hall Ed Waters—245 Lyons Hall Bill Hochadel—206 Dillon Chuck Wolfe—437 Howard-
Stu Malcolm—227 Breen Phillips Hall Dick Rogers—126 St. Edwards Hall Ed Cossidar—222 N. Scott, South Bend, Ind.
BEST OF LUCK TO THE CLASS OF ’50 AND THE WHOLE NOTRE DAME STUDENT
BODY FROM
COURTESY
BARBER SHOP
112 E. Washington Under Max Adler Co.
“3 BARBERS TO SERVE YOU1
TELL Hl* HE APPLAUD
twins of championship tennis STAND [IP to uslta STANDARDS EVEN AFTER TESTS TOUGHER THAN ACTUAL PLAY/
TENNIS IS PECULIAR. IN THAT IT HAS AM UNWRITTEN SET OF RULES TOH. THE
SPECTATOR
THAT IS ACCEPTED AND OBSERVED
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
CHAMPIONSHIP
U.S.L.T.A.-WOOL CO***
hchampionship -W
WRIGHT&.DITSON. THEONDf OFFICIAL BALL OF TRt U.S.LXK. championships _ SINCE 1097_ OFFICIAL,TOO, IN EUERff DS.DAJnS CUP MATCH/
^eSRUDingand
the spalding-made.
SPAWNS SS
TOR, MAJOR. ' TOURNAMENTS/
27
Names
JERRY MEBERLEIN, a graduating Senior in Accounting, will be married to Miss Dorothy Skemp of La Crosse, Wis., on June 21. Miss Skemp will graduate* this Spring from National College in Evanston, Ill. . . .
The engagement of Miss Josephine Stratman of Huntington, Ind., to LOUIS LOURO, Scholastic Advertising Manager, from Akron, Ohio, was announced recently. No date has been set for the wedding. . . .
ROBERT L. BRANDT of Mishawaka, Ind., will be married to Miss Monna Siddall of South Bend, Ind. . . .
Sociology f or a Democratic Society by Rev. RAYMOND W. MURRAY, C.S.C., will be published at the end of the month according to the current advertisement of the Appleton-Century-Crofts Co. Unlike Father Murray’s other sociology books, this edition has been written especially for use in nonCatholic colleges. It emphasizes the basic values upon which our democratic tradition is founded . . .
Dr. Robert Oppenheimer, Director of the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, N. J., has announced the appointment to the Institute of Rev. AZSTRIK L. GABRIEL, o.praem., a member of the faculty of the Mediaeval Institute at Notre Dame . . .
Baseball
(Continued from Page 25) gether six hits, including a round tripper by Capt. Tom Martin, a walk, and three Wisconsin errors for nine runs. This was Notre Dame’s biggest inning of the year.
The next night, at Minneapolis, the Fighting Irish kept on the upgrade as they beat the Minnesota Gophers for their third straight win. Bob Nemes went the distance for his second victory, 6-1.
Although outhit, 8-5, the Irish managed to pick up eleven walks from the Gopher pitchers and thereby won without too much trouble. Oddly enough, not one gopher ball was thrown in the two-game series.
The next day the roof caved in and caught Jake Kline with his sophomore pitchers down. Three soph hurlers were belted for 15 runs on 11 hits in seven innings. The result of the bombing was 15-5, the worst defeat of the season. Jerry Ledwidge, the starter, was the loser.
Jim Holker, the Minnesota shortstop, drove in six runs with a single and a pair of doubles.
28	-
LOBUND to Dedicate New Germ-Free Lab
The dedication of a new Germ Free Life Laboratory in the Laboratories of Bacteriology at Notre Dame will take place on June 21 and 22.
In conjunction with the dedication a symposium on “Science and Society” will be held in which prominent scientists and industrialists will discuss problems arising in the contemporary world regarding the possibilities for scientists and the responsibilities of the public toward these scientists.
Dr. Charles F. Kettering, Vice-President and Research Consultant of the General Motors Corporation will deliver one of the principal addresses at the symposium. Dr. Kettering has had a career which is outstanding in scientific research and invention. He has developed a fever machine which has proved effective in the treatment of several heretofore incurable diseases.
SCHEDULE OF SEMESTER EXAMINATIONS
Classes taught at	Will be examined at	Date
8:00 on	Monday ....................... 8:00	on	Friday ..............May	26
9:00 on	Monday .......................    _I0:00	on	Friday ............  May	26
10:00 on	Monday ............................. 1:15	on	Wednesday .........  May	31
11:00 on	Monday ........................... 10:00	on	Tuesday ___________ .May	30
1:15 on	Monday ...................     8:00	on	Wednesday ...........May	31
2:15 on	Monday ........................... 10:00	on	Wednesday .......... May	31
3:15 on	Monday ...........................  1:15	on	Monday...............May	29
8:00 on	Tuesday ...........................  8:00	on	Monday ..............May	29
9:00 on	Tuesday ........................... 10:00	on	Monday _____________ May	29
10:00 on	Tuesday ........................     8:00	on	Thursday .......... June	1
11:00 on	Tuesday .........................   10:00	on	Thursday............June	1
1:15 on	Tuesday  1:15	on Friday ______________May	26
2:15 on	Tuesday .........................    3:15	on	Friday ............._May	26
3:15 on	Tuesday .......................      3:15	on	Wednesday ...........May	31
DEPARTMENTAL EXAMINATIONS
Classes	Will be examined at Date
Electrical Engineering 38 _________________________ 8:00	on Thursday ..............  May	25
History 11, 12, 21, 22 __________________________  10:00	on Thursday _______________ May	25
Civil Engineering 22, 34, 48	_____________________10:00	on Thursday ______________May 25
Zoology 15 ______________________________________   1:15	on Thursday ..............  May	25
Chemical Engineering 46'___________________________ 1:15	on Thursday ............... May	25
Politics 32  3:15 on Thursday ...................................................... May	25
Religion 32  7:45 p.m. on Thursday ..................................................May	25
Religion 24  7:45 p.m. on Friday....................................................May 26
Mathematics 18, 22 ________________________________ 3:15	on Thursday ............... May	25
Mathematics 12, 28 ________________________________ 8:00	on Saturday ............... May	27
Civil Engineering 83  8:00 on Saturday ............................................. May	27
Engineering Mechanics 26, 33, 33A _________________10:00	on Saturday.................May	27
Chemistry 24L, 26L, 28L &	32L ___________________ 1:15	on Saturday ............... May	27
Mechanical Engineering 22 _________________________ 1:15	on Saturday _______________ May	27
All Physics Classes  3:15 on Saturday______________________________________________  May	27
Engineering Mechanics 31, 31a _____________________ 1:15	on Sunday ..................May	28
Chemical Engineering 36 3:15 on Sunday _____________________________________________ May	28
Spanish, French, German 5,	6, 11, 12 ______________ 3:15	on Monday ................. May	29
Religion 16 --------------------------------------- 7:45	p.m. on Tuesday ..........May 30
All Military Science  1:15 on Tuesday ............................................. -May	30
All Naval Science _________________________________ 1:15—5:15 on Tuesday __________May 30
He is presently engaged in studying the treatment of cancer. One of his early inventions was the Delco-light farm electrification system. In 1947 Dr. Kettering announced the development of a new gasoline engine which gives up to 40 per cent better fuel economy than conventional engines.
Also, the Advisory Council foi' Science and Engineering at Notre Dame will meet at this time.
Pat Thomas
(Continued from- Page 9)
the huge number of Masses and prayers for affable, popular Pat, who was buried the next morning in Kokomo following a 9 o’clock funeral Mass there.
Pat Thomas was the fourth Notre Dame student to die this year. Graduate student John Bellis, Senior Ray Es- , penan, and Law Student Jack Donahue were the other fatalities.
Pat is survived by his parents and a younger brother.
The Scholastic
Notre Dame Rackets Blast Boilermakers
Once again, superiority in the doubles competition provides the victory margin for the Notre Dame tennis team. As the result of a 6-3 victory over Purdue, Friday, on the Notre Dame courts, the Irish achieved their- fifth win of the season. Their record now stands at five victories in eight starts.
Bob David kept his slate clean in the singles by defeating Jerry Kalkofern, 6-3, 6-1. Captain Gene Biittner emerged victorious from a hard fought match by defeating Al Jung, 4-6, 6-2, 6-3. Another singles match which went three sets saw Matt Tuite bow to Bob Scanlon of Purdue, 6-8, 6-1, 6-3. Jim Hennessey and Paul Massicotte also dropped their matches to the Boilermakers, while Tom Overholser defeated Ed Wagner 8-6, 6-3, to even up the singles competition and set the stage for the decisive doubles.
Now once again, the Irish swept through the doubles competition in championship style. Bob David and Matt Tuite teamed up to defeat Kalkofern and Jung of Purdue, 6-0, 6-1. Captain Biittner and Jim Hennessey joined forces and defeated Bob Scanlon and Ed Wagner 3-6, 7-5, 6-4, after some fine play on both sides. Then Herb Hoene and Pat Tonti beat Chick Weaver and Bob Hal, 7-5, 6-3, to add the finishing touch to another Notre Dame victory on the courts.
—Joe Moresco
An Unusual Value
ALL WOOL
Golfers Squeeze Victory From Minnesota Gophers
Led by Preston Murphy and Tom Klett, the ND golf team scored a thrilling victory over a potent group of links-men from Minnesota last Saturday, 14-13. This was the fourth straight win for Father Holderith’s squad and raised their season’s record to five wins and three losses.
Summary: Doubles—Tom Klett (69)-Tom Veech (70) defeated Holick (75)-• Zweiner (77), 3-0. Bob Joers (81)-Capt.
Paul Hudak (77) lost to Wargen (79)-Rak (71) 3-0; Spence Daly (75)-Maury White (73) lost to Wilson (73)-Dorsen (79), 2-1.
Singles—Veech (72) defeated Holick (75) 2%-%; Klett lost to Olsen 3-0, firing 74 to 71; White (72) defeated Rak (75), 2%-%; Hudak (74) lost to Waring (72) 2%-%; Rolfs (75) split with Zweiner (75), 1%-1%; Murphy (72) defeated Dorsen (79), 3-0. Score: ND, 14; UM, 13.
May 19, 1950
MONOGRAMMED
BLANKETS $7.95
Chenille Monogram $8'®$
s KflTZ
1 V AO/? MEN AND 1 V/O6WG MEN MAIN AT COLFAX
Activities
(Continued from Page 21) student body seemed to know that this year and came to the fore, giving their all.
Right now, before the deadly exams descend, there’s a flurry of final banquets and parties. By June 1 the last test will have been given and the campus will be deserted. The 1949-50 schoolyear will officially close on June 4 when 750 Seniors will receive their diplomas.
Summer school will be held until August. Then silence —: then another year.
State-school friends needn’t feel sorry for the Notre Dame student. For the most part, there are more activities
during the year than he can find time for. True, the ND student goes without a lot of things found at other universities. But, on the whole, he’s more than satisfied with what he’s got.
Athletics
(Continued from Page 23)
made track history over the Christmas holidays. At the invitational Sugar Bowl Track Meet, held in conjunction with the Sugar Bowl football game, Fleming glided to victory in the 120 high hurdles with a record 13.9 seconds — a record for the Sugar Bowl meet, a Southern record and a Notre Dame record. Bill had to top such established stars as Craig Dixon of UCLA and Jim Gehrdes of Penn State for his record run.
Zip Roemer made Bengal Bout history by shooting for a fifth Bengal Bout championship, and Gus Cifelli also made Bengal history by being the first and only fighter to send Roemer down to defeat in his five years. Bishop Sheil of Chicago, prime mover in the Windy City Catholic Youth Organization, received the annual Bengal Bout Recognition Award.
Spring brought baseball, outdoor track, golf and tennis. Coach Handy is finding the going much rougher outside than it was in the fieldhouses. Golf and tennis are cruising along at a winning pace while Jake Kline’s nine is having trouble staying- above the .500 mark. Perhaps the three out of four wins on the recent road trip is an indication that at long last Coach Kline has hit upon a winning combination.
30
The Scholastic
EOR A CAREER’
ABROAD...
The American Institute for Foreign Trade offers intensive professional education for international business.
-A Principles and Practices of Foreign Trade. Export-import procedures, finance, accounting, marketing, advertising, international economics, industrial relations.
•Jr Area Studies
Latin America, Far East, Europe
A- Modern Languages
Spanish, Portuguese
Applications now being accepted for September 1950 semester
AMERICAN INSTITUTE
FOR FOREIGN TRADE
William L. Schurz, President Thunderbird Field, Phoenix, Arizona
Metallurgy Dept. Sponsors Technical Conference Here
The Department of Metallurgy will sponsor a two-day technical Conference on Recrystallization at the University on June 1 and 2.
A number of distinguished scientists specializing in the field will attend. Among these are the Professors Orowan and Frank of England, Chalmers of Canada, and Mr. Anvill of Sweden. Professor Barret of the University of Chicago and three representatives from the General Electric Company will also be present.
Seven technical papers will be presented and discussed informally. Two of these will be submitted by our University’s own Department of Metallurgy. Considering the effort being extended, the Conference should be very successful.
T ranscontinental Freight Service
1145 Paririe Avenue South Bend, Ind.
Phone 4-2148
Specialized handling of Household Goods and Personal Effects at reduced rates to all points in California, Oregon, Washington, Montana, Idaho, Utah, Nevada and Arizona.
Also fast service to Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Colorado and Wyoming.
Marlowe’s Oration Captures Goodrich-Cavanaugh Prize
Last Monday evening the finals of the annual Goodrich-Cavanaugh Oratorical contest were held and the three best student orators of the previous week’s preliminaries competed for a total of $150 in cash prizes.
Winner of first place and $100 was Quintin Marlowe of San Antonio, Texas, whose oration was entitled “The Second Owner of Montpelier.” Bob Niquette, of Two Rivers, Wis., and winner of last month’s freshman oratorical contest, won second prize, $35, for his oration on the topic “All Americans Have Rights.”
The third place award of $15 went to Chuck Perrin of Chicago, Ill., for his oration entitled “What Would a Founding Father Say?”
Marlowe recently captured fourth place and a $50 prize in the semi-finals of the Hearst National Intercollegiate Public Speaking Contest. Perrin was recent winner of the campus Talent Quest.
Under the terms of the grant, founded in 1939 by the Hon. James P. Goodrich, LL.D., 1917, in memory of
Rev. John W. Cavanaugh, c.s.c., President of the University from 1905 to 1919, these prizes are awarded annually to the three undergraduate students who deliver the best oration dealing with the fundamentals of American government, particularly the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States.
IAS Plans Model Contest
To Be Held in September
The Student Branch of the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences is planning a
model airplane contest to be held within the first two weeks after school starts in September. Prizes will be awarded according to design, performance and appearance and there will be events in all classes of free flight and U control.
Plans- are being made to secure competent judges and timers for the contest. All those interested in details please contact Bill Grunske, 265 Alumni Hall, or Wayne Six, 119 Dillon hall, and leave summer addresses with either of these two.
Pick-up of effects will be made at all “trunk rooms” on Campus on request.
En Route to and from the West Coast — Stop With
GEORGE J. "STUDIE" UNS. *02
Monogram Member of Varsity Football Teams 1897, 1898, 1900, 1901
LINS MOTOR COURTS AND LODGE
Unexcelled Accommodations to Fit Every Purse and Personality
On U. S. Highways 66 and 54	Tucumcari. New Mexico
May 19, 1950
31
Some.
Monogrammed Summerwear
) -
for the Beach, for Sports, for just plain Comfort
Ideal for warm weather . . . this light poplin rain-proof Windbreaker . . .
$5.95
T-Shirts—for men, with seal and monogram, in white and yellow___________________________________$1 and $2.25
for girls, a cap-sleeved shirt with the monogram surrounded by small hearts ............ $1.25
for juveniles, eye-catching monograms on white and yellow shirts ..........  $1	and $1.25
Sweat Shirts—in white, grey and blue, fleece-lined at $2.25
Polo Shirts—yellow and white; ideal for golf and tennis, $2.50
Terrycloth and Fleece Coats—long sleeved, cardigan style, for beach wear_______________________$2.85 and $3.15
Ever-popular with youngsters . . . the Joe College Junior Sweater; in both slipover and cardigan styles . . . sizes 2 to 12 . . .
$4.25 and $4.95
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE . . . B.dm h.ii t
32
The Scholastic
Academics
(Continued from Page 18)
sity of America in December. Again, the reaction was one of delight and appreciation for an excellent job.
Fresh from triumphs in New York’s i Town and Carnegie Halls and from ap-I pearances with the New York Philhar-Bbi monic, the Juilliard String Quartet pre-r'®' sented a March concert at Notre Dame, one of the highlights of the second semester program of the Concert and Lecture Series. As in the past, the Quartet presented a fine program of chamber music.
Near the end of March, Dylan Thomas, famed Welsh poet, gave a reading of contemporary poetic works. The reading was attended by a large number of students and faculty mem-ri) bers-_
! Winding up the Concert and Lecture Series was a talk by Rev. J. Courtney Murray, S.J., on the subject he is most famed for, “Church and State.”
The Academic year, then, meant a good deal more than classes and profs. It meant the continuation of Notre Dame’s effort to educate the student in all possible ways by making available to him the opportunities necessary for his full employment.
© —
Administration
(Continued from Page 22)
house and hotel to be built near the main entrance to the University. The building •will be named the Morris Inn in honor of the donor.
The latest announcement of donations to the Notre Dame Building Fund named I. A. O’Shaughnessy the donor of §1,500,000 for the construction of a liberal and fine arts building at the University.
To date hopes for a bigger and better Notre Dame seem not too far away. Currently a drive for funds for the Science Building nears completion. In South Bend, Ind., efforts to meet the total required for construction of the Science Building look promising as the entire community joins in the $500,000 fund raising drive.
Exact dates for the beginning of construction of the Morris Inn, the Fred J. and Sally Fisher Memorial, the O’Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building, and the Science Building have not yet been announced, but when they are Notre Dame promises to be bigger and better than ever before.
The past year saw distant plans develop into realities as the Administration continued its work — guiding the rapid growth of the University of Notre Dame.
May 19, 1950
TAKE THE SIMMER OUT OF SUMMER WITH
$3.65 «P
You’ll stay more comfortable on the hottest days in our new “air conditioned” Arrow shirts!
Besides coolness, these shirts have Arrow’s smart collar styling and fine tailoring! In whites and colors—long and short sleeves. See your Arrow dealer today!
ARROWshirts & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
It’s Adlers for
ARROW
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
33
Roughly Speaking
by Ken Zhoren —a—
Lit'ry Mag Scores
For some unexplainable reason there’s been a running Hatfield-McCoy feud between the Scholastic and the Juggler for several years. Whether the habitual criticism levelled at ND’s literary mag was warranted or not doesn’t matter. What does matter is that the feud must cease.
There’s no other recourse to take since the publication of last week’s issue of the Juggler. Without a doubt, it is by far the best issue put out in many a moon.
The editorial staff has finally seen fit to discard its unintelligible flights into esoteric jibberish. They’ve put their feet back on the ground and by so doing have come up with a collection of stories, essays, poetry and reviews that is of great worth.
The short stories are the main attraction of this issue. Readers can’t go wrong on either Herb Hoene’s Kennebas Creek, an excellent outdoors story of a death, or Jim Curran’s My Athelea, a beautiful and universal story of tragedy. For technical skill there is Walt Clement’s Willie and the Fates.
But these -are just a few of the highlights in this exceptionally fine issue. If the 1950-51 Jugglers can come up to this year’s final issue, then they will be looked forward to with great anticipation.
One Fast Year
It’s always hard to bring something to a close.
This is not only the last issue of the 1949-50 Scholastic, but also the final appearance of Roughly Speaking. The past year has gone by so fast it hardly seems possible that the end has been reached. But it’s been an interesting year, no matter how you look at it.
This person has learned plenty from its job of pounding out a weekly column for 26 weeks. There’s one lesson above all others, though, that has been especially well learned.
The column has been concerned mostly with dishing out blows and blasts to just about anything pertaining to student life at Notre Dame. And the reception these comments have received has always been the same. Every complimentary blow was accepted with smiles and nods of complete agreement
—“Yessir, that guy really knows what he’s talking about.” Every tempered, critical blast was accepted with grimaces and stern looks of dissatisfaction —“Huh, where does that guy get off telling us what’s wrong.”
Perhaps it has something to do with that old bromide about people hating to hear the truth. Although the column might have been way off base at times, it was always written with sincerity — just one man’s honest opinion.
Nothing was ever meant to be malicious. Attempts were always made to soften any criticism that appeared here. The column’s purpose was to report and comment on student life and to give praise to those students and organizations that deserved it and to criticize those who also deserved it.
We have a strong interest in Notre Dame—and have tried to better it in any small way possible. We only hope
we didn’t step too hard on anyone’s tender feet or give anyone too hearty a blow of commendation. Moderation was what we were after, but if we failed in this pursuit then chalk it up to the difficulty of finding a middle path that pleases everyone.	.
Next year a new columnist will keep this space well supplied with comments. Our words will be moved to a page up front. Before we close for good we would like to thank all those who helped us so much during the past year.
And a special word of thanks to Joe Herrington, the Scholastic’s retiring Editor. He climaxed his four years’ work on the mag by being its very capable head during the past year. He’ll be sorely missed .when September rolls around and in behalf of all those who will return, we would like to say our only hope is that we can do as great a job as he has done.
Now, like Omar, we’ll roll up our tent and quietly steal away. Roughly speaking, this is the end.
HAVE MORE FUN THIS SUMMER
LEARN TO DANCE
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. Wayne
2-3339
CAMPING IN THE Quetico- Superior Wilderness Complete outfitting service *8.59
a day with Grumman aluminum can o e a. Food, your choice—extra.
50-page Canoe Country picture booklet mailed postpaid anywhere for *1.00 BASSWOOD LAKE LODGE’ on Minn.-Canadian border. Main Lodge and 20 log cabins. Modern bathroom facil- jAA ities. American Plan rates $8.00 and up. Also housekeeping cabins.
ELY.. MINNESOTA
34
The Scholastic
NOW ON SALE
the
juggler
May 19, 1950
35
"TJia eJN
/ and the Hawk
- '



Smoke my cigarette, Chesterfield they're Milder... much Milder"
...THAT’S RIGHT. CHESTERFIELDS ARE MILDER. I know that for a fact, because raising tobacco is my business, and Chesterfield buys the best mild, ripe tobacco I grow. Beside that, Chesterfield has been my steady smoke for 11 years."
PROMINENT TOBACCO FARMER WYLLIESBURG, VA.
9^L^ou to Smok
Wipers - „
5 Page 2
Welcome Students
Fun
£«
LEARN TO DANCE
IT'S EASY ... IT'S FUN
Learn while you're young. Learn the famous Arthur Murray Way. In no time at all you’ll be able to step out on the dance floor with any partner . . . full of confidence and poise.
Don’t Wait . . Phone 2-5339 today for a free trial lessoa.
AIR CONDITIONED
“Northern Indiana’s Finest Dance Studio”
ARTHUR MURRAY’S
120 E. Wayne St
Ph. 2-3339
FREE PARTY DANCES EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT
2
The Scholastic
YOU CAN LEARN TO MORE THAN DOUBLE
This instrument makes a record on movie film of your eye movements as you read.
YOUR READING CAPACITY
No matter how fast you are reading now, you can double your rate and improve your powers of comprehension.
Would a reading rate of 650 to 1,000 words a minute (2 to 4 average book pages) help you in your studies? Hundreds of students have been helped to better grades with this new skill.
Learn how you, too, can acquire this valuable new skill in a short period of time!
Stop in for a free copy of the booklet “YOU CAN READ BETTER,” and receive a demonstration of instruments and methods used in this unusual training.
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING
114 E. LaSalle Avenue
Phone 3-0077
Sept. 22, 1950	.	5
HEADQUARTERS FOR YOUR GYM CLOTHING
GYM PANTS £1.25, £1.35, £1.65 WHITE TEE SHIRTS 65c, 75c, 85c SWEAT SHIRTS £1.69, £2.25, £2.50 SWEAT PANTS £2.10, £2.50, £2.60 WIGWAM SWEAT SOCKS 55c, 65c, 90c BASKETBALL SHOES £4.75, £6.50, £10.95
Some Fans Write
SONNEBORN'S SPORT SHOP
121 W. Colfax Ph. 3-3702
Editor:
. . . Ever since my son (Jim O’Rieley, 272 Dillon) became a student at Notre Dame in 1946 I have been an interested reader of the Scholastic, and never miss anything in it.
But the September 11 issue tops them all, and you are to be congratulated not only on this fine number, but on the new idea of getting it out before classes begin and filling it with such wonderful material. It is, indeed, a high-class magazine, and I cannot imagine a better one published by the students of any university.
I wish to further commend you specially on the editorials, the letter from Father Cavanaugh, the “Introduction,” and for that matter I might mention every department in the whole issue; they are all splendid . . .
I am a stranger to you and your staff, but nonetheless, you have my sincere congratulations.
Sincerely yours, M. W. O’Rieley
Cedar Rapids, Iowa
Editor:
I want to express my thanks as well as admiration to you and your staff for the September 11 issue of the Scholastic. An introductory issue for newcomers should alleviate a great deal of the confusion so prevalent during the days of registration and those immediately after.
And of particular interest is the new column “Living Today” by Frank Brophy. Mr. Brophy will have to be very astute if he intends to remove all cause for complaint from Tom Kelleghan and cohorts. I do hope he completely attains this objective in his column in spite of the fact that it’s a very large order.
Sincerely,
Pete Brennan
307 Badin
Editor:
Only a few days ago I returned home after seeing my son enroll as a Freshman at Notre Dame. I wish I could tell you fully how your wonderful spirit at Notre Dame of advice and cooperation impressed me.
My son and I, both complete strangers in this part of the country, were extremely grateful for all the help given us by upperclassmen. I hope to visit your campus soon again.
Name Withheld Los Angeles, Calif.
OUTSTANDING IN QUALITY, STYLE AND VALUE
Clothes of Refinement
SUITS and COATS — $55 upwards
READY TO WEAR OR TAILORED TO YOUR MEASURE
Parker-Winterrowd Clothes of Refinement “Suits” are masterpieces of the tailoring craft because of the superlative quality of fabrics, the deft hand-lining of cover and pattern, and the exacting fit as well as flattering fashion. Select from our abundant array of popular models.
PARKER - WINTERROWD, Inc.
1151/2 -	North Main Street
Second Floor — Upstairs
“SOUTH BEND’S OLDEST CUSTOM-TAILORS AND CLOTHIERS”
4
The Scholastic
b^	f
Top of the Week
Freshman Picnic tomorrow at Pota-watomie Park . . .
Shades of Michelangelo
When the Scholastic moved to its Farley Hall offices last Spring everyone on the staff agreed that a little paint on the fiber-board and cement walls would add greatly to the overall beauty of the subterranean setup. In fact, a lot of paint in the right places might even hide a multitude of unsightly features, as most women know but will rarely reveal.
Everybody knows that the painters couldn’t do the job in the summer when everybody and everything was out of the office, so they’re here now, en force. Everywhere you look you see a pale green color, including the typewriter keys. The fumes are enough to drive away everything but the flies. All the desks and chairs are stacked in the middle of the floor with copyreaders and rewrite men daringly perched atop the mountain of mahogany and maple.
After waiting more than three months we really ought to be thankful, but it would be easier to work if the Sports Editor would hold this ladder steady.
Numbers Game
semble so much — the new cards might be used for something like this:
WND’s popular weekly give-away program “Breakfast at Ziggy’s” is now on the air and the master of ceremonies is picking a number from random in the files of the Dining Halls. He pulls out number X4175. After a hurried search X4175 is located, just finishing his dessert. Number X4175 is hustled to the . microphone where he is awarded the grand prize for being the lucky winner — an extra helping of pickled beets.
Other possibilities for these new cards are just as exciting and it will be interesting to see which wide-awake promoter will be the first to take advantage of the situation.
Fun-Packed Afternoons
The Sunday afternoon sojourns across Dixie Highway to St. Mary’s tea dances by some ND students began this week. Incidentally, they still don’t serve tea or any other kind of refreshments at these affairs. But, to get back to what we started to say, this year’s crowds at the Le Mans dance pavilion ought to break all previous attendance marks.
A St. Mary’s tea dance is still a very confusing affair. Everyone of the ND men is required to don coat and tie while he trys to dance to inaudible music from a 19th century gramophone. But
that’s not the only pleasant aspect of these Sunday get-togethers.
The veteran tea dance goer is used to a packed floor and stag lines three and four deep, made up of hopeful Notre Dame men surrounding the dancers. Sunday’s crowd, however, not only filled the dance floor and patio but overflowed onto the lawns and walks.
Several St. Mary’s Freshmen saw the male aggregation and wondered if they hadn’t taken the wrong bus from town. A couple of Notre Dame Freshmen left about 3:30 p.m. without even catching a glimpse of a female, concluding the whole thing was a hoax.
These mammoth crowds are easily explainable when you get right down to it. • The new men, acting as such, are definitely exploring. The others are either trying their luck again while the crop of eligible dates is still plentiful or are compelled by past actions to return to the scene of their triumphs and capitalize on their good fortune.
We went over to get some tea, but as we said above, nothing doing.
Bottom of the Week
. . . Plenty of hot dogs and ants, but -never enough girls at any ND picnic.
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry, Gift Items
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
Those new numbered cards that have replaced the old Dining Hall meal tickets are causing more talk among the student body than the prospect of a losing football season this Fall. Whether or not the new system deserves such attention is debatable, but in the months to come just about anything could happen. For example:
The noonday bustle in the East Dining Hall is suddenly interrupted by a voice over the P.A. system blai’ing out “Attention all stations. Attention all stations. Be on the lookout for a student bearing chow hall card number B7689. Repeating card number B7689. This student is wanted for line crashing. Use extreme caution for he is believed to be dangerous. That is all.”
Or if they’re not going to get confused with license plates — which they re-
South Bend's Finest Spaghetti House
Steaks - Chops Seafoods
We cater to Parties
A FAVORITE WITH NOTRE DAME MEN
415 North Michigan	Phone 3-0903
Special T-bone Steak every Thursday — ^125
Sept. 22, 1950