
THE. YELLOW 

Great Subs! 272-4453 
-


CANCER 
CAN 
A GREAT CHRISTMAS IDEA! 
BE 
Give a subscription. to Scholastic 


·BEAT· 
and get a FOOTBALL REVIEW free! 
Like almost 2 million people, Tracy Andrus· is living proof your contribu-. tions count. · · 
Please support 
· our efforts. 
I 1 
I Scholastic . 
t
. I LaFortune Student Center 

American
I · Notre Dame, Indiana 4_6556 


CancerSociety
II Please send .............. ye,ars of Scholastic 
I at $7:00 per year to: 
I
1 Name .;..... ;;........ ; ........................................ . 
I 
1· Address .......... ; ....;..; .................... : ...... : ..... 
I' I · City ...:...,.. , .... '. ....... · ............ ; ....... : .. .,;..... · ... ;.... I 
This space rontribut~d as a pub1il· st>r\'in•.
I ·1 
I State ...... ; .... ; ........ '. ............... Zip:............. I 
-I I ; 
L 
•---------1 

2 .. · SCHOLASTIC 
' __ :. 

Editor 
Dave Satterfield 

Managing Editor 
Bob Southard 

Art Director 
Jim Hofman 

Production Manager 
Theresa Rebeck 

News Editor 
Lisa Hartenberger 

Fiction Editor 
Tom Balcerek 

Copy Editor 
Anthony Walton 
Culture Editor Greg -Solman 
Sports Editor Tom Westphal 
St. Mary's _Editor_ Kari Meyer 
Layout Editor Clay Malaker, 
Phot~graphy Editor 
Ken McAlpine _ Business Manager ''•-. Pahl Davis 
Advertisement ·Manager · Kevin Murphy. · 

Distribution Manager 
Jerry Murphy 


Staff 
John Maddog Muldoon, Don Schmid,. Chris Stewart, · Mary Leavitt, Donna Teevan, 
Cathy· -Wisniewski, Pat Worklan, Jim 
Sommers, Michael Diaz, Ken Scarbrough, Maryellen Bradley;· Chuck Wood, David 
. . -r 
N. Randall, Keith Caughlin, Steve Burkart, ~ick Keppel, Brendan Brown, Dodee Car~ ney, Michael Meisch, Ed Wimmer, Rich Mc1rcello, Tim :·,_Tedrik, Lee Smolen, Tom Krueger,--Ann Bridget Clarke, Cecelia Susan Labriola, Betsy _Spinelli, Tom O'Toole, Phyllis Washington, Kevin Paulson 

-Photos: 
p. 14 Jim ·Hoffman, p. 18 Photo courtesy Random House, p. 20 Ken McAlpine, p. 23 Ken McAlpine, p. 23. Ken McAlpine, p. 25 Sports Information, p. 27_-Ken McAlpine, p._ 31 ·_ Ken McAlpine 
Illustrations: 
p. 8 Paul -Monardo, p. 28 Jim Hoffman 
Front Cover: Chris Policinskl . 
. . 

Back Cover: Original William Faulkner pen and ink, courtesy of University of Notre ._Dame Press · · 
Advisory Board 

Jim Winters, Mario Pedi, Edward fischer. 
DECEMBER 7, 1979 






SCtDLJ\STC 
Vol. 121, No. 5 December 7., 1979 Notre Dame, Indiana 
FEATURES 
6 Revolt of the Lacerated Nigger: Politics in the 1970's 10 The Seventies: A Cultural Retrospect 22 Militarily Speaking 24 Scholastic Top Ten: Basketball 27 The-B0's: Comes a Tide 

REGULARS 
4 ~erspective 

13  Fiction  
16  Gallery  
18  Books: Mayday-The Last of the Best  
20  Books: A New Look at an Old Issue_  
26  Perspective _­_  
29  In Retrospect  
20.  Last Word  

Chris·topher -A. Stewart 
Colonel Gail Bulmer Anthony Walton Kari Meyer 
Anthony Walton Tom Balcerek 
,,· 
Harvey_ Newquist Theresa Rebeck Gregory Solman Theresa Rebeck 
Tom Westphal 
Pave Satterfield 


The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff_ and editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, ,faculty; or the student b<>.dy. -. 
The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Ed~catio~al Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published fortnighJly d_uring the school year e_xcept during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press~ Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $7.00 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. ­copyrigh_t © 1979 Scholastic / all rights ·reserved / none of the contents may be repro­duced without permission..• --. . _ __ . _ . -__ . . . 

Jaded and Faded: The 70's Will Do That To You 
by Anthony Walton 

You ask a poet to sing One other memory of the sixties is inevitable in a political system in Why sticks out in my mind. New Year's which freedom of expression is rela­Even the birds are hoarse Eve, 1969. It was the first time-I tively guaranteed. I could go on, but -Alan Bold stayed up and welcomed in the New that is not necessary. The problems Year, and I was quite excited.. I of the . seventies are generally not 
I have several blurred memories of think I half-expected a cataclysmic unique to the American experience, . the sixties. One of the clearest is the happening to mark the changing •. but there is one difference. They memory of sitting with my family decade, and slightly disappointed have happened all at once. And now, watching television as the news bul-. · when nothing happened .. I. was still our culture has been so thoroughly letin about the assassination of glad, however, to be ·•in' • on the rocked that it seems to be dis­Martin Luther King came on. The seventies from the .beginning, and oriented, unable to set upon a path initial. bulletin reported only that looked forward to seeing what would to correct its problems with any de­King had been shot. A strangely still happen in the years to come. gree of certainty. The situation is silence came over the room, broken Looking back, I think_ I was in bleak, the prognosis is pessimistic. I only by my mother softly saying much the same position as the coun~ guess the seventies will do .that to "He's gone." About ten minutes try was in 1970. I had experienced you. later, the anticlimactic news of a few .strange things in the sixties, What happened to the seventies? King's death flashed onto the screen. and would come to understand them · This decade had so much promise. Nothing was said, the room was en~ ·as the seventies unfolded. The coun­The sixties were painful, but some veloped in a shocked silence. I didn't . try. had experienced very damaging much-needed lessons were learned, really understand ·what was going shocks during the sixties, and hoped and the benefits of : those lessons on, but my strongest recollection of that the seventies would bring heal­could be realized. SomehowIt all got this incident is my sudden, .intense·· ing and understanding. In retrospect, lost along the way, and the American fear of leaving that room. I sensed -it is ironic to notice how the sixties spirit was broken. I don't know if it some kind of danger. I was afraid in reality only set the stage for the was the· result of the assassinations to go out of the light into· the dark-events of the seventies. of the sixties, the problems of Viet ness of the rest of the house. I don't . There is no need to go into a de-. Nam, or •the realizations of Water­remember how long this fear lasted, tailed account of the events of the gate. I have a feeling that ithad to or how I overcameit, but I remember . seventies. Watergate, Kent State, do with all three, and much more. the· sense of fear as if it-were· "Peace With Honor," Alan Bakke, The advent of television asthe pri­yesterday; "No Nukes," Stagflation, "The Me mary means of delivering infor~ 
Another memory -that I have of. Decade,'' "The.Energy Crisis," Lock­mation to the public was a·major the sixties is from that same year.. heed, political corruption, and the factor in the demise of the American I remember getting out of bed early volunteer Army are but a few of the spirit. In no other ·ume period of one morning and finding my mother social buzz-words that· will be used history have the firsthand realities sitting in· a room with the curtains to describe the seventies. There has of day-to-day crises of the world in drawn, holding a: handkerchief to her been no other time in American his­which we live been brought into the face as the television silently flashed tory when so much has hit us in such American . home. The riots . of -the pictures of Robert Kennedy. Some-a short time. There have always sixties, the Viet Nam War,_ and the how, I immediately knew what had been scandals in this country; unfor­daily developments of Watergate happened, and again the fear· of tunately, corruption-seems to beas were an· brought into the daily lives leaving· the · room came _over'· ine. . much a part of the American Way of ·all Americans as a result of tele-· · Within· afew months, two incidents as hot dogs and apple pie. There . vision. What this did was create an had affected my .parents in ways I have been periods· of economic in­overdose of reality for the general 
I had never seen them affected before. ... stability, that is the nature of a public. Bad news was _constantly I knew-that something was wrong, capitalistic economy;· There have being thrust in front of us, and we but I didn't know what. been periods of internal unrest, that could in effect be there as the news 
4 · SCHOLASTIC 
I 
happened. With the ·.print. me~a, 
there is a sense· of removal from 'the 
news. (There is a difference between 
reading about someone· getting his 
head blown off and watching it yo~r­
self) Television brought all these 
events to tis. : ·A good example of this 
phenomenon is.Nixon's denial of any 
wrongdoing in the infamous "I am 
not a crook" speech of 1973, only to 
resign in disgrace a"year later, all ori 
national television in full view of the 
public. Events such · as this one, 
coupled -with .the overs·aturation·. of 
bad news, created a:· breach of trust, 
first between. the people and their 
governme~t, then b_etween the people 
and everything,· including them~ 
selves. 
Americans have grown so tired of bad news that. it has affected our sense of community as a nation. Be­cause of these· problems ( especially · the economic ones) we have become a nation of individuals, basically con­cerned witli-the advancement of our~ selves as individuals. :Several pieces 
of evidence point to. this. Where did the passion of the sixties' civil rights :movements'· go? :we now see terms like "reverse discrimination" enter into our conversation, and watch as the Ku Klux Klan attempts· to em­bark upon a· new wave of terror~ We sit by relatively impassively as large percentages of two continents slowly starve to death. We ignore warnings of an energy-crisis, because we don't know whether to believe it or not. The attitude is "Well, if there is a crisis, I'll. worry about. it. then. I'm having my· fun· now.,, No man is "qualified" to be President. Carter is incompetent and we· can't trust• the rest of them. A couple of them are knowri liars. . -. -.-. . 
The American society as we know it is falling 'apart. . 
Where does all this leave us? I don't know. It leaves me with the same sense of fear I had in the sixties as a small child. Except the fear is much more acute,· because I have·an idea of what is going on this time; What do'the eighties hold for America? A revolution? Possibly. The seeds are being sown now. As the middle class continues to be elim­inated, there· will -be' increasing tensions. It is one thing to· have been poor all of your life· and another to have··been: middle-class and· watch inflation destroy ·your ability to live comfortably. And I don't think the 
people will' accept "conservation of 
·The list.: is endless ... ·Divorce is-. life-s~yle.u Not as long as there are 
rampant. We have spiraling teenage pregnancy rates, VD is reaching epi­demic proportions in -some cities; there is a ragingbattle over abortion,· and a general relaxation of the mores of the society. "Have a good.time" seems to be the new rallying cry. 
David Rockefellers in the world. Will we somehow miraculously rebound from our troubles? I doubt it. I don't think the inner fiber is there anymore for Americans. The. recent incidents·· involving Iran ·could be 
(continued cm page 6,) 


(continued. from.page 5) construed as a renewal of the patri-: otic spirit, but I think. it is just a release mechanism, a way of direct­ing the anger of this country at something else. We can be upset with Iran, but we can't use this as the scapegoat for all our troubles. 
No matter what happens·· in the eighties, I _ foresee trouble for America, and I wonder if we will be able to rise to the occasion. .Will we unite behind ·Carter or whoever is the elected president in the eighties? Will the young people rise to the challenge.that is .facing us to salvage this way of life for us, and insure that it persists around the world?. I don't know., Most of the time I doubt 

it. The heart has. been taken out of · the young people, even the children. There is a sense of helplessness, of not . really being_ able to change things. Distrust and uncertainty permeate _this society. No one or . nothing can" really be believed in:_The realization of the fallibility .of the human endeavor has struck pain­fully.--The. older generations have painted the society _into · a corner from which there may be no escape. · For example, even if all :the econom~ ic, social and political problems are solved, what about the environment? There is enough nuclear.waste in the ecosystem right now to desfroy'__!he world. But nuclear power is the only quick· technical fix we have to deal 
with the "energy crisis." The more you look at it, the more disconcerting it gets. · 
' I'll be there on New Year's Eve, 1979, ready to usher in my third decade. But the feeling will be dif­ferent from the ·one.I had ten years ago. -Instead of looking eagerly for­ward to the future, I will be warily assessing the future _of this country and .the world; These problems can't go on· forever~-We _can't iet them, and ·if we stand _by idly they will reach 'a· -crisis point s·ooner · or later. It's inevitable. This past decade has jaded me· arid:· this : country, but I guess that had to happen. The seventies will do thaflo you. D · 
• • : L : •: • ~ • ~ • • •; • • 

Revolt ofthe Lacerated Nigger:s: Politics iri. the 1970's 
by· Christopher Antonio Stewart 

"Those who profess to Tnve freedom lii _nontotalitarian states like the rative connotation of the word nig­and yet deprecate · -agitation are u.s;, it is through the shrewd orga-ger refers specifically t? a sub­those who wan~_ crops without plow­nization of_ pressure, or special in-human· . being, even a _nonhuman ing. This struggle may be a moral terest, groups that political aims -.-being. An .example is the Negro one, or it may be physical, :but it favorable · to tho·se ·groups .are prior to the. Emancipation Procla~ must be a struggle. Power concedes achieved. What has transpired. in mation. An example of a nonnigger, nothing without a demand. It never the. 1970~the decade :of apathetic: conversely, is a white male, usuallydid, and·never will." · · · affluence, decad~nt disco and politi-Western and Christian. : ---. 
-Fredrick Douglass ( 1857) cal Pollyannas-is the revolt of ·the What I have discovered-during. . fringes, the erstwhile •~niggers'' who ··the compilation of this article on the 
Freedo~ is a dangerous commodi­refuse to accept their inferior status politics of the 1970s are se\'.en major ty to forces of oppression. Dema­and demand a new, place under_ the _categories of . niggerdom which are gogues and dictators suffer from the sun. _ .__ __ . _ being __ rejected by various\groups gnawing anxiety that those factions This lust . to share_ the power-pie, throughout · 'America._ -Each group in society which are ruthlessly. sup­to slice off more pieces for the pre-· has its own unique elements. Cor­pressed :_ may one day_ ··rise :up in viously unaccepted vestiges .of nig-porately, these-seven. groups symbo­wrathful indignation, challenge his gerdom, is a radical_ development in · lize a serious threat to the · male, authority· and .. topple __ the z:egime: . the history of the free world. Why? _white: American power structure, a Therefore, itbehooves., him to pla­Because it is who is clamoring for structure which I -believe . is not cate his potential· adversaries, usual­freedom that is making all the differ-seriously attuned to. the gravity of ly, the rich, the military, and the in~ ence _this time. · , this challenge to its power. . . .; telligentsia. This -is ·done through It is the voice ~f the grave. _ · Within America and throughout special treatment, illicit ·goods and The dead are. rising, collectively, the worid, persons previously rele­
: plain old corruption. The end result for the first ~ime in human history. _gated to the status of nigger, or non-.­is the consolidation·of an:power. into -. -The nigger is no more. The nigger human, are revolting. --They are.de----­the avaricious hands of ·the despot.· has been rendered historically anach-termined to gain a modicum of dig­
Now, power is a very· treacher­ronistic. The nigger's final crucifix-nity, of respect,.. of legal recognition ous . aphrodisiac to the -political ion was portended in the upheavals for their existences. __ _ · · _ neophyte. Its tantalizing ·fragrance of the 60's. The nigger's resurrec-· I believe ·that these groups repre­attracts all members of society, es­tioil and rebirth -happened _in the sent an epochal evolutionary. jump pecially the educated_ members who 1970s. · _ _ : . ._ .. in: the development of the: whole happen to be oppressed. Too. much ' By nigger, I mean any definition-hurrian community. It _is time to power ,in the·__ wrong hands usually of a human persori heretofore re-make.room for the nigger, to allow results in brutal crackdowns against garded by the powers-that-be as our collective Lazaruses out .of the 
-those , persons unsympathetic , or somehow· no'f fully . human, and coffin of racism; sexism, classism, philosophically /politically . opposed therefore not worthy of full respect ageism, _and immoralism. _ -­to the tyrant in •· power. and rights under the law. The. pejo~ 
The Historical Nigger: Women 
In unprecedented numbers, women 

are abandoning their total commit­
ment to the family, home, and hub­
by. She is asserting, and justifiably 
so, her right to psychic, emotional, 
economic, political and sexual equal­
ity with men. After several thousand 
years of unabated exploitation, many 
women have concluded: enough is 
enough. They now comprise a stag­
gering 44% · of the American work 
force, and that number ·is climbing. 
Naturally, the impact on the family 
is profound: ·divorces have doubled 
since the beginning of the decade; 
day-care centers abound, thus allow­
ing women the freedom and mobility 
to enter the job market; and abor­
tion is readily available. Even the 
most chauvinistic men are reluctant­
ly admitting the necessity to reform 
their antediluvian attitudes and 
sexist lingo. 
The 80's and 90's should see an 
increase in women's . political and 
economic clout, which at present is 
still in the. training-bra stage; Full 
"womanhood" . (politically · speak­
ing) will be achieved by the year 
2000. I portend at least one or two 
serious runs on the presidency by · 
women before the end of the cen­
tury. Would you believe a First Man, · 
or First Sir, to complement the Fe­
male Executive? . 
My one reservation about the 
women's movement is that women avoid becoming male-baiters ;'and · venomously antimale. . They must struggle to overcome the excessive­ly tendentious radical wing of the women's movement, which tends to be nothing more than inverted macho femininst rhetoric, spicy but 
banal. And very unfeminine. 
The Economic Nigger:· 
3rd-arid 4th-World Peoples 
· Americans have had an incredi-· bly · difficult time adapting them~ selves, their .. thinking, and ethno-. centric · mythology (i.e., America is the new Israel, God's Chosen Na~ tion) to· present reality. The world is · crueler to America than ever be­fore, because it is a time of retrench­ment, reappraisal, and redefinition. We. live not in-a world centered on America;· instead, we live in an in­creasingly . interdependent world, a world of finite resources. Americans must realize that they no longer call all the •· shots . in· the economic and political order. We're a part, not the 
whole. · · · · This startlingly abrupt transfor_. mation irrupted in October, 1973. At this·time, the greatest economic 
shock wave since the Stock Market crash of 1929 was engineered at the behest of Saudi Arabia. They in­itiated the oil embargo against all Western supporters of Israel, which was engaged at the time in the Yorn Kippur War against Egypt. This embargo against Europe and the 
U.S. was followed two weeks later by the quadrupling in ·the price of oil. The fledgling conglomerate of oil-exporting nations, OPEC,. had discovered the Achilles' heel · of Western industrialized nations: black gold, Texas tea, oil. This abrupt tocsin ushered in the age of expensive energy. . · 
The decline of the great imperial powers-Britain, France, Germany, HoUand, Portugal, and now the U.S. -in· the 20th century has not .cic­. curred without · serious dislocations and repercussions within the coloni­alized lands.. The present political quagmire throughout Southern Af­rica is witness to that fact, not to mention the present·horrors engulf­. ing all. of Southeast Asia. But these colonialist adventures set the prece­
. dent for the economic, opportunistic gouging presently employed . by OPEC. 
·. Symbolically, OPEC is the ven­geance of all 3rd-and 4th-World peoples that . have been exploited, raped, ravaged ·and plundered in­discriminately by greedy Europeari and capitalistic interests from the 16th ·century to the 20th. Is it so ironic that OPEC is now turning the screws on its former masters? Power has that tendency to corrupt, and gives.· the beholder the tremen­dously heady· feeling of control and 
· destruction. . Through OPEC, the West has come to realize that it does not have the power· that it once had. The . pobrer nations, having the precious natural resources· that the West needs to survive, are now ready to reap their economic rewards, which are phenomenal (Saudi Arabia alone has accumulated $150 billion since 1973, most of which has gone into internal. development).,· America's response, again, must be a · change of attitude. Thinking from an aggressive, profit~oriented mentality is. dysfunctional. It must be transposed to one of mutual co­. operation, a share-the-wealth orien­tation which • understands · the nu.: ances of interdependence. To fail to do so, at . this cruciatjuncture . of history, will be both economic sui­cide and political insanity. ·We must recognize the rights of aU-people on earth to have. an equal entitle­ment to the world's diminishing re­
sources. If our greed does not end, it will end ·us. 
Tne Sexual Nigger: Homosexuals 
The· 70's has seen the increasingly obtrusive emergence of homosexuals as a corporate entity seeking redress for past indiscretions. Cosmopolitan cities like San Francisco and New York have witnessed unequivocally vociferous, and sometimes violent outbursts in the past year by mili­tant gays_ over two highly explosive issues. These were the murder of a homosexual supervisor in. S.F. and 
. the filming of "Cruising" (starring Al Pacino). in N.Y., a film dealing with sadomasochism in the gay bar circuit. 
-Although . homosexuals are per­ceived as a social threat to the fam­ily and morality, their "coming out" by the millions in this decade is yet another dramatic challenge to our secular, religious, educational, legal and social institutions. Their demand for equality and full political rights have caused a furor and backlash in some corners. However, the sig­nificant strides made in this decade by this sexually oppressed minority, which numbers in the millions, will continue in the 80's, but not as overt­ly. The country's slant toward con­servatism will chill the · feverish rush for full recognition of liberal life-styles, one of which is homo­
.sexuality. 
The Ethnic Nigger: . Native American Indians 
Spurred by the apparent gains of blacks via .the . Civil Rights move­ment, this long · neglected group emerged ·as one of the most forceful­ly led contingents of the 70's. Radi­cal leader Dennis Banks helped 
· focus national attention on the plight of the fiercely proud and pro­foundly religious people. One prob­lem found on some reservations: the alcoholism rate among males is as high as 75%. · The book, Bury _My Heart At Wounded· Knee, is · a heartrending account of the innumerable treach­eries perpetrated by .the U.S. Gov­ernment in its treaty dealings with Indian nations.· The indignities and ·near genocide suffered by the Na­tive American population,_ justified by the white man's claim· of "prog­ress": and "manifest destiny," was further illuminated by the activism of concerned third · parties, most notably Marlon Brando. The Bureau of Indian Affairs . in Washington services the various .. reservations, but increasing . encroachments . by 
DECEMBER 7, 1979. 

I 
i 
' 
~ 
; i 
' 
j .,.
I
! I. I . 
1;


~1-·.:. 
~!. 
the government and private industry 
upon Indian lands· is · a· continual 
affront to these people. · 
Unfortunately, · substantial· gains in . the. status, educational oppor­tunity and ·economic · capability of the Native Indian people will. re­main unchanged ·in ·.the·' upcoming decade. For a people to have been so grossly _tossed•· aside, ·forgotten, .treated with . utter impunity and contempt, and corralled into con­fining reservations, it is amazing 
_8 
that they have· retained a• semblance of dignity, -pride, honor and faith. Their place in our society, like the urban ghetto, is a perpetual indict­ment and spiritual_ crime that·will forever mar our nation's heritage.
. . 

.. Parental Nigger: ·Children Recently,. a law was proposed in Sweden which' would·_ allow children the right .to divorce their parents. · Don't laugh, because when you con­s!der the in~easing figures of child 
abuse (physical, . • psychological), sexual abuse-of children, the..pro­. liferation·. of pornography specializ­in·g in "kiddie porn'' and other social ills, the law isn't such a. bad idea. That is; .if the child survives his/her
childhood. . . . . . · The child has long been regarded asthe property of,the 'parents/the chattel which is ._molded to; the whims and desires of parents;' The major difficulty in this matter, nat­urally, is not with parents .who ca.re 
· ; ':: . SCHOLASTIC 

too much, but those who care too However, we are cutting off a neces-grisly slide shows) is as repulsive little. This neglect inevitably leads sary link to ourselves, to our per-as the "scientifically" specious to a life.-of pain, misery and possi-sonal histories and our purpose in claims on the part of pro-chokers bly irreparable damage to the child. life if we do not take advantage of (the fetus is not really human) or 
With economic fears heightened the experience of those who have that their decision is totally their by · double-digit inflation, children preceded us. Old persons' contact own and consequently devoid of often .bear the brunt of mom or with the young is crucial to the . social impact, and, therefore, none of dad's financial frustration via verbal understanding of -the continuity, . society's business: I abhor the abor­
. abuse or physical violence. In the growth and inevitable changes that tion mentality which is rampant in last half of this decade, there has are inherent in life. If they are taken · this country. The poor and indigent, been _a great upsurge in the legal away, and put into homes, and for-I know, will suffer if the Supreme concern for children's rights, partic-gotten, we again commit a grievous Court decision is reversed. But edu­ularly _ when_·-it involves a hostile · sin against the spirit within each of cation, not abortion~on-demand, is and potentially dangerous _homelife. us, the spidt which first infused life -needed 
It is a-·well-known · fact-that the irito the, universe. · · · · 
· ·t f h"ld -b -I am fundamentally ·•_convinced
maJor1 yo c 1 a users were once -Looking ahead,-the_·elder·ly's polit-· 
I -. that life from conception is sacred,
abused children. t is a vicious cycle, icalclout_ will grow_· in the next two
h · n1 · be-·1 · b and, therefore, find it reprehensible
one t at can ° Y · curtai ed Y decades, although_·_ thei_r economic
h-d -f 1 d ff · · to .abort indiscriminately. I see this 
eavy -oses o ove an a ect10n. leverag· e will suffer the ravages -of
B t f -h"ld -· · 1· · I issue continuing as one of the major
u -or some c I ren, it is too itt e, inflation. I h_ope that th_e interest_ in 
1 H · "fl "d ones in the 80s, and possibly beyond. 
too ate. owever, s1gn1 cant str1 es geriatrics, and_ concern spurred by
b · d · -· The pro-lifers are_ well-organized
are emg ma e _to _assist parents, persons like Eliz_abeth Kubler-Ross,··
d --· 1 k li · and have made great inroads in the 
e ucators, socia wor ers, re g1ous w1·11 help_ reintegrate the· elderly to . 
· past several years. Abortion will be
and lawyers in their understanding -a more purposeful l_ife -after retire--_,
f th · "b"lit th h t an emotionally volatile topic for both 
o e responsi 1 Y ey ave 0-ment. The elderly are as much a ward insuring for every child a feel~ ·nonrenewable resource as children; sides far into the futures ing of . love, affection and being Their gift is wisdom, as precious• In conclusion, I have attempted wanted in an :Jncreasingly hostile _ and -priceless as any jewel or nat.; to highlight some of those groups, world. Children are naturally de-ural resource. we· must learn to from the Indian to the unborn; pendent, so it is up to us to use_ our listen to them now, lest no one lis-which are or have· been historically powers of love and reason to see that ten. to us when -we arrive at. their _ in the underdog position; and are they grow into_capable adult human. stage. And how_ hollow will_ be_ our now just beginning to make some 
beings. . · · pleas for solace, if we do not -lend headway into the echelons of power . . . . and self-destiny. Since it is largely
ours now. 
Cultural Nigger: E"lderly People -a male-run world, the greatest chal-M al N-" Th Unb · lenge I see is the evolution· of 
-Th·e ad·vent of the .'.'_Grey ·Panthers" or_ -igger: e orn · d h ·eff f · · 
women an er . orts or parity.and grey power in the second half · ----· · · · · · The rights of the 3rd/4th World 
Of thl·s decade 1·s one· of·.the. most The unborn are the decade's only· . . _ _
· --peoples, homosexuals, Native Ameri-­
welc-ome developmen-ts-1·n the do'ma1·n··•__ constitutionally declared nigger; The --­
· · --_can Indians, children, the elderlyOf Cl·tiz·en act1·v1·s·m·.-.-The· stat1·st1·cs Supreme Court decision in 1973,
· and the unborn are all visible signs
and-reports a·bout· _declining-·birth. · permitting abortion on ·demand, has h d f h. · --h that humankind is attempting to re-rates, the interest in gerontology, a ar-reac mg consequences on t e · ·t d · -d f h" • solve .some of its most pressingand various . p·rognosticators indi-spin an att1tu es o t 1s nation.· 
0 7 11. b · h -b moral, · philosophical, economic,eating the nationa_l age level is in-ver mi 10n a ort1ons ave een f · th d · • h social, and political problems at this
creasing are just a few examples; per ormed smce -e -ec1s1on, -wit of the increasing · influence of the · 1.2 million estimated for the present unique time in hiSt0ry. aged year of 1979~ Translated: approxi-It is amonumental task, to try to 
One of the great scandals of our · mately 3,300 _daily. · · · grant full humanity to each sector technological, mobile ·society is the ·-· · The·· most insidious aftereffect of of society, without infringing upon disposability of the aged, of the lack the decision is what I call the the rights of other members of that of compassion we have for those "eraser mentality.". By.this, I mean. very same. society. ­who no longer participate in· the· that whenever~we:make··a mistake, The battle will ·continue,-well into production process, be it goods or we try to blot it out of our mind, the 80s and beyond. The battle services. The aged are a national erase it, rather than face the respon-to: secure human· 'dignity · amidst 
. resource that is being underutilized. _sib_ility that goes with one'gactions. chaos; to secure ·human: love and Their wisdom, experience and ideas -Although I am in full support .of compassion amidst : indifference, · are valuable educational tools to . birth control, and even for abortion · prejudice and hate; to secure the the young. . -· in .very limited circumstances (rape, truth, even when the darkness ·ap­
. Ours is a very efficient society, an . incest;. threat to 'mother's. life), pears to be the only beacon we can action-oriented, youth~idolizing arid· .-I cannot accept -the notion _that · follow. ­death-denying culture. Even though -whenever "an accident occurs, I'll Even in the darkness, we can pray 
: we_' know we must grow · old, and get•an abortion." The-ent_ire idea-of and _hope --for ·the•-· light, however one· day die, we pretend _that . we the validity and.sanctity of life, and faint and dim it might be: can __ fool nature, our friends; .:and · the act of love which is ~exual union, 
-even ourselves. ·But in the end, we . is diminished if the' obvious result Dedication 
-grow old, one day to die: So why 'of any act of intimacy::--a human This article is dedicated to all of my do_we pack our parents and grand-fetus~an be so easily 'disposed ·of. friends, and enemies,• at du Lac. And , parerits -off to nursing homes, ·to -Although I think .that the obses-most especially to Mom. And Tracy; : sterile homes _for___the_-aged? For_._ siveness of some_ right-to-lifers for being who you are:Merry Christ"­
medical· and professional care, yes; (bombing abortion clinics, showing mas to all. 
DECEMBER ·.7, 1979 . 9 


KX)I\J-.The Most Celebrated of the '70's 
I 
. t ! 
the Managing Editor of the· Univer­
sity's Review of Politics, is held in 

"The: Life of the ·Mind"._:, high regard by those sophomores, 
juniors and seniors who, during their 
freshman year, had Moran for..two 


-:Dominates a De.cade_of. 
.. . -. . ' . ' . ' -:
semesters in Humanities Seminar. · -.. ' His "alumni" include three Scholol!tic 

Seventies·:Literature·
editorial board members-Greg·Sol­man, Clay Malaker and Tom Balcerek -:-sports writer FrankLaGrotta, Jim Byrne of the Hunger Coalition, and the Senior Class President and Vice­President, Nick Schneeman and 

Author ·Name Year 
Mary Pat Reppa. In fact, the poem printed _elsewhere in. this magazine 

Hannah Arendt . · · • The Life of the Mind. . · 1978 was Moran's annual Christmas poem 
Jolin Ashbery . Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror .. . . . 1976 in 1976.. 
Ernest Becker The Denial of Death , ; . _: _ , . 1973 Moran was full of disclaimers upon 
Paul De Man -Blindness and Insight 1971 completion of .this project. "Fred 
E. L. Doctorow .. Ragtiine . . , ·. 1975 Crosson and I had to flip acoin to 
William H. McNeill Plagues and People · __ .. 1976 decide the last one . . . it was be.,. 
Robert _Pirsig , · Zen and Art of Motorcycle Mainteimnce' 197:4 
John Ra:wls· . Theory of Justice .. . . . ' . . .· . ; 1971
tween Wicker's book and Fire on the Lake!' Nonetheless, his list slowly 

Levvis ,Thomas Lives of a Cell · ···,. 1974 
A"-Tiriie· to DiC.. -.. . \• .1976
Tom Wicker· Celebrated Books of the Seventies." 
metamorphized into «The Ten Most 
··" 

10 \SCHOLASTIC . 
flr\ -Fifteen Favorites·of Miles Coiner-· 
A Notre Dame 
Film Fan-·· 
Favors 
Fabulous...·.· 
Foreign 

Flicks_ 
The following are the fifteen fa­
vorite films of Dr; Miles Coiner: pro­
fessor of Speech···and Drama, film 
and. theatre cognoscente, part-time 
playwright, and avid pipe smoker 
("I don't know how many'I've got 
right now . . . probably arourid · 
thirty"). His list· is· hardly of the 
"Jaws" and "Network" genre, .but 
then, Coiner doesn't see' all of his 
films iri •South.Bend--:-:-in fact, ·judg­
ing from this list, he's sees darn 
few of of them· here. · · 
llThat's strange,"' he remarks to 
his class in Film Theory and Criti­
cism, "I saw all of the American 
films on ~his list when ~. was in 
Paris." 
To this · list, · Coiner would add 
three more if possible: Fassbinder's ."Ali: Fear Eats the Soul" ('74), Cop­. pola's "The Conversation" ('75) and-just to. prove that he does· in­deed see pictures in town-"The 
Rocky Horror Picture Show.". 
.-· ,· ,--,,,. ·•. ' ·.,, , '~ 
·. '.•·., '.·. 
. . , ~•; ;,_ 
.J,l-, , 
·,.•..,;J'~~Vi .. 1q 
--::::1 • 
: ~~_.'.'\,.,.#, • 
... ~-<.::--~.... -· 


---~·-...-=· 
..: i ;~,~· .~)~:_;,;:~'
•...-1..-.-~--, 

Fifteen Favorite Films of the 1970's  
Name·  Director  Year·  
Tree of Wooden Clogs  Ermanno Olmi  ·-1978  
Aquirre, The Wrath -of God The American Friend  Werner Herzog Wim ·Wenders _,  1973 . 1977  
Seven Beauties  Lina Wertmuller  ,1976  
Edvard Munch  Peter Watkins  1976  
Nightmoves  Arthur Penn  1975  
Cries. and Whispers  Ingmar Bergman  1972  
The Marquise of 0  . Eric Rohmer  1976  
Three Women  Robert Altman  1976.  
That Obscure Object of Desire  Luis Bufitiel, ·  1977  
Interiors  Woody Allen ·  1978  
The Passenger  Michelangelo Antonioni  1975  
Lacombe, Lucien  Louis· Malle  1974  
The Wild Child  Francois Truffaut  1970  
Amarcord  Federico Fellini  1974  

DECEMBER 7; 1979 . 
Curator Steve Spiro lords over Notre Dame's Art Museum .•• 

Artist  Name  .  Year  
Eduard Steinbrucke .  Adoration of the Magi .  1838  
Alphonse Legros  A Cardinal and His Patron  
Saint  circa 1860  
Jean Baptiste Carpeaux  Flore Accroupie  1874  
Edgar Degas  Portrait Study of ·  
Giovanna Bellelli  circa 1862  
Georgia O'Keeffe  Blue I  1958  
Master of San Miniato  Madonna and Child  15th cent.  
Francesco de Mura ·. · ·  Bacchus· and Ceres.·..  18th cent.·  
Thomas Couture  Portrait of Count lUimerel  19th cent.·  
·Paul Storr  -Presentation Cup :· ·  1809  
.. Hans Memlinc  Madonna and Child with. ;  
Two Angels  15th cent.  

Perhaps there is no one who had a tougher time picking a list of '70s 
·highlights than Steve" Spiro-and with good reason. In the past ten years, the Notre Dame Art Gallery, now the Snite Museum of Art, has collected well over 1,000 pieces. 

In their semester~long display, "A Decade of Collecting," Spiro, the · curator, and Dean Porter, the direc­tor, did, however, narrow the field . down to 150 important pieces. "Even · cutting the last fifty was nearly im­
possible,''. recalls Spiro. . 

Swimming through the possible art currents of the 1980's was a less formidable task for Spiro. He fore­sees "a more relaxed, less doctrinaire attitude toward 'modernist' pre­cepts," i.e.,. Bauhas' design prin­~iples, abstract art, etc. · "Also, it looks as if more artists . will be in­volved in different modes· of realistic art," he prophesies. "There will prob­ably be nmre eclecticism and· diver­. sity than there will be . coherent · . movements such as Pop Art, and Op
Art." . . . 

The new addition to the Art Museum is due to open in late fall of . 
· 1980-norie·too soon for the vibrant 38-year~old Spiro, who: will soon receive his dqctorate from the Uni­versity of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill. . .. 
But, that;s all in .the .future . : . here is Spiro's ·view of'the past ten years in collec,ting for Notre Dame's Museum:. . . 


Carpeau~:. · Renaissance breadth . of design, 18th century grace, 19th cen~ . tury. vigor of realism. .. . . . . . · 
SCHOLASTIC 





fCTOn 

smouldering flames of burning buildings. The power plants all shut down last week because.the volunteers that had run them for the past few months just gave up. So now there's no·way to get electricity anymore. I've
O_ri': The .Driy 
been living up here now for three months, and walking 
' , ­

all those stairs the last. few days has been no picnic. But at least I'm safe up here.
.We Went: 
.•­

It's been really -funny these past few years. I mean, we all knew the end was•in sight, but all the bullshit really started about two years ago. Up till then every­

Away· 

thing went fine; governments were stable, businesses carried on as usual, and NASA had plans on shipping everyone. up to space stations, so everyone was happy. 
by_ Harvey Newquist Then two years ago NASA announced that there was no way it could get all the people off the planet in time. That's when everything went berserk. I guess· 
•· There's not·~uch· time to write this. Actually_ there most people were shocked at the sudden revelation of is, but not really, if -you know what I mean. Since certain death on a definite day. So about half a million tomorrow is the last day and all, I can't write after people marched down to Cape Kennedy in Florida where that, but I can ·finish as much as possible tonight. As they had planned on shooting the rockets off from, and long as the candles and matches hold out. · blew the goddamn place right into the sky. Same thing 
happened in Houston where NASA's headquarters were. 
Whoever·-and wherever you are, -reading this, I And from there, the whole world just . got.• messier. imagine I will be little more than molecular particles People didn't care what they did anymore. They figured floating through space. We all will be probably; I guess that God had let them down and that it didn't matter· you just disintegrate after your immediate universe if they killed or burned or destroyed or anything. Some explodes out ·from underneath you. I don't even know of them asked me to help restore order, but I couldn't. if this will survive or why I'm even writing it. Just I don't know why, but . I just couldn't. I. wanted to to kill time maybe. But I'll go dowri first thing in the devote the tinie I had left to doing what I wanted, ·not" morning and put this in a· steel canister down at the what they wanted me to do. All of which brings me.up bank drive-in window, and maybe it'll be preserved after to today, with just a· few hours left until tomorrow. we're all gone. Either way, I'll never know the dif-· I've got to write this a little faster I guess. · ference. 
You know, the end is nothing like Asimov or Clarke­
You;re wondering what happened to us, where.our or Bradbury or any of those science-fiction writers said world we~t, why the-human race noJonger·exists..It's it would be. There are no Martians in the sky, no new all quite-simple really; .And though you're reading this messiahs marching through the flames, no blue spheres after the fact, i'll have to refer to fr·i:n the future. The _. _settling upon the clouds; no battle of good versus evil,_ earth . is going to die, just give up; But unlike us or any of that. There're just millions of scared people, humans,_ the-· earth . will not consent to being. put to -.. ' and I'll admit to being one of them. Christ, even Orwell rest peacefully. -.It was discovered· five years ago by.a • -was off the mark; this is 1986. Actually, I did see a copy. group of scientists that the world was coming to the of 1984 yesterday lying in the street, all beat up and end _of its proverbial rope,-and in a few years' time, kicked around. I almost wish I had time to read it nuclear reactions would start--within-the core..· Well, again; that few years finally caught up with us this year/with the. end result that tomorrow an_ explosion with the"., . This building has been ~y refuge for a while now; intensity of a galactic supernova is going to rip ·the --and I don't think anyone will try to blow it up: Hope­earth apart and scatter its remains across the universe. , -fully not anyway. The Sears Tower across the way was There've been a few earthquakes this month, but tomor.:. dynamited by a bunch of kids about six months ago.• I· row is going to end)t all. I don't know the rest of the heard they got hold of some construction dynamite and 
·. technic_al detai~s, but ·no m~tt~r. There's,.nothing ·we.' sent about t\\:_o tons of it up in the elevators, then·boom; can do to·_ save. ourselves. -· · -, . -· . · · · · that was it·.Rightin broad daylight. The explosion was the. most tremendous sound I've ever heard in my life:­
It's very_quiet outside} By outside, I niean so:no"drs It was really very pretty.to watch; 110 stories of metal down. Right now I'm· living in an· executive office on crashing· to. the ground, ·splashing glittering glass into 'the top of the Standard Oil Building here in Chicago. . . the sky,:Jike.the spray.from a waterfall; all.the while I just" sort of moved·in to escape the maddening· crowd · _ knocking.other buildings down with it. I imagine that as it were, :and made.thi_s my home.. It's_ getting late ':' wlioever·concocted the event died in the process, because out, and: tlie sun i~ -setting. in a' blaze of: orange and downtown Chicago: was like· dominoes .there for· a few blood-red, leaving a purple.darkness behind it. The.last • seconds, just buil~fng after building. I thought it was· sunset over the horizon;7 Forever. . . fairly,._spectacular'. . ' . 
. The only:}ight in the cities as the blackness•oi night :_ ·_ Th~ lu~acy gets out of hand of course. Some asshole sets·• in comes· from bonfires In .the· streets -or the _walked down Michlgan_Avenue with a ·submachine gun
. ·•'. _,····--; . .. ­
. ... . . .. . . -. . .. .. . . . 
DECEMB_ER ,7,_· 1979 
a couple of weeks ago, just spraying lead into anybody on the streets. I couldn't stop him, and there are no more policemen. ·He ended up slaughtering almost fifty people before someone rolled a Chevy Malibu down the hill and it ran right over him, crushing him into the pavement. He was probably pretty shocked to see. a car moving at all. There hasn't been any gas available in over three years. 
I have done one really absurd thing in.all of this. I set a disco on fire on the North Side. I always hated that kind of music and it seemed like a fun· thing to do. There was no one around so !said what the hell. It's one of those last great acts of defiance that mean so much to the little people of the earth such as myself. 
· ·Don't think we all ended up as madmen, all of us scared mice humans. Most people just stay at home now with their families, then steal the food that they need from an abandoned store. It's a very common 
practice. Everybody quit working about a year ago and 
things like TV, trains, radio, and telephones were all 
· switched to computer operation~ People just did what 
they wanted to do. · 
I can see Gary, Indiana, from way up here. It's burn­ing now, like the eternal flame. over someone's grave. I felt the tremor from the blasts yesterday; and rushed up here fo see what the hell was going on. ·Sure enough, one spire of flame after another shot into the sky, all those huge oil refineries with their useless fuels, pouring black stench into the air. God, there must be a lot of closet pyros in the world, because something is always blowing up or being set ablaze. · 
It's weird looking down at the streets. No cars,· no people, no ··streetlights. No neon marquees and .no . blaring horns, just shadows clinging to the darkness. It 

· SCHOLASTIC 

all looks too riu.ich like that scene out of the movie, "War My mind is beginning to·feei like an overcrowded of the Worlds," where the guy runs down the street warehouse, there's so much to know and recall, remem­looking for his girlfriend, but no one is around. It's all ber and learn. I used to run across friends just as all kind of gray, and there's a lot of paper that gets swept the crap came down and we'd talk of the end of the around by the wind, piling into dirty brick corners, or world while sipping martinis and bourbon on the rocks. skittering along the cracked sidewalks. Just really de­Now that the end· is here I have two quart bottles of serted. You yell in the streets at the top of your lungs warm 7-Up to carry me through until tomorrow, and and your voice echoes off of everything, reminding you no one to talk with. of how small you are inside the concrete walls of the city. It's funny: I want more than anything right now to 
have a Big Mac with a side order of fries and a large Sometimes I wonder whatever became of my family. root beer ... I ran here to be in the city for my last few months, and 
then I tried to call them back in San Diego, but I never I cut my arm this afternoon on a pane of glass that got an answer. Now the phones are dead for good. I was broken down at Marshall Field's. It was sort of hope my folks are okay, I haven't seen them in almost jutting out of a display window, most likely where 
two years. I wonder if they ever think about me, or someone had smashed it to get at the jewelry case in­even if they still remember who I am or what I was. side. I just sort of grazed it, but it's stiU-bleeding a I wonder if they even care anymore. Somehow, through little bit. Maybe I should try and find a Band-Aid. 
. .
all of this ... I still do. · So what does man have to show for himself as our world comes to a close? Broken cities and shattered
From here I can see a few of the churches down­dreams, littered streets and torch-lit towers. Dustintown. A lot of people still go to Mass and go to worship, Hoffman and Alan Alda. -The Who and _Tchaikovsky.
but just as many go crazy instead. I guess it's just as Led Zeppelin and Mussorgsky. _The Beatles. Lyndon B. 
easy to lose your mind, and anyway, we'll all find out ·. Johnson and Rutherford B. Hayes. Idi Amin. The Fordfor sure wheth,~r or not there really · is a God after Pinto and the Buick Estate Wagon. Amtrak. TWA. Sony tomorrow. 
TV's and Westinghouse refrigerators. Skippy ~eanut Butter and Stouffer's Stove Top Stuffing. ·· 
I had to bury Susan day before yesterday. She had just left here to go pick up a few things, and somebody 
You know, I never had enough time to write my. somewhere blew up a section of the overpass while she memoirs, but I guess this is as close as I'll ever get.
was walking on it. I could see it all from here, but there My last will·and testament so to speak. I've never hadwasn't anything I could do about it. I felt the explosion a mint julep, _either. Or went to the top of the Empirelike a punch in the chest, and then I felt my mind go State Building for that matter. Or roller-skated or madenumb with shock. There were only three other people pizza. Or acted in a play or went to sea in a submarine.
who died on the same bridge, so her body wasn't hard And other things. If only I had had more time.
to find. She was still warm after I got down all those 
stairs and out to get her. At the time, I wished it was . 
It's 4 AM. I want to sleep now so as to be awake-· · ·me that had died, because she had been the only'one to when the end comes. Strange, I'll never have anotherkeep me company these past few years. I really wanted chance to dream again, to even sleep again. I'll neverher to be there with me in the end; if I was going to eat Chinese food again, and I'll never see another movie. 
see the end of the world, I wanted to be there with her. 
· I'll never make or _have love again. · · Now I'm all alone, and she died in the middle of the 
street, all alone. Some things just aren't fair. 
I wonder if all our striving was in vain. We tried so hard to make our lives and our world worthwhile, and· 
· It's very dark out now, and there's no moon.· They 
now it's over, like an unfinished book. There is a piece . 
say that it will get hit by pieces of the earth and go of each of our lives in·that reaching, tha.t trying, and hurtling into space like a game of marbles, so that the for what, we really never knew. Now all that remains · · whole solar system will be spread out over the Milky .is an unfulfilled legacy, a legacy left behind ii1Wheaties W,ay. . 
cereal boxes and Tootsie Roll wrappers. In cans of Budweiser and Pepsi-Cola... In ·memory banks of IBM I wonder what the rest of the world is doing right computers and on the top of Xerox copiers. In the now. Some are praying most likely. Still more are Encyclopaedia Britannica and_ inside the locked trunks probably in· the heated embraces of making love. I'm . of Plymouths and Volkswagens. In the signature of sure that still others are drunk off their asses in a fare-Picasso and the sound of Beethoven, the words of Tol­.well celebration to Mother Earth. But there must be kien and the cartoons of Disney; Onthe soles of Adidas those too, that are crying in the emptiness of a lonely shoes and the collars ofYves St. Laurent shirts, on the room. cover. of Time magazine and the inside pages of the 
National Enquirer.

I can· hear sounds like gunshots from all over the 
_I must go to bed in order to get up in time tomorrow.
city. Suicides? People on their final rampage of blood­After all, it's not every President of the United States _lust? Can't say for sure. Can't even say that I care who finishes his term on the last day of the world. I· about it anymore. I did once. I must have. 
should feel honored. Sometimes I want to cry, but I know it wouldn't 
And I do hope tomorrow is a nice day. D · help. I cried when I found Susan, but I haven't had the 
-· strength to cry since. I guess knowing that you have a Harvey Newquist is a senior English major from few hours left to die in is as good a reason as any to Phoenix, Arizona. This is his first contribution to cry, though. · Scholastic. 
DECEMBER 7, 1979 15 
NLJ.·iMfflP,t&ft-f__-:-:-,-_ 
: ........ ·..~-~~-.. --'~-<:-· ~ ··,-.--,-:--:,~ 
--·-':.• -... 
~..... ·.,_ ..,,.,.. ~ -~,..,._ ----:-,:""'.':.• .~_..-,'. :) 
~ :.. 

Theresa Rebec~ 
I;; 
t'• .
T' . 
. · ! 
' 
_:i 
·. ­
·-is 






---Jvl11ud11/I: rite £11st o/tlte '/Jest-­
·Mayday/ by William Faulkner/ Alas, a "missing link" has ren-MOl}Jday, literally). Each ends with University of Notre Dame Press/ dered that scenario inaccurate, and the protagonist's death by drown­96 pages/Introduction by Carvel with the January publishing of May-ing, having been led to his demise Collins/$8.95. . -day, the chronology may need never indirectly by a female.
·­

be changed again.·· · · In·a well-researched and fascinat-
Reviewed_ by Gregory Solman The-University of Notre Dame ing introduction by Notre Dame's 
Press, notably lauded · in a recent eminent · Faulkner scholar Carvel 
The -following -critical review of article-in ·the New Yark Times Book Collins, several other __ deeper con­
Faulkner's Mayday is, the first to be Review, has launched 'its ship into nections are revealed that show 
'[)Ublished anywhere, and, with the the 1980's by christening the bow Faulkner's work to • be of. psycho­
possible · exception of -some poetry with· a -veritable Veuve Clicquot, logical,· not 'simply sociological,..· im­
and sketches, it is· the 1.ast of the "1929; for all aboard and -ready· _to portance. __ . 
un'[)Ublished works of· the Nobel sail is -Faulkner's Mayday, which One such assertion by Collins is 
laureate to be printed · for trade appears to be the last unpublished that the · psychology of both Jung 
use. · Mayday, the only surviving work of the author who many.rep-and Freud, as· well as the early 20th­
Faulkner piece for which he painted utable· ·critics and readers have century fiction writer James Branch 
original watercowr illustrations, was dubbed the greatest American. fie-Cabell,· had direct bearing on· some 
dated by him at January. -21, 1926, tion writer of our time. . of Faulkner's works. Jungian disci­
and presented as:.a gift '.to Helen Mayday may well be of critical pies will surely-recognize the mythi­
Baird, a . , romantic . .interest of importance to any serious afficionado cal "girl"_ of Mayday as the focus·of 
Faulkner's. of the "Grand Old Man of American Galwyn's "anima," i.e., the uncon­
Scholastic was given permission letters," for the book · can be seen scious : eternal image of woman 
to review one_ :of only twenty-five as a formative stageindeed, may be which every inan projects upon the 
printed· presentation copies, which, the '-'arigst," of one -of Faulkner's person of the beloved, and according 
are exact duplicates of the original greatest novels, The Sound and the to Jung, orie of the primary rea­
book, in its h,andwritten farm. Fury.-_ -sons for passionate attraction · or 
For their cooperation in this and. Mayday is allegorical-in form, and aversion.1 This destructively power-
other endeavors, and for ge'!'87"ously -. -tells. the fable of one Sir Galwyn of ful love relationship -expressed'. by 
allowing us "first reviewing" privi­Arthgyl, who enraptured by a vision Jung is realized by Faulkner in the 
lege, and the rights to reprint the of a _"face all young and red and girl's equation with • death at the 
pen-and-ink shoum on the back white, and. with long-shining hair book's end. ­
cover, we wholeheartedly acknowl­like a column· of ·sunny water," is in -Moreover, Freudian psychology 
edge the University of Notre Dame · search ·of her, accompanied until appears to have actually bridged 
Press' Staff, and especially its direc-· the end by his companions Hunger the gap between Mayday arid The 
tor, Jim Langford, for their. kind-(a small green design with a hun-Sound and the Fury. In the latter, 
ness and .support. -· · · · ·dred prehensile mouths,") and Pain Benjy Compson .can be.seen as rep­
-.:.nave Satterfield,. -("a small red design with a hundred resentative of ''Id,"· Quentin Comp­
· Editor-in-Chief restless hands.") · · son of the "Ego," and Jason Comp­
. -· · --Along. the -path, Galwyn meets son · of .. the. "Super Ego." _Collins · 
Any respectable chronological ref-three princesses-Yseult,-Elys -and rightly points out that even the.order 
erence to William Faulkner's work· .Aelia-who, despite their remark-in· which they are presented-Benjy, 
might read like this: · able beauty, are not the girl of Gal-then Quentin, then. Jason-is the 
"1926: February_ 25, Soldier's Pay ·. wyn's vision. At the story's conclu-order of the development of the per­'[>Ublished,; -·Finished second ·novel, sion; Galwyn is introduced by Saint sonality according to Freud. Iri May­Mosquitoes in Pascagoula, Missis-Francis. to "Little Sister Death," day, it is Pain that plays the role of sippi." (a sibling of Hunger) and is hence Super Ego, Hunger the role of Id, 
The chronologer, serene in his .. relegated to the land of "shadow," with Sir Galwyn mediating the two . assurance that the·seemingly endless. __ as_the tale ends in Galwyn's suicide. countervailing.forces·as-Ego. :·. · stream of· "unpublished" faulkner . -Faulkner sardonically calls it May-If Faulkner considers Galwyn in literature had finaliy run dry, would · day-knowing his fascination with some way a paradigm of himself then go_ on to list Sartoris and The aeronautics, probably to signify dis-ih quest of Helen Baird,: then;is his Sound an~ the F'_u:ry. • • • · tress_:_juxtaposing -the historic opti--admission of a weak Ego ·concom-· 
mism and joy of that· day with the itant? A weak Ego that, to press 
almost doleful nihilism of the nar-. the Freudian analogy further, . was 
· rative. _ . _ · .. destroyed -by stronger and ·harsher 
Once alerted to· the possibility, · powers of the Super Ego and Id? :-: 
several components .of Mayday be-Textual evidence -does -not, of 

' .. ·~· : .: . -~ come.· obviously referential to The course, necessarily support this, -­Sound and .the· -Fury. Both ·books though it does point toward Collin's open -in familiar fashion, with the integration of-Freudian theory into



f.iJt~i~f~: i~(.j 
dawn of a glorious day, the protag-his analysis. Indeed, Faulkner him­. -__·,·:.' American Letters." . ;~\:'-'': L onist _ having spent the previous self made it indirectly known to 
· ;_,\Photo lYJ/Raiph_'Tluimpsor_,.'.'~/ :j. ·night in _contemplative vigil. There ~-Collins· that he did not disapprove is . an obvious preoccupation with ...J time (in one, used figuratively; in (continued on page 28) 
mJ·-ANew Look at an Old Issue 
A look at the seventies would not be complete without a review of the feminist movement and the changes it has instigated across America; in­deed, across the world. Affirmative action • programs have begun to slowly grind into effect. Women have begun to find places for themselves in the political world-Chicagoans elected their first woman mayor; the English elected a woman prime min­ister. The·women's movement found · support in the arts; women poets and novelists such as Denise Lever-­tov and Ann Beattie have risen to · prominence in literary circles. Even male artists-film directors such as Robert Altman and writers such as William Styron-have begun to ex­plore the intricacies of the feminine psyche as well. 
Many think that the _woman's movement is the most important civil · made themselves evident in the 20th century. From there, she branches out and discusses the political, social and economic structures which have encouraged these stereotypes throughout history. . . 

Kolbenschlag's -treatment of this material is thorough,. so thorough that at times her work threatens to become redundant. She does not· quite fall into this trap, however. She deals with many_ .· overanalyzed issues, such as .,how patriarchal familial patterns stilt a woman's 
· · by . Theresa Rebeck 
Kolbenschlag wishes to present, so she must include them ·as part of her research.•; .-.' . 
Rehashing societal prejudices and misconceptions is not Kolben­schlag's main purpose, however. She writes Kiss Sleeping Beauty Good­Bye as a woman who wishes, to see other women and.men achieve their full· potential. as mature, ' thinking adults who can live their lives freely, unhampered by societal impositions of sexual roles. The book is by no means another self-help manual, but 

development, how male-centered . its calm, analytical look at the sexual political structures in the business conditioning of men and women, and world . deny women . entry to. this the effects such conditioning has on world, and how the "soft and pretty" their psychological and spiritual female image encouraged by the growth; points the way to a new media works on the psyche of adoles-awakening for, possibly, many cent . girls. Although these issues people.· are overdiscussed in today's litera~ Kolbenschlag, a·, member of the· ture, they are art of the picture Sisters of Humility of Mary,. does 
~~;fa,~-;.~=~~7£~~~~~:~: 


~~~~}~~ 
donna. Kolbenschlag's Kiss Sleeping Beauty· Good-Bye should appear ·. in · the autumn months of 1979. Kolben­schlag's book is an important climac­tic work for the feminist movement.· In spite of its frivolous title, Kolben­schlag's book is a . serious study of 
feminism which not only accumu­
~~:: ~~fo:~~~t;~~had~r::!~~~:~

::::ni~:!·:,:~~!!:r'r~:::-;::~:~: 
unexplored, yet crucial, realms. · , 
.. Kolbenschlag · structures her work around five well-known· fairy tales, . the stories of Sleeping Beauty, Snow White, Cinderella, -Goldilocks, and Beauty and the Beast. Her use of 

[~?~~~~~t1:~~l glrlI}~ ~t,,:.li'•l~il 


"-I ·:;? ~)-JIE&Ol,t%~\t~qS{t~
·•• ·~...·••·,··••· GC)c:)"•··· •.·••• ·•·•· ·· ,.,.,,,,! 
~:~t:'~.. , :://: /'::_'. ,,,\ ., . >i~-;;,-.)~ _. ~ \. {;t :·::, :;fa··":Z: .·;·,· .. '· \ '~:~,~-, ."\.•;\;~,; ·, i,it.u·,r "l:f. ,-~ ...· . ~'!:: ~'\ 
these fairy .tales• is minimal, how-· 
!~~r~;~~~1I::e~i~i:::!~s:~t~~ r~t\ftf:}~if{' :._:/i~niinine -l\1,1hs ,111d'Models ;
~~~:::,:::::,~~~.:;:hi: .~fEi~~i~t ''MAriqNNifKOLiE!"SC:IILA~ 
write her book from a Christian viewpoint, but this does not limit the work's appeal to a select body of readers. She discusses Catholic teachings which affect the feminist movement, such as those on divorce or homosexuality, but her concern is not to reiterate these teachings. Rather, she examines the effects they are having ori those who come in contact with the church. In many instances, she questions the validity of these teachings, pointing out that they often obstruct the moral and ethical development of those who are supposed to benefit from them. Kol­benschlag's stand in regard to the church's.use of power is·radical; be­cause her main· interest is ·the full development of the human soul, any power structure, any structure which is somehow overseeing that develop­Ir\ent, is looked at critically. The main demand she makes on the church is a demand for flexibility. 
Kolbenschlag is most interested in emphasizing the necessity of attain­ing personal "autonomy"-"The threshold of religious, theonomous existence is won only at the expense of achieving ethical autonomy," as she writes-and she believes that this autonomy in turn necessitates a societal emphasis on androgyny. In Kolbenschlag's terms, "androgyny" does not mean bisexuality or asexu­ality; rather, it is the "precondition of the liberation of a personality im­prisoned in a sex role." She supports her call for androgyny with a refer­ence to.scripture, "There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is 'neither slave nor free~ there is neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus" (Galatians 3). 
Finally, Kolbenschlag insists that 
. . 


~-:,:-·)·.~: ~~~:-:' :•.t_ :• ".",...,: ::_. ·.~ ··..: •. -..,.•<~-.~:.•.-r·, •",', 
,/:r ---;:-",/::.:·\·.,:; \I:)t}:/j;:~~;{-
.. . _., .:,,·. 
,,::;>It:might seem.. a·]ittle:_uriusual .· that a(the presen't time.she-is ?. to refer to1a m.iri·as the proverbial most: widely known· as a-writer.-:·'. ./ "Renaissance".:_; wonian, :but 'Ma-'. Kiss Slee-ping· Beauty Good-Bye;:_. >. ~ ·dorina: Kolbenschlag. is, an·unusual'•.···: her '. first book·, , only , appeared.: on\; i :'.woman.: • In;the-1iast ten'years, she · · the: . bookstimds · hi: late> Octooe:r:;}' _.\ hasfiUed the roles 6f:nun; teacher, but:it has already received agreat;::;'.::-.scholar;: writer. an·d·. feinihist; :0};/ '. • deal·,•of -attention: both ,locally/and·-::} .:.; :,OKolbenschlag,:a member:oLthe· ·. nationally;. Bantam•BookspickedfX '.. Sisters'.\of HumiHty:_oi:Macy/has ._ up the'.paperba·ck rights:everi b~ ,', ;:t;been';atNotre.Dame:for·t;Jie';past >fore·• the_• book :appearedi'ori,, th'e i,: 
•.: :t_en :and; a;_· l1alf.·· j,ea,rs;:,: Shi?},origi-· ~tand.s : and,·. smiles • Kolbenscl1lag, 'j C ; _nally;came, fo N,9fre_]?arii1?inJ9_6_8 .there ·Js,; already.·• talk•: ofi trans~ •· i :,to_•d() gra<:}uate· work¾in ':English _•_ lations.)i' '·-,£'2 ;· _; ... _ .. .c(Literature:and after';earning;ian ,• ·;-sd;·for·the time·'.beirig,tKolber_i;f::l; i~_M;A:.','and Ph;D;,lshe'was hired.to .schlag is veryinterested~iii'j1iif2} 
,,· teach'•. in ,·the ;:American/ Studies -·suing her career· as a'. \vriter/;5 "I((: \~iDepartmenf: in ·•i972;;··i·i1\:C:,:·'.;i:::;•·, think,rvealways 'seen myself11Ja:}:'. '' . 'Altliougfi ··. ·Kolbenschlag/;: has: 'teacher? a' scholar,;and'.'a:writer,'-!}, <: fihed\·mani. roles)n: lier: lifetime,·-~,;, she':expfains;i.,'.".Andi..' it's;'·Itimerrf.:~· ;: , she ifeels'\the mcisL:importanf of ,·.·'got, busy: and'did soine more wift~ ,} 
•:'thes·e':,is 'that.of/teacl-i'err;In~fact, irig,"'?•Becatise r,-Kiss-·• (Slee-ping:);, ~••she:; descrit>,-~s"):her~:r~rit?book, ·Beauti)'.Good~B,ye _has 'alrea~y/en·~:f '. i'Kiss. Sleeping -Beauty/G6_<xt:[!ye; . joyedC immense '. popularity//sh'e ; : :.,:·;as'aii\••extension';:·of :tiie;research ,_ thinks-tliather.options:as -an;au:::/ .i'i. she:origirially' begari','througli';her . · .thor '.will: open•· up :quite. a,bit).urt} ·;;;wo'rk;fa·,;1:he; classroom:·;:This ·••is~·•, .have-a 0101:·· ofi ideas, ;:~:C,/possibly,<}f:•.her•fast· year''afNotre ,Dame; aiid ,/I'll work'oi:i astudy'rela1:ed-to:the':· ,~Yshe has"j'lo set plans·foi-' herfuture.\Ainericall cuUure;J affd' I'm everi.. 
ii'!~~~:\i6th,et~i~t11i0fJ;/b~~i*~i~I--}!~ft~1i:.i~-}fF\,f\ff;1~ri;''___ she':·_ :ijooi.scene" is;'.\ sh~· sighs·~-: bu( she .:/\With these pr~specfufacirig ·her,·•· •/:hopes'•:fo_i:contjnue{teaching·anyi}KolbenschlagJs·hopefulab'oufher·[ -:,iway';'/sJ-ie·i:;'.'caniJ''If ''.I .•cotildn!f:}future.,~She is•acorifideni woman;:,,;, '. teach>.:•~·she"shrugs her shcmlaers_,::·•an'a·slii(speaks;o( all her dreams/:'/a;Httle','sa'.~lyY~'I· -would · consider'.; 'arid-:plans '.with,°assufance=;.she· is':) ;fi'.that:"a'tragedy.:J!{''.i';:-:·_•· .··:~;-},:lf'.;'obviotisIY'used'.to-.filling._tii:eiroiefc· ?; >,'.:'.In (conversation; ; Kolbenschlag\-'.:she".: cho'oses '~for '·herself:· succes·s-·/ 
::1;;l,ii;t7,~;r~~:A~ffif~;;~vi;;:,:{;~;~;:::;j}'.it:~:?{\}?\·t/'?:..•• ­
DECEMBER· 7, 1979 
androgyny and autonomy are neces­sary if women ever are going to pro­gress beyond the most elemental stages of ethical development. She uses theologian Paul Tillich's three levels of experience: heteronomy, autonomy, and theonomy as a basis for explaining the stages of growth men and women go through, em­phasizing that most women have remained highly heteronomous be­cause of societal conditioning. Women have been trained to move, in their lives, from one form of de,:. pendency to another; first -_they depend on their parents, then on their husbands, and then occasion;. ally on their work. It is the only way they know to find an identity, -and dealing with this problem is Kolben­schlag's main point. In Kiss Sleeping Beauty Good-Bye she tries to show women that it is not necessary to spend their lives clinging to another for support She also tries to show men that they should not look for such_ dependency.· in women _any longer. · 
· Kiss Slee-ping Beauty Good-Bye is an. extremely . hopeful book. While Kolbenschlag . takes· time to discuss and document the. injustices still rampant in our society in regards to women, she minimizes these injus­tices when she speaks of the future for women and men in their relations to each other•and themselves. "This is the meaning of women's finallib­eration,'' she writes, "-that God is being born in each one o"{ us." In her epilogue, "Exit the Frog Prince," she writes a poignant letter to an imaginary "prince," explaining a princess' · newly found vision of herself as a fully developed human being, and urging him to accept this vision. In this acceptance, she writes, he will find a new vision of himself as-well.· 
Kolbenschlag's work is unquestion­ably exceptional, unquestionably im­portant. . She . writes . clearly and easily; without wasting words, so her message is accessible • to a broad spectrum of readers, men a.rid women . alike; Because this is her first book, it may be slighted,:_she is, after all, relatively unknown in national pub­lishing circles-which-would -be a shame. If this book receives. the attention it deserves, our . society might become infected with some of the hope and vision she, sees for mankind. 

Militarily ·Speaking 
I entered the decade of the 1960s with a high degree of enthusiasm. I had just been promoted to Captain in the United States Air -Force and my family and I were settling down in Chicopee Falls, Massachusetts. I had recently graduated from navi­gator training and was about to be­come a full-fledged member of a combat crew of the Strategic ·Air Command, located at Westover Air Force Base, Massachusetts. The last several years of the 1950s, under two terms of Dwight D. Eisenhower, had been peaceful times and there· was no reason to believe the '60s wouldn't be even more prosperous. 
I distinctly remember the inaugu­ration in January, 1961, of _John Kennedy. He and hi_s family were younger than the previous · "first families" and we could relate to them more easily. JFK had a charis­ma about him that made you feel secure. The Administrator, · in fact, was given· the nickname· "Camelot." With such a young, dynamic leader, how could we help but overcome all our troubles? 
However, 1961 proved to be any­thing but a banner year. Begin­ning in April with the Bay of Pigs incident, followed a few · months later by a summit conference at Vienna with Nikita Krushchev, the glitter of 'JFK was · beginning to lose its glow: As a military man, I wondered if our new President had the wisdom, experience and disci­pline to stand up to the Russians. The political balance of power swung to the Soviets when Francis Gary Powers was shot out of the_ sky in his U-2 reconnaissance air­craft over Russia in 1960. -'It· had embarrassed President Eisenhower. It looked now as if the Bay of Pigs and the Vienna Summit would do the same to JFK. 
Our domestic troubles at this time were· just· as self-defeating as our foreign policies had been. I re­member the incredulity I felt when reading the articles on the Freedom Riders and their tour through the southern United States. Not only were members of civil rights groups 
... beaten and humiliated -wherever they went, but several southern Governors and· other state officials 
by Colonel Gail . .B~lmer. u.~:A;i=. 

openly defied the Federal Govern.., in politics. Also, how could. they 
.,
ment. It was not something we as react .so negatively to ..a . situation Americans could defend: . where we .obviously were . in .the 
In October, 1962, our country right? It has puzzled me: for. many faced its most significant crisis since years. Upon analyzing the .recent Pearl Harbor-the _Cuban Missile events in Cambodia, overrun· and Crisis. I was on alert as a SAC crew-decimated hy a Vietnamese army, member and remember .the details I am more convinced than ever that quite vividly. We listened to Presi-our cause _in Vietnam·was 'just. I, as dent Kennedy address the nation an . individual, · have : several criti­on television. His words are as clear cisms of the manner in which the to me today as they were seventeen war was waged, particularly some years ago. He said, ·"Any missile of the·· political ramifications· in­launched from Cuba will be re-volved. But, the principle involved garded as an attack by the Soviet· and the end we were attempting to Union on the United States, requir-reach seem to me to epitomize many ing full retaliatory response against of the· ideals we. have stood for the the Soviet Union.'.' Those .of us on past 203 years. · . · · alert at that time knew the full im-The '60s and Vietnam produced plications of that remark. another situation that deeply dis: The results of the missile crisis turbed ·many military and civilian are history. The Soviets backed minds -· conscientious objectors. down and a nuclear war ·was Many young Americans settled in averted. The situation clearly dem-· Canada . rather than be inducted onstrated to both sides the folly of into our Army to serve in Vietnam; nuclear war. The political tension This situation has _probably caused began to . ease and the term "de-more dissension among our country.;. tente" was coined. We in the Strate-men.'than any other. I detest physi­gic Air Command felt a sense of· cal violence: now because. I know pride in that, by doing our job pro-through experience that it does not fessionally,. we had prevented· a war offer any permanent solutions. How-. from occurring. The Soviets had· ever; I also consider military duty backed down for one reason and one .. as a privilege and a duty of.citizen­reason only-they feared retaliation. ship. I will not criticize those who 
JFK had sent a contingent of U.S. chose Canada in lieu· of Vietnam, soldiers .to._ Vietnam in 1961 pri-· however, because it· took great marily to show the Soviets that he courage to turn your back on this· was not a weak leader. By.1964 that country and -· settle . elsewhere _ to contingent· had• continued . growing, satisfy_ ·_ your beliefs. I only hope , as did the. problem with the North that someday -we can all live in Vietnamese. The Gulf of Tonkin peace together and that this par­Resolution that year took all restric-:-· tially healed breach in our society tions off President Johnson, result-can be closed for good: ing in a dramatic escalation of the · · . -Richard· Nixon was elected· in confrontation. We· were engaged in 1968 upon the promise to de-escalate a full-scale war in a land very few the _war in Vietnam and to "bring Americans knew existed. the country . together . again." . His 
I was not .aware of all the politi~ decision in April 1970 to bomb the cal ramifications of the Vietnam Vietcong . sanctuaries · in . neutral debacle, therefore I was · disappoint-Cambodia shocked . the nation .and ed by the actions taking place at . led directly.-to the -incident at Kent' several American · universities iri · State. What he had·failed to calcu­1964 and '65. The burning of draft late was the reaction entering Cam­cards and the destruction of Reserve bodia would .have upon American' Officers' . Training Corps ·. (ROTC) society~ Although militarily. a: -sound facilities at several Eastern univer-decision, it would -be offset by the sities were misunderstood by most · spontaneous negative: reactions it military members. I could not under7 provoked across college campuses. stand how anyone going to college · Under the Nixon Administration, had the time -to become so involved . ·America's .-chances for future in-· 

_foreign . countries, but ours as well. But, don't let anyone tell you this is not the greatest country in the world, for all its shortcomings. The experiences of the 1960s and '70s have helped us to grow. Hopefully, they've-made us a stronger nation. We will need that strength in the years ahead. 
My role as amilitary professional makes me question the future of our armed-forces and, therefore, our country. We possess the ultimate weapon, _the ·nuclear bomb; but we will never use it. I believe other countries know we will never use it, -except, of_ course, in self-defense. Therefore, we will have to signifi­cantly increase our conventional forces, for future wars will be lim-_ ited actions -fought for_ -political ends. : -The terms -"unconditional surrender" · and "total war" -were dropped -from our vocabulary in 1950 when we confronted North Korea. 
We attempted to heal the wounds of Vietnam by abolishing the draft in 1973 ·and instituting the All-Vol­volvement-. iii ·vietnairi-type :wars prices. I am still optimistic. For all unteer Military. Philosophically, this were· curtailed. The Nixon Doctrine of its negative aspects, the current is an ideal situation; practical­and the War Powers 'Resolution' of Iranian crisis has_ done one thing ly speaking, it has not been a total 1973 both placed· constraints on the that many thought' impossible-it success. For the first time in· our opportunities for an American Pres-has united the people of this cotm-history, 'all three services; (Army, iderit to single-handedly-· commit try. A peop~e appearing "'to seek Naval, Air Force) have failed to troops. Instead, foreign aid. and isolation after Vietnam have now meet their manpower goals. In an arms sales would be utilized ·to bol--·been -provoked to the point -where attempt to solve. this situation, we ster the security.of friendly govern-national interests have overcome have increased the-recruitment of ments, and should the need arise to. individual and. regional interest. Not women. This will help but it-is not a commit American ground forces, -since December 7,, 1941,. has· the panacea. What we must do is in­-Congress _would be consulted. American public responded so col-stm· in our young men and women a 
There is much concern today over lectively and __ unanimously to a sense of pride in serving our coun­the Iranian crisis and the oil cartel single. cause._ The Ayatollah Kho~ try. We can do this. only if we can of OPEC. President Nixon began meini, much to his chagrin; has done show a need to serve and that mill­the _huge_ sales of military arms to what no president or governmental tary duty is a satisfying experi­the Shah of Iran immediately sub-leader since JFK has done-united ence. We must remain strong until sequent to the ,Arab-Israeli coJlflict the spark of the American spirit. such times as men can live together of 1973. The Shah, in· contrast to The general malaise described by in peace and trust. · other · Moslem _leaders, provided President Carter __this past summer No orie can foresee what will 
: supplies of o_il to Israel,· thereby in-has been replaced by a burning na-happen over the next several -years. ·suring its successful conduct of the tionalism. _ Hopefully, armed conflicts will be war. The United States, to show its . I have travelled extensively replaced by negotiation for the gratitude, agreed to supply_ Iran throughout the world during my Western democracies and the Corri­with the military equipment it re-twenty-three years in the Air Force. munist bloc countries realize that quired to assume the role of pro-.. I have served two tours in Vietnam, neither side can be a winner. Only tector of the -Middle East. Today .it • been an advisor to the Shah of Iran by remaining strong can the .United ··appears those weapons may now be until just before his.:exile, worked·-_ States guarantee the peace. None of _used against us,_ although _I do not with the armed forces of Thailand us relish the thought of harming believe this will happen. _ _ _and _Taiwan, and have observed others. I wear a uniform, but that · Vietnam; Watergate, ·Kent State firsthand 1:he governments of democ--does not_ automatically _imply I and the sharp rise in oil prices in_ racies, monarchies and autocracies. favor the use of force. On the con­. 1973 all have had their effect on our I have been personally involved with _trary, having served in the longest _society. Although the All-Volunteer . the police-of several foreign coun-war in our history, I, more than any-Army is not what we·would like it tries. Yes, we h·ave many problems one, do not wish fo participate in 
· to be, more and more politicians are in· this country which demand our a similar -conflict ever. again. If I · 
· being accused and convicted of consideration. The economy _is un:--_ convince you of nothing· else, please -crimes . against society, many col-controllable. Blacks have not made -believe that I am sincere in this re­-leges still refuse to permit ROTC _much· progress· ·since Brown vs. . gard. Hopefully, the day will come ori campus, and the rate· of inflation Board of Education in 1954. Poverty when military forces are no longer :continues to sp~ral due_ to risf:S_ in oil_ a~d disease not o_nly · i_nhabit _many required. ' 
Scholastic Top Ten: 

Basketball 
·Selecting a Top Ten for a group as diverse as collegiate basketball is always difficult. Basketball is. hard 

·. to predict because one player can 
·make or break a team. The addition of one super freshman, for example Mark Aguirre at DePaul, can turn a team into a national contender over­night. Conversely, the loss of a player, for example Phil Hubbard at Michigan, can turn a solid contender into an also-ran very quickly. An-· other factor· is the high number of teams ·that compete in basketball, three times as many as in football. No Top Ten forecast can hope to be exactly right, it can only give some insight into ten teams. that, barring any mishaps, will be very good this season. The Scholastic Top Ten: 
· 1. Indiana 
The Hoosiers have everybody back from NIT champs, Bobby Knight as coach, ·and add ·Isiah· Thomas, the nation's best freshman. The Hoosiers also· add· three. other top. freshmen 

· to bolster the bench. In short, call Indiana· awesome.· 
Leading the returnees for Indiana is Mike Woodson(21 ppg) a 6-7 for­ward who is one of the most under­rated players in the 'country. Also back are 6-9 Ray Tolbert (11.9), 6-9 Landon Turner, . 6-3 ·Butch Carter, and 6-4 Randy Wittman. Someone will have to sit down to make room for Thomas, however, arid 6-8 fresh­man Steve Bouchie may also gain a starting role; 
The Hoosiers appear to be the best team in the Midwest, the. strongest area in the country·this year. They should win the Big Ten, and push for the Final Four. Bobby Knight is :the big difference for this team. He always gets the · most out of his ·talent, and this year he has more 

.· than anyone else to work with. · · · 
2. Ohio State 

. The Buckeyes return . everyone ·from -last year's 19-12 team, and Clark Kellogg, one of the nation's · top five freshmen, to the lineup. The top returning players are 6-11 Herb Williams · (19.9); 6-8 Jim. Smith 
0 (7.4), 6-2 Carter:scott (9.4) and 6-1 
. Kelvin·. Ransey, ··the : team's best player and leading scorer (21.4). 
24 

--------·--~ 
The Buckeyes were something of 
a disappointment last year, but the addition of Kellogg and the added ·maturity should make a difference this season. Tough schedule (Big Ten) .could· hurt, but the Buckeyes should win 20-24 games and make NCAA's. Could surprise Indiana and 
win Big Ten. · 
·a.. Duke 
The Blue Devils were supposed to 
win it all last year, but ended up ·a 
major disappointment with a 22-8 
record. This year Duke could be _as 

strong·or stronger on paper, and it . 
is up to Coach Bill Foster to make 
the chemistry work on the court. 
Duke best returnee is 6-11 Mike 
Gminski, the best• big man in the 
country. Also back are 6-8 Gene 
Banks, .who is a good player but has 
yet to live up to his enormous poten­
tial, 6-7 Kenny Dennard, would dis­
appointed last year after a sparkling 





Ifilt
·, ·r?.fsilJ011n 
"'1'•':~~:-.-,·~·;J:-;... ,:,~•.. ,-;.
i,i"'~Norlh'C



1,,iJi~~}if
thers:,Jo::tW 
.·; }?:p,~9-; 

rooksit:.·· 
·-._•-;~•::" '",'.:--.--·-i-~:-.',., :,_ • , ,, "·' .­
1ke;Gininskr~mu 
• ,-.'<:-. ,.• , .. ·--~-~-~ !:>:. ,.-.._-.r,, 
ori;l:kster;%Iowat 
by Anthony Walton 

freshman year, 6-3 Bob Bender, a 
steady guard, and 6-5. Vince Taylor, 
who could make . Duke· fans· forget 
Jim Spanarkel. ·· 
'If Banks and Dennard play .up to 

capabilities, Duke wiil be almostun­
beatable. The guard play is solid, 
could be great, and Gminski needs 
no intro. -Blue Devils should win the 
East and ·end up in the Final Four. 
4. Notre Dame 
The Irish are the most· balanced 

team in the country. Any one of ten players can play, and all are good. Leading the Irish are 6-6 Kelly Tri­pucka, 6-7 Bill Hanzlik, and · 6-5 · Tracy Jackson. Also. returning are 6-3 Rich Brarining, 6-9 Orlando Woolridge, and 6-3 Stan Wilcox. The Irish also add · thr_ee. top freshmen, 6-7 Bill. Varner, .6-3 John .Paxson, 
and -6-il Tim Andree.. . . . .· Theirish have the players to win _the national championship. The team 
I 
I ! 
l 


:l~i;m~~0g&~~:~¼*:~t#~~,
:~:MikeS:Q'Kor~n/Nortl1Ca
:·~:narreuici:iffiili'·;,·~ouisvi1 
~'.';.,r--; , '. -~• -,:.t1-, a• ,' ~_,..r,. -~-~-·-· -'cf· --~4· · -· cl,:;-:-, 
;:0lfti~lfJY,!~ii0 ~~~1i" 
~~r~.~t1flt1(J~tt~t~l.1~,1k_::f~~i·,?fJ.
·norabie\, Merition"Y','"\marneu 
::.:~··•'1',t"-''' 1 ' ?',, ... ~.,.-'.•i\~-<'•· " . .k<fff~';~.:t,,:,.( •01_,_· ,.,~ ,-,.•~~••'•• •i
. iil.'',McHalei-Minnesota,.iMik'e:Wo 
~-":.c•·•' c.'.{"-'.''j..'•>-, ·•••-. •, .•••..~ .,,;,, .... -~_~!-,>•,•, -~-v--' • •••••;-, 
t:;,yranes;tUJtah·pJDuraffd:JMackliii 
,·. JJkt{s21:it~?:1~t!(efHr{~!;ttJ:tJ1'!&, 
may still, however, be a step slow, and could have trouble with a run­ning team ( e.g., Michigan Statae in the regionals). But, the depth will wear down most opponents, and Digger Phelps is one of the best game coaches in the business. The Irish again have a tough schedule, but should win twenty, and make NCAA tournament. 
. 5. Louisiana. State 

· Coach Dale Brown, has built the Tigers into a national power ready to challenge any team in the country. 6-6 Durand Macklin leads the team, and · has· able assistance . from· 6-8 teammates · DeWayne Scales and Greg Cook. Ethan Martin, -, J ordy Hultberg and·· Willie Sims are the guards. 
LSU was a -surprise team last season until internal problems hurt at the end. Brown should have those problems solved by the beginning of the season, and the Tigers will be ready to roll. Their only real obstacle will be Kentucky,· whom they will have to play three times. The ex­perience gained from last .year should help, and the Tigers should win 20 ,without too much trouble. ., 
. 6. .DePaul .-.. 

Blue Demons are everyone's sen­timental· favorite. Who couldn't love a small Catholic school from Chicago with Ray Meyer -as coach. But DePaul needs no sympathy this year. Blue Demons return three starters off last year's Final Four squad, and_ had afabulous recruiting year. 
DePaul is led by 6-8 Mark Aguirre, who could • blossom into the best player in .the country this year. --·He. can do it all, and better than just about anyone else. Aguirreis joined by returnees 6-2 Clyde Bradshaw and 6-10 Jim Mitchem. Also -team·· adds 6-8 Teddy :Grubbs and. 6-10 Terry Cummings, two of the best freshmen. in the country.. If those two :play ·up to expectations, look out. Meyer has a history of getting the most out of his players and this year .he has depth to work with. DePaul is building toward a national championship and may be. a •year away, but could ·do -it this time around. 
· .7. Brigham Young : 

In a relatively weak basketball year in:the West, the Cougars stand out as the best team in the region; They are led by 6-6 .Danny, Ainge, one. of _the country's best players; Ainge can shoot, pass, and play very· good defense. Joining him are 6-10 Alan Taylor, 6-9 Fred Roberts;· and 6~6 Devin Durrant, a soph who 
DECEMBER• 7, 1979 
could be as good as Ainge with time. Cougars also add 6-11 Greg Kite, a heralded freshman. 
Brigham Young should dominate the West this year. They should win· their conference, and get out of the . regional to the Final Four. They look good on paper, and it will be interesting to watch as the season develops. Could be a sleeper. 
8. St. John's 

Redmen came within three points of the Final Four last year, didn't lose anyone, ·and add two sterling newcomers, Curtis Redding · and David Russell. Returning·· for the Redmen are 6-4 · Reggie Carter (15.0), 6-10 Wayne McKoy, who is finally living up to his PR, 6-2 Ber­nard Rencher, and forwards Ron Plair and Frank Gilroy, who will most likely lose their jobs to the newcomers.. Redding starred at Kansas State for two seasons; and should solidify St. John's into the best team in the East. · 
St. John's is coached by Lou Car­nesecca. He will have to blend the talent together into a cohesive team. The Redmen have five solid starters and good depth, the only thing that could stop them is the inability of the players to play as a team, some­thing that hurt last year. But, they jelled at the end, beat Duke, and al­most made· Final Four. This could be the year they make it. 
· 9. North Carolina. 

Tar Heels have Dean Smith and Mike O'Koren, so they don't need much. else. Smith is probablv ·tne best coach in the country, and O'Koren is an All-American ~th few peers as a complete player. The talent doesn't stop there, though, as Al Wood, Rich Yonakor, and Dave Colescott ·are no slouches .. Also, the Tar Heels add James Worthy, the best Carolina prep last year, and if he develops, North Carolina will be hard to beat. 
Tar Heels play in Atlantic Coast Conference, which is perennially oneof the nation's best leagues. This year will be no different, as they will compete with Duke and Virginia for top honors. They should, however, make NCAA's, and stand solid chance of going far. ·. Any team coached by Dean Smith has that chance, and this one has a lot of talent,-too. 
10. Virginia 

Terry Holland has been building a good program here,·and the team is coming off• two good seasons. Re­turning are 6-6 Jeff Lamp, one of the ACC's best players, 6-3 Jeff· Jones, 6-5 Lee Raker, and 6-10 Otis Fulton. This would have been a very. good team, but it now stands the chance of being national champions. Ralph Sampson; 7-4 all-everything center, holds the·key to Virginia's fortunes. If he lives up to expectations, ·cavs will be super. Ifhe doesn't, they will be good.· · 
Virginia plays in the ACC, and as_ such have a rough season ahead of them. But Terry Holland has sur­prised in the past . (won· ACC in 1976), and has plenty of material to work with now.-Another darkhorse team that could be awesome. 


' 
' 
i,, 
I I 
i 
I 

Sports in the. seventies, although marked by occasional moments of extreme controversy and exceptional performances, will be most· notably remembered as a decade of stability. Certainly expansion was highly in evidence in the world of sports, espe­cially in media coverage but the trend in professional sports, at least, is for contraction. Witness for ex­ample the merging of the AFL with the NFL, the ABA with the NBA, the WHA with the NHL, the rise and fall of the WFL and the Pro Track tour. So the push outward for more and more teams and players clashed with the pull inward generated by the increasing, costs of maintaining a winning team. 
Expansion, probably· the more in­teresting of the two occurring pheno­mena, manifested itself most vividly in two sports previously hidden from the public eye: tennis and. soccer. For these two sports, though still not a match for the biggies yet, rose to unimagined heights in popularity and profits. 
Tennis provides the best story to relate. Before the early 1970's, tennis had been snubbed by most people as a "country-club sport." The label, scoffed at by the few tennis purists at the time, was nevertheless remarkably true. A combination of events served to help shed the label and make tennis into the most popu­lar "participatory" sport · of the seventies. 
. Controversial and talented per­formers such as Jimmy Connors, Bjorn Borg, -Chris Evert and Billie Jean · King greatly · triggered the boom. With the assistance of ex­tended TV coverage, people all over the United States began to see tennis as an easy, inexpensive sport to try: Masses of new racqueteers invaded their local public tennis courts and the tennis .industry blossomed as never before. The sport thrived throughout the decade until the tail end when interest died off a bit, due perhaps· to the realization of many that a few times on the court do not· a master make. 
Soccer, on the contrary, is virtu­ally coming into its own, at least in the U.S. (worldwide it has been popular for years). Again it was a. 
26 
blend of personality and talent that sparked the interest-initially in the form of Pele and followed by Eur­opean turned American· stars Johan Cruyff and Georgio Chinaglia. But soccer in the states has grown not only from without, but also from within, where youth leagues have sprung up everywhere and native talent is emerging. High school and college soccer is, both more ,sophis­ticated and better publicized..The sport, known as "futbol" to many,­
·has made great inroads in the seven­ties but its real imprint will be in the eighties. · 
· When reflection leads us back to the,major sports of baseball, football and basketball, the constancy that marked .the, decade becomes readily apparent. For, in essence, nothing has really changed! Sure, each of the leagues has added a team or two through merger or expansion but the nature and fan appeal of each of the sports has not changed at all-col­lege or professional. This is not to say that any of the major sports lack either excitement or quality-for the seventies has seen increases in both of these areas. My point is.-simply that the big revenue sports have not been significantly modified. during the decade. 
·Orie possible exception, contested by league commissioner Lawrence O'Brien but substantiated· by the media and the public, is the conten­tion that pro basketball has fallen upon hard times--'-in its attendance, media coverage and most important­ly the composition of -the league it­self. For with blacks comprising the_ majority of the teams, a predomi-, 
·nantly white America is having. trouble identifying with the• players· on the teams. Consequently, TV coverage and game attendance have dipped considerably. Another prob­lem the league must alleviate is the ridiculously long schedule that drags into June, alienating fans of other sports as well. 
One new development in the seventies that deserves special men­tion is the growth of women's sports. Spearheaded by the charismatic per­sonalities of Chris Evert and Tracy 
· Austin in tennis, Nancy Lopez in golf and Olga Korbut and Nadia 
by ,Tom Westphal 

Comaneci in gymnastics, women all 
over the world are beginning to en­
joy some of the same advantages in 
sports that men have. enjoyed for 
years. Money purses for .women's 
events increased from · practically 
nothing in the sixties to seemingly 
astronomical amounts in the late 
seventies .. 
The Olympic Games surfaced in 

the past 9ecade as ·a highly con­
troversial area, encompassing prob­
lems ranging from the professional­
amateur distinction to. race-related 
boycotts. The pot boiled over in 1972 
when terrorists killed eleven Israelis, 
Many important questions still need 
to be answered before world com­
petitions achieve their proposed 
goals. 
, As we enter a new sporting decade_ 
a tren·d, is forming toward more in­
expensive forms of entertainment­
considering the, inexorable inflation 
besetting. us all. For young people 
soccer will soon assume a place right 
next . to 'football and basketball. in 
popularity, for the costs of both par­
ticipation and organization are mini~ 
mal. Tennis, I would wager, will stay 
popular .,for · virtually the same 
reasons.· 
The future of professional sports . will be based • primarily on the media's (mainly · TV) · broadcasting decisions. . Sports without sufficient media acceptance will .likely be doomed to failure as the almighty dollar rules ·supreme over the land . Both hockey and football must pre­pare for impending lawsuits as in­juries increase liabilities to a pos­sibly prohibitive degree. (Be sure to check the February Football Review for a related in-depth story.) . 
I don't mean to point an overly 

bleak picture for sports in the 
eighties. Collegiate and-professional 
sports will likely prosper amidst any 
surrounding turmoil. · There are 
enough people with money and aspir­
ing to make money to ensure that; 
One seventies' phenomenonsure to 

remain popular in the eighties is jog­
ging. You can't beat the price and 
there is no accompanying anxiety of 
lawsuits and failures. But then jog­
ging is not really a sport, is it?! 
Touche! 


THE 80's: 

Rolling onto the shore of the American music scene is a new wave. This new wave has been swelling steadily in the late 70's and is fore­cast to crest during the 80's. The wave consists of many attractive particles; but its main attraction ·is the offer of an alternative to the disco, punk and rock of the 70's. 
For the music buff the new wave is a mixture of rock, punk and reggae. It has a hard-driving bass, 
. a frantic lead guitar, good beat with vocals and lyrics that even the tone deaf can imitate. Besides the usual guitars, drums and keyboards of other bands, the new wave utilizes electronic game noises ·and lots of feedback. It is moving music. When you listen to new wave you definitely are moved; either you move to leave, move out of enjoyment or move with nervous tension due to the beat. 
For the dancing fanatic, new wave offers an outlet for freedom of bodily expression. Forget the Latin hustle and throw away your John Travolta learn-to-dance kit. There's no need for lessons in the new wave. Unless you were raised in a B.F. Skinner box; you surely know how to hop, skip and jump. New wave dancing is the most uncomplicated thing since the twist. 
What is the dancing about? Motion! Fling your arms, rubberize your legs, fake the guitar and neglect your partner if you like. _Think of new wave dancing as therapeutic. Throw your head back and relax. Unlike disco, no one is· watching you-dancing is no contest. Move the way you are moved by the music. Even if you are "a limburger" and no one will dance with you, you can dance alone. No one will notice. 
New wave dancing requires its own fashion and dress. Slinky disco dresses and silk shirts would become 
_distracting and probably torn to shreds when dancing to new wave music. With new wave, the fashion freak has a number of disguises to choose from. Grandma's old -trunk of clothes is just loaded with fashion. Skinny ties, tiny lapels and lacy necks mix well with the 1960's hot pants and leopard skins. Feathers, 
. beads, go-go. boots, mini-skirts, saddle oxfords and plastic Ben Franklin gl~sses are classic touches of new wave garb. 
DECEMBER 7, 1979 
Feel like a gangster? Dress like one. Feel like Paul Revere-go ahead. Feel like Betty Rubble of the Flintstones? Dress the part and en­joy it.-New wave fashion is a must for lovers of Halloween. Dress up as something you're not and attempt to be yourself. 
The music industry tells us that 


by Kari Meyer 

new wave is the music of the 80's. 
The Knack, The Clash, Joe Jackson, 
and The Police are slowly invading 
the top 40 scene. Is new wave the 
music of the 80's or is new wave 
simply another fad? 
What spurred new wave into exis­

tence? Perhaps it was a combination 
of many things. Hard rock was 
going into a slow fade in the late 70's 
and with that fade emerged punk 
rock and· disco-two opposing poles. 
Punk gave us musical revolt. Punk 
was masochism and the glorification 
of rottenness. Disco, on the other 
hand, was synthesized electronic 
sound for the purpose of_ dancing. 
Disco was glitter, polyester and the 
glorification of the macho body. 
From all of this music of the 
seventies we get the new wave. New 
wave is not punk and definitely not 
disco, but more a combination of 
punk, electronics, rock and a bit of 
reggae. Actually the new wave is 
not new at all, it is merely a rehash­
ing of a lot of old music styles. This 
regrouping is reflected not only in 
the music, fashion and dancing, but 
in the basic energy which is gener­
ated. It is the same type of energy 
that the Beatles music provided in 
the early sixties. It is direct, un­
leashed, almost revolting energy. 
New wave is excitement cranked out 
in a seemingly new manner. 
New wave. is. attracting a broad range of audiences, from the teens of the sixties to the teens of the seventies and now on to the children 
.of the eighties. The new wave au­diences are clearly people looking for a new outlet, a new mode of identi­fication, a new fad. Perhaps new wave will thrive and grow into a new sector of music, but perhaps, like most fads, it will simply swell up and die out. 
There are not many new and excit­ing music trends around at the pres­ent time. The new wave is rolling in at a very opportune time indeed. A bored audience of music listeners is very justified in taking notice of this new approach and "joining the bandwagon," so to speak. Will the new wave last-into and through the eighties before music. fans tire of it too? That question remains to be an­swered. Perhaps in the eighties we will discover how_ long. a wave can last once it reaches the shore. D 
(continued from page 19) 
of Collin's interpretation of his work. 
A more obvious bridge between the two works mentioned is that ­while Benjy Compson thinks about St. Francis during his monologue, Sir Galwyn actually encounters him twice: · 
The tree was an old man with a long· shining beard like silver cui­rass and the leaves were birds of a thousand kinds and colors. And he replied .to the trees, saying, "What sayest thou, good Saint Francis?'' 
But the good Saint Francis an­swered only: "Wait, it is not yet time." 
Sir Galwyn can in my view be seen as a classic tragic hero, in the tradition of Colonel Sartoris in­dare we · mention a book so widely dismissed by critics as trivial-The Unvanquished; Joe Christmas of Light in August and Thomas Sutpen of Absalom! Absalorn! also qualify. By Aristotelian definition at least, the embellished language . replete with arti_stic ornament is evident, if not glaring. And though Poetics would insist that the narrative style of Mayday is . wrong, certainly the book elicits. a sense of katharsis or, the "purgatfon of the pity and fear necessary to tragedy.''.2 In fact, many critics have argued that Faulkner's vision as ·a writer per se is quintes­sentially tragic, though not in a form as. ostensibly axiomatic as many of the Greek -tragedians'. · 
Certainly, Galwyn possesses that indefinable quality of self-knowledge of the tragic ·hero; he has a sense of the inevitability of his charge, and, of course, virtue, ·valor and perspicacity. The ineluctable end to his quest is not seen by Galwyn until he kneels· precipitously before the river of death, yet 'he resigns himself to that denouement 
The gray boatkeeper, . who ·ap~ . pears near the erid • of .the fable, answers a query of Galwyn, which foreshadows of his fate: . -. "As I have already told you, you will be a shadow subject to all shadowy ills~hiinger and pain arid bodHy discomforts, and love and hate and hope and despair. And you will know no better how to combat them than you did on ·your · last journey throughout the world, .for my emigration laws prohibit Ex~ perience -leaving· my domain. And besides, man should beware of Ex­perience as he should beware of all women, ' for ·with her he will be miserable, but without· her he will not be dangerous." ' 
Many have argued that Faulkner is at his worst when purportedly deeply imbedded symbolism ris~s too close to· the surface. How, then, does one assess Faulkner when the symbolism is overt and readily ac­cessible by design? Despite the fact that A Fable wasn't really vintage Faulkner-as the 1954 critics (and the Pulitzer Prize -Committee) thought it . was, Faulkner's undeniably ec­centric style seems to me aptly put to the -task of writing parables, fables and allegorical novels of May­day's genre. · 
As this book becomes more read~ ily available. to the public, one valid objection to this work is sure to in~ 
·volve Faulkner's use of rather glib anachronism-sprinkled . throughout. Not only does he.make reference to ''emigration laws" in the aforemen­tioned passage, but Princess Y suelt says, "I am distressed you should have seen me with my hair done like this, but then, you know what maids are in these desperate_ days," and Time refers to "any standard mag­azine" and of eliminating "the mid­dle man.'' Apparent attempts at playfulness,. none of which. strike me .as being true to the dialectic of that day or to the form that Faulk­ner elected to use. I find this dis­tracting, because neither the medium nor the message is in any way puer­ile, witness this speech· by Hunger which. aptly summarizes Galwyn's
dilemma: · · · · 
· "I. remember to have remarked once that man ·is a buzzing insect blundering through a strange_ world, seeking something that he . cannot name nor recognize, ·and probably will not want. I· think that I will refine this aphorism to: Man is a 
.buzzing ··fly beneath the inverted 
· glass tumbler of .his illusions." 
Brilliant prose : . . arid what one would expect in a genuine literary find,· which Mayday most assuredly is. Without hesitation, I am :willing to , place Mayday among . the few books of vital imp·ortance to.a com­plete understanding of Faulkner as a whole, and as the only logical pref­ace to The Sound and the Fury. · 
It is not -often that an. author leaves behirid an artifact so per­sonally revealing of himself and 'so central to another of his great works. Mayday affords the seriolls Faulkner scholar the rare opportu­nity to view in textual form, the psychological-machination__:__ ·.·the Jungian "shadow" -of _a hterary ·masterpiece. Mayday is that "shad~ ow,'' the ske~eton.of TheSound and 
the Fury. 
If I'm wrong, I won't be the first or last critic to be so (remember the reaction to A Fable and The Reiv­ers)? That's unlikely because May­day is Faulkner; and he who justi­fiably sits in .the pantheon of great writers needs no . defense by this critic. , « 
Above and beyond all of . this, though,._ Mayday works . . ..which somewhat disarms Faulkner of his ungallant weaponry; for the story's success ultimately suggests that love of a woman, as the artist's most affective motivation, is not so bad after all. · · · 
Editor's note:, This December 17, Dr. Carvel Collins, professor emer­itus at Notre Dame and .author of Mayday~s introduction, .will be part of a Public Television. program en­titled "William Faulkner: A . Life on Paper." . . ­
Mayday, will be published January 27, 1980-:--exactly 54 . years after Faulkner dated it~ . · D 


Footnotes: . 1 Jung, Memories, Dreams and Re~ S.'H. Butcher). · . 2 Aristotle, Poetics, VI;: 2 -(trans. ftections, pages 391.;.2. · 




r.l···k_lTk_OSKCl~--'---­
On Novmnber 18, ·1969, ten Notre socialand political effect. iri' rec-. a single acfutinistrafor the functions 
Dame students staged a si.t-in at the ognition .of this fact,· · church o.f · police officer, prosecutor, judge, · entrance of the Placement Bureau in groups and others in recent years . jury, and .·· academic . firing squad. ~;.· the Administration Building. Their have been withdrawing their in-The parallels between this procedure 
. . purpose was to protest Notre Dame's vestments from companies whose and martial law have been pointed 
·. , allowing the pow Chemical Corpo-policies .on race, war, or social ouf frequently..What .is the reason ration and the Central .Intelligence conditions. they· cannot condone: for this severity? ••. Agency to recruit on campus; and to · 2.) The Universityin its coO'f)B1"a-... The only answer we cansurmise 

· ·physically obstruct · the placement tion witk:the military 'for·the pro-is thaf the · Administration sees int~vi~vs with these two employers. duction of junior officers is at the something much more important at F_<it7iet: H,esburgh' ·issued:• an ulti-. very least professing· that it'is not stake when those actions are di­matu:m ~? thes,e students,; if they did. · unreasonable to affirm the moral ·. i:ected at the. political stance of the not:d~erse within. fifteen minutes,· · acceptability of the currentactiv'.".. University than when they merely 
· they"'uj&.,ld . be immediately sus~ ities of themilitary, a position that .· "infringe on the rights of others" . · pended 'from qii('University. The can. hardly be described as any.: with no overt· political motive. And 

• students remained seCLted in fron_t of thing but'political. . · ·· '~--· · · what is;at stake is the perpetuation 
.,theP'lacerrient Bureau, andHesburgk 3.) The University in its 'modern .of the University as a service station c<i:rried out his threat. · · • · · . function as a knowledge 'factory · for a system:thatJives ·on domestic 
•.··· 'l'lieJoUiiwi:nl/is'an edited version , .in cooperation with'' industrial;-. and:,:'foreigri''. coimtries' 'repression. oj'a''zetier of'appeal written by Mr. governmental, and military orga.:. . ~ <:Tiie University's' constituency Cha,;les McCarthy,'·tken a professor nizations must assuine that these is; in, short; ;no6the community of . in ,tlie ·collegiate· seminar program, · · organizations are engaged in mor-. · teachers·.and students'within it, but on beliiilrofthese students.: It was . · ally ·acceptable activities. . .. . rather that'l<outside constituency," 
·sen,t to Fr/Hesburgh and the mem-4.t'Finallyi the University as'·~ 'the political··and:· economic ·system 
: bers' ofci tripartite ;a'P'f)eals board, supplier of" manpower actively ·represented by'tlie'·Board of Trus~ who were' to :review :the-case on . channels its second'major product , tees! . >. : . . . .. _· . . .. ... ,. 
t December 12;~1969; Tlie a'P'f)eal was ~ducated .'irieri...c.,;:,into positions : On November 18,· 1969,·· the Notre refused ;, .. '' . . . .. . ·. .·, . of. government' and-·iridustry~-· It Dame Administration, : fully \cog­,,. ,,' ,We ,dt SchoJai;;tic\1ere ~truck:by . must accept :as'i:ea.sonably ethical nizant 'of . the yearlong ': debate the'sirn,il~rity between the questions the arrangements,that·it: facili-· concerning• · University :complicity, 
·.,.. :. raised in·· this document and those tates; for it is'obvious that only presented us with•an'omirious alter.; .. 
. ::>/raised ·by; manif:members of the some orgariizations-·are·a11owed .·· native(·eitherl(aYwe·riuistacqui: Notre Dame .cartim:iinity today ccm-. to recruit ori: campus· ( e.g., it: is esce in the Administration's ·endors~ .:: ·;-.: cen?,ing sucli issues. as tenure de'ci~ hard · to Jmagine · the:: Placement. · merit' oUDow,>-the(: CIA; and ' the sions an·dAhe presence of ROTC pro-Bureau's ' scheduling(: interviews structures '.i a.nd' . assumptions' :that 
.grams' on: campus/'I(seems tkat in for. the.Ku Klux ·Klan, the:Pro-:.. they :represent.by. the simultaneous· the'pasfleriyears some things'nave gressive:Labor Party;·the Law.; : scheduling:<'of;,recruiting 'by :these changed very little: ' < . .· . yer's Guiid/a locafbrother,.etc.)l : two·, organizatioris~squarely · tinder 
..c'::.·._;, >.< '·'/,·;,, :·· ·:·:·: ->·.,.'· ':..,,. -:,:;;,.::,,·,··•,.:...,:•;. the'Golden Dome;c.Iiterally>arid fig-. .• ''Ourii~tion~ on Noveirib~r 18 ~ere Nowth~'poirito'f th~Je~ampl~s is~·.. tirative;::or<(b)i,we, must :·.prevent. 'necessitated by'the political position to show tha(the lJniversity acts·iri this affirmation of a.vicious system; assurned'i aiic:1·.' steadily,' maintained a political >fashion: iuid"°mariifests'a ' even if it'meant that" the Draconian 'i ,_. ; by' the' University of' Notre Dame coherent: politicaFposition~ And::the ·. rules for:the· protection· of this .per-' ' :,,-.). Administration}f>Iri )he' following position thatthe·University<Admiri.: ·. verse,jio~itical:/relatioll': .would:. be.· . • :>.we willtcy to discuss that position; ·istratioll has chosen" by-,.its;actions '. used againsf:us~,'We', could firid • no :·• the rules that.defend it; ·and its rela~ is to affirm the ·structures 'and·as.;: third . alternative: ,:we ./:therefore 
'., tion''fo'.theUniversity· as ari ·aca · .sumptions ..·:_in,dee_d,·",.th_e_··.A.·dmini ... :lat_t~r.:icou.rs.. ~'.;·~ ..:-'.,. ,.•<:.. 
:·. ·
..·stra~.': ·chose.'.1th.·e_· .. _·.e ·-,;~~-demic·'c~riiin~nity~ ·/. >.··' ; : ; ,'. ·. ·· -·tion °'affirriis,the 0very:aristitutions, ' The University-assumes a political · ,· '.),It'.is:(:jmportant· to ·realize ;that. · (such ·as· the ·Dow. Chemical•:coin;., _positionJby_ its:inufoaI:support for·. 
:L.. the origins ofthe ciirrent imbroglio.·· pany'.and' tlie' Cential:,'Intelligence~· tlie socialandieconomic system·rep-' .... : lie!iii the'political'position·assumed · Agency)·thaf•:are;.,responsible:for. resented.,by·:Dow ·and: CIA and is. ;: ·\~; by,'the, University· "of; Notre Darrie: .. the Vietnamese Cwars .and• the' 'Cond . responsible·' for}, repression~ and ex-' 
:· .. , No~;it is.often argued that univer-.. spiracy:Trials; for'Song My ;_f'incf:_' /ploitation~:at.home·and abroad; .The t·· • ~-r; sities·:do-not~and''should not-take dent~" apd'Fred Hainptori/'atfairs~.'.;., : university"_uses,'i:·ules·:to,cprotect:the ·. · (. '.,·?\.political_;, positions:: tliat ··they-. are , arid I for; systematic]exploitatlorfi:off?"normal?actlvitiesf ofhhe!;Universi~ ..··· >... _: ·"neutral'.': on,:political1questions .. But. ··.the po~r an·(lrepression'()flegitimate;>ty'.~~st~ibjY:~.in,'deferise• oLindi-' '... i(~i)!i);}Ye.:f~~e,f,c,~at!tuniv~rs,ities;; as_ ,. sig-,:_,,des~I'E!~'JlJot;7soci11l:fre~~aji :iBPt,llYa:t};-:,vidil~I /!i~ht~wh~~>"'~re:~'_irivoked:\<•) \-:-';?.~ 
f,.f,,~f'.•nificant,.· institutions.:m;.:our.'··society,·•.•.<home•'and.,,abroad;,fn,.the,.•name;~f::,:only.'agamst,;·:efi'ecbve:,mterference·.·.,.·,".... ··•;·,:\::,; 

Till L/\ST VvOQD 
by Dave Satterfield 
Korea, Vietnam, and now, Iran. The Cold War, bomb shelters, ciga­rettes are hazardous to your health, Watergate, and• now, Harrisburg. Willie Mays-the say-hey kid, Brooks Robinson-the human vacuum cleaner, and now, Reggie Jackson-the million-dollar candy­man. 
1980 is knocking at the front door and it seems as though 1960 hasn't gone out the back door. Somehow, time blindly moves on and essen­tially, nothing changes. People grow, they learn, they participate, they protest, they settle down, they com­plain, they endure and eventually, they die. . The circle remains un­broken, by and by Lord, by and oy. And often, the only optimism is the belief that. there's a better home awaitin' in the'sky Lord, in the sky. 
Newspapers, television, novels and film reflect that pessimistic notion that things are going to hell and there is not much we can do about it. There's no question-we live in a world where pessimism is not only easy to. adopt, it is accepted. 
So, as we wave good-by to the seventies, I'd like to do so on an optimistic note because I honestly believe that there is hope. For the past month, I've been searching for signs of that hope.. I consulted my Ouija board but the vibes were inter~ rupted by a 747 flying overhead. I tried to make contact with Mark Twain, figuring if anyone could make sense of the seventies, he could. After burning a box of candles while waiting on hold, I decided to hang up the telepathy. I was losing hope and I had yet to find it! So I went home for Thanksgiving and lo and behold, hope greeted me at the door. in the form of three little kids.·· 
Now, little kids can, without a doubt, be painful .to certain areas of the human body. But throughout the entire holiday, they never were upset; they had a great time, regard­less of Iran or the nuclear power plant that stands five miles away. Through them, I realized that there were people who fight the system,_ who fail to fall into what we call "progress," who manage to maintain or retain their innocence, who stay young. For·example:. 

I have two widowed grand­mothers. One lives in a senior citizen apartment complex, knits quite often, drinks tea and plays solitaire. My other grandmother lives alone in a nice apartment, works eight hours a day, drinks Budweiser and dates married men.. They are the same age; yet one is at least thirty years younger than. the other. 
Recently, .I watched a group of high school kids play a pickup basketball game. There was a tall, lanky kid wearing an inverted rain­bow smile throughout the entire game, who flowed up and down the court, pouring. the ball through the hoop. He rarely spoke. There was another kid who walked up and down the court barking the score, barking about fouls and barking about his team's lack of hustle. I would guess that the two kids were the same age, yet one was thirty years older than the other. 
A while ago, I became involved in an argument with a fri,end con­cerning a fight we had both wit­nessed. I told her that fighting was inevitable and she said no, it didn't have to be. I told her to be sensible and confront reality. She said. I was too, pessimistic and I realized that maybe she was right. , · · Shortly thereafter, I was involved. in a discussion concerning nuclear power and nuclear. disarmament with a fellow student. He claimed that there was no conceivable· way in which we could abandon nuclear power or nuclear arms and survive. I told him that I thought we could try, and maybe it would be in our , best interests to do just that; He countered by claiming that I should grow up· and join the rearworld. 
No thanks. 
The innocence of youth. ·Therein . 

lies the answer. Sure, Adam and Eve messed things up a bit but that · doesn't mean we should all take a bite of that apple. We can do our best to avoid losing that innocence and make others aware of the powers of innocence. After all, a well-known Gentile once preached the powers of innocence and told his disciples that everything He had whispered in their ears should be proclaimed on· the. housetops. He was no fool. . Of course, he was crucified. . . 
There was another man who failed to "grow up and join .the real world." -Don Quixote deLa Mancha, an old man, fought imaginary foes· in the name of good, honor and innocence. While others sat and laughed at him, he rode. While others complained,· he fought. Up until his death, he remained ayoung man. 
The secret is to never grow old. Stay young, which doesn't mean that you have to collect baseball cards or play jacks. Staying young in­volves keeping an open, yet wise mind, it means being able to laugh . and giggle, to kiss and love, to ques­
. tion authority and respect it at the same time. , Staying young involves · playing the game,.not watching or. refereeing it. 
Ponce de Leon never found the fountain of youth but we can now see that Florida was the wrong place to look for youth.. There is no magic potion .or special book that. will make anyone young. We must all make an effort; a conscious effort, to · stay young and remain innocent; . I think we can..In conclusion, I would like to quote Bob Dylan. His mes~ sage has been made before,· possibly a bit more profound but never so simple and sincere. 
May God bless and keep you always, 
,may your wishes all come true May you always do ,for others, and let others do for you . May you build a ladder to the 
stars, . and climb on every rung. · And may you stay . 
Forever young; .. , 
·ScHOLAS'I'IC 




With harvest close, children are put in · Mind of holidays to come, of rain That soon becomes the ground of joy 
. They'H fashion snow images from,

Merry. Christmas· 
Of .visits froni family they know Will bring surprises, and· thinking Of how it is Christmas began · 
from the Begin to expect it again. 
But what assurance a child has 
Concerning things regarding Christmas . ·

Scholastic· Editorial· Board 
Most astounds us )n having more To do with belief in coming days Than expectations of -future Enjoyment: For he bears a cross 
· In waiting out the uncertain Goodness of things to be, carrying Allthe while the weight of what is borne · ·

See You in the ·Eighties 
In our salvation as children. · Christmas 1976 Dennis Wm. Moran 




