W neiRE DOTI
scholastic
UfflLU (WUS ULUS HBOM
ALUMNI PRESIDENT HUGHES
Leads Universal N. D. Night Monday
IN THIS ISSUE ...
UNIVERSAL N. D. PLANS I. C. O. SATURDAY, SUNDAY U. THEATER OPENS SUNDAY
IRISH AT ILLINOIS TOMORROW HANDBALLERS IN QUARTER-FINALS WASHINGTON TIES LINKS TEAM
SPLINTERS FROM PRESS BOX COLLEGE PARADE
THE WEEK
APRIL 16, 1937
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 16, 1937
South Bend’s favorite store for N. D. Men
Complete stocks of the new
STETSON
HATS
Take a look at the new
Suits for Spring
Hat for a Smart Spring by STETSON
Put this hat down as a ’must” for Spring ... and wear it wherever duty calls. That wide-ish brim, cupped up in back, that low band on a low crown, that long "snap” well back to the bow, are sure signs of the smartest style.
No obligation to buy.
IVe’rc always glad to show merchandise.
Stetson has done it again!
Stetson Hats
At Stores That Lead in Style
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class mattci- at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailins at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
.Vol. 70
April 16, 1937
No. 21
FATHER O'HARA, ELMER LAYDEN PRINCIPALS IN 14TH OBSERVANCE OF UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT ON NETWORKS MONDAY
By Harold A. Williams
Keyed by a national broadcast over the NBC Studebaker Champions pro gram at 10:00 E. S. T., the Fourteenth Annual Universal Night, Monday, April 19, will again be celebrated from coast to coast by alumni and friends in connection with 85 alumni club meetings and banquets.
The national broadcast, emanating from Chicago, will feature Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, Elmer Layden, director of athletics, and the University Glee club, along with the regular Studebaker program. The glee club will sing three songs, the “Hike Song,” “When Irish Backs Go Marching By,” and the “Victory March.”
In addition to the national broadcast more than 60 local stations from coast to coast wil cooperate in the celebration by featuring speeches by local alumni, and songs or skits of University life.
Local activities will be centered around the meeting given by the Notre Dame club of St. Joseph Valley in the lay faculty dining room of the dining hall. A broadcast will be made over WSBT-WFAM featuring talks by several members of the University and several skits by skidents. The local celebration is in charge of Mr. Louis Buckley, professor of economics, and president of the St. Joseph Valley club.
Last year’s national program was broadcast from Washington, D. C. Father O’Hara, Most Rev. John M. McNamara, D.D., Auxiliary Bishop of Baltimore, and Frank C. Walker, ’09, were the speakers.
All-Nations Meeting On Cracow Club Schedule
Because of the success of the inter-cultural meetings sponsored by the Cracow Club, a larger meeting is being planned which will be in the form of a miniature “league of nations.” The plan is for a joint meeting of the French, Italian, Spanish, German, and Cracow clubs in which items of their relative culture will be discussed.
The gathering, which will probably be held in the first .week in May, is under the general chairmanship of Joseph Krupa, chairman of the executive committee of the Cracow club.
Coach Elmer Layden Takes to Air Monday
Eight Factions Already Eye Class Offices In Campus Clash
•
Tomorrow evening at midnight is the deadline for completion of nominations for next year’s class officers. Names of candidates who “choose to run” at the eleventh hour must be turned in to Arthur Hoffman, chairman of elections, at 421 Walsh hall, sometime today or tomorrow.
Already the smoke of battle is beginning to belch forth from the campaign headquarters of the various candidates. Competition in the senior elections has reached a high point, as five presidential candidates and their parties have announced their intentions of running.
Last Friday afternoon, the Tom Bohen (of Morrissey sub) party deluged the junior halls with handbills bearing the caption: “Join the Man-(Continued on Page 10)
LETTER-MEN. GUESTS AWAIT START OF
MONOGRAM BALL
•
By Frank E. Larwood
Over 200 couples are expected to attend the Notre Dame Monogram Club’s Formall Ball tonight at 9:00 o’clock in the Columbia Athletic Club ballroom. Of special interest to the the dancers is the securing of Boyd Raeburn and his orchestra with Lorraine Anderson as featured vocalist to furnish the music.
Having played at the South Shore Country Club for the past three summers as well as at many of the better known midwest hotels, Raeburn is well prepared to give the dancers distinctive rhythms.
Most of the Monogram men have chosen South Bend girls as their guests. Paul F. Barker, general chairman of the dance, will have Miss Eleanor Reitz of South Bend as his guest. Miss Margaret Lang of South Bend will be the guest of Victor Woj-cihovski, and Miss Mary Claeys also of South Bend the guest of Joseph Zwers.
Andrew Puplis will escort Miss Dorothy Rezek of Chicago, and Laurence Danbom will escort Miss Dorothy Frederick of South Bend. Two more South Bend guests will be Miss Betty Maloney escorted by John Le-vicki, -and Winifred Harrison the guest of Joseph Kuharich.
Committees are: Tickets, James McHugh, chairman, Ennio Arboit, Joseph Kuharich, and Joseph Zwers; Music, John Cavanaugh, chairman, Joseph O’Neill, Joseph Ruetz, and Charles Sweeney; Decorations, John Levicki, chairman, Nevin McCormick, Patrick McCarty, Charles O’Reilly, and Andrew Puplis; Programs, Charles Jordan, chairman, Frank Kopczak, James Martin, John McKenna, Paul Nowak, and Edward Simonich.
Patrons, Laurence Danbom, chairman, Raymond Meyer, Albert Schwartz, Leonard Skoglund, and Robert Wilke; Publicity, Arch Gott, chairman, Joseph Beinor, Joseph McMahon, James Parsons, and Elmer Zenner.
Among the patrons is included the Notre Dame athletic coaching staff and their wives: Mr. and Mrs. Elmer
(Continued on Page 9)
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 16, 1937
TWO SESSIONS OF ORATORY, DINNER. CAMPUS TOUR TO HIGHLIGHT WRANGLERS THIRD INDIANA HIGH SCHOOL CONTEST
SELECT MAY 12 DATE FOR PHILOSOPHY DISPUTATION
By F. Barreda
The Notre Dame Wranglers will play host to seven high school orators hailing from the four corners of the Hoosier State, who are to compete for speaking honors in the Indiana Oratorical Contest to be held in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering at 2:00 p.m., tomorrow and Sunday, April 17 and 18.
The contest, begun three years ago under the initiative and efforts of Louis H. Hruby, ’35, has developed into one of the greatest annual affairs sponsored by the Notre Dame
Wrangler de la Vergne Host to Hoosier orators.
Wranglers. Wrangler Pierre de la Vergne, general chairman of this year’s contest, announced that the University student body and the general public are invited to attend and hear the orations.
de la Vergne contacted all Indiana Catholic high schools a month ago and invited them to send their representatives to the oratorical contest. Schools responding to the call and who have officially been entered in the affray are: Catholic Central, Hammond; Central Catholic, South Bend; St. Hedwige, South Bend; Central Catholic, Fort Wayne; St. Mary’s, Michigan City; St. Mary’s, Anderson; and St. Paul’s, Marion.
The names of the contestants officially certified this week were: James Maher of St. Paul’s, Marion; William Minges from Central Catholic, South Bend; and Henry Fristoffer of Central Catholic, Ft. Wayne. Through the cooperation of University officials and the Students’ Activities Council, the contestants will be accommodated in the Oliver hotel during the two days of competition.
The eliminations will be held at 2:00 p.m., tomorrow, in the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering. Tomor
row night the contestants wil be honored at the annual I. C. 0. banquet, given by the Wranglers in the Oliver hotel. Among the 35 guests who have received invitations to the banquet, are: Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University; Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., prefect of discipline; Rev. Norbert C. Hoff, chaplain of the Wranglers; Mr. Joseph P. McNamara, deputy attorney general of the State of Indiana; and the honorary members of the Notre Dame Wranglers.
Sunday morning the Wranglers will escort the competing contestants through the University Art Gallery. The final competition of the contest will be held at 2:00 p.m. The first prize winner will receive a gold medal, winner of second place will be awarded a silver medal, and bronze medals will be presented to the other contestants. This year’s medals, given through the courtesy of Mr. Joseph P. McNamara, were designed by Pierre de la Vergne.
Three judges, headed by Richard Meier, president of the Wranglers, will judge the orators on the contents of their oration, delivery, and mastery of their subject. The first place winner of last year’s contest was Chester Kiciak who represented Catholic Central High school of Hammond. Second place was won by Jerry O’Dowd from Central Catholic High school of Fort Wayne. O’Dowd, who captured first place honors in the ’35 contest, is now a freshman in the University.	.
Richard Foley of the Wranglers is in charge of the publicity for the contest. «
Dan Hanley is Honorary Member of Servers
At the meeting of the Servers’ Club last Monday evening, it was decided to make Dan Hanley, who has served Mass regularly for the Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., an honorary member of the club. Mr. Hanley is caretaker of the local fieldhouse.
Patrick Bannon, president of the Notre Dame Unit of the Catholic Students’ Mission Crusade, discussed the purpose of the new group.
The annual Servers’ Club banquet will be held in May, immediately preceded by election of officers for next year.
Rev. Thos. Brennan, C.S.C., head of the department of philosophy, stated during the past week that Wednesday, May 12, has been selected as the date for the public disputation in philosophy. The event will take place from 10:00 to 11:00 a.m. on that date in Washington Hall, and all sophomore, junior, and senior students with majors in philosophy will be excused from their 10 and 11 o'clock classes to attend it.
Meanwhile, the participants in the discussion are busily engaged daily under Father Brennan’s direction in
McGrath and Doozan Look to St. Thomas
preparing material and speeches to be given at the disputation.
The members are divided into three groups, each of whom is engaged with one topic of the general heading, “The Nature of Man.” In the first group are Ray McGrath, chairman, Joseph Crisanti, John A. O’Leary, and Carl Doozan, and their subject will be “The Spirituality of the Soul.”
The second group is composed of William Prendergast, chairman, James Gagnier, Benjamin Johnston, Maurice Quinn, and James Waldron, who are treating “The Freedom of the -Will.” In the third unit Joseph Loftus is the chairman.
Editorships
Applications from undergraduates of the University for editorships of The Scholastic, the Dome, and Scrip, for the school year of 1937-’38 will be received by the Faculty Board of Publications during the next two weeks.
Applicants must state their qualifications, experience, academic rating and qualitative average. Letters should be mailed to the Rev. Lawrence V. Broughal, C.S.C., Chairman of the Faculty Board, not later than 4:00 o’clock in the afternoon of Saturday, May 1.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 16, 1937
5
DEBATERS END YEAR; BAG ELEVEN WINS. DROP EIGHT
U. THEATRE READY FOR PREMIER PERFORMANCE OF "THREAD O' SCARLET." "HOT HEADLINES" SUNDAY IN WASHINGTON HALL
By Robert McClain
Contesting the varsity question, “Resolved: That Congress should have the power to fix minimum wages and maximum hours for industry,” in nineteen intercollegiate debates, the 1937 Varsity debating team won eleven decisions and dropped eight arguments.
The debaters opened their schedule in a radio debate with Kent College of Law, of Chicago, over Station WLS, Chicago. Robert Schmelzle and Thomas Proctor, junior lawyers, upheld the affirmative -side of the question and were awarded the decision from votes tabulated from the radio audience.
Making a meritorious showing in the Midwest Invitational tournament at the University of Iowa, Iowa City, by being placed in the upper 25 per cent as to rating, the affirmative team of Richard Meier and Robert Schmelzle won four out of five debates, defeating Iowa, Chicago, Kansas, and Creighton universities, and losing to Carrollton college. Charles Osborn and Thomas Mulligan, defending the negative side of the question, defeated South Dakota university and lost decisions to Minnesota university, Texas university, Iowa university, and Iowa State Teachers college.	•
In the first of the dual debates with Michigan State, the negative team of Osborn and Mulligan defeated the affirmative team of the Michigan school at Lansing. The affirmative team of Schmelzle and Meier lost a decision to the Michigan State negative team here.
Participating in the Delta Sigma Rho tournament at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, the affirmative team defeated Wisconsin and Western Reserve and lost to Wayne. The negative team won contests from Albion and Carrolton and lost to Marquette.	,
Debates with Indiana, Alabama, Florida, St. Mary’s college of California, and Swarthmore were nondecision contests.
Members of the 1937 Varsity debating team are Richard Meier, Robert Schmelzle, Thomas Proctor, John Marbach, Thomas Mulligan, Charles Osborn, Redman Duggan, Frank Fitch and Frank Brame. Varsity debating keys will be awarded to Brame, Mulligan, Osborn and Fitch. Meier and Marbach will be graduated in June.
By Richard Riley
Notre Dame’s theatrical group under the supervision of Professor Albert L. Doyle will present two one act plays in Washington Hall, Sunday evening, April 18, at 8:15 p.m. Final dress rehearsal will be held tomorrow afternoon.
“Thread O’Scarlet,” by J. J. Bell
Charlie Agnew to Wave Baton at Knights1
Spring Formal
• ,
Charlie Agnew and his nationally
famous dance orchestra, who have scored several hits here in the past few years, will play for the annual Knights of Columbus Spring Formal,
Chairmen Fish, Joyce Night of Knights.
April 23, it was announced this week by William Foley, general chairman.
In addition to announcing the band for the fete, Foley for the first time made public the chairman of the various committees. Foley declared that the dance gives promise of being the most socially successful, and predicted that approximately 250 couples would attend.
George Sauter, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters from Indianapolis, Ind., is writing a special song for the Formal, the title of which will be announced later.
The chairmen of the committees are Richard Delaney, tickets; Gerard Schaefer, publicity; Timothy King, patrons; Edmund Joyce, reception; Richard Foley, decorations; George Foss, programs; William Fish, music.
Re-establishing an old campus custom, Foley named an honorary committee consisting of Paul E. Foley, J. Paul Sheedy, John Muderig, R. Parker Sullivan, Patrick Fisher, and Thomas J. Radigan.
will open the evening’s entertainment, to be followed almost immediately by “Hot Headlines” written by Bertram Hobbs. Little time will be lost between the presentations, with the entire performance being completed in slightly more than an hour’s time.
The setting for the premier play of the evening “Thread O’Scarlett” is in a small Irish country inn. The various characters have adapted themselves readily to the accent.
In this play, John Gorman will have the part of Midgeworth; Robert Hen-egan will play Smith; Butters will be interpreted by George McDermott; Fructuoso Barreda will be Breen and Robert Blake will be The Traveler.
Ciolind in Feminine Lead
John Brassell, who played the lead in “Whistling in the Dark,” will again play the lead in “Hot Headlines.” Brassell as Hastings will be supported by Frank Ciolino, again taking a feminine part, as Edith Hastings, his wife. George Morris will interpret the part of Francis X. Cohalahan. The two minor parts of Bill and Jim will be played by Jim Sweeney and Jim Brown respectively.
Many of these men had parts in the first campus theatrical production and their success in this production should assure all students of an excellent evening of entertainment. Both of the plays are light and humorous with a surprising twist at the end. “Hot Headlines,” a story of bank robberies and the efforts of the police to apprehend the criminals, employs a novel use of newspaper headlines in bringing the culprits, to justice.
The following men will have charge of the stage and lighting effects for the productions: Alfred A. Sniadowski, head stage manager; John M. Powrers and Frank J. Geary, assistants.
Trials for the annual commencement play will begin shortly after the presentation of these two plays. Bulletins will be placed in the various halls announcing the exact date, and further announcement will appear in The Scholastic. This production will also be under the direction of Professor A. L. Doyle.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 16, 1937
NOTED METALLURGIST TO ADDRESS A. S. M.
JOINT MEET
. •
Dr. A. B. Kinzel, chief metallurgist of the Union Carbide and Carbon Research Laboratories, Inc., is to deliver the principal address at the first joint meeting of the Chicago and Notre Dame chapters of the American Society for Metals a week from Saturday, April 24.
His subject will be “Some Specific Effects of Deoxidizing and Alloying
Professor Edward Mah in Chicago joins his meeting.
Additions to Steel,” which will climax the technical session of the meeting in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering. Mr. J. F. Calef, president of the Chicago chapter, will preside.
The Notre Dame chapter of the Society, headed by Edward Garfield Mahin, professor of metallurgy here, will be host to hundreds of noted metallurgists and scientists from Chicago and vicinity.
An extensive schedule of golf, luncheons, and distinguished talks, to be capped by a dinner to be served to members and guests in the University dining hall, has been prepared to entertain the visiting chapter.
The guests will also be taken on a tour and inspection of the laboratories, particularly the high-voltage lab with its high-voltage generator, charged by a moving fabric belt, which produces steady D.C. potentials of about two million volts. The visitors will also view the new biology laboratories as well as those of the department of aeronautical engineering.
Dr. Kinzel is the author of many papers on the testing and welding of metals, on the metallurgy and physical chemistry of steel making, on the composition, physical properties and uses of alloy steels, and on applied mechanics.
.Besides being past chairman of the Iron and Steel division of the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, he is the present chairman of the section on Tests for Ductility, American Society for Test-(Continued on Page 22)
'Mind Average Views' Cosgrove Tells Cubs
Mr. Gerald Cosgrove, associate editor of the South Bend Tribune, spoke on “The Editorial Page” at the first meeting of the Cubs’ Club in the Journalism room of the Library recently. The Cubs’ Club consists of students taking the initial course in journalism.
The speaker stressed that the main duty of the editorial writer is to place himself in the position of the average newspaper reader when he reads a news story. Then he must anticipate the questions that may arise, and answer them clearly in his editorial.
Science Papers Pead By Science Students
The regular bi-monthly meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science was held this week. At the meeting four papers were delivered.
Lawrence Hess and George Best spoke on “The Influence of Structure on Physiological Activity” and “The Origin of the Heart Beat,” respectively. The juniors who spoke were Graham Owens, who offered a paper on “The Influence of Heat on Growth,” while Edward Wilson discussed “Hypersensitivity.”
Prof. Cain Opposes New Deal Court Plan In Testimony Before Senate Judiciary Body
Hon. Wm. Cain
William Morley Cain, associate professor of law, testified before the Senate Judiciary committee in Washington, D.C., Friday, April 9, giving his reasons why the proposed reform of the Supreme Court should not be given the effect of law.
Mr. Cain, veteran law prac-tioner, gave his views before a committee of five senators, which was presided over by Chairman Ashurst of Arizona and Indi
ana’s Senator Van Nuys. He was one of five distinguished law teachers from scattered parts of the country . to address the committee.
The reasons given by Mr. Cain for opposing the bill to raise the number of Supreme Court justices were given in a prepared statement and enlarged upon in the questioning that followed the reading of the paper. According to the professor, the changing of the present set up of the judiciary would lead to more bad results than could possibly be overcome by any good that might come of it. It is his con-
FIRST PICNIC IN SIX YEARS PLANNED
BY FORUM
•
The Commerce Forum will hold its first picnic in six years on Thursday, May 13, at Lake Christiana, ten miles northeast of the campus in Michigan. Permission was gained for the event as a result of the splendid success of the trip the organization made to Chicago last month.
Joe Ronan, chairman of the picnic, selected Lake Christiana after a careful survey of surrounding sites.
The feature event of the afternoon will be a baseball game between the Commerce faculty and the officers of the Forum. According to Al Smith, president of the Forum, Mr. Davis will be chasing flies in the outfield; Mr. Bott will scoop up grounders at short, and Mr. Price, at second, will round out the faculty’s keystone combination.
There will be a tug-of-war, track events, and swimming, if weather permits, to round out the afternoon. Refreshments will be served.
Busses will pick up the group at the school at 12 o’clock and return them to the campus by 7:00 p.m.
tention that the Supreme Court as it is today is exactly what the framers of the Constitution planned it to be, and that there is no necessity for the change contemplated by the Roosevelt administration.
The chief reason for his opposition as stated by Mr. Cain is that the change in the government would cause harmful uncertainty in the attitude of the public toward the administration of the affairs of the nation; and that it would harm business in its efforts to improve the economic situation of the nation. It is the contention of Mr. Cain that the country is committed to the theory of judicial supremacy and that the only legal manner that this should be changed is by legal amendments to the Constitution.
After appearing before the committee, Mr. Cain visited the head of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Mr. J. Edgar Hoover, and was personally conducted on a tour of the Bureau’s new building.
A graduate of the University of Nebraska in 1894, Professor Cain was one-time prosecuting attorney of Butler County, Nebraska, and city attorney of Fremont, Neb., before assuming his duties in the College of Law here in 1930.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 16, 1937
7
'ITALY MAGNIFICENT' UNDER MUSSOLINI SAYS SPEAKER
Under the auspices of the Italian club, Mrs. Hazel Chase West, noted writer and lecturer from Evanston, Ill., gave an illustrated talk entitled,
“A Journey in
Joseph Mangelli lini, described
Italy,” with special descriptions of Rome, Siena, Florence, Venice, the Dolomite Lakes, and Genoa, last Monday night in Washington Hall.
Mrs. West, who has travelled extensively in Italy studying Italian life and the present Fascist regime of Benito Musso-an imaginary tour
through Italy, relating in vivid language of the centers of art and beauty. St. Peter’s, Hadrian’s Tomb, the Vatican, The Roman Forum, the Coliseum, St. Mark’s, Pitti Palace, and the Dolomite lakes were a few of the tourist interest spots discussed.
She was introduced to the audience by Professor Pasquale Pirchio, sponsor of the group, who told of honors won by Mrs. West for the spread of Italian culture abroad. Recently she was decorated with a civil medal by King Victor Emmanuel for her services in this respect.
In discussing the Fascist regime, Mrs. West pointed out the improvements in Italy under Mussolini, showing slides of smiling, healthy children, modern buildings, and marvelous roads, which she described as a part of “the magnificent and modern Italy of Mussolini.”
Joseph Mangelli, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters from Bayonne, N. J., arranged the program with the aid of Captain Guglielmo Maggini, of Chicago, Ill.
Chemists Open Softball League Within Club
The Chemists’ Club softball league will swing into action Saturday with the juniors playing the seniors, and sophomores tangling with the freshmen. The dates of the games were determined at the meeting held Wednesday, April 14.
At the meeting, Tom Griffin gave a talk on “Heat Insulation” at the meeting and a demonstration of the effect of “Nescent Gases” was given by Don Duffy and Bill Barton. The various classes were urged to get their teams organized and into the field Saturday to insure the success of the league.
Prof. Frank O'Malley Is Next Bookmen Guest
Mr. Frank O’Malley, professor of English, will be the faculty speaker at the bi-monthly meeting of the Bookmen, April 21, in the former library of the Hurley Hall of Commerce.
Mr. O’Malley has chosen for his subject “The Various Phases of the American Literary Movement.” Following the talk an open discussion on the topic will be conducted under the guidance of Bob McGrath, president of the organization.
Rev. Leo Ward, C.S.C., was the faculty speaker at the last meeting of the club and gave a very intelligent treatise on the schools of contemporary poetry.
STUDENT CRUSADE IS AID TO FOREIGN MISSIONARIES
“The members of the Catholic Students’ Mission Crusade lend an invaluable aid to the missionaries in the pagan countries,” declared Brother Severin, C.S.C., a missionary for ten years in Bengal, India, who addressed the meeting of the Notre Dame Unit of the Catholic Students’ Mission Crusade last Monday evening.
Brothel* Severin pointed out that the Crusaders by their prayers, moral support, and financial assistance are helping the missionaries to overcome great handicaps and difficulties that they have to face in these lands. He recalled many of his own experiences in the jungles and how the missionaries go for months without seeing any sign of civilization.
“The Catholic Faith appeals to these people, especially the hill tribes,” he pointed out. “These people are neither Hindus nor Mohammedans.”
At the regular business session of the group, Pat Bannon, president, appointed a committee to work out a plan for the colection of stamps in the various halls. If you have any cancelled stamps save them for the Missions!
New members at this meeting included Jerry Green, Cornelius Kvas-nak, Walter Gerend, Maurice Lahey, John Payne, and John Joyce. Rev. John R. O’Neil, C.S.C., was chosen as vice-moderator. Rev. John Mol-ter, C.S.C., is moderator.
At the next meeting of the group James Bernard will deliver a paper on “The Indian Missions.”
CHRISTOPHER HOLLIS TO APPEAR BEFORE CHESTERTONIANS
Christopher Hollis, noted economist and member of the Notre Dame faculty this semester, will address members of the Chesterton Society and students attending the meeting to be held Sunday morning, April 25, in the Law Building. The subject for discussion will be a series of articles appearing in recent issue of Forum magazine by Peter Whiffen criticiz-
Christopher Hollis Will “whacl^’ at Whiffen
ing the attitude of the .Catholic church. Mr. Hollis has taken unusual interest in the affairs of the Notre Dame apologists since their organization by Arnold Limn.
“Is One Religion as Good as Another?” is the subject for debate at the group’s meeting this week, to be held in the Law Building Sunday. Edward Grogan, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, will lead the affirmative speakers and Richard Foley, a senior in the same college, the negative.
George Morris, a junior in Arts and Letters, and Robert Lockner, a senior in the same school, were recently chosen members of the Chesterton Society it was announced this week by James K. Nerney, president. All meetings of the group are held at 10:30, Sunday mornings in the Law Building and are open to all students.
Frank Bright To Head New Jersey Club
Last Wednesday in the Carroll Rec, the New Jersey club held their elections and Frank Bright, junior from Madison, was elected to the presidency to succeed Joseph Quinn.
Along with Bright, Len Habig, junior from Maplewood, was elected vice-president of the club. Larry Doyle, sophomore from Morrisstown, and Earl Edelen, sophomore from Newark, were elected secretary and treasurer respectively.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 16, 1937
HON. J.F. DEERY TALKS TO 130 GUESTS AT LAW BANQUET
•
By Eddie Huff
“The Place of the Catholic Law School in Education and Government” was the subject of Hon. James E. Deery, Notre Dame, LL.B., TO, as he addressed more than 100 guests of the Notre Dame Law club in the Bronzewood room of the Hotel LaSalle last night. The occasion was the twelfth annual Notre Dame Lawyers’ testimonial to the late Col. William Hoynes, founder of the Law department and dean until 1918.
Some 130 undergraduate members of the Law club, including 32 seniors were present, continuing an affair inaugurated in 1926 when Colonel Hoynes introduced the “Hoynes Award,” scholastic prize given to the top ranking lawyer of the graduating class.
President Pat J. Fisher, senior from Indianapolis, welcomed the diners and presented Toastmaster Francis A. Dunn, senior from Joliet, DI. Anthony W. Brick, senior from N. Tonawanda, N. Y., delivered the eulogy in honor of Col. Hoynes, lending emphasis to his founding of one of the nation’s foremost schools of law.
Prof. Clarence E. Manion of the law department struck a humorous note as he related whimsical stories arising within the stern walls of the class room sessions.
Paul M. Butler, LL.B., ’27, and practicing attorney of South Bend, drew a relationship between the Law School and the municipal bar association.
Keynoter Deery recounted the highlights of Col. Hoynes’ legal life and went on to describe the place of a genuine Catholic law school in both education and government.
Texan Tamburitza Band Pleases Audience
Under the leadership of Professor Pierce, the Tamburitza orchestra of St. Edward’s College, Austin, Texas, gave a concert in Washington Hall, Thursday, April 8. The group consists of eight well-trained musicians whose performance was satisfactory in every light.
Each number was well received by the audience, and the little traveling unit certainly deserves high praise for its ability and versatility. It is to be hoped that the appearance of the group will become an annual feature of the Washington Hall musical season. A tamburitza band is one consisting entirely of Slavonic string instruments, playing native folk songs and other airs.
Another manager, one of that long line of workers in the athletic meadows, this time it’s James Lawrence Quinn, late of St. Benedict’s Prep., Elizabeth, New Jersey, and the second floor of Walsh, “Work-Shop of the University.”
James Lawrence, among other1 things, is an electrical engineer—his ten-tube radio won’t play a lick. Summers he spends in a somewhat dubious calling referred to hazily as “machinist”—“Learn lots too.”
Jim holds down two or more sports
—two by rights and one or two by proxy—he is officially manager par excellence of fencing and tennis. In both pursuits he is working hand in glove with Professor de Landero. As a “social secretary” James rates aces with the professor—even when the fencing squad almost ate pork-chops one Friday.
Among Jim’s extra-curricular activities is that of chauffeur. He has been peddling the autos owned by various coaches, and frankly prefers Mr. Layden’s.
Mrs. Quinn’s favorite son is also right-hand man of Eli Abraham, and serves as secretary of' the local Knights of Columbus council—just another iron in the fire.
In spite of activity on many fronts Jim usually finds time to match wits with roommate “Yussel Joe” Moore, Prof. Scannell’s ace pyramid man. Quinn, incidentally, rated one notch ahead of Chet Grant when the two , were being quizzed on general knowledge by Jim Costin. Quinn and Grant were the two finalists in what must have been a motley crew.
MAY 3 OPENING DATE OF HALL RADIO CONTEST
•
The opening gong of the second annual interhall radio contest will be heard Monday, May 3. This was the announcement of Norbert Aleksis, student radio director, following a meeting of representatives of the various halls last Monday.
The schedule for the broadcasts of the halls is as follows: Monday, May 3, Alumni and Brownson; Tuesday, St. Edwards and Morrissey; Wednesday, Badin and Off-Campus; Thursday, Freshman and Dillon; Friday, Lyons and Sorin; Monday, May 10, Carroll and Cavanaugh; Tuesday, Howard and Walsh.	‘
The campus studios will be open from four to six o’clock on Mondays and Tuesdays for rehearsals by Seniors and on Wednesdays and Thursdays for Juniors. The entire weekends are reserved for Sophomores and Freshmen.
The participants from each hall will be allowed a quarter hour, and the four finalists selected will appear in a full hour program which wil be held on either May 13 or 14. Spirited rivalry is already evident among the halls in their effort to obtain possession of the silver plaque which last year was awarded to St. Edwards. This year there is also an individual award of Notre Dame keys to the members of the winning group.
Marine Reserve Lists
To Close Soon
The application list for the Platoon Leaders Class in the Marine Corps Reserve will be closed April 23. Those interested in entering the group should get in touch immediately with their rectors or with the office of the prefect of discipline.
The course -offered is a training course for college students in preparation for a commission as second lieutenant in the Marine Corps Reserve. At the end of the second year’s course (each course lasting six weeks in successive summers after the sophomore and junior years in college) and upon the reception of a. degree from the University, the candidate is given a commission in the reserve.
The group encamps at either Quantico, Virginia, or San Diego, Calif., depending on the geographical location of the applicant’s home.	•
February 23, 1895—Found: A nickle - plated pneumatic air - pump. The owner may recover it by calling upon Mr. Ney, Brownson hall.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 16, 1937
9
CALENDAR
Friday, April 16
Scholastic staff meeting, editorial staff, 6:30 p.m., general staff, 7:00 p.m.; Monogram Formal, Columbia Athletic Club, 9:00 to 12:00 p.m., Boyd Raeburn and his orchestra.
Saturday, April 17
Annual Indiana Catholic Oratorical Contest sponsored by the Wranglers, John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering, 2:00 p.m.; Movies, Washington hall, “Don’t Turn ’Em Loose”; Golf, Varsity vs. Purdue, Lafayette, Ind.; Baseball, Varsity vs. Illinois, Urbana, Ill.
Sunday, April 18
Students’ Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; Meeting, Chesterton Society, Lawbuilding, 10:30 a.m.; Meeting, St. Vincent de Paul Society, Knights of Columbus chambers, Walsh hall; Finals, Indiana Catholic Oratorical contest, John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering, 2:00 p.m.; Communion breakfast, Knights of Columbus.
U. Theater, “Thread O’Scarlet,” “Hot Headlines,” Washington Hall, 8:15 p.m.
Monday, April 19
Meeting, S.A.C., basement of' library, 6:30 p.m.; Meeting, Servers’ club, Sacristy, Sacred Heart Church, 6:30 p.m.;' Jeanne d’Arc Medal Contest, Room 112, Main Building; Golf, Varsity vs. Chicago, Burke Memorial Golf Course; Universal Notre Dame Night program, N.B.C., 9:00 p.m.
Universal Notre Dame Night banquet, Lay Faculty dining hall, sponsored by St. Joe Valley alumni.
Tuesday, April-20
Wednesday, April 21
Meeting, Bookmen, Hurley Hall of Commerce, 7:45 p.m.
। Thursday, April 22
Baseball, Chicago vs. Varsity, Chicago, Ill.	•
Monogram Ball
, (Continued from Page 3)
F. Layden, Mr. and Mrs. George E. Keogan, Mr. and Mrs. John P. Nicholson, Mr. and Mrs. Clarence J. Kline, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph M. Boland, Mr. and Mrs. William J. Cerney, Mr. and Mrs. Pedro A. de Landero, and'Mr. Donald C. Grant.
Others are Mr. and Mrs. J. Arthur Haley, Mr. and Mrs. Herbert E. Jones, Mr. and Mrs. M. Robert Cahill, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph S. Petritz, Dean and Mrs. James E. McCarthy, Mr. and Mrs. Stephen C. Bocskey, Mr. and Mrs. Clarence E. Manion, Mr. and Mrs. Eugene J. Young, and Mr. William L. Benitz.
COLLEGE PARADE
By Anthony F. O'Boyle
Exit The VFW
About this time a year ago a college-born organization known as The Veterans of Future Wars was enjoying widespread notoriety because of its efforts to satirize the Harrison Bonus Bill. For the most part the movement was simply a clever and witty burlesque of the so called “younger generation’s” attitude toward war. Beyond that it made no serious pretensions.
The Veterans attempted to run their organization on a non-profit making basis but, even as early as last November, this was shown to be an impossibility. However, it was not until early this month that the venture was officially declared dead. . . . While its failure was a foregone conclusion as far as any hope for it becoming a permanent medium of anti-war sentiment was concerned, we cannot help feeling a bit disappointed at its passing. It seems to us that there should be some way to convince impetuous legislatures that today’s youth are no longer desirous of again making Mars the deity of mankind. . . . But, perhaps, that’s because we belong to the younger generation.
If You Are Curious, Try It
' There’s a story making the rounds of exchange columns to the effect that a student at Marquette University decided to prove that professors do not read exam papers as they should. His procedure was simple: he merely filled the first three pages of his exam paper with subject matter and then scribbled a description of a basketball game over the remaining two pages of his five-page article. . . . When the papers were returned he had received an excellent grade and up to the present time nothing has been said to him.
What Do You Think of the Idea?
Ohio State University authorities are considering the advisability of maintaining an “examination file” which would give Scarlet and Gray students an opportunity to have complete access to all former tests and quizzes given in that school. Present indications tend to show a favorable reaction to the proposal if there is the guarantee that the system would be properly conducted. Objections to the innovation center around the fact that some instructors consider it as “an indecent exposure of their educational technique.”
Speaking Briefly
Players in the New Year’s Day game at Havana this year who saw (Continued on Page 19)
Campus Voice
WHAT PRICE SCHOLARSHIP?
Editor Scholastic:
We know that Notre Dame isn’t a “football” school—even though the team members are awarded gold emblems for their excellent competitive record. Likewise we know that Notre Dame isn’t an “extra - curricular” school—though N. D. keys are distributed to radio amateur comedians, medals and trophies of every sort for everything from ping-pong to interhall athletics. But the fact remains that of all the activities centering about the University, the only one not accorded recognition for excellence is that of scholarship, which, according to Newman, is a bit important in the conduct of a University.
Other universities and colleges have their Phi Betta Kappas, their honorary fraternities, and so forth. This, seemingly, is a gratifying and appreciative tribute to those who, realizing the primary purpose of the four-year stay granted to them from earning their own livelihood, put that time to its intended use and thereby excel in their scholastic endeavors. Surely a ninety average over four years is quite as important as the ability to croon or tell jokes on an amateur radio program, or beating the man from Dillon in the shot-put! The latter are admirable in themselves, but w’hy not accord at least equal recognition to something far more important? Let us have our own honorary society, as has Loyola and numerous other Catholic schools, and award to the select members N.D. keys in recognition of their scholastic efforts.	T. P.
Vie For Jeanne d' Arc Medallion Monday
The contest for the annual Jeanne d’Arc medal for proficiency in French will be held Monday, April 19, in room 112 of the Main Building. The contest is restricted to seniors who have had at least two years of college French.	•
The medal is awarded through the generosity of Le Lyceum, a society of French women in New York. Rev. Charles Doremus, C.S.C., and Earl Langwell, professors of French, are in charge of the contest. They will judge the contest papers and make the announcement of the award. Those wishing to participate should get in touch with either of them for details.
The medal is warded every year to some member of the graduating class of the University. Last year the winner of the medal was Carmi Belmont, of Fall River, Mass.
10	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 16, 1937
THE WEEK
Collusion?
There has been endless boring talk and writing about over-emphasizing football, and Joe Boland, line-coach at this here institution, knowingly or unknowingly is grinding grist for the mill. On his Man-on-the Street broadcast, April 6, Joe asked why the streets were decorated with flags, expecting a halting explanation of the twentieth anniversary of the United States’ entrance into the World War. Instead the answer was that Notre Dame was starting spring practice— hence the flags. We like to feel that football is important but when John Q. Public associates municipal bunting with the initiation of the pigskin parade he’s got a scenario writer’s mind. Since we were told of the occurrence we have been visited repeatedly with an insidious suspicion that perhaps Joe had rehearsed with the football-mad man. Perhaps the whole affair was a publicity move. We sincerely hope that the reply wasn’t spontaneous and sincere.
* * *
Scrub Trouble
Owning a sunny disposition, we dislike constant carping, but sometimes it’s more than a man can stand. Take the unceasing mopping in the cafeteria. We defy you to go there at any time from seven in the morning to 9:40 at night and remain for ten minutes without being literally swept off your feet. Cleanliness is laudable and supposedly is heaven’s second law. Still, eating should be uninterrupted and peaceful. When you buy a ration of peanut butter and crackers, you need absolute quiet to make the spread come out even. What with the mop brigade underfoot, you are bound to have crackers left and no peanut butter, or vice versa. Should you drop a piece of toast to the floor you can’t retrieve it from the slush and ooze and eat it; on a dry floor it might be done. The handle of the mop, in its erratic course, is a real menace to student eyesight. Couldn’t there be a cleaning schedule? In all our visits to down town eateries, we have never been bothered by extemporaneous purging. Yours for dirt.
* * *
Spring Song
Since the first sun loomed up from the east, springtime has meant to a young man’s fancy—romance. We are told it’s like a contagious disease and twice as virulent. That may be for most young men; but here, at Notre Dame, a different breed thrives. In the course of an average spring day, our boys do many fanciful, inexplicable deeds, but none of them can be allied with romance. There is
By John A. Gillespie '
nothing amorous in rising at five-thirty on Sunday to go to six o’clock mass and play 27 holes of golf before dinner. We see no rapture in a 30-inning game of softball on Badin square, choked by dust and heckled by taunts from the rear windows of Walsh. You must strain a point to ferret out any enchantment in following a golf match for three hours over trap and green, covering approximately five miles. And where is the hint of infatuation in six fast sets of tennis? The routine of the student allows but one loophole for accusations of sentimentality. When breezes are soft and warm, many, of us surrender to aimless strolls about the campus, some even venturing to the residential section. Last year two juniors from Alumni made a habit of sitting on the shore of St. Joseph’s lake every night for hours, smoking and talking. Once or twice they took 12 o’clock permissions to completely indulge their hobby. It is quite possible that the men who saunter far and wide on spring nights do occasionally delve into the romantic.
To return to the queer actions provoked by spring; we recall, in our sophomore year, the violent addiction to fishing in St. Mary’s lake. It is not recorded, or even claimed, that so much as one fish was hooked, but that is easily understood when the tackle is considered. Favorite among the styles of equipment was a bent pin and A&P cord. Any branch, cut and pared, served as a pole. One devotee went berserk and used the handle of a golf club. Even farther back in our career, in our first year to be exact, we recall the marbleshooting fetish. Outstanding in that period is our memory of Jack - Robinson, All-American center of 1933, knuckling down on the path running from Sorin to the library, oblivious to the jibes of passersby. Also in that year came the bicycle craze. The terminal was good old Sorin. Rides were planned and the whole business took on an Eagle Scout air — box lunches and trail-blazing. So it has been for three years: eccentricities evoked by a rising temperature. We have been especially observant in the past month, searching for evidence of some idiosyncrasy, but none has come forth, unless the swinging over to. bone-close haircuts could be called a fad. Personally, our hair is meager enough without employing mechanical means. Come on, boys, let yourselves go! Never let it be said that collegians are becoming prosaic, that they can’t adopt some distinguishing peculiarity. That would mean the death of a class.
300 Greet Lee Sennett At Engineers1 Ball
In the gay atmosphere of the Columbia Athletic club, 150 couples last Friday danced to the spirited strains of Lee Bennett and his orchestra at the Engineers’ Ball.
Making his first appearance at a Notre Dame affair, Bennett was greeted warmly by the engineers and their guests who were led by Thomas Carney, president, and Miss Margaret Greene, of Northwestern university.	-
Frank .Frascati, chairman of the program committee, introduced something new in the way of combination favors and programs. It consisted of a metal covered booklet, black for the front and silver for the back, with “Engineers’ Ball 1937” engraved on it.
Campus Politics
(Continued from Page 3) hunt. Wanted!! Nine Good Men and True to Serve the Senior Class. Sentence These to Office.” Then followed a list of the candidates.	.
Over night the John Thomas (of Dillon) party had printed handbills with the title: “Found! Eight Good Men to Serve the Senior Class.” The party’s own candidates followed.
Other candidates for the senior presidency next year are: Johnny O’Connor, of Howard; George Keenen, of Dillon, who will sail under the slogan “Time’s A’wasting! Make the change with—(list of candidates)”; and Jack “Bing” Connor, also of Dillon, whose party battle cry will be “Swing to Bing.”
In the junior class the unprecedented number of only two candidates for president had tossed their “blotters in the halls” at press time: Dan Sheedy, of Morrissey, and Buck McArdle, of Lyons. The former had issued campaign blotters before Easter vacation. Close observers of the campus political scene believe that a third party will file notice before Sunday!
Kenneth Goff, of Cavanaugh, is the only sophomore presidential candidate who up to the present has announced his intention of running.
The primary elections will be in the dining hall lower lobby on Thursday, April 29, 1937. Those who have had their scholastic or disciplinary records marred in any way are ineligible to hold office.
The final elections will be held on May 11, 12, and 13 for the sophomores, juniors, and seniors, respectively.
Candidates for all offices are warned that to be officially nominated, their names must be presented to Arthur Hoffman on or before Saturday, April 17.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 16, 1937
11
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAF SMOKE
An epidemic of necromancy (some word, eh boys?) has hit these fortyeight states of ours and not to be outdone we go in for a little crystal gazing on our own. It is our guess that these names will make or break news ten years hence. . .
Jim Osgood (of news-stand fame) —A hybrid between Horace Greeley and Clarence Darrow.
Al Sniadowski (Sorin)—Prop man at Radio City Music Hall.
Al Mailhes (Morrissey)—National Amateur Champ. (In spite of Hagen, Jr.)
Frank Hughes (St. Ed’s)—Czar of the fruit industry.
Fan Mailers of Brownson and Carroll: Voice of the people.
Bob Benavides (Walsh) President of Mexico. He’ll start running after he is elected—or else.
Ed Holland (St. Ed’s)—Putting shot for the N. Y. A. C.
Jack McMahon (Cavanaugh)—A tiger tamer in Bengal (and not the bouts i either).
Bob Alberts (Alumni) — Still a mystery.
Coyne O’Connor (Alumni)—An exercise boy for Col. Bradley’s stables.
Hugo Melchione (Sorin)—A sign painter.
Buzz “Poodles” Meyer (Alumni)— A coal dealer in Cincinnati.
The Shellogg Bros. (Carroll) — Seniors at Notre Dame.
George Ross (Lyons) —A stevedore.
Frank Cunningham (Lyons) —A Nobel prize winner.
“Jafsie” Condon (Dillon)—A playground instructor.
Jack Hearn (Alumni)—A far-east missionary.
Edward Gray (Morrissey)—A city father in Boston.
Ed Nolan (Sorin)—Burlesque king.
Phil Carey (Howard) —Another Robert Taylor.
Bud Caldwell (Alumni)—Dancing instructor at the Palais Royale.
Bud Bonfield (Walsh)—A “figure” skater.
John Murphy (Walsh)—Vice-pres., Miller Mallet Inc.
While we are in the mood for predicting, let us look to the candidates for the Senior class presidency and the Law class presidency. Of the four candidates for the Senior class. JOHN THOMAS and JOHN O’CON
NOR (Dillon) and GEORGE KEEN-EN seems to have the inside track . . . . In the College of Law we have LOU VETTEL (off-campus) BUZZ MEYER (Alumni) and FRANK KELLY (Walsh) another Alumnite also has his eye on the office, but he would do better if he stuck to his golf at “one dollar- a hole” as he so modestly puts it. . . . Next week we will give you our forecast as to the winners in each race...
BOB CZIZEK and ACHILLES MOORMAN (Sorin) are now dating the “Buick,” thanks to FRED MUN-DEE (Sorin). ...
What off campus senior law student came out second in the fight with the lassie the other pan. in Lincoln’s (and we don’t mean oral fight either). . . By the way can anyone tell us why the salt shakers are as rare—as in the cafe. . . . FRANK “Donald Duck" HOCHREITER (Off-campus) will represent the Alumni association at Bremen, Ind., in the annual pow wow held there.
Overheard: “She’s the type that
Tried to spit in the corner tn a round-house.
marries a man with four million, then divorces him, and then he has two million” . . . The Monogram Absurdities, will be a smash hit or we’ll eat our shirt. For the benefit of those in the cast, there will be three talent scouts in the audience—so boys put out your best. . .
In spite of the fact that SEBASTIAN BONET (Howard) has been here for a long long time—about six years—his companion at the Engineers Ball is just a junior in a local high school, some stuff eh Sabby. . . Well we’ll see you at the Monogram ball tonight. . . .
BOB WILKE (Walsh) passes a popular chewing gum out to the students—so far only his friends have received any of the samples, how come Bob?. . . Not every one knows it but Professors RICHTER and ROLLISON of the Law school were and probably still are City Champs at contract bridge. . . JOE MANNEBACH (Dillon) must be getting insomnia, he stayed awake five minutes in one of his classes Monday ....
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 16, 1937
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi ..Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGH AL, C.S.C............Faculty Adviser
PAUL FOLEY............................Editor-in-Chief
CYRIL F. STROKER.......................Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
John A. Gillespie-------------------------------The Week
Anthony F. O’Boyle___________________________College Parade
Joseph Rotondo-------------------------In The Juggler Pein
Robert L. Grogan-----------------------“Scholastic of the Air"
News Staff
Louis DaPra-------------------------------------News Editor
Harold A. Williams------------------Assistant News Editor
Michael Mongoven-----------------------------Frank Reilly
Richard Riley-----------------------------Robert McClain
George Haithcock-----------------------Vincent de Coursey
Frederick Sisk----------------------------------------John	Callaghan
Thomas Marker-----------------------------James Hufnagel
Gregory Byrnes-------------------------------Graham Starr
Frank E. Larwood F. Barreda
James Dempsey___________________________________John Kohn
Vincent W. Hartnett’/________________________Literary Editors
Harold A. Williams f
Sports Staff Eugene Vaslett__________________________________Sports Editor
Andrew M. Crowe__________________________Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley Mark Mitchell Allan Bride____________________Nicholas Lamberto Frederick Digby______---------------------------John Clifford
Charles Callahan William A. Donnelly
Arch Gott___________________________________James A. Waldron
Francis Kroeger Art Editor
George Elmore
William R. Dooley, '26______________________Business Manager
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 233 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Vol. 70	April 16, 1937	No. 21
TULIP BUYERS ...
WE HAVE been on the receiving end of much wailing with regard to corsages. There have been those who bemoaned the fact that this year’s Scholastic refused to ask for a ban on corsages; there have been those who held we are pursuing the right track. Bless them.
With the Senior Ball crowding down, we are certain to receive many more opinions in this regard. It might be well to state a case.
It shouldn’t be hard to stretch the imagination to that point where we consider people perfectly able to solve their own posy problems. We feel that the earth will not tremble, neither will society be shaken in its foundations if seniors choose, or do not choose, to have corsages.
There were days, golden ages of journalism, when Greeley and Watterson wielded potent pens. They never worried about a dollar’s worth of gardenias. With almost three thousand men here, all bordering on maturity, we feel the individual man can consult his pocket-book and arrive at a fairly solid decision in this weighty matter.
As a matter of fact we know no better way to draw attention to a picayunish point than to froth at the mouth about “shall we, or shan’t we.”
ROW A—SEAT ONE ...
WITH the front line girls of the Monogram Club tripping lightly through rehearsal routine, news comes from the front- office of the production that a plan has been devised for reserved seats.
The Monogram Absurdities will run on three nights, and if history is any criterion, all three nights will be jammed. There is, of course, the perennial problem of “seat sprinters.” These-are the lads who leap from dinner tables, dash madly over campus lawns to Washington Hall and then proceed to save seven seats for their bud
dies. We are glad the Monogram Club is planning to spike this procedure.
The present plan calls for the entire first flooi- to be reserved. Advance sale of tickets will be made at thirty-five cents for this area. The balcony will not be reserved, and seats will be offered at twenty-five cents.
Such a plan should benefit the spectators, the Monogram Men, the campus lawns, and the sunny dispositions of those who go to the Absurdities to laugh.
CORRESPONDENCE ...
IN THIS issue we print a letter from a student urging the formation of a scholastic honor society, or the recognition of scholastic ability through some other channel. It would seem unnecessary to debate the wisdom of this move.
As the letter points out, trophies, honors, and acclaim are always given deserving work in any field. Notre Dame has never been reluctant to honor real ability. But somewhere along the line there has been a genuine but regrettable slip-up when it comes to honoring academic top-notchers.
There is a move on at the present, fostered by the S.A.C. to remedy this deficiency. Like many a good plan, this proposal seems to have bogged down. Two weeks ago the interest was high and actual plans were being discussed as though the Honor Society was just around the corner.
The plan as previously advanced called for a very rigid requirement which would allow approximately 25 men in the various Colleges to have membership. There could possibly be some changes made in the mechanics of this original plan; few original plans are perfect. But aside from the rather unimportant details of organization, most students will agree that some definite step in the line of an Academic Honor Society should be taken very shortly.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 16, 1937
13
ATHLETICS
MANY IRISH PLAYERS APPEAR IN O'BRIEN MEMORIAL GAME
•
By John F. Clifford
The greatest conglomeration of Notre Dame football stars in the history of the University will assemble in the stadium on May 2 to honor the memory of their former teammate, the late Johnnie O’Brien. Coaches, lawyers, business men, and athletic directors will don helmet and cleats to show next year’s Notre Dame varsity how football was played on “Johnnie’s team.”
O’Brien, who was killed March 12 when his car struck an abutment of a railroad viaduct, was end on the football squads of 1928-1930 and a member of the track team. He returned to his Alma Mater last spring from St. Edward’s college, in Austin, Texas, where he was head coach and director of athletics, to assume the job of end coach, a position vacated by Tom Conley, captain of the 1930 team. O’Brien was also assistant to Coach John Nicholson of the track team.
So far, Head Coach Elmer Layden has received replies from ten of the ployers who were associated with Johnnie O’Brien during his football career. Fred Miller, All-American right tackle of the 1928 team, has sent in his acceptance. It was he who captained the first team on which Johnnie played Notre Dame varsity football. Paul Host, captain and end of the 1931 team, is returning for the game. Another All-American is returning in ,the person of Joe Kurth, one of the most vicious tackles in Notre Dame records. Joe was the only sophomore on the 1930 team.
Dan Hanley, the young man who startled the Army a few years ago by catching passes, and who was a fullback on O’Brien’s team, will also be on hand for the game. Al Culver, left tackle of the 1930 national champs has signified his intention of coming. From near at hand Mike Koken enthusiastically assented to play. Mike was left half from 193032 and is now working in South Bend. Bernie Leahy, another left half and monogram winner from 1930-32, will play, as will Norm Greeney, a guard during the same years. Word has also been received from Bob Turllak, a sophomore guard under Bert Metzger, during that havoc-raising season of 1930. Frank
(Continued on Pafe 21)
KLINEMEN TRAVEL TO CHAMPAIGN TOMORROW TO MEET STRONG ILLINOIS BASEBALL TEAM ARBOIT WILL PITCH FOR IRISH
WASHINGTON U. TIES IRISH GOLFERS
IN OPENER
•
Last Saturday the 1937 edition of the Notre Dame golf team made its first appearance and was held to a 9-9 deadlock by a surprisingly strong outfit from Washington university of St. Louis. Never before in the history of intercollegiate golf at Notre Dame had there been a tie, the record extending over a period of eight years. During this time the Irish had won 49 meets while losing only four.
A brisk northwest wind hampered players of both teams but it was the superior steadiness that won the meet for the visitors. The William J. Burke Memorial course upon which the meet was played was in excellent shape for so early in the season but the greens were still quite rough in ploces and the boys are still talking about a few putts that might have dropped which would have changed the outcome of the entire meet.
The star of the Washington aggregation, Jim Black, lived up to his reputation by rendering a completely decisive victory over his singles opponent, Bill Castleman. Then in the afternoon Black returned with Weiss as a partner and soundly trounced Bud Donovan and Al Maihles of Notre Dame in the doubles, 2% to %.
But all was not dark for the Irish as Tom Sheehan, flashy Notre Dame sophomore, came through with the lowest card of the meet, 37-39—76 and administered a blistering beating to his opponent Jonas Weiss, junior district champ of Missouri. Then there was a bright spot in the teamplay of Capt. Lou Fehlig and Gene
(Continued on Page 18)
BASKETBALL EQUIPMENT RETURNED
Mr. John A. Scannell requests that all interhall basketball equipment be turned in to the Equipment Room in the gymnasium immediately.
Notre Dame’s inexperienced baseball team will face some very stem opposition in their second game of the season when they meet the University of Illinois nine at Champaign tomorrow afternoon.
Illinois finished second in the Big Ten baseball standings last year, and
Johx Moir The Moir the Merrier.
with a veteran team this year is the current favorite to cop the title. Ten lettermen are carried over from the team which won 10 and lost 2 in their conference games last year.
The Irish on the other hand have only four returning lettermen, and three of them are pitchers. Illinois also has the advantage of an early start on the Irish, having played two games already this season. Notre Dame, which opened its schedule last Tuesday against Chicago, has been hampered all spring by lack of practice because of inclement weather.
Last year the Ulini, coached by Wally Roettger formerly a player with the St. Louis Cardinals, were beaten by the Irish, 5 to 4, in their only meeting of the season. In that game the Notre Dame team rallied in the ninth to win. Andy Pilney drove home the winning run with a smashing hit off the Ulini pitcher, Irving Cherry, who is now on the Chicago Cubs roster. '
Standouts in the Illinois line-up include Harold Swanson, Wib Henry, and Louis Boudreau. Swanson is rated as one of the best pitchers in
(Continued on Page 22)
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 16, 1937
NICHOLSON'S TRACK PROTEGES WORK DAILY TO OVERCOME INJURIES IN PREPARATION FOR COMING DRAKE RELAYS
SET MAY 16 AND 17 FOR INTERHALL GOLF TOURNEY
Typical Indiana weather and injuries have hampered Coach Nicholson’s thinlies in their attempt to reach top shape for the opening of the outdoor track season. Although the trackmen have been outside since Easter, they have been slowed down by cold, windy, and rainy days, but regardless of the weather each day finds them wrapped in sweat clothes jogging from the gym over to the oval on Cartier Field.
In an attempt to find out just what shape the boys are in Coach Nicholson has ordered several time trials.
John McKenna Nickis Bad Boy.
One was scheduled for last Wednesday, but a thunder shower bogged down the track. With the Drake relays only a week away Nick hopes for a week of clear, warm weather.
Illness has been another thorn in the side of the Irish. Since the close of a successful indoor season several of the Irish dependable have been forced to the sidelines. At the present time it is doubtful whether Greg Eice, the sophomore sensation, will be able to appear in the Drake Relays. In the last indoor meet of the season Rice started off the relay against' Don Lash and finished the distance twenty yards in front of the famed Hoosier. Since then he was taken sick and has been recuperating slowly and is not expected to regain top form until late in the season.
John Francis has also been on the sick list, having been bothered by sore legs. However he is gradually working it out and is expected to be ready for the Drake Relays. Francis turned in some good times in the 880 during the indooi- season and is expected to be of valuable aid to the Irish as a point winner in their outdoor competition.
It is generally conceded that Notre Dame would possess one of the best (Continued on Page 20)
RACQUETEERS SWING FOR OPENING TILT WITH INDIANA
Fox- the past week, despite high chilling winds and a mercury that peristently hovers in the lower regions of the thermometer, all the candidates for the 1937 Notre Dame tennis teams have been given an impartial and thorough opportunity to demonstrate their racquet wielding ability. According to present plans Coach de Landero intends to select his varsity from the players making the best showing in the round-robin tournament now going on.
One of the most encouraging signs that has yet appeared on the local tennis horizon is the number of students that have turned out to contest for the places on the squad that have to be filled. While regretting the obvious necessity of cutting down this number to squad requirements the veteran net mentor is taking all possible precautions against passing up any of the potential Tildens or Perrys that might be strolling around the asphalt courts behind Cartier Field these windy April afternoons. To further insure against such a loss the time-honored system of challenging a team member for his place will be continued.
At the present moment Coach de Landero’s main problem is chiefly one of selection. The ability of the three veterans on the squad, Captain Bill Fallon, George Feeley, and Eddie Kilrain, has been pretty well demonstrated in the past. But since most of the promising new material is composed of sophomores and a few juniors the task of weeding out the best of the younger crop is rather difficult. Returns on scores in the opening matches of the present elimination tournament indicated that Simon, Shaw, Arnold, Lewis, Gregory, Rep-penhagen, Connell, and Metrailler will all* have to be taken into consideration before the players selected for the opening match against Indiana is definitely named. There are still 20 names posted on the tournament list, and elimination of these will continue until the required team number has finally been determined. Whether or not the advent of better playing weather and the use of the clay courts will uset present rankings is one of the most important of the unknown factors with which Coach de Landero has to deal.
The annual Inter-Hall Golf Tournament, under the direction of Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., will be held this year on May 16 and 17. Each contestant will play 18 holes on each day, and the final standings will be determined on the basis of medal or • stroke play. The student turning in the lowest medal score of all the competing players in the 36 hole tournament will be declared the Individual Inter-Hall champion and will receive the individual trophy for low medal score.
All students except members of the A squad of the Varsity golf team are eligible to compete. In ordei- to qualify, players from each hall must turn in at the club house five 18-hole scores between April 10 and May 12. These cards must be signed and attested, and should contain the name of the hall. From the five lowest scores of all those handed in by contestant from each hall a five-man team will be picked to represent that hall in the tournament.
From the five-man hall team, the four men returning the lowest aggregated score for the 36 holes of stroke play shall win the team championship. Each member of the winning hall team will receive medals, and the large trophy will be presented to the hall. The team trophy, medal trophy, and the individual medals are now on display in the cafeteria.
As tournament play will be conducted only on May 16th and 17th, entrants are urged to submit their five attested score cards early so that recording of them may be made. The rules on the score card must be followed and all putts must be holed. Players who do not follow the tournament rules will be disqualified.
Pairings in the tournament will be made in groups of three without any reference to individual halls until final tabulation ds made. Freshman, Dillon, and Morrissey are all eyeing the team trophy and are the present favorites because of the many entries from each of these halls. The other halls have something to say about the winner, too, and a “dark horse” may be the eventual winner.
SPORT STAFF CANDIDATES
Freshmen wishing to apply for positions on the SCHOLASTIC Sports Staff may receive tryouts tonight at 7:00 o’clock in the SCHOLASTIC offices of the Ave Maria building to the rear of the Main Building.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 16, 1937
ON DOWN THE UNE
The University of Alabama baseball team has an all-football outfield this season. The gridiron stalwarts are YOUNG BOOZER playing in right field, VIC BRADFORD is stationed in center and BLACKIE CALDWELL patrols left field.
There is a BING CROSBY who pitches for Clemson college.
Hockey addicts were paying $11 for $3.30 tickets in New York when the RaNGERS and DETROIT met there in one of the playoff games for the hockey championship.
Five former University of Texas baseball players were listed on the major leagues' rookie roster. They were ERN1E KOY of the Yanks, Outfielder MORRIS SANDS of Pittsburg, HENRY SELF, Cleveland catcher, infielder AUBREY GRAHAM and pitcher DICK MIDKIFF of the Boston Red Sox.
EDDIE (CHOO CHOO) JOHNSON, son of the old BIG TRAIN, collected five hits in six appearances at the plate for Maryland against Virginia the other day and was robbed of a sixth by a sensational catch.
WALTER MALLOY of Chicago, who played as a member of the Northwestern alternate eleven last fall, withdrew from school recently. He was expected to play a first string tackle for LYNN WALDORF’S team next fall.
WALLACE WADE, coach of Duke University, is listed in “Who’s Who in America.”
Pittsburgh’s able football coach, JOCK SUTHERLAND, is an instructor in the university’s dental college.
ALEX HAYES, younger brother of JACKIE HAYES, Chicago White Sox second baseman, is also a guardian of the keystone sack, playing that position for the" University of Alabama nine.
According to a well known sport goods manufacturer, poles used in pole vaulting usually are a foot shorter than the intended vault.
JOHN WOODRUFF, Pitt’s Olympic colored star, turned to track because his father objected to participation in football. Running foi’ Connellsville High school at the West Virginia university indoor games in 1934, he stuck to the outside lane throughout and won the scholastic mile title. Later he explained that he thought he would be disqualified if he cut over to the inside lines.
Georgetown university has a capable baseball coach in JOE JUDGE, former big league first baseman. Judge was a great fielding first baseman as well as holding his own at the plate.
IRISH BASEBALL TEAM DEFEATS CHICAGO U. BY 16-9 SCORE IN SEASON'S OPENER;
MOIR. CARSON LEAD IRISH BATTING
DOUBLES TOURNEY NEARS FINAL ROUND
•
Sixteen hard handball matches over-the last week-end cut the entrants in the University Handball Doubles tournament exactly in half. The four seeded teams, Darcy-Malarney, Fallon-Claire, Riley-Lonergan, and Ford-Mundee are still in the running, and, of course, are the favorites. Their three strongest contenders will probably be the Foley-Walsh, Borgman-Metrailer, and Clifford-Race combinations. These seven most likely quarter-finalists are upperclassmen, with the exception of the sophomores, Paul Borgman and Bill Metrailer.
Fallon and Claire are the only members of the newly-formed Notre Dame varsity handball squad who have teamed together. The other varsity men, Darcy, Mundee, and Clifford, are scattered among the topranking pairs. Darcy and Claire finished one-two in the singles tourney, and may be finalists with their teammates in the doubles tournament.
The original entry-list of 54 teams was pared by competition first to 32, then to 16 teams. The contest started two weeks ago, and -will probably continue for two more weeks before the championship is won. The trophies for the finalists are on exhibition in the University cafeteria.
S. A. C. SW/M MEET
Although no definite date has as yet been set for the annual swimming meet, sponsored by the S. A. C., nevertheless it is to be held within the next two weeks.' Reverend Julian Sigmar will again have direct supervision over the various activities, while Richard Delaney has been appointed by President Phil Bondi to act as general chairman of the meet.
The different events that will be contested are free style—60 yard, 120 yard, and 220 yard races. The first relay man will swim 60 yards free style, the next 60 yards breast stroke, and the anchor man 60 yards back stroke. It is thought that a 40-yard underwater swim will be offered as a special attraction. A 360-yard three-man relay race will also probably grace the program.
Four required dives off the low board are specified with three optional ones to make up the low board competition. There will be the same (Continued on Page 18)
The Irish of Notre Dame started off on the right foot in their current baseball season. Taking to the field for the first time Tuesday afternoon, the Irish went on a wild slugging spree and smothered the Maroons of Chicago under a barrage of hits to win 16 to 9.
The Irish team, the “greenest” in years from the point of varsity ser-
Coach Jake Kune Looks for good season.
vice, gathered sixteen hits and used five Chicago errors to advantage. Jumping off to a three-run lead in the first, they were able to stay out in front for the entire game, scoring in every inning but the third and fourth.
Johnny Moir, in baseball uniform this time, again led the Irish, getting four hits to drive in five runs and score two himself. Jim Carson got three hits in five trips to the plate to trail Moir for the batting honors.
While the Irish were slugging away, Lefty Rydell was tossing them in well. Lefty struck out six men in the seven innings he pitched. He weakened in the seventh, and Captain Arboit finished the game.
Prospects of an Irish victory were doubtful when the game started for seven new men took the field. The only two who had previously played on the varsity were Chuck Borowski and Lefty Rydell. Every man in the infield was new to the Notre Dame lineup. Jim Carson cavorted at first; Ed Brennan handled second; Andy Puplis covered short; and Joe O’Neil took over the hot corner position. In the outfield were Earl Edelen, a sophomore, Johnny Moir, and Borowski. Al Kozelove was on the varsity squad last year, but saw little service. He started as catcher Tuesday.
The Maroons used three pitchers in an effort to stop the Irish—Lawson, who yielded 8 runs, and 7 hits in five innings, Amundson, and Reynolds.
Catcher Shipway led the Maroons at bat, getting three for four. Roy Roderlind drove in three runs with a double during the big seventh inning.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 16, 1937
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
BY CY STROKER
The reappearance of this column, anxiously awaited by its thousands of readers, is the result of a conquest of Art (?) over Commercialism. For the last month we have been fighting a losing battle with the advertisers who insisted on filling the pages of The Scholastic with their mercenary messages. We finally convinced them, gold-hungry wretches that they are, that their pleas were futile as long as The Scholastic’s greatest drawing card was absent. So here we are again, — a little late for comment on some of the things we wanted to talk about, such as the Bengal- Bouts, — but here, nevertheless. That’s the important tiling.
▼
The spring sports program includes so many important items of interest that we hardly know where to start. The baseball team got off to a very encouraging start last Tuesday with its 16-9 win over Chicago. The Fighting Irish Nine shows great possibilities with the sensational pitching- of Lefty Rydell and the slugging ability of Johnny Moir and Jim Carson headlining Coach Kline’s gala production of 9—Beautiful Boys—9. The track team, too, shows very encouraging improvement. Advance reports indicate that Notre Dame should capture the honors in the four-mile relay and medley relay of the Drake Relays next Friday and Saturday, with such stars as Rice, Francis, Gott, and McKenna performing. Incidentally, we should like to add our word of congratulations to John McKenna for his work in the Butler Relays. It was the best race we ever saw him run. We won’t be a bit surprised, either, if Langton and Gibbs grab off a few places in the pole vault. They gave the record holders in the Butler Relays a good race. Then, too, we are sure of two places in the shot put with Levicki and Faymonville strutting their stuff.
' The golf team is also coming in for its share of publicity these days. Last Saturday Captain Fehlig and his men fought to a tie with the Washington U. team on the local course. Below freezing temperature and a high wind that must have started somewhere up in northern Canada hampered play and cut down the gallery. When the weather gets warm, if it ever does, the Irish golfers, with the fine material they have this year, should start again on their yearly road to national honors. The tennis team, captained by Serene Bill Fallon, is having its weather troubles too. As yet the team has been unable to practice on the clay courts, and it looks like a repetition of last year when the team didn’t get on the clay courts until the day of their first match.
▼
Most fertile grounds for speculation by basketball fans is the elimination of the center jump which will go into effect next year. This is the most radical change that has been made in the game since it started, and we thought you would like to hear what Coach George Keogan has to say on the subject. When interviewed, Mr. Keogan remarked on four points in reference to the center jump. First, elimination of the center jump will also eliminate some of the element of expectancy which has always been a part of the game. The dropping of the center jump will deprive the game of some of its excitement and enjoyment. Secondly, the center jump was almost necessary to prevent monotony. The spectacle of two teams running up and down the court without any definite break will tend to make the game less interesting to watch. Thirdly, the game has always been fast, but this will speed it up even more and will add four minutes of playing to high school games and more than five minutes to college games. This may result in two things: the team with the largest reserves may become the strongest team in spite of ability, and the game may be detrimental to the health of immature high school players, thus defeating its primary purpose. Fourthly, it doesn’t give the spectators a chance to appreciate the finer points of the game because they will have no opportunity to reflect on the skillful playing which culminated in a score. Mr. Keogan believes that it should have been given a year’s test, using the Middle West as a laboratory because interest and appreciation of the game is greater in this part of the country. However, he concluded by saying, “As long as the majority want it, we are glad to go along with them.”
IRISH NINE TO FACE CHICAGO U. TEAM IN RETURN GAME
•
When they travel to meet Chicago next Thursday, Notre Dame’s baseball team will attempt to repeat the 16-9 victory that they scored over the Maroons in Cartier Field last Tuesday.
In that game the Irish diamond men, an unknown quantity because of their inexperience, performed surprisingly smoothly ■ for the season’s opener. The game was a wide open affair in which the Irish gave the impression of a general superiority in power and class over the boys from the Windy City. Although they should repeat their victory, they will probably find the task more difficult on Chicago’s home field.
Although Coach Kline is still experimenting with his line-up, most of the men who saw action last Tuesday played well enough to make their starting positions more secure. The territory near the right foul line was capably handled by two of George Keogan’s sharpshooters, Johnny Moir in right field, and Jim Carson at first base. Football men took care of the left half of the infield and the center of the outfield with Joe O’Neil at third, Andy Puplis at shortstop, and Chuck Borowski in Centerfield. Ed Brennan who played second, and Earl Edelan in left field are both sophomores. Al Kozelove, at the receiving end of the battery, had “Lefty” Rydell tossing them at him for the first seven innings. Rydell, who was relieved by Arboit for the last two innings, showed very excellent form for an early season game.
Captain Robert Shipway, catcher, Milton Bernard, centerfielder, and French White, shortstop, were the outstanding players for Chicago.
Zerbst Elected Captain of '38 Fencing Team
John Zerbst, junior from Kansas City, Missouri, was elected to captain the 1937-38 fencing team Tuesday night at the fencing banquet held in the lay faculty dining hall.
Zerbst has been a member of the fencing team since his sophomore year and has competed in the saber event for the last two seasons with noteworthy success. In his first year on the varsity he saw part time duty in the fencing meets and this year he was a regular, competing in all the contests.
Forty followers and members of the fencing team attended the banquet Tuesday night. Joe Boland, line (Continued on Page 19)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 16, 1937
17
INTERHALL BASEBALL
By Mark J. Mitchell
Under the direction of Mr. John A. Scannell, head of the Department of Education, preparations for interhall baseball competition are proceeding smoothly, and the interhall league should be ready to open their schedule on Sunday, April 25.
Coaches have been .appointed for each of the various halls. The list includes Cavalier, Alumni; Collins, Sorin; Condon, Walsh; Conrad, Dillon; DiMatteo, Howard, Macaluso, Badin; Galletta, Lyons; Gleason, Morrissey; Guggisberg, Brownson; Hart, Carroll; Horomanski, Freshman; Ko-valcik, St. Edward’s; Kuharich, Off-Campus; Langton, Cavanaugh; and McCarty, Old Infirmary.
The baseball diamonds south of the tennis courts have been receiving attention the past week, and should be in condition to practice upon soon.
The rivalry in several of the classes has always been especially keen in baseball. For instance, among the
sophomores, Lyons has organized an outfit and challenged Badin to a practice battle, which is scheduled to come off tomorrow afternoon.
Sullivan Gym Captain
George Robert Sullivan of Monticello, Indiana, a junior in the department of physical education, was elected captain of the Gymnasium
SWEET AS HONEY
Sweet as a well-seasoned pipe, on the first smoke! And the honey-curing keeps it sweet. Special attachment supplies (1) automatic free draft (2) double action condenser. The best pipe you can buy for $1. Nothing else has its flavor.
YELLO-BOLE
Leaders Corps at their annual banquet held last Monday night. He succeeds Don Henenssey in that capacity.
The team closed its exhibition season this year on March 16, when it performed for the students in Washington Hall. A good-sized, appreciative audience watched its 14 members, students in the Phy-Ed department, demonstrate the various events which form part of the curriculum of that school.
O. K.!!
100%
Cigars .
MEN!
A perfect exam grade . . . Yes,
and that’s a perfect cigar he’s smok-
ing. It’s a LITTLE FENDRICH
PANETELA . . . the mildest, most
enjoyable smoke ever . . . (It’s made
from imported long-filler tobaccos)
. And we’ll bet that he and all
the fellows are unanimous in pro-
nouncing .. LITTLE.. FENDRICH
llSTTLE
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 16, 1937
t allowed, ku
HURT SCHRFFRER
& hirrh
U/kat it /team!
It’s the extras that count— extra hand tailoring at all essential points; extra high quality in fabrics, linings, inter-linings and trimmings; extra care all along the line from cutting to the final rigid inspection. You’ll notice the difference in the easy fit and comfortable pliability. You’ll notice it still more when your suit, after months of hard wear, still holds its shape, and looks smart and fresh long afierthe ordinary suit would have been discarded.
SAM’L SPIRO & CO.
South Bend, Ind.
Golfers Tied
(Continued from Page 13)
Milbourne who tied with Jack Lich and Tom Young of Washington, 1% to 1^, in a very exciting match. During an early part of the meet the Irish were on the short end of a 6-4 count but took five of the next eight points to earn the tie.
In defense of the Notre Dame club swingers it must be said that they have been subject to much inclement practice weather this year. Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., has had the team out on the course as much as possible but the warm season has not yet arrived.
Summaries :
Jim Black (Washington) defeated Bill Castleman (Notre Dame), 3 to 0.
-Tack Lich (Washington) and Al Mailhes (Notre Dame) tied, 1% to 1%.
Gene Milbourn (Notre Dame) defeated Tom Young (Washington). 2^4 to
Tom Sheehan (Notre Dame) defeated Jonas Weiss (Washington), 3 to 0.
Gene Milbourn and Capt. Lou Fehlig (Notre Dame) tied with Jack Lich and Tom Young (Washington), to 11£.
Jim Black and Jonas Weiss (Washington) defeated Bud Donovan and AI Mailhes (Notre Dame), 2^4 to ^4.
Dentistry offers an opportunity in the field of health service for men of ability and determination. Advanced standards have cut down dental school attendance by 44% in recent years. The number of practicing dentists has decreased 10% in the last 6 years.
Marquette University annually receives the highest rating —A— from the Dental Educational Council of America. The diploma is recognized in all states.
The close relationship of the Dental and Medical Schools at Marquette University is an advantage to students. ;
. Entrance requirements: Two years in a recognized College of Liberal Arts with satisfactory credits in biology, chemistry, and physics.
For complete information concerning opportunities in dentistry, write to the Secretary, Marquette University Dental School, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
MILWAUKEE
Swim Meet Soon
(Continued from Page 15) number of required dives from the eight foot or high board. There are four optional dives from the different classes in this event.
The meet will be staged in the South Bend natatorium. Appropriate medals and trophies are to be awarded by the S.A.C., to the winners and runners-up. There have been no judges, as yet, selected to officiate. Last year forty-odd participants were entered in the meet, and it is expected that an even greater number will swim for the titles this spring.
Among the aquatic stars in school at the present are the three Huisking brothers, namely Frank, Ed, and Dick. In 1936, the three teamed together for a first place in the relay, while Frank won the 220-yard free style swim, and Ed was the winner in the underwater event.
Jack McGurl and Green are former champions who will likely be on hand to defend their titles in both the low and high dives. Hughes, Casey, and Lawler are other strong contestants in a group that figured prominently in last winter’s meet. Those men who are planning to participate in the various events should turn their names in, as soon as possible, to Richard Delaney, 423 Walsh Hall.
SUMNER POSITIONS for STUDENTS
EARN *40 to * *75 A WEEK
H You can use your educational training and earn extra money this summer. This unusual opportunity for educational extension work in the home is
extremely interesting. Many students have been exceptionally successful and have found it the solution to their financial problems. Write for full details and proof of results at once.
THE JOHN C. WINSTON COMPANY, Home Extension Dept., 1012 Arch Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
The John Marshall
LAW SCHOOL FOUNDED 1899
AN
ACCREDITED
LAW SCHOOL
TEXT and CASE
METHOD
•
For Catalog, recommanded list of pre-legal subjects, and booklet, "Studyof Lawand Proper Preparation4* address: Edward T. Lee, Dean.
COURSES
(40 weeks per year) Afternoon—3 years 5 days... 4.-30-6.-30
Evening — 4 years Mon., Wed., Fri., 6:30-9:20
Post-graduate 1 year..twicea week Practice courses exclusively.
All courses lead to degrees.
Two years' college work required for entrance.
New classes form in Feb. and Sept.
315 Plymouth Ct., Chicago, III.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 16, 1937
Zerbst Captain
(Continued from Page 9) coach of football, asted as toastmaster and introduced the members of the varsity team and their coach, Professor de Landero. Captain Telmo de Landero and Professor de Landero both spoke on the past fencing season that produced the best balanced team in the short history of fencing at Notre Dame.
Jack McCauliff, senior on the squad, was announced as being the high point man of the past season.
College Parade
(Continued from Page 9) active service lost on the average of 9% pounds apiece. ... A coed at Creighton U. walked into a history test the other day, took one look at the questions and promptly fainted. ... In order to more fully understand pet gripes on the part of Purdue University students and this, if possible, eliminate their cause, the Student Senate of the “Boilermakers” has placed a “gripe box” in a conspicuous place on the campus wherein students can deposit their more serious complaints.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
!	DR. E. C. BEERY
। Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
।	228 . South Michigan St.
.	South Bend, Ind.
I	'
EVERYBODY LIKES A COOL PARTNER
Nobody likes a- man who mops or mopes with the heat. (He doesn’t even like himself.) Keeping cool is a social grace and art, but it’s a cinch in a
PALM BEACH SUIT
•
For dances, parties and all warm-weather git-togethers and sits, we prescribe a Palm Beach Tux ensemble—white coat (single or double-breasted) and black trousers. And for all other occasions, there are dozens of new dark and light suits that set the pace for value.
Don’t wait 'til college is over. Get yours now while selections are complete.
The Palm Beach Tux ensemble is $18.50
All other Palm Beach Suits are $16.75
GOODALL COMPANY • CINCINNATI
*
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 16, 1937
Track Team
(Continued from. Page H)
two-mile relay teams at the Drake carnival if Rice and Francis were in the best of condition.
Faymonville and Micek are two other thinlies who have recently been discharged from the infirmary. Both are now working out with the team and will probably be ready for the opening of the schedule.
Nicholson is working hard to find a sprint combination that will fare as well as the sprint relay teams in last year’s Drake Relays. The loss of Frawley will be felt, but with such men as Captain Jordan, Clifford, Gibbons, Micek, and Boyle to pick from there should be little trouble.
Stop with	:
GEORGE J. (Studie) LINS, '02 f at the	>
Lins Golden Court
Motor Hotel
On U. S. 66	j
Will Rogers Highway Tucumcari, N. Mex.	!
Filling Station and Cafe	;
in connection.	J
66 BAFFLES inside
FILTER-COOL SMOKE
It happened in Salem, Mass., on Februrary 12, 1877. The young reporter attended a demonstration of inventor Bell’s new telephone — then “talked” his story to his paper in Boston 6y telephone!
Though he didn’t realize it, he was inaugurating a new era in journalism. For today’s newspapers could hardly exist without the telephone.
Gathering and spreading news with lightning speed is just one of the telephone’s countless contributions to modern life. And 300,000 Bell System people strive constantly to make the service still better, still more useful.
MW rm (USUKS
Why not telephone home oftener?
BAFFLES BREAK UP SMOKE STREAM ■ -FILTER REALLY FILTERS
M — FINEST BRIA*.
■ MONEY CAN BUY BWtARP OF Vault
S0MITHIN6 WONDIIFUl OOIS ON IN1IM
Th if simple appearing yet amazing: absorbent filter invention with Cellophane exterior and’ cooling mesh screen interior keeps juices and flakesm Filter and out of mouth.
Prevents tongue bite, raw mouth, wet heel, bad' odor, frequent expectoration. No breaking, in. Improves thetasteand aromaofany tobacco.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 16, 1937
O'Brien Memorial
(Continued from Page 13)
Butler, center, is also returning to honor his teammate’s memory. Tom Conley, who played the other end on the 1930 team, will return.
It is hoped that all the members of the national championship team of 1930 will once again assemble as a unit the afternoon of May 2 to pay tribute to Johnnie’s career as an athlete and coach. This team was made up of many immortals in the football annals of Notre Dame and the nation: Marty Brill, Frank Carideo, Tommy Yarr, Marchy Schwartz, Bucky O’Connor, Bill Toomey, Jack Elder, and Johnny Law.
The Varsity-Old Timer’s game will present the first opportunity for sport fans to see in action the “Pony Express” and “Power House” back fields that will in all probability see much of the action as units next season. With two such aggregations, one made up of speed and deception, the other composed of power and weight, on hand the “present generation” ■will show the “older generation” of football stars how little or how much the national game has changed when one sees the action from behind the line of scrimmage, and not from the coaches’ bench or frkom the stands.
MAX ADLER
“The Big Store on the Corner'
Has all the latest Arrow things in a wide variety of styles and colors. . .
ARROW. . . selected by Men for Men
From Arrow shirts right down to ties, handkerchiefs and trunks . . . we're headquarters for Arrow merchandise.
Blswnrtlj’s
The Rodney
Arrow’s conception of smartness is evidenced in the RODNEY, a new style shirt, with a white collar and white cuffs on a dark blue, burgundy, or grey chambray body. The white collar in contrast to the colored shirt and tie gives just the right neckline relief. For town-wear and semi-formal occasions, ask for the Rodney. $2.50 with 2 separate collars.
Mitoga-^tailored to fit Sanforized Shrunk
ARROW SHIRTS
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 16, 1937
Why Process-Aging enriches the flavor and aroma of this fine Pipe Tobacco
Prove it at our Risk
A GING enhances the flavor and bou-±\_ quet of fine wines. The same is true of tobaccos.
As every tobacco expert knows, pipe tobacco can be rushed through the plant and save big sums of money. It’s pipe tobacco, but it is not Edgeworth.
Edgeworth is Process-Aged, a method as vital to these fine tobaccos as aging is to fine wines. Process-Aging requires twelve steps, each under laboratory control. It takes 4 to 7 times as long as might seem necessary. But in no other way can we guarantee that Edgeworth will not bite the tongue.
If Edgeworth is not the most delicious pipe tobacco you ever smoked or if it bites your tongue, your money will be cheerfully refunded.
NOTE: There are three kinds of
Edgeworth for you to choose from:
1—Edgeworth Ready-Rubbed—a cool, long-burning tobacco preferred by seasoned smokers.
2—Edgeworth Plug Slice—for the smoker who likes to crumble the tobacco in his hands until it’s just right for him.
3—Edgeworth Jr.—the same tobacco also Process-Aged, but cut for a milder, more free-burning smoke.
Please accept 50# Gold Plated Collar-Pin for only 10# when you buy Edgeworth. Merely send inside white wrapper from any tin of Edge worth with your nameandaddress and 10# to Larus & Bro. Co., Dept. 300, Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH"-
EDGEWORTH -
A. S. M. Meeting
(Continued from Page 6)
ing Materials, chairman of the advisory committee of Dynamic Testing Laboratories, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and a member of the International commission for Acetylene and Welding.
This is the first time in the history of the Notre Dame chapter that the annual joint meeting with the Chicago group has been held anywhere else save the city of Chicago.
Ws a Muckle Gude BARGAIN
“Penny-wise” happens to be “pound-wise”, too, on the South Shore Line. The thrifty South Shore Line fares actually buy all the safety, speed and dependability you need to insure carefree, convenient travel. You’ll be safe and save money on the South Shore Line.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
^OUTH^OR^
I
Illinois Prewrite
(Continued from Page 13)
the Big Ten, and should cause the Notre Dame batsmen plenty of trouble if he faces them. Henry, a two-year veteran, is after his ninth letter in the spring baseball campaign. He has won three letters in football, three in basketball, and two in baseball. Boudreau, the sensational sophomore basketball find, has now turned his athletic prowess to the baseball diamond. He packs a punch at the plate as evidenced by his home run with the bases full against Illinois Wesleyan last week.
The Notre Dame starting line-up is still a question mark at this early date. The exact line-up will be determined by each player’s showing in these early games. Coach Kline’s tentative line-up is as follows: The catching duties will be divided between Kovzelove and Waldron. The starting pitcher •will be either Rydell or Goncher, -with Captain Ennio Ar-boit in reserve. Carson at first, Brennan at second, Puplis at short, and O’Neill at third, wall probably constitute the starting infield, with McCarty, Gleason, Braddock, and Hoag just a shade behind the starting quartet.
In the outfield Borowski -will start in center with Joyce as alternate. In left field Nolan and Edelin are battling it out for the starting position. In right field John “Chick Hafey” Moir of basketball fame seems to be one step ahead of Kopczak, his closest opposition. If experience decides the conflict Illinois ■will enter the contest with a distinct advantage over the underdog Irish.
Established 30 Years
OPTOMETRISTS
222% South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
REASONABLE DEPENDABLE PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 16, 1937
23
that's fine, too. When we do both—when we improve quality nnd reduce cost—then that's a bargain, and it's the best of all.
Transportation is a bargain today on our modem-minded railroads, for it is vastly better than it has ever been before, and its cost is less than at any other time in modem history. We of the Illinois Central System are proud of the present merchandising situation of the railroads, to which we have largely contributed.
You can travel fast, safely and in style today at 2 cents a mile and
less, with low-cost meals at your seats, free pillows, air-conditioning, courteous attention to your needs —everything designed for your comfort and to please you.
Your freight will travel faster and better, too, and be handled in more convenient style—and still the average rate collected on all freight will be slightly less than 1 cent per ton per mile, which is not quite four-fifths of the 1921 average.
A CONTEST . . .
Four cash prizes, ranging from $100 to $25 and totaling $250, will be awarded student readers of our advertisements in colleges and univerrities throughout the Middle West and South for typewritten essays of from 300 to 500 words on "What I Like Best in Modern Railroading— and Why." The closing date will be May 10, awards by June 1. Address me at Chicago for reference material and to submit your essays.
ILLI N DIS CENTRAL SYSTEM
.AN INDIANA RAILROAD-