NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, April 18, 1891.
Vol. XXIV.
No. 31.
The Trouveres.
The subjects of Charlemagne were divided into two distinct races: the Germans who dwelt along and beyond the Rhine, whose language was the language of the court, and the Wjelchs, or Walloons, who called themselves Romans. In order to understand the origin of the Romance-Walloon, that is, the language of the Walloons, we must go back as far as the conquest of Gaul by the Romans. The original inhabitants of France were Celts, and they spoke a language which was a branch of that great Celtic family of languages which had overspread Spain, JEngland, Scotland, Ireland and France. But with the conquest of Gaul by the Romans all traces of this language disappeared except in a few localities. The Latin language was substituted in its place, and from Gaul came many accomplished Latin scholars and celebrated teachers of rhetoric and grammar.
Where the Franks conquered Gaul they introduced a new idiom, that is, the German. “The Gauls, who called themselves Romans because they imagined they spoke the language of Rome, soon abandoned all the refinements of syntax for the simplicity and rudeness of a barbarian tongue.”* In their writings they attempted to keep alive the Latin; but in their conversations they dropped the use of letters and terminations which they soon considered as superfluous. On this account, in a short time there arose a distinction between the languages of the Roman subjects and that of the Latin writers. From the former arose the Romance language, and by the latter the Latin was perpetuated. The German was the language of the court and
* Sismondi,
used for martial and historical poems; the Latin was the language of the writers, and the Ro-mance, still in its barbarous state, was the language of the common people.
The language of the Walloons was called after -them the Romance-Walloon, or rustic Romance. It was about the same throughout all France, excepting that as it extended to the south there was a nearer approach to the Latin; while to the north it gradually merged into the German. The coronation of Bozon, King of Arles, in 879, divided France into two rival and independent states, which division lasted for four centuries. The subjects of Arles, which included the southeastern part of France, called themselves Ro-mans-Proven?aux; those of the north added to their name of Romans that of Walloons, which they had received from their neighbors. The Provencal was called Langue d’Oc, and the Walloon, the Langue d’Oil, or d’Oui, from the affirmative word of each language. The writers of the Provencal were called the troubadours; those of the Walloon, the trouveres. '
In the tenth century Normandy, a province of northern France, was invaded and conquered by the Northmen under Rollo, or Raoul, the Dane. This conquest introduced new words and idioms into the Romance-Walloon. But the conquerors adopted the language of their subjects. This adoption, their good laws and wise administration, soon gave to the Romance-Walloon a more fixed form and greater polish in Normandy than in any other part of France. William the Conqueror, who lived about a century and a half after the conquest of Normandy by Rollo, his ancestor, was so much attached to the Romance-Walloon that when he had conquered England, he introduced it among his new subjects and even forced it on them by rigorous laws instead of their own language,
4S2
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
which was very ike that of his ancestors. So from Normandy the first writers and poets of the French language sprung.
The most ancient work in the Romance-Walloon, that has come down to us, is “ The Laws of William the Conqueror,” who died in 1087. The next two literary works are the Book of the Britons, or Brutus—a fabulous account of the kings of England written in 1155—and the Romance of the Knight of Lion, written at about the same period, both in Normandy, or at least by Normans. The first of the romances of chivalry was Tristan de Leonais, written in prose about 1190. “ Le Rou des Normands,” or “Le Livre de Raoul,” written by Gasse about 1160, gives an account of the establishment of the Normans in Normandy. It is similar in character to the “Brutus.” The next work of great note was the “Poem of Alexander.” Among all the works of the period this had' the greatest reputation. It was written about 1210 during the reign of Philip Augustus, and it contains many flattering allusions to incidents which happened at the court of that monarch. It was the work of nine celebrated poets of the age, and consisted of a series of romances and marvellous histories. Of its authors the following are the best known: Lambert li Cors, or the Little, Alexander de Bernay and Thomas of Kent. .*	____
This poem describes the deeds of Alexander the Great, who is represented not as surrounded by the pomp of antiquity, but by the splendor of chivalry. The high renown of this poem, which was universally read and was translated into several languages, has given the name of Alexandrine verse to the measure in which it was written, and this measure is styled the heroic by the French.
Thus the Romance-Walloon became a written language by at least two hundred years after the Romance-Proven9al. The reciters of tales and poems gave the name of troubadour a French termination, and called themselves trouveres.
It would be supposed by anyone that the troubadour and the trouvere—whose merits were pretty nearly equal, whose stations in life and advantages were the same—would resemble each other in the style and character of their productions. Yet the remains of the writings of the troubadours are of a lyric character, while those of the trouveres are epic. The names and lives of the troubadours are well known; of the trouveres. scarcely their names have survived, and the history of the most illus-_ trious individuals is not known. But the trou-veres have left many romances of chivalry and
fabliaux; and it is on these, and especially on the former, that the glory of the twelfth and thirteenth centuries depend. The origin of the romances of chivalry has been ascribed by many to the Arabians, and it seems likely that they were the first writers of romances.
The romances of the trouveres are divided into three classes. They treat of three bands of fabulous heroes who had no communication with each other. First are the exploits of Arthur, son of Pendragon, the last British king who defended England against the invasions of the o	o
Anglo-Saxons, and his Knights of the Round Table. In the court of this monarch are placed Merlin, the Enchanter, Sir Tristan of Leonais, Lancelot of the Lake, and many others. The origin of the history is evidently the Romance of Brutus, by Gasse. The second are the Amadises, as they are called. It is doubted whether these romances belong to French literature. The times are fabulous; in the reign of Perion, king of France, Languines, king of Scotland, and Lisvard, king of England. The first of the romances is Amais of Gaul. The third class is entirely French; they relate the exploits of Charlemagne and his Paladins. The origin is supposed to be the chronicle of Turpin, or Gilpin; so to these classes then belong the romances of the trouveres.	■
Their poems are various, embracing allegories, fabliaux, lyrical poems, and mysteries and moralities. The principal allegory, and perhaps the most ancient, is the Romance of the Rose. It contains twenty thousand verses and was the work of different authors—Guillaume de Loris and Jean de Meun. The fabliaux of the trouveres have been represented as treasures of invention, originality, simplicity and gayety. They are relations in poem of every tale of gallantry and every adventure and anecdote, which the poets found in other nations ' and in their own. The most celebrated of these fabliaux are the Lay of Aristotle and that of Aucassin and Nicolette. The trouveres also possessed a few lyrical poets, among whom was Thibaud III., Count of Champagne, who ascended the throne of Navarre in 1234. The lyrical poets, however, attached greater importance to the sound than the alternation of the rhymes, and to the rigorous observation of the laws established by the troubadours for regulating the construction of the stanza in their songs, their teneons and their sirventes than to the sense and the sentiments which they were expressing.
The lyrical poets were nearly all sovereign princes. The mysteries were representations

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,	483
of the different events concerning the establishment of the Christian religion, and also in after time the lives of the saints. They were first acted by pilgrims from the Holy Land. In the reign of Charles VI. the Fraternity of the Passion was formed, so called from their most celebrated representation being the Passion. The Clerks of the Revels invented a new kind of exhibition for the entertainment of the people which differed in name, though in substance they were about the same as the Mysteries. These were called the Moralities, and they represented the Parables of the Bible. Although to us many of the works of the Normans seem to be of an immoral tendency, yet we must judge them by the age in which they lived, and when judged by that criterion we shall find that they are no worse than those of the day for which they wrote.
■ So from Normandy came the French language, and it is curious to note that the French, English and the Italian languages all have had Normans for their first authors. From Normandy, the French language sprung; William the Conqueror introduced, as I have before mentioned, the Norman-French into England, where it was the language of the court for about two centuries; the first authors of Italy were from the Normans of Naples and Sicily. By this we see that the Normans, who were the last of the barbarians of Europe to be civilized, did good work in the civilization of Europe.
F.
Spectrum Analysis.
White light is composed of six different colors, named, in order, red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and violet. When a ray of sunlight passes through a prism it will be refracted more or less, and if thrown on a screen the colors will appear in the order named. Strange as it may seem, this fact was unknown before the year 1675, when Sir Isaac Newton presented to the Royal Society his great treatise on Optics. In order to prove that he held a correct theory, he caused the sunlight to pass through a prism; then, by means of a mirror, reflected through a second prism, and found that the light split up by the first was reunited by the second.
The discovery, as made, wais of little avail to scientists unless it was to know that the light of the sun consisted of rays of different degrees of refrangibility since the instruments at their command were necessarily crude and imperfect, nor had any progress been made in the field of infinitesimal measurement
When the spectrum began to be studied more, with the help of better apparatus, better results were obtained. Dr. Wollaston first observed those dark lines, which subsequently were named after the German optician, Fraunhofer who, before any others, gave them the strict attention they deserved. In 1814 he mapped 576 of them, calling the more prominent ones after the letters of the alphabet from A in the red to H in the violet, but long since continued to W.
The result of Fraunhofer’s many experiments showed that every kind of sunlight contained the lines fixed, even that reflected from the moon and planets; that the light of the self-luminous, fixed stars had them, though differently arranged, each one peculiarly, and hence he came to the conclusion, as early as 1814, that whatever caused those shadows was acting outside the atmosphere of the earth. This has been borne out by subsequent investigations, and is the corner-stone of solar and stellar chemistry.
The study of the solar spectrum naturally led to the belief that incandescent solid bodies or gases would produce the same; and experiment has shown this partly to be true. If a piece of platinum wire is heated to whiteness it gives off a continuous spectrum; so will any other solid; but an incandescent gas gives only a broken spectrum, i.e., a series of a greater or less number of bright lines, and—as is the case with the fixed stars—each gas has its own peculiar spectrum. This important discovery led to a more pointed study of the particular spectra of gases, and solids even were found to be of the self-same nature when constrained by intense heat to become gaseous.
Exact measurements were made of the dark lines, and their relative positions determined with as much accuracy as could beobtained; and then, being platted, were compared to the bright lines constituting the spectra of many of the elements found on the earth, when, to the utter astonishment of the beholders, there was found to be an exact coincidence in each and every case. Putting two and two together, the conclusion was reached that the spectra of these known elements and the dark lines bore a certain relation to each other which they set themselves to discover.
Augstrbm, Stokes and William Thomson, as early as 1850, foresaw, though without the actual means of showing for certain, the conclusion to which the observed facts must lead; but not until 1859 did Kirchhoff throw any clear light on the subject. It had often been asserted, without positive proof, however, that the bright
4s4
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
yellow sodium band coincided exactly with Fraunhofer’s D line, and in order to test the accuracy of the statement, he caused, by means of a small prism fitted on the end of his spectroscope, the rays of light falling obliquely from the flame of a*Bunsen light colored with sodium, to fill the upper field observed through the telescope, while the direct rays of the sun, passing immediately below the prism, filled the lower field. Observing with great care he saw that the bright line was but a continuation of the dark one. Desiring more positive proof than this unmistakable evidence, he placed the sodium flame between the sunlight and the slit, when, to his great astonishment, the D line became bright. He now exchanged the -sunlight for the oxyhydrogen lime light, which, as all know, gives a continuous spectrum, and allowed its rays, before reaching the instrument, to shine through another light colored with sodium, and he beheld a dark line just in the exact position of the D line.
Reasoning on these facts, he concluded that every dark line in the solar spectrum was caused by some metal found in an incandescent, gaseous state in the sun. Thus, when white light passes through sodium light the yellow is absorbed, and in its place occurs a shadow dark contrasted with the surrounding light. It is so with iron too. Place a piece of that ordinary metal between the poles of an arc light, which, as well as a brilliant light, produces the most intense heat known, and it will immediately become volatilized; viewed through the spectroscope, a very large broken spectrum is seen, • rivalling in its various beauty the aurora borealis, and certainly surpassing the spectacle presented by the rainbow. By these means the spectra of the various metals have been carefully taken note of and mapped.
In solar and stellar chemistry, the spectroscope plays an all-important part; in fact, without it there would be no such science. To determine the composition of these far-off bodies we examine the dark lines of their spectra, and carefully compare them with the light ones known. We know many elements which are in the sun and stars, included among which may be mentioned the following: sodium, cadmium, barium, iron, nickel, copper, hydrogen, zinc, magnesium, aluminum, cobalt and . manganese as the more important. There are sixteen in all, with one more seemingly not existent on the earth, but supposed to be one of the constituent elements of the compound hydrogen.	,
. The delicacy of this method of testing is
almost beyond comprehension. It is such that the one hundred and eighty millionth part of a grain of sodium is clearly discernible. To give an idea what such a quantity is: if a platinum wire is left free for ten minutes, enough sodium adheres to it from the atmosphere to be plainly seen; if a light is held and any old cloth shaken over it enough sodium is deposited there to make itself visible.
While examining the alkalies left from the evaporation of a large quantity of mineral water from Durkheim in the Palatinate, Bunsen, in i860, discovered, by means of the spectroscope, two new metals—cmsium and rubidium.
It may appear doubtful to the incredulous, but the fact remains that the spectroscope plays an extremely important part in the manufacture of Bessemer steel.
With the greatest ease may the difference be detected between the metals erbium and yttrium, didymium and lanthanium, which resemble each other so closely that it is only after using the greatest care and applying the most delicate chemical test that they may be separated.
One of the most interesting facts disclosed by the spectroscope is the physical constitution of the sun and stars. We know now—with all the certainty that scientific facts are ever known —that our great luminary is composed of a nebula or central position, heated to a dazzling whiteness and surrounded by a somewhat cooler atmosphere containing the same elements in a gaseous state. The central portion gives a continuous spectrum, similar to that rendered by the lime light or electric arc; while the photosphere, or rather the particular elements constituting it, absorb each one its particular light, leaving in the deserted places shadows which, on account of the great contract, appear very black. The moon and the planets, it may perhaps be said, shining by the reflected light of the sun, give up none of their secrets; but hold—it is quite the opposite.
Of course, the chemical constitution of these nether worlds must remain forever unknown, at least so. far as the spectroscope is concerned; but we are enabled to know for a surety whether they have any atmosphere of their own—as our earth has—and if so, what its probable chemical constituents are; we know that some of the dark lines in the solar spectrum are caused by atmospheric absorption. Now, if the moon or the planets were enveloped in an atmosphere similar to ours, these dark lines would appear intensified; or, had they. atmosphere whose chemical compositions were different, new lines would be seen. In the case of the moon neithei:
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	485
» *
of these probable facts are observable, so we conclude that that body is dead, without air.
But of the planets a different story must be told. Jupiter has an atmosphere, one element of which is the same as one on the earth; so has Mars andmany others; it is, most likely, aqueous vapor. Venus has no air. All of the fixed stars have the same physical construction as the sun, i. e., a white hot nucleus surrounded by the incandescent vapors of the same element which constitute the interior.-	’
The spectra of the variable stars, during the times of their greatest brilliancy, show three bright lines corresponding to the hydrogen bands, and thus we conclude that their variations of light is the result of the burning of that gas. Astronomers know for a surety what the chemical constituents of the nebulae are. Out of some ten or more investigated by Mr. Huggins, one-third show a spectra of bright lines, a conclusive proof of their gaseity. In order to have some idea of the necessary delicacy of these investigations, it might not be out of place to say that the light of one of these infinitely rare bodies hardly equal the one-twenty-thousandth part of that of a single sperm candle viewed from a distance of a quarter of a mile. The matter entering into their composition might not exceed a quantity sufficient to fill an ordinary room, or—and it is just asprobable— enough to fill a hat; yet such an insignificant amount of matter is spread over an enormous space. Comets are hardly more compact, and the great wonder is, how such rare bodies—rarer I might almost say, than the most perfect vacuum obtainable on the earth—are able to be self-luminous. . With the spectroscope at his command, a scientist can tell not only the composition of a star, but he can actually tell whether it is moving from or toward him.
Limited space forbids me to enter further into this most interesting subject full of so many and such extraordinary surprises. Scientists— ever since the inception of the study, ever since spectroscope has been understood when Kirchhoff first gave the only plausible explanation of the dark lines—have vied with one another in the .examination of the many objects worthy of close attention; and indeed most startling to the one whose attention is first called to this field of inquiry are the disclosures which have already been made, which are being made. Fancy carries us beyond the bounds of reason, almost, when once our interest is aroused; imagination places no limits to the possibilities which, we like to believe, will in the future be realized.
W. M.
A Retrospect.
Standing to-day almost at the close of the nineteenth century as citizens of a vast republic, we may well cast a glance over the past that we may the better judge as to the future. It has been said “that we have no way of judging of the future but by the past.” If we are to judge of the advancement of our Government in the future by the progress it has made in the past we may expect it soon to lead the world. The dawn of this century found us but in the cradle of our infancy as a republic, just emerging from the hard-fought yet victorious war of the revolution. Such form of government as we adopted was but an experiment, and all nations were looking on with eager eyes to see the result. When the present century began, but a decade had passed since the foundation of our Government had been laid, since England had been so ingloriously defeated that she had not yet recovered from the loss of her colonies, and was but awaiting a favorable opportunity to avenge herself.
A few years more and again the young republic was called upon to wage war with her . formidable adversary, and again was demonstrated to the world what a liberty-loving people can accomplish when fighting for country, freedom and right.
For twenty successive years war spread itself from one end of Europe to the other—on the ocean as well as on the land, in the thunders and fires which at once shook and enlightened and awed the world, together with dashing of throne against throne and of nation against nation. The beginning of the nineteenth century found Napoleon waging war against the allied forces of Europe. The sun of Austerlitz saw the coalition go down in crushing defeat. The Roman Empire melted at his approach; he soon would have rivalled Alexander in his conquests, and have founded an empire far more extensive than that of Charlemagne, had not the star of his destiny so suddenly declined. Victor Hugo said a few drops of rain more or less. caused the downfall of the French Republic. In the morning it arose transcendent in all its •glory, in the evening it was but a name, an illusion. Other wars have swept over Europe and so changed the maps of its countries that the student of a quarter of a century ago would feel sadly puzzled as he gazes upon it. Poland, as a nation, has disappeared; Turkey has been so sliced to satisfy the insatiable appetites of greedy monarchs that little now remains but
486
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the carcass for a bone of future contention. New principalities and dukedoms are scattered here and there; France no longer boasts of the Rhine as her boundary; Italy has undergone wonderful changes. So marked have been the mutations of time in the century just closing that the question forces itself upon us: “Can another hundred years work such changes and produce such results?”
Thirty years ago the struggle that had long been impending, that had hovered over us like a black cloud, burst upon us.as a civil wan Our plains from Pennsylvania to the Gulf and from the Mississippi to the Atlantic were reddened with the best blood of the land. The tide of war rolled onward for five years; but when the bird of peace spread its wings and flew over the land, the vast army of 1,000,000 men within six months had nearly returned to their homes. Thus the mightiest host ever called to the field by a -republic went back without disturbance to the pursuit of civil life, thereby showing their fidelity to the Government. In a short time there was nothing to distinguish the soldier from a private person except the memory of some brave deed. The grand results of the war are too familiar to be repeated. More wrongs were righted, greater questions settled, more general good accomplished by this terrible war than could have been settled in a century of debate. Though a portion of the land became a vast cemetery, though thousands of widows and orphans sent up their cries to Heaven and the soil was made rich by the blood of thousands, yet the civil war has resulted in untold good to our land. This war was inevitable; it came at the best time in the history of the Government when it could come. The South, defeated, is stronger and greater for that war; the N orth, victorious, is better and stronger. The Union is mightier in every way. It has been but a quarter of a century since the Appomattox feeling has passed away, and the broken bayonets have been beaten into ploughshares—a generation has been long enough to heal all wounds. The wars, not only of America but also of Europe, have tended to elevate the standard of civilization.
Slavery being abolished, the laborer of the country at the present time occupies a much higher position, socially and politically, than ever before in this or any other land. Two hundred years ago he had some few social and political privileges but fewer comforts than today. His house had neither paint nor glass windows; within it was low and dingy; the floor knew no carpets; the kitchen had no stove
or lamp; there was no crockery-ware on the table, but he ate his scanty meal from a wooden platter; fresh meat was a rarity, even the staples of life were too expensive to one who received only two shillings a day. But to-day you will find everything much changed. He is provided with all things necessary to life, is not compelled to eat his repast from wooden platters but from the same kind of dish that his millionaire employer does.
In no department of the national history do we see greater signs of progress than in its schools, and nowhere greater evidences of its growth than in the cultivation of the arts and sciences. By inventions and discoveries easier methods have been utilized; books have been multiplied by the great power of the gigantic printing press, and every appliance that art can devise and man invent are ours to use if we will.
The manufactures of the early part of the century are in no way to be compared with those of to-day. The soldiers of the revolution fought with flint lock muskets, now the wonderful repeating rifles, breech-loaders, Krupp guns, and torpedoes take their places. In many branches of the great manufacturing industries we lead the world. Yankee genius and ingenuity are noted the world over. Wonderful have been the changes wrought by the manufactured articles of the century: labor has been lessened a hundredfold; the weary housewife who toiled at the wheel and loom, who bent over her needle and baked her face over the oven, has learned to appreciate the inventive skill of the nineteenth century brain that could devise such labor-saving machines.
The development of the country was especially marked about the middle of the century. The emigration at that time from Ireland probably did, in an indirect way more to develop the country than anything else. The Irish, driven from their own country in 1847 by a famine and hard pressure of England, crowds of foreign workmen flocked to our shores, aided in building railroads and digging canals, while they swarmed into our mills and manufactories, driving out the native workmen who turned toward the West at the news of the discovery of gold in California, and led a vast number of people from the Eastern states to the Pacific coast.
This century has witnessed wonderful internal improvements. Science has thrown across our rushing streams her triumphant arches, yoked together the extremities of our land, tunnelled our mountains, led over dizzy heights, flying trains ploughed the main, and caught the light

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	487
ning as it flashed by. Can there be anything else that remains to be done? What a period of progress; what an age of wonders! Who does not glory in the thought of living in the nineteenth century? Do we appreciate our opportunities? Are we equal to our responsibilities? The question that forces itself upon every intelligent and right-thinking citizen of this great republic is what shall mostly occupy our legislation in the closing years of the nineteenth century? While the march of progress has been so rapid, and the development so stupendous that the intellect can scarce conceive its magnitude, there are still grave and important questions to be solved—questions that are as intricate as the labyrinth, and which we seem no nearer analyzing than we did years ago.
We certainly hope that the closing years of the century will throw light upon the labor problems, the race question, annexation and monopolies. These are the great issues upon which we must pray that wisdom and light will be given. These questions are arranging themselves for our consideration. Indeed they are pressing so forcibly upon us that we dare not longer shrink from the responsibility. Are our people as deeply in earnest as they should be in considering these vital issues?
No doubt, there are many among all classes more in earnest than they ever have been in the history of the world. All these questions should be met with firmness and conscious activity. It is time to lift the great issues of the hour into high hands. Let us commit to the statesman, the scholar, the patriot, the issues that are blurred in the noisy utterance of ward politicians. Are our present legislators men of such timber that they will not be bent by the mighty forces that will be brought to bear upon them. -
Oh, for wise politicians! Could we call back to our legislative halls a Clay, a Webster, a Sumner! instead of the intellectual dwarfs—the little great men of the land whose brains would rattle in a nutshell—that sit in our council chambers and retard legislation by their appalling ignorance and disregard of parliamentary laws.	-
Will the closing years of the present century find us at peace with all nations, united at home and still advancing as rapidly the next hundred years as we have in the past? I am no prophet, yet there is no eye so. dim but it may descry a bright future for our land. Our own motto— “Many in One”—is symbolic of our strength, our liberty and our union.
'“The oppressed of the earth to our standard shall fly, . Wherever its folds shall be spread;
And the exile shall feel ’tis his own native land When those stars shall float over his head. ’
And those stars shall increase till the fullness of time Its millions of cycles have run;
Till the world shall have welcomed its mission sublime,
And the nations of earth shall be one.”
Roger B. Sinnott, ’93.
College Gossip.
—An Apt Quotation.—“To what base uses do we come at last,” quoted the sofa cushion as the boys took it out to the ball field and used it for third.—Suh.
Signs of Spring.
The cat-tails frisk by the reedy swamp, The mullein springs up on the bank, The cowslips sprout wherever it’s damp, ’ And the poets turn their crank. .
—Boston Transcript.
—Eighty-seven thousand three hundred and seventy-five of the total Indian population of 277,020-are Catholics. For the Catholic Indians there are 104 churches, 81 priests and 58 schools which have an attendance of 3098. Members of several sisterhoods teach in the schools.
—It is strange that the use of points for purposes of punctuation should be such a comparatively modern invention. Of the four generally. used points only the period (.) dates earlier than the fifteenth century. The colon (:) is said to have been first introduced about 1485; the comma (,) some thirty-five years later, and the semicolon (;) about 1570.—Ex.	.
—The Catholic News says that, the number of national ecclesiastical colleges in Rome is ever increasing. Preparations are now being made to insure the establishment of an Australian college, whilst negotiations have been opened to induce Spain and Portugal to provide themselves with a centre in the city of the Popes for the proper training of their young clerics.
—There are 151,614 Catholic negroes in the United States. They have 27 churches for their exclusive use, and 33 priests attend to their spiritual wants. There no schools for colored children, which are attended by 6460 pupils. During 1890, 4558 children and 590 adults were baptized. Besides the schools there are8 orphan asylums, 1 foundling asylum and 1 hospital.
—A blind girl has matriculated at Melbourne University. In Algebra, Arithmetic, French, Latin and several other subjects of study she has taken a first class position. She has been sightless from infancy. She has, had however, a passion for study, and it is her ambition to earn her own living by educational or literary pursuits. At the examination she wrote her papers by the aid of the Braille system. A teacher from the blind school transcribed her work into the ordinary characters.
I
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
MW SCHOLASTIC.
turn of mind,” should have no regard for the Divine precept: “ Thou shalt not bear false witness”; or, “thou shalt not lie.”
iSubltsfjtli btrj Sa turban burtng Etrnt Eintt at N. S. SnifitrsitB-
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind
Notre Danie April, IS, 1891
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twenty-fourth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
, —The Rt. Rev. R. Gilmour, D. D., Bishop of Cleveland, died on the 13th inst. at St. Angus-tine, Fla., whither he had gone in search of health. The sad news was received with the deepest regret at Notre Dame where the deceased prelate had often been a kind and welcome visitor. Bishop Gilmour was one of the most energetic and zealous members of the American Hierarchy, and, particularly in promoting and extending the work of education, was a recognized leader. The mission of the Church in imbuing the youthful mind with the true principles of religious belief and the facts of secular knowledge, in instilling into the youthful heart that love of God and of country which makes the upright and useful citizen, found in him an earnest advocate and an efficient laborer. This was shown in the school books which he himself wrote or compiled, and the numerous pastoral letters which he sent to his clergy and people. He delivered the Commencement Oration at Notre Dame in June, 1874, and had ever since been one of its most devoted friends. May he rest in peace!
—Our e. c., The Wabash, publishes an article on “Our Religious Future.” It is strange that the. writer, being “ a young man of a religious
—We acknowledge the receipt, in pamphlet form, of “The Proceedings of the Sixteenth Convention of the Catholic Young Men’s National Union of the United States, held at Washington, D. C., October 7th and Sth, 1890.” We are glad to see the earnest, thoughtful and instructive addresses which were delivered before the Convention thus collected in permanent form and issued in a manner calculated to give them an extended circulation throughout the land. It will, we hope, lead to bringing the National Union more prominently before the public and contribute to the formation of useful local unions in every diocese.
—The American people are a nation of orators. This is due much, if not wholly, to the spirit of our institutions. The well-nigh universal participation in the affairs of Government is a wise provision in our Constitution. In no land is learning more disseminated among the masses. Every citizen is, in a certain measure, a politician. The discussion of various questions —social, moral and political, is a powerful incentive to the unlettered to acquire an education. Public conventions and mass meetings are of such frequent occurrence that the average citizen would feel himself relegated far to the rear if he failed to attend and give the public the benefit of his judgment and eloquence.
The weight of this characteristic has its influence upon our colleges. The tendencies of the day are decidedly literary, and American educational institutions are only catering to this popular taste when they require, among other things, a grace and fluency in English composition as a requirement for graduation. We do not feel like saying that this has been neglected in the past; but the exigencies of the times certainly serve to emphasize it the more.
The purpose of all college training is but to equip the subject for life’s struggles; and whatever meets the requirements best should be insisted upon the most. It is clear that the efficiency of our education depends, not upon how much we know, as how well we can utilize what we do know. .
To meet demands, courses in various colleges and universities have been so arranged as to give special attention to the creation and fostering of style, and the cultivation of ease and readiness in literary expression. This is a wise
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
move. The age is eminently practical, and a literary education is at once practical and ornate. If our colleges would keep abreast of the times, they cannot afford to be indifferent to public needs.
--------:------------
—One of the leading Chicago journals^ a few days ago, contained a ranting article—a ridiculous effusion of a Minneapolis Protestant divine —commenting upon the action of Archbishop Ireland in protesting against the wholesale removal of the Sisters from the management of the Indian schools. The article alluded to was remarkable only for its absurdity. It rehashes the old canard, that the Hierarchy carry the "so-called Catholic vote in their vest pockets.
But to the point of his Grace’s protest. During the preceding administration Sisters were placed in charge of schools, and in many cases Catholic agents appointed, as of all the Indians who have been christianized a vast majority are of that faith. Now to be thus summarily dismissed without cause is tyrannical and unwarranted. It is the universal testimony of men who are competent to judge, without regard to religious affiliations, that the Sisters have been the most successful of any who are engaged in teaching the Indians. Consecrated as they are by solemn vows, they could not but be zealous and painstaking.
Whenever the Indians themselves have been left any choice in the matter, they unhesitatingly asked for Sisters. No one has so won the hearts and sympathies of the red men; no one has stood out so manfully against the injustice done them as have the Priests and Sisters of the Catholic Church. The Church, to-day as ever, is the champion of the weak and the oppressed.
The present Indian Commissioner Morga n has been particularly hostile to religious. Time and time again have protests been made. Forbearance has long since ceased to be a virtue. Catholic citizens ask no privileges from the American Government; but they do insist upon the exercise of their God-given rights.
Bigotry and intolerance are despicable traits anywhere; but when found dominating the actions of a man high in official circles it is well time to call a halt. Commissioner Morgan’s unjust discriminations have aroused the indignation, not only of Catholics, but of fair-minded persons of every shade of religious belief. All that we ask is that Indians of Catholic faith be supplied with Catholic teachers. For the justice of our claims we appeal to the fairness and the good sense of the American people.
J. B. S.
The Poetry of John Boyle O’Reilly.
BY THOMAS A. DWYER.
O star! that shone with brightest spark, Thou hast not waned away,
But shed’st adown the purple dark The fulness of thy ray:
A rose, whose odors freely part ■ At every zephyr’s wand,
Thou keep’st within thy folded heart I.ove of thy native land.
Like the ordinary lot of poets, “who learn by suffering what they teach in song,” it was the fate of John Boyle O’Reilly to spend many years of his life in suffering, during which time the inner man was formed, and after which came that poetry which was only the outburst of welled-up thought. His life^ like that of so many other patriotic sons of Erin, had its dark and troubled days; yetall through his reputation remained unblemished, his morals- pure, his existence simple and regular, whilst his poetry placed him in a position of high social standing, and has made his name immortal to every Irish heart. But the noblest trait of his character was this: that being keenly sensitive to the spirit of his age—a transformed and transforming age, sceptical, money-getting and material—his noble soul was far above it and did not stoop to any of these things. He sought to alleviate the sufferings of his fellow-man, ever looking upwards to the immortal destiny of the human soul. When we hear his name spoken we do well to pause, for in his life he has represented the true Irish character—true to God, true to his faith and true to his country.
As a poet and journalist he occupies an honorable place among the literary characters of the nineteenth century. A man of an intensely artistic mind, touched with the artist’s ecstasy: keen, subtle, delicately poised, palpitating to the vision and power of beauty, possessing the secret of loveliness rather than of rude vigor. There is no taint upon his lines. .He followed a-high ideal, and was consistent with it through his whole life. For him vice had no seduction;’ a jealous virtue sat enthroned in the heart of his genius, and preserved his mind unsullied. It may with all truth be said that his poetry is essentially ideal; it aspires to the glory of a pure and noble life—somewhat above the range of ordinary mortality—and it contains not a line animated by any low or guilty passion. The impure and sensual he looked upon with loathing/with the strenuous abhorrence of a noble heart, strong in its own purity. Well might it be said of him:
“ His strength was as the strength of ten, Because his heart was pure.”
There are certain great subjects upon which all true poets have something to say. These subjects are politics, religion, life, love and nature. To John Boyle O’Reilly, nature was an idol, and on the solitary hills he worshipped before her altars, and in the voice of the winds and waters he heard her breathings and caught
49<J	NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
the message of her wisdom. Although- living in a crowded city, and sailing on the troubled sea of human thought, he stood silent and entranced among the multitude, waiting for revelations of that Eternal Power whose splendor glowed upon the hills at dawn, and whose mind uttered itself out of the starry spaces of the wind-swept heavens at night. His mind was not merely exquisitely sensitive to natural beauty, but it was deeply tinged with the characteristics of that scenery in which his early boyhood was passed—the green hillsides, lovely vales, the misty mornings, the russet coloring of autumn —the scenery such as Ireland abounds in, and such as inspires the mind of every true lover of nature.
While our poet has touched, with more or less success, various stops in the great organ of poetry, yet he leaves an impression on the mind that he is a patriotic poet, and it is in this realm of poetry his noblest lines are to be found. But his patriotism is of that diviner kind which founds itself on principles of universal truth and righteousness. It was no splendid prejudice, no insularity of thought, no mere sentimental love of country; it gathered strongly in its embrace his own poor, oppressed country, and pleaded in its sweet voice the cause of the oppressed throughout the world. It is this love of liberty which gives him spiritual comradeship with every man who has suffered for his country. But universal as his patriotic sympathies were, the noblest expressions of his patriotism are his speeches to his own countrymen. Ever discerning the true spirit of his times, his honest pride of Ireland grew with his growth and strengthened with his age. Perhaps he often fancied himself again a boy wandering through its lovely fields and vales, sorrounded with its historical round towers and. monuments of ancient and unknown races.
Later science tells us that we do not come into this world with a nature like a sheet of white paper, waiting for any inscription we may choose to write thereon, but we carry our ancestors with us in our brains and blood. The parents of John Boyle O’Reilly were persons of fine sentimental individuality, and hence we see many of their tendencies reproduced in him. All who admit that the laws of heredity and environment condition human life must also admit that the environment of John Boyle O’Reilly was most fitting to develop his literary talents. He says of himself: “I am sure that my associations made me think. By thinking I do not mean mere reflection, or reviewing what might have been, biit true cogitation.” And again: “I was born of parents who had in them a strong poetic sentiment, and they unconsciously directed me. Then, in boyhood and manhood, I followed an ideal that led me through briers and marshes—the national liberty of my native country. This taught me great things—sincerity, faithfulness, silence, sacrifice and hatred of injustice.”
To conclude my few remarks on a man who
has interested the present century, and will interest posterity, I might add that, although his mortal dust lies not encased in a casket of gold, although his name is not written on the walls of some noted temple, yet it will find a fitting abode in the heart of every Irishman. With honor, then, may that noble race from which he sprung add to its long list of heroes the name of John Boyle O’Reilly.—Church News. ‘
Personal.
—Professor H oynes has frequently been called to Chicago on law business during the past three weeks. During his absence Hon. Lucius Hubbard and ex-Prosecuting Attorney Brick, of * South Bend, attended to his work in the matter of delivering lectures to the law students.
—Mr. Isaa'c Moten, the gentlemanly agent of the American Catholic Tribune of Cincinnati, was a welcome visitor to our sanctum on Wednesday last. The Tribune is the only Catholic paper in the United States published in the interests of the colored people, and well deserves every encouragement. .
—Charles J. Stubbs ^Scientific and Law ’87), of Galveston, Texas, is meeting with great success in the practice of his profession. We acknowledge the receipt of a batch of his briefs and arguments in cases before the Supreme Court. They are well written and marked by exceptional scope and power of thought.
—Hon. John Gibbons, ’69, of Chicago, gave his many friends at Notre Dame a pleasant surprise recently by coming and sojourning among them for a day. Pressure of business in Chicago prevented him from remaining longer. We note with pleasure that his name is prominently mentioned in connection with the candidacy for Circuit Judge at the forthcoming judicial election in Chicago.
—Mr. W. J. Edbrooke, of Chicago, the distinguished architect of the new Notre Dame, has been named supervising, architect of the Treasury at Washington. Mr. Edbrooke’s many friends here are pleased to learn of this well-merited distinction conferred upon him. His appointment is specially gratifying to Chicago people as the Government’s World’s Fair building will be erected under his direction. -
—We are pleased to learn that M. O. Burns {Law'^} was elected City Solicitor of Hamilton, Ohio, at the recent election. His majority was 1,710. Mr. Burns was one of the leading students of his class, and may be regarded as one of the most promising young men in Ohio. Two years ago he was the assistant prosecuting attorney of Hamilton, now he is the city solicitor, and soon he will step even more conspicuously into the?light of fame.
—Hon. P. T. Barry, ’90, of the Chicago Newspaper Union, notwithstanding his extensive

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
491
gam
business, has found time to write several exceedingly able, timely and instructive articles for the Inter-Ocean in vindication of Catholic patriotism, and in denunciation of the views of certain narrow bigots who seem to take an un-Christian pleasure in offensively obtruding through the press their malignity and intolerance.
—With unqualified pleasure we hail the arrival in Bengal of Mgr. Augustin Louage, of the Order of Holy Cross, who was consecrated Bishop of Dacca on the nth of last January and landed on our shores last Friday. Mgr. Louage is 62 years old, but looks- hale and strong; and, by a wise compromise with the climate, he may one day be able to celebrate his Silver Jubilee as an Indian Bishop. This is our hearty wish for the sake of the Dacca diocese. His Grace, Mgr. Goethals, and his new suffragan are nearly compatriots, their birth-places being only a few miles apart, were it not that the Franco-Belgian frontier lies between.—Indo-European Correspondence.
—The following notices of the genial Dean of the Law Department will be read with an especial interest as coming from papers of opposite political creeds. The Mishawaka Enterprise says:
“Col. Wm. Hoynes, who has recently returned from Washington where he has been making a final report of * the results of the recent Indian commission on which he was appointed, greatly surprised the department, and set an unheard of precedent by turning in an unexpected balance nearly one-fourth of'the entire amount of appropriation made for the expenses of the commission. The appropriation was only Sj.ooo in the first, and the economy manifested was something unusual in official circles. The results of the commission were equally successful in other respects and highly satisfactory to the Government as well as to the Indians. Col. Hoynes was highly complimented on the efficiency of the commission which he represented.”
Commenting upon this, the Plymouth (Ind.) Democrat says:
“ That a Government official should get through with less than the stipulated appropriation indicates a return to the good old Jeffersonian days. It is quite evident that Col. Hoynes was not cut out for a politician, or the business of the commission with which he was connected would have been dilly-dallied along until the appropriation was exhausted! The Col. is entitled to credit for doing his duty well and faithfully, and we take pleasure in joining his fricnds m saying: ‘ Well done, thou good and faithful servant.’ ”
Local Items.
—Smith is working his men hard.
—John Kearns is the dandy batter.
—Who is a successful ticket-seller? Thomas Henry.
—“Jocko” is all right when he is on the diamond.
—Gillon’s stops and throws are something wonderful.
—“How not to play ball” is demonstrated daily by Willie.
. —Bennie says “the horse wasn’t very much, anyway.” He ought to know.
—The Philopatrians will give an entertainment next Wednesday evening.
—Rev. Father Connor, our esteemed assistant Prefect of Religion, is now happily convalescent..
—Heigh! Heigh! didst hear the poem and-the oration? Much programme hath turned his-head.
—After a closely contested competition drilll Master Boland, of Carroll. Hall, .wore the medal! last Sunday.
—“Semper par atus!” is our motto in so far as-regards the reception of “ copy,” and be not unmindful of the same.
—Uniforms do not make ball players, and if it should come to a contest the odds’ would! probably not favor the suits.
—“Handsome Ed.” says that the “new animal” disappeared from the water very suddenly.. He does not think that it was a soap-bubble however.
—A full-length portrait in oil of the Most Rev;. P. J. Ryan, D. D., Archbishop of Philadelphia,. . has been placed on the walls of Bishops’ Memorial Hall.
—A grand concert by the Boston Orchestral Club will be given in Washington Hall next Saturday evening, the 25th inst. Secure your seats early.
—The members of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association held their last meeting in Science Hall where Prof. A. F. Zahm delighted them with a lecture and a number of experiments.
—Professor Maurice Francis Egan has commenced a course of lectures on etiquette at St. Edward’s Hall. It is needless to add that the princes are delighted and determined to take advantage of the privilege.
—The interest manifested by all the departments in base-ball affairs is a clear indication of what may be expected from our boys during the present season. Seldom were hopes brighter or expectations more sanguine. Success to ’em!
—A number of valuable pieces appertaining to the furniture of St. Joseph’s Manual Labor School have suddenly and mysteriously disappeared. It is presumed that they were unwittingly snatched up by a casual visitor in the hurry of departure. A decent reward awaits-their return, and no questions asked.
— On last Sunday the Rev. Patrick J. O’Connell, C. S. C., preached an eloquent sermon on the Gospel of the day. This effort, the debut of the reverend gentleman, surprised no one,, but delighted his numerous friends and admirers.. His sermon was characterized by careful diction,, warmth of delivery and that unction which is-of all things most desirable in a preacher.
—Last Thursday the retired athletics of • Sorin Hall played the Seminary specials. The absence of pitcher Cavanagh was grievously
492	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
felt by the .athletes, who had to put an inexperienced man in the box. Burger was out of sight most of the time behind a tree in right field. Schaack, who played ball when he was a little boy, stops grounders in the old style— he sits on them. Both teams did some brilliant field-work, but the specials excelled with the stick, and were victors by a score of io to 5.
—The long-looked for race between Wm. O’Brien, of Minn., and Horace G. Schwartz, of Chicago, took place Thursday morning at 11 o’clock. The excitement was intense, and the large crowd which witnessed the event cheered the contestants impartially. After the preliminaries were arranged, the starter, Mr. McCune, the timer, Mr. Berry, and the referee, Mr. C. Gillon, were chosen, and the first heat was run. O’Brien got a better start than Schwartz and made up the eight feet handicap before they had run 25 yards. O’Brien finished about six feet ahead of his opponent. Time, 11seconds. After an interval-of ten minutes the second heat was run which resulted in a victory for O’Brien. Time, 11 seconds. The victor was carried from the grounds on the shoulders of his enthusiastic admirers, while Schwartz’s friends slunk away into the woods-there to meditate upon “the pomps and vanities of this wicked world.”
—The ’Varsity team played a practice game with the Carroll Hall special on the 12th, and the contest was a most interesting one. Of course, the ’Varsities won with hands down; but the Carrolls put up a game that would lead one to believe that they are the second best team at Notre Dame. Their strength lies principally in team work, and in that respect they are the best nine the Juniors have had for years. They are weak at the bat, but when fielding they are “in it” by a large majority. The ’Varsities played a good game, considering the little practice they have had. Brilliant plays of the “grand stand” kind were common occurrences; but the prominent features were O’Brien’s double play to Allen, and Berry’s magnificent throw from centre to the home plate. Cartier pitched a strong game, and, of course, Fitz and Gillon were on deck whenever the occasion required. The following is the
Score by Innings:—i 23456789 ’Varsity Nine:—o 0202312 0=10 Carroll Hall:—2 0000000 0=2
Batteries: Berry, Cartier and Gillon; Boyd and Hannin. Hits: 'Varsities, 11; Carrolls, 6. Double Plays: O’Brien to Allen Errors: 'Varsities, 6; Carrolls, 10. Umpires, Combe and P. Coady.
—The St. Cecilians.—The St. Cecilians held their regular meeting last Wednesday evening. A special programme of a purely literary character having been arranged for the evening, a few invited guests were present at the exercises. A criticism was read by E. Scherrer; “Steering Home” was the title of a musical selection rendered by A. Nester; E. Du Brul had chosen for the subject of his oration “The Life and Exploits of Napoleon ”—that great military genius who at one time seemed destined to make
all Europe subject to him. He spoke at some length on the character of this great man, and showed that although he was ambitious, and even at times sacrificed the lives of his own soldiers on the altars of his own ambition, yet he loved and was generous to his soldiers who in turn loved him even unto worship.
“The Child is Father to the Man” was the subject of a well-written and interesting paper by M. Quinlan; M. Prichard recited in a very pleasing manner a choice selection entitled “Belshazzar’s Downfall”; “Rome under the Kings” was the subject of E. Mitchell’s paper. He referred to the mythological stories con. cerning the earlier kings of Rome, and called attention to the fact that these stories had become more or less modified in passing through the hands of tradition.
F. Schillo favored the company with a solo entitled “Odi Tu.” J. Fitzgerald read a very interesting paper and gave some very important facts as to the relative standing and power of the different races. J. Fitzgerald seemed to think that the Chinese, would, in time to come, gain the ascendency over their rivals, the Anglo-Saxons and the Slavs. This closed the exercises of the evening, and the manner in which every member performed his part of the programme reflects great credit upon the society in general.
—An exciting game of base-ball, between the two first nines of the University took place on the 12th inst., and the nature of the work done fully justifies the opinion that there is plenty of material left in the students of Brownson Hall to play our national game. The “Reds” were captained by F. A. Krembs and the “ Blues ” by J. C. Smith. The features of the game were the batting of Keenan and Scholfield and the generalplayingof the “Reds.” For the“Blues,” ’ Smith and Murphy scored two base hits, and Fleming’s catching was good. The following is the score:
Reds.	A.B.	R.	b.h.	S.B.	P.O.	A.	E.
Keenan, c and p	-	-	■	3	3	2	2	5	3	O
Bell, 1st b	-	r	-	-	4	1	0	O	5	0	0
Covert, c and p	-		0	1	O		2	O
Krembs, 2d b	-	-	_	2	2	0	2	2	2	I
Moshier, s s	-	-	-	0	2	0	I	1	2	I
Scholfield, c f -		2	1	2	1	0	I
Curtis, If	-		1	1	0	0	0	0
Cahill, 3d b	-	-	-	3	0	0	O	- 2	1	I
O’Kane, r f	-	~	”	3	0	0	0	0	1	0
Totals	-	-	-	26	11	5	9	1S	11	4
Blues.	.	A.B.	X.	B.II.	S.B.	P.O.	A.	E.
Murphy, s s and p	-	-	3	2	O	2	0	3	I
McCabe, 2d b	-	-	-	3	2	O	I	3	I	4
Flannigan, I f -	"	*	3	1	I	I	0	0	I
Fleming, c	-	- -	-4	2	2	I	6	2	0
Roberts, p and b	-	-	4	0	O	O	I	6	0
Smith, s s and 1st b .		0	0	O	4	2	I
Lindeke, 3d b -	-	-	3	1	I	I	0	O	3
Weakland, r f	-		0	O	I	0	O	0
Dacey, c f	-	-	-	2	0	O	O	I	O	0
Totals	-	-	-	- 27	IO	4	7	15*	14	IO
* Winning run made with no men out. Earned runs: Reds, 4; Slues, 3. Two base hits: Keenan, Scholfield, Murphy, Smith. Three base hits: .Keenan. Baseon balls: Moshier, Keenan, Weakland, Flannigan, Murphy, McCabe and Dacey. Hit by pitched ball: Weakland, Krembs. Struck out: Bell, Covert (2), Cahill, O’Keane, Roberts, Smith (2), Weakland Dacey (2). Wild pitches: Covert (3), Roberts (2), Murphy (1), Keenan (2). Passed balls: Keenan (2), Covert (2), Fleming (4). Time of Game, one hour, 52 minutes. Umpires, A. McKee, Robinson. Scorers, Stanton and Hennessy.	'
Score by Innings:—i 23456
Reds:—1 0404 2—11	;
Bi.ues:—o 2521 o—10
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
493
—Base-Ball—The results of the recent meetings in base-ball affairs having caused some excitement, the report-er interviewed many of the prominent men in the hope of discovering their opinions. The general feeling seems to be that the trouble should be patched up, and if both sides would make some concessions the result would be satisfactory to both factions.
Mr. J. C. Smith, being asked how the base-ball world would be affected by the cessation of the Sorin Hall men, replied: “I do not think that the action taken by the Hall men was justifiable, but still, if they wished to disrupt the base-ball association they had a perfect right to do so. However, they have given us a good opportunity to show our mettle, and we are going to do it. We have discovered many new men who can play ball, and although we may lose some good players by the new move, we will be able to pick up a good special team. I hope the Hall men will decide to play with us, and 1 am sure that they will do so after they have considered the matter well.”
Mr. C. J. Gillon, Captain of the special team, was engaged in practising up his men when the reporter found him. He left his work without a pang, and led the way to his sanctum where he began his tale: “ I am and have been very sorry that we were obliged to take the stand we did at the recent election, but later events have shown that we did right. We could have done nothing else without feeling that we were being ‘worked.’ Our association is in a flourishing condition, and our ball team is certainly far superior to any other at Notre Dame. No: I can’t give you the names of all my players yet, as I have not fully decided upon them all, but I can assure you that they are ‘ way beyond the range of vision.’ ”
Mr. F. Krembs said: “‘I am practising up my men every day, and hope to have a good working team before • our season opens. I am sorry that Sorin Hall left us; but I guess we can pull through without them.”
Mr. Blackman was busy making a trial balance of the funds in the Base-ball Association’s treasury when he was captured. He spoke as follows: “Yes, I am enthusiastic over the new deal. My time, brains and money are at the disposal of the people. We can't and won't fail. Our team, under the direction of Charley Gillon, will be one of the best ever seen at Notre Dame, and we will be open to all comers. Gillon, besides being a fine ball player, is a worker; and if he don’t make the fellows ‘ hustle ’ I’m badly mistaken.”
F. W. Keenan was not willing to say much; but the patient reporter, after painful questioning, succeeded in eliciting some information from him: “I don’t believe the Sorin Hall men can get up a team,” he said; “and unless they come back to the old association, they won’t play at all. They have plenty of nerve and talk, but possunt quia posse widentur. We have a good team, and all the outside clubs must be made to suffer when we meet them.”
Pierce Murphy said: “The report that I am to pitch for our team is false. Please deny the charge for me in the Scholastic, will you? I am a good ball player, and .all that, but I am not competent to pitch for the boss team of the University.”
W. W. Hennessy, our popular field reporter, spoke as follows: “Yes, my election as reporter showed that my friends have every confidence in my ability as a writer, and I am very grateful to them for their efforts in my behalf. John Francis Sullivan has promised to aid me in my efforts to maintain the standing of the Brownson Hall clubs, and our able pens will write in letters of fire the story of their success upon the diamond.”
A Card.
We deem it only justice to ourselves, as members of Brbwnson Hall, to state that the gentlemen who thought it necessary to withdraw from the Notre Dame Athletic Association on April 9
made several misstatements in their account of the proceedings of their organization, as published in the Scholastic of last week. For instance, the following: “Their election will be endorsed by the better element of Brownson and all of Sorin Hall.”
If the gentleman who wrote the article referred to, and who undoubtedly was uninformed as to the facts in the case, will kindly take the trouble to inquire he will learn that there are many of the most prominent members of the “better element” who entirely approve of the selection of officers as made by the true Notre Dame Athletic Association in the Seniors’ readingroom on the afternoon of Thursday, April 9.
Brownson Hall.
Roll of Honor.	’
SORIN HALL.
Messrs. Ahlrichs, Allen, Burger, J. Berry, Blackman, Brady, Brelsford, Cavanagh, Cartier, L. Chute, F. Chute, Du Brul, Fitzgibbon, Gillon. Hackett, Hummer, Hoover, P. Murphy, McGrath, Neef, O’Neill, O’Brien, Prichard, Paquette, Rothert, Schaack, O. Sullivan, N. Sinnott, E. Scheerer, J. B. Sullivan, F. J. Sullivan, Tivnen, Vurpillat, Wright.
BROWNSON HALL.	.
Messrs. Aarons, Ahlrichs, Bundy; Blameuser, Brook-. field. Bell, Brown, Cassidy, Correll, P. Coady, T. Coady, Corrigan, J. Crawley, P. Crawley, Cahill, Chilcote, Dechant, Devanny, Delany, Frizzelle, Field, P. Fleming T. Flannigan, Franks, L. Gillon, Gruber, Green, Gorman, Heard, Hauskee, Houlihan, Hubbard, Hennessy,* Johnson, Joslyn, Kearns, Karasynski, M. Kelly, T. King, E. Kelly, Lesner, Lorie, Layton, Langaft, G. Lancaster, McGrath, Manly, Maurus, Magnus, McAuliff H. Murphy, McDonnell, J. McKee, F. McKee, McConlogue, F. Murphy* Newman, Norton, O’Shea, G. O’Brien, S. O’Brien, Powers, Phillips, Rebillott, Rudd, W. Roberts, Ragan, Stanton, J. F. Sullivan, Scholfield, Sanford, Spalding, Soran, Tracy, Vurpillat, Vital, Walsh, Wood, Weakland, Yenn, Zeitler.
CARROLL HALL.	-
Messrs. Anson, Ayer, Bergland, Bums, Ball, E. Bates, B. Bates, Brady, Bachrach, Boyd, Brown, Beaud, Casey, Chassaing, Cole, Carney, Coe, Connelly, Connell, Coll, Connors, Cummings, Corry, Du Bois, Drumm, Dorsey, Delany, Dempsey, Eagan, Ellwanger, Foley, Fitzgerald, Falk, Flannigan, Alfred Funke, Arthur Funke, Fleming, Fales, Gibert, Girsch, Gerlach, J. Greene, Garennes des, A. Greene, Hagus, Hahn, Hake, Hannin, Jackson, Kearney, Kennedy, Kaumeyer, Luther, Lorie, La Moure, H. Mitchell, Mattox, Molitor, Murphy, Minor, McCartney, W. McDonnell, J. McPhillips, A. McPhillips, MacLeod, Nichols, Nestor, Neef, O’Neill, O’Rourke, O’Mara, Orton, Payne, Palmer, Prichard, Pope, Quinlan, Russell, Ren-esch, Roper, W. Regan, Rend, Shimp, Schillo, Slevin, Scallen, Smith, Sheuennan, Sullivan, Suess, Treff, Tong, Thorn, Teeter, Thornton, Thome, Tod, Thomas, Taylor, Wolff, Welch, Yingst, Zinn, Zoehrlaut, Keogh.
st. Edward’s hall.—(Minims.)	’
Masters Allen, Ayers, F. Brown, O. Brown, Bixby, Blumenthal, Burns, Blake, A. Crawford, W. Crawford, Cornell, Coon, Curry, Crandall, Chapoton, Croke. Cross, O. Crepeau, E. Crepeau, Christ, Corry, A. Coquillard, J. Coquillard, Drant, L. Donnell, S. Donnell, Durand, Egan, Ezekiel, Everest, C. Furthmann, E. Furthmann, Fuller, Fischer, Fossick, Funke, T. Finnerty, W. Finnerty, W. Freeman, J. Freeman, Girardin, Girsch, Griesheimer, Gavin, Hoffman, Hathaway, Hamilton, Howell, Higginson, Jones, King, Krollman, Kinney, Kuehl, Kern, Keeler, Loughran, Londoner, B. Loomis, Lonergan, Lounsbery,
* Omitted by mistake last week.
494
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Levi, T. Lowrey, Langevin, Lee, Langley, W. LaMoure, E. LaMoure, Lawrence, McPhee, McCarthy, Maternes, McIntyre, H. Mestling, E. Mestling, Marre, MacLeod, McGinley, Nichols, Oatman, O’Neill, O’Connor, Otero, Pieser, Pellenz, Paul, Platts, Patterson, Ransome, Rose, Roesing, Russell, Stephens, G. Scheerer, W. Scheerer, Stone, Steele, Trujillo, Trankle, Vorhang, Wolf, White, Wilcox, Washburne, Windmuller, Young, Zoehrlaut, Jon-quet, Warburton.
Class Honors.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Messrs. Ball, W. Bates, Coleman, Cahill, Chilcote, Delaney, Ellwanger, Frizzelle, J. Green, McCartney, H. Mitchell, H. Michels, J. Newman, F. Murphy, J. Murphy, F. Roper, Rebillot, Santer, Soran, E. Smith, Tracey, Vidal, Welch, Mug, Devanny, T. Green.
List of Excellence.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
B ook-Keeping—Ntessrs. T. Green, Santer, Ball; Arithmetic—Messrs. W. Bates, Des Garennes, F. Roper, Weinman, Van Haffel, Frizzelle, J. Murphy, Stanton; Grammar—Messrs. J. Murphy, O’Rourke, Ball, Venn, Zeitler, Murphy; Geography—Messrs. F. McCabe, J. Smith; United States History—Messrs. W. Garrigan, F. McCabe; Penmanship—Messrs. Krembs, Marr.
*	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Arithmetic—Masters O’Neill, McPhee, T. Finnerty, Washbume, McPhillips, Marre, Bixby, Ronning, Funke, Levi, A. Crawford, Pellenz, Hamilton, Lee, Stone, C. Furthmann, Blumenthal, Ezekiel, Cornell, O. Brown, G. Lowrey, Trankle, T. Lowrey, Krollman, Vorhang, Higginson, Rose, O’Connor, W. La Moure, Londoner, Russell, Freeman, E. Mestling, H. Mestling, G. Scherrer, Langley, McIntyre, Windmuller, Cross, Chapoton, Gavin, Howell, J. Coquillard, Kinney, S. Donnell, E. La Moure, E. Christ, F. Croke, McCarthy; Grammar-Masters J. O’Neill, Durand, W. Crawford, A. Crawford, Pellenz, F. Brown, Ezekiel, Trankle, Blumenthal, Cornell, C. Furthmann, T. Lowrey, O. Brown, O’Connor, Freeman, Krollman, Girsch, Coon, Hathaway, Loomis, King, Londoner, Rose, W. La Moure, E. Mestling, Pieser, Chapoton, Griesheimer, MacLeod, Langley, Windmuller, Howell; Music—Masters Washbume, Durand, Krollman, Coon, Trankle, Cornell, Pellenz, A. Crawford, Maternes, Roesing, Rose, Blumenthal, O’Connor, O. Brown, W. Scherrer, Loomis, C. Furthmann.
Letters from the Archives of Bishops’ Memorial Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
X.
[Letter written in 1832 by Rev. S. T. Badin and addressed to Rt. Rev. Bishop Edward Fenwick, care of Rev. Mr. Richard, Detroit, Mich.] “A. M. D. G.
“Near Niles, Berrien City, Michigan.
• “Rt. Rev. and dear Sir:
“Your favor, dated July 6, was brought by Mr. Bertrand with two vols. of Lingard’s, for which I thank you. I regret that my letter of June had not reached you before you left Cincinnati. It conveyed to you the intelligence that the application made to the President of the United States to sanction a donation of 2560 acres of land, near Chicago,.had been successful; Deo gratias! I'deem it unnecessary to give you here a second copy of the letter transmitted to me by the agent of Chicago, as you will find it in Cincinnati; and you can do nothing in the case before I locate it, as I hope to do this fall, si Deus noluerit'.
“You wish to know how many Indians are under instruction. All the chiefs at last are reduced, thanks to
Almighty God, and at least 360 bend their knees to religion, besides the children (more than one hundred) who have been baptized. The spirit of piety has brought forth also industry in many who are marvelling at the prospects offered by their cornfields which are more luxuriant than even those of their American neighbors. Their wheat harvest will supply their wants till the Indian corn is ripe. My companions have suffered now and then for want of meat, but at last we are in possession of the provisions I had bought on the way. Our expenses in travelling, etc., have already exhausted two-thirds of the funds you placed in my hands, and I have taken a memorandum of all, or almost all, disbursements. I told you that during the two preceding seasons I had spent $500 of my own money. I have revised my day-book and I find that my statement is rather underrated—you will mind that the purchase of 300 acres of land is not included,-having been obliged to borrow 200 dollars. If Divine Providence had not supplied me with additional means it would have been impossible for me to hold out. You have made divers establishments in Kentucky and Ohio, and you cannot be a stranger to the numberless calls incident to them before they produce any fruit among civilized people—a portion among the Indians who claim as a natural right their share in rebus usu consumptibilibus, especially their Nakatekonia. Ils sont sans gene sur cet article.
“ The Indians have been so much engaged with their crops and hunting that the schools could not be organized as- yet this season, as well as I wish. Still we teach reading every day to all the children and even to the grown persons whom we can collect. The religious duties and instructions are never omitted at the rising and setting of the sun. Nicholas tends to a kitchen garden of two acres, but I have been obliged to employ also two other hands. At twelve o’clock the trumpet gives the signal of the Angelus, and afterwards four of us give lessons. Miss Liquette, old as she is, does the same every day after Mass. Her activity is equal to her charity and zeal. It is a subject of admiration for me to hear her, and to notice the powerful impression her discourses make on the hearers. They are catechized every day after Mass. Pokagon is constantly at work for both soul and body; he is truly a Christian orator, understands and practises well his religion—much respected by all his American neighbors. All the Indians of the village have great and daily opportunities to improve themselves in knowledge, and it is clear that I must fix here my residence; but there should be a station established on the spot where Carey Mission existed formerly. This ought to be done for the benefit of many families whom I see but seldom; and indeed the Indians think it hard that they cannot take possession for their own benefit of a tract of land which belongs to them. All the chiefs are subdued with the majority in this neighborhood and the Americans feeling that God Almighty has been pleased to make use of us [infimia mundi elegit Deus ut confundat fortid}.
“ I have some prospects that the once Carey Mission will become domus Dei vivi. A blacksmith lived formerly on the same spot as the teachers should also do according to the Treaty of Chicago. The Indians were well pleased with their blacksmith, but the sub-agent dismissed him, and again the Indians are displeased. Still I may say that I know of none hostile to the U.S.... An opportunity affords itself to send this letter to the post office and I must close it. Mlle. Campaux presents her compliments to you. Mr. Boheme and Nicholas are well and actually making- hay. I recommend myself and the mission to your pious memento, and remain, Rt. Rev. and dear Sir,
“Your affectionate, humble servant,
“S. T. Badin.”
“ P. S.—I congratulate you on your resolution to make fresh exertions in order to obtain a bishop for Detroit and a coadjutor for Cincinnati.”
The original letter was presented to the archives by the late Rt. Rev. Bishop Borgess, always a generous benefactor of the Historical Collections in the Bishops’ Memorial Hall,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
St Mapy’g Asademy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
495
Society, whose membership is drawn exclusively from the ranks of the Juniors, has been recently engaged in presenting interesting accounts of tRe life of Dickens and Hawthorne.
—Rev. J. O’Connell of the Cathedral parish, Peoria,- Ill., made a short visit to St. Mary’s during the past week.
—In a recent competition in the fourth German class the following pupils distinguished themselves: Misses O’Meara, Green, Churchill, Dryer, Augustine, L. Kasper and M. Fossick.
—At the Academic meeting on Sunday last, Very Rev. Father General occupied the chair and distributed the magic cards with his cus-tomary urbanity. Miss Ethel Dennison then read a selection from the French, entitled “Ber-cail du Bon Pasteurf acquitting herself creditably, as did also Miss H. Nacey in her reading of the extract on “ Cheerfulness.”
—The far-sighted among the pupils seem already to discern the “beginning of the end” in regard to the scholastic year, and visions of medals, premiums, honors, etc., flit before their mental gaze with alluring brightness. Likewise matters not too remote for discussion are the June examinations, exhibition costumes and the best routes for the homeward-bound journey.
—The regular musicale for April took place on the evening of Tuesday the 14th, eleven young ladies furnishing the programme. The instrumentalists were the Misses Haitz, Robert, Young, Doble, Thirds, M. Smith, and D. Davis. Those contributing the vocal selections were the Misses Buck, McFarland, Johnson and Murphy. These reunions are of no small advantage, especially to the timid pupil, since by their means she wears off that embarrassment, which is so great a barrier to her progress, prepares the way for the coming examinations and fits her for future performances in the presence of parents and friends. With such happy results as a outcome, the establishing of the musicale upon a permanent footing is indeed a “consummation devoutly to be wished.”
—Among the literary circles of the Academy ■ much good work is in progress. St. Teresa’s Society still devotes the greater part of its weekly session to the Divina Comedia, an occasional article from the current periodicals serving as a recreation after the severer study of Dante. The second and third Senior classes— St. Catherine’s Society—are reading Scott’s ever pleasing “Lady of the Lake,” and enjoy the graphic pen-pictures of tarn and dell, or dwell with pleasure upon the fascinating incidents of the poem. A sketch of the life of Edgar Allen Poe, with quotations from his writings, entertained the members of St. Angela’s Society at its last meeting, while an interesting description of the world’s famous diamonds, their present owners, and other valuable statistics made the hour pass pleasantly. St. Agnes’
“Spanish. Manor Halls.”
“ The splendor falls on castle halls And snowy summits old in story.”
So writes the poet laureate in his beautiful description, and so muses the dreamer when day’s glorious monarch, wearied at the end of his long journey, seeks a rest for his burning brow, while kind old ocean smoothes her rugged pillow to receive the king of day. So in his reverie does he behold those gorgeous tints which soften and beautify the most commonplace surroundings, and when, falling upon far-distant spires and battlements in sunny Spain, the gladdening prospect fills his soul with sentiments as glowing as those wondrous hues of sunset.
No one will wonder that he rejoices at the sight, for his home lies there beyond the horizon; his lordly castle overlooks a fertile valley watered by a winding stream, while in the distance rise soft, blue hills whose summits whisper to the fleecy clouds floating above them of what is wrought in the smiling land below.
But as we hear this description of our dreamer’s domain, can we not all see with our spirit’s eyes a castle of our own in this same land of Spain, whose beauties far exceed any enticing charms which another’s fancy may suggest? Who does not pay frequent visits to his cherished possessions in this Utopian land?—for all of us own more or less Spanish territory.
A man of business, worn and perplexed, may erect a stately mansion there, with all the modern conveniences, of course, and furnished in the most approved style; no feudal castles or hoary summits for his practical tastes. His would be a mansion where his dear ones might dwell free from all care; where his daughters could have the benefit of the best masters in all useful knowledge, and where midnight hours of anxious labor for himself should have no part.
The struggling writer, painter, poet—all look • forward to this home of their dreams where merciless critics, unreasonable creditors and the unappreciative world at large can never enter. For the aspirant to literary fame the mails of Spain shall bring no bulky packages in which are enclosed small strips of paper with the heartrending words: “ Returned with thanks.”
The young girl at boarding school also rears two or three Spanish castles, and perhaps her
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
pet domain is modelled after the same pattern as the lordly mansion in her favorite novel. She will dwell there with her bosom friend, and they shall be the heroines of romantic adventures more varied than ever befell Phyllis or Molly Bawn.
The youth entering upon his worldly career looks eagerly over the vast prospect before him, undecided as to what course he shall pursue. But no matter which walk in life he may follow —for all roads lead alike to ideal Spain,—at the end of the long vista which stretches before him he sees distinctly his cherished castle; but often, like the mirage of the desert, does the object of his bright anticipations recede at his approach.
Castle building is not always the most beneficial exercise in which a person may indulge; nor is Spanish soil the most solid basis upon which to erect his ideal. Often the materials are not of the most substantial brick or stone which will resist the elements and all destroying causes. Sometimes the castle is so fragile that when a strong wind of adversity comes it will topple over, and the builder has taken his pains all for naught; or else he erects it on the shifting sands of public opinion, and not on solid rock, so in the end it is washed away by the dashing waves and the tempest.
But of whatever material it is built—whether of idle dreams or profitable expectations; or whether it be erected on substantial foundations, or uncertain ground, where the changing winds of fate shall cause its downfall, leaving naught but the waste sands of disappointment—the castle is just as beautiful to its owner. Each one’s ideal far surpasses that of any other, be it strong or frail, humble or towering high in lofty magnificence.
The origin of these far-famed Spanish castles is revealed in a beautiful legend. It is said of the mighty Charlemagne that while returning with his host from the Spanish expedition, the army was journeying through the rugged pass of Roncesvalles, and in the gray mist of early morning, the huge rocks and sharp peaks seemed in the distance like stately castles with their towers and battlements. The weary eyes of the soldiers were gladdened by the magnificent prospect; but, alas! the rising sun, dissipating the mists, revealed only massive boulders out-lined against the glowing sky.
Thus, as the soldiers looked upward to view their castles, so should we fix our ambition on a high ideal; and when the mists of our earthly sojourn are dispelled by the “Sun of Justice,” the mansions of the Eternal-City will break
upon our enraptured gaze, and our hearts shall exclaim: “How lovely are thy tabernacles, O Lord!”	Kittie Morse
{First Senior Class').
Boll of Honor.
[For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, correct deportment and observance of rules.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT. .
Misses E. Adelsperger, Buck, Bassett, Brady, Bogart, Clarke, Currier, Coleman, Churchill, Crilly, Carpenter, Calderwood, Dority, Dennison, B. Du Bois, L. Du Bois, Mary Donehue, M. Donehue, Dougherty, Evoy, Griffith, Gibbons, Galvin, Good, E. Hamilton, Horner, C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Hurff, Hughes, Haitz, Howe, Maude Hess, Mollie Hess, Minnie Hess, Hutchinson, Hanson, Hunt, Hopkins, Haight. D. Johnson, Kimmell, Kirley, Kings-baker, Kinney, Kiernan, Lauth, Ludwig, Leahy, F. Moore, McFarland, N. Morse, K. Morse, A. Moynahan, M. Murphy, Mullaney, N. Moore, McPhillips, E. Murphy, Nickel, Nacey, Niemann, Naughton, O’Brien, O’Leary, Quinn, A. Ryan, G. Roberts, M. Roberts, Rizer, Ryder, Ripley, Robinson, Spurgeon, Sena, Singler, Tipton, M. Torrney, R. Van Mourick, H. Van Mourick, M. Wagner, Whitmore, Young, Zahm.
junior department.
Misses Augustin, M. H. Bachrach, Boos, Culp, Clifford, Crandall, Dennison, Doble, Fossick, B. Germain, Gilmore, Hammond, Hickey, L. Holmes, Kasper, Kellner, Kelly, Mestling, O’Mara, Quealy, E. Shaffer, L. Schaefer A. Seely, Soper, S. Smyth, Van Liew, Wurzburg, White, Young.	z a
• MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses Eldred, Egan, Finnerty, Girsch, Hamilton, McPhillips, McCarthy, McKenna, Otero, Windsor, Young.
Class Honors.
LANGUAGE COURSE.
FRENCH.
ist Class—Misses K. Morse, E. Dennison.
2D Class—Misses Gibbons, Hurff, Balch, Bero, Howe, D. Davis, Lynch, Nester.
3D Class—Misses Bassett, Sanford, A. Ryan, McFarland, G. Clarke, Fitzpatrick, Wile, G. Roberts, Dempsey, Tod, M. Hess, Torrney, A. E. Dennison, Byrnes, Murison, Haight, Pugsley, S. Hamilton, M. Hess.
2D Div.—Misses M. Moore, Evoy, Young, Hickey, M.
Burns, E. Burns.	•
4th Class—Misses Charles, Fitzsimmons, Whitmore, Bunbury, Doble, H. Van Mourick, Gilmore, Wagner. S. Smyth, Brady, Eisenstadt, McCormack, Pengeman, Hanson, Kelley,K. Ryan, Sena, Kirk, Kenny ,Grauman, Galvin, Buck, Carpenter, Johnson, K. Hamilton, A. McPhillips-,-Holmes.
5th Class—Misses B. Windsor, M. Hamilton, Egan, L. McPhillips,
GERMAN.
2D Class, ist Div.—Misses Lauth, Nickel, F. Moore, K. Morse, Quealy.
2D Div-.—Misses Ludwig, Spurgeon, Nacey, Mollie Hess, Bassett, Minnie Hess.
3D Class—Misses Eisenstadt, Kellner, M. G. Bachrach, M. Wagner.
4TH Class—Misses L. Dreyer, Churchill, Augustin, M. Fossick, Green, L. Kasper, O’Mara.
5TH Class—Misses Kirley, E. Dennison, C. Young, Haitz, Kieffer, Crane, M. H. Bachrach, L. Du Bois. ■
2D Div.—Misses T. Ryder, G. Winstandley, Singler, B. Winstandley, E. Seeley.	'
LATIN.
ist Class—Misses G. Clarke. E. Murphy.
2D Class—Misses M. Smyth, M. Roberts.
Class—Misses S. McGuire, Kimmell, Nacey, Thirds. •