
i 
I 
f 
\ 
EUROPEAN CAR RENTALS RENT YOUR CAR IN HOLLAND THIS YEAR .AND REALLY SAVE. VW or Fiat only $9.00 per day IN-. CLUDING 100 free KM's daily. Larger cars/campers at similar sav-· 
. ings. MINIMUM RENTAL AGE 18 . . HILTON and MARRINGA . 826 Marin, Vallejo, Ca. 94590 
FUTURE CPA's _.:-· Learn How to prepare for the CPA Exam. BECKER. CPA REVIEW COURSE. 
Call Collect: > .· AKRON ... 216 434-1171 CINCINNATI 513 651-4487 CLEVELAND 216 696-0969 
COLUMBUS 614 224-3290 DAYTON 513 426-5087 
We make summe~ matter with afull range of. undergraduate, graduate, Weekend College and · Continuing Education courses on one of America's 
·: most beautiful campuses ••• and with special · institutes and workshops, modern residence halls ••• ·_. and our good teachers. · '· 
3 SESSIONS (day and evening):. ·. . .. -. May 21-June 20, June 23-July25 andJuly.28-Aug, 29 
. Call or write for the Summer Bulletin: Summer Session Office, C.W. Post Center . Long Island University · Greenvale, LI., N.Y. 11548 • (516) 299-2431 
·_ c.w. post center. 
·.. . · LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY 




Editor'' 
James Gresser 

Art Director 
Bill Weyland . ,:;_ 

Production Man~ger 
John Phelan 

Managing Editor· 
Sally Stanton 
News Editor 
Jane Thornton 
Arts Editor '' , Katy ·Sullivan· Sports Editor • . , . 
Bill l)elaney 
Business Manager 
Sarah· Bartzen Circulation Manager : Paul DeBacco.. 

Photography Editor 
Ed Brower.. ' . 
Advisory Board 
Ronald Weber, Carl Magel; Ed Sanna,·· Madonna. Kolbenschlag, David, . ·· Schlavei", C.S.C., Richard Conklin..
Staff . . . . . .. .. . .. 
Mike Karels, Steve Slater, Thomas J.' Waldoch, Dave.Beno,.Annemarie Sullivan, Peter Fitzgerald,· Ron Rundstedt,' Tara Carey, Mark· Luppino;· John Ken'w:ird,'Mark Ondash, Dave Dreyer,.John-Harding, Tom Birsic,. ' Jack Pizzolato, Leo J •.Mulcahey, Don Reimer, Kathy-McElroy,, Dave Miller, Mike Sarahan, NickStrittinatter, John M. Murphy,·Maey. Digan, .Chris Meehan,.Lonnie Luna, Mike · Feord, Patrick Smid,' Mark Hopkins, Bethann McGregor; Bob· Gilroy;'Rich Odioso,' Eileen O'Grady, Paur=Hess, ·John Vincent; Tom · Moskow, Mike· Towle, .Rich. Nugent, Dan Adler, Tom Desmond,' Rich Landry, Mike . Casey, Paul Starkey, Patrick Cole, Sue Grace, Bob Kissel, Gaey Harden. . . . . The. opinions expressed in SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors: and editors of SCHOLASTIC and· do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or the student body. Second class postage paid at Notre Dame, lnd.46556. The magazine is represented for. national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue; · New York, N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, .SCHOLASTIC is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Danie, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 : '· a year and back numbers are available from SCHLOSTIC. Please address all manu-. scripts to SCHOLASTIC., Notre Dame, Ind. ,.. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes. the property of SCHOLASTIC. . . ... copyright (i) 1975 Scholastic / all rights ·· reserved / none of the contents may be re-. produced without permission. 

Volume ll6, No. 15 May 2. 1975 Notre Dame, Indiana 


HEADLINER 

6 Four Years-· A brief look at the change and develop­ment at ND during_ the class of '75's ye~rs; . · 

FEATURES 

9 Reflections -·-· · A personal look by eight seniors at their stay_at du Lac. 10 .· Chris Grace 12 Bill Weyland . 13 Martin Cohen 14 Christine Burger 15 ~nn McCarry 16 Paul· Rollwerk 
. . . . . . 

18 ._Bill Smith :19 · Su'e Sarcone :20 Photographs ·-_ A short photo essay ·by, our· own Bill Weyland. 
26. Top Ten -. Listing the outstanding_athletic'hH;hlights of the past four years. · · · · · 
28 Track -Time and hard. work are. necessary to succeed m this all-around sport · t•,,, · ·· 

·REGULARS 
. . 
4 
. Perspective· 22 People at ND · 

23 
. People .Behind ND 


24 ·Week in Distortion · · 25 Irish Gym Shorts 
29 . The VeryLast ,Word 

, Illustrations: Photos 'on-10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18, .19, 22, 23, 26, 27, 28 by·Ed Brower / Photos on cover, 3, 6, 8, 13, 15, 17, 30 by Tom Paulius /. Photos on 20, 21 ·by Dill Weyland·/ Photos on 25 by· Dill Delancy / Photo on 26 by Zenon Didzinski / Photo on 26 by Pat Gibbs / Photo on 27 by Harry Dusch / All ·artwork by Paulius /, Photo on 9. by• Kevin· Maguire, 
l ~-,,-. .. ~ ·.· '.""".""" -~,.., r . ·. ~~ ' .,, . . ; • 7:--·--::-: ; f 1> . . <· r:: . T'f-7""""''7,77"'?"'7'7"'~'.'":"~~~"".'."'1::'"77 
1 . P.,.ers.-pe.·.c.-....·..·.·ti.v.•-•·e .. ····· ·.•.·-·.·.:.:_.·.····..·.·:.·.•.·.·....· ..... '.,.·.. ;,'·•.•··:•.·:,-·,'· ·•• __ : :·::'.: ..·.---.. -;;,.; :,•· · ... : __
...1.~.·.·••:..·.·...· ...·.,,:.:_1
·, -· ··.-.• :-· ---~~~~~ ......-~--~~< :;-~--:.;_;__:;..:-:~~-.--~~ --·~ :._~=;c>~.};:<ili>~--f~~~lf.ii~:.~ >A~G:(=··>l-:··~----_ 
CQipS off'My Shoulder 
He held the School List, a long sheet curling over a_ board; and each boy, as he passed, spoke his own name for Chips t_o.verify and then tick off on . the list . ... Some of those names, in . little snatches of a chorus, recurred to hi-m ever afterwards without any effort of memory ... -4.insworth, Attwood, Avonmore, Babcock,Baggs, Barnard, Bassenthwaite . ... 
Where had they all gone to, he often wondered; those threads he had once held together, how far had they scattered, some to· break into unknown patterns? The strange randomness of the world beguiled him, that randomness which never 
would, as long as the world lasted, give meaning to those choruses again. 
. James Hilton's Goodbye> Mr. Chips_ 
Though it may be trite to say so, I suppose that all of us older folk living on a campus like Notre Dame identify with the experience of . James Hilton's Mr. Chips. As year piles upon year, hurrying the decades by, the litany·ofnames in our minds from the past grows longer and longer. There are faces we search for, on the Quads; we inquire after a boy_ .· named Kelly or a girlnamed Sue; we leaJ,"Il that one is finishing med · school, and the other is dating an. earJ:,we·meet a chap we think we know; we ask him how he likes his job with the prime minister, and to .. our astonishment learn that the lad is a freshman. We have confused him with his older brother, who was hanged for bigamy by the Women's Liberation. 
Already on campus, there are children belonging to some old · school chums of mine. Any year. now, a"face that I almost recognize 

·-will appear in my doorway: some . youngster entering Notre Dame as a father, and the blighter willprobably still owe me money from his losses at gin rummy. 
An old halldirectory or an out-of­date.appoint~ent book (mostly unused, because I'm constantly making the mistake of trying to keep things in my head) can evoke memories of a hundred conversations 

. in which the moods were divided .between tears and laughter. Faces . seen at a Sunday Mass remind me of a thousand, or ten'thousand, other faces .lovingly remembered from years of ~haring the Eucharist in a touchingly familiar place. At a Glee Club concert, there are still rows of 
· ·
teriors fronting the basses and . 

· barito_nes, elegantly. shirted and formally tailed. The songs being performed are partlyfamilh1.r; and 
· there are dozens of cities in the country tliabire now deja _vu,.. 
first-year preprofessional student will ··whether he had been laughing or 
be saying, ''I _think you knew my ·cryirig:And neither did Chips 
father when he was a freshman in . himself; :°.' ; . ' , .. 
. Dillon." Indeed I will have known his The past, then, serves as a gallery 
4· 
by Rev~ Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
witnessing the events of today; and to tell the truth, there are days when the nows become mixed up with the : 

· .thens; ·and all the years of my life become contemporary to the moment I am living. I begin to say good-bye to friends I have just lately met. Our time together will be so brief~ After a thousand days of fellowship, ,. ' arranged in. order,· like the treats·on , a picnic table, according tc>'the · schedules of academic calendars; my• friends will leave. Except for brief, 
· · spasmodic handshakes on an a,nnuai football weekend, or a terse note of greeting, with a snapshot of-the kids, at the holidays, the camaraderie will . be allowed to sit and simmer, like the pots pushed onto the back burners of . the stove. Remembering can be a·. dreadful curse,· if you are a ·senti-;_ mentalist. A fear ofnostalgia makes you almost .vow never to make :-· 
because I have been gleeing there . . another.friend from :whom you must 
before. But these are a different set.. 

· of gentlemen songsters Jrom the · . chorus I started traveling with a long time ago. I keep searching the·. risers for figures that belonged to an 
.· earlier performance, and the stage seems to,be haunte~ by ghosts,. 
"When you iire getting cni in years (1:lut not ill, of course), you get very s"leepy at times, and the hours seem 
· to pass like 7,azy cattle moving across a landscape..[t was like that·for 

··Chips as the autumn term 'JlTO· _. • gressed., .,. For Chips, ~ike some old sea captain, stin measured time by t1ie signa"ls of tlui past.;·-. . A great joke, this growing old-.· but a sad joke, too; in a way. And as. Chips sat by hisffre· with autumn·.: gales. rattling the windows, the. ·_ 
·-· waves ofhumor and sadness swept over him very often until tears fell, so tlzat when Mrs. Wickett came in with his cup of tea she did riot know 
separate. It'would almost seem'··. 
betterif you never cared for anyone, 

· · if,that ariyoneis going to, run off so ·that·younever·see him, iMng:like a. cloistered priestess or an'astronaut· landed on the moon; . ,,:' . .. ' . 
-.. Crowded iri as Tam with memories (thoughTdcm't supposeThave any . ' more memories than·'any other > , ; ,· 

.Methuselah of my age), IfE?el like a man:wasl1ed o_~erboa~~ when I ·an,i ·asked (as I-have been asked by, the 
editor of this slick journal) to··> . reflect'orithe four years that are just · now p·assinginto.campus·hlstory .. 
.How"does·one sift through the sands . of time·and separate the marriages, the deaths and the alumni visits-into· 
.th~~r proper chronology?Jre~ember that once there was a.Vietnam War; · and in our Masses and protests, we· , 
.__sent the:peace doves flying every-: , where:·rm 'ati-aid most of those bi~ds got stuck with arrows. I don't quite · . remembe!\Yhenit ended,but I 'think the protests ended before the.war:~ did. Or did the war.ever·end? It's,··. hard .toJmow from read~ng_thi~ ,, . .: morning's paper, but we did celebrate . 
""•. . SCHOLASTIC 





something as a cease-fire. President Dome is immortal; the Grotto is 
Ford came once to Notre Dame on a eternal; the Quads, like the lakes, March 17, St. Patrick's Day, but what are without a beginning. year was that? I remember it was a So life passes timelessly on the lovely, festive day in springtime, but green acres on this dreaming, . we've suffered several wintertimes brooding Emerald City. The classes 
of snow since then, so the Ford visit come and go, like the women in the couldn't have happened very room, talking of Michelangelo. A recently. · second ago, the fr2shmen were not 
Once upon a time, we were-:.-or here; a minute from now, they will are-Number One as the National have already left. Whether in their _ Champions of ~ootball.-In. the minds brief flicker of aneye here they.were of students, being Number One is the as turbulent as tempests or as dream they live on, and Camelot is :. noiseless as the: splashing dew, a . Winning All the.-.Games. Our sweat .. silent forgetfulness rushes ir{to hide shirts tell us who-we 'are· (tlie book­the places. ~here· their fri~bees. store.supports our dream), and the ~kimmed the sky. Their best monu­victory dates of the Bowl Gam~s-: ments are in the memories of the:-· hardly matter. Ask any freiihman teacher and priest/who themselves-:_. who we are_; he wili .tell you: ;"We ' must move along quite quickly­are Number One.» It hardly matters enough, mitil all of us-every single : that it was only tme in '67 or.'73 ... one-are borne by the ebbtide onto. Just a little--whiie ago;_wewere ·. the waves that are outward bound. Number One; in December ofthis . For a ·while heads bob above the. year, we will ,be Number ,Orie again;. surface, or an arm-is lifted in a , . . in the interim, we mighfas well act, farewell t~ the shore. Eventually.·· · as though. we were Nunibef ()ne, for. every glimpse of life.from our . -. we have ·the hearts ofChampions. -generation is losfsight of; and the. Even if.the popes h_ave moved. to -· . harbor that awaits o~r homecqn1~ng Avignon, the power and·theglory is a mystery of reunions that do_ not belong to Rome: We are the Capital. end with a Sunday in June. Genera-. City ofthe World, the imperial lions tions come and· generations· go, while of. Gcid, the horsemen of the ,-the.earth of du Lac endures forever.: Apocalypse.<Our playing fields ire the holy groundof victors who are His life .. . mid.what aUfe it Jui,d,: -. Number One in the hearts of their been. Tlie whole pageant of it sun,,ng c~untrymen, _today, yesterday/ and be/ore him as.he sat by the fire that . forever. .. . . . . . afternoon. The things he.had.done . 
In thew~rld beyond the golf ....· and seen: Cambridge in the sixties,· course·and the parking lots, popes· . :·Great Gable on an'Ailgust morning; and presidents strut their brief hours Brookfield at all ·times and seasons , upon the. stage; governments, ..· . throughout the ~ear;. And, /odhat ~emporai and spiritual,· sustain . . .matter, the things he had not done,' ., themselves by election's arid apostolic and would never do now that he had : successions.: It is not always easy to , left them, too late. , ._ .. know whom aHegiances should be . sworn to in that topsy-turvy · . · If an aging man seems to'be. political jungle: But at Notre Dame, suggesting .that the whole campus: these are the Hesburgh years; and . experience of No"tre Dame is all our father is forever. Who remem-sadness and loss: he is telling lies, · bersany ·other.time? Who:needs any· :and must not be believed. Those of us other time? Our buildings(Whywe who have lived here know.it to be a·_­have always had our buildings: the wondrous place; our remembrances Library, the Convo, the Towers-just assure us that we are not much apt as we have always had our coaches, to see its equal anywhere again, even and the great ones have always though there is more pain than we needed to walk in the footsteps of can comfortably think of; and all the Rockne, may.he live forever! The loneliness and discouragements and 
MAY: 2, 1975_-_ 
defeats, and all the common little dreads that make a day seem tacky and terrible. 
"I thought I heard you~e of you 
-saying-it was a '[lity-<i pity I 
never had-any children . ... But I 
have, you know. . .. I have ..." 
"Yes-I have/' he added with 
quavering merriment. "Thousands· of 
'em·. .. thousands of 'em .. . and all 
boys." .· _ .. __ . 
Antl_then, the chorus sang in his 
ears _in final harmony,-more grandly 
and sweetly than he had ever heard . 
it be/ore,_ and ·nwre com/ortably too. 
... Bo·ne,Boston; Bovey,-Brcidford, 
Bradley,· Bram.hall-Anderson .. ; : 
wherever, you.are, _whatever has 
happened give me this moment with 
you ... this last moment ... my 
boys . ; . · 
I am not Mr. Chips, nor,_wiUI 
become Mr. Chips,-nor do,I wish to. 
be Mr. Chips, as_ much as I love him.: 
But allof us have known his original 
somewhere. If you live long enough 
on th~ Quads,_ you will meet .the , 
sweetness and sadness, the loss and 
the gain, the Aprils and autumns, ; . 
the now~i:uid~then things of aUfe like 
his that is lived in. the shadow of an 
endless commencement.>. , 
·. V\Then you know Mr. Chips, you . 
can askhim,about what happened 
this morning,. but don'(go asking 
him about yesterday, for he will get · 
terribly.· confused in the mind, poor· 
chap, and he doesn't need that kind · 
of confusion, really. ·· 
•. Don't ask me either, .because there is.a sort of Chipsian mood you may catch me in-'::-it isn't wake and it isn'tsleep; it's a sort of in-between 

· state full of dreams_ and faces and; voices:, . ' 
Old.scenes and old scraps of tunes: a Moiart trio that Kathie had once -. played in-cheers and laughter and , the sound of guns-and, over it all, . Brookfield bells, Brookfield bells. 
But if it were me, and not Mr. Chips, it wouldn't be Brookfield bells at all. It would be the Glee Club with the music of the Alma Mater. 



Four YearSof Change 
The years one spends at Notre Dame · often ·seen{ to blur into· a melange of experiences .and·dreams: 
. As the students enter Notre Daine as unsuspecting · freshmen; they are swept into the. fast'-moving .· systems of Notre Dame. The individual loses himself in the moment; he isen­thralled by the rapid-pace day~to~day functions of being a' student ·The student also loses himself in the fu­ture; hopes, ioals and plans dom­inate the life of;the student.·-As the student succumbs to the inoment·and the future,•the·past oftentimes fades from the student's·•thouglits.: "This article will ·hopefully capture the spirit and major events ofthe years the· class of '75 spent at Notre Dame. 
It is the . opinion of • most· seniors who were interviewed that the 1971­72 school• year was the: best of-the . four years they:spent at N.D. As one senior. from St. Mary's ·stated, "There were ·parties· going on some.;. where almost all of the time." An­other· seniori; from ·Notre:,.Dame judged.that "freshman -year was the best of all the years our class sperit 
.here." 
The.1971-72. academic year was a time of • change . '. and; : problems throughout the· world. The :problem 

· of military involvement in Vietnam was still plaguing our nation: Other problems were incurred by the ad­mission of Red China to the United Nations. In the United States, a prison uprising at the Attica State Prison troubled ·the minds of many 
.. Americans. 
The Notre Dame campus was also going through a: voiatile period at this tirrie. ; The question of a merger between Notre Dame'and St. Mary's filled the minds of people at Notre Dame. In· November of 1971;· Mr. Edmund Stephan; •Board_"of Trustees Chairman, · said· thaC the merger would "definitely ·go through." Theri, oil November 30, it was officially an­nounced by Notre· Dame and St. Mary's· College that "it is not pos~ sible. fo accomplish complete· unifica~ tion at this time." However; on Feb~ ruary 9, negotiations oii.the merger reopened. The negotiations were to no avail/ for on February: 28 at.: tempts to merge were terminated. 
· Though merger between Notre Dame and. St; Mary's was' not ·a:c-' 
by Bill Gonzenbach 

corriplished, Notre_ Danie did decide to go co-ed in the fall of 1972. Badin and · Walsh Halls. were ··officially designated as the women's dormito­ries•for the following year, much ·tci the dismay ot' the male residents of 
those halls. . . . . . Though there was an air of seri­ousness about the problem of .mer­ger, there was an atmosphere of frivolity which permeated the stu~ dent government elections.· Notre Dame elected a king. The call from Bob·Kerste·n; .the·elected king, was for the establishment of an oligarchy, arici the: student body . welcomed it with· open arms. . . Kersteri's . course to election ·was filled with satire· and tricks. In· an attempt to:·gain attentfon,'R;:·.Cal~ 

· SCHOLASTIC 

houn Kersten staged a kidnapping, that students encountered with re~ . A sense of student discontent and much to the amusement of the stu-gard to state laws was revealed,when apathy was also revealed in the move dent body.. Also, the -King rejected the "Nickie's 26" were carted to jail -to elect Mr. Dirt, a no-count hero of the normal running mate, and chose for liquor law violations. ·sludge iii. car engines, as'the Senior 
·instead the Un-candidate, his cat. The humorous hopes that Kersten Class Fellow in the spring of 1973. Though Kersten mocked the office gave ·, to· student government also · It .:was.. as if the seniors -that year with such commerits·as ''Iwant to.be faded in the .fall of1972. People saw were_ pursuing the absurd. Fortu-King so it win look good on lllY . that oligarchy brought no real change. -nately, the honor was not :given to transcript for medical 'school," he or benefits _:_ just a few la.uglis. In the_ illustrious Mr. Dirt, but to Fr. won the election. · ·· · :october, H-man,. Dennis Eitenne, Griffin.· ­
After the election Kersten declared headed the student . government, A true moment of happiness was martial law at Notre Dame. "I just while King Kersten .·relegated: his felt that year when a cease-fire was want to get rid of any checks and kingly role-to· ~hecere~onial level. declared in South Vietnam. To cele­balances on my awesome_ power/' The efforts of H-Man were worthy; brate the event, the University held Kersten explained. In·au, .the election however, ·he broughf110 great change apeace,Mass in the ACC. . -. was a challenge to the se~iousness of or hope to student government; The academic year of i973-74 was student government,. and, by: their -viewed in the height of tlie :water-.· choice of candidate, it appears that · gate scandal in Washington; The the students did not take the student -· dishonesty of our officials 'was re­governmenfvery seriously.._ vealed .and the problems of internal. 
A. fact which may have added to iovernrrient functions were disclosed. the seniors•· high opinion of. their While Washington had their_ scan-freshman year was the coricerts held dais, Notre Dame had her problems that year.· Performances by Jethro -··.· "The-individual loses himself also: Jim Rybarczyk, the Student· -Tull, Cat Stevens and Elton John Union Director, was impeached be-certainly added to the good times at in the moment; he is · : cause of a ticket scandal in which a rather sedate Notre Dame.. -· . -· 54 tickets for the Southern_ Califor-All things must pass arid so itwas enthralled by the rapid-pace nia game were reserved for Student 
with the 1971-72. school year. The day-t«>-day functions . Union officials. The University also . fall of 1972 brought a different spirit staged drug raids in October of 1973. to Notre Dame. . _of being a student." Under the'direction 'of Dean of Stu-
On the national scene, the 'hopes dents JolmMacheca; drug raids were of most American liberals were . conducted in St. Ed's, Dillon. and crushed by the defeat of McGovern · _Grace to, 'as Macheca stated, -"rid ­in the presidentiai race. Conserva-the campus of all drugs." tism had_• t_riumphed; Nixon .was -. In the national arena, pressures again . our president (but not . for· . from investigations of iliegal . deal~ long): The remaining ember~_of the -. ,____;...__________....;___, ings· forced Vice-President Spi~o 
movements of the '60's were over. .'At .first, ~oeducation brought high Agnew to resign. At Notre Dame, The dreams of change were quieted. hopes to the Notre Dame .campus; Ed '_'Knaked" Klem.ler agreed to At Notrel)airie the liope for change. however,' these dreams were· soon terminate his third-quarter stripping was also quieted. Fr. Burtchaell's leveled. to, reality. Because of-an act at the football games because of article 1n Loco Parentis marked an error in administrative _planning, -pressures presented by Assistant .attitude in University policy of con--the-male dorms incurred· an over-Dean ofStudents Fr. Terry Lally... trol 'and restriction; .. The hopes of 'crowding problem; Every available ..• The'scicial life ·at Notre·Darrie also greater 'student freedom ·and inde-. space·· in 'the. male dorms· was filled felt restraints because of clrinkirig periderice_ seemed _·to',.be curtaiied. with. the· body of some bewiidered. rules; In_· October, "party' rules" Evidence· of the University's con-freshman. The males also.found that rendered by the administration lim­trols was'seen in theLewis Haii in-coeducation was ·not a:11 'that:coed. ·ited.the.parties at ·Notre Dame: The 
. cide'nt', wherea graduate'stlident'-.vas The number 'of:girls. on campus.was . problem·. of drinking' rules. was felt asked to· leave the University ·tor few: This. was :a problem _that'only · most atthe Irish Wake; where liquor parietal violations. The . problems· time ~nd more.females could settle. was not allowed to be served. . 

There were•. emo_tiorial outlets 'for the students, though. In .the early spring of 1974, numbers of students ·at . Notre . Dame renoimced the shackles ·. of 'clothing .and ·. streaked the quads .and hallways . of Our Lady's campus. In all, a not~too­thrilling experience :for' those wh~ had to view the spe~im~ns. of man­hood'.· ·... ·... . ., ,: .. , . . Plagued by the problems of a fall­ing social life, the students of Notre Dame resorte·d to .the . old standard of ·athletics· to · develop a spirit· of excitement Fortimately, the teams 'produced )he needed action to 'give the\iampus some excitemenC'Iri a thrilling 24-23 victory, • the Fighting Irish _defeated Alabama in the Sugar Bowl to take the Natie>nai Champion~ ship. In basketball, · the ,Irish de­feated Coach Wooden's. Bruins 71-70, thereby ending the Bruins' extended winning streak: ' Though. ·most ath­letics· gave a sense ofuriity .to Notre Dame;-. tlie Billie Jean King-Bobby Riggs' ,tennis match •. developed ·a humorous spirit of conflicts. between the meri and women of _Notre.Dame. 

Unfortunately for the males, ·Billie Jean won and the males were forced to pay off outlandish .bets· and to hide their heads in shame for a few 
_days; : 
: The 1974-75 school year is now drawing to' aclose and, in examining the events of .the year, there does not seem to be mtich that sticks out in one's mind. There are however a few things worth noting.' The social life at Notre Dame was hampered by the passage_ of riew state liquor laws. Hall parties with liquor be~ came a·thing of the past. A new fad became to. take the parties to Michi­gan. A positive force for the social life\~11s the Nazz, which.offered ex­cellent folk and jazz ,music for the 
students. · · · · · . Social concern seemed to get a lift by· such groups as Right to Life and the Hunger Coalition .• Under tb.'e leadership of Joe Copora and Keefe Montgomery, the Right to Life group made extensive efforts to educate students about the abortion issue. The Hunger Coalition also -made ex­tensive efforts to educate . and to 
raise . money for ·the world . hunger 
:-problem. • )•• ~> '. : 
The reriovation of La.Fortune finally . became 'evident. this year, as is · evidenced by .the new. stairways arid;the 'altering 'of the main floor.. Also, '~fter a year's.:arduous fafor;, the Observer finally succeeded in de­signing' a.new 'masthead. . .. . . . 
The .. changes . that. coeducation prci'duces. were 'also 'ielt by the women students this year as Lewis Han·· was . designated as an under­graduate hall and Badin was desig­nated as a graduate dorm: Though there was' some dissension' by the graduafo students, the transfer went aboufwithout much difficulty ..... . 
The academic code was also' altered this year, raising. the Dean's List fo 
3.4 inst'ead of 3.25.. The move was an effort to reduce grade.inflation at Notre Dame. . . ,, 
. A highlight of this year for some people was the visitation ·of Presi­den(Ford to Notre Dame .. The visit, garnished with rumors of secret mo­tivations ·and announc'enierits, · re­sulted in a '"pleasant" speech arid a few· somewhat humorous jokes. . . . 
People's reaction to· th'e, Presi~ dent's visit. varied, just as people's reactions to all events that occur at Notre Dame are, varied. The stu~ dents . at Notre . Dame .are unique people with individual tastes and va_ried interests:· To each graduat~ ing senior the years have a person.al meaning. For some the years were filled with nights in bars and parties: For others, the four years were ded_i­cated. to .books and to ·tests. Each 
· person will' leave Notre Dame· with a different opinion of the place and of the time spent here.. Hopefully, this articie ha,s recaptured some of the spirit anlexPeriehces of th·e last four years at Notre Dame, so' that graduating seniors can' :better. re~ member their four years at Notre Dame. 
.. 
._ SCHOLASTIC 


Chris .Grace 
While lifting my trunk.up to the thi we~lth of. knowledge I ·have· :everyone. Weaffhave at ourfing~r­REA man, for its first trip out· to . gathered from .th~.irifluerice 1Jf. my.: tips one of the' brightest· flames of Notre Dame, he said to me, ''You. friends. and·• professors. at .No~re · learning in the world;C Notre Dame . sure do have a great footbaU team." Dame and it is for thein that I write .. is a \1niversity of fantastic depth.' In . Later in conversation with one who ·. every nook arid cranny there are had gone· the same circuit for which : lectures: .movi~s, theater• and scieri-­I was preparing, Notre Dame was ·• tific research .just waiting. to be summed up in the comment, "Wen; tapped by anyone willing to reach. it's a great place to be from." Now;· · ·out . 
.in preparing to leave Notre Dame I · Most of ~y. reflections· are . con-can see the truth of these statements. . giomerates,'.myriadsof.thoughts, ac-. But: it was almost four years ago, . tioris, hopes and piaces, blended to-after being on campus for just afew .·. gether. into series of smiles~.. ·gri-. minutes, that:I began to realize how maces, grins. and' frowns: . eight .. much more .. there was to Notre . . o'clock: classes in ·the· freezing cold, Danie. Within those first few. min-. volleyb~ll arid beer in njy .backyard, utes I discovered the greatest asset · eating at 12:05. with the B line·for of this university: he~ people; From. lurich bunch and peace every Sunday . 
.·the first of many· welcoming smiles, . . afternoon.with Fr. Griff; the realiza­to . · the ·: always helpful· "Sure, just .. tion. of that . absolute_ to find you've. walk ''around Washington Hall and: only· begun, the. wizardly: visage .of head for .the stairs, it · shines; you . ' the Sacred Heart'steeple, the surge .. 
. can'.t miss it," it has been .the 'stu-..· of .spring fever fo: early December dents and faculty who have been arid. :fdsbees·;, baseballs, music and . the greatness which is Notre Dame> dancing on the North Quad; Senator. The purpose of;a university is to Kennedy arid RtistyRhodes in Step-provide an environment of gr9wth_ . an Center,-the, Beach Boys in the in academics, more importantly, to . · ACC, · the, beaten path down Notre · 
. provide a place for the individual'to. ·. Dame Avenue< and: care packages . learn about -himself, his ·relations, .from home;. Mardi Gras and An with others, his. community,. the uni~ . Tosta.ls, tackle football in the snow, 
.. verse and God. What I wili'always .• picnics in the shadow of the_ Dorrie.· . . cherish,' . when .. my thoughts..·•· flash and a "How you• doing?". to· brighten back to Notre Dame, ·are.my friend-. the day; roast .chicken.on a friend's 
. . ships wi_th some of the greatest peo-. front porch; Fr. Hesburgh's sermons 
•. : pie Tve had the opportunity to know . on spaceships and food, the smell of and to gro~ with... What rwm rely . . popcorn. ddfting down the hall and on for a iifetime is What i was for.:. coal black nights dotted with stars. '· tunate' enough to learn from those. · The events ·oLlong'spans of time 
: around: me. Albert Schweitzer said, . seem .to smear into blurs of .library· . "Example is not the .mainthing in From my teachers·! have received _· desks, piles. of books, catnaps in .. influencing others, it is the only · fae gift of a lifetime, one of the cushioned chairs and baskets full of thing." l w}ll be forever grateful for essentiaf keys to. my future happi-first tries, only. to be crystalized riess: thejoy of leaming.· It is that spark of light in the darkness, kin­dled by hours of concentration and . quiet ... contemplation, whose realms are limitless, yet readily available to 
every Tuesday with fourteen ice 
cream cones and explorations' of the 
St. Joe River. Semesters have passed 
that have · almost melted together, 
held apart only with basketball, hal­
lelujahs and walks throughout the 
halls. .The ·hours spent with Tom 
Dooley, the· candles' light . at the 
Grotto,.· the Saturday afternoons 
spent . cheering and 'the miles of 
O'Shaughnessy's :hallways/ seem all 
to be one now,.. but their· meanings 
are so manifold: 
My most prized memories are my simplest ones: late night studying with ·a close friend, with laughter ·and play · in · deserted classrooms, walks around the lakes at dusk, deadlines finally met· after days of work and questioning the reality of reality .over cigarettes . and coffee, the joy of finding friends· in your room after a night with the books, card games and soft music . when your papers 'remain unwritten, and reading the thoughts of men with 
whom· you share· ideals. 
During my four years at Notre 
Dame I have seen a slow maturation 
whose impetus was; and continues to 
be, the introduction of coeducation; 
Although just in its first few years, 
the role of 'women at this university 
has taken a real and very much 
needed place: The women of Notre 
Dame, in addition to creating a more 
normal··-and .. healthy·.· environment; 
have helped to infuse ·a maturity 
thathas filtered throughout the cam.: 
pus. But before Notre Dame reaches 
its full: potential, the· responsibility, 
inherent· in maturity; of individual 
decisions must be given to the stu­
dents. Responsibility for o·ne's own morals and ethics cannot be learned when they are left in the .hands of the administration and governed by parietals and liquor laws. 

There is one stigma · at Notre Dame that I feel needs. immediate searching into and understanding of, because its . implications go far be­yond the classroom and laboratory. Throughout my years here, I. have felt a subtle friction between those not involved in the science program and those who are, that has grown out of. a snobbery and blindness by both groups, not only by the students but also within the ranks of the fac­ulty. It has to stop. Man, in the midst of his rapid development; has left his planet in a crisis of energy, food, population and atomic weap~ ons. These problems, too complex to be faced by· any single0 minded group of people, will only be solved with scientific ingenuity and cultural change. ' The first· step towards any solution is the realization that all people, from .all different academic backgrounds, must. educate them­selves in· as .many fields of learning as possible. ' Once this begins, the sociologists and economists, scien.: tists and ethicists, .physicians, engi.; neers and political theorists will _be able to join together and work to­gether, so that together they may save our planet. I have seen the be­ginning of such . concerted efforts here at Notre Dame andit has in­spired in me a faith in people and an optimism for the future. It is oniy after the scientist _takes his first step out of the laboratory that he will be able to meet the nonscientist who is . coming in. 
Spring has thawed· our frozen grounds ·and from the beauty surg­ing from this campus I can feel, once again, the .spirit· of. Notre .Dame come alive. Creeping. out from cin­derblock cities, the spirit and joy of life comes forth and fills the quads with men and women eager to stretch their. dormant legs. I always enjoy spring at Notre Dame because it sings and laughs a:nd basks itself in the sunshine. !tis.that springtime feeling, only expressible with. a deep breath of freedom; that will come to 
·me whenever T pass through .the trees and flowers growing with the spirit:of Notre Dame. ... As with all who have ever stepped upon this campus, Notre Dame has given me much more than justice can be done for in a few reflective
. . 

words; ,The memories these sens tences touch upon will forever be an ,integral part .of me.' The, emotions, ideals and admirations that.underlie 
each.· paragraph· ..were gathered 
through. study,.work and play and 
molded by the influence of that ever 
golden specter. The ember of four 
years of life, engendered by this uni­
versity, wiU always glow and shine, 
and keep kindled within me the 
spirit of .Notre Dame~: 

and dream and what "my teacher;, them I find frustration;-.How do you relates to me about his perceptions, tell the freshmen in your section feelings and dreams. I learn when they can't do a damned thing·to af­what he says illuminates . new re-feet the rules which govern their gions of my own being. I learn most living. situation? That all. is cori­when I cannot understand what he·· trolled by economics and·. the :per­is saying and yet· he inspires me sonal visions of administrators? How through something deep within both . do' you -convince people ,that they of us, a; knowing that we can give have to·give a little bit of themselves much to each other.-.. · to develop a viable community,from . This view of a _teacher has evolved the mirage we call community? How 
·. from a gradual. understanding of do you convince people they do.have some of the> _elements involved in a reason·. to . live when everyone teaching. When I arrived here five around,them is content? · .,! years ago, the fall after the Irish Things become greyer and greyer war:_. protest strike, students were until all that was once black and actively involved in student govern-white has washed together. We rush ment. Even hall council meetings on withouf even looking for the pat­were events which stretched into terns of black, white and grey in late night debates. A design prof ourselves arid in those around us. We confronted my class with an irri-rush on in artificial contentment tating challenge_ to overcome the and, as we all know, elements in con­psychic numbing" of twelve years of tentment slowly die. 
: SCHOLASTIC 

Bill Weyland 
"Modern man's feeling of isolation and powerlessness is increased fur­ther by the character which all his human relationships have assumed. The concrete relationship of one in­dividual to another lias lost.its direct human character and ha,s assumed a spirit of manipulation and : instru­mentality." 
. Erich Fromm 
There is so much"here.', 

One four-day weekend last fall I had .the pleasure of showing a friend the campus. 'On Thursday night-we met at St. Joe Airport and got re­acquainted in the upstairs lounge of the Senior Bar. . A little .after mid­night we wandered · through' the South Bend cold to find:the warmth of. Darby's Place .. And ·the, evening an_d morning slipped, away. 
Friday offered the opportunity· to share the experience of attending some of· .the exceptional classes; I have had here. We dropped in to see Joe Evans "see-ing," Robert Leader re-creating the feelings and emotions which shaped art history, and John Dunne transmitting energy; In the evening we were ·carried along' iri-a riotous march-to· Stepan Center, and a· Notre-Dame pep rally which was followed by ·an equally riotous eve­ning on duty in the dorm: 
The next morning we wandered formal education. These students 
through parking lots meeting friends and this prof challenged me to look 
-hot dogs and beer for breakfast-more deeply into myself and seek an 
and then there was the game, a understanding of viewpoints and 
Notre Dame football game. After we feelings T .had · never questioned. 
won there were more parties and the ".Why.?" · became a constant ; com­
Beaux Arts Ball. Still-later there panion. oc-·· · was an early morning run to the ... But there was still something miss"' 
hospital-stitches. for. a guy in the ing: until I found a new-teacher, a: 
section-and an escape to the off~ giver:of:energy inspiration. It was 
campus house of friends to find quiet provided by the wonder of:a year. in 
and relaxing conversation. . Rome, a magical city_ of infinite new 
.Sunday came quickly and offered vistas and a beat of life.• The year 
time to wander around the lakes and abroad opened a world .beyond-th_e 
hear Griff's · early. evening mass. intellectual, a world of the senses 
Then·it was up to the office to pre-and of feeling.· A human world. And 
pare for the.layout of a new Scho-I learned because each new. element 
lastic. Her parting-.words ring over provided.a small window into myself 
and over again, "Bill, you are lucky~ and out to the world. The windows 
Thereis so much here." were .sources of inspiration which· 
And that is the fascination. Notre provided an answer, a way to learn, Dame· is the common bond strung idols to live by. between the tensions of such coexist-. When I became most comfortable ing elements as a Notre Dame pep with these idols I met the .most im­rally and a Beaux Arts Ball. The portant teacher, the idol· burner who range of studies and expressions is starts the entire process of learning so large that it is difficult to even over· again. · He has opened before beco·me exposed·. to the various me·a magnificent world where every­groups much less understand them. thing ,holds wonder, where every-
I have found that the people I thing holds .within itself equal~parts learn the most. from don't really of the mystery of right and wrong. speak the·· same -··language I do. ,c· _But this teacher has also, left ·me Learning ·seems to. come along the very· uneasy,· for I find ·.many false interface .between what I see, feel idols here at Notre Dame. and in 


Martin Cohen 
. When writing the reminiscence of his life· at Notre Dame, a senior tends to wax:nostalgic. He can easily remember the academic program at Notre Dame, its .beautiful campus, and its sense of ·community spirit. He can also recall the frivolous side of life, whether. it .was .weekend drinking • bouts or .. throwing . fire­crackers under a· sleeping neighbor's door. Certainly,-one develops an attachment to an abstract glorifica0 tion of his alma mater; Notre Dame is also easy to conceive. One can dis­sect. Father: Burtchaell's directives, or ask how many days Father Hes~ burgh--spends on campus or voice any number of. perennial complaints. I want to avoid these tendencies and focus. on some · of .my observations over the past five years. 
One•·· ever-present factor: at•· the University.is the academic grind. A student's life is .· usually booked for two weeks in advance with · home­work, _.exams, ·papers and. reports. The first part of each semester de­mands the. least. amount of .work; the pace accelerates until the hectic week of . finals arrives, · when -there remains little· time for anything• but studying.· The student, now removed from the pressurized environment by completing. his .last exam, has to_ readjust. to a normal life. The de~ mand.for excellenc~, while necessary to foster a . good education, causes one to,'..yiew his;, college years as 
·something to_, put. behind him. -. • The ­
typical student anticipates · gradua­
tion and a more relaxed tempo . 
. Recently, tightening economic con­ditions and the narrowing job mar­ket: have made the academic '. pres­sure even more noticeable. One not· only bears the normal . demands of his professor, but also a keener com­petition ·with his peers. :In .the last five-years, student attitude_s have be­come increasingly pragmatic.-Every­one seems to be more concerned with his credentials on· paper, whether· 
MAY 2, 19J5 they are higher grades or extracur­ricular activities. -One needs. an im­pressiverecord to meet. the competi:-' tion for graduate schools and good job openings. · 

In the case of extracurricular activities, however, the student's rec-· ord' is deceiving because he usually spends minimaltime .on them:.· Only the name ofthe activity appears, not 
. . . . 

the amount of work he put into it. Organizations which have declined, such as the Technical Review, must practically coerce people to join their staffs. Such a lack of student effort does not reflect apathy; rath­er, it indicates that higher priorities exist. · Likewise, the decline of cam­pus political activity does not dem­onstrate a lack of concern; instead, it signifies anxieties about employ­ment; 
Probably the College of Engineer­ing is more susceptible to changed attitudes than the· other colleges at Notre Dame.. The effort in tech~ nology is constantly shifting to meet ·current needs, and this is evident in the engineering curriculum .. For ex~ ample, the structures division of the civil engineering department used to receive a large portion ofthe depart~ ment's total income. -With the en­vironmental crisis,' however, the gov~ ernment quickly diverted -these funds to finance· pollution studies. 
Engineers are also re-evaluating their education. How many liberal 
-arts courses should one take to form a broad base? Similarly, educators cannot .agree . upon ·. how. speciaHzed engineering · subjects should be.. Therefore, it does not surprise me when'! ·now see my:former courses in a ·radically altered framework. They not only have a new style of presentation, bufalso a varied con­tent. When viewed. in this perspec~ tive, it is . easy .to understand the current confusion of engineering stu­dents·as to the state of their formal education and its future value.· 



Christin~· Burger 
This is a lot harder to write than I· thought it would be. I'm having trouble just geUing the first words out-not· wanting to get too senti­mental or sappy but somehow know­ing that I will. · · · , The. Notre Dame that I've gotten to know in four years has been very different from . .the Notre Dame I 

. thought I would get to know four years ago. I had seen pictures of the campus, h~d talked to students and had _visited for ~ football weekend before. being accepted ..Coming from a little town to the Irish~one-derland was . exciting and I remember how much I looked forward to school starting in .the fall. 
In four years my opinion of this place and my experiences here have changed me more than I could have irt1agined. Sure, I;ll always.remember the many. football and basketball games, the parties, the concerts, the nights in the library, all the study­ing, etc., etc., but in retrospect those moments don't compare to the talks I've had with friends late at night; in the cafeteria, or just walking around the lakes-you see, the things that have come to mean.the most to . me aren't things at all. 
I've found the mystique and even the magic of du Lac to be in the people who have challenged me to think and ·to becom~people who encouraged· me to keep trying after I had failed, to experience anything and everything I ·could, to live, to 

· feel and to grow. People that I have laughed with, have cried with, have danced with, have talked with -and now people to remember with. I regret that it took me four years to learn such a seemingly simple les­son..... 
.Freshman year was a "break out of the shell ye_ar." Those late night talks with only. a candle burning hardly seem four years ago. I still · -remember them so Clearly; I was ap­. prehensive when I first moved into Augusta Hall at St. Mary's that first ·Saturday in September of · 1971; when I moved out the following 
May I knew that I had changed a lot ... and I had made an essential friend. 
Sophomore year was another try­ing time: re-rooting at Notre Dame with coeducation. With all the ex­citement and frustration of being "one of the · first women at ND," 
:,.. 
frri121 ----~--~--~ a-,~. · · . 
many of my friendships that . are 
most important to me today _were 
solidified as . I realized that true 
friendships did not depend on time 
or space but only on a mutual desire 
to stay friends. 
Being in the spotlight that year as one of the ·"lucky 175" was a big .. deal, but many times I felt more like · a token of coeducation and objected to always being called upon to • ex­. press "the woman's .point of view." But with time, the transition became easier, the novelty.wore off, and the ·..TV cameras left campus.. Eventually 
I came. to feel· a little more like a 
regular student and not just a part 
of the quota. I began to Hke being a 
Notre Dame woman: 
·· .· Junior year was tough for me but 
luckily, once again, friends taught 
me that college. involved·. more than 
just book learning. Struggling with 
all those mind~boggling questions 
(i.e., Who am I.? What. do ·1 want 
to be when I grow up? Where am I 
going?) was rough, but those around 
me encouraged 'me to be diff~rent­to be an individual-and to do what was in my heart. Come spring of my third year I could honestly accept my. decisions and feelings;· I felt that I had weathered the storm: 
Senior ·year: has gone much ·too quickly to suit my liking: This past year has brought many new experi­ences• and new faces into my, life. I have felt many of ,.:the forces of friendship, of. love and of death. I have been much more conscious and sensitive to the life.that is in people. Most importantly this year I• have realized how much I have changed in four years. 
Being· an RA in Farley· this year has been a "super" experience. Add­ing a third dimension to the year (the .. other . two being senior and student) has been at times frustrat­ing, but more often than not it has been challenging and· fun. · 
·Now I have less than three weeks to be a senior. I feel that it: is time for me · to get on with my life. Thoughts have been going through my . mind about leaving those of whom I have become so fond: I just hate to see a good thing end. 
When I · begin · to get "mellowed out" with thoughts such as these I remember and smile about all the good times, and soon I realize that in graduating I'm leaving a place-,;-and not people. I'm leaving class build~ ings and dormitories and Kubiak's and all the other places that I've fre­quented for these four short years. Many of the·people who have made all those places so special will be leaving too-maybe not this year but soon. · I may not-be able to see them often, but they will always' have a special spot in my, memories and most especially in my heart. If I may quote from a familiar source: 
It is only with the heart that one can see rightly;· what is essential is' in­visible to the eye. 
·The Little ·Prince 
SCHOLASTIC 


Ann Mc Carry 
I don't know. 
I knew that you were going to 

read this article and ask ''What are 
you doing next year?" So I had my 
answer aUready and waiting for you. 
People keep asking me.that; ten·al­
ready today. I; too, ask myself that 
every morriing.when) find my empty 
mailbox offers neither job nor rejec­
tion letter. ·Even ·.· the Army has 
stricken my name from their propa­
ganda list. And ·this should depress 
me.: I 'should be scared. My palms 
should sweat' when I realize that I'm 
going to be a graduate in a couple 
of weeks.' But, they don't. Not at all. 
I thin~ I'm ready. I think I can 
handle it. What? I don't know. 
My life here has prepared me well 

for "I don't know." As a freshman I 
was· really hyper about the Future. 
At one point, near the end of my 
sophomore year, I was so frightened 
by "I don't know" that I almost 
dropped.· out·· for a semester.• But, I 
kept going, realizing that! was cross­
ing the proverbial bridge before I 
came'. to it. Now, I'm fast approach­
ing the insolent tollgate with· no 
money, and it doesn't bother me: 
Everything always works out. How? 
I don't know. But it does. 
. I do know that it was a relief to 

laugh and tear up a Form 50 marked 
"YR:5, SEM:1."I really knew that I 
was a senior, though, when friends 
asked for· course recommendations 
and. my. Senior Bar card. Hmmh. 
And, the , freshmen keep asking, 
"You're· a.· second semester senior; 
Why:·are. you studying?" I don't 
know.··,·· 
If there's one thing that I've learned· in· my four years at Notre Dame, it is that everything always gets done somehow. It may not get done well;. correctly .or on. time. · I often find myself· winging it in _the . eleventh hour but I usually get by. In four years I've learned how • to cope, stay cool ·under. fire, adapt and talk .or write my way out ofalmost any':','I don't .,know"· situation. Fi­nesse. It's the key to college. I as­sume it's the key to life. You can get away with anything as long as you act like you know what you are do­
ing. That's why I'm not worried. 
You may be wondering what this has to do with"My Four Years Under the Dome." I don't know. It's so obviously impossible to rehash four years in an article like this that I won't even try. I shy away from the bittersweet sentimentality inherent in such eulogies. 
While Notre Dame has taught me to write a salient essay and find a book in the library despite the cam­ouflaging cataloguing. techniques, it has also taught me how to pull all­nighters, slurp coffee as if my life depended on it, play pinball and aca­demic roulette and survive both Corby's and the dining hall.. I've saved my books and four years of notes. Anything that I need to know I can look up. The most important thing I've learned-how important friends are-is something I'll always know. And, the thing is, I probably would have learned that no matter where I went to school. It's just growing up.· 
Here comes the sappy'part. 
I think I've learned it a little better here than I would have some­where else. Notre Dame •is• a very special place and will continue to be for me. Sometimes I've hated it, hidden in it and been hurt by it,· but I can't think of any. place I would rather have been. Corny, huh? 
But, now it's time·to pack up and IllOVe on. So,I'll ·take niy books and my notes. Mostly, I'll take_my mem6­1;ies. Where? I don't know. But I'm r:eady . 
MAY,2, 1975 
___ ;_.,_ 


Paul Bollwerk 

' When I was asked t~ write about in aid. i have ~ren this sam~ kind my. reflections. on, four _years_ at of spirit at WSND and I am s~~e it !'1otre Dame,_'my first reaction was exists in other campus activities "Ah-revenge-at last!" After ·talk-where students have joined to seek a ing' with several other . seniors, I common goai. There is a . cohesiv~ have -discovered· the same. feelings ness here _which binds the University respects -if -the :~erger h~d gone of discontent, and disappointment together. into what _I feel can be through: . First, -the --a·dministration 

with Notre Dame.. However, I have also _discovered in. my four years  . called a' community in sense of that word.  the  truest  woiild have· been_ foz:ced to cieal with wo~en in _mass rather than in small  
here that Nofre Danie students have  Well, so much for the rosy side of  doses  as  in  the past_ three .years.  
a  tremendous talent for . "bitching';  the picture. Up to .this point I have  This probably would .have led to a  
about n~arly everything. In all fair­ -been VE?ry laudatory but I warn any  great, deal -less  special , treatment  
ness; I must say my four years here  readers  who ·dare  to  continue. on  for the females: and would not have  
haye not been a disaster or a waste.  that I will have little that is nice to  created_ as much resentment. among  
Notre Dame's efforts to educate me  say·: about Hfe  under  the  Golden  . male.undergraduates. Also, it would  
deserve proper treatment so I:will  Dome. For those who believe Notre  have .avoided  the; present .housing _  
try as best,I_can to present;a bal-:  Dame can.do no wrong, proceed at  crisis and would noLhave necessi-­ 
anced staten1ent of my re~ections on  your own risk.  .  · ·  tated forcing men out of their dorms  
life at du Lac.  -The class· of 1975· will be the last  and off campus, but rather. housing  
Notre J?~me's greate~t strengths,  to have··seeri Notre Dame without- them _af St. Mary's.·It is a_crying  
!_feel, lie in two areas -:'"" its iica­ female  undergraduates  iiving  on  shame  the: two  schools  could-: not,  
demic  quality 'and : its ':community  campus·. :Those days' are  probably  reconcile their -differences  for  the  
atmosphere: _D1:1ring  . high_ ~school,  gone forever, which is just as wen:.  benefiLoLboth student. bodies -and  
which now seems. eons ago, when I  But,  I  sometimes  have  nagging  coeducation. .  .__  
was trying to decide which colleges  doubts  as  to  how  much  coeduca-_·  As I look back over the:past-four  
to apply to, the Sl'holastic standing  tion has changed the basic nature  years,-if .there is  one __ thing. that  
of _each institution -was  the major  of the University. Does the ·Notre  gripes students above. all others it  
consideration. ­Notre Dame has -not  Dame  man  now  view  a  ·female  as  is  the -administration's·_ perennially  
disappointed me. To.be sure, I have  another human being or a mindless  negative attitude_toward student·re­ 
had my share of academic lemons,  toy used for personal gratification?  quests or opinions. This attitude is  
courses in which the indifference of  Does the administration  now  treat  not· from indifference,  but :rather  
i i,I  either the students or the professor made. learning _a farce;-but these have -been relatively few~ On the  • females as students or are they still showpieces? I am sure that_in 'an_­swer to both questions there are  from a different perspective: in· uni­versity life.-Most students are here only four years while most admiri­ 
·''1i' \:  whole my education here has been a rewarding E!xper_ience:  __ more than::a few mem~ers of both: -sexes who ­would· declare the latter·.  istrators are here at least twice that lorig. Administrators; therefore,· feel  

I think the community spirit of to be true.._. . _._ . . . . . ' they:can see-the long-range interests Notre Dame is avery unique 'asset. _ The subject of coeducation also· -of the University much better;·Per-I have found this spirit both in hall -bri_ngs ~o mind a related topic which haps this is true. The trouble arises, life and _in _my involvement with-. really has not been heard -about in however, when, for -the~ administra:. WSND. TheriHs no denying the ex"' _· quite a while ...:.:. the unmerger with: -tor, the University ceases to exist istence of· a feeling of community $t: Mary's inl971:,The real reasoris to meet the heeds of the students in each hall which makes the dorms :for the merger's failure have never and becomes instead an institution . more ·than just a place to sleep. been clear: and perhaps are really to be preserved: At Notre Dame, es-: Most.students are more than willing not important. The question which peciallyi this notion of preservation to · extend ahan·d in friendship or does deserve some reflection, though, becomes deeply entwined with,· a 
-is the possibility for growth and iin-' 
provement:at ·Notre Dame and St.: 

. ;, .Mary's:which were lost as. a: result ,,, . of the urimerg~r. Notre Dame would. 
. . . "probably have been better off in :two 

SCHOLASTIC 

long-standing traditio~:. This means the status . quo will be given first priority. Combine this with a fear that any noticeable changes . will . cause the alumni. to sit on their wallets .and there. is a situation in which student demands will be han­dled in such a manner as. to maxi: mize..the prob~bility. of defeat or despairi The one body. which sup­posedly deals with questions of stu­dent . life, .. is• a perfect . example'. ·For the riwst .. part, . : the . issues coming frorri the StudenfLife Council with 
a . likelihood ..of . reaching .· Fr.. Hes­.burgh are th~se ~ith administ~ation support. Those ··which originate solely. with student backing · are likely to ; be tabled for. study.. and then studied to death. If the admin­istration does not like a ,proposai U,_can \Vait until studenLsupport is_ diverted or disappears. The odds are stacked in its favor. ... . .. . The;student body is not. without blame either though. Over :the past four years there. has been a defi­nite move toward stu.dent apathy. Of course, .there are students who are interested in pursuits other .than booking and boozing. Those ; in the Hunger Coalition, INPIRG, and the volunteers at Logan .Center are ex­cellent examples. But; the apathy is 
. still widespread. Certainly it is part of the.nationwide trend away from. political and· social involvement.:as a result of the,Vietnam War, but it has hit the interests oLthe student body on this campus particularly hard in one vital area,,Sttident Gov~ ernment.· 
One of the highlights of the his­tory ·of Student Government .at Notre Dame certainly is the Kersten 
r 
reign. His : campaigns · have·. become something of a legend.· His candi-
MAY 2, 1975 

dacy sparked' both . the ' students', 
imagination. and sense of ··humor. And, Kersten h,ad .his point: stu­dent leaders should not become. so invoived with 'the trappings of ·of-. flee they forget about the student body who elected them. The. pro-: motion · of this . lesson was impor­tant, but it should· have remai~ed just that-a promotion stunt. Un­fortunately, Kersten was elected; This caused a .loss .of credibility for the . office from which it has been long . in, recovering;,,:The ·. students voted for a joke, but the joke turned out to be on them, · especially. :when we wanted effective representation on such .matters .as the':·: housing crisis. If the .students, did ,not: take the office seriously,. how can they expect anything but the same atti~ tude . •from the . adi:ninistration? Strong leaders are needed in , of-: flee, .but this. leadership ,is, wasted without backing from the.. student body.. -. 
· Butf enough. of this. This is sup­posed to be a .thoughtful reflection and. not the closing sermonette. As I think back over it all,·I must say· 
. l am glad I came:to Notre Dame; glad b~cause of the people I met and the education I have received. ·I sus~ pect over the years .the unpleasant memories · will fade, leaving ,only affable.· reminders.: This means ·I will p~olmbiy contribute : ~~nu~lly to the Alumni Fund.. But; I am also glad to be leaving Notre Dame for I feel I have paths of personal . develop­ment which r. cannot, follow here. I was accepted into· law school here, but I. have chosen· to go elsewhere: Maybe it's just that .I cannot stand the·rain and snow mixed with inter­~ittent sunshine •anymore.' If there is ·one. thing I am sure of, it is that the weather has not gotteilany bet­ter in four years. .. . ' 
·:,I value what I•,have found at Notre ·,Dame and there has· been much .. It has. been four: years of moraland mental growth and •devel­opment which; • I guess, when you. come right down to it, is what being a studenfls all'about. · 

Bill Smith 
Gan you give 1ne sanctuary 
must find a place to hide A place for me to hide Gan you give m_e soft asylum. I can't make it any more The man is at the door 
Jim Morrison 
They enter the new world naked, _ cold, uncertain _of all save that they enter. All about them the cold, familiar wind-
William Carlos Williams 
For a 'guy like me who has trouble remembering what he did the day before, reflecting over a four-year sphere of existence can be quite a task. ,·A task, I might add, that normally amounts to nothing much more than a lengthy confessionai narrative ·about· what one hoped Notre Dame would be, what it was, and what it could· have been. I'd rather like to avoid that. 
-. Instead, I'd prefer to relate what I ·am feeling at this moment, just a few weeks before I am to depart as a BBA graduate from Notre Dame. Primarily, there is a tremendous· amount of relieL Relief from the academic pressures, which are symp~ 
_tomized by such things as registra­tion, finals,: and -·,of course -the grade. Relief also from the uncon­scious, yet mechanical, routines of being found around here, like dining hall meals, football weekends and a lot of the other "mass-experiences." But perhaps the greatest relief of them all has been the release from the paranoia. 
For_ these last four years here, I have tried to figure out what it was 

that made students; and faculty, walk across this campus with their_ heads down. Or, why most refuse to smile and/or simply say hello to fellow students. It's because we're __ paranoid. Some feel it when they exhaust their "smoke" out the win­dow. Others feel it when_ they con­demn·. their own sexuality, then at­tempt to regulate others.._The rest ·-sense it when the administration die­
-tates some tabetic policy and we're too entrenched to do something/anys thing about it. 
This vast dementia exists, I feel, because of the type of students ad­mitted here, and because of a Christian philosophy that is, in a lot of incidents, only a facade for much shadier behavior. Take for a small example the food fights held in the dining halls: a "supposedly" inno­cent little expression of.frustration that horribly wastes precious food, and is most certainly annoying to nonparticipants. 
This fear, however, is not all due to the students. Those .iri' control are just as afraid of losing that control as we are '· of gammg it.· What would there ·be for them to do if there were no parietals to.be enforced, if theri? was no ridicu­lously high Dean's List cutoff to be set, if there were no inconveniences to'•be made by constantly juggling an academic calendar? What would they do? What could they do? 
Importantly, not all my : feelings right now are of this tremendous relief. -I am also very thankful at this moment to have been involved with some of the most talented and creative people that are attracted to this place -either to teach or to learn. Although, in my case, many of these contacts have been away from my eventual degree in Busi­ness, and there is a bitter sense of frustration along with my apprecia­tion. Yet, I have been .fortunate enough to have watched both the literary festival and jazz festival grow in. size, ·as well as importance. I also have been fortunate enough to witness the conception and institu~ tion of Notre Dame's .coeducational program, whic_h · ineant so much to so few, the· program· that I believe will be the-key to a much healthier Notre Dame. 

Also,' there have been those indi~ victuals that honestly _make this place what it was meant to be. These are not necess·arily · specific persons, but they are the· ones that enable us to maintain some semblance of sanity. They ·were the close friends that relay verbally, emotionally and physically what one is _:_ ·socially. They were also professors who were human enough. to be both teachers and -friends. And they were those whom you didn't know (personally); but you were aware of their' sacri­fice-their _commitment-and you're proud because of it. 
There are· also -thos·e times, those instances, when this .university was almost a bearable· state of reality; Again,. these were not· specific oc­casions, ·but the moments when you could rise above the pain here and laugh. -For some, they . were the football championships; for others; they were spring walks around the lakes. -And for the_ lucky, they were the loves lost and the loves found. And so, while I am immensely glad that I'm leaving Notre Dame, I am often particularly happy I came. 
SCHOLASTIC 


Sue Sarcone 
In. the wake of several years of Coming back to Saint Mary's the campus activism, the class of '75 at next fall was a disappointment. But Saint Mary's. College and Notre it did not take long to realize that Dame found a re!atively calm cam-· Notre Dame students were no hap­pus upon their arrival in 1971; The· pier. Campus life had dropped to a football team was enjoying a good·· new low. The great number of week­.The four years here have seen season and·coexchange classes were end parties that were a mainstream some very real changes in Saint running smoothly. · For the most · of activity freshman year. ·had Mary's students' view of their Col­part, everyone was satisfied at . dwindled to. a fe,v on~campus and lege and its relation to Notre Dame. Saint Mary's College until Novem-an iricr~asing number. of off-campus But perhaps the most marked ber 1971. ,., · · parties; · . . · . change in the class of '75 on both 
Saint Macy'.s of Notre Dame once Some friends at ·saint Mary's campuses is a change in post-college again became Saint Mary's College, claimed the relations between .the goals. · Notre -Dame, Indiana.. Class boy~ two schools were totally destroyed. Mostof my friends came to school cotts, tuition withholdings and final-But to most students.· at Saint . in the fall' of 1971 with little idea ly transfers marked the immediate Mary's, it was ~ot so devastating. '·of their post-graduation plans. May­reaction ·to the cancellation of the Most people who wanted out left. be graduate school, maybe a year in long-awaited. Saint Mary's-Notre Saint Mary's took on a new pride Europe or maybe a job. But atti­Dame merger._·. in itself that I would not. have be-tudes on the_ necessity of making 
It would never be the same. We . lieved possible from my Rome view .. money after college changed. No knew many first-year. friends would There were parties now in Saint· longer was it all right to merely never be back at.Saint Mary's. While.· ·Mary's dorms,. while._ Notre Dame get your degreee, take a year off, many students were anxiously trans-parties were forced off-campus. And or move on to more education mere­ferring to Notre Dame, many stu-enrollment was going up, leaving ly for the love of learning.. derits left South Bend for other Saint Mary's more financially secure The class of '75 _does face an un­universities. About 60 of us went to than many small, private· schools certain futu,re with nearly every-Rome on the Saint Mary's program: and many large universities; one wanting jobs and few actual 
Stories of the new Notre Dame Maybe the College was just be-positions available. Because admis­women, mariy of them former Saint· ginning to grow on me after three sion to law school or graduate school Mary's students, reached us through· years, but I was not alone in liking is no guarantee of obtaining a job, letters from•.friends and late Ob~ Saint Mary's and liking ·it for its graduates this year choosing these servers. Everyone 2greed there was own sake. Unlike freshman year, my alternatives face an equally uncer­a change, but not necessarily a sue-· enthusiasm no longer depended on tain future. cessful • change on the Notre Dame ·the day we finally merged with . By. second semester senior year, 
· campus. It seemed to be a good year Notre Dame. it is easy to forget once-great to be abroad. ·Juni_or year felt like an entirely problems like a cancelled merger 
By second semester though,. there · riew start. The important differences and a much criticized social life on were decisions. to . be. made. about were not the outward ones, like the campus. But at this point, it is hard going home. Would we go to Notre cutback in the Saint Mary's-Notre· to ignore the pressure to find a job Dame or stay at. Saint Mary's? Dame coexchange program. Rather, in a time of troubled economy. About a fourth ofJhe group started'· it seemed as though some imagi­collecting recommendations, pulling nary line ha·d divided the students the necessary strings and sending of both schools, especially the transcripts to Notre Dame. women. Sometimes I have won­
dered if many Notre Dame women, especially underclassmen, are more than . half-conscious that Saint Mary's exists. 

··_,,_ 
. >: 


;: SCHOLASTIC 


21 
1J
... 


Although the majority of students ous programs. Water. skiing. and extracurricular activities; but that that stand out in the University backpacking rank highly among his itis essential to do both. seem to be upperclass~en, this other-leisure interests. Mike, a government major from year's N.D. freshman class is not _____.....;..__ Ripon, Wisconsin, says balancing his without its distinctive personalities, . . .._ . studies and_ other activities comes too. Among them is John Erikson, a For the first time in its history, "<;mly by working at it. It wasn't_ a· Business Intent from River Forest, . Notre Dame has two_ valedictorians. natural thing, like' I couid study a Illinois. John is an accomplished This_ unique, double -·occurrence is . _.half-hour. before a test. And it in­skier, despite the fact that he is ·ciue to the factthat·both Wiliiain J. volves studying ·at odd ·times, _like almost totally blind. He start~d Kellner and lUichal J. Wahoske have. ·Friday and Saturday nights."·:. · · skiing about three years ago when ·. maintained :3.985 averages· duriiii( He presides over the Notre Dame he heard, through a resource teach:-'· their four years here.. Rather .than .· chapter of. Pi Sigma Alpha, broad-:. er, about the American Blind Skiing . going through the riorrrial interview-casts WSND news and sings in the Foundation. Under the direction of ing process to' eiiminate· one of.the · Chapel Choir. During his sophomore · the organization, ski areas in the c_andidates: or trusting. to the flip of and junior years Mike was:a• mem~ Chicago vicinity donated equipment, · a coin, the: two ;,eniors -talked. the .··ber of the Arts arid·Letters College lift tickets and a professional ski . registrar irifo awarding both.of them • Council. ·He also represents· students: ­guide to instruct blind youths in the -the. title. . . . on the Universi_ty Academic .Council program every week. At the end -of . · . Bill was .apartment-hunting at . ' and has been active with the Student the year, a competition was held Madison, Wisconsin, when .· · the ·• • Advisory Council. for the past three among the members, and John was Scholastic interviewer reached him..· years. In addition;: Mike is involved one of seven to win a four-day ski He.will begin stiidies·at the Univer~ . with· the Philosophy Honor·Society­trip to Aspen, Colorado, with BOLD, sity of Wisconsin Medical School at and the Pre-Law Society. Recently, the Blind Outdoor Leisure Develop-Madison this falLand hopes to pur~ . searching for a new dean: for: the ment. The following year the com-sue a career _in either pediatrics or . College of:Arts arid Letters·. has ·oc~· petition was extended to various ge"neral practice. The science pre-cupied much of. his time. Initiation other cities in the i\Iidwest, and again professional major from Green Bay,. into the Phi.'Beta Kappa is coming John emerged victorious, this time Wisconsin, volunteers at St. Mary's .up soon. This fall Mike· will begin with a week trip to Aspen. There he Day Care Center, ·· the . Halfway ·classes at the Notre Dame Law also took a gold medal in the Nastar House, ·Manassa and Northern In-· School under the Kiley_ Fellowship. competition. diana Children's Hospital (NICH). Therein and thereafter the doors of 
John, who lives in Flanner Hall, While one might think a valedic-the legal world· should swing wide has continued skiing on his own, torian has time for nothing but his open for this young lawyer on although being at school keeps books, Bill maintains that not only the go.·. him from participating in the vari-is there time for both academics and -Jane Thornton 
Sue Grace 

. 22 SCHOLASTIC 
r:-~,__,,,.,,....,. ,,-_, .,..,,.,,.,.,...._ , -._7 
:· f»eopl~ B_etaind .NI)_.. < . , 
,J.__ _,_,,_.~,-•,.....,/j;'M-,;.~,_,.,,< ~J,< ¼.-..•,~~•~•••·••-* •-~•~,,~, ••,··~--:;,,,•·'• -••-~........--.,.,~•.-.<,~LJ 


Oh, Riehle! 
Father James L. Riehle, current­ly the rector of Pangborn Hall, ·has served Notre'Danie, in a variety of capacities· throughout his career at the University. Only two years ago he was Dean of Students. I asked him; about .the. changes at Notre· Dame in those.two years. One of the big changes was thepolicy on alco­hol. Fr. Riehle commented that ''the new ruling is no different from the old ruling;··it is onlythe interpreta­tion of the law.''i After reviewing the court case urider'which Notre Dame might be . held· leg'iilly · responsible fo'r minors'consuming alcoholic bev­erages on 'the campus, Fr. Riehle noted, "With_tiie'·Faccerida amend­ment we are riow notresponsible for what goes on behind closed doors.'', 
·As.rector Riehle must function in many roles ranging from discipli­nariai:i'to counselor. Notin·g the di­versity in· the job of a rector, he pointed _· o~t, '.'The duties of .the rector depend an awful lot on the individual." Regarding the philoso­phy of."in loco parentis," Riehle ad­mitted that '· a: young . person may come to Not;e: Dame hoping to find the guidance he had-from his par­ents. Ile felt, : however, that the rectors ."should not be baby sitters," but that. the rectors. do have the right and. th~ respon:sibility to in­tervene wherever . the rights .· of someone are abused. · 
Riehle has also •bee_n indirectly involved with athletics. In his ca­pacity as Coordinator of Chaplains, 
he has the responsibility to see that · the basketball and hockey teams have chaplairis at · their games. ·These chaplains say Mass for the teams and perform other duties, such· as 
counselling wheri .the need arises. 
He noted that the ·pressures on 
the student athlete _were different 
from those of the average student. 
"Many schools isolate their ath­
letes in a particular dorm. At Notre 
Dame we like to put them together 
with the rest· of the student body. 
As a result there is added pressure 
on their social life as well as their 
academic life." Riehle remarked 
that at Notre Dame the athlete 
must respond to . peer pressure arid 
cannot withara:w into an "athletic 
shell.'' He pooh-poohed the idea that 
athletes receive preferential treat­
ment in the classroom because "most 
professors treat all __students the 
same.'' 
In addition to his other duties, 
Fr. Riehle also holds the newly cre­
ated_ position of. Director of Energy 
Conservation. Admittedly riot an 
expert in the field, .he has crammed 
to learn about ene_rgy. Recently he 
spent a week in the power plant in 
a .. crash _course. on -energy. He _be­
lieves that there are two ways to·· 
solve the energy problem in the 
United States. "We can go back to 
a more primitive way of life or we 
can just rationalize our energy use." 
One alternative Fr. Riehle sug­
gested was putting meters in student 
rooms ·and billing students for the amount of energy _used. Ideally this would increase student aware­ness of the energy shortage and re­sult in a decrease in energy use. · 

'·In two years the fuel bill at Notre Dame has gone up a million dollars. Riehle ·said, "It is time to realize that we must use some energy con­servation programs." _ ·Fr.· Riehle also· discussed Fr. Mc~ Nally'S · recent recommendation' on 
. coed dorms. Fr. Riehle said, "I don't believe Notre Dame really needs it right now. I think coeducation had something to offer, but I don't see where young men and women living together has any merits. The idea is 
· not · universally · accepted . in the United -States yet, and it . is• too eariy to experiment with it. I think there are two main ' 'arguments against it. One is privacy. I think there .are times when rnen should be alone and there are times when women should be alone. Sec­ondly, _.there is -the sexual argu­ment. '. 'As . a priest, my feeling is that young men and women co­habiting before marriage is wrong. When men and women live together, seriousproblems of cohabitation are more likely. to occur.'' , 
· The interview ended as Fr. Riehle . characteristically' tokes up -on his cigar, of course. . , 
·:-Mike Casey 



"A time for every purpose under heaven." A time to distort. A time to put things in proper perspective. There is no time like the present for this latter endeavor, and herein, for . one brief moment, I want to be seri­ous and reflective. Rev. Robert.Grif­
. . 
fin, a man of insight and sensitive perception, has noted that "there. is a quality-in. some ()f us who were touched in our birth with traces of the..Celtic imaginaqon, by which w~ romanticize _the past, fantasize the present and dream of futures that can never be." By extension, I believe that this applies to· us seniors, who in ,theirJast days at NotreDame wax sentimental and nostalgic. · 
· With the.final days of a last year upon us,. bur, minds and memories becom_e ~elting pot; of past things; the bewilderment and confusion of several hundred days, the frustration and·· 1oneiiness, the reassurance of friendship,: the moments of Hlumina·.: tion, and . the -opportunities_ uripur~ sued-all things, happy, sad and non~ descript; that have happened to us _in four years-merge into a confused and bittersweet blur· with highlights often akin to those i;.. a romantic novel. Each of us to some degree . is in search:of time past, seeking·:and dwelling on a day which by retro­spect seems to have been more joyful and carefree than· the preserit. · · 
· We are forced, perhaps against·our wills, to live in the present, albeif a short present; A time spari of abo·ut three weeks will' _test' our psyches, letting ·them run 'the· gamut; from bliss to bewilderment. . Commence­ment 'and the days preceding it will 

bring much: acceptances, rejections, forged destinies and shattered dreams. A series of preparations to leave and to go elsewhere, the parties, the _final meetings, afternoons in the_ sun and rainy waiks t~ the. Grotto by night will all culminate in one eventful Sunday afternoon . when we gather those we care about• to witness where we have been, and where yve are. We will delude ourselves into believing .that we can linger -like lotus-eaters in this collegiate haven which is almost a mythic kingdom, but there is nothing like an academic gown upon one's shoulders to_ drive home . the reality that an era has ended and that a new one awaits. To adopt the cavalier ''seize the day" philosophy might be the best bet for those of us who wish to eke out. the essence of what remains. . ' . The f~ture, the post-du L·ac que~­tion mark called a iifetime, seems like a very formidable thing to contend with.· The' uncertainty of things_ yet to_ happen kindles in us mortals a certain amount of fear and trem­bHng, and a shaky and volatile fu~ ttire often prompts at least half­hearted longings for a secure past. Notre' Dame, a· protecting but often demanding mother, is sending her chHd into what_ might be an indif~ ferent and malicious world. The child in us 'asks why we can't gather about 

by John M. Murphy 

us forever the people, friends and experiences that have brought us happiness; why we can't stay at the party, why we can't.perpetuate the ties that bind, the certainty and se~ curity that friendships and day-to­day. community living_ provide. We wonder why the good-byes must oc­cur and why they must be so diffi­cult. The adult in us answers that we have outlived our usefulness at one point in our livesand that'we must explore a'nd test yet another:, A new_ generation, a different group of men and women, wait -to take our 'piaces, and we must surrender: an outgrown world so that a . new, untried and anxious group of succes~ors cari take over, bringing new talents and in­
_ terests which might . possibly, out~· shine and surpass our own; sons niust succeed fathers,. seniors must move on to make. way' for more freshmen. The.cycle is a'n 'old. and archetypal: one, but the exist'ence of it insures vitality and promise:• . . As graduation 'approaches, 'it 'is good to think 'about time, the happy and not so happy memories of' the past, the. immediacy and . exacting activities of the'present. But, it seems that now our gaze should be ahead. We have writt,:m only-part of what promises to be a long and interesting autobiography: All of the blank pages have· to be. filled/We may look oc­casionally backwa.rd,. but .our vision and our step must be.. a' future and progressive : one. ·Even·: th.e' 'most quixotic of us ·must· be attentive to the··words of reality: "Look always forward;· in last' year's nest there are 
no. birds this '.year.'' . ' . ··.: 
_;.·-SCHOLASTIC 


Dan Devine will bring his battered Fighting -Irish into the forty-fifth annual Blue-Gold Game Saturday afternoon. Injuries 'have made -Devirie's . fiist spring here at Notre Dame'an unpleasant one, with as many as thirty-five players out· of action due to one ailment or another. _The usual. South Bend weather hasn't helped the situation either, but the competition for positions on next year's squad hopefully makes the game worth the effort. Admission to the contest is free with the presentation·of ID cards. 
Digger Phelps and his Irish basketball team will be playing in a s_eries -of exhibitions on :behalfof the Italian government in a -few weeks. Departing May 23, Notre Dame, along with Oral Roberts, Purdue and a Canadian National Team, will journey to ,Rome to play in a series of contests for the Italian · people. · The series, to last two weeks, will mark the first appearance of an Irish varsity competing in a foreign · country since the freshman football tearri featuring Tom Clem~ ents . journeyed to Mexico to play, the University of 
_Mexico 'three years ago. In that contest, the Irish easily won, 82-0. Here's hoping that Phelps' boys are as successful playing before the Pope.. 
_There may soon be·a·n announcement that the Boston College game, originally scheduled for September 13, will be moved to Monday night, September· 15. The American Broadcastif!g System should pick up the rights to broadcast the inaugural of Dan Devine as head coach of the Irish, and it, is speculated tha_t Howard Cosell · will '.be doing the play~by-play ·for the• contest. The. announcement marks the second consecutive· ·year that'the·Irisfrwm appear on national television at riight.
. . ' . . . 
-,:.~-'.:' -----'-'--'---------,----,~
' 

:_ · Tom Fallon's Irish tennis .team has ·come on strong .this spring with: some fine performances by the veteran group. --Seniors Chris Kane, John Carrico: ·and ·Randy Stehlik _have had ,impressive springs, with Stehlik:~av~ ---_ -ing _a period where· he ,Won twelve consecutive. singles . matches.· \John O'Donnell has teamed with Stehiik to make Notre Dame's second doubles ahard act to beat. 'With freshmen Tony'_ Bruno .and Br.ian Hainline re­:turning as well as O'D.onnell and the Inchauste brothers, 
·. ; 
Finally, Irish_ Spqrts Shorts has completed its first 
year as a regular feature ofScholastic with this iss_ue, 
In,· the preceding ones, the minor sports as well as par~ 
ticipants in those sports have been singled out_ and 
noted. 

There is so much more to Notre Dame athletics than 
the -· constant drive to_ win. The men . and. women 
representing Notre Dame on the athletic fields are each 
unique_ and ought to be respected as individuals. A 
Clements~to~Demmerle pass play may have · been one 
of the prettiest -sights this seasoh to · watch, _but the 
hours of prepping each day by guys like Bob Walls, 
Nick · Federenko and Pat McLaughlin kept a finely 
tuned offense rolling. Adrian Dantley may have been 
the second-leading scorer in the nation and may be the 
finest basketball player at Notre Dame (sorry, Austin 
and Moose), .but R,_oger Anderson, Myron Schuckman 
and the Blue Team' acted out each defense Dantley could 
:expect to face in order_ to score the points he did. 
The notoriety of the 0big jock" is -dead. It took fifteen guys and five months for Digger Phelps to reach the NCAA's, something no one thought we would · do. Lefty Smith. stood behind two freshman goaltenders _and a young team, taking them to the WCHA playoffs. Denny Stark made the swim team a viable one once 'again. Noel O'Sullivan has taken agroup of golfers who want to excel against -the best, and -has come away victorious. And of course, Ara was -Ara. ----­
What is critical here is that yo~ as: readers, par­ticipants and_ ~bservers think about Notre Dame ath­letics. We ·have the· distinction of -being· a -national athletic._ power, an·d the caliber-of. opponents .is always the tops in. each sport, , bar none. And above all, Notre Dame is the only place where there is a proper mix of athletics an<:}· academics. ,The entire:purpose of an edu­_cation is to,learn and to-have fun, and Notre Dame is 
the best place to reaHze -that; goal. -· 
·: ,_-, ',----,--,,-,----,-------­
:I hope you've enjoyedwhat we've done ,this year 
with Scholastic sports. We'll.be back'.next year to do-it 
again,. and with the challengin·g -schedules ahead of us, 
Irish Sport:s Shorts_ won't we lacking for copy. ­
·: Have a good summer. -_--. 
Fallon 'shouid·: be very confident of continued strength ­-in Notre:oam,?tenriis.. · --· -----: . • i --;...Bm Delaney 
MAY,. 2,· 1975 · 


'71-'75
·IRISH 

Eric Penick was fast. Really. fast. ·There were


TOP TEN 
some instances in the fall of'1973 that ·it: appeared as 
by Bill Delaney 
.For many, a championship is always a dream: something .. to aim for, to set your sights on. Wishful thinking. But in Notre Dame's case in 1973, a reality. 
New Year's Eve night. Tulane Stadium. Ara versus the· Bear.-Two· undefeated, untied teams entered that misty stadium. One would leave with .the National Championship of College Football. 
Third down, deep in Irish territory. Clements drops back. He releases the ball downfield to the left hash. 
Robiri ··Weber. 
Notre Dame 24, Alabama 23.' 


. Eighty-eight college basketball games span :an ex­tremely long tirrie-:----approximately three full 'seasons if you bother to count. 
John Wooden entered. the not-so-friendly confines of the ACC on a cold January afternoon in 1974, and when he left, a miracle of college basketball was left behirid in the rafters of the double-domed sports complex. 
· The spirits of·the ACC will always remember Shu­mate's. job of handling Walton, Brokaw's bombs, :and Novak's gutsy .defense. And; of. course, they'll always talk about Clay's jumper from the right. 
Two minutes and thirty-three seconds. Not even enough time to cook an egg. But enough time to_ build one basketball program and cloud another. 
if_ Tom Clements was perhaps too slow. to hand off to Penick. The combination proved to be perfect for the USC · . game, however. 
The Notre Dame ·student body_ was getting very miffed at the fact that its football team hadn't beaten USC in seven years. In that space of time, a. national championship or two were whisked away by the Tro­jan Hurricane. 
Clements, Penick and crew were out to set the record straight. . ... _ . _-. . . . . 
. . The rain, Clements' touchdown 'sneak and Penick's gallop were what USC was all abotiC it just happened so fast'. And then it _was over. · · 

· Many of-you couldn't pronounce Ara's :last name before you came here in the fall-of 1971. But you soon learned that it was Parseghian that.gave Notre Dame football its image. 
He did a favor for you -he;resigned with you from Notre Dame. He's going to "graduate" with you in May, to go· out into a new,,world, · to do new things., So you see, he's actually a member. of the·Class of 1975. 

Defending some ideal or principle is something very hard to do. Everyone is out to get you, and you're always the enemy, no matter what you do. 
Parseghian's la_st football team at Notre Dame had the enviable _position-. of being the National Champions of College Football. : 
Parseghian's last team_ also had the unenviable posi­tion of defending that crown. 
Losses to Purdue and Southern Cal made this year's Orange Bowl crucial only to Alabama's opportunity of being national champs. . . .But. this was also Ara's final game.· Reggie· Bar­nett's interception in_.the waning moments of the 13-11 win made Ara's farewell a successful one and also brought a sense of respectability back to Irish football. 
; .. ~, 
ff;:~ -a-... 
· There is something about' UCLA and.John Wooden that makes the c·ampus come alive. UCLA week has to · rank right up there with Jerry Ford and Ted Hesburgh visits. Digger Phelps just has this· thing with John Wooden: Call it fate, call it whatever you want-we've got UCLA's number at the ACC. 
UCLA was again' defeated here at Notre Dame this year with Phelps and Wooden again at the coaching reins. ·But this fear, a man named Dantley made the difference. · · 
. . Adriari Daritley and crew came out of their locker room· in the ACC, ·and before they showered, they out­hustled and outplayed the mighty Bruins._ John_WoOden again lost and once· again pointed out· that his Pac-8 games were the ones that count. · 
But John Wooden did quit, and the Digger is su'll · · going strong.. 
The history of the Notre Dame Hockey Program has been avery weird tale indeed. The going has indeed been rough for Lefty Smith and supporters of the pro­gram which has been· a varsity sport for only .a few short seasons. · · 
, Wisconsin is the Southern Cal and UCLA of hockey to Notre Dame. Sweeping the -~'Big Red" of Wisconsin has added much solace to Irish hockey fans over the years. And a sweep was .needed for Notre Dame to· make the playoffs.· 
.In· the tradition of Irish hockey, Wisconsin pulled· ahead, but outstanding performances by Eddie Bum-· bacco and company downed Wisconsin Friday night, and'.the same a'ctions occurred Saturday evening. Notre Dame made .the playoffs, eventually finished second in the WCHA' at the season's end and gave the Irish Fanaticks something to cheer about. 
The National Invitation Tournament, an annual 
post-season basketball tournament, has had some of 
the finest games in the history of college basketball. 
Second-year coach Digger Phelps brought his young 
Irish team into Madison Square Garden on St. Patrick's 
Day and almost came away with the tournament crown. 
Featuring a rejuvenated John Shumate and newcomers 
Gary Brokaw and Dwight Clay, Phelps clawed his way 
to a 16-11 record, and banked on the hope that the 
Tournament Committee would see a team like Notre 
Dame with the nickname of "the Fighting Irish" as a 
good drawing card. 
The hoping paid off. 

Bobby Stephens' jumper from the right of the key . ended Notre Dame's Cinderella tale in the finals, but what had Notre Dame really lost? We came to New York, won the crowd's support, won a couple of games, got plenty of national exposure, and of course, .were the Irish on St. Patrick's Day. 
This . brings us now to Dick Phelps. Hired off the 
.Fordham can:ipus in t_he spring of 1971, Digger Phelps was . hailed as the catalyst behind Notre Dame's re­surgence in basketball. In the fall ,of 1971, Ph~lps started a 26--game schedule .that was by far the longest of any coach's.dreams. 
Finishing 6-20 isn't the greate~t way to .start a coaching. career, but with the schedule and talent Phelps had to work with, the future could be. only 
-. better. · Indeed ~t was, and it has become better. .·•. 
When ~ team is a twenty-point underdog and many just wonder if it is worth the battle showing up ·for the game, something usually clicks inside each player to do his best. Such was the case in the mud at Ross­Ade Stadium at Purdue in the fall of 1971. 
Nobody gave Purdue the slightest chance of up­ending. the mighty Irish on that cold, wet, Saturday afternoon. But so_mething helped the · Boilermakers shut off Ara and his boys up to the waning seconds (58 minutes and two seconds to be exact) of the game. 
It was then that the luck of the Irish once again came to· the rescue. A bad Purdue snap for a punt at­tempt from the end zone resulted in a fumble. Fred Swendsen pounced on the ball in the Purdue end zone, and the Irish had their first points of the wet afternoon. 
Down by one (7-6) now, Parseghian had to go for the two-point conversion. Pat Steenberge found Mike Creany in the· end zone, and the conversion pulled the Irish past Purdue by the narrowest of margins, 8-7. 
. Even the rain ·and cold became bearable. 
tivated a guy as you'll ever find." 
With the schedule which his coaches have concocted; George and his teammates appear to have no 
choice but to be dedicated. It's either that or lose, which isn't exactly the

Cindermen 
Notre Dame tradition. Coach Piane describes the schedule as ·being "as ·Thousands of years ago, they reaching, diverse world of sports · tough as any-in the country," and were the idols of the Greek people, can one find a more dedicated ath-·it's hard to disagree with him when mortal · manifestations · of super-lete: And the Notre Dame distance one considers the competition.. "We natural gods. They were worshipped men are certainly no exception. go up against the best• in the Big. and adored by an entire empire. No Coach Piane supplies some· convinc-·Ten and ·Southeastern Conferences," higher status · could be attained. ing evidence. "No one trains harder Piane proclaims., "This· year we've They were the• track athletes of a than the distance men," he says. already• had. meets· with· defending long-forgotten era. My; how things "Here at Notre Dame they run· NCAA champion Tennessee and have changed since then. ninety-five miles a week."; Which is Villanova, a perennial powerhouse 
Today, the track athlete is an en--amazing-indeed. But .· even more in the East, arid we still have to face during remnant of what once was a amazing is the fact that they. do it the Big Ten champs, Indiana." The legend. Even here at Notre Dame, for all fifty-two weeks .of the year. coach concludes, '_'We may not bring where the heroic exploits· of in-There is no "off season" ·for the home all that many trophies, but I numerable athletes are as hallowed runner as there is for almost all think you can understand why." as the good Father Sorin himself, · other athletes. Spring training for As for the future, Coach· Piane the track man goes virtually un-him is . yea·r. round. He ruris on expresses optimism' and confidence, noticed.· But this lack of attention Christmas, on Easter, in ice, mud; or · as the Irish have_ a solid group re.; in no.way dampens the enthusiasm snc:iw. · The Pony Express should turning next year. Included in this of the Irish team. Joe Piane,. the· have been so dependable. group are three freshmen-who are easygoing coach in his first year at· · The track team, however, is not particularly promising_ --vaulter 
_Du_ Lac as an assistant to -head composed entirely of runners, There George Matteo, miler Dan_ .Horgan, mentor Don Faley, reflects on.. the are the field men, too. The top pole and _discus thrc:>_wer Mike Meyers. ,_. spirit which .characterizes the Irish . vaulter is junior Mike Hagan, a Hopefully, this portrait . of the squad. "My association with this South Bend native whose best this Notre Dame track team has _con­year's group;'' he relates, "has eri-season is 15'8". Man~mountain BiH vinced _you just. how .determined abled me to realize· just how highly ·_ George heaves the discus for Notre these athletes are to excel. If not, motivated these athletes are." An Dame.·. George, an affable, gargan-.. consider one last item -sophomore occasional· onlooker at meets ·or tuan seriior who eats. hot dogs · like Mark. Sullivan will . compete next practices might not be able to fully french fries in the South Dining month in the Drake Relays. for the appreciate the :coach's. sentiments, Han,· exemplifies the single~minded Fightin'. Irish. . His. event?. The but a: closer· 106k · at the track,ath-determination necessary to. ex_cel in marathon run-all twenty~si?', miles, lete;s rigorous . 'training . routine the field everits. "A lot of guys here 285 yards. He's shooting, says Piane, might do a great deal to change his : ·on campus work out . with the for a .time of less than two hours mind. weights,". Coach Piane explains, "but and forty minutes: Does ,this require · 
The long-distance . runner · is . a . I doubt that' any of them do it with dedica_tion? Try it_ some time. · classic example. Nowhere in the far-. as much zeal as Willy. He's as mo--Paul Hess . 


It's hard. to believe how quickly 

·the time has passed, isn't it?I can re: member just a little while ago when · the heavy storms covered the campus with snow. Now it seems like the· winter. has· ;urned overnight and all the leaves and. flowers are replacing 
'the cold whiteness. In a similar way,. it seems like only yesterday this edi-. torial board · tciok over Scholastic, and only the· da.y before· when we were alLwaiting to hear froin the Notre Dame admissions director. . 
Please . don't misconstrue .. those words as mellow, second-serr1:ester­senior nostalgia: because they're, in­tended much more.. matter-of-factly. I could just as easily say, :"my, how time flies,i,and let it·go at that. 
. But this is my last chance,to,write 
· to you.and .I'd like, .to say a little morethan that.It has been suggested thatI. use my last ·11Last -Word" to tell .ev~rybody finally what I really thillk of them. , Another person en­vied my chance.to recommend openly that Fr. Burtchaell lie down in front of _a. train ,"SOmE!where. Someho\'1 those suggestions are a-little.off the track., The fact is that a student is only at Notre Dame for a relatively short time .and perhaps ,it. takes _someone his entire. college ca_reer · to realize the. impUcations of, that... ~nd . he's lucky if he ,realizes itJhen. :,,,: . . Because this University.·., is : a transient community, we}1ave to re­late , to. our . time . here. in two very significant. ancl distinct :ways. The. first way looks at the time, we share as,: solid. ,blocks of minutes,. days, 
by Jim Gresser 

months .· and years which must be lived as fully as · possible for• th'eir own sake, as ends in themselves. The second way looks at the time spent here as· a means to other ends. Our 
. job is to· balance the twc:i; 
The first way demands that we live lives here which. demonstrate Christian love and responsibility for those · around us. It· :requires, or .rather ·· allows, us to. spend time 'learning about and appreciating the · world and its people. for their own value and beauty. It also· demands that we make the . concerns of the people -we now•. Jive' with .our own concerns. It lets us come to know other people and :to· know ourselves. 
,Someone who knows this school well once told me that Notre Dame is characteristically a, place where people/all in love. This phrase can betaken with its usual meaning or it can be understood in the sense that one, fa Us in love with a friend, or. a· teacher, or a group of people, or God. The key aspect of this love, howeyer,·· is its _.personal nature. Falling in love with a persoi:i .takes time, and so it is the time we, spend 
. on each other that makes us valuable to each ·•other. To make the best-of our tirrie we must generously share our knowledge, · our thoughts, our ideas . and . ourselves , with other people.· We have to realize that it. isn't an. improper use of ,time. to. waste it, even daily"by being gentle with each other, 
But L said before .that: there are two aspects to .the time_ that has passed ,so quickly. and' the .second 
· one must not. be omitted. This sec­ondway of relating to our time here is both separate from and linked to the first. 

It is distinct from the first way be'­cause it 'looks at the time spent in the university as a means toward a greater end. It tends to 'emphasize 
. the fact that a college education' is an· opportunity offered to· a relative few, an elite. That opportunity can only be justified if· those who accept it also · embrace the responsibility that goes along : with it. In· a uni­versity community that calls itself Christian, that responsibility is everi greater because it sets higher goals for its members. · : • 
Those · Christian values, it seems to rne, require that education not be confined within the· University walls and those values place a severe judgment ori a university not con­sciously· aware of its responsibility to. the larger community. The uni­·versity must not define or limit the lives of its students while they are in · it, Moreover, it' must prepare them to expand their lives when they · leave· it. Because of this responsi­bility, we must, for example,· seri­ously confront the prc:iblem of world hunger; and that' is. why it is un­
. justifiably self-indulgent to say such subjects are "overdone." It is be~ cause of this responsibility that we must realize the · infinitely · smaller significance of squabbles over ticket prices and over which building · we live in. 
After all, we only go to school 
here; our lives are so ·much bigger 
than that. This of course comes as 
no surprise because the one thing we 
all knew when we decided to come 
here was that in. four years it would 
be time to move on; the idea being 
that after four years here we would 
be able to mQve on better than if we 
had not come; 
This second way of relating to ·time here is; as I said earlier, not ,totally ·separate .from the first. By 
concentrating on improving the here 
and now, we are hopefully preparing 
ourselves to continue and. to expand 
_the i_mprovement process outside the 
university. And if we each want to 
become the best person .we can be, 
we must recognize our need for the 
support and affirmation of our fel­
lows. If we want our· individual fu­
tures to be as fulfilling as possible, 
we _ri-:iust take advantage of the op­
portunity of the-. present time we 
share. As someone else has re­
marked, l<We_ all can become, but we 
need one_ another.''. · 
In fact, if some incoming fresh­
man was to ask this . wizened com­
m en tator for a nickel's worth of ad­
vice, I.think this is what I'd tell him: 
take the time to make. the b_est of the 
people here..Wll probably make aU 
your later.successes much greater. 
I might also add the war!}ing that 
opening yourself to the possibility of 
fulfilling your time •· not only inakes 
your· successes greater,. but could 
also· make your failures worse. They 
say the risk you take when you give 
yourself away is a great .one. And 
because of the temporary nature of 
your stay . here, you can make .the 
pain of leaving·_ even. worse. The 
people you know. become uncom­
pleted opportunities. You realize you 
never told them how you feel about ·them, and now they may · never know. And saying good-bye is so hard.· 
Time just doesn't wait for you. 
You turn around and the prospect of 
four long, .. cold years has turned into 
the prospect of two short weeks. 
One chapter of the book is finished. 
And it really was nice . . . for a 
time. 


It has been our intention through­out the year that Scholastic; as a magazine for this community, try to relate meaningfully to the time we spend here. We have tried to present stories which would not only make students aware ·of. the interesting people and things'around them, but which would also challenge them to broaden their perspective and remind them of their responsibility outside Notre: Dame. We feel that it! is our role to be a-service to the stu­dents and we have interpreted that role to mean -pointing out their per~ sonal potential and their Christian duty to fulfill ii: This. goal is ·ob~ viously very lofty, perhaps unattain­able, but we would be remiss if we did not set it. 
' It would be impossible for me to thank adequately the people who . have: worked so hard for Scholastic, but -at this time some recognition should be given. 
First, I would like to thank· Sally Stanton, managing-editor, and John Phelan, production manager, for • their unparalleled dedication to the_ magazine and its purposes. I'm also happy to announce ·that· Sally will be taking over as· Scholastic editor next year. · · 
A great deal of thanks is also in order for the rest of the editorial board: Bill Weyland, Jane Thorn~ ton, Katy Sullivan, · Bill · Delaney, Sarah Bartzeri,• Paul DeBacco and Ed Brower. They make the magazine. 
Special thanks to D: C. Nokes, ad­vertising manager, and Rich Nugent, 
. course · evaluation editor,. wh·ose services to the· magazine are:'par­ticularly appreciated. -' · · · . ·Thanks also to our advisory board, especially Fr. Dave Schlaver, whose enthusiasm' and. faith'. in .Scholastic have been a great support to the entire staff. · · · -Speaking of the · entire -·· staff, here's . where ·thanks are definitely deserved. !really appreciate allyour time and efforts, ·and if we have had any misunderstandings, I. apologize. 
· Thanks also to Mr. Ed ·Sanna, Esther · Doty, Jim Cook, Danny, George, Harold and all the people at Ave Maria Press whose patience, talent and generous· assistance have· been invaluabl~ to this publication. 
Most impqrtantly, my thanks· go to you, the reader. I hope we· have lived· up to the the trust you placed 
·in us. It's been fun.. 
SCHOLASTic 


Seniors, take a little bit of· ND with you ·next y,ear. 
order . 



Scholastic 
. and get news analysis, in­.·.·· depth sports, the Juggler and the Football Reuiew. . :For only $5.00. ··· 


NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
. . 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556 Please send me a subscription to SCHOLASTIC for •. ..: ... years at $5.00 a year. I am enclosing $ .... :: ........ '.......... . .. : ...... ::........CASH · · . . ..... : ........ , ..CHECK . Name ..................................... : .............................................. ·. 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ¦• ¦ •• • •••••••• •• • •••••••••••• ••• • •• • • • • • • • ••••••••. • 
. . . , 
~ 
. . . 

Address__ , ... , .............. ; ....... _. ................... '.;······'.··: .._.................... . 
;·, :·· ,··· . . . . 
································································································ ·.
: ': ; ,.,, -~·. .. . . '. '. . . . 
· State ··:···..········..·····:·.......................... : ..... Zip :., ................ ;., . 
. \..; 
. 
-· 
... _,. 
.'_:,: :·· 




