“Ah
to
LADY sensational stories — Set,” reveals the real beliefs of the woman who went from Virginia to a seat inParliament.
LADY ASTOR INTERVIEWS HERSELF
"They whisper thatl wield more power than Queen Elizabeth, Marie Antoinette and Cleopatra all in one. Why?
"Do diplomats, bankers, Cabinet ministers and journalists meet weekly at Cliveden, my country home, to rule England behind the scenes?
"Did they bring about Anthony Eden's downjail?
"Do I personally Jator Naziism? Fascism? Communism?”

MR.GLENCANNON KJMAPS
A MIRMMD
, fo«sh!" gasped Mr. Glencannon.“Whatafrichtful / situation! Either I capture a mermaid or I lose my job. A tumble fix!” Aided only by a bottle of Duggan’s Dew, he sets out. But swith! finding Marina the Mermaid only started his troubles?
The Way of a Man with a Mermaid
by GUY GILPATRIC
MEET BASEBALLS BOMBSHELL
“Brilliant screwball/' they call him. “Arrogant popoff.” But you can’t dent Larry MacPhail’s indestructible chin. Didn’t his dithery Dodgers show a profit, for the first time since 1932? A sportswriter interviews the man who brought night baseball to Brooklyn.
“Subtle as a Punch in the Nose
by STANLEY FRANK
WHY I NO LIKE JAPANESE SPIES
The Shanghai corr*»~"-J •
Spyfn^- ft anymore,
..... K tes his experiences with _ used to be funny—but not as you will see in “So Sorry for You.
★ ‘‘WE. SUBPOENAED MY RED FLANNELS!
snorted Grandpappy. “The nerve of that sheriff!" But those flannels put Grandpappy on trial for murder—and what a trial! Read Sweet is the Flavor of Justice, by George Sessions Perry.
★ A NEW NOVEL by Clarence Budington Kelland. Arizona, introduces Phoebe Titus, red-haired and quick with a rifle. Second of eight installments.
* COLOR PHOTOGRAPHS .
capture the glamour of the So Reef the Ror
of beautiful Natch __j Old South. Turn
>se; photos by Dmitri.
AND two short stories. The Girl in the Humbert, by the Nebraska novelist, Mari Sandoz; and Canton Pearls, by Sidney Herschel Small.
THE SHTUItpMY EVENING POST I
The N otre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3. 191". Authorized June 25, 1918.
7, I 
Vol. 72	March 3, 1939	No. 18
EUGENIO CARDINAL PACELLI BECOMES POPE PIUS XII.
His Holiness Pope Pitts XII, as he knelt before the Altar in Sacred Heart Church during his visit to Notre Dame
Notre Dame Treasures New Pontiff's Visit
•
“The University of Notre Dame at this special convocation of the faculty on the great feast of Christ the King is most happily privileged in announcing the conferring. of the degree of doctor of letters, honoris causa, on
A prince of the Church, eminent by position and achievement, an ecclesiastical statesman and diplomat who in an era of world conflict has done much toward the conciliation of warring people and good understanding between governments and the universal Church—His Eminence, Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli, secretary of state to His Holiness, Pope Pius XI.”
So runs the citation of him who now wears- the Fisherman’s Ring; once secretary of state to one of the greatest pontiffs in church history, now the man to whom the world looks first for sanity, for justice, and for peace.-Notre Dame is proud of one of her sons!
t
“With the Catholic Church, we rejoice in the selection of so wise, so able, and so zealous a Pontiff. As Notre Dame men, we feel particularly grateful that an honorary alumnus of the University has been chosen for the honors and responsibilities of the highest post within the gift of Christendom . . .
“It is particularly fortunate that at such a critical time the choice of the Cardinals should fall on the member of the Sacred College who has had most to do with the carrying out of Pope Pius Xi’s program of peace. 1 dare say that never has ■ the world outside the Catholic Church shown such tremendous interest in the selection of a Pope. This shows how the world values the moral force of the Papacy as an offset to the physical force of the armed camp that is Europe today.”
—stall uif'iit of Ri r. John F. O’Hara. C.S.C.
New Pope is Elected on Third Ballot
Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli became Pope Pius XII at 10:07 a.m.- (6:07 p.m. in Rome) yesterday. He was elected on the third ballot , of the first day’s voting.
Shortly after the wisp of white smoke indicated that a choice had been made, Pope Pius XII was presented to the assembled crow.ds by Camillo Cardinal Caccia Bominioni. The new Pope blessed his people and retired.
* A coincidence in the choice of Cardinal Pacelli was the fact that he was elected on his 63rd birthday.
In assuming the name of Pius, Cardinal Pacelli paid tribute to his predecessor, Pius XI, whom he greatly admired, and under whom he had served as Secretary of State since 1930 and Camerlengo since 1935.
4
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
DEBATERS LEAVE FOR IOWA TOURNAMENT
By Bill Donnelly
Notre Dame’s affirmative and negative “A” debaters improved their cases after winning nine of the 12 matches in the Manchester, Indiana, tournament last week-end and left yesterday noon for the University of Iowa tournament, scheduled today and Saturday. St. Ambrose College, Davenport, Iowa, entertains the Notre Dame debaters Sunday afternoon.
In a field of 476 debaters representing 70 schools, Coach W. J. Coyne’s “A” negative team of Frank Fitch and AI Funk won six consecu-
Debater Wintermeyer
Of Wintermeyer and Flynn.
five decisions, defeating: Capitol, Manchester, Oberlin, Illinois Normal, Indiana University, and Western Reserve. The “A” affirmative team of Frank Parks and Milton Williams, defeated Eastern Illinois, Lake Forest, and St. Ambrose, but lost to Illinois Wesleyan, Western State, and Wabash.
The Irish “B” squads, composed of Thomas Grady and William Meier, negative, and John Wintermeyer and Gerald Flynn, affirmative, won four and lost five debates.
Wintermeyer and Flynn debated St. Ambrose, coached by Dan Young-erman, a Notre Dame graduate, in a non-decision encounter Sunday afternoon at Cushing Auditorium. Myer and Pearlstein debated for St. Ambrose.
Dr. McMahon Lectures
Dr. Francis E. McMahon, professor in the Department of Philosophy, spoke on the Encyclical Quadragesima Anno, concerning the Reconstruction of the Social Order, before the Mercy Forum, discussion group of Mercy • Alumnae, last Sunday afternoon at Mercy High school in Chicago.
The only country from which came a discordant note on the death of the Pope was Germany. The Hitler controlled papers outraged public sentiment by ungracious references.
Blind Date
After the Michigan meet last Friday two members of the track team who had dates spoke to their girls about arranging a date for student trainer Hugh Burns. Everything was fixed up: Hugh was to go and shave and the two girls and the other two fellows were to go to the girls’ dormitory, the Helen Newberry Residence, while the two girls helped get their friend ready. Hugh was to call there and wait in the parlor with the other two fellows. The girls gave him the directions and one of them ended up with a final admonition, “Now remember, it’s Helen Newberry.” Of course she was referring to the dormitory but somehow or other Hugh took it into his head that she was talking about the name of his date.
When he found the house, the house mother, a matronly grey-haired woman of 50, answered his ring. “I’m looking for Helen Newberry,” Hugh said. “This is Helen Newberry,” the house mother said, thinking he was talking about the name of the dormitory. Hugh just stood looking at her for a long while as things failed to click in his mind. “My gosh, lady,” he finally said, “I don’t want to take you out!”
•
Walsh Wag
A little over a week ago we were frustrated in an attempt to leave Walsh through the south door and there was a sign that said “Out of order. Use main door.” Last Wednesday morning the north door was locked and there was a sign on it similar to the one on the south door. Last Wednesday evening there was a sign on the main door which read, “Door closed. Use chimney.”
Jacks
We hear of a little clique of fellows over in Alumni Hall who have developed a passionate fondness for spending their spare time playing that intriguing game known as “Jacks.” The floor prefect, we hear, is always bursting in on the noisy crowd expecting to catch the boys gathered around a pair of rolling ivories and a large pot in the middle. But when he rushes in to grab all the dough and accuse them of gambling, he finds • only a few scattered jacks and a bouncing rubber ball. We never played the game but we remember vaguely that we used to always put it in the same class as Potsie and “One, two, three O’Leary,” sissy stuff. Evidently we never investigated far enough however into the potentialities of a real stiff game of jacks played by experts, for one of the de
votees of the sport tells us that he has already knocked over a lamp and broken a watch crystal while trying to make difficult pick-ups.
•
Odds and Ends
An agent of our reports that while browsing around over in the library he discovered among others the following assorted thesis titles: “Straight Eight Knight Motor,” “Greater Potato,” and “Aziz Saliba El-Araj.” We’re particularly fond of that “Greater Potato.” Any day now we expect to enter the dining hall and find a potato the size of a basketball by each plate.... You too can be unusual ! Have you ever wanted to break away from the conventional and ordinary in your life? Have you ever wanted to acquire the knack of rooting out unusual news? For easy lessons apply to “The Periscope,” c/o the University Radio Studio... Somewhere around Feb. 15, Lee Douglass of “The Morning Bugle” said, “We have a request for “My Heart Belongs to Daddy” but we haven’t got that song and we have inside information that it won’t be played much on the radio or anywhere outside of the show “Leave it to Me.” On Feb. 28, Lee Douglas said, “We will conclude today’s program with a little number called ‘My Heart Belongs to Daddy’.”
•
Duty	1
We have just heard a story that certainly gives us a feeling of awe for the high standard of duty of the Notre Dame student prefects. Over in Alumni Hall there were a whole group of boys at the end of one corridor who were home on a forced two weeks’ vacation. Everyone knew they would be gone two weeks. The student prefect knew they would be gone two weeks, but every single night in making the rounds he unlocked each door, checked each room, and marked each fellow absent. “Why go to all that trouble?” some of the students asked him. “Why not just check them off before you start?” “Oh no,” he said, “I’m supposed to check all the rooms. I’m not allowed to leave anything to chance.”
Top of the Week
Rockne Memorial opens: schoolyear officially begins.
Bottom of the Week
Tiger Lou Essey, the Maxton Mauler, enter the Bengal Bouts; decides to fight his battles in the gym instead of behind it.
MARCH 3. 1939
5
DISTRIBUTE MEDICAL CARE — SENSENICH
ROMANTIC 'T SHADOW-BOXES BY MOONLIGHT. PLANS TO ROLL KELL'S HEAD UP AISLE
Tuesday evening, Dr. R. L. Sen-senich spoke to a joint session of the Academy of Politics, the Academy of Science and the Sociology majors on the timely subject, “Socialized Medicine.” Chairman Lawrence Ferguson introduced the speaker who treated the many phases of his subject and then opened the discussion to questions.
Declaring that the total costs of medical care are not considered excessive even by the most severe critics of the present system, Doctor Sensen-ich viewed the problem as one that requires not cheaper care but better distribution. He defined four groups that receive medical care. The first which comprises the limited upper class are able to pay for their care. The large middle class which is the second division are also considered capable of paying for most of their care. The third or marginal group is unable to properly care for themselves and must take recourse to such agencies as Township Trustees. The fourth class are those who never will be able to pay their way.
Insufficient Funds
In explaining the work of the Township Trustees the doctor made the pertinent point that the funds available for such work are insufficient to care for those needing attention; hence doctors must do the work gratuitously. The system is ready but the tax rate must be raised to create the necessary funds.
The greatest problem facing the middle class is the catastrophic illness which strikes suddenly or lingers for a long time. There are Post-payment Agencies by which the individual contracts to pay his bill in small weekly sums in accordance with his income.
The group plan whereby a doctor is given a certain area to care for was scored by Dr. Sensenich who illustrated his point with reference to the failure in Russia and the harm that accrued to the medical standards in both Germany and England. The personal contact between patient and physician is lost and the doctor feels the obligation to make good for a patient is removed. The doctors would be overburdened by calls from those desiring more than a fair share of attention and as a result needy people would not receive proper treatment.
Fear Political Interference
The main threat in federal socialized medicine lies in the possibility of political interference and corruption of standards. Insurance for catastrophic illnesses is favored by the American Medical Association ’ of which Dr. Sensenich is a director.
By William C. McGowan
One frosty night ? shadow-boxed by moonlight against the field house wall, and as I walked toward him I heard his chuckle boom across the snow. He laughed half-aloud when a new shadow pleased him and worked himself frantic
to perfect the delight. On seeing me
Lower Extremities of “?”
Approximately 1/20 actual size.
--	' ir ~
Bookmen Elect Callan, DeCoursey to Fill Membership List
. •
Al Callan, junior in Arts and Letters, and William DeCoursey, freshman in Engineering, were the candidates selected by the Bookmen to fill vacancies in membership rolls of the club. Charles Nelson, senior, was chairman of the membership committee, which met last Wednesday evening.
The books recently picked by the members have begun to arrive. These will be held by Frank O’Laughlin, club librarian, to be withdrawn by members as they wish.
Among the books selected by the club are: White Steed by Paul Vincent Carroll, the Irish dramatist; Air Raid by Archibald McLeish, the radio drama of the Columbia Workshop which has aroused so much comment; Death of a Heart by Elizabeth Bowen; Beyond Politics by Christopher Dawson; The Yearling by Marjorie Rawling; In Parenthesis by David Jones; The Peace, latest work of Thomas Mann.
he leaned his elbow on the roof and explained his shadow technique:
“First I get a stance beside the wall and hold my dukes in this position, one glove chasin’ the other, and wid every turn I change my style until by the tenth turn it’s so complicated I hafta quit . . . that’s my rest period. But I’m catchin’ on to my own style gradual, and onct I done fifteen turns before I hadda quit.”
Chameleon Style
I was wide-eyed with interest now. ? had style that changed fifteen times in five seconds! “Well, I said “if it’s as good as you say, Kell will be baffled before you warm up.”
“Yeah!” ? roared, “that’s the word —BAFFLE. Why, I’ll baffle that Kell till he’s dizzy trying to figure my next move. And while he’s still dizzy I’ll roll his head up the aisle wid a left jab to his kisser.”
That wasn’t funny to me. ? is dynamite ; and unless Kell’s neck is made of steel cable, his head WILL roll up the aisle, if it touches ground at all. I was worried—I didn’t want the Bengal Fistival turned into a shambles, and the idea of Kell’s ghost haunting me the rest of my life was rather terrifying. Of course ? is without pity: nothing bothers him. He could go to.Kell’s funeral before breakfast, for example — and return hungrier than ever. I shuddered and returned the discussion to ?’» shadowboxing, which is less sanguine than competitive-boxing. “Say, ?, how about demonstrating your ‘baffling* style? Will you box a few shadows for me?”
“Sure, watch me splinter that moonbeam!”
Splinters Moonbeam
It was sheer delight to watch ? box. His arms flashed in the cold bright light, and wove grotesque patterns on the yellow brick wall that became increasingly intricate. On the fifteenth turn ? would stop and blow his breath like a tired locomotive; but in a minute or two he would start again. It seemed to me that each series of turns was more involved, and one in particular pleased ? no end. In fact it pleased ? so much that he gyrated faster and faster till the shadow on the wall was just a whiz and the moon lagged behind in shadow-production.
So ? stood back and folded his arms to watch a panting moon catch up with him.
6
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
OUR DAILY BREAD
Reid Indicts Sensationalism of American Press;
Wants Union and Living-Wage for Reporters
Liturgy
The writings and public utterances of Pius XI, whatever their occasion, had but one theme, the re-vitalizing of the Christian life. He gave the Liturgy as its keystone in his second encyclical Quas Primas establishing the feast of Christ the King. The obstacle to progress, he said, is ignorance, and the heart of Catholic Action, the layman’s part in extending the reign of Christ, is instruction. The list of books already given on the Liturgy and the doctrine of the Mystical Body of Christ is supplemented by numerous pamphlets. Lent is a time of sacrifice. The Liturgical Press, Collegeville, Minnesota, will send a choice assortment for one dollar.
Mass Calendar: March 5 to 11
Sunday 5—Second of Lent. Semidouble. Mass proper. 2d prayer Intercession of the Saints (A Cunctis). 3d The Living and the Dead (Omnipo-tens). 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Monday 6—Sts. Perpetua and.Felicitas, Martyrs. Double. Mass: Me expectaverunt (Common). Prayer proper. 2d the ferial. 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Alternate mass of the ferial.
Tuesday 7—St. Thomas Aquinas. Confessor. Doctor. Double. Mass: In medio (Common). 2d prayer the ferial. 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Alternate mass of the ferial. Credo.
Wednesday 8—St. John of God. Confessor. Double. Mass: Os justi. Prayer proper. 2d prayer of the ferial. 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Alternate mass of the ferial.
Thursday 9—St. Frances of Rome. Widow. Double. Mass: Cognovi (Common) . Prayer proper.2d of the ferial. 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Alternate mass of the ferial.
Friday 10—The Forty Holy Martyrs. Semi-double. Mass proper. 2d prayer of the ferial. 3d Intercession of the Saints (A Cunctis). 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Alternate masses the ferial or requiem.
. Saturday 11—Ferial Day, Simple. Mass proper. 2d prayer Intercession of the Saints (A Cunctis). 3d The Laving and the Dead (Omnipotens). 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
In 1938 a series of five lectures was given at Notre Dame by Richard Reid, a former newspaper man and now editor of The Bulletin, a Catholic publication of Atlanta, Ga. These five lectures have been made into a pamphlet by the University Press and are being distributed throughout the country to schools and educators.
Copies have been sent to such famous journalists as Westbrook Pegler, Heywood Broun, and Carl Ackerman. Many of the Midwest colleges have expressed a desire to review the pamphlet in their journalism classes.
The pamphlet is entitled The Morality of the Newspaper and is an attack upon present day evils in the newspaper world. Mr. Reid uncompromisingly charges that the press is ignorant and sensational.
The first lecture deals with the defects of the press. In it is cited the unwillingness of the press to correct obvious mistakes and the deterioration of the editorial as an influential part of the newspaper. But the greatest defect, according to Mr. Reid, is a “lack of knowledge in the meaning of life.” This is attributed to the fact that most of our newspaper men are being drawn from schools of an anti-religious nature. To illustrate the ignorance of the press in religious matters an incident is told about a managing editor who told a young reporter to “Interview Jehovah and send five hundred words.” He advances the opinion that most reporters think that John Burrough invented the adding maachine and do not know the difference between a catechism and a catacomb.
Newspapers Have Influence
The purpose and influence of the newspaper are the two concerns of the second lecture. Although it is generally apparent to most people that newspapers do have a purpose and do influence to some extent, Mr. Reid pointed out what the newspaper had done and could do with its power.
In the third lecture he admits the difficulties of journalism and the numerous chances for erring. He notes several instances of the unscrupulous people who misled the newspapers for the sake of publicity. Best is one of a man claimed to be a Harvard grad and was obliged to wash dishes in a second-rate restaurant. The Harvard Club of New York, scouting the impossible, sent a representative to see what could be done for the man and found that he was only seeking publicity and had never studied at Cambridge.
Press agents cause a great deal of the publicity trouble with their fan
tastic yardns about famous people. Another difficulty is the fact that news must sometimes be eliminated to make room for advertising and that dull news must be fattened to make up for a scarcity of advertising.
“The first indictment of the press on the score of unethical conduct is the salacious character of much of the matter appearing in the columns of the press today.” This is the main tone of the lecture concerning the ethics of the press. Reporters are in too much of a struggle to outdo each other and consequently they ferret out any type of news regardless of its content. Much of the blame is laid upon editors who know not the bounds of discretion.
Need Truthful Press
Further, “if censorship of the press ever comes, the news photographers will have been more responsible for it than any other factor.” Mr. Reid sums up his lecture with the Utopian statement that a truthful press, against a background of decency and a mercy that is not a violation of justice, would give us a press as perfect as anything can be in this imperfect world.
The most important lecture of all is the last one in which are handled the remedies for the defects of the press. He states that too many people have the notion that they can become good journalists and that the profession is overcrowded as a result. Ignorance must be weeded out for “to newspapers, astronomy means falling meteors, geology means earthquakes, chemistry means bleached blonds, and mathematics the numbers racket.” Yet in the very next paragraph he states that most reporters now have college educations.
“It is, I believe, a libel on the intelligence of the American people to say that they want what the sensational, the salacious newspapers dish out to them.” An instance a few years back is shown to prove that drivel that the people are force dto read. The Dempsey-Gibbons fight occurred at the same time as National Education Association was meeting in New York. The fight received 13 times more column space than the education convention. This is done to increase advertising by stimulating circulation through such a medium as a prizefight.
If the reporters were to be organized into a union and paid a living wage then the field of journalism would appeal to brainier types of men. Then, “the economic security of . reporters an deditors would tend to
(Continued on Page 19)
MARCH 3, 1939
7
GYPSY STRINGS SING OF OLD ROMANY
By Edmund Butler
The Continental Gypsy Ensemble brought back a bit of Old Romany to the stage of Washington Hall last Friday night. One man, Allodar Berger, and his violin vitalized a group of performers whose versatility and string sensitivity penetrated to every member of the large audience.
Mr. Berger, formerly of the Chicago Civic Opera, displayed the artist’s touch—realized from 22 years of experience in world-wide concert work —as he fingered the intricate movements of Dohnanye’s “Ruralia Hun-garcia.” His unique interpretation of “Listen to the Mocking Bird” received much genuine applause.
Each of the remaining players favorably acquitted themselves with solos: Mr. Carlo Bruekner with a cello interpretation of “The Hungarian Rhapsody”; Mr. Anton Janowicz by a contra bass solo of Gossec’s “Gavotte,” and Gloria Romano by contributing her own arrangement of “Rumanian Rhapsody,” originally composed for concert adaptation.
Miss Romano’s clever manipulation of the accordion brought incessant rounds of applause which produced an “aw-go-on” wave of the hand im stead of an encore.
The ensemble numbers were carefully presented with perfect timing of parts, but the few months which the Continentals spent as a group was obvious in their lack of confidence (except in the case of Mr. Berger, who went to the other extreme) and their awkward stage personality. The most appealing ensemble number was their forceful presentation of the favorite Russian gypsy folk song, “Dark Eyes.”
The artistic message of the Continental Ensemble was a form of entertainment that was new and original, both in character and presentation. Without destroying any of the entertainment features of the music, the Ensemble showed how the music masters of Europe have turned to the rich realm of Gypsy Folk Music for inspiration in composing their greatest works.
The election of the Pope is the special duty of the Sacred College of Cardinals. The College of Cardinals is in no sense a parliament.
The Cardinal Camerlengo, who happens to be Cardinal Pacelli, the Secretary of State, as acting head of the Church, is entitled to an escort of Swiss guards as he goes about during the interregnum.
MAN ABOUT CAMPUS
By Graham Starr
Out of a clear sky and a strong March wind comes the most sought-after man in the commerce school, David Thomas Meskill, West Roxbury, Mass., president of the Commerce Forum. Strangely enough the brilliant speaker is minus his Boston accent, which was pounded out of him during the past four years here.
An accounting major, he organized a fat men’s club, but it passed out oT the picture a few months ago for the members turned thin. Some say the Friday meals caused the disaster.
Though dignified, this New Englander knows hard manual labor. He has
planted flowers in the spring and has dug ditches from the rising of the sun until.... wonders.... twilight. He once hashed under the familiar Tommy Owens and last summer worked in a chain store warehouse. Altogether he has the appearance of a Phy Ed man. This accounts somewhat for his competence as a golfer and hockey player; he goes in for “snapshotting” too.
Always organizing something, he formed the Sorin Club 15—favorite spot for discussion of accounting perplexities. But it’s no hot spot. Only last week during the cold wave the pipe in his room froze. Reason: he has never closed his window, not even during the sub-zero wave four years ago.
Very seldom he signs out. Contends that women are bitter pills. Claims the distinction of being a poet, although he is a technical commerce man. Go to his room anytime and gaze at his original works adorning the walls.
HANSON AT A. S. M. MARCH MEETING
The Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals will conduct its monthly meeting on Wednesday, March 8. After a dinner, scheduled for 6:45, there will be a technical session in the auditorium of Cushing Hall at 8:15 p.m. An address on “The Distortion of Metal Crystals” will be given by Dr. Daniel Hanson, Professor of Metallurgy at the University of Birmingham, England.
Dr. Hanson, after graduating with high honors at the University of Liverpool, studied the properties of metals and alloys at high temperatures under Dr. G. D. Bengough. For 25 years, the speaker has been prominent in metallurgical research in England. Since 1926, he has held the chair of Metallurgy at Birmingham.
Dr. Hanson’s address will deal with the distortion of metals, the mechanism of this distortion in relation to crystal structure, deformation of crystals of zinc, iron and aluminum and the laws of such deformation. Other subjects to be discussed include the lattice changes produced by deformation, the nature and the effects of crystal slip and work hardening and the mechanism of fracture in metal. Illustrative lantern slides will accompany the lecture.
Perrine Will Break Up Sound, Next Friday
•
Next Friday, March 10, Dr. J. O. Perrine of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company will lecture here on “Waves, Words and Wires.”
The many interesting and amazing results of joining sound and electricity provide the theme for Dr. Perrine’s lecture-demonstration. Results relating to the union • of sound with electricity will be shown to the audience. Dr. Perrine takes speech' and music apart through the aid of his array of electrical devices. Speech and Music will be sent over a radio program circuit and a telephone circuit set up in the auditorium. Many features of these circuits will be demonstrated. Other interesting features of telephone and telegraphic workings such as a working model of the first telephone, the latest type of microphone, recordings, etc., will be included in Dr. Perrine’s demonstration. Charts and pictures will be presented to illustrate and explain the' points in' the lecture.' •
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
RADIO
By Bernard Feeney
ROEMER'S PRAISES U.S. NEUTRALITY POLICY
VINCENTIANS
By Richard Leo Fallon, Jr.
here,
Edwin G. O’Connor
For some time we have had the idea that campus radio men should be better known to the student body. Unlike other extra-curricular functions
•s little opportunity for close contact between performers and audience. But it must be pointed out from the start that such publicity should not be for the purpose of giving what is called in local circles a “blow,” but rather it is needed because listening can be so much more interesting when one knows the voice one
hears. Such information gives the answer to many of the performers opinions, just as knowing the personality of a historian explains the history book. Moreover, an accompanying picture whenever possible will likewise tend to make the performer something more than just a voice. With these thoughts in mind we shall attempt to dash off a few pertinent facts concerning the men of our local staff.
Up From the Ranks
Our first dot-dash spells out Ed O’Connor of Woonsocket, R. I. and Alumni Hall. Ed, an A.B. man and English major, has been on the staff for four years, handled general announcing his first two years, branching out, he has guided the “Periscope” through the waves ever since. He plays St. Mary’s both on the air and off. In. fact, he almost had a libel suit on his hands for that. He played baseball and Interhall radio his first year and since then has been contributing to Scrip. For his comments on local news and St. Mary’s tune in Wednesdays at 9 p.m.
Of national import: Tomorrow at 11 a.m. President Roosevelt will address Congress in commemoration of the 150th anniversary of the first Congress. The two houses will meet in joint session, along with the cabinet, supreme court members, diplomatic corps, and army, navy and marine officials. The broadcast will be hear over nation-wide facilities.
Mon.' 7:45—Faculty Talk—Professor Bartholomew, A.M.—WFAM.
Tue. 7:00 — Mr. Michael Donahue with Ed Heinz—WFAM.
Wed. 9:00—Periscope of the News with Ed O’Connor—WSBT.
Thur. 9:30—M u s i c Appreciation — Music Department—WSBT.
Fri. 7:30—Academy of Politics Forum—WFAM.
Professor William F. Roemer of the department of philosophy gave the reasons why American should maintain its neutrality policy in a radio talk over station WFAM, Monday evening.
The talk was a reiteration and elaboration of some of the thoughts which he has discussed in an article which appeared recently in the Ave Maria.
“First of all it is well to remind ourselves that neutrality for Great Britain, to whose propaganda we are most directly exposed, cannot be held to connote the same imperatives as it does for the United States. By reason of our lack of political entanglements in the boundary disputes and colonial bickerings which keeps English statesmen in a ferment, a different set of postulates must be
William F. Roemer
“... .Great Britain’s propaganda..
read into the complexities of our American problem of peace wih justice.”
“Emphatically our primary interests are not those of the war-profiteers who have no God but Mammon, no soul but the greedy instinct for political power, wealth and hate! Our primary interests are in the preservation of our peace, of the American family, of the conditions which make for cultural and spiritual as well as material progress. These interests are not invested in China, or in the Philippines; they are more intangible but more precious than any financial stake we may have in our business relations with those powers whose frontiers are bounded by the Rhine.”
One American layman has an official place as an assistant in the Conclave. He is Bruno Benziger of New York, a secret chamberlain who happens to be at the Vatican putting in his period of service.
“Did you see what last year’s Senior Ball meant for St. Augustine’s downtown, Tom?”
“No, what . . . you mean for the colored parish?”
“Yeh, this St. Vincent de Paul report says that three hundred dollars was given to the building fund. Work in that parish is the pet activity of our N.D. Conference you know.”
“Three hundred dollars is a lot of money. Wasn’t there a donation from the Sophomore Class after this year’s Cotillion?”
“Right, Tom, fifty dollars, and over seventeen dollars from the Chemistry Club was given during the last half year.”
“It seems as though the more those Vincentians spend, the more they take in, Jim.”
“That’s because of the voluntary activity for spiritual gain that they I put into their work.”
What Vincentian Work Means
Two social work students might react to the report in some such manner as this:
“I noticed that a part of a loan was repaid to the Conference. Items like that one hold the key to interesting stories. I’d like to go into the home of the family that made the repayment. There’s where you would see the effect of the intimate personal contact for which Vincentian work is meant. ... I mean that that family must have been impressed by the Vincentians who helped them. Just think, Bill, there’s no material gain—unless it’s experience—for the fellows who go down into the poor homes. That’s bound to amaze the people they help. Most of them don’t understand why the fellows do try to help them. Even McGutzky could see that they’re led on by the spiritual motive.”
“I was interested in seeing how well the Conference carried on the ordinary work of a St; Vincent de Paul Conference, Ed. This report includes the summer months, too, remember, when the fellows aren’t around to keep things moving.
Figures Tell Story
Well, there were religious papers bought for $36.39, groceries and food amounted to $92.47, medical attention claimed $88.50, fuel took $83.05, and $43.50 went for rent. The item of $60.41 spent for clothes and shoes does not include clothes collected on the campus clothes drives. I’ve been told that they would add $200 to the figure. That bus commission of $28.37 and the air commission of $26.23 show that the campus is behind the Vincentians.”
MARCH 3, 1939
9
WRANGLERS EXAMINE LUDLOW PROPOSAL
•
“It should be the right of everyman to decide his own destiny. To live or to die in wars of aggression is something that he himself should determine rather than a group of disinterested and non-participating Congressmen.” Thus William Cotter, sophomore, spoke in defence of the proposed Ludlow amendment to the United States Constitution at the Wrangler meeting of last Monday.
Mr. Cotter first gave the proposals of the amendment and attempted to
Dissenter Mahoney
His attack favored Congress.
show that the claims of those who say it would necessarily result in disaster to the nation in case of any sudden attack were absurd. “The amendment waives the right of referendum in case of an attack on the United States, its possessions, or any country in the Western Hemisphere (Monroe Doctrine) and gives the power of immediately declaring war to the Congress.” Only in foreign wars (World War, Spanish - American) would the referendum be operative.
Congress Makes Mistakes -
Walter Johnson, Vincent DeCoursey and John O’Dea were the only Wranglers to side with Mr. Cotter. The defence of the proposal moved along the lines of mistakes of Congress in the past, with reference to the Wilson “He kept us out of war” campaign, and the pressure of Hearst and other publishers at the time of the Spanish-American War. It was held that the people could scarcely do worse than did the august legislators of those times.
William Mahoney, president of the club, led the attack by declaring that the people could not be expected to function with the same efficiency as Congress, nor would they be in the same position to see all the facts.
COLLEGE PARADE
By John B. Willman
A New Entry in—With a careworn smile Drum Major Sisk knighted this neophyte with a sharp and shining scissors; then, bathing us in a maze of collegiate pulp, he said, “Go, my son; hew to the column; cut deftly; remember the deadlines and keep them out of the Parade.”
Impressions Upon Seeing — The general publicity given the death of Pope Pius XI in the secular publications was significantly expressive of American youth....... the Harvard Crimson reports a religious survey which indicated that 80 per cent of the students claim religious affiliation while only 55 per cent of the country’s adults are members of religious groups.... the Indiana Daily Student prints an editorial proclaiming Religious Emphasis week.
Oddities in the—Wisconsin’s Daily Cardinal prints a weather forecast... the Indiana college papers prudently omit such a stab in the dark... four Northwestern girls advertised for transportation to and from the campus. ... Mt. Holyoke Speech examinations were conducted at a private dinner—with the members of the class as guest speakers.
Not a Notre Dame Man
“Till next time, remember, a gentleman, when he sees an empty seat in a street-car, always points it out to a lady—then races her for it!”
Canisius The Griffin
—o—
Ticker-tape from—A fearless soda stirrer-upper in Southern Cal’s Student Union fountain made headlines in the Daily Trojan when he used his siphoning accuracy to extinguish a a “forest fire” on University avenue .... he scooped seven fire-engines in extinguishing a shrubbery blaze that encircled the statue of Tommy Trojan .... the Var sitar ian of the University of Santo Tomas in Manila which recently celebrated its 327th anniversary is the entry travelling the greatest distance.... it’s printed in English and has the inevitable Chesterfield ads.
—o—
Sign on a Golf Course
“Members will please refrain from picking up lost balls until they have stopped rolling.”
—Edinborough Economizer
At any State University
Josephine: “Don’t you love driving?”
Joe: “Yes, but wait until we get off the campus.”
GLEE CLUB PRESENTS VARIED PROGRAM
•
When colorful singing voices, such as are found in the Notre Dame Glee Club, group themselves together into a trained unit, the result is the presentation of a program as fully satisfying as the one offered last Tuesday night by Professor Pedtke. The concert ranged from the ancient style of Franz Witt’s “Ave Maria” to the first performance of the conductor’s “Notre Dame Our Mother.” The latter piece displayed a lucidity and depth of tone drawn from a close harmonic structure, and executed with the ease and simplicity acquired only by a worthy composition.
Bach’s ‘Crucifixus’ Good
One of the most notable numbers was Bach’s “Crucifixus” from his massive B minor Mass. In the text of the Mass, Bach saw possibilities of gigantic artistic expression. The result is a monumental sublimation of ritual music, treated not as an accessory of a church service, but as an end in itself.
Hence his masses belong properly to the church oratorio class, but have a range of abstract topic and idea not often reached by the historical oratorio. Here, as well as in the Handel satire “Old Mother Hubbard,” Professor Pedtke conducted w?th the full realization of strong thematic material, of contrapuntal organization, and of marshaling parts and sections with the artistic strategy.
Effectively contrasting was H. T. Burleigh’s “Deep River.” The keen sense of rhythm coupled with the deep religious feeling so characteristic of the negro spiritual was effectively used. It was interesting to watch the distinctive, individual musicianship and poise with which each of the night’s soloist’s approached their selections. Special worth was the interpretative spark admirably handled in Robert Bischoff’s presentation of “On the Road to Mandalay” and “OF Man River.”
Soloists Perforin Ably
Mr. Frank Ciolino displayed a genuine tenor voice of smooth quality with a pleasing absence of strain. Mr. Edward Ettl showed a fine grasp of the fundamentals of singing especially noteworthy in the mezzo voice passages of “The Wind Speaks.”
Music is a form of expression, and its success will largely depend on its ability to express man’s concepts. The more difficult the concept, the greater the artist needed to present it. Soloists should therefore remember that the appeal of a simple song well done far surpasses that of a difficult song half done.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
10
•CATALYZER1 REVIEWS CHEMISTRY SEMINAR
The January issue of The Catalyzer, publication of the chemistry and chemical engineering departments, is a digest of the recent Departmental Seminar.
Sister Mary Fidelis discussed hormones. Hormone is used to designate the active principle of the secretions of the endocrine glands, whether it acts as a chemical stimulant or as an inhibitor. The eight types of endocrine, or ductless glands discharge their secretions into the blood or lymph. These glands regulate our mental and physical growth.
Edwin M. Kinderman writes about awards, medals and prizes. Notre Dame scientists will be particularly interested in four medals awarded to Rev. J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C.
Substitute Oil Shale
Knowledge of the vitamins has increased so much recently that chemists may regret trying to classify them merely by letter. Frederick C. Weber explained the complex mixture generically known as Vitamin B. Vitamin B, originally thought to be one or two distinct vitamins, may actually contain eight or more different specific principles.
Arthur Baum discussed the preparation, properties and uses of the rare gases, chemistry’s youngest family of elements. Their discovery was an important step in the development of the electronic theory of valence.
The history, organization, activities and publication of the United States Bureau of Standards which is of inestimable importance to American scientists was evaluated by M. J. Geerts. He listed the positions offered by the department and the salaries accompanying them. (Seniors take note.)
A. J. Kolka described the history, processing and uses of the soy bean. The beans are pressed and two raw products formed, an oil and a cake, which find uses both in human and animal food and for industrial purposes.
Letters Fail
Charles J. O’Boyle wrote of oil shale. Fifteen, years ago it was feared that there would be a shortage of petroleum. Oil shale provided a goo's substitute. It is a rock from which oil may be extracted by distillation. Ammonia may be obtained as a byproduct.
Municipal and industrial water supplies were explained by M. J. O’Connor. Water is of two types. Surface water come from streams and lakes while ground water come from wells.
ROCKNE MEMORIAL OPENS; STUDENTS CROWD POOL; SIX HANDBALL COURTS READY
By Joe Perkins
Back in 1822, the Seneca Chief bobbled placidly at the mouth of the Hudson River. Standing on the bow Governor DeWitt Clinton of New York poured a kegfull of Lake Erie water into the Atlantic Ocean. The Erie Canal was open.
Not since then has there been a more happy splashing of waters until last Friday afternoon when the Rev. John J. Reddington, C.S.C., turned the main water valve in the Rockne Memorial Building and water rushed through 12 inlets into the new swimming pool.
Pool Opened Wednesday
The pool was ready for use Tuesday, but the opening was deferred until Wednesday to facilitate the distribution of individual lockers and combination locks. No student may use the pool of handball courts—six of the 12 are now open—until he has made a locker-deposit of 75 cents. Swimmers will be supplied with regulation trunks and towel by pool attendants. The main locker rooms are equipped with 2,200 small lockers. In addition there are 300 full length dress lockers. Small lockers will be used for permanent storage of student equipment; dress lockers will be used while the student is in the building.
The pool is open from 9 to 5:30
“He says it’s a Lenten Resolution—and he knows how to swim, too!”
o’clock during the day and from 8 to 9:30 at night. The same regulations which govern the handball courts in the Fieldhouse will be enforced at the Memorial, Thomas E. Mills, director of the Memorial, announced Wednesday.
Facts About Pool
The pool is situated in a bright spacious room 125 feet long and 70 feet wide. The ceiling is white, covered with shining, sound-proof asbestoscement tiles. The walls half-way up are bright, cream - colored tiles; the remaining wall surface is brownish-red, smooth-faced brick. The entire floor surrounding the pool is rough brown, skid-proof tile. The pool is marked for six swimming lanes, each lane having a section of grey skidproof tile at each end, which gives the swimmer firm footing.
Water began to flow into the two pools—there is also a smaller beginners’ pool, 42 feet long and eight feet wide — last Friday afternoon. Both pools were full by noon Mondoy. During that interval 221,000 gallons of water passed through the pumps. The water was then pumped back through four large filters capable of handling 460 gallons per minute. The entire volume of water is filtered every eight hours.
(Continued on Page 23)
MARCH 3, 1939
II
THEATRE
By Ray Sadlier
Rumors of past weeks have finally been confirmed. Strange thing, here at N.D. — rumors becoming actualities! Yet, from the University Theatre comes the news that “The Queen’s Husband” is beginning to shape up. Not only that, but production has been set for the 21st and 22nd of this month. Either that, or the Players will not dare expose themselves unless under the protective shroud of darkness.
Could it be that Dramatis Personae are going “high-hat” and prefer to be known as characters rather than the lads who rub shoulders with we groundlings ? There seem to be grounds for speculation there. However, let’s give them the benefit of the doubt and think that they are merely shy!
“Golden Boy” for Commencement?
After the Easter stimulation has ebbed, The Players will probably retire behind barred doors and put the Commencement play into rehearsal. “Golden Boy” and “The Star Wagon” are under consideration. However, as yet, the Amateur Rights have not been released. Both of these shows have been outstanding successes and either one would be well adapted to the Washington Hall “boards.”
The Monogram “Absurdities” promises to be different this year — we hope. A musical comedy, no less! And it’s going to have a plot! The Hays office has demanded that the chorus wear sandals—new censorship laws, oi* something.
' We were amazed to discover, last week, that: “a Star is often a Hollywood waitress who has been made by high pressure publicity . . . usually, she has neither been gifted with, nor acquired, an exceptional dramatic ability.” And this from a brother columnist, too! Surely this is not a serious statement. Or is it? Hollywood is a composite of all the fields of the entertainment profession; and each have their respective Stars.
Astaire and Barrymore
We could not compare Eleanor Powell with Greta Garbo, nor Fred Astaire with Lionel Barryomer; yet, they are all Hollywood Stars. In the field of drama we expect and demand subtle acting; in the field of dancing we expect clever* routine well interpreted; and so on down the line. High - pressure publicity can bring someone before the public, but it can not create ability.
Consequently, jf Hollywood wait
resses have risen to Stardom, they must of necessity have had some ability. If not, then—in the fine sense of the word — they never became Stars. After all, we’re not too gullible a public, do y.ou think? If someone is good, we soon realize it; if not, all the publicity in the world can’t make us believe the contrary.
ART
By Dick Metzger
The Chicago Art Institute has a large collection of modem paintings, especially works of the impressionists and post-impressionists. These are especially interesting from a technical point of view.
The impressionists approached painting from the aspect of scientific analysis of light. They sought to paint light as related to the object rather than the object itself. They also employed a broken-color technique, which consists in placing thin lines of color side by side, leaving the mixing to be done by the eye of the observer. This juxtaposition of color achieved a very brilliant effect.
No Representational Values
The post-impressionists, or expressionists, employed the same broken-color technique, ’ but veered away from representational values. In contrast, they stressed the subjective, the abstract, the decorative phases of art.
“Sunday on Grande Jotte Island” by Seurat is an excellent example of impressionism. Seurat used what was known as the ‘pointilliste’ method of broken-color painting. In this, the painter builds up areas of color with tiny dots or pellets of pigment. One might expect paintings done this way to be necessarily small, yet Seurat’s works are nearly all very large.
van Gogh Best Known
Vincent van Gogh is perhaps the best known of the expressionists. Like Seurat he used a distinctive method of broken-color painting. Unlike Seurat he knew practically no restraint. Besides the bold color juxtaposition, he experimented wildly with movements of strokes. At times he went so far as to do away with a brush altogether and squeeze the paint directly from the tube onto the canvas. We might venture to say that some of his better known works, even “Landscape,” look like it. - But the extraordinary procedure is not inexplicable. It is said that van Gogh passionately loved color. His was merely a way of showing almost dazzling effects, no matter how strangely he achieved them.
MUSIC NOTES
By William Mooney
"Il Tro va t ore”
The Cast
Leonara____________________Zinka Milanov
Azucena__________________Bruna Castagna
Inez_____________________Thelma Votipka
Manrico Giovanni Martinelli
Count Di Luna____________Richard Bonelli
Ferrando_________________Virgilio Lazzari
This opera, despite its age, is immensely popular. The story, a typical operatic melodrama, deals with the love of a beautiful maiden and a handsome Count. The opera is filled with gypsies and their typical intrigues. A mother mistakes her child for another, and as a result of the mistake hurls her son into a fire. The incidents in the plot revolve around this mistaken identity.
Artur Rubinstein Recital .
Thursday evening of last week we had the pleasure of hearing Artur Rubinstein in a piano recital.
Mr. Rubinstein played with such amazing technique and dexterity that we were left spellbound. Never before had we heard such power, speedy and facility. Each composition flowed onward with the severe clearance of the black and white keys on which he played. In his hands he grasped great bunches of granite chips, called notes, and flung them at us with perfectly controlled fierceness. But with all his strength he lacked mellowness and sympathy. Paderewski has been called “Poet of the Keyboard”; this could never be said of Rubinstein. He is rather a technical wizard striving for cyclonic effects with utter success.
Absolute Technical Perfection
He opened the program with the modest “Prelude In Fugue” of Cesar Franck. This was followed with Beethoven’s “Sonata In E-flat Major.” Here Mr. Rubenstein’s absolute technical perfection was first manifest.
Yet, in spite of the fact that each note was flawlessly placed in its proper position, in his efforts to be precise he lost the soul and profundity which Beethoven requires. In the “Sonata from Petroushka” by Stravanski, in Debussy’s “Prelude in A Minor,” and in the “Funerailles and Rhapsody No. 12” of Liszt, Mr. Rubinstein overwhelmed us with his technique. His cascades of sound dizzied and startled us. In short, he transcended what we believe to be the limits of two hands and ten fingers.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
12
Hie Notre Dome Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Mark J. Mitchell______________________Editor-in-Chief
Vincent DeCoursey.___________________Managing	Editor
William P. Mahoney...................Literary	Editor
William C. Fay___________________________News	Editor
Donald Foskett_________________________Sports	Editor
Tom Powers________________________________Art	Editor
Rev. L. V. Bkoughal, C.S.C............Faculty	Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York Cily — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, Post Office Box 155, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Wednesday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
What place has the free press in a Totalitarian State?
Probably no newspaper in the nation is more outspoken in opposing the present political administration than the Tribune. Freedom of the Press—guaranteed in a constitution founded on the principle that human rights are antecedent to human government—protects the Trib- ■ une from any administration reprisals. What protection have newspapers in a Totalitarian State?
In advocating Euthanasia the Tribune is advocating the ethical principles of a Totalitarian state—principles obviously inimical to the Tribune’s existence as a free newspaper.
Neither Dr. Kennedy nor the Tribune have proposed any method of destroying members of society who are no longer of use to society. We suggest throat-cutting. The ' State would waste neither a bullet nor a volt of electricity.
A knife can be re-sharpened with little ill effect.
—William C. Fay
Vol. 72	March 3, 1939	No. 18
Cut-Throat Ethics
THE FEBRUARY 25th issue of the Chicago Tribune editorially praises the Euthanasia Society of America and its president, Dr. Kennedy, who is a professor of neurology at the medical college of Cornell University. Says the Tribune: “The Euthanasia Society of America has a long road before it, but it is not going to be discouraged by the opposition it must overcome.... it will grow steadily.”
Dr. Kennedy is “not concerned with the bleatings , about pain,” which enter into the discussion of “mercykilling”; but he is especially interested in the case of incurable defectives, and he protests against “the absurd and misplaced sentimental kindness” which preserves the life of “a person who is not a person.” Do you mean “a soul who is not a soul,” Dr. Kennedy?
Aside from the fact that Dr. Kennedy can find no basis for his “interests” and “protests” in ethics—since reason tells us that life -which is created by God belongs to God and cannot be destroyed by human whim—we question even the pragmatic side of Dr. Kennedy’s argument. Had doctors of the past regarded “incurable” diseases as such, many persons alive today would have died long ago from such diseases as tuberculosis, diabetes, syphilis or malaria. But Doctor Kennedy says, in effect, “get rid of them,” and he is not concerned with “bleatings about pain.” Bleating is a word generally associated with sheep. Evidently Dr. Kennedy thinks of man as a mere animal. In that case he is not a doctor. He is a veterinary.
We wonder if the Tribune knows what it is getting into when it advocates Euthanasia? The Tribune consciously or not, is claiming that the State has the right and moral power to legalize Euthanasia—in other words, the State can determine the morality of an action.
That is the pagan ethics of a Totalitarian State. Yet the Declaration of Independence of the United States says that “government rests on the consent of the governed,” that basic human rights—and basic morality—are antecedent to the human governments that protect them.
The Tribune might be interested in this. Euthanasia, with its complement of sterilization and related eugenic practices, has a legal foothold only in Totalitarian States, Nazi Germany for instance.
"Pax Christi in Regno Christi"
PAX ROMANA, international Catholic student confederation, has announced that its 18th Annual Congress is to be held in the United States. Several hundred delegates are expected to attend the six day session from September 3 to September 8 in New York. The general theme of this meeting will be “The Role of the University in National Catholic Action.”
The organization of Pax Romana is peculiarly suited to its function in aiding Catholic Action. It is a confederation, international in character, made up of a union of national groups. Individual students do not join, nor separate colleges; rather such groups as the National Catholic Alumni Federation and the National Federation of Catholic College Students.
To many of us Pax Romana is but a name, or less. At the same time we hear many complaints that Catholic Action is severely haandicapped by lack of organization and direction. That is just what Pax Romana is attempting to do—to further Catholic Action in its highest and most proper sense.
To this end Pax Romana emphasizes the apostolate of the press. It strives to gain proper recognition of the work of the Church in secular publications. It also sponsors the International Secretariate of the University Catholic Press which aims at co-ordinating the efforts of the numerous Catholic University publications throughout the world.
But' Pax Romana does not neglect the other forms of Catholic Action. Friendly international relations, exchange scholarships, the Liturgical movement, support of the missions are representative functions of this organization.
Thus Pax Romana represents in a sense an intellectual army of the Church. We honestly believe that it fulfills its function of aiding Catholic Action. We speak of Pax Romana as aiding Catholic action, because, of course, Catholic Action must of necessity originate within the person. Pax Romana, therefore, assists Catholic Action not only through the fostering and directing of an informed, articulate Catholic press but in the larger sense of providing a central, directing, unifying agency to guide the vital reality that is Catholic Action.
Here, then, is an organization that deserves our advocation and support, because it is an organization which provides a most efficient means towards the end for which we are all striving—“Pax Christi in Regno Christi.”
—Mark J. Mitchell
MARCH 3, 1939
13
Catholic Scholars Speak on Scholarships
By BURNETT C. BAUER, Grad.
It is one thing to ask whether the Catholic Church in America has its proportionate share of scholars who are shaping the thought and culture of the day and quite another to back the answer with facts. The attempt has been made in a book Catholics and Scholarship, edited by Rev. John F. O’Brien, chaplain and professor at the University of Illinois. The chapters which make up the book were written by Catholics eminent in the different fields of learning. The consensus of their opinion is that there is a lack of scholars among the Catholics of America. Suggestions for improving the situation make up the main topic of discussion. There are some good ideas in the book, but it might also be said that most of the ideas are mere opinion rather than the result of an adequate survey of facts as they exist.
The problem of scholarship is of deep concern to Catholics simply because through scholars a deep influence can be exerted on the world' at large, and in these troubled times it is necessary to exert such influence. As one of the authors, Prof. J. A. Reyniers of our faculty here at Notre Dame, has pointed out, “Catholics, or for that matter any other group, need scholars for the same reasons that they need flags, or heroes, or monuments. They need these things as examples of usefulness and to explain their autonomy to other groups.... The lack of an articulate laity is at the bottom of much of the indifference with which Catholics seem to regard Catholic world problems, and this indifference probably springs from a scarcity of first rank scholars.”
In the opening chapters of the symposium, Dr. O’Brien cites the result of several surveys conducted for the purpose of determining the number of Catholics in the various fields of scholarship. First mentioned is the Ament’s survey of the 1927 Who’s Who in America in which appeared the names of only two Catholic Scientists. He quotes for the same year the Lehman and Witty survey of American Men of Science. Of the 1189 eminent scientists listed therein, 886 did not give their religious affiliation, but of the 303 scientists who did only three professed to being Catholics. That is less than 1% for a country whose population is from one-sixth to one-fifth Catholic. Dr. O’Brien also lists a religious census
made of 28 state university faculties which reported only 176 Catholics in a total of 4275 faculty members. This is slightly more than 3%. In collaboration with this census was another made of 35 state normal schools which reported 70 Catholics out of a total of 1891 faculty members; again slightly more than 3%.
Dr. Karl F. Herzfeld, former professor of physics at Johns Hopkins and now at Catholic University, says in his chapter that “There are five exceptionally highly rated physicists in this country.... None of them is a Catholic. There are in addition 19 physicists of high standing. I do not know any of them to be a Catholic, although I cannot positively state that none is.” Rev. Dr. John M. Cooper, Professor of Anthropology at Catholic University says in his article that not one out of the 25 leading anthropologists in the country is a Catholic.
In the field of literature Dr. O’Brien quotes a survey made in 1929 by Rev. Francis X. Talbot, S.J., now editor of America which found that out of 1613 new books appearing during a nine week period, only 42 were by Catholics and half of these were translations or importations from abroad. In the same survey is mentioned a list of best sellers made during the month of March in which out of the 25 best works of fiction, only three were by Catholics, none of whom were Americans. The report of the American Library Association announcing its list of the 50 most important books for the year 1928, has only six dealing with Catholicism, and half of these were by non-Cath-olics. Finally, Dr. O’Brien uses the University of Illinois as an example of deficiency in Catholic scholarship by showing the presence of only 34 Catholics in a faculty of 1101 (one out of 32), and of only two Catholics holding full professorships in the University Senate which consists of 207.
These few graying figures, though significant in depicting the paucity of Catholic scholars, cannot allow one to term the approach as being scientific. It is regrettable that a more comprehensive survey of the field of Catholic scholarship was not sought to give a more factual foundation on which to pivot the discussion. However, at the present moment, in view of the experiences these contributing authors have had in their respective
fields, their discussion is a tremendously enlightening contribution to Catholic educators and students, both in and out of Catholic schools. And though we may wish for a more comprehensive proof, the important point is that all of these authors admit, from personal experience, the conviction that the number of Catholic scholars is disconcertingly low. The interesting tlung to not now is their explanation for this unhappy condition and their suggestion as to how we can bring about a flourishing growth of Catholic scholarship.
Naturally in a symposium of this kind, covering a field that is as broad as scholarship itself, there is a wide divergence of opinions concerning the of scholarship among American Catholics in the past, and also as to what should be done to remedy these conditions. However, there were certain conditions pretty generally agreed upon by all contributors as being thfe major factor for the present dearth of Catholic scholars. These may be listed as follows:
1.	Most of our Catholics come from poor families. A greater part of our Catholic population is the product of the latter 19th century and more recent immigration. These people have necessarily been struggling until now for an economic grip and consequently they have neither the leisure nor the means necessary for scholarly research. Neither could they give great financial support to schools.
2.	American Catholics have lacked a tradition of scholarship. Business, and not hooks, has been the topic of conversations. Coming from the lower financial groups, Catholic children have had no scholarly precedent set before them by their parents.
3.	Catholic schools are comparatively young. Their growth has been slow because they have neither endowments to speak of, nor tax money to support them.
4.	Catholic school professors are over-worked. Long hours in the class room leave little time for research..
5.	Catholic schools and professors have not had the facilities for scholarly research.
6.	Many potential scholars enter the priesthood where they have little or no time for research work.
7.	Low salaries and little recognition given to Catholic school professors has had little appeal to Catholic youth.
14
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
8.	Finally, there are casual charges that Catholics are apathetic, that pastors have not encouraged scientific and literary vocations, and that nonCatholic institutions hold some prejudice against us.
Glancing back, the two causes most emphasized in this symposium seem to be: first, the absence of a scholarly tradition in the great majority of American Catholic families, and secondly, the lack of financial resources.
The constructive measures and remedies offered in the book are more numerous and varied than the causes (arising, no doubt, from the different backgrounds of the various authors) and along with the descriptions of attempts now in progress, constitute the most fascinating part of the book. Some of the remedies, of course, are implied in the mere statement of the causes. Out of the many suggestions, however, it seems that three general classifications can be detected:
First, there are the suggestions of those who would change the entire school system, curriculum as well as organization.
Secondly, those suggestions which would have Catholics go into state and other non - Catholic schools and fight their way to the top.
Thirdly, the suggestions of those who would develop Catholic students in Catholic schools and then by financial and other encouragements send promising graduates to Catholic graduate schools and Catholic research centers. The latter, of course, must be built. This plan, rather than radically changing our present Catholic education system, would add a superstructure to it. Prof J. A. Reyniers of our local faculty outlines in his chapter how this may be brought about. Besides describing the purpose of the newly established Bacteriological center here at Notre Dame, he also indicates the notable advances made by Catholics as a group in the field of science.
In the field of literature, Rev. Francis X. Talbot, S.J. and Rev. Daniel A. Lord, S.J., describe what is now being done to encourage young Catholics to become more articulate, with praise ■ going to Notre Dame for her pioneering activities along these lines. In
regard to education, Jerome G. Kerwin, of the University of Chicago, asks for substantial changes. The path to eminence in economics is pointed out by Dr. David McCabe of Princeton University.
These are but a few of the well-known Catholic scholars who lay the; case before us in this symposium. Students who would like a panoramic view of Catholic scholarship in general, and of their special field in particular, will find in Catholics and Scholarship a stiumulating source of information.
To the students of the University of Notre Dame it might be interesting to note that a survey of Catholic Scholarship in America has been in formation here on the campus singe 1936, and is rapidly nearing completion. It has been the good fortune of the writer to have been connected with it during this time. It is hoped, and the results to date bear out this desire, that a scientific factual foundation can be secured upon which definite proposals can be based for action on the problem of Catholic scholarship.
Verbum Spirans Amorem et Scientiam
By FRANCIS JOSEPH O'LAUGHLIN
Movements for the rectification of public morals are too often driven on by a spirit of blind pugnasticism and furious reformism. We would urge here a long and reasoned view of such a profitable pandering as, for instance, the obscene literature commerce. We do not progress in spiritual vigor and purity by damning greed. We may squeeze out profitseekers from one range of exploitation only to free them to invade another. What is to be sought, for us and for them, is an inward formation in virtue and wisdom. The police power exercised, the exposures and squelchings of malefactors and perverters, can never secure a better Catholic way of life. It does not even make for the interior purging of the spectators and auditors and readers; they may be incensed but they are not purified. Of course, the profiteers from commercial indecency are not transformed at all: if, held by a capital investment, they do not transfer their talents, if they carry on in their mode of work, they merely throw up a thin facade of decency— and any among them who may be men of artistic integrity wither and fall off into mediocrity.
A case in point: the canons of the Hays administration are so well prin
cipled that genuine work in the cinematic art form need not be inhibited by them at all. However, it may be ventured that—with a few exceptions —Hollywood has groomed and calculated its productions for crowd-pleasing and Breen-pleasing just. There is the impression that American movies have ceased progressing except mechanically. This artistic sterility may perhaps be thus explained: a sense of moral responsibility has not become intrinsic with cinematic creation; rather, prudential rules have remained an exterior frame within which the producer works, confined and confused. Together with the profit motive, this surface moralism has almost completely devitalized and subverted a great modem popular art.
Fortunately, the complex theoretical problems of art and prudence, and the even more complex practical problems, are not involved in the current campaign of the hierarchy against indecent literature. Unmistakably, our libidinous magazine traffic is on the demoniacal side. But the cultural and intellectual implications and considerations demand a close and informed deliberation. We must not suppose that we have comprehended and realized Catholic Action when we have
stopped these presses. The significant work is to construct an inner and personal respiritualization, and to fructify it in religious practice and in intellectual culture and in social organization.
By this general scheme, the University student who is a Catholic must engage in the liturgical life of the Church, must strive for prudence and holiness according to his present way of life with its superior perfectibility. It is his special and vocational duty to form a Catholic mind and a humanist sensibility, to establish a critique of art and philosophy that is objectively valid and clear and subjectively strong and vital. His function, understood now and practiced always will bring a religous and intellectual renewal to the bulking mass of men for the fracture and dissipation of sensuality and stupidity. Then, before the clear and constant disdain of men of sound conscience and rich knowledgibility, these pitiable insipidities and crudities will be recognized as-drivel and moron-fare altogether. Beyond the mere excision of putrescence, we shall have looked to our love of God, to its fruition in men’s hearts and to its inspiriting of their highest works.
MARCH 3, 1939
15
THE WEEK IN SPORTS
DETROIT FIVE HOSTS TO IRISH TUESDAY
By Frank Aubrey
When the Irish basketeers pack their bags and entrain for Detroit next Tuesday night, they will be ending their road season aaginst the best team in Detroit University’s history. For Brown, DuCharme, and Sadowski the jaunt will be a grand finale, that is, if the Irish can duplicate last year’s score of 43 to 29 over Detroit. That game rounded out a championship season for Notre Dame, but since the two Marquette disasters, the Detroit affair is looked upon as an anticlimax.
Dusty Calihan, star junior center, will be the special fly in the Keogan ointment. Briefly, he is good. He has already broken the Detroit scoring records for a single game and for a single season. He is credited with having outscored any other center he has ever played against during the time he was actually in action. Last year he even out-scored Paul Nowak, the Irish All-American, and Tuesday he will come to grips with Mark Ertel.
Ten Game Winning Streak
Calihan doesn’t make up the entire Detroit attack. Jack Piana at forward and Charlie Bucholz at guard, co-captain with Calihan, have kept the ball going through the hoop all season long. The Irish will run into these boys at a very bad time, for Detroit is sporting a ten-game winning streak. But you know what happens to winning streaks.
Let’s see, wasn’t our winning string of happy memory, ten straight? Nothing would please the team and Coach Keogan more than to turn around and play the role of giant-killer. It would be a great step upward for the locals after so capably filling the fall-guy part last week.
Ed Riska is still leading Notre Dame’s scorers with 186 points for 18 games. Ed’s average fell off a bit against Marquette’s tall guards, for his specialty of sinking rebounds was smothered by the waving palms of Quabius and company. Paul DuCharme, senior guard, has counted 139 points and Eddie Sadowski follows with 101. They were finally breaking for Eddie up in Milwaukee and he got 12-points.
INTERHALL CAGE SEASON CLOSES SUNDAY AS FOUR LEADING TEAMS PLAY FOR CROWNS
The final act of the Interhall basketball season will be staged in the Gymnasium Sunday afternoon, beginning at 1:30, when Mr. Dominic J. Napolitano, director, presents a two game carnival featuring the champions of the Junior and Senior divisions of both the Heavyweight and Lightweight leagues.
Fencers Face Strong Badgers Tomorrow
By foe Palmer
With the greatest part of the season gone, the Notre Dame varsity fencing team now faces a large task, to preserve the good reputation that they have built up in the past few weeks and to wind up the 1939 competition in a blaze of glory. To look at the schedule that remains will show that such a task will be anything but easy. Tomorrow will see the highly-touted Wisconsin Badgers rolling into town from their home at Madison.
All Notre Dame teams have taken particular pleasure in defeating Big Ten teams, and the fencing team this year is certainly no exception. No matter how things turn out, the 1939 season can definitely be counted a success if a better than .500 average is earned against the Big Ten stalwarts. For the Notre Dame seniors in particular this match will hold extreme importance. Each and every one of them is determined that his last match against the Big Ten will end in a decisive victory. Two and two have often been said to equal four, and in the same way every man on the Irish squad is determined that the aforementioned factors will add up to a Notre Dame victory tomorrow. There is just one fly in the ointment, and a rather large fly at that. It seems that the Wisconsin team also wants to win that match tomorrow.
Notre Dame has met several teams composed of veterans in the course of this season, but it is quite certain that none of these past opponents can compare with the Wisconsin squad in the number of tried-and-true veterans contained on the squad roster. Followers of the Irish fencing team will have little trouble remembering Batterman, Newakowski, and Sylvester.
The Junior group of the Heavies will be represented by Carroll Hall, while the champion of the upper division has not yet been crowned. Walsh, the defending champions, will meet Sorin sometime before Sunday and the victor will go into the
Director Napolitano
Now he can concentrate on Bengals.
final round. The winners, whoever they may be, will have plenty of trouble Sunday when they encounter the Carrollites who have not, yet tasted defeat in seven contests. The dorm boys not only won every game but they were never pressed after the first few minutes had passed and their attack had an opportunity to function smoothly.
Undefeated teams are not a rarity among the lighter boys. Both St. Ed’s and Morrissey, winners in their respective groups, boast of unblemished records. Morrissey, however, had to fight up to last Tuesday night to maintain undisputed possession of first place. Coach Ted Leonas’ Badin team bowed out for the season when the Morrissey squad defeated them, 22-16, in a thrilling fracas. The lead seesawed throughout the game but the Badinites lacked the final punch in the closing minutes.
Welsh and Lucas, main offensive threats of the Morrissey five will.be counted upon to carry the scoring burden but St. Ed’s is confident that her two guards, Jack Moran and “Monk” Stefanik, will be able to keep them in check and that Charlie Magner, center, will show them plenty on the offensive side.
16
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
'LAST MILE11 OF THE BENGAL TRAIL LOOMS UP; GURUCHARRI. RYAN THREATEN CHAMPS
RICE AT GARDEN FOR "RACE OF CENTURY"
By James G. Newland
By Bill Scanlan
Tonight the largest squad of Bengal hopefuls ever to enroll for the bouts finished four weeks of hard training drills. Monday they will inaugurate what might be called “the last mile.” During these final three weeks of training exercises each fighter will put full steam ahead in preparation for “the beginning of the end.”
Last week we enumerated the six defending champions who will see action in this year’s tournament. Today we present a few of the mittslingers who seem destined to give the champs all the trouble they can handle, and, they hope, a little more.
Fans will see a familiar face when Vince Gurucharri scrambles through the ropes in the 125 pound class. This Philippine scrapper will see action for the third year and if the man who once said “the third time is always a charm” is right, Vince will carry home a coveted Bengal sweater. Last year and the year preceding, he went to the finals, only to fall to the “up-from-the-floor” punches of Swinging Sammy Dolce. He has been in the thick of the training drills and looks very good.
William “Bucky” Ryan will attempt for the fourth time to capture the heavyweight crown. And from the way he has been punching of late, he •will definitely be the man to beat. Ryan, in losing three consecutive bouts, gained valuable experience, which will undoubtedly aid him in
Two Hopeful Bengaleers
Three weeks to go.
winning the heavyweight title when this year’s show gets underway. Incidentally, fight enthusiasts may be prepared to see the best heavyweight show since the time of Max Marek. Promoter Louis DaPra reports this year’s class of heavies as “exceptionally good.”
Walter Johnson, a light - heavyweight who saw action last year, losing in the final stages of the tournament, has high hopes of making up for this defeat. He shows great promise and may go a long way.
Possibly the two most improved fighters right now are Harry John and a chap by the name of Dillon. Both pack plenty of dynamite in each mitt and will obviously spread it free of charge when the time comes.
Joe Bahr, 155 pound sophomore, has shown class and plenty of skill in daily workouts. This will be his first year as a title contender. He is tall, shifty, fast and apparently has seen action in a number of fights.
A fighting Irishman from the freshman ranks, Rod McGuire, looms as a serious threat in the 126 pound division. McGuire looks to be one of the cleverest newcomers of the lot and can handle his dukes in fine style.
The only disappointment so far has been in the turn-outs for the 115 pound class. Bout officials would like to see some more fighters out for this division. So come on you flyweights, let’s go.
“That Lash - Cunningham race in New York should be a great event and I don’t know for sure how it will come out—it’s a tossup. In some ways I would like to see Don win; and then again I’m for Glenn — they’re both fine fellows,” commented Notre Dame’s Greg Rice shortly before ambling into his room in Sorin Sub the other evening. “But I do hope neither wins,” he suggested, adding a bit of mystery to the race.
After conversing a few moments on the possibilities of the event, Greg modestly admitted that he too will compete. “It’d be an honor to win third in that race. Why, they’ve been trying to get those two greats together for several years and finally the date has been set,” the Irish track captain added.
The University Athletic Board voted late last week to allow Greg to compete in the widely heralded “Two-Mile Race of the Century” in Madison Square Garden on Saturday, March 4.
“The world’s record of 8:58 (8:56 outdoors) isn’t man’s supreme effort in the two-mile and I wouldn’t be at all surprised if a new record is registered in that race in New York,” Rice furthered.
Leaning against the door and scratching his head, Greg further emphasized that he hoped to at least chase one of the runners into a new world record—if he himself is unable to do it. “You know, there must be at least three starters in order to make a race official and the officials have invited me and Joe McCluskey of New York to run,” Greg again modestly added.
Since Cunningham had defeated soundly every available prospect in the mile run, he finally turned to the longer race. Lash, whose favorite event is the two-mile run, has been accommodating Cunningham by running the mile—and taking beatings; now Glenn will return the compliment by running the mile. Notre Dame’s darkhorse, J. Gregory Rice, may upset the experts and walk off with the highly honored title as world’s two-mile champion. He left for New York’s I. C. 4-A meet yesterday.
The University of Detroit, in Michigan, holds an annual Turtle Trudge at which turtles are entered by universities throughout the United States. Who will enter a turtle to represent Notre Dame? The contest this year is scheduled for March 31.
MARCH 3, 1939
17
REF BETTER BEHAVE
OR ELSE—KELL
•
Champ Kell’s gone literary this week. Our Bet is such a complex character, such an intricate combination of all those things which comprise vigorous manhood that the Miltonic Vast technique can hardly do justice to him.
When I found the Killer in Sorin he was having all sorts of trouble getting started on a literary career. As far as I could gather, the typewriter presented a problem when he learned that he was required to strike each key individually. But the best he could do was five keys at a time, and with his little finger at that. And he took the “strike” idea too lit-
“Killek” Kell Rough on Refs.
erally. Our Bengal Bouncer struck out with one blow which sent sections of mechanism flying about the room like shrapnel.
Seeing that the Champ was getting disgusted with his progress, and not wishing to retard the deevlopment of his tender intellect, a ready manager was called in to act as stenographer. After hours of dictating, I was allowed a glimpse at the literary piece. The title read: “Moider at the Ben-gals,” by Mr. Paul (Killer) Kell, D.R. The D.R., I’m told, meant Doctor of ’Rasslin’. I can tell you little of the article as a whole, for if I were to tell all, there just wouldn’t be an opponent for the Champ this year.
Brieflly, it dealt with the pulverization of “One Horse” Race, who was carried from the arena last year, surrounded by doctors and various medical necessities so helpful to the mangled. Reports here and about Milwaukee have it that people are calling the ex-champ Joe “Tombstone” Race because he has not recovered from the Killer’s atom-crushing tactics.
And the Killer promises an even greater disarrangement of anatomy this year. Says the Killer: “Last year the ref did not let me finish. I had bashed this Race on de mat an’ was about to apply me ‘Pouncer Finale’ and so eliminate de stretcher-bearers, but the ref stops it. But this year the ref gets it too. To wit, I will use him for a carpet beater.”
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX By Andy Wilson
Last Friday’s meet was the 11th dual meet in history between Notre Dame and Michigan—the first in 20 years. The first was in 1900, a 43 %-20% victory for Michigan, and since that time the Wolverines have been consistent winners. Notre Dame won the last meet between the two schools in 1919, 69%-61%, her only other victory in the 11-meet series coming in 1916.
•
The trip up to Ann Arbor Friday morning was quiet; the shot putters, on whom there was little or no mental tension, were the most relaxed. In general the fellows tried to read magazines, or stared through the steam on the bus windows. Four got together for a round of bridge in the back with Tom O’Reilly’s playing cards. Dave Reidy brought along his portable phonograph and case of 50 or so records, but played it no more than five or six times. Pat Gorman, senior manager, tried out his new portable radio, but got nothing but static over the vibration of the bus motor. The more nervous men on the squad said very little, or when they talked, referred sooner or later to the meet. Most of the veterans dodged the subject or kidded about it.
The team stopped for a special dinner at Jackson, finally arriving at Ann Arbor about four hours before meet time. Everyone went to bed in the rooms provided for the team at the Michigan Student Union, then walked out to the Yost Fieldhouse in a body about half an hour ahead of time. A very light supper was provided at about 5:30 for those who wanted it.
Ben Sheridan had a very “off” night, not clearing even the starting height of 11 feet in the pole vault, so “Nick” made him take a few practice jumps after the meet. Evidently more relaxed than he 'was earlier in the evening, Ben got up to 12 feet 6 inches. In a most amazing manner, before Ben took his last jump of the evening, most of his teammates were dressed and out meeting the Michigan coeds. Most of the fellows went dancing at the Student Union. Everyone was in bed by one, as “Nick” had ordered.
The ride back home Saturday morning was hardly a noisy one, but the team members were completely relaxed, unconstrained. Of course, the two football men—Beinor and Saggau—were the, noisiest. There was a larger group in the back playing cards; most of the fellows were talking, joshing back and forth. Bob
Saggau and “Red” Martin were running off Dave Reidy’s recordings continuously! “Nick” was reflecting about many things—the performances against the Wolverines, the practice program for the week, Greg Rice’s chances against Lash and Cunningham tomorrow night at New York; Steve Coughlin was waving his bright red plushy slippers in the' air; Greg Rice was following the course of the bus with interest on a road map.
Big Ed Beinor was kidding “Nick” about taking the week off from practice, since there was no meet for the next weekend. “I need the rest, Nick,” he said. “I do much better when I have lots of rest.” “You’ll get out and work, you big bugger,” Nick told him with a grin, “or you won’t be making any more trips this spring. You should' be putting the shot a couple of feet further than you are; you forget about the rest and get in some hard work.” “Okay, Nick,” said Ed. “But if 1 don’t hit 49 feet in the next two weeks, something’s wrong with my coaching.”
Nick didn’t just say what kind of a race he thought Greg should run tomorrow against Cunningham and Lash. “If they run it right,” he said, “I think Greg can lick ’em.” He didn’t think Cunningham was out of his distance; indeed Nick thinks that Glenn can run well almost any distance. “Cunningham’s a good two-miler,” he said. He thinks that in a close finish, Glenn can outsprint them all. He doesn’t know what to expect from Lash. We ourselves hestitate to predict anything; we are hoping for a lot from little Greg, but no matter who wins, we are sure he won’t be far behind.
•
No one has run more crazy races than Don Lash. He can run an obviously “dumb” race, spurting, then dropping back, then spurting again— wasting energy all over the track— and get away with it because of his marvellous stamina. About two weeks ago he ran the first half-mile of a two-mile race in 2:04—which is what most good ’milers’ aim at when trying to run a better than 4:10 mile. A week or so ago Don lost two races in succession to Tommy Deckard, his ex-Indiana ..teammate. The ..eastern sports writers excused both defeat* on the grounds that Lash was “experimenting” with pace; on one occasion we were amused to note he ‘experi-(Continued on Page 18)
18
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
By Eddie Huff
Curt Hester is Track Coach John Nicholson’s only monogram competitor in the rhythmic half-mile run. Curt played the percussion instruments for the Rushville, Ind., high school band, and when he reported for the track sport as a junior his
Half-Miler Hester
... looks forward to Woodruff...
coach adapted Curt’s time-beatin’ antics to the 880-yard field.
After his matriculation at Notre Dame, Curt’s family shifted its residence to Grand Rapids, Mich. Then our drummer man further developed his sense of rhythm by leading a jazz band from the piano bench.
Hester has been slow to reach top condition on the winter indoor tracks, but successive performances have bettered his previous efforts consistently. He should ride the crest next weekend when the 13th annual Central Collegiate • Conference indoor games are scheduled for the Notre Dame field house.
Curt will be running against John Woodruff, Pitt’s defending title holder, who gained a marginal victory over Notre Dame’s John Francis in the ’38 competition.
Coach Nicholson’s current problem lies in a lack of confidence that has manifested itself in Hester’s running form since Francis was graduated. Nick explains that “Hester must learn to run alone. He is capable of doing anything in the C.C.C. championships even with the presence of Woodruff.”
Curt will be graduated in 1940 with a B.S. degree in Commerce, major in Business Administration, until which time he aims to “beat time” and to “beat all times” in the half-mile event.
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 17) mented” so long that Deckard piled up an 85-yard lead at the finish.
•
For the first time in four years we are convinced that the Notre Dame basketball has at last met and lost to a better team. The Irish quintets of the three years previous to this, we are sure, deserve to be ranked above all the teams that defeated them— Purdue, Ohio State, Northwestern, Illinois, Pitt, Minnesota, and Marquette. And this year we would rate the Irish over Wisconsin, Michigan, and Northwestern—over every one but Marquette. The Hilltoppers had
FLY..
Notre Dame Students
Many future jobs will require a college education and a pilot's license.
Dining on Ember Days is a pleasure when you choose the
Oliver Dining Room
or the
Oliver Coffee Shop
"We Bring the Ocean to Your Table Every Day"
everything — smartness, aggressiveness, height under the backboards, great shooting accuracy. Their most devastating piece of strategy last week at Milwaukee, we understand, was a kind of daring “sleeper” play. With Notre Dame on offense, they would pull four men tight around the basket on defense, letting forward Bob Deneen drift alone on down the court. Then after the Irish shot, Komenich or Graf or Adams were there to recover and break the ball down to Deneen, for an easy two points. The Irish were fooled about four or five times on this play. We were disappointed somewhat at the loss, of course, but feel no regret at having lost to a better team.
You may now include flying in your education if you have the written consent of your parents. The best way to travel is by air. LEARN TO FLY.
LOW RATES—$3 per half hour lesson. Guaranteed solo, $45.00.
INDIANA AIR SERVICE
Bendix Field	Phone 3-2455
N. D. representative: Ed. Minczewski, phone 4-1913.
MARCH 3, 1939
19
WOLVERINES SPORT TOO MUCH POWER
By Jack Quinn
“We’ve met the best team we’ll meet this year.” So spoke Coach Nicholson upon the return of the track team from Ann Arbor where they were defeated by the Michigan team, 65-30.
Nick took the boys up there with an idea of the job before them. After the meet had been run off their spirit had been a bit frustrated and any ideas they had had about the strength of the Michigan squad were most convincingly confirmed. With Coach Charlie Hoyt’s boys allowing the Irish but one undisputed first place, the N.D. team came back boosting the stock of Michigan for the Big Ten championship.
The program opened before a crowd of 4,200 with the mile rtm. There began and ended the Notre Dame supremacy as Captain Greg Rice followed a fast pace and then spurted out to win in the good time of 4:19. Coughlin showed improvement over his previous performance of the year by placing second to Michigan’s Smith with Saggau third. Faulkner of Michigan tore off two laps around the cinder track to take the 440 with N. D.’s best, Halpin, third. Reidy pleased Nick with his competitive spirit as he was barely beaten in the “highs and lows” with the Wolves hurdles star, Gedeon taking both in field house record times. The two-mile held the lion’s share of the interest with the anticipaf®! duel between Schwarzkopf and Rice. However, Nick seeing the ever mounting score, with an eye to tomorrow’s big race kept Greg under reins while the Michigan ace was burning his way around in a new Big Ten record of 9:15.8. The 880 gave Michigan eight
LEARN TO FLY with JTCCKECT FLYING SERVICE, Inc.
Bendix Field
STUDENT COURSE, #45.00 Trial Lesson FREE!
Charter trips to anywhere in the United States in Stinson.
See campus representative CHAS. CARROLL 114 Dillon Hall "Onr business is in the air”
more points as Hestor’s best brought only a third.
The usual strength of the Irish field men ran up against its equal as Captain Watson of Michigan warmed up with a 51 foot heave before he boarded the plan for New York where he competed the next night. Faymon-ville and Beinor came in second and third respectively. The pole vault proved rather disappointing as Dean’s best vault of 12'6" only tied Cushing’s jump. Leonas showed his best jumping of the year tying Allen at 6'4". The relay team continued their improvement, putting up a good race before they finally lost to a fast Michigan quartet.
Sociologists Visit
Rev. John P. O’Connell, C.S.C., and 16 members of his class in immigration and assimilation in the sociology department, attended naturalization proceedings held in circuit court last Thursday afternoon in South Bend. The assembled group witnessed the hearings being conducted by F. M. Symmes, Chicago, senior naturalization examiner of the United States Department of Labor, before Judge Dan Pyle, who explained the various maneuvers for the benefit of the Notre Dame visitors.	.
Over 60 candidates for citizenship appeared that afternoon, and upon proper examination on questions of civics and government, and after each was properly recommended for citizenship by two sponsors, the oath of allegiance was administered by Judge Pyle and the ceremony was over.
For
Books	Stationery
Pens Pencils Greeting Cards
Visit
The Book Shop 130 North Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
REID CRITICISM
(Continued from Page 6) give them greater control of the news and editorial phases of publication. The editors, and not the circulation department or the advertising department would run the newspapers to the intellectual and moral advantage of the profession.”
A sound and non-partisan editorial column would raise the newspaper to former heights before the salacious nature of journalism appeared.
“All thouse who love the profession of Journalism owe it to themselves and to their profession as well as to the people and the nation to rid journalism of the evils to which our devotion must not blind us.”
Sunday Nite, March 5
HORACE HENDERSON and his famous colored band
35c in advance 55c at the door Tax Paid
▼
Tickets on sale in WALGREEN’S and CLARK’S PALAIS ROYALE
SNTIBS
Always clean and free from goo no matter how often you smoke it. ChaL lenging higher-priced pipes in briar quality and value. J

>4
miiAno
20
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
STIFF COMPETITION IN WINTER SPORTS
The winter sports caravan is moving, but not without the push of Elmer Layden’s executive quartet— Dray, Bolz, Lacroix, and Wilson. Of the four, Wilson in particular seems decided that the regulations shall be adhered to. For Andy did not hesitate to eliminate ten tardy gentlemen in the first round of his billiard tourney. The billiard tourney will most likely end as announced, on March 1. Already Shea of Alumni has reached the semifinals. Twenty-eight cue-men played single games of twenty-five points during the past week, fourteen reaching the second round.
Meanwhile, the table tennis legion whanged its way deep into the second round of the singles. Ninety-five registrants are apparently aware that ping-pong is the thing, if evidence of the first round matches is any criterion. Thirty-two contestants are in the second round, and Bolz is still waiting for thirty-odd fellows to take advantage of the free tables. Farthest advanced are Gottschalk and Heckler of Lyons, and Sommerrer and Carpenter, Off-campus, who are playing in the third round.
Etchings
Here is a real value— genuine etchings depicting either the
Administration Building
or the
Campus Entrance
8 x 11 inches
While they last we are selling them at our net cost — $2.00.
N. D. Book Store
Over in the Walsh Hall sub, K. of C. Rec. manager Cy Tlusty is having a busy time running off three bowling tournaments at once. The Chemists’ Club, the Knights of Columbus, and the University tournaments are taking place in the campus busy-spot. Seniors are dominating the course of events in the University show, which appears to be rolling true to the slogan “best yet.” No fewer than seven contestants are boasting opening scores of 500 or over. Leading the qualifying field with 570 is Dan Hushek of Dillon, followed by Rev. Louis Ernsdorff with 562, and Art Selna with 560. One hundred of the registered one hundred and fifty have rolled at this writing. The qualify-

ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG., SOUTH BEND
ing score will undoubtedly be set at 470. Twenty-five have already assured themselves of places in the tourney.
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor To
Rogers
Prompt Lene or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
21
MARCH 3, 1939
FORUM IS READY FOR CHICAGO TRIP
By James Brugger
March 16 will find members of the Commerce Forum on their annual trek to Chicago for an inspection of various industrial plants and commercial establishments. The group will leave early Thursday morning and return late the same day. No definite arrangements have been made regarding transportation, President Dave Meskill stated.
Yesterday the Commerce Forum sponsored a Chevrolet Club Program in which movies covering both scientific and light subjects were shown. Interesting was the one on vacuum control, which demonstrated what a tremendous force a properly controlled vacuum is. Thunder—weather —and the simple act of sipping a soda—are all illustrations of the effects of partial vacuums. Another novel short entitled “Color Harmony” took a camera down under the sea to record a “fish-eye” view of marine
life, to discover what a fish, a lobster, a turtle, or a worm really see.
Vivid analogies—in animation and brilliant photography—visualize and explain the workings of that most intricate of mechanisms, the human eye. In brilliant technicolor scenes, prismatic rays of light play upon the human eye and show how the eye registers color and what color does to us. The magic of color printing— the harmonious blending of pigments to meet the requirements of modem people for modem life—furnishes a glowing, colorful climax.
One hundred members attended the Forum’s Smoker, Feb. 23. Albert Schmitz discussed the manufacture of that popular drink, Coca Cola.
Are You Collar Blind?
SHORT NECK!
Wear Arrow GORDON or TREND—long points give your neck altitude.
LONG NECK!
If you want to make the most of your face, select Arrow white shirts with the right style collar to fit your type of neck. Arrow whites are world-famous, revolutionary in design and renown for the bestfitting, best-looking collars that ever circled a neck. Arrow whites go with all your suits, always smart, always right.
Wear Arrow WINDSOR (with tab or tabless collar) — short points cut down altitude.
NORMAL NECK!
Wear Arrow RADNOR —• round points, very-dressy. In fact, all Arrows look well on you.
Gordon Oxford and Trump are two Arrow shirts every college man should own . . . they’re long on wear and short on the purse-strings. Only $2.
Arrow shirts are Sanforized-Shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than 1%)
ARROW SHIRTS
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
22
KLINE OPTIMISTIC ON DIAMOND PROSPECTS
Minus five regulars from the 1938 Notre Dame baseball team, Coach Clarence (Jake) Kline called his varsity squad together this week in the gymnasium, preparatory to taking the players out-of-doors as soon as weather permits.
“We’re missing most the ‘strength of a ball club,’ you know, the line from catcher to center field,” Jake commented in his oifice this week. “We have three pitchers back—Norv-all Hunthausen, Mike Mandjiak, and Rex Ellis—but other than that we lost Catcher Kovzelove, the shortstod-second base combination of Corcoran and Braddock, and Centerfielder and Captain Borowski. In addition, we lost the team’s leading hitter and right fielder, Arboit,” Jake furthered.
Visit Our New Complete Record Dept.
BRUNSWICK — KAY KYSER
You'll li^e these two new Kyser releases —
(“I Promise You” )	( “Gotta Get Some Shut-eye"
(“Heaven Can Wait” J "( “Coo Coo in the Clock” J
- VOCALION — JAN GARBER now recording — hear his latest!
RODIN, Inc.
132 North Michigan Street	South Bend, Indiana
THE HUDDLE . . .
COKES . . . SMOKES . . . YOUR FAVORITE PIPE . . .
MALTED MILK . . .	APPLES. 5c EACH . . .
The Irish mentor was optimistic, however, when he noted that Doyle returns at first base, Sullivan will be back at third, and Nardone forms one-third of the outfield.
While the initial game has not been definitely slated, Coach Kline expects to meet Illinois on April 8. A total of 14 games have been scheduled with Big Ten teams. In addition, Michigan State and Western State of Kalamazoo, Michigan are on the program.
Looking to the freshman squad of last season for several replacements, Coach Kline sees the outstanding men as: Vandervort and Radelet, catchers; Lang and Wilson, pitchers; Farrell, first base; McGuire, second base; Pinelli, shortstop; Crimmins, third bas; and Behe and Rinaldi, outfielders.
The initial call for Freshmen will be the day after Easter vacation, Coach Kline said. Bill Cerney will tutor the Frosh.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Handball Postponed
No further matches have been scheduled at present for the Notre Dame handball team. It is believed that Illinois University will be unable to organize a team to compete against the Irish. The date for the Uni-sity of Chicago match here, which was recently postponed, has not been set as yet.
MARCH LIONS NEVER ROAR
. • . when you GO
hr SOUTH SHORE
Shifty March winds may blow . . . ice, snow and rain may make highways hazardous—but you’ll ride safely and comfortably on the South Shore Line. All-Steel cars shut out weather discomfort, traffic dangers and the worries of driving. You're sure to "get there on time” when you travel bv South Shore Line.
Call C. W. VEACH
City Passenger Agent 301 N. Michigan St.
PHONE 3-3111 for more information
THIS PIPE NEVER BITES MY TONGUE'
MEDICO FILTERED SMOKING
TkyTEDICO’S patented filter, com-LVA bining 66 Baffle interior and cellopKane exterior, is greatest scientific smoking invention ever known. It traps nicotine, juices and flakes; and breaks up hot smoke stream, resulting in cool, “broken - in*’ Filtered Smoking in Medico Pipes, Cigarette and Cigar Holders.
GENUINE FILTERS FOR MEUICO PIPES packs only inthb REO * RLACR ROX
FINEST BRIAR MONEY CAN BUY
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE « SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
NEWEST SHAPES
5OUthnsehor[
MARCH 3. 1939
23
ROCKNE MEMORIAL
(Continued from. Page 10)
The water comes from St. Joseph’s Lake — pumped from the Power House—it is pre-heated before being put into pool—is filtered at the rate of 27,000 gallons per hour.
Temperature of water will be maintained at approximately 75 degrees— temperature of room approximately 80 degrees.
A balcony to be equipped with bleachers is located on each side of pool. The floor surrounding the pool slants out and downward and terminates in a narrow, shallow drain gutter. There are three tiled benches built into the wall on each side of the room. Benches also have small drain gutters. Entire floor surrounding pool is non-skid tile.
The swimming room is lighted by 24 ultra modern indirect lighting units. There are four built-in ladders in the pool, each made with non-skid rungs.
DENTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG.. SOUTH BEND
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
♦
ASK US ABOUT OUR NEW PLAN TO PROTECT YOU AGAINST THE COSTLY BREAKAGE OF GLASSES.
• •. this telephone idea can, help you
WHILE you’re in college, you’re on the consumer side of the fence. There you’ll find the ^Where to Buy It” section of your Telephone Directory a quick, easy way to discover who sells what you want.
After graduation, you may he on the other side of the fence, too—the seller’s side. As a manufacturer or distributor of an advertised product you will find classified telephone directory listings a most effective and economical way to direct buyers to the dealers handling your product.
This directory service, tying up the national advertiser with the local distributor of his product, is just one of many Bell System ideas that help to increase
Optometrists and Opticians Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
the perfect combination”.
sonal charm .
JOHN ROBERT POWERS, the head of the world’s best known model agency, when booking his famous models for fashions, advertisers and artists, says "The call is for beauty, poise, per-
/he ferhecf Qomhinaf/on gets the call
Chesterfields get the call from more and more smokers every day because of their refreshing mildness, better taste and pleasing aroma.
The perfect combination of Chesterfield’s mild ripe American and aromatic Turkish tobaccos ...the can ’t-be-copied blend... makes Chesterfield the cigarette that gives millions of men and women more smoking pleasure.
When you try them you will know why Chesterfields give more smoking pleasure, why THEY SATISFY
Copyright 1939, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
Chesterfield
...the blend that can’t be copied ...a HAPPY COMBINATION ofthe world’s best cigarette tobaccos