


>> Cribs by Nick Kolman-Mandie 14 >> Domers Hit the Slopes by Megan Connelly 25 >> Gone Country by Lauren Kiehna 27 >> Casa Deliziosa byTracy Evans 29 
From the Editor  .  . 2  Splinters ....  22  
ND Notebook  .  . 4  Out of Bounds .  30  
Campus Watch  .  18  Calendar ..  31  
Week in Distortion  ..  20  Final Word  ... • .....  32  


Monster Campus 
Giant yellow machines are pushing mounds ofdirt around. Cement mixers are more ubiquitous than students. Cranes are visible from any vantage 
point on campus. Yes, things are back to normal around here. After an unnervingly quiet break last year from never-ending construction 
around campus, the university's crews are back at it this semester. Work con­tinues on the new performing arts center and the new security building, while ground has been broken on a new science building and an expansion to the 
athletic facilities. · · · · Ifthe university has its way, the construction won't end anytime soon. In the works for the benefit offuture students are plans far more ambitious than just a new building or a new quad. Notre Dame is planning to build a town. The long-term plans for the unversity include a visionary design centering around a series of mixed-use buildings that will replicate the small-town feel look for that has put so many other campuses on the map. The university hopes this 
ISSUE 11 
will not only help revitalize the community surrounding the campus, but of­
on 
MAR25 fer a convenient and attractive place for students to venture through on their constitutionals. 
Imagine: A place filled with outdoorcafes, streetside shops, trees shading the walkways and plenty ofpedestrians populating the promenade. In other words, a campus that isn't isolated from the city. The days of cars-only access would be only an unpleasant memory. 
It's an lofty project~ years away from realization -but it would be one of the largest expansions ever supported by the university. Too bad none ofus will be around to see it. On page 8, Scholastic investigates what itwill eventually look like, and how it will effect the South Bend community. 


Farewell 
This magazine consumes the lives ofall who work here, but itis nonetheless 
I enjoyable, thanks to the tireless and hardworking staff that has put up with this editor'.5 moments ofseething rage and that has politely smiled at his embar­rassingly unfunny jokes. Theyare the backbone ofthis magazine, and ithas been myprivilege to workwith them. Theyare the reasons that this magazine makes deadline, and I will miss being awake at 4:00 a.m. on Wednesday mornings. 
As the seniors bid farewell on the opposite page, Scholastic welcomes its ca­pable new staff, taking over next issue. They don't need it, but we wish them good luck anyway. · 

Matt Killen, Editor Correction: In the previous issue, reporter Alisa Finelli's name was mispelled. Scholastic regrets the error. 
2 SCH0LASTICFROM THE EDITOR 

Vol.I 45, No, IO • 19 FEB 2004 

SCHOLaSTIC 
rs Editor In Chief
[.J Matt Killen 
•::.J Managing Editor 
f...] Sean Dudley ( ·1, Executive Design Editor !'< Ryan Greenberg 

I•.·­
Assistant Managing Editor ::·_ Ryan Greene 
~:-\ News 
'. · i Jim Ryan, editor [;.;} Tom Tiberio. assistant ,·· Campus Life 
/:" Carolyn G. LaFave, editor 
i Nick Kolman-Mandie, assistant ):·.: 
Lauren Wilcox, assistant 
Sports 
Jimmy Atkinson, editor 
Christopher Meskill, assistant 
Entertainment i\' •Tracy Evans, editor i-:. Lauren Klehna, assistant
i, 
'· · Departments Mike Healy, editor 
Design 
< Alice Bonifield '· ! David Redenbaugh /1 Nell Ryan
ii Photography 
'· Phil Hall, editor
!f Brenna Manion, assistant 
',l Graphic DesignJ Christine Graham, editor 
i) Copy
J Kelly M. Faehnle, chief 
~:.•.·i Mo Ertel, assistant
f'· JenniferWadkins 
[:_·:1 Kim Thompson t::· Anna Schmall I/. Katie Scarlett O'Hara [.·? Darlene Luebbert ·Fl Dlstrlbutlon
!j Phil Hall, manager •• I Business 1:1·.: Jessie Potish, manager 
L', Online k.: Jimmy Atkinson, manager Iii AdvisorLJ Robert Franken '69 
Disce Quasi Semper Victtmis . Vive Quasi Cras Mo,·ittm,s 

Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed atAve Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN,46556. The entire contents of Schofastic magazine is copyright 
· 2004 University of Notre Dame.All rights reserved, No 
f.·.-contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may 
·1•.::,; 

be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume liability [ for unsolicited manuscripts or material.All correspondence :,:; should be sent to Scholastic magazine, Lafortune Student ( Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556,To be published in the next 
Jissue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before }-1 the issue.Articles.of-awesomeness-related magazine activi­i-1 ties.All letters must include the writer's name, address ·.•.·::·•. and phone number.All letters must be signe.d. Names will [[·:: be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic ,'.;.-· reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for ; , corrections made more than 21 days after publication can­/l· not be guaranteed.The subscription rate Is $35 per year. 
'[ Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify )_1 volume and number, or date. Copies of the annual football >"I review are available at $5 per copy.Advertising rates 
available on request.The opinions expressed in Scholastic
M

magazine are not necessarily those of the University of I Notre Dame or the student body. · 
19 FEBRUARY 2004 
2004-2005 EDITORS IN CHIEF ELECTED 
Juniors Annie Robinson and Michael Borgia were unanimously elected editors in chief for the '04 -'05 school year. . Annie and Mike, both of whom are abroad this se­mester, were thrilled at the announcement. "Since my freshman year, I've dreamt of running Scholastic," An­nie said. "Mike and I have been extremely dedicated to the magazine and can't wait to take over. However, our former EIC will be a hard act to follow." Annie and Mike plan on getting more students in­volved in the magazine, as well as working to enforce those ever-elusive deadlines. They also hope to increase communication among the many departments at the magazine. Though many of the proposed changes will be inter­nal, the pair hope they will translate to visible improve­ments for the publication. · D 

A fter the election of /"'\Annie Robinson and Mike Borgia as editors in chief, junior Ryan Greenberg was appointed to serve as editor in chief for the remainder of the spring semester. 
~~ti~~ttt~s+¥t~ Ryan joined the staff his freshman year as a designer, where he has moved up the ranks to his current position ofexecutive design editor. 

"I can't possibly run the magazine into the ground in two months," Ryan says. "Can I?" . 

T.HA,NKS & FAREVV,ELL 

Matt Killen, editor in chief, somehow tricked everyone else on the staff to do work and managed to slack off for 12 consecutive issues. He thanks them for that. Next year, he'll harness his skills at obnoxiousness as he attends law school somewhere. " Crippling loneliness, here I come!" 

Ryan Greene, assistant managing editor, is perhaps the most caustic, cynical individual to have ever graced Scho/astic's staff. An aspiring journalist, he desperately hopes to find a job soon. Any job. But chances are, he'll be living in a cardboard box and subsisting on dirt and leaves come August. 

Jimmy Atkinson, sports editor, was unsuccessful in his attempt to seize control of the editor in chief position for next year; discovering at the last minute that he was indeed going to graduate and move on to bigger and better things. Like watching Notre Dame football with communist penguins. 



Kelly Faehnle, copy chief, is feared by split in­-finitives and dangling prepositions everywhere. --She hopes to work with a book publisher or 
magazine after graduating with a degree in Eng­lish and French. She will continue to go honky­tonkin' and clubbing and to sing along with the radio. And she will live happily ever after. Rn. 
Carolyn Lafave, campus life editor; would really like to write a book after she graduates with an English degree. But until you see her book on the shelves, she'll be working for some worthy cause, hoping to be successful one day. 
Jessie Potish, business manager, is terribly sad to be leaving after four years of Scholastic fun. She is graduating with a degree in Spanish and Gender Studies. Next year, Jessie is heading to North Carolina to teach Spanish through Teach for America. 
Tom Tiberio, assistant news editor, plans to keep his options open for next year. Grad school may be a possibility, or working at a daily newspaper, or perhaps even delivering daily papers. As an English major; he will spend the better part of spring fending off potential employers. 
SCH0LASTICFROM THE EDITOR 3 
IDon't Be Alarmed The story behind those annoying dorm fire alarms MICHAEL P.BARRETT and are called to fill in for the full-timers and provide extra manpower when major It happens all too often; The shrilling incidents occur. and buzzing sends you bolt upright in Captain Tim Hoeppner says that there bed, expletives and griping ensue, and are an average of 1,200 fire and medical you ask, even in your groggy state: could calls per year, which breaks down to about this be an actual fire or is it just a poorly 25 calls per week. And give yourself extra timed drill? For those who have ever points if you guessed that smaller fires experienced a situation similar to this involving food ­especially one -or for those who only have had popcorn-arethe most the pleasure of hearing about it all day prevalent. Although long the next day-here is a quick look most fires on cam­behind the scenes ofthe Notre Dame Fire pus are minor, Department and what's going onwith the there have been a sleep-stealing signals. few major fires in The NDFD, located on the corner of the university's Holy Cross and St.Joe's Drives just behind history. The most Haggar Hall, houses two fire engines, two recent was a fire fire rescue squad SUVs, an alarm techni­and explosion at the cian SUV and a long metal boat complete power plant in the spring of 1999. Another . with buoyancy devices, ropes and an one burned the campus laundromat to the ice-rescue sled. The building is also the ground in 1988 ­now the A9 parking lot workplace and second home of12 profes­behind Lewis Hall. A huge fire also ruined sional full-time :firefighters, a fire chief the third and fourth floors ofSt. Edward's · and an alarm technician. An additional · Hall in 1980. Even the Golden Dome has 19 on-call firefighters complete the squad been tarnished: A fire destroyed Main  Building over 100 years ago. So what about the annoying alarms? Captain Hoeppner says that there are two required fire drills -one per semester -for each dorm. However, a dorm may schedule a special drill with the NDFD, possibly resulting ina unequal distribution of fire drills. He says the most common case, though-such as that in Dillon Hall, which has had many alarms go off in the past year ­is a student's pulling the alarm for "fun." But one still might wonder if there is a conspiracy to rack out overnight parietals-breaking partners. When asked about this, Hoeppner just laughed and denied the claim. Regardless, the alarms do go off too late in the night and too often; Hoeppner says the best advice is to notplay practical jokes and to be careful when using microwaves or ovens. Oh, and don't even attempt to pop popcorn after 3:00 a.m. -Kelly Faehnle cont:ributed to this article  
Two Sundays ago, Juan Alba, a 6-foot 2-inch, 285-lb senior thrower on theTen Questions with ND's Eating Machine Notre Dame track team, became only the second person ever to eat three extra-meat Boracho burritos in one sitting. The markJuan he matched was set by former Irish football Alba centerJeffFaine, who now playsfor the Cleveland Browns. When Alba wasfinallySour cream able to talk again, he spoke with Scholastic on the mind, about his burrito-eating ordeal. and face How did you prepare for the big day?  hired a personal coach [his girlfriend, junior Mona Lisa DellaVolpe]. She had a whistle. When will you tell Jeff Faine? I didn't plan on that. I have so much re­spect for that guy now, I don't want to rub it in his face. He's already said he doesn't care ifhe doesn't hold the record, because he wouldn't want anyone else to have to.go through that pain. Three burritos really screws with your world.  

Two weeks before, I went to Boracho and had two extra-meat burritos. A week be­fore., I ate as much as I could every meal. A few days before, I went to Boracho and just watched everybody; to get my hunger up. It was a long training process, and I 
Therehasbeensomecontroversyfrom people at Boracho about whether you tooktoolongtofinish (an hour and a half, finishingaftercloseat2:00a.m.). Howdo you respond to that? 
They usually close at 4:00 a.m., but they 
4 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 19 FEBRUARY 2004 
-1 

.Judgment Calls 
Opinions and observations 

STUDENT BODY PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS 
The tickets may have been similar, and the issues may have seemed dull, but at least we got a nifty constitutional crisis out of it.Too bad the courts didn't get involved. 

UNITED STATES PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS 
Who cares about the issues when we can prattle on endlessly about infidelity and guard service? The national media's almost making us miss the Dean Scream. 

SEX AND THE CITY 
The final episode airs this weekend.Will Carrie choose Mr. Big, or will she stay in France? Scholastic doesn't have any inside information, but the end of City must mean that The Sopranos are just around the corner. 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
TEAM 
UConn, Seton Hall, and now Syracuse? Looks like the Irish are on a roll. Maybe a strong showing in the postseason will drown out certain alumni's dissatistfaction 

SPRING BREAK 
It's just around the corner! Scholastic plans on skipping the actual break and watching the MTV version instead. Because that, friends, is reality. 

I 

dinosaurs and the first slicing of bread changed life on earth forever, so, too, does this latest event herald a new age of the world. Let it be known far and wide: 
Barbie and Ken ~re a couple no more. 
They've been together since 1961. They've played dress-up and undergone makeovers with millions of fashion-con­scious children. They've held practically every position and dabbled in nearly ev­ery profession known 
to humanity. And now Okay, so the end of birthed by fond memories, they're calling it quits. Barbie and Ken's marital this one also is symptomatic Okay, so the end bliss is not quite earth-oflazine_ss and gr~ed in the of Barbie and Ken's shattering news. entertamment mdustry. marital bliss is not ____________ Rather than go to the 
snatched up and remade into toys, televi­sion shows and movies, the childhood di­versions of yesteryear are fast becoming more recognizable to today's kids than Pikachu and SpongeBob. 
· This trend is attributable to adults' nos­talgia for bygone amusements like cartoons and toys. The children ofthe '80s are now in a position to resurrect their favorites in ostensibly exciting new forms. 
Like so many trends 
quite earth-shattering news. It might not even warrant a faint tremor. But it speaks to a larger shift in popular culture, a shift that promises a lot of people a heaping helping of deja vu. 
This change in American entertainment might seem subtle at first, but chances are you've noticed some of its symptoms. Transformers and GIJoe are re-appearing on television and in theaters. Strawberry Shortcake and My Little Pony are re-in­vading toy stores. Care Bears are popping up on T-shirts everywhere and Barbie, who reached unparalleled heights of popularity in the '80s, is making itinto celebrity news columns across the nation. 
See a pattern? 
As if VHl's mind-bogglingly popular shows were no indication, the sad truth can be denied no longer: the '80s live again. 
Not only is that silliest of decades alive 
lengths of creating enjoy­able new characters, the brains behind American fun would prefer to churn out mindless, sub-par, embarrassing rehashes ofour beloved childhood companions. 
·· What makes matters worse is the fact that these return visits to '80s cultural icons are just the tip of the iceberg. This unoriginalityis the reason Saturday morn­ing television is dominated by the latest Japanese imports, and why Hollywood loves to produce awful remakes of classic films just to turn an easy profit. 
And this is why the dissolution ofBarbie and Ken's holy union is being touted as big news. Sure, the '80s were fun, but we should leave that decade and its culture where it belongs, before the entertainment industry ravages our most cherished child­hood memories beyond all recognition. . 
I?o!!~D'!!-!!~H~~LY 
Source: Notre Dame Alumni Association and University Alumni Web site 

You've probably noticed the letter signed by alumni expressing their discontent with the current state of Notre Dame football.The depth and intensity of the letter's concern necessarily leads one to pose the question: What do these people do with themselves when they are not watching, discussing or reading about ND football1 Well, as it turns out, the university actually has some very accomplished alumni. Don't believe me? Take a look: 
Morgan Stanley, Marriott, Corp., Hershey Food Corp.Threeofthe many executive officer. companies headed by alumni. S The number of states in which Notre Dame grads serve as federal judges. Chicago Tribune, ABC News, Sports lllustratedThree ofthe prestigious 7 Number of graduates serving on staff to U.S. Congressional Committees. media outlets at which alumni hold senior positions. 3 Number of astronauts to have matriculated at Notre Dame. 
ISThe number of colleges and universities with alumni serving as their chief I Number of Nobel Prizes won by grads. 
6 SCH0LASTICNOTEBOOK 19 FEBRUARY 2004 
•••••••••••••••o••o••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 


: · University Resources 





WANT.ED:
. . . 

· •· 
for Gay, Lesbian, & 
Bisexual Students 

·scholastic
.· \

THE STANDING 
• 
\

COMMITTEE ON 
',

GAY AND LESBIAN 

STUDENT NEEDS 
/ \, .is loc;king for a
I \ . 
The Standing Committee on Gay and 
B~sln~_ss'\Maraager
Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. ML. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student members (see web site for student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.3 l@nd.edu 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/--,scglsn/ Contact Ryan ·Greenberg at scholast@nd.edu for an appiication 
th-e camp,us..store -off campus 
THE _N.EWEST .AND ONLY OFF CAMPUS STORE. OF,FERING: THE SAME PRODUCTS, THAT y-ou FIND ON CAMPUS AT A LOWER PRICt:r J1UST A 1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS IHTHE MARTINS.SHOPPING PLAZA CALL FOR STORJE HOURS 24_3..4197 OR SHOP ONLINE WWW'.UMIVERSITYOUTF11TTERSUSA.COM 
-... -­



' 

JIMRYAN 
ust a stone's throw away from campus, a vi~tage clothing store rubs elbows with 
OurTown Ja piano bar, and down the street a sand-1 
Notre Dame hopes to bring _College Town, U.S.A. to South Bend, Indiana 
8 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 

wich shop sates shoppers famished from lugging bags ofroll-necksweaters and rare' vinyl records. At the burger joint on the! corner, lunchtime conversations about ~he nominations for president and the nomen-. clature for carbonated beverages are inth­rupted only by the pony-tailed kid with $5.75 in his guitar case and a sad rendition of"Mr. Bojangles" on his lips. · · 
19 FEBRUARY2004 


Such images may call to mind classic has several ideas as to why a college town occupy the development yet, because it is "college towns" like Austin, Boston and never developed around Notre Dame. still in the very early stages of planning, Ann Arbor. But South Bend, despite a She says that since the university is so according to Lyphout. The university is smattering of off-campus hangouts like self-contained, students have never been currently searching for someone to fill Boracho Burrito and The Salvation Army dependent on South the position of real Store, does not exactly fit that bill. Bend for amenities estate professional, The image of South Bend may be such as housing, din-whose job it will be :riearing change, however, as the univer­ing or entertainment. to call a developers' sity plans the development of a combina­Conversely, South ........-.....;;;,.,~ conference. For tion of commercial and residential space Bend was once a bus-this conference, south of campus in an· effort to create a cling manufacturing the university will college town. Scholastic examines the cur­town thanks to com-invite several pre­rent plans for the proposed development panies like Bendix, qualified develop-and considers its potential significance AM General and ers to campus to for students, the local economy and the Studebaker. As such, JUST IMAGINE It may look bleak now, but in the gauge their interest relationship between Notre Dame and Notre Dame was not future this stretch will be a quaint college town. levels in develop-South Bend. such an integral part ing the university's ofits identity. property and to examine their concepts Cr_e_atjng_a_C_ol[e_ge_::to..wn__ Urban sprawl also contributed to the for development. The meeting will al-
The idea for the proposed multi-use lack of a college town, Rucker says. In the low the university to create relationships development south of campus was first past, university faculty and staff common-with people who can bring capital to the articulated in the Campus Master Plan, ly lived in the neighborhood directly south project. approved by the Board of Trustees in the of campus; in fact, Notre Dame Avenue Once developers agree to build on the fall of 2002. One of the distinguishing wasoncereferredtoas"facultyrow."Over property, they can proceed with archi­features ofthe plan is an "enhanced con-the years, however, people who ordinarily tectural plans for the buildings. Douglas nection between Notre Dame and the would have bought in that neighborhoo_d Marsh, the university architect, says that surrounding community." To facilitate -have moved to Granger and other, newer most ~evekipers use their ·own designers;·­this enhancement, the university seeks communities. This decline in residential but lusoffice·,-wliicli was iristriimeiifiifin-· --· to build a public park directly south of development near campus has been ac-creating the Campus Master Plan, will also the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the companied by a decline in commercial have significant say in the appearance of Performing Arts, near the mixed-use development, as well. the proposed multi-use development. For commercial and residential space itself, Through the proposed multi-use de-example, the universitywill develop design which will run along Eddy St. on property velopment, the university will bring both standards, guidelines for the appearance of currently owned by the university. new residential space and new commercial the development, such as what streetlights 
James Lyphout is the university's vice space near c~mpus. Lyphout envisions a must look like and what building materi­president for Business Operations, the series of three-story buildings. Apart-als may be used. The city of South Bend office overseeing the implementation of ments or condominiums for students, will adopt these design standards for the the campus plan. He says the university faculty and other South Bend residents college town and make developers adhere feels the need to redevelop the area south would occupy the third and second floors to them while constructing the proposed of campus because Notre Dame, unlike of these buildings. The street level and multi-use development. many universities, lacks a lively college some second floor space would be for Despite the university's emphasis on ad-town adjacent to campus. Potential uni-commercial use. heringtoitstraditionalarchitecturalstyles versity employees are Lyphout hopes for new buildings on campus, the univer­quick to point out the retailers in the sity will not attempt to impose this look this deficiency. development will on the proposed multi-use development. 
"When we try to · appeal to students, "We don't want people to think Notre recruit faculty and though he says they Dame is sprawling into the surrounding other senior level will not be "big box" community," Marsh says. Therefore, the people to the uni-.,. retailers like Target appearance of the proposed development versity," Lyphout or Meijer. Instead, will reflect the scale and the materials of 
-.. .,:l•. 

says, "what is often r.·_ · -f' he envisions pri-theexistingbuildingsintheneighborhood mentioned is the lack lL.. __ __ _ .... s---------_______ __ ___,_ _ ".·: vate businesses and south of campus and will be the result of of a place where the COMMUNITY THEATER Events at Notre moderately sized collaboration between the university, the community and the Dame's performing arts center should attract people chain stores: "My city, the developers, and the residents of 
lty from both the university and the community. t • 't' · the surroundx"ng commum"ty.
students and f:acu concep, 1s 1 s gomg come together for coffee or at a bookstore to be things like a bicycJe sR'op, a coffee When these groups might see some or common points ofinterest." shop, maybe a kind of ~ap stor'e~small actual buildings is still up in the air. "It's 
Jackie Rucker, a lifelong resident of bookstore, a branch b'ank, a dentist~ of-a moving target right now," Lyphout says. South Bend and the director of-Notre :6.ce, a doctor's office( an Irish pub."~ "Itmightbeaslittleas 18months;itmight 
Dame's Office of Community Relations, No specific busirfsses have agreed to ""-be as long as three or four years, depending 
I 
19 FEBRUARY 2004 \ " SCHOLASTICZCOVER STORY 9
IF¥ 


on what kinds ofdevelopers we can interest in the project, and how quickly they can direct their resources to the project." He adds, "All I can say is that we're working on itvery diligently, and we want to bring it to fruition as soon as possible." 
In addition to new buildings, the plans for the proposed development call for improvements to surrounding streets. The university wants to create 
-a"1'ifede,t;!rian friendly environment" between the development's park and its commercial ~9 residential space. Edison Rd.I Angela ,Blvd. will separate the park from the ne'w buildings, but according to Rucker,..-(he road's current configuration 
/

is t~o,'"foreboding." )'People just don't think of walking _.1llcross [Edison/Angela] to hang out on 
/ the campus," Rucker says. "We want to make that more pedestrian-friendly so that people feel invited to come and hang out on the campus, to spend time, to use it like a park." The Campus Master Plan ·calls for the straightening ofEdison/Angela between Notre Dame Avenue and Eddy St. The straightening will move the intersection ofEdison/ Angela and Eddy to the south. Itwill create more space for the park south ofthe Performing Arts Center and, after the closing ofJuniper St., it will create a less intimidating, three-way intersection with Eddy St. 
___ .. __J;,yp_l_!~_llt ~d~s _tha~. i!fiP.1:0.Y<!~e,n.ts to 
~--~1:he '.'five:::points" .intersec1:ion. ofSoJith 
We.....~nt to make [Edison/Angela-]/ more pedestrian-friendly so--ttfat people fe~inv.ited to c0rne and hang out ~n.the came!Jsr~<o
spend time, to use 1t like a parl<..
/ acl<ie Rucker, director of Notre.,,pame's 
' ' 
/ 
Office of Community Relations 
' 


.,, 

Bend Ave., Corby Blvd. and Eddy St. will also be necessary, as that intersection will mark the south end ofthe commercial and residential development. Smaller improve­ments like tree-lined sidewalks, on-street parking and landscaped medians will also serve to make the proposed development more appealing to pedestrians. 
~nanciallmplic.atio_ns_ 
Constructing the proposed multi-use development will be a collaborative effort, 
10 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 


RELAXATION AND RECREATION The development plans include a park area.and re-routed roads f~r more pedestrian-friendly access to campus and the college town. ' 
and financing the development will be no in their buildings. , . different. Theuniversity, the city ofSouth Lyphout says that the university will not Bend and developers will all contribute gain financially from the development. "I capital to the development, which they feel don't think the university wants to own 
will serve the interests ofall inv<?lveg...... --~-~tgpe,~ate_~u~U1e,s~~~t_he,_~~Y~:..'~'\V~jrist The university currently 6wn~,.t.h.e...:,W.3.1J.t .to facilitate aprocess thatwill result 
property upon which the proposed multi-use development will be built, including the land where the Logan Center is located and two large lots near the five-points intersection. The univer­sity will not, however, raise money to construct the new buildings, as it does for on-campus buildings. Rather, the university will sell the land to develop­ers or establish long-term leases with them. The developers will then build on the property and charge tenants for space in desirable business development in that district." The university hopes that such developmentwill improve the somewhat impoverished neighborhood south of campus. 
Economic leaders in the com­munity approve of the ·university's plan and think it will be successful in revitalizing the neighborhood. "I think all the concepts are sound," says Mark Eagan, President and CEO of the St. Joseph's Cqunty Chamber pf" 
Commerce. "Someoftheneighborhoods. around the university [ ... ] have been 6n • the decline," he says. "My hope is th~t [ this new investment] will be a catalyst for other development." r · 
Donald Inks, director of the City of South Bend's Division of Economic De.c velopment, shares this positive outlook. He says the university approached ~is office approximately one year ago wii:h their plans for developing the area south of campus. "We thought they had do*e 
'." 
19 FEBRUARY 2004 





'i:1;jlll1~1fllf~;i~~t!Jt
.~ .·:i,:'>•· .;1'"'\/i;:';····•··•,r:,r:·)'"<;l"•;;• -..;:ry ,>" •,·; .•·> ·/' 7•·~
' 

since its inceP,tion!in 1842/the university has h.ad a1sometrmes-,che~k-/ 
RELOCATION Development plans include moving the Logan Center, with the university's help. 
some good work," he says. "I think it will have a positive effect for both the univer­sity and the neighborhood." 
Rucker says that the development will address basic needs ofthe neighborhood. "You can't buy a loaf of bread in that neighborhood," she says. "That's a prob­lem." Rucker also says development will make the neighborhood a more appealing place for university faculty and staff to live. If more university employees move into the neighborhood rather than to newer communities like Granger, it will create a greater tax base for South Bend. 
Lyphout says the city also stands to benefit from the additional businesses, jobs, and attractions that the proposed multi-use development will provide. As a· result, the city has cooperated closely with the university in the development. The city created a mixed-use, residential and commercial zone for the Eddy St. cor­ridor. Such zones previously did not existin South Bend. InDecember 2003, the city of­ficially declared the neighborhood south of campus a redevelopment area, which allows it to be declared a tax incremental financ­ing (TIF) district. When a TIF district is developed and improved, any resulting increase in property taxes in the district can be recycled back into the district to be used for further improvements. 
Once the property is developed, both community leaders and the university envision shops and services that will cater to both South Bend residents and people affiliated with the university.. "We'd like to see shops that will bring character and help complement the neighborhood," Eagan says. Lyphout says, "[South Bend residents'] participation, their support ofthe businesses there, will be critical to the project." 
Neither Lyphout, Inks nor Eagan is concerned that the proposed multi-use development will have an adverse effect on businesses that :r--Jotre Dame students and staff currently frequent, such as res­
/ lered reJiti~6sh!t w.jth i}/ n.e,Jfh.b,drin,/t~fn. f'h7ht?t u?i~e~sity.1~as/ / . f~tnd/d ~n'la9d b71on9ing7o F~the).Badm, t~e c~mp~s w7~ ""'.;II o~ts,_1e I · th'e town,limits of South Bend, ancl toclay/Nqtre Dame, Indiana r~mains 1 
f!/./J lf//lf//' l!/J/;
separate'from Sduth1'8er:ia. 1 " / 1 1 1 / / / / 1 / If lhe lowri alvfaysfoffe?ed'/{livefsioris fcfr students, 1-\ow,~ver,' esp·eci\lllY i,n . 
' I I I I 7 ! I, / /. / f . I /,di "d ! h" l !
f j
the way of taverns. In the university s earlY;aays'; the pr.iests, 1 1eve9yt 1ng I
/ / / / { I I l I / • / ' / / ·' / / f
in their power to'prevenfstudent'forays mto Sou~h Bend.pntrl th~ tu~n 01/ 
I / J I I I I ; I I I f / t I J. db .
Ithe' century students wanting to leave campus had tc:>' be?cc9mp;i.nie, y,a ,
1 1 · ' , 1 1 I I l I . t I 1 . , 1 • l h :'5 'h ,,
P.refect of/discipline and the univer,'/sity,prmted adveirtrsements mt e oyt / 
I I I I f ' I /.. I ' j I I .I I I l I • ' dl
Bend newsP,aper,,' askmg c1t1zens to repor;t al)y m.rsdemeanor~ co.1mmr1tte., 
' • ' f I I l I l I /4 / / / , ·' . . ./
./ iri lawn' by/Notre Dame students. Even, through the· l 9t0s, ;:he pnivprsrry 
i 

1 , , 'I I 1 1 / J .1 I I . 1 I ·11 d} L·"dd , ; I
fo'rbade students to dr;ive automobiles,,and,prrests patro e 1,or,u1 ~n S¥C-I 
///,I/If/ 1/'/!'r// • i/'/
tions of clowhtown S'c:iutH Bend. / . ~, / I l / 1· ;1
I I I I I I f I I I •• I ffl ·Le 
1 :fhese effort. s did not prevent st.uder;its from. gettmg'/,mto, SCLJ es, w1t11 , 
1 / / i I I 1' I I i ' l , 1 I ,,'fil l /
South Bend r;esidents, however. l.n 19.16, a gang of stuclents s~t rye to a 1 I I I I I I/ I I/ I I I I I I'd/ I
/c

;5tr7etc7r a!ter lep;,eseytat~ves ,,ct tpe }tre:,tca~ corpa?y a;5aule /W°;/ ,.' Carroll Hall residents. In 1924, a horde of Notre-Dame ~tudents1w.en.t mt;o /
I I I I f f I I / I I f : hi h '.I th ! d
f

1aw?ran1•'attyck~~ serr~ymep1_bys oj"1:h7~u KluXiKlan wo au gat ere f /m South Bend for an ant1-Catholrc parad1e. • ; · ·. 1., · .--·--F 1 1 1 -· ·1 
I I I I I I f /, I I . f d h' . • I
I Ever;i'businesses ih South1Bencl could 6e h.ostrle towar t e university at ;
' I I I I l I I /. I . I I I /. ! Iii / t' .I I
t.imes. After the advent of matron prctures, s.outh Bend t eaters,'/. ea~mg/ 
I ! / 1· I I. I I . I f !. l I ! I J II d' 
/ financiaVloss from the mtroductron of mov,es,to V,Vashmg~on r,,a ,,ma I e af)
I I I I I I. l l l / . / /, / J / ,~ w hi ' 
/ agreement-witn the film mdust~y that movreis co.uld r;iot be s~ow~ m I as. -/
I l I I I j I I I. I lh f • I .I ' I I
irigton Hall until they1hadybeen shown•at least. it ree t.1mes;m t9wn/ ; 
I ! I I / / I ! I I I I I t' I. 'b1 /
/ T,he university's scope'forlrecognition;was· also a ~our~e o, te9s109 ei / tJeniNolre Dam, arid S6uth/Berld, s~ys1Jacki~. R6ck¢r, th'e direc1t'or .of /
' .I i I I I. I I I I. I . • I " I J I I h & J l
the university's Office of1ConimLJi11ty1Relat1ol)S. jn early year.s, t ,e ,o,cus / , f i I I, I. I I ,. . i 'b1 . I[ 1's i h' i , 't'h ..,. 
/:of tne university had been on a natrona as,~...,. owe, av'? a '}am~ a!-' 
l I I , I I I J 1. I ,I I I ,, I. • ; If .,
is;internationally known now.'7.But this focus led t;o a .certain ?-mopnt !° . / n1egleft of thl unlers'ltyirelatiorlshilwith scfuth!Bena. RGckir says t;nat i
f I I I 1 I I l l t .I I , I, l · l I lh I • I over the past 20 years, .nowever, th~ unJversrty s· focus h,as t>;een1c arigmg ;, , l 1 1 I 1 1 l,h , 1 1 1 1' 1 I 1 , ,1 to facilitate greater invo.lv('linent in'/.•t' e,commu.1;11ty. / . 1, . ; J I 
i i .J ; . /2 i i i . i h s' d' , , . r d . . 1983 I
/ A turnrhg pomt for1Notre Dame/Sout en re atrons1 o.~curre Jn . , / 
o1

/ ~hin tKe ur\ivelsity/est~bli~ied../he Cen/er fbr Sbciai' Cohee.Ins, 10hi7ht1 1 I I I f i I ' • l I ! 'f I . I I j • ,. ., h ' 
this day provides students1w1tli a numoer o s~rv,ce oppor;tumtres1m t, e /
I I I I I I l I ! I. I I I . h 'd h/ R /,b. / /
community. Since that time, the university Has also esta~lrs e t .· e o m,son; 
/ / . J, t I I I I. . i l I I . i / /. f .I I' 
; Community Learning Center, wh1ch1prov1de.s educatJonaJ anc;I recreatrona 
l I I I I I I I, I ·' ,, I I. l hi di !.h I
oppor,tunities for children and aclults in the ~or7heast N1e1ghlforI oo ,sou,t / df cah"lpu{. 1lthifa11,{,f 2003/thiuni.ersity's/Offi~e of C16mmuni,t~ R1e'la-/ 
! I I I. I I I l I. I I I I l, I'D. I
1tions movea downtown, along1wrtb the So1uth 1Bend 9,own1to-«n 1es1gp .
I I I I I ; I I I I I d! I h . H . ,. . , £ / ;·
Center in,which Notre Dame architecture,stu ents s, are t e1r1v1s1ons 1or 1 a'.n irr{p;o,ed/cioJnto,0n ?riuti Behd./ / / / / / / / / / / "We,hav/a mbreiisibfe p/eserice ii\ to,Wn,'JRu9ker,s'ays7ofth'e unive~sity;{ . 
I I I ' I I I I I I. ,, . ! I I I ' . . ,. ,
' increased involvement in the community/ [We can] be there as opportumtres / 
I f i I I. I I. I I. ·\ I I .I I I I .I h' · / ,, / , 
//occur f:f o/ur so/ae'.?s a/l)c:1/facul//to pay/ mpre/v,ta /o 1m / e 'fY· / J'I JI / 1/ I;,· t/· 
f

I . I II ;,{ I / . / / / // / /-Jim Rr,an 1./
' . / /"-/ . / _/ / / / / ! 1. I
/ fsources:1Notre Dame -One Hundred/Years, Notre1Da1J1e /y,1agqzmey
I I I /' I I "-./ I 1 I I f I 7 I I I ' 
1 I I I 1/ I / r,,, I I l / 1 / 1 1 l l 1 
' 

taurants downtown and on Grape Rd. or, 
( 


SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY I I 

shops in University Park Mall. "I don't think it's going to cannibalize any ofthat business," Lyphout says. "It's just going to create new business." 
The effect on Grape Rd. and the mall will be negligible, Inks says, because they attract a regional market and are not de­pendent on student business. He adds that 
there are few retailers downtown that stu­dents frequent, so the proposed multi-use 

-develop~entwill nothurt business much there, eith'-er.
"" .
Eagan thinks the proposed multi-use 
developmel!t/will have a much different draw than,Grape Rd., the mall or down­
town. ;.r~hink it's a totally different kind of gusiness," he says. "[The proposed 
multi-use development] will be a little 

/fuore unique." 
/ Lyphout agrees. "It's not going to be something that competes with University ParkMall," he says. "Ithinkit's going to be something that's a much smaller scale and ofa much different appeal. It's going to be a place where people browse and relax, are entertained. People tend to go to malls on a mission: they need a pair of jeans; they need a new coat, etc. This will be a place where people can go to interface with the community, meet friends, relax." Dan Stauffer, owner of Buffalo Wild Wings, a popular student eatery on Washington St., also does not fear a tremendous drop in his business. He 
12 SCH0LASTICCOVER STORY 
l 
~ 
:i
James Lyphout, Notre Dame's vice • , president for Business Ope~ions ' 
I 
; ' l . 

i : estimates that 75 percent of his business nificant impact on student life, the utj.i-! comes from non-students and that that versity has a much larger scope in mirid i portion of his clientele will be relatively while planning the development. "It's ohr j unaffected by the proposed multi-use de­intention to improve the neighborho9d,.; velopment. Stauffer thinks that most of create something that's ofinterest to tlte i the remaining 25 percent ofhis clientele South Bend community, as well as opr I will remain loyal to his restaurant. He students," Lyphout says. l : says that since students are drawn to his The university's desire to improve the I restaurant for reasons such as quality and community surrounding campus is e~i-i ambience, the convenience alone of the dent in its participation in the Northeast restaurants in the proposed multi-use de­Neighborhood Revitalization Orgatji:.. velopment will not prevent students from zation (NNRO), a resident-run gro-µp i going to Buffalo Wild Wings. Stauffer working to strengthen and reinforce tµe I adds that as a student at Indiana Univer­neighborhood directly south of camp~s. J sity, he lived in the vibrant college town of The NNRO is comprised of people w4o ! Bloomington, and a similar development live in the neighborhood and represent o~e i in South Bend is "long overdue" for Notre of five organizations: the university, the i Dame students. City ofSouth Bend, the Madison Cent~r; · St.Joseph's Hospital or Memorial Hospi­C_o..mmunity:Sjjj{ding_ .tal. These organizations contribute mon~y While it is true that the proposed to studies on ways to improve the neigp.­multi-use development will have a sig-borhood and provide services to residents. ..For example,_ the university,. through the .... ·Robinson ConuminityLearning Center, ; provides educational services for neighbor­hood youths and adults. Lyphout says the proposed develop­ment ofa college town will be an "integral part" of the NNRO's effort to revital­ize the neighborhood. Rucker agrees: "Some of [the NNRO representatives] are second-or third-generation in the neighborhood, so they know what the neighborhood was like in its heyday, and they also know what it needs to make it function properly." Their input will en-, able the university to cater to the desi~es ofneighborhood residents when desigh­ing the development. , Marguerite Taylor is a 60-year residept, of the Northeast Neighborhood and sits i on the NNRO. She is excited about the · commercial development south of cam­pus. "It can do nothing but bring prosper-, ity to the neighborhood," she says. Taylor i says that commercial development is not; 
the only thing the university is doing i to reinvigorate the neighborhood. Slte•i 
; i 
19 FEBRUARY 2004l 



says the university's encouragement of its faculty and staff to build homes and live in the Northeast Neighborhood has improved the relationship between the university and the neighborhood. 
Rucker, too, cites the return of uni­versity faculty and staff to the Northeast Neighborhood as an important step in re­vitalizing the area. She says the university has facilitated this movement by selling land in the area to faculty and staff who have agreed to build or buy a home there. The university still wants to maintain the traditional character ofthe neighborhood, though, so it set architectural standards for construction to ensure that the new houses in the neighborhood resemble the older ones. Rucker says this effort has been successful: "One of the things I've been hearing from people is, 'There's these houses, and I don't remember them being there a few years ago, and it looks like they've been there forever.'" 
Increased single-family housing near campus is, in fact, one of the focal points of the university's college town develop­ment. According to a written response to frequently asked questions at a commu­nity meeting last December, the univer­sity owns 120 parcels of land in the area surrounding campus. The university has amassed these properties in an effort to maintain stable, single-family residential communities .in those areas. The univer­sityis interested in maintaining these com­munities in part because it does not want an influx of inexpensive undergraduate student housing on the fringe of campus, as is common at many other universitiE,s. The universityfeels that th.is would be det­rimental to the undergraduate experience at Notre Dame, which depends heavily upon the residence hall system. 
The university also seeks to increase single-family housing near campus be­cause university employees like to live near their place of work. "[University em­ployees] want to be able to walk to work, to ride bikes, that sort of thing," Rucker says. "And that's because of the nature of the work. Ifyou're a faculty member and you'.re teaching, but there's a lecture that night, you don't want to have to drive a long drive and then turn around and have to drive a long drive back.'' 
While the university would like more of its employees to live in: the area south of campus, it does not want to displace any of the neighborhood's current residents, particularly low-income residents. "What 
19 FEBRUARY 2004 
I,<• 
J 

b:_\\,.".\,, 
TOMORROWLAND The city of South Bend and the university hope the development of residential and commercial buildings will revitalize the neighborhood and provide a new center of activity for everyone. 
we want is a diversity of incomes in the neighborhood," Rucker says. South Bend Heritage, an organization that works closely with the NNRO, facilitates this goal by providing affordable housing south of campus. The organization also rehabilitates dilapidated houses in the neighborhood. Rucker says the result is a diverse neighborhood with personal­ity, which is something that appeals to employees of a university. 
The proposed multi-use development willneed to appeal to a wide variety of pa­trons, including neighborhood residents and university students, faculty and staff. Rucker believes this is possible. She envi­sions the area between the Performing Arts Center and Edison Rd. as a "small central park" that will host activities ap­pealingtomanydemographicgroups.She says, "It would not be uncommon to have musicians performing or drama troupes or some sort of activity g9i~g on -in warm weather of course.'>.. '·"-­
The attractions in thi::'perforril.izi-g arts center and at the parfwould then''d:c_aw people to the commercial area across the 
street. "One thing t):iat we purposefully'•.,,{omfortable.'' D 
\ '·,,, SCHOLASTlCCOVER STORY 13 
did not do was to put an eating area inside the performing arts center, because then that makes it necessary to have [ external] restaurants," Rucker says. "What people would normally do, if we are having a performance, would be to go to dinner before, go to the performance, and then afterwards go i:o bars, clubs, restaurants, and sit and talk about the performance that they just saw." 
Lyphout thinks the performances and the amenities of the college town devel­opmentwill help bridge the gap between South Bend residents and people affiliated with the university. He says, "I think [the development] is going to give more op­portunity for the community and univer­sity students, faculty and staff to interface, to interact, to bring them together.'' 
The university hopes that this in­teraction will redress the perception that the university is isolated from the community. "For some people, the university is still perceived as kind of an island," Lyphout says. "I think this will create a common ground on campus borders where everyone feels 
1_ . ' .... J ., • • • • • • : , • • , • : , • , ' •• O • \ •• .._ 

630 PE takes divine inspiration to a whole new level 
NICKKOLMAN-MANDLE 
i Hell is much cozier than one would 
I, 
think. At least, that is the first im­

I! 
Ii pression when walking into the common room of 630 Pasquerilla Hall East. Bathed in a soft red glow with the aroma of cinnamon wafting through the air, the room invites residents and guests to recline on one of the futons, positioned in an "L," to make the room as comfort­able as possible. The residents of 630 PE -Kara Whitaker, Jacquie Dammann, Teresa Tumbaga and Stephanie Aberger -have chosen three supernatural themes to fit each of their quad's rooms: Heaven, Hell and the Garden ofEden. , Original planning for the room, which began last April, had Purga­tory slated for Eden's spot. "But," as Aberger explains, "it's really hard to decorate Purgatory." With the motiva­tional slogan "Cribs or Bust," the four 


· teamed up to create a truly unique living 
experience. 
Hell, the common and center room, provides all the comforts of home with more than a hint ofnaughtiness. "Sinful and. passionate in an ND sort of way," as Dammann says. Hell's crimson hue has many contributors: red· light bulbs. in the standing lamp, the red curtains :filtering the daytime sun, red candles, red monogrammed pillows (specially made) and red and orange "fire" and dancing devils decorating the heater. A multicolored ball ofChristmas lights (re­ferred to as the "monsters' ball") hangs from the center ofthe room to diversify the color a bit. 
Mischievous posters adorn the walls. 
Marilyn Monroe and a giant bottle· of 
Jack Daniels _hang overhead and stare 
across the room at front pages from the 
Observer's Irish Insider section, each fea­
turing a different athlete. A mechanical 
sliding door, easily the most entertaining 
19 FEBRUARY 2004 

HELL IS WHERE THE HEART IS The residents of 630 Pasquerilla East Hall relax in their suite's Hell­themed common room (above).The quad's other two rooms are done up to resemble Heaven and the Garden of Eden (opposite right).There's even a miniature "Tree of Knowledge" and disarmingly delightful serpent (bottom right). If you happen by Mod Quad, stop in and look around. Just don't eat the apples. 
of the room's features, slides shut with the push ofa button to expose another wall of male pin-ups and magazine cut-outs. The .·· residents are now accepting applications from ND men and other wall-worthy 
hopefuls.. 
Heaven, ironically right next door, has 
been unjustly described by Eden deni­
·zens as "the weakest room," belonging 
to "people who suck at decorating." But 
as Heaven resident Tumbaga points out, 
being abroad set them back a semester. 
And besides "With a picture of Prince 
William on the wall, how can it not be 
heaven?" 
Touche. 
Heaven's overall blue theme is accentu­
ated with hanging angels, stars, posters 
of tropical paradises and a print of the 
ever-popular "Footprints" story. 
On the opposite side of Hell -the 
Bible never discusses geography, does 
it? -one can stroll through, or at 
19 FEBRUARY 2004 
least lounge in, the Garden of Eden. A plush serpent coils around one of the loft's poles in the center of the massive double (the room is handicap accessible, hence the sliding door). Posters of idyllic gardens hang on the walls, as do several different portrayals of Adam and Eve. Flowered garlands hang in nearly every nook and cranny. A fiber optic bonsai tree, the "Tree of Knowledge," stands in the window next to an appropriately tempting basket of apples. Plush animals, birds on sticks and giant pink sunflowers add to the room's outdoor appeal. 
Visitors to this ethereal quad are fre­quent, and students have been known to stop in with their families. Guests can be assured a warm welcome into the hellish surroundings, but if asked to sign their names in the room's guestbook, they shouldn't be surprised to see a bra hang­ing proudly over the windowframe. . 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUSLIFE 15 
SWEET NEW 
YORK 
Students have the opportunity to see the Big Apple while participating in a spring break learning seminar. 


A Breal< From Tradition 
Opting for less ordinary spring breaks, students participate in Center for Social Concerns service seminars 
ANNAO'CONNOR 

S
helping others through the Social Con­cerns Seminars backed by the Center for pring Break: the time in March/ Social Concerns (CSC). 
April when most college students These seminars strive to bring impor­
rush to tropical locales, ski resorts tant issues of social justice to the attention or just home-sweet-home for a week of of students. The week-long immersion fun and relaxation. But more and more trips let students experience a variety of Notre Dame students are choosing to situations, while learning how the social spend their breaks learning about and problems came about and what can do be 
done to remedy them. "It is about service 
through social action, rooted in faith," says 
Carl Loesch, a director for the CSC. 
Appalachia -immersion in one of 
various sites located in the Appalachian 
region -and Urban Plunge -immer­
sion in a major U.S. city-are probably 
the best known seminars, but the CSC 
sponsors a variety ofother opportunities 
during fall and spring breaks. All of the 
seminars ask participants to examine spe­
cific issues ofsocial concerns in depth and 
to reflect on how and why these issues 
occur in our society. Two seminars of­
fered this spring, other than Appalachia 
and Urban Plunge, are the Children and 
Poverty Seminar in New York City and 
the Migrant Experiences Seminar in Im­
mokalee, Florida. 
"It changed my life," says Kate Ken­
nedy, a sophomore who participated in 
the Migrant Experiences Seminar last 
year and is a student coordinator for the 
seminar this spring. "The experience 
inspires you to change. It gave me the 
push I needed to work for these issues and 
continue to question and to ask why these 
[ social injustices] are happening." 
The Migrant Experiences Seminar brings 12 students to Iinmokalee, a city in one of the southern-most parts of Florida, · to explore the cultural and social issues surrounding migrant farm labor. The trip falls in the early part of the tomato harvest, . allowing the seminar participants to join in the farm labor. "It is an inspiring, chilling and earth-shaking experience," says Loesch. "These workers earn $7,500 [annually] on average, and to experience this back-break­
ing work first-hand is so powerful." 
Participants work for two days in the 
fields and donate the wages they earn to 
charity. Workers are required to wear long 
sleeves and pants because ofthe pesticides 
sprayed on the plants. The buckets used 
to collect tomatoes weigh about 33 pounds 
when full. "The workers get paid by the 
bucket, so you pick as fast as you can and 
don't take breaks," says sophomore Alicia 
Lachiondo, another student coordinator 
for the migrant seminar this spring. "As 
soon as you fill up a bucket you have to 
throw it up to the truck, and then you 
start on another bucket. I would see some 
people pay a dollar for a Gatorade, chug it 
quickly, then throw it down and run back 
to their stations to keep working." 
"It is the toughest job in the country," 
Kennedysays. "We did one day of work and 
16 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE I 9 FEBRUARY 2004 
some ofthem do it every single daywithout stop. And they are treated so poorly." 
Seminar participants also spend two nights with host families who are or were migrant laborers. "The people are very open," Kennedy says. "They were so willing to answer our questions. We would eat dinner with them, and [we] took their grandchildren to the park. We got to see how they really live." 
For the final two days of the seminar, the participants work on such issues as health care and immigration with local agencies, like the Coalition oflmmokalee Workers (CIW). The CIW is a group of low-wage workers who fight the abuses they face in the agricultural industry. For example, they are behind the Taco Bell boycott for the unfair treatment of 
tomato pickers. 
The Children and Poverty Seminar im­merses students in inner-city New York, to learn about domes­tic and international issues concerning children challenged by poverty. The focuses are on. education, early intervention, resilience, violence prevention and foster care. 
"The Children and Poverty Seminar is a 
--unique opportunity to look at the issue [ of children in poverty]," says senior Tim Ducey, a student coordinator for this spring's semi­nar, and a participant 
CAN YOU DIG IT? Notre Dame students volunteer their breaks to partake in service-a~t··-· • open to students in good immersion opportunities.These range from building houses to working with migrant laborers. standing at Notre Dame 
in the seminar in the fall of 2001. "New York City is a city of disparities. You will · see the very rich very close to the very poor. It makes you want to create change to equalize the opportunities for these 
children." 
Participants stay at the Trinity Lu­

theran Church near Thompson Square 
Park, which enables them to experience 
fir-st-hand the realities of growing up in 
poverty. The week is divided into four 
areas: international and national issues, 
housing and advocacy, family, and educa­
tion. They visit a number of community­
based organizations, including the United 
Nations and UNICEF. 
"Poverty is a vicious cycle that children 

are born into," Ducey says. "They lack good role models to demonstrate the importance of education. They see a lot of gang violence, and carousing, drinking, drugs. These children see it at a young age and they fall into it." 
Participants in the seminar explore ways to help children who are trapped in poverty. "Education is very important," Ducey says. "Family life is another influ­ence. Strong parental support, especially a male figure in the children's lives can make a big difference for them. Op­portunities for extra-curricular activi­ties give kids a place to go after school, which could keep them off the streets. The government can provide funding for these activities." 
Post-immersion, the CSC hopes that 
·:,"'0',~, 
· .. 
,: 
,1i 

in Immokalee," says senior Brigitte Gyn­ther, who went on the spring 2001 Mi­grant Experiences Seminar. "I went on a · nationwide 'Taco BellTruth' tour with the CIW the following spring break. Then I returned to Immokalee and did a summer internship with Interfaith Action, an organization that organizes the religious community to support low-wage work­ers and farm workers. Since then, I have returned several times to help out, es­pecially when big events are coming up. I have also gotten involved in a lot of other social justice issues, and when I finish at Notre Dame in May, I want to continue to organize around these issues 
. and start to look at the pesticides that make farm workers sick and deform their children." 
. -...., -n-l Lachiondo, an ALPP l' · • major, would like to do
1 

:. . / . medicalworkwithmigrant ; _ / · workers in the future, and · h· i is currently taking an ap­{ .· plied anthropology class / in Migrant Labor Stud,ies. ,. , Ducey plans to teach at an / underprivileged inner-city £/ _/· school after he graduates / / . in May. "Teachers who 
• ! are strong role models are 
::i: , 
-~ j very important for these · 9 : children " he says. "They 

'! a! ' . 1 ' . h 
· _:.,'"·'-S ' give a ternat1ves to t e 
·s."-E· • gangs and the violence and ~ ; show them the importance SA of education and going to 15a.Ij college." 
hL1 All CSC seminars are 

students bring back what they learn from their experience and continue to work for the betterment of the less-privileged. The seminars have had a powerful impact on a number of participants, prompting them to find ways to make a difference here at Notre Dame. "Coming back, we encourage participants to continue to ask questions," says junior Teresa Hansen, another Children and Poverty coordi­nator. "Many people who have gone on this seminar come back and want to do more. They work with the issue in South Bend to address the needs that are not met here." 
"Ihavecontinued toworkinconjunction with the CIW and other organizations 
,. 

or St. Mary's College. Students earn one hour of credit for their participation. All participants are required to attend orientation sessions before the trip and follow-up meetings afterwards. They are also required to write a five-to six-page reflection paper as part ofthe experience. 
Many former participants enc01,1.r­age others to spend their next break in one of the seminars. "I cannot imagine doing anything else for spring break," says Lachiondo. "It is such an amazing experience." 
For more information about CSC seminars, visit their web site at http://cente1forsocialco ncerns.nd.edu, or call 631-5293. . 
19 FEBRUARY 2004 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 17 
---------·------------~­
·.-:-:-=c..--c-----=-=-•-'-"-, -· .. ----­


Cheers! The Gipp hopes everyone had a (re)productive Valentine's Day last weekend. Remember that Lent is right around the corner. Still not sure what to give up for 40 days and 40 nights? Make it FlipSide events, DeBartolo Hall, dining hall meat on Fridays . . . or ever. Anything, but just please don't give up alcohol. The Gipp · fears this page would come to an end if this were to occur. And with that public service announcement aside, on to the good stuff. 
Foul Revenge 

This begins as a typical SYR story. Boy meets girl. Couple makes out while friends take photos. Only af­many minutes, until our hero came into the picture. Enter "Tom," an aspiring pyrotechnic who had always wanted his own fireworks show. After a good deal of drunken thought, our hero decided itwas in everyone's best interest to douse the couch with a bottle oflighter fluid. What else was there to do, after all? 
Suffice itto say that the next logical step was to light the couch ablaze, which Tom and his cronies were delighted to do. As the flames got larger, the crowd, laughing initially, began to disperse rather hastily. By the time the fire truck arrived on the scene, our hero had :fled, thinking he had just burned down Turtle Creek. 
Well, Tom, no such luck. 
Swigs were awarded for hits (two swigs for blows to the face). After an hour, our fearless, fuddled foursome decided to call it a night, with feet already numb with frost­bite. "But what to do with the Baileys?" the two gentlemen thought. After all, a good amount was still left in the bottle. 
Sure, downing the rest was a possibility, but then they wondered why they should not just bury their treasure in the North Quad snow for another night. It would be concealed and kept cool at the same time, so why not? Just find a good landmark, a thick patch ofsnow, and screw the cap on tight. 
Our two snow warriors went back a few evenings later to discover their bottle of Baileys still well-concealed under 
the same tree where they 

ter the incident, however, does had placed it so cautiously. our dashing dude discover that Unfortunately, it seems as 
¦ 
his dame was none other than though they had been too the little sister of his dorm's late. The last several swigs president. When photos later of the Irish cream had been arrived on the president's swindled. With the cap door, II Duce was less than tightly screwed back on, one pleased, to say the least. thing is certain: the contents 
A pungent pile ofexcrement had not spilled out into the was found several days later snow, but rather had been outside our dude's door. One consumed by a wise third report indicates that II Duce party. This may explain was seen fleeing the scene of why the Gipp, on his way to 
the crime while pulling his the dining hall last week, saw 
·pants up. So far, Gipp has two squirrels stumbling and been notified that no disci­laughing uncontrollably. plinary action has been taken But if anyone has any in­

yet, but hopefully this at least will spark a healthy dialogue among the residents in this particular dorm. 
Pyromania 

Whatwould college be without a couch fire? One evening at Turtle Creek, a few gentlemen came to this very conclusion. With the hosts ofa party wanting to dis­
. pose oftheir couch anyway (it was really ugly, after all), the gentlemen's dreams were about to come true. 
After heaving the sofa out the door, many a passersby began kicking the old thing in the alley. This continued for 
Missing: Bottle of Bailey's 
Here's the situation: it's after parietals and two gentlemen wish to continue the evening's festivities with two ladies out­side in the snow. But a good snowball fight is sure to make one chilly. Best to bring out a bottle of the good stuff to warm up. Technically, this liquor is prohibited by the new 14 percent rule in duLac. So we'll use a code name, say "Baileys," to refer to it. 
And thus a good old-fashioned drunken snowball fight on North Quad began. 
' formation as to the where­

abouts of our friends' mis­placed liquor, do not hesitate to inform the Gipp. 
That's all for now, Gipplings. Sad as it may be, this is the Gipp's last issue until after spring break. The good news is that there should be plenty of stories from those far...:off lands of debauchery to tell by mid-March. So whether your time off leads you to Miami or the Vegas Strip, be sure to remember your loyal pal and tip the dear old Gipp. D 
18 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 
19 FEBRUARY 2004 

ND Humor Artists Do you like Whose Line is it Anyway or Second City? If so, then you'll love these guys! The Humor Artists are Notre Dame's very own improv and sketch comedy.troupe. 
Feb~uary20· -·.~ . · 
. . 
Bryan McCree Now's your chance to catch this hilarious comic. His astute observations on life will astound you and his infectious giggle will win you over. 10: 00pm. 


f e!bnP!Ul@ll"if 2 B . . 
The Singles This four-piece rock group just recorded their debut album at Ghetto Recorders withJim Diamond (fhe White Stripes, The Sights) twiddling the knobs. It's a matter oftime before they break into the big time. Doors TBA. 
· http://www.legendsofnotredame.org 



/ 


One Brief, Shining Moment­
Notre Dame media turns out to be very hard to please 
MIKEHEALY 
0 riginally, I was going to use this column to introduce a write-in feature in which my loyal read­ers (all 11 ofyou) would send in thought-provoking questions, and I would answer them to the best of my ability. In retro­spect, this was a very bad idea, thanks to the fact that nobody on campus likely cares about my opinions on most issues. In lieu of this, my editor suggested that I write a column concerning my endorsement interviews with nearly all the student media outlets on campus, and the breakdown of this process is as follows: 
Scholastic -As you may have noticed, I actually work for Scholastic, which I had hoped would provide our campaign with the inside track to gaining their coveted endorsement. Sadly, I was mistaken in this. My lackluster interview, combined with the many personal vendettas held against me by the Scholastic staff, resulted in Scholastic's endorsing the Ebersol/Leito ticket, citing something stupid like a 
who may not have actually ' .One .c_c1.nnot help but· deern our greats possess. James 
~::~~;:~:t~ if:~~/;! ,.i .campaign a:success. ·l-lowever, •in' ~=;h::~t~:l1i!a~~ 
recent political exploits. For . . ._ . ,. . 
the sizeable number of you [. _< • ·. -• . ' : -· · ·· 
te~~~!~~rst:ai:~~::ir::t 
headingtheticket.Wedidnot
win. In fact, we finished inlast 
place, whichistheoppositeof winning. While Mark is very skilled in matters of politics 
and, undoubtedly, has a bright future in student government, 1, apparently, do not. I was not even able to provide the Healy/Healy campaign (Yes, we are identical twins. In fact, I am not even typing this, I am just thinking it and Markis sitting at the computer taking it down via our twin connection.) with so much as a second-place finish in my home dorm ofKeenan, where we finished behind both fellow Keenanites Ryan Craft and Steve Lynch, and the formerly unstoppable Ebersol/Leite juggernaut. A failure such as this does not indicate a strong political future for me. People who know and greet me every day chose to vote for a complete stranger over me. ! will long consider this the most public 
ofmy many humiliations. 
That being said, I do not consider the effort to have been a total failure, as it allowed me to experience a great variety of things I otherwise would have missed. For instance, I got to partake in rigorous most unqualified and personally offensive ticket we have ever had the displeasure of coming into contact with." Or something like that (I am paraphrasing). 
NDTV -Of all the interviews we participated in, I would have to say NDTV's was the most enjoyable. The segment producer, Bailey Ertel, was very accommodating and graciously asked us the types ofquestions that best suited our campaign persona. Also, I think I per­formed particularly well in the NDTV segment because I have that "it," that 
unmistakable camera 
· presence that only the 

a.n'other, moretraditional way, by it ~;;~~day.com-I .•c.·_,it_in_·g·•_.o_·-.·.···.ur_la.st_:\p·_1ace_:::1.i.·nish, o.thers must say, the staff of 
NDToday.com had, '• rnay i,c,t be able to. 'help but: by far, the most pro­
-· · · fessional appearance --consider it a-failure•. ' of any group of four 
L_,_~::c..____;,~.___.::...:...,:__,:__:___.:...,;::c.._,:__,:_~~_:.,~-----'-'-"-~~.--'---~-J people I have ever 
better platform or ... whatever (I did not bother to read the article). 
The Observer -I have had many dif­ficult experiences in my life, and my in­terviewwith The Observer probably ranks somewhere in the upper 25th percentile. Fromtheverybeginningoftheinterview, I got the sense that these people had it in for me and wanted to see me fail at any cost. They were asking me all sorts of questions thatI did notknow the answers to, so I tried to let Mark do the talking whenever I could. When I did try to an­swer questions, the Observer staff would look at me like I had just endorsed David Duke, and Mark would have to jump in and tell them that I was just trying to be funny. Needless to say, The Observer did not endorse us, which I felt was justified. I was somewhat surprised, though, when they absolutely crucified us in their can­didate evaluations, describing us as "the 
encountered. Impec­cably dressed and intent on taking copi­ous notes, the NDToday.com writers had the most imposing presence ofany ofthe journalists that evaluated us. I did not dare lie or ilistort the truth in speaking to the representatives ofNDToday.com, forlhadnodoubttheycouldseeintomy very soul. Also, I think it bears mention­ing that in their candidate evaluation, NDToday.com referred to Mark and me as "irresistibly attractive, with the poten­tial to become sexual dynamos ofa fright­erring degree." Again, paraphrasing. 
Taking i_nto consideration the fact that I got to meet a variety of interest­ing people, and Mark established himself as a future force in student politics, one cannot help but deem our campaign a success. However, in another, more traditional way, by citing our last-place finish, others inay not be able to help but consider it a failure. . 

Submit an 800-word essay forWeek in Distortion. E-mail us at scholast@nd.edu. 20 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 19 FEBRUARY 2004 
/?/
RYAN / Editor (.,~ · Not professional male model ~­


We'rehiring. Doyou havewhatittakes? 
Scholastic needs editors, writers, designers and photographers. Being really good looking is a plus, but clearly not absolutely necessary. 
D Executive Editor 
·­

. 
Assistant Managing Editor 

. 
News Staff D Campus Life Editor 


. 
Assistant Campus Life Editor D Sports Editor 

. 
Assistant Sports· Editor 

. 
Entertainment Editor 



.•. .Assistant Entertainment Editor D Departments Editor 
. Assistant Departments Editor 
D Design Editor D Assistant Design Editor 
. 
Design Staff D Photography Editor 

. 
Assistant Photography Editor · . Graphic Design Editor 

. 
Copy Chief 


. 
Assistant Copy Chief 

. 
Distribution Manager ·. Business Manager 

. 
Online Manager 



Applications are due March I. 
Pick yours up by the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dining Hall. For more information, email scholast@nd.edu or call 1-7569 


I' 
I Jl.mbo's JabberA-Rod,replaysandbikinis
by Jimmy Atkinson -jatkins1@nd.edu 
And just when you thought it was safe for the Boston Red Sox. Think again. With the New York Yankees' signing of Alex Rodriguez, they have proved once again that they truly are a cut above the rest and will now be favored over the Sox going into spring. Is it fair that the Yankees are able to stack their infield like this? Doesn't matter. What does matter is that those are the rules. The Yankees were able to acquire the best player in baseball (and won't even use him at his position) because of the size of the organization's wallet. 'With this new acquisition, the Yankees now have six of the 12 largest salary packages in Major League Baseball. In a recent ESPN survey of I 00,000 baseball fans, 7 4 percent said that the Yankees' :financial domination of baseball is bad for the game. A mere 26 percent like the idea of having a powerhouse team. So isn't it about time baseball took a swing at disparity? Still, one has to acknowledge that a loaded payroll does not always guaran­tee results in any sport. As the last three World Series Champions -the Dia­mondbacks, Angels and Marlins -have shown, it is possible to win without breaking the bank. In short playoff series, anything can happen. 
BigTen May Use Instant Replay in 2004 
Under a proposal submitted by the Big Ten Conference to the NCAA Rules Committee, instant replay would be used 


. 

experimentally in all games between Big 
Ten schools in the upcoming 2004 sea­
son. While the Rules Committee has rec­
ommended the proposal, it still must be 
approved by the NCAA championships/ 
competition cabinet for Division I before 
any change can take effect. Unlike in the 
NFL, only a technical adviser assigned 
to each game would be able to request a . replay and make a ruling. 
Is it fair that the Yankees are able to stack their infield like this? Doesn't matter. 
Instant replay, however, not only slows down the game and sparks controversy, it essentially undermines the authority of the officiating crew. This. may very well do nothing more than open up another can ofworms in a sport already suff~ring from recruiting irregularities, Maurice Clarett and an inconsistent means of crowning a national champion. 
Certainly, instant replay in the NFL has proven to have the ability to over­turn some calls. And according to the Big Ten, about 2 5 of the approximately 10,080 plays during the 2003 Big Ten season would have been changed. But is it worth it to undermine the authority of the officials? Call me stubborn, but I see the officiating crew as the first and final source of authority on the football 
Men's Basketball (13-9): In one week,the Irish have raised their faithful fans' spirits with three underdog wins. Last Monday, the Irish · defeated No. 5 Connecticut, 80-74. The Irish then narrowly·edged Seton Hall, 71-68. In their most convincing win of the season, the Irish toppled the Orangemen, 84-72 ChrisThomas has been the key to .winning each of these games, averaging 28.5 points, 5.5 rebounds 
field. If they err, so be it. The human er­ror element is just part of the game. To put a system in place that would aim to correct this would prove to be inefficient and controversial, at best. 
Swimsuit Issue 

Well sports fans, Sports Illustrated's famed swimsuit issue is back on news­stands for the 40th time, in case 


you didn't already know. But hon­. estly, haven't we had enough of Anna Kour:nikova yet? It was bad enough that she made the June 5, 2000 cover of SJ. (For crying out loud, she's never won a 
· tournament!) Okay, maybe we haven't had enough yet. But at least now she's teased on the cover ofthe issue that shows what she's .really good at: "[She] may be retired, but she's still the hottest player in tennis," the caption reads. 
Last Issue's Trivia Answer 

As promised, here is the answer to last issue's trivia question: The teams are Il­linois Fighting Illini, Marshall Thunder­ing Herd, Navy Midshipmen, NC State Wolfpack, Nevada Wolfpack and (of course) Notre Dame Fighting Irish. . 
and 4.5 ~ists over the past three games. On Saturday, Notre Dame will playthe Connecticut Huskies at the Hartford Civic Center. 
Trackand Field:The Irish s-aw some success 
at the Windsor Team Challenge last Saturday 
with both the men's and women's divisions . finishing third at this meet that is comparable 
in size to the Big East Championships. On the 
22 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 19 FEBRUARY 2004 
R"~J!~!!!l~{il

Senior Lisa. Garcia from Denver.Colo. is co~captain of this year's women's 
. swimming team. She was voted last season's MVP by her teammates a:fter . . . . 
earningher second-straight Honorable Mention AII-.A.merican accolade. She has . been to the NCAA Championships in each. of her last two seasons and won the 200m butterfly title last year:The women's swimming team will be in East Meadow, NYthis weekend in an atte111pt to win its eighth-straight Big East title: 
Why did.ycm start swimming?. lstarted swimming whenTwasriine years old. My hestfriend dec:ided she. wanted to start so I joined her. Also; my mom wanted to get us out of the 

· house. We were driving her crazy. My sister swimsalso. She's a freshman' at BostonCollege. · · 
.····-·:-·,. ·,·. -'. ·-. ··. ; 
Whathasbeen the biggest chall~nge in your swimmfugcareer? . . . . .. Balancing 5wimming, schocil and my social life has been a big challenge, but ··also,incrediblYfewardin:g. Being captain of a top-20 tea:m in.the nationis· a , pretty prestigious thing. · · · 
•. -: . . . . 
. Wbathasbeen your mostmemorable swimming mo.ment atNotre 
... Dame? ·.' > • ...· ·. ·. • · · ·. · .·· ·· · · 
· My 111ost memorable moment was· fast year attheNCAAChampionships. My parepts were plaririing on coming out,: but there was a huge snowstorm .· backhome in Colorado arid my parents weren'tableto make it. But ..·,·· . somehc>W, they managed to come out for the very last day, barely making the flight, and they were there to see my lastrnce, which was the 200m butterfly that I had madeAll-American consideration in. It meanta lot to me that they were able to see Ille swim and that I was able to swim fast for them, · · 
What .are your goals for this season? ·• ·. . . . • .·· . ...· .. I woulci like to go toNCAAs and I would really lilce our 800m freestyle relays tci make the NCAA.meet. They take B teams in the entire nation. In the past, that relay has. been our weakest relay, but this year has .been the strongest we've ever been in my four years swimming on it. I would also liketodefend my200m butterfly title. Asa team, I would like to win our 
· eighth-straight Big East title, . . 
. . •' . 
Who i~ your favorite athlete? Michael Jordan. He was the very best at whathe did, but hewas also very . classy. That meansa lot to me. .· · 
women's side, sprinters ruled supreme, taking first through fifth places in both the 60-meter Softball (4--1): After Sunday's victory over. dash and the 300-meter dash. Ayesha Boyd Portland State, Notre Dame finished 4-1 in won the 60~meter, while Kristen Dodd won the UNLV Classic. The Irish opened the UNLV the 300-meter: On the men's side, the Irish Classic with an 8-7 win over Hawaii off of a won four very different races, sophomores walk-off, two-run homer by sophomore Kellie Ryan Postel, Alex Fortunado and Vincent Middleton. The Irish then lost to the No. 2/3 Ambrico winning the 300-, 600-, and 1,000-California Golden Bears in a close 2-1 game. meter dashes, respectively. However, the Irish bounced back, beating No. 
I Our Calls I Men's Basketball 
OPPONENT: CONNECTICUT 
WHERE: HARTFORD, CONN. 
WHEN: FEB. 21. 2:00 P.M. 
The Irish win against UConn for the 
> second time in as many weeks after knocking off the defending national champions Monday night. Chris Thomas leads the Irish with 22 points in Notre Dame's 70-66 win on the road against the Huskies. JIMMYATKINSON SPORTS EDITOR 
Expect Chris Thomas to continue to lead the Irish by scoring over 25-plus >points in this sure-to-be shocker in Storrs, Conn. The Huskies will 
be bloodthirsty and apt to make mistakes, upon which Notre Dame will capitalize on often. The Irish take this one from the hometown Huskies, 77-74. 
CHRISTOPHERMESKILL 
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR 

KEY TO .THE GAME: 
The Big Mo' 
> The Irish are riding high with three straight wins coming against UConn, 
Seton Hall and defending national champions Syracuse. If the Irish are able to ride this wave of momentum to another victory over the Huskies, a high NCAA berth certainly would 
be attainable. 
8/9 Nebraska. 6-4. Junior Liz Hartmann hit two homeruns in the game, including the game winner: Next, the Irish defeated host UNLV, 3­1, as junior pitcher Steffany Stenglein recorded a ten-strike out game. The tournament came to a close with a 4-1 win over Portland State. On Friday, the Irish face Utah at 12:30 p.m. to open the Palm Springs Classic in California 
19 FEBRUARY 2004 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 23 

All in the Family 
Forest and Kerry Walton are leading the men's and women's fencing teams 


JIMMYATKINSON 
W:en it came time for Kerry 
Walton to. make a college de­
ision, itwas simple: she would go to Notre Dame to fence alongside her older brother Forest. After all, the two siblings, separated in age by one year, had been fencing together since the very beginning, when they were about eight· years old. 
Now at Notre Dame, the 'Walton sib­lings have made quite a name for them­selves. By virtue of winning the NCAA women's epee championship in her sopho­more year, Kerry, currently a senior, joined her brother Forest, currently a :fifth-year senior foilist, as an All-American. The Walton sibli!lgs became the first brother­sister pair to earn All-American honors in any sport in Notre Dame history. 
Kerry and Forest picked up the sport of fencing while growing up in Londonderry, 
N. H. Their parents had both started the sport when they were in college. Kerry and Forest joined their two cousins, Scott and Kevin Eriksen (All-Americans at University ofPennsylvania and Columbia University, respectively) in trainingatSea­coast Fencing Club in nearby Manchester. Known as the "Four Amigos," the Waltons and their cousins fenced at local events for their first few years in competition. 
Eventually, as their talent grew, Forest and Kerry began looking to the national and even international levels for more advanced competition. The two flew to Canada for fencing tournaments and to South America for the Pan-American Games. As the two began to focus more and more on fencing, traveling to competi­tions became more frequent. By the time they were about 16 years old, they had both decided to focus solely on fencing. 
"We understood that we were best suited to fence," Forest says, "so that's what we decided to stick with and that's what our coaches and parents pushed us to do." With the decision to focus solely on fencing, however, Forest and Kerry had to make sacrifices. Kerry eventually gave up playing soccer and softball, while Forest gave up soccer and baseball. "My only gripe was that I couldn't play other sports because fencing took up so much time," Forest says. 

Perhaps more challenging than the fencing tournaments for the siblings was the amo1;1nt of schoolwork they had to miss during high school. Kerry remembers that during high school she used to miss several weeks of school per year. "[My classmates] would joke and say, 'Are you really in my class? I never see you,"' she says. Fortunately for the two, their teachers were always accom­modating of their schedules and the missed schoolwork was never a big issue. As Forest points out, they were still able to get into Notre Dame. 
And this is probably their most signifi­cant accomplishment: that they are able to compete at the same university. "This is what we wanted from the beginning," Forest says. "We had fenced side-by-side from the beginning. This was the logical next step. Things couldn't be better, to tell you the truth." 
"It works out well for the family, too," Kerry adds, "because they know we're together." 
It was in a time that they weren't to­gether, however, that the family witnessed the most rewarding achievement to date: Kerry won the NCAA Championship in the epee in 2002, her sophomore year, while Forest-enrolled in Notre Dame's architecture program -was studying in Roine. Not only did Forest not fence while abroad his junior year, but he also was unable to witness his sister's crowning achievement. Word came via telephone from his parents, followed by a flood of e-mails from the rest of the family back in the U.S. 
"I was jealous that I wasn't there to see her and I was also jealous that I wasn't there to compete in NCAAs with her," Forest says. Kerry jokes about Forest missing her title. ."Good timing," she says sarcastically. 
· When Forest returned to Notre Dame last year for his third fencing season, he noticed immediately that his time off in Rome had put a bit of rust on his game. "Definitely last year, there was a lull in 

EN GARDE Forest and Kerry Walton bring a new meaning to sibling rivalry. 
my performance," he admits. "My fifth ·year now [fourth fencing season], I'm back on track." This season, Forest boasts a 36-8 record in foil, while sister Kerryhas 
posted a 39-11 record in the epee. 
But the ultimate goal for both fencers is 
nothing short ofNCAA titles. Kerry has 
been there before, and after returning to 
top form following a disappointing 2003 
season, Forest is prepared to challenge 
anyone. While this is Forest's last year 
with the Irish, Kerry will be back for a 
:fifth year in 2005. 
After college, both plan to continue 
fencing, ifnot competitively, then recre­
ationallyatleast. Kerry even has a chance, 
albeit slight, to make the Summer Olym­
pics. Currently, she is the alternate epeeist 
on the U.S. Fencing Team, but it. doesn't 
seem likely that the team will qualify for 
the Olympics this time around. Kerry is 
no stranger to international competition, 
winning a bronze medal as an epeeist at 
the WorldJunior Championship in Tur­
keyin 2002. Thatsameyear, their mother 
Yvonne placed third at the World Veter­
ans Championships, making Yvonne and 
Kerry the first parent-child duo ever to 
medal concurrently at World Champion­
ships. . 
24 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 19 FEBRUARY 2004 

-~·:.•~:--.:~:-;·{:'_!"--:.~_o-, ;·. :-:~•--:~·-_:,::.:~:.:-,,-~-!--. ,__ -~----.-...•::~.; ,;~.--.-._,:'il,;:~~_. •.:: .-·,: ..-.':'-·.·.:... _ ·:::_·•,'.::-~---;~:.:,·-~\-~~~::--~~~-~...-...A::-::.::::~:;-;.;~~-~::.~~-,;:·::: ·._ ",..., -·-:-.--. ·:..·:· ..:· ,-· ;.{'..._.. ~ .·.... ·.-.,::t•:_j• .,.,. <'~\·:;~ ;/_ .-. , :-,_: .... r.-:. :-~ ::... '; :. ··--· ~­
"~~@'.{9tf~~i/:x:<;,::._~:;-: :c _·: •••:;,•~~~·:'·)>·, ;·'.Y'.;'.:-,'..:~---r.:T ~_-;-___ ·._::?•~-• -;:1.•,f~,;;··.·~:-~.,;:•;::-__ 7:-__ /·-•·-'::.s-::,::.··_:··::~'.:·:.?::·?>·--.·-_:_;_ 

Demers Hit the Slopes 
A Notre Dame club is making a name for itself on hills and mountains 
-MEGANCONNELLY 
While many Domers complain . about the weather, the Notre Dame ski team couldn't be happier when the forecast calls for flur­ries or the dreaded lake-effect snow. The ski team may not he the biggest or most visible team on 
has competitions between schools with 
· varying affiliations; at any given race, the Irish team can compete against another club teams, Division I, II or III schools, junior colleges and other fully funded programs. The USCSA awards national champi­onships in alpine skiing, cross-country 
took two out of the top three places in the women's division individually, with senior Leigh Hellrung coming in second overall and senior Alanna Lungren com­ing in third. 
The regionals were held in Michigan at Marquette Mountain this year. The top three teams qualify for nationals 
as well as the highest­

campus, but it certainly placed individual who's has enjoyed its own fair not a member ofthe top share ofsuccess. three teams. The team 
"Our team has a lot of placed fourth overall, fun. We all get along one place away from really well and we're not qualifying for nation­competitive even among als. Northern Michi­one another, but we push gan won the women's each other," says the team competition, and women's captain senior the men's competition Leslie Schmidt. "We're was won by Michigan out there doing something Tech University. The we love, so we're all very team had great indi­fortunate." vidual success, how­
TheIrish ski team has 24 ever, as senior Leigh members total, split evenly Hellrung qualified for 
with 12 guys and 12 girls. The success of the team is even ~ore impressive, given is that the Irish don't even have a coach. How­ever, the Irish ski team 

doesn't need a coach to ' maintain team discipline or hard work. 
Once the team returns from winter 
break, they practice every Wednesday 
at Swiss Valley in Michigan. 
"Being able to practice at Swiss Val­

ley is great since we go and compete in 
a race league there and then, after that, 
they let us set the course however we 
want to and ski till the mountain closes," 
Schmidt says. 
The Notre Dame ski team is a member 

of the United States Collegiate Ski and 
Snowboard Association (USCSA). Over 
150 colleges across the nation compete 
in races governed by the USCSA. The 
teams compete each weekend inJanuary 
and part ofFebruary, and these weekend 
races lead up to regionals and then cul­
minate with the nationals in March. 
The USCSA is the only collegiate­

level national sports association that 
ICE COLD! An Irish skier speeds down the hill, swerving past a slalom gate. 
skiing and snowboarding. Notre Dame 
participates in the alpine races where 
the Irish ski both the slalom and giant 
slalom. Each team fields five racers, and 
the top three performances are calcu­
lated into the overall team score. There 
are 11 conferences total in the USCSA 
and the Irish compete in the Midwest 
conference's Michigan division. against 
37 other teams, including Michigan 
State, University ofMichigan and Ohio 
State University. 
This season the Notre Dame team traveled to compete at Crystal Moun­tain and Schuss Mountain in Michigan, as well as Searchmount, in Ontario, Canada. The divisionals were held Feb. 7 and 8 at Crystal Mountain. The women came in second overall at divi­sionals behind Michigan State, while the -men's team came in fifth. Notre Dame 
nationals, which will be held March 1-6 in Sugarloaf, Maine. 
This is the second time Hellrung has been to nationals, as the en­

. tire ski team qualified for nationals her freshman year. "Mak­ing nationals is really the last thing that I expected to happen this year, so the pressure is off," said Hellrung. "I'm just looking to have a good time." 
Besides the time each member dedi­cates to the team, a fair amount of the work goes into fundraising projects, as well. Each member pays $300 yearly in dues. One ofthe ways that the team raises money is through T-shirt sales. "Ifwe sell all our T-shirts, then itworks out to only being about $15 a person, so there's a lot of emphasis on selling the T-shirts!" said Hellrung. 
Skiing in Indiana? The Irish have shown, from the modest beginning of the team in the 1970s to the national stage on which it currently participates, that skiing in the Midwest can be done -and very well at that. . 
19 FEBRUARY 2004 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 25
I 


'Just get it down on paper, and then we'll see what to do with it" 
-Maxwell Perkin.__,,. Submit to ... , 
..... 

J~: : 
··_ \:~·...-: .; -~~-~/~·<..:~;·~t~f}~\(~';//·_: 

'ti •. : . i.\.,,.,c..,,.o ,;,;,,-,,,,~ 
..· ·. -. ~
r 

.:.\: ___,__~ ---,;,..-.: ..•.... : .......... -.:!',_ .:.-­
(,:::>:;n _ .· . . . ·.. .. > .. ?Jr1f'Ft?::';1J1~,::c;:?:';'-' 
Do you have a short story, poem, painting or photograph? Submit your work to The juggler, ND's student literary, art and design magazine, and "we'll see what to do with it"... it might appear in the Spring 2004 issue! 
Please submit artwork to Robert Sedlack in 212 Riley Hall. Supply slides for pieces larger than I I "x 17" or 3-D work. 
Written work can be submitted to the box outside the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dining Hall or e-mailed via attachment to juggler@nd.edu. No entries of more than 2,500 words please. All submissions should include title ~f piece, author/artist's name and an e-mail address. 


----------------~ -' . . '­
·-. , ' ' -' 
\\ 

Gone Country 
A group of friends brings the taste of country to Notre Dame 
LAURENKIEHNA 
So did you hear the one aboui: the politi­cal science major and the two engineers who started a country band? It's nojoke. Emily Hawthorne, Jessica McQuaide Lei­bowitz and TJ Mathieson might seem like a strange combination of people to form a musical group, but the three seniors share a strong friendship and a deep love ofmusic. With solid musical experience and several original songs already in their repertoire, the trio seems ready to become an impor­tant musical act on campus. Now, all they . need is a band name. All three have been interested in music since childhood and began honing their skills long before coming to Notre Dame. Leibowitz, who is the group's lead singer, has been singing and playing the piano since she was young. "I grew up singing country," she says. A political science major from San Antonio, Texas, she completed her first recording project at the age of16. Since then she has been helming her own music publishing company inNashville-Gate to Gate Music, Inc. -living and working in Nashville during the summer. "I've learned a lot about the business, especially the song­writing aspect," she says. An up-and-coming artist in the country music business, Leibowitz plans to head to / Nashville full-time after graduating inMay. "I'm working with a new producer," she says, "and all three of us are working on songs to finish out my new album." In the mean­time, she has kept busy singing on campus 
atAcoustiCafe and sporting events. 
Leibowitz's performance of the national 

anthem at a campus hockey game helped 
to begin the formation of the group. Ma­
thieson, a varsity Notre Dame hockey 
player and aerospace engineering major from 
Maryland, had befriended Leibowitz when 
they were prospective students, but hadn't 
known that she was interested in music until 
he heard her version ofthe anthem. A guitar 
player, Mathieson also grew up in a musical 
environment. "My dad played inbands while 
I was growing up, so there were always gui­
tars around the house," he explains. 
After gaining musical experience by play­

ing the trumpet in high school, Mathieson became interested in the 
guitar and taught himself to play. His guitar, a 1963 12-string aptly named "Tallulah'Jhe·12-String Wonder," is a gift from his father. After hearing about Leibowitz's interest in music, he began to set some of her original lyr­ics to music, and the two of them began to think about starting a musical group oftheir own . 

Hawthorne was just the SWEET HOME LAFORTUNEThe trio plays atAcoustiCafe last 
person to fill the second Thursday night. guitarist spot for the group. A mechanical engineering major from Ohio, she had been looking for opportunities on campus to ex­plore her interest in music. "My mom was a piano teacher, and I'd played several instru­ments as a child," she says. "I'd been look­ing forward to doing something musically, like this." When Leibowitz and Mathieson asked her ifshe'd like to play with them, she was excited about the project, and the three began to rehearse together as a group. 
Ona campus where most computer speak­ers play Dave Matthews Band, John Mayer and the like, the group is excited about bring­ing their own brand ofcountry music to the campus music scene. "It's fun to be a little different," Leibowitz says. 
Hawthorne agrees. "You'll be surprised how many students come out of the coun­try 'closet."' Another aspect thatsets the trio apartis their interest in original music. "Our songs are like a combination ofSheryl Crow and Michelle Branch," Hawthorne notes. 
Most of their original music is based on ideas from Leibowitz's journals; Mathieson provides the music. "I'll read a poem or something out ofmyjournal toTJ, and he'll comeup with a really cool chord progression to accompany the words," Leibowitz says. "We just go with the flow," Mathieson adds. They describe their songs as thoughtful, with lyrics that capture the emotions oflife. "But it's not fluff," Leibowitz emphasizes. 
"We're all pretty deep thinkers," Ma­thieson says. "If you listen closely to the lyrics, we think you'll find something you can relate to." 
The energy among the three musicians is palpable as they discuss their upcoming performances. "We're playing an hour-long opening set for a band at Legends after spring break," Mathieson says. Leibowitz adds, "We want to have some more origi­nals done for that performance." The three are taking advantage offuture AcoustiCafe appearances to practice their new material beforehand. Also, they plan to play as part of BestofAcoustiCafe on Feb. 26. Even though these sets include some covers, Hawthorne emphasizes that the songs still have an origi­nal spin. "Everything they hear has some­thing original included, whether it's a guitar part or a different melody added in. It's not made to sound just like the recording." 
All three plan on continuing with music after graduation. "It's definitely something I'm going to keep up with," Hawthorne says. When Leibowitz heads to Nashville after graduation to demo some new music, she hopes that Hawthorne and Mathieson will continue to collaborate with her even as they begin their new careers. "It's rare to find someone you can really write with and be comfortable with," Leibowitz explains. 
Ifonly they could decide on a band name. "Latelywe've been using '36 Strings,' for the combined total of all of our guitar strings. We're still working on it," Hawthorne laughs. ''And we're looking for a bongo player, too!" Leibowitz adds. Any bongo-playing Notre Dame students looking to join an upbeat group ofcountry music enthusiasts: Here's your chance. . 
19 FEBRUARY 2004 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 27 


Afraid ofcommitment? 


• 
Holy Cross priests and brothers at Notre Dame. 
Come anyway. 
J.M.J. 
Be Not Afraid! 




Casa Deliziosa 
Delectable Italian dining on the weekends 
TRACYEVANS 
The front page ofthe menu at Papa Joe's Casa de Pasta on Union St. inMishawaka reveals a lot. A per­sonal welcome to customers is steeped in tradition, but provides the pleasant warning that the restaurant is "not fast food style." So come hungry and come patient. The wait is long, but the massive portions of quality, homestyle cooking soon help the stomach forget the delay. The Nave family opened their Ital­ian restaurant in 1973 and have been welcoming locals, students and other pasta-lovers ever since. Shirley Nove, one of the owners, shares her vision for the business: "I searched for a specialty to offer to patrons and was reminded of my family and my background, so I de­cided on pasta specialties." The Italian flavor that permeates the menu foliows through with homemade charm, and Nave's specialization is apparent. Dining in Papa Joe's might feel like being transported to an evening on a bustling Italian patio. The combination oflatticework, roses and leafy greenery provides an almost overwhelming den ofdimly lit tables. Plenty ofcandlelight adds warmth to the atmosphere, how­ever, and provides the majority of the lighting. While the sheer abundance of decoration may seem a bit over the top, whimsical umbrellas hung upside-down from the ceiling are certainly charming, · unusual additions. "We wanted to create a delightfully cozy atmosphere with a lot of red ac­cents in every nook and cranny of the dining area," explains Nove, acknowl­edging the surroundings that flavor the ·tightly arranged clusters of tables. The salad, served family-style with every dinner, rivals chain restaurant signatures in the unique combination of antipasti ingredients such as pep­peroni, olives and cheese. Dressings conveniently can be found right on the table and sopping garlic bread sets the tone for an excellent meal. When it comes to entrees, Papa Joe's 
has one rule: .,.. ,:_":>-hf-; 
good food and -:m l" ... . lots of it. The · .. menu is decid­edly lopsided, 
as all the dishes favor pasta as the central ingredi-. ent. Whether chicken mar­sala, mosta·ccioli or mix-n-match
;r~;?.>~,~~ ~~;:c,&{',g&y~::!,~j$'i~l~~,Ii~~fii:,;Cff~-~fi~ 
th t h h ANDIAMO!Though only open on Friday and Saturday evenings, Papa Joe's is a . a t. e ot _er definite must for anyone interested in mass quantities of quality pasta. 
mgred1ents lit­
erally disappear. The sauteed broccoli 
alla siciliana is a mishmash of both red 
and white sauces, cheese and vegetables, 
which are all hidden somewhere beneath 
the overwhelming mound of linguini. 
Although the cheese sauce is a bit rich 
and its almond garnish is a bit out of 
place, somehow Papa Joe's satisfies the 
hungry diner. 
The key is to please everyone's prefer­
ences. Nave gushes: "The menu is filled 
with mouthwatering combinations of 
vegetables, meats, pasta, seafood and 
sauces." While many ofthe ingredients 
appear in several dishes, a few of them 
seem unnecessary, like the mushrooms 
that frequently pop up, whether they're 
garnished in marsala sauce or not. 
Though the food takes a long time to 
prepare, the attentive wait staff remains 
concerned with meeting the special 
tastes of their customers. Our waitress 
was even willing to combine two favor­
ites, as well as to provide a sampling, for 
a specialized meal. Many of the dishes 
allow for substitutions and combina­
tions of sauces, sauteed vegetables and 
sides of hot sausage and meatballs. 
Even better than the pasta is the 
sauce in which it sits. Rumored to have simmered all week on the Nave family stove, the marinara is delightfully fla­vorful and not a bit weak or fake-tast­ing. The alfredo sauce is as rich and -thick as expected, almost a little too 
much when paired with the abundance ofcheese. While pasta dishes are surely the regulars' favorites, chicken is the second most popular menu item. Selec­tions also in­
elude veal and ( · Papa J9_e's 
an underrep­
resented sec­
tion devoted 
to seafood · located on 
the back of 
the menu. 
Desserts are 
equally indul­
gent, ranging 
from the Ital­
ian staples of 
tiramisu and 
spumoni to 
a fudgy cake 
with plenty of ice cream toppings. Of course, most diners couldn't possibly consider a third course after such a waistline-expanding meal. 
Papa Joe's provides surprisingly rea­sonable prices (dinners range from $11 to $16) for food that would cause even an Italian grandma to call it a molto bene effort. The long waits for food are understandable once the steaming plate hits the table. And when the bottomless pit ofpasta leaves you thoroughly satis­fied, only one thought remains: Thank goodness for doggie bags. . 
· ***of4 -. 
t· ·• :LocaJfon__ . 
I · 1209 Union St. Misha.:.c waka: . 
·. . . . ·.. 
.·-•-· Prices· --, 
. ' -Dinner rang!3 frc>m' $11 to· 
...·· ; ' ·.$1_6':: . ·. 
· Hours.. . · Friday & Saturday _: . 4:30 p.m. ~ 10:00 p.m. 
· ·1leservations':i:ind credit ·. .cjl~ds ~ccl:lp,~!:(; _;;, 

19 FEBRUARY 2004 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 29 
,­

Remembrances of JPW 
On navigating the pratfalls of Junior Parents Weekend ... with the flu 

It's that special time ofyear again. The sun is peeking its head out ofthe clouds. The snow is starting to melt. Love is in the air. And thousands ofadults are flocking to campus this very moment. Welcome once again toJunior Parents Weekend. For those ofyou unfamiliar with the tradition, an explana­tion is in order. As a reward for three years of enrollment in this illustrious institution, juniors (and seniors who spent their junior spring semester abroad) and their parents are invited to spend exorbitant amounts ofmoney on absurdly fancy dinners and photo ops. Sounds exciting, doesn't it? Notso much. I vividly recall the details ofmyown]PWexperi­ence one year ago, and let me tell you this: It was no picnic. Dating back to those campus tours my parents took before I had even graduated high school, my mom had been avidly looking forward to this particular weekend. Don't ask me why; I'm sure they make everything seem wondrous on those strolls about campus. Fast-forward three years. ]PW has, at long last, arrived. My parents have made it to the Bend, I've bought my very first tie (or maybe borrowed one ofmy dad's, who knows), and we're all set for a fantastical weekend ofbonding and fun. Except that I've got a crippling case ofthe flu. Oh, and I hate fancy dinners and stuff. So yeah, things were not looking up for me from the get-go. And, as I have found is generally the case for a cynical pessimist like myself, things quickly went from bad to worse. Let's take a look at the weekend's key events and how super they were. It'll be fun and educational, I promise! 
Friday Night: The "Star-Spangled" Gala 

JPW's grand opening salvo comes in the form of the tradi­tional "gala." Taking up the vast majority of the Joyce Center, it features areas with dozens ofthemes from the tinsel ofHol­lywood to the gondolas ofVenice. Each area features appropri­ate hors d'oeuvres and bothersome attractions. Highlights: bad swing-dancing and frighteningly aggressive limbo promoters. Oh, and the hors d'oeuvres tastes like crap. On the plus side, I'm not yet too ill to walk. 
Saturday Afternoon: Carroll Hall Luncheon 

Nothing says, "Welcome to our dorm, the best on campus," like lukewarm Fazoli's and forced conversation. The most tedious half hour of my life? Quite possibly. On the plus side, the flu 
0 lJ T 
guarantees that I can't taste the mediocre meal. 
Saturday Night: ]PWMass and President's Dinner 
Hurray! A massive, impersonal Mass in the none-too-com­fortable seating ofthe]oyce Center stadium! There's nothingI love more than waiting in line for halfan hour for the body of Christ. On the plus side, I had just about enough tissues to keep my airways clear enough to draw breath. But just barely. 
The dinner, also in the Joyce Center, directly follows the Mass. Luckily we've built up something ofan appetite standing in line. Unluckily, the organizers have decide~ to bombard us with a string ofuncompelling, long-winded speakers. Oddly, 9/11 seems the topic of choice for pretty much all of them. Don't know why. It just is. 
Predictably enough, the food is awful. And only slightly above room temperature. And it's filled with raisins. Raisins in the salad. Raisins in the dessert. There are probably rai­sins in the main course, but at this point I am so thoroughly diseased that I can't taste anything at all and feel no desire to eat anyway. 
At this point, it's official: There is no plus side. My life is, at least temporarily, a living hell. 
Sunday Morning: Closing Brunch 
So close, and yet so far. The weekend's final event is upon us. Too bad it's disgustingly early in the morning. And too bad my flu has co-opted and corrupted all five senses and filled every fiber ofmy being with aching despair. 
But hey, the brunch isn't half bad! The juice is cold and the apple strudelly thingis halfway decent. And halfthe guests who bought tickets don't show up, so I get four or five helpings of each. Completing the one-two punch ofpleasant surprises, Mike Brey turns out to be a humorous, energetic speaker. Best ofall, he keeps it short and simple, to the effect of, "Notre Dame is· good and basketball is fun. Whee!" 
Now, don't all you juniors get discouraged. Word on the street has it that my opinion isn't worth the paper it's printed on. It could be that I just went out ofmy way to spew out 800 words ofhateful vitriol to make up for the fact that OOB's usual writer is a shiftless layabout. 
Seriously, though. It's 4: 18 a.m. So forget everything you just read and enjoy the three-day trip into unparralleled joy that is 
]PW. 
Suckers. 
0 

0 F 
D 

30 SCHOLASTJCOUT OF BOUNDS I 9 FEBRUARY 2004 



~ .~ ,· / ,.
:, {\ t, . ./ '\ .../
·;.,,~ '·,-,-~· ."":::,-.,. 
.EDITOR'S CHOICE 
Spring Break 

Mar. 6-Mar. 14 Spri-i-ng Break, Yeah! Enjoy the break from classes! Fly off to some exotic locale and party like your life depends on it. Or, head home and relax with friends and family, that is, unless you are committing your break to a spring service project. 
CATHARTIC 
Free Food and Massages 
February 23-24, 11:00 a.m.-2:00 p.m. Sorin Room, LaFortune. Will also feature a raffle with exciting prizes for those of the gaming persuasion. 
SUBMIT your event for Scholas­tic'sComing Distractions. E-mail your submissions to Mike Healy at ehealy@nd.edu 
ATHLETIC 

Siegfried Rambler _ ,-Scrambler 
/?~·,.. _ --~· . , ·-.. .· . ..:: ~....-~.~~"-·,..,,,r~fJC'~ Feb.27inNorth 
' 

,·  -;,. ...  -·../  ,~ -~­·  '· :. ,.,,  . ../ Dmmg Hall. Compete in a 19-hole miniature  
golf challenge with  
all proceeds going to  
· research for a cure to Lou  
Gehrig's Disease;·  ·  

Men's Basketball vs. Georgetown 
Mar. 4, 7:00 p.m.JACC. Free admission with ticket booklet and student ID. The Hoyas come to Notre Dame with fab freshmen Matt Causey and Kenny Izzo, hoping to stifle Chris Thomas and the Irish attack. 
HEARTWARMING 
Junior Parents Weekend 
February 20-22, featuring an evening gala, collegiate workshops, and brunches galore. For further information contactJPW Student Committee at (574) 631-0128. 
SUSPENSEFUL 

Mid-Semester Grades due March 5. 
Deficiency reports to be sent home, so make sure you pull out all the stops the week ofMar. 1-5. 
19 FEBRUARY 2004 SCHOLASTICCALENDAR 31 

by James Gower 

Next Fall, on Fox 

The people of Kentucky, however, apparently are suspicious of guys singing and dancing to old Disney tunes. 
James Gower is a freshman engineering major who devoted his fall break to the service ofothers. He enjoys long moonlit walks on the beach and the Highlanderfilms. For more on the Appalachian fall semina1; contact jgower@nd.edu. 

This past fall break, I went on an Appa­lachia Seminar service trip to Harlan, Ky. I spent a week there working with COAP (Christian Outreach with Appalachian People, Inc.), an organization that builds new homes for needy families. Nine other students, one alumnus and I roofed, painted and installed insulation. We had many chances to interact with the community during an experience that ranks among the best ofmy short college career. It was a "you had to be there" experience, and I really hope many more people get to have such a great adventure. It has inspired me to seriously consider a life of service. If you've made it this far down the page, you deserve to know what else I think about when I recall my week as a stranger in a strange land. While my college chums were back home enjoying the company oftheir old high school cohorts, I was introducing myself to yet another group ofpeople on campus. We didn't really meet each other until 5:30 a.m. on that fateful day of departure. The trip officially started with a historic 11-hour car ride. I've just set the scene for a thrilling adventure, but I slept most ofthe way down; I was .running on only three hours ofsleep from the night before. The longest delay on the trip came while waiting for our alum leader to meet us at a roadside Holiday Inn in Lexington. To make a long story short, we didn't meet him there, and God knows we were scared. I hadn't seen more trepidation since our first dorm party. Our dreams/nightmares were fulfilled when we finally got to Harlan and met up with our alum. Things settled down after a while, and we finally moved into our cozy little homeless shelter. I would .say that the week comprised the worst sfx nights ofsleep I've ever had, but I've now woken up disoriented on enough futons to disprove that. The days started early and went till three in the afternoon. We were split up into two groups. One group spent the week roofing, while the other did odd jobs. The Great God ofProbability laughed at me as the group that was randomly selected to do the odd jobs consisted ofthe four girls on our trip, and me. You may ask, "ButJames, do you not revel in the company of females, and do you not also look kindly upon a substantial girl-to-guy ratio?" Maybe I was enjoying them -until they drove the minivan through town blasting "Barbie Girl" a~d then got into paint-fights, and even I, the most masculine man there (note: the only guy there), joined in. 
The people of Kentucky, however, apparently are suspicious ofguys singing and dancing to old Disney tunes (don't judge, you weren't there). I spent the week ruining clothes with paint and get­ting fiberglass insulation in my eye. Meanwhile, the real workers gave me weird looks, and the rest of the guys enjoyed roofing. . 
Now, ifyou've made itthis far, you deserve a bad analogy. I would like to compare my experience in Appalachia to Paris Hilton and Nicole Rich­ies' exp!:irience in The Simple Life. Both programs took well-off kids and submerged them in rural America in the hopes of encouraging moral and personal growth. Both were full ofkooky adven­tµres and cultural faux pas. We, however, did not have a delightfully precocious Chihuahua and a production van filled with mascara. Now some Q&A: . 
Q: Would you do it again? 
A: Yes, no doubt in my mind, whatsoever. 
Q: Do you think it made you a better person? 
A: 
Yes, we all need to commit some of our lives to the service ofothers. 

Q: Did you enjoy the local people? 

A: 
Yes, from the hard-working boss to the kind Canadian carpenter to the hilarious bigot, all the people I worked with in Appalachia were the most generous· and inspirational I have met while in college. 


Q: Do you apologize for bringing Paris Hilton into this article? 
A: Yes ... yes I do. 
I'd like to thank all of you who went on the trip with me, especially ifl didn't give you that impression earlier. I have a great deal ofrespect for you all, and you helped show me what hap­pens when you're a Barbie girl, but not in a Barbie world. . 
32 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 19 FEBRUARY 2004 
~--------------~----­
. . 
'START HERE. Ga PLACES. 
If you know business and accounting, you can get a job anywhere. Because the skills you learn in business -strategic and analytical thinking, communication, a:nd leadership =­are always indemand. In some ofthe coolest industries in the world. Even in the movies. 
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and Indiana CPA Society 

•I.rt"
:~'fA 





