
N TRE D ME1S STUDENT MAGAZINE 



Homosexuality at otre Dame 

NOTRE DAME 1SSTUDENT MAGAZINE 
Entertainment reviews and previews, Out of Bounds and a Coming Distractions pull-out calendar of events. In-depth news and sports coverage. 
Read one for the Gipper! Campus Watch plus Week in Distortion and On Other Campuses. 
Campus Life stories to keep you informed of what's happening on campus. Remember: If you see news happening ... you're probably reading Scholastic! 
If you don't have time to write home every week, let us do it for you: Give your parents a subscription! 
?<-------------------------------------­
Please send __ years of Scholastic to: 
Name: 

Address: ______________ 
City: ______ State: ___ ZipCode: __ 
. Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x _____ years = $ ___ 
Please send form with payment to: Business Manager Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, In 46556 



NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 

2 Editor's Notes 
5 Campus Watch 18 On Other Campuses 19 Week in Distortion 20 Final Word I 
3 Who's Who 4 .Ushered Out 

6 A Catholic Coining Out 

10 Cougar Country 14 Where Are They Now? 

16 Out of Bounds 17 Dancing at Lughnasa 
Above: Notre Dame students cheer their team on to victory at a recent game. The Irish are undefeated, but can the football team beat BYU? See page 10. Cover graphic by Charlie Kranz 

OCTOBER 14, 1993 


FROM THE EDITOR 
Welcome to another e:'(~iting week of Scholastic. In this week's cover story, Campus Life Editor Michelle Crouch taks a closer look at an officially unrecognized group on campus: gay and lesbian students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. She investigates their struggle for formal recognition by the administration of both schools, and some of the group's members recount their experiences as homosexuals at a Catholic university. 
ALSO IN THIS ISSUE ... 
In Sports, writer Megan McGrath tells us what paths some former Notre Dame athletes took after graduation. Assistant Entertainment Editor Scott Johnson reviews the campus' first play of the Fall season. 
Everyone sees Andy Budzinski at every football game and pep rally, but many only recognize him by his greem costume. Turn to the News section to learn more about Notre Dame's mascot. 
Also, check out our regular features: Campus Watch. On Other Campuses. Out of Bounds, Week in Distortion and the Final Word. 
CORRECTIONS ... In the September 30, 1993, issue, the article, "Just Called to Say I Love You" ha,d an incorrect by-line. The actual author was Amy Schmidt. In the October 7, 1993, issue, the photograph and photo caption on the Table of Contents were incorrectly matched. Pictured were Reynold. Nesiba and his twin sons. Scholastic regrets the errors. 
-Margaret S. Kenny 

Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at Tht Papers, Inc. Milford, IN46542, The subscription rate is $25,00/year and back issues are available at $125 !copy, The opinions expressed 
UI Sch~lastic art those of tht Ruthors and editors and do not 
necessarily rtprtsent the opinions ofthe entire editorial board of Scholastic oroftht University ofNotre Dame, its.administra­tion, faculty or students, Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. 
Mllltuscrij,ts artwtlcomt. Allunsolicititdmaterials btcomt tht 
property ofScholastic, 
Copyright1993 Scholastic Magazine. Allrights reserved. Repro­duction in whole orinpartwithoutwritten permission is prohib­

ited. . 
Letters to Scholastic must be typed an,l include the writer's name, address and phone number. University students should include 
their year in school and college, Faculty members should include their department. All lett,rs must bt signed, Names will be 
Withheld upon request in certain instances. 
Scholastic reserves the right to reject lttttrs that are libelous or obsetnt by the laws ofthe United States, Scholastic also will edit for copyfitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic 
stylt. Because ofspace,Scholastic cannotprin taII letters rectivtd. 
Addrtss 'all corrtspondtnct to : 
Tht Editor. 
Scholastic 
Lafortune Center 
Notre Dame, IN 46.,56 




NEWS 

The



Who's Who: 
Leprechaun 
A closer look at Notre Dame's bowling champion: mascot, Andy Budzinski 

I was so impressed that I decided to wait until part of it. More important is being able to 
by Abigail May my sophomore year, when Dan would be a provide a little motivation and to entertain 
senior, and try out for the 1993 season." the crowd. In a lot of ways it's more like
What could pe more perfect for a South "I'm glad I decided to wait to try out; it stand-up comedy." Bend boy, born and raised among the gave me a chance to get adjusted and to feel During one part of the selection process, screaming Irish football fans, than to one at home here. Besides, Dan was the best the leprechaun hopefuls are each given day sport the trademark beard and cocky leprechaun Notre Dame has had. He really thirty seconds to come up with a reaction to grin ofthe leprechaun? And who better than expanded the mascot's role and set down a a specific situation that could arise during a a grandson of a Rockne-era head usher at lot of tradition. I want to carry on the game or rally. Andy feels that this ability to Notre Dame Stadium and great-nephew ofa tradition that Dan set here at Notre Dame." react quickly is an especially important part former assistant football coach to carry on "I also feel that Dan set a standard for the of the job. the tradition of the quintessential college leprechaun character that will result in con­"You 're not wearing a mask like a lot of mascot? It was only natural for Andy siderably more competitive try-outs in years mascots do, so people can see that you're an Budzinski to don those green garments and to come." During try-outs, which are held at actual person, and once in a while someone lead the Notre Dame cheering section as the 
will come up and get right in your face. Not mascot of the Fighting Irish. to mention the fact that so much ofwhat I do Growing up in a family of full-fledged during games is pretty much off the cuff." Notre Dame fanatics, Andy always felt that Andy will have to try out again this Spring he was destined to be a student here some­for next season. It will be back to square one day. "Neither of my parents attended Notre then, so for now Andy is just trying to enjoy Dame, but both are major 'subway alums.' every minute of his leprechaun duties. My older brother graduated from Indiana Andy spends about eight hours a week University, but he is still a die-hard Notre practicing with the cheerleaders in prepara­Dame fan. And my Uncle Frank is named tion for his Saturday appearances. While he for the first Irish player to make a touch­doesn't have to participate in all their gruel­down after he was born." ing stuntwork, he does try to do as many as Given all this, it's not surprising that 135 pushups in the course of a night Other when it came time to leave Washington responsibilities include writing his speeches High, Andy knew that there was only one for the Friday night pep rallies and occasion­place he wanted to go and one thing he ally making special appearances at places wanted to do once he got there. like the Logan Center and the children's "Even as a little kid when I was sitting in wards at nearby hospitals. It is without the stands on a football Saturday, I would hesitation, however, that Andy affirms that always keep an eye on the leprechaun. I just the rewards ofhis job are well worth the time always thought that that was one thing I the same time as those for the cheerleading and effort he puts in. would love to do. I remember. telling Mark squad, prospective leprechauns must dem­"I just can't even describe the feeling of Andrzejewski (a classmate since grade onstrate their ability to motivate the crowd running through the tunnel and out onto the school who is now a memberof the Fighting and to speak in front of large groups of · field before a game when the drums are Irish football team), 'Someday, we're going people. The judges look for spirit, confi­beating and people are hanging down over to be on the football field together at Notre dence and ability to think on one's feet. the rails to get a look. There's a stadium full Dame."' Andy, who did a good deal of comedic of people who are cheering you on, and a Soon after arriving at school freshman acting in high school, didn't find that his million thoughts are running through your year, Andy told himself that he would even­lack of cheerleading and tumbling experi­mind all at once. It's unbelievable -like tually try out for the leprechaun. "After ence presented much of a problem. going to battle or something. You almost watching Dan Wagner in action a few times, "The gymnastics really isn't such a big can't believe it's just a football game." 0 . 
OCTOB ER 14, 1993 

NEWS COMMENTARY 

Stadium stormtroopers stomp student section spirit 
They can smell your fear. They sense all sudden movements. They stalk like lions and shoot for the jugular. Who are these prying predators? They are your protection. They are your Notre Dame Stadium ushers. And they are not your friends. Hold conclusion, right? Well, if you find that view far too extreme, you can be sure that the opinions of the 19 freshmen victimized at last Saturday's football game will differ only in the · number of expletives employed in the barrage against these same carnivorous aisle-ornaments. The "19 victimized freshmen" re­ferred to here are the unfortunate members of section 34 who all received escorts out ofthe stadium for a mere show oflrishspiritand collegiate jocularity. · According to the stadium Gestapo, their crimes include the following: reckless endangerment, assault and battery. From the 
· other side of the issue, that of your average Domer, the previous infractions carry more commonly recognized names: people pass-. 
ing, post-touchdown "mosh" pits and a typical fun-for-everyone Saturday afternoon blast. 
Patrick J. Perri 

The point is, these same ushers whose job description includes the preservation of organized spectator seating and collective viewer enjoyment have quite obviously abused their powers and have marred their purpose. Their ardent efforts to suffocate the inspira­tional jubilation of Notre Dame's youngest and finest are wholly unjust and even abusive. -. 
For instance, five students were removed from the game in the third quarter for participating in the post-touchdown people-passing ritual -one of whom included the young lady who served as the "passee" in the incident. It seems entirely unfair and ridiculous to incriminate her in this case since she held little voice in the matter of.her involuntary toss to the top of the stadium. She never even reached the top of the stadium because your friendly neighborhood usher forcefully yanked her from her position atop the dozen hands of her passers while making no attempt to ease her fall. Sadly enough, the four thoughtful and chivalrous ND freshmen who did
i! 
I! 
break her fall were also quickly corralled and. ejected. The flying 
j\ yellow elbows of the ushers gave them no opportunity to plead a Ii 
case.

i' ! In a separate incident occurring in the fourth quarter, an entire row was graced with the presence of a small, surly, self-empowered, elderly man whose only distinction could be made obvious by the large black letters spelling "USHER,t on his goldennylon wind­breaker. He joined them to put a stop to the celebration incurred by 
. 

JeffBurris' outstanding punt return. Their behavior could be viewed 
as potentially dangerous (in a kindergarten playpen), so this usher 
will escape the charge of "party-crashing." However, his fourth­
quarter ejection quota was apparently not yet fulfilled, so he pro­
ceeded to perform a random student ID check on the fear0 stricken 
freshmen surrounding him. Much to his dissatisfaction, all those 
questioned were actual students. (Surprisingly,-he failed ·10 pros­
ecute them for improper seating arrangements since the two students 
assigned to seats 18 and 19 were standing on seats 20 and 21.) 
After an unpleasant and unproductive stint in row 42, he went on 
to mutter a harsh rebuke behind him as a deterrent to any future 
displays of exhilaration. In reply, a low murmur ofboos and hisses 
could be detected amongst the surrounding freshmen. Yup, you 
guessed it! Asking no questions, the inhospitable mercenary 
grabbed and thrashed at the sweatshirt sleeves of several innocent 
onlooker~. hauling them viciously in trail, successfully dragging one 
young· 1ady through the accumulated muck blanketing the cold 
stadium cement. 

This misuse of power is typical of the ushers as a whole and it 
contributes to the popular stereotype of student-section ushers noted 
in the opening lines of this coqlmentary. Through their own extreme 
overeaction to situations involvingjoy, the student-section ushers 
have managed to exclude themselves from the respect and friendli­
ness shown toward the helpful, considerate and pleasant employees 
representing an institution like Notre Dame. 
· Certainly, the argument can be present~o and proven that they are 
".only looking out for our safety." This position of responsibility 
does not, however, provide· adequate justification for hawk-like 
behavior because freshmen, no matter how naive and helpless they 
sometimes appear, are not deserving of the mistreatment displayed 
by the ushers. 

A Notre Dame football game is an experience made memorable for a Ii fetime not because of the safety and security provided for its viewing, but because of the incredible exhilarated mass of excite­ment and spirit that accompanies a national championship football ·team and a first rate studerit body. Besides, how many students, despite the vocal urges of others, have actually been tossed over the great walls of the home of the Fighting Irish after a successful 
vertical pass through an entire section? . 
Perhaps if the stadium ushers issued a "controlled excitement" 
caution in place of Seargent Tim McCarthy's fourth-quarter drunk 
driving warning, the stud~nt body would be subdued to the state of 
silence comparable to those frequenters of the Hesburgh Library 
across the lawn. · · 
"May I have your atterition please, this is the stadium Gestapo ... 
0 
SCHOLASTIC 

-
NEWS COMMENTARY 




Can1pusWatch 
BY THE GIPPE R 
THIS WEEK ONLY: NOTHING OFFENSIVE 
The Gipp is sorry for being so rude last he investigated further and discovered no week. He will not be rude again, especially less than 45 articles written by Yant in the because it has taken the Gipp a full week to past year. The Gipp hopes Yant will use her . recover from the premiere of Rudy. ~onnections at the Times to get the Gipp a · 
Why? Because, and he is embarrassed to Job. No! It could happen! . The Gipp has .s admit this, he cried. Yup, he bawled his many useful skills. He can: · ] . little blue [not the real color] eyes out. 1) Write in third person. j However,the abundance of e-mail from his 2) Eat the jello-like slime off dining hall .:! loving fans helped put him back on his feet turkey. ~ again. 3) Boil water. z NOT BANNED YET 
ACHY-BREAKY
The Gipp' s first letter was from a fan who 


NIGHTMARES

signed her letter "SMC Deep Throat." The Gipp received an angry letter from his 
Naturally the Gipp felt tingly after reading a amigo in the band violently chastising him 
letter signed this way, but he did not let it for the past two weeks of achy-breaky band 
affect his journalistic standards. jokes, but then said, "We appreciate the
Anyway, this Deep Throat asked the Gipp publicity." As if playing "American Pie" in 
why the Hammes Bookstore does not have front of 60,000 people isn't enough public­
Under the Tarnished Dome for sale, espe­ity ...
cially since last week was "Banried Book Hold on achy-breaky fans, there's more:
Week." Because the. Gipp is an investiga­Two Los Angeles producers have acquired 
tive journalist, he investigated -he called rights to the title "Achy Breaky Heart" with 
the bookstore and interrogated a lady. the intention of making a movie by the same 
This is what happened [and this time, the name.
Gipp really isn't making this up]: This is a bad idea. The Gipp thinks they .
"Hello, this is the Gipp [not his real should choose a song title they could really
name]. I was wondering why you guys make a movie out of. A few suggestions:
aren't selling Under the Tarnished Dome." 
"Beat It." "Whip It." "I'm Going Down." 
"Ha. Ha. Ha. [Nervous laughter.] I can't Can you think of more? Send your ideas to
ans_wer that question. Hold, please .... [Long the Gipp! 
eene pause.] ... We can orderit, but we don't 

PREPARE TO BE

keep it in stock." 

ASSIMILATED

"Why?" A few weeks ago the Gipp's favorite
. "Just that we don't." 
· magazine (no, not Celebrity Skin -Scho­<Click> lastic!) ran a story on the policy change for· So, Miss Deep Throat, does that answer initiation rites. One of the Gipp'syour question? Maybe this will be helpful: compaiieros wrote him expressing his con­
i It. is on reserve in the Hes burgh library. 
cern with the way the student affairs direc­
~ Then again, so.is Madonna's Sex, and that is 
"' . , . tive is worded: "The only way in which to 
c much better reading. 5 assimilate new members into this commu-
CL 
SHE'S BACK <gasp> nity is to welcome them." J As the Gipp browsed through his copy of How would one be properly assimilated? ~ thelos Angeles Times, he noticed an article His prediction: 
4' written by none other than former Observer Imagine Star Trek and a DART-like voice editor Monica Yant! The Gipp was so greeting you at your dorm: excited to see his old rival's name in rint, "Welcome. Automation number, please." 
Sl>96·!E9 :xeJ 69Sl·!E9 :4d n!"'·pu@l:>dd!\l :mnuo:Jq EOE iiiCE!DDffJ<l clcl!D mu. dtEl)I 


(Insert social security and credit cards here.) 
"You are now a part of Notre Dame, a 
National KKKatholic Teaching and Re­
search Collective. At the tone you will don 
a blue shirt, attend all home football games 
and do exactly as everyone else. Resistance 
is futile." 
IT GETS BETTER 

There is something else funny about this z initiation thing. One of the Gipp's friends ~ from Dillon had to meet with someone from 
f 

the Office ofStudent Affairs to discuss what 1:: 
really happened at the Dillon initiation. ! 
Wait! The funny part is coming up. f-. ~ 
OK, fans, guess who the Gipp's friend 
met with. No, not Patty O'Hara. TheGipp's 
friend met with the same Student Affairs 
employee who sold him scalped football · tickets last year! [Business Majors: This is illegal.] 
MEANWHILE AT THE z HALL OF JUSTICE ... ~ z 

The Gipp was all prepared to continue the i fight against injustice in the service of his ~ ded~cated fans when he was halted by a copy [ of his own column, once again tarnished by [ red marks and grammatical corrections. ~ Our hero realized at once that his nemesis, ~ the Phantom English Professor, is still~ watching him diligently . 
This time, the nefarious villain wrote, "What makes you think only English pro­fessors are in favor of correct usage? Some lawyers also favor not abusing the mother tongue." This implies, then, that our Phan­tom English Professor is not, in fact, an English professor, but is instead a leech. 
Meanwhile, Aquaman is trapped inside a giant clam ... · .. 0 · 

OCTOBER 14, 1993 
CAMPUS LIFE
--------------~-----­

One of the hardest decisions a gay or was different. I had lots ofguy friends I was by Michelle Crouch lesbian student has to face is choosing attracted to. Fora long time, I didn't wantto whether to tell anyone about their sexual believeitoradmitittomyself." WhenMike Two lesbians holding hands ... An an-orientation, and if so, who. Before admitting was fourteen, he finally admitted his homo­nouncement in the newspaper that .their homosexuality to others, however, sexuality to himself, but he did not tell any-actually contains the name of a gay and many gay and lesbians must first admit it to one else until recently. · lesbian club .... A girl's SYR date who wears themselves. The first person Mike confided in was his heels andadressinsteadofkhakis and a blue Smith remembers: "For many years, I had• roommate last year. Since his roommate had blazer. a gay family member, Mike thought he Incidences such as these are com-.....---------------------, would be more understanding than most mon at most public universities. How-students. In addition, he was attracted to ever, they are unknown in the Catholic his roommate, and he thought telling him atmosphere of Notre Dame. would helP. the friendship. "He took it The Catholic position on homosexu-harder than I thought," said Mike, "and it ality acknowledges the existence of put a stress on the friendship for a while." homosexuality as a natural tendency However, after his roommate had some but states that committing acts of ho-time to get used to the idea, they were able mosexuality is morally wrong. to continue their friendship. The administrations of Notre Dame Despite his former roommate's ac-and Saint Mary's College agree with ceptance, Mike has remained essentially and enforce this view. "in the closet." He has attended one or This is no comfort, however, to the two Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame gays and lesbians who are students at and Saint Mary's (GLND/SMC) meet-Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. ; ings, but his current roommate does not "It's so much harder to be homo-{ knowofhishomosexuality,andsofarhe sexual at a Catholic school because ~ has confided in only three or four other there are no positive images like there close friends. "I'm iff the closet with the are at a public school," said Saint Mary's f~lingslmayhavebeenalesbian,butltried doorwideopen,"hesaid. "Ifsomeoneaskes senior Kelly Smith. "Instead, everything is to push it to the back of my mind. I felt that me if I'm gay; I'm not going to hide it from repressed, and what we do hear is so nega-homosexuality was immoral and wrong and them. But I feel that it's private, and there's tive." that I was a bad person for having these no·!1eed for everyone in the world to know." "This makes the gay or lesbian student feelings." Erik Floan, a Notre Dame graduate stu­here feel very isolated and engage in self-"As soon as I started to develop," said dent and president of GLND/SMC, had a hatred," she said. Mike,* a senior at Notre Dame, "I knew I completely different coming out experi-
ence: "The first person,ltold was my best 
friend my senior year, and he reacted fine 
because he had told me the same thing 
three weeks earlier." ·Coincidentally, 
many ofFloan's friends came out at the 
same time. 
"We all sorta' saw the world in the 

same way, so we had gravitated to­
gether," he said. "lal­. mostdidn'twanttobe­cause it was the trendy 
thing to do." 
Then, while he was 

an undergraduate at St. 
Olaf College, Floan 
publically came out. 
Every year SL Olaf has 
a President's Ball that 
everyone attends; he 
said. Floan went to this 
ball with his friend 
Todd as his date. "I 
guess we just waltzed 
our way out of the 
closet," he said. 
At a .conservative 

school such .as Notre 
Dame, coming out and 
·admitting to one's ho­
mosexuality is a brave 
step; those who take 
this step often risk ridicule and hostility. 
"The possibility of physical and men­

tal abuse does scare me, and that's why 
I'm hiding," said Mike. 
Last year when Floan wrote apiece for 

Scholastic discussing his homosexuaUty, he received two "hate calls." He said one 
person calling from a loud, crowded 
place screamed "Faggot!" into the phone. 
The other caller Floan described as "ab­
solutely hysterical. ... I was more con­
cerned about what nerve I had hit in him 
than that he was calling to harrass me," 
Floan said. "We talked for a while, then 
he burst into tears and hung up." 
As a· co-chair of GLND/SMC, Floan 

has been the confidan~·of many gay and 
lesbian students who have been 
harrassed. On~ "outrageously fearful" 
student call~ him last year and said he 
had been<'beat up" twice. Floan tried to 
meet with the student;· but the student 
kept asking if it was safe and never 
showed up ai the meetings. He would not tell Floan his name or number. The actual percentage of homosexuals in · · Another student who participated in the Gay the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's commu­and Lesbian March last year was accosted by nity is impossible to determine since many someone in his dorm who yelled, "Faggots are still in the closet, according to Smith. have no rights!" in his face. Floan said that they have over 50 names on 

Most gays and lesbians at Notre Dame have their mailing list and that it "grows by the not been harassed in such a blatant way; in­minute." stead, they say they are subjected to more s_ubtle According to Smith, about 10 to 12 stu­
dents attend GLND/ SMC's undergraduate 
meetings, and 15 to 20 
people usually attend meetings of the entire group. Sometimes 25 to 30 people show up for 
social events because 
"many gay and lesbian students feel more com­
fortable doing social 
things," said Smith. 
Although in the past, the organization had a reputation as a "pick-up club," Floan said that this is a definite miscon­ception. He pointed out its statement of intent 
that states: "GLND/ 
SMC does hot encour­age sexual activity 
among its members. 

belittlement. GLND/SMC will not tolerate sexual harass-
When Mike was in high school, students who · mentor sexual activity atany ofits functions suspected his sexual orientation put insulting or meetings." notesinhislock~randharassedhim. However, This fall GLND/SMC hosted social since he has been at Notre Dame, no one has events such as home football game openly harrassed him. He said he has heard a lot tailgaters, dinner parties and movie nights. of derogatory comments and jokes. "Some-TheyarealsoplanninganecumenicalChris­times I even make jokes," he admitted, "and in tjan prayer service in cooperation with local, a sense that's my way of dealing with my ciergy; churches and other concerned orga­
. homosexuality without telling anyone." nizations. 
Amy*, a graduate student at Notre Dame, In addition, they hope to provide opportu­heard similar comments at a gender forum; ·nities for campus education about homo­before it had begun, she overheard remarks • sexuality and to publish a guidebook listing about "dykes." The references to homosexual-people, places and things thatarerelevantto ity in campus-wide events, such as the Keenan members of the homosexual community ... Revue and the Sorin Talent Show, also cause GLND/SMC is not recognized or en-discomfort for some of these students. dorsed in any way by-the administrations of 
To help students deal with situations suoh as Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College. these, GLND/SMC was created in 1972, and it Father Peter D. Rocca, assistant vice has existed in some form or another since then. president for student services, said "We feel In its brochure, it is described as "a group for that it is not consistant with the mission of support, education and community-building the university to recognize this group. " forthoseconcernedaboutandinterestedingay, However, he added that "the university lesbian and bisexual issues." wouldnottolerateanybelittlementorharass 

OCTOBER 14, 1993 

mentor demeaning of them as individuals." around this problem, when GLND/SMC 
A letter that the university sends to per-advertises in school media, they use Greek sons who inquire about the campus gay and letters to write their acronym and refer to lesbian situation explains: "This the univer-themselves as "that gay/lesbian group." sity can and will not do, as it djrectly contra-Curremly, the organization is supported dictschurchteaching-andthesamewould by many faculty, staff, students and espe­apply to a heterosexual student group whose cially alumni. According to Floan, the recognition could be interpreted as a univer-group often receives contributions from 
sity endorsement of ______________ alumni or families 
sex outside mar-who endorse the nage." "Segregated sex group. 
However, Amy Athough the said that the univer-dorms and parietals university will not sity should distin-recognize GLND/ guish between sexual show that the SMC, Father Rocca orientation and sexual points out that "the activity. university defines university is ready to 
"When they look at t d t b d assist them as indi­
the issue of homo-S U en S Y gen· er victuals through ordi­sexuality, theyimme-only and, therefore, narychannels,forex­diately think if they ample Campus Min-have anything to do questions· Of istry and the Univer­
with it they are con~ sity Counseling Cen­doning sexual acts," hOm OS e XUa Iit y ter." she said. "But I think In addition, there the administration are not addressed. has been discussion couldh~lphomosexu-So the gay and oftheOfficeofCam­
als on campus deal pus Ministry "creat­with issues in a sare lesbian situation is inganewprogram in­anct healthy environ-tended specifically­. ment. That's their one more layer to a for gay and lesbian Christian duty." undergraduates and On the other hand,. _larger problem.'' intended LO deal with Amy said that she E . k F a range of issues." would prefer that the -fl IOan However, according · university not recog-to Floan, they have 
. nize GLND/SMC be-been talking about cause recognition this program for a might allow the university too much control number of years, and they cannot seem to over the group. get it off the ground. 
·"It's a bigger problem than what to do for "It is still under discussion," according to 
. gay and lesbian students," said Floan. "The Rocco. university doesn't deal well with issues of Until the university provides a specific sexuality to begin with. Segregated sex support group for the gay and lesbians at dorms and parietals show that they define Notre Dame, they are going to continue to 
· students by gender only and, therefore, ques­turn to GLND/SMC for support, guidance . tions of sexuality are not addressed. So the and community. gay and lesbian situation is orie more layer to "Some say GLND/SMC is a support · a larger problem." group," said Mike, "and some say its a pick­
Because GLND/SMC is not recognized, up group. My impression is that it's defi­according to Du Lac, they are not allowed nitely a support group. It's a place where use the university facilities, fund raisers, or you can be yourself, lower your guard and an activities fee allocation. In addition, they let down your defenses." . are prohibited from advertising themselves as a recognized group or to give the impres-· *Names have been changed to preserve sion that they are a recognized group; To get anonymity. 
Gay and Lesbian 


Symbols 

The pink triangle is probably the most recognizable symbol of the gay and lesbian civil rights movement. Its roots go back to the Third Reich where the Nazis used it to classify gay men interned in the death camps. Today, it .symbolizes pride and remembers the thousands who died 

·from hate. 

The rainbow flag represents the diversity to be found within the gay and lesbian community, a community that encompasses people from all backgrounds, races and national origins. 

The Lambda is one of the earlier symbols used in the gay liberation movement. Originally a picture symbol for scales, the letter means balance. Ancient Spartans used it to demonstrate that the demands of the state should never interfere with the freedom and independ~nce of an individual citizen. 

BRUNO'S 
PIZZA 


1,11 11,1 

. Bruno's North Bruno's South Open for carry out and delivery only. Available for private parties and banquets. One 18 inch 2-item pizza for $15. . Call in for reservations this Saturday Or one 14 inch 2-item pizza for $10. night and watch the BYU game. 115N. 31 Gust North of campus) . · Dine in and one 18 inch pizza is $10. 2610 Prairie Avenue 
273-3890 

288-3320 
"AH Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We now deliver our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 

• SR 23 At Ironwood 
• US 31 N (By North Village Mall) 
ff11]:JIJJ;N 
SPORTS 


BY ports n rmation 
Sophomore quarterback John Walsh was ranked eighth in the nation in passing efficiency last year before suffering a sholder injury against UCLA. 
by Brian Biro 

If Notre Dame, with its unblemished record, plans on entering this Saturday's contest against BYU in Provo, Utah, with an air of overconfidence, it only needs a quick history lesson to change this attitude. Think back to 1990 when big, bad Miami invaded Cougar Stadium armed with the pre-season No. 1 ranking and a noticeable swagger. The Hurricanes left with their egos firmly in check after being ripped apart by the Ty Detmer-led Cougars before the largest crowd in BYU history. The friendly confines of Cougar Stadium afford the home team a tremendous advantage, as the Irish seem sure to find out on Saturday. Not that BYU needs much help. For starters, the Cougars are led by one of the most successful coaches in recent memory, LaVell Edwards. Now in his 22nd year as head coach, he ranks fifth among active coaches in winning percentage and stands just five wins short of the magic 200 mark. During his tenure, the Cougars have won 15 Western Athletic Conference (WAC) 




Welcome To Cougar Country 
The Notre Dame football team should be wary when invading the den ofthe BYU Cougars on Saturday 
championships, including a national title in 1984. 
But let's not forget the players. Several all-star can­didates who will test the mettle of the third-ranked Irish lead the BYU team. 

· The best among these is se­nior wide receiver Eric · 
Drage, who is the rage in Cougar Country. A first team all-WAC selection in 1992, he broke the BYU ca­reer records for receiving yards and touchdown catches in a 30-3 romp ofAir Force earlier this year. So far this season he is among the best in the NCAA with 28 catches for 4 77 yards and 3 touchdowns. Lending sup­port at the wideout spots arc senior speedster Tyler Anderson and junior Bryce Doman. 
Tossing passes in Drage's 

senior fullback Kalin Hall tallied 100 yards rushing
direction is junior signal-

in the first two games of the season in 1992. 

10 



caller John Walsh, who c.arries on the long  attack, is potent again this year. The Cou­ experienced defensive line. The three start­ 
quarterback tradition at BYU. He has  gars rank third in the NCAA in passing at  ing down linemen of the past two years have  
posted numbers this year resembling those  350 yards per game, seventh in total offense  returned, but the headliner is senior  
of past greats like Steve Young, Jim  at 474, and 22nd in scoring with 33 points a  noseguard Lenny Gomes, an Outland Tro­ 
McMahon and Detmer. Last year's starter,  contest.  phy and All-America candidate. After re­ 
Ryan Hancock, who. riddled the Irish de­ On thedefensivesideofthe ball,however,  cording 140 tackles last year, among them a  
fense for 339 yards in a42-16 loss at Notre  it's a whole different story. Defense in the  sack of Notre Dame's Rick Mirer, Gomes  
Dame, decided to forego his final two years  WAC is just a rumor, and BYU is no excep­ 'leads the Cougar line with 28 stops this  
of eligibility after being drafted by  tion. Because most of the teams in the  season. Flanking Gomes on the line are  
. baseball's California -Angels in the second  conference feature sophisticated passing  junior tackles Randy Brock and Greg Pitts.  
round.  games, the Cougars are susceptible to the  At linebacker, the outside positions are  
But Walsh has filled his shoes more than  grind-it-out, smash-mouth running attacks  rock solid, with seniors Todd Herget and  
capably, surpassing 300 yards in all  Nathan Hall ranking 1-2 on the  
but one game while climbing to  team in tackles. Herget has al­ 
fourth in the nation in total offense.  ready caused two fumbles and  
His backups, junior Tom Young­ five quarterback hurries. In the  
co-MVP oflast year's Aloha Bowl  middle, however, the Cougars  
-and junior Steve Clements,  have had difficulty replacing  
would both probably start for most  three-year starter Shad Hansen.  
teams in the WAC.  Transfer Brian Hughes, a junior,  
BYU was looking forward to  redshirted last season, and fresh­ 
another strong campaign from jun­ man Shay Muirbrook have split  
ior halfback Jamal Willis after his  time there this year without  
breakthrough effort a year ago. In  much success.  
1992, he became the third Cougar  The most consistent unit on  
back to rush for over 1,000 yards,  the BYU defense has .been the  
scoring 11 touchdowns and finish­ secondary. The Cougars rank  
ing the season sixth on the school's  20th in the nation in pass effi­ 
. all-time rushing list This year,  ciency defense, but opponents  
however, he has only tallied 112  like Hawaii and Air Force are  
· yards in four games.  hardly dangerous through the  
. Fortunately forBYU,Kalin Hall  air. The star of the group is  
has picked up the slack in the full­ junior cornerback Patrick  
back slot. The senior; coming off a  Mitchell, now in his third year at  
year in which he rushed for 742  the position. Also a sprinter and  
yards, including 157 versus Fresno  hurdler in the spring, he leads the  
State, has continued his strong play  team with six broken up passes.  
in 1993, leading the team with  The graduation of All-American  
nearly 73 yards per game and four  Derwin Gray, drafted in the  
touchdowns. In addition, backup  fourth round by the Indianapolis  
fullback sophomore Hema  Colts, left a huge void at free  

Heimuli has surprised many by Senior wide receiver and All-American candidate Eric Drage safety that senior Casey 
Mazzotta is doing his best to fill.

contributing 148 yards and close to ranks fourth at BYU in career receiving yards five yards a carry. after his second 1,000 yard season last year. The way the Irish have played 
Honors' candidate Mike Empey, in attaining their 6-0 record, a senior tackle, heads an offensive line that for which Lou Holtz has a passion. This was BYU may need a lot of luck on Saturday. returns three starters. Empey, a three-year reflected in last year's game between Notre The Cougars had better hope they have some letterman, is the latest in a long line of big Dame and B YU, in which the "Thunder and left. Earlier this year,a field goal attempt by and talented lineman at BYU. The guard Lightning" backfield of Jerome Bettis,and Cougar opponent New Mexico sailed wide tandem of junior Evan Pilgrim and junior Reggie Brooks wore down the undersized left in the closing seconds of a tight game. Jim Edwards is back, and mammoth tackle Cougars on their way to a combined 225 The next week, Hawaii's kicker bounced Eli Herring, who started in 1991 but sat out yards. one off the left upright. But last weekend 
last season with a knee injury, has provided After a dreadful start on defense this year, BYU was trounced by UCLA, 14-68. a big boost. Senior center Ron Simmons BYU has show1! steady improvement, in­Still, the Irish had better not come into rounds out the line. cluding a near-shutout of Air Force. It all Cougar Stadium overconfident. A simple 
BYU's offense, spearheaded by its air started up front with the leadership of an phone call to Miami should do the trick.. 

OCTOBER 14, 1993 



Send information for your event to: Jenny Tate, Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call 631-7569: 
Thursday 14 
Forum: "Teaching Our Sons to do What We Have Been Teaching the Savages to A void: Race, Manhood and G. Stanley Hall," Gail Bederman, Moscow Univer­sity, 12:15 p.m., Room 131, Decio Han. 
Visiting Artist Lecture Series: 
"Orientalism, Occidentalism: Gender and Modernity in Meiji, Japan,"Norman Bryson, Harvard University, 7:30 p.m., Annenbcrg Auditorium. Mainstage: "Dancing at Lughnasa," by Brain Friel, 8:10 p.m., Washington Hall, $. Movie: "The Great Gatsby,'' 7:30 & 
10:30 p.m., Montgomery Theater, Lafortune, $. Acoustic Cafe: 9:00-12:00 pm., Lafortune. Lecture: "The Interpretation of the Bible in the Church Since 'Divino Afflante Spiritu' of 1943," Rev. Joseph A. Fitzmycr, Catholic University, 8:00 p.m., Hesburgh Lilrary Auditorium. 
For More Information Call: 
Lafortune Information Desk: 631-8128 Senior Class: 631-5136 Student Union Board: 631-77 57 Junior Class: 631-5117 Snite Film Series Hot Line: 631-7361 
Frid.ay 15 
Reilly Center Conference: "Causality in Crisis? 1be New Debates About Causal Structures in the Social Sci­ences," assorted speakers, 9:30 a.m.­
4:00 p.m., CCEAuditoriwn. 
Lecture and Slide Presentation: 
"Working with Endang_ered Mountain Gorillas," Martha Roddin.s, Karisoke Research Center, Rwanda, Africa, 6:00p.m., Room 105, Science Hall, SMC. Folk Dancing: 7:30 p.m., SMC Clubhouse, $. Film: "Don't Look Back," 7:30 & 9:30 p.m., Snite, $2. Movie: "Last Action Hero," 8:00 & 
10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditoriwn, $2.. Movie: "Lost Boys," 7:00 & 9:30 p.m., Carroll Hall, SMC,$. Mainstage: "Dancing at Lughnasa," . by Brain Friel, 8: 10 p.m., Washington Hall,$. 

Sophomore Class: 631:-5225 ND News Line: 631-5110 JACC Ticket Information: 631-73~4 Notre Dame MenuLine: 631-0111 Weekend Wheels Schedule: 631-FRED 
Saturday 16 
Reilly Center Conference: "Causality in Crisis? 1be New Debates About Causal Structures in the Social Sci­ences," assorted speakers, 8:30 a.m.-4:00 p.m., CCE Auditorium. 
Day of Women at The Snite Museum: 
10:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m.; Snite Museum. Football: Notre Dame at Brigham Young University, 12:35 p.m. Hockey: Notre Dame vs. University of Waterloo, 7:00 p.m., JACC. Movie: "Lost Boys" 7:00 & 9:30 p.m., Carroll Hall, SMC, $ .. Film: "Don't Look Back," 7:30 & 9:30, Snite, $2. Movie: "Last Action Hero," 8:00 & 10:30, Cushing Auditorium, $2. Mainstage: "Dancing at Lughnasa,'' by Brain Friel, 8:10 p.m., Washington Hall, $. 
C 
\. 
j 
R 
i~ G 
s, 
a. 
M 
b) 
H V D H 



tfouch Four 
x 1031 for local weather ;Dial 239-2500, then press: x 6736 for national weather 
x6050 for news headlines x 6123 for movie reviews x6052 for world news x 9463 for thought for the day x6121 for top pop albums x 6238 for TV sports events x6571 for prime time TV x 6230 for national sports report x6129 for video releases x 6263 for college basketball 



·TOUCH

~unday 17 
Monday 18 
Film: "Citizen Kane," 7:00 p.m., Snite, 
~illy Center Conference: -·''Causal­



FOUR
$2.

·, in Crisis? The New Debates About 


I 
Film: "Making Mr. Right," 9:00 p.m., 

dusal Structures in the Social Snite, $2.
:iences," assorted speakers, 11:30 
Wednesday 20
m., CCE Auditorium~ iainstage: "Dancing at Lughnasa," 
Fourth Day Meetings: 7:15 p.m., Stanford­1Brain Friel, 2:30 p.m., Washington 
Keenan Chapel. . all,$. espers Series: "University of Notre 
Tuesday 19 
ame Orchestra," 8:00 p.m., Sacred Film: "Hunger in America,»7:00 p.m., 
eart Basilica. Snite,$2. Film: "Land Without Bread," "100 NY, NY," "Scarface," 9:00 p.m., Snite, $2. Campus Bible Study: 7:00 p.m., Badin Conference Room. Volleyball: Notre Dame vs. Kent State, 
7:30 p.m., JACC. 
l 
Day of Women at the Snite Museum Focus on Older Women 
10:00-11: 15 Artists Discuss Their Work 11:30-12:45 Panel Discussion: Issues of Concern in 1993 1 :45-2:45 Poetry and Fiction 3:00-4:15 Drama 
l ·4:30-6:00 Music and Dance 6:00"'7:00 Reception 
Saturday, October 16 Annenburg Auditorium 
SPORTS 

Where Are They Now? 
Notre Dame.athletes after graduation 
athletes, ones that didn't wear gold helmets But the experience of playing abroad was by Megan McGrath or play on NBC? What did those guys wind definitely a good one. up doing? "I traveled all around Europe; I learned to Well, many fonner athletes arc right un­speak French, and the Alps were right out­
0 h yeah, what did that athlete wind up doing after leaving school?" der our noses, working here on campus. side my window, " Robinson said. It's a simple question, asked around din­Some are in the graduate school, while oth­In keeping with the Notre Dame tradition ing hall tables and dorm rooms all over ers arc finishing up their undergraduate of service, Robinson coached a youth team campus. Someone mentions a name and studies. Many had storied careers or were of 13 and 14-year-olds while she was there. everyone around wonders: Where is that part of championship teams and are return­When the season ended, Robinson re­person now? ing to the school, as students, as coaches or turned to the U.S. and took a job as an Ifthe conversation is about a former Notre as administrators. · assistant coach at Manhattan College. Dame athlete, chances are it's not a football Karen Robinson is one such person: A "I liked playing professionally, and I or basketball player. Just about anyone on formerstaron thewomert'sbasketball team, . would've gone back, maybe to Germany," campus can tell you that Rick Mirer is a Robinson is now an assistant coach for the she said. "But then I looked into coaching Seahawk, Chris Zorich is a Bear and John Irish. and decided that's where I want to be." Paxson is a Bull. Robinson is the university'sall-time_scor-. After her stint at Manhattan, Robinson But what about some of the other varsity . ing leader with 1,590 points. A four~year was hired by Irish coach Muffet McGraw as letter-v.:inner, Robinson was an Irish captain an assistant coach: Although she is glad to be her ju'nior and senior seasons. She was a back, she admits it is a different experience two-time District IV All-American. She than before. "Coming back again, you find was an All-MCC performer three times and . your friends have moved on. It's really not was twice the conference playerof the year. the same as being an undergrad." Plus, Her senior year, Robinson led the Irish to a · Robinson will be going to practices and third-place finish in the National Women's games in theAC.C., herhauntforfouryears, Invitational Tournament (NWIT). and not suiting up. "I know I'm going to be While playing at the NWIT in Amarillo, asking, 'Where's my uniform?'" Texas, Robinson met an agent who had Robinson is currently enrolled in the connections with the women's professional graduate school, studying in the Masters of leagues in Europe. Science and Arts program. She hopes to "That. was one of my goals -playing someday be a head coach, but for now she's professionally was always something I "glad to be back, both as a student and with knew I wanted to do," Robinson said. the women's team." She explored her options, and after gradu-Also back on campus is fonner Irish base­ating in 1991, Robinson found herself play-ball star Pat Leahy. After three successful ing in Switzerland. seasons at Notre Dame, Leahy was drafted in Robinson was the only American on the the seventh round of the amateur draft by the Mon they team. The team went on to finish Florida Marlins in 1992. He decided to forgo fifth out of 12 teams in the league. But the his senior season and play baseball profes­playing experience was different than wha~ sionally. But.in the off-season he continues she was used to in the States. --toworktowardhisdegreeinbusinessadmin­"The Swiss played for fun," Robinson istration. said. "It was a different level and a· whole While with the Irish, Leahy was one of different mentality." Notre Dame's leading pitchers. Twice 

named to the M.C.C. all-conference team, he led the team in strikeouts his last year. In his first summer in the short-season New York-Penn League with the Erie Marlins, he went 2-0 with a 1.70 ERA. This summer, Leahy pitched for the Single-A Kane County Cougars. He had an 8-11 record, but his 3.22 ERA was the second lowest in the entire Marlins organization. He had 160 strikeouts and walked-just 42 batters. 
Now that the season is over, Leahy is back at Notre Dame as a non-athlete student, which is a new experience for him. 
·"In away it's not that bad being back here because now I can be a normal student," Leahy said. "I actually have an afternoon class, but I always feel like I should be getting ready for practice. It's different because, except for my own workouts, I don't have obligations of that nature. But it's nice." 
Leahy feels that the university prepared him well for the mental grind of playing professional baseball. 
"I think I know a lot about mental prepa­ration. You learn that if you can get through one thing here it will be easier in the long run," said Leahy. 
And life as a minor-league ballplayer can be a challenge. For a typical home game the players arrive at the ballpark up to five hours before game-time to stretch, work out and prepare. Then they play a three hour game and return home to crash.· Traveling from site to site may be the toughest aspect be­cause there are no planes for minor leaguers. 
Leahy feels he was lucky to be 

in Kane Country because "it was in the center of everything. Our . longest bus trip was four or five hours, where some guys would 
have to drive all day." 
Leahy also feels that the uni-• 

versity had prepared him to go out 
into the world and deal with 
people. "I've leaned how to ex­
tend myself to others in a way I 
think makes me respected in the 
[Marlin] organization," Leahy 
said. "In baseball you meet all 
types of people, and you have to 
learn to deal with them. When 
you play with the same 25 guys in 
142 games, you learn to deal with 

situations; some people you like, some you don't." After the semester is over, Leahy will return home to prepare for spring training. 
"I'll probably miss being here; you al­ways miss being around it," he said. "But once baseball starts I won't have a lot oftime to sit around and think about it." 
Leahy hopes to begin the year in the East­ern League's Double-A Portland in Maine. Following that season, he plans to return to Notre Dame and graduate next winter. 
"Right now my focus is to play baseball and get my degree. I don 'treally know what I want to do after that," Leahy admitted. "I never spent any time researching jobs or · getting summer work experience. I was always playing baseball. But I'm still try­
ing, still searching." 

at Kansas, Lennon took a part-time intern­ship with the NCAA and worked for the men's Final Four basketball championship. 
Lennon is happy to be back on campus and is excited about her new line ofwork. But, like Robinson, she admits it is a change. 
"I'm seeing a different side ofthe athletic department. I'm part of the structure not a part of the athletics, so it. rs a bit of an adjustment," Lennon said. "It's nice work­ing for the school, but I have to remain impartial and sometimes that's hard." 
One of the highlights of Lennon's return to campus has been seeing the emergence of the women's soccer team as a national power. Her freshman season marked the first year ofvarsity competition for the team. And now, six years later, the Irish are ranked among the top ten teams in the nation. 
"It's been great to watch it grow. When we first started, we didn't think about rankings, and by my senior year we were trying to make the NCAA tournament. Now ,just two years later, they have a shot at winning the national title." 
For Lennon, as well as for Robinson and Leahy, playing college sports had a lot of benefits: the traveling, the celebrity ofbeing a Notre Dame athlete, and the friendships made on the team. But athletics taught some valuable life lessons. 
"Competition makes you assertive, and you can apply that to the job force or what­ever you do in life," said Lennon. "You learn that you have an opportunity to make an impact. To stand up and try." 

Notre Dame Sports Information 

·'After graduating from Notre Dame in 1991, Karen Robinson played professional basketball in Europe before landing a job as assistant coach for the Irish this year. 
The career search is pretty much over for former Irish soccer player Molly Lennon. A 1992 graduate of Notre Dame, Lennon settled on a career in athletic administration. Currently, Lennon is on campus working as coor­dinator of the NCAA Division I Men's Tennis Tournament, to be held at Notre Dame this year. 
· Lennon won three monograms as a member of the Irish soccer team. She was a tri-captain her senior year.and 
. won an NCAA scholarship for post­graduate studies. She used the scholar­ship, awarded to 10 women and 10 mi­nority athletes each year, to enter the Kansas Uniyersity Masters of Educa­tion program with a concentration in sports administration. During her year 

OCTOBER 14, 1993 

REVIEW & PREVIEW 


by Miranda C. Sanford 

That Bad Boy Barbie 

When I reflect upon favorite childhood 
toys, wonderful memories like Big Wheels and Atari pour forth. However, a recent discovery dismantled one of my fondest recollections. It seems that Barbie's boy­.friend has a disturbing new form ... Earring 
Magic Ken. 

Characteristics like an earring, a large ring 
dangling from his neck and a lavender faux 
leather vest present an all too obvious mean­
ing: Ken is gay. The plastic ring he wears 
around his neck resembles a homosexual 
trend from a few years ago. The director of 
Chicago's Catholic Advocates for Gay and 
J:;:;\ ' 
1?t1~i ~ J ~-. 
\ t$•~ -·\a; 
~ , -:!,} ,·t ,;1J:.



/A~~;,;::· ;'}q.·. 
i ~ ·"~-~-~ 
, ·:-..A;r.f~\•. ,I, -~ '\~'.·;·. 

-~ Lesbian Rights stated, "You can't look at Earring Magic Ken and not think gay." 
Caine on people, Ken gay? Weare talking 
about Barbie's boyfriend. He does not even 
possess any actual male anatomy. I should 
know, I dressed him often enough.· Mattel 
has turned into one sick and twisted toy 
company; their sole statement about the new 
doll is "Ken is more a mainstream phenom­
enon. He's a 90s guy." What next ... S&M 
Lego kits? 

Kill the Queen! Shannen Doherty, in her eternal quest to remain in the limelight, has gone Loo far with this "I'm a bad girl, don't you want to punish me?" attitude. After a number of brief ro­mances well covered by the tabloids, she 
married George Harrison's eighteen year old son, Ashley, after a two week tryst. Not only that, but she's cheap too: the celebra­tion was strictly B.Y.O.B. (bring your own beverages). 
The Corpses of Old 

Abba's return to the music scene and Whitney's decision to re-release Chaka Khan's "I'm Every Woman" marked a time ofserious trouble for the general public, and this problem transferred to this fall's televi­sion programming. It seems that sitcom writers, dry ofnew ideas, have followed the. Hollywood's trend of recycling old ideas. 
Do not get me wrong, I love old shows ..: in their original forms. Who wants Lo see The Beverly Hillbillies in movie theaters or as rehashed sitcoms? The creators of these "masterpieces" need a major dose ofcreativ­ity because some golden oldies were meant to be nuked, not revived. Recent variations ofStar Trek: Deep Space Nine illustrate this and cross the line of television dignity. A few isolated successes have been smothered by shows that leave a pasty taste in the mouth. Keep watching The Simpson's and cling to the hope that, during this period of reproduction, the return of a show with re­deeming qualities, like -Solid Gold ­occurs. Now that would be entertainment! 
Picks, Pans and Tidbits 

If Cool Running, Disney's inspirational story ofthe 1988 Jamaican Olympic bobsled team, does not ring your bell, check out Malice. From the director of Sea oflove, Malice stars Nicole Kidman and Alec Baldwin. This thriller begins with a serial killer stalking students at a Northeaster~ womens' college, but it ends on a totally different tangent. 
A sidenote about this Jillie gem: When the women on the campus discovered this had 
the possibility ofa "sexually violent theme 
against women," half of the campus turned 
out the next day to insure that filming was 
"appropriate." 
The new INXS album, to be released on 
November 2, has been getting incredible 
reviews. I heard the title song, "The Gift," 
on the radio and was pleasantly surprised. 
Michael Hutchence's sensual voice seems 
to float out of the speakers and surround the 
listener. Basically, INXS took the best off 
of their last album and improved it. Inci­dentally, the full video for "The Gift," ­.supposedly spectacular -will only be 
available on pay per view. 
Up and Coming Forget about .watching the Brigham Young game and run to Chicago because no one will want to miss seeing Donny Osmond in Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat. ·It has been de­scribed as "eye -popping exuberant;" "Donny Osmond sings with great musical theatre authority, acts with shrewd good humor and seasoned poise;'' Seriously though, the new 10,000 Mani­acs Unplugged disc will be available on October 26 ... Depeche Mode will be per­forming at the Rosemont Horizon on Octo­ber 28-29 ... Scheduled at the China Club in Chicago are "College Night" on October 22 and Ice Cube on the 27. Locally, a Funny Bone comedy club opened over by the Scottsdale Mall to great success. It is a national chain ofclubs which tours a troupe ofcomedians ... Coming soon to perform is Pauly Shore and Carrot Top in February ... Also, the South Bend Sym­phonyis at the Morris Civic Auditorium on October 30. Be sure and get tick.ets for'~ little pre-Halloween fun! '-::::::f 
16 

ENTERTAINMENT 



Dancing at Lughnasa: 
Fall opener comes to Washington Hall 
by Scott Johnson 

Dancing at Lughnasa, pronounced Loo­nah-sah for all English students and theater-goers, will be performed this week­end at Washington Hall. Irish playwright Brian Friel tells the story of the five women who shaped his life. The play occurs in Balybeg, a fictional Irish town during the late sum­mer of 1936. Certain as­pects of the fictional char­acters presented relate not only to Friel' s life but to our own as well. This invigorating memory play, which won the 1992 Tony Award for Best Play, attracted direc­tor Reginald Bain because of the way Friel blends pa­gan ritual with Catholi­cism. This becomes one of the most fascinating and mystical elements in a very captivating play. Dancing at Lughnasa opens with an introduction by the narrator ·Michael Evans, played by Pete Dillard. Michael recalls the summer of 1936 when his family got their first wireless radio set. Throughout the course of the play, Michael recounts that summer where, at the age of seven, wonder and excitement filled his home for the last time. This energy stems from his mother and aunts who are full of dreams and eager about the coming Festival of Lughnasa. However this happiness is short lived be­cause his uncle and legendary hero Father Jack, portrayed by Josh Hartman, returns from a leper colony in Uganda stricken with malaria. Also, Michael is presented with the first opportunity to observe his father, the roguish and suave, Gerry Evans. 
The actors for Michael, his mother and four aunts speak in Irish accents which re­main in character, but also balance the diffi­cult fluctuations in tone and demeanor of speech. Each character is very unique and well performed. 
Washington Hall Players bring Brian Friel's Dancing at Lughnasa to life from October 13-17. 
The female characters create picturesque scenes, but their dialogue sometimes fails to maintain a high level of energy. Interac­tions with one another tend to be awkward 
. and contrived and took up a majority of the show. With the exception ofa few confron­tations between Maggie, the joker of the 
· family (played by Megan Thomas), and Kate, the proper Catholic woman who runs the household (played by Stacey Stewart), the pace of the scenes are very slow. This stagnant pace remains until, of course, they dance. The viewer can see a little of the "Running Man" in some of the 
ladies' Irish jigs. Overall, though, the spir­ited, authentic dances create changing moods of the play, bringing life, unity and vibrancy to the stage. 
When ballroom dancer/swooner (Michael Scarsella) saunters on stage as Gerry, ailing and aimless Jack mumbles and shuffles around. When contemplative Michael softly 
narrates from a corner of the stage, things happen. Conflicts occur. Questions and empathy arise. Thedra­matic elements of the play take place when these spe­cific characters are on stage. The plot advances and reaches its emphatic, stirring climax through Michael's monologues. 
The set -with the beau­tiful sky · blue backdrop, brick furnace and simple layout -creates a power­ful image of a small, early twentieth century Irish 

Brent Tadsen home. I sensed the character's desire to beout­side. The costumes subtly develop and define the 
· characters. Especially the colorful dress of the women, distinguished look for Michael, renaissance man outfits for Gerry, and Jack's change from battered black garb to brilliant white. Dillard's powerful, yet somewhat distant performance, draws out the audience's emo­tions. Hartman portrays a warm, engrossing Father Jack.. When all elements are com­bined, the skilled players atWashington Hall bring Friel's Dancing at Lughnasa to life and provide an excellent evening of enter­tainment. 0 


OCTOB ER 14, 1993 



ON OTHER CAMPUSES 
News ofthe Biza,rre from the Nation's Universities 
Financing an Education 
Ithaca College recently experienced what it hopes is just a biology experiment gone awry. A security officer patrolling the edge of campus on a bicycle discovered 290 potted marijuana plants. The plants appeared to be almost ready to harvest and have an estimated street value of$400,000. It remains uncertain who is responsible for the plants. Regardless, you have to admire the culprits for trying. With the rising cost of education these days, couldn't we all use an extra buck? 

Strippers Affirm Rights 
Some people just can't take no for an answer. Strippers Elite company, for example, could not content themselves with Kent State University's decision to prevent the company from advertis­ing in its telephone book. The owners of Strippers Elite viewed the publication's decision as nothing less than censorship. In protest, the company sent a person in a gorilla costume, a man in bikini briefs and a scantily clad 300-pound woman to parade on campus. It's hard to believe that this ensemble would generate ari increase in business for the company but, hey, at least they affirmed their first amendment rights. What's a little business loss in the name of freedom? 
Edited byJenny Tate 


· · -g3 ~-KoEfEfll. 

Putting an Idea in Motion 
It all started delivering pizzas. Three Lawrence, Kansas, resi­dents are starting a food delivery business for University of Kansas students. "Waiters on Wheels" will deliver foods from restaurants that do not run their own delivery system. Students only have to call the business and place theirorder, and "Waiterson Wheels"will take care of the rest. The business also hopes to soon be able to bring students a movie along with their food. New manager Andy Brant sees the opportunity as a perfect career option. "My mom asked me what I wanted to do with my economics major when I graduated from KU. I gave it a lot of thought, and I wanted to use my experiences with delivery," said Brant. So foraU ofyou soon~to-be­unemployed seniors, take heart and get out there and get those 
wheels turning. · · · 
,· 


WEEK IN DISTORTION 
A Fresh Alternative to the Typical Weekend 
One student's visit to Memorial Hospital 
by Mary Kate Morton 

So where are you going tonight? Corby's?" "No way, we heard it's going to get busted. I think probably Lafayette." 
"Are you kidding? Everyone knows about that. The cops will be there within a half hour." 
We've all had similar conversations, right? I mean, what else is there to do in South Bend? We try to figure out which bars or off-campus parties are going Lo get busted or what's actually going on on-campus. Everyone's always seeking the proverbial "Good Time." And it's an added plus ifyou c~ be sure that you won't see your name in The Observer the following Monday. 
Well, I have found it! Others have already discovered it---,-and I have seen the light. Finally, an alte~ative for the fresh inen (and the sophomores who hate to admit it) to the 
' typical Friday night dorm party. For the upperclassmen, an end to the pilgrimages to Corby's and Bridget's. Don't get me wrong, I'm not saying that swishing around in the 2-inch mixture of beer and other bodily fluids that covers the floors of crowded dorm rooms isn't a good time. I'm sure we'd never give up such a , uniquely Notre Dame experience but this is something else. Something ... different. Memorial Hospital. Yes, South Bend's version of the medical world.· Try it-you won't have to worry about having an ID that is good enough, and you might meet some interesting people. I know it was definitely 
the highlight of one of my weekends. 
I owe this revelation all to Dillon Hall, amazingly enough. One completely inno­centevening that ended up on a painful note, as far as I can recall. More specifically, it was a painful slam ofa door that my fingers happened to be occupying. Being slightly impaired, it didn't hurt until about three hours later, and my friends decided that I needed to go to the infirmary. 
Big Mistake! This decision should tell you that my friends hadn't fully recovered from our night out!. As we all know, the infirmary isn 'table to handle emergencies in the middle of the day, let alone in the middle of the night. 
Somehow, we ended up at the emergency room at Memorial. It was like I had come home to a Noire Dame class reunion or had wandered into the bookstore on a football weekend. Everywhere I looked, there they were-"-Notre Dame students. Lots of them. Apparently, I was not the only one who'd had a rough night! Since we're all members of the Notre Dame family, I struck up con­versations with several ofthe other wounded who were waiting to sec the one doctor awake in South Bend at 4:00 a.m. · 
The first guy I saw looked I ike he had been on the losing end of a major fight. He was dragging his right leg behind him, and he appeared to be in serious pain. Actually, someone accidently had dropped a full keg on his foot al Turtle Creek. I didn't think things could gel worse than that, but I was there for a long time so I saw EVERYONE! 
°There was the girl whose loft ladder had a mind of its own and toppled over with her still on it, and another girl had tripped out­side her dorm as she was running around pretending she was an airplane (Don't even try and figure out why!). 
At first, I figured I had just gotten lucky and hit the hospital on a good night, butthe secret is out-it's always like that! Really. Since I tend to hang out with the particularly accident-prone members ofthe Notre Dame campus, one of my friends had a similar experience. Al I the people I met were just a prelude to what she saw -the ultimate sacrifice for good ol' Notre Dame. 
One Stanford sophomore's noble injury, all for the sake of football. Those crazy football managers will do anything for the team!! This guy had an unfortunate encoun­ter with a paint can as he painted the football helmets with 14K gold lacquer, leaving himself blind for the evening and sporting a nifty patch over his eye for the next few days. Forget Rudy, this Domer gave his sight for the team. Now that's loyalty! 
Of course, I can't guarantee any time othcrthan late at night, so I'm not sure ifit's strictly an after-midnight thing. But who knows, if you find itexcitingin the day time, let me know. I'll have to check it out. After all, Sunday afternoons around here can get a liLLle boring! 
And I still see some of these fellow vic­tims around campus -waiting for hours together is a real bonding experience -so ifyou ever find yourself in the same situa­tion, keep an open mind and start talking. You never know where you '11 find your next SYR date! . D 
OCTOBER 14, 1993 
FINAL WORD 



HELP WANTED 
Notre Dame Needs to Support the Disabled 
by Lori Miller 

No one is perfect. Everyone at some point in his or her life encounters some sort of challenge. For the disabled, everyday challenges can become major obstacles. Too often disabled people are slammed in the face with the phrase, "No. You can't do that." Others might shrug this discouragement off and try 
I have found Notre Dame very accommodating to my needs, but some sort of organization needs to be established that is on par with those of other schools. 
Campus life has treated me well. I have found readers to help me with my studies, thanks to the Hall President's Council. However, academics are not the only aspect of a good education. This means that I, 
something else, but a disabled person usually takes the _ and every other student, have the right to be involved 

Lori Miller was the subject of a · Scholastic feature in the · Sept. 23, 1993 issue. Scholastic is now accepting submissiqns for the Final Word. Call the office for details. 

initiative to prove his or her capabilities. Perhaps this is the biggest obstacle for a disabled individual: He or she has to spend time convincing others that he or she is competent. 
I can relate Lo all the misconceptions and obstacles the disabled face. I, Lori Miller, am a freshman at Notre Dame. I am a completely blind student who has faced and conquered many challenges during my life. I have devoted the past eighteen years to proving to people that I am perfect! y capable ofdoing everything a person who is not disabled can do -and more. I don't want to be treated differently, and I think I can speak for anyone with a disability on this subject. 
Coming to Notre Dame has opened many doors for me. There are so many options, opportunities and possibilities to take advantage of. But no matter how independent! try to be, there are a couple ofissues that need to be addressed. It is necessary to have some type of support service available for disabled students on Notre Dame's campus. · 
I acknowledge that I am not the only one who has problems. Each disability involves its own needs. I sincerely believe that the best way to address this neglected issue is to begin with a disabled student organization. 
Ironically, one of the main reasons that I selected Notre Dame was becauseitdoesn'thavesuchaservice on its campus. Such a group would allow disabled students to express their feelings and frustrations to one another. The group would bring attention to the problems of the disabled. Statistics prove that a group of a nl!_rriber of people pull more weight in similar situations. 
in other activities. Unfortunately, I have been denied participation in certain activities., I feel that these discouraging rejections are simply caused by lack of awareness. This discouragement could be avoided if there was a coordinator whose job it was to inform and assist in making sure that a disabled student is not denied the activities of his or her choice. 
I have spent many hours trying to find a solution. But it is difficult. Afterall, other students don't spend their time proving that they are capable of participat­ing. 
J strongly believe that Notre Dame needs to initiate a program. Who knows better than the students. I am personally interested iri fanning an organization of students who have disabilities, whether they are physical learning difficulties. · I feel that a lot of progress could be made with this approach. I also encourage any individual who is simply interested in helping or learning more about different disabilities to be associated with this group. Currently,I am search­ing for all interested people. 
I am always open to any questions.· Don't worry, nothing offends me. If you don't ask, you'll never know. I would rather have someone question whether I could do something rather than make the assumption that I absolutely can't do it. I have always served as a resource in my community, so why not continue my efforts. 
After you read this article, I would appreciate any response. Jt:is going to take communication to make this. ~hole idea happen. . 
20 
SCHOLASTIC 

-~-----._-------=.--------;-.... 
.' -...:_ , ' ' ­
Rick Grey
Grist For The Mill 
FOl FAILING TO l::£.Ei> uP 
w1rH MV .51"UUE.1'lr LONv 
i'AYl-(ENT.5, /'-I'{ COLLE.GE 
E.DUCATION 1-\AS 'BEEN 
~E.P055E55ED. ­
~~,.._ 
~ ~ 
~ )'o . (l) 
L 
Qt= C..0UR5c. I /'-\1~.SEt> L.1-5'!"" Moi-.>nt'5 i',1-/ 1--\WT: 
J I-IAllE. It OOt»l-l-t"r'l/-\1o-1..rr oµ It 
No Tifl.,f 10DA'f 

HltUJ)-WON K"-lOWLEDG. E. 1 GONE. FOUit. '1'!:A~5 OF STIJP'I' WIPED C.LE:AN IIJ 5E.C01'l"DS. IT'.s G,ONE... 
M,W-e,e. F"OR.E.VER.. 
WEJ-L1 Ul-'rlL '{OU GJ;:.r TI-\,\,T Pk/1--\E.t-'T UV6tir u"P, HWt '°"o "REi'.\:>!a-51= i'0F:-T"J6N Of' 
You"R. '\ "EDl.lCATi0,-..1. 
'> 

I FE.EL VIOLATE.t>, ALONE. /tN INTIMATE PART OF 
WllO I hM -MY E.t:>UC.,\-r10N-­
HA-.!> &E.t-.1 "lt1i'?ED FP..OM ME. 'lllt>iOUT""" M~ CAN5£NT: 
I!,..,, •• I Tiot::. ,', MOi!.ALS AIJ"t) E.THllS COUt5E ONC.C. 
C.OULt> 'fOU r,\-J(.E_ Tt-U·T 'I, 
"' 
AT Ll:/r51 1, HA::,N'T liUR'r 
M~ l'E~FO~MA/Jc:.E 0/..l n-lE.. 
oB 
PIO YOU WANT" Fl?..IE.5 
1-n-l THA-,-; 
1. 
_,/ 
C.Eit.TAJ/v~'I, Mll.. KING>iOP..N! 
Gt>oT>! lr'.5 INrE.U'i.'<-1 iJ ~ M'/ 4FE.5T'I 
MARK MAZ-ZOIJI 





Tired of base:ment bands? Come 9n up to •o• 
Friday, October 15 
LaFortune Ballroom 8 :30pm-1 :30am 

Blues Band 
\\~:t,th Sociology and Core professor Gene Halton 
. 




Snack Bar Too! 

; !/.i5i30i99 Z0 
non-profit orgaflll.alion 

U.S.POSTAGE i SPORTS Ii~FORMhTION PAID l Ur,i I\/ER SIT Y O F NOTRE 1J AME N#!':r,~~.0 ibN .J O Y C E {\ TH L E TI C -C O N \/ 0 • C E NT Efl
i 


-iiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiilllll,_ -N OT fH: IJ I\ M E -IN l\6556 · 






