This book is not to be taken from the Library i
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
15 CTS. A COP Y $2.60 THE YEAR
Nineteen Thirty-four
THE SCHOLASTIC is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1865
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917. authorized June 25, 1918.
James S. Kearns....
Mitchell C. Tackley.
—Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor
Associate Editors
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD_________________EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
RICHARD E. TOBIN.......................JOHN	E. CONLEY
EDWARD F. MANSFIELD.________________MICHAEL F. WIEDL
.Sports Editors
Sports Staff
JOHN D. CARBINE ED J. VAN HUISSELING NICHOLAS J. CONNOR_____________HOWARD T. WALDRON
CYRIL F. STROKER________________JAMES A. WALDRON
JOHN L. GLANZNER____________JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST
GERARD SCHAEFER.................. JAMES	McMULLEN
Bttsiness Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY.____________________Graduate Manager
Departmental Editors
THOMAS J. STRITCH------------------------The Week
JAMES T. FITZPATRICK-------------------College Parade
RICHARD P. PREZEBEL----------------------staff Artist
News Staff
THOMAS G. PROGTOR 1
JOSEPH A. BUCCI J	Veics Ed,tors
ROY O. SHOLZ_______________________ROBERT F. ERVIN
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY.________________JOHN W. WALKER
GEORGE R. LEYES____________________LOUIS H. HRUBY
FRANK KELLY_____________________VINCENT A. GORMAN
CLIFFORD F. BROWN----------------IRWIN L. GOLDMAN
CHARLES A. LANDMESSER______________JOHN J. MORAN
J. DICKSON MURPHY.--------------.HARRY A. BALDWIN
ROBERT L. GROGAN ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL
Volume LXVII
May 4, 1934
No. 24
ACQUIRING STANDARDS
It is an entirely reasonable attitude on the part of the world at laige to expect that any graduate of a Catholic university will be equipped to think as a Catholic and to act as one. And that is a popular attitude in the world. Persons who have been trained and educated in Catholic educational systems are expected to be conversant with the Catholic point of view on current problems. To be completely so conversant is beyond the ordinary achievement of the average layman. But it is quite possible, and not too difficult, for him to acquire a working knowledge of the Church’s position on the varying problems of morals, economics, and social justice.
Since the current school year is quite near its end, it is not to be hoped that members of the student body who have never considered the matter or have never acted upon their consideration of it will either suddenly acquire a desire to be a well informed Catholic or suddenly and intensively set about accomplishing such an aim. But it is to be hoped that the great majority of those who are finishing their education here are well equipped, and that those who will return next year and the year after that will not neglect this problem in their education. It is a bit embarrassing to be forced to admit to inquiring outsiders that one doesn’t know what Catholics do in a given situation, or what they think on a given subject; especially when one has spent four years at Notre Dame.
MEMO TO MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Since the Indiana weatherman has crossed us up with a dry spring, can’t something be done about sprinkling the campus paths? A water wagon used to be part of the equipment hereabouts; if it is still workable, it might solve the question of settling a little of the dust from the bumper crop of cinders. And a rolling now and then while the paths are wet would probably do no harm.
CLUBS OR DANCE SPONSORS?
This is the boom season for campus club activity. More hands have been shaken, more whispering done, more conniving attempted in the past ten days than has occurred since a year ago this time. The answer is easy: elections are at hand.
It is probably timely to ask these legions of office-seekers just what they propose to do when and if they are elected. Will their clubs continue to hibernate from September until the time for the Christmas Special and the Christmas dance plans? Will they return to the doldrums for January, February, and March — somnolent until stirred by the possible prospect of an Easter dance? And will they then lapse again into inactivity until May Day of 1935 when the rushes of new office-seekers will provide the third and final indication of life for the year?
These questions are aimed almost entirely at the various geographical unit clubs. There isn’t much question but that those organizations might be well worthwhile. The common interests of mutual neighborliness at home are strong enough bonds to furnish the foundation for some really constructive work by the clubs. They have, in their very nature, a nucleus around which they might plan a year of balanced activity. They might, if they cared to and would expend the effort, exhibit an occasional sign of group life on the campus as well as in their home city ballrooms.
The argument that there is no field here for activity by these clubs seems a bit far fetched. It is not reasonable to suppose that a group, as large and as representative of the student body as is the average city or state club here, can find no activity to interest it. Communion breakfasts, smokers, entertainment, group cooperation with all-school projects, and other allied opportunities exist. Other groups have made successes of such activities; why not the city and state clubs, which should be the best organized of the campus clubs?
May 4, 19 3 4-
One
THE WEEK
Mickey Isley To Play At Senior Tea Dance
By Thomas J. Stritch
Finger of Time
“Time had some score of voices.—” Markheim, boy, we know just how you felt, though no murder have we done. It’s just the annual confusion of Central central daylight darkness Rocky Mountain saving standard time, time, time. The Indians were right: just look at the sun, ’tis enough. The printers, as usual, are on daylight saving, which means, among other things, that we have to get this thing out one hour earlier. The Alumni and Athletic Offices are also running the daylight saving standard, but the General Offices are split. Some have adopted Daylight Saving, others stick to the standard. Over at the Library, we suppose, they are still on standard time; but since their clocks have for years had a little esoteric code of their own it doesn’t matter much. It is rumored, though, falsely, we think, that one professor is carrying two watches.
Ah, well, we dinna care. It’s not for long. The dentist didn’t mind our missing an appointment, and Mother has an excellent head for such things, so perhaps she won’t miss Commencement after all. The one thing that puzzles us is that Howard vote.
Receptions
Mr. Shane Leslie has been spattered over these pages more than he’d care to be, probably; and you’re no doubt tired of hearing about him. If you read the excellent story this paper carried on his lecture, you’ve discovered how much we thought of his lecture, his charm, and his approach.
But his visit suggested something else, too. Why isn’t it more possible for interested students to meet the distinguished lecturers who come here? It is, we think, a fine idea to have as many good lecturers as we can get; but they never meet the students, and the students never meet them (at least we’ve never heard of such provision being made); and it seems to us that both ends would enjoy such a meeting. To be sure, it’s entirely up to the gentlemen of note; but at least let’s put it up to him.
Of course you couldn’t very well hail the entire student body up before him. The suggestion is only meant to include those men who have done work in the lecturer’s field, or those interested in doing so. And it’s only a suggestion.
Ducky
And then, after all these years, somebody really did it. It was in one of those speech classes, and the problem set for the boys was to do a selling trick before the class. You know, take some article and point out its good features, so that milady, in whom the purchasing power of the nation is popularly invested, will want it terribly. The early speeches ran through the usual things: automobiles, books, and such; and then, the other morning, a gentleman whose time had come dashed up to the platform with a box in his arms. Opening it, he pulled out one of the Lake web-footers, barking: “Wanna buy a duck?”
Music
It is a real pleasure to hear that the Moreau Seminary Choir is to give a concert in the near future. Father Connerton’s group is far and away the most distinguished musical organization on the campus, and ranks high among liturgical choirs in the nation. That their concert will be distinguished and enjoyable goes without saying; and we truly hope that it will become an annual event here. Since the students are home for the great feasts of the Church they never have the opportunity of hearing the choir • at its best; and even without this, there are a numbei' of fine hymns and partsongs which, for one reason or another, we never hear. We think the choir deserves a full house. •
And on next Monday night John Sharpe, the ablest student musician we have had for some years, gives • his final recital, appearing with Hugo Melchione. You could do much worse things with an evening than hearing him.
Notes
Since we reported on the new developments in and around Lyons, it has come to our attention that the boys of Freshman Hall have taken to flying kites. It is an excellent idea, gentlemen; we commend it highly. Now, why don’t you join up with Lyons and see what you can do about the regulation for the lake? Since the bathing dress regulations appeared it is as though the last thing that made this place neighborly has gone. Let’s give the game back to the boys.
Mickey Isley and his Gary band, so popular at Notre Dame dances this year, have been engaged to play for the Senior Ball Tea Dance to be held at the Chain-o-Lakes Country Club, a few miles west of South Bend, next Saturday, May 12. William Motsett, Commerce senior, is chairman of the tea dance.
Tickets for the Ball proper went
William Motsett Behind the tea dance. on sale yesterday under the direction of Ed O’Brien. Because of the new faculty regulation on the sale of dance tickets, they must all be purchased over a period of three days. The final hours for purchase will be tomorrow morning from 9 to 12 o’clock, noon, in the conference room, opposite the office of the Prefect of Discipline, Administration Building.
Chairman Russ Leonard of the 1934 Senior Ball is supervising the sale of tickets, plans for the weekend, and the distribution of Ball favors. A song entitled “Lovely Evening” has been written by Bob Butler and Charlie Jahr and will be used as the Senior Ball theme song.
Harry Sosnik and his Edgewater Beach orchestra will play for the Ball, next Friday evening, May 11, from 10 until 2 o’clock, C.S.T. Special 3:00 o’clock permissions have been granted by Father Dolan.
In connection with the tea dance, Chairman Motsett has arranged for reservations for dinner at the country club following the . afternoon dance. Tickets for the dinner are $1.50, a couple, and anyone desiring a reservation should communicate with Motsett as soon as possible.
Irish Club Meets
An interesting and instructive lecture on “Easter Week Rebellion” was given by Father Carroll at the meeting of the Irish Club on Friday, April 27- The speaker enlivened and clarified his talk by recounting a few of his personal reminiscences.
Members are urged to attend the next meeting, on May 9, at 7:45, in Room 253, Sorin Hall. Elections for the club officers of next year will be held.	-
Two
The Scholastic
Calendar
Friday, May 4
Notre Dame Symphony concert, St. Angela’s Hall, St. Mary’s, 7:15 p.m.; Scholastic staff meeting, Ave Maria offices: Editorial, 6:30 p.m.; General staff, 7 p.m.
Saturday, May 5
Comprehensive exams for senior Philosophy majors, 1:30 p.m. to 4 p.m., Law Building; Movie, “Only Yesterday,” starring John Boles and Margaret Sullavan, Washington Hall, 6:45 and 8:30 p.m.
Sunday, May 6
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, for upperclassmen, 6:30 p.m.; for freshmen and students in Lyons and St. Ed’s., 7:00 p.m.; Comprehensive exams for senior Philosophy majors, 10 a.m. to 12 a.m., Law Building.
Monday, May 7
All history major O’Brien essays are due; Collegians rehearsal, Music Hall, 4 p.m.; Cracow Club meeting, Carroll Rec., 7:15 p.m.; meeting, A.I. E.E., Room 22, Engineering Building, 8 p.m.; Music recital by Sharpe and Melchione, Washington Hall, 8 p.m.
Tuesday, May 8
Commerce seniors’ consultation with Assistant Dean Boker of the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, Dean McCarthy’s office, Commerce , Building; Symphony orchestra rehearsal, Washington Hall, 6:30 p.m.; meeting, St. Vincent de Paul Society, Walsh Hall, 6:45 p.m.; meeting of Commerce Forum, Law Auditorium, 7:30 p.m.; Election of officers, Louisiana club, South Bend Inn, 7:30 p.m.
Wednesday, May 9
Collegians rehearsal, Music Hall, 4 p.m.; Irish club meeting, Room 253, Sorin Hall, 7:45 p.m.; German club meeting, Carroll Rec., 8 p.m.
Thursday, May 10
Ascension Day, no classes; K. of C. picnic, Christiana Lake, Michigan; Cancer Clinic, Washington Hall, 8 p.m.
Louisiana Club To Elect Officers Tuesday Night
The date for the annual election of officers of the Louisiana Club is set for Tuesday evening, May 8, at the South Bend Inn. The preliminary meeting was a closed session which besides fixing the above date determined to try for “a bigger and better” Louisiana Club next year by encouraging more students to come to ' Notre Dame from the Delta State.
Charles N. Heckelman Is Named Valedictorian Of Class Of 1934
Notices----
Frosh Oratory Notice
The freshmen oratorical contest will begin on the fourteenth of this month. There is to be a prize of 510.00 given to the winner. The contest will run under the same rules that were announced in the preceding number of The Scholastic.
Notice to Those Who Took Politics Trip to Washington
Those who ordered copies of the group picture which was taken in Washington with Speaker of the House, Rainey, may get them from Mr. Paul Bartholomew at his home.
Philosophy Majors
The comprehensive examinations for Seniors majoring in Philosophy will be held in room 5 of the Law Building, Saturday, May 5 from 1:30 p.m. to 4 p.m., and Sunday, May 6 from 10 a.m. to 12 m.
John Baker, Assistant Dean of the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, will be at Notre Dame, Tuesday, May 8. Mr. Baker will interview 1934 graduates who propose filing applications for admittance to the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration. He will be available for consultation at Dean James E. McCarthy’s office, Commerce Building.
CONTENTS
News
Baseball............................14
Drake-Penn Relays ..................12
Elections .......................... 5
Father O’Donnell ................... 4
Golf................................13
Kentucky Derby ..................... 4
Linnets............................. 6
Ohio State Track ...................11
Senior Ball ........................ 2
Sharpe Recital...................... 5
Valedictory .......................................... 3
Features
Introducing ........................14
K. C. News ......................... 7
Man About .......................... 8
“On Down the Dine” .................16
Splinters ..........................15
“The Week” ......................... 2
STRITCH CLASS POET
By Clifford F. Brown
Outstanding seniors to receive the three graduation honor positions for Commencement in June were announced today by the Faculty Committee on Honors and have been approved by the University Council.
Charles N. Heckelman, an Arts and
Charles N. Heckelman' Valedictorian for ’34.
Letters student in Journalism from Hempstead, New York, has been named Valedictorian. Hugh T. Fitzgerald, A.B., whose home is in Brooklyn, New York, has won the honor of being Class Orator, having been one of the foremost varsity debaters during his attendance here. Thomas J. Stritch, A.B., of Nashville, Tennessee, will be Class Poet. Among his many activities he has been an important member of The Scholastic staff and of several other student publications.
Other Plans Made Definite
The three men, thus chosen to represent their class at Commencement, merited the honor after an extended consideration of their scholastic averages— an important factor — and their- general academic abilities. All three are in the upper tenth of their class.
Several other arrangements relevant to Commencement have been definitely decided also. His Excellency, the Most Reverend Amleto Giovanni Cicognani, Apostolic Delegate to the United States, will celebrate the Baccalaureate Pontifical Mass. -The Most Reverend John McNamara, Auxiliary Bishop of Baltimore, will deliver the Baccalaureate Sermon. The Commencement Address will be given by Honorable Frank Walker, Chairman of the Emergency Relief Council.
The graduation exercises this year mark the 90th annual commencement at Notre Dame. The awarding of degrees will take place Sunday, June ’3.
Three
May 4, 19 3 4
Father O’Donnell Rallies After Suffering Relapse On Tuesday
CONDITION STILL GRAVE
The condition of the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University, who is ill in St. Joseph’s hospital, South Bend, continues to be very serious.
Father O’Donnell has been ill for more than a year. On his return from New York early this week he suffered a serious relapse and received the Last Sacraments on Tuesday morning. His condition continued critical throughout the day, but he spent a restful night and rallied considerably Wednesday morning. His condition during the past three days, however, has continued to be very serious.
Two Papers Presented At Meeting Of Bookmen Club
Two papers were presented at the last meeting of the bookmen. The first, by James Fitzpatrick, “Menken and his School,” told the rise of this school and of the opposition offered it by the New-Humanists. He then described the decline of this school which is apparently taking place.
Scholz Reads Paper
The second paper, presented by Roy Scholz was a review of the late Professor Charles Phillip’s book Paderewski, The Story of a Modern Immortal.” Quoting from the critics and the book itself the paper summarized the story of Paderewski and told of its place in contemporary literature.
The date of the annual Bookmen banquet was set for May 16, the final plans will be announced at the next meeting to be held Monday evening in the Law building.
Bowdren Named President of the N. D. Boston Club
James Bowdren, of Milford, Mass., a junior in the Physical Education Department, was elected president of the Boston Club Tuesday evening, May 1, in Brownson Rec. William Stapleton won the vice-presidency. James McHugh and John Lachappelle were elected secretary and treasurer respectively.
James Ross was appointed chairman of a committee which is to arrange plans for a summer dance.
John Hanley, past president of the club, terminated the meeting with a retirement speech.
Faculty Golf---
With the completion of qualifying rounds during the past week, the Faculty golf tournament moved into the first round of match play within the past two days.
Three flights of sixteen players each, based on the qualifying scores of the entrants, have been drawn for match play. All first round matches in all of the flights must be completed and results posted in the clubhouse by Saturday, May 12.
The first round pairings:
First Flight
1.	Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C. vs. Rev. R. Riter, C.S.C.
2.	Rev. J. Fogarty, C.S.C. vs. Rev.
J. Reynolds, C.S.C.
3.	Rev. L. R. Ward, C.S.C. vs. Stanley Price.
4.	Rev. T. Brennan, C.S.C. vs. Stephen Ronay.
5.	Rev. Patrick Dolan, C.S.C. vs. Thomas Conley.
6.	John P. Nicholson vs. John Scannell.
7.	Cletus P. Chizek vs. Dominic Napolitano.
8.	D. L. Campbell vs. Elmer F. Layden.
Second Flight
1.	Lee T. Flatley vs. W. Bender.
2.	Rev. J. Burke, C.S.C. vs. Norbert Engles.
3.	Louis Hasley vs. D. T. Plunkett.
4.	T. F. Konop vs. J. A. Haley.
5.	Paul Fenlon vs. Stanley Sessler.
6.	Rev. E. Keller, C.S.C. vs. H. J.
Bott.
7.	Rev. N. C. Hoff vs. L. H. Eells.
8.	W. E. Farrell vs. Rev. L. L. Ward, C.S.C.
Third Flight
1	Rev. Norman DeGrace, C.S.C. vs.
Rev. James Brannigan, C.S.C.
2.	Joseph Boland vs. Rufus Rauch.
3.	Elton Richter vs. H. E. Jones.
4.	H. Q. Earl vs. George E. Keogan.
5.	Rev. William Cunningham, C.S.C. vs. Donald C. Grant.
6.	Walter Langford vs.' William J. Coyne.
7.	Alden Davis vs. Joseph Petritz.
8.	Earl Langwell vs. Rev. R. Norris, C.S.C.
Seniors
The ticket sale for the 1934 Senior Ball will close tomorrow at 12:00 o’clock noon. The hours tomorrow are from 9:00 to 12:00 o’clock in the Conference Room of the Main Building. These are positively the last hours to' secure tickets. Total price is $8.25.
Spalding Names His Derby Choice: Bazaar
By Matt Spalding
Louisville is hub of the universe —for this week-end, anyway, with no apologies to th Bostonians, New Yorkers, Chicagoans, or Kokomoans. One hundred airplanes, five hundred pullmans and private cars, whole, special trains and busses, thousands of cars coming from every direction, and some one thousand college-boy hitch-hikers are all headed for Louisville. And all of this for two minutes’ pleasure. But it is worth it, gentlemen, because it’s the Kentucky Derby.
Dramatizes Derby
The syndicates and radios will tell about the 60,000 crowd, the fashion parade, and the liquor and lassies, but let us take a look over the horses for ourselves. And in so doing, we will re-enact the Derby—before it has been acted—using the names of all the prominent horses entered. The outcome is our selection.
The bugle sounds! The horses begin their parade from the paddock. Beautiful specimens of horse-flesh, gentlemen, the best in the land. Yes suh! Sixty thousand people begin to push and shove and pant and stand on their toes, or somebody else’s— all with one end in view: to see that race of races. The horses parade to the post, prancing and feeling the excitement of the crowd. Then it seems but a moment until the mighty throng shouts in perfect chorus: “They’re off!”
Close, Fast Race
They flash from the starting stalls like lightning. Sergeant Byrne is the first to break, closely followed by Mata Hari, Time Supply, and Dan Sabath. As they sweep by the grandstand, Mata Hari leads by a length, Sergeant Byrne is second by a head and Blue Again has moved into third place. Agrarian is running fourth. Around the turn they go with Mata Hari in front, Blue Again is second, Agrarian and Speedmore are bidding for third place. At the half mile, Mata Hari and Blue Again are still fighting for the lead. Riskulus has flashed into third position, closely followed by Thomasville. Down the backstretch and the fillies are weakening. Black Buddy and Peace Chance move up fast and pass the leaders. Here come Sir Thomas and Spy Hill making their bid. At the mile, it is Sir Thomas by a length, Spy Hill is second by a neck, Peace Chance third. Singing Wood is running fourth and moving up fast. As they near the last turn, the big drive starts. Singing Wood, Cavalcade and
(Continued on Page 20)
Four
The Scholastic
“Bolero” to be Played Proctor, Murphy, Miller Elected By Sharpe-Melchione	To 1934.^35 Class Presidencies
On Monday evening at 8 o’clock Mr. John F. Sharpe, ’34, will present a recital of piano music by modern composers in Washington Hall. He will be assisted by Mr. Hugo Melchione, ’37.
Two-piano work will feature Mr. Sharpe’s graduation recital, as he and Melchione chord startingly through Camille Saint-Saens “Danse Macabre,” Gershwin’s “Rhapsody in Blue,” and Ravel’s “Bolero,” all modern to the teeth. The most ambitious attempt of the evening will be Mr. Sharpe’s essay at the first movement of Tchaikowsky’s B-flat minor Concerto. Mr. Melchione will play the orchestra parts on a second piano for this thundering, exacting Allegro.
Mr. Melchione plays two modern numbers, one by the colorful modern Italian, Respighi, and another by Bortkiewicz, an interesting contemporaneous Russian, for his solo contribution. Mr. Sharpe, unassisted, will have at the impressionistic “White Peacock” and Cyril Scott’s “Danse Negre.”
Both performers are studying under Mr. Willard L. Groom, of the
Department of Music.
The program:
1.	Danse	Macabre............Saint-Saens
2.	Nocturne ....................Resphigi
Etude	...................Bortkiewicz
Mr. Hugo Melchione
3.	White	Peacock ...............Grilles
Danse	Negre ...................Scott
Mr. John F. Sharpe
4.	Concerto in B-flat Minor...Tchaikowsky
First Movement. Allegro Soloist. Mr. Sharpe Second Piano. Mr. Melchione
5.	Rhapsody	in Blue..............Gershwin
6.	Gay but	Wistful..............Grainger
7.	Bolero ...........................Ravel
Percussion accompaniment by Thomas Grady
Glee Club Gives Concert In Fort Wayne Yesterday
Yesterday afternoon the Glee Club journeyed south to present their vocal offerings to the people of Fort Wayne. The concert last night was offered under the sponsorship of the Notre Dame club of that district.
After the two hour program of solo and choral numbers under the capable direction of Prof. Casasanta the applause of the audience evinced the same approval with which audiences everywhere have received this organization.
Father McDonald Recuperates
Father McDonald, head of the English Department, has improved sufficienty to leave the Infirmary for his classes, but he is still receiving treatment.
Italian Club Postpones
Annual Banquet Yesterday
Because of the critical condition of the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University, the Italian Club indefinitely postponed its annual banquet which was to have taken place last night in the Lay Faculty Dining Hall.
Furthering the postponement is Father O’Donnell’s close affiliation with the Italian Club and with Cav. Giuseppe Castruccio, Royal Italian Consul of Chicago, who was slated as the principal speaker for the banquet. At the Italian Club banquet in 1932, the President of the University was signally honored by the King of Italy, Victor Emmanuel HI. Father O’Donnell was recipient of the insignia of “Chevalier of The Order of the Crown of Italy,” presented by Cav. Castruscio, in recognition of the services which Father O’Donnell performed in the furtherance of Italian culture at Notre Dame.
A Mass for Father O’Donnell was celebrated Thursday morning at 6:20 a.m. in Sacred Heart Church at which the club members attended in a body.
Emilio Gervasio Wins Race For Jersey Club Presidency
By the slight margin of a few votes, Emilio Gervasio defeated Philip Heinle for the presidency of the New Jersey Club. The election was held Wednesday evening in the Brownson Recreation Hall.
Gervasio’s ticket, which was made up of Philip Arnheiter for vice-president, John Hopkins for secretary and Tobias Kramer for treasurer, was also elected.
John Breen, Eli Abraham, and George Shields, president of the S.A.C., took charge of the 110 paid members who were voting.
A, I. E. E. Meets May 7 '
The last regular meeting for this year of the Notre Dame Branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held on Monday evening, May 7, at 8 o’clock in Room 22 of the Engineering Building.
It is hardly necessary to point out the importance of full attendance of members at this meeting, since it will be the occasion of the election of officers for next year. In addition, there will be the presentation of honorary awards and addresses by members of the faculty.
ELECTION VOTE IS HEAVY
By John Moran
Thomas G. Proctor, Thomas J. Murphy, and Harold E. Miller, were elected to the 1934-35 senior, junior, and sophomore class presidencies
Thomas G. Proctor Winner by 124 votes.
when Notre Dame celebrated May Day in its own distinctive style Tuesday.
To be sure there were flying banners and the tread of marching feet, but no signs of a revolution since the banners merely urged support for a Junior presidential candidate, while the marching feet belonged to undergraduates trooping into the Dining Hall to vote.
The basement, where the elections were supervised by the S.A.C. with the aid of dozens of watchful partisans and potential dance chairmen, was a perfect bedlam after every class, and particularly after dinner. Supporters of the opposing tickets collared each prospect that hove in sight and begged, pleaded, or threatened the uncertain voter. into casting his ballot for their candidate. Promises of chairmanships, committees, and the like flew back and forth all day long.
With the closing of the polls in the evening, campus politicians sat back to wait for the counting of the ballots. Shortly after supper rumors began to circulate throughout the campus and by seven o’clock every hall had more or less accurate figures on the final outcome.
Thomas G. Proctor, of Elkhart, Ind., a student in the College of Arts and Letters, amassed a total of 306 votes to defeat Thomas W. Thompson, of Detroit, Mich., also of Arts and Letters, for the presidency of the senior class. Thompson rolled up 182 votes.	.
Thomas J. Murphy, Newport, R. I., (Continued on Page 6)
May 4, 19 3 4
F iv e

“Music’s The Thing” Applauded By 2,500
‘‘Whether you go, north, south, east or west, ‘Music’s the Thing’,” stated Mastei' of Ceremonies Bill Lewis in the immensely popular Linnet show staged in Washington Hall on Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday evenings of this week. A total of some 2,500 people attended the performances.
Like its title suggests, the show is a galaxy of musical selections. A minstrel in which George Menard as soloist and John Dasso, and Tom Byrne, dancers, were outstanding, formed the first part of the presentation. George Belting, who directed the minstrel, acted as interlocutor. Charles Clark, Richard Burchill, Ralph Hruska, Richard Tobin, James Ford, and Russ Stemper were soloists. A tableau, “Mother,” featured Stemper. The Linnet quartet, under the direction of Dave Ryan, sang a medley.
Second Part Better
The cream of the Linnet talent was displayed in the second division of the show, “Notta Dame Inn.” Comedians, soloists, choral singing and dancing, orchestrations, and duets were the featured acts of the night club floor show.
Outstanding on the three evenings of the show were the Linnet trio of Tompkins, Flynn, and Fromm; the quartet of Ryan, O’Brien, Bolerjack, and Miller; the Fu Manchu and Stooge act in which Bob MacDonald, Joe McNally, Jim Hack and John Gleason participated. McGuire and Hamilton, now Indians, now college professors, and in general champion goofy commedians captured many laughs from the audiences.
The audiences found delight in the voices of Soloists Bill Prendergast, George Miller, and Whistler Jim Effinger. All three of them are new Linnet members, well seasoned by three successful performances. Tom Grady and his “Twirling Major” act also received many encores.
Excellent Supervision
In direction, supervision, staging, costuming, and lighting, “Music’s The Thing” lacked very little. The Reverend Charles McAllister, C.S.C., founder of the Linnets, and in a large part responsible for the success of the various shows given, planned and supervised the various technical phases of the production.
Howard Murdock ably handled the duties of general business manager; Leo Hanlon, lighting; William Mac Donald, stage manager; John Walker, programs; and William Brown, William Walsh, and Ed Owens, property and costumes. The make-up men
Six
CLASS ELECTIONS
(Continued from Page 5)
of the College of Commerce, accounted for 240 votes to win the Junior presidency. Edward F. Hammer, New York City, of the College of Arts and Letters, trailed Murphy with 173 votes.
Harold E. Miller, Indianapolis, Ind., of the College of Commerce, ran up a total of 219 votes to defeat Richard J. Scannell, Devon, Conn., also of the College of Commerce, for the presidency of the Sophomore class. Scannell polled 145 votes.
Proctor’s Ticket In
In the Senior elections, all of President Proctor’s ticket was elected save two. Norbert W. Hart, Dunkirk, Ind., annexed the Vice-presidency, Frank J. Shay, Nelsonville, Ohio, the Secretaryship, and Joseph H. Argus, Indianapolis, Ind., the Treasurership. Successful candidates for representation in the S.A.C. were: John Morley, Chicago, HL, from the College of Arts and Letters; Frank Holahan, Galesburg, Hl., from the College of Commerce; Charles Schill, Havana, Ill., from the College of Engineering; Moe DeLia, Newark, N. J., from the College of Science. DeLia nosed out Andy Dineen, Kittanning, Pa., by a single vote, 19 to 18.
In the Junior elections, President Murphy was the only one on his ticket who came through to win. Paul E. Rubly, Highland Park, HL, was elected Vice-president, Harold R. Stine, Kansas City, Kansas, Secretary, and Martin E. Bayer, Rochester, N. Y., Treasurer. Successful S.A.C. candidates were: 2 year terms; John J. DeGarmo, Niles, Ohio, and Robert. W. Cavanaugh, Rouseville, Pa.; 1 year term: William J. Schmuhl, Michigan City, Ind.
Sophomore Officers
In the Sophomore elections, Charles B. Jordan, Oak Park, Ill., annexed the Vice-presidency; John C. Williams, Washington, Ind., the Secretaryship, and Joseph P. Quinn, Newton, N. J., the Treasurership. Robert M. Siegfried, Tulsa, Okla., was the successful candidate for Sophomore membership in the S.A.C.
Fred Shanley, South Bend, Ind., was elected S.A.C. representative by the Off-Campuss students on April 26. Steve Banas, East Chicago, Ind., was selected as S.A.C. representative of the Law Club at a meeting of that group May 1.
were Jack Conley, Jack Ley, Jack Flanigan, Charles Karnasiewicz, Jim Murphy, and Mitchell Tackley.
Glen Dillard Gunn, Herald and Examiner music critic, praised the production very highly in Tuesday’s issue of that paper.
Debate With Reserve To Conclude Season
Plans for the post-season debate with Western Reserve has materialized, says Coach W. J. Coyne, and will be staged before a Knights of Columbus audience in the Hotel Allerton, Cleveland, next Thursday evening, May 10. Notre Dame is slated to argue the negative side of the regular season proposition, “Resolved: that the powers of the President should be substantially increased as a settled policy.”
Decision Debate
John O’Connor and Joseph Becek will speak for Notre Dame, with John Locher as alternate. Coach Coyne conferred this week with H. S. Woodward, head of the Speech Department, and W. A. D. Millson, debate coach at Western Reserve, and an agreement was made that this would be a decision debate. Earlier in the semester a Western Reserve negative team came here to defeat the Notre Dame affirmative twosome.
Following the debate Thursday night the two schools may go on the air Friday over Station WHK, Cleveland, to re-argue the issues of the previous evening. These return contests with Western Reserve will definitely conclude the debating season for Notre Dame.
St. Louis and Kansas Clubs Unite to Form Missouri Club
On Tuesday night, May l, in Carroll Rec, the St. Louis and Kansas City Clubs met to discuss the advisability of combining the two organizations, under the name of the Missouri Club.
Reverend James Fogarty, C.S.C., advocated the mergei’ in a talk which he outlined-the purpose of the proposed club of which he would be the sponsor and honorary president. After a short discussion, the measure was put to a vote and approved unanimously.
Officers Elected
The members then elected officers for the coming year. The successful men were: President, John McGrath; Vice-president, Western District, Joseph Waller; Vice-president, Eastern District, Albert Ravarino; Secretary, Jim Hill; Treasurer, Robert Pendergast ; Sergeant - at - Arms, Morton Douthat.
President McGrath appointed a committee to complete plans for a banquet to be held before school is dismissed. A second committee was designated to investigate possibilities of a summer dance.
The Scholastic
New York Journalist Gives Lecture Here
By Clifford Brown
By depicting many personal experiences in his chosen field of journalism, Mr. Seibold, winner of the Pulitzer Prize in 1920 and a reporter for the New York World at present, held suspended throughout his lecture the interest of the audience in Washington Hall, Thursday evening, April 26. The lecturer, one of the best-known political writers in the United States and a reporter of all the national conventions since 1920, dwelt mostly upon political incidents and governmental affairs as they appear to a reporter. The title of his lecture was “Newspaper Business and Politics.”
After beginning with a very brief contract of newspaper policies and organizations of today as contrasted with those of fifty years ago, Mr. Seibold proceeded with a series of personal accounts. Of the great personages whom he has interviewed he enumerated one Pope, seven Presidents, and four kings. To him, he said, they all represented but one thing: copy.
Interviewed President Wilson
His interview with President Wilson, the first interview written in the White House and the one for which he received the Pulitzer Prize, he minutely narrated. During, the interview he took no notes, even though the written ai-ticle afterward consisted of some 8,000 words, very accurately written. As would be expected President Wilson commended him for his incomparable memory.
After this anecdote, Mr. Seibold told of his extended relations with President Taft in 1912, during the heated campaign of Theodore Roosevelt, candidate for the opposing party. The speaker made it his aim to emphasize the difficulty of a reporter to follow the movements of an important man. He humorously told how the President went to Cincinnati with one of the completed interviews and never returned it.'
His explanation of experiences in Cuba and Japan contained much novelty and personal element. He elaborated how quickly a reporter changes scenes from day to day. He climaxed this point when he told of his assignment by his editor to cover political activities in the West Indies, but after reaching his destination an unexpected telegram ordered him to return immediately. Obeying promptly, he reached his office with miraculous speed, only to have the editor say, “I forgot why I wanted you back.”
Mr. Seibold was introduced by the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., vice-president of the University.
May 4, 1934
K. of C. News
By Ray Martin
The first degree initiation was exemplified last Monday night, at the regular meeting in the council chambers. The new brothers withstood the rigors of the rather serious ceremony, and emerged with sufficient vitality to do justice to the refreshments with which they were restored to normal. Next Sunday, May 6, these candidates will encounter the hardships to be suffered in the exemplification of the second and third degrees. Since this will be a district initiation, and will of a certainty be conducted without flaw, it is urged that every member be present for the rare entertainment provided.
Those who were absent from the last meeting missed not only the initiation, but also Joe Boland’s interesting talk, and a chance at the cash attendance prize which Warden Mike Santulli won after three years of expectant waiting. The candidates were briefly charged by District Deputy Ribordy and State Secretary Dorsey. The candidates who were initiated in the last class were: Neil C. Barnett, Karl G. Hutter, Joseph L. Sibr, Gerard J. Garry, Thomas W. Downing, Albert H. Huter, C. Jack Kreuz, Daniel T. O’Brien, William J. Gom-ber and Thomas J. Flynn.
Picnic Date Set
The annual Knights of Columbus picnic will be held at Christiana Lake on Ascension Thursday, May 10. The council has generously arranged for free transportation, free noon lunch, and free refreshments. The first bus will leave the postoffice at 9:45 on that date, and one will follow every fifteen minutes until everyone is provided for. An evening dinner may be had at the lake for sixty cents. The dinner will be the customary banquet held annually in honor of the graduating members. Each year the treasury of the council treats the members to a picnic at some nearby resort lake, but this year the affair is to be more lavish than ever. There is no charge for any of the ordinary expenses which are usual on such affairs. The usual program will be carried out, with ball games, races, and the rest. Let’s see everyone there.
Anyone who intends to run for an office this year must have his application in to the nominating committee by May 7. No application has been made for the office of treasurer. Anyone interested should send his application to Financial Secretary Abraham, the chairman of the nominating committee.
Band Will Play At Annual Blossom Fete
Invitations have been received by Professor Joseph J. Casasanta to have the University Band participate in the grand finale of the Michigan Blossom Festival on Saturday, May 12, and in the opening ceremonies for the Century of Progress Exposition on May 26.
As in past years the band will have the distinction of joining with the numerous drum corps and musical organizations of Michigan and northern Indiana in bringing to a fitting climax the week of gala festivities in and about the twin cities, Benton Harbor and St. Joseph, celebrating the return of spring. It will fete the Queen of the Festival by playing and marching in the huge floral parade which will conclude the gay welcome to springtide.
May Attend Fair Opening
Plans are tentative concerning the acceptance of the invitation offered by the Trustees of the Century of Progress. The trip to the Fair on May 26 has been authorized, providing that there be no conflict of examinations.
To participate in the opening parade will bring the Band into competition with those of the Big Ten schools as well as the musical units of the Naval Militia, Regular Army and Navy and Illinois National Guard. An award has been promised to the best band in each division of this military parade besides -the Grand Trophy given on the basis of appearance, music, and marching to the best band in the entire parade.
Cracow Club Will Elect
Officers at Next Meeting
The election of officers for the Charles Phillips’ Cracow Club will be held at the next meeting on May 7. The rules under which the elections will be conducted, according to the constitution of the organization are that the officers to be elected are a president, vice-president, treasurer, and secretary; that the president is to be an upperclassman; that the elections are to be held at the final meeting; and finally, that only those members who are in good financial standing are to be eligible for voting, and that each officer is to be elected by a majority of the total number of members present.
Plans for the final banquet will be further discussed and the date for it will be set. It is urgently requested that all members be present at this meeting.
Seven
Glee Club, Collegians To Stage Show Soon
A panoramic review of Notre Dame and her men will be presented in musical and dramatic form by the University Glee Club and the Notre Dame Collegians, campus dance band, within several weeks. The scenario, comprised of short scenes and skits, both serious and comical in nature, will attempt to depict University traditions of the past and present, and as they might be in the future.
The action as well as several of the musical numbers have been composed by members of the faculty; parts will be taken by members of the Glee Club. The entire production will be under the direction of Professor Vincent F. Fagan aided by faculty members.
As yet a definite date has not been determined for the premiere but it is proposed to schedule it before the close of school for the students of the University and at commencement proper for the alumni and guests of the graduates.
Frank Shay Elected Head Of N. D. Commerce Forum
The annual Commerce Forum Elections were held Tuesday evening, May 1, in the Law Auditorium. The meeting was presided over by President John P. Hess who, presented the nomination, gave a resume of the work accomplished by the forum during the current year and congratulated the present officers on their cooperation and efficiency.
After the nominations the following men were elected by an unanimous vote. President, Frank J. Shay; Vice-President, Alfred T. Loritsch; Treasurer, Edward Benkert; Secretary, Robert Cavanaugh. Board of Directors: Senior members, Louis McNicholas, chairman, Paul Staub, Con Hoverick, Leonard Sickemeyer; junior members, Frank Kellner, Raymond Duly and Joseph Alton.
Following the election of officers it was announced that a special meeting will be held next Tuesday, May 8, to discuss the forthcoming banquet.
Rochester Club Elects
John Gilooly President
John Gilooly was unanimously elected president of the Rochester Club on April 26. Other officers elected for the coming year were: Walter Ryan, vice-president; Martin Bayer, secretary; and Frederick Erdle, treasurer. None of the minor officers met any opposition either.
E ig ht
X? about the camPus
Anthony Andreoni is the large man who rocks back and forth on Sorin porch these hot afternoons before taking his barge to the Caf in the cool of the evening. He likes that
evening trip to the Caf. He likes to watch the steaks sizzle while Irene rings the nickles, dimes, and quarters into the endless scraps of paper. Tony is a hungry man.
Sorin’s Pillar
Tony has been pushing his way around Sorin in that disquieting bathrobe for three years now. He can tell you what Father Farley will be doing at any time during the day.
Now and then Tony gets off the porch and lumbers down to Grunde-man’s tower room for a few smokes and a couple of sage comments. When Tony gets settled he stays and stays. The fellows like to have him around. He likes to be amusing and he does it well.
When Tony first pounced on Freshman Hall (bless its old soul) some years ago the problem of bathing facilities for him grew with the weeks. They couldn’t find a shower big enough for him. Some sober face thought they could take the large boy up to the pool every Saturday night. He thought they might be able to sell tickets for the launching.
Ignores Finchleys
Tony has never cared much for “that Finchley stuff” in matters, though he wears his pants high on occasion. He would much rather ease himself on Gorman’s day bed and Gorman is too good natured to chase him away. Not even after he had broken one of these beds did Gorman chase him.
In a sporting way Tony is very much up front as one of the pickers. He knows who’s going to win the derby but he’s keeping quiet.
There! We didn’t say a word about “Tony’s Wife.”
Open May Devotions During Past Week
Father John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., assistant Prefect of Religon, announced that May devotions, which opened formally Monday evening, April 30 with services in Sacred Heart Church will be as follows:
There will be services consisting of a short sermon and benediction of the Blessed Sacrament on Wednesday evenings at 6:30 and 7:00. Every evening at 6:30 services will be held at the grotto. These devotions, which will be conducted by Father Thomas A. Steiner, will include usually two hymss followed by a prayer to the Blessed Virgin.
Singing of hymns at the grotto has been a practice at Notre Danie since the time when Notre Dame was an Indian mission, and the choristers were Red Men. Notre Dame of today, continues this noble profession of faith and devotion to the Blessed Lady even as did the Notre Dame of yesterday.
Mother’s Day Novena
A Mother’s Day novena which started Tuesday, May 1, will be concluded on Wednesday, May 9. Daily adoration during the month of May, a custom which was started five years ago, is continued. Adoration begins at 7 o’clock each morning and closes with benediction of the Blessed Sac-crament at 5:15 every afternoon.
Following a suggestion of their rector, Rev. Joseph A. Muckenthaler, C.S.C., the members of Badin Hall will supplement their evening prayer services with hymns in honor of Mary, the Mother of God and the Mother of Notre Dame.
Cincinnati Publicity Man Addresses Journalism Class
William A. ■ Castillini, ’22, addressed the junior class of journalists yesterday morning in the Journalism room of the Library. He is a graduate of that school, having won the South Bend Tribune prize for the best Journalism thesis of the year. At present he is doing publicity work in Cincinnati, Ohio.
Staff Notice
All members of the news, sports, and editorial staffs are requested to attend the meetings in the Editorial offices this evening at 6:30 and 7:00 p.m., respectively.
‘ History Notice
Father John Ryan, head of the History department announces that all history major O’Brien essays are due Monday, May 7.
The Scholastic
Fine Books Included In Library Additions
Unique among this week’s additions to the University Library is Harriet W. Gilfillan’s I Went to Pit College. This is not, despite the title, the “lowdown” on our worthy collegiate opponent from Pittsburgh, but rather a young social worker’s account of life in a mining camp. This best seller was written by a graduate of Smith College, class of ’31, who, unable to find a job, decided to investigate living conditions of the miners by living as one of them. Her book was the Literary Guild’s selection for March.
Also outstaanding is Men in White by Sidney Kingsley, which as a play was accorded a four star rating by Burns Mantle. It deals with a young doctor’s initiation to the rigorous realities by which alone the profession of medicine can maintain its high ethical level. Norman Thomas, Socialistic candidate for president contributes The Choice Before Us and Hillaire Belloc’s William the Conqueror is also included.
Complete List
History: Downey, Richard, Some Errors of H. G. Wells.
Economics: Frederick, Justus G., A Primer of “New Deal” Economics; Herrmance, Edgar Laing, Can Business Govern Itself?
Finance: Edie, Lionel D., Dollars; Schnitman, Lewis S., Hozv Safe is Life Insurance?
Sociology: Popenoe, Paul Bowman, Applied Eugenics.
Education: West, Pari, A Study of Ability Grouping in the Elementary School in Terms of Variability of Achievement.
Literature: Finger, Chai’les Joseph, After the Great Companions.
Poetry : MacLeish, Archibald, Conquistador.
Biography: Neale, John Ernest, Queen Elizabeth.
Engineers To Picnic
Plans are under way for a picnic to be held Saturday, May 19, at Christiana Lake, Michigan, by the members of the Engineers Club. It will be free for the members but non-members wishing to go will have to pay a small fee. The Club will also have the use of Shicks Resort in Michigan.
The profit from the Engineers’ Ball has been turned over to the St. Vincent de Paul Society. The profit was $29.00.
The Engineers election was held yesterday. The returns will be made known in the next issue of the Scholastic.
Three Hundred Couples Enjoy Annual Law Ball
The Lawyers Ball, held last Friday evening at the Palais Royale was a success, according to Chairman Thomas Gately. Mark Fisher’s orchestra entertained 300 couples of Lawyers and their guests from nine until twelve o’clock.
Jean Fay, formerly with Victor Young in New York, sang a few numbers with the aid of Harlan Hassberg and “Ding” Bell. There were also many vocal ensembles by the band.
The theme song for the Ball was entitled “Is There Any Chance For Me,” written by Francis Lavengood, a Senior in the Architect School, and was sung by George Menard, soloist of the Glee Club.
Mr. Lavengood has submitted a theme song for the Senior Ball entitled “Please Come Back To Me” which was arranged by Martin Ross.
The patronage list included the following: Professor and Mrs. Homer Earl, Professor and Mrs. Elton Richter, Professor and Mrs. William M. Cain, Professor and Mrs. William D. Rollison, Professor Clarence E. Manion, Joseph Laughna, John Crane, and Thomas McKevitt.
Me A loon Makes Report To St. Vincent de Paul Society
At the meeting of the St. Vincent de Paul society Tuesday evening in the basement of Walsh Hall, Vincent McAloon reported on the cases that were attended during the past week.
Because of the May devotion at the grotto, the time of the meeting has been set back to 6:40 on Tuesday evening in the same hall.
It was pointed out that no individual member of the society is to take the initiative in the case he is working on without first having the advice of the director. Greater cooperation and more responsibility will be necessarily required from the members to bring to a suitable close all the activities of the year.
Catholic Institutions Is The Topic of History Seminar
“Catholic Educational Institutions in American History” was the topic discussed by the History Seminar at their meeting in the Library Monday evening, April 30.
Unlike other seminars, the History Seminar is conducted somewhat like a class. The discussion which is led by Father McAvoy included, at the last meeting, the early growth of Catholic institutions, and the numbers of these institutions.
N.D. Representatives Give School Talks
Continuing its policy of promoting interest in Notre Dame among prospective high school graduates, who have intentions of furthering their education in college, the University has recently been sending representatives to various parochial and public high schools in Indiana and neighboring states. Included among these representatives, whose purpose it is to explain the advantages of a Notre Dame education, are such men as the Reverend Joseph Burke, C.S.C. the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Mr. James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Alumni Board, Mr. Robert B. Riordan, Registrar, Mr. Louis F. Buckley, Dean James E. McCarthy, of the Commerce School, and Mr. Henry D. Hinton.
In line with this policy, therefore, Mr. Armstrong has been visiting high schools in the states of Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Kentuckj- during the last few weeks. The latest of his trips is the one to Louisville, Kentucky where on April 25 he addressed a group of high school seniors. At the present wilting Mr. Armstrong is in Michigan where he intends to speak before other such groups in the cities of Jackson, Battle Creek, Kalamazoo, Grand Rapids, and Lansing.
Electrical Display To Be
Presented Here May 14
On Monday evening, May 14, Mr. Richard H. Mighell of the General Electric Company research laboratory in Schenectady, N. Y., will present in Washington Hall a startling and entertaining demonstration of the most recent and spectacular accomplishments in the field of electricity. This announcement was made today by Bill Fromm, chairman of the local branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, who is handling arrangements for the lecture.
Mr. Mighell was in charge of the “House of Magic” exhibit at the Century of Progress Exposition last summer. His demonstration will include most of the experiments performed there.
Bookmen
The Bookmen are now receiving applications for membership. Anyone interested in and having knowledge of contemporary literature is requested to leave his name with Ed Murphy, 207 Sorin; Howard Cusack, 415 Lyons, or Ed Kilmurry, 339 Alumni.
May 4, 1 9 3 i
Nin e
A.S.M.E. Will Hear
Talk On Aviation
There will be a meeting of the A.S.M.E. Monday evening, May 7, at 7:30 p.m. in the auditorium of the Engineering Building. The speaker will be W. Van Haitsma of the Boeing School of Aeronautics at Oakland, Calif. The talk should appeal to all those interested in aviation particularly those interested in courses in aeronautics. Every one is welcome.
On April 23 and 24, two members of the Notre Dame Branch attended the student convention of the A.S.-M.E. held in Chicago. Joe I. Hayes, chairman of the local branch, and Harvey P. Rockwell, Jr. supervised.
Paper Read
Rockwell delivered a paper entitled “The New Physics and Philosophy” which was well received by the gathering which consisted of mechanical engineers of eleven midwestern colleges. While at the convention the Notre Dame delegates attended the two luncheons, the banquet, two technical sessions and the trip through the South Works of the Illinois Steel Company.
At the luncheon on Tuesday biographies of Brashear, a past president of the A.S.M.E., were presented to each branch to be given to the student who had done the most for his branch. The Notre Dame branch presented its prize to William F. Escher, treasurer of the group, for his fine work this year. A special meeting will be held Tuesday, May 15, for the election of officers for next year. All mechanical engineers are requested to attend this meeting whether or not they are A.S.M.E. members. Notices will be posted giving the time and place of the meeting.
Three Papers Read
At Economic Seminar
At a meeting of the Economic Seminar, on Tuesday, May 1, in the Law Building, papers on Germany, Russia, and Poland were read by Messrs. Linton, McNicholas, and Smith, respectively. This was the second of a series of papers dealing with the economic advancement of prominent European powers.
There will be a meeting on May 8, at which papers will be delivered by Messrr. Hagan and Bulkiewicz, in - continuance of the series, which will be extended throughout the remainder of the school year.
The purpose of these readings is to analyze the economic methods in Europe, and to compare them with the system in the United States, as employed at present.
Voice of the Campus
All communication to the “Voice of the Campus” should be addressed to the editor, 119 Sorin Hall. Full names must be signed. Only initials will be used in publication.
DISAPPOINTED
Dear Editor:
I was a bit disappointed in the recent Linnet production, “Music’s The Thing.” After seeing the show on its first night and having read the advance press articles stating it would surpass any previous production, I do not believe it can be compared with the Linnet show, “Thanks For The Blow,” which was so widely received in December.
Understand, I am not knocking the Linnets. I probably expected too much of them and wanted to see their advertised super-production. I can safely assert, however, that they will have to go a long way to rival their December presentation. To me, “Thanks For The Blow” 'was the best amateur performance I have ever seen both on campus and .elsewhere.
Sincerely,
J. G. N.
R. O. T. C.
Dear Sir:
A short news story in a recent issue of The Scholastic announced that the campus Military club planned to make a survey of the student body in order to discover the student sentiment in regard to establishing an R. O. T. C. unit here next year. Has the survey ever been made?
Many of us are greatly interested in the proposal—on both sides—and are anxious to see the statistics. When will they be available?
J. 0. S.
The Military club willing, the results of the survey will be published in The Scholastic when tabulations are completed, probably at an early date.—Ed.
Off Campus Students Attention!
Opportunity for part-time work for Off-Campus students. Grocery store demonstration work. See Mr. F. R. Percival of the Campbell Sales Co. the evening of May 8, at the Morningside Hotel.
F. W. Lloyd,
Comptroller.
‘Juggler’ Comes Out With Spring Number
Springy in nature is the latest release of the Notre Dame Juggler, that campus humor magazine. edited by Bryan J. Degnan and released by Graduate Manager John F. Stoeckley, at various intervals during the school year.
The currently popular Esquire, the magazine for men, is much discussed in the Juggler. A few pages are devoted to a tabloid size of the magazine. Vince Reishman, Bob Jaynes, and Dave Froehlich, are the principal contributors.
Burchell Glorified
Thaumas Mac, I, (Harry Burchell) is done honor in the Esquire section. A rather intimate and highly literary pose supplements his article.
“Bean Porridge Hot” Craine writes a bit about the goings on in the Bend, with a touch here and there of the Craine sophisticated wit.
Scattered throughout the magazine are jokes, anecdotes, and comic rhymes, some orignal and some borrowed from other similar periodicals.
“Rhythm Beat” by Rudolf Crnko-vic, is up to its usual standard, Don Redman being his hero this time. “What’s Up,” the campus social guide, contains all of the activities listed in The Scholastic’s “Calendar” every week.
Doyle Is Good
Doyle has several catchy cartoons and an elaborated illustration on the cover. Flowers, greenness, and lines convey the idea that it is the spring number of the Juggler.
“Keyhole Portraits” feature Russ “Tammany Joe” Leonard, Vince Fehlig, and John Hanley. The customary several lines accompany the caricatures (by Prezebel).
The Degnan-Craine-Burchell organ known now as the spring Juggler and previously as the Esquire Juggler is on sale at the Caf newsstand and at the Publications Office for 15 cents. It is an issue well worth buying!
Wranglers Meet
Arthur Sandusky, President of the Wranglers, presided at the meeting which was held Wednesday evening in the Law Building. Plans for the acceptance of new members were discussed. Further considerations will be taken up at next week’s meeting.
German Club Meeting
An important meeting of the German Club will be held Wednesday, May 9, at 8:00 p.m. in Carroll Rec.
Plans for the forthcoming banquet will be discussed and the new officers will be elected. All members are urged to attend.
Ten
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
Klineman Play Three Games During Week
Notre Dame’s hard luck crew of ball-tossers will try to regain some of their lost prestige beginning tomorrow when they travel to Columbus, Ohio, to pit their wares against the Ohio State combine. In the first encounter of these two clubs this season Jake Kline’s cohorts, although outhitting the Buckeyes, 12 to 10, were on the short end of a 7 to 5 count. This was the opening tilt for the locals and wintry weather conditions hampered their play considerably. Last Saturday the Buckeyes pounded four Michigan pitchers for 19 safe blows, shellacking the Wolverines, 16 to 2. It is expected that Marvin Ulrich, Ohio’s hurling star, will be on the mound against Notre Dame Saturday. Ulrich, in his last two starts, has held the opposition to 12 hits.
Meet Michigan State Wednesday
Next Wednesday Notre Dame will be seen in action at East Lansing, Michigan, against Michigan State. This is the first of a two game trip. The following day, May 10, the Irish meet Western State Teachers College in Kalamazoo.
From what the Michigan State team has shown this season, it seems to be an “off and on” club. One day they are unbeatable and the next, they turn around and hand the game to their adversaries on a silver platter. Last season against the Spartans the Irish broke even; each club winning their home tussle.
Western State’s nine seems to be the class of the mid-west. They have a clean slate this season, not a single defeat being chalked up against them. In their appearance here, April 17, they gave an excellent demonstration of what to do on the ball field. The result of that first joust stood 14 to 7 in their favor. It is expected that Dietz, the sophomore pitching sensation, will toe the slab for the State-men since he gave the Irish only eight hits in the April 17 engagement.
The Notre Dame nine is still in the depths of a terrible slump. Six defeats have been suffered by the local diamond devotees, Wisconsin administering the two most recent setbacks. Jake Kline seems to have found the solution to a smooth working infield problem by inserting “Curly” Reagan at third base. Vic Mettler is still at short, Kane at second, and Dunn at first. Perry, Beach and Palmisani
May 4, 19 3 4
Irish Track Team To Meet Ohio Spikemen At Columbus Tonight
Sport Week ---
Times given are Central Standard Friday, May 4
Track—Ohio State vs. Notre Dame 7:30 p.m., Columbus, Ohio.
Saturday, May 5
Baseball—Ohio State vs. Notre Dame, 3:00 p.m., Columbus, Ohio.
Tennis—Albion vs. Notre Dame, 2:30 p.m., University Courts.
Sunday, May 6
Baseball—Interhall leagues, 9:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m.
Golf—Interhall golf Tournament, 9:00 a.m., University Golf Course.
Monday, May 7
Golf—Chicago vs. Notre Dame, 1:00 p.m., Chicago, Illinois.
Tuesday, May 8
Baseball—Interhall leagues soft-ball, 3:30 p.m.
Wednesday, May 9
Baseball—Michigan State vs. Notre Dame, 3:00 p.m., East Lansing, Michigan.
Thursday, May 10
Baseball—Western State Teachers College vs. Notre Dame, 3:00 p.m., Kalamazoo, Michigan.
Baseball—Interhall leagues soft-ball leagues, 3:30 pan.
Golf—Wisconsin vs. Notre Dame, 1:00 p.m., Madison, Wisconsin.
Friday, May 11
Tennis—Detroit vs. Notre Dame, 3:00 p.m., University Courts.
Saturday, May 12
Baseball — Notre Dame vs. Indiana, 3:00 p.m., Cartier Field.
Golf—Last day for first round of Faculty Golf Tournament.
Golf—Notre Dame vs. Northwestern, 9:00 a.m. and 1:30 p.m., University Golf Course.
Tennis—Notre Dame vs Michigan State, 2:00 p.m., East Lansing, Michigan.
Track—Notre Dame vs. Michigan State, 1:30 pan., Cartier Field.
will, in all probability, patrol the outer gardens in these coming games. With a fair pitching perforamnce by of the mound men, the Irish should start winning ball games. The fielding has steadied considerably and all that remains to show itself is a bit of effective hurling.
M’GRATH TO RUN IN MILE
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
Twenty-seven Notre Dame trackmen wil inaulgurate the outdoor dual meet campaign in Columbus tomorrow evening. The Nickmen will be out to make it two straight over the Buckeyes, State having been defeated by the local spikemen 71 to 33 in an indoor meet held here on March 2.
In the sprints Notre Dame will be represented by Frawley and Gilfoil. Stapf, Ohio speedster, should win this event since he bested all Irish talent in the indoor meeting of the two squads.
Shiels Out With Injury
Bernard, Rubly, and Bowdren will handle the 440 event while Arnold and Bloor are outstanding for the Scarlet and Gray. Sal Ducassa, Clyde Roberts, and Jerry Farrell will compose the Irish trio in the half mile jaunt. Clyde won the 880 in the meet here, defeating Smith of State. Jim Shiels, who also scored in that race, has been suffering from an arch injury and will not be able to compete tomorrow.
“Tiger” McGrath has been temporarily pushed into the one mile class. He will team with Captain Joe Young and Moran to vie against Moore and Renda.
Norman Duke and Leo McFarlane, the latter also suffering from a weakened arch, will handle the two mile grind. This pair finished one, two in front of Huffman in the indoor scrap. Link, Layden and Fagan will hop the hurdles for the Nickmen.
Irish Weak In Field
The field events, the weakness of Irish, might spell the difference between victory and deefat. Vince Murphy, the only promising member of this department, will do the high jumping with the new comer, Williamson.
In the remaining events, Finkel, Elser, and Sullivan will put the shot and hurl the discus; Krause will toss the javelin; Conley and Meagher will take off in the broad jump; and Howard, Edwards, and Wade will handle the vaulting.
Eleven
Old-Timers' Football Team Holds 1934 Irish Varsity To 6-6 Tie
Irish Spikemen Place At Drake And Penn
LABORNE RUNS 85 YARDS
By John D. Carbine
Led by quarterback Laurie Vejar, who tried everything from triple lateral passes to end around reverses, the Old Timers football team held the 1934 varsity to a six to six tie in the Stadium Sunday. The Old Timers tried every trick in the book and even a few which were not in any book. The 1934 varsity, on the other hand, used orthodox football all through the contest.
The Old Timers scored first on the colaboration of Pid Laborne’s long run and a pass from Vejar to Devore. Midway in the first period, La-borne cut off right tackle and streaked up the field 85 yards before he was tossed out of bounds on the varsity’s five yard line. The veterans scored on the next play when Vejar cut over to the left sideline, and then, fading all the time, galloped back to the center of the field before he tossed a perfect pass to Devore standing in the end zone. Laborne’s try for the point failed.
Varsity Gains Through Line
The veterans smothered all scoring-attempts on the part of the varsity until late in the third quarter, Al Costello cut back through the weak side of the line and streaked 27 yards down the side line to the veterans’ one yard line. Costello bucked the line four times, and on the fourth attempt, he plunged over for the score. Rey Bonar’s dropkick for the point was blocked by Ed Krause.
The varsity’s line plays brought them plenty of ground in midfield but the Old Timers’ forward wall stiffened as soon as the blueshirts began to threaten seriously. Only twice did the varsity get within scoring distance. They first reached the three yard line when a pass -was ruled complete because of interference. Their second chance came with Costello’s long run and this time they pushed over a score.
Coach Layden sent three complete teams into the game. Of the back-field men Shakespeare and Costello looked the best. Shakesspeare, the speedy left halfback, continually sliced the green line for short gains, and Costello at left half slipped away for two long runs. Both Bonar and Gaul ran their teams well. Johnny Young looked good at right half. Tony Mazziotti, playing right half for the Old Timers, put in a good afternoon’s work.
In the varsity line, Pojman, Solari, (Continued on Page 20)
Interhall
By John L. Glanzner
The third week of the interhall hardball league was featured last Sunday by some tight pitching duels and some hard hitting contests.
Badin triumphed over Lyons when Bob Shanahan leaned on one of Hunt’s fast ones and drove out a long triple to win the game for the Badinites. Before that wallop it was a pitching duel between Hunt of Lyons and Compa of Badin.
Howard failed to make an appearance for the game -with Freshman and was forced to forfeit.
In a twirling contest, St. Edward’s nosed out Morrissey 7-3. Barnett and Allen both rapped out two hits to garner hitting honors for the game.
In a slugging bee, Brownson beat Alumni 17-15. Sloppy fielding and erratic pitching combined with terrific slugging provided the feature of the game. Scolaro and Murtha starred with the bat for Alumni, and Morgan, Randall, and Barker led the Brownson sluggers.
Softball League Wanes
Carroll defeated Walsh 14-6 in a one-sided contest. Blums pitched a steady game for the winners and also wielded a potent club. Mormille slugged the ball for Walsh.
Interest in the soft ball league is waning and no games were played last Sunday. Unless all teams put in an appearance next week, the league will be disbanded.
Baseball, Sunday, May 6:
Lyons vs. Dillon, Cartier Field, 9:00 a.m.
Morrissey vs. Corby, Brownson Field, 9:00 a.m.
St. Edward’s vs. Badin, Freshman Field, 9:00 a.m.
Howard vs. Alumni, Diamond No. 1, 9:00 a.m. '
Brownson vs. Carroll, Diamond No. 2, 9:00 a.m.
Baseball, Thursday, May 10:
Dillon vs. St. Edward’s, Brownson Field, 9:00 a.m.
Corby vs. Badin, Freshman Field, 9:00 a.m.
Lyons vs. Morrissey, Cartier Field, 9:00 a.m.
Freshman vs. Walsh, Diamond No. 1, 9:00 a.m.
Howard vs. Carroll, Diamond No. 2, 9:00 a.m.
If the Drake and Penn relay meets fall on the same day next year, Coach Nicholson of the Irish trackmen plans to pick a squad for the Drake Relays and send them to Philadelphia and then buy railroad tickets to Des Moines for the Penn Relay squad. There would be reason in Nick’s madness for if he had shifted the destination of his two track squads last Saturday, the Irish spikemen would have carried off the individual honors in three events. As it was the Nickmen failed to win a single event because their competitors persisted in breaking world, national and relay records.
Nick’s 880 yard shuttle team placed second to Cornell’s record breaking quartet at the Penn Carnival. Merwin of Cornell, national collegiate hurdle champion, nosed out Jimmy Fagan in the final lap after the Irish spikemen had led the Cornellians all the way. Cornell’s time of 1.02:4 broke the carnival record. The timers caught the Irish trackmen in 1.02:5. At Drake, De-Pauw’s shuttle team did 1.03:2,—7-10 of a second slower than the Irish record, to win the event.
Elser Scores At Drake
Vince Murphy did his best jumping of the year at Penn when he topped the bar at six feet, four and a quarter inches. Jumping against Murphy, George Spitz soared six feet seven and one quarter inches for a new carnival record. Murphy’s jump was a half inch better than Philson, Stanback and Watkins did while winding up in a three way tie for first in the high jump at Drake.
The only other Irish entrant in the Penn Carnival was George Meagher who finished third in the broad jump with a leap of 22 feet, ten and seven eighths inches.
At Des Moines, Don Elser cut loose with a heave of 48 feet, two inches in the shot put. Jack Torrance, the 275 pound giant from Louisiana State, heaved the shot 55 feet, one and one-half inches to establish a new world’s record. Irvin of Texas A and M, and Cook of Illinois outdid themselves in attempting to beat Torrance and Elser had to be content with fifth place. At the Penn Carnival, Don’s heave of 48 feet, two inches would have handily-won the shot put.
The Irish two mile team of McGrath, Ducassa, Farrell, and Roberts finished fourth at Drake. Louisiana State won the event in 7:42.8 which clipped six seconds off the Relay record set by Notre Dame in 1931. The Irish quartet finished in 7:55.2. Du-(Continued on Page 16)
T w e I v e
The Scholastic
Notre Dame Golfers Wallop Purdue Team
The Notre Dame golfers kept their slate clean Saturday when they smothered Purdue by the decisive margin of 15% to 2%. The local divot diggers swept the singles matches and split the doubles in accomplishing their third victory of the season and their second in three starts against the Boilermakers.
Johnny Banks turned in the best card of the day when he shot a 71 in the morning doubles play. Banks teamed with Malloy to defeat Brewer and Skinner, five up and three, 3 to 0. Malloy, alternating with Green as the sixth man on the squad, shot good golf to come home in 75.
Fehlig Defeats Reitemier
Win Day and Bill Veen eman, after leading one up at the end of nine holes, faded rapidly on the last round and succumbed to Craig and Lockwood, three down and two, 2 to 1. Day won his singles match from Harold Brewer on the final hole. Brewer was given several chances to jump into the lead by virtue of Win’s poor putting, but he failed to capitalize upon the breaks. Day made up in part for poor putting by dropping approaches within a foot of the cup on 11 and 12.
Captain Vince Fehlig bagged five birdies during the course of his match with Jack Reitemier. Vince won handily, four up and three, 3 to 0. The feature of the match was a 30 Toot putt by the Irish captain on the sixth green.
Stiff Wind Hampers Play
Johnny Banks put on an exhibition for the large gallery which followed him on the afternoon round and defeated George Craig, one up, 2% to %. Banks sunk three birdies and an eagle for his followers. “Toots” knocked down his eagle on the long ninth hole when he followed a long drive with a well placed approach and a single putt.
Ken Dobelbower and Memphis Johnny Montedonico completed the tabulations of the day. Montie won both nines from his opponent, winning the match on the sixteenth hole with a par five.
The stiff wind, which swept across the course during the match, made playing extremely difficult. Distances were hard to judge because of the wind which reached the proportions of a gale at times and then lulled into a breeze.
The summaries:
Montedonico 77, Notre Dame: defeated Dobelbower 80, Purdue 3 to 0.
Day 76, Notre Dame; defeated Brewer 79. Purdue, 3 to 0.
Captain Fehlig 76, Notre Dame; defeated
N. D. Golfers Meet Maroons and Badgers; Seek 3rd and 4th Wins
Hall Golf - - -
There has been a lack of time or else a lack of interest taken in the Interhall golf tournament that is now under way, so Vince Fehlig, director of the tourney, has decided to discontinue his plan of having three halls -at a time play to determine the individual hall champ. He now plans to run an open tourney this Sunday for everybody on the campus. From the cards that will be turned in, pairings will be made, and in this way the ultimate champion will be determined.
Sunday will positively be the last day for anyone to turn in their card for the tournament. As soon as players finish their round on Sunday they must write their name and their hall on the score card and deposit it in the box at the clubhouse.
The pairings will be comprised on Sunday night by Director Fehlig and match play will then begin on Monday. Bulletins concerning the matches will be posted on the hall and the clubhouse bulletin board.
Varsity Teemen Hand Frosh Squad 28 to 2 Beating
After their decisive defeat of Purdue under tantalizing weather conditions Saturday, the varsity golfers engaged the Freshman crew composed of Ken Marvine, Harry Baldwin, Tom Doyle, Lou Fehlig, Harrison Pierce, John Marbeck, James Carey, and others on Sunday. The final count showed the varsity on the long end of a 28 to 2 score.
The Freshmen appear to be a strong crew of teemen. Baldwin, Lou Fehlig, brother of Vince, and Mar-vine played the best golf for the yearlings. Montedonico, Banks, Malloy, and Day performed best for the varsity.
The first year men will probably be matched against the reserve varsity squad which was announced this week by Reverend George Holderith, C.S.C., coach of the Irish swingers. Another varsity-frosh encounter is also being planned for the future.
Reitemier 82, Purdue, 3 to 0.
Banks 74, Notre Dame; defeated Graig 75, Purdue. 2^ to
Craig 75, and Lockwood 78, Purdue; defeated Day 78, and Veeneman 80, Notre Dame. 2 to 1.
Banks 71, and Malloy 75, Notre Dame; defeated Brewer 80, and Skinner 82, Purdue. 3 to 0.
WISCONSIN STRONG CLUB
Victories three and four of • the current campaign will be the aim of the Notre Dame golfers when they embark upon a two match road trip Monday. The Chicago Maroons will act as hosts to the Irish at the Midway Monday and the University of Wisconsin will greet Captain Fehlig and mates on Thursday at Madison.
A recent checkup of the golf record of past Notre Dame sextets reveals that the maximum winning streak reached 15 before Purdue snapped it in 1932. This mark was compiled between 1930 and the middle of the 1932 season. Since that defeat by the Boilermakers Notre Dame has not lost a dual match. The Irish have accumulated a consecutive streak of ten dual match wins to date. The corrected record further reveals that the local swingers have won 25 of 26 matches since the sport was given official intercollegiate recognition here in 1930.
Malloy Replaces Green
Malloy, who replaced Herman Green as the sixth man on the varsity for the Purdue match last week, will probably start in the two matches next week. This newcomer, a sophomore, bagged a 75 in the Boilermaker tilt and duplicated the feat against the'freshmen teemen Sunday. Captain Vince Fehlig, Johnny Montedonico, Toots Banks, Win Day, and Bill Veeneman complete the present squad. The team is subject to change at any time if one of its members finds trouble in keeping his medal score low.
The meeting with the Windy City crew will be the second in Notre Dame golf history. The Maroons fell last year, 17% to %. Little is known about the current Chicago sextet, but the Irish troupe is loking for a maximum amount of competition.
Wisconsin, one of the strongest teams in the Big Ten this year, may cause Notre Dame some grief if Fehlig and Co. are not on their game. It will be the first meeting between the Badgers and Irish on the golf question.
Father Holderith announced this week the reserve squad, which will be given permission of the course throughout the year. Bill Cole, Ray Martin, R. J. Donahue, Jack Cannon, and Charlie Nevels have earned places on this squad which will be given suitable competition to keep their games and competitive spirit up to normal.
st May 1 9 3b
Thirteen
Baseball Team Loses Two More Games
Introducing...
Irish Tennis Team Meets Albion Here
By Cy Stroker
Still followed by the jinx that prevents them from winning, the Notre Dame baseball team lost twice to Purdue Friday and Saturday -with scores of 14-13 and 9-6. The games were the wildest and most hotly contested battles the team has played this year.
In Friday’s game, Notre Dame took an early lead, scoring five runs in the second and fourth innings, while Rascher held the Boilermakers to four tallies. In the last of the fifth, however, Purdue forged ahead with five runs and repeated the process in the eighth. With the score 14-10, the Irish staged one of their last inning rallies which have characterized the team’s playing throughout the season. Two runs brought the score to 14-13.
With the sacks loaded, Powell hit a grounder to Giannini at third who threw wildly to first. Skoronski, Purdue first baseman, left the sack to receive the toss and tried to touch Powell instead of covering the base. Powell left the baseline, and, without being tagged, was called out. Notre Dame thus lost its first real opportunity for victory.
Fisher Holds Irish
The second game was played in a more orthodox style, Purdue leading the scoring from the fourth inning. In spite of Mettler’s good batting in the seventh and eighth stanzas, Notre Dame trailed until the game ended. Huisking, who held the Lafayette team scoreless for three innings, blew up in the fourth and fifth, giving Purdue a chance to run up seven tallies. Fisher, the Boilermaker’s star moundsman, held the Irish to nine hits throughout the game. The batting quartet of Craig, Cherico, Fehr-ing, and Skoronski made nine of the ten Purdue hits and brought the game safely into camp with the score 9-6.
The summaries:
First Game Notre Dame (13)	Purdue (14)
Ab R H P A Kane,2b 5 3 2 1 3 OC’ner.lb 5 118 0 Mettler.ss 5 0 14 5 P’msani.lf 4 10 10 Powdl.cf 5 12 10 Perry,rf 4 12 4 0 Un’kofl’r.c 5 1111 Rascher,p 2 2 2 0 1 Sagartz.p 1 0 0 0 0 Mazelin.p 0 0 0 0 0 Beach,p 0 0 0 1 0 xO’Neil 0 10 0 0
Ab R H P A Craig,2b 5 2 13 1 Olsen,cf 10 0 10 W’ms’n.cf 4 2 4 1 0 Cherico.rf 5 12 10 Lang,If 5 1111 Sk’nski.lb 5 1 411 0 Fehring.c 3 3 17 1 Gian’ni,3b 4 2 12 5 Haas.ss 3 110 1 Griffin,p 6 0 10 3 Huml.p 3 110 0
Totals 39 14 16 27 12
Totals 39 13 12 24 10
xO’Neil batted for Beech in the ninth.
Errors—Mettler, Enderkofler, Craig, Lang, Skoronski, Giannini. Two-base hits — Perry, Skoronski, Cherico. Three-base hits—Williamson, Lang. Home-run—Kane. Stolen bases— O’Conner, Mettler, Powell. Sacrifice hit — (Continued on Page 16)
By John D. Carbine
Paul Kane, second baseman on the 1934 Irish baseball team, is the only member of the Klinemen who ever started a triple play in intercollegiate competition. Paul’s triple killing came in the Michigan State game two years ago. State had runners on first and second when Eliowitz, the
Paul Kane
Among other things a triple play.
Spartans’ cleanup man, drove a hard liner over second base. Kane was after the ball as soon as it left the bat and made a successful onehanded stab at it just behind the sack. He touched second base to retire the Spartan who had started for third and then whipped the ball over to first baseman, Leo Cummins, who nailed the other Spartan runner before he was able to scamper back to the bag.
Aside from his triple play, Paul’s chief claim to diamond fame in his sophomore year, was his ability to hit at crucial moments. His bat drove the tying run across the plate in the eleventh inning of the Chicago game after the Maroons had picked up a pair of runs in their half of the inning. Kane scored the winning run in the Iowa game when the Irish edged the Hawkeyes, 3-2. Paul’s single in the eighth inning of the Western State game broke up a pitchers’ battle and gave the Keo-ganites a 2 to 1 decision over the Teachers.
Kane’s big moment last year came in the second Purdue game when he sent the tying and winning runs home in the ninth inning with a hard double to left. Sarartz and Cunha were on base at the time.
This spring marks Paul’s third season as regular second baseman on the Irish nine. Kane as consistently been one of the best hitters .on the
Notre Dame’s greatly improved net team will seek its second victory of the season tomorrow on the University courts. Albion college of Michigan, fresh from a 7-0 victory over Olivet last week, will bring its strong squad of racquet wielders to squelch any hopes of an Irish victory.
Albion is a newcomer on Notre Dame net schedules, but it has acquired an enviable tennis record. Last spring this club won the M.I.-A.A. championship.
Under the watchful eye of Coach deLandero, the Irish team has worked hard and faithfully on the courts every afternoon. The 6-3 victory over Armour Tech has inspired confidence in the men and they are determined to stay in the winning column. Captain Jack O’Hanlon, Frank Weldon, Dick Kelley, Joe Waldron, Ed Seward, and George Cannon will comprise the squad which will tangle with the strong outfit from Albion College.
Ten High Schools Plan To Enter Prep Meet Here
In answer to questionnaires sent to a number of Catholic high schools throughout the country, several prep schools have declared their intentions to compete in the National Catholic Interscholastic Track Meet to be held here June 2.
Coach John P. Nicholson received answers from ten schools which plan to compete here at that time. The list includes West Catholic High School of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, St. Teresa, of Decatur, Illinois, Rosary High and St. Mary’s of Columbus, Ohio, Aquinas High School, of LaCrosse, Wisconsin, and Fenwick, of Oak Park, Illinois. Four Chicago schools, St. Ignatius, Mount Carmel, De La Salle, and De Paul, declared their intentions to come here.
Other schools regretted that they will not be able to attend because of financial circumstances, their distance from Notre Dame, and because the local meet conflicts with a state affair being held in New York. Coach Nicholson said this conflict of dates would be avoided next year.
team. In his sophomore year, he hit the ball at a .310 clip and did even better last year when he ran up a .334 average. He has also led the Irish in base stealing during the past two'seasons.
Paul came to Notre Dame in 1930 from Cresson (Pa.) High School. At Cresson Kane played baseball, football, track, and basketball, and was captain of basketball in his senior’ year.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
BANKS’ DAY
Our fast-moving Mr. John L. Banks had himself quite a time last Saturday against the Purdue golf team on the local links. The sum of his activities was a score of 145 for 36 holes of golf. The crowd-drawing shot maker knocked in a 71 in the morning and a 74 in the afternoon.
For sixteen holes on the morning round, the broad-beamed lad was two under par. He needed only a 3-4 on the last two holes for a course record 69. His irons and his putter failed him in the pinch, however, and he wound up 4-5 for a 71, one under par.
In the afternoon John L. reached the turn in 36, one under par, as he had done in the morning. At that point he was one up on his Purdue opponent. The high wind and a few wavering iron shots on the back nine upped his second nine score to 38, for a total of 74 on the round, a mark second only to his morning accomplishment in the list of scores for the day.
' The sixteenth hole in the morning and the ninth in the afternoon ivere the high spots of Banks’ performance. On the former green he waited for the South Bend fire department to
scream its way through the neighbor-borhood and then knocked in a twenty foot putt for a birdie four.
In the afternoon round he saw his slim, one-hole lead waver at the ninth green when Purdue’s man Craig holed a recovery chip from behind the green for an eagle three. The irrepressible John grinned and banged in a long downhill putt from the edge of the green for an eagle of his own, maintaining the status quo.
Incidentally the Notre Dame team score for eight rounds was 607. Yale won the intercollegiate title last year in Buffalo with a team mark of 610.
OLD TIMERS?
We bend low in apology to the group of veteran footballers that we called “ancient” last week. Their endurance in Sunday’s game knocked our eye out. Consider that most of them played nearly the entire sixty minutes against alternating elevens of the Hopefuls and it is obvious that they are at least a few steps removed from their dotage. Of course they didn’t hear many bells before noon on Monday, but they played sixty minutes, and they held their own.
The game itself was a splendid illustration of the value of experience. There is no doubt but that the Hopefuls were in better shape, but the veterans stood them off with alertness and defnsive smartness. The 1934 varsity will need a lot of that—and it can only be gained under fire.
Tennis Team Scores Win Over Armour
The varsity tennis team, meeting Armour Tech in the third match of the season, swept to an initial victory by a 6-3 count on the local courts- last Friday afternoon. Garnering all the doubles matches, the Irish were able to offset the 3-3 tie in the single engagements and again assert their supremacy over the Chicago school.
In the singles, Weldon defeated Strebb of Tech, Kelly downed Lammers, and Waldron outstroked Esber-asen, to assure Notre Dame an even break, exclusive of the doubles. Captain O’Hanlon, Cannon, and Seward bowed to the invaders.
Waldron Defeats Esberasen
Probably the best match of the afternoon was the Waldron, Esberasen match. The Armour Tech star, after dropping the first set 6-0, came back to win the second 7-5 and then completely collapsed before Waldron to lose in the rubber 6-1. Weldon, in the second Irish victory, weakened badly after winning the first set 6-1, and let Strebb force him to a 7-5 decision. Kelly of Notre Dame reversed the procedure by uncertain work in the first set, and a steadying down in the final, to win both, 7-5, and 6-0.
The doubles were all Notre Dame.' Weldon paired with Waldron, O’Han- ■ Ion with Kelly, and Cannon with Seward had no difficulty with their Tech opponents and won 6-3, 6-0, while the remaining Irish pair were disturbed but little in their 6-2, 6-4 decision.
Notre Dame showed considerable improvement over their last time out, when they lost to Western State. This is their second victory over the Tech in the two year relationship with that school.
The summaries:
Armsbury (A) defeated Cannon (ND). 6-3. 6-2.
Weldon (ND) defeated Strebb (A) 6-1, 6-2. McDonouth (A) defeated O’Hanlon (ND) 6-3, 6-4.
Kelly (ND) defeated Lammers (A) 7-5. 6-0. Waldron (ND) defeated Esberasen (A) 6-0. 5-7, 6-1.
Cieslewiez (A) defeated Sewaid (ND) 2-6. 7-5. 6-2.
Weldon-Waldron (ND) defeated Amsbury-Strebb (A) 6-2, 6-4.
O’Hanlon-Kelly (ND) defeated McDonough-Lammers (A) 6-2, 6-2.
Cannon-Seward (ND) defeated Esberasen-Cieslewiez (A) .6-3. 6-0.
Prep Meet Draws Entries
To date several high schools have declared their intentions to enter the National Catholic Interscholastic trackmeet to be held here June 2. More entries are expected soon.
May 4, 19 3 4.
Fifteen
On Down The Line
By Nick Connor
Sir Thomas is the only horse in tomorrow’s KENTUCKY DERBY being backed heavily that has never won a race. . . . Perhaps the most unruly horse to run tomorrow will be DAN SABATH, who lost race after race last year at the barrier, because he never seemed to know when to start running. . . . After GARBO’S performance in MATA HARI” it was said that she was the most temperamental actress in the movies; now, her namesake, MATI HARI, is supposed to be the most temperamental filly in the Derby. . . . FRED FRAME, who has finished in the money in four out of five starts in the coming 5.00-mile auto classic, has entered three cars in this year’s Memorial Day race. . . . Before the recent game with the CHICAGO WHITE SOX, ROGERS HORNSBY of the St. Louis Browns, predicted that ZEKE BONURA would go hitless, which he did. . . . TY COBB, one of the outstanding outfielders in the history of baseball, made 200 or more hits during each of the nine seasons.
During the past winter, MORRIS ARNOVICH, of Superior, Wis., was a member of seven different basketball teams at the same time, in addition to holding a job as a salesman. . . . The highest price ever paid against a winner in the Kentucky Derby was $91.45 for $1 on DON-ERAIL in 1913. . . . PIE TRAYNOR, third baseman of the PITTSBURGH PIRATES, has been chased by umpires only twice in his long baseball career. . . . TERRY CREGAN, a 66-year old Englishman, has been running in London sprint races for 46 years. ... The WISCONSIN UNIVERSITY’S boxing team includes two GERMANS two FRENCHMEN, two SERBIANS, one ITALIAN, one CZECH and one HEBREW. . . . With betting legalized in Massachusetts and New York, there is now a total of seventy-two race tracks operating throughout the country. . . . BABE RUTH faced pitcher PRUETT of the Browns 14 times during the 1922 season and struck out ten times.
•
The Newark baseball club contains such former college football stars as JIM HITCHCOCK of Auburn, CHIEF KOY of Texas, JESSE HILL of Southern California, and SPUD CHANDLER of Georgia. . . . During his three years of intercollegiate competition NORMAN QUARLES, lightweight boxer of the University of North Carolina, has won all of his bouts by knockouts or forfeits. . . .
Sixteen
College hockey started in the United States in 1896 when an ice polo game was played between representatives of HARVARD and BROWN. . . . JIM LONDOS, the glamorous GREEK, so called, keeps up a continual fire of conversation with the referee any time he’s on the mat. And when he puts on a painful grip, he always looks toward the referee and asks, “do she Queet?” . . . Two apprentice jockeys, one named WINTERS and the other SUMMERS, were the leading riders at AQUA CALIENTE last winter. . . . There doesn’t seem to be much in a name after all: for WARDEN LAWS has charge of the prisoners at SING SING while JOHN LAW coaches the prison football eleven. . . . The coach of the ice hockey team at the University of Southern California is ARNOLD EDDY and he can’t skate a stroke. Yet his team is at or near the top in the SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA league year after year.
It’s said that BABE RUTH has earned $837,900 in his 21 years in the major leagues, but he trails WALTER HAGAN, the Bambino of Golf, by nearly $200,000. . . . NORMAN BROOKES, former Australian tennis star, is the head of a MELBOURNE group that will give a $25,000 prize in a Centenary Open golf championship tournament next November. ... In the opinion of Babe Ruth there is more “rabbit” in the ball this year than ever before. . . . According to CARL HUBBELL of the New York Giants, his two toughest opponents have been PAUL WANER a left-handed batter, and HACK WILSON a right-hander. . . . Do you know that ROY PARMELEE or HAL SCHUMACHER, also of the New York Giants, will never pose for photographs on the days that they are supposed to pitch? . . . JOHNNY HARRIGAN, 143 pound halfback of the U. of Dayton, has signed to play with the CHICAGO BEARS next fall. . . . Be sure and keep your eye on RISKULUS in the Derby tomorrow.
RELAYS
(Continued from Page 12)
cassa, running the second lap, did a fine half mile to give the Irish the lead, but the other Nickmen were unable to keep up with the pace set by the speedsters from Louisiana State.
The Irish one mile team drew a pair of tartans in its trial heat, finished third and failed to qualify for the final. The Nickmen docked in 3:19.2 which would have won any of the other three qualifying races.
The medley and the four mile teams, handicapped by injuries to McFarlane and Young, failed to place.
1
La Raza Soccer Eleven	I
At Ann Arbor Today
J
The La Raza Club soccer team : led by Carlos Yriberry, the high ‘ scorer, played a practice game with ; the Mishawaka Town Team last Sun- j day on the campus. It was a vigor- j ous workout prior to the Club’s com- | ing contest with the strong Sociedad ] Latino-Americana Club of the Uni- j versify of Michigan, which will take j place at Ann Arbor today.	j
These two teams have been meet- j ing on the field since 1931 and the | La Raza aggregation have a slight j edge on their rivals, winning twice, i losing once, and tying once. Since | the games are played on the home { and home basis, the local hooters will < be the hosts on May 13.	I
Although weakened somewhat by | the loss of Captain Valdes, who is laid up with a knee injury, and Carlos Yriberry who was hurt in Sunday’s contest, the La Raza Club will offer a formidable lineup, including Benavides, goal; Bonet, right fullback; Singson, left fullback; T. de-Landero, right halfback; M. Yriberry, center halfback; J. Creel, left halfback; Busquette, right wing; ' Hoyos, right forward; Gomez, center forward; Brias, left forward; Roces, ( left wing.
PURDUE GAMES
(Continued from Page 14)
Powell. Double play — Mettler to O'Conner. j Hits—off Rascher. 6 in 3 1-3 innings, off Maz- i elin. 3 in 1 2-3 innings, off Griffin, 8 in 4 i innings. Bases on balls—offGriffin, 8 in 4 in- ■ nings. Bases on balls—off Griffin,2 ; Huml, 5 ; j Rascher, 2 ; Sagartz. 2 ; Mazelin, 2 ; Beech. 1.
Struck out—by Huml, 1 ; by Sagartz, 1. Wild ! pitches—Sagartz, Huml. Hit by Pitcher—Kane ■ by Griffin. Winning pitcher, Huml.	Losing	;
pitcher, Mazelin. Umpire—Rife.	i
Second Game	I
Notre Dame (6)	Purdue (9)
Ab R			H	P A		Ab R			H	P A	
Kane,2b	3	2	2	1	3	Craig,2b	4	1	2	1	2
Reagan,3b	3	o	2	0	0	W’mson.ef 3		0	0	1	0
Mettler,ss	4	0	3	2	1	Olsen,cf	0	0	0	1	0
P’msani.If	4	0	1	1	0	Cherico,rf	5	2	3	1	0
Powell,cf	1	0	0	0	0	Lang,If	4	1	1	0	0
Sepe.cf	3	0	0	0	0	Sk’nski,lb	4	2	2 12		0
Cunha,cf	1	0	0	1	0	Fehring,c	4	2	2	8	0
Perry,rf	4	0	0	3	0	Gi’nini,3b	4	1	0	0	3
Dunn.lb	4	0	0	6	0	Bissett,ss	3	0	0	3	3
O’Neil.c	3	0	0	7	0	Fisher,p	3	0	0	0	3
Robins’n.c	1	1	0	0	0						
H’sking.p 2 Leon’rd.p 1 zOConner 1 xUn’kofl’r 1 Totals 36		0 0 0 0 6	1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 9 24		1 2 0 0 7	Totals	34	9 10 27 11			
z O’Conner batted for Huisking in the sixth, x Underkofler batted for Dunn in the ninth.
Errors—Mettler, O’Neil (2), Giannini. Two base hits1—Mettler, Reagan. Three base hits—' Craig, Mettler. Home run—Cherico. Sacrifice hits—Mettler, Olsen. Skoronski. Stolen bases —Reagan, Craige. Lang, 2; Fehring, 2; Giannini. "Hits—off Huisking, 7in 5 innings; off Leonard, 3 in 3 innings. Struck out—by Fisher. 7; Huisking, 6; Leonard, 3. Bases on ball. —off Fisher, 5; off Huisking, 4; off Leonard. 1. Hit by Pitcher—Palmisani Robinson by Fisher. Passed ball—Fehring. Losing pitcher, Huisking. Umpires—Rife and Dienhart.
The Scholastic
College Heads Plan Convention In June
NEWARK, N. J. —One of the greatest galaxies of “Who’s Who” men and women ever assembled in an educational cause will come together next June when 31 Americans of world-known achievement gather’ to form the “faculty” of the first Choos-ing-a-Career Conference for college men and women, to be held in Newark June 26, 27 and 28, it was announced today by George Bijur, director of the conference and member of the Administrative Board of L. Bamberger & Co., where the convention will be held.
Bankers, railroad presidents, famous dress designers, noted journalists— leaders of 31 different fields, will speak on the career opportunities in their respective branches of American affairs.
Among the speakers will be Leo-nor F. Loree, internationally recognized railroad authority, president of the Delaware & Hudson R. R. and president, director’ or chairman of the board of a score of other roads and allied industries, who will speak on railroads; Colby M. Chester, president, General Foods Corporation, who will discuss the food industry; Percy Straus, president of R. H. Macy & Co., who will outline careers in retailing; S. L. Rothafel (“Roxy”), who will tell about opportunities in the entertainment field; Edward L. Bernays, organizer of the Edison Golden Jubilee, who will speak on public relations; Amelia Earhart, whose message will be on aviation; Neysa McMein, who will talk on the career possibilities of commercial art; Roy Chapman Andrews, acting managing director of the Museum of Natural History,
who will tell how to enter’ exploring as a career; James P. Warburg, vicechairman, Bank of the Manhattan Company, who was appointed by President Roosevelt as financial adviser to the American delegation to the London Economic Conference of 1933 and who will talk on careers in finance. Governor A. Harry Moore of New Jersey will open the Conference.
Nine talks will be held each of the first two days of the series; four in the morning and five in the afternoon. Following each address personal conferences will be arranged between the speaker and interested students. It is believed to be the first time in history that collegians have ever had such an opportunity of meeting the heads of industry and the professions.
The first two days will be turned over to men speakers, and the third day will be for women. On the third, there will be twelve speakers.. All sessions will be opened to both men and women.
Among the other career fields to be discussed on the first two days will be advertising, automotive industry, building, government, insurance, journalism, publishing, shipping’ and steel; and on the third day, beauty culture, secretarial work, literature, magazine photography, radio broadcasting, restaurant management, social service and the theatre.
Law, medicine and other fields which require three or four years of specialized training, have been purposely omitted from the Conference as it was felt by the Advisory Board that students contemplating entering any of these professions, had already made up their minds quite definitely, and that the greatest benefit to undergraduates as a whole, would be derived by concentrating on those
(Continued on Page 20)
LIGHT food is the kind that will keep the brain in action.
So start the day with Kellogg’s Rice Krispies. Those crisp, crunchy rice bubbles with milk or cream appeal to the taste and furnish energy you need.
Rice Krispies at lunch are also ideal. Won’t bog you down. And at the end of the day — when hungry and tired—Rice Krispies satisfy the appetite and promote sound sleep.
Ask for Kellogg’s Rice Krispies at your campus restaurant, fraternity house or eating club. Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek.
Listen!—
May 4, 193 4
S ev ent e en
So ROUND and FIRM
and FULLY PACKED that's why
you’ll find Luckies do not dry out
Luckies use the mildest tobaccos—for Luckies use only the clean center leaves —and these are the mildest leaves. They taste better. Then science plays its part in making these choice tobaccos truly kind to your throat. “It’s toasted ’ for throat protection. These mellow, fine-tasting tobaccos are cut into long,
silky, full-bodied shreds and fully packed into every Lucky—so round, so firm, free from loose ends. That’s why Luckies “keep in condition”— why you’ll find that Luckies do not dry out, an important point to every smoker. You see, always in all-ways —Luckies are kind to your throat.
Only the Center Leaves—these are the Mildest Leaves
Copyright. 1931. The Amerivan Tobacco Company.
COLLEGE MEET
(Continued from Page 17) fields which the graduating students could enter at once, without any considerable additional schooling.
Presidents, Deans, and other high officials of nineteen Eastern colleges are members of the Advisory Board which has worked out the plans for the Conference.
Go your own way on your own ships
TO EUROPE
COLLEGE men and women are discovering that there is something new in Tourist Class on America’s new liners, the Manhattan and Washington. You’ll find broad, sunny decks high up in the ship; large and beautiful public rooms; modern, well ventilated cabins; tiled swimming pool; air-conditioned dining salon. The Manhattan and Washington, the world’s fastest cabin liners. With their running mates, the President Harding and PresidentRoosevelt, they offer weekly service to Cobh, Plymouth, Havre and Hamburg.
TOURIST CLASS
<113 (up) One Way
*204 (up) Round Trip
Sailings between June 11 to Jub 9 rates slightly higher.
See your local agent. His services are free.
UNITED STATES UNES
Roosevelt Steamship Company, Inc., Gen. Agts.
Company’s Office, 216 N. Mich.. Ave., Chicago, Hl.
This series will enable college men and women who are in doubt which field to enter,, to obtain clearer, more definite conceptions of the leading industries and professions and to see and hear business and professional leaders at a time when it is most imperative — following the close of the college season.
A further aim is to eliminate the floundering of the student starting out in business. University officials believe that if the business brains of the country can hold open forum with those seeking a career, many years of man power wasted in a misfit field can be eliminated, and the paths to success will be arrived upon more speedily. This first Conference is frankly an experiment. It is hoped that it will stimulate young men and women to think beyond merely getting a job, and to consider the career’ possibilities five or ten years hence in the fields they are entering. If successful, the Conference may become an annual event.
Because it is expected that the attendance will be extremely large, admission will be by ticket only. Tickets may be obtained by sending a selfaddressed, stamped envelope to the Chosing-a-Career Conference, 131 Market Street, Newark, New Jersey.
KENTUCKY DERBY
' (Continued from Page 4)
Discovery are moving up fast. Around the turn, and it is Cavalcade by a head, Discovery is second by a head, Agrarian is coming again, a neck ahead of Singing Wood. Down the stretch they come thundering. Five horses are almost lapped: Cavalcade, Sir Thomas, Discovery, Agrarian, Peace Chance. There is an opening on the rail, and there comes another horse, running all over’ horses and moving up with a rush.
Who is the winner! It is anybody’s race, gentleman. Past the judges’ stand they flash, and quickly the winner’s number is dropped in the score board. The winner’ is Bazaar, from nowhere! Cavalcade is second, Discovery third, and Sir Thomas for the rest. Bazaar! Colonel Bradley has done it again. What a race!
Of course this si just our version. Each horseman (aspiring or accepted) has his favorite. Tom Con-lep picks Mata Hari over his namesake, Sir Thomas (which is Mrs. Rockne’s choice). Father Reynolds says Black Buddy, the Scholastic editor says Cavalcade; the Cafeteria staff will tell you Blue Again (all but Tom Owens who holds out for Mata Hari). Tony Andreoni will bet his weight in dollars on Vitamine B; “Moose” Krause argues for Agrarian; Pivarnik says Sir Thomas; Josh D’Amora says nothing; and “Minnie” Sporl will probably say Old Kickapoo.
OLD TIMERS’ GAME
(Continued from Page 12)
Sullivan and Michuta, who hurt his injured knee in the tussle, presented an iron front to the Old Timers’ line thrusts. Dick Shamla played a fine game at guard and served notice that he will give Shrenker, Shiralli and Smith plenty of competition.
As a team the Varsity appeared to be weak on pass defense. The Old Timers completed seven passes during the afternoon and would have completed more if receivers had not persisted in dropping the ball.
The staring lineups:
Varsity (fi)	Old Timers (6)
Millner ..............LE............. Devore
Sullivan .............LT............. Krause
Schiralli ............LG............. Wunsch
Pojman ...............C.............. Gorman
Smith ...............RG............ Pivarnik
Michuta ......-......RT............... Roach
Vairo ...............RE............. Quinlan
Bonar ...............QB............... Vejar
Shakespeare .........LH—.............. Banas
Costello ............RH............. Laborne
Carideo .............FB............... Tobin
Coach Keogan Continues
Spring Basketball Practice
Candidates for the varsity basketball team continued their strenuous spring drills under the direction of Coach Keogan this week. The presence of the master has made these workouts turn from fundamental drills into regular fall routine, and the boys have been called out for daily work in place of the regular three days a week turnout.
Fundamental drills, and offensive and defensive scrimmages that occupied the first week’s spotlight, have been dropped and tentative varsity teams are daily going through midwinter pre-game scrimmages. Varsity veterans, Ford, O’Kane, Jordan, Ireland, and others are already being' molded into a definite lineup that will represent very closely the one that will appear opening night next winter.
Keogan has been emphasizing the cross court style of offensive play to replace the center pivot attack against the hevier opposition. The graduation of Ed Krause, All-American center, has made such a move advisable, and spring practice should make it a familiar system to the Keo-ganites. The addition of Marty Peters and Don Allen, soon to be released from football duties, should afford a strong windup for the early drills.
Spanish Club Banquet
The annual banquet of the Spanish Club was held Thursday evening May 3, in the Rose-Marie tea room in So. Bend. The tickets were priced at one dollar. Professor Pedro de Landero, sponsor of the club addressed the group.
The Scholastic
Twenty
MOST INTERESTING ISSUE OF THE YEAR
Don’t fail to get your Copy of the Spring Number of the Juggler
NOW ON SALE
AT THE CAFETERIA
15c
AT THE
PUBLICATIONS OFFICE
SEND COPIES TO YOUR HOME AND FRIENDS
MR. PAUL BYRNE,
I
LIBRARY, NOTRE DAME, IND.
© 19M. Lxgcett & Myers Tobacco Co.