

Lis 
640am 
mondav tuesdav _ wednesdav 

en 
n 
~i Q, ~ t ~~ ~ 
::r: 
.... ::s· .g' p O tD r,t =t 0 
~ij~~g. S,QQ;
t"' 
1;1:1'" ..,..,~~
> 
§ §"> ~ m ~ e:~ aen 
'"'I 
~ a e1 .g: ~ e. ~ :-­
= g. F' Si .., "rj ~
t:IJ
n 
·.=. ·.=.
~ ~ =-: 0 ..,
.., =-fJl .., t=;·
s:: 
> 
C} 
1 ~I ~a=~i
> 
N 
= ~= n=-..· 
z 
I I [.~~ ftil 
: : ~ s· Cl£::
• 
~ i 0 tn<itoen 
: : G 0
til 
"ti 
'"'I til 
! I !if~g () 
s:: 
= 
tr.I 
liQ 
f .!i O>~j· l 
N 
~ ti: l,. i-.> • \0 ~----~ i . .
11
... 
~Q~Q~-:\0 
\0 
e. §. 0 s. Z 
~ng.::s ~= .."" 
~~ OCJQ en • 
: "'I t;:j 
. n ....... . 
-~~ 
. 
s= s:r. 
: 
~ g 
. 
Cll en 
. 
. 
. 
. . 
.
: . 
.
. 
. .
. : 
: : 
.
. 
. 
. i : 
NNON .... ~--= 
N...,. -..l00\ljl 


ten! 

or the dog
/.,-­
~ gets1t 
-~ f!b 

thrusdav fridav 
sundav 

'U 
""'I 
= 0
c;., 
= 
co 
.... ..,
Cl 
c:;,, 
Cl ru 
.... 3 
NI 
c:;,, 
Cl 
~ en 
c;., 
= 
(") ~ ::::r 
= c;., 
CD 
CJ'! 
C2..
c;., 
= 
C 
...i 
i:;, 
= 
= CD 
c;., 
= 


cc f;;?f
.. "" 
~ ~-e 
=1;~~
"\.~ ~-' 
..... 
..... Music 
~ Requests! lx6400 
the specialty shows are in italics! 
I 
saturdav 

31 
~· 
trl 
0 
~ 
00 
~ 






After a field goal, a point-after, a recovered fumble or an interception in Notre · Dame's favor, the band plays the rousing chorus of the Victory March. But these pivotal events in the course ofa football game are also followed by an unusual student section ritual -throwing cups. · 
The cups are.a popular memento of a visit to Notre Dame Stadium. Alumni and students alike take the cups home to use as back-ups to the fine crystal, or just to hold a couple of toothbrushes. 
Every year the cups display a different design touting some aspect ofNotre Dame's achievements. One particular variety of the stadium cups, from this .year and last,· honors Notre Dame's three greatest professors: Father Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C., Father John Zahm, C.S.C., and Mr. Frank O'Malley. · · · 
Nieuwland discovered the formula for synthetic rubber. Zahm was a famous author, scientist and an advisor to President Theod.ore Roosevelt .. And O'Malley is hailed as _the greatest professor of all time.. ·. . . , · • · ··· · · · • · 
O'Malley taught in the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame from the year after he graduated in th~ 1930s until his death in 1974. Two years ago, O'Maliey's students from 40 years of teaching returned to campus to honor the memory of their legendary teacher. That same year, Newsweek ran an article on O 'Malley, calling him one of the most nationally celebrated professors ever. 
There are many interesting aspects of Frank O'Malley's life and work. Entire books have been written about him. But one of the most intriguing things about O'Malley was that he never held a Ph.D., and he never taught a graduate level course. 
Today, a college professor without a doctorate is very rare. While the fields of medicine and law have traditionally required graduate education to the doctoral level, an increasingly prevalent sentiment on college campuses and in the professional world is that undergraduate education is just the beginning, the weaker sibling of the most important level ofinstitutional learning, graduate school. Is a bachelor's degree enough? Is graduate school a necessity? And what does it take for an undergraduate to choose a graduate school and then to be accepted there? These questions are answered in· the cover story by Stacie Jonas, found on pages 12 and 13. 
Also in this issue 
"Your money doesn't buy as much;as it used to,'' is a common economic complaint. One place where sky-rocketing cos~ and rampant inflation is in evidence is on the tuition bill . Michelle Cox looks at the ever-rising cost of a Notre Dame diploma on 
pages three and four. · ·· · Everyone knows what a pep rally is like today-the band, the cheers, the players and, ofcourse, the coach. But Shannan Ball looks at how the rallies began, how they have changed over the years and what has made this particular Notre Dame tradition worthy ofprime-time coverage by ESPN. Kevin Eckhardt and Ryan Kennedy look at what will go on after this Friday's rally, the showdown with the Stanford Cardinal, which has two consecutive victories in Notre Dame Stadium. All this coverage is in sports, pages 10 through 15. 
Mark J. Mitchell IV Managing Editor · 

Cover Photos courtesyof Duke University, Stanford University and Northwestern University. 
Table of Contents photographs by Wendy Klare and Brent Tadsen. 
2 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 29, 1994 
~ -. • ~ ~ ~ _. • .,_ , • • • ~ ~ J • ...~ / : ·, • 
.  •  , .  ~ .­ .  •  '  \ .  e! ~  •  '  •  /  '  ' : ,'  •  I  - •  .  .  .  
" \  I ~,, ,  I  /  • •  •  ,  ~  ~'  ' <  ,  :  /  •,  • ,_  ;  ,4  •  


Yd Like to Buy an Education 
It may cost one hundred thousand dollars for four years, but many consider a Notre Dame education an invaluable experience 
by Michelle Cox 
Anew car, a down payment on a house, trips around the world, money in the bank, or a year in school -for many, the choice to attend the University of Notre Dame carries with it a choice to give up other purchases or expe-· riences. The hope is that money spent now will pay off in the future. The hope is that· life as a Notre Dame student is an invalu­able experience. But aNotreDameeducation does indeed have a price tag. With undergraduate tuition at $16,840 and room and board averaging $4,400forthe 1994-95academicyear,Notre Dame is one of the most expensive univer­sities in the country. The financial aspects of the institution are complex. The university reports that the operating budget for fiscal 1994-1995 is $344.3 million, and the market value of the endowmentis approximately $900 million. The Office of Institutional Research names tuition and fees as the largest source of revenue from 1979 to 1992, accounting for 42.1 % of all revenue. From 1982 to 1992, the largest general expenditure, accounting for 25.9% of all expenses, went to student instruction. , "Tuitidn money is added to funds from a variety of sources, including endowment earnings, government and private grants and contracts, and sales and services. This pool is then used to make expenditures and 

transfers for such educational services as 
academicdepartments,research, publicser­
vice, academic support, and operation arid 
maintenance of plants," explained Edward 
Hums of the Office of Business Affairs. 
"Room andboard money goes to hall main~ 
tenance, hall staff salaries, meal plans, and 
other residential life expenses, and that's a 
pretty much break-evem operation," Hums 
continued. 
Notre Dame is not alone in its struggle to 
keep costs to students down while provid­ing them with a higher education. A recent national study that compared tuition and room and board costs during the academic year 1992~1993,rankedNotreDamothirty­third out of thirty five institutions. Notre Dame's reported cost that year was $18, · 440. New York University was the most expensive ofthose surveyed with total costs of$23,848 and Manhattan Collegewas the least exper1sive on the list with costs of $17,950. The average 1993 costs for the institutions included was $21,894, nearly 
$3,500 more that Notre Dame. 
Each year as bills arrive in themail,Notre 
Dame students and parents often gasp in 
disbelief at the rising costs. According to 
the Office of Financial Aid, "the annual 
increases in the cost of a Notre Dame edu­
cation are anticipated." In 1980 tuition was 
$4,630 for a semester, and room and board 
was$1,765. By 1985 those numbers were 
up to $7,845 and $2,545. After ten years, 
the 1990 fees were $12,390 and $3,475. 
This sharp rise in costs is reflective of the 
S C H O L A S T I C M A G A Z I N E ¦ S E P T. E M B E R 2 9 , 1 9 9'4 
3 
\ 
I 
I 



high inflation in the general economy dur­people hold campus jobs in order to cover . ing this time period. However, over thepast costs . 
five years the rate of tuition increase has Some of the most visible working stu­
actually decreased. dents are theresidentassistants in thedorms. The falling rate of tuition increase at In excharigefortheirmany longhours,RAs 
Notre Dame is due in a large part to a receive free rcx;im, board and laundry. committment by the Board of Trustees to "The money was not really a big factorin control the cost of education. In 1989 the my decision to take the job," said Mike 
trustees fonned·a committee to study the Ruane, an RA in Fisher Hall. "But the 
costs at Notre Dame and those at other lowering my tuition has been a great help to universities. From this study came a 1990 my family who sent another kid to college public policy statement that made financial this year/' Ruane continued. aid for undergraduates the top fund-raising For Ruane, the financial assistance he priority. receives from being an RA has been help­
Improvements in financial aid awards ful, but it not essential to continuing his have already begun. "The number ofdol­education at Notre Dame. Such is not the lars distributed by this office has doubled case for his fellow Fisher RA Kevin Arendt since 1989. This dedication to improve "For me the money was a much bigger financial aid is good news for many stu­factor. In niyihfnd, not applying for the dents," said Joseph Russo, director of the position was note\len a possibility. Earning Office of Financial Aid. roomandboardisadefinitehighlightofthis 
In 1993, 71 % of the undergraduate stu­job," said Arendt dentbody received some fonn of financial In addition to work in residence halls as aid. "We try to spread the limited resources RAs, many students work at the dining halls as far as possible," said Russo. The Office as a way ofaugmenting their college funds. ofFinancialAid allotted$55 million dollars Kelly Cox, a student manager at North to undergraduates for this academic year Dining Hall, is an example of a student who alone. is attempting to pay for her education with­
Higher education is not getting any out any regular help from her parents. "I cheaper. The annual rise in the rate of don't want to burden them, and Iam trying inflation and the constant expansion of this to do everything in my power to come up university and its projects creates a greater wioth tuition and fees payments," said Cox. demandforstudents' dollars. However, the "I work during the summers, I work in the university does attempt to both check ram­dining halls, I take out loans and I receive pant cost increases and provide assistance scholarships," said Cox of the many ways to those students who demonstrate need. she pays for college. Russo said of the work of of helping stu­The cost of an education at Notre Dame 


dents finance their 
. educations, ''The Of­fice of Financial Aid has a long way to go, but it has come a long way in a short time. The cost is not going .to go down, but our assistance is going to go up." 
· Perhapssomeofthe peopleoncampus who are most familiar with the financial chal­lenges of attending Notre Dame are those students who attempt to pay all or part of their own tuition and fees. Many of these is no doubt a substan­tial one. The iriner workings of the· uni­versity are a complex set of systems designed both to educate stu­dents and keep the in­stitution in business. As university financial decisions are being made,students,faculty, 
Chris Blanford  
<D $24000, ai:::, $22000 "O ~ $20000 e> ~ $18000  
:5 $16000  
~  $14000  
~ $12000 :::, '-;: $10000 .E $8000C 0 :.;::. $6000·5 I­$4000  
0 (X) 0) T­ C\I (X) 0) T­ "-I" (X) 0) T­ (0 (X) 0) T­ . (X) (X) 0) T­ 0 0) 0) T­ C\I 0) 0) T-.  "-I" 0) 0) T-·  (0 0) 0) T­ (X) 0) 0) T- g 0 C\I  

•staff, and administra­tors need to be aware of situations and trends and work together to ensure the best educa­tion and environment at the lowest possible · price. 0 
4 SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• SEPTEMBER 29, 1994 
I , , --• , • • ,
I . . -. .. . --. . --_ -, . " . . . . ­





Cam:rusWatch 
BY THE GIPPER 
Gossip, Allegations and Innuendo 
Pease, don't throw the marshmallows atme. I hate it when they throw the marshmallows at me. It wounds my heart." -StanfordHead Coach Bill Walsh. 
THOSE NUTTY ALUMS 
Anyone who has ventured out into the Land of Massive Tailgates before a football game (and has seen the 60-foot-long blue ­and-gold buses that alumni have actually bought to take them to and from the games) knows that Notre Dame· alums are of the wilder variety. But the Gipper still blinked at this report from a Zahm Hall resident Before the last football game, at about 8:00 a.m., a random plaid-clad wandered into the Zahm Zoo, went .to his old room and promptly barged · in ori the sleeping Zahmbies. The residents were not startleq by the intrusion; since most male Notre, Dame students are able to sleep through visits from several drunk or senile alumni. What was shocking about this particular Zahm visitor was . that when he excused himself for waking the students, he pro­duced a case of Molson bottles and courte­ouslyexplained, "When I wasastudenthere I always dreamed of some guy walking into my room and giving me a case of beerfor free~so here you go." That is a man with class. 
And never let it be said that Notre Dame students were eggheads way back in the thirties. The Gipp was recently corriered by an alum from class of nineteen thirty-some­thing and, just as the Gipper was ready to lapse into a standing coma, this old plaid­clad turned out to be p~tty funny. One day when this guy livedin Morrissey, he and his floor-mates decided they were sick of their rector. So they filled up two garbage cans wiTh.wat~r (and bodily fluids) and balanced them on top of a partially opened door. When it was time, one student faked an injury and the others went to get Father Rector. When father went running into the he was also knocked unconscious by the 

falliilggarbagecans. TheGippthinksthat's a pretty classy trick, too. 
CHATEAU PITS 
Speaking ofMorris·sey; while it is quite clearto any visitor that Morrissey takes first honors in the."Biggest Dump on the Cam­pus" contest, events of the last weeks had even the Manorites shuddering with dis­gust It seems that ill addition to the regular revolting smell.that permeates the.halls of Morrissey, the east side ofthe building was becoming extraordinarily pungent, espe­cially in the showers. After a while, the odor became so bad that residents on the east side .startedtravelling to the west side to wash. Eventually the maids discovered the source of the stench: it seems that the rat poison which they had fed the rats ofMor­rissey caused the rodents to become inordi­nately thirsty;. one poor rat, in an effort to querich his thirst got caught in a water pipe and died. .Yes, you guessed it, Morrissey men·were· showering in decomposing rat for awhile. Can you say 7.est-fully clean? 

DRASTIC MEASURES 
Lacking social lives on weekends when the football team plays away, several Flanneritesdecided to makeitavideo week­end after the Michigan State game. Since most of the female population of campus . was in Video Watch picldng up the last copies of Sleepless in Seattle and Thelma andLouise, the boys went over to Martin's. About a week later, Jan from Martin's was tired of calling at 7:00 am. and demanding the return of her movie, so she got serious. She left what is, in the Gipp's humble opinion, one of the funniest dumb threats to come out ofanybody, including the Gipp's rector. Jan said: ''This message is for Terrence. This is Jan at Martin's again, if you don'tretum our movie, we'll have to pro~ute to get it back.''. Oh yeah, like Martin 's4s going to go the.the Circuit Court 


ATTENTION!!! 
Pl~ase set down heavy loads 

GENTLY 
on the storeroom floor. Dropping heavy loads endangers the ceiling and the occupants of the office directly below. 
of Saint Joseph's county to have a judge­ment rendered over a $14.95 video that costs69centsadayifit'soverdue. DoesJan think that she could make it impossible for this kid to buy a house one day ifhe doesn't return her movie? · 
That's it, that's all for this week. So now the Gipp is going to begin his hunger strike until that damn Pitt flag is taken down from. the stadium flag poles. News flash: we don't play Pittsburgh again until 1997. .
room, not only was he soaked to the skin, but S C H O L A S T I C M A G A Z I N E ¦ S E P 'I' E M B ER 2 9 (9'9 4 
I ) 

' . ~ , , ' . \,~~-----' . ' -. -, " , . . 
I • .,. • •• , • • 



The New Kid on the Quad 
While the farmer male residents ofCavanaugh adjust to their new homes, the dorm's female inhahitants strive to make things work 
the freshmen. "When they learned that this apart because they are new. "We're all in by Amy Greene was anew women's dorm and that we had the same boat," said one resident. "Every­chosen to live here, they were eager to get one is starting over here, so it's easier toIt's Crayola's dream," described fonner involved,"commentedoneupperclassman. relate to one another." They also feel lucky Cavanaugh president John Bingham, The freshmen were not disappointed to find to be forging new traditions as the first commenting on all the signs and post­themselves in a newly converted dorm. female residents of Cavanaugh. ers adorning the walls, which listed birth­Many feel that it is the best dorm for fresh­Cavanaugh's freshmen orientation theme days or supported donn spirit. Bingham's men because they are not awkwardly set was, "Oh, the places we'll go." But the fonner home has altered its appearanceand decor, and is not exactly how previous residents remembered it. However, the changes in Cavanaugh Hall have brought forth a new spirit, and its female residents are quickly adjusting to their present envi­ronment. Sophomore Paola Ramirez said, "Since everyone has chosen to be here we all really .. want to make it work." Although there was ·· apprehension about the dorm becoming a housing of different cliques, the women have proven otherwise. Everyone is mak­ing tremendous efforts to meet new section mates and dorm mates. As junior Bridget Biggs commented, "I think you'll find cliques in any dorm, and although all the former residents of one dorm may stick together, onceonebefri~ndsanewresident, the whole group meets her." The new Cavanaugh spirit could easily be seen the morning of the Michigan game when the women marched out of their dorm at 7 am., serenading the men ofZahm and St. Ed's. "We're trying to be the loudest dorm on the quad," Ramirez said.· The excitement flowing from the return­ing students has quickly trickled down to 
-. .
~ 
• -• • • • • • • -• •• .-• ~ , • .... , , -1 
, ' ..._ -' -., ' 


)  .  ~  .  - -­ :  
•  •  •  ~  •  '  I  '  I  •  ,  
.  .  '  '  .  
'  0  0 I  O  •  ~  ~  I  
'  - :  •  ,  ~  .  .  •  .  .  •  r  

phrase can easily be seen as a themefor the entire year. 
Sister Joanna Bauer, the new rectress of Cavanaugh, and her assistant rectress, Kate Murphy, have also felt the spirit that surges through the dorm. "We are on apioneering adventure," remarked Sister Bauer, "trying to find our own voice as women." Both J.B., as she is affectionately known, and Murphy agree that there is a tremendous amount of leadership within the dorm. In planning the dorms activities, the women bring ideas from their old dorms and com­bine or reshape them to fit their new home. 
Of course, there are still difficulties that the new residents must contend with. Only recently have they inducted the new mem­bers of their government. "You take it for granted," senior Michelle Trager admitted, "when you live in an older dorm. All the policies are set up already. Here we are, starting from square one." 
"It's been a huge job," said Cavanaugh president Cheryl Lehner. "We've been working hard since early August to get everything in place." Right now, their first priority is to acquire appliances such as a microwave and a VCR, which were sold by the Cavanaugh men last spring. But the general consensus of the women is that the lack of such extras really doesn't matter.. "Everyonejustfeels really lucky and really happy to be here," noted Lehner. 
But as the women of Cavanaugh forge ahead together with their new dorm, the former men of Cavanaugh no longer have 
"Cavanaugh had a great reputation as a close dorm. We want to continue that united front as the Cavanaugh women." 
.--~heryl Lehner, Cavanaugh Hall President 
their community and traditions which were there justayearago. The formerresidents of Cavanaugh do feel a sore spot when the topic of Cavanaugh comes into conversation; but they, too, un­derstandtheneces­sityfortheconver­sion. "The men seem to be coping well," Bingham. "Ittakes timeto ad­just," he added, "but the dorms 
have been very welcoming to the Cavanaugh guys. St. Edward's even had a mass for the Cavanaugh men in theirdorm." Many of the men are still together in their new dorms, which include mainly Sorin,St. Edward's and Zahm, and most residents were given their first choice. "I think the hardest part," said Bingham, "is not being able to see the guys you used to meet when you walked in the door or down the hall." 
The men are making plans to keep in touch, though, through various events, such as masses at Cavanaugh and a possible dinner in the spring. At thebeginning ofthe year, the former residents sponsored a bar­becue to which they invited the Cavanaugh women. Although they are still uncomfort­able, most aren't bitter towards the women. They realize that the women were given a great opportunity, and these men are the first to give them credit for their accom­plishments with the dorm. 
One former resident who returned to the dorm was surprised to find that the old weight room was converted to a laundry room. Therenovations made to Cavanaugh are what grate most on the minds of the former residents. They are upset that changes, such as a laundry room, for which they had been asking for years, were finally executed simply because of the dorm's conversion. Both Bingham and assistant rectress Murphy found this measure unfair, but they understood the university's desire to do a complete renovation at such an opportune time. 

The women ofCavanaugh have no inten­tion of destroying the legacy that the Cavanaugh men left behind. Instead, they want to build upon it, fusing the old with the new. They encourage Cavanaugh men to join them for their masses, and they have welcomed the men who come back to visit their old rooms. They are also planning to create a history lounge topreservememora­bilia which was left in the dorm. Many residents and former residents have also expressed an interest in continuing the CavanaughHallPlayers. PresidentLehner remarked, "Cavanaugh had a great reputa­tion as a close dorm. We want to contim,1e thatunitedfrontastheCavanaughwomen." 
The new Cavanaugh spirit was shown most eagerly by a group offreshmen in the dorm, who, when learning that a homesick friend, freshman Emily McNally, couldn't fly home to Mississippi for fall break, de­cided to buy her a plane ticket for her birthday. "I wasreallyimpressed,"McNally said. "I came here learning about the value oftheNotreDamefamily, butI neverreally thought much about it." . D 
S C H O L A S T I C M A G A Z I N E a S E P T E M B E R 2 9 , 1-~ ~ 4 
7 


. . . ' 
. . 
On the Sidelines 
. . 
Although they may not beprominentfigures on theplaying field, Notre Dame student managers are an integral part ofIrish athletics 


of the other managers on. the field -during practice, and they also supervise the locker­roomandgamepreps. Attheendofanianager's junior year, the 19 juniors rank each other. according to the Student Managers Handbook <'upon their ability,reliability and past perfor­mance. Based upon these ratings, the juniors then choose the varsity sport they wish to be in charge of their senior year," Junior managers receive their team assignments sec_ond semes­ter junior-y~. and work closely with the current senior managerof tha:t sport The three 
juniors who receive football positions begin their job immediately and run the entire orga­nization until football season ends their senior year'. 
Ifallofthissoundslikeanincredibleamount ofwork, it is. But there are numerous benefits which accompany thejob. When asked,Mirah Brent a sen Wich gladly says that her favorite aspect of all Junior Mary O'Connor charts kicking times during the Purdue game. . oftheworkis"beingapartoffootball." Senior 
8 SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 29, 1994 
by Sara Wooden · · 
Sophomore Mirah Wich's face might not be· the first one you picture as you think about a Notre Dame football practice, but she 
plays an important role in the game. Wich is joined in her efforts by at least 45 other Notre Dame students who take on the role of student manager. They are a group of hard working and dedicated individuals at Notre Dame, who make up the Stu­dent Managers Organization. 
As part of this organization, the students assist 
I! NotreDame sportspracticesand matches throughout the year. Freshmen have the opportunity to join the organization in the spring, and enrollment is unlim­ited for them. The first year that they are involved, the student managers work oneor two aftemoons per week as their schedule permits. 1:'hey are assigned to work either basketball, hockey, tennis, track, base­ball, soccer1lacrosse, volleyball; swimming, softball or football. As returning sophomores, their main assignment is to the football team. Sophomores are found working at p~cp -passing balls t6 the coaches, moving equipment, helping to clean up and put things away-and at game prep. These respon­sibilities include getting equipment ready for play­ers, preparing lockers and bags, and painting the helmets. After football season ends, sophomore managers have the opportunity to work at home basketball games as well. 
Although most freshmen are allowed to return for their sophomore year of service asystem ofelimina­tion exists; At the end of each year, the managers go through peer evaluations where they are ranked by fellow managers. Each year, more are cut The number offreshmen is unlimited, but the number of sophomores is held to approximately 75. At the end of the managers' sophomore year, there is another round ofevaluations, and this time only 19 are asked tocontinueasjuniors. Thejuniors' soleresponsibil~ ity is.the football team. Juniors are placed in charge 
• -' •• • • • • • • • .-.-• • ., • .j , ' •• • ­
. 
-, ­
~  +  )  ,  --..1  - '  •  ,.  '  •  
•  .  •  ~  •  •  !!  •  •  '  I  •  •  •  ,  
•  •  •  '  '.  - \  • ..  '  ,,  J  •  
I  •  '  •  •  •  .' '  •  •  •  ,­ 


Dave Crawford, one of the three senior football managers, echoed Wich's sentiments by saying, "Being a part of Notre Dame football is such an experience. You can't sum it up in a sentence or a paragraph-it's incredible." 
The student managers explain that the time that they spend at practices and at games gives them an "insider's view" of the team. These are the few peoplecincampuswhogetachancetowatchpractice and listen to comment$ made by coaches on a daily basis. Some of them get'to know the players as well, and the more time that they spend, the closer they get. Senior Steve Dalton is the head football manager, and his main job is to coordinate the actions of the organization with the needs of the team. He said that his favorite part of hisjob is, ''Listening to Holtz speak. He gets paid thousand of dollars, and I get to listen for free." 
As sophomores, the managers work on the side-iC: lines of at least two home football games, and they ~ receive free tickets to the games which they are not ai a, 
During each game, numerous footballs are used. Here, student manager Erin Gallagher gives a dry playing ball to the official. 
working. In addition, sophomores receive free bas­ketball tickets, a manager's uniform shirt andjacket, anda limited amount of money for books. Juniors are guaranteed at least one away trip with the football 
team, free bas­ketball tickets, partial book 
money for both 
semesters, a., Notre. Dame 
football jacket, 
two manager's wouldn't have gotten to 
uniform shirts, sweat pants, shorts, shoes, a hat and a $7.50 
tw.tion credit for 
working the fall 
trainingcamp. If 
they continue into their senior year, they re­
· 
"There's been so many opportunities and places I've been that I 
. go. It's such a 
privif e g e." 
-Ryan Nesselhuif, senior equipment 

manager 
ceive an auto­matic membership to the Notre Dame Monogram Club and a monogram jacket, free football and bas­ketball tickets and full book money for both semes­ters. As head football manager, the student receives a full· tuition scholarship. The other two · senior football managers receive 75 percent scholarships. The senior managers involved in other sports receive scholarships as well, which cover at least 65 percent oftheir~tion. · · . . 
Student managers are very appreciative of the benefits they receive. As Ryan Nesselhuf, senior equipment manager said, "There's been so many· opportunities and places I've been that r·wouldn't have gotten to go. It's such a privilege." Dave Crawford is quick to add though that, "It's hard to realize how much we do." However, he also says that he would do it, without the benefits "for the fun of the 
job:" 
· Juniors often put in 40 hours of work a week, and the three seniors have been known to work 60 hours for the football team. The work load can be difficult to carry and still maintain grades and social activities. How­ever, the friendships that are made during the time bring another special aspect to this activity, Wich says that membership in the organization is a "really good experience for 
· meeting people." Dave Crawford said, ''Through the organization you begin to rec­ognizeand know tons of people on campus." According tojuniormemberJohn Giovacco, "I have no regrets. I'd encourage anyone to get involved who wants todo so, because it's a great experience." Giovacco adds that the friendships made as a student manager will "last years after the managing is done." 
Membership has its privileges, and with 
this organization· they are numerous. Perhaps the Student Managers Handbook puts it best when it says, "A student who takes part in the organization discover_s that college life is much more than aca­demics. He or she finds that college life has become richer in friendship, fuller and more lasting in mean­ing and tradition, and in memories." The handbook also emphasizes that it "takes a special person to be a student manager, a person who is willing to sacri­fice both themselves and their time in order to con° tinue the greatest college sports tradition in the country." . 
9
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• SEPTEMBER 29, 1-994 
• • -... , • ' • ;_ • • , ,:: -J • • • • ' \ • : 
' . . 




by Kevin Eckhardt 
11ere is a pall hanging over the sta­
dium, a sound bouncing about the 
oak benches of the House that Rockne Built Among the rows of seats and between the lines on the field, even in the locker room, doubt isin the air. 
It began on October 6, 1990. A touch­down, a victory and a Notre Dame national championship glanced offDerek Brown's fingertips in the end zone at the stadium, giving Stanford a 36-31 upset win over Notre Dame. 
Two years later, on a sunny fall day in northern Indiana, sophomore quarterback Steve Stenstrom hit J.J. Lasley for the go­ahead touchdown in the Cardinal's 33-16 win over the Irish, ending another Notre Dame championship run. 
The ghost ofdoubt has not only haunted Notre Dame against Stanford: Notre Dame · suffered two straight home losses to Bostori College and Michigan as well. Worse, both · · games had tumultuous effects on the Irish hopes for a number-one season. 
Now the Cardinal rolls back into town ­again. Their disappointing 4-7 season last year clouds the memories of upset glory. The Cardinal will try to be only one offour teams in history to win three straight in · South Bend. Stenstrom is back, thistimeas one of the top passers inthePAC-l0anda serious threat to throw deep and throw often. HeadCoachBillWalshretumstothe scene of his greatest victories as Stanford coach, trying to restore the glitter to his ­program that seemed so bright two years ago. 
Stanford comes into the game much more prepared to pull an upset than last year. The young players that went through the fire last fall are now maturing. "We could even be considered a veteran team, even though it is mostly sophomores and juniors," said Walsh. "This team is already battle-tested against the best competition in the country." The team doe~ return nine­teen starters, although this is a mixed bless~ ing, considering the eight returning defen­sive starters allowed the Irish to romp for 264 yards on 54 carries -last yeai;. Notre Dame racked up 475 yards in total offense, · churning through the Cardinal defense as if 
·After losing two straight games _to the Stanford Cardinal on their home field, the Fighting Irish are looking for 
R 

V 
E 
N G 

it were a wet paper bag. Randy Kinder, this year's sophomore sensation,averaged seven yards-per-carry in the game. If Kinder, now the number one back in Lee Beeton's ab­sence and Notre Dame's best kept secret, can run loose in the same manner, the Stanford defense will be in for a long after­noon. Ron Powlus will have to release the ball early and accurately against able cor­nerslikeElielSwinton, theCardinal'ssopho­more speed demon, or the Irish will be in trouble. 
The defense faces a one-dimensional, but potent, Cardinal offense. The Irish second­ary needs to keep Stenstrom from finding his many targets, especially highly touted tight end Tony Cline underneath and speed man Justin Annour deep, while the front 
-1 
seven must pressure the savvy senior. Se­nior back Ethan Allen is also a talented receiver who led the PAC-IO in receptions by a running back last season. Stanford's running game is basically window dressing for Walsh's passing_ attack, and can serve the Cardinal best bydistractingNotreDame linebackers from pass coverage. 
Most importantly, Notre Dame must come orit of the tunnel and start fast and hard,getaheadearly,andkeepthewhispers of doubt from the minds·ofthe Irish. Senior Ryan Leahy declared, "It [the Stanford streak] will definitely be at the front of our minds. We wantto kick the hell out of them. The taste of defeat is still in a lot of the guys' mouths;'' 
The Cardinal's greatest hope in this game is not Stenstrom's arm or Walsh's mind. The knowledge that they have been here before, and have come out of the stadium with victories, is their most dangerou~ weapon. Notre Dame traditionally used Stanford as a whipping post, dominating this series that began in 1927 by a7-3 count. The last two of those three losses make it feel more even. The scars left on the memo­ries of the Irish veterans from the collapsein 1992 may have propelled the team to the revenge-it gained last October 1 in Palo Alto, hammering the hapless Cardinal 48­20. 
The backbone of the team, men like Lee Becton, Ryan Leahy and Justin Goheen, cannot let the youthful players such_ as Powlus and Kinder forget the specter of33 unanswered points and the sudden death of a national title two falls ago. Col,lch _Hqltz must inspire this team foend the-Stanford 
10 
SC H O L A S T I C M A GAZ I N E II S E P T E.M B E R 2 9 , 1 9 9 4 
~ .... ~ -·.' . ~ . " ~ . , l --~ C . . . ' ~ . . . ... 
' , ' 

L • ~ • • 
• ~ • • I • • • 
'' . 
• • • • , ~ ~ • r ~ , : • 
hex in South Bend, and at the same time · keep that doubt from floating around their heads, keep them from seeing the ball roll off Brown's fingertips in the end zone, from remembering the five turnovers that doomed the Fighting Irish in 1992. Then, the question starts crawling in ... ~ 
The ghosts return. The Cardinal is i coming to resurrect the past TheIrish seek g
.. 
to bury it, once and for all. 0 :::. 
The Notre Dame defense will have to get to senior quarterback Steve Stenstrom often to contain the potent Stanford offense. Stenstrom burned the Irish in 1992 for two second~half touchdowns and 26. unanwsered points In the 33-16 Stanford victory. 



shown by their high acceptance rates at professional schools. In recent years 80 percentofNotreDamestudentsapplyingto 
medical schools have gained admission to the program of their choice, according to 
the 1993-94 pamphlet sent to all under­graduates applying to Notre Dame. While some worry that Notre Dame's 
Back to School, 


again and again ••• 
When an undergraduate degree isn't enough, students are faced with the prospect ofstarting all over on a higher level 
by Stacie Jonas 
In-numer-able applications, agonizing standardiz.ed tests, crazed searches for recommendations -these and the many other joys of getting into college are overforever. Unless, as is the casefor many Notre Dame undergraduates, the prospect of continuing education looms on the aca­demic horizon. While for some seniors the 
. . 
notion of more school is simply abhorrent, 
lastic Aptitude Test (SAT) administered to high school seniors. "I've recognized a lot of questions on the subject tests from what we've studied in years past. I believe that the faculty teaches with things like this in mind," Dwyer said. She continued to ex­plain that her vocabulary and skills in ana­lytic thinking and reading comprehension have been greatly expanded by her experi­ences at Notre Dame, serving her needs for the general test. 
Students are well prepared for graduate work by their Notre Dame education, as requirement that students take courses in a variety of disciplines might put them at a disadvantagefor takingsubject related tests, this is not the case, according to Dr. Barbara Turpin, associate dean for graduate admis­sions. 
Turpin emphasizes that at least at Notre Dame's graduate school, professors are looking for students who have received a broad education. "In many regards," she explained, "we don't want people to be too narrowly foctised -that's what they're doing here. Iri that respect, I think that a broader background is a positive thing." 
The motivations for attending graduate school are numerous. For many, facing the job m_arket equipped with an advanced de­gree makes the extra effort worthwhile. Alex Matthews, asophomore Program of Liberal Studies inajor, is already consider­ing graduate work_ out of concern for future career plans. "An undergraduate degree guaranteesyouabsolutelynothingintoday's job market. The diploma may look pretty on the wall, but in reality it's just an ex­tremely expensive picture." 
Michelle Trager, a Notre Dame senior 

the -drive for academic who will pursue graduate knowledge compels other work in the area of school students to submit to the 

psychology,agrees thatfur­process of finding and ap­
ther study is vital for a ca­plying to a suitable uni­
reer. "Though some versity. 
schools accept a bachelor's The Graduate Record 
degree, Iwould neverknow Examination (GRE), a 
enough currently to go di­standard requirement for 
rectly into work in the most graduate programs, 
school systems," Trageris usually the greatest in­
said. dicatorofwhetherornota 
Dean Turpin explainsstudent will gain admis­
that graduate school is _a sion to the graduate pro­
"process of gram ofhis or her choice. 
professionalization."The three and a half hour 
Though many doctoralcan­general test consists of didates hope to teach, stu­analytical,quantitativeand dents in various fields are 
verbal sections. Merrie preparing for work in in­Dwyer, a senior who re­dustry or research, as well ,cently took the GRE, con­
as other fields. sidered the test a more dif­The University of Wisconsin at Madison draws many Notre pame Financial aid for gradu­ficult version ofthe Scho-undergraduates to Its various graduate studies programs. 
ate work is generally abun­
12 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• SEPTEMBER 29, 1994 
.. -... ' -~ . . ~ . ­
. ' ­
. ' ~ . ' .... . 
• j • ~ .. • ' 
...... , -.,, . 

l 
"O 
0 § 
iii 
~ 
.E 
0 
all full-time students. Close to 80 percent of students in the Notre Dame Graduate Studies Program 
receive financial assistance. In return, many of the students are expected to work as teaching or research assistants. Undergraduates who intend to pursue graduate studies should be­gin their search early. "Communi­cate directly with departmental fac­ultyandestablishpersonalcontacts,"5 suggested Janice Poorman, assis-! tant dean of the graduate school.~ "In doing so, make sure there is a5 good fit with a school that will open doors and provide opportunities." Poorman indicated that highlight­
Law School Out of the Notre Dame graduating class of 
· 1994, the Notre Dame law school drew the most students, fol­lowed by Georgetown University, Loyola University in Chicago, Ohio State University, and Marquette Univer­sity. 
General Graduate Programs 
most 
2s~-~--~-~-----~-~-~ 
along with names of contacts at various universities. ''Themostimportantthing," she 2o+-trnutH---+-~+-----+---+--+-----+ 
stressed, "is talking to your prer 
-~ 15 1! 
! 
<D 
~ 
10 z 
5 
ing strengths while acknowledging weak­nesses "up front" on applications can be meaningful to admissions committees. 
issue that prevents graduate students from being integrated in many aspects of campus ' life. While reluctant to admit that there is no social life for graduate students, Meilaenderfelt that the"lonelier existence'' of the grad student is merely "the nature of the beast." 
In conjunction with the graduate school, Dean Turpin will be hosting a workshop for Notre Dame undergraduates interested in atten~ng graduate school on Wednesday, October 19th. Her advice to aspiring graduate students on finding therightschool is: "Do your homework. When applying to graduate school, you must remember that it is training for a profession." She empha­sizes that the reputation of different depart­ments is not always synonymous with that of the general university. Books andguides such as Peterson's Guide provide a good 
source of general information 
fessors. They are the best source 
;~~ 
of information." Because profes­
:I1 
sors attend conferences· and are
H111--t-----+----+------,f-----+----+---1
~; I 
.',) 
':~ 
C"' 
aware of the merits of various university professors and depart­·ments,they canprovideextremely useful information aild insight. 
Graduate work may be "more school," but for those who are dedicatedto a particular academic field and have determined that · additional years of study are nec­essary, theeffortis wellrewarded. · 
Wisconsin at Madison, Duke Univer-AsMichelleTragerexclaims,"lcan'timag­sity, Northwestern Un iverslty and ine what the experience will be like, but I'm Stanford Unlversity(pictured both here extremely excited about it." D and ori the cover) at-.....,.,,.-----------------'-----, 

0
::r 
~ 
[ a, 
0 
a. 


A view of the pep rally before the 1966 game of the century against Michigan State, Inside the field house. 
what they considered a big pep rally. They had about 400 people. We have 11,000 week after week," he said. 
The great appeal of the legendary spirit assemblies caught the attention of ESPN last year. "Certainly the reason why they [ESPN] cameis they felt there is no better place to kick off a football weekend than hereat Notre Dame," said Fraleigh. "ESPN did their game day show from here and cut in and out of the rally, showing the excitement and atmosphere around here." Both the Florida State rally of last year and the Michigan rally of this year were carried by ESPN in prime time, the first such events ever to be televised to a national audience. 
The Friday night football pep rally has been a landmark campus event since the early 1920s, but the style of the event has evolved greatly over the years. From their beginning, the rallies have always been started by the marching band. From the 30s through the 70s, the band would begin by marching across campus, drawing students out of the dining halrand dorms to step in behind the band. The band and the entire student b6dy would march as a group to the fieldhouse. The football team ~ould take their seats up in the balcony over the main floor of the fieldhouse. The coach and players rarely spoke; rather the president of the university and a guest speaker, usually a nationally famous sportswriter, made speeches before the cheering students. 
This style was still in place in the 1960s when Ara Parseghian took thereins of the football team and lit up thepep rallies with fiery speeches. There was so little space in the fieldhouse by this time that· students often literally hung from the rafters, both to get a better view and to drop their favorite banners like "Hate State" and "Trojans Aren't Worth a Quarter." . 
Around 1975, the pep rallies were moved to Stepan Center for more space. Alumni started to attend the standing room only event centered around astage built for the football team. "It was a mad · house. Old people and young people alike rushed up to the stage until the building was full and we couldn't let anyone else in," said 


Fraleigh. 
Though theFriday nightrallies today are very different than they 
For decades, the,kickoff ofthe 
were in the beginning, the traditions of the event are still preserved. football weekend has been the · The band remains still the essential element of the rally, beginning each one by marching around Fieldhouse Mall, honoring the famous Friday night pep rally · original site of the asssemblies, and pouring into the JACC to the strains of the Victory March. And guest speakers still rouse the crowd before. players and coaches take the podium to predict 
by Shannan Ball victory. Yet, much of the essence of the original rallies has been lost
An uproarious thunder enveloped the floor area of theJoyce through over-organization and commercialization. The events no i,I Athletic and Convocation Center as 318 beat-red, sweat-longer cater to the students, but are more geared to the alumni and : I : ; soaked band members in plain clothes pumped out the visiting fans who receive r~erved seating -it would never have 
Notre Dame Victory March in front of a packed house. "Go Irish! been conceivable until recently that anyone sit at a pep rally, even Beat Wolverines," shouted crazed fans. It was the Notre Dame-if seats were provided. Michiganpeprally,anditwasasraucousasanypre-gamerallythe Theuniquenatureoftheralliesandthespiritwhichtheygenerate campus had ever witnessed. are still great inspiration for the team. Senior flanker Charles Although many universities have pep rallies, few are as well-· Stafford had the opportimity to represent the team and speak at the attended as those at Notre Dame. "I have not found or heard ofa Purdue rally. "I get chills when I walk out there," said Stafford. "It university or college that has them the size of Notre Dame's," said never becomes routine .. We go through a lot during the week and Sports Marketing Manager Jim Fraleigh. "For example, when the support is really a great motivation and reward." The next day Wisconsin was ·gearing up for the Rose Bowl last year, they had Stafford cought his first touchdown pass ever.. · · . 

14 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE•SEPTEMBER 29, 1994 
-. . -. -. --' 
• ~ , • • '. ' -• ~ --.J , ... , \ • \ -~ • 
' ~ .· ~· " ' . "-' ~ 


SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX 

A roundup ofthe week in sports September 21 to September 27 
MEN'S SOCCER: Notre Dame picked WOMEN'S SOCCER: TheFighting Irish up two MCC victories this week with shut­solidified their position as the third-ranked out wins over Detroit (5-0) and LaSalle (4-women's team in the nation this week with 0), running their conference record to 3-1. two convincing victories. On Friday, th_e The Irish suffered a tough non-conference Irish defeated the Indiana Hoosiers 5-0. defeatto top-rankedlndiana2-0. Konstantin Sophomores Stacia Masters and Cindy Koloskov netted his first career hat trick Daws had two goals a piece, while goal­againstLaSalle. Tim Oates continues to keeper Jen Renola posted her fifth shutout lead scoring after scoring three goals and ofthe season. The game was playedin front· two assists in thetwo victories. NotreDame of a crowd of 3,487, the largest in Notre made itsnational television debutyesterday Dame women's soccer history, and the against Wake Forest in the College Soccer fourth largest of all-time. On Sunday, the Game of the Week. The Irish then return Irish destroyed Cincinnati 7-1. Amy home to play· Wisconsin-Milwaukee on VanLaecke and Michelle McCarthy each Sunday, October 2. contribuied two goals and two assists in the 
,,....,,..,""""",.,.,,,..,· : victory.· This week the Irish travel to St. Louis.for a tourna~ ment in which they willplayNo:6Duke on Friday. Notre Damewillthen face its toughest match oftheseasonagainst . the number-one ranked defending national -champion North Carolina Tar Heels, who have won 91 consecutive games. Freshman Holly Manthei has registered a point in 
VOLLEYBALL: The 11th-ranked Notre all eight of her collegiate starts, and is Danie volleyball-team continued on its tor­second of the Irish in scoring. rid pace with a 3-0 victory over Loyola 
Marymount, and a3-1 victory over Rice in the Golden Dome Invitational. The wins Predictions ran the team's record to 14-1, giving them Kennedy's Kall: Stenstrom and the Cardinal offense will pick the Irish secondary 
the best start ever for an Irish team. Senior apart in the first half. Holtz, however, will use Kinder, Zellars, and the speedy Mosley • All-American Christy Peters was named mixed in with a timely passing attack to confuse the vulnerable Cardinal defense. It ­thetournamentMVP,herfourthsuchhonor will be a Mayes and Kinder kind of day, and Powlus will have a field day. ofthe year. She has now been named to 10 Final: Notre Dame 38, Stanford 26. straight--all-touinament teams. Also on the Schaller's Schot: Stanford quarterback Steve Stenstrom picks apart Notre Dame's all-tourn~ent team were Shannon Tuttle defense, throwing for 300 yards, and leading the Cardinal to a 17-13 halftime advantage. and Jaimie Lee. The Irish will play their Powlus, however, is equal to the task, turning in a championship performance with two · only game ofthe week this Saturday, Octo-touchdown.passes. The Irish turn away the Cardinal in the fourth quru1er and hang on, · ber 1, when they play host to Louisville. . Kinder turns in his third-straight 100 yard game·. Final: Notre Dame 33, Stanford 20 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 29, 1994 
15 



16 SCHOLASTIC MAG AZ IN E • SEPT EM n·E R 2 9, 1 9 9 4 
• ' • ' J. • .... -• • • --( 
I ·-. . • . . . . . . . . . . . • , . . i . 
' ~-• •• -'-• • ' •• __.. _, ~ • ' I 
.  .  .  .  
l  ,  .._,  - •  _  ,  ,.  I  
•  .  ._  •  •  e ~  '  •  '  •  .  I  •  "  •  I  •  •  - 
- \  .~ '  '  .  
.  .  .  ,  '  .  . .  ,  - ,  "  ,  


. I. 
.A pair ofnew releas~s
TvVo for the. 
· add little life to an already poor crop of fall movies 




·Trash Call 
over all, it is far too ·unbalanced. Martin, nale. Yet Martin certainly flexed his artis­
by Chris Myers .who has enhanced his "wild and crazy guy" tic muscle here, not only by starring in a rare 
image over the years in films like The Man dramaticfilm role, but by writing the screen-. 
With Two Brains and All ofMe, manages play and producing as well, and in the end
AN ILL-FATED TWIST 

to squeeze a little of his wackiness in here, all of that burden may have been too much.It's always interesting to see an actor go too, while feeding a baby Mathilda or doing The film is light, touching, warm and mov­
againstthe grain. WhenRobertDeNiro a goofy kiddie dance. But the moments are ing. But it's also small, predictable, unbal­
traded his dramatic persona for come-limited, and the rest of the time it seems anced and easily forgettable. 
die flair it produced riotous results (see Martin is trying too hard to bottle up his Steve, we appreciate you showing us that 
Midnight Run or Mistress). Yet when a outrageous personality. At some points in you are a capable dramatic actor, and we 
comic actor tries to play it straight, the the movie you're practically begging for respect you for that, but please, lighten up 
results,moreoftenthannot,arestrainedand him to stick on the ol' arrow-through-the­and bring back the wild-and-crazy gUy we 
lacking (see Bill Murray in The Razor's head gag and get "happy feet." · all love . . Edge or Mad Dog and Glory. Better yet, Martindoesholdhisownori thedramatic . Grade: C+ 
don't). Butin therecentlyreleasedASimple side, and works weil with ili,e. overall 

DAIRY INTOLERANCE

Twist of Fate (Touchstone, PG-13}, wild premise. But he can't seem to shak~ that . 
and crazy Stevel'yfartinactually manages to zany image we ha_ve of him, and in the end Going in with the idea that this film 
pull off the comedian turned serious actor · that ~esits toll. You feel uncomfortable might be a sleeper hit as a subtly 
bit -almost. · that Martin seems to . be straining to hold funny, touching movie about a 
Based on George Eliot's 18th-cen­young boy coping with puberty and a 
tury novel Silas Marner, the film . , J/f;.{ ho?ker; s search for true love, the two 
chronicles the life of Michael McCann . ·" -bemg linked together by the boy's fa­
(Martin), whqturnsintoamiserlyher­ther (sort of a Big meets Sleepless in 
mit after his divorce. ·After five years • Seattle crossed with Pretty Woman, if 
of living a reclusive life, he finds a you can follow that), I was hoping that 
two-year-old girl on his doorstep and MilkMoney(Paramount,PG-13}would 
takes her in. When the mother is found be a diamond in the latesummerrough. 
dead nearby, Mccann unofficially But director Richard Benjaminquickly 
adopts the child, whom he names I·.' ~~~~~~_;.·dashed any such hopes and decided to 
Mathilda, as his own and takes care of \ ·make it the crass, demeaning and out­
her. Over time, the two depend on rageously dumb movie it is. In the first 
each other. for warmth and support, three minutes, the dialogue consists of 
and Mccann breaks out of his shell countless words for bodily emissions, 
and embraces life. crude references to body parts, a 
The twist is that the girl is the ille­woman's diaphragm and the discus­
gitimate · child of Senator Niewland sion of a boy's dead mother. Hard to 
(GabrielByrne), who can't take her in ,J believe. that the movie could get any 
at the time of discovery because he's =-----"--'Worse. Sorry to say, it does. 
married and in the middle of his campaign. back his comic genius and often you get the The whole premise of the film is when 
Yearslater, however, when he discovers his impressionhefeelsthesameway. Notonly fifth grade Frank and two of his buddies 
wife c~'t have children, he fights to take that, but the movie lags after the first hour, realize that their hormones are getting the 
back his daughter. and I started to. wonder ifit would havebeen best of them. Dying to see a naked woman, 
The film is not all that bad, containing better off as a made-for-TV movie, right theydecidetosaveupenoughoftheir"milk 
moments of both drama and comedy, but down to the run-of-the-mill courtroom fi~ money" to ride their bikes into the city and 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II SEPTEMBER 29, 1994 
17 


. . . . , 
• , • " > " -, , ' ,. ,r • , l 1.,. , \ 
• ~ ~ ,. • • I ' 
. -\ ~ ' . ' . ,.. \ ~ 
. •. •• ~, • ~ • \ l ',-• ,' -• ' • • • 

Courtesy Twentieth Century Fox 
Steve Martin In a more successful attempt at drama, Lawrence Kasdan's 

Grand Canyon. 
get a hooker. Enter Melanie Griffith as a hapless call girl named V who grants their wishes and, feeling sorry for them because their bikes get stolen, offer the boys a ride home. 

In the car, Frankand V talk about how he thinks that she'd make a perfect partner to his inept, widowed father (played by a horribly miscast Ed Harris). Well, it ends up that V's car breaks down and she winds up staying in Frank's tree house (keep reading, it gets worse) and starts falling in lovewithFrank'sdad(likeyoudidn'tknow thatwas coming). During her stay, Griffith gets to be shown offto all ofFrank' s school friends, some pitiful romantic scenes be­tween Griffith and Harris are thrown in, lacking any chemistry whatsoever, and the . camera manages to focus in on Griffith's cleavage approximately every five min­
utes. 

If you thought Arnold's interrogation of Jamie Lee in True Lies was bad, you ain't seen nothing yet. Take the scene in which · · Frank brings V to ·school as his sex-ed project. He has her come to the front of the classroom, stripdown to a leotard anddraws thefemalereproduction systemonherstom­


llce Co&JIUI! • Serving · ~~ PANCAKE 

ND/SMC 

I

HOUSE. Students for "flllllibJ Ra~ · 27years . 
WELCOME FOOTBALL FANS I 
• GO /RISH_. 

October.Special 
Our House Specialty 
Oven-Baked 4-Egg "Jumbo" Gourmet Omelettes 
$1.00 OFF 
** No coupons needed, M-F only** 

OPEN7 DAYS A WEEKAT 

6:00 J:\.M. 

U.S. 31 NORTH 
In Roseland (Across from the. · Holiday Inn) 

(219)272-7433 
"In the first three minutes, the dialogue consists ofcountless words for bodily emissions, crude references to body parts, a woman's diaphragm and the discussion ofa boy's dead\mother. Hard to believe that the film could get any worse.. Sorry to say, it does.'' ~ on Milk Money 







E..K'PRESS· 
Your Football ·Weekend Outlet 
Do~ley Room -Lafortune Student Center -631-8.i 28 
Hours: Friday, 12:00 -9:00 pm Saturday, 8:00 am -9:00 pm Sunday, 9:00 am -5:00 pm 
VISA, MASTERCARD and DISCOVER ACCEPTED! 
18. SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 29, 1994 
. . . ·-·. . . ..-. . . . . ' _· .. . ---. 
-----------~ • , -" • • _,,. -• ' \ I
I 
• I • ._,, -• • • ,: .­~ • .,. • ,-' 
I , --' • I • • < • 
. ­
. \ -' ' ~ . ' 
. . , . -. 
ach. The prepubescent class oohhs and aahhs, Frank beams with pride and Griffith bubbles, "Hee hee, it tickles!" 
This is only one of the many demeaning moments inMilkMoney. The whole ideaof boyhood puberty is laughed off and ig­nored, Griffith's V doesn't at all seem to mind being treated like an object, which is particular I y insulting and paradoxical since earlier in the film she quips, "I am a person and I have feelings." So much for that pathology. Even worse is the fact that Frank's dad seems to think that V would make a perfect mom for his son simply because, well, she looks like Grace Kelly. Don't ask. 
All in all, my adviee would be to save your "milk money" (and half your I.Q. points) for a movie that's worth $6.25 and two hours of your time. 
Grade: D­
Editor's Note: A Simple Twist ofFate andMilkM oney are now playing at the University Park East and WestCinemas, respectively. This and other information can be found in Coming Dis­tractions on page 20. . 


'1ifllj 

~ SUBWAY Has A Sandwich 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 29, 1994 
19 


• ' ' l • 
, • ',_ • • • • • -, • • ' ,,. ,r • , l t,_ ' ,,' , 
. . . . . . ·. .. -. ' . : . . . . . . \ ' . / .· . . . .. ' . . ' .,, ·, ' .
: : 


Coming 
Distractions 
The Week in Sports 
Football: Notre Dame vs. Stanford, Sat., 1:35 p.m., Notre Dame Stadium. Volleyball: Notre Dame vs. Louisville, Sat., 7:30 p.m., 
J.A.C.C. Arena. 

Soccer: ND Men vs. Wisconsin, Sun., 7:30 p.m., Alumni Field.. 
Cultural· Connection·... ·.. 
' . . Seminar: "Strategies for Chemicial Process Simulation .. · · 
' · l.)sing Supercomputers," Mark A. Stadtherr, ·university of Illinois, Fri., 3:30 p.m., 131 DeBartolo. ·.. ·. · · · Music: Campus Bands, Sun., 12:00 noon, Fieldhouse Mall. Tour: Historical Walking Tour of Car:npus, Fri., 3:00 p.m., ·. Main Gate. · · .·.· · · . ·• . Concert: Shenanigans Pre-game Conce·r:t, S~t.. 12!00 : noon, North Dome, J.A.C.C. ·· · Acoustic Cafe: Thurs., 9:00 p;m., Huddle. . •. . . Fireside Chats:·AII.Chats at 12:15 p.m., Notre D~me Room. ·. "Unity Thru Community," Fr. Don McNeil!. "The·Earth lsYour Home," Dr. Joe Miller. . "Relationships: The Building Blocks.'rowarc! a Gl,obai · Family," Dr. Myra Ryan. , . · . Culture on the Qua.d:· Mori)Wed;; .12:00 noon, Fieldhouse
Mall. . . •. '.· · '.\ . ' .· . ,··' : . ' 
Entertainment on the Quad: Mon-Wed., 4:30 p.m., Fieldhouse Mall. · Hypnotist: Tom Deluca, Thurs;, 9:00 p.r:n., 1Q1, DeBartolo,· . 
$3. . . 



On the Silver Screen 
LaF.ortune: "Caddyshack," Thurs., 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Montgomery Theater, $1. Cushing: A~im:atio.n Fil_m-~s.tival, Fri. &Sat., 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Aud1tonum, $2. 
1 

Snite: Annenberg Auditorium, $2. 
•. Student Film Festival, Fri.-Sat., 7:30 & 9:30 p.m. "Vidas Seicas," Mon.; 7:00 p.m. , "Thelove Parade," Mon., 9:15 p.m. -·. "Senso..~Tue~..• 6:00 p.m. . University P;irk West: 277-7336. :"Jurassic P~rk/ PG-13; 
· •.."The Little Rascals/ PG. "Milk Money," .PG-13. "Te.rminial Velocity," R. 
University Park East:. 277-7336. .. ·11A-Simple. Twist of Fate/ PGs13. "The Mask,"PG-13. . ."Corinna Corinna," PG. "Mi Vida Loca " R. 
' ' ' " 

. ' ~ ."The Next Karate Kid," PG-13. ''Time Cop," R. · · "Natural Born Killers," R. Town & country: 277-1522. "Clear and Present Danger," PG-13. · "Forrest.Gump," PG-13. "Barcelona,".PG-13. 
' . 
Saint Mary~ Collegg 

Shoo/case of Careers: Thurs., 3:oo p.m., LeMans Lobby. · · 
Soccer: SMC vs. Heidelberg College, · .Sun., 2_:oo p.m., Soccer Field, SMC. ·· Folk Dancing: Fri., 7:30 p.fn., Clubhouse• 
. FIim: "Above the Rim,"Fri. & Sat., 7:00 & 
9:30 p.m., Carroll Hall, SMC. . Multicultural Awareness Week 
20 

·SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 29, 1994 
___ --------~--~--~----------~-~~----------------' 
) . ~, . . '-­' . . .' ,: . . . .· . ' . . ' ' -. . / --' . . ' -. ' -:.,, ' , . 





Pizza, Brats and 90210 
News ofthe Bizarre from Our Nation's Universities 
Domino's Salutes Tolstoy? 
At the University of Michigan, students aren't just ordering pizza aftera night of drinking. No, in Ann Arbor, pizza goes hand in hand with Russian literature, According to the Chronicle of Higher Education, Domino's Pizza has created a new marketing ploy called War, Peace <1.11d Pizza. To honor the 125th anniver­sary of Leo Tolstoy's WarandPeace, Domino's is offering a free pizza to the first 125 people who send in two-page reports on the Russian classic. Is this really considered some form of com­memoration of Tolstoy? Okay, how many people think that Tolstoy is turning over in his grave because his life's work has been reduced to a large pizza, from Domino's no less? 
The Melrose Place/90210 phenomenon has overtaken just 
about every campus in the country. But at the University 
of Illinois, things are getting out of hand. The newspa­. per, The Daily Illini, devotes an entire page to synopses of these two shows and other soap operas. Here are a few choice lines. See if you can name that show: 
A. ''I can't believe it. Bo broke up with Billie. They got the results of the DNA tests backand they indicate that Gina could be Hope but they can't tell for sure. And guess what? Lexie still has the hots for Jonah ...." 
B. "And things just keep getting weirder in Llanview. For a second, they were like normal, but then Luna realized what a scuz Max was and chucked him out. ... " 
C. "On the Spencer front, Foster the dog got caught by the fuzz and had to fake his own death to keep from becom­ing a pound puppie .... " 
D. "And Donna's still not over David. So DuShawn asked her to a dance to cheer her up.... Nat was the one who spilled the beans about Dylan being broke after yelling at Dylan for being rude to the Walshes at the Peach Pit. ..." 
And so the drama continues in TV land. Iii case you were wondering: 
A. Days of Our Lives 
B. One Life to Live 
-,...____C. Genyral Hospital D:---.-Beverly Hills, 90210 

Exchange Students -Literally 
Notice anything-weird about this invitation? 
An Invitation To The Staff 
Of Comish College Of The Arts 
To Meet Sergei Tschemisch. 
We Hope You Will 
Take Advantage 

Of This Opportunity 
To Exchange Names And FACES 
[yes it does say faces] 
With Our New President. 
Well thank you, but we'll keep our own faces. Let's hope English isn't one of the majors offered at Comish College. 

An Upton Sinclair Nightmare 
The photo above ran in a recent issue of the Daily Illini with the 
following caption: "More than 20 butchers prepare what they claim to be the world's largest bratwurst. · The weiner was fried on a 66­foot grill set up in the market square of Jena, Germany. The inner workings of.170 pigs were needed to stuff the 
edi.ted by Mary Kate Morton bratwurst, which measuerd 3,308 yards." 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• SEPTEMBER 29, 1994 
21 

' ---' .-. . ' ' ' . . ' '. . ' '. ~.-. . , -. . . . ,,. -·_ . ' ' .' . . ' . ' . . ' \ . ' . 



Grist for the Mill Rick Gre 
.A~, THE.M~B/ ro-· ·. Oh, "W't'51 SECUtll'/ IS CON!JJG -YoO KEMEHBEl:.. Ti!E.· TIHE 'rl'.:o TO 'BEAT 'Hie. llE::LL CUf OF \W. WMBED ·TI1J: DoME. 1N 'r'OU't 
JUST LI
01'.i!>EtWEA'e. '? 


" ••• "D'YA i\-111-Jt THE?£ ax:x.h 
. I-lei', 't::o~l-:i, OIEC.t 00T 

0/JL'I IN n\£. JOH~ OF 13E =CMEni110G ·To nun'' 
Tl-IE GRAFFITI. · 

O'SHAf:6!-l'-lE.S.S'r HALL i 
.. 

I 
i 
TALES f ~M TJ-le n,p Of ---n{E DoME 




\)i\y z. i
DA-CI 

____, 
MY 43 j)I\'( 13':i 
Y£;E.Ef:HOOoooo!
·-Al~~h+ ! · 

Chee-;ey Grvb
·ci,..eesey ~rub!. 1 
0\, 1 t'IIC!~, Mt

a30:1n ! / 11,iis 'is bel).uti+vl ·
My ,fc';{vorik D,s~ · 
cheesey e,rvb
. J c hee~ey Grub! 

1:15...i11., .. rleee,.,.,,,. ... 
VAil! 
~ 
('s;,.·,rf,~"iH) \ 
I

,,
l: 

22 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 29, 1994 







MALE POM:MER 
One student's triumphant tale 
by Kris Kazlauskas 
There's something about a "porn" that's simply magical. When I see thousands of little, plastic strands dancing wildly about, the synapses in my mind start to tingle, and I am elevated to a billowycloudofsheerecstasy.Isittheway the porn seemingly has a life of its own, a soul within a beautiful plastic puff of plea­sure? Is it the way that the porn so easily mesmerizes young and old?. YES! YES! It isallthisandmore. Thatiswhylamaproud memberoftheNotreDamePomPonsquad. My love for the porn arose during the summer of 1984, when I was involved in a freak gardening accident. I lay in the hospi­tal, bedridden for a number of weeks, and still an emotional basket case from the accident that authorities said would be best left"unsolved."Duringmythird weekthere, Ibegansufferingfromterriblefitsofinsom­nia, the likes of which the doctors there had never seen. It was at this point that I began seeing visions. Every night, at approxi­mately4 a.m., a glowing porn wou~dappear and float around the room. What did it mean? Was it a sign? The doctors claimed that I was suffering from nightmares and suggestedthatlrefrainfromexcessivecon­sumption of salisbury steak, which at the time was believed to be a hallucinogen. Whe~I told them that I indulged on this delightful dish only during new moons and bar mitzvahs, they were baffled. The mystery was finally unshrouded on a 
· glorious evening in August I had been in the hospital for 12 weeks and was supposed to leave the following morning. That night I was especially alert, but no sooner did I blink than the specter of Mary Lou Retton suddenly appeared. She was wearing her gymnastics outfit, but her smile was gone. In her hands she held two golden porns. Startled; I shouted, "Mary Lou!" Yet; she could only motion to her mouth in a feeble 

, gesture that told me someone had made her mute. I began weeping bitterly. Who would hurt Mary Lou? But no sooner had I begun shedding tears than Mary Lou lifted the golden porns and commenced to dancing feverishly. She danced until dawn, and at that point, I experienced a revelation. Mary Lou was speaking; she was speaking the language of Porn. She hadn't uttered a sound, and yet her porns spoke volumes. The tears re­turned, and in afitofjoy, I shouted, "POM, Mary Lou, POM like you've never POMMED before!" She proceeded to porn around me in a circle, faster and faster. I was swept up in this tornado of joy, and then suddenly she was gone! I fainted, and when the nurse w~ke me up, I saw them sparkling on my bed -the majestic golden porns. Since that day, my devotion to the art of · pomming has been received with mixed emotions.Itwasn'tsolongagothattheguys at my high school used to make fun of me for bringing my porns to class. The admin­istrationquicklyenactedanewruleatschool: "Porns must be kept in your lockers until afterscho_ol. Anyone caught practicing porn 
porns during school hours will be subjectto suspension and/or expulsion." Even my parents tried to stymie my talent when they gave me an ultimatum. They sat me down one night, and in an emotionally turbulent . speech, said that it was either "them or the · · porns." Reluctantly, I moved out. Sin~ that day, I have received thousands· of porn­related awards, two world championships, and the key to the city of Mishawaka Yet, it hasn't been enough. A fire still rages in my soul for the award I desire most..:.::. an NCAA championship. , ·• .. . .· 
After winning my second world title·a few yearsback, manypeopleasked,"Where will you go from here?"Forme, the answer is as true today as it was then. I was given a . fullridebytheNotreDamePomPonsquad because I was dedicated to training, rain or shine. The only way I see fit to repay the school for their generosity is to share my gift with the rest of the pommers. The old adage is true, a Porn Pon squad is only as strong as its weakest pommer. We have beenrebuildingthepasttwoyears,andican honestly say, that when the AP polls are tallied for the final time, you will have to look no further than number one. When that happens, the burning in my soul will be quelled, and somewhere, out there, Mary Lou will thinkoftheNotreDamePomsand smile. . 
Kris Kazlauskas is a junior who dabbles in science when he is not pomrning. He is considering leaving Notre Dame to turn professional. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• SEPTEMBER 29, 1994 
23 



Harry and Louise? No, Pat and Brian. 
by Patrick Perri 

It's philosopher versus engineer in this epic battle ofwits 

Patrick Perri is a sophomore living with fellow sophomore Brian Murray in Morrissey Hall. The pair lived in a double ·,-as freshmen, but now two other roommates must endur,e the never­ending philosophy versus engineering war. 

In presenting itself as a university based in part on its residential nature, Notre Dame states that much ofa student's learning about life goes on in the dorms. I, a philosophy major, have learned more than my share just by living with an engineering major. When a philosopher and an engineer share a nine foot by twelve foot room, even the slightest suggestion of a disagreement can arouse a serious discussion between what are, when it comes right down to it, two entirely opposite views of the uni­verse. The dialogue which follows is an accurate tran­script of a discussion Brian and I have had, and it draws a clear picture of the very different kinds of thinkingthatcomprisethestudentsinoneuniversity. We didn't have this debate in a lecture hall orin a classroom discussion. We had it in the one place wherethiskindoflearningaboutpeoplecangoon­our dorm room. I tall started with the endofourrector' s sermon one Sunday night "So in conclusion, as we partake in the Liturgy of Our Lord this Sunday evening, let us keep in mind our human perspective, our inter-relatedness, our foundation -the Catholic society which urges us to build bridges, not walls." ~at: If you think about it though, doesn't every bridge necessarily depend upon the previous exist­ence of some manifestation of wallness in order that it may participate in the essential characteristic of bridgeness, that is to say, transcendence of some barrier? · Brian: Don't start. Please don't start. Pat: No, you're missing the point. We owe it to _ourselves as rational beings to understand the causal­ity of all phenomena; if not, I assert that we leave ourselves open to an identity unbefitting of participa­tion in the knowable world. Brian: Theonlythingweoweourselvesisadamn bridge! Bridgeness is just another of your psuedo­intellectico-philosophico-mumbo-jumbos for "Damn,Ican'tcrosstheriver!" Justbuildthebridge. Forget about contemplating and start building! Pat: Are you insinuating that iprematurely aban­don my pursuit toward understanding the·:eidos of bridge and its sharing in the Good to which we must all ascribe. Unless of course... Brian: ... Unless of course you _shut up long enough to figure out that if you don't build the thing, you can't cross the river. 
Pat: Butaren'tyouforgettingtheoriginalpremise here, that all bridges approach the oppositeofwhat it means to be a wall, necessarily conquering them to participate in wallness. 
Brian: Look, Socrates, if there's a wall in your way,justknockitdown. It's that easy. Itrequiresno philosophical encyclical tofigureitout;justknockit down. If it's·a,river, build the bridge. That's what 
I 

engineering is all about 
Pat: How do you have_ confidence that your conceptofbridgefullyexhibitsitselfintheconstruc­tion of the device? . 
Brian: I'll tell you why I'm confident-because my calculator says so! Right there, baby, Casio 10,000F Turbo Graphics in your face! Build the bridge, man, it works. It's not a tough concept. 
· Pat: So then, you imply that calculation is the justification for any reckless endeavor, no matter how ... 
Brian: ... Quick review, class: C-A-L-C-U-L-A-T-O-R +E-Q-U-A-T-I-O-N = -B-R-I-D-G-E. Get it yet? 
Pat: Ifyou'regoingtobecomehostilewithmeand thereby forfeit your rationality in the name of vio­lence, then I judge you to be entirely brutish and unintelligible in argument 
Brian: Fine! Think what you want, butdon'tever think about crossing my bridge! The equation says it'll stand up, so nothing you can philosophize in that overgrown head of yours can tear it down! 
Pat: Tearitdown? Soyou'vechangedyourmind and decided to. build a wall instead of a bridge. You've contradicted yourself and again rendered your reason· invalid. 
Brian: O.K., what do you wantfromme? Do you want a cookie or what? Congratulations, Oh Great Thinker, for your mastery, eloquence and cunning! 
Pat: X,ou denigrate me to the ranks of a Sophist! 
Brian: Fine, then be denigrated, but don't mess with my bridge, and don't mess with my calculator, and don't mess with my equation. Just leave us in 
. peace. I've gotta go-there's a bridge to bebuilt out there somewhere, and while you're conceptualizing it, I'm going to build it 
Pat: Ifthat empty knowledge satisfies you, then 
go built to your heart's content. Brian: Fine. Pat: Wanna go to foodsales? . 
24  SCHOLASTIC  MAGAZINE  ¦  SEPTEMBER  29,  1994  
-­ •  -. •  --_­ __  .•  .  - -.  '  • "­ ,  •  - • - I '  ,  
•  - ,.  '  •  __.  J  '  •  I  




Monday: Father Don McNeill, "Unity Through Community": Cross Cultural Experience Through Service 
Tuesday~ Dr. Joe Miller, "The Earth is Your Horne: Is Your Room Clean?'' 
Wednesday: Dr. MaraRyan, "Relationships: The Building Blocks Toward a Global Family" 
Thursday: BarbaraMarxHubbard, "Howto Create a Global Family" 
Friday: Dr. Janet Kourany and Jim Sterba, "The Ideal of a Feminist Family" 
October 3-7 12:15 -1:00 p.m. Notre Dame Room, LaFortune 

; " •• • ••• .' :_. •. • , • ' •• ' , • , • •. • • ·~ " • • • < C ,• ,.••I' 
. ~ . , . .
~ 

• • \ l • ~ \ 
•, -• ,• •• •-• •· • • ' • • ' '' I • • , : ~ • • • • ' ' ' ._., 

••• Iis+en bere . 
''CAOOYSHACIC" ANIMATED And, AS ALWAYS... 
15 1 FESnVAL ··· The Domers
PLAYING. IS II {q)cJ:. On af {how 9re.af is +hat?!O CO/'IIIWG ,, ACOU~fIC CAFE 
• Thvrsd~y Niant •f nq£\'I t Sctrur®y •Tiwrs~a.y N{ght
i: 00/to .. 30 p.n--i. i:oo110:30 f .. m. 9-12 p.,n, IL 
• Montgomery • ·Cushin9 9 f_afortvneTh~fe, ~~ f\vdi-rorivm 

11"ee. coffee, 
J

•$1. $2 -{tee. e.ntertainmen+: (r;ghteo vs) and free. poople-~i"9 



BRUNO'S 
. -l1lf 

Open for carryout and delivery only Acc~pting reservations on weekends. from 4 -1op.m. weekdays, Available for private parties 4 p.m. -midnite weekends. and banquets. 
**2 12-INCH PIZZAS WITH 6 TOPPINGS **ONE 20-INCH PIZZA FOR $9.95 FOR $10.50 EVERY THURSDAY** EVERY THURSDAY (DINE-IN ONLY)** 115 U.S. 31 Uust north of campus) 261 O Prairie Ave. 
273-3890 288-3320 
"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We offer .FREE DELIVERY 'Jf our pi'tzaright to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 
. 
. 
~ -• • ~ • • • ' ~ • • •• I •. • • ~ ~ -. • • , • 
. ' .' ' 
~ . :. " . . _., . 



