’ *Z4e Nolte
SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 81, No. 9
May 19, 1944
aw


Statues for Buildings Begun 1
> >
Memorial Day Services May 28
V-12 "Maneuvers” Gains Impetus

i
I
Marine, Lieutenant
Joseph I. Barr.
§
Admiral Chester W. Nimitz, commander of the United States Pacific Fleet, pins the Navy Cross on a Notre Dame


^he cNotre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1S67
EDITORIAL
THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ, Editor-in-Chief
RALPH ABELL
Associate Editor, Marines
EDWARD MADDEN
Associate Editor, Navy
This Matter of Post-War Jobs
The Number One problem on the home front—postwar	'
employment—is also the Number One problem on the battlefront. Take it from the GI’s stationed in India, Australia, ’ Africa, Italy and throughout the United States, the one cru-	*
cial problem about which they worry most is postwar em-	•
ployment.	•
Soldiers, sailors, marines, WACS, Waves, and Spars are £ all emphatic on one point—they want jobs, good ones, in the America for which they have been fighting. They are depending on an economic tranquility to pattern their lives after their fighting. As one Marine on campus put it: “The time for postwar planning is now, not when the war is over, otherwise I’m going to put a ‘to let’ sign on my room in Cavanaugh and take in boarders.”	•*
Others on campus, however, who are less hopeful of getting into the real estate business, have expressed multiple opinions on how the problem should be tackled, but are firm ' in the thought that the newly acquired abilities of men and women in the Services should be put to the best practical • use in the peacetime building which should follow this war. ,3
ED ITORIAL STAFF
HAROLD BERLINER -	- .	- Managing Editor
BILL WADDINGTON -	-	- Sports Editor
DICK MURPHY -	-	-	- Circulation
BOB O'TOOLE	-	-	-'	Promotion
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY -	-	-	Observations
LIEUT. (LG.) I. J. COLLINS	- Know Your Navy
JIM CASEY -	-	-	The Green Banner
JIM REGAN -	-	-	- Introducing
BILL CARNAHAN -	-	The College Parade
ROBERT RIORDAN	-	Man About the Campus
LEO OUILLETTE -	-	- Pressbox Splinters
HARRY LEBIEN -	-	- , The Periscope
NEWS STAFF
THOMAS PAYNE STEVE LOYACANO JOHN KNUDSON ARTHUR WAGNER BILL THOMPSON BOB STEVENSON CHUCK RUSS	DON FORGAYS
PHOTOGRAPHY
AL SHAEFER CHARLES RENAUD JOE HALLER
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. .- Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC, is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana. .
2
FREE SCHOLARSHIPS	-
One proposed plan is to have the younger servicemen who had to curtail their education to go forth to war, come back to free scholarships, enabling them to pick up the loose ends which they left when they were called to the service. Loans, at rates which would be easy to meet, will enable further education, rebuilding of farms, rebuilding- of businesses, and an absence of hardships in sending down the roots and in communities from which they were uprooted.
Another aid which has been acted on is the federal legislation which provides for mustering out pay, and immediate employment in -public works, housing, television, aircraft work, and the tremendous field of civilian production and distribution. But unless the war is concluded with a tapering finish, allowing time for this gradual reconversion, the criti-- cal period for all will be the year to two-year period following the war. To meet the immense challenge of this transition period, we simply cannot afford to postpone our postwar planning to the last moment . . . hoping and hoping that “something will turn up.”
This is a fatal attitude, for when every Johnny comes marching home, he will expect—and have every right to expect—to be provided with an opportunity to find work. And the competition for jobs will be keen; especially when you consider, the vast number of war workers who will want to insist on eating.	■
’	IT IS OUR PROBLEM	.
Postwar planning is a national topic. The peace will not be won merely at. a mahogany table in a lofty-ceilinged conference room, across the. ocean. We will win or lose that bloodless battle mostly right here at home in our industrial plants, large and small, and in all the ordinary posts of. American business at which the majority of us will be earning our livelihood. Therefore, it is a problem in which all of us should be vitally interested. It is our problem . . . and we must do something. about it!—-Al Lesmez	.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance lor mailing	.
at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 81
MAY 19, 1944
NO. 9
World War No. 2 Memorial to be Erected
The inauguration of a campus beautification project at the University of Notre Dame will be officially started this week when statues of St. Joan of Arc and St. Michael the Archangel are placed in niches flanking the portico on the east wing of Sacred Heart Church.
Placing of the statues will bring about the completion of the Notre Dame world war No. 1 memorial which was erected 20 years ago this month in mem
Fr. John Bednar, C.S.C.
ory of “Our Gallant Dead.” When the portico was erected, niches were left for statues of Joan of Arc and St. Michael. The statues to be placed next week, executed by Rev. John Bednar, C.S.C., head of the University’s art department, are about two feet high.
Plans also are being made to. place statues in niches of the University’s newer residence halls and other buildings. The work is under the supervision of the University’s art committee, composed of Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., and Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C. The program was instituted after the University’s art department closed for the duration'.
The beautification project will be com
pleted with the execution of a world war No. 2 memorial. This will be executed by Eugene Kormendi, native of Budapest, Hungary, who has been at Notre Dame for the last two years as an artist in residence. At present Mr. Kormendi, who is directing the program, is at work on a statue of Christ the King, which will be about six feet tall and will be. placed in the Law Building.
Included in the beautification project is a three-sided drinking fountain, executed by William J. Schickel, of Ithaca, N. Y., a former student at the University. Tentative plans call for the fountain to be placed in the square in front of the post office on the campus. The three sides of the statue depict Christ washing the feet of His disciples, Christ at the well, and Christ preaching from a boat to the multitude.
The entire program is not expected to be completed for two years, officials said. Mr. Kormendi has done a statue of St. Joseph, to be placed in the niche at Lyons hall. St. Joseph was the patron saint of Prof. Joseph Lyons for whom the hall was named. A statue of
Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Kormendi
St. Timothy, patron saint of Timothy E. Howard, for whom Howard hall was named, is slated for the residence building. Father Bednar is now working on a statue of St. Bonaventure to be placed in Alumni hall.
Notre Dame’s memorial for the Spanish-American war, a monument of Wisconsin granite with a nine-inch' shell from the U.S.S. Maine, was dedicated May 20, 1915, by Josephus Daniels, then secretary of the navy. It was erected in memory of John Henry Shillington, ex-Notre Dame athlete who went down with the Maine. The second memorial was erected following world war No. 1; and now Mr. Kormendi is formulating plans for the third.
Sacred Heart Church, to which Notre Dame’s World War No. 1 memorial was added, was begun under the direction of Father Sorin. The cornerstone was laid in 1868. The edifice is of Gothic architecture. The windows in the church were designed by the Carmelite nuns of Le Mans, France, birthplace of the Holy Cross Congregation that later moved to Holy Cross, whence comes its (Continued on page 19)
3
General Information
If anyone hears anyone else say “the V-12 marines and sailors are no good," well, just tell them to keep their eyes on the Week-end Maneuvers. Soldiers, non V-12 sailors or marines, and civilians will be heading- for executive offices to see whether- they can do anything about getting into this outfit just so that they can attend this dance.
Committees have been set up to take care of all possible details. The latest committee set up is to take care of a most important matter. Its name is “I will lend you a ten.” The fellow right down the hall is a member, so try him.
Everything points to the best weekend that has been seen on campus since the coming of the services. A fair indication of the tremendous popularity of this ball is the fact that whereas tickets were sold right up to the day of the previous dances, this one took only three days to sell completely. This shows that everyone is on his mark, ready to begin a week-end of maneuvering that has never been excelled or approached by the navy on campus before.
Thomas Young, General Week-end Maneuvers Chairman
Ball to be Highlight
Plans are being completed for a V-12 ball that few will ever forget. The whole committee group has been working on every minute detail to insure a really unforgettable ball. Those who were here for the last ball probably thought it was complete in all respects, but by benefiting from the mistake of those first two balls, and by doing things on a much larger scale, the ball will measure up to a guaranteed perfect night.
Many fellows have insisted that Jerry Wald’s is strictly a “hep” band. This is definitely false, and on the contrary, Jerry is known for his smoothness and his peppy style. If the dancers do not jitterbug, the situation will be helped. Favors will be richer, decorations will be more plentiful and original, refreshments are ordered that will take care of everyone, and no one need worry about transportation, because the committee in charge has done everything humanly possible to see that an ample supply of cabs and buses are available.
The cooperation of the ball-goers will be needed in several instances; such as avoiding any one section of the Drill hall, arriving at the Drill hall before 2130, and cooperation with the clothes checkers. If this is done, the ball committee is ready to guarantee that next Friday night will be the kind of an affair that will not be forgotten easily.
Bill Ferrick, General Ball Chairman
Decoration Theme Novel
Confronted with the problem of distinguishing the Drill hall’s 5C0,000 cubic feet, the decorators are now working at top speed. This semester, the decoration committee was accorded a larger budget than ever before, and consequently the decorations will be more extensive than they have been in the past. For a theme, “Neptune’s Nocturne” has been chosen. A certain proportion of the sea-atmosphere and that of the formal garden will be realized next Friday night.
The principal features of the theme, however, are closely guarded secrets. Inquiries have brought only smiles from the various decorators.
This week the decorating committee has been making its final plans and is now ready to begin the actual transfiguration . . . the face lifting ... of the Drill hall.
The actual decorating work will be done during the evenings, Monday through Thursday by alternating shifts of work parties, each headed by a foreman. Any seaman or marine with some free time, and who is interested in construction, electrical or decorative work, is required to contact one of the men who will act as foremen. They are: George Nesbit, 150 Zahm; Gene Molten, 152 Zahm; Cliff Johnson, 166 Dillon; and Palmer Amundsen, 170 Dillon.
,	—George Nesbit
Wilson, Thornton, Leahey, Knutson, Smith
Refreshments Plentiful
The refreshments this semester will be the same as last semester; but this time there will be plenty for everyone. In order to figure this out, mother’s
| WEEK-END
measuring cup and the formula F=MA was used and just the right amount has	(
been ordered. There will be at least 200	J
gallons; a half pint for every person there. Since everyone loves to drink — punch, we have arranged for two punch tables and the “stuff” will begin to flow » at 2200.
Because of the mildness of Indiana’s j climate, refreshments will be served * outside. The decorations are a surprise, but there will be a cool place to sit and plenty of room foi- the more adventur- A > ous individuals to move around. This outside space is expected to relieve the	■'
overflow from the dance floor, thereby	•
making it more comfortable for all con- . cerned.	.■j
It is hoped that these two new fea- i tures of adequate refreshments and outside serving will remove one of the weaknesses of the former V-12 balls.
—Bruce IF. Sumner '
Keleher, Fanning, Johnson, Kroeger
Dance Programs
Every couple attending this year’s .Naval Ball will receive, in addition to all other features of the evening, a dance program. These programs are designed ‘ to carry out the theme of the dance and week-end and it is hoped that in future days they will bring back memories of a perfect week-end spent at Notre Dame.—D. R. Caplan
Transportation Problems
The Ball committee has the following A instructions to offer which will solve the problems of getting to and from the j V-12 Ball:	*
4
MANEUVERS |
1.	Any man who chance of getting a try. If you can get take a full load.
has the slightest car is advised to a car, be sure to
2.	Cabs will be few. Because of gas rationing, the drivers do not like to come way out to Notre Dame to pick up a load. However, to encourage the drivers to come, we have told the taxi companies that all the men coming to and from the ball will voluntarily pay the drivers twenty-five cents extra.
Ardito. Brennan, Byington
3.	Extra buses will be put on the Notre Dame route from 2030 until 2100 for the trip out and from 0015 until 0115 for the return trip. These buses will arrive at and leave from the drill hall. Everyone who can easily take a bus should do so. This will save cabs for others to get to the outskirts of town.
4.	The regular buses to Notre Dame will run until 0145.—John Knutson
Review Saturday
Saturday morning — 1100. The time when all our girls get to see all us men in action—action on the drill field. I hope that after the practices the last two Saturdays, ill feeling toward having a Review has died down somewhat. I really believe many fellows have changed their minds in regard to the Saturday morning session — at least men, we might just as well, for the Review is here to stay.
You all know on - what field the marching takes place—make sure the little woman does. There will be plenty of standing room for all, but you should make sure she’s there by 1100 for the Review will start at precisely that time.
—“Gunny" Stevenson
Picnic Food
Event number three on the roster for “Weekend Maneuvers” is the V-12 picnic to be held on Saturday afternoon, May 27 at “Potawattomie” Park near South Bend.
The ticket which gives free run of the picnic is the red card marked “K” Rations. Upon presentation of this ticket, food, consisting of wieners, buns, potato chips, and “coke,” will be given out. The food will be prepared on open grills by the individual couples—the food of royalty prepared by the V-12 “kings.”
It has been said that a word to the wise is sufficient; so remember, Mac, don’t forget the red ticket.
Joe Thornton
Picnic Entertainment
It’s colossal! It’s terrific! It’s stupendous! It’s the musical review planned in conjunction with “Week-end Maneuvers” picnic. The show will take place at the park as soon as it gets dark. You will be notified of the correct time as soon as it is found out from the Nauti-
Ruoeff, Nesbit, Sumner. Caplan cal Almanac. First of all there will be a swell 18-piece band. It’s George (Bliss) Finn and his snazzy ensemble. Those who have already heard him know how good he is.
Finn will feature a few numbers by his Dixieland Rat-race Octet. They guarantee complete convulsions. The string section will star “our man Friday” the “Pizzicato Kid.” Roy “The Lip” Lang will attempt to spray tonsils on the audience, and piano cadenzas will be executed by Johnny Clark. Brownson will be in charge of the bassfiddle. The group will play selections from “Weinerschnitzel by the Umlaut
in B Flat” and “The Ring of Noodles.” A pharmacist’s mate will be on hand to aid the maimed.
But wait, that’s not all. Fortunately, the Dunham Dancers of New York were acquired to do a few numbers for us I Woof! Und dat’s not all. A barber shop quartet, two swell singers: Jimmy Masterson and Sal Perez, a pianist, and a bag—full of vaudeville stunts and stuff will also high-light the show. Gerry Stout and Willy Brauna are the busy beavers who are taking care" of technicalities of which there are many. Well, that’s it. Don’t miss it. We’ll be looking for you.—K. C. Snyder
Picnic Transportation
There will be no special chartered buses for the picnic; however, the North-Side Mishawaka bus goes directly to Pot-a-watt-a-me (phonetic spelling) Park. From 1530 to 1630, there will be more buses for the outgoing rush; and again more buses from 2100 to 2145 for the return rush. The regular run will be adequate to accommodate any stragglers.
If the buses are boarded at Jefferson and Michigan (one block south on Michigan from Max Adler’s), picknickers will beat the swing-shift workers to the buses and thus be more sure of a ride. Here are the pertinent facts:
1)	North-Side Mishawaka bus at Jefferson and Michigan.
2)	Outgoing 1530 to 1630.
3)	Returning 2100 to 2145.
P. J. Wilson
Housing Relieved
The Housing Committee’s work is shaping up in a thoroughly satisfactory manner. As great a number of hotel rooms as possible have been reserved for the guests of the trainees. Through the generosity of the people of South Bend, the remainder of the guests will be accommodated in private homes. Knowing that a number of trainees will delay procuring rooms until the “zero hour,” (Continued on page 16)
Snyder. Braun, Finn. Stout
5
Memorial Services Planned for May 28
University Plans Outdoor Military Mass
It has just been officially announced by the administration of the University of Notre Dame that plans are in formulation for a Military Mass on Sunday, May 28. It has long been the custom of the University to hold memorial services each year on Memorial Day; but this year, on account of classes to be held on Memorial Day, tradition will be broken and the mass will be celebrated on the Sunday preceding the holiday. Elaborate plans are being laid for the conunemoration of the war dead by Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., Gunner Banashek, USMC, and student chairman; Seaman George Nesbit, USNR, Private Linus Pottebaum, USMCR, and John Carron, NROTC.
Every military unit on the campus has been invited to participate in the Mass to be held at 10:15 a.m. at the Memorial Door of Sacred Heait church. All Catholic military men will be asked to inform their company commanders whether or not they would like to participate in the ceremonies and a marching order will be arranged accordingly. It is hoped by the committee for the mass that each company on the campus will have a sizeable representation of men signed up to participate in the strict military procedure that will be followed.
The celebrant of the Mass will be Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice president
Mr. Hanley. Father Craddick and Fr. O’Donnell inspecting the "Memorial Plaque" which now bears 93 names
of the University, and the master of ceremonies will be Rev. Joseph Powers, C.S.C. The Moreau Seminary choir will assist the ministers of the Mass. Special music within the Mass is being arranged by Father Carl Hager, C.S.C.
Due to the fact that Sunday, May' 28, will fall within the week-end of the V-12 Ball, a special section will be set aside for the Ball guests and other friends and relatives present on the campus at that time. All Catholic V-12’s attending the Ball are requested by Father Crad-dick to invite their guests to the Mass.
All participating units will receive in-, structions during the coming week as to the time and place of their formation on Sunday morning. Shortly before 10 o’clock all units will meet at a point to be designated where they will parade to the church. Heading each unit will be color guard and drum and bugle corps. During the Mass, in true military fashion, the drums will be. muffled and the bugles flourished at the proper times. The parade and complementing ceremonies before the Mass will be so timed that the Mass proper will begin sharply at 10:15 o’clock.
Immediately following the Mass the various units will lay a wreath at the Memorial door. Following the laying of the wreath, Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University will preside
over the commemorative services which will include a roll call of Notre Dame’s World War I dead.
Captain J. Richard Barry, U.S.N., commandant of the Naval Training Station at Notre Dame, will be the speaker of the day.
As a final tribute to our heroes of all wars, the Unit drum-and-bugle corps ' will play “taps” and a platoon of seamen, marines, and NROTC’s will fire a 21 gun salute.
Complete details will appear in subsequent Religious Bulletins and in the May 26 edition of the Scholastic. All company commanders will be officially " notified during the week by Gunner Banashek to the extent that they report just how many men will march to the Mass that Sunday. Invitations for participation in the Mass and parade have also been issued to the officer personnel on the campus.	'
The Student Council plans to have a representation at the Mass and will also lay a wreath at the Memorial door during those ceremonies.
Special decorations, military in all respects, are being arranged by the student military committee in cooperation with Brother Boniface, C.S.C., sacristan of the church. It has been reported that a flag of every state in the Union will flank both sides of the sanctuary. In addition to the state flags, the national, unit, and papal flags will be massed on the altar.
4
Midshipmen Schedule
Another "Happy Hour"
A “Happy Hour” replete with thrills, frills, and the best humor in the Midshipmen’s School, will be unfolded on Friday evening in the Drill Hall. The « cast is made up entirely of the V-7
-group. All skits, dances, and other acts have been composed, written and produced by the men about to graduate, and treat of their experiences at Notre Dame, together with their reaction towards not a few of the officers who teach them. «
Those invited to witness the Happy Hour include the Midshipmen Corps, the officers on the station, their wives and . guests....	.
On Sunday morning, at St. Paul’s Memorial Methodist Church, in South , Bend, midshipmen will conduct the traditional services assigned to each graduating group that has been in attendance there during the training period.	7
S
Know Your Navy
By Lieut, (j.g.) J. J. Collins
Billet—Place to sleep. Also general duties.
Binnacle—The stand which holds the magnetic compass.
Binnacle list—List of those excused by the Medical Officer from performing duties. It is approved by the Commanding Officer.
Bitter-end—The end of a line or the last link in an anchor chain.
Bitts—Vertical wooden or iron posts projecting above the deck used for securing or working lines.
Black Gang—Members of the Engineer’s Force.
Blinker tube—A tube carrying a signal light used to send messages by dots and dashes. The tube directs the beam of light. .
Blister—A bulge built into a man-o-war’s side as a protection against torpedoes. It is capable of being flooded or pumped out.
Bluejacket—An enlisted man in the Navy.
Boat boom—The boom swung from the ship’s side when at anchor to which boats in the water secure.
Boatswain (bo’sn) chair—A board on which a man working aloft is swung.
Boatswain (bo’sn) pipe—A small shrill whistle used by the Boatswain’s mate in passing a call or in piping the side.
Bollard—An upright wooden or iron post on dock to which hawsers are secured.
Boot—A newly enlisted recruit undergoing training in the Navy or Marine Corps.	.
Breaker—A small cask for fresh water carried in the ship’s boat.
Break out—To unstow or prepare for use.	.
Bridge—The raised platform in the forward part of the ship from which the vessel is usually conned. .	.
Brig—The ship’s prison.	.
Bright work—Brass or metal work which must be polished. ;
Bulkhead — The . partitions separating
portions of the ship; correspond to walls in a building.
Bumboat—A boat employed by civilians to carry provisions, vegetables, and small merchandise to be sold on ships. “Burdened vessel”—The vessel required by the rules of the road to keep clear, while the “privileged vessel” is required to hold course and speed.
Burgee (bur’je) (g as in gem)— A (Continued on page 15)
N.D. Marines Score High at Parris Is. Rifle Range
When the shooting was over a fortnight ago down at the Parris Island Rifle Range, three V-12 Platoons had qualified 100 per cent. Sprinkled with 86 former Notre Dame Leathernecks, the 12th battalion, composed of all -V-12 platoons averaged 95.6 per cent. A new record had been set!
Taking the mass of men into consideration, the record is even more remarkable. On several occasions a recruit platoon has qualified 100 per cent, but when three platoons turned the trick, Parris Island rifle coaches looked with awe at the records.
Out of the 86 Marines from Notre Dame, 26 fired expert. A good number of the experts made up platoon 118.
Anthony Bilotti, William Busch, Lindsay De Manbey, and Charles Dirr fired expert from Platoon 116. Bilotti was high with a score of 318. Eight men fired expert from Platoon 117. They are as follows: Daniel Ginsburg, William Grannell, Clair Harding, John Hyndman, William Kessler, Julius King, Verle Ludwig, Quentin Mason, and Robert McKay. Hitting the bull’s eye for the glory of Platoon 118 were Frank Olmstead, Robert Pierce, . Ralph Polland, Dale Price, Lawrence Ryan, Charles Small, Walter Stinson, Robert Stow, Robert Tews, Raymond Tucker, Richard Weiss, and Marvin Wigdahl.
General Pershing once said that he wanted men who could shoot and salute. Those gyrenes who left Notre Dame last March learned to do their saluting here, but the shooting part was begun and completed at P. I.
The statement has been made several times that Notre Dame Marines did well for themselves at Parris Island. There' is a little story to add, however.
When the first men went to “the land where the sand is 14 inches deep and the sun is scorching hot,” they made up the honor platoon on the base. Here was the incentive for the men who were to leave for Parris Island last March. There is no telling what the next group will do when they reach P.I. in July.
But you can bet your G.I. socks there will be some more records broken and established.	•
Right now there might be some moaning and groaning about learning that will help.—Eric A. Rehmvall
Marines and Seamen
Blend Drums and Bugles
Last Saturday the Navy V-12 Drum and Bugle Corps combined with the Marine Drum and Bugle Corps for the practice review. The music was rendered in perfect harmony, and the sight of a combined corps was as unexpected as it was appreciated.
The Navy V-12 Drum and Bugle Corps began with four drummers beating cadence at chow formations and has since enlarged to a - twenty-six-piece, band. The racket created by each company having a drummer pound cadence prompted Chief Specialist Barbes to organize the seamen into a colorful musical ensemble.
A drum major, nine drums, six trumpets, five trombones, two bugles, a cornet, a baritone horn, and a fife make up the present Navy V-12 Drum and Bugle Corps. The seamen participating are:
Drum major: Kopitek, R. C. (trumpet in combined corps).
Drums: Snyder, K. C. (bass), Brown, B. J.; Cooper, J.; Kiefer, R. W.; Loos, R. E.; Murphy, J. E.; Nichols, C. A.f Diekman, F. C.; Ettridge, W. D.
Trumpets: Abbott, D.; Crask, M. B.; Duffey, J. G.; Marshall, E. V.; Michaud, M. J.; Zimmerman, J. K.
Trombones: Ballenger, R. G.; Burke, J. T.; Huntzicker, J. H.; Molter, E. L.; Simmons, B. F.
Bugles: Mack, M. J.; Merten, K. F. .
Cornet: Klempay, J. C.	.
Baritone horn: Wilson, W. H.
Fife: Stout, G. L.
Members of the Drum and Bugle Corps meet in the auditorium of Washington Hall two or three evenings each week to rehearse new numbers, and have been meeting with the Marine Drum and Bugle Corps to smooth out new numbers and prepare for the Military Review on May 27.
The nucleus of the marine band was organized last October when several members of the corps borrowed drums from the University and held practice sessions at varying intervals. Only recently, the seamen and marine groups combined, under the-, direction of Sgt. Rockwill and at the suggestion of Adjutant Barbes, to give the V-12 groups a representative and competent organization.—Bob Watson	-
'7
THE LIFE OF AUGIE SOOZER
A BALLAD
(To be sung to the tune of,
‘'Hump skunk up a gum stump.”)
Prologue:
When Augie was born, his mother said: “Oh my goodness, I wish I were dead!” Epilogue:
To save the country from that dastardly attack,
Augie soon wondered the attack how to back.
The Japs he would best, so he looked about,
To decide how he could best help out. Into each Service he carefully delved, And the one he chose was the Navy
V-12.
The choice once made was quickly accepted;
To the V-12 life Augie soon was adapted.
Badin Bog:
To say the least the life was sweet,
But eventually Augie was sent to the fleet.
There we now And him; and we might mention
“There's only one big problem in having a girl in every port— . They all want to go to the V-12 Ball."
The purpose here is to solve the question:
Was Augie Soozer, The gainer or loser?
Ship’s Log:
While walking one day in the jungle and heat,
Augie the Ensign (now of the fleet) Came face to face with a Jap in a jeep!
Augie stopped quickly and reached for his side
But the Jap just chuckled and laughed inside;
“Ha, ha, ha,” said the Jap to him, “I’m gonna tear you limb from limb.
I may be short, but in spite of myself You don’t scare me, you’re a Navy V-12’f.
“How can I tell? It’s easy to see, -It’s plain as the press in those dungaree. That salty walk; that slant perchant, It makes it look: you got an-in-pant. The rough tough talk, it sounds to me Like you got it out a dictionaree.
“Your hat in back, the curl in front. That civvy shirt has certainly shrunk.
Shiny shoes and baggy jumper
Those tight pants have funny lump (ers)
It sticks out here, it sticks out there, In fact it protrudes everywhere.
But the thing that makes you V-12, my son:
You brought your sliderule and forgot your gun.
It’s all over now, you might as well quit, There’s nothing to ■ do to help you a . whit.”
With that the Jap aimed at his head; Onessecond later, and Augie was dead.
But that wasn’t all; at those pearly gates,
Ole Saint Peter was very irate.
Says he: “Now you wait—a communicate
I just got, anticipate,
Your career up here to terminate.
You flunked Physics; you flunked Math! And here you get the aftermath.
We won’t take you in, no one can go Whose average drops to 50 below.
So long Salty; if the going gets tough Remember this, and it’ll be enough: They can shoot up the Army, put holes in the fleet
But to sink the V-12—they’ll have to flood—the—whole—damn—country!
APOLOGY
It seems that we looked through the wrong end of the periscope last week. Already having one foot in the grave, we put the other in our mouth. We herewith would like to remove the foot. (The riiouth one.) Acting on first impression, a little heavy criticism was unjustly
made of the coming dress parade. With this affair now looming as one of the outstanding events of the semester, we sincerely ask the pardon of those offended.
TRIVIA
Bob Brown, diminutive C.O. of Company A, is getting to the point where he hears dog barks in his sleep. His friends just call him Sandy.
Jack Costello is seriously thinking of complaining to the chief about his roommate, “Aiderman” Cullen, driving him out of his own room by smoking “stogies.-”
All those individuals hailing from Brooklyn are invited to a debate soon to be held on the question: “Is Frank Debitteto or Tony Mistretta the greatest lover even produced by Brooklyn?”
IN MEMORIAM .
(Moment of silence for the boys who left at mid-semester).
8
N.D. Ex-Commander Dead
Word was received during the week at the naval training station here of the sudden death of Lieut. Commander Milton D. Fairchild, former executive officer of the midshipmen’s school on the campus.	.
Commander Fairchild succeeded Commander Richard Wagner since transferred, coming here from the University of California at Berkeley, where he was
. The Late Lieut.-Comm. Milton D. Fairchild
the administrative head of a naval training unit. He was a native of Kentucky and was graduated in 1930 from the United States Naval academy at Annapolis, Md.
He was assigned to Notre Dame June 14, 1943, and left here last March 29 to take an assignment at the advanced base personnel depot at San Bruno, Calif.
He saw duty on board the cruiser Chicago as a member of Admiral William H. Stanley’s staff, and later, assigned to gunnery on the Chicago. A turret under his leadership was awarded the navy “E” for excellence in performance.	'
A committee of wives of officers at the naval station here met Mrs. Fairchild in Chicago last Tuesday when she arrived there with her husband’s body.
Burial will be in Arlington national cemetery at Arlington, Va.
Dean Manion Speaks
Clarence E. Manion, dean of the Notre Dame College of Law, will address the Boston University Law School at its annual banquet Saturday.
Observations *
BY LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY
1. New Pre-V-12 School for Fleet Men:
The number of men from the Fleet continues to increase in V-12 units over the nation. Beginning with the July 1944 increment of Fleet men, there will be a Pre-V-12 School at an Eastern Naval Training Station where the men recommended for V-12 will be given refresher courses and tests in mathematics, physics and English, and fully informed on what the program requires and offers. Those who are qualified personally, academically, and physically and who wish to make use of the opportunities offered in the Program will then be ordered to the various V-12 units, including Notre Dame. Samples of the instructing and testing materials used in the new type of school have been sent to University and Naval authorities at Notre Dame. Test scores on the aptitude of the men will also be sent.
2.	Three Semesters in V-12 for V-5 Men:
Men who entered V-12 from V-5 and reported for instruction here 1 November 1944 or later will remain three semesters in residence instead of two before going to pre-flight school, provided they are successful in their academic and military records at Notre Dame. During their third semester they will take the prescribed course of study which regular deck candidates carry in their third semester. Those with advanced standings will meet the special minimum requirements of the Navy which all advanced deck candidates meet, and will continue their third semester in the program in their preferred major subject. The three semesters are now to be required regardless of how many semesters of college a trainee may have completed before entering the program. Originally nearly all men in active flight training in V-5 were college graduates. The rearrangement of the pilot training schedule is effected by the reduced requirements in future output of pilots for 1945 and 1946 and also by the closing of the Naw CAA-War Training Service and Naval Flight Preparatory programs. Students, withdrawn from, the V-12 Program for flight training, on and after 1 November 1944, will enter the flight training program at Pre-Flight Schools, which constitute at present the third stage of the flight training program. At Notre Dame there are now in their first semester of V-12 a total of 173 men from V-5, and
60 men from V-5 who are in their sec. ond semester, a grand total of 233 men in V-5 here. They will have a good chance to fly provided they keep themselves “eligible” by improving their fitness as academic and officer candidates. Just when the Naval Aviation Cadet Selection Board will make its usual semester visit to confirm or to transfer men in the V-5 group is not yet known.
3.	Foreign Branches of Navy Institute:
Five foreign branches of the Navy Institute (home office in Madison, Wis.) now make possible the continuance of correspondence study and some local extension studies for Naval personnel- A great number of men on foreign duty are using this means to satisfy their desire for special knowledge or to improve themselves for an advancement.
4.	"The Doctor in the Making":
Dean Baldinger of the College of Science is glad to lend to Navy pre-medical and pre-dental trainees the book of the above title, recommended by the Navy for all men who are judging their fitness for professional study as doctors or dentists. Sign up with Dean Baldinger’s secretary in the Chemistry Building.
5.	Plattsburg Report:
Quotations from a Midshipman at Plattsburg: “Notre Dame V-12 men march as well—maybe better—as the men from other schools, and would make the V-12 officers proud.”.____“We have 24-hour company watch on Sunday night; so we have no classes on Monday, and then a week from .the following Wednesday we have K.P. duty in the mess hall. They are cutting ship’s company here, and so we ‘officer-material’ are lending a hand.”. . . “We are 2,000 strong, and constitute about 14% of Plattsburg’s population; so our liberty uptown is restricted to 50% of the station complement at one time, some going on Saturday and the others on Sunday. Because of class tomorrow, we are restricted for this week-end. Every four weeks we are allowed a ‘long7 week-end from Saturday neon until 0700 on Monday.” .	.
< 6. Wellesley Report:	:
. . . “Believe me, that disbursing examination was “rough.” Slightly over 25% of (Continued on page 19) '
Obstacle Course to Re-Open this Week;
Long Rest Broken for "Battle Conditioner"
BY BILL WADDINGTON
“Scholastic" Sports Editor
Motte
*
Maybe you’ve experienced it already, but if you haven’t then be in for a little muscle weariness next week when the famed obstacle course across from biology field makes its official entrance in the ’44 outdoor athletic training program.
Boy. I can feel those muscles growing already!
Each class in outdoor routine, whether it be touch football, volleyball, wrestling, boxing, soccer, or track will be going-over the course twice weekly as announced by Ens. Brewbaker, USNR. Those new to the campus who have yet to have their first trial on the Eddy Street extravaganza will find a variety of things to do. There’s hurdling, broadjumping, going over the wall, hand-
Not too much more to go . . .
10
travelling, crawling on your stomachs, doing a horizontal climb on the ropes, using the horizontal ladder and to top this off with a nice ending- sprint. Yes, there’s plenty to choose from but you’d better choose them all unless you like the thought of repetition.
After a semester or more of coping with this ordeal, the rest of phy-ed seems a comparative cinch. For building up the bodies, it’s ideal; for encouraging appetites, it’s superb, providing you don’t have to run it after you just finish eating; for giving that sleep incentive and ridding anyone of insomnia; it’s magnificent; but for added pleasure, especially when you’ve been thinking about phy-ed all day long until you get to it, well, you’ll know better when you’re finished.
The outdoor treatment in swimming will probably make its innovation on or about June 1, a new 20 ft. jumping tower being planned to simulate abandon ship drills and a possible water obstacle course if necessary materials can be procured. Besides these anticipated new thrills, there will of course remain the usual pre-drowning measures and the case of a good tan in the scorching weather.	-
With all this agglomeration of programs to “make or break” the human body, there is no doubt in the minds of the boys just which it will do. The first few weeks will see sore muscles and aching backs—not to mention blistering and sun tan.
Tennis Team Wins Sixfi 1
Irish Beat Chic c
Playing in accordance with the weath- . er’s well wishes, the Notre Dame tennis -. team is three matches closer to an un-# ; defeated season by virtue of wins over Chicago, 7-2, a week ago Thursday, a 5 6-3 triumph over DePauw last Saturday and in the same afternoon, a thorough trouncing of Indiana, 6-0.
While the first of the three matches was played on the local courts, the latterk two were part of a triangular meet held at Greencastle, Indiana last Saturday. -Chicago failed to exhibit any exceptional ' ability except at the bottom of the lad- f ” der, where they gained the third doubles ’ -match and the sixth singles encounter. ' ;
At DePauw, it was Chuck Samson against a very fast pace-setter, Erwin Schulze. The latter had Samson 4-1 in the first set until Samson really started pouring on his usual superior style of racket-handling. From then on it was I-Samson in a walk, the match doing a If complete about face in Samson’s favor. I’ Bill Tully who doubles in track but since I he wasn’t needed too badly last Saturday " '' with Doc Handy’s boys, he accompanied the netters downstate where he won both
of his single sets without relinquishing -a game, winning 6-0, 6-0 in competition against both Indiana and DePauw. Tully has improved steadily throughout the season to the point where he has sur-* *
passed the caliber of play that Coach , Walter Langford originally thought him ' to be destined. He has only lost 13 games \ * . in all the matches, having never lost a ;
set, which is remarkable in itself.
DePauw gave a good account of them- * selves as the 6-3 scoring indicated and in their return match here, June 3, they -should not prove any too bothersome if they play the same brand of tennis— Notre Dame having the edge of home . court and clay playing surface, whereas last week’s encounter was reckoned with on a cement court. Indiana displayed its usually weak team, failing to annex a ।, single set of the dozen contested.
The strength of the top men of the Langfordmen has proven a reliable factor in all the matches to date, only the ' more capable potency of the opposition** • on the bottom of the card has caused the word “defeat” to enter the Irish way ,-J \
of things.
.vl
(fl 'traight Game;
ic o, Depauw and Indiana
1-
is
;r
a
- Although Mr. Sunshine prevailed late -. Tuesday afternoon of the past week, morning evidences loomed with rain as was witnessed the evening before in a s deluge that severely wetted down the
Baseball Team Snaps 5-Game Losing Streak; Double Header at Iowa Pre-Flight Tomorrow
By HANK SLAMIN
"Scholastic" Baseball Writer
The Team is Good!
clay courts. Consequently, the postponed match with Western Michigan will take on aspects of actuality tomorrow afternoon. Northwestern, beaten by Notre Dame, 8-1, in the season’s opener, defeated the Broncos, 7-2, for the only comparative score on which the form players will be able to rely.
Summaries:
.	Chicago
Singles: Evert (ND), defeated Glotzer (C), 6-2, 6-3: Samson (ND), defeated Tully (C), 6-1, 7-5; Tully (ND), defeated Gallaher (C), 6-1, 6-2: Griffin (ND), defeated Weissman (C), 4-6. 6-1, 6-0; Wood (ND), defeated Miller (C). 9-7, 7-5: Shapiro (G), defeated Buchstaber (ND), 6-4, 6-4.
Doubles: Evert-Tully (ND), defeated Glotzer-Miller (C), 6-1. 6-1: Samson-Griffin (ND), defeated Tully-Weissman (C), 6-3, 6-1; Gallaher-Shapiro (C), defeated Black-O’Brien (ND). 6.-4, 6-3.
sy if
ne
as
ts a ,
he A
DePauw
Singles: Samson (ND), defeated Schulze (D), 6-4, 6-1; Evert (ND), defeated Filer (D), 6-1. 6-1; Tully (ND), defeated Luff (D), 6-0. 6-0; Griffin (ND), defeated Bergendoff (D), 6-2, 6-4; Staples (D), defeated Wood (ND), 6-1, 4-6, 6-3; Lothamer (D), defeated Buchstaber (ND), 6-2, 6-2.	.
Doubles: Evert-Tully (ND), defeated Schulze-Filer (D), 6-2, 6-2; Samson-Griffin (ND), defeated Wood-Buchstaber (ND), 6-1, 6-0.	.
Indiana	•
Che
ed
Singles: Samson (ND), defeated Kaminski 6-1, 6-4; Evert (ND), defeated Manis (I), 6-2 : Tully (ND), defeated Hunter (I), 6-0, Griffin (ND), defeated Dyer (I), 6-1, 6-1.
iy -■
.vl
(I). ‘ 6-2, 6-0;
Doubles: Evert-Samson (ND), defeated Kaminski-Manis (I), 6-2, 6-4; Tully-Guchstaber (ND), defeated Huntei-Dyer (I), 6-2, 6-0.
The Notre Dame baseball nine snapped its five game losing streak by whipping Western Michigan, 3-1, last Saturday and annexed another win in beating Bunker Hill Naval Station on Sunday, 5-4. The first game of the Bronco series played last Friday opened the home season only to a dismal 8-5 score, the locals being on the short end.	'
The home season opener was played in the slow time of two hours' and 40 minutes, most of which was consumed by slipshod base-running and clumsy errors. There were 13 miscues to keep up with the total run production of the game, nine bases on balls, two wild pitches, and 20 men left stranded on the sacks, Notre Dame winning top honors in this department with 14. Even Jake Kline added jest to the late afternoon contest when he abandoned his complacent attitude in the dugout and strode out to home plate to have a verbal -tussle with the nonplussed umpire—a la Jimmy Dykes or Leo Durocher.
Bill Martin, loser in his last three starts, was on the mound for the Irish and stayed around until the eighth when Lammers took over the fruitless chore. Martin had allowed six runs on eight hits with errors helping the Western Michigan boys along. The Broncos got off to a 3-0 lead by the fourth, but Notre Dame passed them, 4-3, in their half of the fifth. The opposition produced five runs in the next three innings to win the game.
Break the Ice
. Coming out of a five game losing streak, there was a more jubilant attitude as an aftermath of Saturday’s second and finale with the Broncos on the Cartier ' Field sod, Jake Kline’s boys winning, 3-1. There was a better brand of ball played on Saturday as compared with the buffoonery of the previous afternoon. Joe Zieminski’s three hit pitching gave Notre Dame a split in the two game series and brought the season up to a .500 caliber of play. .Joe’s sinker ball had the Broncos swishing air to the tune of ten strikeouts, and two of the three hits off of him were too puny to be handled in time for put-out, the only solid hit being a double by Ken Rotman, right-fielder, which was nearly caught by newcomer John Lujack. Mr. Lujack also showed a bit of hitting power at the plate, leading the Irish attack with two singles and a triple in four attempts.	.	.
The Broncos opened the scoring in the second after an Irish error, the only one
of the game, a stolen base, an. infield out and a long fly. The Blue and Gold ■ drove two runs across in their half of the frame, never aagin to be headed-Lujack’s single with one out coupled with third baseman, Ciszscon’s single, an unwise fielder’s choice, a wild pitch and Zieminski’s infield out brought in the duo of tallies. The last and unneeded run of the game came in the eighth when Scarpelli scampered home on Jack Mayo’s double past third.
Above the Middle
Wild with fervor after finally getting out of the slump, the diamond aggregate traveled to Bunker Hill on Sunday, winning a 5-4 decision. They downed the Cadets after subduing a ninth inning outburst in which the fliers came within one run of the Irish on Buddy Gremp’s long triple and a single by Marrone with nobody gone. Paul Lammers, the fourth Notre Dame pitcher of the afternoon, came in the ball game and set the side down without any further trouble, however, it was John Barrett who took credit for the victory.
Notre Dame tallied one run in the first with Carlin scoring on Jack Mayo’s triple. Three in the fifth on four hits and theii' winning run in the seventh on one hit, a pass, and- a sacrifice. Johnny Luj ack’s abbreviated hitting- spree was quelled by Berry, cadet hurler, when he sent John home hitless in four attempts. Len Scarpelli, outside of former Boston Braver Buddy Gremp with his timely triple, captured hitting honors of the day with three for three, including a double.
The Klinemen travel to Iowa City tomorrow.
Sharp hit; easy single
11
Track Team Swamps Depauw, 92 to 39;
Irish Thinlies Capture First Ten Places
The Notre Dame track team bounced back from a defeat at the hands of Great Lakes to swamp the visiting DePauw squad 92-39, on Cartier Field last Saturday. The Irish thinlies had their own way as they captured ten first places. The mile relay team would have made it 11 but it was disqualified after winning by nearly 100 yards. The DePauw outfit was sadly undermanned. In both the mile and two-mile run, they had no entrants.
Frank Martin was a double winner in the mile and 880 yard trips. Joe Kelly took honors in both the shot put and discuss toss. The only other man to win a pair of events was Brad Bennett who sped to victory in the century and 220.
Lujack — Busy Man
Johnny Lujak was a busy man last Saturday. He was playing right field for the Notre Dame baseball team in its encounter with Western Michigan. After the Broncos were retired in the top of the fifth inning, Johnny jogged over, picked up the javelin and tossed it 162 feet to win the event. Returning to the diamond, he blasted a prodigious triple over the left-fielder’s head. In the bottom of the seventh inning, he competed again for the Handymen. Still in his baseball uniform, he cleared 5' 11" in the high jump twice but his loose fitting baseball togs dislodged the bar. Johnny called it a day a few minutes later by slapping
The Golf House—start of many a pleasant afternoon
out a clean single for his third base hit of the afternoon.
Summaries t
Mile run — Won by Martin (ND) ; Wheeler (ND), second; Stupay (ND), third. Time—4:34.5.
120-yard High Hurdles—Won by Hoshtettler (D) : O'Neill (ND), second: Lindahl (ND), third. Time—:17.5.
440-yard Dash—Won by Purcell (ND) ; McCauley (ND), second: Capehart (D), third. Time— :50.4.
100-yard Dash—Won by Bennett (ND) ; Burke (ND), second; Steele (D), third. Time—:10.4.
Shot put—Won by Kelly (ND) ; Sullivan (ND), second ; Ladyko (ND), third. Distance, 45 ft. 9% inches.
Discus Throw—Won by Kelly (ND) ; Quasley (ND), second; Ladyke (ND), third. Distance, 125 ft. 6% inches.
880-yard Run—Won by Martin (ND) : Asmus (D). second: Wares (ND), third. Time, 2:02.4.
Broad Jump—Won by Steele (D) ; Charters (D). second: Crilly (ND), third. Distance, 21 feet, S inches.
220-yard Low Hurdles—Won by O'Neill (ND) ; Lehman (D), second; Patrick (ND), third. Time — :27.S.
220-yard Dash—Won by Bennett (ND) ; Burke, (ND), second; Steele (D), third. Time—:23.2.
Pole Vault—Won by Slocum (D) ; Anderson (ND) and Schneider (ND) tied for second. Height. 11 feet 6 inches.
Two-mile Run—Won by DeWolfe (ND) ; Kiely (ND), second; Wheeler (ND), third. Time 10:27.
High Jump—Won by Laird (D) : Schneider (ND) and Charters (D), tied for second. Height, 5 feet 10 inches.
Javelin throw—Won by Lujack (ND) ; Kon-. dratovich (ND), second; Quasey (ND), third. Distance, 162 feet.
Mile Relay—Won by DePauw (Capehart, Barton, Asmus and Steele.) Notre Dame was disqualified.
Golf Team Wallops Detroit Squad, 18 to 0
“.... and on to Minneapolis and the Golden Gophers is the cry of the Notre Danie golfers this week after having lambasted Detroit University.’s linksmen, 18-0, in a four man team last week-end at luxurious Detroit Country Club.
It seems as though all that the motor city boys could garner in the match was another chapter of experience and a most picturesque view of the surrounding beauty, for there was no hymn of beauty to be found in the humming swing of their clubs. Now that Northwestern, Michigan, and Detroit have gone down in successive matches, although a burning ember still remains from the 8%-916 set-back suffered at the hands of Purdue, there are new laurels to gain and the Fighting Irish golfers have done right well since their opening encounter that has turned some variety of “green golf” into more polished marksmanship.
Bessenfelder High
In blanking the Detroit squad last week, the locals employed a four man team of Capt. Mel Wilke, Jim Bessenfelder, Jack Fitzpatrick, and Bob Terry. Bessenfelder, despite the high wind that played havoc with the greensward during the course of play, came home with a creditable 74 on his card and a smile on his face. A pair of steady 37’s brought about this three over par total on the Detroit course which is marked with a 71 for the round trip.
The singles and best-ball matches were played simultaneously, thereby each man only going 18 holes for his day’s work. Bob Terry also annexed a tidy 37 for the back nine but a 41 on the front half ran his total to 78. Jack Fitzpatrick, who has been playing a good brand of golf during the campaign to date copped his points with a 39 and 40 reaping a 79. Wilke helped the cause with an even 80 to render the Irish his share in the point column.
Summary:		
'	Singles		
King (Detroit) 		.46	46—92
Bessenfelder (ND) 		.37	37—74—3
Ryan (D) 				....	.42	45—87 ’
Fitzpatrick (ND) 		.39	40—79—3
Nowicki (D) 	:...	.43	43—86
Wilke (ND) 			.39	41—80—3
Sadowski (D) 		.43	43—86
Terry (ND) 				.41	37—78—3
Doubles		
King (D) 					.46	46—92
Ryan (D) 	:		.42	45—87
Bessenfelder (ND) .....	.37	37—74
Fitzpatrick (ND) 			.39	40—79—3
Nowicki (D) 		.43	43—86
Sadowski (D)	.43	43—86
Wilke (ND) 				:39	41—80
Terry (ND) 			.41	37—78—3
12
Officers Inaugurate
Tournaments in Rockne
The Naval Officers athletic program, begun some weeks ago, gained momentum, this past week, as the squash and handball tournaments swung into their final brackets.
The first round of the squash tournament showed the following results:
Lieut, (jg) Sprinz drew a bye; Ens. Jablonski defeated Lieut. Yard; Lieut, (jg) White defeated Lieut. Berry; Ens. Cooper defeated Lieut. Clark; Lieut. Braine defeated Ens. Brubaker; Capt. Barry defeated Ens. Duda; Lieut, (jg) Doyle defeated Lieut.-Com. Waage; Ens. Rider drew a bye.
In the second round (quarter finals) of play, the standings showed:
Lieut, (jg) Sprinz defeated Ens. Jablonski; Ens. Cooper defeated Lieut, (jg) White; Capt. Barry defeated Lieut. Braine; Ens. Rider defeated Lieut, (jg) Doyle.
The semi-finals will see Lieut, (jg) Sprinz matched against Ens. Cooper, and Captain Barry opposing Ens. Rider.
Eleven teams entered the Handball Doubles Tournament, and have already approached the quarter finals of play. Team personnel lists the following names:
Teams: 1. Lieut.-Com. Waage and Lieut, (jg) Sprinz; 2. Ens. Schanbacker and Ens. Holekamp; 3, Lieut. Gollnick and Ens. Duda; 4. Ens. Flowers and Ens. Wells; 5, Ens. Remsen and Ens. Seger; 6. Ens. Smith and Ens. Lavidge; 7. Ens. Hood and Ens. Harper; 8. Lieut. Ludlum and Lieut, (jg) Fox; 9. Lieut. Yard and Lieut, (jg) Doyle; 10. Lieut. Braine and Ens. Taylor; 11. Ens. Blair and Ens. MacDonald.
In a spirited Singles Handball tournament, the end of the first round showed that:
Ens. Jablonski defeated Ens. Om (default) ; Ens. Higgins defeated Ens. Jefferson; Ens. Harper defeated Ens. Cooper; Ens. Holekamp defeated Ens. Hood; Ens. Duda defeated Ens. Wells; Lieut. Braine defeated Lieut. Springer; Lieut, (jg) Doyle defeated Ens. Lavidge; Ens. W. C. Smith defeated Ens. J. F. Clark; Ens. Blair, defeated Lieut, (jg) Fox; Ens. Seger, defeated Ens. Millikan; Ens. Schanbacker defeated Ens. Taylor; Ens. MacDonald won from Ens. Remsen on default. .	.	.
Second Round: Ens. Jablonski defeated Ens. Higgins; Ens. Holekamp defeated Ens. Harper; Lieut. Braine defeated Ens. Duda; Ens. Seger defeated Ens. Blair; Ens. Schanbacher defeated Ens. MacDonald.
Campus Softball
The Inter campus Soft Ball league sponsored by the Student Activity Council and run by the Physical Education department is now well under way. Mr. Scannell and his efficient aides, Mr. Maxwell and Mr. Gill Burdick, have drawn up the schedule and posted it in each hall and in prominent places about the campus. Of necessity, it has been decided to make it a sudden-death elimination tournament because there are only twenty actual playing days left, exclusive of weekends and the week prior to exams. It is expected, however, that a new league will be formed from these teams this summer.
Monday, the Electrical Engineers, led by George Charters and paced by the hitting of their able third baseman, Jim Maguire, outhit the Breen-Phillips team in a free scoring contest which ended in their. 21-18 victory.
Exhibiting magnificent form in their first game, the Brownson Greens took the St. Ed’s Blues, 13-6. Comprised almost completely of the big 1944 Freshman football players, this team showed great power at the plate and strong fielding ability. Frank Burke, as well as their capable second baseman were among the standouts.
In Pre-season practice games, Jim Casey’s Sorin Politicians- are yet undefeated. Coleman, Aimes, Thomas, Dempsey and Gillespie are sparking a confident aggregation. They will be met in their first game by the Chemical Engineers, led by Ray Smith and their great pitcher, Jack McAndrews, who threatens serious competition.	'
—Joe Mumane
Critic Finds "Private
Hargrove" Has Appeal
A little more than three years ago, two comedians who were becoming increasingly popular on the radio appeared in a low-budget movie based on army training life. The film made amazing profits and the team of Abbott and Costello became an American institution.- But other than the introduction of the comedians, “Buck Privates” marked the beginning of a flow of “type” pictures from Hollywood that soon became a deluge. There can be little doubt that the movie-going public has reached a near-saturation point in regard to movies based on the adventures and misadventures of the trainee. For that reason it is unfortunate that “See Here, Private Hargrove” could not have been produced two years ago, while the subject was still a novelty and untainted by the profuse variations that have since appeared on that theme.
However, there is a freshness and appeal in this movie that makes it worthy of more notice than many of its predecessors. While of necessity much of the comedy results from situation, there is a wealth of humor in characterization. These are not mere impersonations of what have become familiar types on the American scene, for Pvt. Hargrove is made a definite personality. He is a rookie with a talent for turning his writing into cash, and possessing a strange magnetism for the garbage can detail. (To some, this endless cleaning job of Hargrove’s may seem undue punishment, but this reviewer worked off boot camp misdemeanors by janitoring a corridor, a three flight stairway, and most embarrassing of all, the ladies rest room in the administration building. Scraping G.I. can bottoms is child’s play compared to fishing hair pins out of wash bowl drains.)
It is noteworthy that not one member of the cast is a star, in fact, to many, the only familiar name will- be that of Robert Benchley. The title role has been given to a comparative newcomer, Robert Walker, who has been seen as the sailor in “Bataan,” and as Pierre Curie’s whistling assistant in “Madame Curie.” This is his first feature role, and his work is outstanding. Walker will next be seen with his wife, Jennifer Jones, in . “Since You Went Away.” Hargrove’s pals are not the fictional “true-til-death” friends, but ordinary human beings who tend to irritate on occasion as well as entertain. Keenan Wynn is magnificent as the chiseling, money-conscious Pvt. Mulvehill. A restrained and unflustered style that is sometimes reminiscent of Bob Hope mark him as one of the foremost young comedians on the screen today. His material was excellent, but with less deft handling, the character and his swindling could have seemed obnoxious. Donna Reed, as Hargrove’s girl friend, turns in a performance that would melt the convictions of the most avid womanhater, and Robert Benchley, as her father, contributes one of the film’s choicest moments. _
Marion Hargrove’s book, on which this picture is based, was one of the most successful literary efforts of its type. It became a best-seller and appeared in serial form in many newspapers- If the book’s appeal can serve as a criteria, the movie should be even more popular, for it has a warmth and genuine quality ■ that the book did not attain- Clever adaptation, and superb acting and direction make “See Here, Private Hargrove” fine entertainment, though repetition in less capable hands have made the subject commonplace.	.	-
—Seaman Mitchell Erickson
13
gXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXJP
X X I X
THE GREEN BANNER
BY JIM CASEY
>2xxxxxzxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxS
HERE AND THERE
Sorinites believe that the best investment the University ever made was the purchase of swings for Sorin Hall’s spacious rotunda. Daily, even before breakfast, porch lizards may be seen resting in odd, yet comfortable, positions. Many of the loafers on the evening “swing shift” hail Father Forrestal through his ever-open office window and request to be signed out for “midnights.” The procedure conserves precious energy which can thus be stored up against a final splurge of study, sometime. Yes, sometime! Furthermore, the boys may enjoy the pleasure of a midnight without even leaving the hall.
However, of all the shifts, that at noon receives the heaviest duty. Men have been known to cut themselves out of classes and skip midday meals just to gain tire most advantageous seats for the passing parade. It’s this hour that the “girlies” stroll from their duties in the Main Building and elsewhere on campus, to the cafeteria, and back again. The glunks wouldn’t miss it for the world. One joker was heard to exclaim as a bevy of five went strolling by: “It’s almost as good as Walgreen’s.” And that it is! All we need on the porch now is a coke machine and a “vic.”
ACROSS THE DIXIE
St. Mary’s Seniors entertained guests at a tea dance, last Saturday afternoon.
where civilians outnumbered service men
in ages. . . . Everyone had a gay time,
"Sports Day" brought everyone out at St. Mary's. Photo shows Matilda's eligibility being questioned by a Board of Control. Matilda was a regular for three years on Notre Dame's Dining Hall championship team.
We were present and, to our surprise, enjoyed ourselves completely. The beartraps must have been picked up for the occasion,’because we didn’t step in a one on the way over. Considerate of them, wasn’t it? But then, we had to be in top dancing form. . . . The orchestra played a fine selection of pieces much to our surprise, and the vocalist was excellent considering that fact that he came from South Bend. You might know they would get a male vocalist. . . . The refreshments were excellent. The “girlies” know that we don’t drink—the punch they usually have on hand at their affairs—so iced tea was substituted. Delicious lil’ sandwiches and cookies were served along with it. George Chartres still has a few glued in his pockets. . . . The hall was tastefully decorated with garden trellises which had bevies of roses climbing about them. These were placed at the entrance to the room and around the bandstand. Mixed bouquets of spring flowers were set in tall vases around the walls. It was all very nice— like Hickey’s funeral parlor. The committee must have worked hard. Wonder whose garden they snipped them from. A few of the lads arrived late. “Ace” Purcell and Mike Kiely, had to run in the track meet before putting in an appearance. No, you’re . mistaken; they didn’t arrive all out of breath, or in their shorts and track shoes. . . . The draft boards must have called a weekend truce. We haven’t been at an affair
Mary Theresa, and the rest of the girls are to be congratulated.
WARNING TO GOLFERS
Beware of Father Brennan—he’s complaining of his poor game around the 18-hole route simply to grab you for a bet. . . .
TRIVIA AND SUCH
Ensign Bill Martin had quite a struggle with the terrific heat in the chapel at his wedding, last week-end. Maybe he was just beginning to realize the entanglement he was getting into. . . . Ray Morgan refuses to leave the hall on Saturday nights until he’s heard the last strains of hill-billy music over the radio. . . . The walls in Bergin’s room had to be replastered. We said “the walls.” . . . Ensign Bill O’Connor visited here after being commissioned at Tower Hall, recently. . . . ’Tis said that Johnny Homan’s boisterous laughter was shaking the Progress Club last Saturday. If we know John, he could do it without the aid of laughter. . . . “Rocky” Sullivan has taken to bicycle riding. You can see him any day in town, trying to compete with the South Bend Cab company. . . . Don’t you think that Bill O’Connell could stand a haircut? ... St. Mary’s gals and Notre Dame guys got together on several picnics, last Sunday. ... On their return, who was the joker who went swimming in the pond with his clothes on? . . . Herb Coleman asked us to advertise in his behalf for a: date. Give him a break, will you, girls? He’s really serious. . . . Creighty Miller is going to burn up—we’re not going to mention the goof in the column this week.......It’s the truth, Marguerite Varga does do some work over in her office. . . . It’s generally believed that when the time comes, Jim Kane will be in the best shape of all the lawyers to pass his bar exams.
SPRING HOUSECLEANING
Now that we are settled in our new editorial offices, we are thinking seriously of spring-housecleaning, possibly interior decorating, too. We’re not too sharp at this art, and may need some help, possibly a feminine suggestion. To accomplish this, we could call in the Waves from across the hall. If they should be asked to tell us. what shades our walls; should be trimmed in, etc., we know darn, well that their retort would be to ask us to please wash the windows so that they would know what color the walls are now. Rather than resort to manual labor, we are thinking seriously
(Continued on page 19)
14
By SEAMAN JOHN J. CAHILL
This week’s interview covers another of the Fleet Men who managed to beat the axe at the end of last semester, Harrison S. Campbell. He first saw the dark of night in the wild and wooly west. Lincoln, Nebr. is west, isn’t it?
Another of the reserves who came in before their worth was realized, he went to a combat boot camp and Radio Operator’s School at the Naval Armbry in Indianapolis. From there he was assigned to the transfer pool at Norfolk, and drew assignment to the U. S. S. Milwaukee proceeding there by the transport Chaumont. His tour of duty on the “Milly” ran only six months, and then he was transferred to the flagship of Destroyer Squadron 9, the “Stinky” Davis.
The “Stinky” made many trips back and forth between here and there, and other points just over the horizon, with one of its most memorable trips being one when she criss-crossed the Equator for a couple of thousand miles. In addition to that, he has made 40 crossings of the “Line” on regular trips, which makes him the champ “Shellback” in these parts. From the Davis, he went to the Patoka, an escort tender. From there he went to a nice soft berth which he more than deserved; shore duty at Recife, Brazil.
His opinion is that Rio is a swell town, and the beach at Copacabana is unsurpassed for beauty by any other in the world. His tours of duty aboard the various ships took him into the North -Atlantic on occasion. This article is rather hampered in that the most exciting and interesting of his cruises were in the campaign against blockade-runners and subs, on which strict censorship still prevails.
One of the highlights of his naval career was a tour of duty on a Brazilian battleship, which resulted in a personal letter of citation from the Brazilian Navy.
He made the almost fatal mistake of resisting the advances of the shellbacks while still a pollywog, and found himself relentlessly persecuted. Standing on the fantail, and- singing loudly,- if not tunefully, till his pipes needed replating, and being imprisoned in the stocks for hours at a time were only part of his punishment. But, why should we let you
other fellows know what you are in for?
Before he sweated in V-12, he was a radioman, first class, and a first class first class, who could beat it out with the best of them. At present, he is credited with advanced standing for his prenavy time at the University of Nebraska, and is classified as a deck candidate. '
Commerce Forum Meets
On Tuesday evening, May 16, the Commerce Forum held a general discussion meeting in the Rockne Memorial lounge.
Utilizing a new method, Bill Fitzgerald presented his talk in the form of a series of perplexing questions concerning our relationship to Great Britain in this war. Mr. Fitzgerald fulfilled through his paper one of his class requirements and presented one of the most provocative addresses the Forum had heard to date.
In his talk, entitled “Are We Fighting for the British Empire,” the speaker proposed three important questions for discussion: Is this our fight? Could we exist without the Empire? What will we get out of this war?
After a lively discussion, Forum President Joe Murnane presided over the regular business meeting.
"L Sea" Fever
(A parody after Masefield; long after) I must go down to the seas at once,
To a most crowded sea and sky,
And all I ask is an L.C.T.
Or p’raps an L.C.I.,
And the wheel’s kick and Diesel’s purr A goodly speed making,
And a gray beach on the port bow And no dawn breaking.
I must go down to the seas at once, For the call of a night sea ride
Is Jacob’s call and King’s call
And may not be denied;
And all I ask is a wind-less night
With the clouds not flying,
And sailor’s luck will see us through With all hands trying.
I must go down to the seas at once To a sunny strand or ice,
Not in Jones’ way or Dewey’s way, But for me it will suffice;
And all I ask is to swap my yarn
With a fellow amphib rover, And a long time with a lovely girl When this damned war’s over!
—Midshipman George F. Riggins, USNR
KNOW YOUR NAVY (Continued from page 7) swallow tailed pennant or flag. (See flag and pennant).
Bust—To reduce in rate. (Slang). .
Cabin—The	captain’s or admiral’s
quarters.
Call away—To summon a boat’s crew by a bugle or boatswain’s pipe.
Camel—A wooden float placed between a ship and a dock for fending.
Capstan—A vertical drum or barrel op-• erated by a steam engine and used for handling heavy anchor chains, heavy hawsers, etc.
Carry away—To break or tear loose.
Carry on—A command meaning to resume work or continue that which was in progress.
Cast off—To let go.
Caulk (cork) off—Sleep, especially in the day time, (slang)
Chafing gear—A guard of canvas or. rope around spars or rigging to prevent chafing (rubbing).
Chains—The station for the leadsman.
Charley Noble—Galley smokestack.
Check—To ease off gradually; to keep a strain on a- line but to slack it to avoid parting.
Chock—A heavy wooden or metal fitting secured on deck or dock, with jaws to give a fair lead to lines or cables.
Christening a ship — Ceremony at launching.
Clamp down—To wet and swab down, as a deck in hot weather.
Cleat—A fitting of wood or metal with horns used for securing lines.’
Coaming—The raised collar about deck openings which prevents water from washing within them.
Colors—The national ensign; also the ceremony of raising or lowering the colors.
NIX
VITAMINS
HIGH-POTENCY TABLETS
VITAMINS A-D-Bt-B2 (G)-C-B6
E-Niacm-Calcium Pantothenate
As Dietary Supplement ONE TABLET A-DAY Will Supply the Full Daily Minimum Adult Requirement of the Vitamins of Which the Requirements Are Established.
Each small Nine-Vitamin Tablet Contains—
AS MUCH “A” as 4 Pints Whole Milk
AS MUCH “D” as 1 lb. of Butter
AS MUCH “O’ as 2 ozs. Orange Juice
AS MUCH “Bi” as 35 ozs. Raw Cabbage
AS MUCH “B-”
FOR ADULTS
OR CHILDREN
* as 40 ozs. Raw Green Beans
AS MUCH “Be’* as 30 Grs. Brewer’s Yeast AS MUCH NIACIN as lb. Lean Meat AS MUCH CALCIUM PANTOTHENATE
as 150 Gms. Carrots
AS MUCH “E” as In 5 mgm. wheat germ oil
90 TABLETSE™*3.50
15
"MANEUVERS" (Continued from, .page 5) the committee is taking no precautions to insure the procrastinators adequate housing facilities. The committee will feel fully compensated for its efforts if the trainees’ guests do not abuse the privileges of using the private homes.
' Larry Smith
Final Lap is Tea Dance
Closing the gala “Weekend Maneuvers” will be the 14 mile Hike Dance at the Indiana Club. This is the only one of the events scheduled for that weekend which is not a stupendous, glamorous affair. . . .No, just a good informal get-together before the Heart Beat boards the train back home.
Not everyone who attends the ball will attend the tea dance. As a matter of fact there wouldn’t be room for this terrific number, but, it is expected that especially those with out-of-town dates will drop around for a dance or two, a perfect closing to a Great Weekend.
—Joe Zieminski
Protestant Services
Plans have been made whereby the Protestant Churches of South Bend are setting aside the Services of Sunday Morning May 28, to recognize Memorial Day. The purpose of the Special Services is for the benefit of the V-12 men of Notre Dame who will be having their “Week-end Maneuvers” and would like to take their guests to church. This would also give them a more convenient chance to recognize Memorial Day since the men will be attending classes all day May 30.
The Council of United Churches of South Bend has made every possible preparation to give the V-12 trainees a more convenient and better opportunity to take their dates for the “Weekend Maneuvers” to church. Each Protestant Church of South Bend has reserved a section of seats for the Service men and their guests. The churches are sending out to each Navy man a bulletin giving all details of the special arrangements being made by the churches. Included in this bulletin will be a list of the Protestant churches of South Bend with complete addresses and time of Services to be held Sunday May 28. Be sure to listen to your radio for announcements. Watch the South Bend Tribune for information. Keep an eye on your bulletin boards for details.
This special program given by the Churches will round out your “Weekend Maneuvers.” It will fit in perfectly with the Dance on Friday night, the Review Saturday morning, the Picnic Saturday afternoon, and the Tea Dance Sunday afternoon.
—Clinton E. Johnson
16
Stars and Stripes" Show
BY ARTHUR L. WAGNER
The “Stars and Stripes” radio show, sponsored by the Studebaker Corporation, plays host to service men and women every Saturday evening at the Service Center of South Bend. Under the new program, in operation since April 8, prizes ranging from $7.50 to $12.50 in war stamps are given to each participant.
Seaman Clark at his piano
On last Saturday’s broadcast “stars” Midshipman Veal Holliday sang; Apprentice Seaman Mathew Dranchak played the violin; Apprenticeman Seaman John Clark played the piano; and Apprenticeman Seaman Bob “Red” Coyle, Apprentice Seaman Robert Shaul and Private First Class Joseph Routsaw were quizzees.
The “stars” and “stripes” appearing on the show, since the new arrangements have been in effect, were the following. (Those appearing as “stars” are indicated by an asterisk.). •
Midshipman Parker Baum, *Midship-man Harold Shipp, *A/S James Mazar, Pvt. Tom Shanahan (Marine), Pvt. Sam Unschuld (Marine), Pvt. Frank Ama-toi (Marine).
*A/S Frank Dragoun, *A/S George Bender, *A/S Ray Kopituk, Midshipman Charley Evins, Jr., *A/S Tom Brownell.
Pvt. Norm Patton, A/S Ed Nelson, A/S John Patrick Poxon, *A/S Casey Snyder, *Yeoman Joan Brown, *A/S Roy Lang, Pvt. Robert Mendt, A/S Edward Hannah, A/S Rome Harteman.
*Midshipman Bernard D. Ratshin, ♦Midshipman Edward R. Golden, * James Masterson, *A/S Al Leake,
’A/S Gabe Mavigliano, A/S Jack R. Hansen, *S2/C Joan Brown, A/S Foster R. Freeman, *Pvt. Louis Wallace (Marine) .
A/S Rudolph Lopez, SK3/C Mary King, *A/S Rome Hartman, Ray Leon-berger (Marine), A/S David Van Harlingen, *A/S Salvadore Perez, Pvt. Jerry Greenberg (Marine).
wPvt. Roland Larson, ’A/S Donald Benson, *Pvt. John A. Strandberg (Marine), *A/S Fred Earley, *A/S Earl Dahlstrom.
*A/S Russell Muszynski, *Midship-man Don Wood, A/S Edward Hannah, *A/S Kenneth Sumner, *Storekeeper 2/C Carl Phillips, A/S Arthur Buelow, Pvt. John Strubbe.
’( OFFICER'S - PAK
Navy or Khaki Weight under 6 Pounds
$21.30
(Tax included)
Also available at I. B. SIMPSON, Inc. 205 N. Main St.
Carnes necessary uniforms and accessories.
NAME IN GOLD FREE
Rintzsch
Michigan and Colfax At a Notre Dame Bus Stop
Han

J
1
Marine Murmurs
QniniiiiuiuuKiuiuuiKiiiiuiiiiiuiiiiiiuinfiiiKinuxinuiiimE WE HEAR
—that a certain chief isn’t too well pleased with the swimming facilities offered here at N.D. In fact it has been thrown around a bit that he is now enjoying his Saturday night dips at a spot closer to the downtown section of South Bend.
—that there is a one-way trip to the West now open to all those who are interested and all those who weren’t interested in those things they call text books. The exact date of departure is unknown, but if you are interested or think you are interested, don’t worry over it—the Captain will let you know! —that our good Uncle Sam doesn’t consider us a part of the armed forces or else he doesn’t think Notre Dame is much of a battlefield (little does he know!). Anyway according to a recent station memorandum our “Tour” put in here under the Golden Dome doesn’t count when it comes around to the dishing out of the mustering out pay. Whether this means we aren’t a part
of the armed forces or what, we’ll guess with you, but if not we’ve sure been having fun kidding ourselves.
—that Sgt. King has now left us for Portsmouth, Va., where he will enter Sea School. Sgt. King will long be remembered as one of the best D.I.’s on the campus and his “awn-up-reap” will be sorely missed.
—that Chuck Arnesson now a PFC. was a visitor in Cavanaugh last Monday. Chuck has just finished boot camp and was on his way home for a short furlough before reporting to Quantico for OCS. Reporting with him are other former N.D. boys. Here’s wishing Chuck and all the rest smooth sailing at Quantico.
BOUQUET AND BOO-QUET
OF THE WEEK
The bouquet of the week to those Marines who give up practically all their free time and many of their liberties to go out for athletics. To you, who uphold the fighting spirit of the corps in athletics, the best in the house!
The Boo-quet of the week to those “yardbirds” who didn’t buy their V-12 Ball tickets when they should have and are now crying out their eyes about the unfairness and exclusiveness of the Ball.
FROM THE COMPANIES
ARNOLD, Pvt. Charles Adrien Ar-nold USMCR, is the monicker attached to the boy with the bandaged nose. It seems as though “Charley” has had nothing but misery here cf late and all brought on by a left hand. First it was his left-handed opponent in the Bengal Bouts who entertained “Charley” for three gruelling rounds. Then it was Sgt. Santo’s left hand which set his nose going three different ways at the same time while playing handball.
BERNIE METER is having a little trouble with these surprise 7:30 musters. Last. Sunday Bernie had the misfortune of being caught literally with his pants down. And in the hurry and hub-bub to make the formation, he grabbed the first hunk of green he could get- his hands on with the result he appeared in ranks with drawers that would be small on The Greek.
COINCIDENCE? Well, that “A. B.” Sklare’s explanation for carrying his I.D. card around ’ with him 17 hours after liberty expired. If it hadn’t been for Mr. Banashek’s investigation at Monday’s noon chow formation Sklare might still be innocently carrying his I.D; with him. Or is our friend Skiear so innocent?
Have a Coca-Cola = Eto Zdorovo
(HOW GRAND!)
...or how to make foreign flyers your friends
To visiting Russian and British Allies, the good old American invitation Have a “Coke” says We’re with you. And in your home, there’s no finer welcome to friends than Coca-Cola from your own refrigerator. Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes,—has become a symbol of democratic friendliness to people around the globe.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
17
BLUE RIBBON TOWN
Up at Marquette University where beer is still beer even though the co-eds have assumed power, there is an aspiring group of Thespians known to every Hilltopper as the Marquette Players.
Possessing, perhaps, a two-fold purpose which consists in discovering and moulding the green student into a future Barrymore besides providing a variety of entertainment for the student body, this group has been particularly instrumental in sustaining the morale of those students now in service. This latter function is performed by keeping files on the whereabouts of each service man and if by chance a furlough can be had, the group plans some sort of party in the way of a reception.
THE CASE HISTORY OF	■
ONE MAN'S ROMANCE
Dear Mr. Smith,
Dear Ray,
Ray dear,
Dearest Ray,
You Wonderful Man,
My own, own sweetheart,
You wonderful man,
Dearest Ray,
Ray dear,
underground” without ever leaving the campus. Believed to be the only on-campus mine in the country, the campus mine is complete in every detail—except for ore. Tunnels were built under the’ supervision of a veteran miner so that Utah students would have more than a mere “book knowledge” of mining. They learn by practice how to map out ore deposits, excavate, timber and ventilate a mine.
SLUMMING
“Here comes the parade. Where’s Aunty?”
“She’s upstairs, waving her hair.” “Goodness, can’t we afford a flag?”
IT NEVER FAILS
Angry Father: “What do you mean by bringing my daughter home at 5 o’clock in the morning?”
Mild Suitor: “Well, I have to be at work by seven.”—Toiler
AND FINALLY
Freshman (finishing a letter) : “I’d send you that five I owe you but I’ve already sealed the letter.”
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Dear Ray
Dear Mr. Smith.	-
HOW ABOUT IT
Dr. Hugh Robinson who did medical work in China for 16 years, was captured by the Japanese after the bombing of Manila in December 1941 and recently returned to the United States on an exchange ship. .He described the university where they were imprisoned as a city with hospitalization, educational, sanitation, recreational, business, and restaurant facilities under the direction of more than 5,000 prisoners from Allied nations.
—Boston University Neios
WHAT WOMEN WON’T DO -
Mother: “So you kissed a sailor last night. Didn’t I. tell you to count ten when you were tempted?”
Daughter: “I did, ma, but there were 11 sailors there.”—Log .
(ACP)	.
Out in Salt Lake City mining engineer students at the University of Utah “go’
To CHICAGO—and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.	’	.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
18
OBSERVATIONS
(Continued from page 9)-our men were bilged at the end of the first month, and 14 of us placed on strict probation. I am proud that not one man from Notre Dame was on the bilgee list, and only two on the probationary list at the end of the first month. The work is hard and extremely thorough, but we like it. Let the men back there know that they have plenty ahead of them if they are supply corps candidates. We have all been told that we are to be assigned to ships in very active duty areas or to foreign shore installations. None of us is to be kept in this country as far as I can tell, and I’m happy about that. Too many of us feared we would be assigned to shore duty in the states, but not so at all.”
1 HOLD THAT HAIRLINE! I
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. . .TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $1.00.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
1900
Est.
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS
E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
Glasses Correctly Fitted
Lay Trustees Meet Today
The annual spring meeting of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University of Notre Dame took place on the University campus today.
Members of the Board include: Byron V. Kanaley of Chicago, president; Peter C. Reilly, Indianapolis, Ind., vice president; C. .Roy McCanna, Burlington, Wis., treasurer; Terence B. Cosgrove, Los Angeles, Calif.; Walter J. Duncan, La Salle, Ill.; Joseph LaFortune, Tulsa, Okla.; E. M. Morris, South Bend, Ind.; John P. Murphy, Cleveland, Ohio; John J. Neeson, Philadelphia, Pa.; Grattan T. Stanford, New York City; John C. Tully, La Grange, Ill.; Frank C. Walker, Postmaster General, New York City; William C. Corbett,. Chicago, Hl.; Edward J. Doyle, Chicago, Ill.; Charles Fisher, Detroit, Mich.; Hon. Joseph P. Kennedy, New York City; Dr. Constantine E. McGuire, Washington, D. C.; John Moody, New York City; John J. O’Brien, South Bend, Ind.; William C. Potter, New York City; I. A. O’Shaughnessy, St. Paul, Minn.; and Bernard J. Voll, South Bend, Ind.
• WORLD WAR H MEMORIAL (Continued from page 3) name. The stations of the cross and the frescoes in the church are the work of Luigi Gregori, Italian artist whom Father Sorin brought from Rome, and who remained at the University for almost 20 years. The artist is best known, perhaps, for his series of Columbian paintings in the Administration Building.
Mr. Kormendi’s first project, executed at the age of 18, was a war memorial for a park in Budapest. He arrived in this country almost five years ago. He and Mrs. Kormendi were on a boat . headed for the United States when war broke out in Europe. They could not return and so remained here, taking steps to become citizens.
SLUMMING WITH SORIN
Dropping in at .George’s, the other evening, we seated ourselves inconspicuously and just listened to the chitchat that buzzed in and out of the various booths. Occasionally we salvaged a few smart expressions and pass them on to ' you for their value.... There was the loud-laughing lad who told of his new acquaintance, a manicurist who was very wealthy. . . . “Yeah, it’s a fact,” he went on, “she makes money hand over fist! Get it?” . . . Another glunk insisted his girl friend had made so many sweaters that she had no more wool to knit-wit. . . . Still another told of his former occupation which he considered a very light one—stuffing bass drums. . . . Then another joker came up with the startling announcement that: “For summer uniforms, the Waves will wear a suit of white lint guaranteed to pick up blue serge.” .. . The conversation went on like this for hours, and someone kept ordering club sandwiches. There wasn’t much to eat for the very good reason that there were about twenty members in the club. . . . Well, we called for some bicarbonate of soda and retired, fully convinced that the Sorin set is truly a crisp crowd. . . . It’s good to see the local Knights getting“ active again. From all indications, that' is the group to watch.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY X-Rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Tel. 4-5661 702 J. M. S. Bldg.. South Bend. Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 Shetland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend. Indiana
| BUY WITH CONFIDENCE E
|	at	E
= South Bend’s Leading Jeweler a
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
GREEN BANNER (Continued from page 14) of putting off the matter for the present.	.	" ■
We didn’t make the ROTO affair. We just couldn’t get in; they wouldn’t honor our mailman’s uniform. We thought it very clever to go disguised as a Confederate soldier (that being the only uni. form in hock downtown). Well, the fellow at the gate didn’t think our idea was. so hot. However, we caught a glimpse of the guests, and they were lovely; generally speaking. As for the men involved—we’ve lived with the lugs so long now that we can’t think of a single interesting thing to say about them. However, Palais decorations reached a new high.
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Shetland Building
L. E. fisher. M.D.	M. J. Thornton. MA).
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE D.D.S.
623-629 Shetland Bldg.
South Bend. Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building
Phone 3-3674
19

/
A
KEY
WORDS TO
r
i
/*
BUY*
Chesterfield £
raise the same kind of tobacco I do and
field too.
Always buys the best
of my tobacco—
“I’m satisfied Chesterfield always
buys the best of my tobacco. My sons
sell their best tobacco to Chester-
Tobacco Farmer, Morrisville, N. C.
MORE SMOKING PLEASURE
NATURE AND SCIENCE in making Chesterfields a better cigarette. Nature, with the farmers’ help, grows the World’s Best Tobaccos.
Science then takes a hand and blends them together in Chesterfield’s Right Combination to give you the cigarette that’s Milder
—that Tastes Better.
ANOTHER


A