
Paid Advertisement 
v I WW @Ai m+ R UA-MWMH tf Si S • 
THE FIRST ANNUAL STUDENTBODYSURVEY 
By now you should have received the first annual survey of the Student Body of Notre Dame if you are one of the lucky 2000 undergraduates to have been randomly selected as a recipient The survey is sponsored by the student senators and its purpose is to better determine the backgrounds, desires, and attitudes of the undergraduate student body. Please take a few moments to fill it out and return it before Friday, November 13. Simply drop it in campus mail (or U.S. Mail if you live off-campus). We thank you in advance for your time and consideration in realizing the importance of this survey. The results of the survey will be available after Thanksgiving. 



Scholastic 
Notre Dame·s Student Magazine November 5, 1987 
News 
6/Monk And Bill In A Day by Maggie Sieger 


Student Life 
10/ Answering The Call by Ed Trifone 


Sports 
14/The Vatican Bowl!? by Steve Megargee 
17/Sportsweek by John Monyak 


Departments Cover 
5/ On Other Campuses Ugly To The Bone 18/Life In The Pits 9/Music: Clandestine Classics by Molly Mahoney by Ann Seifert 
24/ Coming Distractions 21/The Z Force by Rosabelle White by Terry Lynch 
22/Final Word: Keep Your Eyes To Yourself by Dan Gerlach 
Scholastic i1 published waekly during the school year except during examinations and vacation period, at Notre Dame; IN 46556 and printed al The Papen, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The 1ub1cription rate ia $20.00/year and back issues are available $1.00/copy. The opinions expreued ·in Scholaatic are this of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinion• of the entire editorial board of· Scholastic or the Univeraity of Notre Dame, its admini1tration, ,faculty or student body. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited material become the property of Scholutic. Scholastic is repre.ented nationally by CASS Communicatiori1, Inc. 
Cl 1987 Scholastic magazine. All rights ruerved. Reproduction in whole or part without permission is prohibited. 
·-------~--------------------~-----,._, -----· ___,,..,,.., ,--,.-. -,--.. ,.,. ..... ~ -........ ~ -----~--­


Editorial Add a Plus 
A significant minus to Notre Dame's current under­graduate grading system is its lack of plusses. Twenty years ago, the students, faculty and adminis­tration recognized that the straight A, B, C, D and F grading system was inadequate. They replaced it with the sys­tem we have now. In that system, students can earn a solid grade or a minus grade, worth half a grade point less than a pure mark. But there is no room in the system for a grade in between, no room for the "plus" grades that are common at other universities that use the minuses. Adapting the minus grade would add the much needed sense and fairness to Notre Dame's grading scale. 
The lack of consistency in allowing for minus grades but no plusses is inexcusable. All the scale does is artificially lower the undergraduate grade point average, which is then artificially raised by some graduate programs. Other graduate programs and potential employers, however, fail to recognize that the Notre Dame students grade point is lowered in com­parison with other institutions. 
Some students worry about the possibility that faculty members, recognizing the unfairness in the system, currently give students the benefit of the doubt in grades and would give a lesser-valued plus grade instead of concerning them­selves with the difference between, say, an A-and a B+. That fear is unfounded. Faculty will have the most difficulty with a switch to plus grades simply because they will need to adjust their grading system. But that doesn't mean the faculty will revise their grades in order to compensate for past benefits the students may have received. It is just as much of a problem for the faculty to determine the difference between an A-and a B right now. In fact, the professors who recognize the prob­lems with assigning letters to performance appreciate the advantages of a more logical scale. 
Both students and faculty should support the addition of plus grades to the grading scale. Student government is look­ing into proposing a plan to add plus grades to the grading scale, but right now it is looking for concrete evidence of faculty and student support. The student governmment sur­veys distributed this week have a question specifically con­cerned with the plus/minus grade. The student government surveys are a worthwhile project because they give student government an idea of the views.of the Notre Dame students. Student government, will inevitably receive support from stu­dents that they should then take and outline a plan for univer­sity adoption of a plus grade. 
Scholastic 


Have an opinion?

UNIVERSITY HEALTH SERVICES Write a letter to Scholastic. 
EXPANDED PHYSICIAN 
The Editor

HOURS 
Scholastic laFortune Center 
In an effort to better meet your health care needs, the hours in which 
Notre Dame, IN 46556
physicians are available in our outpatient clinic have been expanded as follows: 
Open at 8:00 am Available during the lunch hour On duty from 5:00 pm -8:00 pm 
PLEASE NOTE: Above schedule is Monday-Friday 
HOURS MAY VARY WHEN SCHOOL JS NOT IN SESSION 





This man wrote for us. You can too. 
Visit our offices on the 3rd floor of LaFortune. Or call 239-7569. 
Knute Rockne 
Scholastic 

3 

Week in Distortion/John Griffin 



Club Rex 
An Offer You Can't Refuse 


II right, so sue 
"96 bucks," he said,"sign here." 

me. I live off­
He pricked my finger. I'm a
Let me tell you a story....I 

campus. Big deal. 
was minding my own business 
hemophiliac, ya know? There 

And maybe I am 
when this shifty-looking dude 
was blood everywhere, I needed 

the perfect exam­
hip waders.

with exceedingly long nose hairs 
ple of a starving 
came up to me and said,"Hey 
Still not sold? Let me tell you 

bud, where do you live?" I 
about your potential neighbors.
student living in a burned-out 
Wonderful people. It's a co-op.

said,"I live on campus." And he
basement infested with bats, 
We live on the exchange princi­
mice, and stray dogs. But let me 

said, "Oh, that's too bad because I 
ple: in exchange for your life you 

know this great place." Then he
tell you--I was tricked, 
give them your VCR. But wait
deceived, and misinformed. 

snapped his fingers --next thing 
there's more. Dogs, cats, base­
Mind you, I hold no grudges. 

I knew I was standing in a door­
ball bats (under the bed),
You see, I'm a sucker for adver­

way with this guy asking me if I 
showers in every sleeping room
tisements, beer, and other sick 

wanted a beer. He was 7'5", 
(ask Dick Addis for times), and
plots of marketing. In fact, I fell 

y'know? I didn't want to upset 
neanderthal boogers under every
victim to something very similar 

him so I said, "Yeah, I'll drink 
to what follows: 
piece of furniture. No, you

your beer, if it's free." And it 
never go hungry at Club Rex.
Are you tired of the alcohol 

was. 
policy? Are you tired of people 
Great place I tell you. Great
So he brought me upstairs ­
place.
talking about it? Are you tired of 

there was this room -told me I 
rectors, long walks to the parking 
And it can be yours. Yours!

could stay there. Anyway, this 
lots, strangers speaking in 
Mine! His! And every other pos­

incredible looking Swedish chick 
foreign tongues, people in gen­
sessive adjective or pronoun you

was lying on the bed wearing 
eral? Are you tired of your roo­
can think of! So talk to your

nothing but a teddy. And I said, 
mate watching you dress while 
parents. Say: "Mom, Dad, I'm

"Hey man! I didn't move off­
feigning sleep? I'll bet you are. If 
sick of this fascist on-campus

campus to have some foreigner 
no, you should be an entomolo­
thing. I want a Swedish room­

watch me undress. Ya know? I 
gist. You sick freako. Ah, there 
mate, and I want a parrot that

want a single, can you accommo­
is an alternative: CLUB REX! 
speaks Russian. I want it now!"

date me?" So he said, "Yeah, I 
Yeah babe, we got it all: baby 
Pretty convincing advertise­

can accommodate you." He takes 
pools, four-wheeled cars, 
ment, huh? No one could call

me down to this other room. It 
mousetraps, bats, and neighbors. 
me an idiot for falling prey to

was lavish. It had a whirlpool, 
Just like home. Without your 
such a tightly wound marketing

and a parrot who knew Russian, 
mamma asking you what the bal­
technique, could they? Of

ya know? So I said to myself, "If 
loon is for. Every single solitary 
course not. Anyone and everyone

he can learn one of those Com­
thing and more, that's how much 

munist languages. he can sure ac; 
would have make the same mis­

hell do my PLS homework." So I
Club Rex has to offer. And ·do 
take. Besides, I don't regret it 

said, "I'll take it, how much?"
you know what the best part is? 
one bit.II 

Ugly to the Bone 
Sports Illustrated names Texas Tech the Ugliest Campus in the Country. 

"Ugliest campus in the country," is 
how Sports Illustrated writer Douglas Looney described the campus of Texas Tech. Apparently, Looney stated in a 1984 article that the campus "looks as if they should cancel classes and convert the school into a prison." The incident inspired a brief conflict which quickly -faded. In a recent article Looney revived the dormant skirmish by writing, "three years ago we said ... that Texas Tech has the ugliest campus. We are not too proud to admit our mistakes. . . . this, however, is not one of them." This prompted Bill Dean, executive director of Tech's Ex-Students Association (apparently, graduation is a. mere detail in Texas), to cancel his subscription and advise all 91,000 'ex-students' to do likewise. Putting the matter in perspective, a Tech freshman told the University Daily Kansan, "Generally, I think West Texas is ugly." 

Nineteen grammatical, spelling, and 
typing errors were found in a letter to students at the Universtiy of Illinios from their Depart­ment of Political Science. Michael Mallon, president of Students Concerned About Real Education Deficiencies (SCARED), many stu­dents were bothered by the quality of the letter. George Yu, head of the political science depart­ment, said a corrected version of the letter was made, but. inadvertently, the incorrected copy was sent out." According to the Daily Illini, students will receive a proofread copy and letter of apology from the department. The paper failed to report how many students actually noticed the mistakes. 

Academic dishonesty is a 'way of life' 
for students at Penn State University, according to their very own Weekly Collegian. "Pete", an anonymous student, says cheating is the way he survives academically. "Usually before a big test, my friends and I sit around and plan how we're going to cheat," he said. He added that some of his friends don't just copy one or two answers; they use the test-form method of cheating by copying answers and multiple choice test letters or numbers from the person sitting next to them. The article did not specify · whether or not the cheating extended past the football team. 


Semester grades at Yale won't come 
if the Teaching Assistants don't start getting 
paid on time. Nearly 100 graduate students have 
. come together to form TA Solidarity, a group dedicated to bring Yale's allegedly unfair treat­ment to an end. They demand that Yale issue paychecks every eight days,· in accordance with Connecticut state law; some checks arrive more than two months late. Massive understaffing, low wages, lack of organization, little unifor­mity among departments, and no 'central TA committee are some of the other problems that TA Solidarity wishes to solve. Undergraduates at Yale seem ambivalent to the haunting spectre . of no semester grades. 
EDITED BY DOUG ANDERSON 


Monk and Bill in a Day 
T 
BY MAGGIE SIEGER 

he two most prominent adm.inistrators o~ No!re 
Dame are Umvers1ty 
President Father Edward "Monk" Malloy and Father William Beauchamp, execu­tive vice president. Their daily schedules are varied and usually hectic but each tries to take time every day for prayer and the stu­dents who look to them for leader­ship. 
What time does Father Malloy wake up in the morning? "That's the wrong end, ask. what time do I get to sleep," he said. "I get to bed on the average at 3 a.m., some­times later, sometimes earlier. I get up at 9:30, 10, 7, depending on what I have to do that day." 
Father Malloy spends his days in meetings, travelling, giving speeches, entertaining, praying and playing "Monk Hoops" --but not all at once and not all in one day. When he is on campus, he will see about 25 people per day in his office. If he travels, it may be just for the work day, or it may be overnight. "I have an erratic schedule. I don't have defined working hours." he said. "I try and be here (at Notre Dame) as much as possible; my travelling is periodic. I stayed home in Sep­tember around the inauguration, so I've been gone a lot this month." 
Malloy visited 15 cities last month. Houston, New York and Nashville were three. He gives 
talks, v~sits Notre Dame Clubs and high schools, attends fund raisers and meets with editorial boards of newspapers in his travels. "I gave a talk to a group of nurses on eth­ics and nursing, one on ethics and law to lawyers in Houston. I met with the Catholic Press Associa­tion in Ft. Wayne (In.) and attended the inauguration of the new Indiana University president," said Father Malloy. He said his meetings with newspaper 
.';: :"tr,.i.>i1~~•rt.···\&~~wr~iffii 
::~,~ ~t~,f~~½C~~~~~:J 

qoards are so that they can get to know him and how he thinks. 
The biggest change in Father Malloy's life since assuming the presidency of the University is "everyone wants me to go where they are," he said. "I try to be as available as I can, but I say 'no'. I have liturgical responsibilities at Sacred Heart, Sorin and the Grotto and I have general meetings with the administrative unit of the University every week. I also entertain different groups at every home football game --that's the whole weekend." 
Prayer, exercise and availability to students are the three things Father Malloy has tried to keep constant. He has only missed the twice-weekly "Monk Hoops" ses­sions once this year. "Monday and Wednesday at 10:15 I'm there and play with anyone who shows up. I like to work .in my room as much as possible, combining work with being available to students. I hang my sign (in his room in Sorin Hall) and they come," he said. "I plan to stay in Sorin, why should I leave?" 
Father Beauchamp said the big­gest change in his life is not teach­ing. "I miss that contact with stu-
.. 


Father Edward Malloy 
dents. I don't feel cut off from 
them because I live in a dorm and 
I do get to interact with the stu­
dents. But, a lot of my contact was 
in the classroom and I'm not part 
of that now," he said. "It's easier 
to answer what's the most stable 
thing: living in the dorm (Alumni 
Hall) . It's invigorating; I enjoy it. 
The plan now is to stay there." 
"I'm gone one or more days a week. Now is a little different. I'm the official representative from the University for the (foot­ball) team so I travel with them. In · the spring, I'll be travelling for the Strategic Moment campaign. We'll have 60 cities, divided among three groups. Then there's 
-Universal Notre Dame Nights." 
"I can't give an average 

number of. people I see in a day. 
I'd like to say I talk to everyone 
who calls or comes by, unless I'm 
tied up with something else. I'll try 
to get back to a person." 
"Some days, it seems like 

hundreds· of people call or stop 
by," said Father Beauchamp's 
secretary, Joan Riggs. "It's prob­
ably between 30 and 40. He sees as many as he can, rarely does he say no. Students, especially, he always sees, unless he's in a meeting." 
Father Beauchamp said he has regular contact with the athletic department. "I keep apprised and talk regularly with (Athletic Director) Dick Rosenthal. I'm meeting with the coaches and teams, but I don't tell coaches how to coach." For himself, Father Beauchamp likes golf and says he can "hold his own in squash and 

racquetball. Once the school year starts, though, my golfing stops. I keep talking about setting aside a regular exercise time but I haven't done it yet." · 
"In addition to our athlectics, I'm the official spokesperson for the University outside Notre Dame. I intend to be active in the NCAA and the CFA." Will he predict which bowl game Notre Dame will be playing in on Janu­ary 1? "No. We could go to any of the major bowls except the Rose Bowl; it's too far away yet to tell," he said. 
Picking a favorite part of his job "Is a very hard question,,.said Father Beauchamp. "Having responsibility for a very important part -the financial side -of a place I love so much means so 
much to me. Being able to chart a course for the future, deciding where we're going and how we'll get there, having an impact on this place. . . . It's not aii egotistical thing, I never dreamed of being an executive vice president of· a university. It's working with the . people, the team, that is exciting." 
"There have been moments that haven't been pleasant, but there's not any .aspect of my job that I d-islike. I do like . some more than others. It's a very complex job; I'm "trying to get a handle on it," he said. 
Fathers Malloy and Beauchamp work together as a team, they meet each week, along · with Provost Timothy O'Meara, to keep informed about what each is doing and confer on the future of Notre Dame. "Most people don't realize that Tim is the second administra­tor of the University, before the executive vice president," said 

Father William Beauchamp 
Father Malloy. "We all work together." If Father Malloy's nick-:­name is "Monk", does Father Beauchamp feel left out without one? "No. I like Bill," he said. II 
THE NOTRE DAME ADVERTISING NETWORK 

We do more than advertising. 
ADWORKS now provides promotional products such as novelty 
items and apparel. Let ADWORKS promote your organization with 
customized t-shirts, rugbies, tumblers, pens, keychains, decals,' or buttons. 
These are just a few of the new products that ADWORKS provides at bulk­
rate prices--they really are cheaper than you may think. 
And we still offer the most efficient and effective advertising 
available to the ND/SMC community. Our Observer and Scholastic rates 
are cheaper than the Observer's and Scholastic's!! 
301 Lafortune • Open daily 2:30-5:30 • Phone# 9-ADW-ORKS 
~­


SUB presents... 

irffiITIP ~IBJAlKJE§IPJE&ffiJE 

··coME AND SEE 


LIP SYNC IL_ I 
PRELIMINARIES 
NORTH QUAD VS. SOUTH QUAD 
Saturday, November 7th 9 p.m. 



Stepan Center 
§ THE HOTTEST NEW BAND1· $$$$$$$$$$$$ PRIZES$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
§ TO SURFACE IN YEARS FRIDAY. NOVEMBER 6TH. 10 P.M. All interested must contact Maura AT THEODORE'S at 239-7757 or 283-274.5
i 

FREE ADMISSION § by Thur. Novembers ..,,_J 

.. 

Music/Ann Seifert 



Clandestine Classics 

ast issue Tim Adams got to brag about · his hometown Chi­cago favorites, so now it's my turn. 
But this time our music lesson is 
going to be about Minneapolis, 
one of the prime spots for new 
musical talent these days. 
Yes, it's true, there is more to Minneapolis than the Twins and snow. There are virtually hundreds of bands around and with over seventy-five places to play each night, they get lots of gigs. It's a good. thing that most places charge no cover fees or I would be penniless by now. 
"So who is so great in Min­nesota?" you ask. Well I could go on and on about those bands which have-already proven them­selves, like The Replacements, Husker Du, Soul Asylum, The Suburbs, and The Wallets. Oh, and of course, Dylan too. 
But I'd like to take this opportunity to tell about some of the lesser known but just as good groups around these days. First off, Run Westy Run. Remember that name, RUN WESTY RUN. Only a 45 out so far with three songs on it, but a new album produced by Peter Buck (R.E.M.) due before Christmas. As one Minneapolis writer wrote about RUN WESTY RUN, "When they're on, they're scary good." This is a perfect description of this out of control punk group. I have seen literally hundreds of bands, but the best concert I have ever seen was by none other 

than local secrets RUN WESTY RUN in 1986. They sell out everywhere. 
Trip Shakespeare is next. This foursome has an album out on Gark Records entitled Apple­head Man and is more pop than punk, but definitely not your top 40 garbage. Trip Shakespeare relies on hysterical lyrics and strong vocals for their unique and accessible sound. Hugely popular·around town, you will all get a chance to see them when they play for the for the first time at Notre Dame at Theodore's on November 6. 
The Ma,gnolias also are a name to look for and go see whenever possible. They have an album out also, called Concrete Pillbox, and it shows a lot of promise and talent. The Magno­lias also drew large crowds wher­ever they play in the Twin Towns. You have to like a band I that has lyrics this cool: "When i you ask me how I'm doin'. Do you really want to know?" 
But wait, there are still more groups. The Blue Hippos burst onto the College scene last April with a self-titled EP. Now 40-40 has been released and received pretty well by people in the know. The band has a fast, tight style indicative of their new songs which sound fantastic. 
Next on the agenda is Suss­man Lawrence, or actually their lead singer Peter Himmelman. He is working on a: solo career but is still a part of the band. Himmelman's first album, This Father's Day, was so good it was picked up by a major label and he was signed to do four more! His second is being released next week and it is titled Genatria. Himmelan possesses a tremen­dously emotional voice and writes songs which abounds with feeling. 


Well, I'm almost through but before I go, I'm going to spew off some of the more promising groups ... The Blue Up, The Jayhawks, The Contras, Breaking Circus, Government Issue, The Law, Boiled In Lead, The Widgets, The Urban Guerrillas, The Clams, The Tanglewoods; Han­over Fist, The Mofos, The Mubla Bugs, RheaValentine . I could go on and on ... ¦ 
9 


•



n wer1n 
the Call 
From novitiate to deaconite Moreau 
Seminary helps a steady stream of men through the nine years that go into the making of a priest 
BY ED TRIFONE 


very Friday before a home football game the Notre Dame foot­ball team spends the night at Moreau Sem­inary. While the 
players are told to temporarily retreat to Moreau for its serenity, its regular residents have received a different type of calling and remain for more than a good night's sleep. 
Located on the edge of campus between the north bank of St Joseph's Lake and Douglas Rd, the seminary is set apart from the rest of campus, allowing for a tranquil environment. Built in 1958, the building is amply designed, hous­ing its own kitchen and dining area, library, gymnasium, three racquetball courts, weight rooms and, most important of all, a 
'"3 
§' 
ti
.. 
3 
'tl 
"' 
~ 
chapel. Because the seminary is so self-contained it remains some­what separate from the overall campus and student body. As a result, few people really know what the Moreau community is all about. 
Run by the Holy Cross Fathers the seminary is home to over 40 young men studying for the priest­hood. Residents come from diverse backgrounds and are in different stages of their training. Scholarships, provided through the joint support of the University and the members of the Indiana province of the Priests of the Holy Cross, are a warded to all candi­dates during the course of their studies. There are six stages of formation to the priesthood at Moreau, typically beginning with the candidate program at Old Col­lege and culminating with ordina-·I tion. 
The development of a man for the priesthood is a long and deli­cate process. In most instances, the procedure takes riine years. The Church is careful about whom it chooses to ordain priests, as a result the road to priesthood is filled with gradual stages of development. 
The six newest members of



.., 

Holy Cross live in the oldest building at Notre Dame, Old Col­lege. Freshmen candidates are pro­vided with an experience of sem­inary !ife as they live, play, and study together in their wooden home which was built in 1843. They follow a regular college course of studies and take part in extracurricular act1v1t1es while receiving spiritual direction and the opportunity to discover if the priesthod is for them. They eat their meals in the dining halls, but have a weekly community dinner where they have various academic and spiritual discussions and are introduced to priests, brothers and seminarians who share their voea-
Seminarians, priests and guests from the Notre Dame com­munity celebrate the Eucharist together. 
tional interests. This family-like atmosphere . allows the freshmen the occasion to get acquainted not only with Notre Dame, but the Holy Cross congregation as well. 
After the initiation year, candi­dates join the program at Moreau itself. Once there, the seminarians · participate in a more intense experience with religious life, including daily morning prayer, evening mass, shared living tasks, 
retreats, and workshops. With the help of a personal spiritual direc­tor and through interaction with staff members, the ten current undergraduate candidates are growing and learning within the community. Undergraduate can­didates are not obligated to live in Moreau. They are free to choose their degree, are encouraged to make friendships outside of the seminary and are expected to take part in four to six hours of volunteer work a week. 
Called the "apostolate", the volunteer service is usually done in cooperation with the Center for Social Concerns. Seminarians work in the South Bend community wi b. 
§" 
t::1 
ID 
3 
'Cl
., 
~ 

other Notre Dame students. 
After graduation candidates take part in a year long program called the novitiate. For members of the Indiana Province of Holy Cross this takes place on 50 acres of land ten miles west of Colorado Springs, Colorado, on the shoulder of Pike's Peak. The novitiate has a dual purpose. It is a year set aside for the fostering of a spiritual life, 
and it develops a sense of religious community living. Upon the com­pletion of the novitiate year, the novice is incorporated into the Congregation of the Holy Cross by taking temporary vows. 
Seminarians then return to Moreau for three years to earn their Master of Divinity degree through Notre Dame's Professional Theology Program. The program includes various courses in Scrip­ture, theology, systematics, liturgy, Church history, ethics, pastoral field education, and min­isterial skills. Not all of the current 32 Master of Divinity stu­dents attended Notre Dame as undergraduates. Those who didn't, became interested in the Holy Cross order through voca­tional literature, not Notre Dame's football tradition. 
Mike Fabry, a first year sem­inarian and graduate of St Norbert's College in Wisconsin said, "Holy Cross is invovled in a wide range of ministries; this allows us the opportunity to do a lot of things, including going into university teaching. That's part of what interested me in my decision. It's not as if we choose (Notre Dame) and put the Holy Cross seminary into it, it's the other way around." "But," adds Notre Dame senior and candidate Byron Stevens, "I'm sure it has brought us a vocation or two." 
The last year spent before being ordained is a type of on the job training in the form of the diacon­ite. This apprenticeship allows the deacons the opportunity to put into practice what they have learned in the classroom. Most live in a parish and are thus able to learn through experience what the lifc of a priest is like. The deacons work first hand with the pastor and the parish team, but they also meet together regularly to reflect on how their education actually enters into the activities of their 

' --~-------­

daily ministry. 

Having been prepared spiritu­aUy, intellectually, and pastorally, the stages of formation to the pri­esthood are completed with ordi­nation. Ordination signifies the 
readiness of the individuals to per­form as priests and is a culmina­tion of their overall seminary training at Moreau. Candidates profess the vows of poverty, celi­bacy, obedience and to live according to the constitutions of the Holy Cross Order. "I think the quality of the candidate is very good and the formation program here leads to a balanced person," said Fr. Drew Christiansen, S.J., a non-staff resident who is a theol­ogy teacher at Notre Dame. 
Fr. Christiansen has chosen to live at Moreau for the last three years and attributed this to the "great spirit of hospitality and community that makes people feel so welcome." 
Community is a big part of life 
1



i~ct)IM!th~1mJtt:t~!tP....
"rarii: here lead •!;

,~~~1il1p~FfBVi!f 
•re;_':.;.,".i.!.-_:·',.:.·:.:,·.·;.·;.••~·.. ·•·•·.•·.··j·:.•.'.:,.e..·.'..1_• ·:_f·.t•··'·••
.. ..d·•.. ..: .. 
..,.,.·:·.·.····.. 
..b.,'.i1Pt
. 
'.::. .. " 1!1:!~;t 
:~i-~:;.:·; <U'.};:; :.···:..-.::.<:_)). '.'.-'.~·;.:\'.~.'.:.:. 
i-fif{h,'..--~--~.fakf:~-: :-,11-nt :_::_:_:-~fr}V:-'.-=­


at Moreau. Weekdays begin with everyone attending a fifteen minute morning prayer at either 
7:15 or 8:15 am. Prayers include Office of the Hours, the tradi­tional morning prayer of the Church, along with psalms and readings. After breakfast 
t ~ 
., ~ ~ 
with


residents attend to their own responsibilities for the day with an informal lunch being served around noon. The community then regroups with the celebration of the Eucharist in the chapel at 
5:30. Mass is the center of life at Moreau ·as it brings the residents together and makes them a cohesive community. 
Dinner, served at 6:00 pm is prepared by University Food Ser­vices but is cleaned up by five residents --both seminarians and 
staff --on a rotating schedule. Just like a family, everyone gets a turn to wash~ rinse and dry. 
Every Thursday is community night in which residents invite guests to share in the mass and dinner as well as the 9:30 lucenarium --a candle light prayer service. Weekends are left free so the seminarians have time to work on their apostolates, studies, or see friends around campus. On Sun­days there is no mass celebrated so that residents can experience dif­ferent forms of worship other than their own at Moreau. However, on Sunday night solemn vesoers take 
place with a third year seminarian 
leading a discussion. 
Moreau is also distinctly known 
for being the home of "Monk 
Hoops". Twice a week residents of 
Sorin Hall, residence of University 
President Fr. Edward ''Monk" 
Malloy, play basketball with the 
former Notre Dame basketball 
player. The seminary's gym~ 
nasium also hosts the men's and 
women's varsity basketball teams 
when their regular practice facili­
ties at the JACC are unavailable 
due to special events. 
Although Moreau Hall may be distant from the rest of the ·I campus, its residents are not. Like other Notre Dame students they're ., enrolled in classes, involved in extracurriculars and avid fans at football games. Their meals are even prepared by the same food 
·service as the rest of the campus. However, in the unlikely event that the seminarians had a food fight, they would do the cJeaning 
up. ¦ 




Not all resumes are created equal. 
Adworks' professional resume service provides each client with personal consultation, flexible formats, and quality stationary to best suit his or her individual career placement needs. What's more, Adworks offers a quick turn-around time, on-the-spot proofing, a convenient location, and very inexpensive resume packages. 
Adworks--our office is in LaFortune, Room 301. We're open from 2:30 to 5:30 Monday through Friday. Call us at 9-ADWORKS (239-6757). 
ADWORKS GIVES YOU MORE. 

ADWeRKS 

THE NOTRE DAME ADVERTISING NETWORK 

EW-1¾ ·f·S ;+g.a,• %4&fa sF 1 :: 3SIG&\INW.ffi £%¥418:&Wfi#ffiZ 4¼6&8dPii&ii?AWWN9i& Gt2Filt56Afiii:lli&Mb44¥ A ,Wiil&PiiW?dH 
,,.--. 
,·. 


LI? 

The Irish better forget about Oranges, Sugar and Cotton for a while Catholic-rival Boston College is on a crusade. 

BY S'(EVE MEGARGEE 

I 
n its last two home vic­tories over Southern Cal and Navy, the Notre Dame football team has played host to guests from the Orange, Sugar, Cotton and Fiesta bowls, among others. But if the Irish expect to compete in any of these New Year's Day bowls, they will have to get a victory in this weekend's "Vatican Bowl." The Irish meet fellow Catholic school Boston College for the first time ever at Notre Dame Stadium at noon on Saturday. And while this game has not been as much on the minds of Notre Dame students as the other bowl games, the Catholics that go to school in the Northeast feel a little differently. 
"I can't believe the interest in this football game," said Irish head coach Lou Holtz. "For the last year, all I've heard about is Boston College-Notre Dame anytime I talk to someone from that part of the country. Based on the requests we've gotten for tickets, I think everyone in New England wants to come to this game. It may not be for the national championship, but you'd never know that from the interest that's been shown." 
The last time the Jesuits met their counterparts of the Holy Cross, Notre Dame slipped past the Golden Eagles, 19-18, in the 1983 Liberty Bowl. It marked the only bowl victory for Notre Dame 
/ 

in the Gerry Faust era and one of the few disappointments in the storybook career of BC quarter­back and 1984 Reisman Trophy winner Doug Flutie. 
Now, a different Flutie is grabbing the headlines in Chestnut Hill. Doug's brother Darren Flutie starts at flanker for BC, and already this season has snagged 36 receptions for 60 I yards and six touchdowns. But Flutic is only J part of a balanced passing attack that also includes junior split end Tom Waddle (38 receptions, 715 yards) and junior quarterback Mike Power ( I 08 completions in 194 attempts, 1760 yards). Power hasn't made fans forget the elder Flutie, as he has drawn the ire of 
many Golden Eagle supporters for throwing as many interceptions (six) as touchdowns. 


Power's basic problem has been the same as that of the entire BC squad -inconsistency. Facing an unusually tough schedule for an Eastern ind.ependent, the Eagles 
· have had a rollercoaster season that would make some amusement parks envious. The Eagles were ranked 19th . · in the nation after whipping T.exas Christian and Temple, then fell back to .500 with consecutive losses to Southern Cal and Penn State. BC came back with close wins over Pitt and Army, but then suffered inexpli­cable losses to mediocre opponents Rutgers and West Virginia. 
The Eagles climbed back to 5-4, however, with a stunning 20­18 triumph over 13th-ranked Tennessee last Saturday. While an injury to Volunteers starting quar­terback Jeff Francis probably con­tributed to the upset, BC showed off a surprisingly successful rush­ing attack en route to its victory. Senior tailback Jim Bell ran for 
177 yards on 39 carries, and fresh­man tailback Tim Frager gained­84 yards on only six carries. In his last two games, Frager has aver­aged over eight yards per carry. 
"I guess ever since Doug Flu~ tie played there, people think of Boston College as a passing team, and they certainly do that well. Power is a very solid quarterback, and Darren Flutie and Tom Wad­dle are impressive receivers," Holtz said. "Yet, last week, they 
The Irish defense has gone all out to boost Notre Dame to its best start since 1980. This time they put the pressure on Navy kicker Ted Fundoukos. 
ran for 343 yards against Tennes­see, so they can hurt you in a lot of ways." 
Of course, Notre Dame also has had its share of success running with the ball. Since sophomore quarterback Tony Rice's first start three weeks ago against Air Force, the Irish tave gained over 350 rushing yards in each of their three games. The running attack has featured the option style of Rice, a multiple back system and a senior-dominated offensive line. 


"(Injured quarterback Terry Andrysiak) passed the ball a little bit more, and we adapted to that," said senior center Chuck Lanza. "Yet now with Tony Rice, we do a lot more running and we adapted to that. We're very versatile up front." 
In last weekend's 56-13 rout of Navy, Rice also proved he could pass the ball effectively, completing three of six passes for 104 yards. That included a 34-yard pass to Reggie Ward for Ward's first catch of the season. The Irish will need more production from the senior split end, as fell ow split ends Pat Terrell and Ray Dumas are listed as questionable for Saturday's contest. 
Under some circumstances, when the· Irish have been in obvi­ous passing situations, Holtz has called on freshman Kent Graham to take the snaps from center. Graham completed five of six passes for 93 yards and a touch­down against Navy and led the Irish to a field goal just before the half against Southern Cal. Holtz 
Notre Dame's .defense had another big day against Navy. Here, Irish cornerback Marv Spence watched Navy quarterback Alton Grizzard's pass (left) and then out leapt Middie receiver Don tiughes for the interception. 
has managed to find playing time for both without starting a quar­terback controversy. "Tony Rice is the number-one quarterback,''. noted Holtz. "I think Kent Gra­ham has an awful lot to contribute. But right now our number-one quarterback is Tony Rice. I can't be more · pleased with Kent or Tony." 
While players like flanker Tim Brown, tailback Mark Green (102 rushing yards against Navy) and Rice all have been major contribu­tors to the offensive unit's success, perhaps no group has helped more than the line. Fifth-year seniors Lanza, Tom Freeman, Tom Rehder, Byron Spruell and sopho­more Jeff Pearson are the starters on the line. "I think you have to give our offensive line a lot of credit for the success we've had the last few weeks," said Holtz. "We've been able to control the line of scrimmage and run the ball well, and that's made it easier for us to break Tony Rice and Kent Graham in as far as throwing the football." 
Rice agrees with Holtz con­cerning the line's success, saying, "I have a lot of respect for the.m 
If I had enol!,gh money, I would 
take them all out to dinner. I 
appreciate them a lot." 
·The Boston College defense, 
which now must control an 
offense that has averaged over 500 
total yards in the last two weeks, 
has looked spectacular at times (a 
13-7 victory over Pitt) and suspect 
at others (a 38-24 loss to Rutgers). 
Senior line backer . Bill 
Continued on page 23 

16 Scholastic 
,·' 
,_ 



sportsweek 
SOCCER The soccer team takes on Marquette tomorrow night at home at 7:30 p.m. The Irish will try to regroup against the Warri­ors after a rough two weeks which saw them fall from the ranks of the unbeaten and go 1 -3. The two-week period started off well with a victory against Depaul, but then fizzled when the team traveled to the West Coast and lost three in a row to Port­land, UCLA, and Sim Diego State. The Portland game started off badly when the Pilots scored twice early on against the Irish. Notre Dame's BRUCE "TIGER" McCOURT scored the· lone goal for the Irish. The soccer team, now 14 -8 -1, will finish off the regular season at home against Ohio State on November 8th. 
HOCKEY 

The hockey team started its season last weekend with two games against Windsor. The Irish and the Lancers split the two games at the JACC, with Notre Dame win­ning Friday night in overtime, 5-4, and then dropping Saturday's game, 9-6. The Lancers held a 8-1 lead early in the third period Friday night before the Irish came back with three goals of their own, two of them scored by sophomore wing BRUCE GUAY. In the overtime period senior TOM MOONEY scored the winning goal with 
1:37 left. 
In Saturday's game it was the Irish who took the lead, 5-4, after the second period, before seeing their lead vanish in a five-goal third period by Windsor. Senior center and captain MIKE McNEILL scored the hat trick for Notre Dame in the eventual 9-6 loss to the Lancers. 
FIELD HOCKEY 

The field hockey team finished a suc­cessful tour of the East Coast over break, going 2-1-1. The Irish tied American in their first game and then beat Catholic, 8­2, in the last _seconds of another game. MINDY BREEN, CHRISTINE GREGORY, and BENET DeBERRY each scored a goal in Notre Dame's brilliant 8-0 shutout of Georgetown. Maryland-Baltimore then ended_ the lri1h winning streak with a 2-0 victory. 
The team returned for its final home game of the season, a match against Calvin. JOANNE MARSHALL scored the only goal of the game to give Notre Dame the win. The field hockey team will finish off the season in Louisville, KY, at the Midwest Regional Tournament tomorrow through Sunday. 
WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
The women's cross country team turned 
in a strong performance over break in the 
Indiana Intercollegiates. The Irish finished 
third overall behind Indiana and Purdue, 
but successfully defended their Little State 
division title. This past weekend the Irish 
placed second at the North Star Conference 
Tournament in Milwaukee. 
VOLLEYBALL 

The volleyball team recorded a 4-3 
record over break including two 8-1 victories over Baylor and Texas A & M. ZANETTE BENNETT led the Irish attack with 20 kill¦ against Baylor and 24 against Texas A & M. KATHY BAKER recorded a season-high 25 kills against Texas A & M. MAUREEEN SHEA added 16 kills against A & M ·and 6 blocks in both contests. The team then suffered another loss at the hands of a nationally~anked opponent, los­ing 8-0 to 7th~anked Nebraska. 
The Irish returned home Saturday to face Wisconsin. Bennett and Shea again led the team offensively along with MARY KAY WALLER, who had 15 kills. Defen­sively, TARYN COLLINS led Notre Dame with 22 digs. The team recorded its 20th win last Friday by defeating Illinois­Chicago. Coming off a 8-1 loss Wednesday to Purdue, Notre Dame defeated Illinois­Chicago soundly, 15-6, 15-9, 8-15, 15-1. 
MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
The men's cross country team moved closer to a shot at the NCAA Champion­ships over break. They finished second in the Indiana Intercollegiates, only 10 points behind winner Indiana. Senior DAN GAR­RETT led the team with a second-place fin­ish. RON MARKEZICH and MIKE O'CONNOR also finished in the top five. 
The Irish then demolished USC 17-41 in a dual meet. Garrett, Markezich, and O'Connor again led the way with PAT KEARNS and RYAN CAHILL also finish­ing in the top six for Notre Dame. The team next competes in the NCAA District 
IV Championships at Bowling Green, OH, on Nov, 14. If the Irish can place in the top three in the Districts, they will qualify for the NCAA Championships. 
SAINT MARY'S TENNIS The Saint Mary's tennis team con­cluded a stellar performance at the State 

Championships on Oc_t. 16-18. The team captured· the District 21 Championship and finished the year at 12-1. JENNIFER BLOCK, ELIZABETH HEINZ, and SARAH MAYER were named to the All­District team, while coach DEB LAVERIE received District Coach of the Year honors. 

SAINT MARY'S SOCCER 

The Saint Mary's soccer team con­cluded its fail schedule this past week. After dropping a 6-0 decision to Michigan State on Oct. 27th, the team defeated lndi-· ana University-South Bend, 4-0. 
Saint Mary's fell to Siena Heights College 2-0 in the fall season finale. 

SAINT MARY'S VOLLEYBALL 

The Saint Mary's volleyball team hosted the Saint Mary's College Invita­tional this past weekend. The Belles lost their first two matches Friday to St. Xavier and Defiance College, but rebounded Satur­day winning two matches from More Col­lege and dropping one to Rosary College. The Belles will compete this Friday in the 
District Tournament in Indianapolis•. 
COMPILED BY JOHN MONYAK . 


BY MOLLY MAHONEY 
Volleyball: a sport that requires more than just physical talent, mental sharpness and intensity. 
A true player must strive to become a synthesis of grace and_ power --a vital member of a sin­gle, efficient body fueled by the current of communication that flows throughout, unifying all parts toward the common goal of victory. 
This style of cooperation car­ried the Notre Dame volleyball team from anonymity to a 33-7 record last year and has pushed it to a 20-7 mark so far this year. Although injuries and moments of weakness have clouded the team's hope of securing a bid to the NCAA Tournament, teamwork has been and will continue to be the key to success for the Irish. Under fourth-year head coach Art Lam­bert, Notre Dame volleyball has made great strides. Yet, as this season has proven, some obstacles still remain on the path to national prominence. 
"We still need to win a big game," says Lambert "We have two matches against (17th-ranked) Western Michigan and we have to 

Life In The Pits 
Despite starting the year with great expectations. head coach Art Lambert and his Irish volleyball team have found the goings tough lately 
win them both to have any chance of getting a bid to the tourna­ment." But this isn't what Lambert considers an impossible goal. "We still have plenty of opportunities to redefine and re-examine our efforts," he says. "With the right attitude we can get right back into the picture again." 

The Irish have struggled this year against nationally-ranked teams. Five of their seven losses came at the hands of Top 20 teams and powerhouses such as Texas and Nebraska. While Lambert admits the schedule, which includes six of the nation's top teams and nine Big Ten schools, >-i has cost the team in terms of wins, s· he's confident it provided his 
0
3 squad with some perspective on its 11 potential. "The team has proven it
.. 
"< can play with the strong teams and this is the first step toward improvement," he notes. "There is no question that this is a better team than last year." . Much of the team's improve­ment can be attributed to the con­sistency displayed by the players this year in working out. The Irish practiced throughout the spring semester, and several players opted to attend summer school in order to hone their game before the official opening of practice in early August Lambert, 
The art of staying cool under adversity. Lambert (above left) has been patient in the midst of difficulty. To offset the loss of some key players, he will rely on veterans like Maureen Shea and Gretchen Kraus (left) 
by nature an intense competitor, demands perfection from his team. A veteran coach of both volleyball and water polo at Stanford, he put his water polo expertise to work as the coach for the 1968 and 1972 United States Olympic teams after coaching the '67 Pan American team to a gold medal. When Notre Dame brought him in four years ago, Lambert arrived expecting success. 
"We need more of what we've been doing --more work, more attention to detail, and more com-• mitment," Lambert says when asked how his team can achieve its goal of an NCAA Tournament bid. This formula for success took shape in the form of grueling practices such as the one which occurred after the team's hard­fought 3-2 defeat to 10th-ranked Kentucky on October 9. The prac­tice took place directly after the loss, and lasted two full hours until 1 a.m. 
Such harsh measures condi­tioned the players to be prepared for anything that might come their way --which is precisely what happened. Early in the season veteran Mary Kay Waller injured her ankle, leaving the Irish without their team leader in hit­ting percentage (.395). The junior middle blocker, who had been ranked fifth in the nation in hit­ting percentage at the time of her injury, missed seven games. 
Just as the team began to gel upon Waller's return, Notre Dame lost another star player to injury. This time outside hitter Kathy Cunningham was the victim, dislo­cating her right shoulder while making a spectacular save against Minnesota. The sophomore, a powerful force at the net, recorded 33 kills in one contest against William & Mary and had been one of the more consistent players defensively for the Irish. 
The injury sidelined Cunningham for the season. 
While the loss of Cunningham, whom Lambert called "a great intangible," · definitely struck a blow to Notre Dame's attack, the Irish have pulled together behind some familiar faces. Lambert and his team now have turned their focus to a core of juniors who have been called upon to carry a greater share of the responsibility. The explosive hitting of outside hitter Zanette Bennett (see story on page 21) and strength of Waller's blocking and hitting have sustained the Irish attack. In addi­tion, Lambert lists a player often overlooked in the press clippings: junior middle blocker Maureen Shea. "Her play ali season long has been very consistent and at times very, very good," he says. 


Other players on whom Lam­bert must rely to carry his club through these trying times are senior Kathy Baker, freshman Colleen Wagner, and junior Whit­ney Shewman. The trio will be counted on heavily to "step in (and) give us the stability we need to maintain our consistency," says Lambert. 
Consistency, however, recently faltered for the Irish in a disap­pointing 3-1 upset loss to Purdue that threatened to spoil any oppor­tunity for an NCAA bid. Although Notre Dame rebounded last Friday by defeating Illinois-Chicago in 
four games, the loss to the Boiler­makers left the squad reeling. "Purdue was definitely a low point in our season," admitted Waller. "We all get down when we lose to such main rivals, especially when it's games that we really should have won." 
I 
n the wake of the Purdue defeat, the squad suffered another setback when it learned that Lambert had suspended sophomore setter Taryn Collins for the remainder of the 

season. Collins, the team's floor general and owner of the career assist record for the Irish, was dis­ciplined for what she viewed as a "poor judgement call"(see inset story). Lambert calmly discussed the circumstances that had forced him to make the unexpected deci­sion. "We all are given choices in life. Sometimes we make the wrong choices but it is all part of our learning experience. Taryn is a great girl and she will still have two great years of volleyball left when she returns." 
The departure of Collins means the setting chores will fall once again to senior Kathy Morin. Morin has lettered each of her three years at Notre Dame and started regularly last season. Once again, however, teamwork on the 
court will be a necessary element if the Irish want to rally over the remainder the campaign. "We are all very good friends and we have to trust each other and believe we can make a big comeback after this loss," says Waller. "We have to overcome any personal, internal problems on the team and let Kathy Morin know she has an important role. It is essential that she knows we have confidence and faith in her and in all the people coming off the bench." 
Other players on the team echo Waller's ideas about the need to preserve team unity and finish the season strong. "It will take confi­dence in one another, talking and knowing what each person is going to do," says Shea. "We have to play more as one than as individu­als because without communica­tion it just doesn't work." 
The 1987 volleyball season, of course, is far from over. Cun­ningham dwells on the fact that regardless of the team's problems, it is "starting to improve and start­ing to play smoothly as a team." She remains optimistic but realis­tic. "We haven't won the big games but we showed we have the caliber to be a top 20 team. We just fell one step short. We are past the turning point in the sea­son --now we just have to go out 

j and win the rest of our games."
a 
t:i That may be easier said than! done with a major obstacle loom­.. ing ahead in the form of two cru­
~ 
cial matches against Western Michigan, one at home on November 3 and one November 1.7 match on the road. 
Notre Dame does have one comfort over the remainder of this campaign.. Six of its final eight games will take place in its home arena, the Pit in the basement of the JACC. The Pit has been a tremendous homecourt advantage with its low ceiling that often sends balls ricocheting back at the heads of unsuspecting players. This feature complements a boisterous crowd which views the action from a distance which gives opponents claustrophobic fits. Still, the climb ahead figures to be a long and dangerous one. The Irish need to win their last seven games to even have a chance of earning a bid for post-season play. So utilizing the unique surround­ings of the Pit, which have helped them win l 7 of their last 19 home matches, will be vital. 11 



Ill 

When Notre Dame needs a kill, it looks to junior hitter Zanette Bennett. 
~ 
BY TERRY LYNCH t 

A ., 
0 
long with the blue e game-to-game program ~ sheets stacked on the 

table outside of the JACC Pit before every home volleyball match, there is a stack of white sheets with a large Z on them; complimentary to every fan who enters. They are Z-Cards, and the instructions that come with them are simple. "HOLD THIS UP EVERY TIME # 12 ZANETTE BENNETT RECORDS A KILL." 
Z. In a way, it's a great bit of irony. While . volleyball has no clock, it's difficult to let your attention stray from the action --a sort of baseball for Type-A per­sonalities. The kill is a volleyball nuance that an astute observer needs to nudge you awake after­wards to say, "Hey, did you see that?" Yet when Zanette Bennett does it for the Notre Dame volley­ball team, she is greeted by the fans with a chorus of "ZZZZZZ" 
and a host of Z-Cards. Why don't her freshman year to 383 last year. they pass these things out before She is currently on a pace that will of the year award again. To top it some of your classes? leave her with 500 before the off, she -::omes back next year. To her opponents, the Z's are North Star Tournament at the end Those Z's are the stuff of North 
nothing to snooze at. Bennett's of the season --a team record. Star Conference coaches' night­numbers since she has arrived on They are the kind of numbers that mares, to say nothing of those of the Pit court have always been almost scream for the North Star non-conference coaches. good, and what's frightening is Conference to give her the player "When I see a little kid holding 




Bennett's trademark kills rose from 144 in her freshman year to 383 last year. She has a team-record 500 kills in her sights this season. 

up a Z in the crowd after I make a 
kill; it's a really good feeling," she 
says. "I feel like I have someone 
looking up to me." While the more 
spontaneous days of homemade 
Z's and the "Z-Corner" at the 
ACC main court have gone bv the. 
wayside, they still abound in the 
Pit. The hope is that a few strong 
years of Zanette Bennett at the 
outside hitter position will take 
Irish volleyball out of its "sleeper" 
status and prove that last year's 
33-7 record was no fluke. With · Bennett constantly improving, it 
just might work. Maybe. 
*** 

It is a Wednesday night at the 
Pit, the kind of night that hopers 
and dreamers don't like to see. The 
Irish just lost to Purdue by a 3-1 
score, and Bennett is talking about 
low points of the Irish season so 
far. "No, this isn't the low point. 
Nebraska was the low point of the 
season. We should have beaten 
them. Had we played like we 
could play, we would have beaten 
them." 

Even so, this night is in the Top 
Five. Head coach Art Lambert 
has stormed off into the locker 
room, preferring not to talk to the 
few writers who are covering the 
match. The loss ran Notre Dame's 
losing streak to Purdue to eight 
without a win, and it didn't help 
that the Boilermakers were ranked 
below the Irish before the match. 
Any hopes for postseason play, 
regardless of the team's 19-7 
record at the time, were effec­
tively dashed. 

"Tonight our whole offense was off," she says. "We've been practicing so much on defense and passing that the offense was no good." Then, realizing that she is the biggest wheel in the offense, she starts in with some reasons for 
her own subpar performance. "Execution wasn't in my mind," she says. "I wasn't intimidated· or anything, but I just didn't feel right. I had one or two bad games that really threw me off." 
On the court, Bennett is the glue that holds the volleyball team together, a fact that is made even more visible with the loss of sophomore outside hitter Kathy Cunningham to injury and the suspension of setter Taryn Collins. Opposing teams don't have to guess who's going to hit the ball when it's set high above the net. 
They just have to stop· it. And Purdue just escaped from the Pit 
» 
~ 
·&'1. 
ci 
~ 
by doing just that. "I've got to get my hitting rhythm back," says a tired Ben­
nett. "We died --that's all I can say. But I'll have a helluva game Friday." 
*** 
When Bennett takes the court, she is conspicuous in her ability to spring to her feet after making mistakes, instead of taking a dramatic moment to stare blankly at the ceiling. She gets up, and invariably slaps the hand of one of her teammates. 
"People look up to me," she says. "Even though I don't get it all the time, I feel like I have to get it going. My total attitude is that you've gotta shake things off, because once I get frustrated, it's all over. You might as well take me out --and I hate sitting on the bench." 
Not that she ever does sit on the bench, though. Bennett gets to 


~­

tl~ Sc+100L 1s +-l€.<-L­
~~ Sffl~T$ 
o<J Sl:N 
ANO A 

SE FoR C~\J 
\00'76 
Wtt ITE 
COTTotJ 
AVAl1.-ABI£ IN SMAL-L, 
Mt.01£Jfv1 1
$10 
L.Al2.G E., t,.,J D f.XTR.A ­



LA~GE... 

P1..vs Af>ALTR.~ $2. Fo~ s.tt,~"'•H, ~ 
o HA~~U~6
CAUf. Q.ES. A1vt> E,. S lo SAl.€S TAX P€~ S-H IR.1 SE.r-.K) G,oo-o C.l-\E.C.lc:. OR. MONE.)' oRT,e.e -ro: 
\.\fE. \N \.\f.Ll.. Ro. So)( 36E61f l.l>S 4.AJGEce,c:f!i-b 
q 

In fact, she likes to use some applied psychology on her opponents. "I like to read people's faces. When I see a girl who has a weak spot, I'll pick on her. If she blocks me, I say, 'I'll get you next time.' 
"I broke a girl this season," Bennett says matter-of-factly. "It was in the Minnesota game, and she was one of their better hitters, too. I just picked on her until she broke. [Assistant Coachl Patti [Hagemeyer] saw it when I came over to the bench and she said, 'Z! I can't believe you.' But she could 
not hit after I broke her down -I loved it. 
"That's my attitude," Bennett continues. "My mother always tells me that I'll never get married because I have that attitude." Maybe you will, Z, but just warn the guy you marry that the fights aren't going to be fair. And damned if you're going to lose. ¦ 
Crusade 
Continued from page 16 

Romanowski (6-3, 228 pounds) leads the Golden Eagle defensive corps. "Romanowski has been a dominating linebacker, and (defensive end Bill) Thompson and (linebacker John) Galvin look very impressive on film," says Holtz. "They can run and throw, they've got big, physical people, and they play very aggressively. They rem­ind you a little bit of Pitt in terms of their personnel and the way they play." 
With Notre Dame and a trip to Syracuse remaining on its schedule, BC knows it needs to pull at least one upset to e·nd the season above .500. If either the Irish or the Golden Eagles are to play in the bowl they desire, a "Vatican Bowl" championship will be a necessity. II 
make her favorite play enough times in a match that frustration rarely overcomes fun. Her favorite play? The kill, of course. But not just any kind of kill. "My favorite play is when I hit a ball --really short --to a spot that is the most impossible spot on the court. Sometimes I put the ball over and say, 'dig it,' as a kind of challenge. And when they can't, it's a great feeling. That's why I don't take drugs --that's my natural high." 
Bennett, a psychology major, isn't one to let negatives get to her. 
... ...i\~4;~ti;i~}'1 ~µ{ !;e 

Hijall.?f>V~r::an~> s~i,•·.fclig•··i'f1 
'·~·•··•••ii~,•••pr~,~d ... gt :it~~.c1.ll~.r~~­
.f'nd wh~.11 ~~~y can},•··~!I~ '·Igr~<ttf~eli~g.; ] .•~a.r~·••.vv~y •••·•·••1>q~.~,~ !~~~/~r~.~~•··•··••~·ih<:'.r~
•111y 11c1tural high.'' . . . . .... 
+22:~tttit~·•·a~......~tt'··, 
November 5, 1987 
23 
______j 

Coming Distractions November S -12 


THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5 
FILMS 
"Crocodile Dundee" 
Engineering Auditorium 
7, 9:30, 12 p.m. 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6 
FILMS 
"Crimes of the Heart" 
Engineering Auditorium 
7, 9:30, 12 p.m. 
"The Color of Money" 
Annenberg Auditorium 
7:30, 9:45 p.m. 
CHICAGO 
CONCERTS 
That Petrol Emotion November 6 Cabaret Metro 3730 N. Clark 
7:30 p.m. 
The Way Moves Bob Marsh November 5 Park West 322 W. Armitage Bp.m. 

I 
I 
The Dancing Noodles Motown Dance Party November 6 
A.J. Flaherty's 2531 W. 95th., Evergreen Park, IL 7p.m. 
CONCERTS 
Notre Dame Glee Club Fall Concert Washington Hall 
8:15 p.m. 
SPECIAL EVENTS 
Pep Rally Stepan Center 7p.m. 
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 7 
FILMS 
"Crimes of the Heart" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9:30, 12 p.m. 
R.E.M. Work Tour UIC Pavilion November 5 Harrison & Racine 
7:30 p.m. 
THEATRE 
Jeeves Takes Charge Royal-George Theatre November 5-a 1641 N. Halsted November 5,6 Bp.m. November 7 61 9.p.m. November 8 3p.m. $16.50-$19.50 
SPORTS 
Football Notre Dame vs. Boston College {Home) 12 p.m. {Tentative) 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9 
FILMS 
"The Most Dangerous Game" 
Annenberg Auditorium 
7p.m. 
"The Hustler" 
Annenberg Auditorium 
9p.m. 
My Fair Lady Marriot's Lincolnshire Theatre Route 3l{Milwaukee Ave) Lincolnshire November 5-January 16 Wednesday-Friday 8:30 p.m. S.aturday 5:30, 9 p.m. Sunday 7 p.m. 
MICHIANA 
MOVIES 
TOWN AND COUNTRY 
"Susped" 7:10 and 9:40 "Fatal Attraction" 7, 9:30 p.m. "Baby Boom" 7:10, 9:40 p.m. 

1.\ 
BY ROSABELLE WHITE 


TUESDAY, 1',OVEMBER 10 
FILMS 
"La Chinoise" 
Annenberg Auditorium 
7p.m. 
"Adventure of Buckaroo Bonzai" Annenberg Auditorium 
9:30 p.m. 

You HAVE' BEEN fOO~ /Iv A GH<.L1s DoRM AFTEI< PARi1=-rAI-s f 
A fiR~ oFF9JS£ wi1-L COST You 
A filJ£ oF 45oo_; A SS:01,J't>, ,tIOOO,; 
A TlliRD, -t,i::oc, j AtJD So OtJ •1 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST 
"Pick-Up Artist" 
7:45, 9:45 p.m. 
"Prom Night II" 
7:30, 9:30 p.m. 
"Gothic" 
7:45, 9:45 p.m. 
"Beverly Hills Cop II" 
7:30, 9:30 p.m. . 
"Prince of Darkness" 
7:45, 9:45 p.m. 

WED!'l,ESDAY, NOVEMBER 11 FILMS 
"The Morning After" 
Engineering Auditorium 
7, 9:30, 12 p.m. 
FORUM 
"The Princess Bride" 3:45, 5:45 p.m. "Like Father, Like Son" 7:30, 9:30 p.m. 
Po You HAVE fWY QVGSTlo,v.5 ~/ 
SPECIAL EVENTS 
Book Fair for ND /SMC Scholarships Nov. 11-14 Little Professor Book Center (University Commons) 15% of proceeds will go towards ND /SMC Scholarship Fund 

Y1=Aft/ t-low rriuch does a. 5eo.>01\ ticket cosf-? 
::: 

•...*id~-itjti@E··~~~is·.·MAY 
BE PURCHASED THROUGH: . 


t ~~~~~1i~1i)·~t1~i2····•··•··..i:•••.. ~;~i:(3!,>i•.~~
I p'l'.[~•ttc>.~:(s~t,):l'IQ~'l'.fl... •·> J.·.• ·0u1:t!Wl•Sall:<H-hour · 
•···..,.~·~·aoo•·•b· .Hal" • "d,... .· ··.•..•· ...-·.-.·.··•·•· .. ·.• .....··.····.··l .·.a·...· ..· ··1•..•.h··... ...#•.· .. ·• •. 1·.. on.. .. ;.ft ..·•·•••·-••.•. ..
~.t~ . ... t>: •~~c~ -, -•-~-.. •
+> of''.~o~.~f!X ~if~"~ ig r· .•. •..{.. pcirfonnllllCO·· •ch~uliml.· . 
·. •• ~~~;i~orice~, •p~l'ting ·{SU)V.77-1755 > · ,~~~·•.•11!1d ot~,r•~t~11:tiom> J~ c,o~~,rt IJ.nei .F9t C<>Il}P1ete
l~!}f#TT'tf!~, L. . . . . . ....... co~ in!()nm.tion ·. . . . . 
(3~~)~~~7•.• 

Final Word 



Keep Your Eyes 
To Yourself 


ast spring, the University announced a four­year experiment 

with an honor code 
beginning in the spring semester 1988. Like many other students, I had my doubts about the necessity of such a code and its probability of suc­cess. After much thought and discussion, I am now convinced that an honor code should be implemented at a Catholic university of Notre Dame's caliber, and I have high hopes for its future. 
Notre Dame has always taken pride in its athletic prowess. This pride results 
_mainly from the fact that our athletes actually attend classes, and we do not have to resort to using fast cars and fast women as recruiting tools. Since the begin­ning of Father Ted's presidency, the university has also attained an excellent reputation in academics. Certainly the stan­dards of honesty in -athletlcs should thus be duplicated in the academic sphere as well, in order to take even greater pride in our accomplishments. 
But many professors and students do not like the honor code. Their main concern is not with the principle of the honor code, but with its requirement that "a student having knowledge of an Honor Code violation must inform the instructor of the course." Simply, no one wants to be a tattletale. The Honor Code is not intended to advocate a society of informers. Rather, the Honor Code advocates resoonsi­
bility, -an integral part of the 
BY DAN GERL·ACH 
moral growth that Notre Dame espouses. Should we be responsi­ble for others' actions, as well as our own? Such injustices can­not be tolerated by those who call themselves Christian. As so often is the case, the right way is not always the easiest way. The picture is not as bleak as one might think. Although we do not have an Honor Code now, most students do their own work out of personal pride, rather than fear of being caught and pun­ished for dishonesty. 
Honor Codes do work. Over break I had the opportunity to attend a conference for 23 universities and colleges that have honor codes and concepts. Honor Codes vary widely from school to school, but they all share the common characteristic of student support. Without stu­dent support, the Honor Code becomes nothing more than some dumb rule that will be ignored and fail miserably. Also, Notre Dame's concept of the Honor _Code is far from extreme. Indeed, I have copies of the U. 
S. Military Academy's 40 page monnstrosity and Brigham Young University's "A Matter of Commitment" for you to read if you think Notre Dame is becom­ing an inndoctrination · center by institutinng this experimental
honor code. Stanford, Rice, Virginia-all are distinguished academic institutions where honor codes work well, even without the Catholic heritage that Notre Dame oosseses. 
All I ask is that the Honor Code be given a channce. All freshmen will take some courses under the Honor Code system, so they will be a large factor in determining if it works or not. Freshmen, don't be afraid to call and tell me what is good and bad about the honor code in your classes next semes­ter. It is an experiment and adjustments can and will be 

made. Upperclassmen also have the opportunity to take some Honor Code classes next semes­ter. Certain electives will be designated as "Honor Code" in the Preliminary Schedule of Courses and will be taught as such. In addition, a course can also be taught under the Honor Code if everyone-I 00% of the class-agrees to it during the first week of classes. If one person does not want the Honor Code in that situation, than the course must be taught under the proctor system. -Take some of these classes; see for yourself if the Code works. The Honor Code depends on your support to work well, and I believe that support is well-deserved. I suspect there is a lot of doubt among faculty and students over this Honor Code, but its value will never be real­
-ized if no one tries to make it work. Changes are not always bad; for example, more women are coming to ND, Lou Holtz is coaching us to victory, and Fr. Malloy is settling in as our new President. Maybe the change to an Honor Code will be pretty good, too. II 


: f • • • 
I • --· . 


jifSc\-\ooL \$ ~ n • \-\€.LL 'f~ 

~ A CAR:rool'J ABOUT WIShJ6 UP 
WOULD !jOU 
L\KE ~OUR 
EDUCAT!Ot-J iHEQU\CK WA':,, OR WOULD ~OU 
Fl~T: LEAR.:ltllG HAS ~Cffi\l~G 1D 
DO wrm Llf=E. 
NOt.v~ !::1 O..:l~ D 
~~THIN 
\.tS'S' ':JO 
BRIB 
lC.\:::.E.V 

L\\:::.E. IT SPREAD 
0VT OVE.R. A 
DO"l.£~ ~E.ARS? 
SO DOt-J'T S:AS'S BAc~. ~OU'RE. Al-L­BAS'lc.ALL~ 
W0'2-THL.ESS' 
l-lnt.~ c.QE.Ef'S 
f:lT 001)1 "TO TA~E C)R.OcRS, 
PLEASE DotJ'T C.ALL OIJ ME·· PLE'l51: 0O.,'T CALL ON ME. •• Pt.e.ASE oo.J' r CALL 0"' 1-1.1:-­PL"O.S-. OooJ'T CALL o.J 1-\E--PLEASE DOiJ'T" 
CAI..L OJJ ME-· 
So DO WHAT !10U Af2.E. TOL..D A~D ~OU v.)ll.-L­STA'::1 OUT 
OF ~OUBLG., 
~ov 1...tv 
A DA'2­
' 

e HAVE: So IM.E. To lc::11... OPE.tJ 
AVE. TD ~O0R <.J TIN BOOKS TO PAGE.1, AN'O \.l:lE. I l-t.. BE.61tJ.
u'R.E 1 
O() \:::t,) 




Live the Tradition Together 



Subscribe to Scholastic 
FOR OVER 120 YEARS, A LINK BETWEEN PARENTS AND CAMPUS LIFE 
Please send years of Scholastic to: 
Name 

Address _____________________ 
City State Zip 
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic Magazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $20.00 x __years = 
$--­




I . . 
. 
; NON -PHOFIT ORG •
***** U.S •. POSTtGE PPID 


~****************************** 
, Notre Dame, Indiana 
~ Fermi t No. 10 

' z :c ):> 
, C• C• ;;ct 


LIBERTY
· -1 r0 ;o -< :c 
rn ,__. 
" < 


TOWN
c: ;o rn 
):> 0 (.i) 3 Cl) rn u:i 

USA
'Tl 
-I

. 525 E. MCKINLEY, MISHAWAKA 
:c 
rn 
XI 
,__. (.i) 
z 

\ ~ 

DINING
•J·. 

: (..1'] 
j Ii"•. 

I CII -CARRY-OUT 
FREE DELIVERY 
NEXT TIME YOU'RE HUNGRY AND REACHING FOR THE 
PHONE, WHY NOT DISCOVER MICHIANA'S MOST 
DELICIOUS SECRET --A NEW YORK STYLE PIZZA 
DELIVERED HOT AND FRESH TO YOUR DOOR, ONLY ·FROM LIBERTY TOWN USA... 
114." PIZZA 2 16" PIZZAS ANY ITEMS ANY ITEMS $9PLUS TAX $14PLUS TAX 
***DOUBLE TOPPINGS EXTRA 

CALL 258-1111 FOR YOUR ESCAPE~ TO NEW YORK! 
11AM-10PM: MONDAY-THURSDAY (Delivery time subject 11AM-11PM: FRIDAY-SATURDAY 
. to traffic conditions) 
(CLOSED SUNDA VS) 
*************~***************************************** 
-~---~ 
-;--~----, ·r;~_,,...., ­







