
• StaiO GOLL-
The Notre Dame Scholastic
C. /
84616
LIBRARY
OF NOTRE D-
5
COMMENT
Casual observations of the mass gatherings downtown seems to indicate that the school year has again begun with a bang—that is, if you want to look at it in that light. The annual rush on the city stores for room equipment, scented stationery, and odds and ends necessary to the furnishing of the rooms in Freshman hall has been made and everything seems to have been procured to make this a big year for all concerned.
The advent of nearly a thousand new men changes the campus somewhat—in appearance, at least. We notice that the lawns are quite well occupied from day to day and that the thought of studying has apparently slipped the minds of our newcomers.
But we do not wish to be unkind to our new class. Our object in speaking about them is merely to remind them that school has started and it would be well to accustom themselves to the new environment as quickly as possible. We welcome them to Notre Dame where we hope that they will absorb the democratic and friendly atmosphere which is traditional on the campus.
There has never been any class distinction at Notre Dame, a factor which has made for its popularity. The stage-fright which every Freshman experiences on entering college is soon dispelled by the amiable personalities on the Notre Danie campus. The first week of every school year is devoted largely to the acquiring of acquaintanceship. But it is to be kept in mind that classes are of major importance—and the library is kept open at all convenient hours.
With the first issue of the Scholastic goes out the enthusiastic greeting to all new men, along with the words, “Watch yourself.”
| The Notre Dame Scholastic I
i Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 1
z	Founded in 1872	=
:	EMIL L. TELFEL..............................Editor-In-Chief	z
z	HARLEY L. McDEVITT......................Graduate	Manager	=
!	EDITORIAL STAFF	I
z	John E. Bekgan............Managing	Editor	z
z	James J. Kearney.....Assistant Managing Editor	5
z	Edward E. Brennan Assistant Managing Editor	z
1	James K. Collins..........Features Editor	z
z	Austin Boyle................Script Editor	z
z	Richard J. O'Donnell.............The Week	=
z	Ramon G. Smith............The	College Parade	=
z	Frank E. Seward...........Music	and Drama	z
£	W. Leslie Raddatz.............Campus Clubs	z
I	NEWS STAFF	1
z	Neil C. Hurley................Neies Editor	=
z	Willi am C.	Karl	Assistant	Nitre Editor	x
3	Walter V. Beesley	Myron Crawford	John Pick	x
	Edward R. Brennan	Alfred E. Gall	George Allan	X
=	James Carmody	Anthony R. Schreiner	Lawrence Dunda SPORTS STAFF	=
	John A. Kiener	Sports	Editor		z
z	Cleve Carey	James E. McFeely, Ji:.	Henry B. Asman	-
z	Robert Balfe	William J. Macarrall BUSINESS STAFF	=
James H. Rorke...............Local	Advertising Manager
James L. Rizer.............Foreign	Advertising Manager
John R. Blanda................Local	Circulation Manager
Andrew McGuan..............Foreign Circulation Manager
Frederick Bauer	Merle Baldwin	Norman E. Duke
| Vol. LXIV	SEPTEMBER 26, 1930	No. 1 1
TABLE OF CONTENTS
z	Air View of New Campus____________________________Frontispiece	z
1	The Week—Richard J. O’Donnell_______________________________ 6	=
:	Father O’Donnell Delivers Radio Speeches—William C. Karl__	7	=
z	Music and Drama—Frank E. Seu-ard--------------------------- 11	E
=	A Man About the Campus—Austin Boyle------------------------ 12	z
=	A Man You Know—Edward E. Brennan--------------------------- 13	z
5	College Parade—Ramon, G. Smith----------------------------- 16	=
:	Shakespeare Was Wrong______________________________________ 17	=
=	Editor’s Page _____________________________________________ 19	=
1	“We’ll Have a Strong Team”—John A. Kiener----------------   20	=
E	Interhall Football Season Opens October 5------------------ 21	=
z	Splinters From the Press Box-----------------------------   23	z
z	On Down the Line___________________________________________ 32	j
z THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manu-z scripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office. Main Building.
z Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for ^mailing z z a special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 191", authorized June 25, 191S. z
= The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronace of E
E	All Notre Dame Men.	z
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE WEEK
RETURNING to the campus we find fresh developments in the evolution of a new Notre Dame. First came the glittering “Gold Coast,” with Morrissey, Howard, and Lyons halls offering accommodations and architectural beauties that made past residents of Brownson and Carroll dumb with admiration. Then arose our modern/ efficient, and yet dignified dining hall, a striking contrast to the former “hashery” located in the basement of the Main building. This year we are greeted, after our summer’s absence, with two new structures: adding their splendor to the University’s growing outline.
The old order changeth! Poor Cartier field, hallowed by the blood of many a gridiron warrior, and haunted by figures and voices of the past, has been lowered to the ignominous position of a practice grounds. Hoynes hall is no longer pointed out as the home of campus lawyers. A new class enters the impressive new Law building. A new team eagerly awaits the official opening of the Stadium.
In spite of the protests of memory-intoxicated alumni, however, may we suggest that the University and its student body have undergone little change. The spiritual Notre Dame still pursues its unbending course. The ideals remain the same. The interests differ but little. Tradition yet maintains its silent power. The skyline of the institution may assume different proportions with the passing years, but Our Lady will remain immutable atop the Dome as a symbol of all that Notre Dame stands for.
DeSPITE the energetic attempts of faculty and softhearted upperclassmen, it seems as though no freshman can emerge from the fog that makes him a freshman until he passes through a certain period of self-inflicted probation. This year’s flock differs no whit from that of any previous year, except in number. We presume that the usual stock of sinks, radiators, last year’s Scholastics, and so forth, has been pawned off in Freshman and Howard halls. Local racketeers report that the economic crisis has not affected the pocket linings of the boys who are seeing the campus for the first time. Campus finances must be in a very stable condition. It is known that one magazine salesman who is working his way through South Bend Business College has cleaned up a fortune in Sorin hall. That lad will never get any good out of any college. He’s too far advanced.
B USINESS houses in South Bend report a marked decline in the sales of victrolas, phonograph records, and radio supplies as compared with those of last year. In this era of smaller and fewer dollai- bills, they are deserving of our sympathy. They are less deserving, however, than a few neurotics we know whose conditions arose from the never
ending screech of a radio or phonograph in a nearby room. There are men at Notre Dame today who attribute their gray hairs and loss of memory to having lived between a radio fanatic and a lunatic with an unsatiable love of the St. Louis Blues. One poor fellow resided in a torture chamber beneath a music lover whose only pleasure in life was beating time with his feet to the strains issuing forth from his second-hand portable. His shoes happened to be sufficiently large and sufficiently heavy to produce a tomtom effect in the room below. The underdog is today a broken man. He will never be the same. Any sort of music causes his eyes to gleam wildly, his mouth to quiver, and his knees to knock. All of which proves that the authorities were not so wrong when they banned all musical contraptions as being instruments of the devil. Though radio and victrola stocks may tumble, the investors must suffer for the sake of student sanity.
This column wishes to take advantage of the opportunity to express its sincere appreciation to the men on the campus who have gone to such strenuous extremes in making it welcome. We are most grateful for the unique honor that has been tendered us. It is not every college columnist who ca.n boast of having been greeted with such bursts of enthusiasm as the campus has witnessed during the past several days. The very attractive signs hidden so quaintly among the trees are a delight to our most appreciative eye. The badges, or miniature placards, or whatever they might be termed, are splendid manifestations of the true Rotarian spirit. Long may it prevail at Notre Dame! And so to all those who have welcomed us with a “Hello Week,” we answer in brotherly fashion, “Hello (name of helloer).”
T HIS year is famous in more than one way. For the first time in history registration for us and for our feminine neighbors was held on the same day, and the resulting-confusion is said to have seriously threatened the sanity of priests, nuns, brothers, and the local baggage-men. Railroad terminals actually overflowed with trunks and grips and bags and the less showy laundry cases, while their owners were about the business of hindering townspeople in their progress along Michigan Avenue. Uninitiated freshmen stopped clutching the checks pinned in their pockets long enough to gape admiringly and for the first time at beauty soon to be cloistered, and wondered if those were the terrible South Bend girls they had heard so much about, and if there would be anything left of the checks. And the total result of all the musings and scurryings was that the employment situation in town was solved for a day or so while frantic expressmen hauled frocks and tea gowns and treasured cords and slickers and sweaters in every conceivable kind of container.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
7
Father O’Donnell Gives Radio Speeches
Nation Listens to Addresses on the Catholic Hour Catholic Education Subject of Talks
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University, recently delivered an important and interesting series of talks on Catholic Education on the Catholic Hour from the New York studios of the National Broadcasting Company. The addresses were given on consecutive Sundays, September 7, 14, and 21. Father O’Donnell was invited to speak by the National Council of Catholic Men, which sponsors the Catholic Hour.
Many leaders of the Church have spoken on the Catholic Hour program, covering various phases of Catholic thought and action. The only addresses on education thus far given were those presented by Father O’Donnell. The selection of the President of Notre Dame to deliver the talks on this vital issue was both a tribute to the academic prestige of the University and to the scholarly attainments of its President.
The general subject of Father
Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C. Spoke on Catholic Education over nation-u-ide broadcast.
O’Donnell’s talks was the philosophy of Catholic Education. This he treated under three aspects: 1. “The Aim of Catholic Education”; 2. “The Method of Catholic Education”; 3. “The Support of Catholic Education.” Twenty minutes were allotted to the main discourse each week, and ten minutes later in the hour to answering questions pertinent to the subject. For the first two talks, Mr. Graham McNamee was the announcer, and at the last talk, Mr. John Young presided. A musical program, under the direction of Father Finn, C.S.P., who received an honorary LL.D. from Notre Dame in 1917, was given as part of the broadcast by The Medievalists, a mixed double quartet, and, at the final talk, by the Paulist Choristers.
Liberal extracts from Father O’Donnell’s talks are appearing in the Catholic papers, and the general comment has been highly favorable.
SOLEMN HIGH MASS OPENS
1930-31 SCHOLASTIC YEAR
Father Carrico breaches Sermon
The celebration of a solemn high Mass at eight-thirty o’clock Sunday morning, the 21st of September, in Sacred Heart Church marked the official opening of the scholastic year of 1930-31. The Reverend Michael A. Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, was the celebrant of the Mass. Assisting Father Mulcaire were the Reverend Peter E. Hebert, C.S.C., head of the Department of Ancient Languages, as deacon, and the Reverend Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C., of The Ave Maria, as subdeacon. The sermon was delivered by the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies. The choir of Moreau Seminary sang the Mass.
Attendance at the services was compulsory for the freshmen, including those of the Off-Campus division. The lay members of the faculty and
many of the upperclassmen also attended the Mass.'
Father Carrico’s sermon on the “Church and Progress,” was both opportune and illuminating. It was an answer to the charge that the Catholic Church is opposed to progress. It was a well-defined exposition of the Church’s attitude in this matter, and an explanation of the true progress as opposed to the false — progress which is merely material or intellectual without taking into account the spiritual life of man, the better side of his nature. The text of the sermon was the words of St. Matthew, “Seek ye first the kingdom of God and His justice, and all things shall be added unto you.” This is the principle of progress on which the Church forever insists. Father Carrico observed that there is nothing wrong
in the accumulation of wealth and the advancement of science, but that these things must be kept in their place, subordinate to the spiritual development of man. To make mere material, cultural, or intellectual attainment the ultimate object of life is not progress, but retrogression. True progress is woven of revelation as well as reason; of inspiration as well as of common sense. It takes into account the fact that man is specifically a moral being, and that the real purpose of life is the salvation of the soul. In Father Carrico’s words, “True progress for man can be nothing else than progress in perfection by the practice of virtue.”
SCRIBBLERS TO HOLD
MEETING OCTOBER 7
Emil L. Telfel, president of the Scribblers, announces that the first meeting of the year will be held Tuesday evening, October 7, at seven o’clock in the recreation room of Howard Hall. All old members of the Scribblers are urged by President Telfel to be present at this meeting, in which plans for the coming year are to be discussed.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
FACULTY AND PERSONNEL CHANGES MADE
Since the close of school last June, there have been numerous changes in the personnel of the University. The Reverend William McNamara, C.S.C., former instructor in history, is studying at Catholic University in Washington while Reverend Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., will leave in October to study at Oxford; in England. The Reverend John Margraf, C.S.C., an instructor in Latin, and the rector of Sophomore Hall last year, is at Columbia University in Portland, Oregon. The Reverend Francis O’Hara, C.S.C., and the Reverend John Kelley, C.S.C., have been transferred to St. Edward’s University in Texas.
Although Notre Dame regrets the loss of these men, it is greatly appeased by the return to the campus of an almost equal number of community members. The Reverend James McDonald, C.S.C., has returned from England, where he received his degree in research work in English from Oxford University. The Reverend James Stack, C.S.C., has returned this year from Harvard, and the Reverend John Farley, C.S.C., has returned from Portland, Oregon. The Reverend Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., is leaving the staff of the Ave Maria to teach philosophy; the faculty of the College of Science will be augmented this year by the return of the Reverend Leo J. Heiser, C.S.C., who has transferred from the faculty of St. Edward’s in Texas.
The following laymen of the faculty will not return to the University this year: Antonio Provost, professor of French since 1924; William F. Shors, assistant professor of Accounting, who began teaching at Notre Dame in 1928; James F. Kirby, who has been an assistant professor of Law for the past three years; Felix K. Boyle, assistant professor of English since 1925; Joseph 0. Plante, Professor of French since 1914; and John H. Clouse, who spent one year at Notre Dame as an instructor in Mechanical Engineering.
SOUND EQUIPMENT IN WASHINGTON HALL
The installation of Moticgraph sound equipment is now in progress in Washington Hall. It is expected that the work will be completed for the week-end of October 4, the date of the opening of the football season. Mr. William Richardson is in charge of the work. The regular concert and entertainment series will also be continued as in past years.
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS HOLD
MEETING; MAKE APPOINTMENTS
The first meeting of the Notre Dame council, Knights of Columbus, this year was held in the council chambers of Walsh Hall last Monday evening, with a large gathering of the local knights. Grand Knight Louis Buckley stressed the point that the initiation and conferring of the , first degree would take place shortly, with the tentative date being set for October 5.
Talks were given to the members by many stellar speakers, including former Grand Knight Jack Chevigny, delegate to the national convention held at Boston, and by Frank Mc-Greal, representative of the council at the state convention held at Indianapolis last May. Both knights told of their part in the conferences.
An entertainment was then furnished through the office of Lecturer William O’Malley, who secured four radio entertainers from Chicago.
Editors and business men for the Santa Maria, the Notre Dame council’s publication, were announced by Buckley, who made the appointments. John Bergan, former news editor of the Scholastic will edit the magazine this year and will have as assistant editor, Neil C. Hurley, a junior in the college of Arts and Letters. Associate editors will be James Kear-nsy, Paul J. Hallinan, John 0. Weib-ler, Roger P. Beirne, Louis Hasley, and James Collins.
John Ryan, a member of the business staff of the Juggler, has been appointed business manager of the Santa Maria. His assistants will be named at some later date. John Hockwait and Ralph Caletri are associate managers, while the circulation department will be in charge of Raymond Naber.
FIRST TRYOUTS HELD FOR CHEERLEADERS I	.
The first meeting of candidates for the positions of cheerleaders for the coming year was held last Monday in the gymnasium. Many aspirants responded to the call and abundant enthusiasm was shown, indicating that there will be keen competition for the coveted honor.
The positions for cheerleaders are
Thirteen applications for membership in the council were read and approved. The new men are: John Beuther, John Norris, Arthur F. Doerfier, Raymond Pellman, Robert Fitzsimmons, John Teevens, George Murphy, Aubrey Stro snider, Frank Honerkamy, Dennis J. O’Donnell, John Pick, Alfred Grisanti, and Ernest Hechinger.
Among the other announcements made at the meeting were the committees for the ensuing year.
On the house committee, Bourke Motsett is chairman with Joseph Dieb, John Munizzo and Leo T. Clark as associates. John Chevigny heads the committee for Holy Communion Sunday. Seiwing with him are Joseph Schweder, Wilfred Cardy, Thomas Forscher, and Frank Yates.
The membership committee has William Judge for its chairman and lists Robert Streb, James J. Kraus, Fred Rahaim and Frank Gallagar for his aides. Ellis Blomstrom, chairman, and Philip Ott, Arthur Cavender, James J. Gerend and Maurice D. Mul-rey comprise the lapsations committee while the committee on reinstatements is composed of James Murphy, Richard Sullivan, Frank McGreal, Terence Wharton, and Sabath Nigro who is chairman.
Publicity for the council will be handled by Henry O’Connell, David Rusk, Joseph Kennedy, and Harold O’Rourke. The committee for the sick will be chairmaned by Vincent Ponic and will have for its members, Leonard Donoghue, Frank Donalty, Thomas A. Conley and Dan Hanley.
The remaining committee—the athletic, includes Frank Carideo, William Brown, Joseph Klefeker, Bertram Metzger, Robert Hilger, Frank McAdams, and William Kerrigan. It is headed by William Brown.
open to everyone, freshmen being eligible as seniors. The man who becomes head cheerleader is given a monogram in his senior year. The decision to include underclassmen in being eligible for cheerleaders is an innovation and those who possess ability in that line of activity are urged to compete for the positions.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
9
Rev. Patrick J. Carroll Publishes New Book
“Patch” Is Favorably Received
By Frank E. Seicard
The Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., recently published his latest literary work, Patch, in book form. The edition was printed in the Ave Maria pressrooms and was released in August of this year. Previous to this time the story ran in serial form in the Ave Maria magazine. The book has received the compliments of all who have read it.
Patch, subtitled, “Memories of An Irish lad,” is an episodic recollection of the life of an eleven-year-old boy, in Ireland. We are told by Patch of how he was saved from a beating by the death of Paddy Owen, of his tragic recitation of “Who fears to speak of ninety-eight?”, his ludicrous purchase of a swan, his adventures with sailing a boat, and finally his confirmation by the bishop. These short sketches of boyhood life are very simple in themselves, but taken as a whole make up a charming description of life in Ireland.
Older people who have known Ireland will very likely find even more delight in Patch than we did, for their great store cf memories will be opened up by it, but we could appreciate, through Father Carroll’s eyes, the wistfulness, joy, and pathos of the life he himself once knew. Father Carroll has known the people and places he writes about, and he loves them, for he tells us in the words of Patch that the people of Ireland are the loveliest people in the whole world. Very kind and friendly, even
I
J. CLARK NAMED COTILLION CHAIRMAN
James Clark, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, has been appointed General Chairman of the Sophomore Cotillion, according to Edward Dailey, president of the sophomore class. Other appointments have have not as yet been announced, but they will appear in the Scholastic next week.
day before the Indiana game, with
if they get into a tempei' sometimes. And the Crags people are the loveliest in Ireland.”
In the second chaptei- Patch relates a dream he once had, and here is displayed better than any place else in the book the remarkable insight into a boy’s mind that is the author’s peculiar gift.
The story of Patch is told with a simplicity of style that reminds us of The Way It Was With Them, although Patch does not quite come up to the excellent quality of Mr. O’Donnell’s prose. Father Carroll relates his tale in the first person and thus is able to use Celtic idiom throughout, a usage which is not abused and which adds a great deal to the eu-phcny of the narration.
It is in the last few pages that Patch rises to a height of beauty, and well it might, for the author is there treating of the beauty of motherhood. Several who have read the book have remarked that parts of it are certainly autobiographical. We like to think that this last part of it is, so fine is the tribute Fathei* Carroll pays to his mother. We should like to quote the closing lines, and no further comment will be necessary. “The mother had a peaceful face. A face you could rest your eyes upon after watching the nervous rush of life . . . we never thought or cared whether she was beautiful or not. Never once. Who would? Is not love the beginning and the middle and the end? If you have love you have everything! Ah, dear!”
accommodations for sophomores and their guests in a special section of the new stadium, for the intra-state contest.
Arrangements are being made to prepare for a successful week-end, according to the newly appointed general chairman. Within the coming week the date for the affair will be definitely settled, and actual work will be started.
JOHN T. FREDERICK
JOINS ENGLISH FACULTY
News of the appointment of John T. Frederick, editor of the Midland, and popular lecturer, to an assistant professorship in the Department of English was received with hearty approval by English students last week. Mr. - Frederick has attained well-earned popularity here as a result of several very fine lectures given by him in Washington Hall on various occasions. His most recent contribution to Notre Dame was the feature article, “Some Impressions on Student Life at Notre Dame,” which appeared in the first issue of the Santa Maria last year. He stated that the point of life here which impressed him most is the relationship between instructor and student.
Professor Frederick is an alumnus of the University of Iowa. He has gained wide recognition as editor of the Midland, which position he will continue to hold.
Advanced Short Story Writing, Nineteenth Century Criticism, and Nineteenth Century Poetry are the subjects which he will teach here.
Every reason is given to believe that Professor Frederick will broaden his reputation as a guide to young writers during his stay on the campus.
Another addition to the Department of English is John Staunton, brother of Professor Henry Staunton.
The College of Science has added the Reverend Leo Heiser, C.S.C., as an associate professor of biology and bacteriology. Joseph L. Mendelis, instructor, is in the Physical Education department. The Law School faculty been increased by the addition of Judge William M. Cain and William Dewey Rollison.
PETRITZ APPOINTED PUB-
LICITY MANAGER
Joseph Petritz, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, has been appointed Athletic Publicity Manager for the University for the coming year. His duties will consist in handling all of the public relations of the -athletic department with the various press representatives of the country.
Mr. Petritz has had much experience in this line during his past two years, serving very satisfactorily as Notre Dame correspondent for the Chicago Tribune and other papers.
Arthur West will continue to handle the publicity necessary in conjunction with those university notices not connected with the athletic offices.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
10
JUNIOR CLASS TO HOLD FOOT-
BALL DANCE ON OCTOBER 4TH
The Junior Class will hold the first football dance of the school year on the night of the Southern Methodist game, Oct 4th, at 8:30 p. m., in the Knights of Columbus Ballroom.
Philip H. Dunleavy of Chicago has been appointed general chairman of the dance by Vincent Cavanaugh, junior class president. With the help of the various committee members the general chairman is working on the plans now and the details are rapidly being arranged.
The committees announced by President Cavanaugh are:
General Chairman: Philip H. Dunleavy.
Orchestra and Decorations: Frank H. Reilly, chairman; Joel Ostrander, James Gleeson, George Higgins, Benjamin Mikes, Robert Law.
Publicity: Leonard Dunn, Chairman; James Simmons, Francis Oele-rich, Joseph Willis, William Corr.
“DOME” CELEBRATES
TWENTY-FIFTH YEAR
Twenty-five years ago, a small group gathered,' probably in Sorin hall, to discuss the publication of a Notre Dame year-book. The men were pioneers in the field, but the slim blue-and-gold volume which they published the following May, was a worthy patriarch of its 23 successors. Like the golden dome after which it was named, it soon became a campus tradition.
The name was so naturally good, that no one has thought of changing it. This May, 1931, the Dome will celebrate it 25th anniversary.
New things make good copy, and the outlook for this year’s book is exceptionally bright, in the opinion of Paul J. Hallinan, editor-in-chief of the publication. New structures rising on the east campus, new men and new ideas filling the usual activities, and particularly plans for Notre Dame’s future make excellent historical data for the Dome’s ready pen.
To catch every echo in the many fields of campus endeavor, the editor is planning to select a staff with “the historical mind,” as a certain magazine expresses it. Style and imagination will be considered in the choice of writers, while several workers are needed to assist in the details of photography and make-up.
Tickets: Philip H. Dunleavy, Walsh, Chairman; John Ryan, Morrissey; Leonard Donoghue, Lyons; Frank Madden, Off-Campus; Oliver Powers, Corby; Bart O’Hara, Badin.
The prices for the tickets have been ‘set at: stags, §1.00; couples, §1.50. Early in the week the members of the ticket committee will canvass the halls. The number of tickets will be limited.
As yet no orchestra has been decided upon but the announcement ■will appear soon on the campus and also in next week’s Scholastic.
The members of the separate committees met yesterday to discuss the plans for the dance. President Cavanaugh has called a class meeting for next week to discuss matters relevant to the dance. The time and place of this meeting will be announced on the campus.
Although the Dome is a junior publication, the staff will include sophomores and freshmen. Those who want to write or work are asked to come to the editor’s room, 324 Badin, some time during the next week. A meeting will be held in October at which time plans for the staff -will be announced.
Harley L. McDevitt, graduate manager of publications, is in charge of the business details for the Dome. Edmund Britz, of Chicago is handling foreign advertising and Clarence Fut-ter, of Mishawaka, Ind. is local advertising manager.
CHEER-LEADER NAMED
AT PALACE FREE SHOW
Some 1,500 Notre Dame students took advantage of the complimentary show at the Palace Theatre yesterday, the feature of which was the announcement of Ed Massa as head cheer-leader. His performances were well received by the student body, who responded well to the new yells, as flashed upon the screen by the management of the theatre. Massa is a San Francisco boy, attending the University for the first time, registered as a freshman in the Law school. For the past two years he has served competently as head yell leader at St. Mary’s College on the Pacific coast.
TWO NEW MEMBERS IN
LAW SCHOOL FACULTY
The faculty of the Law School, which has begun its duties in the new Law building has been enlarged by the addition of two new members; the Hon. William M. Cain, LL.B., and Mr. William D. Rollison, A.M., LL.M.
Judge Cain, a native of Ontario, Canada, was educated at the University of Nebraska where he received his degree of Bachelor of Laws m the class of 1894. From then until the present time he has been practising law in Nebraska. He was city attorney and county attorney in his community and for- two years served in the Supreme Court of Nebraska as a member of the Supreme Court Commission. While on the Supreme bench he wrote over seventy opinions on legal questions.
Professor Rollison is a native of Indiana. He was educated at the University of Indiana and in the law school of Harvard University. He has obtained ’ the following degrees: Bachelor of Laws from Indiana in 1921, Bachelor of Arts from Indiana in 1925, and Master of Laws from Harvard in 1930. After service as a private in the Motor Transport Corps in 1918, he became principal of the Towner High School, Towner, North Dakota. Here he remained until 1922. From that time until 1930 he was at the University of Alabama as assistant professor of law, and after 1926, an associate professor. Mr. Rollison was for several years editor-in-chief of the Alabama Law Journal and is the author of many legal articles and reviews. -He is a member of the Monroe County (Indiana) Bar Association, the Indiana Bar Association, the Alabama Bar Association, and the American Bar Association.
JUGGLER BUSINESS BOARD HOLDS FIRST MEETING
The first regular meeting of the Business Board of the Juggler was held this noon in the Publications offices in the Main Building. The meeting was in charge of Edward W. Mehren, local advertising manager, who outlined the plans for the Fall advertising campaign of the organization.
Many of the old members of the Board have returned from last year and a successful year is anticipated by the staff, which has been busily engaged during the past week securing new advertising contracts.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
11
« Music And Drama »
In the field of music and drama the past summer held its place with other summers—in a few instances it ran ahead of them. In New York there were the Stadium concerts which we are told were excellent, and at which Ravel’s “Bolero” received its great ovation; in Chicago, opera at Ravinia, and the Chicago Musicland Festival, we “listened in” on this last and, in spite of extremely poor reception due to the weather, were thrilled by the playing of the “Anvil Chorus” from Verdi’s “jingling” Il Trovatore, and Tchaikowsky’s “1812,” rendered by a band of 1,100 musicians with cannon accompaniment. The high light of the evening was Handel’s “Hallelujah Chorus,” sung by a massed choir of 5,000.
To opera the summer contributed the new Toch work, “The Fan” (of which more anon), and the completion of Deems Taylor’s score for “Peter Ibbetson” (of which also more anon).
Among recent recordings is “The Overture to Tannhauser,” played by Stokowski and the Philadelphia Orchestra. This is the Paris edition of 1861 which Wagner wrote to please the taste of the whimsical Parisians, who demanded ballet with their opera. The Overture as originally written by Wagner, and as we personally prefer to hear it, begins with the “Pilgrims’ Chorus,” develops through themes of the Venusberg, “Hymn to Venus,” and the love-motive into the wild “Bacchanale,” and ends with a loud and terrific “Pilgrims’ Chorus.” In the Paris edition the Bacchanale theme is immediately followed by the slow ballet music on which the curtain rises. The French premiere of Tannhauser furnishes us with an interesting anecdote. Usually, the ballet came at the end of the second act, and by that time every body who was coming had finally arrived. In “Tannhauser” the ballet was performed at the opening of the first scene of the first act. Consequently, the Parisians
missed their delicacy, and a near riot ensued.
Of course you read of the death of Siegfried Wagner, son of Richard Wagner and grandson of Franz Liszt. As would be natural with his parentage, he was a composer, but it is said that his mother was his kindest critic. The younger Wagner had always conducted the Music Festivals at Bayreuth, and the musical world is now wondering whether these will be continued.
The most recent popular record-of-the-month is “So Beats My Heart For You” and “Without Love” as done by Waring’s Pennsylvanians with a little humming by the Three Girl Friends. Also by them is the plaintive “Little White Lies.” For those worshippers of Henry Thies is his record of “Havin’ You Around Is Heaven” and “Here Comes Emily Brown” with interpolated chanting by the Howard trio. From the beguiling but familiar “Good News” (movie version) we have the ditty, “Gee, But I Like to Make You Happy,” the words of which can appeal only to the “intelligentsia”.
Among dozens of badly acted, dull, and trashy movies were several fine ones: “Let Us Be Gay,” “Holiday” (unreservedly recommended), “All Quiet on the Western Front,” “Common Clay,” “Moby Dick,” Manslaughter,” “Romance” with the divine Garbo, “Lawful Larceny,” “The King of Jazz” (that is, for a revue), and perhaps one or two others which have slipped our mind.
Warner Bros. Motion Picture Corporation find that the increased cost of filming in color is not a sufficient boxoffice attraction and are discontinuing color photography for the time being.
We hear that “Ruined,” one time popular melodrama, is “on the make” in Hollywood. This is the play featuring the famous Jack Dalton and that beloved line, “Curse you, Jack Dalton!”
ALUMNI ARRANGING
HOUSING FOR
GAMES
Notre Dame students need not depend upon the already exhausted South Bend hotel facilities for the accommodation of their friends and relatives during the football season.
The Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley, comprising all alumni of the University in this section, has set up headquarters in the Oliver Hotel, Room 212, where rooms are being listed by the citizens of South Bend and neighboring cities for the housing of guests during the football season.	•
It is the object of the club to make this service an annual feature for the convenience of out-of-town visitors who wish to remain in South Bend for more than one day.
Members of the club are investigating the rooms offered and they will be recommended only after the club investigation.
Students desiring to take advantage of the service offered by the St. Joseph Valley alumni are urged to make reservations early, to secure a choice of location and prevent congestion at the club headquarters on the week-ends of the games.
Rates are listed with rooms. Parties of almost any number can be accommodated. Reservations can be made any time after September 29.
REGISTRATION LARGER
THAN EXPECTED
Mr. Robert B. Riordan, the registrar, has announced that the number of undergraduates who have registered this year is three thousand and thirty. Although this is not the largest registration which Notre Dame has known, it is about two hundred more than the administration had decided to enroll.
The administration wished to limit the enrollment to twenty-eight hundred this year. A large number of cancellations was expected, however, and more than twenty-eight hundred applications were taken. Very few cancellations occurred. Mr. Riordan says that if there had been classrooms to accommodate more students, Notre Dame could easily have an enrollment of thirty-five hundred, in spite of the present period of financial depression.
12
-The Notre Dame Scholastic
A Man About The Campus
Just three years ago this September, Joe McNamara, then publicity director of the University and Juggler editor the next year, spied an interesting bit of news among the members of the incoming freshman class. At that time the whole country was excited over the impending battle be-
John E. Dempsey
tween Jack Dempsey and Gene Tunney for the heavyweight championship of the world, the famous “four-teen-count” affair in Chicago’s Soldier Field.
McNamara discovered that there had been enrolled at Notre Dame a freshman by the name of Jack Dempsey and another whose name was Tunney. The opportunity for a bit of publicity was too good to be passed by. Dempsey and Tunney were photographed together for the South Bend papers, and the picture syndicated in newspapers throughout the country. The boys were interviewed, and it was found that in the choice of extra-curricular activities the taste of each differed from that of his battling namesake.
Tunney, unlike the scholarly Gene, did not care much for literature and declared himself interested chiefly in athletics. Dempsey had no ambitions to become an athlete and announced that he favored literary endeavors. Tunney has since dropped out of school, but Dempsey went on to become this week’s Campus Personality.
He started out fast by having a class essay, “The Diary of a Freshman,” published in the year’s first issue of the Scholastic, which then
carried a literary supplement. In it he wrote facetiously of having bought a gold brick from the Dome, and says that some people still believe he did it. In his sophomore year Jack took two more steps toward becoming a “big publications man” when he was admitted to the Scribblers’ organization and then became a member of the Juggler's editorial staff. And before we forget it, Jack worked on the Scholastic for three months as a freshman, but soon cheerfully abandoned us.
Last year Jack continued on the Juggler staff, and enlarged his activities by writing script on the campus halls for the Dome. Last year the Board of Publications went into its annual huddle and presented Jack to us as editor-in-chief of the Juggler for this year.
He brings a great deal of experience to his new post, for Jack has had numerous contacts with humorous publication work. He has had material accepted by Life and Judge. He has also had the dubious pleasure of seeing some Juggler jokes reprinted by College Humor, jokes which the latter magazine had formerly rejected when submitted for payment.
Last summer Jack enrolled for the summer session at Columbia University and for a few weeks imbibed the cosmopolitan atmosphere of the Big Town. Nearly anyone else writing this would here seize the opportunity to insert a smart-crack, for Jack’s home town, as he has often been reminded, is Oshkosh, Wisconsin.
This year he is one of the campus personalities gracing the stately pile of Sorin. There he is now pacing the floor feverishly, wondering if he can get out the first issue of the Juggler in time for the Navy game. Prospects appear bright, however, for Jack says that he has a number of bright new cartoonists undei- cover who are turning in some fine work. Under pressure, Coach Rockne broke down and admitted that the team might drop two games this year, but Jack is more optimistic about the Juggler. With a good staff around him, he hopes to go undefeated through the eight-issue schedule, barring ineligible cartoonists and injuries to star jokewriters.
DEAN OF ENGINEERING
ON SCHOLARSHIP BOARD
Reverend Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C. has been named as a member of a board of honorary judges selected from prominent educators of various universities and technical schools throughout' the United States, whose purpose it is to foster the activities of the Fisher Body Craftman’s Guild. This guild, founded in the interests-of American youth by the Fisher Body Corporation, has for its purpose the perpetuation of the ideals of craftsmmanship first organized and developed by the craft guilds of the Middle Ages.
Four university scholarships of four years each and 960 other awards having a total value of §50,000 are offered to boys of high school age for proficiency in craftsmanship.
LIBRARY OPENS; MANY
NEW BOOKS ON LIST
The University Library resumed its services at the opening of the school year with two changes in the staff. Miss Dorothy Ahern from the College of St. Catherine’s in St. Paul, succeeded Miss Winifred Hartsock as assistant catalog librarian. Miss Ellen Kistler began work Sept. 1, cataloging the Dante Library.
During the college year the hours when the Library is open are as follows :
Monday to Friday—8:00 a. m. to 6:00 p. m. and 7:30 p. m. to 9:30 p. m.
Saturday—8:00 a. m. to 5:00 p. m. Sunday—10:00 a. m. to 12 n.
A pamphlet giving in full the details concerning the rules and regulations has been prepared for the use and benefit of the students.
While the summer session was in progress, library officials obtained many new books covering work in the fields of history, education, literature, law, journalism, and sport. Recent books of fiction by Chesterton, Benson, and Collins are in the new list. Some of the newly acquired volumes are:
Mr. Gray, by Oscar Sherwin.
From Quebec to New Orleans, by Schlarman.
Gentlemen Be Seated, by Paskman and Spaeth.
Return of Don Quixote, by G. K. Chesterton.
Crucibles, by Jaffe.
South America, by Jones.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
13
4 A Man You Know £
0
“Sorry, we have no rooms left in Sorin, Corby, Lyons, or Badin,” said the harassed registrar, and the disappointed senioi* left. When he had been thus disposed of, Mr. Riordan found time enough to give a brief
Robert B. Riordan
resume of his life. The interview with the Scholastic reporter was subject to many interruptions—longdistance telephone calls, clerks dashing in and out, and the like, but eventually the reporter was able to obtain a fairly clear idea of Mr. Riordan’s many activities.
He was born in Milwaukee in 1895. Soon after his birth his family moved to Marion, Indiana, and the greater part of his life has been spent there. He attended Marion high school until he had to go to work when he was fourteen. While working in factories and keeping books, he attended night school. After he had finished high school, he studied at Indiana Business College and the Normal Institute in Marion.
During the war he was at first placed in the coast artillery corps. Later he was sent to France as a member of Battery “B” of the 7th Trench Mortar* Battalion. He became interested in field artillery to such an extent that it was his hobby. He holds a commission in the field artillery reserve now.
After his return from the war he worked for two years as an assistant cashier for the Central Indiana Gas Company. Finally in 1920 he entered Notre Dame.
His life as a student at this school was as diversified as his previous life had been. He worked on all the publications, and was especially occupied in drawing*cartoons for the Dome. He was president of the Palette Club, a group of students interested in painting, and he was also the adjutant of the Notre Dame post of Foreign War Veterans. Besides these many campus activities he worked on the South Bend News-Times, writing editorials and drawing advertising cartoons. He confesses that he was even a deputy sheriff for a while.
During the third Catholic Students’ Mission Crusade in 1923 he acted as student-director. In recognition of his valuable services he was awarded the Grand Cross of the Order of Paladins.
He majored in Journalism and was graduated from Notre Dame in 1924 with the degree of Bachelor of Philosophy. He spent a year in graduate work but did not take an advanced degree.
When he had finished school, he went to Washington where he was an associate editor of Bengalese, writing feature articles and drawing cartoons. He taught Spanish and English in the Knights of Columbus University. For several years he remained at these pursuits, but in 1929 he returned to Notre Dame as a teacher of economics.
Last winter he conducted a class for the field artillery reserve in South Bend. He also taught equitation to several Notre Dame students, equitation being nothing more or less than horseback riding.
Soon after the close of summer school this year he was appointed registrar, succeeding the Reverend William Molony, C.S.C. In this new post he has proved as able and as talented as he has been in any other one of the many occupations of his busy life. Some of the problems which beset him in his work as registrar must be new to him, but he is dealing with them successfully.
WRANGLERS START INTER-
HALL DEBATING
ACTIVITIES
The Wranglers club, honorary forensic society of the University, will hold their first meeting this week, according to word received from J. Edward Phelan, president of the organization.
Work has already been started towards the promotion of the famous interhall debating, an activity conducted annually for the freshman class by the Wranglers. Mr. Phelan has not as yet announced the committee foi* the event, but it is indicated that it will appear at an early date.
Negotiations may be put under way to engage some outside debates with other organizations similar to the Wranglers, and having the same purpose for existence. This can not be confirmed until the club meets this week.
FRESHMEN HEAR FINE
SPEAKERS AT MISSION
The annual student missions extending over a period of two weeks are in progress; the first, running from Sept. 21-27, for freshmen, off-campus sophomores, and Sophomore Hall; the second, from Sept. 28 to Oct. 4, for all other students.
The order of services adhered to curing their progress is:
Sunday, 7:30 p. m.—Sermon and Benediction.
Monday to Friday, 6:30 a. m.— Mass and' Instruction; 7:30 p. m.— Sermon and Benediction.
Saturday, 6:30 a. m.—Mass and Papal Benediction.
The speakers, besides the Reverend John O’Hara, C.S.C., who is in full charge of the missions, are the Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., on “Frequent Confession”; the Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C., on “Spiritual Reading”; the Reverend Thomas Lahey, C.S.C., on “Honesty,” and the Reverend James Stack, C.S.C., on “Temperance.” The Reverend Patrick Dolan, C.S.C., will instruct the upper-classmen.
There is ample opportunity for frequent confession in the Basement Chapel and Church at convenient times. Daily communion is essential to the full fruit of the mission, according to Father O’Hara.
14
The Notre Dame Scholastic
BLUE CIRCLE HOLDS FIRST MEETING
The Blue Circle, the student service organization of the University, held its first meeting last Monday night with Edward Madden, a member of the S. A. C., in charge.
Madden outlined the activities which the organization will deal with this year, foremost among these being the work in connection with the pep meetings prior to football games, the silent cheering to be done during the games, and various other assignments.
A suggestion regarding the ushering at the Masses in Sacred Heart was met with hearty approval and many men volunteered to assist in this new activity which is indeed commendable.
The members who compose the Blue Circle this year are as follows:
John Hickey. James McGill, Nicholas Kal-mes. Paul O’Toole, Louis O'Shea. Frank Gannon. John Lisicki, Robert Kendall, Stanley F. Nowotarski, James E. Keating, John Blackwell, Joseph Deeb, Joseph Hughes, Michael Kinney, James Walsh, Richard Barber, Maurice Murray. Herbert Petzel, John Hamilton. John Litcher, Benjamin Mikes. Jack Werner, Walter Beeseley, James Murray, Edward Flynn, William Gadek, Don Lusardi, Raymond Naber. Roger Brennan, John J. McNeil, Jerry Finneran, Robert Lee, John Ryan, Paul Howe, Neil C. Hurley, Gene Flecken-stein, Edward Mehren, Art McManmon, Robert Balfe, Bud Golden. Raymon Smith. Ed Shean, Thomas McGough, Robert Cahill, Norman Duke, John DeWilde, Phil Ott, Frank McGreal, Richard J. O’Donnell, Benjamin Salvaty. Daniel Williams, Paul Dailey, John Crockett, Bob Golden, John Boland, Joseph McKeon, James Begley and Joseph Blaney.
MANY TURN OUT FOR
SCHOLASTIC BUSI-
NESS BOARD
On Thursday, September 25, the annual call for freshman candidates for the business board of the Scholastic was issued. Due to the large number of underclassmen that reported it will be necessary to place many of the candidates on the waiting list for try-out duties.
During the next two months the candidates will be given various positions to perform on the staff. At the end of this period the annual elections to the business board will be made.
Harley L. McDevitt, Graduate Manager of Publications, stressed the point that at .elections to the staff in November, three factors will be taken into consideration: ability in securing advertising; general excellence and efficiency in the performance of routine work; and finally the potentialities of the candidates as a future board member.
SCHOLARSHIP DANCE TO BE HELD OCT. 3D
The Notre Dame Scholarship Club will hold its first dance of the year on Friday, Ojctober 3, at Playland Park ballroom. The dance is scheduled to begin at 8:30 p. m. As is the custom of the club, girls for the dance will be brought by the members. This is intended primarily for freshmen, as the purpose is to introduce the first year men to the South Bend girls.
The club, composed of thirty-five South Bend and Mishawaka women, is allowed by the University to hold four of these dances annually. The organization began nine years ago with the purpose of assisting in the education of worthy young men. To date the club has paid for the tuition of fifty-two boys, thirty-one of whom are now graduated. Of this number-seven were South Bend boys and the rest from all parts of the country. The biggest means of support in this
SENIOR CLASS HOLDS FIRST MEETING
The first meeting of the Senior-Class was held last night in the South room of the Library. The meeting was presided over by Jack Saunders, president of the class. In a brief speech he asked the members for their co-operation in all Senior Class enterprises for the coming year.
Plans were discussed for the Senior-Dance which will be given in the Knights of Columbus ballroom on the evening of the Carnegie Tech game, October 18. Bill McAleer was appointed general chairman for the event and the following committees were named:
Tickets — Albert Maloney, chairman, Joseph Meitzler, Joseph Deeb, Ray Mannix, Marty Dowling.
Orchestra—Edward Lee, chairman.
Publicity—Charles Wells, chairman, Donald O’Toole, John Kuhn, Joseph McNulty.
A committee to collect class dues was also appointed during the evening. Ralph Dalton was named chairman of this group. It is planned to make a canvass of all seniors this week to collect these dues.
undertaking is the. huge success that has followed the Scholarship Club dances in the past.
K. K. Rockne this year presented the club with a box in the new stadium—six seats for each of the five games. At the October 3 dance this box will be given away to one of the students in attendance, although the exact manner- in which this is to be accomplished has not as yet been announced.
Permissions will be granted to all students on the campus for this affair. Tickets may be purchased from the rectors of any of the halls, or at the door of the Playland Ballroom. Music will be furnished by the Indianians orchestra.
The members of the club urge all students to attend the dance, in order that they may be able to carry on their work of educating worthy young men at Notre Dame.
FATHER MURCH NEW
PREFECT OF DISCIPLINE
The Reverend Raymond Murch, C.S.C., has assumed the duties of the office of Prefect of Discipline, succeeding the Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C. • As an instructor in the Department of Chemistry, and as rector of Howard Hall, Father Murch has been very popular with the undergraduate body, and gives promise of being highly successful in his new position.
Father O’Donnell was relieved of the strenuous duties of this office after five years of capable administration, in order- that he might rebuild his health.
Among the other important changes in the University administration is the appointment of the Reverend James Stack, C.S.C., to succeed the Reverend Patrick Haggerty, C.S.C., as rector of Morrissey Hall and Assistant Prefect of Discipline. The Reverend Raymond Clancy, C.S.C., has been made Director of Off-Campus students to replace the Reverend J. Allan Heiser, C.S.C. Father Heiser is now Prefect in Morrissey Hall.
Professor Robert Riordan, fom erly of the Department of Economics, has assumed the office of Registrar. Mr. Riordan is the first layman to be appointed to the position in the history of the University.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
15
BLUE CIRCLE MAKES PLANS FOR SILENT
FOOTBALL CHEERING
The second meeting of the Blue Circle has been held, and plans foi-the coming year have been made under the direction of its new chairman, Ed Madden, who has been appointed by Tim Benitz, chairman of the Student’s Activities Council.
Among these plans is the consideration of a method of silent cheering to be used at all the home games in the new stadium. Ed Madden and his assistants have devised a seatingarrangement which will accommodate a select group of students, to the number of 900, who will be equipped with cards of blue and gold, and outfitted in white jerseys to form a background for the contrasting colors. It is planned to spell out “Notre Dame,” “Navy,” “S.M.U.,” and “Hello,” in banks of cards four deep. The students are to be divided into rows of twenty-eight, with a rowcaptain at each end to instruct them in the maneuvers. Ed Madden has appointed men to select students in each hall to form the- cheering section, and has arranged to seat them between the forty-five and the twentyseven yard lines. These selected students will have the same seats for each of the home games. .
There is to be a practice session in the Stadium on next Wednesday afternoon at four o’clock for those selected. The new scheme will then be tried and the students instructed. This will be the only practice before the first season game on October 4. It will be absolutely necessary for every one chosen to be in the stands at the appointed time.	•
Ed Madden is also arranging for a series of novel “pep” meetings to be handled and supervised by the Blue Circle. The first of these will be held on next Thursday evening, Oct. 2, in the gymnasium.
• ;------------------------------»:•
NOTICE!
All candidates for positions on the Scholastic news and sports staffs should report this evening at 7:00 p. m. to the Publications Office, located on the second floor of the Main building. A few positions are still open.
❖------------------------------*
FACULTY MEMBERS HAVE
NEW BOOKS PUBLISHED
During the summer months two new books made their appearance on the campus. One, On Poetry, was written by two professors of the Department of English, Andrew Smith-berger and Camille McCole. The actual compilation of the volume was begun last spring and was completed in time to serve as a textbook in two classes of the summer session with the consequence that it is now required of all students enrolled in sophomore English literature.
The main purpose of the book is “to present the essentials of poetry in such a manner that the student can hardly fail to recognize it in its various forms.” It is chiefly concerned with treatments of rhythm and meter, the sonnet and stanza forms, and throughout are found quotations, in part and in full, from famous poets.
Another striking feature is an eight page symposium containing definitions of poetry never before published, conveyed to the authors by personal letter, also the more famous definitions of the older poets. The volume was lithoprinted by Edwards Brothers, Ann Arbor, Michigan. It is attractively bound and can be purchased at the University Book Store for one dollar and fifty cents.
The Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, and Professor Daniel C. O’Grady of the Philosophy department, have collaborated on a book entitled Introduction to Metaphysics. The volume also contains a treatise on aesthetics and, although it has not yet been received from the printers, it is expected this week. It is required as a textbook for students in metaphysics. The publishei- is Macmillan of New York.
FRESHMAN CONVENTION HELD MONDAY
The freshman convocation, tradi-ditionally the first gathering of the yearlings, was held Monday noon in the East dining hall. The men were addressed by prominent campus students, such as Jack Saunders, Tom Conley, and Tim Benitz. The freshmen were urged to live up to the Notre Dame traditions and to back the teams to the last man. Father Murch, newly appointed prefect of discipline, delivered an excellent talk to the new men, pointing out the advantages that were offered to them here.
School of Music Notes
Seidel to Teach Violin
Mr. Richard Seidel, a member of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra for forty years, has been added to the faculty to teach violin and other stringed instruments. In addition to his work in Chicago musical circles Mr. Seidel has taught at St. Mary’s College, Notre Dame, for more than thirty-five years.
Anyone interested in studying with him should see Professor Casasanta as soon as possible.
Band Attracts Many
The University Band held its first rehearsal last Saturday afternoon in Washington Hall with 130 applicants answering the first call. The instrumentation was very good, a fact which promises to make the coming year the best yet experienced.
Tuesday, September 30, will be the deadline fox- entrance and all application blanks should be handed in to the Director of Music by that time.
Glee Club Holds First Meeting
One hundred and fifty men sought admission to the University Glee Club which held its first meeting early this week. This large turnout, among which were several soloists, was stimulated, no doubt, by the excellent performances of the organization last year, especially those made during the Eastern tour. September 30 is the last day for making membership application.
Ar. D. Jugglers Reorganize
The Notre Dame Jugglers, the University orchestra, resumed practice last Monday in the Washington Hall band room. A fine nucleus remains from last year and around this the organization for the coming year will be built. Professor Casasanta will receive applications in Washington Hall.
Neic Organization Anticipated
Within the next few weeks, the golden notes of a banjo and mandolin orchestra should be heard floating from Washington Hall. This will be the first time that a musical group of this kind has even been assembled on the campus, and anyone at all interested should see the Director ‘ of Music some time in the near future.
16
The Notre Dame Scholastic
COLLEGE I AL AI E
A prof in the engineering school of North Carolina State College is of the peculiar opinion that a week of humiliation and prayer on his part is sufficient to atone for many sins of his class in electrical engineering. At any rate, that is what he tried after a recent exam resulted in an average of 22 percent for the class. And when the class appeared the next time they found posted on the door a note that read like this: “The papers I got from this class are the poorest I ever got in twenty years of teaching.” Our suggestion is that the old fellow stick around a while longer, for we can assure him that he “ain’t seen nothing yet.”
—o—
Fifteen Iowa students of Iowa State College weren’t fooling when they enrolled in a nutrition class in the home economics division. No sooner had they entered the class than they discovered that it concerned itself only with the theory of cooking. Forthwith they demanded a revision of the course, or else—. As the authorities didn’t want the men to else, they installed a laboratory in which the male cooks can experiment to their hearts’ content. All that is well and good, but the embryo chefs are required to eat some of the products of their own cooking. We dare say that is often quite a penance.
The Daily Cardinal of the University of Wisconsin stands high in the estimation of at least one clerk in the postoffice at Madison. When this particular clerk came upon a letter addressed to “the leading daily newspaper, Madison, Wisconsin,” he promptly delivered it to the Daily Cardinal
Our old pal Diogenes made the mistake of living several centuries too soon, for the honest man he sought has been found out on the Pacific Coast. The athletic association of the University of Washington recently received this letter:
“Dear Mr. Campbell:
“Last Fall when the Huskies played football with Montana I attended the game, passing by the gate with a 50-cent high school student’s ticket, when I should have paid one dollar.
“I have been thinking about this and now regret that I did not pay the full price of admission. Enclosed in this letter you will find 50 cents in stamps, to complete payment for my ticket. I feel much better about the affair.”
The male population of Norton, Mass., dees not appear to be either ambitious or chivalrous. When a fire broke out in a house up there, a dozen men stood gaping about, but not so the co-eds from Wheaton College. Some twenty of the valiant girls came dashing up to the scene, commandeered a ladder, and, according to reports, “passed a $3,000 player piano, clothes, valuables, and furnishings from a second story window as flames crept down from the third floor.” We might say that, besides their bravery, these young ladies seem to possess considerable strength of arm to be passing player pianos down from second story windows as though it were a simple procedure.
A group of students at the University of Texas have organized a club to be known as the “World Champion Tobacco Spitters.” When they get ready to initiate new members they stage a huge long distance spitting contest. Applicants must achieve a certain minimum distance to qualify for membership. It would give us unlimited pleasure to smuggle our local champ, John Paul Jones, into one of their contests and then sit back in great glee as he calmly shattered all Texas tobacco-spitting records, as he most certainly would if afforded the opportunity.
Back in the “good old days” a student at the University of Tennessee, according to records preserved there, was required to bring with him a bed, a mattress, a table, a chair, a tub, a bucket and dipper, a coal scuttle, a wash pan, a mirror, and a lamp. Well, they may have been the good old days, but somehow we can’t bring ourselves to envy the students then.
Some ingenious undergraduate mind in the University of Southern California conceived a fad which bids fair to cost somebody plenty. The fad consists in trying to drop cubes of sugar into coffee cups in such a dexterous manner that they will land on top of one another and form a stack. The practice has spread so rapidly that already the cube sugar consumption of the university has increased from ten barrels a week to twenty-nine and a half barrels. Maybe the fellow who started the fad was a salesman for a cube sugar manufacturer.
Geography books seem to be dangerous things to let adventurous-minded students get hold of, or at least they proved to be so in the case of one Ohio State student. This young gentleman was enchanted by the pictures contained in the geographies and accordingly set forth with $24.50 in his pocket to see the country. It took him all summer and more to beat his way around to all the places he wanted to see, and now that he is up on his geography he is back in school, though the wanderlust has not yet deserted him. Now he is casting restless eyes toward Europe and admits that he might try it over there next. If he decides to go across the pond, perhaps we could fix it up so he can accompany cur friends who spend most of their Christmas vacation planning the itinerary of their great European Bumming Tour. Sometimes they allow us to sit in on these historic meetings, and there we are, gaping with wonder and amazement as the intrepid adventurers unfolded one romantic proposal after another. Or, if the Ohio State traveller should discover a yearning for South America, then by all means he should team up with Goday or Arce, although he would need more than $24.50 to travel with those aristocrats.
- —o—
Orange juice has become the most popular drink on the campus of the University of Washington, because a local shop has offered a new radio to thle sorority or fraternity that consumes the most orange juied within a certain length of time. Well, no doubt there are plenty of people who would drink sauerkraut juice evefy hour or so if they thought they would get anything fo| doing it.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
17
Shakespeare Was Wrong......
Stadium Completed During Summer Months
To Seat 60,000 Spectators
William Shakespeare, erstwhile bard of yore, once said that there was nothing new under the sun. With all due respect to wisdom and old age we beg to differ with him. It is a terrible calamity that he could not live to see Notre Dame’s new football stadium, seating approximately 60,000 gridiron fans. The plot which three months ago was nothing but a weed-covered field is today the site of the latest contribution to football activities. The structure, which embodies all the requirements of a modern football structure, was completed during the summer months. Like a second Topsy.it “jus sprung up” over night, it seems. Students returning to the University were amazed at the sight of the gigantic enclosure. Built of reinforced concrete faced with brick and limestone, it affords a magnificent view to everyone approaching the University grounds. The task of putting the finishing touches on the concession stands, the first aid room, and the rest rooms foi' men and women will take about two' more weeks.
Designed chiefly for football, the stadium is rectangular in shape, with curved sections in the four corners. The limestone coping along the top
row of bricks gives the structure a castellated effect. Spectators approaching the arena from Notre Dame Avenue are immediately impressed by its military appearance.
Reinforced Concrete Structure
Passing through the main gate, which looks like a military sally-port, the spectator’s gaze wanders to the massive array of exposed reinforced concrete and steel which supports the tier of seats. A circular track gives access to each of the 36 sections which lead to the arena of play. Entering one of the section gates the football fan is dwarfed by the apparent immensity of the structure. Bow on row of wooden seats extend in a beautiful symmetric curve, like a gigantic hollow scooped out by some colossal hand. Above the bank of seats at the north and the south ends of the stadium, score boards have been built into the structure so that they may be operated from the enclosed spaces behind the board from telephone instructions received from the field. Duplicate data as to score, penalties, etc., will be given from these points of vantage.
Press Box Accommodates 250
A private stairway leads to the press stand, which is on the western side of the field. It will accommodate 250 reporters and has convenient desks fitted with individual electric heaters and telegraphic connections, which are so arranged as to make possible direct wire connections with
any part of the country. Three separate radio broadcasting booths, each of which is so wired as to provide microphone connections with both the home and the visiting band sections, as well as the reporting microphone in the booth itself, are all placed in the press box.
Direct access to the field for the purpose of possible pageants and also to provide access to maintenance equipment has been provided by a descending ramp from the exterior grade on the north end. This entrance will also be the players’ entrance, and comfortable locker rooms have been installed for both local and visiting contingents. At all ordinary times this entrance will be closed by ornamental iron gates.
Stadium Ready for Opener
The work of grading and getting the surrounding fields into condition will be completed during the next two weeks. The design of the structure, together with arrangements of seating facilities was prepared by the Osborn Engineering Company of Cleveland, while Ralph Sollitt and Sons of South Bend were the general contractors.
The stadium has been so laid out cn the property that it is possible to add additional rows of seats to the lower deck, increasing the capacity at least 30,000, and to put on an upper deck giving a further increase of -50,000. This will make the ultimate capacity about 130,000.
View of Stands
18
The Notre Dame Scholastic
4
Dear “Red Knight”:
Yes my boy, you do get the prize of a copy of “How to Write Verse.” The only reason that we are giving you this prize is because if we don’t, the contest will still be open and we might get a poem or poems just as bad as the one that you sent in. Beware, dear “Dook,” of the Vigilance Committee.
Not yours,
????
—o—
POEM TO AN OCEAN VOYAGE
Hale, Sail, Gale, Pale, Rail.	—J. F. M.
—o—
THE RULE OF LIFE
Let me plod my way each weary day And come at night to rest;
Let me do each task my own best way, And calmly meet each test.
Let each passing hour mark some good done, Each moment be a jezvel;
Till that last eternal peace is won
By that one noble rule.	—Wazmus.
—°—
And that’s positively the last poesy of summer, in this or any other column.
We hear reports that the juniors turned out in force for the second round of their Cotillion of Charm held at St. Hedwige’s Wednesday night. The boys were caught off guard, it seems, but responded gallantly by importing dates from St. Stanlislaus’.
Right here is where you note the difference between this Wink and former ones. We are not asking foi* contributions. We simply remind you of the horrible fate which may befall non-contributors. Last year we sent in nothing to The Wink. Mere boyish thoughtlessness, of course. But now look at us. We’re condemned to conduct this column for a whole year. Fellows, take heed! Become Wink contribs or face the nasty possibility of running the thing next year.
We’ve decided right now that what this column needs is a good, snappy prize contest. We could have you guess at the number of cigarette-bummers in Sophomore Hall, but that would be too easy. Or we could run pictures of the faculty and have you try to make them look funnier with a soft pencil, a la Liberty. But that would be tactless. So now 'the contest will be for the best name submitted _ for us as conductor of this column. The prize will be ' announced later, but there are hints that it will be a oneway ride down Hill Street in one of the Walsh hall bathtubs, superbly mounted on balloon disc wheels.
????
The Wink is never one to lag behind in campus enterprises sponsored by the good old S. A. C. We think in making our bow that it’s a grand opportunity for us to take advantage of “Hello Week.” All right, fellows, get set for the cheery greeting. Here we come, ready or not. Hello, youse guys’
—0—
“WHAT IS THE PRICE?
“What is tke price one pays for fame, The rabble’s shout, the crowd’s acclaim?’’ Thus youth, demanded of the sage, The toiler over history’s page
Who weighed the merits of each name.
“Is this the reason why you came—
To quiz me on this empty game
Of stalking fair renown, and gage
What is the price?
“Then listen while I tell the shame
Of those who care not for the blame
Of men nor God while they assuage
Their lust for power. A sorry ivage
It is they pay, with this refrain—
What is the price?
Well, that was fair filler, though it was salvaged from a summer school course in poetry. The summer here was great, fellows. South Bend even had a tree-sitter right on the court-house lawn. The “Judge” (of the Scholastic, not the court) felt himself becoming more and more judicial with Kay in Mishawaka. And those eminent playboys, Cunningham, McGreal, and Howrey, had a great time until the dance floor out at Playland burned.
Dear ????:
Not to be outdone by other organizations, propose that you conduct a Quibbler’s Poetry contest with a limit of five lines, because we hate to read long poems. I hereby make my contribution for the five-liner championship of the Arch-diocese:
The love of procrastination By the younger generation, Will cost three curs Their midnight pers When they go on probation.
—The Red Knight.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
19
'u
I EEITCE’J PACE
___ _ _ \ ______ ___
THE IDEAL EDUCATION WHY "HELLO WEEK”?
As a prelude to the beginning of the scholastic year, a message from Notre Dame was sent round the world. The medium was the most powerful in existence today: the radio. The voice of the sender was that of the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. Father O’Donnell was accorded a most notable honor, one which he, as an eminent speaker, scholar, educator, and author, fittingly deserved.
The occasion of Father O’Donnell’s addresses over the air* was indeed timely. In this age of synthetic culture when a college is known more by the standing of its athletic teams than by its academic accomplishments, when a college man claims individuality more by the slang he uses than by the high quality of his English, when the bases of an education are more social and financial than intellectual, the traditions and ideals of a college education are hidden beneath a mass of shallow, material pursuits. The Catholic Church has always fostered the ideal education; she has always insisted on religious as well as intellectual training. Civilization would never have reached the peak it has attained today had not the Church been working since the time of Christ at her task of enlightening mankind. What a contrast between the form that education in general has assumed today and the means the Church has taken down through the ages of accomplishing her task.
The radio lectures of Father O’Donnell should prove a stimulus to the pride of those Catholics who have not sufficiently appreciated the accomplishments of the Church as a teaching body. They should reassure the critics of modern education that there are still institutions of learning where the mind and body may be developed without the neglect of the soul. The fact that no education is complete without instruction in moral and spiritual life cannot be too frequently or too strenuously repeated, and Catholic educators have always maintained that unless intellectual growth is paralleled by a progressive knowledge of religion and morals, the latter are bound to suffer.
—E. L. T.
By tomorrow evening, the last of the “Hello, Men!” signs will be gone, and the campus will resume a normality of intimacy. Men will speak to their room-mates, their professors, the fellows who sit across from them in English 7, and the three Carroll hall freshmen who come from the same home town. A Notre Dame tradition will be shelved for exactly a year.
That it is healthy to know and enjoy your fellow-creatures, is conceded. “Whosoever is delighted in solitude is either a wild beast or a god.” But to incite that companionship by a mechanical “hello” button is more or less absurd. The presumption that democracy rules supreme at Notre Dame or any other university is founded upon a fallacious theory that ignores natural likes and dislikes. If the gentleman across the corridor is a snob, there is no good reason why he should not be treated as a snob. If he is a bore, a casual “hello” may cause hours of idle and wasteful chatter.
The intent of “Hello Week” is worthy of comment in a Scholastic editorial. Every Notre Dame man—presuming that he comes anywhere near the common characterization of that term,— should be rather happy to exchange greetings with another Notre Dame man, if he considers the companionship of the latter worth developing.
“Hello Week” is administered in seven tough doses. A possibly better program would be an informal but whole-hearted attempt to develop friendships the very first day of the college year. Freshmen could be made to feel that Sorin hall is not a chamber of torture, often a torture whose main characteristic is silence. Sophomores and other upperclassmen make themselves at home rather well under any circumstances. But a freshman can feel mighty blue; with a blueness of such a depth that “Howdy” shouted from a placard on a tree cannot dispel it. —P. J. H.
20
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
“We ll Have a Strong Team,’’ Says Rockne
Ten Game Schedule One Without a Single Soft Spot
OONCE again it’s a mere matter of ‘’time will tell.” Rock says, “The outlook is good, we’re going to have a strong taam, but the schedule is impossible.”
Instead of repeating we might just as well have given orders last September to save the little paragraph which stated that “the 1929 season will be a success if Rockne can develop a satisfactory shock troop.”
A national championship team was the aftermath!
“Absence Makes Heart . . .”
When the leader of the Fighting Irish looked around the renovated practice field this early fall conspicuous by their absence were the pair of Jacks, Cannon and Elder,' Johnny Law, Colrick, Vezie, Twomey, Collins, Gebert, and a host of others. Tim Moynihan was there but in the role of coach.
The first move for Mr. Rockne was to place the ’29 shockers up into front position with a few third-stringers to fill in the empty spots. The next move was to develop a strong reserve squad. Apparently he has been very successful in that regard for all three teams which were used against the frosh last Saturday in the 76-0 rout showed enough strength and ability to meet the best that can be offered.
Now if that second string eleven does not round into fighting form there will be no doubt as how right Rockne was when he said, “the schedule is impossible.”
Practices Tightened Up
Immediately after the tilt with the frosh Rockne set into motion plans for perfecting the movements of his first and second string outfits. The initial contest with Southern Methodist slightly over a week away, daily practices have been speeded up and the large squad of 84 candidates was
sent through heavy workouts all this week.
At the present time the regulars will probably line up with Captain Tom Conley at right end; Dick Donoghue, right tackle; Bert Metz-
Coach Knute K. Rockne . . . schedule is impossible . . .
ger, right guard; Tommy Yarr, center; Tom Kassis, left guard; Frank Leahy, left tackle; and Ed. Kosky, left end; Frank Carideo, quarterback; Marchy Schwartz, left half; Larry Mullins, full; and Marty Brill, right half.
The fight for end position continues at a great and rapid pace, but Kosky appears to have the inside track on the choice because of his spectacular showing, both defensively and offensively, in practices of late.
Probable Shock Troops
Lined up on the shock troops will probably be Paul Host, left end; Al Culver, left tackle; Jim Harris, left guard; Frank Butler, center; Robert Terlaak, right guard; Art McMan-mon, right tackle; George Vik, right end; Charley Jaskwich, quarterback; Bernie Leahy, left half; Joe Savoldi, fullback; and Bucky O’Connor, right half.
Very few of these men are sure of
Shock Troop Problem Again Troublesome Matter
their positions, however, and there are lively battles going on for varsity posts. Tommy Yarr appears to have the pivot job pretty well stowed away but Frank Butler, huge sophomore, is giving him plenty of trouble. Agnew, Gorman, and Cavanaugh are also battling for the honor.
Jumping Joe Savoldi and Larry Mullins are having a ’lively duel of their own at fullback due to the rapid development of the lad from Three Oaks into a first class defensive back on passes. Joe can do more damage on the shock troops, nevertheless, and he’ll probably have to be content with that standing.
Little Choice in Backfield
As the land now lies, we wouldn’t want to have to select the first and second string backfields for there is very little choice. Bernie Leahy, Mike Koken, and a sophomore, Charley Jaskwich, showing a world of promise at quarterback, along with Bucky O’Connor at full can alternate with any one of the Carideo, Brill, Schwarz, Mullins quartet and make little difference in the result.
The ten-game schedule is going to be no easy snap. Starting right away with the Mustangs from Southern Methodist a week from tomorrow the Fighting Irish meet ten real honest-to-goodness football teams. About that first game Rock merely stated, “With nine hard games following the encounter with S. M. U. we can’t afford to hurry our men. We’ll take Southern Methodist in our stride just like the rest of the teams on the schedule and just as we did last year against each team we met.”
Southern Methodist has been undefeated for three years in Southwest conference play and, on the basis of its showing against Army at West Point in 1928, is rated as one of the best forward passing teams in the nation.

The Notre Dame Scholas
Interhall Football Season Opens October 5 th
With the issue of over 250 suits already made and the actual opening of the interhall football season only a week distant, candidates for honors in the pigskin sport are already grooming themselves. The teams are earnestly brushing up on the game in anticipation of the race for campus laurels that will come into being with the first series of games set for Sunday, October, 5. The complete schedule will be drafted ■within the coming week.
Coaches and assistants who will have charge of putting the various hall teams through their paces have already been appointed and several hall teams have begun actual practice for next Sunday’s games. Interest
ffliiiiniiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimtiiHniitniittiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiitiitiitiiiiiiiiiiiitiiHiitiiniiiiiiiiiiiiitiimnii......
1930 INTERHALL FOOTBALL COACHES
•		Hall	Head Coach	Assistant	Rector	z
		Freshman	Brill	Napolitano	Father Cavanaugh	
	z	Sophomore	Kaplan	Wilson	Father Holderith	Z
	2	Carroll	Yarr	Bresson	Brother Mauritius	z
	-	Brownson	Savoldi	Kuhn	Brother Aidan	z
	Z	Walsh	Conley	Cunningham	Father James Ryan	=
		Corby	Romanin	Griffen	Father O’Malley	z
•		Badin	Leahy	O’Connor, Edm.	Father Gassensmith	=
	Z	Howard	O’Brien	Luckett	Father Connerton	z
	z	Morrissey	Artman	Capter	Father Stack	
	z	Lyons	Carideo	McQuaid	Father John Ryan	
	=	St. Edward’s	Kosky	Koken	Father Leo Heiser	
		Off-Campus	Butorac	Sheeketski	Father Clancy	Z
Q uiiitittitaiitiiiitittiiiitiiiiiiittiiiatsiiiaiiiiaiiiiKtttiiinnHiiiiiiiititiiiittttiiiiiitiiiitiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiititiiiiiiiiiititsiiiiitiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiral
NICHOLSON ISSUES CALL
FOR FALL TRACK WORK
Thoughts of a brilliant victory over the Navy still reminding him of a successful season last spring, Coach * John P. Nicholson issued a call for •	fall track this week in order to give
1	himself an opportunity to look over
'	the men around whom he will have to
.	build his 1931 squad. Coach Nichol’	son desires as many men as possible
* out for daily practice and he expects some creditable performances to be turned in before the date for the annual fall handicap meet rolls around.
Even though the meet with the Midshipmen of the United States Naval Academy was run off after the close of the regular school year last June, and with Notre Dame represented by an unusually small squad,
in the sport for this season was aroused on the campus last Sunday when Coach Knute Rockne talked to the interhall football men in the library and encouraged them to take interest in the competition.
At a banquet held Monday in the lay faculty dining hall for the coaches, their assistants and rectors of all the halls, plans for the schedule and the coaching of the interhall men were made. Coach Rockne, Reverend Raymond Murch, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, and J. C. Masterson, director of the department of physical education, spoke to the men who will be in charge of the hall outfits and stressed the importance of the interhall system in the scheme of things here.
the Blue and Gold emerged victoriously, 67 to 59. Navy’s greatest strength was - in the field events, but even in these, its victories were scored by two and three inch margins. On the running track they were no match for Coach Nicholson’s fleet performers.
By virtue of its victories in the field events, however, the Navy kept the final result in doubt until the last event on the program, and, in fact, led by 59 to 58 when the runners faced the starter’s gun for the halfmile. In this event, however, Notre Dame’s three great middle-distance runners, Joe Quigley, Brant Little, and Alex Wilson, came down the stretch arm-in-arm and broke the tape in the order named above to give the Blue and Gold a clean sweep in this event and victory by an eightpoint margin. The meet, and this race in particular, was a fitting climax to very successful season.
ic	21
O’KEEFE NAMED
BASEBALL CAPTAIN
Plans for the 1931 baseball season will be laid and schedules drafted at the conference meeting to be held in Chicago, December- 6, Coach George Keogan announced yesterday. Following that session, the open dates on the Notre Dame card will be filled by engagements with other teams in this section, it was said.
“Dinny” O’Keefe, varsity third
Dennis J. O’Keefe
sacker for the past two seasons, will cavort at the “hot corner” again this year, but this season will act as captain for the Blue and Gold outfit. O’Keefe was elected to this position following the game against Wisconsin on Commencement day last spring. This will be the last year for “Dinny” and he will find plenty of material present when the time comes to mould another fast-traveling combination with the advance of the warmer days next March.
FROSH MEET VARSITY
The freshman football candidates will see action tomorrow afternoon against the varsity squad in the second freshman-varsity scrimmage of the season. The game will begin at 1:30 p. m. and an admission charge of 25c will be made for the benefit of the Monogram club.
22
The Notre Dame Scholastic
SHIFT.
Splinters From
EXPERIMENTS.
4
Some good news came out of the New Haven district recently in the form of an announcement that Yale was going to revert to its time-honored system of offense. Last season the board of strategy figured that the good old Eli style was about done for so they instituted the Glenn Warner system with all its ultra-modern complexities.
The result was that Georgia easily won the second game of the season. The team couldn’t click; plays were mixed up and general confusion reigned. This year Yale is going to be Yale again—good news undoubtedly to the wearers of the Blue.
PROSPECTS.
Peeking around corners last Saturday afternoon in the new stadium, and incidentally, initiating the new and capacious press-box, we were very much pleased at the performance of
the Press Box
Knute Rockne’s first, second, and third string outfits.
Timing, precision, polish, strong offensive and an impregnable pass defense stood out prominently. It was apparent that the first team as selected was in better shape than last year’s outfit at the same time.
ik
STAMINA.
Although Cannon, Twomey, Law and Moynihan will not be in the line this year we have much confidence in the ability of Metzger and Donoghue to replace the incomparable pair, Twomey and Cannon. If Dick Donoghue can stand the gaff which Twomey did in allowing Cannon to “pull out” then Rock’s fears foi' a not too successful season will be at an end. Tommy Yarr was exceptionally good at center, we thought, but he must look upon Butler, sophomore, as a dangerous rival.
From all appearances the new shift rule will not affect Notre Dame’s system of play to any great extent. In fact, the full second halt appeared to be a distinct advantage and the plays were run off smoother and more decisively than expected. What will happen against a more formidable opponent will be seen soon.
,	y
FREEZE-OUT.
The officials of the National Boxing Association played a little game of “freeze-out” the other day. They decided that “after January 1,. any boxer that performs in New York, California, Pennsylvania, or Massachusetts (not members of the N. B. A.) will not be used in the N. B. A. states.” How successful they will be depends upon how successful the Madison Square Garden moguls are in signing up the big boys to fight for them exclusively. Most of the big money fights can be held in the three eastern states just as well as not.
The practical thing in this case is to induce the four states to join the charmed circle by rigidly enforcing the rule.
4 DAYS ONLY
Starting Saturday
Next Wed., Thurs., Fri., — Al Jolson in “Big Boy”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
23
NOTRE DAME GRADS
VISITORS ON CAMPUS
Two prominent Notre Dame graduates—Frank Wallace, ’23, known for his excellent football novels, and Freddie Collins, ’29, Rockne’s star fullback on the grid squad of 1928, were guests of Knute Rockne at the varsity workout last Wednesday afternoon.
Wallace returned to the campus for a short time to pick up odd bits for another football novel which he will write shortly. Frank’s latest work, Huddle will commence in the next month’s issue of College Humor.
Freddie Collins has been connected with a Chicago specialty concern in the capacity of salesman and dropped off to give the boys the once-over.
The South Bend Clearing House Banins
Invite Your Patronage
AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK CITIZENS TRUST & SAVINGS BANK
FIRST NATIONAL BANK INDIANA TRUST COMPANY ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SAVINGS
BANK
ST. JOSEPH LOAN & TRUST COMPANY
UNION TRUST COMPANY
“ROCK” TO PEN
AUTOBIOGRAPHY
Arrangements were made recently so that Knute K. Rockne, director of athletics, will write his own story of his, life for Colliers Weekly. It is to run in eight weekly installments, beginning late in August.
John Bright Kennedy, associate editor of the magazine, made arrangements for the series when he was a guest of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of the St. Joseph Valley here recently.
■—mi—w—w——m m. u«fr I Dictionary cf Chemical Equations j A Contains twelve thousand completed and 3 I balanced chemical equations, classified and | 1 arranged for ready reference. It is no | | more difficult to find a desired equation in | = this book than it is to find a word in the = | Standard Dictionary.	I
f NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE । ilu—«■—mi——ia——	a«—na—ua—
STARTING
SUN. ---
PALACE
L______._
STARTING --- SUN.
ON THE SAME PROGRAM
R. K. O.
VAUDEVILLE
The International Dance Stars SIDNEY TRACEY and BESSIE HAY The Admirable Versatile Dancers Assisted by Paul Humphrey.
STEVENS BROS, and NELSON Late of “A Night In Venice" in “Bear Facts.”
MICHAEL PARTI AND HIS MUSICAL MISSES
COOK SISTERS “Two Little Girls From Missouri"
NEXT WED.—FRI.
JACK MULHALL in “For the Love 0’ Lil”
LIBERTY Magazine’s Cover Pages come to life!
The Notre Dame Scholastic
eot
S.
'(fina
■/('.I	.y/tain ’zArrcf
SUITS AND TOPCOATS
Fine imported and Domestic Woolens and Worsteds tailored in distinctive styles.
$48 to $125
IMPORTED AND DOMESTIC MEN’S WEAR
London’s suave super-criminal who loved to steal and stole to love ....
RONALD
COLMAN
>x—kg—ke^— nu^—*e^—so—»bu^— ug—naja
K-^^sa-^ttn—ua—«e—an—•ta^— cs^—«n^—na^— ra^—«——na—»oc——is—mij»
i	i
I The Book Shop [ I	WISHES	j
j	All Notre Dame Men	]
I a Cordial Welcome	i
j	Our stock of	!
1 SCHOOL SUPPLIES	|
I	and	I
!	Appropriate Reading Material ।
I	- i	I
l	is always	।
|	£
I	adequate to your needs	f
I	l
I	THE BOOK SHOP
E	.	I
1	119 North Michigan Street I
1	I
I	1
He toyed with the law, he dabbled in crime, but a beautiful girl was more than his match in the game of love!
‘RAFFLES’
A United Artist Sensation With KAY FRANCIS
--------Publix Presentations-------
VITAPHONE SOUND VODVIL PARAMOUNT SOUND NEWS
STARTS SAT.—THRU TUES.
Home cf Paramount Pictures
The Notre Dame Scholastic
NOTRE DAME HOST TO 50
COACHES THIS SUMMER
More than fifty candidates for fame in the field of coaching enrolled in the school of coaching at Notre Dame which lasted from August 11 to 23.
Glenn “Pop” Warner of Stanford outlined the famous Warner “wing-back” system, while Hunk Anderson,
Rockne’s famous star and present able assistant, presented the Rockne system. Rock himself was on hand and explained a few of his pet intricacies of the game. Roger Kiley and Chet Wynne, former- star end and fullback under Rockne, assisted the demonstration of the Rockne system. George Keogan led the discussion in the basketball end of the summer coaching school.
ROCKNE DIRECTS DRILLS
USING ADDRESS SYSTEM
Knute K. Rockne is instructing his gridiron laborers daily from a specially constructed platform located in the center of the practice field by means of a public address system which broadcasts his voice over the entire enclosure.
N. D.—Coaching Coaches—1930
The new apparatus, installed by two young men of South Bend, not only enables Rockne to conserve his strength for the arduous duties that will be his this coming fall in whipping another championship team into shape, but also enables him to watch what is going on in all parts of the lot.
George Keogan, basketball; Heartleg “Hunk” Anderson, Knute K. Rockne, Glen “Pon” Warner, Roger Kiley and Chet Wynne, football.
CAGE FLOOR SCRAPED AND REFINISHED
The entire floor of the basketball court in the fieldhouse has undergone a scraping and refinishing process during the past week. When the work is completed the floor will take on the appearance of an entirely new job, all of the rough spots having been removed in the renovation.
bd^— uu—ra—1»-—-t«—cn——•!»—ua—
-
HELLO MEN!
SMITH S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
At Least Two
You’ll want to see Notre Dame in at least two out-of-town games this year . . . Northwestern at Evanston, November 22 . . . Army at Soldier Field, November 29. On these occasions, as on all trips to Chicago, you’ll want to ride America’s fastest electric railway.
The Home of Quality

I The Favorite Eating Place of
I	Notre Dame
I
j
a—a—0.^33—33—ss—sa^—Bi—i
Trains every hour on-the-hour to	j
downtown Chicago	|
I
3
_	I
n—n—an—m«i—■—m—in—a—b—
26
e Notre Dame Scholastic
FROSH CROSS-COUNTRY
OFFERS GREAT CHANCES
running the races — and sticking in there to the finish.
Coach Nicholson would like to see
the number now reporting for- practice at least doubled, if not trebled, within the next week.
A call for freshman cross-country candidates was issued last Tuesday by Coach Nicholson but the number responding to the call was very small. “Nick” has laid some very definite plans for the freshman thinlies this year and not the least important event on the program is a handicap meet, to the winners of which ■wall go such prizes as track shoes, sweaters, sweat shirts, and the like.
With the sport now classed as a quasi-major sport in varsity competition, freshmen should not overlook the opportunity to get into condition and develop themselves under the direction of Coach Nicholson. Graduation next June will take its toll from the ranks of this year’s team, and these places must be filled by the present freshmen. Cross-country, too' is a sport in which experience, and above all, stamina are most important. These can be obtained only bl-
Alumni preferred sections, 9-5; visiting team, 10-H; three-year season tickets, and one-year season tickets, 27-23; student body, 2S-30.
a
I
r
i
s'
The
Notre Dame Scholastic
★ * * * ★ WELCOME BACK TO
Notre Dame
illigrjMIMiTlllIlDIlt
The Pen
that passes
Ui/f
exams
will help you pass all yours
GUARANTEED FOR LIFE
I pay
“Pm paid a bonus if my point gets 11 okays—
i ''
Pen that writes with of post-graduate point. Thus they have time
Duofold point to give you a this, we had to develop squads
We pay a bonus for every Pressureless Touch. To produce
smiths. We allow them to make but a limited number per day.
Easily—3,000,000 Parkers will go to school this fall
a forfeit if it fails to earn them all! '
The Parker Point-Smith
$5 buys this polished Italian marble Desk Base— tapered pen end included free—to convert your pocket Duofold to a Desk Set Pen. Complete set, as shown with Duofold Jr. Pen (pocket cap and clip included'), $10.	'

Matched Vest-Parkers
§750
Vest-Parker Duette Set—midget Pen and Pencil together weighing less than % ounce. Each convertible for Desk Set use. Pen alone, $5; Pencil, $2.50.
to make each point a masterpiece.	_
It must pass 11 merciless tests. Then we pay its maker an extra rewaid. If it fails any test, we reject it, and the point-smith pays a forfeit.
Yet 7 out of S they make are Bonus Points. And these, and these only, go into Duofold Pens.
Like 2 Pens for the Price of One
Try this famous Pen at any pen counter. See how it changes from a pocket Pen to a Pen for your study Desk Set by simply interchanging the pocket cap and the tapered tip. This saves the price of a second pen.
Parker Duofold Pens are Guaranteed for Life. Their Permanite barrels are non-breakable, yet they have all the beauty of costly jewels.
Duofold Pens hold 17.4% more ink than average, size for size.
New streamlined balanced shapes now ready at all dealers. See them—and see the streamlined Pencils to match. Don’t buy any pen without first trying the Parker Duofold Bonus Point.
THE PARKER PEN CO.. Janesville. Wisconsin
For co-eds or travelers this inlaid enamel Travel Set with Moire Pen (convertible for purse or Desk Set)—pocket cap with ring included free, complete, $8.
Parker
‘Duq/btd
PEN GUARANTEED FOR LIFE, $5, $7, $10
28
The Notre Dame Scholastic
MOTHER
Hear this merry, merry melody .	of happy heartbeats set to
music . . . recorded for Victor —and how! by Gus Amheim <p: JJ and his high-voltage orchestra.
Other Victor Record hits, too I ... each one “the Broadway F	berries”—sweet or hot—for
I every mood and moment.
- The greatest artists and orches-[ tras exclusively for Victor, in every field.
22505-
GO HOME ANH TELE V«l ll MOTHEK
I’m Doin’ That Thing Gus Amheim & Orch.
22506—Con fessin’ My Bluebird was Caught in the Rain Rudy Vallee & Orch.
22515—Sing
I Still Get a Thrill Ted JVeems & Orch.
23000-Okay Baby I Want a Little Girl McKinney’s Cotton
Pickers
Non...
BRAHMS SYMPHONY No. 2 in D MAJOR
recorded by STOKOWSKI on Victor Records and the Philadelphia Orchestra.
Hear this great masterpiece today J Victor Album M-82, Victor Records 7277-7282
* SIX COACHES ASSIST
ROCKNE ON FIELD
Aiding Knute K. Rockne this year in rounding the varsity squad into condition for the strenuous ten-game schedule are Jack Chevigny, Hunk Anderson, Ike Voedisch, Tim Moynihan, Bill Jones and Manny Vezie.
Chevigny has been taking particular notice of the backfield men, instructing them in the fine art of side
folks at home!
College life presents many perplexing problems; problems that could be answered bv Dad cr Mother in short order if they were near. But a letter is so slow . . . and so hard to write exactly as one feels . . .
Talk to the .folks at home ... by telephone!
Telephone toll calls are- quick, satisfactory, and economical. Make it a habit to call home at least once a week.
Indiana Bell
stepping and blocking. Anderson continues to watch over the line in general. It’s up to Moynihan to groom the centers and find one good enough to replace himself.
Ike Voedisch, long a veteran of the N. D. coaching staff, has been teaching the wingmen how to take out tackles and snag passes.
Bill Jones has again been in charge of the freshman football artists and has as his assistant Manny Vezie.
The Music You Want When You Want It On
rca victor co., inc. ft*
CAMDEN. N.J.	Wa.i9
The Notre Dame Scholastic
29
HUGE FROSH SQUAD
REPORTS TO JONES
With the opening of school came the call for freshman football material which resulted in approximately 3C0 freshmen receiving equipment and instructions in the fundamentals of collegiate football.
After only two days’ practice they
were compelled to meet a formidable varsity who smothered them by some ten or eleven touchdowns. Considering, however, the brief time they were out, they stacked up fairly well against the well organized and more experienced varsity.
Freshman Coach Bill Jones has been stressing the rudiments and more or less simple formations and
expects his charges to make a better showing in the coming sessions with the varsity.
A cut in the squad is expected in the near future in order to give more attention to those showing the most ability. There are many men who appear- promising and with conditions growing more normal the freshmen should prove stiff opposition.
No. K74TC, $9.50
This white
dot identifies
Lifetime” pen.
The only Balance” pen and pencil is Sheaffer's.
No. HTSC, Marine Green, $4.00
Sheaffer’s,the
ONLY genuine
Truth needs no support;
Sheaffer’s is the college favorite*
TODAY there are more Sheaffer’s bought than any other make; among, America’s hundred leading colleges, each registering
1,700 or more students, Sheaffer’s sales overtop all others.
With Sheaffer’s, the reason for such success is that theseinstruments are supremely well
is a Sheaffer’s Lifetime0 pen point fbi every hand. Second, each is a Balance0 instrument, fitting the hand comfortably, talcing class notes quickly, making long, themes easy. Third, the Balance0 contour is truly modem, a happy blend of line and curve,
the combination of utility with beauty. And fourth, nobody can outlive his Life-time°pen’s guarantee of satisf actoryservice.
*Arecent surveymade by a disinterested organization showed Sheaffer’s first in fountain pen sales amon^ the 100 leading American colleges having registration of 1,700 or more students. Documents covering this survey are available to anyone.
AT BETTER STORES EVERYWHERE
The ONLY genuine Lifetime0 pen is Sheaffer’s; do not be deceived! All fountain pens are guaranteed against defects, but Sheaffer’s Lifetime0 is guaranteed unconditionally for your life, and other Sheaffer products are forever guaranteed against defect in materials and workmanship. Green or Black Lifetime0 pens, $8.75; Ladies’, $8.25. Black-and-Pearl De Luxe and Marine Green Lifetime0 .pens, $10; Ladies’, $9.50. Petite Lifetime°pens, $7 up. Golf or Handbag Pencil, $3.Others lower.
Jiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiuinm*
SAFETY SKRIP. SUCCESSOR TO INK, SKRIP-FILLED, 50c to $10. Carry Safety Strip in your lu&£a£e and to classes.lt’s leak-proof, practically unbreakable. Saves furniture, clothing, ru&s, keeps the fluid fresh, makes all pens write better.
SHEAFFER’S
V.X PENS-PE NCI LS-DES K SETSSKRIP
W. A. SHEAFFER PEN COMPANY, FORT MADISON, IOVZA, U.S. A.
“Bes.U.S.Pat.Off.
©W.A.S.P.Co.. 1930
30
The Notre Dame Scholastic
20 CANDIDATES REPORT FOR CROSS-COUNTRY Approximately twenty men answered Coach John P. Nicholson’s call for cross-country candidates and they have been reporting daily for their five-mile jaunt around the lakes and across the University golf course. This number is very disheartening to “Nick” who -wishes to make it clear to men who have ability that this sport is now a quasi-major sport. That is, major monograms will be awarded to. individual members of the
this the pen for the progressive. If you
repair service is provided by a perpetual and unconditional service guarantee. The going college stores show these
It isn't necessary to understand Einstein ■to appreciate the new dimension so happily expressed in die Conklin Endura Symetrik. Gracefully tapered, rounded ends, stream lines, a radical and startling
00370
IE fN ID LIRA SYM IE IURII IK
The ConJHinPen Co.
TOLEDO. OHIO
SAN FRANCISCO CHICAGO

Miri
team or to the team as a whole for certain achievements, even though the sport is not rated in the same class as football, basketball, track, and baseball. This is the method now being-practiced by most Big Ten universities and other schools the country over.
Coach Nicholson pointed out that a first place for Notre Dame in any major meet would earn for its winner the varsity monogram, and he promised, in addition, that there would be at least three such meets on the season’s schedule. A team victory over the winner of the Western

Conference cross-country championship would merit monograms for all regular members of the team.
Quad Meet Arranged
Although the schedule is not yet completed, a quadrangular meet between Illinois, Wisconsin, Northwestern, and Notre Dame has been announced for October 25, at Evanston. A dual meet with Indiana, 1929 Big Ten champions, is scheduled for November 1st over the local course, and a week later the Blue and Gold thin-lies will play host to the Michigan State Spartans. Two other meets are pending- but cannot be announced at present.
With perhaps the most difficult schedule in history facing his team this year, “Nick” is anything but enthusiastic over the prospects for a successful season. As yet, only two letter men are out for practice and it seems that the team will have to be shaped mostly from green sophomore material. Joe Quigley, last year’s captain, and Gene Howrey, both consistent place-winners last season, are slowly rounding into form, but the loss of Alex Wilson, Jim Biggins, and Don McConnville is sure to be felt. Wilson and Biggins are in school but do not expect to run cross-country this year. Wilson, who won the 440-yard dash in the British Empire Games at Hamilton, Ontario, last month, has been training all summer and Coach Nicholson has decided that he needs rest to put him in shape for the track season.
Tom Grimes, freshman star last year, is by far the most outstanding of the newcomers. Last year he ran away with the Interhall and Freshman cross-country meets, and has been showing up well again this fall.
DONOVAN TO COACH
FROSH BASKETBALL
Clarence “Ooney” Donovan, guard on last year’s varsity basketball squad, has returned to the University and will teach the freshman basketball candidates the Notre Dame style of play this coming fall.	-
Donovan’s vast experience gained through three years of service on the varsity squad will enable him to impart to the incoming freshmen the best that can be taught them. Paired with Ed Smith, the duo was considered the finest pair of guards in the Middle West for two years.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
31
♦ -UK-l*a^~tW<
wf—- w— rm—nh——>w—wi— wt^—	ni^— w—on—»«—uh—cn^— »•
This space reserved For
LEARBURY
■Ml—Ml—M—HQ—«—mi—IM—tM—Nt'
STUDENT MANAGERS
WELL ORGANIZED
The work of organization and direction of the athletic teams of the University has been efficiently started by the student managers organization in’ connection with the athletic association under director of athletics Knute Rockne and business manager, J. Arthur Haley.
Daniel D. Halpin of New Haven, Conn, is the senior manager of football in charge of the manager’s organization for the coming year. His associates in the handling of all football plans and details are Joseph A. Lauerman and John F. Saunders.
Organization and direction of the 1200 men to be employed in the new stadium is one of the mammoth tasks facing the managerial board this fall. Arrangement of itineraries for all varsity and reserve team trips in conjunction with Coach Rockne is another of the larger duties of the or-gananization. In addition all interhall sports and the details of playing fields, equipment, and schedules are under the direct control of the managers.
The managers organization for the entire year is composed of the football manager and his two associates and four senior managers of the other university sports. They are: John M. Hughes, basketball; Robert C. Balfe, baseball; Bourke Motsett, track; and Thomas R. Ashe, minor sports.
The six junior managers are: John Colville, John Grams, Joseph McKeon, John Ross, Charles Spangenburg, and Charles Weiss.
Sophomore managers to the number of sixteen, and approximately fifty freshmen complete the organization.
LAMBERT SCORES ACE
ON PAR 3 FIFTEENTH
The first hole-in-one to be scored on the University golf course since its opening a year ago was registered last Tuesday afternoon by Dick Lambert of Walsh Hall on the 166-yard fifteenth hole. The ace was witnessed by Dick Walsh, Lambert’s partner in the match.
Lambert, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, played a number 2 iron shot from the tee, the ball landing at the edge of the green and rolling directly to the cup. The flag was removed from the hole by players about to leave the green.
32
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Popularity with the fairer and gentler sex depends upon personality and that calls for vibrant health and a quick mind. The “senior most popular with the co-eds” will be the one who keeps a wary eye on the vitamins and proteins. Shredded Wheat gives you the magnetism that comes from glowing health and good
QiianumimiamituiaaiiaainituumaaumiitiiaiiiimtiimitmaimamtiuuiiiaumiatiatuiaamiiiaaaauiiiiiKiiMiautiatmuiuat Q
I Please Patronize Scholastic Advertisers j
spirits—the fatal charm that lies in a brain that can work overtime without feeling the strain. It supplies you with all the essentials of a well-balanced diet and at the same time it aids digestion.
Try a biscuit or two for breakfast served with whole-milk and fruit and see how it feels to start the day right.
| On Down the Line |
j____________________________
SHORTS.
Six football film shorts will soon be released by Pathe of Knute Rockne and his squad going through the motions. of a football game. The series is entitled “The Last Yard,” “The Hidden Ball,” “Flying Feet,” “Touchdown,” “Backfield Aces,” and “Two Minutes to Go.” They are the ones which were “shot” just before school ended last May.
BALMY.
The turf which covers the tennis courts at Seabright, N. J., was imported from an English graveyard. . . . The total expenditure for baseballs by the 16 clubs of the major leagues is placed at §160,000 this season . . . The* varsity and freshmen football squads of the University of Pittsburgh use up 2,000 cleats each season ... at that rate they must use them to hang pictures . . .
*
GOGGLES.
Harold Lloyd is assured of technical accuracy in his forthcoming comedy built around a college football team. He has signed Frank Wallace, ’23, as technical aid. Incidentally, Frank, formerly a New York sports writer, will have his new football serial featured in College Humor, beginning with the October number.
* * $
TRACK.
This season’s meeting at Saratoga called for a total of more than $600,-000 in purses for 28 days of racing . . . How much more the bookmakers cleared, they only know ... Of the Brooklyn and Cleveland players who met in the world series of ten years ago only Burleigh Grimes, Joe Sewell, and Chuck Jamieson are still engaged in big league competition.
* * *
TEXAS.
Christy Flanagan, grid flash of 1925-26-27, is now assistant coach down at Purdue with his old friend, Noble Kizer. Flanagan had been at St. Louis University. Bucky Dah-man, we hear, is to coach at St. Viator’s the coming season. Ray won his basketball monogram at Notre Dame in ’24, ’25, and ’26, and his football letter in ’26 and ’27.