It’ll Be Out Friday!

1951 FOOTBALL REVIEW
ft has all these features:
•	Detailed accounts of all Notre Dame games
•	Biographical sketches of players and coaches
•	Spend a week with Frank Leahy
*	Special feature on “Men Behind the Scenes”
Order extra copies at the SCHOLASTIC OFFICE in Farley Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana
'	The Scholastic
LETTERS
Sports Editor:
By way of giving- added emphasis to your latest article in which you suggest that football practice be open to the student body at least two or three days a week, let me be recorded as one of the subscribers to this petition.
In addition to the reasons you gave for this action, let me add that since there is a lot of noise about, concerning the legality and morality of sports in general and basketball and football in particular, opening the practice sessions may be an effective step toward alleviating some of the suspicion that may crop up concerning “our” athletic system.
As for the difficulties involved, I see no reason why a method cannot be devised to keep the undesirables out and the desirable's in.
Here’s hoping your article has some positive effect.
Ed Vasta Off-campus.
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.	J. M. S. Bldg.
The Difference Between This		
	WALLFLOWER	
And I This		
	POPULARITY	
Is I This		
	ADAIRE SCHOOL OF DANCING 216 S. Lafayette	
Enroll at Adaire’s for the best deal in town on dance lessons. Call 2-0166 for a free introductory lesson.		
REG. T. M.
sportchecks
How the gals will look up to you in hefty, hearty Sportchecks by Van Heusen! ’Way out front in smart styling and luxurious comfort. Now in exciting window pane patterns, shadow plaids and hold checks ... in a winning array of colors. Fine cotton ginghams,* $5.95 Lustrous rayon,* $6.50 Wool and rayon, $7.50
100% virgin wool Vanaca flannel, $10.00
*completely washable
Van Heusen “the world’s smartest” shirts Philltps-JanM Corp., Now York 1, N. Y •
Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
-GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
Nov. 30, 1951
3
CRYSTAL CLEAR GLASSES TO TOAST NOTRE DAME
At party time, reunion time, ond many other occasions, your entertaining will be tops in graciousness, thanks to these superb Notre Dame glasses. The seal is permanent and they are made up in traditional colors.
9% oz. glasses — S4.25 doz. plus express $1.50
14 oz. glasses — $4.95 doz. plus express $1.50
Christmas Gifts
FOR THE FAMILY
Here is an ideal gift for the family. The unique Notre Dame dinner plate, handsomely embossed, with an impressive montage of campus scenes on one plate. Perfect too for escutcheon mounting or as a decorative piece.
$1.75
Me Dame Bookstore
NOTRE DAME HONOR BLANKET
Actual reproductions of college colors; 100% wool blanket. Chenille monograms ond as a personal touch, the name and graduation year is durably chain-stitched on the blanket edge. 60 x 80 inches (one large N. D. monogram).
Blanket with ND monogram—$12.95
Blanket with name and graduation year — $13.95
PLAYING CARDS
Notre Dame Ploying Cards—Plastic coated, fop quality cards. Sold exclusively at Notre Dame Bookstore in single and double decks.
Single Decks $ .95
Double $1.85
PLEASE SHIP TO:
Quantity .....
NAME............  ..................................................................
ADDRESS....................................      .................................      -........
CITY.
ZONE
STATE
Enclose check or money order, or merchandise may be sent C. O. D.
The Scholastic

Top of the Week
Twenty-six basketball games this season . . .
Ho-Hum
Last weekend was a somewhat placid one as far as local activities were concerned. What with the majority of the campus citizenry hieing themselves off to their home firesides or into Caponeland to partake of the Thanksgiving bird (Hill’s Snappy Curb Service featured turkeyburgers with cranberry sauce for all the down-and-out stay-at-homers) it was as quiet as a Siberian graveyard around here.
By Jack Hynes
Over in hallowed Alpha Sigma Sorin house (the only self-designated fraternity on the ND campus) speculation is riding high over Louisville Lee Steiden’s winter book.
The genial gentleman from Kentuck’ has posted a large chart on the wall of his stable which lists some 30-odd Sorin residents and their odds against getting a date for the Senior Ball, which, incidentally is some six months away.
Right now, the heavy sugar is on Art Perry; yours truly starting ofi as a darkhorse at 40-1 with slight chance that
the odds will come down in his favor before post time next May. Consult Turf Guide and this column for late entries.
Who’s For a Cab?
Not long ago, we received a rather disparaging note from one of the zoomzoom lads who pilot the local NIT vans vigorously protesting some equally disparaging remarks made on this page by mean, ol’ me.
Wc must- admit, now, that the rapid trip from circle to Adler’s doesn’t cause us to pale as much as before. We’ve had our insurance renewed and besides, we keep our eyes closed.
However, after riding back to the salt mines late of any Saturday night with 70 other fellow -workers on a 48-seat bus, we might suggest a new slogan for our thin-skinned hosts on the NIT— the public be jammed. Pax vobiscum.
Bottom of the Week
. . . but only seven are played at home.
Even the Chicago Club dance, held on the eve of the holiday, was lacking its traditional raucous frivolity. Maestro Gene Hull, whose union men played at the Windy City soiree, reports that only three ice cubes were hook-shot into the sax section all night; a minor action designed, no doubt, to improve their already mellifluous tones.
And the hotel management is feeling pretty good about the fact that their furniture remained whole throughout the evening, although there is one waiter that is yet to be accounted for. All in all, though, it was a real uptown affair. Men of Chicago—we salute you!
How About the Pop-Corn?
Well, it might have been quiet last week, but there will be plenty of action down at the Avon theater tomorrow. As a publicity gimmick for their new picture, Bright Victory, the Avon is opening wide its doors tomorrow morn and admitting all for grata.
The idea being, that if you like the picture you pay on the way out; if you didn’t go for it, or if you’re just a freeloader like we are, then you walk off for nothing. Form a party of friends—rally at the circle at 9:30.
Overheard at Pre-Registration
Freshman: “You mean I have to take that?”
Sophomore: “What should I take?”
Junior: “Who teaches it?”
Senior: “Does he take roll?”
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
WHENEVER SHEEDY gave a gal the glad ham she turned up her snoot. Poor Paul took pen and oink and wrote a litter home: "I'm sty-mied. All the gals think I’m a boar. To get a date is a pig’s feat!” His mother wrote back: "Even a dull-lard like you should know enough to borrow his roommate’s Wildroot Cream-Oil! It’s non-alcoholic. Contains soothing Lanolin. Removes loose, ugly dandruff. Helps you pass the Finger-Nail Test. Makes your hair look neat and well-groomed.” That was the pig-me-up Sheedy needed. Now he’s imporkant... hogs and kisses all the girls. Better try Wildroot Cream-Oil yourself. Get it at your favorite drug or toilet goods counter—and ask for professional applications at your barber chop!
* of 131 So. Harns Hill Rd., Williamsville, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc.. Buffalo 11, N.Y.
Nov. 30, 1951
5
Calendar
f NOVEMBER 30
PALACE (through Dec. 5)—When Worlds Collide (Legion of Decency Rating A-2) is another of Hollywood’s new crop of sciencefiction films, and also one of its better ones. It features some imaginative shots of New York City being inundated by the Atlantic Ocean as the world comes to an end. Forty earthlings escape to another planet and begin life anew but not before the romantic angles have been straightened out. Barbara Rush and Peter Hanson, a couple of bright young things from the Paramount talent bag, grab top billing. The basketball teams in the co-feature Basketball Fix look as though they’d have a tough time getting by the South Bend Usherettes.
GRANADA (through Dec. 5)—Let’s Make It Legal (B) sends Claudette Colbert and a couple of other unfortunates about 199 miles down the road to ignominity. It’s supposed to be a comedy of some sort but it’s no joke to have to sit through it. The companion feature Yellowfin sounds like something about submarines.
DECEMBER 1
LOS ANGELES—The Fighting Irish will attempt to live up to their name as they take on the SC Trojans in their newly accustomed role of underdog. Game time is set for 4 p.m. and you can watch it over TV provided your favorite refreshment stand is equipped with one of the marvels.
ST. PAUL—Coach Johnny Jordan puts his eagers on public display for the first time when they face the College of St. Thomas in the St. Paul Auditorium. From what has been heard about the team so far, they ought to generate enough heat to keep the place warm all winter.	'
PALAIS ROYALE—Last Victory Dance of the year with usual trimmings, Gene Hull and cohorts, etc. Student Council promises it will be about 50 degrees warmer than the hangar—ooops! Drill Hall —was last week.
AVON (through Dec. 7)—What The Men was to the paraplegic, Bright Victory (A-l) is to the men blinded by war. It’s not quite as good as The Men perhaps but it still tells its story without getting clinical and over dramatic. One of the best pictures in town this week. Arthur Kennedy is the vet and Peggy Dow is the one who finally breaks down his resistance and gets him rehabilitated.
WASHINGTON HALL—Mario Lanza and Ann Blyth in The Great Caruso.
DECEMBER 2
STATE (through Dec. 6)—The best selling story of crossing the Pacific on a raft comes to the screen in the documentary of the same name Kon-Tiki (A-l). Washington Hall juveniles ought to really go for the co-feature, Superman and the Mole Men.
DECEMBER 5
COLFAX (through Dec. 11)—Starlift (A-l) is one of those pictures a movie studio makes when some major or minor executive takes ■ a look around and sees half the payroll sitting on their hands waiting for something to do. So they just bunch ’em all together and throw them into one big colossal epic—lotsa songs, dances, pretty girls, etc. This one is laid against a California air base and has in its cast Doris Day, Gordan MacRae, Virginia Mayo and a flock of others on the Warner Bros. lot. Gung-ho Air RO’s will go wild over the shots of the air force in action.
Throw Away /
NICOTINE
Switch to
MEDICO


When filter turns brown—in Medico
Box of 10 fllton-100
Pipes or Cigarette Holders—throw it away, with the nicotine, juices, flakes and tars it has trapped. Insert fresh filter for cooler, cleaner, dryer, sweeter smoking. Imported Briar.
N£W-. MEDICO CREST-$3.00
Medico's Finest! Rich Burgundy finish.
MEDICO V.F.O. — 52-00 MEDICO MEDALIST-$1.50
Wide variety of styles and sizes.
Write 5. M. Frank A Co., N. Y., for Booklet G
MEDICO CIGARETTE HOLDERS-
REPAIR ... IT!
Reweaving
COMPLETELY E’ IMINATES
MOTH HOLES—BURNS TEARS—DAMAGES
Suits-Coats-Dresses-Skirts Trousers-Linens-Knitted Garments
Rubin Cleaners
217 E. Jefferson
On the Bus Line
209 W. COLFAX AVE. Paul Wehlan, Mgr.
6
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Vol. 93 November 30, 1951 No. 11
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor JOHN J. POWERS Associate Editor JOHN F. MEANEY Managing Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
DONALD J. CARBONE.................News
PATRICK CARRICO..........Assistant News RICHARD P. CODY..........Features
JACK R. VARLEY..................Sports
WILLIAM J. LONDO---------Assistant Sports WILLIAM H. FRASER--------Photography LEON GARDNER-------------.Librarian
C. B. FARMER.........Campus Circulation RONALD E. ZIER.......Advertising
WILLIAM KERWIN.............Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT........Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Annual Spree
It doesn’t take the chill winds of late November or a look at the calendar to tell that Christmas is near again. Not anymore it doesn’t. All you have to do is walk through the shopping center of any community in the United States. “Xmas is only 35 days away — do your Christmas shopping early.”
You’ll be told a hundred times over that it’s time to get busy with that holiday shopping. At times it’s a little fantastic. Christmas in America has come to mean a giant mercantile splurge. And it gets worse every year.
We aren’t suggesting for a minute that there’s anything wrong with the fine old custom of giving and receiving gifts on Christmas. And there’s nothing wrong with offering potential customers every variety and inducement in the choice of these gifts when the shopping season rolls around each year. Right now, though, the thing is being overdone. Christmas has come to mean nothing more than a buying and selling spree to too many people.
It isn’t hard to see why. America is a very secularistic country. We aren’t overly pious to begin with. Added to this we have the existence of the merchants and advertisers, who know a good thing when they see one. The end result is a brazen commercialization of Christ’s birthday.
Maybe it’s just about time for all of us to take a new look at some very old ideas. December 25 is celebrated by the Christian world as the birthday of Jesus Christ. As such it is the great feast day of the year because Christ came into the world to redeem the human race and consequently brought new life and new hope to mortal men. Christmas is therefore set aside as the day to celebrate this fact.
If all this is so — if we really believe this — why not make more effort to acknowledge it? It would be a fine thing to see more cribs and fewer hats in store windows next year. It would be heartening to see more people demonstrate their awareness of what Christmas really is. It’s not too soon, either. We’d be pretty annoyed if someone messed up our birthday like this.

COVER: The lassies come from all over the country to spend the football weekend at ND. The cover picture this time catches one of the Irish and his date braving the frigid November temperatures to root the lads to a thrilling fourth quarter come-back which netted a 20-20 tie with the Iowa Hawkeyes. Besides the Saturday afternoon battle in the Stadium the weekenders go dancing, sight-seeing, hear Mass in Sacred Heart Church and generally add a great deal to this all-male Campus. For a conglomerate picture of football weekends at Notre Dame, take a quick glance at the feature on page 16 of this issue. For us, suffice it to say that we' regret the fact that with the end of another season, fewer young ladies will be gracing our Campus.
—Photo by Al Muth
Enter Johnny Jordan
Tomorrow night the basketball craze hits campus again as the Irish quintet opens the 1951-52 season in St. Paul. We’re of the opinion that it will be a pretty successful year and we hope all you troops do what you can to make it so.
Basketball is one sport where the crowd counts. Pack five thousand cheering rooters in one fieldhouse and they can greally effect the outcome of a game. A team can’t help but be effected by the kind of backing we’ve seen in the ND bam in past years. We expect and hope it will be the same this year for all seven games on campus we’ll be here to see.
Coach Johnny Jordan is starting his first season as basketball mentor at his Alma Mater. He’s doing so with a spirited and very promising team. The team and the coach deserve all the backing we can give them. It would be nice to show Jordan that the Irish spirit hasn’t changed much since his student days — and if it has, it’s increased.
Nov. 30, 1951
i
imgcsnRHnMMi
107 N. D. MEN DID IT

SAVE TIME
BETTER READING means reading faster, understanding more of what you read, knowing how to approach various kinds of reading and how to get the most out of it in the shortest time.
You can do all your reading in half the time it takes you now. You can have more time for sports, free weekends, extra social life.
The Foundation for Better Reading training program of individualized instruction will give you the benefit of years of research in hundreds of university and college reading clinics. It makes available to YOU the very newest instruments, techniques and scientific analyses for training in BETTER READING TO SAVE YOU TIME.
IT MAKES SENSE . . .
"Suppose two executives ore equal in all important respects except that one can read twice as fast os the other. Which one of these two' is the most efficient and valuable man?”
PERSONNEL, pubished by American Mgt. Assn.
You Can Do It Too!
The records of 107 Notre Dame men who have completed our training show:
average reading rate before training 292 WPM average reading rate after training 660 WPM
average comprehension before training 81 % average comprehension after training 88 %
THEY READ 126% FASTER
THEY UNDERSTAND 7% MORE
SAVE MONEY
EFFECTIVE January 1, 1952, the special student rate will be increased. A small deposit made before January 1st will entitle you to the complete reading training course at the present low rate if you start the program anytime prior to March 1, 1952.
“As business pressure on operating executives grows, your efficiency must grow. And good reading is the backbone of efficiency."
FACTORY MANAGEMENT, October, 1951.
FREE! This helpful 16-page booklet tells you how business men, professional men, students, are cutting reading time in half and getting better understanding.
MAKE UP YOUR MIND NOW TO BENEFIT FROM THIS WONDERFUL, NEW, SCIENTIFIC TRAINING PROGRAM.
Start the training after the Christmas - New Years Holiday if you wish; or, start after you have settled down following the beginning of next semester. DECIDE RIGHT NOW!
MAIL COUPON TODAY o r see BILL FLEMING on campus
-------------Clip and mail today----
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING
114 E. LaSalle Ave., South Bend
Send me a copy of your booklet, “How You Can Read Better - Faster” no cost or obligation.
Name............................    Major...............
Address.............................  Year......... G
8
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING 114 East LaSalle Avenue
Phone 3-0077	or	South Bend
BILL FLEMING, 235 Alumni Hall
OPEN EVENINGS UNTIL 9:00
The Scholastic
Notre Dame
VOLUME 93, NUMBER. II
NOVEMBER 30, 1951
‘SCHOOL FOR WIVES’ From Catholic U. . . .
History Majors Form New Discussion Club
Members of the newly-organized He-rodotian Club here on the campus held their first meeting at Rosie’s recently, with Mr. M. A. Fitzsimons leading a discussion on “The Political Parties in England.”
Presiding at this meeting was Don Fager, chairman. At this session, only Senior history majors were allowed to attend. However, Juniors will be permitted to attend the second meeting. Others interested in the aims and activities of this new group will be granted membership if approved by a two-thirds vote of the club. '
Elected secretary at the structural meeting was Miller Bransfield, and Fred Esser was chosen treasurer. Rev. Thomas McAvoy, c.s.c., head of the Department of History, is the permanent advisor of the Herodotians.
Members meet bi-weekly with a different faculty moderator at each meeting. At present, there are approximately 25 members.
■The name of the club, “Herodotians,” is derived from the name of the famous Greek historian, Herodotus.
Catholic University Dramatic Troupe Brings Shakespeare and Moliere to Washington Had
Professional theatre will be brought right to the Notre Dame campus next week as Players Incorporated present Shakespeare’s comedy Twelfth Night and Moliere’s farce The School for Wives, on the Washington Hall stage Wednesday and Thursday evenings.
The traveling dramatists will appear at Notre Dame as the latest presentation of the University Concert and Lecture Series.
Tickets are on sale at the Washington Hall ticket office and in the Dining Hall lobby and may still be purchased Monday and Tuesday from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 5:30 to 7 p.m. General admission price is $1 and student tickets are 60 cents. All seats will be reserved.
Players Incorporated is composed of fifteen actors, all of whom are graduates of the Speech and Drama Department of Catholic University, Washington, D. C. Each actor has had from five to ten years of professional theatre experience, and was selected for the
SMC Goes Formal Tonight For Christmas Charity Ball
Number two in the series of Saint Mary’s formal dances will hit the social headlines tonight with the hearty atmosphere of the annual Charity Ball.
Co-chairmen Julie Skelly and Margaret Habig have announced that Gene Hull and his collegiate combo will provide the music in the Stapleton Lounge and the Social Hall from 8:30 until 11:30 p.m.
Proceeds from the semi-formal affair will be used to provide Christmas baskets for needy South Bend families.
Joyce McMahon heads the decorations committee and Mary Jo Haley is handling the bids situation. Orchestral arrangements have been made by Muriel Flanagan, Sue Seidensticker will provide the refreshments, and Catherine Nigro is chairman of the House Committee.
current tour because of outstanding dramatic ability.
The group is at present undertaking its third annual tour, which is planned to carry them over 32,000 miles while they present their plays in 37 states and Canada.
Presenting well over two hundred performances of the several plays in their repertoire on their tours in the past two years, they have played before seasoned theater-goers and before people who have never seen a professional play.
Their tour last year included presentations of Shakespeare’s Macbeth and Shaw’s Arms and the Man here at Notre Dame.
The two plays to be presented here Wednesday and Thursday by the Players are new productions, just added to the repertoire of the company this year. Both have been adapted and directed by Walter Kerr, author and director of a recent Broadway musical hit, Touch and Go. The artistic sets and lighting were created by James Ware, and costume designing has been handled by Joseph Lewis.—Bob Gorman
‘TWELFTH NIGHT' . . . To Washington Hall
Nov. 30, 1951
E
Two More Speakers Named for Fifth Annual Convocation of Natural Law Institute Dec. 14
Dr. M. S. Sundaram, educational liaison officer and cultural attache, Washington, D. C., and Dr. Khalifa Abdul Hakim, director of the' Institute of Islamic Culture in Lahore, Pakistan, have accepted invitations to speak at the fifth anniversary convocation of the Natural Law Institute to be held Dec. 14 and 15 in the Notre Dame College of Law.
Dr. Sundaram and Dr. Hakim are two of the more recent speakers to be announced for the Institute’s two-day program. It is expected to attract legal experts from all parts of the United States to heai’ discussions of the Natural Law philosophy in the non-Chris-tian tradition.
Previously announced speakers include Dr. Solomon B. Freehof, of Pittsburgh, Pa., nationally prominent Jewish rabbi, and Dr. Hu Shih, former Chinese ambassador to the United States. Additional speakers will be announced soon.
Dr. Sundaram, a native of South India, joined the Ministry of Education in the Government of India in 1942, after six years as dean of the Faculty of Arts and head of the Department of English at Annamalai University and Agra University in his native land. He worked on the projects of educational reorganization under the auspices of the Central Advisory Board of Education.
He came to Washington in 1945 as India’s first Educational Liaison Officer to the United States and remained in
DR. M. S. SUNDARAM Natural Law Philosophy . . .
that post until 1947. Between 1947 and 1950 he was assigned as head of the Education Department in the office of the High Commissioner for India in London.
He returned to Washington in 1950
DR. K. A. HAKIM
. . . In the Non-Christian Tradition
as Educational Liaison officer and Cultural Attache at the Embassy of India. He has been a member of several academic bodies connected with university education in India, and was an active member of the All-India Education Conference for several years, serving as India’s representative on some of the Conference committees under the auspices of UNESCO.
Dr. Hakim, a native of Lahore, took his higher education at the Mohammedan Anglo-Oriental College in Aligarh and at St. Stephen’s College in Delhi. He took his Master’s degree with high honors from Punjab University in 1917 and was selected one of the foundation professors of Osmania University in Hyderabad, Deccan.
He is a linguist and his repertoire of languages includes Punjabi, Urdu, Persian, Arabic, German, French and English. He is the author of several books in Urdu and English and has written numerous research articles which have appeared in various learned journals. His latest book, Islamic Ideology, was published by the Institute of Islamic Culture in 1950.
The anniversary convocation of the Natural Law Institute also will be high
lighted by a return of speakers of the four prior Institutes who will participate in panel discussions with the public. This innovation in the proceedings will be held Dec. 11, 12, and 13.
Register Now, ND Placement Director Advises '52 Grads
Mr. William Dooley, Notre Dame placement director, advises both graduate and undergraduate students who expect to complete their work here in 1952 to register with the Placement Bureau now.
According to the bureau director, students who should register are:
1)	those who plan on going to law, medical school, etc.
2)	even those who are “all set” for a job, for conditions change from year to year.
3)	also seniors and graduate students who are vulnerable to the' draft, and those who are in ROTC units, since many big companies like to keep a file on these men, and often hire them wheii they finish theii- period of service.
Placement registration forms may be procured at the Placement Bureau (Main Building, ground floor, west wing); the dean’s office, Engineering Building; or the dean’s office, Commerce Building.
Although not necessary, it is advisable to include a picture with the application, since the photo is used for identification purpose in the Placeemnt Bureau files. However, a student should not delay his placement registration because he lacks a picture, Mr. Dooley added.
Inventor-Engineer to Speak At Joint Metallurgy Meeting
Mr. D. L. Mathias, Research Engineer from Sparrows Point, Md., will be the chief speaker at a joint meeting of the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals and the Michiana Chapter of the American Welding So-	j
ciety, Dec. 12..	।
“Lime Coated Ferritic Electrodes”	|
will be the topic of the address which is to be given in Room 5 Enginering Building at 8 p.m.	*
Mr. Mathias received his technical i training at Carnegie Institute of Tech- I nology, graduating with the class of 1914.
At present, he is welding research engineer with Arcrods Corporation. He is the investor of various types of arc v welding electrodes and author of a num-	j
her of technical papers.	J
The Scholastic	fl
10
Holy Cross Mission Priests Start College in E. Pakistan
St. Gregory’s College, the first and only Catholic college for men in East Pakistan, marks the latest venture in the field of education by the Congregation of Holy Cross, the religious order that administers the University of Notre Dame.
Officials of the new missionary college hope to draw Catholic students from four dioceses in East Pakistan, which has a population of approximately 42 million, of whom 32 million are Moslems. The majority of students currently enrolled in the new Holy Cross college are Moslems.
The Rev. John J. Harrington, C.S.C., former rector of Little Flower Seminary for native priests of the Dacca Diocese, is the first president of St. Gregory’s College. Assisting him are Revs. Raymond Switalski, Gerald McMahon, James Martin, Harold Bride and Charles Gillespie.
A 20-acre site is being made available to the college for expansion purposes by the Provincial Government of East Pakistan. Most Rev. L. L. Graner, c.s.c., is Archbishop of Dacca. Next year marks the Centenary of the Congregation of Holy Cross in the missions of East Bengal.
Other educational institutions conducted by the Holy Cross Fathers include the University of Portland (Ore.); King’s College, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.; Stonehill College, North Easton, Mass.; and St. George’s College, Chile, South America.
Fall Selective Service Test Looms Over Draft Eligibles
The Selective Service College Qualification Test will be given to about 150 Notre Dame!, Indiana U. Extension, and Bethel College men Dec. 13 in the Engineering Auditorium. The test will begin at 8:30 a.m. and will last till about noon.
This test is one of the means the local draft boards have of judging applicants for deferment. In a recent article in U. S. News & World Report, it was stated that there will be a sharp rise in draft calls beginning immediately after Christmas and extending into 1954.
College students may expect to be dei-ferred as long as they make good grades and have passed the College Qualification Test. This does not include members of the various ROTC units.
This is the first test of the 1951-52 school year. Another will be held April 24, the application for which must be postmarked no later than March 10,
'Old Heidelberg' Slated for Dec. 10 Opening: Duncan, McDermott Play Leads in Operetta
The Germany of waltzes and beer and gay student life will be recreated on the Washington Hall stage on the evenings of Dec. 10, 11 and 12. Gone will be the 1000-year Reich and the Gestapo, in its place will be the gay
jack McDermott The Student Prince
doings of a bygone, and at the present time, long gone era. Mr. William T. Eisen and the University Theatre will present Old Heidelberg.
Based on the Sigmund Romberg hit, The Student Prince, the play will star Ann Duncan of Faust fame as Kathy, the barmaid toasted in song and story. Jack McDermott, a comparative newcomer to the University Theatre, will portray Prince Karl-Heinrich. These two will be complemented in then* lead roles by such veteran supporting actors as J. Gerald Godwin (Wolfgang Bush-klime in last year’s student musical) playing the prince’s tutor, Doctor Jutt-ner; Charlie Schubert (of WND and
Cotillion Gets 'Grafic' Spread
Notre Dame’s recent Sophomore Cotillion was the subject of a full-page picture coverage by Photographer Andrew Pavlin in last Sunday’s Grafic magazine and a column by Mary Skaggs in the Chicago Tribune’s “Youth on the Campus” series.
Since the start of the “Youth on the Campus” series in 1940, more than 200 campuses in 48 states have been covered by the Tribune.
“Secret Weapon” fame) as Herr Lutz the ever correct valet-de-chambre to the prince; and Harvey Mueller, a frosh discovery, as Detlev von Aster-berg, the leader of the Saxon Corps.
The lesser roles will be capably handled by: the omniscient Hildegarde Vargas as Frau Ruder; Pat Smanda as Frau Darffel; Herr Ruder by Pat Sweeney; Kellerman by John Corcoran; Scholermann by Paul Murphy; Bilz, Engelbert, and von Wedell by Dan Yaekel, George van Besien- and Richard Wolke respectively; Baron von Metzing by John Wallace; Baron von Breitenberg by Otto Hilbert (the only authentic Teuton in the show). Von Haugk will be Richard Bennett and Philip Bir will be Master of the Household.
Mr. Leonard F. Sommer Is the Director
On the technical side, the show will be designed and staged by Richard Byrnes and John Tumpane. They will be assisted by Paul Raymond, Frank Jackman and Bill Hank. The costuriies will be supplied by Eaves of New York, the “World’s Largest.” The music, which will include such famous hits as: Deep in My Heart Dear, Golden Days, The Marching and Drinking Songs, Serenade and that fine old student song, Gaudeamus Igitur, will be supplied by 16 members of the Notre Dame Glee Club under the direction of Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke.
Tickets for this production will be in the Dining Hall lobby for the asking, starting on Dec. 5. Curtain goes up at 8:15.—Frank Jackman
ANN DUNCAN Toasted in Song and Story
Nov. 30, 1951
11
(STANDING) REYNOLDS, BLESSINGTON, (SEATED) MULLINS, BYRNE The First Year Men Organize
Frosh Class Officers Plot Year's Activities; Mullins and Byrne Take Up Council Duties
The roster of the class officers was completed with the recent election of the Freshman class officers. Almost immediately the Frosh representatives set to work, meeting with the Student Council and holding their own organization meeting, which took place early this week.
The election recorded one of the largest turnout of voters in ND history, with a total of 765 students submitting ballots. •
Elected officers are: Larry “Moon” Mullins, president; Bill Byrne, vicepresident; Paul Reynolds, secretary; and John Blessington, treasurer. The only close race was for the secretary’s spot; the other- three positions being won by comfortable margins.
; President Mullins and Vice-President Byrne attended a recent meeting of the Student Council, which was the first time the Freshmen have been represented on the Council this year. They were introduced to the Notre Dame men with whom they will be working closely throughout this school year.
In the course of the meeting they were given the task of having the sta
dium seats cleared of snow before the Iowa game, if any snow should have fallen previous to the contest.
Impressed by Council
Speaking for Byrne and himself, Mullins said later, “The formal and efficient procedure of the Student Council, as well as the friendliness of its members, greatly impressed us. We will attempt to represent the Freshman class on the Council to the best of our ability.”
Larry Mullins comes from Manhattan, Kansas. He attended high school at St. Ambrose Academy, Davenport, la. A Commerce student, he lives in St. Ed’s.
A student in the General Program, Bill Byrne hails from South Euclid, Ohio, where he attended Cathedral Latin High School. He resides in Zahm Hall.
Another Zahmite is Paul Reynolds from Springfield, Ill., and a graduate of Springfield Catholic High School. He is enrolled in the College of Engineering. Riverdale, N. Y., is the home of Jack Blessington, who is an Arts and Letters student. He attended Fordham Prep during his high school days. Jack lives in St. Ed’s.
Engineers Get Opportunities For N. y. Highway Positions
New York State is hoping for several hundred engineers to assist in its huge program of thruway and highway construction.
Students expecting to receive degrees in Engineering in June, 1952, and who are interested in any such positions, may take a qualifying examination Jan. 12. Applications for entrance to the examination for Professional and Technical Assistant must be received by the New York State Civil Service Commission not later than Dec. 10.
The Civil Service Commission is plannings to conduct the examinations for this entering grade of engineers in the colleges from which students will graduate in June. Applicants must be citizens of the United States.
Following the processing of the examination papers, successful candidates may be notified as early as April. Appointments' may be made, following June graduation, in any of the numerous Main Office units of the New York State Department of Public Works in Albany, which specialize in specific phases of highway planning, design, construction, and maintenance, or in any of the ten District Offices of the Department.
The 535-mile New York State Thruway is now under construction. Plans have been made to complete this “greatest highway in the world” within the next three or four years, provided the necessary materials are made available. ’
i. i
WASHINGTON HALL
Your attention is called to the following points pertaining to conduct at events in Washington Hall:
1)	By order of the State Fire Marshal, all aisles must be cleared and all patrons seated. Smoking is prohibited at all times in all parts of the theater.
2)	No one is to reserve, or save, seats for another at movies.
3)	Audible comments, or demonstrations of any sort—other than normal laughter—show a lack of refinement, and are offensive to other patrons. Such unbecoming conduct will be dealt with severely by the Student Council and the disciplinary department of the University.
4)	Coats and ties are required for all events other than movies.
Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., • Vice-President—Student Affairs
12
The Scholastic
Sociology Period Features Crime Psychiatry Saturday
Raymond M. Grummell, ’35, United States probation-parole officer for Northern Indiana, will discuss “Psychiatry and Parole” in the second Sociology Period talk at 11 a.m. tomorrow in Room 240 Main Building.
Before entering the correctional field, Mr. Grummell served as psychiatric social worker with two military units and at the Milwaukee County Child Guidance Clinic, as well as with the American Rehabilitation Center in New York City.
Following his graduation from Notre Dame, Mr. Grummell studied psychiatry at Catholic University, whe*re he received his master’s degree. He has been engaged in correctional administration work in Indiana since February.
The talk is open to all students of the University.
Navy Names Cmdr. Payne As New NRO Exec. Officer
Commander Raymond Payne, U.S.N., veteran naval engineering and submarine officer, has been named Executive Officer of the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps at Notre Dame.
Commander Payne succeeds Commander Sigmund Bobczynski, U.S.N., who has been ordered to duty at the Armed Services Staff College at Norfolk Va.
The new Notre Dame Executive Officer, a 1934 graduate of the United States Naval Academy, was serving as Engineering Officer aboard the destroyer, USS Stevenson, at the outbreak of World War II. He later was assigned as an instructor in the Department of Marine Engineering at the United States Naval Academy, and at the conclusion of World War II was Assistant Damage Control Officer and First Lieutenant on the battleship, USS Indiana.
After the war, Commander Payne was assigned successively as Chief Staff Officer and Administrative Commanding Officer of the Portland Sub Group, Pacific Reserve Fleet; Executive Officer of Sub Group-2, Columbia River Group, Pacific Reserve Fleet; and Commander of Sub Group-3 in the same’ area.
In 1948 Commander Payne was named Engineering Officer aboard the aircraft carrier, USS Franklin D. Roosevelt, and completed his tour of duty in 1950. Until his assignment to the Notre Dame unit, he had served for two years in the Office of the Inspector of Naval Material at Detroit, Mich.
Midwest Collegiate Catholic Action Workers Meet Here Dec. 8-9 in First NCASC Workshop
By TOM GODFREY
Catholic Action workers throughout the Midwest will gather at Notre Dame a week from tomorrow to discuss CA problems and work out solutions. They • will hear addresses by Msgr. Reynold Hillenbrand, a Chicago Catholic Action leader, and Mr. and Mrs. Arch Mac-Alpin of South Bend.
This study session is being conducted by the NFCCS National Catholic Action Study Commission, the seat of which is here at Notre Dame. It is. scheduled to begin at 11 o’clock Saturday morning with an address by Msgr. Hillenbrand and end about 3:30 Sunday afternoon.
Taking up the main portion of the workshop will be small discussion groups, though Saturday night will bring with it a bit of recreation, a dance at St. Mary’s.
The men in charge of this workshop, Tom Field and Buck Hennigan, co-chairmen of the NCASC, have extended an invitation to all Notre Dame students and faculty members who are interested in the layman’s part in the Church, to attend the meeting.
However, they ask that those who would like to come sign up at the YCS office, Room 3, Law Building, before Thursday, Dec. 6. The office will be open any weekday afternoon from 3 to 5.
GORSKI, KINTNER, HENNIGAN, BAYLESS Notre Dame a Seat of Catholic Action
Student volunteers are also needed to handle arrangements, direct visitors on the day of the workshop, and do similar jobs. Anyone who is interested is asked to see Field or Hennigan in the YCS office sometime next week. At present, the workshop staff consists of, besides the co-chairmen, Gene Gorski, Ted Kint-ner, Ray Bayless, and Tom Godfrey.
The meeting will begin Saturday morning, Dec. 8, at 11 with Msgr. Hillenbrand’s talk on “Catholic Action— 20th Century Apostolate.” The keynote speaker has for several years been active with CA groups in nearby Chicago, especially in the liturgical movement as related to social Catholic - Action. He is at present continuing his work as pastor of Sacred Heart parish in Hubbard Woods, Ill.
The afternoon study session will begin at 1:30 with a brief introduction by representatives of student, family, and worker CA movements. After these short talks, the delegates will divide into small discussion groups to deal with the particular' phase of the lay apostolate in which they are interested.
The purpose of these panels is to allow the participants to share their ex-
(Continued on Page 20)
Nov. 30, 1951
13
What's Wrong With the World? The Question Is Tackled Weekly by Economic Round Table
tional harmony by encouraging the study of foreign affairs.
An Active Part
By LOU CAVANAUGH
In February, 1930, after the great Wall Street bust and the attendant world-wide depression, a group of upperclassmen got together to discuss the economic problems involved, and to study those aspects of the situation which there was not time to cover in class. With the aid of Professors Donald O’Toole and Coleman O’Shaughnessy, they formed the Economic Round Table and met weekly to discuss topics selected by the students.
After almost 21 years, the group still provides its members with knowledge of current events surpassing anything they can gain from classwork, and today its members comprise one of the oldest discussion groups on the campus.
The next activity on the crowded docket is the annual joint meeting with the St. Mary’s International Relations club next Friday. The topic will be the wisdom of the American policy at Tehran and Yalta, with Notre Dame defending, St. Mary’s opposing.
The weekly meetings are held informally after a dinner in some downtown restaurant. One member delivers a talk on a domestic or international topic, and this is followed by a general discussion of the matter, in which all the members may take part.
A ROUND TABLE AT RAMBLE INN Tables Are Square, but Members Are Rounded
Informal Gatherings
This procedure was adopted because of the many advantages it gives to the members. It permits the group to indulge in an informal gathering off campus each week; gives each member opportunity to choose an interesting subject for a paper, to analyze and correlate the necessary material, and to express his own ideas on important topics.
The group discussion enables all members to gain experience in selfexpression, to develop a constructively critical outlook on current problems, and to understand better the troubles which beset the world at present.
After its inception in 1930, the Round Table confined itself to strictly economic topics till 1934, when it merged with the International Relations Club. This merger involved the necessity of devoting one meeting a month to subjects pertaining to international affairs, and since then the club has considered political, military, and social questions in addition to economic problems. '
The International Relations Clubs throughout the country’s campuses are affiliated with the Carnegie Foundation of the Association of International Relations Clubs. The purpose of this organization is to promote interna-
The Round Table has taken an active part in these activities each year. Last year two members delivered papers at the Mid-West Conference of the AIRC, held at Marquette University, and one attended the National Conference held at Oklahoma A. & M.
The club is also associated on campus with the International Relations Committee, headed by Dr. Waldemar Gurian. Several members of this committee have delivered papers to the club, and have added much to the general interest in foreign affairs. A few weeks ago, Mr. Stephen Kertesz spoke on East-West Relations, and interspersed his talk with many interesting sidelights acquired during his career as an Hungarian ambassador.
The club is open to Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors of any college within the university who have an academic average of at least 85 per cent. The number of members is necessarily limited so that all may take part in the discussions, but next semester there will be membership openings. Anyone \yho, would like to supplement his school work with informal discussions on current, interesting topics is welcome to apply to the Economic Round Table.
ND Awarded Citation By Educational Group
The University of Notre Dame has recently been cited for “outstanding contribution to the advancement of world understanding” by the Institute of International Education, New York.
Notre Dame is a member of the Institute’s “Educational Association,” a group of 120 American colleges and universities who are contributing to the support of the 32-year-old Institute.
Praising the University’s active participation in the student exchange movement, Kenneth Holland, President of the Institute, presented ND’s President, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., with a special certificate for “bettering the foreign relations of the United States through the medium of the international exchange of persons.”
According to Mr. Holland, there are now over* 30,000 foreign students studying in American colleges and universities across this country. “In this time of world crisis,” he said, “the act of bringing citizens of different nations into personal relationships can be a concrete step toward world peace, if carefully planned and carefully executed.”
Notre Dame, by welcoming students
14
The Scholastic
from other lands, has contributed immeasurably to this international movement, he said.
The Institute of International Education is a private U. S. organization, administering exchange programs between the U. S. and over* 60 countries of the world. It cooperates with hundreds of American educational institutions in the selection and placement of exchange students.
Another Link Finished In New Water Project
As an addition to the University’s drainage system, a section of 21-inch storm sewer was laid from the Farley Hall bus stop extending southward in back of Breen-Phillips Hall during the past few weeks. It will soon be extended to the are'a behind the new Science Building and then will provide a drainage link which will empty into St. Joseph’s Lake through a present outlet behind the power plant.
Besides the storm sewer, which has been buried at an approximate depth of 13 feet, a section of 12-inch water main was laid down at a depth of about 5 feet in the same trench. This 12-inch main will eventually be connected with a link now extending northward to the back of the new Arts and Letters building from the south corner of Cartier Field.
During the summer a link of 8-inch water main was put down along the south fence of Cartier Field, running westward from a fresh-water well at the southeast corner. When the linkage is completed next summer as a part of the new water supply project, it will provide needed additional flow channels on the east side of campus.
The water supply project will enable the University to convert entirely to fresh water in its water system and increase the daily available supply to 3,500,000 gallons. The construction east of the power- plant of a 175-foot water-storage tower with a 500,000-gallon capacity -will make possible a large supply of water at high pressure to feed the system and act as a reserve in case of fire.
As a part of the water project, a new well will be dug to a depth of approximately 190 feet, on land east of the fire house. This will give the University five fresh-water wells, the others being located at the Dining Hall, on the Golf Course behind Fisher Hall, at the laundry, and at the southeast corner of Car-tier Field.
Also, the supply of Cartier Field well will be increased by the installation of a 750 gallon-per-minute pump.
Moot Court Lawyers Prepare for Round 2; Last Year's Winners Vie for Regional Title
The 14 winners in the preliminary arguments of the College of Law’s Moot Court are already preparing for the quai-ter-finals to be held Dec. 17 and 18. Another preliminary match, which has been postponed due to the illness of one of the participants, will be conducted before then.
The Moot Court is strictly an elimina-tion^process. The winners from each of the eight courts join together to present their arguments in the four-court quarter-finals; the eight winners there will unite for the semi-finals, a two-court affair, in March. The four remaining men will then wait till June to hold the finals during the annual Law Association Alumni meeting.
These men are all Juniors or second semester Freshmen in the College of Law. For the beginning Freshmen, the Moot Court will conduct a series of arguments in the Spring semester- to prepare them for their future activity.
With its success, both on this campus and in national competition, and the intense interest that has been awakened in the Law School, many people are surprised to learn that the Moot Court is only a year and a half old. It was organized through the efforts of Prof. Edward Barrett, who had already started similar activities on a smaller scale in his classes, and by two stu
FITZGERALD, SPALDING, PROF. BARRETT, FARLEY . They’re dt It Again
dents, Henry Shine and Tom Nelson, who aroused enthusiasm among the students.
Through the kindness of Dean Clarence E. Manion, an annual Dean’s Award is offered as prize to the winning students. At present, the Award consists of a plaque containing the names of the winners and a $50 cash prize for each of them and a $25 cash prize for each of the runners-up.
The cash prizes are donated by the Notre Dame Law Association Alumni group. All other participants in all classes are awarded certificates of participation acknowledging their efforts.
The official title of the court is the Supreme Court of Hoynes, in honor of the distinguished Dean of the College of Law during the early part of the century, Col. William Hoynes.
Despite being but an infant organization, the Notre Dame Moot Court, now under the supervision of Professors Barrett and Robert Sullivan, has already won nation-wide recognition. Last year its championship team was one of the representatives of the Seventh Judicial Circuit in the national finals in New-York.
At this moment three Seniors, E. Milton Farley III, Joseph C. Spalding, and R. Emmett Fitzgerald, last year’s Award winners, are in Chicago participating in the year’s regional competition.
Nov. 30, 1951
z
15
For the weekend visitor, the Friday night pep rally is a must. Nobody wh^ has seen the frenzied student build-up on the night before a football game will ever forget it. A look at the team, coaches and students always starts things off well.

Given a choice between a warm, cozy room and a good radio versus the cold autumn wind and the noisy confusion of the stadium, most will take the stadium. The traditional trappings, like mums, programs, pennants and fur coats, are all part ot the day. And the cold walk and the waiting are compensated for. You’ve got to be there to appreciate it.
The Golden Horde
Photos by AL MUTH and TOM FLECK
The Hegira began Friday afternoon. Men, women, children, and pets arriving in trains, planes, busses, and cars, carrying blankets, bottles, pennants, and programs. And on campus that afternoon began to appear the first faint traces of an eagerly-awaited phenomenon known as the “week-end date.” It started with one quick, flashing glimpse of a feminine back disappearing into the caf. You turned around from the cash register in the huddle and there was another, drinking a milk shake. And no secretary, either. A group of four people were looking up at the dome as you walked by and yes, fully half of them were girls. A high voice exclaiming on the vastness of Badin Bog, a somewhat silhouette strolling down by the lake, an ever-increasing chain of such evidence gave witness to the advent of another football week-end. Notre Dame was again going to the girls. At the pep rally that night they mostly stood in back, bravely chiming in along about the middle of the second “N-O-T-R-E-D-A-M-E.” And after that, of course, you heard about the fellow who had to walk right past the cocktail hour* to meet his girl’s train. “5:30 Gee, that’s funny—I could have sworn you said—” Well, she might enjoy the game anyhow. The next morning was look-around-the-campus time, and stand-in-line-outside-caf time, and no-I-already-have-a-pro-gram time. By then it was about walkover- to-the-Stadium time, and just when that “little party up the floor” was in full swing, too. The Stadium looked different this Saturday, with empty gaps all over the place. But there was the usual bobbing, up-and-down motion of blue p'ennants and yellow mums. And they still yelled, muttered, cheered, sulked, howled, stomped, whistled, froze. It was a moral victory for someone, anyhow. There was a victory dance later that night, with a somewhat different crowd, for the Rock was still deserted and the week-end imports predominated. Sunday began for most with the 10 o’clock Mass, followed by more sightseeing. Gradually as the day wore on the visiting tide washed away from campus for the depot and the station. Once again the lake shore was circled only by the faithful on their long trek Westward. Once again the unfathomable mystery of the Bog was probed only by touchball enthusiasts. Once again Notre Dame was left to the men, and the week-end date disappeared Til Spring.
NOTRE DAME
Confidential
by Valerie Faden, St. Mary’s College
Illustrations By Jack Quetsch
This article does not necessarily represent the views of the University of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's College, or the editorial board of the Notre Dame Scholastic. We do believe, however, that it is both timely, interesting, and well-zvorth the reading by any Notre Dame student. It is not meant in any sense as a rebuttal or as an attempt to give “the other side of the argument,” but as an analysis which could apply at any time. And finally—peace.
Have you ever heard that descriptive little phrase, “with a knowing smile?” If not, you could probably get some first-hand information on the subject merely by walking up to and peering into—of all things—your mirror. For a knowing smile is what undoubtedly came over your face when you saw the title and byline above this article. -
“Aha!” you might have thought, “Here’s where Jack Lambert gets his.” Or perhaps, “Here’s where ‘charm and poise’ and ‘ten to one odds’ get thrown back in our faces.” Maybe even “These girls just have to get in that last word.” And you smiled knowingly.
These two pages, however, will do very little to further immortalize the
name of Lambert. And any reference to the ratio will be few and far between. Our purpose is to give the St. Mary’s viewpoint on a few items, and if you really believe that it’s a woman’s right to get in the last word, you won’t take this the wrong way.
We think, first of all, that Notre Dame is a great school, with a great group of men. There’s something dif- • ferent about ND — it definitely cannot be placed in the same category as state universities and colleges. Notre Dame just has something better, and we’ll be the first to admit it. A girl who has never dated a Catholic boy before she comes to St. Mary’s can soon see the difference, after a few weeks and a few dates. That there is a definitely Christian atmosphere at both schools is undeniable.
A Favorable Relationship
We also will be quick to admit that on the whole there is a favorable relationship existing between Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, but we must point out at the same time that a few details on both sides of the Dixie hinder improvement of that relationship. Here are several more of them. So many boys seem to think, for example, that we came to Saint Mary’s merely to “capture a husband.” If that were true, if that were our main reason for coming to college, don’t you think we would have a better chance of achieving that objective at some co-educational school? To tell the truth, there aren’t many girls in this world who don’t want to get married some day, and we
are hardly exceptions, but our main purpose in coming to St. Mary’s was to obtain an education. And since Saint Mary’s is rated highly, it does seem like a suitable place to get that education. If a boy happens to come along with the degree, who’s to complain? So let’s set aside that “manhunting” theory for a while—we really get tired of it.
We also have some ideas about the qualities displayed by Notre Dame students. One which perhaps comes to mind most readily is your apparent fear of intellectual conversation. It is really difficult for a girl to keep up a steady stream of nonsensical chatter because the boy doesn’t seem to have a serious thought in his head. Why does everything have to be one big joke after another? And oh, how the sarcasm and cynicism drip! Now we know that every one of you can hold your own in one of those bull-sessions, so why can’t you be serious occasionally when you’re over here? It seems as though you feel it to be a sure sign of dullness and stuffiness if you show the least bit of intelligence or interest in serious conversation. Really, it’s a welcome change every once in a while to sit down and talk intelligently— maybe discuss the latest political campaign, or that new course in Conversational Ethiopian. Not that we want to spend an entire evening discussing Aristotle’s hylomorphic theory, but neither do we want to hear nothing but snappy wisecracks and snappier comebacks.
The Playboy Attitude
And then there’s this playboy attitude that some may think is “the thing” to impress a girl. “I don’t bother studying—it’s too much of a bore. All I’m majoring in is how to have a good time.” Whom do you think you’re fooling? Unless ND has nothing but minor geniuses roaming
18
The Scholastic
about the campus, you boys have to study, and we know it.
Another type that often goes a bit flat over here is the “big wheel.” Some of you boys seem to have the peculiar idea that a Saint Mary’s girl couldn’t possibly be interested unless you’ are , just about the biggest man at Notre Dame. But the fact is that just the opposite is usually true. People with exaggerated opinions of their own importance aren’t overly welcome anywhere, and most of us are rather average too, you know. We get so tired of all this “rah-rah” business—let’s try something else.
While we’re on the, subject of impressing SMC girls, we might well mention the money angle. Whoever started the ugly rumor that a boy has to be heir to a cool million before he can s afford to date over here wouldn’t find a brass band out to meet him at Saint Mary’s. As a mattei' of fact, being students ourselves, and having the stu" dent’s proverbially fast-waning allowance, we often wonder how you manage it. Honestly, it doesn’t cost any . more to date- over here than it does anywhere else. Maybe our permissions seem rather strict, but then, yours are not much better.
Movies and Miracles
By leaving Saint Mary’s around 7 J o’clock, you can easily make the Friday night show at the Colfax, and still have plenty of time to get the girl
back by 10:00. (This going-out-to-dinner business is fine, but why not save that for special occasions? We don’t expect miracles, you know.) And the Council dances are cer-tainly an evening well-spent for only §2.00, with busses provided, yet. How else can you have an enjoyable time for less? And oh, yes, those long walks—there just isn’t much better. You can spend a whole afternoon at the Ramble, talking over cokes, and the walk does anybody a lot of good. And finally, you must admit that we’re trying to do our share of the entertaining by inviting our dates to spend Sunday afternoon here at Saint Mary’s, by planning open houses and mixers for some Friday nights, by offering facilities for club meetings. Really, what more could-you ask for?
There’s another thing we’d like to straighten out. Say a boy dates one girl over here. After a time, they decide to break up. Does that mean the boy shouldn’t dare set foot across the Dixie for at least half a year? Does it mean that the wheels of an intricate and diabolically clever spy system commence turning, that shadowy figures trail him from doorway to doorway, taking note of every girl to whom he speaks, that his picture provides a dartboard for our rec room, and his name is tacked on some bulletin board under the caption, “Hate This Man”? Of course not! Naturally, unless we stumble around with our eyes closed, we can't miss seeing “So and So’s” old
buddy out with that cute town girl-But we really would be much happier if everyone would just forget it when a. couple splits up. And we certainly don’t hold “klan meetings” back in the hall after' the dance.
More of the Same
And on the same subject, did yon. know that nothing in the world can make a girl squirm so much as having-her date casually mention, “Oh, you’re Oscar Flapdoodle’s old flame, aren’t you? Boy, he told me all about you!” The girl, of course, weakly smiles and. mutters a sick “Oh, yes, how is old Oscar?” Meanwhile, she’s frantically-wondering when Oscar did all this talking—before or after the bubble had burst. That happens too often for comfort.
So that’s it, lads. In spite of anything we may have said in this article,. Saint Mary’s still thinks Notre Dame-is the greatest. Our schools should complement each other so well that between them there would be no misunderstanding. Perhaps many of the points seem minor, but they are never unimportant. And as a last word, let’s not start any more feuds. Let’s not have any more knowing smiles—just friendly ones.
Nov. 30, 1951
Naval Flight Cadet Program Renews Acceptance Policy
The United States Navy is again accepting applications for its Naval Aviation Cadet Flight Training Program.
Navy Procurement Directives have recently been amended. Even if the applicant has been classified I-A, though he might have taken his physical examination but has not received his orders for induction, he is eligible to become a Naval Aviation Cadet.
Applicants must be between the ages of 18 and 27 years of age, unmarried, with two years of college, and must be male citizens of the United States.
Additional information may be procured from Navcad Headquarters, Building 32, Naval Air Station, Glenview, Ill.
WND Introduces New Continuity Man, Show
A new continuity director and a new program were in the headlines at WND this week.
Jim Murphy, a commerce junior from Cleveland, Ohio, was named to succeed Dan Flanagan as the director of WND’s continuity staff. His duties include the coordinating of all scripts, commercials, and written material for both announcers and engineers and the daily preparation of the program log.
Newest program on the list was the “Pressroom” show, in which a panel from the University’s publications questions a campus figure on his job and responsibilities.
First guest to answer the questions of panel members Jack Powers, Bill Riley, and Jay Conlon was the University’s Vice-President in charge of Student Affairs, Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C.
The show is scheduled to appear every Wednesday evening at eight.
Program Director Tom Knott announced more changes in the station’s program schedule. From now on WND will be on the air every Saturday from 7 a.m. until midnight. Saturday afternoons will also start to receive some programming attention after the football season ends tomorrow.
The student voice’s final “open house” of the year to which all the station’s sponsors were invited, drew a record crowd. The Iowa “open house” closed the year’s open house program at WND, which was started this season to explain the workings of the station to the large football-weekend crowds.
Over 2,000 people visited the four open houses, and the station expects to continue the policy at home football games next year.
New Chairman Begins Work on Mardi Gras
The 1951 version of Notre Dame’s Mardi Gras festivities will be packed with floatloads of fun and frolic, according to Bill Toohey, newly appointed chairman of the Feb. 25-26 affair.
Main attraction for the student body
BILL TOOHEY Chairman of Fun and Frolic
is to be an allowance of $2.50 on every book of $7.50 of tickets sold by the student.
Other improvements over last year’s setup include the early distribution of 17,000 raffle books by next Thursday. Besides making a profit of $2.50 on every book sold, the student has an opportnity to win a Buick convertible for selling the winning ticket.	'
Tentative plans for the affair also include a full week-end of festivities stretching from Saturday until Tuesday.
The St. Mary’s belles may also appear on the scene and take an active part in the job of running the show by selling raffle books, working in the booths, and including festivities of their own on the SMC campus.
Frosh-Soph Debaters Take Bradley Tourney With Ease
For the second straight year, the Notre Dame Debate Team dominated the Bradley Debating Tournament at Peoria. Held Nov. 11 to 17 and attracting 40 schools and over 90 teams, the Bradley Tourney was strictly an Irish triumph from start to finish.
The team garnered 35 certificates of excellence, compared to the nearest school which received but seven; ranked first in discussion over 175 men, first
in extemporaneous speaking over 61 other schools, and second in debate. Three Notre Dame men tied for second in oratory over 24 other participants.
On the night of Nov. 10, Notre Dame met Bradley in an open forum before the entire student body of that school. The subject for discussion was deemphasized football. Meanwhile, on that same night, the first string Notre Dame debaters Al De Crane and Bill Dempsey were battling an Oxford, England team.
Debate Coach Leonard F. Sommer emphasized that six Freshmen and four Sophomores were used in the Tourney and encouraged all who are interested to speak to him about it. “Everyone will get his chance,” he said.
NCASC Workshop
(Continued from Page 13)
periences and ideas and thus reach a better understanding of their progress. Also from these discussions, it is hoped that they will learn new methods of procedure for their Catholic Action activities to follow.
Scheduled for Saturday night is a square dance which will be held in conjunction with the NFCCS regional Leadership Workshop at St. Mary’s. The dance is intended to serve, not only as a break in the agenda, but also as an example to those participating, of Christian social recreation.
Sunday morning at 11 there will be another talk in the Law Building, this one by Mr. and Mrs. Arch MacAlpin. This South Bend couple will discuss the problem of “Christian Recreation.” This too will be held jointly with the St. Mary’s NFCCS meeting.
The representatives will again form discussion groups for about an hour Sunday afternoon and work on the same problems they did previously. They will then adjourn at 3:30 after NCASC personnel have summarized the purposes and accomplishments of the workshop.
This workshop is one of the first major actions sponsored by the study commission since Notre Dame received the chairmanship. Co-chairmen Field and Hennigan and Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., the moderator, plan to hold several more like it throughout the country if this meeting turns out successfully.
These study sessions are part of the program which the National NFCCS Congress approved this summer after it gave the NCASC chairmanship to Notre Dame.
In general, the commission’s main purpose is to coordinate student CA movements in the United States and also provide them with information on techniques and methods of action.
20
The Scholastic
CAPSULE((IStl
pated in the college discussion panel at the conference.
* * *
A
i
' J
. NAVAL APTITUDE TEST SLATED
The Naval College Aptitude test will be administered to approximately 250 high school and academy students, as well as Notre Dame Freshmen, on the morning of Dec. 8, in the Engineering auditorium.
* * *
WINTER CARNIVAL IN THE MAKING
Elizabeth Kiley has been elected general chairman of the St. Mary’s belles who are working on the' Winter Carnival, set for Jan. 12. The annual festival is sponsored by the Sophomore Class of SMC.
* * *
N.D. PRESENT AT INAUGURATION
Rev. James E. Norton, c.s.c., vicepresident in charge of academic affairs at Notre Dame, represented the University at the inauguration of Harlan Hatcher as the eight president of the University of Michigan Tuesday.
* $ *
KISSELL’S POEM PUBLISHED
Dennis Hartman, secretary of the National Poetry Association, has announced that Jack Kissell will represent Notre Dame by presentation of his poem in the forthcoming issue of the Anthology of College Poetry.
TRIBUNE AWARDS FOR N.D. MEN
The University of Notre Dame is one of the 138 educational establishments in ten midwestern states at which the Chicago Tribune will award gold and silver medals to selected cadets in army, navy, and air force ROTC units during- the academic year.
* * *
PRESIDENT GIVES RADIO ADDRESS
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c., Notre Dame president, told a coast-to-coast radio audience' Sunday that the Christian who will deal with all men in need as if they were Christ is the hope of today’s troubled world.
Father Cavanaugh delivered the sermon Sunday morning on the Church of the Air program over the Columbia Broadcasting System. Music on the program was by the Moreau Seminary Choir at Notre Dame.
The Notre Dame president reminded the radio audience that the words of Christ mean that it is up to each Chris
tian really to become neighbor to any man in need, by loving him and having pity on him.
* * *
PREVIEWS OF PROGRESS
The dramatic, educational, noncommercial stage show, “Previews of Progress,” will be presented by General Motors Corp, in Washington Hall Dec. 13. The program is made up of original experiments in the field of popular science, illustrating the fact that, despite the present wonders of science, the future holds promise of even greater things. Actual experiments on synthetic rubber, vibrational control, high compression, and jet propulsion will be included in the show.
#
CONWELL SPEECH WINS
Joseph Conwell, Junior in the College of Arts and Letters, won first prize in the national contest of the Intercollegiate Peace Speech Association at Columbus, Ohio, Nov. 16.
Conwell’s speech, “If You Should Go To Youngwood,” emphasized the point that in order to obtain world peace men must follow roads of agreement instead of areas of conflicts. Universal moral reform and world government plus the will to attain them are necessary requisites for peace.
* $ ❖
JUNIORS COMPILE FILE
Bob Niquette, Junior class publicity chairman, has announced a filing service of ex-’53 men now in the service.
Juniors may turn in names and service addresses of former classmates to any of the men working on this committee.
Committeemen’s names and addresses are posted on the bulletin boards of all Junior halls.
This service is intended to benefit any ex-’53 man in the service by letting him know of classmates in the same service vicinity as himself. It also will provide any Junior who has a friend in the service with the address of his military buddy.
ART IN LOUISVILLE
Sculpture by Notre Dame students was displayed at the Catholic Art Association’s regional conference this week in Louisville, Ky. Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., professor of sculpture in the Department of Fine' Arts here, partici-
ROUND TABLE TALKS
“Socialism in England” will be the-topic of the second NFCCS-sponsored Round Table Discussion Jan. 8. The student-faculty discussion was originally planned for Dec. 13 and was to deal with economic aid abroad, but was postponed because of the many other activities at that time.
Prof. Gurian to Lecture On Stalin and Hitler
An open lecture series starting Wednesday on “Leaders in the World Crisis” has been announced by the Committee on International Relations.
All the talks will start at 8:00 p.m. in Room 221 Social Science Building. The lectures, to which all are invited, will be followed by a discussion period.
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, chairman of the Committee on International Relations, will open the series next Wednesday evening with a talk on Stalin and Hitler.
Prof. Jean-Baptiste Duroselle, Dean of Arts and Letters at the University of Saarbrucken, who is lecturing and teaching at Notre Dame this semester, will discuss Schumann and DeGaulle on Dec. 12.
On Jan. 10 Prof. A. I. Abell and Dr. Paul Bartholomew, of the Departments of History and Political Science, will speak on Acheson and Taft.
Leaders whose roles in the World crisis will be discussed during the Spring semester include MacArthur, Eisenhower, Churchill, Tito, Franco, Peron, Adenauer and Stalin. The dates of these lectures and the speakers will be announced later.
UNIVERSITY RIFLE TEAM
Candidates for the University Rifle Team may report to the Stadium range at 1 p.m. Wednesday or Friday of next week. There will be at least four openings on the 12-man squad, Major Andrew Zimmer, USMC, has announced. Only men with previous shooting experience are desired.
The team won 16 of 19 meets last year and had a 21-1 record the year before. The riflemen also took third places in the U. of Illinois Tourney and the National Rifle Association sectional meet at Ohio State last season.
Nov. 30, 1951
21
Got a Legal Problem? Lawmen Offer Aid
The Notre Dame College of Law, in conjunction with the St. Joseph County Bar Association, has undertaken to provide the members of the student body, the faculty, and the employees of the University with low-cost legal aid. This will be accomplished through a new organization known as the Legal Reference Service.
This service has been realized through the efforts of Dean Clarence E. Manion and Prof. Thomas Broden of the College of Law, and Floyd 0. Jellison, president of the St. Joseph County Bar Association. The student heads, both Seniors, are Donald Tufts, director of the service, and Rocco DeMarco, administrative chairman.
As now arranged, a panel of local attorneys is prepared to receive those individuals who will be referred to them by the ND law students, who will have been consulted here in their turn by persons with legal problems. The student referrals have been selected with special regard to the highest qualifications needed for consultation services.
How to Use Service
The step-by-step process by which this service is obtained is as follows:
1)	If an individual is in doubt as to whether or not he has a legal problem, he can visit the Lawyer Reference office downstairs in the Law Building between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. and between 6 and 8 p.m. Monday through Friday.
2)	A law student referral will receive and consult with the individual concerning his situation.
3)	The student referral can then advise the person whether he has a legal problem that can be remedied, and at least given general legal advice.
4)	If it is found that a legal question
Mass Schedule
Monday, Dec. 3—Feast of St. Francis Xavier, Colls. 2.
Tuesday, Dec. 4—Feast of St. Peter Chrysologus, Colls. 2.
Wednesday, Dec. 5—Of Advent, Colls. 2.
Thursday, Dec. 6—Feast of St. Nicholas, Colls. 2.
Friday, Dec. 7—Feast of St. Ambrose, Colls. 2.
Saturday, Dec. 8—Feast of the Immaculate Conception, Colls. 2.
Sunday, Dec. 9—Second Sunday of Advent, Colls. 2.
Monday, Dec. 10—Of the Immaculate Conception, Colls. 2.
Tuesday, Dec. 11—Feast of St Damascus, Colls. 2.
Wednesday, Dec. 12—Of the Immaculate Conception, Colls. 2.
Thursday, Dec. 13—Feast of St. Lucy, Colls. 2.
Friday, Dec. 14—Of the Immaculate Conception, Colls. 2.
Saturday, Dec. 15—Octave Day of the Immaculate Conception, Colls. 2.
is involved, the referral will make an appointment with a designated membei-of the County Bar.
5)	This appointment with the lawyer will consist of one-half hour of consultation at the basic charge of five dollars. Any subsequent arrangements lie with the discretion of the client and attorney.
6)	The services of the student referral is without charge and his time is unlimited.
The date of the official opening of this Service will be announced soon. The main purpose of this program is to assist the man or woman connected with the University, who may need a lawyer, to retain one at a minimum cost.
This will also be of practical benefit to the Law student, giving him experience in consulting with needy clients.
Placement News
On Monday, Dec. 3, Dr. Ralph M. Hill, Esso Laboratories (Standard Oil Development Co.) Linden, N. J., will be on the campus to interview Ph.D. candidates in Chemistry who are to finish their work here sometime in 1952.
The same day Mr. Donald K. Holster, industrial relations officer, U. S. Naval Air Rocket Test Station, Lake Denmark, Dover, N. J., will be at Notre Dame to speak with engineering graduates and other technical students who are interested in entering government work in the field of rocket power plants.
Mr. J. P. Makielski, assistant administrative engineer, Bendix Products Division, Bendix Aviation Corp., South Bend, will interview on Tuesday, Dec. 4, June and August graduates in mechanical, electrical, civil, metallurgical, and aeronautical engineering. He is also interested in talking to technical students who are interested in technical writing.
On the same day Mr. B. W. Wheatley, employment supervisor, Willow Run Re
search Center (University of Michigan), Ypsilanti, Mich., will interview June and August graduates in electrical engineering and mathematics and physics'majors on all degree levels.
On Wednesday, Dec. 5, representatives from Armour and Company, Chicago, will interview June and August graduating chemists and chemical engineers on all degree levels.
Mr. John T. Carroll, of the Worthington Pump and Machinery Corp., will interview on Thursday, Dec. 6, M.S. and B.S. mechanical, chemical and electrical engineers who are interested in sales engineering and will graduate in 1952.
ND Band Rehearses For Holiday Concert
Rehearsals have begun for a Christmas Concert to be given by the combined Football and Concert Bands, under the direction of H. Lee Hope. The concert, to be held Dec. 18 in the Drill Hall, will mark the first time that the combined bands, numbering between 115 and 120 pieces, have ventured into such a presentation so soon after the football season.
Highlighting a varied program of selections will be Christmas Fantasy composed by Clifford Lillya. Mr. Lillya instructed Director Hope in band arranging during his studies at the University of Michigan.
Shawl Dance, a movie production number composed by Frank Skinner, will also be featured on the program. Those who are acquainted with Mr. Skinner’s background music for the movie Tap Roots will find this Spanish number different in character.
Atlantis Suite, a striking piece of program music especially suited to a large band, is a third major selection on the program. The theme of the music concerns the rise and fall of the fabled lost continent, Atlantis.
Rounding out the program will be several marches and other selected numbers. Also, some time will be set aside during the evening for community singing of a few traditional Christmas carols.
At present, the annual Easter tour of the Concert Band is being booked mainly for cities in Wisconsin, Iowa, and Minnesota. -Concerts have already been scheduled for Racine, Wis.; Sioux Falls, S. Dak.; and Sioux City, Iowa.
The concert in Racine will be part of a Father John Murphy Testimonial Day program in honor of the Notre Dame Vice-President ‘ in charge of public relations. Racine is Father Murphy’s home town.
22
The Scholastic
<4
Renovated '51 Juggler Hits Campus Stands This Week
The first edition of the 1951 Juggler has gone to press, and distribution of Notre Dame’s literary magazine is expected sometime this week, Editor Jack Ward has announced.
This year’s Juggler, while shortening the length of its essays, “has not sacrificed quality for appeal, and definitely promises improved reader appeal,” with emphasis on short stories, essays, and substantial book review section.
“Cap and Be’fls,” Editor Ward’s own personal literary work, will present a satire on Gentry magazine, while also gracing the pages of the Juggler will be poetry by Hugh Schadle and John Engels, assistant editor of the Juggler.
Editor Ward has stressed the need for new members, and asks that all underclassmen interested in submitting work to the Jziggler do so.
NFCCS Workshop At St. Mary's Dec. 8-9
Notre Dame will join the seven other schools in the NFCCS Fort Wayne Region at St. Mary’s College Dec. 8-9 for the 1951 Regional Leadership Workshop.
The men from Notre Dame who will participate in this meeting are NFCCS officers: John O’Connell, regional president; Paul Zalecki, Senior Delegate; Marshall Desmond, Junior Delegate; and Don Carbone, Secretary. Also attending will be Tom Nourie, head of the Apostolic Chapter, Joe Nash, Ron Mealey, George Vosmick, and Tom Godfrey, all of the campus council.
Special invitations have also been extended to the members of the Student Council and NFCCS Apostolic Chapter. Any other student who would like to attend is welcome and is asked to see Senior Delegate Zalecki in 165 Dillon some time before the meeting.
Friday night there - will be one of the federation's four regional council meetings this year. Presided over by O’Connell, the council will take up regional business which has come up since the last assembly in September.
Saturday morning at 11, Msgr. Reynold Hillenbrand of Chicago will talk to the delegates in the ND Law Building on the subject of Catholic Action. This session, and two of the later ones, will be held jointly with the' Catholic Action Study Commission workshop which is scheduled for Dec. 8 and 9.
The representatives will receive an official welcome to the workshop on Saturday afternoon from Sister M. Made-leVa, president of St. Mary’s. Also at
the first plenary session O’Connell and Betty Kiley, St. Mary’s senior delegate, will discuss the meeting’s purposes.
Later in the afternoon two panel discussions will be held, one dealing with spiritual formation and the other social problems. The Saturday schedule will be capped with a square dance at St. Mary’s in the evening.
Rev. Charles Sheedy, c.s.c., rector of Farley Hall, will celebrate a special Missa Recitata for the delegates on Sunday morning.
After breakfast, they will hear a second address by Mr. and Mrs. Arch Mac-Alpin of South Bend. This talk and a short panel afterwards will be on the subject of “Christmas Recreation.” After a second plenary session Sunday afternoon, the workshop will close at about 4 p.m.
La+in-American Panel Discusses Peron Rule
The committee in charge of the program of Latin-American studies will sponsor its second quarterly panel discussion on Tuesday evening in Room 101, Law Building. The general topic is entitled “Dictatorship in Latin-America: Juan Peron.”
The chairman of the discussion will be Prof. Paul Bosco, of the Modern Language Department, who has traveled and studied in South America. The first speaker will be Prof. Thomas E. Downey, of the Department of History, who will speak of the activities of the Argentine dictator in his own country and of the circumstances of his domination over his country, under the title “The Rise of Peron.”
Professor John Kennedy, of the Department of Political Science, will discuss the position of Peron in relation to the other Latin-American countries, to the United States, and to Europe, under the title, “Peron in World Politics.
It is the plan that these papers will be comparatively brief, and they are intended to open a general discussion in which the audience is expected to participate. The meeting is open to the public.
This is the second of the quarterly panel discussions planned by the committee on Latin-American studies. The first discussion was concerned with the position of Latin-America in the face of present-day Communist aggression.
The third panel, which will be held in the early spring, will deal with business aspects of Latin-American relations and will be under the sponsorship of the College of Commerce.
Travel Comfort
PLUS SAFETY ANU SAVINGS WHEN YOU Go By Train ON YOUR HOLIDAY TRIP
IT’S MORE FUN! Plan your holiday homecoming by train with a group of friends. Enjoy real comfort... wonderful dining car meals ... room to roam around and relax.
rou CAN DEPEND on getting home as planned—and getting back after vacation as well. Day in day out the railroads offer you worry-free travel.
SAVE MONEY! Get together 25 or more, all heading home in the same direction at the same time. You may return individually. Then go GROUP COACH PLAN, and each save up to 45% compared to oneway coach tickets!
Ask your Local Railroad Ageat Now about group or single rouad-lrip savings! EASTERN RAILROADS
Tuberculosis League Returns Campus X-Ray Test Results
Reports concerning the condition of the 2000-odd students and employees of the University who took the tuberculosis test here Oct. 15-19 have been released.
The final report on the number of persons found with some chest trouble will not be available until further examination of those found to have suspicious signs in the small X- ray are completed.
Students and employees who have re- .. ceived the reports are urged to keep them since they are useful when applying for employment, in health examina- -tions, and vrhen enlisting in some branch of the Armed Services.
If anyone has failed to receive such a report, he may call the Tuberculosis League at 7-2321 for a duplicate.
Nov. 30, 1951
DO YOU INHALE?
Then you're better off smoking PHILIP MORRIS
-
...because Philip Morris is definitely less irritating, definitely milder than any other leading brand!
k PROVE IT YOURSELF pi Take the PHILIP MORRIS NOSE TEST SM. ••. start enjoying PHILIP MORRIS today!

NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER means MORE SMOKING PLEASURE!
sr PHILIP MORRIS
24
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Cagers Open *51-52 Season Tomorrow
Notre Dame Meets Southern Cal's Trojans Tomorrow in Final Game of Grid Season
By ROBERT FROLICHER
Jordan Makes Debut Against St. Thomas
By FRANK RONNENBERG
Tomorrow the Fighting Irish will clash with the USC Trojans in Memorial Coliseum for the 23rd time in the perennial intersectional classic. Notre Dame will be hoping to wind up their season with a win after tying the Iowa Hawkeyes 20-20 last week.
Last year in a rugged battle between two fired up teams Southern Cal edged out Notre Dame in a tremendous game, 9-7. It was the Trojans’ first win over* the Irish since 1939. However, ND leads in the series with 13 wins, 7 losses and 2 ties.
Both teams have had their ups and downs this season and are likewise trying to rebound from poor showings last year. The Trojans finished the 1950 season with a 2 win, 5 loss and 2 tie
IOWA-NOTRE DAME ACTION Enough fight to gain a tie
record, while the Irish ended up with a 4-4-1, the worst under Coach Leahy.
SC opened their season at Memorial Coliseum with a 31-21 victory over Washington State College. The Trojans then followed with successive wins over Washington, Oregon State, California, Texas Christian and Army. Their upset over California 21-14 put them on top of the Pacific Coast and actually paved the way to the Rose Bowl until three weeks later these hopes were crushed when the Stanford Indians defeated SC 27-20. U.C.L.A. then applied the coup de grace with a surprising 21-7 upset of the Trojans last Saturday.
The Trojan team is built around 21 returning lettermen, seven of whom are (Continued on Page 29)
Tomorrow night the Notre Dame basketball team will open its season when it travels to St. Paul, Minn., to tangle with St. Thomas College. The game will mark the beginning of one of the longest and toughest schedules in the Irish cage history. Liberally sprinkled
COACH JORDAN
New Look in ND Basketball
throughout an ambitious list of 26 games are perennial national powers, Kentucky, St. Louis, New York University, Pennsylvania and De Paul. The Irish also play seven Big Ten opponents, including Indiana and Purdue in the annual Hoosier Classic.
The schedule, however, is just one of the problems that faces Johnny Jordan in his first year as head coach at Notre Dame. He is faced with the loss of two starters from last year’s relatively, poor team and the need for rebuilding with inexperienced sophomores. As a result of this the Irish will open the season with three men who have never played in a
JNov. 30, 1951
25
ST. MARS AND DOLAN Not Enough Height
will be the tallest man on a team which needs height to counterbalance a lack of experience.
The Irish hoopste'rs open their home schedule next Tuesday night against Wabash University. Wabash will bring a finely-geared fast break to the Notre Dame fieldhouse and they are figured to test the' Irish defense to the utmost. However, they too are handicapped by a lack of height.
The first big test for Notre Dame will come on Dec. 8 when Jordan’s team will invade Madison, Wis., to tackle the Badgers. Wisconsin, a traditional basketball rival, has always proved tough for the Irish and this year will be no exception.
Graduation Losses
Coach Bud Foster, while suffering the normal inroads of graduation, has still been able to come up with a good club built around Ab Nicholas and Chuck Dahlke. Nicholas was named a Big Ten All-Conference guard last year when he led his team in scoring with a total of 366 points. Dahlke, a senior, was outstanding in the conference last year at center. The other returning lettermen starters include forwards Pete Anderson, Bill Buechl and guard Tom Ward.
college game. Dick Rosenthal, from St. Louis, Mo., will be the starting center, while Entee Shine from South Bend will open at forward, and Joe Bertrand from Chicago will hold down one of the guard posts.
Strasser and Leslie
On the credit side of the ledger, Jordan has six returning lettermen plus Don Strasser, guard, who won a monogram as a sophomore, but was sidelined with a broken ankle the major portion of last season. Among the returnee’s are senior forward Leroy Leslie who scored 316 points last year; Norb Lewinski, junior center who garnered 236 points as the starting center on last year’s club; Jack Neumayr and Jim Gibbons, a senior and junior respectively, who alternated at guard in 1950. Leslie and Strasser will team with Shine, Bertrand and Rosenthal to make up the Irish nucleus.
It is fortunate for Jordan and the Irish that St. Thomas finds itself in essentially the same position. Only one senior, forward Vern St. Mars, will be in the Tommie starting lineup when they take the floor tomorrow. A pair of sophomores, Bob Lee and John Hislop, have the inside track on the guard spots
while another soph, Pete Castle, will be at center. The other forward post is a tossup between junior Bob Dolan and sophomore Tom Kammerer.
No Height
A lack of height will hamper the Tommies, who can boast only two men over 6 feet. Center Pete Castle at 6' 5"
Another Big Ten opponent, Northwestern, will face the Irish in their fourth game of the year on Dec. 11. The game will be played at Evanston.
With only 9 of their 26 games to be played at home, the Irish face a long-winter. The inexperience of the club may be outweighed by the depth but only these first games will show conclusively whether such will be the case.
5>W
ADAMS, CONNELLY, BREWER, GIES, MadNNIS,
KIRCHNER, ZECH
. . . men of the interhall “blood and guts” league who distinguished themselves
Notre Dame AH-Campus
1951


Prior to the championship game last week-end a poll of eight Interhall coaches and three Scholastic sportswriters was conducted to determine the 11 gridiron men of the Interhall “blood and guts” league who distinguished themselves above all other competitors during the recent football season.
Champion Cavanaugh Hall placed three men on the mythical squad as did runnerup Morrissey Hall. Lyons, Dillon, Farley, St. Ed’s and Zahm Halls placed one man each, with Breen-Phillips being the only Hall that lacked a representative.
The most popular choices in the balloting were left end Don Zech of Morrissey, right guard Jim Maclnnis of Cavanaugh, and left tackle George Kirchner of Dillon.
by Tom Moore
The left guard spot went to the smallest lineman on the mythical squad. Captaining the St. Edward’s aggregation this Fall, Bill Brewer was their outstanding man in the forward wall on both platoons. He attended Dowling High in Des Moines, Iowa, which is the former alma mater of Notre Dame All-American Jerry Groom. While there, he played two seasons at center and one at fullback. He is a freshman in Commerce.
Gies From Fenwick
Although playing the middle of the line only on defense, Hank Gies did well enough to earn the rating of top center in the Interhall league. He is one of two men on the squad from River Forest, Illinois. He played end for three
years at Fenwick High, former stamping grounds of ND stars John Lattner and Billy Barrett. The Farley representative is majoring in Architecture.
Maclnnis, the “pepper” man on the Cavanaugh front line, had more playing time than any of his teammates, performing equally as well in the blocking part of the game as in the tackling end of it. He played two years at guard for Catholic Central High in Detroit, which was the first alma mater of former Notre Dame great Bill Wightkin and one-time All-American Vince Ban-onis, who are rivals in pro football today. Maclnnis is presently taking his pre-law training in the College of Commerce.
North Arlington, New Jersey is the (Continued on Page 30)
Scared Three Against Prison
Zech, who hails from Sumner, Washington is the one boy on the team who contends that the Pacific Coast has some of the best teams in the nation. At Sumner High, he played two years at end and one at fullback. This season he played in all the Interhall games both ofi’ensively and defensively. He had his best T.D. days against the Indiana State Prison when he scored three times. In the regular season he crossed the goal line with the ball once.'
Kirchner, the only Junior to be selected, was a two-way man for Coach Don Owens’ eleven this season. He calls the City of Steel in Pennsylvania his home now. although he attended high school in Lorain, Ohio, playing the tackle position in his last two years there. Dick Olson, a first string lineman for the Naval Academy this year, was his high school teammate. Kirchner is majoring in Mechanical Engineering.
WALSH, CHICKEY, CHASE
Dominated
by Champions

Nov. 30, 1951
Splinters fiomth^Pressbo^
By Jack Varley
Irish Harriers Win
Central Collegiate
By ROGER FERNANDES
Tomorrow afternoon, Notre Dame’s twice beaten, once tied gridiron contingent will meet the Trojans of Southern California and all sportswriters present will then attempt to answer the question — which of the two teams has fouled up the football pools the most? So far it’s a pretty even match. The Irish trounced the Hoosiers of Indiana to such an extent that they were the sure thing for the season. Two weeks later — swish, SMU and Fred Benners. And who in the country would have been willing to spot Notre Dame five touchdowns in the Michigan State game?
California Once Tops
California was rated tops in the country. Along came the Trojans and the Golden Bears were knocked off their pedestal. “Sure, we knew Jesse Hill had a good team at Southern Cal, but not that good.” So
Coach Alex Wilson’s harriers came through with some more of their excellent team running to win the Central Collegiate cross-country championship. Close to 100 shivering track men from 14 schools slushed over the four-mile course that day in Washington Park, in the Central Collegiate and Big Ten titular meets.
Michigan State upset Wisconsin for the Big Ten crown by 13 points by posting a 49, but it was the Fighting Irish who raced through the swirling snow to grab the low scoring honors of the day with 43 points.
Loyola’s Robert Kelly, the sole entry
of Notre Dame athletics will
St. Paul. Then three days 1
the wise better placed his greenies on Hill and USC. Two weeks later the Pacific Coast dark horse, Stanford, ran wild enough to squelch USC’s hopes for first place honors in the PCC and then last week UCLA stripped them of their second place hopes.
Prediction of the Week
Tomorrow afternoon we — being very partisan — think that the underdog Irish will once more foul the parlay cards and will beat the Trojans, 13-7. That is, if Leahy doesn’t run out of quarterbacks. On the last two trips to the coast, Notre Dame has lost two quarterbacks via injuries.
Basketball Season Opens
A couple of hours after the tilt in California, the basketball version en their season against St. Thomas at r the Irish hoopsters will perform on
campus.
Just how successful the season will be is very doubtful. In practice the squad is very impressive but Coach Johnny Jordan is very liable to find himself in much hot water when his team runs up against squads with a lot of height, for that is one thing that Notre Dame lacks. Another thing that might cause the new coach some trouble is the loss through graduation of players like Dan Bagley and Marty O’Connor. And the 26-game schedule isn’t going to help any. (Incidentally, this season’s card will consist of the greatest number of games ever played by an Irish cage squad.)
Odds ’n’ Ends
The faces of junior center Norb Lewinski, junior guard Jim Gibbons and frosh forward Jack Stephens are not exactly new to Coach Jordan. He spent several years previous to his one-year stay at Loyola as coach of Chicago’s Mt. Carmel. There, the three played for him.
John Helwig, linebacker on last year’s grid squad and star shot putter for the track team, is now one of the stars on the Fort Ord football team. The Ord gridders have won four and lost four against service, collegiate, and semipro opposition. He is a linebacker on the defensive team which has limited the opposition to 100 yards rushing per game.
BENNY ALMAGUER
The Old Faithful
from the Chicago school, came from behind to take first place in the CCC encounter with a time of 21:46.3. The day’s low time was posted in the Big Ten meet by Wisconsin’s Walter Dieke with 21:12.3.
Benny Almaguer, the old faithful of the ND harriers, produced again as he led the Irish to victory and copped fourth place. Jack Alexander and Robert Fie-ler finished eighth and ninth respectively.
George Helfenstein crossed the finish line in 11th place and Harold Snyder, Con Tetrault, and John O’Connor came in in that order to round out the Notre Dame squad’s efforts.
Michigan Normal wound up only six points short of the Irish with 49 points to take second place in the C.C.C. meet. Drake placed third with 65.
28
The Scholastic
Cavanaugh Wins 1951 Interhall Grid Crown, Trounces Powerful Morrissey Eleven, 18-0
I	By KEN MURPHY and TOM FOOTE
Capitalizing on two costly miscues and ; a long pass play, Cavanaugh Hall’s gridders won the interhall football championship by downing Morrissey 18-0 in a driving snowstorm Sunday, Nov. 18, * in the Stadium. The victors thus completed their season undefeated, untied and unscored upon.
j Although the teams battled to a scoreless tie in the first half, Cavanaugh gave an early warning of what was to come by driving 45 yards in seven plays to the Morrissey 12 the first time they got the ball. A great defensive stand by the Morrisseyites stopped the drive, and the two elevens settled down to a defensive battle at midfield for the remainder of the half.
Late in the third quarter the east-4 siders got the first big break of the game when Patterson recovered a Morrissey fumble on the west-siders’ eight-yard line. Halfback Bob Chickey drove to the three, and two plays later, Mike Laughlin blasted off tackle to score standing up.
Cavanaugh Scores
r;
Encouraged by this sudden turn of events, the Cavanaughites unleashed their powerful offensive attack and 7 scored again on a 57-yard drive the next time they got possession of the ball. A sensational 40-yard pass play Z.. from quarterback Pete Chase to Laugh
BENGAL BOUTERS’ SMOKER
The public is invited to attend the first Bengal Bouters’ Boxing Smoker which will begin at 7:30 p.m. on Thursday, Dec. 6, in the boxing room of the fieldhouse. As the room has only a limited capacity, spectators are urged to come early; the doors will be closed at 7:30. Admission is free.
The smoker will consist of four matches, each of two or three rounds:
1.	Charlie Paquette vs. Pat Drew.
2.	Ted Garland vs. Bob Bickert.
3.	Charlie King vs. Jerry Hagman.
4.	Dick Windishar vs. Tom Chisholm.
All boxers are former Bengal Bouters. The referee will be Bern Baute, and the seconds, Brendan Cryan and Gene Perry.
The Bengal Bouters Club of Notre Dame extends a special invitation to the freshmen to attend this smoker or any of the training sessions at 4 p.m. every day in the same room. Experience is not necessary as instructions are being given daily.
Boxing smokers are also planned for Dec. 13 and Dec. 18, at the same time and place. If the demand warrants it, the club may be able to make these exhibition smokers a regular event.
lin was the key play that set up the score with Chase smashing into the end zone from two yards out.
A high pass from center on an attempted fourth down Morrissey punt a few moments later permitted Cavanaugh to take over on the Morrissey two-yard line, and Bob Chickey smashed over for the final touchdown. All three extra point attempts failed.
Aside from the scoring plays, the game was mainly a defensive battle "with heroes galore in the line of both teams. Clem Mawicke, Glen Sliger, Bob White, Gene Kelly, and Tom Parsley were in on tackle after tackle for the losers. Leading the Cavanaugh defensive unit were such stalwarts as Dick Hohman, Dick Moran, Charlie Patterson, Romie Zanetti, John O’Hara, Paxil Kelley, and Jim Maclnnis.
Bellissimo Stars
Most of the ground gaining for the western division champs was done by fullback Fred Bellissimo and halfback Bob White. Bellissimo’s longest run was a 33-yard jaunt from punt formation in the first quarter. Halfback Al Jannett also turned in a sparkling 30-yard kickoff return to midfield after the first Cavanaugh touchdown.
However, the vaunted Morrissey passing attack was completely stifled mainly because of the adverse weather condi
tions. Yet, Chase of Cavanaugh managed to complete three of six aerials, and it was his 40-yarder to Laughlin early in the final period that broke the back of the Morrissey team.’ The great running of Cavanaugh’s Chickey, Laughlin, and Lagrou was another big factor in the outcome. But in the final analysis the Cavanaugh win was essentially a team victory since they were a better-balanced, more aggressive outfit than their- opponents who fought a spirited though losing battle. Morrissey never could put together a sustained drive, their deepest penetration being to the Cavanaugh 33-yard line just before the half.
Southern Cal Game
(Continued from Page 25)
double monogram winners. Of these, 14 are members of last year’s first offensive platoons. Although USC has good reserves, a great portion of the Trojans will be lost after this year.
Cannamela Leads Defensive Unit
When the Irish meet Southern Cal they will undoubtedly face one of the na-
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUPS (Offense)
USC	NOTRE DAME
Zimmerman	_...LE_ Ostrowski
Conde .......LT__________________ Bush
Sanbrano ____LG________________ Seaman
Welsh ___________________ C____ Hunter
Willhoite 	.RG	 Varrichione Van Doren________RT__ Toneff
Hattig ______RE______ Mutscheller Schneider ___________QB_ Mazur
Gifford _____LH_____________ Petitbon
Carmichael	....RH ..Barrett	or Lattner
Duff ____________________FB____ Worden
Kickoff time: 2:00 PST.
tion’s best linebackers in the person of Pat Cannamela. The five-ten, 210-pound senior is co-captain of the Trojans and is already a long way toward gaining national honors this year. Last year Pat was named to the Associated Press second team All-America. He is noted for his fine sense of diagnosing an opponent’s plays. Pat plays strictly defense and along with the rest of the Trojan players is plenty tough. USC will use the same defense as last year with only the center and right end missing. Along with Cannamela Johnny Williams is noted for his spectacular work as safety man.
Coach Jess Hill has replaced the T-for-mation in favor of the single wing with the spinning fullback. Only a few T

Nov. 30, 1951
29

plays are being used this year, mainly to keep the opponents guessing.
The offensive unit features just about a little bit of everything in backs comprised of Dean Schneider, Frank Gifford, Al Carmichael, Jim Sears, John Fouch, and Pat Duff. Jess Hill can count on these fellows almost anytime for anything.
Perhaps the great spark in the Trojans outfit is Frank Gifford who, although he has been used principally on defense for the past two years, has come into his own this year with the swing to the single wing. Running from the tailback spot, he has been the Trojans’ leading ground gainer thus far. He is almost a cinch for coast honors and has a good chance for national honors. Gifford is also part of the Trojans’ one-two passing punch along with Quarterback Dean Schneider. Schneider, a Senior, is a better than average left-handed passer.
Fourteen ND’ers Complete Careers
A promising wingback is Al Carmichael. In his Sophomore year he led the team in ground gaining with 4.98 yards-per-carry average for 103 tries. A fellow whom quite a few Notre Dame players will remember is Jim Sears who turned in the most spectacular play of the 1950 ND-SC game when he returned a kickoff for 94 yards to a touchdown. This forward wall includes such stalwarts as tackles John Conde, Bob Van Doren, guard Al Sanbrano, center Lou Welsh, and Dan Zimmerman and Bill Hattig, ends.
Tomorrow the Irish 'null not only be out to win but 14 members of the squad null be wearing the blue and gold for
FRANK GIFFORD
Part of One, Two Punch
the last time. They include John Mazur, Capt. Jim Mutscheller who holds the Irish pass-receiving record, Chet Ostrowski, Bob Toneff, John Petitbon, Del Gander, Joe Caprara, Bob Kapish, Tony Zambroski, Jack Bush and Jim Hamby. Byron Boji and Paul Burns are out for the season and it is still doubtful whether Billy Barrett will get an opportunity to play.'
All-Campus
(Continued from Page 27)
summer residence for Jack Connolly, the right tackle chioce. He attended Our Lady Queen of Peace High School where he played three years at the tackle spot. He was practically a 60-minute man this season for Zahm until he sprained his ankle in the final game against Cavanaugh. Jack is in the College of Arts and Letters and intends to major in English.	'
Bob Adams, hailing from Cranston, Rhode Island and Lyons Hall, won the right end honors. He attended LaSalle Academy in the city of Providence, but played no football there. This season he played both ways in all the games for Coach Dan Finn, receiving a broken nose in the final contest. An Arts and Letters Sophomore, Adams intends to major in Economics.
Chase Paces Quarterbacks
The second representative from River Forest, Illinois, quarterback Pete Chase, played his prep football at Holy Trinity in Chicago. While there he started one year at halfback and his final two years at the signal calling position. This season he directed the destinies of the Cav-
PAT CANNAMELA
Strictly Defensive
FRED BELLISSIMO
. . . on the campus mythical squad
anaughites with uncanny skill. He scored one TD in the championship game and his passing palm was responsible for four others. He is a physics major in the College of Science.
Diminutive Bob Chickey went to St. Louis University High School in Missouri for his secondary education. He played four years at halfback while in attendance there. This season he scored a touchdown in the championship game, but missed one contest because of a knee
ALL-CAMPUS TEAM	
Left End— Don Zeck (Mor.)	6’1”	180 lbs.
Left Tackle— Geo. Kirchner (Dil.)..6’1”	215 lbs.
Left Guard— Jim Maclnnis (Cav.) 5’11”	180 lbs.
Center— Frank Gies (Far.)	6’1”	185 lbs.
Right Guard— Bill Brewer (St. Ed) 5’8”	175 lbs.
Right Tackle— Jack Connelly (Zm.) 6’1”	200 lbs.
Right End— Bob Adams (Ly.)	6’0”	175 lbs.
Quarterback— Pete Chase (Cav.)	5’9”	165 lbs.
Left Half- Bob Chickey (Cav.)....5’6”	170 lbs.
Right Half— Mike Walsh (Mor.)....5’10’;	160 lbs.
Fullback— FredBellissimo (Mor.) 5’9”	190 lbs.
30
The Scholastic
injury. He starred on both platoons for the champs but he prefers running from his left halfback spot with the ball. Enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters, he intends to major in History.
The right halfback, Mike Walsh, hails from Cedar Rapids. In high school he played two years at halfback. This season performing strictly on offense, he scored two touchdowns while starring for the Western division champions. Running from the T-formation, his favorite play was a straight line buck. He is at present majoring in Physical Education.
Belmont, Massachusetts claims Fullback Fred Bellissimo as the ND representative of the hometown. While at Belmont High, he played two years at fullback. He scored two TD’s for Morrissey this year although he was bothered by bad ankles, one having been injured in a game, and the other- in a recent auto accident. He was an outstanding member on the Freshman baseball squad last spring. Bellissimo is a Sophomore in Physical Education.
Basketball Replaces Football In Interhall Athletic Program
With Mr. Touchdown he'ading into his 1951 home stretch, basketball has made its official appearance on the Notre Dame campus. This past week marked the opening of the annual interhall competition in the cage' sport under the direction of Mr. Ernie Szekeley of the Physical Education Department. An ambitious program has been set up with the intention of getting in three rounds of play before the Christmas vacation.
In all, 41 quintets have entered rosters, and as in previous years, they have been divided into two sections — a night league made up of hall teams and an afternoon league including both hall and campus club teams. The latter has seven brackets, each containing four teams. Bracket One has four Farley teams — Gold, Blue, Orange and Red; Two — Zahm Gold, Blue, Orange and Walsh; Three — Breen-Phillips Gold, Blue, Orange and Cavanaugh; Four — St. Edward’s, Alumni, Metropolitan Club and the Rochester Club; Five — Chemical Engineers, Erie, Nebraska, and Knights of Columbus; Six — Chemists, Kentucky, Kansas City, and New England clubs; 7 — Milwaukee, Washington, Cincinnati and West Virginia clubs. The afternoon contests are scheduled for 3:10, 3:55, 4:40 and a few at 7:00 p.m.
The evening league has three brackets, the first having five teams: Zahm Gold, St. Louis Club, Farley and Zahm Blue; the second: Cavanaugh, Sorin, .
Walsh and Badin. Dillon, Alumni, Morrissey and Howard compose bracket three. Games begin at 7:00 and 7:45.
Bill Noonan
Chicago Undefeated In Kegler Contests
By JACK SAND
The Kampus Keglers will return to action this Sunday after a week’s layoff, with the Chicago Club being the only remaining undefeated team in either bowling loop. In the outings of November 18, four clubs tasted defeat for the first time, leaving the Chicagoans, who dominate the Gold League, with an unscarred record of 9-0.
In increasing their point total to 12, the Windy City lads whitewashed the cellar-dwelling Cleveland Club -with Paul Pfohl, Jack O’Connell, and Bill Loftus leading the way. Pfohl raised his average to 160 by virtue of a 489 series, with 201 being his top game. O’Connell and Loftus added 480 and 455 series to the Club’s already high total of 2807 that was registered a week previous to these matches. They are also out in front in the single series department wtih a high five-man total of 968.
In two other important Gold matches,
NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP in the Rockne Memorial
Christmas Gift Box of Golf Balls
These four famous manufacturers offer you special gift boxes which can serve a double function.
You get both the balls and these special boxes at the regular prices. Packages of a dozen and half-dozen golf balls are available.
While you’re down there, take a look at their supply of:
the powerful Detroit Club was knocked from the top rung by the A.I.E.E. as Ray Tritz led the Engineers to a four-point sweep with a rousing 529 series. The Mechanical Engineers also took their lumps being whipped 2 out of 3 by the up and coming California Club.
Three-Way Tie
Over in the Blue League, it looks like a four-way dogfight between the Irish Club, Civil Engineers, Buffalo, and the Architects, who all have a foothold on first place with the identical marks of 7-2.
The most surprising club in the circuit has been the Irish squad, who defeated the Generation Club 2 out of 3 with Ed Mahoney rolling a 493 series to pace the leaders. Also gaining two-game victories and three points were the Civil Engineers and Afchitects, with the odd game going to the Aesculipians and Aero Clubs respectively.
Cy Brabenec and Bob Craven were the big guns for the “Civies,” with the former bowling a neat 508 series to push his average up to 167, thus taking over the fifth spot in the league’s top keglers. John Ronan, captain of the Architects, led his mates with a 495 series in racking up the Aero, while an upset-minded Kentucky Club behind Larry Schneider’s 489 three-game total dropped the Buffalo Club from the top slot with a 2 out of 3-game triumph.
SPALDING
U. S. ROYAL ACUSHNET
DUNLOP
Hand Balls and Gloves
Rubber Shower Sandals
Golf Club Covers
Ping Pong Balls
Tee Shirts and Sport Socks
Nov. 30, 1951
31
Petitbon and Lattner Lead Irish Rushing
John Lattner, sophomore right halfback, and John Petitbon, senior left halfback, continued their battle for the lead in the rushing department against Iowa last Saturday, with Petitbon regaining the top spot by a very narrow margin. Petitbon has now carried 40 times for 211 yards and a 5.3 yards-per-try average. Lattner has carried 53 times for 276 yards and a 5.2 yards-per-try average.
Meanwhile, sophomore fullback Neil “Bull” Worden is well out in front in the total-yards-gained-by-rushing column. Worden has gained 585 yards in 159 carries. His nearest rival is freshman Paul Reynolds who has gained 375 yards in 83 carries. Worden has gained 159 mare yards thus far this season than Emil Sitko gained in his sophomore year at Notre Dame, 1947. In fact, Worden has gained more yards than any member of the 1947 team.
Lattner continues to be by far the most versatile back on the Irish team. Besides his rushing contributions, he is tied for second in scoring with 30 points, is third in punt returns, has shared the punting with Billy Barrett, has caught six passes for 102 yards, has intercepted five passes and returned them a total of 66 yards, and has completed one pass of two thrown, a crucial one, which enabled the Irish to come from behind and tie Iowa last Saturday. Lattner has also recovered three opponents’ fumbles.
A new and most welcome addition to the Irsh scoring column was the two points scored by sophomore Bobby Joseph, who kicked two conversions against Iowa. With the Irish trailing by 14 points, Joseph, who had played only a few moments against Indiana in the season’s opener, and had never kicked a point in a varsity game, converted successfully after both Irish touchdowns, to
CHESTERFIELD CONTEST
All entries for the last Chesterfield pick the winner contest must be in by 4 p.m. (CST) tomorrow. The winner will be announced later. In order to enter, write your prediction of the Notre Dame-USC game on the back of a Chesterfield wrapper and turn it into room 218, Walsh before the deadline. There is no limit to the number of predictions as long as each is on a separate wrapper.
There was no winner for last week’s Iowa game.
knot the score, 20 to 20. Joseph, incidentally, comes from Martins Ferry, Ohio, the home town of another well-known point-kicker, Lou Groza, of the Cleveland Browns.
Air and Navy RO Units Join To Present January Dance
The NROTC Activities Committee and the Air Cadet Club are combining to present the Mid-Air Ball Jan. 11. This is the first time the two units have attempted to present a unified dance of any kind.
The Middies and Air Cadets will take over the Drill Hall for a final fling before exams. Tentative price of the bids is $3, with no corsages allowed.
Both air force and naval personnel are urged to arrange dates and buy their tickets before Christmas vacation, especially since St. Mary’s will not resume classes until Jan. 9, two days before the dance.
Plan Revival of Student Choir At Meeting Monday Evening
The Notre Dame Student Choir, under the direction of the Rev. William McAuliffe, C.S.C., will hold its first re-organizational meeting at 6:30 p.m. Monday in the Glee Club room of the Music Hall.
The purpose of the Student Choir is to train a group of men to sing at the different ceTmonies held in Sacred Heart church, and also to form the basis for choirs in the hall chapels.
There are no specific qualifications to join the group. Everyone from Freshmen to Seniors are welcome, and no experience is necessary.
WND to Broadcast Season's First Home Tilt With Wabash
Tuesday night’s opening home basketball game against Wabash College will be handled over WND, station sports director Bob Dougherty announced this week.
It is not yet known exactly when the broadcast will start. A fifteen-minute warm-up -will probably be put on before play-by-play announcer Jim Gannon takes to the air.
All seven home net tilts will be broadcast over the student voice, and Dougherty announces that tentative plans are being made to carry several of the away contests.
NEW HOUSE RULES
By order of the State Fire Marshal, only those actually occupying regular seats are permitted for events in Washington Hall, and smoking is absolutely forbidden in every part of the building at all times.
In compliance with these fire regulations, therefore, no one is to occupy the aisles, or stand in the rear of the theatre during any event, the student affairs office has declared.
e i
i
Shortage of January Grads Delays Sheepskins Till May
Since not enough men will have merited degrees by the end of the present term, there will be no graduation exercise's this coming January. Those who have completed their undergradu- f • ate work will receive their degrees with the June graduate's.
If, however, any of the' mid-year grads want to go into business or some •' job in which they need a certificate from the University, they will be able' to get , one upon completion of their courses in Vji January, the office of academic affairs I disclosed.	1
Nationally Advertised
WATCHES
DIAMONDS GIFTS REPAIRING
smn^
^Marvin
/MHKXXXXIZZV
126 - NO, MICHIGAN ST.
In the religious life man more purely lives; less often falls; more promptly rises; walks more cautiously; more safely rests; dies more happily; is free earlier from cleans-„ „ ing fire; and THE BROTHER’S wit’haJ a VOCATION brighter crown. (St. Bernard.) The Christian teacher lights the triple candle of faith and hope and love in immortal souls, there to burn for God’s sake and never to be quenched; its light typifies his devoted labors, and a noble sacrifice, continues his work not in one, but in many souls forever.
For free literature write, phone or visit: Brother Louis, OSF, Vocation Department, 41 Butler Street, Brooklyn 2, New York. Telephone MAin 4-2036.
The Scholastif
Glee Clubbers Hit the Raad; " Yule Concert Here Dec. 16
The 1951 Notre Dame Glee Club, under the direction of Mr, Daniel Ped-tke, will present a varied program of selections, both choral and solo, on the evening of Dec. 6 before the National -5 Conference of Christians and Jews at the Sherman hotel in Chicago.
Featured speaker on this program, | which will mark the Glee Club’s second consecutive appearance, is Mr. Henry Luce, publisher of Life and Time magazines.
On Dec. 9, the Glee Club will travel to the Civic Auditorium at Hammond, Ind., where! it will present for the pub-4 lie an evening concert consisting chiefly of Christmas selections.
The annual Christmas Concert here at Notre Dame by the Glee Club will be given the evening of Dec. 16 at Washington Hall. Again, a large variety of Christmas selections will be featured in I accordance with the holiday spirit.

DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
South Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
MANHATTAN
SHIRTS
I
i
PAJAMAS
and
NECKWEAR
are featured
in a grand array
at
Spiro’s
in South Bend
—Fine white broadcloth, extreme widespread collar. Sharpest shirt on the quadrangles this year.
—White button-down oxford, soft roll to the collar. Popular as a holiday with the fellows and the gals.
The Manhattan Shirt Company, makers of Manhattan shirts, nedb> wear, underwear, pajamas, sportshirts, beachwear and handkenhi^s.
Style-Conscious
Nov. 30, 1951
33
~the IJack
--------------------- By Bill Riley
Mow Do You Train a Race-Horse?
It seems that once upon a time there were two men, both in the business of training race horses. They were constantly arguing about the best way to train winning horses, assuming that they had, to start with, a horse that, with the best possible training, ■would be a winner.
The first was a radical sort of a fellow, anyhow, and he evolved an unusual scheme for training his horse. Instead of running him on a track, he just gave him his head, slapped him on the rump, and yelled, “start running.” He didn’t use a jockey, because lie pointed out that the weight of a jockey might discourage the horse. And he also felt that if the horse had to run on a certain track, he would feel iestricted, and would develop a complex against running. Neither did he use a starting gate or a finish line. It was clear- to him, he said, that if the horse only had to run at a certain time, and a certain distance, he would begin to feel that running was work, rather than fun, and would give up the idea altogether.
dan Running Be Sheer Pleasure?
In fact, he even threw aside the usual horse-paraphernalia of reins, blinkers, a bit, bridle and saddle. When onlookers questioned him about it, he said: “Look, my horse is going to love to ran. I don’t want him to get the idea that running can be anything but sheer pleasure.”
Meanwhile, the other horse-trainer, an old and conservative gentleman, was training his candidate for the winner’s circle. His methods were sharply different. Not only did he use a saddle, a bridle, a bit, blinkers and reins, but he also put a very heavy jockey on the horse. He reasoned something like this: “this horse is going to have to carry a jockey when he gets into the real race, so if I put a heavier one on now than he will latex- have to carry, he’ll run a great deal faster- then.”
dan You Permit Deviation?
Also, this horse was made to run on a track that was extremely circumscribed. At first, he was just put to work on an ordinary track. Then, the trainer saw that when he was running particularly fast, he tended to deviate just the slightest bit from what would be a perfectly straight line from start to finish. He ordered the jockey to
hold a tighter rein, to jerk the horse around if he made the slightest deviation. Still the horse fought the reins, as he attempted to go at top speed.
So the trainer stationed men all along the track, to make sure that the horse kept a perfectly straight line. Every time the horse began to waver, the men along the course would move in on him, and prod him into the middle again. This slowed him down a bit, but the trainex- figured that the loss in speed would be made up fox* by .the accuracy of his course.
Some of the track hangers-on told the trainex- that a good horse will learn to keep a straight line on his own if you give him a chance. One of them, a rummy who had been quite a scholastic philosophex- before he started trying to apply the syllogistic system to playing the horses, quoted an ancient dictum.
That Is, Diversity in Accidentals?
“In accidentals,” he said, “the greatest diversity is permissible; in essentials, uniformity. In all things, charity.” “The accidentals,” he said, “are the little waverings out of the theoretically perfectly straight line. The essential thing is that he learn how to run, and know the ultimate direction in which to run.” He wasn’t quite sure just how charity fitted into the analogy, and when pressed, got sore and went back to the stables to talk to a horse with whom he was rathex- friendly.
Still, the trainex- persisted in keeping the horse going right down that straight line. The horse, meanwhile, was slowing down more than a little.
The day of the race came. The two horses were led into the starting gate, and theix- jockeys mounted.
In the stands was the biggest crowd evex- seen in the history of the track. It was generally agreed that the race was to be the most important evex- ran.
Horse-studiers were giving a careful look to the two mounts as they stood in their stalls. The first one was chafing at his bit and looked very skittish. He reared up under his jockey and almost dislodged him from his seat.
The other one stood quietly, almost listlessly. When his jockey leaned over to whisper in his ear, he turned his head away. The jockey dug his spurs into the horse’s fianks, and jerked on
the reins. So, the horse tux-ned his , head to the front again.
The starting bell rang out and they were off!
The first horse was out of the gate with a leaping start. He plunged ahead, ! fighting the bit, which he disliked intensely because he wasn’t used to it. But he was in the lead.
f ■
He Kept His Eyes on the Track!
The othex- horse came out of the gate rathex- more slowly. Very carefully he pursued a straight line down the .middle of the track. His eyes were cast down, as he doggedly kept a straight line down the course. He was trailing K “ by several lengths by the time the race reached the far turn.
Meanwhile, the jockey on the first £ horse, desiring still more speed, dug his « heels into the horse’s flanks. That was , a mistake. This horse wasn’t used to anybody using force on him. He f' * reared back, threw his jockey, and leaped the fence into the infield, and then ran like a very whiz across the ( grass, jumped the fax- fence, and was last seen bobbing southward, towards	,
the Gulf, going like the devil. He	,
could run all x-ight!
It Should Have Been a Walk-In
It really should have been a walk-in for the second horse. In fact, it almost was a walk-in. Because every time the jockey tried to urge him to greater- speed, he would slow down, look around him, and sometimes even stop, to make sure that he hadn’t deviated or made any mistake about the straight line down the middle. He hardly lifted his feet off the ground, he was so afraid that he would be punished for kicking up his heels.
Finally, the desperate jockey gave one last flick of his quirt. Resignedly the horse tux-ned his head. With a completely discouraged look on his face, he walked over to the infield fence, stuck his head undex- the rail, and placidly began munching grass.
Which is the end of the story, although not the end of the race. It was finally called a decisionless draw, since neithex- horse finished. The second horse, when his jockey tried to lead him by the reins, sat down and would not budge.
There probably isn’t a moral to this story, unless it be that in training horses, as in all things, there must be a happy medium. You can’t give an inexperienced horse his head all the time, but as John Erskine said about boys—and I think it applies equally well to horses—“Every time you prevent a boy from making a small mis-, take, you take away a little bit of his initiative.”

The Scholastic
tyooikaJl tyotecaAt. . .
Here’s your chance to prove that you too are an expert in rating < football games. All you have to do is to mark in your favorite predictions in the space provided • and leave them at the designat-
ed points before noon of the Sat-( urday on which the game is to
be played. What could be simpler? The makers of Medico ■ V. F. Q. pipes will award a
Smoker's Set containing two ( pipes (as pictured) each week to the winner of our contest.
I •
h	DIRECTIONS—Please circle the ten
teams that you think will come out on
• top. Also indicate your prediction as to the score of each game. In case of ties duplicate prizes will be awarded. To - facilitate judging please use the form below. Only University of Notre Dame - students are eligible.
______RIomJz at tke	&nlq,.....
FOOTBALL FORECAST — Games of Dec. 1, 1951

NAME
NOTRE DAME___ ARMY_________.________ BAYLOR ____________ BOSTON COLLEGE ..__ ... GEORGIA TECH_______. S. M. U........................ KANSAS ...............
MISSISSIPPI ....
L. S. U_____ OKLAHOMA ___ .
NAME OF LAST WEEK’S WINNER — ED
ADDRESS
SO. CAL........
NAVY ........
RICE .......
HOLY CROSS ........
GEORGIA........
T. C. U......
MISSOURI ....... MISSISSIPPI STATE-....
TULANE ...... OKLAHOMA A. & M..........
DeBOER, 281 Dillon Hall
Nov. 30, 1951

SERIALS DIVISION UNIVERSITY LIBRARY NOTRE DAME IND
: ...
friendly island
THE BIGGEST
PLUS
IN CIGARETTE HISTORY
No
Unpleasant
After-taste
-added to the world’s
most famous ABCs_
Always Milder
Retter Tasting
Cooler Smoking


CHESTERFIELD IS THE ONLY CIGARETTE of all brands tested in which members of our taste panel found no unpleasant after-taste/7
From the report of a well-known research organization
Always Buy CHESTERFIELD
GLORIA DeHAVEN starring in
A 20th Century-fox Pro du c t ion • Co Io r
by Technicolor
