


\ 
• ':-""\ -... A ' • ., , • ~ -..; , 
Job Security . · 
by EmilYPaladino · . •

TABLE ·op',-l20Nl]~NTS_. · · .,/ --. 12
I
1_,_ ._ T.he_· _P_ ro_ cess__es throug_h_·. which. instruct9.r_s.» Modernized Mendoza by Eileen Varga 08 i obtain tenure are different. from what you 
: _might expect. . ..
» Rising from the Ashes by Alisa Finelli 10 
» 
. .
Just Up the Creek by Anna O'Connor 11 

You Gotta Have Faith · · » by Lauren\iVilcox ··•. ·.. · _ ·· ·•-.
Cooking with Class by Katie Baron 15 
I
Notre Dame's Interfaithorganization •.•.· » Cribs by Jen Osterhage 20 fostOCS faT.th fo/ foll-~ of ,II relljloO" 

» Right BeforeYour Eyes by Katie Dillon 28 
» Directing, Domer:-Style by Jen Belliveau 30 [··.<· : ... ,,' -.: ' ... ,' ,_.-. -·_, . .-·. . 
One forAll, All for Football? ·.-· » Grounded in Reality by Annie Robinson 31 by Jimmy Atkinson _ __ ..• _.. -• ·... _. _· 
COVER:Al9ok at the ongoing mission to . ·
I
From the Editor . . . . . . . . 2 Out of Bounds . . . . . . . . 32 
ND Notebook . . . . . . . . 4 Week in Distortion . . . . . 34 put al·l.•no_~ one; 9.f~o-t-re D_a_·_--~e's _a_._thletic · 
. 
programs m the national spotlight,
Campus Watch 14 Calendar . . 35 
! . 
Splinters ..... ...... 22 Final Word . . . . . . . . . 36 
i 


Vol. 145, No. 07 • 04 DEC 2003 


SCHOLaSTIC 
Editor in Chief Matt KIiien 
Managing Editor Annie Robinson 
Executive EditOr 
Mike Borgia 
Executive Design Editor Ryan Greenberg 

News 1 Christopher Kelly, editor 1Jim Ryan, assistant 
Eileen Varga, assistant 
Campus Life Jennifer Osterhage, editor Carolyn G. LaFave, assistant Lauren Wilcox, assistant 
Sports 

-
Jimmy Atkinson, editor · Mike lselin, assistant Chris Meskill, assistant 
Entertainment Tracy Evans, editor Ryan Greene, assistant Lauren Kiehna, assistant 
Departments 
Meghan Gowan, editor Mike Healy, assistant 
Design David Redenbaugh Nick Abrams, cover 
Vanessa Arita 
Photography 
Phil Hall, editor Brenna Manion, assistant 
Graphic Design Christine Graham, editor 
Copy 
Kelly M. Faehnle, chief Mo Ertel, assistant 

< John Hadley, assistant Jennifer Wadkins Kim Thompson Cassandra Meyer 
Distribution Phil Hall manager 

[· Businessl.. Jessie Potish, manager . Mary Ursu, manager 
[ Online ·. Jimmy Atkinson, manager I-Advisor Robert Franken '69 
Disce Quasi Semper Victtmts Vive Quasi Cms Mo,·itrmts 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is copyright 2003 University of Notre Dame.All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, Lafortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556.To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 5: 00 p.m. Monday before the issue. My roommate is from Hungaria. All letters must include the writer's name, ad­

' dress and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances.Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for cor­rections made more than 21 days after publ!cation cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate Is $35 per year. Avail­able back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Coples of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy.Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic magazine arc not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 



Beyond Football 
Notre Dame: It's all about football. . At least, ask anyone outside of this campus and that's the impression they get. Over a hundred years of national champions, legendary coaches and stories of horsemen and the Gipper have left the public with an indel­ible image: Notre Dame is all about the pigskin. Nationwide, fans don't flock to tennis matches and hockey games -no other sport has the powerful pull of football. While much of this can be attributed to the simple fact that football is popular, the lack ofawareness about Notre Dame's wide spectrum ofstudent athletics remains a large problem. Sports fans the world over simply do not associate the Fighting Irish with anything but the gridiron. · Students on campus know differently. From soccer and basketball to vol­leyball and fencing, Notre Dame's athletic community extends far beyond Notre Dame Stadium. Over the past several years, the university has been working to change this. look for There has been a concerted effort by the university to bring all of Notre 
ISSUE08 
Dame's athletics into the national spotlight. · 
on 
JAN 31 . This issue, Scholastic's Sports Editor Jimmy Atkinson looks into the state ofNotre Dame athletics, and how increasing scholarship money is helping to change the way people look at Irish sports. 
Dreams Do ComeTrue 
Looking for a good way to waste some Tuesday evenings? Despite all evidence to the contrary, Scholastic is strung together by a staff of hard­working individuals who devote their energy and sacrifice their sanity to put together the magazine. And we're always looking for people to join us. Ifyou're interested in copy-editing, layout, or reporting, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us at scholast@nd.edu 
Happy Holidays 
The staff at Scholastic wishes everyone a safe and relaxing holiday break. Good luck with final exams, and we'll see you back here next month with our annual football wrap-up. 

Matt Killen, Editor 
2 SCHOLASTICFROMTHE EDITOR 
04 DECEMBER 2003 




Afraid you 're not worthy? 

Fr. Edward Sorin, C.S.C. founder of the University of Notre Dame at age 29. 

' \ So was he. 

Be Not Afraid! 



are those when you arejust goofing around for days and weeks on end. Ifyou could di-op out Who are the best columnists? ofsome activity and just waste some time with George Will writesa great column and,so does your friends to avoid being bored, you'll find my [NYTimer] colleague Bill Krugman. yourselfcreating. · 
What's the best way to approach opinion Do you advocate looking at college as writing? vocational? Develop avoice that'slightand that's fun to read, 
4 SCH0LASTICNOTEBOOK 
04 DECEMBER 2003 


U! 

I I
,....,....,...,.,.,.,..,,_-.=,..,-,.,.,..-~--,-.~-~ .-,.-:_:_-.(:,.:-:-1
____ ---..,"'";;·:"";,;;.,..._,-::_""',::;,""',•_;,""y,-,!,:"",.c:-f!'/~-.,;:~:j':,..,:,~-·-:~ 

•-~,,_. ·izi:ii!t;jJf{~ 
Student#I: I'll put the book on my head and learn through osmosis. Student #2: I think the book has to be wet for that to work. -overheard students 
. ;)If F':is false, I'm 'a:IJlOnkey's uncle and the moon is. made of cheese:· ·'-' · · •· · • · -· _-log1e professor.justifying a proof 
."Every time you crack your neck_a fairy ·gets. ~E:7Vtinged." · · 
· · · · · · · -­
andyetgets into the serious stuff. 
Political -Web loggers, or "bloggers:• are becoming increasingly powerful in modem discourse. Are "bloggers" harming today's politics? ­
Bloggers are in the flow ofconversation. I probably shouldn't have said I am_one step away, because I try to do actual reporting and research for the [ op-ed] pieces, and no blogger ever does any reporting. If! didn't look at them I wouldn't be much worse off, to be honest. They're addictive. 
Do you follow any certain bloggers? 
I wake up with Andrew_ Sullivan, andrewsullivan.com.OnS/ate [anonlinemaga­zine], KlausFiles :is fun to read. You might not remember what you read, but it's fun. 
::_ :,:'-,-overheard student 

You talk a lot aboutthe political polarization of oursociety. Doyouthen hatebeingbilledasthe NYTimei"new conservative columnist''? 
I wish people would just say there's a new guy at the table, but the fact oflife is you're branded and I have a brand as a 'conserva­tive columnist.' I don't mind it too much, but you do get pre-judged and people are suspicious ofyou. But that's just life. Y~m get a label. 
Should liberal students occasionally watch Fox NewsChannelinordertobetterunderstandthe opposing viewpoint? And should conservative students do the same? 
Iwould go to the magazines oronline, read the WeeklyStandardWeb site, readtheNewRepublic or the Nation Web site orJosh Marshall, one ofthe bloggers. It's important to sharpenyour own arguments; it's like menrnl calisthenics to 
._, ..--.-.,,-• ~ .....,......,... ·r\}\)(\f·_\\·\i/ ~J 

119 Years Ago The Future Begins College is a time of great transi­tion. Over the course of a few short months, teenagers must go from carefree high school seniors to self-sufficient university students. This is a coming-of-age that students ofevery generation must experience, as evidenced by the sentiments expressed by an ND freshman within these pages 19 years ago, when all first-years were preparing to celebrate their first Christmas here. From December 1984: 
''Itis early December, an.dihave been atNotre 
D_ame nearly fozw months. Th~_ weather. has_ "grown cold, the snow ispikdhigh ..'. Schoolwork andschoolactivitiesareamstan{lydemandingeu­ery mwzent ofthe day . . . New crises ... bring about a Ferris wheel ofemotions ... as I foa,s on the euer increasing anticipation ofthe holiday 
vacation ahead ... " 
Ofcourse, the uneasymalaise ofhomesick­ness rarely lasts past a student's first year. It is almost as ifthe campus casts a Level 5 en­chantment spell on everyone it touches .. ; 
-Mike Healy 

confront the other side. 
Does it bother you that Jayson Blair and Stephen Glass, two discredited journalists, gain national attention? 
It's true that if you do your solid careful work, you're not famous. But, you are respected by your peers and that actually does mean more. I actually thinkthe system rewards quality pretty well. You want to be able to go to a room and look around and see the best people inyour profession -the journalists you really like. You want them to come up to you and say they really liked the piece you did._ You won't be as famous in a "TV'' sense, but you will be respected by the people who matter to you. 
-Annie Robinson 
04 DECEMBER 2003 
SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 5 
IJudgment Calls Opinions and observations 


GINGERBREAD HOUSE 

COMPETITION 
Nothing says "Christmas at Notre Dame" better than decorating gingerbread men and their homes with cereal, coconut and icing in the bottom level of NDH. 
SOUTH QUAD WIND
Oi 
. TUNNEL 
We can't tell you how much we enjoy the gale-force winds that greet us every morning. If they're not freezing our lips shut, they manage to blow us off the walkways. 



CHRISTMASTREE BATTLE 
Zahm's infamous Terrence the Tree takes on the trees happily perched above Cavanaugh and Farley. The real question: where is BP in this North Quad competition? 


THE RETURN OFTHE KING 
' The only thing getting us through finals is a movie about dwarves, elves, evil rings and Rudy. At least hoping that Gandalf puts in Rudy in the 4th quarter will help pass the time that we are not spending studying. 




END OFTHE SEMESTER 
No one can wait for it to arrive, but you nave to admit that leaving behind the snowy grounds and gray skies brings a tear of sadness to your eye. It's a good thing they've squeezed break into three weeks, so you'll be back in no time. 
IDomeLights COMPILED BY MEGHAN GOWAN 


NOTEBOOK 
emester's end is upon us, and that 
means two things: finals and vaca­
tion.Fortunately, thereareplentyof opportunities to while away the free time that comes with waiting breathlessly for classes to resume. 
Ye olde moving-picture house is always a safe bet this time ofyear. The Lord ofthe Rings: The Return ofthe King promises to start things off right when it hits theaters Dec. 17. Whether you genuinely love the ish eight-year-olds? 

For those who don't, check out Paycheck. The John Woo-directed sci-fi thriller stars Ben Affleck as a fugitive who's had his memory erased. It's no Citizen Kane, but a little mindless action doesn't hurt. 
Nor does hanging around the house . And with upcoming DVD and VHS re­leases, that's a pastime the local video store will be more than happy to oblige. Fans of that mindless action we men-
films orpreferto pick___________  tioned can look for- 
apart their myriad  ward to Will Smith's  
inaccuracies with a  Whatever  options  Bad Boys II,  Colin  
spiteful grin, check  you choose, Hollywood  Farrell's S.WA.T. and  
out Return if you  should fuel endless hours  the ever-absurd Freddy  
feel like a few (over  of diversion for all your  vs. Jason. The horsies­ 
three) hours of ex- winter break needs.  are-pretty crowd will  
citement. Just don't  ___________  enjoy Seabiscuit and  

get too attached to Gollum ... 
Mike Lewell, the director ofFour Wed­dings and a Funeral, provides a lighter touch Dec. 19 with Mona Lisa S11zile. Julia Roberts stars as a new teacher at Welle~­ley College in 1953. Her free:-wheeling feminism mixes things up around the stuffy den ofacademia and provides a less violent alternative to Viggo Mortensen's testosterone-laden adventures in Middle Earth. 
Christmas Day offers a slew of movies for anyone who's not off to Grandmoth­er's house. While it might be best to avoid the kid-saturated Cheaper by the Dozen, a new version of the beloved classic, Peter Pan, should be fun. Sure, it's been done a gajillion times, but who doesn't enjoy a movie full offlying, pirate-fighting, Brit-

romantics should fall for Alex & Emma, starring Kate Rud­son and Luke Wilson. Even anime fans can get their fix with the re-mastered release of Katsuhiro Otomo's cult clas­sic Akira. 
Or get a few friends together and in­dulge in the biggest thing since sliced bread: DVD boxed sets of television shows. As long as you're not easily of­fended, pick up the fifth season of Sex and the City or the third season of South Park. And the traditional comedy-lover should be on the lookout for the second seasons of Cheers and Frasie1: 
Whatever options you choose, Holly­wood should fuel endless hours of diver­sion for all your winter break needs. Just make sure to expose yourself to some fresh air and daylight every once in a while. D 
Source: Irish Gardens employee Julia Fitzpatrick 
Need a bit of cheer this chilly finals season? Irish Gardens, our local flower shop in Lafortune, provides joy in floral form, from Astromenas to Spider Mums (depending on the season). 
Types of flowers: 23 Online ordering: Yes (http://www.nd.edu/-igardens/home.htm) Flowers in season year-round: Roses, Gerber Daisies, Porn Daisies Busiest time of year: Dance Weekends and Valentines Day Price range: $2.50 -$10 Average customer: Dapper Boys and Parents (via phone for birthdays) Delivery charge: $3 (on campus), $5 (off campus) Number of flowers in stock dail.y: approx. 11 dozen, depending on season 
6 SCH0LASTICNOTEBOOK 04 DECEMBER 2003 



University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Students 
Something on your mind? Got an opinion? Write a ... 
THE STANDING COMMITTEE ON GAYAND LESBIAN STUDENT NEEDS 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(C.onfidential information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. ML. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student members (see web site/or student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 

(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.3 l@nd.edu 


University Counseling Center 

(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
For more infonnation, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/---scglsn/ 

the 



Editor 
... and see your name in print. scholast@nd.edu 


the Giovanini Commons for Collabora-··. 
.. EILEENVARGA 

W
tive Learning, an 8,500 square-foot area located in the basement on the north side 
e're hot right now," says of Mendoza's Naimoli wing. OfficiallyCarolyn Woo, Dean of the dedicated on Oct. 31, the construction Mendoza College ofBusiness. 
of the Commons incorporated a goodThis year, the college enjoyed its first ap­deal of business philosophy behind its pearance on US News &World Report's and sleek appearance. 
BusinessWeek's list of the nation's top 30 Upon receiving a $3 million donation business schools, ranking 29th in both. 
from benefactors Joe and Jane Giova-
The MBA program is swamped with a nini, Woo had to decide how best to 142 percent rise in applications over the use the funds to build a creative learn-
past five years, and more alumni than ing space which would go beyond the ever are donating to the John Cardinal common architectural structure of a 
O'Hara Society, the MBA giving society. 
typical classroom. After "an 18-month Mendoza has also been gaining popular-. 
investigation into the field of creative ity from inside Notre Dame -a third learning" concluded in the fall of2002,of all undergraduates choose a business Woo, along with associate deans, rep-major. "We are trying for excellence resentatives from the Kaneb Center of 
in all areas: the intellectual, moral and Teaching and Learning and the busi­spiritual," Woo says. 
ness manager ofMendoza, Doug Kroll, The most visible product ofthese re­decided that the main goal of the new cent efforts has been the construction of 
. . . . . . . 

~rea would be to snift students from a passive role to an active one. "We want­ed something to engage the senses. The Commons is really a space designed for socialinteractionandcommunityprob­lem-solving," Woo says. · 
The goal of active engagement with workspace translates into two themes for the Commons: openness and mo­bility. In the first two rooms, all the chairs, tables and whiteboards have wheels and can be rearranged easily. No permanent wall separates the first room from the second. Due to stipulations at­tached to the original donation, group work always is favored over individual study in the commons. "We tried to think ofhow to make the facility relate to the student in new ways. We wanted a blank canvas for the students to use," says Kroll. In this spirit, aside from a few potted plants, there are sparse 
8 SCHOLASTICNEWS 

04 DECEMBER 2003 

Overall, students seem to enfofthe '"ues, to expand, Business Administration is the new ideal place for collaborative meetings. 
flourishes and decorations in the first two work rooms. The more intimate third room is all about comfort: filled with well-cushioned chairs and floor pillows for more discussion-based work. 
But it is the back room, providing power outlets for laptops, ~etwork access, viewing screens and other au­dio-visual equipment, that has been the attraction for most students. "The Internet technology is great," says MSA student Kristin Miller. The Cafe Com­mons, equipped with wireless Internet, provides a food service on weekdays and a study area in the evenings and on the 
weekends. _ 
Commons:. "It's hic"e for· group-work 
and it really has the feel ofa non-tradi-­tional classroom. It wouldn't work out for just the usual lecture," Miller says. "When you have a class down there, it sort of feels like a field trip. You have breathing room," says one MBA gradu­ate student. 
The dedication of the commons signals an end, at least_ in the foresee­able future, to any major construction projects at the Mendoza building, says 
Kroll. ,. 
_ Kroll hopes that the College, com­ing up for review by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools ofBusiness (AACSB) inJanuary 2004, will develop an internal assessment process rather 
1 

HOWTO SUCCEED Dean Carolyn Woo oversees the Mendoza College of B_usiness. . 
04 DECEMBER 2003 

than relying on the accredita­tion of outside programs. "We'd like to get some systems in place which allow for concrete assess­ment of how we're doing, what classes are work­ing, things like that," he says. The college's Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial 
Studies contin-ROUNDTABLE DISCUSSIONS The basement of the College of 
· espesi\l~y with its successful business 
,plan corn.petition. 
Ideally, the college will continue to 

take these kinds of innovative steps 
in its future while preserving what 
Woo describes as a heavy empha­
sis on morality. The "brand" of the 
Mendoza College of Business, and of 
Notre Dame, has made out well in the 
last few years because of its stress on 
ethics, Woo says. In .the aftermath of 
corporate scandals such as Enron, she 
. adds, the public began to look more 
favorably on business schools which 
placed greater emphasis on conduct 
and accountability. 
"The scandals were a wake-up call to 

everyone. The line has been slipping. 
Many Catholic schools have been turn­
ing back to conduct as a touchstone, 
emphasizing morality in practice. We 
were focused on this theme before it 
was hot," Woo says. Hence the required 
credit hours for graduate students in 
several ethics courses and the newly 
formed Spirituality of Work program, 
an online curriculum which examines 
methods ofintegrating personal values 
with work. 
"I think we deal with mostly good 

people in the business world," Woo 
says. The trick to producing students 
with an increased awareness of the 
ethical implications of their actions, 
Woo believes, is allowing the students 
the opportunity to see examples of de­
cency and integrity, most often in the 
faculty, as early as possible, especially 
in the undergraduate programs. 
The number ofprofessors in the busi­ness school comprises one-eighth ofall · the faculty at Notre Dame, but they 
teach about one third of the students. 
"To hire more business professors would 
require huge expenditures, so we cannot 
grow our faculty to solve the problem," 
Woo says. She believes that this is the 
primary weakness ofthe business school 
and that the problem originates from 
unused resources elsewhere in the 
university. "There's such an interest in 
the professional and pre-professional 
programs here," Woo says. 
Yet she is reluctant to deter students from the major. "Most students enjoy the type of problem-solving that the business major provides. It's for the left-brained and the right-brained," Woo says. Suggested efforts to lessen the imbalance include the creation of a business minor, but only 10 percent ·of all undergraduate business students indicate an interest in this. Another suggesti()n, capping undergraduate enrollment, would deny some students the freedom to choose their own major. Woo says that the college has not come up with a remedy for this problem as 
ofyet. 
Despite issues of overload, the Men­doza College ofBusiness has advanced as a result of its strong foundational beliefs, generous donations and wise management. Woo believes the future looks bright for all business students. "Every student knows someone they admire in business: They want to be­come that role model," she says. Stu­dents flock to the college in the hopes of preparing for gainful employment, and the college promises that they will receive a healthy dose ofbusiness eth­ics and a moveable whiteboard to help theni along the way. ·· . 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 9 



.\··· 
._'.~•:~~~'.;:::~j·,~;-_:;~;;t:,.·.•·:•_~,;;i:·;:,.~·a§~~?;'.~.s,/:;~:;.:;,1;•.:x-·::~i:s+·.~;..••·····~,:;:~~·:;:• 
Rising from the Ashes 
After devastating fires struck their apartments, two alums come out on top 
ALISAFINELLI 

ough onlyayear old, PaulDeJarnatt's 
Notre Dame diploma has taken quite 
beating. The once crisp, clean, per­fectly framed document is now damaged by water and soot. It is one of DeJarnatt's only survivingpossessions since the home at Park Jefferson Apartments he shared with fellow Notre Dame alum, Kris Zemlyak, caught fire last month. 
DeJarnatt, who graduated in 2002, and Zemlyak, who graduated in January of 2003, have lived in the ParkJefferson com­plex minutes from campus since this past August. When they returned home the night ofNov. 4, theywatched as flames consumed their apartment. 
ThefirestartedjustafterlO:00p.m.when lightning struck the apartment building. "We thought they might get it under con­trol because itwas only in one corner of the building," Zemlyak explains. "But the wind outpouring of assistance from the Notre many donations from the philosophy and picked up and carried it over to our side." Dame community. DeJarnatt says that theology departments at Notre Dame with 
The next day, only a few of DeJarnett's after the fire, "we started calling people in the help of Catherine Robertson, a secretary possessions could be recovered from the the area who would've seen it on the news. in the philosophy department. Robertson's apartment: his diploma, some clothing We wanted to make sure they knewwe were son was a classmate and friend of both and the guitar that was once his father's. OK." This included several connections at Zemlyak and.DeJarnatt and now works 
' Everything else -computers, televisions, the university. with DeJarnatt. Robertson sent an e-mail furniture, clothing-was gone. A friend of Zemlyak and DeJarnatt in outto the professors ~d graduate students in 
Since then, the graduates have found anew Dillon Hall managed to collect a donation both departments explainingthattworecent apartment, but·still are working slowly to of $600 to give to the alums. Most of the graduates were in dire need of help. replace their possessions, a process that has moneycamefrom the dorm's hall tax, a fund "The response was overwhelming," says proved to be extremelydifficult. Even before that all. residents must contribute to in the Robertson. Zemlyak and DeJarnatt were the fire, DeJarnattand Zemlyakwere work­beginning of the year and which is used at given clothing, several pieces of furni­ing two part-time jobs each while searching the dorm's discretion. ture and financial donations as a result of for full-time opportunities in the business Inaddition, Knott Hall, where DeJarnatt Robertson's e-mail. "It was amazing," said field. ''The whole thingwould have been so lived during his undergraduate years, has DeJarnatt. "I didn't expect it." much easier to deal with if both of us had taken up a collection for the two room­In addition to the Notre Dame com­been working full-time jobs with benefits mates. Brother Jerome Meyer, C.S.C., munity, the roommates have relied on and salaries," Zemlyak says. rector of Knott, says there was a very good donations from local organizations. The 
Without renter's insurance, the loss has response to the collection, reflective of the .Red Cross was at the scene of the fire on been even more devastating. ''With renter's "brotherhood ofKnott Hall." Nov. 4th, handing out vouchers for food, insurance, we would've at least gotten a large "Itwas nice how everyone came together new beds and new clothing. Lay-Z-Boy percentage ofwhatwelost backin cash," said and supported Paul, even though we don't gave the two a new, unused sofa. DeJarnatt. "But we didn't do that because, know him. But he did live here," says Matt Though not left helpless, DeJarnatt and at the time, we thought, 'Why pay an extra O'Connor, a freshman living in Knott. "Be­Zemlyak still have considerable rebuilding $15 or $20 every month? It's never going to cause he lived in our dorm, it's like a part of to do. They are grateful to have been so happen to us."' _ our family," explains Toby Bannon, another close to friends and a caring community 
However, the two roommates have been Knott freshman. "It showed the generosity during their time of difficulty. "Ifwe were shown generosity in their time of need. In here and how willing everyone is to help just in Dallas or Tulsa and knew no one, addition to donations from their families, out;' he adds. that would've been a lot harder," says De­DeJarnatt and Zemlyak have received an Zemlyak and DeJarnatt also received Jarnatt. O 

10 SCHOLASTICNEWS 04 DECEMBER 2003 


t_____ 

Just Up the Creek 
South Bend boasts the nation's first man-made whitewater courses 
ANNAO'CONNOR 
When sophomore Laura Far­rell needs a break from her schoolwork, rather than at­
tacking the candy bins at the Huddle or shopping for hours at University Park Mall, she navigates the raging rapids of the East Race Waterway, a whitewater course located on the St. Joseph River in South Bend. 
"This is my escape from campus," she says. "When I am out there, I am not thinking of Notre Dame. It's my way to clear my mind and work on my skills." 
The East Race Waterway, an artificial whitewater course, is the first ofits kind in North America and one of only six man­made whitewater courses in the world. The rapids are turned on and off by key, as well as adjusted to different levels, mak­ing it the perfect alternative for people who want to ride on whitewater, but do Water Kayak Club, members must be at cided I had to do more ofit," she says. "So not want to travel several hours to find a least 18 years of age and be able to pass I got a job as a guide. This past summer natural whitewater course. a proficiency test that covers basic water I probably kayaked every day except for 
Created in 1984 for slalom kayaking, skills, such as the "Eskimo roll," a maneu­five or six days." the waterway has hosted both national ver where the kayaker capsizes on purpose Along with her participation in the and world-class whitewater slalom races. and must bring the boat upright again. Kayak Club, Farrell often spends week­It also attracts Olympians and national Farrell estimates that there are about ends traveling to natural whitewater champions to South Bend for competi­20-25 members who regularly practice courses. She would eventually like to get tions. with the group, but she is the only Notre her American Canoe Association certifi­
Although the course is challenging Dame student. cation and become a certified whitewater enough for world-class competition, it "Some people drive an hour or an hour kayaking instructor. Then she would be is also suitable for beginners. Rafting and a half to get here every week," she teaching · the same clinics that she took and kayaking are available to the public says. just a few years ago. on weekends from mid-June to mid-Au­The course has three gates that can be But, for now, Farrell will continue to gust. The cost is $2 per person per ride opened or closed depending on the level work on her whitewater kayaking skills for beginners using rafts or "funyacks." to which it is adjusted. It also features a right here in South Bend. The course costs $8 per person per day "hole," a recirculating current of water "Last summer I went back to my home for more experienced recreational canoe­that the group regularly uses. course and tried a hole that I never was ists or kayakers. A trained rescue-team is "It is a pretty dynamic feature that able to do before," she says. "I could see always on duty during open hours. is as good as any natural course," says how my experience on the South Bend 
Farrell is a member of the East Race Farrell. course improved my skills." White Water Kayak Club, a group of Farrell started whitewater rafting by For more information on the East Race FVa­experienced kayakers who usually get to­going on rafting trips with her family terway, go to the website at www.southbendpa gether a couple times per week to paddle while growing up. She fell in love with rksandrecreation.com. Click on "Potowato1lli on the course. They got permission from the sport and decided to attend a week­Zoo & Parks," then "East Race Waterway." the City of South Bend to use the course long kayaking clinic on the Nanthahala Or call the East Race building at (574) 233­when it is closed to the public. The group River in North Carolina. After passing 6121 or the South Bend Parks andRecreation has keys to the course and can use it any­the course, she worked the last two Department at (574) 299-4765. time they get four members to participate, summers as a whitewater guide on the To learn 1Jtore about the East Race White Farrell says. . . Nanthahala. Water Kayak Club, go to their T¥eb site at 
In order to join the East Race White "I took the week-long course and I de-www.erwwkc.itgo.com. 

04 DECEMBER 2003 SCHOLASTICNEWS 11 






a: 1;~~Job Security 

EMILYPALADINO 
For many undergraduate students, tenure is an academic custom shrouded in mystery and tradition. Although the tenure process is a contro­versial issue on most college campuses, it's a detailed procedure that most students, including those at Notre Dame, know relatively little about. Notre Dame's Faculty Handbook defines tenure as "permanence of ap­pointment." Through the granting of tenure, the university ensures distinguished mem­bers ofits faculty permanent positions as 
teachers and researchers. 
"Tenure is a pretty unique thing to the academic com­munity," says Bill Nichols, an associate dean in the Mendoza College of Busi­ness. "There aren't many professions that will offer you lifetime employment." 
The practice of granting tenure evolved from a desire on the part of universities across the country to pro­tect academic freedom and ensure economic stability for university professors. The American Association of University Professors (AAUP) first advocated for the institutionalization of tenure in a 1940 statement on academic freedom. Tenure, the AAUP Web site says, is "indispensable to the success of an in­
•·;;.;·'·--,-. 
,.~l:'??':)~:-<;_"·:·,~-.-,--"7------·--, • -: ----~, -~~, -.;'· .:·:~f~-~~;.·.~~ 
]li•·.··.··•:·::._ ··•··. :· .:.•.•.•. '.,.. ···•··•·, ·..:·<······:;•)$•;ii~:;·;.\.,:~t:te~ ..'i,~··••.l.~·~1/Sf'tl~?}jj;lli,k.,, 
f'!ftY51t::::Jr 
t/. T.E.NUR.8 
obligations to its students and society." 
Most major universities follow the similar general guidelines concerning tenure procedures. 
At Notre Dame, new faculty members hired at the Assistant Professor level are given a six-year contract with the uni­versity. 
Faculty hired as associate professors, as well as those professors who come to the university without tenure from a different university, are given three years before being considered for tenure at Notre Dame. 
In the fall of either their sixth or third year, respectively, 
candidates for tenure put together a portfolio in preparation for the selection process. This packet includes a curriculum vitae, or list of significant academic accom­plishments. The candidate also prepares a statement detailing his or her important contributions in the areas ofteaching, re­search and service -the three areas in which he or she will be evaluated. 

The candidate's department then evalu­ates this portfolio. Each department at the university has a Committee on Appoint­ments and Promotion (CAP). The depart­ment chair sits as the chairperson for the CAP of his or her department. Each department's CAP is composed of tenured professors or associate 
professors, 

stitution in fulfilling its 
12 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
04 DECEMBER 2003 

but every department has the freedom-to decide the specific organization of the committee. 
In addition to the portfolio, the depart­ment's CAP looks at both TCE evalua­tions from students and assessments from experts outside the university. Usually, a candidate's research is sent to professors at a peer institution for evaluation. 
"In these assessments, the bar · is set fairly high," Nichols says. "They will ask questions like: What·contribution is this research making to that particular individual's area? Is it moving ahead? Is it significant? Is this person gaining a national reputation?" 
The CAP votes on the application, and then both the committee and the department chair submit a written rec­ommendation for or against tenure to the dean of the respective college. 
After the dean's evaluation, which is usually completed in January, the port­folio leaves the college and goes to the Provost's Advisory Committee (PAC). The 24-member PAC is made up of the deans from each college, university administrators and some elected faculty members and is chaired by the Provost of the university, Nathan Hatch. This committee votes and sends its recom­mendation to the university president, the Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C., who makes the ultimate decision to either offer or withhold tenure. 
"Everybody before the president is a recommender,'.' says Vice President and Associate provo.st Carol Mooney. "He has the final say in the matter." Faculty members are usually informed ofthe decision in May, just before com­mencement. 
If tenure is denied, the university extends a one-year contract to the indi­vidual, an offer that some choose not to accept. After seven years at the univer­sity, then, a faculty member who came to the university as an assistant professor may not remain without tenure. Associ­ate professors and professors without tenure cannot stay beyond four years if the university denies tenure. 
"About 75 percent of the people who seek tenure get it," Mooney says, "But there are a number of people who never get to that point." 
For assistant professors, there is an extensive evaluation after three years at Notre Dame, and after that evaluation, some faculty members choose to leave 
04 DECEMBER 2003 
the university after they realize that they might not receive tenure. Others simply decide not to apply for tenure after their sixth year. 
"Some people leave after three years. Some are here for the full six years and decide not to go up for tenure because they feel their market value is better having not been denied, and they think there's a high probability that they might be," Nichols says. 
Although the process is often criticized, both Nichols and Mooney say they have faith in the process. 
"I think that we really take it seriously. I think that the process has a lot of cred­ibility. I think that it's fair, and that it's not done lightly," Nichols says. "Have there ever been decisions made that, several years later, you thought were a mistake? Absolutely. Sometimes there are people that we should have given tenure to that we didn't, and sometimes there are peo­ple we gave tenure to that we probably 
shouldn't have. But that's part ofmaking decisions." 
"I believe in the process and the purposes for which it was established," Mooney says. 
Others aren't so certain that tenure is fulfilling its original purpose. "These days it is not so clear that, at least at good universities, academic freedom is a major concern," says William Ramsey, a tenured associate professor in philosophy and a member ofthe faculty senate. "It is practically unheard of for major univer­sities to want to fire someone for saying something in their research that is too controversial. Indeed, a more common complaint is that someone is too boring and banal," he says. 
"Moreover," he says, "sometimes faculty are more likely to say provocative and con­
troversial things earlier in their careers, 
precisely when they don't have tenure. I don't think it makes sense to say it is OK to fire people early on because we don't like what they are saying, but it is not OK later. Academic freedom is something that matters at every stage ofa person's career. So the importance of tenure with regard to academic freedom is questionable," Ramsey says. 
Ramsey does think, however, that tenure offers other benefits to professors. "!tis, quite frankly, a perk in a career where people are often underpaid, given their responsibilities and education level," he says. 
Several methods of maintaining account­ability have been tested by those skeptical of the tenure process. Some universities across the country, such as the University of Chicago and Washington University in Saint Louis, are experimenting with 10-year tenure cycles. Others have sug­gested getting rid oftenure altogether and replacing itwith a renewable contract sys-
tern. Still.others have advocated for yearly evaluations oftenured faculty members to help set and achieve academic goals. 
"I'm not completely opposed to there be­ing, in some form, more accountability for faculty who completely abuse tenure," says Ramsey. "On the other hand, ifuniversities want to put more pressure on faculty then they need to be prepared to compensate us. Some universities seem to wantit both ways: they want a corporate-style work commitment from their faculty, without paying a corporate-style salary," he says. Still, Ramsey says his own experience with the process was "very fair." 
Nichols also says he had a positive personal experience with tenure. "Is it stressful? Yes. Regardless of how good you thinkyou are, it's stressful," he says. "But it's a good system." . 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 13 



r 
I 
! 
j 
L 
I; 
Oh, the things we do when we think back to her campus domicile on a Friday a friend took a journey south, safely out no one is watching. That seems to night, she witnessed an individual making of the bubble, under the motto of "Why be the theme of the majority of a Rocky Mountain out of her dorm. Appar-not?" The couple ventured to the lovely tonight's episode ofThe Gipper.Youmaythink ently, he or she was using a pipe to scale up Ball State University, a school at which you're alone, boys and girls, but the Gipper is the backside of the building. Eventually, says they had absolutely no acquaintances. always watching. He has manyloyal, vigilant ourleak, "theindividualhadmadeittoaledge Their plan was to simply wander around sets ofeyesworkingfor him. So, in the holiday and was inching along it, arms outstretched until they found a party or two. And, spirit, the Gipp proudly presents two cases of againstthewall,inaSpiderman-likefashion." for reasons unbeknownst to the Gipp, students escalatingthemselves tonewheights, Thesuperherothenreachedhisorherdesired the pair told people they were from a and one tale so random that it, too, deserves destinati.onanddoveinheadfirstintrueHol-northeastern school. They reportedly some pen time from the Gipper. lywoodstyle.Becausethiswasapost-parietals spun tales the whole night about life at and pre-Thanksgiving occurrence, we'll as-"their" school, and it made them a hit with Opening Fire from Your Chest­sumethiswasnotSantaClausdeliveringsome their host crowds. The highlight of this nuts goodies but rather just a young fellow who adventure, says our informant, was when, Earlier this month, a fresh-faced vermin was really in the mood to touch someone's after the two had settled in for several wasgettingintotheholidayspiritalittle / " hours at the house offour Ball State :L: ladies, his friend "was hooking up on his computer screen while playing ""~""""" ~. """'•' with one of these girls we met and with his candy cane. This wouldn't be . /'.::: / .,1· t1 she started to pass out. He yelled Gipp-worthy, ofcourse, had the young ,. 0 __ ..,_...;....;.-'-<--..;.+-~ ( __ / ·' f 'Are you done?!' at her and then manrememberedthatResLifegivesus 1•__ ·.-, ,..__ .-:::.... ·t· ~ proceeded to say 'Fine. This is me leaving. Good talk.' It was a pretty 
early by enjoying some ho-ho-ho'ing ~/ .. 
l~cksforareason.D~gthefestivities, !'. __ ...J rf i · ~~~ijj-'-~ sweet time." Hmm, pretty sweet in­
hi~ roo~ate wa~ed mto the r~o~ to _.. --~r-. witness this elftrymg to make his little '. },x' --· --'•• deed, dude. The Gipp doesn't get the Rudolph's nose turn red. The room-:,;, (-""'-"rr::~i:.:.;_ 1,¥ · point of this roadtrip or what part mate gathered himselfenough to real-.. I• •.. ~c. J.-~,--~;j-;, of it the tipster thought to be Gipp 
iz~ tha~ he would be selfish to not share :-"'T--L_-. ~rir_ .·: .f! material, but whatever. In an effort this with the rest of the dorm. Quoth •_ _I_: _ · __ {___;:__ • \! to promote random behavior, the our tipster, ''As word caught 01~, over :.. -• _J_~· >,.Jft.» 

Gipp will give it a thumbs up. 

25peoplewerecongregatedouts1dethe __ ~.:. ___ I. unluckyperson'sroomforthe'Youhave , __ \:·_ i 

fr.~~1:::,!f;fj'~··"~j ~;~.:.:=:
to see it to believe it' event." Now that's !·'.·· .,..,,..._. '~=nr -­
· ' , ,.' , · ---t· .,__ 1-· ' · · b aki:. th h
d~rm unity. You'd think i~d be_ hard to : · ·-'"""cl!,,71": .-;7-==:·',:r ·r··=-~-:ic,.: .. ,.~i ..--:..:.: mgwmter re ror ec ancetocome 
_: •• ~0~0.L,_~Tr:.J,..:,,~~--.! backandnamenames,ruinrepµtati.ons,
ImSstwodozenpeoplesmckenngout ,---,:_-'_-_-·F·, 18J._ side your door, but the yuletide tunes •-"-•:-:-·-:-0 :,-:.-:f= -,--,, -··,;;~:]·""~\:,~i-#,;,:'::f.:;'.:L;t;,,t>;J ~d drag_the m~st innocent of themes blaringfromhisheadphonesprevented ; : ~--. 1,­_h,::_; · _ ff c:...__:_,t:_~_ .. ~.J (likeChristmas)mtothesewerofsexual 
ourSantafrom catchingon. Oh, and for puns.
goodies. The ever-cynical Gipp is left won­

all you detail-oriented Gipplettes out there, On a brighter note . . . inspired by the
dering: Had the climber slipped and fell to 

our source noted that "we found out [he] was holiday spirit, the Gipper would like to wish
his freakishly amusingbutnonetheless tragic 

asouthpawbecause he needed his right hand you andyours awonderfulwinterseason.And
death, would ourshot-callers have beenmore

to do the scrolling and his left hand to do since the year is drawing to a close, perhaps
concerned with losing a student or with the 

the stroking." Hmm, there's a lovely mental this would be the appropriate ti.me for the
close-call onpremarital relations? Sometimes

image. So, male readers, the next ti.me you Gipp to apologize to all those who suffered
it's difficult to tell.

decide to jingle your own bells, please ensure greatembarrassmentthisyearwhentheir sto­that your door is atleast dosed. On the Road Again ries graced these pages. The Gipper realizes We all know that South Bend isn't that his success is based on shaming others, Who Needs Elevators? Manhattan. Heck, it probably isn't even but hopefully ole Saint Nick will forgive the 
Our next tip is much less disturbing, but Muncie. Well, the Gipper has learned that gossiping Gipp in time for the big day. nonetheless just as odd. Our tipster informs two bored students attempted to find out Good luck on finals, and we'll catch you us that as she was taking a late-night stroll just that. Our tipster tells us that he and nextyear. . 
14 SCHOLASTICCAMPUSWATCH 
04 DECEMBER 2003 



Cooking with Class 
Learn how to cook your own dorm delights with North Dining Hall's cooking classes 
KATIE BARON 
Have you everwanted to tryyour hand 
at the culinary arts, but not had the 
time or ingredients to create some­thing scrumptious?. Not to worry. Culinary education is becoming a popular 
activity for many studep.ts who have partici­pated in the cooking classes offered in North Dining Hall. And allyou need are afew hours and the energy to get yourself to NDH. 
Students who take one of the Culinary Education Program's classes often return for a second go and spread the word to their friends. The program is now at capacity. 
Six hands-:on cooking classes take place each semester. They are held on Thursdays from 7:00 to 9:30 p.m. and consist of a brief lecture and the chance to prepare a variety of dishes. Students must sign up ahead of time, but classes are free of charge and open to all Notre Dame students. 
Theideaoriginated in a discussion between Director ofFood Services DavidPrentkowski and Executive ChefDenis Ellis. Prentkowski has experiencewith programs nationwideand he brought the idea to Notre Dame in 1999. The first class was held in the fall of2001. 
Ellisdescribes the program as "anextension to academic classes." ·Food Services already provides food for the entire campus, but he says the addition of cooking classes for stu­dents fosters a closer relationship between Food Services and the university community. ''We like to say that we're taking things to a new level,'' Ellis says. 
A typical cooking class can last up to six hours, but Ellis knew that this would pose too much of a time commitment. As the executive chef, he has a busy schedule and he recognizes that students are also pressed for time. As a result, each class is limited to two and a half hours. 
The program also faces space limitations. Cooking classes·at other universities often accommodate 16 students, but each class at Notre Dame offers only12 spaces.Theclasses takeplaceinthetestkitchenofNorthDining Hall, which is asmall but suitable spots. Ellis feels that 12 is a manageable number for a class. "We can spend quality time with the students this way," he says. 
Students receive a great deal of personal attention during the classes. Besides Ellis, four other pro­fessionals conduct the classes: Test Kitchen Chef Patrick Louineau, Chef Michael Huffer, Floor Chef Robert Biastock and Apprentice, Cook Laura Dickison. 
"The Cooking ofSpain'' was the theme ofthe classes this fall. In the last class of the semester, students prepared paella, pastel de manzana and manchego cheese. 
"I've had paella before in Spain, but I've nevermade it myself:' fresh­manLeighMadeirasays. ''Theyput more time into its preparation in Spain, which would not have been possible inthe class, but I thinkthat itwasagoodrepresentationofSpan­ish paella." 
In past classes, students have also learned to make Italian food, including ravioli, tortellini and fet­tucini, and Japanese food and cheese blintzes in a class called "Eastmeets West."
Ellis · t · till f MINCE, DON'T DICE A Notre Dame student receives 
Strlves O lilS a sense O training.in the fine art of culinary preparati~n. 
self-reliance in all ofhis pupils. "We want them to walk out ofthe classroom with the confidence that they can do what we just demonstrated," he says. 
Freshman Anna Gelhaus says that Ellis accomplishes his goal. "I never thought that I was that bad of a cook, but I definitely felt a lot better about my technique after the class," she says. "I felt a lot more confident." 
Each class begins with a brief lecture about the history ofthe food and its country of origin. ''You can tell that [the] chefis very knowledgeable about food and culture from all over the world," junior Courtney Kohout says. She attended the session on Nov. 20 to prepare for her upcoming semester abroad in Spain. 
Although thestudentsmustfollowarecipe in class, Ellis emphasizes the process itse1£ ''We want them to take awaya cooking prin­ciple, notjustarecipe," hesays. And Ellis says that Notre Dame students are more desirous to learn than his pupils outside ofthe univer­sity. Notre Dame pupils "listen with sincerity. They want to learn. They are so appreciative ofwhatwe do for them," Ellis says. 
Not only are the classes practical and informative, but they also offer students an opportunity to meet new people and tem­porarily forget about the stress of academics. Junior Dan Young signed up for a session with a group of friends and is pleased with his experience. ''Icould kill two hours playing video games, but then I feel like I should be doingwork. With this, I'm doing something constructive with my time," he says. 
Whatever their reasons for participat­ing, Ellis is always happy to see new faces. Although there will be no more classes for the fall semester, they will resume in Febru­ary. Due to popular demand, next semester's classes will focus on desserts. 
Ellishopes that students enjoyhis classes as much as he does. "Ifl didn't say that it was a joy to do this, I would be lying," he says. 
RegistratiunfordJe classes closes on die Monday before each week's class. Spaces are available rm a first-come, first-serve basis. To em-oil, ciill (574) 631-7253. 
04 DECEMBER 2003 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 15 

UKE A PRAYER Notre Dame students of various religions gather for an Interfaith celebration. 
You Gotta Have Faith 
Notre Dame's Interfaith organization fosters spiritual sharing 
LAURENWILCOX 
What do Christian music, a cof­feehouse, the band U2 and Af­rica have in common? All play integral roles within Campus Ministry's Interfaith Christian organization at
I: 
H Notre Dame.
·, 
At Interfaith, participants meet every
II 
Wednesday evening at 10:00 p.m. in the
ii 
Coleman-Morse lounge to think, talk and pray.
jr 
"Interfaith organization started as a group ofpeople, Catholics and Protestants, discuss­ing aspects offaith," senior Tim O'Malley, student coordinator ofInterfaith, says. "It was never a matter of denomination but rather focusing on a similar baptismal call that exists for all Christians." 
Interfaith was started at Notre Dame six years ago by a group of Protestant and Catholic students who wanted to discuss 
16 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
elements offaith that both religions held in common. It has now expanded into an in­terdenominational Christian prayer service where all Christians may gather together to pray and listen to topics about faith. 
''We don't avoid differences, we just cel­ebrate what we have in common," O'Malley says. Between Christian religions there are some differences, but all Christians also have many basic things in common. 
Interfaith is primarily run by a student leadership team with the help of Frank Santoni, assistant director for ecumenical activities and peer ministry for Campus Ministry. 
The leadership team is comprised ofstu­dents who meet once a week to discuss the upcoming Wednesday night event as well as generate ideas for future meetings. 
Recently, Interfaith has refined its struc­ture with a new four-week cycle focus. Team leaders tend to plan events for each four-week cycle that focus ona related theme in faith. 

"Throughout the development of Inter­faith, there has always been an emphasis on asking questions, not merely providing an­swers.Withthisinmind, the four-week cycle -focusingongathering together, speaking about God and Jesus Christ, enjoying each other's company and praying together-was something more in line with encouraging open discussion," _O'Malley says. 
Lastyear, a different team member would deliver a till<: at each week's meeting. The old structure made it difficult for all par­ticipants to ask questions and explore their own faith. 
The new structure allows active par­ticipation from all members. During the first week of each cycle, a student or guest speaker will present a talk about an experi­ence or issue that relates to students and their faith life. 
04 DECEMBER 2003 

"Theissues usually deal with concrete, ev­eryday issues that intersect with our faith," Santoni says. 
Themes typically arise from current cam­pus issues in order to generate participation and questions from the students. During the first cycle of this year, Interfaith talked about the transitions students experience in coming to college for the first time, return­ing from abroad or staying at Notre Dame when friends are abroad. 
"Ifwe are going to discuss the questions that are most important to people, then we must discuss those things which are closest to people's hearts," O'Malley says. 
The second week of a cycle expands upon the first week's topic with small group dis­cussion with guidance from topic-related questions. 
The Christian coffeehouse approach, introduced this year, creates a relaxed en­vironment with inspirational music from campus bands during the third week of each cycle. 
Thefourthweek completes the cyclewith a basic prayer service. During the prayer service, participants sing contemporary Christian songs and pray together. 
"Typically the prayer service is inspired by what we call contemporary prayer and music," Santoni says. "Praise and worship musicis astyle more familiarto students with afresh kind of feel. Contemporary prayer is more like spontaneous prayer." 
The Celebration Choir at Notre Dame leads Interfaith participants in the first, sec-

SPREAD THEWORD Interfaith gatherings often feature readings and pr_esentations from members. 
04 DECEMBER 2003 
and and fourth weeks ofeach cycle. 
"Officiallythe Celebration Choir provides music for Interfaith and we generally sing contemporaryChristiansongs. We are basi­
callythe song leaders," sayssenior Jacqueline 
Hazen, a Celebration Choir member. 
Interfaith recently planned a four-week cycle themed "The Gospel According to Bono." They focused on the life of the lead singer ofU2, Bono, particularly on his dual life as a rock star and a Christian, the gospel messages in his songs and his dedication to global social justice. 
"'The Gospel According to Bono' began as a bit of a joke, but as we discussed, we realized that this topic would be a way for us to discussvarious elements of our mission and to provide an outlet for social justice, something we have been yearning to do," O'Malley says. 
During the "Gospel According to Bono," Interfaith spent the first week looking at the music ofU2 for specific themes in the same way one would analyze Christian themes in an author's novel. 
''When looking at Bono and the band U2 we did not do a line-by-line analysis, finding one-line references and such. We lo0ked at the themes of the songs, ofwhich many are largely Christian," says sophomore Becca Saunders, team leader oflnterfaith. 
Bono's life shows students that one may be a Christian and also have a professional 
life. 
"Bonoisarockstarwhoisalso a Christian. JustasmanystudentsatNotreDamewillbe Christians who are lawyers, or Christians who are doctors, Bono is an example of mixing his career with his faith," Saunders says. . 
During the first two weeks of the previous cycle, Interfaith participants discussed and explored Bono's life and his commitment to important issues such as raising awareness for third-world debt and peace in Africa, Bosnia and the Sarajevo area. Thefinal two weeks focused primarily on Africa. During the third week of the cycle Interfaith held a "Drop the Debt Coffeehouse" to raise mon­ey for debt relief in Africa with well over a hundred people attending the event. 
At the "Drop the Debt Coffeehouse," the· first performance of the evening was done by two sophomores, Joe Nava and Andrew Litschi, who played three U2 songs on acoustic guitars. The next act, Garth Bostic, the lead singer of the well­known Christian rock band Sky Harbor, also performed three U2 songs. A campus band, For the Love, concluded the event by 

HIT MEWITH MUSIC Interfaith members drum up spirit. 
playing five U2 songs. 
According to event planners, the "Drop the Debt Coffeehouse" was received well by Interfaith participants and the campus as awhole. The event raised $200 for Africa through donations at the door. 
In addition to the collections for Africa at the "Drop the Debt Coffeehouse," In­terfaith also collected money from many dorms around campus, raising over $1,600. Half of the money will go to the Jubilee USA Network and the rest will go to the Holy Cross Missions in Africa. "We were trying to give half to a group thatworks for the big picture and half to another group that works more hands-on," Santoni says. 
The Jubilee USA Network works at an international level for third-world debt relief and the Holy Cross Missions work specifically in Africa. In addition to raising money, Interfaith participants also gath­ered over 300 signatures in a petition to help fight the crisis ofAIDS and help debt reliefin Africa. 
"The Gospel According to Bono" pro­gram concluded with an African-style prayer service. The service was called "Praying with Africa," and provided an opportunity for students to pray with tl1e people of Africa for improved societal conditions. 
"Interfaith is a: true model for modern­day ecumenism," O'Malley says. "Ifthere is something that all Christians can share in common, it is the call of Christ in the Gospel to love one another. This is the truest and most real goal oflnterfaith." . 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 17 



l 
{e's 2003}Football Review. Space still available for advertisements-! 1/4 
?age, full page and 2-page rates available. Advertise in Scholastic's Football Review and reach thousands of eyes for cheap rates. !ssica or.Mary at scholast@nd.edu or at 574-631-0594. 

r:;,,,~:-f3 \'R~bM WITH A VIEW Hesburgh's I 3th-floor library office boasts a beautiful view of the Golden Dome. 
:;~~:~At:d 1 :· 
pnTop of the World ~ ith Fr. Hesburgh 

~·&~ FEROSTERHAGE 
,~I;h:n~;;.:~~,:s~~~.:~n;,:;~
!l4~Library as the person whose 
• ;i:-rh~ 1t bears. Not unless you ar­'~i.~~:t'~arly in the afternoon and leave Jf?.iir,d 1:00 a.m. every day. '.:HJ,;;:h:e 86-year-old priest and uni­:;!]¥fly president emeritus practically. 
" :!'.-~·:.:~:-~ 
lives in his office which is .stashed behind the bookshelves on the 13th floor. He sleeps, showers and changes his clothes in Corby Hall in "a little room right over the garbage can," Hesburgh jokes. 
His office consists of a reception area, conference room, chapel, a small kitchen, a storage room and his private inner office with a breathtaking view of the Golden Dome. 

Everywhere you look you see knick­knacks from over 150 countries, each holding memories of Hesburgh's past travels and experiences. With an Af­rican Madonna, a Chilean Christ, a Russian samovar (a .teapot given to him by a woman whose life he saved 
ction spans wo walls of his office. 
04 DECEMBER 2003 

AROUNDTHE GLOBE Artifacts from Hesburgh's
GOINGTOTHE CHAP.EL Hesburgh even has room 
travels come from over 150 countries. 

in his office for his own personal chapel. 
by flying her to the U.S. for an opera­tion), his office is truly international. But for a man who has been around the world 25 times, to the South Pole and back, it's what you might expect. 
Also in his office, Father Ted, as Notre Dame students affectionately call him, has a photograph of an as­teroid named after him. He receives pictures and details on its position periodically. "I trust in iternity I'll be able to visit it," he says. 
You cari't help but notice the shelves of books around the perimeter of the 
BIG-SCREENVIEWING The rug bears the names of all of Notre Dame's past presidents up through Hesburgh.A gift for his 25th anniversary as university president, it sits before another treasured possesion: his big-screen TY. 
room, a testimony to one of Hes­burgh's many interests -reading. 
A large circular rug lies on the floor in the center of his office. It bears the university seal and lists the names of Notre Dame's presidents up to Hes­burgh. The rug was a gift for his 25th anniversary as president. ­
A countertop in the conference room displays some of Hesburgh's many awards, but he brushes them off as "nothing to get too excited about." 
Pictures of Hesburgh holding fish almost as tall as he is sit on a table in 
the hallway-proof that he is an fisherman. Perhaps more than anything 
Hesburgh loves to have visitors. w,fi',c•·-,q nice thing about my office is that dents are always in and out," he "I love having them." They co11te different reasons: help with a direction in life or just to meet 
His love for the university the air. "It's a great spot," says of Notre Dame, "a place to have spent most life." 
04 DECEMBER 2003 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 

It's the end of the year,-and Jabber is cleaning house 
IJimbo's Jabber 
by Jimmy Atkinson -jatkinsl@nd.edu 
0 kay, sports fans, the most wonderful time of the year is nearly upon us. That's right, 
the college football bowl season is just around the corner. So, without further ado, here is my take on a few pressing issues in the crazy world of college football. 
.We're No. 2! 
Assuming Oklahoma, LSU and Southern Cal all win this weekend, the 
college football national championship 1--------------------------, 


situation wiU be in a bit of a mess yet again. Last year, figuring out who deserved playing in the Fiesta Bowl for the national championship was a no-brainer. This year is a bit more dif­ficult with Oklahoma being undefeated team and LSU and Southern Cal both boasting the nation's only one-loss re­cords. Everyone agrees that Oklahoma is the nation's top· team; but deciding who deserves to be No. 2 and face the Sooners in the Sugar Bowl, this year's national championship game divides fans. This is where you're likely to make the Baton Rouge folk restless if you're pro-BCS. I have a better idea: Let's crown Oklahoma as National Champs now. They?re clearly the best team in America. What we really need 
to know is who the second-best team is. So I propose that.LSD and South­ern Cal meet in the Sugar Bowl and play for No. 2. Now, that would be a great game! 
STATZONE)> 
Mike lselin brings you ... 
I' 
ALL THE STATS 
you need to kn·ow 

And you thought Notre Dame had high expectations ... 
Despite finishing 9-3 after defeating rival Colorado on the road, Nebraska Head Coach was fired by Athletic Director Steve Pederson. Solich had served on the Cornhusker coaching staff for 25 seasons. In his six seasons as head coach, he has put together a 5 8-19 overall· record and is just two seasons removed from an appearance in the BCS National Championship would give Notre Dame its fourth consecutive victory and improve its record to 6-6, making the Irish eli­gible for a bowl game. But things do not look bright. "Right now, it looks like we have no opportunities," Head Coach Tyrone Willingham said in his Tuesday morning press conference in regards to Notre Dame's bowl hopes. Notre Dame usually fits into a Big East bowl spot, but with the Big East qualify-

I pro_pose that LSU and Southern Cal meet in the Sugar Bowl and play for No. 2. Now, that would be 
a great game! 
game at the Rose Bowl. Pederson claims that he refuses to let Nebraska football fall into mediocrity. But what is really mediocre is firing this man ·after 25 years of devotion to this uni­versity, especially considering the sue­cess he has had. Sure, he has yet to win a national championship and Nebraska football has failed to appear in a BCS bowl in each of the last two seasons, 
.but ousting Solich is a disgrace. Give the man a chance. He's having sue­cess and he's coaching Nebraska-style football. Bringing in a new coach with a revamped, pass-heavy offensive style will not stimulate improvement any­time soon. 
Bowl-less in South Bend A win over Syracuse this weekend 
Women's Volleyball (23-6): The 
women's volleyball team earned their I 2th-consecutive NCAA tournament berth, ending the regular season ranked 21st in the nation. They will take on the I 9th-ranked Cardinals from Louisville (24-5) on Friday, Dec. 5. The winner will advance to the second round to face the winner of the Illinois (24-6) vs. Murray 

ing enough teams to fill spots without Notre Dame, the Irish have been left bowl-less as of now. Why 
· then, is independent Navy already on its way to the Houston Bowl after an at-large bid opened up? I just cannot understand why th1s bowl would take the Midshipmen over the Irish. Worse yet is that Co_nnecticut is being consid­ered by the Fort Worth Bowl. Where's the love? Why are these bowls passing up an opportunity to take Notre Diime, a team with a large fan base and dch tradition? With the Irish finally gain­ing momentum, I was just starting to . think that they might actually win a bowl game for the first time since 1994. Now it seems unlikely they'll even be given a chance. D 
State ( 18-1 I) game. 
Hockey (8-3-2): Led by seven different 
goal-scorers, the Irish defeated Northern 
Michigan (5-7-0) twice last weekend. A 
5-1 route on Friday, Nov. 28 was followed 
by a comeback victory 4-2 on Saturday 
evening. Notre Dame will travel up to 
Kalamazoo, Mich. this weekend, where 
22 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 04 DECEMBER 2003 · 

Guard Torrain Jones returns for his senior 
year as captain of the Notre Dame basketball 
team. The 6-foot-4-inch Morrisville, Penn.~ 
native hopes to step up his offense this 
season.As one of the most intimidating 
defenders on the team, this real Irish guard 
talks about what he needs to do during his · last season. 
; 'What do you fe~l you need to do during your last season as a Notre Dame basketball player?· 
Just be a great leader for this team. Part ofbeing a senior is showing leadership . and keeping the guys focused when they get away from the main goals, and that's . one of the main things I've got to do this year. 
. . 
.. · d What t:ype ofvibe and enthusiasm do you b~g to·this team? I just try to bring energy and keep guys lighthearted. Everybody seems to have a pretty good personality. Everybody is pretty funny. [This] keeps the mood pretty light in the locker room. But then, onthe court, I like to be the guy that's always going hard,· diving for loose balls, jumping for rebounds and just making the active plays around the bucket to keep the guys energized and motivated out there. 
· What game are you looking forward to the most this season? I couldn't even pickone. There are so many big games this year. We have got UCLA, Kentilcky and Connecticut. But the one I'm set on is Villanova, because I am from the Philadelphia area and I get to go home. My mom, my family and some ofmy highschool buddies are going to be there, so I am probably looking forward to that one the most. · 
· What is your most memorable moment as aNotre Dame basketball player? Just all ofthe experiences lhave had, especially in the post season. Going to the Sweet Sixteen last year, going to the NCAA tournament every year. But for myself, personally, just a big game I step up in and ~ a big contributor, like last year against Georgetown: making the free throw that won the game. Also, against Miami, when we needed i:hat game to go to the playoffs. When I was a sophomore, [too,] coming in and scoring 17 poUfts in my first game starting and 
.-really being a spark in the game. 
Our Calls 
Volleyball 
OPPONENT: LOUISVILLE WHERE: CHAMPAIGN, ILL. WHEN: 5 P.M. (CST) 
The Irish volleyball team has never 
) had too much luck in the NCAA Tournament, and after losing four of their final six matches, including the Big East Championship against Pittsburgh, 3-0, Notre Dame will fall 
to Louisville, 3-2. 
JIMMYATKINSON SPORTS EDITOR 

The Irish march into Champaign Illinois 
and knock off the Cardinals from 
) Louisville before they even know what hit them.With a fury of spikes and blocks Notre Dame will advance into the second round winning in 3 games; 30-21, 30-16, 30-24. MIKEISELIN ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR 
~th-a-statistieafly-better-defensiv~ core than Louisville, the Irish will )win this game on their blocking and digging. Expect big games from senior Katie Neff and junior Lauren Brewster, as they will attempt to stop the Cardinals' offense before it can get off the ground. Notre Dame advances past Louisville in four games. 
CHRISTOPHERMESKILL 
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR 

Colorado (5-1 as ofTuesday, Dec. 2) and 3rd-ranked Tennessee (2-0). The women still have high hopes for the season and were ranked 17th starting the week. They will look to get back to .500 as they take on the Badgers from Wisconsin (2-2) tonight at 7:00 the Joyce Center. 
they will take on the Broncos ofWestern Michigan (7-8-2) both Friday and Saturday. 
Men's Basketball (2-1 ):The Irish fell behind early on Monday against Marquette (5-0) as the Golden Eagles went on a 20-2 run in the first half.The Irish battled back in the second half but ran out of time and were handed their first loss of the season 
71-58. The team is in action next Saturday, 
Dec. 6 against Central Michigan in the Joyce Center at 9:00 p.m. 
Women's Basketball (2-3): Two of the three Irish losses have come at the hands of ranked opponents: I 6th-ranked 
04 DECEMBER 2003 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 23 



Last Saturday, Notre Dame and Stan­ford met on the gridiron, renewing a rivalry that dates back to Notre Dame's 27-10 win in the 1925 Rose Bowl, also known as the Four Horsemen's last game. This season, Notre Dame clob­bered Stanford 57-7 to give the Irish a 12-6 overall record against their North­ern California foe. This annual match-up features perhaps the two top academic­athletic institutions in the U.S. While the Irish have owned the Cardinal each of the last two seasons on the football field, Stanford has won nine consecu­tive NACDA Directors' Cups, presented each June by the National Association of Collegiate Directors of Athletics to the top athletic program in the nation. Conversely, Notre Dame has yet to finish 
fI 
among the top 10 athletic institutions in I the 10-:year history of the award. I The NACDA Directors' Cup, for­
1' 
1: 
I 
merly the Sears Directors' Cup, is the 
i'
! i main performance indicator used by
i i 
stands among the rest. The rankings are based on an institution's final fin­ish in several ofits varsity sports. The 10 highest ranking men's sports and 10 highest ranking women's sports for each program are capable of earning points, with the highest point-value being 100 points, earned for a national championship. 
In the 2002-2003 academic year, for example, of Notre Dame's 26 var­sity sports, 16 of them scored points. Football, which finished ranked No. 17, scored 40 points, while a national championship in men's fencing earned Notre Dame 100 points. Women's cross-country, which placed third in the national championship meet, scored 85 points. Overall, Notre Dame finished No. 13 in the nation with 822.5 points. 
Great Expectations 
When appointed on March 13, 2000 Fr. Edward Malloy, 8.S.C., of the ex­pectations fo'r Notre Dame athletics. The first goal was to get football back to a pinnacle position. Secondly, there were 25 other sports that needed to be put in a position to compete in a con­sistent manner for a top-10 ranking or national championship. Beyond that, Malloy expected White to maintain the academic integrity of the Notre Dame athletic program as one of the top-performing institutions in terms of graduation rates and grade point averages. "Those are the expectations and they are simply not negotiable," White says. 

The goal of putting all of Notre Dame's sports, not just football, in a position to compete nationally for championships and top-10 finishes, each year is one that only in the last few years is beginning to be realized with the Irish athletics program fin­ishing Nos. 11, 13 and 13, respectively, 

24 SCH0I.ASTICCOVER STORY 04 DECEMBER 2003 
in the NACDA Cup final standings in the last three years. 
Notre Dame's short-term goal is to break into the top 10 of the NACDA Cup final standings for the first time. After that, its long-term goal is to place in the top five. "[The NACDA Cup] is a great thing for us to use as a measuring stick for where we stand as a whole program even season to season, sport to sport," says Sports Information Director John Heisler. "From day one, [White] has talked about that and the whole idea of be­ing competitive in all these sports. If you're a coach, that's the kind of thing you want to hear, and since he's been here, he's set about trying to give every one of those sports the ability to accomplish that, which involved upgrading the commitment." Heisler says. Eventually, the athletic depart­ment aspires to chip away at the domi­nance of other schools' programs and eventually win this prestigious award. This would come as a welcome symbol of across-the-board athletic:superior­ity for a university that is traditionally regarded as a "football school." 
Scholarshippin' 
The goal: To compete each year for a top-five finish in the NACDA Directors' Cup. The plan: To finish a long and gradual process of allotting each sports team with its full comple­ment ofscholarships, as allowed by the NCAA. 
Each NCAA sport has a limit as to how many scholarships can be offered to its athletes. Football, for instance, 
· is limited to 85 scholarships (the most of any NCAA sport), which are distributed only as full scholarships. Other sports, such as men's soccer and baseball, have fewer scholarships, but allow them to be distributed fraction­ally among their athletes. 
.At Notre Dame prior to 1988, only football and men's basketball received the full NCAA complement of scholarships. The athletic depart­ment gradually has been increasing the number of scholarships allotted to each sport since then. Improving the Notre Dame athletics program, however, started much earlier than 
04 DECEMBER 2003 
then. 

Besides increasing the budget for scholarships and recruiting, Heisler says that putting the program in a position to compete against the best teams involved two things: creating a more national sched­ule and having facilities compa­rable to those ofits peers. This vision originated with Edward "Moose" Krause (athletic di­rector from 1949-1980) and was passed on to White. 
Increasing scholarships is one strategy. Heisler notes that the addition of 64 scholarships will bring all 26 sports up to the NCAA maxi­mum. 
With these addi­tional scholarships, each of Notre Dame's varsity teams will be able to draw from a larg­er talent pool. And better recruiting means the Irish will be more competitive in the long run. 
For a long time, the qual­ity of Notre Dame's athletic program was based solely on the perception of the football program. But as Notre Dame's sports programs continue to improve over the next several years and decades, the hope is that this perception will change to encompass the entire athletic department. 
When White was named the athletic director at the university at the beginning of the 2000-2001 academic year, only 11 of the 26 varsity teams had a full complement of scholarships. On Dec. 21, 2000, White announced that 64scholarshipswouldbedis­tributed to the remaining 15 teams over the course of the next five years. 
As of now, only nine var­sity teams still do not benefit from the full complement of scholarships. All of these 

-remaining programs, how­
•,' • ', ' J 
\\pirector's .cup1 
\.. ...... . . .. ·· .. ·.··· .·..·.···-· . , I
Notre Dame's final standings in the NACDA Director's cup, awarded yearly to the 
all-around most athletically success­ful university in the nation. 
1993-94: 11th (341 points) 
1994-95: 30th (220) 1995-96: 12th (362.5) 1996-97: 14th (432) 1997-98: 31st (280) 1998-99: 25th (300) 1999-2000: 21st (594.5) 
2000-0 I: 11th (764.5) 
2001-02: 13th (806.5) 
2002-03: 13th (822.5) 
SCH0LASTICCOVER STORY 25 


Notre Dame is on its wa towards filling the full complement of athletic
. . . . . .. . 
·.... -~ ;::::~_:...·· 
scholarships allowed under NCAA regulations. What follows is a list of each sport, the number of schol­arships and the year in which the university met that allotment. 
Men's Sports Football-BS Basketball -13 Baseball -11. 7 (2005) Cross Country / Track and Field -12.6 (2005) 
·, ~~ r'. 

Fencing -4.S (2005) h, Golf -4.5 (2005) Lacrosse -12.6 (2005) Soccer-9.9 (2002) Swimming -9.9 (2005) Tennis -4.5 (1988) Hockey-18 (2000) 
HAPPY FEET Midfielder Jen Buczkowski (9) skillfullyWomen's Sports expected by 2005, 
escapes defense and dribbles down the field. Basketball -IS (1989) 
Notre Dame finally Volleyball -12 (1988) 
will be up to par with Tennis -8 (1993) the other top athletic insti­der to maintain an increased number Cross Country ITrack and Field -18 
tutions, although it may not t>f athletic scholarships. (2005) 
be able to reap the fuH ben­The Knute Rockne Heritage Fund, Fencing -5 (2004) 
efits until years afterwar1s. in its second full y.ear, is the main Golf -6 (2005) 
source of these ·additional funds. Lacrosse -12 (2004) 
Finding Funding Its purpose is, tw:0-f,2.ld: helping to Rowing -20 (2005) 
Each scholarship, or grant­reach the goal of providing the full Soccer -12 (1999) 
in-aid, costs approximately amount of scholarships by next year Softball -12 (2000) 
$35,000 .· per year. These and building an endowment that will Swimming -14 (200 I) 
grants-in-aid are one of the fund these athletic scholarships for ,largest items in the athletic the university's future student-ath­· · ·· · · department's budget. And, ·by letes. 
'e'\f¢r,~illr~ceiy~the.NCAAin:aximum 2005, they will cost over $11 million .: number hy the· 2004-2005 academic . per year in all. Even when consider-Mo' Money, Less Problems .. year'.This means that.the class. ofhigh .ing only the Olympic sports, .which Perhaps the greatest accomplish­
. ·• school seniors that will matriculate exclude football and both basketball ment by a team prior to receiving <into N~tre Dame inAugust 2004 will teams, the cost of the 119 women's its full complement pf grants-in-aid . be the l_ast class recruited witho.ut the ..· scholarships and the 88.2 men's schol-came from the men's lacrosse team, .aid ofa full 'arsenal ofscholarships. arships still will be over $7 million:. which advanced to the Final Four in ·· Despite being able to finish in the top In the past, funding for grants-in-2 001 without a single scholarship 15 oftheNACDA Cup final standings · aid came from a wide variety of ath-under Head Coach Kevin Corrigan. jn six years .since 1993:-:-1994, ~otre: · letic revenue, including ticket sales,· Men's lacrosse is due to receive 12.6 Danie hiis•hee11:handi~appedin terms. television contracts and bowl games. scholarships in time for the 2005 
.ofbeingab~e.'tcfgo aftedoprecruitsin .. The vast majority of this revenue, season. 
·some sports.Until 2005;:Notre Dame however, does not go toward the· White is optimistic about the in­. ·· · wiU contirtueto lag behind.most other athletic department's budget, but crease for men's lacrosse. "If you've top athleticinstitutionsin the mimber .rather bacl<:. to the institution to help got a great coach like Kevin you can .,, :',of gr;hts~in::.aid. qffe~·~ci.'1:ej'stud¢nt:. create.financial aid packages for -[have success like] that every once in .... :.~thle#s., With afull :~ciµiplem~:iit. nori-student-,athietes. Other sources 'a while/' White says. ~'But I thinknow ,.. ·•• ,of grarits~in-aid ac.ross· the. board offunding needed to be created in or-we're putting: ourselves in position to 
• • :" •.·' I 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY: .·. ·04 DECEMBER 2003
-~
. .' . •. .. . . 
be an every-year NCAA team." 
No other sport has been able to at­tain thi~ degree ?f success u~til the recent mcrease Ill scholarships al­lowed Notre Dame to bring Ln highly ranked recruiting classes. Heisler, sports i~formation di~ecto: at Notre Dame, cites men's swimmmg as one 
of several programs that should team signed a stellar recruit~ng class 
just this past year, which just may put the pr~gram ~n pos~ti_ori ~o -co~pete for a high national fm1sh m the years to come. -­
Women's rowing, which only be-­

' came a varsity sport i~ 1998:-.99,.is another program that will be benefit­ing soon from a full complement of 20 
1------------------s=cholarships._After finishing tanked , Nos.16, 13 and 21, respectively, in the last three seasons, the 
The class of high school seniors that will matric­
_,. 
ulate into Notre Dame in August 2004 will be the last class recruited without the aid of a full­
arsenal of scholarships. 
improve greatly 
) finds his way through in this year's season-opener inst Washington State. 
reg~l~r-sJaso1i}ank~d -No: 4/5: in-the'·naticin -­anc( ea:r11'ing\1 No. i 
seed, in •the NCAA -
__ Tournament, their 11th --consecutive appearance in the postseason, .De,-­spite fiel_djng one, ofthe nati~n's top:_ Mfen:se!;, 
_-;;:_~~at~t;\trJ::_ i~ . ­

> consecutive oppo11eµts,) -_the-Irish were upset in:,:_:, • > the second roun_d l>y.-. ·:­· Michigan. --· -·The two soccer teams-_ have only <5ne Ilational champioAspip : 
·betwee~ thei:n, won by the womeµ foi­1995_~ Y\'~1:le,tlie w'~lllen's te~m,: Ii~l~~~})L })j maximum number ofscholarsh.1,ps-t_o, )\-:.<,:J offer r~crri.i~ iri:1999,:the men's sqtiacl_:,<-:}.>:H onlyl>egari: qping s~ .frr.2002:1Srov{fuJ1i/?:· }'-/ji a:ble to c:o~p,ete i:o'-their fol~p9teriti'1lsi {':_:At:-::'li the sqccer teams_ have bemg a:dd~ng_ :<::: _.. mo:re taient ·and.depth to their_ te~~~ :; :_,: A 
and -jusfmay have-national chairip_ion-::ships in theirfotures. --:_,: );__ /: ­..---, _•-•--, ·,.,: ­

Right Before Your Eyes 
Hana Yori offers a unique dining experience right here in South Bend 
KATIEDILLON 
It is only 5:30 p.m., and the customers and employees are already fired up at Hana Yori of]apan. At 3601 Grape Rd. in Mishawaka, this restaurant is not your average establishment. Ifyou are looking for a quiet, peaceful atmosphere, go else­where. Hana Yori is not only known for its excellent Japanese food, but also for its ability to entertain customers. Owner Chung Park opened Hana Yori in Mishawaka in 1987. "I believed this town needed a Japanese restaurant. I thought itwould be a nice addition to the area and luckily, I was right," Park says. It is, without a doubt, a nice addition to the area. Until the moment you leave, you will not be bored, or hungry for that matter. Upon entering Hana Yori, you will no­tice the walls are decorated with Japanese ·artwork, as well as framed articles and awards attesting to the restaurant's ex­cellent service. Ifthe decor of Hana Yori does not catch your eye, the sounds and 
smells are sure to lure you in. 
After being greeted by the hostess, you 
will immediately notice that the setup of 
Hana Yori is an experience in itself. The 
dining area consists of numerous tables 
that seat, on average, 8-12 customers. 
Each table is connected to a large hibachi 
grill where you will not only have your 
food cooked, but also be entertained. 
Whether you come with a big group or 
by yourself, you will have the opportunity 
to meet new people due to the atypical 
seating arrangement. Customers are seat­
ed with other customers until the table 
is full. Although this may sound like a 
hindrance to your conversation and com­
fort while dining, it actually makes for a 
more fun and laid-back environment. In 
general, customers seem to agree. 
There are many reasons why people 
keep coming back to Hana Yori._ The 
primary one, obviously, is the delicious 
food. Hana Yori offers a diverse menu 
that ranges in price from $12.95 for the 
Teppan Chicken to $25.50 for the sea­
food combo. The menu includes various 
types of steak, chicken and fish, as well as combination platters for those who can­not quite decide between them. 

"The most popular item for women· thatcome here seems· to be the Samurai dinner which is chicken and shrimp, while men seem to typically order 

the steak and FIRE HAZARD HanaYori Chef Davio prepares meals right at the table. Flaming 
shrimp or steak ingredients included. 
and lobster combination," Park says. 
Scholastic recommends the Teppan 
Chicken. Each meal includes shrimp, 
salad, soup, vegetables and fried rice. 
. After you have selected your meal and placed your order, the real fun begins. The chef, ours happened to be Davio, wheels _his tray of culinary goods up to the table and greets the customers, his audience. 
"Are we ready to have some fun?" 
Davio asks. 
Before an answer can be given, the show 
has begun. Davio spreads butter onto the 
grill then quickly tosses on shrimp. His 
speed and accuracy show that he has been 
doing this for years. 
When Davio is asked how long he has 
worked at Hana Yori, he jokingly answers, 
"Since 5:30 p.m." 

Davio, like the other chefs at Hana Yori, enjoys playing around with his customers. He previously worked at a . similar restaurant in Florida, the chain Benihanas, before he moved to Indiana. 
After serving the grilled shrimp, Davio 
squirts oil on the grill and begins to pre­
pare the main course. He tosses onions, 
mushrooms and zuchini on the grill along 
with a good amount of rice. He quickly 
dices the vegetables and creates what ap­
pears to be a volcano out of a few slices 
of onion. As the flames burst out of this 
creation, patrons gasp in excitement. 
Chung Park comments on this reaction, "Our customers come to our restaur¥t expecting extraordinary service ... and we literally try our best to show them a good time, make them comfortable, and· get them what they need." 

After the diced vegetables have been served, the chef prepares the entrees. As the chicken, steak ·--.-•··,·-•,. and fish get tossed ' HanaYori . 
on the grill, Davio amazes with his slicing, dicing and tossing of the food onto the plates. Prices··· Each customer is 
Dinner ranges from 
. $13-$25 .

served, and Davio makes his way. to . Hours his next table for Dinner:· 
Fri.-Sat.: 5 -10

another perfor­
Sun.:5-:-9 

mance while the 
•Lunch: 

customers eat. 
Mon . .,.. FrL:,.1J -2 

In between bites 
and after finishing a meal, you can watch the various chefs at the surrounding tables. The noise and flames nearby will keep you alert as you enjoy your well-rounded meal. 
From the food to the fun, Hana Yori is the perfect place for a different but enjoyable dining experience.-Although the prices may seem a b1t steep for the struggling student, it is definitely worth the extra few bucks since you are not only paying for a good meal, but also a good tim~ D 


28 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 04 DECEMBER 2003 


Directing, Domer-Style 
Broadway hopefuls at Notre Dame stage their own plays 
I 
11 
I 
I 
I 
I 
i 
JENBELLIVEAU 
Imagine writing, c_asting, directing, producing and stage managing your own play. With all these responsi­bilities, you might expect the process to take a very long time. But ifyou are a student in Notre Dame's Playwriting & Screenwriting class, ·au these tasks, including the final production, must be accomplished within about one month. · Students in this class, offered by the Department of Film, Television, & Theatre (FTT), .spend a semester learning the intricacies of writing for the screen and the stage. The class fo­cuses on reading and watching plays, screenplays and films. The students learn how to improve their writing and eventually write projects of their own. For a classful of students, most with no prior playwriting experience, 
this is no easy task. Professor Jessica Chalmers, a play­
wright herself, is teaching the class for the first time. Her play Jet Lag won a 
Village Voice OBIE award in 20·00. She 
is currently working on Avanti, a multi­media play about the 1963 demise ofthe 
Studebaker company in South Bend. 
"I feel very effective in helping the students," Chalmers says ofher role in the class. "Itis exciting to help students 
with great ideas change their scripts to 
make them fun to watch on stage." 
The projects that Chalmers' class must tackle are far from the usual homework assignments. For one proj­ect, students had to eavesdrop on con­
versations around campus and write a play using quotes they overheard. 
The final project requires students 
to write and present their own one-act plays. When deciding upon the theme 
of the plays, Chalmers decided that each one should have to incorporate a specific prop. She let the class vote whether they wanted to use a scary mask, an animal costume or fairy wings as part of their plays, and the 
class eventually chose fairy wings. 
This is the first year that the class' plays will be presented during the fall semester. In the past, students worked on their plays during fall semester, then presented them before a board ofFTT faculty. The board then se­lected a few of the plays to be produced during the spring semester. This year, however, all 10 students in the class will present their plays to the public on Dec. 10, in the Washington Hall lab theater. That night, a faculty board will judge and select the plays to be further produced during the spring. 
Students in the class like this n_ew format, which Chalmers instituted this year when she took over teaching the course. By showing the plays during the fall semester, it gives every student the oppor­tunity to see their work PD LIKETOTHANKTHE~CADEMY FTT students pen their 
presented. This is espe-ownscriptsandarejudgedby;_apanelofprofessors. 
computer screen, several students explain. Typical criticism from the class included debating intendedjokes and cutting material in order to adhere to the time limit. 
Despite the unifying aspect of the fairy wings, each student's play is unique. For example, senior Chris Hoyt wrote a play called Newsbreak, which centers around two contentiousness news anchors and narcoleptic crimi­nal mastermind. Junior Todd White's Frozen is a bit more serious, portray­ing a transcendent society where three young men learn about life, love and fishing. A Favor to Remember, by junior Leticia Morin, describes a young man's dying wish to get married, and the woman who is willing to go through an entire relationship with him over the course of just one day. 
So come on up the back stairs of Washington Hall on Dec. 10 -and pring your fairy wings. _ . 

cially important for those students going abroad in the spring, who would otherwise never get to see their plays performed. 
After a few weeks ofworking on their plays in class, students hosted tryouts on Nov. 19 to cast actors for their final project. Several students auditioned by reading selected scenes from the class' writing before a committee of class members. The committee eventually selected six ofthe auditioning students to present all 10 of the plays. 
After auditions were completed, stu­dents began presenting their plays to the class to critique their work. A few of the actors attended the class as well, to get in more rehearsal time. After explaining the general idea ofthe play and having it performed, each student could get criti­cism from the class to determine what needs to be improved. 
Hearing your play performed by other peopleisvery differentthanreadingiton your 

30 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 04 DECEMBER 2003 


Grounded in Reality 
Rising Star Matt Nathanson plays Legends this Saturday 
UP AGAINSTTHEWALL Despite recent commercial success, Matt 
soundtrack, and the hit was all over people into the songs as much as pos-
ANNIEROBINSON 
MattNathanson is tired. "I'm pretty fried," says the 30­year-old singer/songwriter. "Pretty burnt actually." 
After three weeks straight on the road, opening for fellow troubadour Howie Day, Nathanson finally is getting a few days to decompress at his home in San Francisco. "Touring is .fun, but you sort offeel discon­nected from your life," he explains. 
While he may be worn out, Na­thanson really isn't complaining after the year he's had. He recently 
signed with Universal Records after ""''," ,,....,.,,_ 10 years of touring and releasing his own albums. While recording his major label debut, Beneath These 
Fireworks, he collaborated with pro­ducers who've mixed for Guster and Gavin DeGraw. Bandmates ofFiona Apple,Juliana Hatfield and Lifehouse played onFireworks. His songs are sta­ple tunes for countless WB dramas. His cover ofthe band James' "Laid" wound up on the American Wedding 
Nathanson vows to remain loyal to his fans. 
the rock airwaves this past summer. 
This month he tours with Guster and Jason 
Mraz, squeezing in some select solo stops 
along the way. 
So, is teeny-bopper-haven TRL the next 
stop? · 
Nathanson laughs. "Idon't expectit orwish 
for it. I'm fully based in connecting with the 
audience," he says. "Getting a video, getting 
on TV: I don't really think about it. 
"But ifit happens, it happens. I can'tfocus 
my energy on it." 
The Boston native is known for blending 
humor and heartbreak in his live shows. His 
feisty lyrics and 12-string guitar-playing 
•quickly tum from guttural to gentle, backed up by the stirring sounds of cellist Matt Fish. 
Most often mentioned by music critics in the same breath as John Mayer, Mraz and Day,· Nathanson hopes Fireworks helps him stand out from among the contemplative, guitar-strumming crooners. "It's the new hip thing right now [for a label] to have:a 'sensitive singer/songwriter.' But Howie touring with bands that are great people. No one gives me a hard time about it.'' 
Although approached by other labels, Na­thansonsays the choice to sign with Universal was easy. "I didn't connect with other label people the same way," he explains. Not only did Universal help him assemble his ideal band and production team, Nathanson says he was allowed considerable control over the album's direction. 
The new album was also a chance for Na­thanson to revamp some of his older work. His producer encouraged him to re-record songs from his fifth EP, When Eve1ything Meant Everything. "Pretty the World," "Weight ofIt All" and "Bent" all appear on Fireworks, along with "Little Victories" from his fourth album, Still Tifiaitingfor Spring. 
"I always wanted to redo the EP and revisit those songs," he says. "Idon't think! did them justice and I wanted to go back to them. And I knew 'Little Victories' had to be on tl1e album." 
Writing new songs wasn't a problem, [Day] and I are a little more angry than most ofthem," he admits. 

That distinct inner ire comes across on Fireworks, a notably darker compilation than his five previous albums. "Those songwriters are more mellow and really laid back. I'mnot," Nathanson says. Shying away from cliched backstage antics also makes the singer a rare breed ofrocker. "I don't drinkor do drugs, and I'm married. You would think with all those after-school specials I would be gettingpeer­pressured," he jokes. "But I've lucked into although Nathanson proves to be his own toughest critic. "I didn't feel pressure [from Universal]. I just felt pressure to make an album like the ones I've always loved. One of those 'I'd take it to a desert island' kind of records." 
U2's Achtzmg Baby and Counting Crows' Augustand EverythingAfterare coveted clas­sics to Nathanson. "They all had a similar thing where every song was important. I wanted to make [the new record] a group of songs," he says. "No one thing jumping out, 
screaniing, 'I'm the single! I'm the single!' It's not all about hooks and choruses." 
• 
1 Just as he strives to stray from the formulaic pop music sound, Nathan­son says he's obsessed with rµaking sure his concerts aren't conventional, either. Startingmostlivesongswitha self-deprecating story orpop-culture rant, Nathanson often gets penned as a hybrid singer-comedian. He insists he's not trying to channel Adam Sandler. 
"I don't wanna be just executing something for people. I wanna draw 

sible. You don't feel like you're doing your job right ifyou're not connecting," he says. "Ifthe crowd is into it, it's us having a moment. It transcends any effort I can put into it." 
As for his oft-proclaimed soft spot for mul­lets, '80s power ballads and tales ofunrequited love, Nathanson says going off at the mic is a habithe picked up as a young concert-goer. "I learned the little in-between-bit thing from folk singer/songwriters when I was little, like DarWilliams and Richard Thompson. They make you laugh. Theytook you on a journey with every emotion." 
For Nathanson, one rock 'n' roll cliche does ring true: It's all about the fans. The autograph-seeking, sometimes teary-eyed fans don't bother Nathanson, but rather, they make the grueling touring life bearable. "I'm not the most self-confident person -and having people come up to you and validate what you do is one ofthe best feelings in the world. I'm humbled every time." 
Catch Matt Natba11son at Legends this Satztr­day, Dec. 6. Doors open at 8:30 p.1n. 
04 DECEMBER 2003 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 31 



It's Better than Paris Hilton 
On the very masculine healing effects of iced tea 
Icurrently am suffering from the same affliction that roughly three-fourths of the student body also seems to be suffering from. This unidentified cold-slash-flu-slash­bubonic plague has been with me on-and-offfor three weeks now, butI've been in thatmiddle-of-the-road sick state where I'ni still well enough to go about my daily activities, but am forced to do so with a ball of phlegm the size of a golf ball taking up permanent residence in the back of my throat. 
Mychronic illness should come as no surprise to anyone even remotely well acquainted with my personal habits. Due to a de­bilitating addiction to the Food Network, which puts all ofits best shows on after 2:30 a.m., I get little to no sleep. My diet is so unbalanced that it would make that Japanese guy who keeps winning the hotdog eating contests cringe. I get so little exercise that the mere thought ofworking out leaves me winded. It's pretty obvious that myimmune system is not exactly 
.. off-campus

what you would call "tip~top." And it doesn't help matters any that I'm 
. was suppose-a..tO···..··•·•·•.·•···

routinely swapping bodily fluids ~th a young lady who spends eight hours my. base. of operafi()ns .. a day with a classroom full of germy for ~. sbphisticatedsecond-graders. More on that later. 
I do have an odd home remedy for intricate ..Jre5hm.cth my occasional bouts with this sickness. panty-removaJ sch~111¢. 
····::) .

I make a pitcher oficed tea; drink the whole thing, and lay down for three hours. At the end of three hours, I miraculously feel better. Now, you naysayers and skeptics may be howling atthis point and saying thatthe miracle lay notinthe Lipton, but in the fact that fluids and shut-eye are the only sure offense against a virus. I humbly disagree. There is something iniced tea thathelps me, whether itbe antioxidants, omega acids or some other goofy thing that scientists assure us that we need to be healthy. 
The reason iced tea is such a potent cure-all for me probably stems from the fact that I am male and my intake oficed tea up to this point in mylife has been limited. Iced tea comes from the same family as Diet Coke: the dreaded, "Ifyou're a guy and you get caught drinking this, you'll get made fun of'' family. I don't know what it is about the beverage thatputs it so low on the scale of macho. Perhaps hot tea's association with the panty-waisted British is hurting its iced cousin's image. 
Anyway, back to the aforementioned young lady. I don't know how I've avoided sharing this with my loyal OOB readers until 
0 u T 
this point in the year, but since late last semester I have been the opposite ofsingle. That's right -I have a girlfriend. 
At this point, I'll pause so that the entire female population ofND/SMC can finish sobbing and/or renting their clothing in twain. Two, three, four, five ... aaaannnnd DONE. All right, now that you ladies have finished taking outyour grief, let me explain myself. I have a very lovely, very supportive, will-probably-be-very-pissed-off-when-she-reads-about­herself girlfriend. She's a student teacher for a second grade class in South Bend, and she doesn't know I'm writing this. She thinks I'm writing aboutMichael]ackson. As you can see, I'm in the mood for a big fight. 
I'll tell you right now that having a girlfriend was not something I planned for my senior year here. This year was supposed to be my victory lap. My 
off-campus house was supposed to be my base of operations for a so­phisticated and intricate freshman girl panty-removal scheme. Instead, here I find myself in a committed 
relationship. But here's the rub: I have no re­
and\ 
grets. Yes, I'll admit that every time 

gid/ one ofmy roommates brings home a strange female and proceeds to bed her tha.t night and ignore her the 
-----------next morning, I have a briefPavlov­ian response andcannothelp myself from salivating a little out of jealousy. ­Once the spittle dries up, though, I admit to myself that, had I no girlfriend, I would not be living the same life as one ofmy registered pick-up artiste roommates. I've got no game when it comes to random hookups, so without a girlfriend, my sex life would be comprised almost entirely of grainy night-vision footage ofParis Hilton in a hotel room. G-g-g-girlfriend. I still have trouble with the word some­times. The term just seems so final; it's solid and constrictive -like the lid ofa coffin. I prefer the much looser term, "lady­friend," a la The Big Lebowski. It sounds classier, and, blessedly, more vague. Vagueness, of course, is not something to write home to mother about, so I guess for the time being "girlfriend" it is, and "girlfriend" it shall stay. Call me whipped ifyou will, but at least I won't be that guy trolling for drunk girls at 2:55 a.m. At least, not until my ladyfriend reads this article. . 
0 F 
D 

32 SCHOLASTICOUT OF BOUNDS 04 DECEMBER 2003 

Want to work with 
h. ·. 1
t IS guy. 

V 
V 

Like copy-editing, staying up late, working with design programs, and putting up with people like this guy? You're ~n luck! Scholastic is now hiring for several production positions for Spring 2004. 
Contact Matt a1; scholast@nd.edu for more information. Come joing the Scholastic team! 
Hey, That's a Nic,e Costum-e 

Look over there! A dorm party! 
Ml KEH EALY 
It is pretty much a scientific fact that the off-campus party scene far sur­passes any kind offestivities that can occur within the dorms. Unfortunately, due to lack of time, effort or friends, many ND students have little choice but to remain on campus on a Friday or Saturday night. In an attempt to liven up the rather subdued dorm scene, though, many enterprising partiers have adopted the practice ofgiving their parties a par­ticular theme. While this may sound like a good idea, the notion of a theme party has recently begun to lose its luster due to a lackofvariety in party motifs. Think about it, how many "Catholic School­girl" parties have you heard about in the last three months? I personally don't even understand the allure behind these Schoolgirl parties. All Britney Spears comparisons aside, the sight of a girl in a skirt and white shirt no longer really gets my motor running. I went to Catholic school, and do you know how manyin-school, lurid, passionate sexual encounters I had? Zero. (Unless you count that time that I slipped in the hallway and accidentally grabbed Karen Bruce's left breast. Score!) So, in an effort to restore some much-needed flavor to ND dorm life, I have taken the liberty of suggesting the following concepts for your next theme party: Religious Leader Party -Every­body comes dressed as a figure of religious authority. "So a priest, a rabbi and a Hindu shaman walk into a room ... " It's a burich of great jokes just waiting to happen! Also, this will provide a great opportunity for some rectors to let loose without having to feel self-conscious. Elderly Person Party -The-party starts at 4:30 in the afternoon, and is over by 7:00 p.m., justin time for every­one to getto:bed.":BONl:JS:.Save money on beer and~serve•medication, just like in a real ·nursing,home! 
Hillbilly!Party-Ev.eryone'brings an attractive ·relative. This :will :be a great way to make:people ·feeLat :home when schools like)Elorida ·State andAlabama come to town. Also ·a ·fantastic -time to show off .any ·new NASCA'R _gear you might have. 
Bible Character ,Party -Everyone dresses up as.aiqgurefromsacred:.-s.ct.ip­ture. Bonus pointsfor·anygiils.that;go as the Whore (jjfiBabrJon. {Revelations 17:4-8) 
Every Iiiot -.G1t.l Hoo'k-Ujp ·wJtih ;a Homely Guyl~ar.ey-·Whis ,cmild ,count as community service for a~y-a©ID~y1la­dies who have-had a run.;in with.llesLife. Every base a 1cute :gid ;pass.es with,a guy of the unattractive 1persuasi0n .~a0.rild ibe equivalent to thr.e.e ·:h0urs :0fiservfoe ... dependingI on ,the '.Str.fillgtih <0f the yen? I'm not really sure. 


InstantMesse.mg.er:Party-OMG, this is the #1 idea in1im.e"\\W.lrld. Canu imagine howfunnythisWOJJJlldlJB? U could tell a j/k, and everyonewouldsay'"LOL." lfitwasn't .fun, u wouldn't have 2 make an X-cuse 2 leave, just toss out a "BRB" or "TTYL." 

Haiku Party-AJames Gower original: "Beeris so, so good./ Sweet nectar ofbeer for me. / I am hot with it. 
Celebrating Diversity Party -Go ahead, try and act like we couldn't fit all :the minority students on campus into ,_one room. 
Junior High Party -Nothing past polite kissing allowed, and all the girls have to go home at a certain time. Oh, -wait ... 
The Kellen Winslow, Jr. Party-Ev­1eryone has to w:ear combat fatigues. The Road "Warrior-This isn't so much 
·a partytheme, asitis-a really bad-ass Mel Gibson movie. How-tough is it when the guyin the hockey mask and bondage tries to intimidate the peasants by yelling, "Lord Humongous rules the wasteland!"? Fantastic stuff. (TIP: Try using this line .if you are ever in an unfriendly situation 
·•w.ith;the local toughs. You would be sur­_prised how effective -it-is ... ) 
:.O,f<a0urse, future dorm parties should n@tihe :limited to ,rihese ideas alone. The ahov.e,areme.rely·su,gges.tions for helping ms :breakfree o'ftheiconv.entions ofnor­,mirlparty,in,g. Cr.eatirity breeds creativ­jty,:s0,hqpefully .panties:Such as these will )lead :to even m011e ,orii;g:ll:nal motifs. For .instance,having a1Parlw•:oentered around 'The "/Road "Warrior miffet send you on a .tangent of ifurther Hdywood-themed parties, such as "Burt"Reynolds Night", ·ar "Deliverance." 
ln ,any case. t-he fact ,remains that .the ,most important task in ,college is, ,categoriically,, ·.to \throw ·.cool ·parties. To ·that end, we rn.ust also .remember that there is more to ,a -success'fui .so'iree than simply presenting a palatable motif. One must also make sure that ,one is ·able to amass a sufficient number of,.entertaining guests to ensure that fun wHl be had by all. Which reminds me, have you heard the one about the priest, the rabbi .and the cleric at the midnight rave? '. 

Submit an 800-word essay for Week in Distortion. E-mail us at scholast@nd.edu. 34 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 04 DECEMBER 2003 

COMPILED BY MIKE HEALY

~:Jt3~:().;M~l}!N:ts22D''l::ssTLR2AtGLT£12@~N:s·,•)<·•~······•~(:;l 

AESTHETIC 
Handel's Messiah 

Sponsored by the Department ofMusic. Friday, Dec. 5 at 
8:00 p.m. at Washington Hall. Tickets range from $3 -$6. 
Glee Club Christmas Concert 
Dec. 13 at 6:30 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. at Stepan Center. $3 admission. 
POWEBFUL 

Provost Meeting With Deans and Department 
Chairs 

Jan. 15, 2004 from 4:30 -6:30 p.m. in the auditorium of McKenna Hall, Center for Continuing Education. 
ATHLETIC 

Men's Basketball vs. Indiana Dec. 10 in the Joyce Center at 9:00 p.m. free admission ... with purchased ticket booklet and student ID. 
EDITOR'S CHOICE 
Christmas 
When: December 25 Where: The hearts of every man, woman and child (Grinches notwithstanding.) What: Birthday celebration for Jesus Christ (Happy 2003rd!). 
<< 


SUBMIT your event for Sclzolastic's Coming Distractions. E-mail your submissions to Meghan Gowan at gowan.l@nd.edu. 
04 DECEMBER 2003 
SCHOLASTICCALENDAR 35 
by Teresa Hansen 

Running from Running 
Iwas running track at Bucknell. At least, that's what I thought. The coach had re­cruited me, the scholarship was in place, and 
even though I had gone to see the track team at Notre Dame, I had to go where I could re­ally excel. A big fish in a little sea, that's what the coach told me. My dad wanted me to go to Notre Dame, I could just tell. When they sent a letter saying they were missing a document for my financial aid, he drove all the way to the 24-hour post office at the airport to over­night it. On my birthday; I got my financial aid statement from Notre Dame and it just seemed that God was telling me to go to Notre Dame. I made ~ tearful phone call to the track co·ach of Bucknell and told him I wasn't going to be joining his team in the fall. After I sent in my acceptance card, I talked to the track coach here, and he told me I had a place on the team. I was going to run for Notre Dame! 
This excitement carried me through orienta­tion, the track team picnic and the first couple weeks ofpractice. Then came issue day, the day I found out I would be competing as a multi­eventer (doing the heptathlon and pentathlon)­
instead ofjust a hurdler, walked out of Loftus the day we started run­
ning "pyramids," and 

that day a free person. I the day my recurring foot injury from high
hardly knew what to do 
school came back. I'm 

with myself. 
Teresa Hansen is a junior economics and peace studies major. She is president ofBadin Hall. 
not really sure when it 

happened, but slowly, track became something I had to do rather than something I wanted to do. It had been my life all through high school. From winter through summer (every season except fall because of soccer), I traveled to meet after meet, practice after practice. From Indiana to Maryland and back to my hometown outside of Pittsburgh, I had three different coaches, two different teams, but most of all I had the passion and excitement it took to keep running and compet­ing. This somehow seemed to get lost amidst the early morning Wednesday lifting sessions, long afternoon practices, and endless worrying about weight, eating, and sleep ... not to men­tion a rigorous academic schedule. 
As a walk-on, I didn't get exactly the same treatment as the recruited athletes, which was understandable to an extent, but frustrating to someone used to being the star hurdler of her county. It wasn't just the coaching and the other athletes: it was the realization that, although I had a training partner, this was be­coming an entirely individual sport. In high school, I had always had a team to support me, whether they were competing next to me or not, they were always cheering, encouraging and standing by me through the falls and foul jumps. It became too much to handle: I had no e_xtra time, I had no "team" feeling, and I was getting the distinct impression that my coach wanted me to continue to lower my weight. I thought long and hard about what to do. I went home for Christmas, dutifully practic­ing, lifting and following the coach's training schedule; but my heart wasn't in it. Something had happened that I thought never would: Run­ning had become a chore. 
When I came back from break, I went to practice once or twice, then decided I just had to do it. I came to practice late one day, not dressed to run, and told my coach that I was leaving the team; I left the door open to come back if I felt I wanted to, but I walked out of Loftus that day a free person. I hardly knew what to do with myself. lttook me a while to get back into a routine. ·I returned to gym class, but stopped running for a few weeks. I wanted it to be something I wanted to do, something that relieved my stress, exhilarated me and left. me feeling better thari before -all feelings that slowly had faded. 
About a month into the semester, I found a job I thought I would be, good at: van coordi­nator at the Center for Social Concerns. They hired me, and three weeks later I decided to study in Washington, D.C. for the semester. Things happened so fast. I did a summer service project in Wheeling, W. Va., went to D.C., and felt like I was having a real college experience. Now, in my junior year, I can't imagine life any differently. I still work at the Center for Social Concerns, I'm on their student advisory board, and I'm the hall president of Badin. Although my dad is disappointed that I no longer send home free track shirts, I still run, either from meeting to meeting or lake to lake, and I feel like I have finally taken advantage of the fact that I chose the best Catholic university in the w~d. D 
36 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 04 DECEMBER 2003 

Self-reflective, emotion-driven lyrics and music ala John Mayer. -TheWB 
Nathanson melds standup comedy with music, dispen­sing hilarious on-stage banter_ between songs that keeps the crowd rolling! -Songoose.com 









