■w—w
Every Thursday Night.
Scholastic
Notre Dame's Weekly Student Magazine
Join Scholastic as we celebrate our 125th anniversary and keep up with everything that happens on campus throughout the school year!
Your subscription includes our annual football review issue, published in February 1992.
Please send years of Scholastic to:
Name:_______;_______________________________
Address:____________________________________
City:State:ZIP code:
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x years = $
Please send this form with payment to: Business Manager Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556
CONTENTS
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
ENTERTAINMENT
5	Movie: The Doctor
6	Music
NEWS
7	Faculty Changes CAMPUS LIFE
10	Pasquerilla, Catholicism and Higher Education
SPORTS
14	Putting their Best Foot Forward
18	Spartan Fury
20	National Champions : 1927 DEPARTMENTS
2	Editor’s Notes
3	Opinion
4	CampusWatch
16	Coming Distractions
21	On Other Campuses
22	Behavior Modification
23	Week In Distortion
24	Glancing Back 26 Final Word
On The Cover: The contributions by Frank J. Pasqueril his devotion to Catholic higher education.
Cover photo by Nick Spangler.
SEPTEMBER 19, 1991
1
E D I T O R 'S NOTES
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Vol. 133, No.4
September 19, 1991
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Ian Mitchell
MANAGING EDITOR
Mari Okuda
EXECUTIVE EDITOR
Patricia Doyle
NEWS EDITOR
Kate Manuel
CAMPUS LIFE EDITOR
Elizabeth Baytion
SPORTS EDITOR
Jon Paul Potts
SPORTS ASSISTANT
Jim Kuser
ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR
Elizabeth Graner
DEPARTMENTS EDITOR
Michael Owen
DEPARTMENTS ASSISTANT
Kim Cenedella
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR
Paul Webb
COPY EDITOR
Margaret Kenny
SYSTEMS MANAGER
Kevin Hardman
ADVERTISING MANAGER
David Chmiel
BUSINESS MANAGER
Scott Ecker
GRAPHrC ARTS MANAGER
Jeanne Naylor
Join Scholastic
The list of staffers at right is undergoing some changes. This week Elizabeth Baytion, Scholastic's new Campus Life Editor, has been added to the masthead, and this is also the last issue for outgoing News Editor Kate Manuel. Kate’s departure means we have an unanticipated vacancy on our editorial board. If you’re interested in joining Notre Dame’s weekly student magazine, please stop by our office during office hours and pick up an application (for more information, see the advertisement on page 27).
The Great Scholastic Cartoon-off
When we put the ad in last week’s issue asking for submissions by student cartoonists, we weren’tprepared for the tremendous response. Twelve artists applied to draw a weekly comic. We picked our favorite four, but now it’s your turn to decide.
This week Scholastic prints two pages of student comics, as well as a ballot on page 27. If you don’t vote, you can’t complain that we axed your favorite cartoon!
So pick your two favorite cartoonists and send in or drop off your vote by Tuesday. The top two cartoonists will be announced in next week’s issue, and they will be featured weekly in the magazine. If the voting is extremely close (and space is available), we’ll consider running more than two comics a week.
St. Mary’s Delivery Problems
I know St Mary’s subscribers have had problems getting the first two issues of the magazine. The problem should be resolved by now and all subscribers should be getting the magazine in a timely fashion. My apologies for the inconvenience and thanks for your patience. If you have subsciption problems, please make sure you’re on our subcriber list and check to see that the mail room is aware you should be receiving the magazine.
Your Turn
Scholastic is always seeking reader opinion, in ways like this week’s balloting, or through letters to the editor or the “Final Word.” Let us know what’s on your mind and what you like and don’t like in the magazine. If you have a story idea or news tip we’d like to hear it Of course, if you’re really interested in the magazine, we’re always welcoming new staffers. Call 239-7569 or stop by 303 LaFortune.
In This Issue
Frank J. Pasquerilla’s donations for buildings have made his name a campus fixture, but most students know little about the Notre Dame trustee. In an interview conducted this summer, writer Jon Peppetti takes a look at Pasquerilla and his philosophy.
In Sports, Johnathon Jensen looks at this year’s promising men’s soccer team while Brad Keck previews the matchup against Michigan State, a team that’s looking to avenge last week’s loss.
Over in News, we take a look at all the new university appointments, while Entertainment features two music reviews plus a look at one of this summer’s most popular movies. Of course, all your favorite columns plus the pull-out Coming Distractions centerspread are here too, in additon to two pages of cartoons.
This is Scholastic's first 28-page regular issue in over a year. Check out what we did with that extra space.
Ian Mitchell
Editor in Chief
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame,IN,46556and printed at The Papers,Inc.,Milford, IN46542. Thesubscription rale is $25.00/year and back issues are available at $1.25loopy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty ar students. Editorials signed Scholasi ic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolialied materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1991 Scholastic Massine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prdhibital.
SCHOLASTIC
OPINION
Dear Editor:
I would like to address some of the recent attempts by the Notre Dame security department to make “rape road” safer for students. My main concern is the placement of a large barbed-wire fence along part of “rape road.” While the attempt to make the road safer is noble, the reality is that the fence endangers students rather than protects them. I am also concerned, however, about the installation of the red security phones along the same area.
My concerns are two-fold. First, that these measures are ineffective and therefore provide a flase sense of security to the students traveling this road. Secondly, the measures are meager attemts at addressing a major problem.
The barbed-wire fence which extends from the entrance near Route 31 to the cemetery is ineffective precisely because it stops at the cemetery. It does not insure that an attack will be prevented past this point An attacker who waits for his victim to pass the cemetery, heading toward St. Mary’s, and follows the victim is almost guaranteed of a successful attack. The victim has nowhere to run but straight ahead. While the security phones do exist along the road, they are spaced so far apart that the victim has almost no chance of reaching them. The phones also require that a victim identify her whereabouts. During an attack a victim will not have time to chat with security.
I suggest that the phones should have automatic identifications systems installed to eliminate this problem. There should also be a security phone stationed on every lamp post in order to make them more accessible to victims. As for the fence, it should at least be extended to Colombo Hall.
Of course these suggestions work with the present state of security along “rape road.” The ideal solution, excluding a totally utopian society, would be to install a security station at the entrance of “rape road.” The station would monitor the flow of traffic on the road just as security monitors traffic at every other entrance of the university.
I realize that these suggestions will not solve the problem of attacks or rape on campus. However, they may greatly reduce the possibility of attack in this high-risk area.
Carole Eble Senior
Saint Mary’s College
Letters io Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. All Utters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances,
Scholastic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the lawspf the United Stales. Scholastic also will edit for copy fitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space. Scholastic cannot print all Utters received.
Address all correspondence to:
The Editor Scholastic. LaForiune Center Notre Dame, IN46556
Editorial
Happy Birthday
r- W	:	?	■■ ■ ■:	: ■ ■ ■ ■: — '■ ■' "	’ ‘
Cheerstolheuniversityforthegrandeucharistic celebra-tion ahd festive picnic |this f£sf weekend?; While we all ’ wondcrandmoanabout“events” like circus lunch and the/ Sginnpy^^presented us .: fwith ararespecial“occasion.”	:
Tlrose who attended the sesquicentennial mass were ■ ' treated to aspectacular musical presentation by the six campus singing groups and the university’s orchestra. The ■ : : mass and the academic procession was a mix of solemnity . -a unique f persohd insight into the mission of Father Moreau arid ?.
Father Soririoltwasbbtha glorifying and spiritual occasion MhonormgNotretDame^ounschoollandoourliady.^ older, : students and staff, enjoyed the merriment of the carnival- .
: ‘ fireworks provided enjoyment not regularly achieved, even y;
commendedforthetime,effort y : and energy employed to bring about this once in a century ||byent<^bmtemplatirig the mere logistics of not only gie fy / || i ntricacie|6f alafge scalem ass celebration but al s|iinpdatirigthethqusandsofhungry facescanbeanightmare? ofhorrifyingproportions.Yet the eucharist became a ;
spWti^du&fi^^	^ihbcver-pirisetni^H
oproblemsstillfacing the student body. gy y y y	y gy: ;.y
ywarethattherc.isrnoregro^
Scholastic

SEPTEMBER 19, 1991

Cam dusWatch B BY THE GIPPER
Information, opinion, attitude and outright innuendo
Malloy Unmasked
Thanks to the help of several diligent junior CampusWatchers, the middle name of university president Fr. Edward A. “Monk” Malloy is no longer a mystery. No less than four people told the Gipper that Monk’s middle moniker is “Aloysius.” But wait, there’s more: Mike Kelly, who had Malloy teach his section of freshman seminar, added that Monk’s nickname was different as a child. Mr. Kelly claims that Father Malloy, distinguished president of this great learning institution, was, as a youth, nicknamed “Hocker Head” by his brother. Let’s all chan t it together, shall we? Hocker Head. Hocker Head. Hocker Head. The Gipper does not, however, recommend testing this one out on Malloy.
The Truth About YoCream
The Gipp knows that of all the ideas ever cooked up by the folks at University Food Services, the most popular one has got to be the introduction of YoCream to the dining halls. The Gipper knows that most silver linings have an accompanying dark cloud, however, and he dispatched a crack Campus Watcher to investigate. He brought back a startling report: the old lunchtime ice
cream snacks (like ice cream sandwiches, Drumsticks, Heath bars, etc.) are, at least on a daily basis, GONE. According to Jan McQuere, manager of nutrition and marketing at UFS, the frozen goodies (which food services calls “ice cream novelties”) will now only be available for special occasions.
YOCREAM
NON-FAT ♦ FROZENYOGURT
If you’re upset with this policy of replacing one frozen dairy goodie with another, grab one of those blue suggestion forms as you line up for that next scoop of YoCream.
Your Dorm is Being Closed Next Year and
Turned Into Female Housing
No, it’s not The Gipper heard this rumor about so many different dorms this week that he sent, a CampusWatcher to contact the office of student residences. The nice lady who answered the phone said there were “no plans to change over [from one sex to the other] any of the dorms in the near future.” It looks like everybody can relax.
Things That Make You Go Hmm...
Just the other day, as he so often does, the Gipp was perusing his copy of the student government constitution. Article IV, section II, paragraph 9: “The Student Senate shall review and determine the approval of all Presidential appointments.” The Gipper doesn’t recall this year’s appointees being approved. He is doubly interested since he understands that some student senators have also been avidly perusing their copies of the constitution. Hmm...
Give The Gipp Gossip
The Gipper goes everywhere and hears everything — hears everything that alert junior CampusWatchers pass along, that is. Tip the Gipp with news, information and gossip by leaving a message for him: call 239-7569 anytime, stop by the Scholastic office weekdays between 2 and 5 p.m., or write 303 LaFortune. The Gipper would also like to receive copies of dorm newsletters. Join the CampusWatch team! □
4
SCHOLASTIC
MOVIE
The Doctor:
William Hurt stars in one of the year’s most exceptional films
by Noah Cooper
r |1 he operating room throbs with ten> sion. The patient has 30 seconds until he bleeds to death, unless the doctor can close the wound in time. Scalpels are passed. Various pieces of tissue are sewn back together. 30 seconds pass. The wound is closed, and the patient is saved. The doctor calls for “closing music.” The operating room errupts with cheers to the opening chords of Jimmy Buffet’s “Why Don’t We Get Drunk and Screw?” as the doctor himself hilariously leads the staff in a singalong. “M*A*S*H,” you ask? No, just the opening sequence of one of the year’s best films, The Doctor.
William Hurt stars as Jack McGhee in the true story of an uncaring, Hawkeye Pierce-humored surgeon who discovers he has throat cancer. The film is based on Edward Rosenbaum, M.D.’s book, A Taste of My Own Medicine. During his diagnosis and treatment, he begins to realize what being a patient is all about: fear, frustrationj hopelessness and the uncertainty of placing one’s life in another’s hands.
Along the way, he also uncovers and corrects several injustices in the hospital system, namely the infinite number of forms, eons in waiting rooms and doctors’ dishonesty. In short, Jack goes on a journey through himself, discovering what insensitivity has made him become a “get in, fix it, get out” doctor with all the empathy of Joseph Mengala.
Hurt displays the finest acting of his career, which saves the film from turning into
SEPTEMBER 19, 1991
a remake of Regarding Henry, which basically has the same plot. In Hurt we see an actual surgeon struggling to come to grips with what his profession has become. Nobody in Hollywood can play the frustrated, scared character who doesn’t want to let anyone in like Hurt, as he did before in Broadcast News. Director Randa Haines does everything right in making Hurt the center of every scene.
The only scenes Hurt fails to dominate are the ones with Elizabeth Perkins. Perkins plays June, a caustic, fellow cancer patient who now, having lost all of her hair (Perkins looks like Sinead O’Connor’s twin sister) and will to live, becomes Jack’s soulmate. Together they share several insightful ideas on their illness and one magical scene in the Nevada desert where Jack and June dance under a brilliant sunset, knowing they only have a short time. Perkins steals my heart just as she did in Big and should be nominated for Best Supporting Actress in March. Likewise, look for Hurt for Best Actor, and the film for Best Picture.
There are several subplots, one involving Jack’s tenuous relations with his wife, Ann (Christine Lahti). Jack distances her further during his treament and seeks consolation with June. Lahti is superb in her frustration in being excluded from her husband. The other involves Jack’s colleague and best friend Murray (Mandy Patinkin) in a mal-pratice suit with Jack as a key witness. This situation is the only predictable element in the film which is surprising after a summer of cinematic predictability.
The isssue of cancer is handled nicely. Instead of becoming heavy-handed with the certainty of death, the disease is dealt with at a respectable distance. It is even a source of humor, something of which The Doctor has plenty. This frees the viewer from immersion in heavy sentimentality. The viewer then gets , the opportunity to run through Jack’s mind, sensing the same fears and anxieties all of us feel while at the hospital, right down to our rear ends hanging out of the hospital gown.
The Doctor is a unique and engaging look at the hospital experience from a surgeon-tumed-patient perspective. The film bogs down at the end in trying to do too many things at once, but Haines eventually regains control. Jack McGhee’s -eyes are opened and yours will be, too, if you treat yourself to one of the year’s most exceptional films.Q
Pangborn Sophomore Noah Cooper is Scholastic's czar ofezinema (I stole that-Ed.). Even though he has delusions of grandeur and a fictitional romance with Julia Roberts, we still love him.
5
MUSIC
Walk That Walk, Talk That Talk The Fabulous Thunderbirds Still Have It
by Jim Doppke
Been wondering what’s been going on with the Texas boogie blues scene since Stevie Ray did a 12-bar shuffle off this mortal coil? Tired of Moody English Persons offering Deep Thoughts About Alienation1! The Fabulous Thunderbirds serve up a compelling answer, and a honkin ’ antidote to the latter on their first Vaughan-less album, Walk That Walk, Talk That Talk.
Having left the group, Jimmie Lee Vaughan leaves both a legacy and a great big hole in this band’s sound. That hole is ably filled, however, by two veterans of the Austin music scene, Duke Robillard and Kid Bangham. Together, they mimic the reverbladen, nimble picking of of the elder Vaughan (as heard especially on the T-Birds’ first major label effort, Tuff Enuff)
perfectly. Walk That Walk’s instrumentation shows a remarkable coherence and a willingness to return to the crisp, rough-edged sound which propelled such tracks as “Wrap It Up” and “Tuff Enuff ’ up the charts.
Walk That Walk’s limitations, however, come in the bands’ very same tendency to repeat itself. The title track of their second major label album, Hot Number, was a virtual rewrite of “Tuff Enuff,” just as the current album’s “Sweet Thang” rings suspiciously of “Powerful Stuff,” their last single. Nor does the band tackle any ambitious subject matter for their new songs. One wishes at times that they would maybe stop rockin’ and work together toward a goal of originality.
On the other hand, one sometimes just gets up to dance. These guys aren’t Living
Colour, nor do they try to be. The band’s grooves are as tight as ever, and Kim Wilson could sing Du Lac into a tin can and make it soulful. There’s a lot of emotion to be found in these tunes, especially in the splendid cover of “Ain’t That a Lot of Love.” Overall, one could hardly ask for a better homage to the Stax/Volt sound those Texas bluesmen always seem to work into their music. Jimmie Vaughan’s departure seems to have freed the band from the role of groupies to a virtuoso; on Walk That Walk, Talk That Talk, the band shines on its own, and does what it does best. “When I get home we can start all over again ... ” wails Wilson on “When I Get Home.” The Fabulous Thunderbirds have come home, and they’ve started walkin’ and talkin’ just right. Stevie Ray is tapping his feet, wherever he is. □
The Drovers Rock Theodore's
by Mel Jiganti
hursday evening, The Drovers, a Chicago band with a growing following, enlivened Theodore’s with their unique
sound. The concert was well attended for a
school night show that, by its nature and location, precluded studying and/or drinking—the normal Thursday evening choices. Those who attended this unconventional diversion from academic pursuits, however, were well rewarded.
The Drovers’ unusual instruments helped them achieve their distinctive sound. The traditional framework of bass and guitar was typical enough; however, one look at the unusual array in front of the drummer tipped the crowd that this was not just a
standard rock band. The line-up completed
with a flute and fiddle, and the stage was lit
erally set for Irish Rock.
The band managed to mix traditional sound with the modem without sounding like the Clancy Brothers on 45 r.p.m. The show opened with several very energetic, traditional-sounding reels that were actually
the work of Mike Kirkpatrick, the guitarist and songwriter. The concert flyer touted The Drovers as Chicago’s answer to The Pogues; however, beyond the basic Celtic theme, the two bands have distinctly differ-
courtesy One World Productions
ent styles. The Drovers were refined and Keane.
harmonious compared to the rough, energetic styling of The Pogues.
Any allegation that the show was not charged with energy, however, would be false. The Drovers reawakened Celtic pagan energy rarely seen since St. Patrick
retumed to his homeland and took the fun out of everything in the name of Christianity. The crowd danced enthusiastically after a bit of cajoling. Even during waltzes, the dance floor at Theodore’s remained occu
pied. These interludes of slow music were few, and they were used primarily as a much-needed respite
between frantic dancing.
The band’s performance was solid with fiddle and percussion turning out exceptional performances. The first half of the show was devoid of vocals. In the latter half of the concert, the vocals disappeared into the poor acoustics of Theodore’s. This was truly a crime, since the few crystals of singing that came through hinted at the powerful and hypnotic vocals of Kathleen
In total, The Drovers turned out an impressive performance. More important than their niche in the rock-folk spectrum or unique cultural synthesis, The Drovers completed the primary job of any band, putting on a highly entertaining show. □
6
SCHOLASTIC
NEWS
Faculty Changes
Familiar faces are appointed to new positions over the summer
By Andrea Topash, Audrey Rutherford, Chris Werling and Tim Mooney
A t the end of their summers, returning /a. Notre Dame students come back to find much that is the same — the buildings they lived and studied in, the excitement of football weekends, their friends from earlier years, the food in the dining halls. Yet, they also return to things which are slightly different than they were before: they have different classes, live in differentrooms maybe with different roommates and have moved up one year in the academic ladder leading to graduation. Maybe even a favorite professor who, instead of teaching, is now chairing a department.
The summer ofl991 was a time of many changes in the Notre Dame faculty and staff. Many colleges, departments and institutions became the responsibility of new and different people. The following is Scholastic’s alphabetized, but by no means conclusive, guide to who is doing what and where at the start of this fall semester. .
John B. Attanasio is making the move from professor at the university’s Law School to director of Institute for International Peace Studies, succeeding former Ohio governor John J. Giligan, who had been director of the institute since its inception in 1985.
He is returning to the university after a semester as a Fulbright Scholar in the Soviet Union. While in the Soviet Union, he lec
tured to such groups as the deputies of the Supreme Soviet, the ethics department of the U.S.S.R. Academy of Sciences and the Institute of International Relations of the U.S.S.R. Foreign Policy.
Attanasio has been a member of the university’s faculty since 1985, when, for a change of pace, he, together with a deputy of the Supreme Soviet, taught a course comparing the constitutional systems of the U.S. and the U.S.S.R.
The announcement of Attanasio’s promotion was made by Provost O’Meara, who said, “John Attanasio is an extremely energetic and creative scholar whose international experience and strong background in human rights are ideally suited to the institute’s work.” O’Meara added, “He possesses all the qualities of intellect, vision and leadership necessary to guide the institute through its next phase of development.”
Attanasio graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Virginia, earned a J.D. (Doctor of Law) from the New Y ork University School of Law, holds a Diploma in Law from the Oxford and also has a LL.M. (Master of Laws) from Yale Law School.
He lives with his wife Kathy and their two sons, Thomas and Michael.
Harold W. Attridge is currently making the transition from professor of theology here at Notre Dame to dean of the university’s College of Arts and Letters. Attridge is succeeding Michael J. Loux, a professor of philosophy, who held the deanship for eight years and is now returning to
teaching and research.
“I suppose what I look forward to most in the job is getting to work with a number of interesting people throughout the university,” Attridge said.
After spending eight years on the faculty of Southern Methodist University’s Perkins School of Theology, Attridge came to Notre Dame in 1985. A Massachusetts native, he
Harold W. Attridge
received his Ph.D. from Harvard and a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1983-84.
“Like his predecessor, Harold Attridge brings to the deanship of Arts and Letters a record of distinguished scholarship and a potential for leadership that has already been evidenced in his own department of theology,” said Timothy O’Meara, university
SEPTEMBER 19, 1991
7
Matt Jachlm
Newly appointed assistant vice president Charles F. Lennon, Jr.
provost.
“These qualities, as well as his strong research background dating to his years at Harvard and Cambridge, make him an excellent candidate to take up the leadership of the college, which in recent years has fashioned a national reputation for research excellence to complement its traditional strength in teaching,” O’Meara added.
Attridge specializes in Hellenic Judaism, '	second century church history and the New
:	Testament. The most recent of his seven
r - ' books is Hebrews: A Commentary on the ; Epistle to the Hebrews.
| ; John Borkowski, professor of psychol-!- - ogy, was recently named the first occupant I of the Andrew J. McKenna Chair in Psy-
; Z chology. The McKenna Chait is a gift of : - Notre Dame alumnus and vice chairman of the university’s Board of Trustees Andrew 2 J. McKenna, president and chief executive ; office of Schwarz Paper Company, and his ;: wife Joan.
Borkowski, a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1967, has conducted his most recent research sponsored by the National Institutes of Health on understanding the consequences of teenage parenting on the development of both the mother and child.
8
He has also conducted research into the development processes of learning and memory across the human lifespan.
He is interested in developing ways by which research in cognitive psychology can be translated into education, particularly in the elementary school classroom. His educational research has been conducted in Munich; London; Nagpur, India and South Bend.
Prior to his arrival at Notre Dame, Borkowski was an assistant professor of psychology at Oberlin College. He received his bachelor’s degree from St. Benedict’s College in Atchison, Kansas, his master’s degree in psychology from Ohio University and his doctorate in psychology from the University of Iowa; He and his wife Martha are the parents of seven children.
Dominican Sister Kathleen Cannon, associate provost of the university, became new director of the university’s Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry (IPSM) on June 1. She succeeded Rev. Robert S. Pelton, the institute’s director since 1986.
Cannon is also retaining her position in the provost’s office, where her duties include a range of academic matters including women’s concerns, academic liaison with
St. Mary’s College and coordination of personnel matters for regular faculty. She chairs both the commencement committee and the faculty/student committee on women.
Cannon has extensive experience in liturgy, liturgical preaching and religious formation work, as well as administration. Prior to her appointments at Notre Dame, she was an assistant professor of preaching and communication at Catholic Theological Union in Chicago. She also lectured in homilitics at Princeton Theological Seminary and in religious studies at Ohio Dominican and chaired the religious studies department at Albertus Magnus College in New Haven, Connecticut for two years.
“Kathleen Cannon brings to the directorship of the IPSM the ideal combination of academic distinction in religious studies and the administrative expertise to reevaluate the institute’s structure in light of the changing needs of the church,” Provost O’Meara said.
Lawrence S. Cunningham, a professor of theology at Notre Dame, has been appointed chair of the theology department, succeeding Rev. Richard P. McBrien, the chair of the department since 1980, who will continue to teach,write and conduct research.
Provost O’Meara said, “In the span of just three years on the Notre Dame faculty, Larry Cunningham has made a deep impression on his peers with the quality of his teaching, the distinction of his scholarship and the evidence of his leadership qualities. At the same time, he exemplifies the exceptional appointments made to the theology faculty during Dick McBrien’s eleven years as chairman.”
Cunningham’s scholarly concerns encompass religion,, culture and values; the nature of saintliness; and the quest for faith. He came to Notre Dame in 1988 after 21 years on the faculty of Florida State University. He received his master’s and Ph.D. in theology from Florida State and his bachelor’s degree in philosophy from St. Bernard’s College in Rochester, New York.
Charles F. Lennon, Jr., previously executive director of the university’s Alumni Association, now holds the title of assistant vice president of the university. The news of his promotion came as a surprise announce-
SCHOLASTIC
ment made by university president Fr. Edward A. Malloy during the annual alumni reunion banquet on June 8.
“What we would like to do is handle two areas which we think we are deficient in ... what we can do for the student as an Alumni Association while they are here... and secondly how we can help the graduate students become more a part of the Notre Dame family,” Lennon said of his new job.
Lennon had served as executive director of the Alumni Association since December 1981. During his tenure, the association initiated community service programs which have been duplicated by other institutions, notably Yale and Stanford.
Lennon was himself a student at Notre Dame, receiving his undergraduate degree in 1961. During his time here, he earned three monograms in baseball and served as president of his class. He continued his education by attaining a master’s degree in guidance and counseling for Notre Dame in 1962.
Lennon now resides with his wife, Joan. His five children have all graduated from college except for his daughter, Molly, who is presently a student at Notre Dame.
Kathie Newman, the recently appointed associate dean of the College of Science, joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1983 as the first woman appointed in the physics department. A specialist in solid-state and statistical physics, Newman will now be directing the College of Science’s undergraduate programs and chairing the undergraduate studies committee. She will also be doing a lot of advisory work , while administering the college’s student council.
Newman feels that Notre Dame offers her some excellent opportunities. Foremost among these is the “positive interaction with students” that she finds here. Another is the fact that her husband is also a physics professor at Notre Dame.
Initially Newman planned to pursue a career in mathematics, until her sophomore year of college. She then decided she would definitely major in physics. She received her bachelor’s degree from Michigan State University, her doctorate from the University of Washington and did post-doctorate work at the University of Illinois.
Besides teaching and performing the duties of an assistant dean, Newman will be
doing her own work on ordering in semiconductors. She also has two children, ages six and three, to care for. Any free time she may have will be devoted to music and writing.
Walter Pratt, in his sixth year at Notre Dame, was appointed associate dean of the Law School. Pratt said he initially came to Notre Dame “because it was a place where I could do American legal history research, which is the study of American law and its legal institutions.” He now enjoys working here because he is able to teach and interact with the rest of the university.
Pratt received his undergraduate degree from Vanderbilt University. “I was most interested in law from the start, but by my sophomore year, I was positive,” he said. After Vanderbilt, Pratt went on to get his doctorate from Oxford University in England and his law degree from Yale University.
Prior to teaching here at Notre Dame, Pratt taught law at Duke University. He is married and has two children, both of whom are boys.
Joan Prendergast was appointed acting director of the Programs for Church Leaders. The Programs for Church Leaders, also called the Year of the Lord’s Favors, is a sabbatical program for church ministry.
Members of the church ministry, such as brothers, sisters and lay persons, all participate in the program and are given one year to “re-create” themselves. These people have generally work in a strenuous community and come to the program for a “spiritual uplift,” Prendergast said. While in the program , participants take art and music lessons and basically refresh themselves, she added.
Prendergast said she has “always been interested in other people’s talents and gifts, and I am especially interested in adult education. She particularly enjoys working with the people in the program and also has a “great reverence for Notre Dame.”
Prendergast became a member of the Notre Dame community in September 1989, when she began teaching for the Freshing Writing Program. Prior to coming to Notre Dame, Prendergast was a sister and worked in Baltimore, Delaware and New Jersey. She received degrees in theology from St. Michael’s of Vermontand the University of Notre Dame.
Other Appointments
Steven ;i.C< i. Bass, Schubmehl-Pfein Chair, Department of Computer Sci-I ’erice and Engineering yrCy-C ; Steven M. Batill, Director, iHessert Center for Aerospace Research;
ij Joseph Bauer, associate dean iforaca-:f fidentic affair^
Jeanne Day, associate; chair; depart-;;; f i merit of psychologyi;i • C B «iti CM i Fernand Dutile,; ■ ■acting.-. dean, :Law
School	v
I Kimberly Flint-Hamilton, assistantjj; dean, College of Arts and Letters; i;; ;
;i; Samuel S. Gaglio, assistant deanforad-ministration, College of Business Ad-L
: ministration .; - /;.; f: y i 2[	i;
’ rtl Col Robert E. Gillespie, cjWi&b f ; Apartment of Military Science;;2■ i Paul R. Grimstad, assistant chair, ; Deaprtment of Biological Sciences : ; , Antirony K. Hyder, ;associate; vice;;; president for research^ Graduate Y
: School - B f CCqfi-C
? Eric J. Jumper, associate chair. under-graduatc aerospace crigineering pro-
;: gram f; I; f; f	A;:f ■ Y C i;;;;
, . Barry P. Keating, chair, Department of : Finance and Business Economics YAi;GrahamLappin, associate chair; be-;f .partmen t ofChem istryandBiocheihis-ii f	■b	. • ribbSS
- Arnold F. Ludwig, assistant dean for fI 'executive education, College; of iBug| tiriess Administration i -;s®bCC:
Scott E. Maxwell, chair.Departmentof ii£sychote:LLL . William O. McLean, associate dean, : Law School i a; ;i; i;	Yi i b i;
KevinM.Misiewicz,assistantchair,' p Department: of A&dunte , Dian Murray, associate dean, College, 1 of Arts arid Letters; i if £ iff; {ibliSB'L Robert Schmuhl, acting chair, Depart-' ?'-meht^ : PaulE^^ assistant chair and di- f
rectorofgraduatestudies.Department;: ;; of Phy sics; ■ B B ;i B-BBB, • ■
Kern R, Trembath, assistant chair, Department of Theology Y f Bbi® .i Susan; Youeris, acting chair, Depart-
SEPTEMBER 19, 1991
C AMPU S LIFE
Paul Webb
A familiar sight for those on the “Mod” quad, yet many have no idea about the man whose name appears on this building.
my opinion, Notre Dame is the
A best Catholic University in the United States. No school better prepares its students for the unique challenges presented by today’s dynamic world,” that according to Frank J. Pasquerilla, chairman and chief executive officer of Crown American Corporation, Johnstown, Pennsylvania and trustee of the University of Notre Dame.
Throughout the past 20 years, Mr. Pasquerilla has contributed his time and effort to Notre Dame in many ways. His first exposure to the university came as the parent of a student. In subsequent years, he generously donated funds to the school and was directly responsible for the construction of several university facilities. In 1984, Pasquerilla was appointed as a Notre Dame trustee. Through these significant contributions, Frank Pasquerilla has assumed a role of leadership within the
Notre Dame community, a role which will greatly shape the future of this university.
However, while the Pasquerilla name is recognized by all Notre Dame students, few people on campus realize why Pasquerilla has chosen to invest so heavily in Notre Dame. The answer to this question lies not only with Notre Dame, but with Pasquerilla’s devotion to Catholicism.
Throughout his life, Frank J. Pasquerilla has promoted the activities of the Catholic Church and has developed an enthusiastic interest in Catholic higher education — an interest which has been manifested not only at Notre Dame, but at many Catholic institutions of higher learning throughout the country.
“Education enlivens peoples’ minds,” Pasquerilla declared, “and education is the hope of the church.”
Frank J. Pasquerilla, and his wife Sylvia, are well known for their philanthropic
generosity and enthusiastic support of all Catholic activities. Most of their time and effort, however, has been directed toward higher education; a cause certainly influenced by Pasquerilla’s own past.
“My own formal education was limited by circumstance,” Pasquerilla recalled, “I never had the opportunity to attend college. Therefore I’ve always felt like doing something for higher education. Because I grew up in poverty, I understand the value of compassion and charity. I think you’ve got to give when you’re doing well, and give while you’re alive.”
Pasquerilla credits his mother and father, both Italian immigrants, for providing him with strong religious foundations. “As a young boy, I learned that to be a Catholic, you must have hope, ambition and good character,"he said. “I have subsequently learned that Catholicism also requires giving. It’s alright to make a nice living,
10
SCHOLASTIC
what you have received; the two must go together.”
Despite the wealth of his accomplishments, Pasquerilla downplays his generosity and explains his actions in terms of performing one’s “Catholic duty.” But, with his substantial resources, Frank
Pasquerilla has been able to assume a very influential role in community and church activities. Asaresult, he has received a great deal of recognition for his efforts. Pasquerilla said he believes such recognition , although satisfying, is not necessary.
“I am very appreciative of what I have and where I am,” he explained. “But I’m just trying to do what I can. I want to give back some of what I’ve received.”
As a result of his humanitarian efforts to date, Frank Pasquerilla has received three honorary degrees. In 1969, St. Francis College of Loretto, Pennsylvania, presented the Johnstown businessman with an honorary Doctor of Humanities Degree. In 1982, the University of Notre Dame gave Pasquerilla an honorary Doctor of Law Degree, and in 1990, he was awarded an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters by Mount Saint Mary’s College, Emmitsburg, Maryland.
Other awards received by the Johnstown native include the Italian Solidarity Order of the Star from the
Italian government and the Prime Minister’s Silver Anniversary Medal from the state of Israel.
In 1984,Pasquerilla washonored by Pope John Paul II with a Papal knighthood. The Christian knighthood was based on a fulfillment of important duties to the Catholic Church and its continuous growth, and serves as a public testimony of Pontifical favor.
Frank Pasquerilla also serves as chairman of the Finance Council of the Diocese of Altoona-Johnstown, Pennsylvania, and he is a member of an American steering committee to defray the Vatican debt.
In 1990, Frank and Sylvia Pasquerilla
given the tools to begin your education
Courtesy of Crown American
were honored with the President’s Medal by Georgetown University in Washington, DC, in honor of their gift to the university medical center. As recipients of the President’s Medal, the Pasquerillas joined fellow honorees Lech Walesa and Vaclav Havel.
Frank J. Pasquerilla’s life has been marked by tremendous success, but it was not achieved without paying a price.
Pasquerilla was born in Johnstown, Pennsylvania in 1926, the son of a coal miner. Unfortunately, by the time he graduated from Johnstown High School in 1944, his father was dying from black lung disease. Although Frank had intended to enroll at Temple University, his father’s illness forced him to
bypass college, obtain work and assume family responsibilities.
As it turns out, Pasquerilla never did attend college, a fact that he regrets even to this day. “Due to circumstances, I was unable to attend college,” he said. “My own past has therefore proven to me the value of a collegiate education. I certainly believe that higher education is a must for everyone and my support of higher education has reflected this opinion.”
Upon leaving home, Pasquerilla began working for the quartermaster corp in Philadelphia. In 1946, he took a position with the Pennsylvania Department of Highways as a highway inspector. Later, on-the-job training provided him with engineering and accounting skills, which, in 1951, led him to a fledgling Crown Construction Company in Johnstown. Pasquerilla was hired by Crown as a payroll clerk and junior engineer. His work ethic and drive became easily apparent, and, by 1956, Pasquerilla was elected president of the firm.
“I’ve always considered myself a driven individual,” he admits, “Ever since I was young, I’ve wanted to make a name for myself and I’vealways possessed a desire to get ahead. I believe
one should never stop trying to improve. Certainly, every day is a learning experience for me.”
. In 1961, Frank Pasquerilla became sole owner of Crown Construction Company. By that time, Crown, which began as a small masonry contractor, had evolved into a dynamic and energetic firm capitalizing on the suburban boom of the 1950s. During this time, Crown Construction Company began
SEPTEMBER 19, 1991
11
!	development of community shopping
!	centers and enclosed malls. By the early
i	1960s, the firm had built its first hotel, and in
i	1972, Crown Construction Company
I	became Crown American Corporation.
■	Crown American’s holdings continued to
j i	grow into new regional markets in a multi-
i	state region.
i; In 1979, Crown American purchased Hess’s Department Stores, Inc., of ■	Allentown, Pennsylvania. Through
|	strategic planning, acquisitions and new
i developments, Hess’s has grown from 17 J stores in 1979 to 73 stores at present.
i Today, Crown American holdings j include 30 enclosed malls, nine community shopping centers, 21 hotels and five office buildings. Operated as a wholly owned subsidiary, Hess’s stores span 11 states.
As a very successful Catholic businessman, Frank Pasquerilla says he ।	realizes the necessity of incorporating one’s
religious principles into the conducting of ordinary business.
In 1990, Pasquerilla delivered the commencement address to graduates of Mount Saint Mary’s College in Emmitsburg, Maryland, and admitted, “As a Catholic businessman, I feel a special duty to contribute to the betterment of life. The best way I can think of to do this is to support education. Studying history, language, art, math and science broadens your understanding of God’s universe. Education keeps these lessons in the proper perspective. It can keep knowledge from breeding arrogance.”
Pasquerilla’s desire to unite religion and business was openly symbolized with the ; dedication of Crown’s Corporate Headquarters Building in Johnstown in 1989. The building was dedicated during a Mass of Thanksgiving and blessing offered by Bishop Joseph Adamec of the Altoona-Johnstown Diocese.
Following the dedication, Pasquerilla explained his motivations for the unique service, “Quite simply, without the graces of God, this building and our corporation would not have been possible.” Pasquerilla says he realizes that Crown American’s remarkable success has resulted from growth of physical assets, yet he also attributes success to the firm’s philosophy,
Paul Webb
This women’s dorm was the first of many contributions by the Pasquerlllas.
rooted in Catholic values and ideals.
“A lot has happened to Crown American in 40 years,” he said. “Growth is important and successful growth comes from building assets. However, while land and money are vital assets, so are values. Crown is strong because its values are strong. Catholicism teaches that your faith affects everything you do. Despite what some people believe, you can’t just turn off your religious beliefs when it is convenient.
Notre Dame, Mr. and Mrs. Pasquerilla’s interest in the school continued to grow. “After Mark was accepted at Notre Dame, we became enthusiastic students of the school,” he says, “The more we learned, the more we became convinced that Notre Dame was the best Catholic University in the United States.”
Despite their many contributions to Notre Dame, Mr. and Mrs. Pasquerilla are primarily known by students because of the
“My experience in business has proven to me that no school provides students with a better ethical foundation than Notre Dame. Notre Dame graduates won’t compromise their principles for success. They feel a responsibility to bring religious values and ideals into the business world.”
Although the Pasquerillas have contributed time, effort and money to many Catholic institutions, no school has benefited more from their support than Notre Dame.
The Pasquerillas first gained a true interest in Notre Dame when their son, Mark, was accepted to the university nearly twenty years ago. Pasquerilla recalled, “Mark became, interested in Notre Dame, so we took some trips out to South Bend to see the school. We loved the place and Mark applied and was accepted.”
Following their initial exposure to
Courtesy of Crown American
Notre Dame benefactors: Frank and Sylvia Pasquerilla.
SCHOLASTIC
two women’s dormitories and the ROTC building which bear the Pasquerilla name.
“Following our son’s graduation from Notre Dame, our involvement with the school continued to develop until we finally decided to donate some of our funds,” Pasquerilla said. “That was eleven years ago and of course the results of that contribution are the Pasquerilla East and Pasquerilla West residence halls.”
Five years ago, the Pasquerillas again decided to donate funds to Notre Dame. This contribution resulted in the construction of Pasquerilla Center, a facility capable of accommodating Notre Dame’s sizable ROTC program.
“In 1986,” he explained, “during the university’s fund raising campaign, I was touring the campus with Fr. Joyce and we saw an obvious need for a new ROTC building. On the spot we made the decision to build the Pasquerilla Center.”
Pasquerilla Center, which was dedicated on October 6,1990, is the largest privately financed Reserve Officer’s Training Corps Building in the nation. The construction of Pasquerilla Center was not welcomed by all, however, and upon dedication, many students argued that such a building glorified the military and war and was
Nick Spangler
Pasquerilla defends the new ROTC center as a place to build peace through strength.
therefore inconsistent with Catholic ideals.
Pasquerilla disagrees: “Without a doubt I believe ROTC belongs at Notre Dame. I believe Notre Dame is synonymous with patriotism and, in accordance with Catholicism, Notre Dame stands for peace. However, I believe the only way to achieve peace is through strength, and the key to that strength is the ROTC program. In fact, today Notre Dame has the class ROTC program in the country.”
As of 1990, Notre Dame had 681 students in the ROTC program, and had more ROTC scholarships in effect, by individual military service and in the aggregate, than any other college or university.
Within thepast20 years, the University of Notre Dame has undergone a tremendous amount of change. The past two decades have welcomed women onto campus and have seen that campus expand dramatically. Frank Pasquerilla commends this willingness to undertake new challenges as oneofNotre Dame’s true strengths. Healso recognizes the important role that education must play in today’s complex and ever changing world.
“This is an exciting time to be an American,” he declared in his Mount Saint Mary’s commencement address,
“Throughout the world, people are turning to us as a model. They have discovered that communism is not revolutionary. It does not inspire people to learn new things. It stifles growth. People need to grow. They need freedom. They need opportunity. This is why they look to us to show them the way.
“This is also an exciting time to be a Catholic. Marxism and Atheism are losing their grip. Millions of people are seeking a true purpose to their lives. We see churches filled to overflowing in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union.
“As I look at the changes taking place in the world, I am convinced that this is a time for growth. I am also convinced that the key to growth is learning. Subsequently, I believe we must discuss Catholicism. The world is changing and therefore we must realize that Catholicism will face new challenges. However, I believe there is nothing wrong with change; in spite of change, religious principles and traditions can persist.”
Frank J. Pasquerilla has made an investment in Notre Dame; an investment that he knows will reap untold rewards because of the ideals and values which are fostered on this campus and passed on to generations of students.
Pasquerilla offers advice to all Notre Dame students who will soon be faced with new challenges and pressures from an ever changing world.
“Never compromise those principles, ideals and values that Notre Dame has enstilled within you,” he said. “As you leave Notre Dame, always maintain a belief in the church and faith in yourself. With this attitude, success in many forms will naturally follow. Also, you should never stop learning; More importantly, you should never stop wanting to learn. Through Notre Dame, you have been given the tools to begin your education as Christian citizens of a great country.” □
By Jon Peppetti Jon is a senior history major living in Zahm Hall.
SEPTEMBER 19, 1991
13
SPORTS
Berticelll has instilled confidence and enthusiasm in a freshmen-laden Notre Dame team.
Second-year coach Mike Berticelli takes his first recruiting class into 1991 ready to make a mark on the Notre Dame sports scene
By Jonathan Jensen
h, the promise of a new year.
Despite two tough early-season losses, the Notre Dame men’s soccer team’s spirits are high. They have a new crop of top-notch freshmen, agroup of talented senior leaders, and a new hope for the future. All these facts add up to a potentially exciting year of Fighting Irish soccer.
Second-year coach Mike Berticelli has instilled a new attitude since joining the Irish after six years at Old Dominion. Berticelli’s teams compiled a 76-27-16 mark during his stint with the Monarchs, highlighted by a 1989 trip to the NCAA Tournament Prior to joining die struggling Old Dominion program, Berticelli coached for four years (1976-79) at Thomas College in his home state of Maine, and at North
Carolina-Greensboro for another four seasons (1980-83). He has won various coach of the year honors, highlighted by the Division III coach of the year following the first of his back-to-back national titles at UNC-Greensboroin 1982 and 1983. A1973 University of Maine graduate, Berticelli broughtan impressive 190-54-23 record and a knack for turning programs around into the University of Notre Dame last year.
Coming off a 4-11-3 campaign a year ago, Berticelli focused on recruiting in the off-season. In only his first recruiting year, the coach pulled in one of the best freshmen classes in the history of Notre Dame soccer. Fourteen gifted freshmen, highlighted by two Parade All-Americans and four state Players-of-the-Year, were wooed to Notre Dame for a chance to be a part of a program
on the upswing and brewing with confidence.
Five of those freshmen have gained starting roles in the first two games, providing a fresh mix between the newcomers and seasoned veterans like junior Kevin Pendergast and senior cocaptains Brett Hofmann and Kenyon Meyer.
“A lot of times when you have such a talented freshmen class come in, the seniors feel like their jobs are on the line,” said Meyer. “But we never got that feeling. We realize they’re the beginning of the soccer program in the future and it’s exciting to have the best players in the country coming here.”
One of those players is midfielder Tont Richardson, one of four Irish freshmen from talent-rich Connecticut This New England
SCHOLASTIC
state annually produces some of the nation’s best schoolboy soccer players and the four Irish freshmen from Connecticut played together on a team that won the National Indoor Soccer Championship. These four freshmen standouts have worked hard to fit in on a team with some veteran leadership.
“We all want to play so we’ve been working really hard,” said Richardson of the freshmen class. “But we don’t have any experience so the upper-classmen have been helping us out a lot and showing us the ropes. We also hope maybe we can push them.”
Meyer, also a midfielder, emphasized the great chemistry developing between the fourteen freshmen and the older players, “We do a lot of things as a team, like eating together after practices and having fun on road trips. It’s important for us to just be friendly with them and it’s easy because the upper-classmen are very conducive to that
“Sometimes with some success there comes big egos,” added Meyer. “However, this class of freshmen has been very down to earth and extremely team-oriented.”
Notre Dame has played two games,
with the freshmen playing key roles in both. The Irish home opener was marked by outstanding defense and high intensity, but some missed opportuni ties. Mid western Collegiate Conference rival Loyola wound up with a 1-0 decision.
“Anyone who was at the game knows we played better than Loyola,” said Meyer. “We dominated the game and had many opportunities to score.”
One of the highlights was the play of freshmen goalkeeper Bert Bader, who turned away nine shots. Bader was only one of the nine or ten rookies who played an important part in the opener.
Notre Dame then headed south to battle the nationally 8th-ranked Billikens of St. Louis University, a perennial power. The Irish fought hard but ended up on the short end of a 2-0 score.
“We could of beaten them but the breaks just didn’t go our way,” said Meyer. “I hit the post twice when the game was still scoreless.”
The freshman, Richardson, echoed Meyer in his reflections on the game, “It was the first time we’ve
played in front of thousands of people, but we hung in there and really batded,” he said. “I think we played a lot better than everyone expected us to play against a team like St. Louis.”
By playing a top-notch team so tough, the Irish proved they will be a team to be reckoned with in the MCC, “I think we won the respect of St. Louis,” said Meyer.
Notre Dame is viewing the first two games as building blocks for more successful results later on in the year, “It still hurts to lose,” noted Richardson. “But we are looking upon it as good experience for us younger players. We’re just going to put it behind us and look towards the future.”
“Actually, we’ve responded very positively to the two losses,” said Meyer. “It’s a very long season and we’ve only played two games. Nobody’s worried.”
And nobody should be.
“From day one we knew we had a very young team,” said Meyer. “However, our leadership is very important and I think we started the freshmen off on the right foot.”
The Fighting Irish’s hopes have been
Senior co-captaln Kenyon Meyer goes for a header
against Michigan's club team
Matt Cashore
focused on some very important goals. They have a lot to prove and are anxious to show the nation that they will be very competitive in the future.
“We want to have a great additude and intensity in every game,” said Meyer. “I feel we believe we can win. It’s been evident since the first day of practice. We’ve constantly been giving it our all and there’s been no slacking off.”
The Irish are looking forward to their September 22nd match-up with MCC foe and powerhouse, Evansville. The Irish schedule also contains three other top-20 teams in Adelphi, South Carolina and downstate rival Indiana.
The Irish conclude their season with the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championships, November 7-10 in Indianapolis. Meyer likes the team’s prospects at the MCC Championships.
“I think the way coach [Berticelli] has approached the year is for us to peak at the end of the season,” he said. “We’re not respected now, but by the end of the year we will have the ability to win the conference
and everybody knows that. We will be a team to be reckoned with.”
The 1991 edition of the Fighting Irish Soccer team has many goals for the season and aspirations for the years to come. The new freshmen have instilled some renewed confidence in the program. Meyer, co-captain with fellow senior Brett Hoffmann, has some lofty dreams for Fighting Irish soccer.
“People hear Notre Dame and they immediately react because of our great tradition,” he explained. “When Notre Dame wins a national championship in soccer, I’m going to want to brag that I played here. I feel the freshmen will do that.”
“We just want everybody to know that we will be very competitive,” echoed Richardson. “People don’t think of Notre Dame and think soccer, they think of football. We want to change that We want people to not only think of Notre Dame football, but also think of Notre Dame soccer.”
With the talent, confidence and optimism displayed by this team and the talented freshmen class, somehow it just seems like that day can’t be too far away.	/	□
SEPTEMBER 19, 1991
^SS
BSS
15
Coming Distractions				Septe Hospital 1:30 p,m Social C< the Cath< House. Lecture; & Conte; Culture, ’ Halton, * Hesburg] Intematii Movie:' 8:00 and Cushing,
11 day c a Make sure your event gets listed—sene time, and cost) to: Coming Distractic 303 LaFortune, or call Kim Cenedella		1 e n d a r i information (including date, ms, Scholastic Magazine,		
		at 239-7569. Ibesday	Wednesday	
Sunday	Monday			
September 22 Volleyball: Campuswide tournament, 8:00 a.m. - 6:30 p.m., Stepan Field. Soccer: Men vs. Evansville, 2:00 pm., Alumni Field. Volleyball: Women vs. Boston College, 2:00 p.m., JACC. Concert: Mozart Piano and Violin Sonatas, Carolyn Plummer and William Cemy, 2:00 p.m., Snite.	September 23 Service: Sophomore Class Sevice Week begins, open to all students, call Sophomore Class office for more info. Film: "You Only Live Once," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2. Film: "Adventures of Robin Hood," 9:00 p.m., Snite, $2.	September 24 Film: "Cabin in the Cotton," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2. Film: "Casablanca," 9:15 p.m., Snite, $2. Soccer: Women vs. Sienna Heights, 7:30 p.m., Krause Stadium. Volleyball: Women vs. Illinois State, 7:30 p.m., JACC.	September 25 Industry Day: College of Engineering Industry Day with representatives from thirty major companies, 11:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m., Fitzpatrick.	Sept€ Movie:' and 10:3 $2.
September 29 Omelet Maker: The World's Fastest, 10:00 am., North Dining Hall. Soccer: Women vs. Wisconsin/Green Bay, 1:00 pm., Alumni Field.	For More Information Call: On Campus	Touch Four LaFortune Information Desk: 239-8128	Call 239-2500, then press: Student Union Board: 239-7757	ext. 2101 for movie information Snite Film Series Hot Line: 239-7361	ext. 2114 for the music line News Line (summary of campus events): 239-5110	ext. 2112 for concert information JACC Ticket Information: 239-7354	ext. 2117 for theatre information Notre Dame MenuLine: 283-FOOD	ext. 2525 for a list of college even Senior Class: 239-5136 Junior Class: 239-5117 Sophomore Class: 239-5225			
\ iday	Friday	Saturday
mber 19 jty Lunch: 11:30-Center for oncems, benefits jlic Worker .Postmodernism [nporary European Eugene Rochberg-!:00p.m., C-103 hi Center for onal Studies. The Karate Kid," 10:30 p.m., ,$2.	September 20 Soccer: Women vs. Michigan State, 4:00 p.m., Alumni Field. Soccer: Men vs. Michigan State, 7:30 p.m., Krause Stadium. Film: "The Grifters," 7:15 and 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Movie: "Misery,"8:00 and 10:30 p.m., Cushing, $2.	September 21 Home Game (vs. Michigan State) Show: Shenanigans, 10:45 p.m., JACC. Film: "The Grifters," 7:15 and 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Movie: "Misery," 8:00 and 10:30 p.m., Cushing, $2.
mber 26 'Star Wars," 8:00 0 p.m., Cushing,	September 27 Soccer: Men vs. Indiana, 7:30 p.m., Krause Stadium. Film: "Sweetie," 7:30 and 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Movie: "The Empire Strikes Back," 8:00 and 10:30 p.m., Cushing, $2.	September 28 Football: Notre Dame vs. Purdue at Purdue Omelet Maker: The World's Fastest, 10:00 a.m., South Dining Hall. Film: "Sweetie", 7:30 and 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Movie: "Return of the Jedi," 8:00 and 10:30 p.m., Cushing, $2.
Picks of the
Week:
Tailgate, tailgate, tailgate!! And then watch the Irish destroy Michigan State.
Also, check out the "Star Wars" saga, sponsored by SUB at
Cushing, starting J Thursday the 26th.
Movie Theatres
100 Center Cinema I &II: 259-0414
Scottsdale Theatre: 291-4583
Town & Country Theatre: 259-9090
University Park Cinema East: 277-7336
University Park Cinema West: 277-0441 ts
Pull out and save this page!
■ <
SPORTS

IFiw j
After last week's huge upset loss to Central Michigan, the Micigan State Spartans arrive at
j
Notre Dame Stadium an angry football team
By J. Bradley Keck
np ico Duckett, Courtney Hawkins and J. the rest of the Michigan State Spartans are coining to Notre Dame Stadium on Saturday —and they are an angry group. After their devastating, upset 20-3 loss to Central Michigan last week, Notre Dame should be wary.
Expectations are mixed going into this weeks contest Early season losses by both MSU and the Irish make this an extremely important game on both sides of the ball.
Michigan State is a well coached football team that has two solid contenders for the Heisman trophy in Duckett and Hawkins; Duckett, a red-shirt junior, rushed for 593 yards as a freshman and a tough 1394 yards last year. This 1990 Big Ten offensive player of the year runs the 40 in 4.29 second and is couldrush for2,000 yards this season.
Hawkins, though, may be the best all-around performer in college football, (yes, even better than Desmond Howard of Michigan). The senior flanker had 60 catches as a sophomore and 31 receptions in an injury-shortened junior year. Hawkins has also been the Spartans main return man for the past three years, averaging 25 yards/ return.
Both of these players had respectable games in last week upset loss, but got little help from the rest of the team. The Spartans lost 14 starters from last year and their replacements did not play as well as anticipated. A dozen new faces that never started for Michigan State took up that responsibility last week, and the result was almost unbelievable — the Chippewas of Central Michigan University .beat the Spartans in
18
Courtesy of Michigan Slate Sports Information
MSU coach George Perles sees Saturday's game as a chance for his Spartans to, “...redeem ourselves.”
their own home opener at East Lansing.
“We played terrible on offense and terrible on defense... Thank God we have a chance to redeem ourselves next week (at Notre Dame),” said MSU coach George Perles at the post-game press conference.
That should prove no easy task. Notre Dame is coming off a tough loss against Michigan, but showed great emotion and offensive strength in battling back to scare the third-ranked Wolverines. The Irish had
trouble rushing the ball but showed renewed confidence in the air, throwing for 234 yards. Rick Mirer and his smooth fleet of receivers were impressive in defeat. Tony Smith and Derek Brown are ready to go at any secondary in the NCAA. The team as a whole has been tested and demonstrated character, even in a losing effort.
“This is a very disappointing loss but I am very proud of our team,” said Irish coach Lou Holtz. “I was really proud when we came back—I thought that showed a lot of heart.”
Michigan State, about that same time
last Saturday, was sputtering on both sides of the ball. Their defense gave up almost 400 yards to the unheralded Chippewas — 202 of those yards came on the ground, and rush defense is traditionally a Spartan strength. On offense Michigan State used two quarterbacks, UCLA transfer Bret Johnson and sophomore Jim Miller. This pair was a combined 14 for 24 for a sparse 98 yards. To compound their plight, MSU only moved the ball 183 yards on the ground. Consider-
SCHOLASTIC
ing the talents of Duckett and an offensive line that boasts seven players in excess of 300 pounds, they had very bad day.
This is no reason for the Irish to take the Spartans lightly. Michigan State was ■anked 18th going into last week’s contest. State still has the ability to win a lot of james this year and possibly a share of the Sig Ten championship. Their quarterback lituation will be more settled this week. Their mental execution should improve— for the sole reason of avoiding another )mbarrassment.
Duckett and Hawkins are still big play-nakers. Duckett can take a small hole and 11 would-be-tacklers right into the end tone, and Hawkins has the speed to beat iouble coverage or make the back-break-ng return.
; Irish fans will tell you that there is noth-ng like the big play in the winning of ball fames. Duckett and Hawkins are the green ind white versions of a Raghib Ismail or fim Brown.
Perles recognizes where his squad needs ielp and will have made many adjustments br the game with Notre Dame. They have
Bill Johnson Is a Lombardi Trophy candidate.
Courtesy of Michigan State Sports Information
many talented players. Brian Howard is another of their fine receivers. On defense they have a Butkus Award candidate in Chuck Bullough, a Lombardi candidate in end Bill Johnson and two of the nation’s finest cornerbacks in Alan Haller and Todd Murray.
The Spartans will not come out flat against the Irish. This is State’s only nationally televised game. They want to save face under the national spotlight. The Spartans also have a grudge to settle with Notre Dame. Last year MSU lost to Notre Dame, 20-19, late in the fourth quarter due to Adrian Jarrell’s “Immaculate Deflection Reception.”
Both teams are poised to
'ourtney Hawkins, shown here running away from a Michigan Wolverine defender, Is s Heisman Tro-jhy candidate who Is sure to give the Irish headaches all day.	Courtesy of Michigan State Sports Information
EPTEMBER 19, 1991
improve over last week’s performance. Notre Dame has to limit their mistakes and feed on the momentum that brought them back against Michigan. They also must not dwell on the fourth-and-one touchdown catch by Desmond Howard.
Michigan State must erase the ghosts of last week’s defeat and- get the ball into the hands of their stars. If the Spartans can pump up some emotion they will give the Irish a close contest. If not, the men from under the Golden Dome will improve their record to 2-1 against the Big Ten with one conference team to go in the Purdue Boilermakers on September 28.
But, let’s not get ahead of ourselves. □
SPORTS

-a-L .	After last week's huge
TITI TV^	upset loss to Central Michigan,
VjJL >UL. A# the Micigan State Spartans arrive at
Notre Dame Stadium an angry football team
By J. Bradley Keck
Tico Duckett, Courtney Hawkins and the rest of the Michigan State Spartans are coining to Notre Dame Stadium on Saturday —and they are an angry group. After their devastating, upset 20-3 loss to Central Michigan last week, Notre Dame should be wary.
Expectations are mixed going into this weeks contest Early season losses by both MSU and the Irish make this an extremely important game on both sides of the ball.
Michigan State is a well coached football team that has two solid contenders for the Heisman trophy in Duckett and Hawkins; Duckett, a red-shirt junior, rushed for 593 yards as a freshman and a tough 1394 yards last year. This 1990 Big Ten offensive player of the year runs the 40 in 4.29 second and is could rush for2,000 yards this season.
Hawkins, though, may be the best all-around performer in college football, (yes, even better than Desmond Howard of Michigan). The senior flanker had 60 catches as a sophomore and 31 receptions in an injury-shortened junior year. Hawkins has also been the Spartans main return man for the past three years, averaging 25 yards/ return.
Both of these players had respectable games in last week upset loss, but got little help from the rest of the team. The Spartans lost 14 starters from last year and their replacements did not play as well as anticipated. A dozen new faces that never started for Michigan State took up that responsibility last week, and the result was almost unbelievable — the Chippewas of Central Michigan University .beat the Spartans in
18
Courtesy of Michigan State Sports Information
MSU coach George Perles sees Saturday's game as a chance for his Spartans to, “...redeem ourselves.”
their own home opener at East Lansing.
“We played terrible on offense and terrible on defense... Thank God we have a chance to redeem ourselves next week (at Notre Dame),” said MSU coach George Perles at the post-game press conference.
That should prove no easy task. Notre Dame is coming off a tough loss against Michigan, but showed great emotion and offensive strength in battling back to scare the third-ranked Wolverines. The Irish had
trouble rushing th ball but showed re newed confidence ii the air, throwing fol 234 yards. Rick Mire and his smooth fleet c receivers were impres sive in defeat. Ton Smith and Dere Brown are ready to g at any secondary in th NCAA. The team as whole has been teste and demonstrate character, even in losing effort.
“This is a very dis appointing loss but am very proud of ot team,” said Irish coac Lou Holtz. “I was re ally proud when w cameback—I thougl that showed a lot c heart,”
Michigan State about that same tiir
last Saturday, was sputtering on both side of the ball. Their defense gave up almost 4( yards to the unheralded Chippewas — 2( of those yards came on the ground, and ru: defense is traditionally a Spartan strengt On offense Michigan State used two qua terbacks, UCLA transfer Bret Johnson ai] sophomore Jim Miller. This pair was combined 14 for24forasparse98yards. 1 compound their plight, MSU only move the ball 183 yards on the ground. Conside SCHOLASTl'
ing the talents of Duckett and an offensive line that boasts seven players in excess of 300 pounds, they had very bad day.
This is no reason for the Irish to take the Spartans lightly. Michigan State was ranked 18th going into last week’s contest State still has the ability to win a lot of games this year and possibly a share of the Big Ten championship. Their quarterback situation will be more settled this week. Their mental execution should improve— for the sole reason of avoiding another embarrassment.
Duckett and Hawkins are still big playmakers. Duckett can take a small hole and 11 would-be-tacklers right into the end zone, and Hawkins has the speed to beat double coverage or make the back-breaking return.
Irish fans will tell you that there is nothing like the big play in the winning of ball games. Duckett and Hawkins are the green and white versions of a Raghib Ismail or Tim Brown.
Perles recognizes where his squad needs help and will have made many adjustments for the game with Notre Dame. They have
Bill Johnson Is a Lombardi Trophy candidate.
Courtesy of Michigan State Sports Information
Courtney Hawkins, shown here running away from a Michigan Wolverine defender, Is s Heisman Trophy candidate who is sure to give the Irish headaches all day.	counesy of Michigan state Spotts information
many talented players. Brian Howard is another of their fine receivers. On defense they have a Butkus Award candidate in Chuck Bullough, a Lombardi candidate in end Bill Johnson and two of the nation’s finest cornerbacks in Alan Haller and Todd Murray.
The Spartans will not come out flat against the Irish. This is State’s only nationally televised game. They want to save face under the national spotlight. The Spartans also have a grudge to settle with Notre Dame. Last year MSU lost to Notre Dame, 20-19, late in the fourth quarter due to Adrian Jarrell’s “Immaculate Deflection Reception.”
Both teams are poised to improve over last week’s performance. Notre Dame has to limit their mistakes and feed on the momentum that brought them back against Michigan. They also must not dwell on the fourth-and-one touchdown catch by Desmond Howard.
Michigan State must erase the ghosts of last week’s defeat and-get. the ball into the hands of their stars. If the Spartans can pump up some emotion they will give the Irish a close contest. If not, the men from under the Golden Dome will improve their record to 2-1 against the Big Ten with one conference team to go in the Purdue Boilermakers on September 28.
But, let’s not get ahead of ourselves. □
SEPTEMBER 19, 1991
19
SPORTS
A Tradition of Excellence: 1927 National Champions
Coach: Knute Rockne.
Captain: John Smith.
Notes: The Irishfinishedat 7-1-1, finishing aspartof atri-partite national championship. Notre Dame shared its claim to No. 1 with Illinois (7-0-1) and Yale (7-1) ... The squad boasted three All-Americans in HB Christie Flanagan, G John Smith, and T John Polisky. Ironically, the most potent force for the Notre Dame offense, QB John Niemiec, was not named to any All-American teams. Niemiec led the team in both passing and scoring... The two biggest games of the year were against No. 1 ranked Georgia Tech and No. 1 ranked USC. In both games, the Irish played their part as giant killers by emerging victorious ... This was the year that University President Walsh approved the nickname "Fighting Irish" for Notre Dame's athletic teams.
1927 National Champion’s hip Team
Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information
October	1	W	Coe	28-7	H	10,000
October	8	W	Detroit	20-0	A	28,000
October	15	W	Navy	19-6	N1	45,101
October	22	W	Indiana	19-6	A	16,000
October	29	W	Georgia Tech	26-7	H	17,000
November	5	T	Minnesota	7-7	H	25,000
November 12		L	Army	0-18	A	65,678
November 19		W	Drake	32-0	A	8,412
November 26		w	USC	7-6	N2	120,000
			(7-1-1)			
N1 — at Baltimore Memorial Stadium in Baltimore
N2 — at Soldier Field in Chicago
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
John Coyle: Coyle, a junior from Howell, NJ, led the Notre Dame Fighting Irish Cross Country team to a 24-33 victory over the Georgetown Hoyas last weekend in Washington, D.C. The victory was the fifth straight for Notre Dame versus Georgetown, and the Irish look to build upon it in the upcoming 1991 National Catholic Championships. Coyle, an All-American, finshed second to Georgetown's Steve Holman with a time of25:33.82. Coyle is seen as the pivotal person for Notre Dame's future this fall.
Stephanie Porter: Porter, a sophomore from Spring, TX, led the Notre Dame soccer team to a4-0 win over Cincinnatti on September 14 by netting a hat trick. The win boosted the Irish record to 2-0-2, the best ever start for the program. By beating the Bearcats of Cincinnatti, the Irish also beat the nations's 22nd-place team. The win enabled the Irish to recieve votes in the September 16ISAA national soccer rankings. Three Notre Dame opponents are ranked in the top-20 of Division I.
20
SCHOLASTIC
ON OTHER CAMPUSES
S© H^[l©<2l®
r
Level the Garden State
Things are really off with a bang at Middlesex County College in scenic Edison, N. J. (gateway to Jersey City) according to the College Press Service. New Jersey, as in the state motto: “You live in Jersey? What exit?” Anyway, Middlesex was apparently constructed on top of the Raritan Arsenal utilized in World Wars I and II. Several explosives have been unearthed from the campus by the Army Corps of Engineers. Approximately 50,000 fuse caps (small detonating devices) have been removed from a sight close to the President’s house. Imagine New Jersey being used as dumping grounds.
Japanese Speeders
Salem-Teikyo University, a Japanese-American joint school in West Virginia had a bit of a problem with its Japanese students driving in Salem reports the National On-Campus Report. Approximately 40 of the students purchased sports cars over the summer and have been caught several times for excessive speeding. “They’re keeping the roads hot between here and Clarksburg,” Salem ’ s mayor said. Officials have now decided to require first-year students to pass a test of English fluency or complete a year of English class before they apply for a driver’s license (which is, incidentally, more than what’s required ofWest Virginiaresidents).
Weekly Collegian
Big Bad Babes of the Big Ten
What can cause hundreds of guys to wait an hour and a half to get into a campus newsstand? Playboy models, reports the Penn State Weekly Collegian. Since Penn State is soon to be in the Big Ten, it can now be included in Playboy’s annual ‘Girls of the Big Ten’ issue. Many students at Penn State reportedly were offended by the girls posing on the Nitanny Lion statue and wearing the Penn State emblem. Perhaps the only way this could ever happen here at ND would be as a desperate campaign to get more revenue from the Bookstore.
And You Thought Elvis Bit It
Professor Robert Cole at Ripon College, Wisconsin believes there is much more to the myth of a living Elvis than just a longing for the King of Rock ‘n Roll reports the College Press Service. Cole states that Elvis has been cited in Burger Kings, malls, and grocery 1 stores from Montana to New Hampshire. Cole states that the revival in Elvis sightings and conversations is a response to the lack of inspiration present in American society today. “Energy, imagination, boyish enthusiasm for life. That’s just some of what Elvis represents. People are attempting to recover that in some way,” Cole stated. Hopefully, pork chop sidebums, flaming polyester, and that ‘Viva Las Vegas’ showmanship will not be recovered.
Me Make Good Robot
Georgia Institute of Technology’s first annual competition between unmanned ‘aerial’ robots had more than a few problems reports theNational On-Campus Report (it was a real meaty issue). How many of the robots successfully completed their mission? None. The University of Texas-Arlington limped away with top billing after its entry moved, located the object, and almost picked it up.	\
Edited By Mike Owen
SEPTEMBER 19, 1991
BEHAVIOR MODIFICATION

Dear Mr. Manners:	Dear Mr. Manners:
Just last week I went out with my way-cool Junior friends. We made a run for the border — and I’m not talking Taco Bell. I came home at 1 a.m. with my roommates and fell asleep in my top bunk bed. Later that night, I took a tumble from my bed and went crashing onto Mr. Cart filled with my Nancy Drew books, old pizza, and floral underwear.
Do you have any suggestions as to how I can prevent this in the future?
Sincerely, Cecelia Jayz Way-Off Campus
Ceceeelia,
You’re breakin’ my heart. You’re shakin’ my confidence, daily. (Sorry, had to do it). First of all, may I suggest you visit the infirmary to check-for possible brain damage. I can hardly understand your letter. I think I know what happened, though. You played the lush the other night and paid for it with a face full of carpet. We’ve all done it (some of us, rather—certainly not me). Don’t feel ashamed that you can ’ t control your own body.
However, I notice an even deeper problem in your mentioning Mr. Cart. Do you name everything in your room Mr. or Ms.? Do you have a Mr. Slim-Fast, Ms. Retainer, and Mr. Plaid Kilt? Nice life. I suggest you cut down on the Tequila guzzling or else prepare to strap yourself in. Maybe have your hall manager install aroll bar on your bunk. Better yet, just crash on the floor. Also, I think you and your junior friends are way-pretentious.
As a sophomore here at this fine institution, I don’t have many complaints at all. Sure my room looks like an economy version of Motel 6,1 own a $92 Physics book, and the egos around here take up my breathing space, but heck, I can put up with it. However, the one thing I absolutely cannot stand is noise in the library. I like to study every now and then at the ‘brare (Okay, every minute) because my aforementioned room is like Motel 6.
I most often study on the second floor of the Hesburgh Library. The problem is, as soon as I get into my rhythmic pace of study, people come in packs and sit down and talk non-stop. I don’t mean to be discriminatory, but it’s usually girls with high-hair that are the loudest.
Mr. Manners, sometimes I just get the urge to mow them all down, but I usually just end up hurling the Physics book at them. (I figure for $92, it ought to be multi-purposeful). What is the proper way to get the entire floor to stifle?
Sean Throat, Cavanaugh “Naugh” Hall
Dear Sean,
I understand you have a problem concentrating on your studies with excessive noise around you. However, I really think you are making a poor choice in study areas on Floor No. 2. You see, the second floor has traditionally been reserved for the less serious, less stressful Notre Dame/SaintMary’s student. People who really have work to do are usually not allowed up there. It is a place to see and be seen where even the modest can show off that way-cool J.Crew multi-colored shirt (you know the one) that everyone owns.
The second floor is also the place for recounting a few embellishments about the previous weekend not excluding the classmates they didn’t farketoodle with and the large amounts of beer they didn’t drink. Basically, the second floor is annoying as all heck. Stick with ‘Naugh, you’re better off.
Remember, send your major crises to me here at:
Scholastic, 303 LaFortune, Campus Mail
22
SCHOLASTIC
WEEK IN DISTORTION
Idiots Abroad 2
Strange Goings En Route
T hey told me it was going to be a long flight. I understood this. But when ;	they said it was going to be long, I figured it
would be like traveling in the car to Colorado or something. I really didn’t understand the concept of flying for something like seven hours at a time, then landing in acountry where they didn’t speak English except in the airport, and then getting on another plane and preparing for more abuse. I made it, though, and I guess I’ve completely recovered from the time change (although right now I’m trying to recover from my first experience with Austrian wine.) Actually, traveling wasn’t that hard. In fact, I heard more English in the Zurich airport than I did in the Chicago airport Thatwasalittlebitdepressing. Also depressing was the fact that die cab drivers in Europe speak better English than the ones in Chicago.
Zurich itself was thoroughly unimpressive, at least from the inside of the airport I figured that I would be landing in a cosmopolitan city where drug dealers and jewel thieves came to hide their money in Swiss bank accounts. What I saw was a pretty small airport where lots of potbellied Swiss businessmen were swilling beer and going to Italy for the weekend.
Some of Dave’s Observations on Austrian '. Living:
1)	Toilets from Hell (or Austria)
If you’ve never seen or used a European • toilet (at least a German or Austrian one), nothing can really prepare you for the experience. S uffice it to say that there is very little water in the bowl, and when you flush it, all the water rushes to front, where in an American toilet it would all go down that little hole in the back. It’s not pretty. Someone told me that when the Russians invaded Germany at the end of World War II, they thought the toilets were for washing potatoes. Personally, I found the thought of
Russian soldiers trying to use toilets for washing potatoes even funnier than the thought of me trying to use one of those horrible toilets for its designated purpose.
2)	Using the Language
Now, I’m herein Salzburg. I’m used to the toilets (sort of), and I’m supposed to be learning some German. I’ve found that the best way to get practice speaking is to go to pubs (because they have beer there, as compared to classrooms, which generally don’t) and try speaking it with the people there. Unfortunately, most of them are also foreigners and speak German as poorly as I do.
I have managed to find more and more real, non-tourist Austrians to talk to (you’d think it wouldn’t be that hard in one of the larger cities in Austria, but it is). The only problems with trying to speak German with Austrians are (1) they probably don’t wantto spend all night speaking third grade level German to some bonehead American student, (2) they don’t want to speak German with anybody (not even other Austrians), or, the most common problem of all, which is (3) as soon as they find out that you’re American (which isn’t hard for them), they instantly see you as a golden opportunity to practice their English. Another big problem is that when you do say something in German to someone here, they
assume that you might actually speak German and answer you very quickly in some incomprehensible dialect. I’ve been getting more successful, but I’m still not doing all that great
3)	Naps (or, Boy is Life Here Well Suited to the College Lifestyle)
I’ve come to enjoy a few Austrian customs without anybody having to push very hard. As much trouble as I had adapting to their bathrooms and light switches, I’ve had remarkable ease in getting used to the Mittagspause, or mid day pause, which is called a siesta in many other countries. In the U.S. we call it laziness, but we have more heart attacks and ulcers than they do here. Here in Austria, lunch is the major meal of the day, and everybody takes a nap after lunch. Stores close between noon and 2 p.m., and everyone feels refreshed afterwards. You might ask how they get anything done, but it doesn’t slow them down in the least. Itjust relaxes everyone enough to make them work more productively. I’ve come to expect my Mittagspause already after only a few weeks, and it puts a damper on my day when I can’t take that little after-meal snooze.
Well, it’s getting late, so I think I’ll get into my comfy Austrian bed (which must be 6’1" long, because the space between the headboard and footboard is exacdy one inch longer than my body). I can’t understand why these beds are so small. I also have to wonder what one of Austria’s main exports, Arnold Schwarzenegger, does when he comes back here and wants to take a nap. Then again, maybe I don’t.	□
By Dave Holsinger
Dave "Dave" Holsinger is Scholastic's "Editor in Exile." He is also proud to be a sponsor of the U.S. Olympic Team.
SEPTEMBER 19, 1991
23
SESQUICENTENNIAL ANNIVERSARY
1 8 .4 2 1 9 2 \ ^University of Notre Dorne
Glancing Back
A day in the life of a Domer in the 60s —
By Patricia Doyle
T7 r. Moreau, founder of the Congregation T of the Holy Cross, sent Fr. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., and six Holy Cross brothers from Havre, France, to New York on August 5,1841 on the ship Iowa. Overamonth later, on September 13, the group of seven arrived in New York. In October, they arrived at Vincennes, Indiana, where they eventually obtained a section of land in St. Joseph County.
One way to see how Notre Dame has grown from a small, midwestem school to a nationally reknowned research university is to examine what the university was like when Fr. Sorin and the six Holy Cross brothers founded Notre Dame.
1860s that is
In 1861-62, the University Bulletin served the same function as it does today. It listed pertinent information about Notre Dame such as the mission of the university, enrollment, tuition, curriculum, faculty and clubs. The bulletin that was published in the twentieth year of the university was, however, much different than the one published today. The 1861 bulletin was 40 pages as compared with — pages this year. Tuition was dependent mostly on students’ curriculum as seen below:
♦	Entrance fee, $5
♦	Board, Washing, Bed and Bedding, Doctor’s Fees, Medices and Tuition in the English Course, $135
♦	Latin and Greek, extra $20
♦	Spanish,Italian,Frenchand German, each $12
♦	Instrumental Music, $20
♦	Use of Piano, $20
♦	Drawing, $12
♦	Calisthenics, $5
♦	Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, $10.
Tuition and expenses for taking Latin and another foreign language in .1861 would have been $239. Tuition and expenses for the 1990-91 school year were $15,755, 65 times higher than 1861.
The standard curriculum for students at each level of their schooling was very specific. While the Freshman Year of Studies provides guidelines and requirements for students in their first year at Notre Dame, these are very different from the freshman curriculum ini 1861:
♦	Sallust or Cicero, Virgil, Xenophon
♦	Latin Grammar and Prosody
♦	Arnold’s Latin Prose Composition
♦	Greek Grammar and Exercises
♦	Ancient History
♦	Algebra and Geometry.
Due to the diversity at Notre Dame, there have always been clubs and organizations to meet a variety of interests. The clubs that existed 130 years ago were much different than those that exist today, but they still provided extracurricular activities for the students. Some of the organizations included:
♦	Nocturnal Adoration Society
♦	Holy Angels’ Sodality
♦	Sodality of the Arch-Confraternity
♦	Notre Dame Literary Society
SCHOLASTIC
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DU LAC
However strict students may think Du Lac is, Notre Dame has always had plenty of rules for students to follow. Faculty had
Students on the road to St. Mary's College circa 1890.
♦	Philo-Historic Society
♦	Dramatic Society ♦ Philopatrian Society.
very specific guidelines to follow under Sorin’s leadership. All professors were required to live on campus, to extinguish their candles by nine o’clock, to refrain from drinking and not to go into town without permission. Students were required to wake up on time and dress quietly. They wore wooden shoes, since leather was not available to everyone and making too much noise on the stairs was prohibited. Students who chewed tobacco paid an extra fee because servants were needed to clean up after them. There was a “playground” in front of the college for the students. It was divided in two sections—one for the college men and one for the prep school and grade school students. If students wanted a drink of water while they were outside, they asked the Brother in charge and he brought out a pitcher. Posture, attire and politeness were always enforced, and students were required to stand in the dining hall until Fr. Sorin
Notre Dame Archives
A student’s room In Sorin Hall circa 1890.
entered.
The alcohol policy and Notre Dame go way back, as seen in this excerpt from Notre Dame: Its People andltsLegends by Francis Wallace: “The
records of the Prefect of
Discipline indicate that imbibing was considered a mortal sin. ‘G.D. deserves to have his name recommended for his successful efforts to observe no rule of the institution and not get expelled ... Mr. G., a frequent patron of the infirmary, finally got so much spiritus frumenti that he could not carry it or himself. He was permitted to go home permanently, as soon as he was able to make his way to the cars ... H.J. returned from South Bend so beastly drunk that he wished alternately to fight and embrace the Prefect of Discipline. He was given his trunk.’ The ‘Dirty Nineteen,’ a roistering group, decided there would be safety in numbers, that the University, always hard up, would not dare a multiple expulsion. They returned from a wild trip to town, ready to settle for a few harsh words, supper, and bed. Their trunks were waiting.”	.	□
Noire Dame Archives (2)
SEPTEMBER 19, 1991
25
Men and Women at Notre Dame
Feminist Forum looks at gender relations
JT* here is a good chance that, as you read J. this, you are at the dining hall eating a meal. Look around you and survey the tables nearby. How many of the groups eating together , are comprised only of members of the same sex? If this is a typical day at the dining hall, it is probably at least half — likely it’s more.
For those of you who are seniors, juniors, and sophomores, this is probably not a heretofore unnoticed phenomenon; you are aware of and accustomed to the workings of gender dynamics at Notre Dame. Forthose of you who are first year students, if you have not already started to get a mental grasp regarding this situation, it will not be long before you do.
Given the outcome of the relatively recent surveys concerning gender relations at Notre Dame, there seems to be a consensus among students that the status quo is “less than ideal” — to understate the matter. It seems that there is also a tendency among the students to express their dissatisfaction concerning the issue often only with members of the same sex, and that these moments of expression seldom result in any constructive efforts towards communication or improvement on the existing condition.
Last year, in an effort to address the issue of gender relations at Notre Dame as well as gender issues and feminism as a whole, a handful of seniors created a group called the Notre Dame Feminist Forum. Ilie purpose of the group is “To promote discussion about feminist issues concerning the Notre Dame community as well as the issues concerning the world at large and to plan activities that address such issues.”
So, what is it that Feminist Forum can provide that might facilitate progressive movement in relation to gender at Notre Dame? For one thing, Feminist Forum provides a locale and an environment where people of both sexes can vocalize their gender related concerns with members of the “opposite” sex, thus embarking on a con
structive journey of communication.
This relates to something that we of Feminist Forum wish to stress: men are more than welcome in the group. Do not give credence to the stereotypes of “feminism” for we are not man-hating, humorless ascetics. Nor do we resemble many of the multitude of other stereotypes. Another point which should be made here is that there is no one feminism. There are as many definitions of feminism as there are feminists — it’s part of the beauty of feminism. So fear not that your personal beliefs concerning feminism or gender concerns may not be exactly the same as that of others. It’s okay — we of Feminist Forum respect and cherish difference.
It is sometimes asked “Why do you call the group ‘Feminist Forum’? The term feminism has so many negative connotations associated with it that it turns people off to the group, so why not give the group a different name?”
There are several reasons not to change the name, one of which is the fact that terms created or used by subordinated groups often become appropriated by the dominant group. They come to have negative connotations within the society over which the subordinated group can have little or no control. It is probable that a new term would be similarly appropriated. But enough about semantics. It is what it is and will be called such. While it is hoped that it can facilitate change in regards to gender on this campus, the group is first and foremost a forum for the discussion of feminist concerns.
While there is not a set-in-stone schedule for the events which will be sponsored by Feminist Forum this year, there are several issues which seem particularly interesting and relevant for us to cover. One particular topic which seems especially pertinent to students is that of the meaning(s) of feminism. At this meeting we could discuss what it means to be a feminist and what it doesn't mean. We could discuss herein “fashion
politics” — the growing politicization of how one presents oneself to the world. In a meeting concerning this topic, we might discuss the mistaken stereotype that feminism is about rules, about having to do certain things and not being permitted to do others, when what feminism is really about, in this respect, is awareness and personal choice — becoming aware of the decisions that you are making and the reasons you make them.
Other interesting topics for discussion meetings are the representation of gender in the media, gender at Notre Dame, black feminism, gender and the academy, the role of gender in linguistics, etc. Some of the possible subjects for discussion lend themselves more or less readily to either more formal or more informal discussion. As a possibility for a more informal event, perhaps some evenings a film or an episode from a television program will be viewed, to be followed by a discussion of the representations of gender within that particular popular culture text There are many possibilities in terms of topics arid types of events Feminist Forum could sponsor, and the group welcomes all suggestions. Here is your chance to get involved.
So, women of Notre Dame, if you’re not already interested in these issues, give it a shot — you might find that it’s a lot more interesting and relevant to your life than you might have thought. And men of Notre Dame, take a chance—don’tallow whatthe guys might say to dissuade you from getting involved in this group. Who knows? Perhaps if enough people got involved, it wouldn’t be too long before we minimized the “dining hall gender segregation phenomenon.” Interested? Pull up a chair. □ by Moira McGee with Gabriele Clark (pictured above), Kristen Clark, Tamarin Hannon and Ellen Spiering on behalf ofFeminst Forum. The group will be holding an organizational meeting tonight, September 19 at 8:30 p.m. in the O’Shaughnessy Loft.
!
26
SCHOLASTIC
Sihllastic
g|p|r|^
OholOiBiilhbwhd^^
|refeiTiri||ut|iotWecessary/;0 tolaapRlyloithispostipnOS.^^^
betwe^n2and5p.m.Appl!cationsaredueby5p.m.MondayrSeptemb0231


Cast your vote: what's your favorite student comic?
i Scholastic Cartoon-off Ballot
i
I Please vote for two student cartoonists
1. Steve Duenes
2. Ed Wolf
Please vote for two of the cartoonists on the following four pages. Cut out the ballot at right and return it to the Scholastic office on the third floor of LaFoitune or send it by campus mail to 303 LaFoitune. Ballots are due by 5 p.m. Tuesday, September 24. One ballot per person, please. The top two vote-getters will be featured weekly in Scholastic.
3.	Brian Muller
4.	Scott Liebertz
! Your Name:
। Your Campus Address:, g Your Phone Number:_
I Your student ID number:________________________________
8 (This information will only be used to ensure that each student I votes only once.)
; SEPTEMBER 19, 1991 ! ' ■
27
“BRAD AND ZACK” by Brian Muller
ORGO LAB
Scott Liebertz

STUDENT UNION BOARD
Tickets on sale September 16-20 through the dorm representatives, the LaFortune Information Desk and the Alumni-Senior Club
During the ND vs. Michigan State Football Game
waging a
To Be Held September 21, 1991
CO. .§
3 °
&3
0 § m -
* § co ?

—__ the
&squicgntermid$^
Prizes Include:
Two ND vs. Purdue Tickets
One football autographed by the coaches, plus breakfast for two at Colonial Pancake House
One football autographed by the coaches, plus lunch for two at the Great Wall
Dinner for two at Francesco's plus $25 certificate at Wygant Floral Company
Dinner for two at Fondue Parlor plus $50 certificate at Michaelangelo's
Dinner for two at Noble Romans plus $30 certificate at Tracks
Dinner for two at Holly's Landing
Dinner for two at Spaghetti Works Jamison Inn overnight gift certificate Two movie tickets and nachos at the Hacienda
Tickets: $1 each or $5 for six
o'