U£ D0IRC DCm
SCHOLASTIC
umu mmpus news mn^/ine
Top-Hats, Lights and Music Tonight
IN THIS ISSUE . . .
JUNIOR PROM TONIGHT U. THEATER PREMIER DATE DEBATERS GO IN ACTION
IRISH TROUNCE PURDUE INDOOR TRACK BEGINS INTERHALL HOOP STANDINGS
THE WEEK COLLEGE PARADE ON DOWN THE LINE
FEBRUARY 5. 1937
Claudette Colbert says: "My throat is safest with
"An actress’ throat is naturally very important to her. After expert' menting, I’m convinced my throat is safest with a light smoke and that’s why you’ll find Luckies always on hand both in my home and in my dressing room, I like the flavor of other cigarettes also, but frankly, Luckies appeal most to my taste,”
light smoke”
A» independent survey was made recently among professional men and women—lawyers, doctors, lecturers, scientists, etc. Of those who said they smoke cigarettes, 87% stated they personally prefer a light smoke.
Miss Colbert verifies the wisdom of this preference, and so do other leading artists of the radio, stage, screen, and opera. Their voices are their fortunes. That’s why so many of them smoke Luckies. You, too, can have the throat protection of Luckies—a light smoke, free of certain harsh irritants removed by the exclusive process "It’s Toasted”. Luckies are gentle on the throat!
STAR OF PARAMOUNTS FORTHCOMING ’'MAID OF SALEM” DIRECTED BY FRANK LLOYD
THE FINEST TOBACCOS— “THE CREAM OF THE CROP”
A Light Smoke
"It’s Toasted”-Your Throat Protection
AGAINST IRRITATION—AGAINST COUGH
Copyright 1937, The American Tobacco Company
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailin" at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 70
February 5, 1937
No. 14
JUNIORS SWING OUT FOR PROM
President Scott Reardon “Dancin' with Anson . . .
Ned Joyce Is Chairman Of Flag Ceremony
Ned Joyce, senior in the College of Commerce, from Spartansburg, S. C., has been appointed chairman of the Washington’s Birthday program by Parker Sullivan, senior class president, from Lexington, Ky. Each year the senior class takes charge of the program, this being the 92nd year that the University has commemorated Washington’s birthday.
At the formal program in Washington hall, Monday, Feb. 22, Charles Meyers, of Elgin, Ill., will be the principal speaker. He will show how the ideals of Washington can still be followed today.
A large - American flag, a gift of the senior class, will be presented to the University by Parker Sullivan. Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, will make the speech of acceptance.	‘
. ..The faculty and members.of the senior class will attend the ceremonies in cap and gown.
Expect Three Hundred Couples Will Dance To Anson Weeks
•
By John Callaghan
With the rhythms of Anson Weeks and his orchestra setting the tempo, three hundred couples will step out for the annual Junior Prom at the Palais Royale tonight.
The slogan, “dancin’ with Anson,” has long been connected with good music by all dance lovers. Anson Weeks has played in all of the larger ballrooms of the country, and he comes here from an engagement at the Hotel Schrader in Milwaukee.
Besides possessing a great rhythm orchestra, Anson Weeks has always had a good singing band, and rounds out his repertoire with a great number of novelty features and additional specialties.
Queen of the Prom, Miss Sally Major, a sophomore at St. Mary’s, is being escorted by William Branigan, general chairman of the Junior Prom. The Guest of Honor will be * Miss Mary Mahoney, of South Bend and a senior at St. Mary’s, and she will be the guest of Scott Reardon, president of the Junior class.
The decorations are somewhat extensive and novel, featuring a new ceiling effect. Every committee has been working overtime to make it the best Prom in years, and we have their word that they have succeeded.
The patrons and patronesses are as follows: Mr. and Mrs. James E. McCarthy, Mr. and Mrs. Lee Flatley, Mr. and Mrs. Elmer Layden, Mr. and Mrs. George Keogan, Mr. and Mrs. William J. Coyne, Mr. and Mrs. LeClair H. Eells.	-
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Barry, Mr. and Mrs. Frank Lloyd, Mr. and Mrs. Clarence E. Manion, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Petritz, Dr. and Mrs. John M. Cooney, Mr. Thomas Madden, Mr. Paul Fenlon, and Mr. Stephen Ronay.
The committee chairmen and the members of their committees are the following: Ticket Committee, Jack
Chairman Wm. Branigan . . . in White Tie and Tails.
Anton, chairman, John Murrin, Lou Dunn, Frank Prusha, George Belanger, Ed Uniache. Decoration Committee : Thomas Radigan, chairman, Tom Mulligan, John Collins, William Winterrod, Bert Bauer, Dick Scannell.
Program Committee: William Meh-ring, chairman, John O’Connor, Leo Welch, Ed Mann, Dan Murphy, Jack Ward. Publicity Committee: Dick Jenny, chairman, Owen Kane, John Cottingham, Joe Timmerman, Paul Nowack, Jerome Magee. Patron Committee : Pat McCarthy, chairman, Pete Sheehan, John Mackin, Jerome Kane, John Donnelly, Thomas Jordan.
Reception Committee: Ennio Ar-boit, chairman, John Tobin, William Mahoney, William Gallin, William Mulhall, John Lungren. Music Committee: Robert Tharinger, chairman, George Thomas, George Fitzgerald, Joe Kelly, Tom Graves, Tom Quinlan. Tea Dance Committee: John Wilson, chairman, Jack O’Leary, Ed Cronin, Tom Bohn, John Deane, Louis Anderson.
The class song, a waltz entitled, “Never Say Good-Bye,” written by Richard “Spud” O’Brien, will be sung by George Sauter, class soloist.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 5, 1937
U. THEATER PLAYERS BOW OVER FOOTLIGHTS ON FEBRUARY 13 AND 14 IN YEAR'S FIRST WASHINGTON HALL PRODUCTION
By Richard Riley
Notre Dame’s first nighters will see the premier campus production of “Whistling in the Dark” when the curtain parts in Washington Hall on Saturday and Sunday evenings, Feb. 13 and 14 at 8:15. Announcement of the definite date for this production was made early this week by Professor A. L. Doyle, faculty director of the play.
Final dress rehearsal, to smooth out any minor details, will be held Friday evening, Feb. 12. Costuming and scenery effects are under the direction of Professor F, W. Kelly, of the University Speech department. Considerable time and effort has been devoted to the scenery by Mr. Kelly and his assistants in an attempt to give the play a truly realistic background.
Recently the rehearsals have been somewhat hindered by the illness of several of the members of the cast and the stress of examinations. The most serious obstacle was the illness of John Brassell, leading character, who only recently rejoined the group following a stay in the University Infirmary. Now that examinations are finished, the play is expected to develop much more rapidly.
All students are urged to attend one of the performances of this the first student theatrical production of the year. You will be assured of a very enjoyable evening and certainly impressed by the amount of natural talent which the directors have gathered together in this cast.
Despite the tardiness of this initial production, it is hoped that this theatrical group will not stop with this play but will continue with one or two more during this next semester.
Appoint Williams Head Of Membership Drive
Harold L. Williams, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters from Baltimore, Md., this week was reappointed chairman of the Bookmen membership committee by Robert McGrath, president.
Upon his reappointment Williams announced that the vacancies in the Bookmen membership roster will he filled at a meeting scheduled for Wednesday evening in the former library of the Hurley Hall of Commerce.
Applicants for membership in the University’s literary society are asked to arrange interviews with Williams at 6 Lyons hall well in advance of Wednesday evening.
According to McGrath, plans for an active semester of literary readings, criticism, and social activities will be outlined at the meeting.
Prof. Hollis Returns
To Faculty Post In Economics
•
Second semester changes at the University of Notre Dame will include the addition of Dr. Karl Monger, noted European mathematician, to the faculty; the return from England to active duty by Economist
Professor Christopher Hollis Back on Economics Faculty.
Christopher Hollis, and the opening of the new $300,000 Hall of Biology.
Pre-registration is complete, according to Registrar Robert B. Riordan, and capacity enrollment has made necessary the return of applications of many prospective students.
Christopher Hollis, English economist and author, is returning to his post as professor of economics and economic history following an eight month sojourn at his home in England where he has been engaged in research work.
Installation of equipment has begun in the new Hall of Biology and it will be ready for occupancy soon. Radically new in design for college laboratory buildings, this new structure will provide facilities for teaching all branches of the biological sciences, as well as quarters for graduate research work.
Unusual features of the building (Continued on Page 6)
PONTIAC BROADCAST TO FEATURE N. D.
ON MARCH 5
•
Friday, March 5, will be Notre Dame University Night on the Pontiac Varsity Show and will be broadcast from the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering on the University campus over the coast-to-coast Red network of the National Broadcasting Company. Time of the broadcast is 11:00-11:30 p.m., E.S.T.
Varsity Shows are on the air each Friday evening at the same hour direct from the campus of one of the country’s great colleges or universities under the sponsorship of Pontiac Motors. Notre Dame Night will be the seventh of the series. The first broadcast was Friday, Jan. 22, and came from the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor.
More than 100 University of Michigan alumni clubs from coast-to-coast held smokers, dinners, dances and bridge parties to hear their Alma Mater on the air.
John Held, Jr., famous cartoonist and writer of college life, conducts every broadcast as master of ceremonies. Held will spend the week of the broadcast on the Notre Dame campus gathering fanciful anecdotes and getting as much of the local color of the campus as possible before the broadcast.
Albert G. Miller, well-known New York radio director and member of the staff of Henry Souvaine, Inc., program producers and arrangers who are handling the casting and production of the entire Varsity Show series, will arrive at the University two weeks before the broadcast to begin selecting the cast and making up the show for Notre Dame Night.	. .
In addition to the varsity band and glee club, the program will feature other outstanding student organizations and undergraduate personalities. Details of thep rogram will be announced by Mr. Miller within a few days. According to him there is a wealth of good talent in the student body and he expects that Notre Dame Night will be one of the high spots of the entire series and a show that will be a credit to any professional radio program on the air.
Ross Allen, noted wild animal hunter of Florida, recently sent the department of biology at Lehigh University five additions to its vivarium; a southern com snake, a red rat snake, a yellow chicken snake, an indigo snake, and a water moccasin.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 5, 1937
5
FEATURE ROSA RAISA IN "IL TROVATORE" THIS EVENING
•
This evening the Chicago Opera Company, under the local auspices of Ethel Stuart Gaumer, is to present the opera “H Trovatore” by Guiseppe Verdi at the Granada treatre. The performance begins at eight o’clock.
Rosa Raisa, prima donna soprano for many seasons with the Chicago Civic Opera Company and for years an international favorite, is featured in the leading role in this, one of Verdi’s most popular operas.
In the role of “Manrico” is the famed Chicago tenor, John Pane-Gas-ser, who has established himself as a great singers in this role. PaneGasser will be remembered as the tenor who opened the Chicago World’s Fair with his singing of the “Stai- Spangled Banner.”
Others featured in this performance will be Giacomo Rimini, well-known baritone and husband of Rosa Raisa, G. Cavadore, Eleanore La Mance, Mark Love, and a symphony orchestra and chorus under the direction of Dino Bigalli, conductor.
Tickets for this performance range from $2.20 for main floor seats to fifty-five cents for second balcony seats. These may be purchased through Ethel Stuart Gaumer.
Students who purchase tickets for the opera in advance and present them to their rectors before leaving will be allowed late permissions in spite of the Junior Prom regulations.
Kelly First Patrician Speaker of Semester
The Patricians will resume their regular weekly meetings, which were temporarily suspended during the examination period, on next Tuesday evening, February 9, in the Law Building.
During the past semester, a number of papers were delivered by the club members. Principal among these was a discussion of the life of Oscar Wilde by Matthew Bruccoli, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters. Tom Doody and John Deane also offered interesting papers, Doody presenting a critical study of old Roman customs, while Deane traced the origin of our modern stage to the early poets.
At the meeting next Tuesday evening, Robert Kelly will present the first of a new series of papers, some of which, the club expects to broadcast as in the past, from the campus radio studio.
NAME "B" SQUAD TO REPRESENT UNIVERSITY AT STATE DEBATE TOURNEY; FIFTEEN COLLEGES TO PARTICIPATE
By Robert McClain
In consequence of a change in the varsity question, the “B” team will represent the University in the state tournament, on Feb. 26 and 27 at Manchester College, North Manchester, Ind. The varsity question will be: “Resolved that the extension of consumer cooperatives would contribute to public welfare.”
Two Faculty Members Attend Opening Of Manila Congress
•
Among the members of the American delegation present Wednesday when His Eminence Dennis Cardinal Dougherty, Archbishop of Philadelphia, opened the Thirty-third International Eucharistic Congress in the Cathedral of the Immaculate Concep-
Father Lahey and Father Marr Attend Opening Services.
tion in Manila, P.I., were two representatives from the University of Notre Dame, Rev. George J. Marr, C.S.C., head of the department of religion, and the Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C., member of the Commerce faculty.
Fathers Marr and Lahey left Notre Dame Jan. 5 for Vancouver, B.C., where they boarded the steamer “Empress of Japan” along with other members of the American delegation, one of the largest representations that will be present in Manila. Enroute they stopped at Honolulu, Hawaii, and Yokohama, Japan.
After they attend the Eucharistic Congress Fathers Marr and Lahey will proceed to visit the Holy Land and Rome. They will visit several of the leading universities in Europe and will return to Notre Dame late next summer.
“Fatty” Clark, the 355 pound guard who played with the University of Arkansas in 1930 and ’31, was the largest college football player in the world:
Frank Brame and Redman Duggan will uphold the affirmative side of the question and Charles Osborn and Frank Fitch will defend the argument for the negative side. Brame, Duggan and Osborn are juniors and Fitch, a sophomore. Last year the negative team won three out of five debates and placed second as a team at the state tournament.
Fifteen Schools in Tourney
The following schools will compete for the state crown; Purdue, Indiana, Butler, Franklin, DePauw, Indiana State Normal, Earlham, Valparaiso, Ball State Teachers, Indiana Central, Goshen, Wabash, Hanover, Manchester, and Notre Dame.
Robert Schmelzle and Thomas Proctor, veteran debaters, won their argument from Kent College of Law, Chicago, on Jan. 10 in a radio debate over station WLS Chicago. “Resolved that the extension of consumer cooperatives would contribute to public welfare,” was upheld by Schmelzle and Proctor on the affirmative side of the question. The decision was announced a week later and the votes were tabulated from the radio audience.'
Iowa Meet In One Month
With less than a month before the initial varsity debate as participants in the Mid-West Invitational tournament at the University of Iowa, Iowa City, Coach William J. Coyne is busily selecting his men for key positions to defend and attack the varsity question.
Following this tournament, the varsity will compete in the Delta Sigma Rho tournament, March 18 and 19 at the University of Wisconsin, Madison. Individual debates have been scheduled with the University of Florida, University of Alabama and Michigan State College.
The Sigma Nus at Oregon State College have introduced the idea of having a hired chaperon at their fraternity during Saturday evenings.
The power plant at the University of Chicago produces and delivers over a 1,000,090 pounds of steam daily to heat the university buildings, to supply hot water, and to sterilize instruments in Billings hospital.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 5, 1937
Swarm of Letters Congratulate School On Success of Father Nieuwland Memorial
Letters congratulating the University on the success of the Julius Arthur Nieuwland Memorial Exercises, held here Sunday, January 10, are still being received in large num- bers by the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president. They are coming from virtually every part of the' United States, and many of them contain high tributes to Father Nieuwland as priest, educator, and man of science. There is insistent demand both on the part of those who attended the exercises and those who were unable to come that the proceedings be published in permanent form.
The careful preparation that made every detail of the Memorial Exercises complete, occupied several weeks in advance of the event, but it was done so quietly that few, other than those intimately concerned, knew anything about it. One man to whom a large share of the credit is due, kept himself so completely in the background that even his name was not mentioned in connection with the advance publicity through which public attention was directed to the fact that Notre Dame planned to entertain one of the most distinguished gatherings of scientists ever held in this country.
When Singers Last Saw Cleveland
Part of the Notre Dame Glee Club of 1933 being greeted by Ray Miller, then Mayor of Cleveland. The Club sang there on a Summer tour. Monday night the Irish singers make their second appearance to sing for Clevelanders.
This man, who occupied a pivotal position, was Professor Henry B. Froning, head of the department of chemistry. Professor Froning, as chairman of the arrangements committee, gave unsparingly of his time, sacrificing his entire Christmas vacation for the benefit of the cause which was of so much importance to the University. It was largely due to his knowledge of the scientific men of the country that the extensive invitation list was prepared, and just prior to the memorial exercises nearly 2,000 letters came into his office.
Dr. Theodor K. Just, assistant professor of biology, is likewise deserving of great credit because of the work he did in behalf of the memorial exercises. Dr. Just not only aided in the preparation of the mailing lists, but directly contacted some of the speakers, who appeared on the program and did a vast amount of editorial work, reducing the technicalities of scientific papers to terms which would be understood by the general public. Several members of the faculty of the College of Science laid aside the dignity generally associated with doctoral degrees and spent hours stuffing envelopes and doing other work which had to be done in a hurry.
GLEE CLUB IN ERIE. PA. SUNDAY; CLEVELAND ON MONDAY
•
By Edward Huff
The huge Kansas City, Missouri, civic auditorium, built at a cost of six and a half million dollars and capable of seating 15,000, was more than half full when the Notre Dame Glee Club sang there on Sunday afternoon, Jan. 24. The ‘ Glee Club, directed by Prof. Joseph J. Casa-santa, was appearing with the Kansas City Symphony, under the direction of Sol Bobrov.
The singing group under Professor Casasanta were scheduled to do several campus numbers, but upon answer to an encore, the Notre Dame vocalists responded with a group of Russian folk songs.
The Glee Club will depart from the campus tomorrow, entraining, for Erie, Pa., where it will appear in concert on Sunday afternoon and again in an evening performance at the Strong Vincent High School auditorium. Rev. G. G. Dugan, assisted by a group of Notre Dame alumni, is sponsor of the concert.
Following this will be a trip around the Erie peninsula, a buffet luncheon, and a banquet in the Hotel Lawrence at the close of the evening concert.
A concert under the arrangement of the Cleveland alumni will complete the present trip of the Glee Club on Monday night. John P. Butler, ’27, is chairman of the affair to be sung at the Hotel Statler. Pat Canny, president of the Cleveland alumni, will welcome the Glee Club.
Closing a busy week of concert work, the Glee Club will sing before the Rotary club of. South Bend at luncheon on Wednesday.
On March 5, the Glee Club will appear on the air over a nationwide hookup as part of a series of collegiate broadcasts that are being sponsored by the Pontiac Motor Company-
Hollis Returns
(Continued from Page U) include a “floating” photomicrographic laboratory; several air-conditioned animal rooms; a greenhouse providing desert, tropical and normal conditions. All corners in the building are rounded. All ceilings are waterproof and all floors and walls are washable to provide the best possible working conditions.
Interior of the building is on the flexible unit plan so that departments and laboratories may be enlarged or diminished without structural changes. Every available bit of wall space is used for windows, providing an abundance of natural light.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 5, 1937
7
NOTRE DAME RUSHES AID TO REFUGEES
IN FLOOD AREA
•
Notre Dame men have done their part to aid the unfortunates in the flood regions of the Ohio Valley. One hundred and twenty pair of hoots and six dozen pair of wool socks were sent by air to Bowman field outside Louisville through the joint effort of student body and alumni.
The broadcasts of station WHAS called constantly in the first part of the disaster for hip boots to be sent to Louisville immediately. The South Bend chapter of the Red Cross informed President Louis Buckley, of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley, that the outstanding service of the school would be to supply these boots. Mr. Buckley got in touch with alumni officials early on the morning of the twenty-seventh and they in turn contacted officials of Mishawaka Rubber and Woolen Manufacturing Company, and Mr. C. L. Wanamaker* of the company offered to duplicate the University’s contribution.
Charter Special Plane
The Alumni Committee chartered a Northern Indiana Air Service plane which left at noon on Wednesday for Louisville. Pilot Ray Van de Vere carried a full load of ten dozen pair of boots weighing in the neighborhood of half a ton on his trip to the flooded city.
A total of $292.05 was collected at the University from the various hall contributions, and of this sum $244.80 was used for purchase of the boots and socks, and the remainder was turned over to the Red Cross.
All Campus Groups Contribute
The whole work was a piece of concentrated action on the part of alumni and students, the alumni led by the St. Joe Valley organization under President Buckley, and the students’ part being directed by the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C. The actual carrying out of the plans was done by Walt Clemens, Robert Riordan, and John Schindler.
< The money collected by the University was made up mostly of voluntary contributions from the halls, but several of the departments on the campus also contributed, among these were the barber shop, laundry, other groups of employees, and professors.
Dr. Francis Cai*ter Wood, director of the Institute of Cancer Research at Columbia University, announced recently that an international atlas on cancer, which is expected to aid materially in prevention and treatment of the disease, will be completed in about two years.
A. Sandusky Appointed To State Office
Arthur A. Sandusky, graduate of Law School in June, 1936 has been appointed chief clerk of the Wyoming State Legislature according to information received this week.
Arthur A. Sandusky
Chief Clerk of Wyoming Legislature.
Sandusky is a native of Sheridan, Wyoming. While at Notre Dame he was active in many affairs, edited The Dome of 1933, was a member of the varsity debating squad, and served one term as president of the Wranglers, honorary forensic society.
During the last presidential campaign Sandusky was active in Democratic circles in Wyoming. He made some of the principal campaign appearances of the state speaking program during his first really active political work.
Camels Lead Parade of Campus Favorites According to Commerce Forum's Figures
(Copyright by the
How many times have you wondered which is the most popular brand of this or that commodity selling on the market? To settle all arguments, the members of the Commerce Forum sponsored their annual Commerce Survey shortly before the Christmas vacation to determine what are the most popular brands on the campus.
After the members of the Forum had made a canvas of the halls on the campus, the official tally showed that 850 students had filled in the questionnaires submitted to them.
In the cigarette class 291 of the total replied that they preferred a “lift” with a Camel. Bowing to the winner, Chesterfield with a count of 109 and Luck Strike with 62 captured second and third places respectively.
A “knock-down and drag-out” affair was staged in the shaving cream race with Palmolive and Yardley’s scoring 141 votes apiece for the only tie vote of the survey. William’s shave cream was next with 138.
The Kaywoodie pipe outdistanced its rivals by a score of 118 votes. 104
HISTORY, EDUCATION SWELL LIBRARY
STACKS
•
Additions to the well-stocked University library have been made in abundance recently according to reports issued by Paul R. Byrne, librarian. Very few of the new additions are of the fictional type, since the greater percentage are on education and history.
Histories of foreign countries and modem history of the United States predominate. Job, the Man Speaks With God by P. P. Lippert is one of the best of the foreign history books. Others are on China, early England, and on.antiques in Mexico.
One of the most highly recommended books for library lovers is A. Loveman’s I’m Looking For a Book, which is a symposium of reviews on the popular books of the day.
The history of the movie industry * is graphically portrayed in the much-illustrated Movie Parade by P. Ro-tha, which concisely tells of the growth of the movies from its pioneer days to the elaborate sound studios of today.
Other books of interest may be found under the following classifications : Malay Archipelago, Gangs, Police, Literature, and Politics.
Commerce Forum)
students indicated that they preferred to smoke Raleigh pipe tobacco.
The makers of Arrow products made a clean sweep of three of the questions. The greatest majority was in the shirt class when 440 students said they preferred Arrow shirts. 117 voted for Arrow underwear, and 67 made Arrow ties the winner in their class. Botany ties scored second with 28 votes.
Other winners in the clothing class were: Stetson hats 175, Hart-Schaff-ner and Marx suits 178, Interwoven hose 308, Florsheim shoes 144, and Keds tennis shoes 226.
Other most popular brands were: Dr. Lyon’s dentifrice 218, Royal typewriters 217, Bobby Jones golf clubs 100, Parker fountain pens 374, Elgin watches 262, Spaulding tennis racq-ets 168, Wesclox clocks 208, Dr. West toothbrush 372, Gillette razor blades 367, Palmolive soap 208, and Philco radios 300.
Collier’s scored 318 for first place in magazines, second going to Readers Digest 93, and Esquire claiming (Continued on Page 23)
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 5, 1937
ARMY AIR CORPS TO SEEK PILOTS AMONG COLLEGE RANKS
•
A chance for college men to become airplane pilots with the benefit of free tuition under a system of instruction conceded to be superior to any in the world, in addition to being paid, fed and clothed during period of instruction is offered by the Army Air Corps.
At the present time, practically all candidates who qualify can be appointed flying cadets at the Air Corps Training Center, Randolph Field, San Antonio, Texas. Candidates for appointment must be unmarried male citizens, between 20 and 26 years of age, have completed two years of standard college work and have passed a physical examination.
Classes at the Air Corps Training Center begin on March 1, July 1 and Oct. 15. Flying cadets receive pay at the rate of $75 per month while undergoing training, a ration allowance of $1.00 per day, and quartered at no expense in barracks which afford all modern conveniences.
The course of instruction normally requires one year, and it is given under ideal conditions and under the supervision of expert Army flying personnel. In addition to about 323 hours in the air, cadets are given instruction in airplane engines, machine guns, navigation and other academic subjects necessary for the military pilot.
Admit Public To Debate On God's Existence
Robert Lochner, a senior in Arts and Letters, will be the principal speaker for the theodicy side in the Chesterton Society’s next discussion on the question, “Is there a God?” In the meeting to be held Monday night at 8:00 o’clock in the Law Building the public will be admitted with all students having the opportunity to contribute to the discussion; contributors to any of these discussions will have an opportunity to make a prepared speech at a later* meeting to qualify for admission into the society.
James K. Nerney, president of the group, announced this morning that an appointment will be made Monday night to fill the vacancy left by Secretary Bertram J. Smith, who left Notre Dame to attend the University of Wisconsin for a semester. Also at the meeting Monday night plans for the second semester will be considered and new questions selected.
Christened Francis Joseph Drolla, commonly called Joe, but hailed far and wide as “Whisper” ... in deference to a booming voice that sounds like a ferry boat whistle.
Francis Joseph is a man of many titles . . . perennial president of the St. Vincent de Paul Society, Grand Knight of the Knights of Columbus,
president of the Louisiana-Mississippi club, and dean emeritus of the Cafe Coffee Cup club.
In spite of southern lineage Joe’s accent is strictly Brooklyn Navy Yard . . . claims innocence and ignorance of this peculiar quirk.
With pals Joe Canale and Herr Doctor Downey, “Whisper” will refight the Civil War at the drop of a hat . . . and furnishes his own hat. The latter gleaned from a Vincentian old clothes drive, it is rumored.
Keeps up a terrific correspondence ... on Louisiana Club stationery and borrowed stamps . . . but refuses to yield addresses or names. “Whisper” is still moaning over the watch, tuxedo and incidental accessories that turned up missing last Fall . . . suspects some of his own clothes gatherers.
He has a smile reminiscent of grand piano keys ... a stride as though tightly taped from the waist up . . . and a vest that always allows a fringe of shirt to billow out becomingly . . . “Whisper” is developing an eye at nine-ball . . . now that the Knights have a rec room.
STUDENTS JOIN THE ANTI-COMMUNIST CRUSADE
Keynoting a national fight against Communism and subversive doctrines, students, alumni and residents of South Bend, held a mass meeting in the gym, Monday, Jan. 26.
Main speaker of the evening was Professor Daniel C. O’Grady. He attacked Communism through its own revealed doctrine, “What is Communism?” by Earl Browder. Mr. O’Grady contended that no thinking Christian or American could lend any support to the written doctrines promulgated by leading Communists both here and abroad.
The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, who presided, introduced Mr. Arthur J. Hughes, of Chicago, president of the Notre Dame Alumni association.
“It is eminently fitting,” said Mr. Hughes, “that we Notre Dame men, educated and trained in the religious and patriotic environment of our university should volunteer to put forth our united efforts to perpetuate the orderly processes of our country and preserve the foundations of the unsullied sources of true religion.”
Two student speakers attacked Communism from different views. Sebastian Bonet, whose home is in Barcelona, Spain, related how the Spanish people in general scoffed at the idea that Communism would ever get a real foothold in Spain, right up to the outbreak of the present war. Bonet, a graduate student in engineering, narrowly escaped conscription into the forces of the Spanish loyalists last summer while home on vacation. The other student speaker was James K. Nerney, of Attleboro, Mass., student president of the Chesterton Debating Society. Nerney urged that Communism will be repudiated only when the principles of Christianity are invoked, and asked all fellow students to take an active part in “rechristianizing thought among the masses of the people.”
The Rt. Rev. Monsignor Thomas Shannon, of Chicago, formerly editor of the New World, was scheduled to deliver the main address of the evening but because of illness was unable to leave Chicago.
The meeting was sponsored by the Notre Dame club of the St. Joseph Valley in connection with the 87 other Notre Dame meetings held the same evening from coast to coast. The S. A. C., under President Phil Bondi, was in charge of student participation.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 5, 1937
9
THE WEEK
Line Forms To The Right
Never has the Religious Survey excited so much comment. Particularly provocative was a question about the virtue most desired in a girl. There were the usual answers— purity, honesty, faith, hope and charity; but in capital lettters was a bit of pragmatism. The writer wanted to find a girl who would drink a dime glass of beer instead of a fifty-cent cocktail. Parker Sullivan, president of the senior class, received an encouraging note anent the girl problem. We reprint it intact as received:
January 17, 1937
To Whom it may concern:
Regarding the article in the Chicago Tribune of January 17, 1937, concerning the questionaire given to Notre Dame students on what virtues are most preferred in girls—well, here is one girl who would “drink a dime glass of beer instead of a half-dollar cocktail” with any Notre Dame student.
Campus cut-up (Miss Smith)
P.S. Where’s my man?
1555 Hollywood Ave. Chicago, Illinois.
We hasten to say that we cannot recommend Miss Smith as a potential date. She may be fat and forty; she may work a punch press someplace; she may read books on histology. There are innumerable frightening possibilities.
Tough Baby
For the past three weeks we have been haunted by a picture of a calf. It’s all over the place, in the Main Building, the dining hall, and in our hair. The photographed calf won a ribbon, or something equally as silly, as the best specimen in a stockyard show in Chicago. The text of the poster goes on to claim that the calf was bred especially for the Notre Dame dining halls. What for, we ask? Surely not to eat; it wouldn’t do to spoil the boys. Perhaps the idea was to tether it to the microphone in the west dining hall to make our mouths water. Just for the sake of argument, let’s assume that the calf was served last Saturday night. If what we ate came from the prizewinner, we know how it came from Chicago to Notre Dame—it walked behind a truck, running when it got tired.
« * *
Local Girl Makes Good
You must come over and pass out in the library sometime. Complaints
By John A. Gillespie
are frequent, even in the middle of a cold spell, that the rooms of that white building next to Howard hall are filled with hot, dry air. Men doze over their books, peel off coats, and roll up sleeves, but they can’t beat old man heat. And those girls you see roaming around disguised as librarians. Don’t let them fool you; they are trained nurses, ready always to administer first aid to any and all who faint. When asked for an explanation of her success, head nurse Encyclopedia smiled coyly and pointed to the closed windows.
“There hasn’t been a window open since 1930, when a new employee forgot himself,” she boasted.
“What happened to him?” we inquired.
“Oh, we traded him to Sioux City for an old copy of Ben Franklin’s Almanac.”
Now we know where to grow our spring plants; the library is a natural hothouse.
* * *
Pagliacci
We like people who have a proper sense of values, people who do not make bugbears out of exams, who take their beatings philosophically, even good-naturedly. Such a man penciled a terse statement on a wall in Walsh hall: “I’m going to summer school on account of Professor -----.
Are you?” That’s the spirit that helped to blaze a trail into the west, the humor that get’s you up for that eight o’clock class when you have a cut left.
4^
The Decline of Pharmacy
Walgreen’s has a soda jerker who transcends the ordinary service. We often wondered why they did such a business. It became obvious when we asked for a nickel coke. The attendant, a dark, bespectacled wag, seemed disgusted with such a small order, but he set to work with a vim. He had all the gestures of a professional, he tossed the glass recklessly from one hand to the other, poured the ice in from six feet, twisted his wrists into impossible positions. We just watched him in amazement, hoping against hope that he’d work a bowl of goldfish into the act, but his style was cramped by the simplicity of the request. You can’t miss him because of his flair for exhibitionism that makes him stand out. And when he gets a chance to concoct a triple chocolate pecan caramel sundae, with whipped cream, a cherry, and two boiled eggs, (two minutes)—there is art! It is said that Walgreen’s rent him out for state affairs.
WRANGLERS CLOSE MEMBERSHIP ROLL ON WEDNESDAY
Applications for membership in the Wranglers Society, campus speech organization, will be accepted by the membership committee at any time up to the tenth of February. Membership chairman, Pierre de la Vergne, wishes all students interested in the club to communicate with him either personally or by letter* before the above date.
The only requirement for application is that the candidate have some previous experience in public speaking on the campus.
Announcement of the finals in the interhall debate contest was made at regular meeting of the organization, Sunday, Jan. 31. The winner of the
Pierre de la Vergne Asks for Members
freshman-sophomore division, Morrissey will debate the Dillon team, representing the junior-senior division, at St. Mary’s College on Feb. 17.
Something new in the interhall debate set up will be inaugurated this year when an all-star debate team will be selected from among the members of the various interhall debate teams. The selection will be made by coaches of the teams; and the results will be made known next week.
President Meier spoke at the meeting on the Wagner-Connery Labor Relation Act and its connection with the present difficulties in the automobile strike situation. In the speech Meier, president of the club, discussed the relation between the intervention in labor troubles by the government and the capital-labor conditions themselves.
Radio technicians are not among the friends of JACK DEMPSEY. They say that his voice is pitched high and that he sounds like a sissy.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 5, 1937
CALENDAR
Friday, February 5
Scholastic staff meeting, editorial staff, 6:30 p.m., general staff, 7:00 p.m.; Track meet, Varsity vs. University of Indiana, University Fieldhouse, 7:30 p.m.; Opera, Granada Theater, "II Trovatore,” featuring Rosa Raisa, 8:00 p.m.; junior Promenade, Palais Royale, 9:30 p.m. to 1:30 a.m., Anson Weeks and his orchestra.
Saturday, February 6
Junior Tea Dance, 4:00 to 7:00 p.m., Columbia Athletic Club, Andy Reidel and his orchestra; Basketball, Varsity vs. the University of Illinois, University Fieldhouse, 8:00 p.m.; Concert previous to basketball game and during intermission, Concert Band under the direction of Prof. Joseph Casasanta, 7:30 p.m.; Movie Washington hall, “Fury,” starring Paul Muni.
Sunday, February 7
Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m., Meeting, St. Vincent de Paul Society, Knights of Columbus chambers, Walsh hall; Concert, University Glee Club at Erie, Pa., under the direction of Prof. Joseph Casasanta.
Monday, February S
Meeting, S.A.C., basement of Library, 6:30 p.m.; Concert, University Glee Club at Cleveland, Ohio; Meeting, Chesterton Society, Law building 8:00 p.m.; Meeting, Servers’ club, Sacristy of Sacred Heart Church.
Tuesday, February 9
Glee Club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice 4:00 p.m.
Wednesday, February 10 ASH WEDNESDAY
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Meeting, Bookmen, Hurley Hall of Commerce, 7:45 p.m.; Concert, University Glee club, Rotary club, South Bend.
Thursday, February 11
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; Meeting, Le Cercle Francais, election of officers.
Marquette U. Dean To Address Lawyers
Dean Francis X. Swietlik, of Marquette University Law School, Milwaukee, Wis., will address members of the Law Club and Law Faculty Monday afternoon at 3 o’clock in the law auditorium.
Dean Swietlik was appointed to that position in 1934, and has written several law texts. Before becoming dean of the Marquette Law school, he practiced law in Milwaukee. Dean Swietlik will discuss the problems of the young lawyer when he begins his practice.
COLLEGE PARADE
By Anthony F. O'Boyle
It’s Here Again!
An investigation into the athletic set-up of American colleges today would reveal a decidedly more pronounced tendency towards the subsidizing and proselyting of athletes than ever before is the opinion of William J. Bingham, Harvard University’s director of athletics. However, the coaches are less to blame, says Mr. Bingham, than organized alumni groups. In place of subsidizing he urges that college coaches be allowed to develop teams from the “boys who would normally go to their institutions” and if such were the case college athletics would be no longer a matter of the alumni of one college outbidding the alumni of another school for the services of some particularly gifted athlete.
But, Mr. Bingham, was that not the original state of affairs when colleges first took up sports? What’s to stop evolution again to present conditions?
Mars Enters the Classroom
A student at Dartmouth University may now take a course in War, its causes, its nature, its financial aspect, and the means of preserving peace. No credit will be given, and the course is purely an extra-curriculai' activity. Interest jn the subject of warfare has been so noticeable that certain Dartmouth faculty members have offered to teach such a general course, and a large number of students have already expressed an eagerness to take the course.
In the words of its sponsor, Prof. Bruce W. Knight, the course “is not a chance for confirmed pacifists to blow off steam. Precautions have been taken to keep thrill hunters out of the course.” Among the aspects of martial conflict that will be treated are the political, military, propaganda, economic, cultural, eugenic and peace efforts.
Here and There
An interesting quotation: “The referee, umpire, and head linesman must make about 150 decisions and the field judge about 50. It simply is not humanly possible for them to be right every time,” says Major John L. Griffith, Big Ten football commissioner. Isn’t it the truth!!! . . . Head Coach “Bo” McMillin recently suggested two new names for his Indiana gridders: “Pioneers” is one, and the “Crimson Crusaders” is the other. ... Over 14,000 test tubes are broken yearly by Lehigh University chemistry students.
SECOND 'SCRIP* RICH IN CHESTERTON MATERIAL
•
By Frank Reilley
Scrip, the quarterly literary magazine, made its second appearance of the year, last Friday afternoon. Under the editorship of Philip Welsh, the issue was mainly devoted to a commemoration of the late Gilbert Keith Chesterton. In a series of articles on Chesterton, his Autobiography, reviewers, essays, and verse are discussed.
“The Certainty of Chesterton” by Charles B. Nelson is a well-rounded out general survey of Chesterton. In this article, Nelson refers. to, and deals mainly with Chesterton’s Autobiography.
Reviewers of G. K. C., as Chesterton was affectionately dubbed, were lashed by Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., for their inadequacy in reviewing Chesterton, and especially his Autobiography. Father Ward rebuked Mr. Fadiman’s review of the Autobiography in The New Yorker of Nov. 7. One of the more pertinent statements Father Ward makes: “It would seem that the reviewers no longer understand the obvious fact that a man IS what he thinks.”
William P. Donnelly contributed
(Continued on Page 24)
Rev. Leo R. Warp
who is
Fr. Ward Lectures To Chicago Group
Four hundred listeners, graduates and friends of Notre Dame attended the lecture given Wednesday night by the Rev. Leo R. Ward, G.S.C., professor of philosophy at the University of Notre Dame, in the Palmer House, Chicago, HI. Fr. Ward’s talk, “Philosophy of Value,” was the fourth in a sequence sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni club of Chicago.
Father Ward, as one of the out
standing controversialists in the midwest, recently returned to Notre Dame after two years spent in study and research at Oxford and the University of Louvain.
Christopher Hollis, English economist and author, will address the Notre Dame Alumni club of Detroit on Feb. 19. Mr. Hollis, whose topic will be “World Money Muddle,” is returning to his post at Notre Dame as professor of economics and economic history following an eight month sojourn at his home in England where he has been engaged in research work.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 5, 1937 11
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAP SMOKE
Horace Greeley started a lot of trouble when he advocated western trips for young men, in fact when the examinations were going on we thought we’d have to take his advice and start scampering, even if it be westward per necessity, but here we are back to bother you with a few disinteresting lines . . . John Murphy (Lyons) strutted his stuff so well on paper during the recent semester crisis that he has decided to be a phi
DoiMing in Ivory.
losophy major ... We do not want to start a labor war or a libel suit in this column, but Frank Smith (Walsh) the infamous shyster* claims he does the work of three men. When Harry Weakley (Walsh) Smith’s chocolate sundae stooge finds the other two, he intends to fire them . . . Bob Seig-fried (Alumni) felt so good in stumbling through the finals that he put in a long distance call to Vassar— the call was refused . . . Michigan State keeps in touch with Notre Dame every Saturday night through Jim Boyle (Sorin) . . . Bernie Masterson (St. Ed’s) the institution’s top notch hockey fan, thinks the Blackhawks ought to be given back to the Indians.
We’ve just discovered that among the February departures Art Cronin and Bill Shakespeare (Alumni) are two who didn’t let the pigskin stop them from getting their fists on the sheepskin . . . Another news item: Wee Willie Shea, the round New Yawker, is headed for Porto Rico to become a beachcomber* . . . From advance reports we have just heard that the gentlemen who were to form the nucleus for this year’s golf team have hit the toboggan scholastically . . . Jack DeGarmo (Morrissey) is dead sure that his patented blue shirt has walked away. It couldn’t, Jack; it was washed . . . There’s a senior in Alumni known as Arne Touscaney; he has everything in the line of toys that one would want: drums, jazzbo
horns, games and other trinkets—a balmy senioi* provides much looney amusement . . . Donald Smith (Alumni) looks great in colors, especially around his eye, all as a result of trying to be a good Samaritan, which proves our contention that the trouble with mankind is mankind . . . Gene Ling (Walsh) has adopted the theme, Beloved Enemy . . . Bill Struck (Sorin) and Monty Moskowitz (Off-Campus) since hearing J. Edgar Hoover have decided to become G-Men, and have put in their applications ... We timed Ed. Ly-naugh (Sorin) the other night, and he was on the phone one hour and twenty minutes; we suggest that he go on a sit-down strike also, but not in the phone booth . . . For look alikes we give you Jim Como (Sorin) and Leo Boyle of the Main Bldg. . . . Jerry Davey (Alumni) took in the
Use Lux to Stop Those Runs
Academy tea dance—and at his age.
This is the third in a series of three articles as to etiquette on and off the campus. Our remarks have received such splendid response and support that we thought it fitting to moralize about the unappreciative long noses whose enjoyment of a dull movie is confided in loud whispers, to the annoyance of other theatre patrons. Most of the time the screen dialogue is bad enough, without any sotto voce accompaniment, wise-cracks, or interpretive “asides.”
Dropped into the Palais Royale to hear Freddy Martin and found that three thousand other Notre Dame students had the same idea; Monday night’s attendance broke all previous records, and after staying there five minutes we believe it. . . .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 5, 1937 ■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus Founded 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 233 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C.........Faculty Adviser
PAUL FOLEY.________________________Editor-in-Chief
CYRIL F. STROKER...................Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
John A. Gillespie_______________The IVeelf
Anthony F. O'Boyle_College Parade
Joseph Rotondo_____________In The Juggler Vein
News Staff
Louis DaPra______________________________________News Editor
Harold A. Williams_____________________Assistant News Editor
Michael Moncoven______________________________Frank Reilly
Richard Riley-----------------------------Robert McClain
George Haith cock______________________Vincent de Coursey
Frederick Sisk----------------------------John Callaghan
Thomas Marker_____________________________James Hufnagel
Gregory Byrnes--------------------------------Graham Starr
Vincent W Hartnett]___________________________Literary Editors
Harold A. Williams J
Sports Staff
Eugene Vaslett________________________________Sports Editor
Andrew M. Crowe------------------------Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley------------------------------Mark Mitchell
Allan Bride----------------------------Nicholas Lamberto
Frederick Digby-------------------------------John Clifford
Charles Callahan-----------------------William A. Donnelly
Arch Gott-----------;---------------------James A. Waldron
Francis Kroeger----------------------------------Art Editor
William R. Dooley, ’26____________________Business Manager
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Vol..70	February 5, 1937	No. 14
This year the bouts will be held on Friday, March 19. • The show promises to be bigger and better in every way. Already many prospective champions are warming up daily in gym routines, interest will be running high before March 1. We feel it unnecessary to resort to all sorts of bombastic strategems to whip up interest in an affair which has proved itself a colorful spectacle and a worthy charity.
Plans will be announced weekly in the pages of The Scholastic—we hasten to promise a real show. We know we can expect real support and patronage.
- •
With the second semester getting under way, the University Theater grooms its first dramatic production of the year. Student players, according to recent information, have exhibited only the usual amount of interest in their work. In spite of this, the cast is admirably chosen, the vehicle is ideal for local production, and bang-up performance is almost a certainty. With talent running loose, with competent and willing direction constantly at hand, with splendid physical equipment for stage work, it remains a consuming mystery why the campus is able to produce such a feeble trickle of plays. Productions during the past few years have been of excellen quality— but pitiful quantity.	.
•
In round numbers about thirty spectators witnessed last Saturday’s fencing meet between the Notre Dame swordsmen and a team from Purdue. Fencing is an ancient and colorful sport — not replete with the bonecracking “thrills” of football, hockey, or lacrosse, but easily matching any of these in interest and skill. There should be no reason for wanting spectators—matches at other schools, with talent far inferior to our own, draw-enthusiastic support. Drop down and watch the boys sometime—you’ll realize that some sports need not be riotous and bruising to be thrilling.
IN THIS CORNER....
SHILLELAGHS went out years ago for purposes of efficient combat, even the broad-sword, lance and cross-bow have been discarded, but men still gather in intimate “man to man” fighting with their fists. True, the modern gladiator wears padded, sleek leather gloves, fancy silk trunks, and steps lightly over resined canvas —sometimes even sits not so lightly on that canvas. But the art of defense and attack has remained a fascinating, dramatic spectacle that enthralls the sport world.
For five years the Scholastic Bengal Bouts having furnished the finest in boxing entertainment. The regular sport program of the University does not include boxing, and as a substitute, the Scholastic annually sponsors a University tournament to crown champions in the various classes. And champions they have always been! With the growth and popularity of the yearly spectacle, the Bouts have grown larger, more entrants have poured into the classes, more patrons have flocked to the show.
Proceeds from the Bengal Boxing Bouts are devoted entirely to the mission band of Holy Cross priests laboring in Bengal, India. During the last five years the support of students, faculty members and town people has enabled The Scholastic to forward a sizeable and most welcome check to the missionary priests.	•
SAY "AH!"....
NEEDED: Some enterprising engraver to strike off a suitable insignia for the Side-Line Officials Union. This worthy group is beginning to function in earnest at basketball games. There can be no doubt of the valuable services they render in calling decisions for the paid officials. It is uncanny the-way these lads, perched high in the stands, some of them fifty yards from the playing floor, can spot all plays long before the poor officials who are handicapped by being too close to the action.
We feel such lusty, unselfish service should not go unrewarded. The credentials for membership in the SideLine Union. are few and simple—a loud-mouthed “boo,” an ability to call plays that one didn’t even see, and a never flagging eye for opportunities to screech and holler.
Of course the full-fledged member of this group has a higher achievement, one that cannot be gained by the recruit “booer,” this extra edge is the keen lust for shouting approval at violent physical contact, when bruises are in the air. Of such is the nobility.
■ It his been suggested that special seats be erected for this “Booing” contingent; seats outside the gym under a nice tree. The booers could then function without the inconvenience of waiting for something to happen way down in front of them.	-	-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 5, 1937	13
December Hunt » » »
By Robert Kennedy
In the dark before dawn, neax- the close of the year, Is the time when the fox hunter best likes to heax* A hound’s whimper or growl and his master’s hello, As they meet at the kennel ere hunting they go.
Then a twist of the crank, frorix the old car a cough And a gulp and a shudder: we’re in and we’re off!
In capuche and high boots, sheathed with newspaper too, And armed to the teeth, we’re a wild-looking crew!
There is something you feel when you’re out in the morn, When you see all about you, alone and forlorn, ' Waste fields and the bristling hills, blue and bleak, O’er which the first rays of the rising sun peek—
A something which makes you stretch out and breathe deep
And be glad you’re alive, to be able to leap And cavort and to fight and to run and be free, And to know and to feel and to shout and to be!
Now from black into slate, into grey, into white, Turns the sky as it slips from the grasp of the night. Now the tides of new day, with pink foam rising high, Slowly wash up the broad beach of the sky.
. . .Winding up through the hills goes the tortuous road To the spot in the oaks where we quickly unload.
From the leash at a word now the dogs lightly bound, And with nose in the frost they weave ovex* the ground.
There goes Nip down the road and there Tuck through the bars
Now they’re gone. In the swamp, by the tremble of reeds, We can see how oux- Tuck slowly sniffs on hex- leads, To find homecoming fox, who hunts under the stars.
But it’s cold; it’s no use. But, hark! From the rocks Comes the howl of old Nip on the spoor of the fox.
In an hour, when the scent is as sharp as a knife, They’ll drive Reddy Fox on a run for his life!
With the hounds belling in the frost of the morn, With old Billy all ready to call with his hox-n,	-
Through the fem, over walls, along hills fast they run, Ere the scent of the fox is dried by the sun.
We three, behind trees, under bushes, near rocks, Crouch low in the hope of glimpsing the fox. ' And the cold and half-light and the wind in the dark Make us keen, and at every slight motion we start.
Ixx a circle, on cut-backs, in mazes they bay, Till at last in a bee-line they’re headed away! From the mountain and swampland we hear their long cries,
But at last, in the distance, it fitfully dies.
All the fields are bare brown, except in the spot Where the powdery snow in the grass roots has not Yet been sifted. And there on the great sloping sides Of the hills are huge slivers and boulders in slides.
And the great granite slabs of the color of ash From their mirrors of mica persistently flash The now slow, search rays of the laboring sun, Who in snow and in frost finds his work to be done.
In the cold of the dawn much more vividly shows
All the color surrounding: the glittering snows On the russety sides of the bald-crested ridge, With some yellow the maple refuses to give
To be blown by the breeze across woods and ’cross w-alls, Through the sky of old blue, till it finally falls To be speared by the lances of thorn-apple shoots, Or to brighten the blanket on blueberry roots.
In their groves the black pines bow solemnly low, As if ’waiting their burdens of crystalline snow.
But in spite of the side in their boughs we now hear The dogs’ bay o’er the ridge, coming suddenly near!
Not a move, not a sound, as we silently lay, Each expecting a shot at the red-coated prey. Then a crash! And a yell, and a shout of dismay.' . . And we know that the hunting is through for today.
On the wings of his fear, yes, the fox got away, But he’s fair game for chasing on some other day;
And the hounds, all bedraggled, and tired, and worn, Are willing to come at the sound of the horn.
And our only reward was a look at the dawn;
But Bill isn’t licked, and he cries ere we’ve gone: “We’ll be up here again at the crow of the cock;
Let’s make it this Friday at just four o’clock!”
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 5, 1937
ATHLETICS
N. D. TRACK TEAM OPENS THE INDOOR SEASON AGAINST STRONG INDIANA OUTFIT ON GYM TRACK THIS EVENING
By Charles Callahan
Led by Olympians Don Lash and Tommy Deckard, Indiana’s powerful track squad meets the Notre Dame thinly-clads in the local field house to-night. It is the initial appearance of the year of Coach John Nicholson’s men. Because of injuries and sickness they are greatly handicapped.
The positive appearance of Lash and Deckard should add to the attractiveness of the affair. As soon as the meet is over both will leave by plane in order* to take part tomorrow night
Captain Bucky Jordan The Jordan Rolls Along
in the Millrose games at Madison Square Garden in New York. Lash is the holder of the world’s record at two miles, his time being 8:58.3. He has won the National A.A.U. cross7 country championship for three years. The Big Ten one and two-mile records are his by rightful possession. Last summer he went to Germany as a member of Uncle Sam’s Olympic squad. That he is running in top form right now is shown in the fact that he ran a 4:13 mile last Saturday night at the Boston Garden.
Deckard’s deeds have been dimmed somewhat by "Lash, yet they speak highly of his ability on the boards and the cinders. He was a member of the Olympic team, competing in the 5,000 meter event.
For two years he has been runner-up to Lash in the National A.A.U. cross-country run. In his most recent appearance, he finished second in (Continued on Page 20)
FENCERS TO ENGAGE WASHINGTON U.
TOMORROW
' •
Coach Pedro de Landero and his fencing squad are anticipating a hard-fought match with Washington U. of St. Louis tomorrow afternoon in the fieldhouse. After dropping their first meet since 1934, to Northwestern in the season’s opener, the Irish have demonstrated a reversal of form in downing Purdue.
Comparatively little is known concerning the relative merits of the visitors, but they will in all probability present a veteran line-up against Notre Dame. Last year the Irish experienced little difficulty in disposing of the Bears, 13-4, in St. Louis. Incidentally that score was the highest > that has ever been attained by Notre Dame’s fencers, and in addition it marked the 17th consecutive victory -for the Irish.
Washington will be seeking revenge for the 1936 setback, and a win over the Gold and Blue will enhance their prestige in intercollegiate fencing circles. It is thought that Willman and Myers will be entered in the epee for the Bears, while Slonin is a finished performer in the foil. Merrill is rumored to be a dangerous participant in the sabre, and likely will oppose Captain Telmo de Landero in that event.'
A general improvement has been noted in the all-around effectiveness of the Irish squad. This fact is easily evident on the basis of their excellent exhibitions during the past two encounters. Faced with the responsibility of replacing both co-cap-tains, who were lost by graduation, Coach de Landero has demonstrated a wonderful piece of workmanship in building a well-balanced ’37 aggregation.
T. de Landero is scheduled to fence in the sabre and foil for the Irish. Jack McAuliffe will support his team-
(Continued on Page 2k)
INTERHALL LEADERS STAY UNDEFEATED
AT MID-SEASON
•
By J. F. Clifford
Interest in interhall basketball suffered a slight relapse over the preexam week-end, but action was renewed with added zest on Sunday, Jan. 31. Teams which had been previously dead-locked for front-rank honors settled the standings in both groups in the games over the past two Sundays.
The heavyweight games presented everything possible from the point of view of flashy basketball. There were high scores and low scores; prolonged games and fast-moving games; tight finishes and runaways. With scythelike devastation Brownson and Carroll continued to mow down their opponents in the heavyweight division and remained in the lead. Brownson on the 24th swamped the Off-Campus five, 13-0, which sets somewhat of a record in interhall competition. Carroll found it difficult in beating Badin, • 24-20. Cavanaugh had a comparatively easy time in taking Freshman; whereas St. Ed’s found the going a little tougher with the Old Infirmary.
The j’uniors of Howard in both the light and heavy divisions carried on victorious over Morrissey. The traditional rivalry between Walsh and Sorin was manifest on the court when a closing period scoring spree on the part of Walsh put them out in front. Sorin has yet to get a lightweight team on the floor, which is (or is not) a reflection on the size of Father Farley’s men.
On the following Sunday, Jan. 31, Carroll and Howard emerged the only undefeated teams. There were no heavyweight games played in Group I. Sorin and Walsh won over Alumni and Dillon respectively in the heavy division of Group II. The scheduled Morrissey-Lyons game was postponed to a later date.
Results:
January 24
Heavyweights—Group I: Cavanaugh 18, Freshman 11; Carroll 24, Badin 20; Brownson 13, Off-Campus 0; St. Ed’s 20; Old Infirmary 17. Group II: Walsh 37, Sorin 27; Dillon 25, Alumni 13; Howard 33,’ Morrissey 18; Lyons—bye.
Lightweights—Group I: Freshman (Continued on Page 21)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 5, 1937
15
DECIDE DEFINITE DATE FOR BENGAL BOUTS MARCH 19
•
March '19th will be the date of the Bengal Boxing Show, it was decided this week. Now that the semester exams are over there will be more time for practice, and all those who are interested are urged to come out for a try at the gloves. Frank Schiavone, a former* champion of the University, will conduct boxing classes each afternoon from now until the bouts from 3:30 till 5:30 p.m. The Scholastic makes an appeal to any Notre Dame men who feel that they may like to learn something about this sport—they need not necessarily enter the bouts.
Some of the more ambitious lads have been out limbering up for the past few weeks, but no serious fighting has been done as yet. All entrants in the bouts will be doing their part to aid the show, which is held annually for the benefit of the Bengal Missions. As the home of the “Fighting Irish,” Notre Dame has acquired an unprecedented reputation in the sporting world for a tremendous fighting spirit. The Bengal Bouts in past years have borne testimony to this fact — an Irishman never quits till he’s down.
From the 1936 bouts there are four champions still in school—Phil Dahar, heavyweight; Tex Durkin, slugging lightweight; Hugh Riley, bantamweight; and Holland, welterweight. All these boys have signified the intention of defending their titles again, and there should be plenty of eager boys ready to dispute their claims.
Early in the week of March 19th will be held preliminary bouts. Freshmen are strongly encouraged to enter the fights, because in the past they have provided the greatest part of the competition and generally capture more than their share of the championships. Come on you fighting sons of Notre Dame—All out for the Ben-gals, and make the 1937 show the best ever* held at Notre Dame.
Six Kentucky football players are on the basketball squad. They are RUSSELL ELLINGTON, JIM GOFORTH, RED HAGEN, LARRY GARLAND, BOB CURTIS, and WALTER HODGE.
The Michigan State athletic field will be in the centei* of a forest in the future. Trees are being planted which will eventually surround the track completely.
NOTRE DAME WILL MEET ILLINOIS BASKETEERS IN LOCAL GYM TOMORROW NIGHT
IRISH ARE BEHIND IN SERIES
ON DOWN THE LINE
▼
Though GEORGE HALAS, of the Chicago Bears, is really out on the Coast for the late pro football games; those who know say that he is doing a mighty swell job of angling for NELLO FALASCHI, the . 212 pound Santa Clara quarterback.
Germany got lots of publicity out of the last OLYMPIC GAMES but little satisfaction from the financial end. She spent §8,000,000 on the games and took in only §7,000,000.
Many greats of golfs have pet superstitions. HORTON SMITH’S is: Always put the tee in the ground with your left hand.
BILL TERRY receives on the average ten telegrams of unwanted advice daily.
CLAUDE PASSEAU, of the Phillies, was the tough luck pitcher of the majors last season. He allowed 116 runs in 217 innings, but 34 of the markers were unearned.
BUCK NEWSOM would like very much to be traded to the DETROIT TIGERS. Says Buck: “Why, with these three days’ stands, the Tigers' would sweep every series just using Tommy Bridges, Schoolboy Rowe and me.”
DOMINIC DALLESSANDRO, new Red Sox infielder, will be the shortest American leaguer in the new baseball campaign. He stands at five feet, five inches.
MAGERKURTH and KLEM, two of the National league’s prize umpires, can seldom be persuaded to work together in the same game. Reason: the two gentlemen in blue don’t like one another very well.
COACH HAROLD BROWNE, of the University of Nebraska, goes in for height in quantity. He has 10 basketball players more than six feet tall on his squad of 17.
CARL HUBBELL, No. 1 baseball pitcher, pecan grower, novice golfer, and basketball manager, has made his debut in another Oklahoma pastimeoil speculation. King Carl has leased forty acres for his new adventure.
PRIMO CARNERA is at it again. He recently scored a knockout at the expense of a fellow named Bossomi over in Italy.
•
By Nick Lamberto
Illinois, the present leaders in the Big Ten basketball race, will attempt to make it two in a row over the Fighting Irish tomorrow night in the local fieldhouse. The Irish were vanquished 44-29 by the Illini at Champaign last December.
The game last December is no criterion of what is to come tomorrow night, for Notre Dame at that time was in the midst of an epidemic of injuries and illness while the Illini happened to be exceptionally “hot” at
Captain Ray Meyer
Looks for revenge Saturday the same time. The combination had disastrous results for the Keoganites; but the second chapter tomorrow night will see a much different team in action.
Paced by sharp-shooting Moir, the Irish successfully completed a pre-exam invasion of the east and returned with wins over Pennsylvania and Western Reserve. Capt. Meyer, Moir, Nowak, Wukovits, and Brown have developed into a well-balanced unit with plenty of speed and class. Sadowski, Jordan and Crowe, are on hand to plug the gaps and keep the attack moving when needed.
The prom-goers and fans at large will see the Irish enacting a “revenge” role. They are still smarting from the humilating defeat of December. A continuance of the duel between Moir and ' Henry, the stellar Illini guard, should provide as many thrills as it did last year.
Coach Doug Mills’ Illinois five holds the distinction of being the only Big Ten team to topple Purdue this season. They turned the trick by a one point margin. The invaders have suffered one conference defeat and that at the hands of Northwestern. Victories over Purdue, Iowa, Indiana, Chicago, and Wisconsin have placed (Continued on Page 24)
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 5, 1937
INTRODUCING By Gene Vaslett
KEOGANMEN TAKE 2 ON EASTERN TOUR BEFORE EXAMS
It has been a long time since Notre Danie’s track team has had a runner for its captain. For the past two seasons the captaincy has been awarded to that other branch of thinlies, the field events men. First we had Vince Murphy, of high jump fame, and then George Meagher, of the broad jump. But this year the captaincy has returned to what many people think is the right
position from which a track captain should come, the dashes. And ranking highest in the dashes is the captain of :his year’s team, “Bucky” •Jordan, of Oak Park, Illinois.
Oak Park has been the only part of the world that “Bucky” has lived in except Notre Dame, Indiana, and Oak Park is where “Bucky” started his athletic career. No, not as a runner, but as a football player on Fenwick High School’s grid squad. Although very light for a football player, even a high school player,
Notre Dame’s fast stepping hoop-sters again flaunted their disdain for eastern basketball by humbling the previously undefeated quintet of the University of Pennsylvania before 10,000 spectators on the latter’s home court. Two days later the Keogan-men stepped off at Cleveland long enough to hand the Western Reserve aggregation a 55-20 setback.
Bucky played a man’s game at left end for the Fenwick team. Bob McGrath, now fullback on the Irish varsity, was a teammate of “Bucky’s,” but Bob was the only one to keep at the game.
It wasn’t until his senior year in high school that the Jordan boy went out for track, and again, not as a runner, but as a hight jumper. He did do some running in the dashes, but in his own words, he “wasn’t so hot.”
His high jumping was good enough to see him at the Catholic Interscho-iastics held at Notre Dame every June. This appearance at the Irish school and a boyhood ambition caused him to enter here the following September.
First “Bucky” tried football. He won his freshman numerals along with Wilke, Danbom, Lauter, and teammates, and then he turned to track, as a high jumper. However Vince Murphy was jumping for the Irish and had the situation well in hand, and it looked as though “Bucky” would have a hard time getting any place in that with Murphy scaling the bar at 6' 4" pretty consistently. It wasn’t until “Nick” saw him running a 60 yard dash that he got any real recognition, and then reports began to filter back to Fenwick High that Jordan was a luminary on the freshman squad as a dash man.
“Buck” gives all the credit for his ability at the dashes to his coach, “Nick.” “Nick” discovered him and-molded him into a 6.3 man at the 60, and a 10 flat man at the century. He has hit 9.8 in outdoor competition in the 100 yard dash, but his real ability lies as a relay man. Last year teamed with Frawley, Boyle and Clifford, “Bucky” aided iri bring to Notre Dame one of the finest sprint relay teams that ever wore N.D.’s. At the Drake relays, the first meet of the outdoor season this team won both the 440 and 880 relays from the outstanding teams of the far and mid-west. In doing so they established a new Notre Dame record of 1:27.3 in the 880 relay. This same event went on to further victories climaxed by a great win at the outdoor C.I.C. meet held in Milwaukee. Graduation has taken Frawley and Boyle from this team, but Clifford and “Bucky” remain to form the nucleus of another potentially great Notre Dame relay team.
“Bucky” is another one of those boys who is studying to be a newspaper man. Yes, he takes the much maligned course of Journalism, and hopes some day to get into the advertising business or at the very worst to be a sports writer.
The capacity crowd in the Quaker City witnessed a thrilling battle in which the Irish came from behind in the last ten minutes to score a 41-36 victory. At half time the Penn lads held a 19-18 advantage which was increased to 26-19 aften ten minutes of the final period had been played. From then on it was a see-saw contest. Notre Dame jumped into the lead when Moil* registered three times in succession, and Wukovits and Brown once. At this point Sadowski broke loose to count twice from the floor to give the Irish a 33-28 lead. While Notre Dame made good on a free throw, Penn scored three times to tie the game. From then on it was all Irish. Nowak’s basket broke the tie, and a few seconds later Moir and Sadowski broke loose for two pointers.
Moir was high man of the evening collecting six buckets and two charity tosses for a total of fourteen points. Barrett and Murray of Penn, and Brown of Notre Dame managed eight points apiece, while Sadowski chalked up seven. Wukovits played his usual brilliant defensive game.
In Cleveland before 7,500 fans the Irish unleased a second half attack that completely bewildered the Western Reserve team. At half time the visitors held a four-point lead, 20-16, but the furious pace set by the regulars and maintained by the reserves in the second half left the Ohioans far in the rear.
The line-ups:
Notre Dame	B	F P
Nowak, f-c	2	2 2
Meyer, f 10 1
Sadowski, f	3	11
Crowe, f	0	10
Moir, c-f ,	6	2 2
Brown, g	3	2 2
Wukovits, g	- 1	1 0
16	9	8
Notre Dame	B	F
Moir ..___________6	4
Meyer ___________4	1
Nowak ___________3	0
Wukovits_____:____2	2
Brown ------......_2	1
Sadowski ...-_____0	1
Jordan ...________2	1
Crowe____'--------1	1
Carson ________  2	0
O’Conner __......0	0
Allen ....J__£.__..0	0
‘	22	11
Penn	B	F	P
Doughty, f	3	0	-1
Hauze, f	0	0	0
Hanger, f	3	14
Engleblom, f	1	0	0
Menzel, c	10	4
Micho, c	110
Barrett, g	4	0	3 -
Murray, g	3	2	3
16 4	15
West. Reserve B	F .
Seginger ____:_3	1
Bate 0	0
Kelker _________2	3
Klug -----------0	1
Andrews ________0	1
Stone 0	1
McClure ________0	0
Wilson '0	0
McClennan ______0	0
Lewis 1	1
6	8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 5, 1937
17
SPLINTERS -S'Z
Having cut ourselves down to half our normal size, to the fiendish delight of our enemies and the utter destruction of our self-respect, we modestly step aside so that you and you and you may read about the Bengal bouts on page 18. Remember, it’s the greatest show on earth, and all for twenty-five cents, the quarter part of a dollar.
▼
But Bengal bouts, basketball games, track meets, and fencing jousts can all wait whilst we register surprise at the establishment of a new sport on the campus. Hear ye, hear ye, lend your ears while we bend your ears: Notre Dame is going to have a handball team. We got it straight from the secretary to the secretary of the sports publicity director. And the first matches will be held with a picked team from the University of Chicago tomorrow afternoon on the local courts at 2:30.
▼
At the time of writing, no definite statements about who is to be on the team or the future of the team were available. But rumor has it that Father Brennan is going to be the coach, that there will probably be four men on the team, and that Wild • Bill Fallon is liable to be one of them. We can think of no one, either here or elsewhere, who is more capable of coaching a handball team than Father Brennan. We ourselves have watched him kill them off the back wall for hours on end, which is a pretty good indication of how well he plays.
▼
There has been a need of encouragement of the sport on the campus, and this news should be of interest to all who have waited many vain hours for vacant courts. We have been jockeying for a handball tournament for months, but The Scholastic has the publicity, and the S.A.C. has the money to buy a trophy, so at present the two groups are at loggerheads. More about this later.
Tony Acquila, stadium groundkeeper at Ohio State University, says that it takes 10 men from four to seven days to clean up the stadium after a game. After the Pitt game his men removed 75, tubs of rubbish from the grounds.
v
Sports rhythms, the only course of its kind in the United States, is being offered at Louisiana State University. It is. intended to teach, football, tennis, swimming, basketball, and track candidates more perfect timing.
NOTRE DAME DEFEATS PURDUE'S FAST QUINTET WEDNESDAY NIGHT BY 47 - 40 SCORE;
MOIR. NOWAK. AND MALASKA STAR
The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame, fast breaking better than the speediest team in the Mid-West, and guarding so closely that their opponents were
stopped for the better part of the game, fought to a 47 to 40 victory over the
Purdue Boilermakers Wednesday night, before 5,500 fans in the Notre Dame gymnasium.
The Irish sizzled off to a fifteen to one lead before six minutes of play
Johnny Moir 6‘9 Points in Four Games.
had elapsed. Not all of the Purdue first team was in at the time, but when they entered the game it made little difference to the Irish. With Moir and Nowak leading the attack, scoring time and again over the Purdue guards, Notre Dame kept the lead intact, and at the end of the half was still out in front by fifteen points with the score standing 28 to 13.
The first part of the second half found the Irish still holding on to their commanding lead. But with ten minutes to play the Boilermakers began to click, and the gap in the score closed a bit. The Notre Dame lead, however, was too great to be overcome, and the game ended with the Irish ahead, 47 to 40.
Purdue entered the game favored to win, but could do nothing to pre-
Fencers Down Purdue in Decisive Fashion;
But Drop Close Decision to Wayne Team
The Irish fencers after a game fight succumbed to their more experienced opponents from Wayne university losing their second dual meet by the narrow margin of one point; the final score was 9-8. The following Saturday, however, Notre Dame won its first fencing victory of the year against a valiant Purdue team which was handicapped by the loss through sickness of Captain Sutter and another veteran.
After winning the foils event against Wayne by the convincing
vent the Irish from scoring or to break through the Irish guarding. Johnny Moir tallied seven field goals and a foul shot to top the scorers with a total of fifteen points. Paul Nowak, forced out of the game in the middle of the second half on personal fouls, accounted for thirteen points having but one less field goal than Moir.
Captain Ray Meyer played a steady, consistent game both offensively and defensively. It was sophomore guard Earl Brown, however, whe was responsible for holding down the Purdue score considerably through his guarding of the high scoring forward, Jewell Young.
Young, who has an average of approximately fifteen points a game in Big Ten competition, was held to four field goals by Brown, and this spiked the Purdue offensive attack. The individual star for the Boilermakers was the speedy, shifty little sparkplug, Pat Malaska. Malaska led his team in scoring even though shooting from the guard position, and his guarding prevented the score from being even higher than it was. Fourteen of the Boilermakers’ forty points were made through free throws.
The summary of the game follows:
Notre Dame	B F P	Purdue	B F P
Moir, f, c	7 12	Young, f	4 0 3
Sadowski, f	10 3	Hutt, f	0 0 1
Meyer, f	4 0 1	Sines, f	2 4 1
Crowe, f	0 0 0	Zink, f	0 0 0
Nowak, c	6 14	Seward, c	12 1
Brown, g	3 14	Anderson, c	10 2
Wukovits, g	10 2	Downey, g	15 2
		 __ —_	.Malaska. g	4 3 0
Totals	22 3 13	Mangas, g	0 0 0
		Totals	13 14 10
score of 6-3, the Notre Dame fencers lost both the sabre and the epee events by the same score, 3 to 1. It was the very last bout of the meet that decided the victory for Wayne. The fact that the Irish scored 58 touches against the 52 scored by Wayne shows plainly how much the breaks were against the Irish. Five of the nine bouts which were scored as losses for the Irish were decided by one. point only; all of the Irish victories however were by comfortable margins.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 5, 1937
Make Way For The Bengal Bouts ByM-kj.Mi.cwi
Every year, along about St. Patrick’s Day, the Irish lads (Irish in the Notre Dame sense, anyway) decide that something ought to be done to celebrate the feast day of the patron saint of Erin. And what could be more appropriate than a genuine shillelagh-swingin’ festival. So they get together, and put on some scraps, the like of which have never been seen any place but on the “ould sod.” Only instead of shillelaghs, they use leather gloves.
This has been going on for seven years, and this year marks the eighth of the series. The first two times they tried it, they just did it for fun. But of late, with true Irish generosity, they have devoted the money they make from it to the worthy and needy Bengal Missions. Incidentally, it was at the instigation of The Scholastic, that the proceeds were first disposed in this generous manner.
With the sixth edition of The Scholastic’s Bengal Bouts a little over a month away, and -with the perennial nemesis of semester examinations safely harnessed once again, preparations for this tournament of champions are moving rapidly toward their completion.
The University’s annual boxing tournament has come a long way since the S.A.C. sponsored the first of these contests in 1930. Delving into the pages of history, we find that on March 14, 1930, the S.A.C. held the first boxing tourney among the students of the University. It was run by “Hunk” Anderson, then assist-ont football coach, and was not designated as a championship contest. Sixteen students participated in the affair, which was attended by 1,000 of their classmates, and was featured by a fifteen second knockout of Gerald Duwan and by one “DeWald.”
A month later, the Student Activ-
Bengal boxers practice . . •
ities Council sponsored another contest, and designated this as an official championship tournament. The contestants in this were the winners of the previous tournament, and challengers for the titles of University Boxing Champions. So far, no one had thought of giving the proceeds to the Missions; they were placed in the S.A.C. treasury.
On May 12, 1931, the second annual championship tournament was held. The affair was promoted by Ed Madden, and was featured by the appearance of Billy Magarrall, South Bend Golden Gloves Champion. Frank Carideo acted as referee, with Marchy
Richter, Gora, Kenneally, Noto Four champions of last year.
Schwartz as timer, and Tom Yarr and Tom Conley as judges. Only 800 spectators were present, and most of them were disappointed at the farce put on in some of the contests, notably in the heavyweight division. In this, “Kitty” Gorman and George Kozak were accused of “not even working up a decent sweat.”
Then, in 1932, under the leadership of Editor-in-Chief Neil C. Hurley, The Scholastic took over the management of the championship fights, and devoted the proceeds to charity. These, the first Bengal Bouts, were remarkable for the famous Perone-Heitz comic battle.
On March 3, 1933 The Scholastic, under Editor Ed Stephans promoted the bouts for the first time on a large scale. Gerald Ambrose “Tuffy” Griffiths was in the role of referee, with “Hunk” Anderson and Wally Barden as judges. In this tournament, John Michuta, Varsity tackle and Golden Gloves champ, won the heavyweight crown.
The Third Annual Bengal Boxing Show, under Jim Kearns and Howard Waldron, added to the already established prestige of the tournament. On
March 21, 1934, seven champions were crowned in the gymnasium, and an excellent exhibition of boxing was given by Max Marek, Golden Gloves champion from Chicago, and Cousens, another Golden Glover, from South Bend.
In 1935, Editor John Carbine put on a show that really gave the fans their money’s worth. The late “Packy” McFarland, former chairman of the Illinois Boxing Commission, was referee. He was aided by Bill. Sheehan and “Scrap” Young as judges, and Elmer Layden as an honorary judge. Two thousand spectators saw eight hard-fought bouts in addition to the first appearance of the famous Cy Conner-Nick Tancredi wrestling circus, and a six-gun act, with McGrath and Sheedy as the principals. Max Marek this time won the heavyweight championship.
Last year John Moran and Jim Waldron topped all previous records for everything in connection with the Bengal Bouts. On March 20, over 3,000 spectators jammed the field house to the girders to get a glimpse of the crowning of seven new champions, and the re-crowning of “Tex” Durkin as champion in the lightheavy-weight class. Four ex-C.Y.O. fighters won titles. They were Johnny Noto in the featherweight class, Phil Kenneally, also an International Golden Gloves champion, in the welterweights, Joe Gora, middle weight, and Walt Richter, lightweight.
Besides these, Hugh Riley defeated Phil North in the bantamweight class, Oliver Halland beat Tom Mulligan in the junior welterweights, and Phil Dahar knocked out “Red” Darcy in the heavyweight division.
Mr. Frank Lloyd, Robert Proctor, and Elmer Layden were honorary judges, while the real work of rendering decisions was handled by “Scrap”
. . . for the big fight.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 5, 1937
19
Young and Bill Sheehan. Dominic Napolitano was referee, and was assisted by Danno O’Mahoney, former world’s heavyweight wrestling champion, as honorary refereee.
It is significant that since The Scholastic first took over the work of running the bouts in 1932, and devoted the proceeds to the Bengal Missions, their importance and general interest in them has increased rapidly. At the present time, they are attended by practically all of the student body, as well as many prominent South Bend people. Last year the large number of patrons made it difficult to find seats for all.
So this year, when St. Patrick’s Day rolls around, don’t forget to scrape up two bits some place, and head for the Gym on the night of March 19. Make it a point to get there early, so that you won’t miss any of the celebration. It may not be “the greatest show on earth,” but it certainly is “the greatest show at Notre Dame.”
GLASSES Properly FITTED
PEN5HERE
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
Lay Plans For Annual Press Club Dinner
Tentative plans for the annual Notre Dame Press Club banquet in the Faculty Dining Hall are now being considered, according to an announcement made early this week by Professor John M. Cooney, head of the Department of Journalism.
The banquet "will be held early in March, possibly on the first or second
For Better Going in the New Semester-
USE THE PEN WITH
TELEVISION INK SUPPLY
GUARANTEED MECHANICALLY PERFECT
Pencils, $2.50, $3.50 and $5
To Make Your Pen a Self-Cleaner
—write with Parker Qut'wk, the new quickdrying ink that dissolves deposits left by pen-clogging inks. 15c, 25c and up.
The Parker Vaeumatie Won’t Run Dry in Classes or Exams
good store selling pens. Identify the genuine by this smart ARROW Clip, —this holds this Pen low and SAFE in the pocket. The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis.
ILlSS
than
actual
sue)
For It Lets You. SEE Days Ahead If It Needs Refilling and Holds 102% More Ink Than Old-Style
Millions of moderns are now replacing their old "blind barrel” pens with this revolutionary Parker Vacu-matic because this sacless marvel ends writing "the hard way-” When held to the light, it lets you see the ENTIRE ink supply, hence won’t run dry at some crucial moment.
And because it has fewer parts—it holds 102% More Ink. Its ScratchProof Point of Platinum and Gold eliminates "pen drag.” Its lustrous laminated Pearl and Jet design is a wholly new and exclusive style.
This Pen is carried by more college students than any other two makes COMBINED. It won the recent Pen Beauty Contest hy a vote of 2 to 1—was awarded by the All-America Board of Football to the 90 outstanding players of 1936.
Thursday. Several men are being ■considered for speakers, including newspaper men, authors and members of the clergy.
This years’ banquet will be modeled after the successful dinner in honor of Paul Mallon, Washington columnist and correspondent, which was presented by the Press Club last March 13. More definite plans will be revealed in a later edition of The Scholastic.


Junior, $5;
Over-Size, $10
Indiana Track Meet
(Continued from Page 14)
3,000 meters steeplechase at the Sugar Bowl in New Orleans.
A third member of the I. U. team for the non-prom going audience to watch is Bob Collier. He is the holder of the state 100- and 220-yard dash records, and down at the Sugar Bowl he placed second in the hundred.
Coach Nicholson, mentor of the N.D. thinlies, was most woeful in his predictions concerning the outcome. “We haven’t a chance,” he said. “Injuries and sickness have ruined us.”
“Nick,” has reason to be pessimistic, yet if memory serves us correctly the old master Rockne used to say, “We haven’t a chance,” before the game started. Some of the reasons for the coaches blues lies in the fact that the “flu” hit the track squad, as it did the rest of the school, with Captain “Buck” Jordan being the chief sufferer. Bill “T-bone” Mahoney, sophomore sensation in the hurdles last year and a member of the mile relay appears to be definitely out because of a badly wrenched knee. John Francis, mile and half-mile man has a bad leg, and Steve Szumachowski, two-miler, is bothered with a growth on his heel. Both will run, however.
Going through the events as they are listed in the program -we find Dan Gibbs, Harold Langton, and Bill McCarthy, all lettermen, in the pole vault. Second comes the shot-put, and in this event the chief Irish hopes are John Levicki, two-year monogram man, and Famonville, a sophomore, Footballers Beinor and Simonich, will also try their hand at heaving the iron ball.
The 60-yard dash will find Captain Jordan, and Bill “Ace” Clifford, a junior monogram winner, answering the starter’s gun. The lone N.D. entry in the 60-yard hurdles, on account of Mahoney’s absence, will be Morgan, a sophomore. In the mile, John McKenna, a senior veteran of two campaign^ will be accompanied by Greg Rice, a sophomore of great potentialities.
Blue and Gold entries in the high jump are Hal Langton, Ed English, Schmidtz, and Kelly. Jim Parsons and Pete Sheehan, two- and one-yeai’ lettermen respectively, are the likely Notre Dame competitors in the 440. Entered in the two-mile run are Gormley, Arch Gott, and the aforementioned McKenna and Szumachowski. Only the first two are certain starters. John Francis, a transformed . miler, and another letterman John Cavanaugh, plus Ed Bernard will represent the Irish in the half mile.
At the time of going to press the makeup of the mile relay team was an unknown quantity. Parsons and Sheehan are sure to be on it; Micek is a likely member; and the fourth man will be either John Clifford, Walt Duncan, or Cavanaugh, with the first named being the leading choice.
A CHURNING flood had taken out the telephone line across a Colorado stream. Repairmen couldn’t wade it because of quicksand—couldn’t cross elsewhere and bring back the line because of obstructions.
Then Kayo’s master had an idea. He went upstream, crossed, came back and whistled. Kayo jumped in—swam across with a cord tied to his collar. With this cord, the wire was soon pulled over—communication was restored.
A small incident. But it typifies the ingenuity which helps Bell System men and women to give you the world’s most dependable telephone service.
Why not telephone home more often? Rotes to most points ore lowest after 7 P. M. and all day Sunday.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM ____J_ ____
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 5, 1937
21
Interhall Basketball
(Continued from Page 14)______ 27, Cavanaugh 11; Cai’roll 2, Badin 0; Brownson 2, Off .-Campus 0; St. Ed’s 20, Old Infirmary 18. Group II: Walsh 2, Sorin 0; Dillon 34, Alumni 13; Howard 22, Morrissey 9; Lyons— bye.
January 31
Heavyweights—Group I: No games. Group II: Sorin 18, Alumni 12; Walsh 15, Dillon 10; Morrissey-Lyons (postponed); Howard—bye.
Lightweights—Group I: Carroll 10, Freshman 6; Cavanaugh 2, Badin 0; St. Ed’s 2, Off-Campus 0; Old Infirmary 16, Brownson 14. Group II: Dillon 19, Walsh 7; Morrissey 14, Lyons 11.
TEAM STANDINGS
Heavyweights
Group 1	W	L
Brownson ______3	0
Carroll -------3	0
Badin ---------1	2
Cavanaugh _____1	2
Freshman ______1	2
Old Infirmary 1	2
St. Edward’s ....1	2
Oft Campus ....0	3
Lightweights Group 1 W	L
Carroll _______4	0
Cavanaugh _____3	1
St. Edwards .... 3	1
Brownson ______2	2
Old Infirmary 2	2
Freshman ______1	3
Off Campus .... 1	3
Badin _________0	4
Heavyweights	Lightweights
Group 2	W	L	Group 2	W	L
Howard --------3	0	Dillon ________3	0
Morrissey _____2	1	Howard _________3	0
Walsh ---------2	2	Morrissey ______3	1
Lyons ---------1	1	Lyons _________1	2
Alumni --------1	2	Walsh _________1	3
Dillon _______ 1	2	Alumni ________ 0	2
Sorin -------- 1	3	Sorin .........0	3
MAX
ADLER
“The Big Store on the Corner '
Has all the latest Arrow things in a wide variety of styles and colors. . .
ARROW. . . selected by Men for Men
From Arrow shirts right down to ties, handkerchiefs and trunks . . . we're headquarters for Arrow gifts
EUsmnrtlfa
Close Harmony
If you’re in .tune with the times, you’ll wear only Arrow shirts with their proper team mates, Arrow ties. The tenor on the right wears the Kent model, an oxford shirt in new polychrome stripes—$2. The Arrow tie is particularly designed to go with it—$1. On the left is Arrow Hitt with the Aroset wiltless collar—$2.
Mitoga—tailored to fit	Sanforized Shrunk
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 5, 1937
Illinois Prewrite
(Continued from Page 15)___________ them on the top of the heap. Their only other defeat was at the hands of DePaul of Chicago, a non-confer-ence foe; and their season record now shows nine victories in eleven starts.
Illinois will present a smart, smooth-functioning team. Fast breaks and tricky pass work dominate their attack. These combined with their exceptional shooting ability have
CALLING
All He-Men to the HOCKEY GAMES in Chicago
Take a large order of speed and skill . . . all the gentle tricks of fourteen giants with clubs — and that, friend, is a hockey game. Don’t miss seeing the Blackhawks in action —but let them take the risks—ride to Chicago via South Shore Line. You’ll travel safely — and you’ll save money and time, too.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD

formed a winning combination. .Four of the first five players are among the first nine in conference scoring. Harry Combes, a forward who played guard last year, is in second place behind Young of Purdue. Boudreau, Riegel, and Henry are fourth, eighth, and ninth respectively.
The Illini have a wealth of material and there is little to choose from among their first eight men. This reserve power may mean the difference between victory and defeat. The starting lineup will see Combes and Boudreau at the forward posts; Riegel at center; Henry at one of the guards, and. either Nisbet or Vopica at the other.
Riegel was All-Big Ten center last year and should give All-American Paul Nowak quite a tussle. The “Deadeye-Dick” of the squad is Combes. Boudreau and Nisbet are sensational sophomore “finds.” Henry and Vo-picka are both clever ball handlers, and are constant threats for long range baskets.
[ NO MORE 1 XLOGGED-UP 1 FOUNTAIN PENS
Always rich, brilliant—never watery. Get it at any store selling ink, 15c and 25c.
. Fill your pen with thisnew ink creation—ParkerQurnkf Quink cleans a pen as it writes—a Parker Pen or any other. Dissolves sediment left by pen-dogging inks.
Made by The Parker Pen Co., Janesville.Wis.
Established 30 Years
OPTOMETRISTS
222South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
REASONABLE DEPENDABLE PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
Scrip Review
(Continued from Page 10)
“Chesterton: The Deep Well,” going into an excellently polished review of Chesterton’s essays and verse.
Chesterton’s ability in verse is demonstrated by “The Arena” written by Chesterton in 1931 to commemorate his visit to the University of Notre Dame. “Causa Nostra Lae-titiae” is the particular poem appearing in this issue of Scrip.
Satire is presented cleverly in “Ah, Chopin” by Charles B. Nelson in a fine piece of fiction dealing with a women’s sketchily erudite study club.
Humanism and Puritanism are considered in “Skeletons in an Old Closet” by Charles Harris, C.S.C. This scholarly contribution brings out the close correlation between the two extremes of the opposite tendencies of Humanism and Puritanism.
John M. Broderick’s “Only the Wide Stillness” dealing with the story of a man’s reverie in the northern wilderness adds greatly to fiction with the short story.
More fiction was presented in M. C. Stein’s “Lucy Maple,” a colored maid, the third side of a dark triangle, who shot, but missed her rival, and unlike “Mrs. Otis” was not hung.
Three well handled, image ladened sketches, “Fog,” “Sand,” and “Color” are presented under “Realities” by John W. Meaney.
“Freshman Sketches” were unusu ally well received. “Night Shift” by Walter Lee Fleming is a realistically, impressionistic batch of imagery portraying scenes in a box-board factory. “Flowers” by Burley Clay Johnston deals sensuously with the opening of a florist’s shop. “Thornapple” is objectively aired in a reflective mood by Carl Schalliol. “Headmaster,” the most interesting of the “Freshman Sketches,” is a consideration of Frank Boyden and his Deerfield school, and life therein. Frederick F. Finucane wrote “Headmaster.” Herbert J. Connelly’s “Devilkin” is written in a reminiscent vein about Devil’s Caves.
Fencing Prewrite
(Continued from Page H)
mate in the epee and the foil. Sal Scarlata, a sophomore on the squad, and de la Vergne comprise a pair of flashy sabre experts.
Bob Seco, senior monogram winner, is expected to account for several Irish points in the epee and foil. Seco stated tonight that “we look for a strong and competitive team to represent the Bears.” The match with Washington will be the last home affair for Notre Dame until Chicago comes here on February 27.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 5, 1937
23
"-BUT/DON'T WANT A HUSBAND
I WANT A FORD V-8 "
Forum Survey
(Contimied from Page 7)
92 votes to run a close third to the second place winner.
The Hit Parade topped all other music programs with a total vote of 269. The Kraft Music Hall stepped in to take second with 55, and third place went to Fred Waring’s radio programs. The latter tallied 31 votes.
In the question concerning what type of advertising do you prefer, 428 replied for magazine advertising, 275 for radio, and 55 for newspaper. 534 of the 850 indicated that they look at newspaper and magazine advertising; 90 said they do sometimes; and 225 indicated that they skip advertising matter.
The survey showed that 22.83% of the students read the ads completely and 54.84% read enough of an ad
to acquire a general meaning of the matter.
Hometown newspapers have 285 loyal readers; 262 replied in favor of the Chicago Tribune, sheet, and the South Bend News-Times tallied 165 votes. The New York Times scored a surprise vote of 57.
Pictorial advertising appealed to 462 repliers most, 217 preferred humorous ads, and 104 for scientific form of advertising.