SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Join 125 years of tradition
Applications are now available for all of the following paid positions on the '92-'93 Scholastic editorial board:
Editor in Chief Managing Editor News Editor Sports Editor Campus Life Editor Entertainment Editor Departments Editor
Copy Editor Photo Editor Layout Manager Graphic Arts Manager Systems Manager Business Manager Advertising Manager Circulation Manager
Applications can be picked up at the Scholastic office, 303 LaFortune, between 2 and 5 p.m.. Monday— Friday. Applications for Editor in Chief are due Friday, Feb. 14. Applications for all other positions are due Friday, Feb. 21.
Experience is preferred, but not necessary. All majors and years are encouraged to apply. Questions? Call 239-7569.
CONTENTS
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
ENTERTAINMENT
4	Music
5	Mr. Stanford Review NEWS
7	Undergraduate Students Lost in the Shuffle?
10	ROTO Cutbacks Have Minimal Effect
CAMPUS LIFE
13	ND’s Own Pavarotti
14	The Perfect Domer SPORTS
18	Tracking the Senior Trifecta
20	Wrestling With Success
16 National Champions : 1977 DEPARTMENTS
2	Editor’s Notes
3	Editorial
4	CampusWatch
16	Coming Distractions
23	On Other Campuses
24	Week In Distortion
26	Glancing Back
28	Final Word
FEBRUARY 13, 1992
TH 00
:^-4'
<4
O O bO
NOTRE DAMEjS STUDENT;MAGAZINE
f/Vpia33; N6;17 . Februaiy
d/sc&q^
founded 1867
EDITORS
Ian Mitchell ? : J
MANAGING EDITOR
■ManOkuda y
^EXEcmnygEpi^ . Patndai Do^le < ;•<
;NEWS?;J/;:^ ga;: ; ■ 7; ■ : Edition ^rg.^et kenny,; Ti v ; •:: J ;-Assist^h^
^CAMPUSLIA*A gEditor Elizabeth Ba^iqn > f: —;< j^Assistai^
:^\Edftoft:Jop;Paui Fqtta;^ jiAsslstahftJim^
ENTERTAINMENT;^;
, V '	' '	*’ ' z/z z-,t.z^' ' "• \4 './ ,3. 5'
Editor Elizabeth Graner
-DEPARTMENTS^^
■^Editor: Michael ?^ssisKnt-;Cp!jn
?;y:A,'A>J■■ '■ ’.Sa■.5•;:>'
" Assistant:.Nick Spangler^
giSENiOR^ ;(Chteaanfpj^Am §J.yBr£dte^ ^J^e^Hpidjj^ra^wriis;^^
CGRAR HJp.iABtg	k

EDITOR'S NOTES
Those Were the Days
Ah, memories ... many good (and humorous) were shared by the young and not-so-young former editors this past weekend during Scholastic's 125th anniversary reunion. Almost every decade of the twentieth century was represented this weekend, every one with a tale to tell — from the early days of production in the basement of Farley Hall and early photo manipulation to the Scholastic “coup” of‘86. The current staff would like to thank all those who organized, attended and shared last weekend with us.
Let the Tradition Continue
Create your own memories by joining the Scholastic staff. Applications for editor in chief are due tomorrow, February 14. All other editorial position applications are due Friday, February 21. If you like to write, photograph or draw stop by our third floor LaFortune office. If you’ve already picked up an application, please be sure to return it in time. Whether or not you apply for a board position, help bring Scholastic's tradition into the twenty-first century. .
In This Issue
In news, senior staff writer Chris Blanford examines student government’s report on “Undergraduate Education at a ‘National Catholic Research University’” to the board of trustess and analyzes the debate between research and teaching. Denise Marion-Landais and Jennifer Guerin take a look at the effects the recent cutbacks have had on the ROTC program.
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed al The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. Thesutscriptumraieis$25.00[yearandbackissuesareavailable al $125 [copy. The opinions expressed m Scholastic are those of the authors and editors arid do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1992 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
You’ve all been “checked out” by Paul Mahoney, the ‘Brare monitor. In Campus Life, Assistant Editor Maricelle Ruiz-Calderdn reveals Mahoney’s secret passion: opera singing. Though you may not see him much outside in this cold winter weather, Darby O’Gill III is still scampering about in Stanford Hall. Campus Life Editor Elizabeth Bay tion and writer Nicole Pelle introduce you to Fr. Griffin’s furry companion.
While in sports, Nick Mathews follows the roller coaster season of Coach John MacLeod and his senior basketball players and John Regruth “wrestles” with some weighty guys as the wrestling team prepares
. for another NCAA berth.
Back at Cha’!
We hope you enjoyed our special Football Review and Anniversary issues. This week Scholastic returns to its regular format, with the Gipp andMr. Manners back to “inform” and entertain. After a long hiatus, Scholastic brings back “Coming Distrations,” the weekly events calendar to help you plan your weekend. For those non-juniors, check out what else is happening in town and make your escape from JPW. All our usual columns, reviews and features can also be found. .
Mari Okuda
Managing Editor
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should in elude their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholast ic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United States. Scholastic also will edit for copyfitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Address all correspondence to:
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center
Noire Dame, IN46556
SCHOLASTIC
2
EDITORIAL
Dear Greg and Molly ...
Scholastic congratulates Greg Butrus and Molly O’Neill for their impressive first-round victory in thestudentgovemmentelections. (And we note, with some pride, that our voice has again been influential in the process: this is the fourth year in a row that the presidential ticket endorsed by Scholastic has gone on to win the office.)
After the election of a U.S. President, it’s an unwritten rule that the new officeholder is granted a few weeks of positive press coverage before the negative comments begin. A U.S. President, however, holds office for four years, while ND’s student body president is in power for just one. Thus, the “honeymoon” period for Notre Dame’s SBP should be considerably shorter. Butrus and O’Neill were elected on Monday, three days ago. We figure that’s long enough.
Our endorsement of the Butrus/O’Neill ticket had one major qualification: the HPC scandal. And yes, it is a “scandal.” HPC may be justified in eating their catered meals at the student’s expense, if and only if the hall council of each dorm approved the spending with the knowledge and consent of the dorm’s residents. But we have yet to hear a convincing justification of such expenditures. Not that Butrus and O’Neill didn’t try in their pre-election interview with Scholastic.
O’Neill: “The fact of the matter is that there is a lot of dorm communication that goes on [at the dinners] and I would hate to see where we might be without that communication.”
Communication might be easier over meals, but it can happen for free. Two little words: dining hall.
Butrus: “Really the hall presidents are doing an enormous amount of work for their halls.”
The hall presidents weren’t drafted into their positions; they volunteered. Supposedly they’re working for their residents, not for their meals.
HPC’s use of student funds for their own meals has made them a bad joke.
Q: What’s the best way to solve the problem of hunger in Africa?
A: Have HPC meet there.
Q: What do you call a hungry hall president?
A: I don’t know, I’ve never seen one.
Want to stop the jokes, HPC members? Stop the meals.
And stop trying to justify the biggest scandal of all: the closed meeting HPC held after the charges became public.
O’Neill: “There has been some misunderstanding as to why the meeting was closed: It was not at all so that we could tell everyone only what they [HPC members] wanted them to hear. That was not the point at all. The point was that it was an internal personality conflict between members of the Hall Presidents’ Council.”
News bulletin: HPC is made up of elected representatives. Conflicts between members arenotintemal matters, they are, and should be, public.
Rob Pritchard had the guts to make his charges publicly. In dealing with those allegations, HPC should have showed the same honesty with the student body. By preventing the circulation of any but the official version of the story, HPC members prevented students from learning all we are entitled to know about our representatives.
About the only justification Congress can give for going into closed session is national security. That’s about the only lame excuse we haven ’ t heard from HPC members. But give them time.
President-elect Butrus, Vice President-elect O’Neill: Reconsider your stance on closed student government sessions and help pass resolutions making such meetings unconstitutional. Make your first actions in officereflectiveof thesameconcem for student rights that won the campaign for you.
And one more thing, Greg and Molly: Good luck. Scholastic hopes you’ll serve the students well in the coming year. And we promise to let you know when you don’t.	•
-Scholastic
FEBRUARY 13, 1992
3
' ' ■ ■ ■ NEWS COMMENTARY 
i
CammjsWafch
BY THE GIPPER
Information, opinion, attitude and outright innuendo
The Gipp is Back
The Gipper’s wisdom and wit has not graced the dining halls of Notre Dame since last December, thanks to Christmas break and a pair of special issues. The gossiping ghost of Notre Dame has been silent for seven weeks, and a quiet ghost is an unhappy ghost. So evildoers beware and gossipmongers rejoice as the the Gipp is on the march!
News Flash:
Student Government People Get More Perks
If you’re a graduating senior trying desperately to locate rooms for your family to stay: in over graduation weekend, no doubt your mind will be eased somewhat by the revelation that your good friends in student government aren’t troubled by the same worries as the rest of you little people. The Gipper has learned that 10 rooms in the convenient Morris Inn are set aside every year for the families of: senior class officers, student body officers (if they’re seniors), the co-chairs of HPC (surprise, surprise) and, a source at the Inn told one enquiring CampusWatcher, the head of the Student Union Board. Now, the existence of perks for student government folks doesn’t really surprise the Gipp, but he’s beginning to wonder just where it all ends.
4
Pangborn Born Again?
Just before writing (rather, typing) these words, the Gipper was advised of the attempts by some current Pangborn residents and others to turn Pangborn into a coed dorm next year. The Gipp is pleased to see that the administration is not being allowed to convert Pangborn to women’s housing without some kind of consideration of the alternatives. He doesn’t have high hopes for the proposal’s acceptance, but still, one never knows.
Leap Years Bite
February is far and wide known as the worst month atNotre Dame. There’splenty of bad weather, no football and very little to do. Most students spend February just marking time until spring break. This year, students are in for a rare treat, as your favorite month and mine is one extra day longer. What to do except be driven completely insane by the maddeningly slow passage of time? The Gipper is looking for more creative alternatives. The must besomething to do during The Month That Would Not End. Junior CampusWatchers everywhere are asked to submit their best suggestions for beating the February blues. (See ‘Tell One to the Gipper,” below.)
Du Lac Clause of the Week
This week’s DuLac clause concerns the the rules regulating student clubs: ‘To be con
sidered an official University recognized student organization, a club’s purpose must be consistent with the University’s.mission, whether it be spiritual, moral, intellectual, cultural, social, athletic or recreational.. No organization, or member of any organization on behalf of that organization, may encourage or participate in any activity which contravenes the mission of the University, or the moral teachings of the Catholic Church.”
A high-ranking staff CampusWatcher has informed the Gipper that this clause is once again being challenged, this time not by a, gay and lesbian group, but by students wanting to sponsor pro-choice activities. The Gipp promises to keep tabs on their progress.
Tell One to the Gipper
Who knows what evil lurks in the hearts of men? Moo hoo hoo ha ha hah! (Menacing laughter.) The Gipper knows. That’s with your help, of course. Notre Dame’s spectral spirit of information and innuendo depends upon Junior CampusWatchers everywhere for tough questions, hot tips, interesting observations and unauthorized new leaks. If you know something everyone should know, contact the Gipp! Write 303 LaFortune, call 239-7569 or drop off a note at the Scholastic office (between 2 and 5 p.m.). The Gipper knows all and reports much, but he can only do so with your continued help.	q
SCHOLASTIC
MUSIC
Singles# Going Steady
Senior Staff Writer Jeff Jotz explores the recent world of the 45
by Jeff Jotz
What is a mere seven inches long and is becoming bigger and bigger every day? Yes, you guessed it, it’s the good old
45, a remnant of those days of soda fountain jukeboxes and Donald Duck record players. Surprisingly, as many are saying how the final nail has been hammered into vinyl’s coffin, the lowly 45 (or as we hipsters say, “seven inch”) is holding its own well into the digital age.
Smaller record labels and
artists use singles as their Courtney Love’s
bread and butter, economi- Highlights. cally speaking (and for the really small labels, nutritionally speaking). While singles bring back a smaller return, they rapidly disseminate the band’s music among a wide audience. Selling for anywhere from $2.50 to $6 and more, the seven inch looks mighty appealing next to CDs that cost five times as much, and with some artists packing three, four or five or more songs onto one little record, the pull can be irresistible. A “major” indie label like the Sub Pop label in Seattle could accredit its phenomenal rise to rock and roll riches to its “Single of the Month Club,” which features issues of limited edition 45s by both well-known and obscure alternative acts.
Many of the following singles can be bought down at Orbit Music in Mishawaka, the only store around that still sells a fairly decent selection of singles by “established” bands like Nirvana and the Talking Heads while not being afraid to display a single by Notre Dame’s own punksters, Chisel.
Unrest, Yes She is My Skinhead Girl (K Records). Olympia, Washington’s K Records, run by Calvin Johnson of Beat Happening, relies almost completely on singles for existence, and in terms of overall
sound, K Records’ motto should be “less is more.” We’re talking minimalist rock to the max, folks. This single by Washington, D.C. pop heroes Unrest features the goofy, jangly “Yes She is My Skinhead Girl,” a tune which pulls you in with its addictive guitar riff, and keeps you hooked with dreamy vocals
and hypnotic lyrics. The B-side, “Hydroplane,” highlights Unrest’s occasional avant-garde pastime of mingling studio noise, tape loops and guitar pop; this is stuff usually found on their other singles, but which shouldn’t be missed in any case.
Courtney Love Highlights (K Records) Speaking of Highlights, do you remember visiting the dentist’s office as a kid and reading those brightly colored magazines by the same
name? Remember the rapscallion Goofus and the noble Gallant? How .’bout the happiest wood family on the planet, The Timbertoes? Well, Lois Maffeo and Patrick Maley show that two goofballs with an out-of-tune guitar and a tom and snare drum can create some of the most lovable pop songs ever. In “Highlights” (the song), Maffeo
Unrest shows their love for the late Sammy Davis, Jr.
wistfully sings of love a-la Goofus and Gallant style, showing the world that Courtney Love is the best two piece band since Pebbles and Bam-Bam picked up guitar and drums.
Pavement Summer Babe (Drag City) Roaring straight outta Chicago like a blast of cold air comes one of the newest and most exciting indie labels around, and their showcase band definitely proves their worth. Hailing from both New York City and California (how the band ever practices is beyond me), Pavement has attracted quite a following, leading the faux-alternative staff of such rock giants as Spin to drool over any scrap of music the band throws at them. “Summer Babe,” the A-side, combines catchy drumming with angst-laden guitar jangle and the inevitable yet unpredictable oddities about, well, summer babes. Instead of sitting back and bemoaning one’s love life in traditional ado-lescent misery (like my roommate), “Summer Babe” really makes the listener relax and have a good laugh.
There are so many thousands of fun little singles out there that just mentioning the above three cannot do justice to the mu-
sical goldmine down at your local independently-owned record store. Dig that old turntable out of the basement, buy a couple of those plastic 45 inserts at your local Radio Shack and realize how a mere seven inches of a PVC disk can be so damned satisfying.	□
JeffJotz is Music Director at WVFI and is a regular contributor to Scholastic. Jim Doppke, a.k.a. "Dave Kendall” (say it with a British accent) assisted him in writing this
article.
FEBRUARY 13, 1992
ENTERTAINMENT
EEEW, It’s the Mr. Stanford Contest
by Jim Doppke and Elizabeth Graner i i A h yes,” you might be prone to say,
TA. “just what this campus needs. More ‘humor’ about bodily functions, homophobia and the compelling question of which women’s dorm has the most heinous residents.” Gee, folks, you really have the hand it to the budding David Lettermans of Notre Dame. It seems an unending battle royale, always blaring new pronouncements about which men’s dorm has the studliest, wittiest and best-endowed Domers on the block.
WhileKeenan pulled off aproduction rich in stage effects and offensive, unoriginal yet gruesomely appealing digs at the community at large, five brave men almost literally bared it all last Saturday night in order to disprove the myth that their naughty neighbors to the south reign supreme in the court of bad humor. These near-Iliadic heroes embarked upon the quest to win the honorary (?) title of Mr. Stanford. The seventh annual Mr. Stanford Contest filled the seats of Washington Hall with many loyal (yet, in some cases, weak-stomached) fans of the Studs of Stanford Hall. The evening began with an evening wear competition that (surprise) satirized fashion
Goldfish shakes are nutritious and delicious.
shows. The swimwear competition to follow was silly, featuring Bill Kempf (the man wholastyear ■ introduced to us a piece of the Saran Wrap Swimwear Line) swinging in from stage right in jungle garb while we all wondered just who was too sexy for whom.
The talent competition was the highlight of the evening. Kevin Monahan parodied Chris Farley’s Saturday Night Live Chippendales routine, dancing in spandex and a bow tie to the strains of tacky Kenny Loggins tunes. Chris Peterson showed off his juggling talents, particularly the one which enables him to juggle without catching anything; later, he parlayed this skill into a masterful display of post-culinary horizontal tropism (he threw food at the audience). Bill Kempf arrived on stage, at first pretending to plagiairize the Keenan Revue’s “Notre Dame Dance School,’’ but then backing down, proclaiming his general ineptness as if in confession; suddenly, however, he surprised us all with the best lipsynch rendition of “The Impossible Dream” we had heard all week. “Super” Mike Donnino flopped through a rambunctious skit which included a dummy falling from the catwalk and a failed attempt to careen, human canonball-style, across the stage. But by far the most, er, notable skit of the talent show featured Joel Link, a pitcher full of goldfish, a blender set on “puree” and thou (and thy own personal insecurities and feelings about animal cruelty). For sheer ability to make paying customers leave the venerable arena, this skit rates among the top Notre Dame comic events we have witnessed (right up there with poor starving HPC’s TakeOutGate). Bravo to the fearless, iron-stomached Mr. Link. The reaction of other spectators differed slightly from this viewpoint, however. “Someone is in trouble here,” intoned co-emcee Chris Infante, “and it’s not going to be me.”
The Peace Through Satirization Players presented a spirited and witty sketch entitled
“Purde?”
“The Terryminator;” the name was presumably derived from that of Stanford’s rector (Father Terry), but there seemed to be a great deal of unexplained “in” jokes resulting from the Stanford-specific character of i the skit, thus detracting from non-Studs’ enjoyment of it Even despite this and a ! rather tepid reaction from a increasingly i blas6 crowd (at this point, the marathon show had run over an hour and a half), the skit did furnish some of the evening’s sharpest dialogue and most focused Notre Dame humor. Soon enough, however, the con-, testants were rounded up again for a session i of “Question and Answer” which sealed the doom of our heroes’ self-esteem. Each contestant was asked rather personal questions which seemed to be drawn directly from fact; some of the topics shouldn’t be ! discussed in a family publication, thus producing a variety of responses ranging from ; Chris Peterson’s throwing yet more random ' objects at the audience to Mike Donnino’s ; personable, quick-witted and genuine i storytelling.	|
In a startling and unprecedented move, the judges voted that the trophy be presented to not one but two contestants, Bill Kempf and Mike Donnino; these two were clearly crowd favorites, and they received their | award with all the glee of goldfish with last-minute reprieves from the blender. Allin all, the contest showcased the highs and lows of Notre Dame humor (and all for a worthy cause as well; the proceeds of the contest all went to the Logan Center), the well-said jabs	i
at pomposity and the unprovoked, needlessly cruel attacks; but what can you do except declare yourself too sexy for it? □
SCHOLASTIC
NEWS
U ndergraduate Students Lost in the Shuffle?
Student government's report to the board of trustees explores Notre Dame's future as a research university
by Chris Blanford
he only thing growing faster than tuition is class sizes.” This campus joke would be funny if it weren’t for the grain of truth it represents. Every student has had at least one class with one, two, even three hundred students in a single section.
One hundred students in a single section of a class is well above the 25 that students polled last fall said was the ideal class size. Student govermerit has taken action by commissioning a report to the board of trustees last May, which was presented February 6.
Twice a year, student government presents topics such as coeducational housing and cultural diversity to the board of trustees. The most recent report is titled “Back to Basics: Undergraduate Education at a ‘National Catholic Research University,”’ and the primary concern of the report is to assess the growing trend toward research at Notre Dame.
“A great researcher is not necessarily a bad teacher,” said Karen Stohr, chair of the board of trustees report commission and student body chief of staff, at an open discussion on the contents of the report before it was released.
Stohr said the point of the report is not to pit research against teaching. She did, however, describe the situation as a “zero sum game.” Because there are finite resources, a gain in one area means a loss in another. “In this case,” Stohr said, “Our thesis is that research is gaining at the expense of undergraduate teaching and education.”
David Lodge, assistant professor of biology and director of the science half of the honors program, strongly disagrees with this, stating that the report and presentation focused only on the negative aspects of research. “Research brings resources to campus,” he said, “Not only financial, but the resources of higher quality faculty.” Since faculty who are involved in research bring “the excitement that comes with new knowledge” into the classroom, he said, the rewards for students are greater because of the research their professors did.
The report warned that graduate education and research, however, can overwhelm undergraduate studies if it continues unchecked. Every ten years, the university publishes a report on the state of the university. In 1982, this report was titledPACE, and was chaired by provost Timothy O’Meara. In this report he wrote that “research and professional activities can become so absorbing that they lead to a neglect of one’s students and one’s teaching. This is
a danger that must be avoided.”
Committing completely to either extreme could hurt the university, but somewhere in between there may lie a golden mean. “Faculty must balance their time between research and teaching,” said Father Edward A. Malloy (Scholastic, December 5,1991).
In order for this mean to be achieved, tenure and other rewards would have to be awarded equally for teaching and research, Stohr said. Since teaching ability is more difficult to quantify than expertise in research, research may be over-emphasized at this university. Statistics from the faculty survey sent out by the committee supports this. Only about one-quarter of the faculty sampled feel that teaching is adequately rewarded at this university.
“Someone who is a mediocre teacher but a good researcher is more likely to get tenure than someone who is a mediocre researcher but a good teacher,” said Stohr.
Back to Basics
The assumption is made that teaching proficiency will improve with time, although there is no formal mechanism for improving teaching, Stohr said at the colloquium. To change this, the report suggests departmental meetings where a stronger teacher could share techniques with
FEBRUARY 13, 1992
7
his or her colleagues as well as summer teaching improvement seminars.
The report’s recommendations on teaching break the suggestion into three parts: i teaching workshops, monetary support for summer teaching enrichment programs and the expansion and publicizing of educa-:	tional media.
Professor C.F. Delaney, professor of philosophy and director of the Arts and i	Letters half of the honors program, suggests
! that teaching improvement be principally a departmental concern. The senior and more i	gifted faculty members would supervise the
i	junior faculty’s in-class performance, then
:	advise them later on what improvements
j	they could make. This would be completely
i	without cost.
Stohr also agreed with Delaney’s sug-'	2	gestion, but said that “it’s important to do
I	.	both.” She thinks the training should be
'	2	more than just department-centered. “There
i:	I	is a lot of room for coordination among and
1	between colleges.... Sometimes it is easier
t	-	for someone not in the department to talk
; ; about teaching.”
|2 :	The committee suggested the founding of
2	a vice president of undergraduate studies in
; 2 order to aid this coordination, yet Delaney 2 argues against the inception of this office. “I 2 - tend to view the deans of the various col-2 ; leges as primarily concerned with under-i 2 ■	graduate education. The way Notre Dame is
• ;	set up, there is somebody else, namely
- 2 Professor Hatch, who is in charge of ;2	graduate education.” Hesees the position as
:; - a “redundancy.”
Karen Stohr disagrees. She says thatsince ; > the undergraduate programs have been al-- 2 lowed to suffer and class sizes have been 2 allowed to increase to the sizes that they are 2 today, “it shows that there is a definite need for someone to coordinate the undergraduate programs and only the undergraduate ; programs.” A position such as this could provide the structure for the teaching improvement plan.
Stohr also cited the lack of infrastructure and coordination among the undergraduate colleges. Greg Butrus, co-president of Stanford Hall and a member of the committee, said, “Undergraduate studies are the common denominator among students.” :	Mark Rahiya, a member of the Arts, and
2 Letters advisory council, believes that the
2	8
Paul Webb
Research versus teaching: Ursula Bindley works on a molecular beam epitaxy system in the physics lab
vice president would be important in a different way. “There is no one whose specific goal is to be the watchdog of undergraduate education,” he said. He said he would like someone on the level of the provost looking out specifically for undergraduate needs on a daily basis.
“The nation could run short of researchers and college professors in the-arts and sciences in the next several years unless graduate programs at- American universities are strengthened by new financing and greater attention to students,” began an article in the New York Times education section entitled “Shortage of Professors is Envisioned” (January 22,1992). The article shows that the same scourge afflicting Notre Dame attacks the nation as a whole.
Over the last decade, according to Delaney, the teaching loads of Arts and Letters faculty has dropped from three classes each semester to two each semester. “That’s just to bring the teaching load in line with the teaching load not only at major universities, but just good colleges,” he said. Notre Dame had to reduce its load to effectively compete for faculty members.
Problems arise because there is no increase in regular faculty to keep class size constant. “What they’ve done instead is allowed more of the teaching to be done by non-regular faculty, including adjuncts and graduate students,” said Delaney.
Regular faculty members include those professors involved in teaching and research. Non-regular faculty are adjuncts,
who are hired for a particular skill, graduate students in complete control of a course, professional specialists, visiting professors and professors emeritus.
“When the college gradually evolved toward what I call a competitive teaching load, a 2-2 [two classes each semester] load, they had to make up the difference, because clearly you are cutting the faculty by one-third,” said Delaney.
The faculty crisis, according to the report, is accentuated by the projected admission of more women to Notre Dame over the next few years. Statistics for the class of 1995 show that more than half of the women will enter the College of Art and Letters, while less than a third of the men show a similar preference.
Delaney said that instead of hiring the appropriate number of regular faculty when the transition was taking place the administration instead instead is “recovery money” to hire non-regular faculty. “Recovery money” is the money that comes back into the college when positions go unfilled, people go on leave or the college receives grants. As time passed, the recovery money dried up and a deficit arose.
In his interview last semester, President Malloy said, “You can only afford to grow gradually to make up the slack.” He said that Notre Dame simply did not have the funds to hire all the faculty needed immediately: What was planned was a five-year plan for faculty growth.
The goal for the next four years is to add
SCHOLASTIC
eight to ten positions a year for a total of 32 to 40 new positions after the next four years, according to Rahiya.
This plan hit a $425,000 glitch in the Arts and Letters department. The announcement of this huge deficit put an immediate freeze on hiring faculty, the committee reported. Although this freeze was technically lifted in November, faculty expansion plans continue to be on hold.
“If the College [of Arts and Letters] can get back on track, with a little help from the central administration and the provost of
Paul Webb
Teaching versus research: Professor Bartnlcki teaches the history of Poland.
fice, then I think just following that plan will help alleviate some of those problems,” said Rahiya.
The Consequences
“Philosophy and theology courses are notoriously difficult to get,” states the report, legitimatizing students’ aggrevation with the DART telephone system. In the fall of 1991, an average of 59 people were shut out of each 200-level philosophy class. A theology class at the same level had 58.5 shutouts per class. “[The university] should be able to meet this demand, since it is a static demand,” said Karen Stohr. •
The university chose two different directions in dealing with the huge numbers of students vying for class spots. In the English department, there, are 450 majors and 38 faculty members. Since400-level classes are limited to approximately 25 students per class, many students are shut out of the class and left frustrated.
In the government department, on the other hand, class sizes are not capped. As a result, 300-level classes average 85 students each and 400-level classes average between 50 and 60 students per section. Since the average student surveyed found speaking and asking questions in a class with more than 25 people “somewhat difficult,” government majors are likely frustrated as well.
“Neither of those solutions are satisfactory,” said David Lodge. “We need more faculty.”
The report also cites student-teacher interaction being seriously hindered in large classroom settings.
Before concluding the report, the committee listed its recommendations for the administration to follow to alleviate the problem.
(1)	The university should drastically increase the size of the undergraduate teaching faculty. “The
problem at Notre Dame is very simple: the College of Arts and Letters does not have enough faculty to do its job well,” said Delaney. Indeed, the greatest need exists in this college, but all colleges have oversized classes.
(2)	The university should establish the position of vice president for undergraduate studies.
(3)	The university should have a formal, structured program to improve teaching methods.
(4)	The university should not resort to the use of gates for admission into the colleges. At some universities, a student is accepted or “gated” into a certain college. Once into this college, a change of major is difficult.
The committee concluded that the freedom first-year students have now in the Freshman Year of Studies is worth the cost, according to Butrus. “Part of learning is changing,” he said.
(5)	The report recommends that the university should reconsider its current tenure
process. The report states, “Over half the faculty (55.1%) responding to the survey reported that undergraduate teaching is not sufficiently rewarded by the university’s promotion system. ... If junior faculty are getting the message that research is all that counts in the tenure process, then what will motivate them to improve their teaching?”
Lost in the Shuffle
“I do hope the university takes this report seriously,” said Stohr. “I know the board of trustees took it seriously when we met with them. I hope the administration realizes that students are increasingly dissatisfied with their courses. Students don’t, feel like they’re getting their money’s worth out of Notre Dame.”
John Coffey, the student body treasurer and a member of the committee, hopes the report acts as a check to the provost. The report gives him input into the student body’s reaction to changes so far. In addition, he said that he hopes the issue stays alive after the seniors from the committee graduate.
Mark Rahiya said, “Our goal for the whole report is not to condemn anybody, not to point fingers at anyone, but to make the administration and especially the board of trustees aware that there are big problems. Students are very concerned about these problems, and that if some solid, long-range planning is done, problems can be corrected and avoided in the future.”
Awareness has been raised. In the January 31,1992 issue of theNptre Dame Report, the top suggestions for Malloy’s Colloquy Committee for the Whole were “the pay-out from endowment to support academic initiatives” and a “reward structure as itrelates to priorities such as teaching excellence.”
“I don’t think the trustees are going to let the administration forget this report,” said Stohr. The report tells the opinions of the student body to the administration.
“Immediate attention to the state of undergraduate education at this university is of paramount importance,” concludes the commission’s report. “Students are increasingly dissatisfied with the quality of education at Notre Dame. ... Students are quickly becoming lost in the shuffle.” □
FEBRUARY 13, 1992
B
NEWS
[^©T©
National and international cutbacks do not prevent university's program from expanding
i	by Jennifer Guerin
Members of the Reserve Officer Training Corps on the Notre Dame j campus are visible, influential, nationally ; respected — and seemingly immune to the massive downscaling taking effect in the programs of their counterparts across the country.
With the construction of the new Pasquerilla building last year, the j university’s stated committment to maintaining a ROTC program has never been i stronger. However, international and na-|	tiohal circumstances have necessitated cut-
backs in officer training programs on college campuses all over the United States. With the collapse of the Soviet Union and the de-emphasis on military as the cold war ends, sweeping military cuts have been ini-! dated. The need for a smaller force means i fewer officers coming in, which in turn means reducing the country’s ROTC programs. Notre Dame will feel the effects, but i	according to officers involved, not nearly as
much as other universides.
! All branches and levels of the military ! have been downsized over the past two years, as the President and Congress restruc-> ture it to meet national security needs. “As ! those needs change, so will our require-i} ments,” said Air Force Colonel Howard T. t Hanson, professor of aerospace studies at
Notre Dame. In the Air Force alone, the nadonal budget decreased from $28 million to 22 million dollars over the past year, cutting the number of scholarships granted nationwide from 4500 to 3200. At Notre Dame, there are approximately 150 Air Force cadets.
There is no official word yet as to how the additional cuts suggested in the State of the
t continue to strive fot!
Union address will affect ROTC programs, but last year alone, the number of Navy ROTC units across the country was reduced to 53 from more than 60. The class of 1992 will graduate 1700 officers nationally, but the program has been restructured to produce 1100 ensigns per year beginning with the class of 1995. Regarding the Air Force ROTC program, Colonel Hanson stated, “Production of new officers in the next few years will be less than 2000 per year,” down from approximately 3000 in the late 1980s.
Army Lieutenant Colonel Bob Gillespie
explained that his service’s ROTC is accepting and commissioning fewer officers since the entire service is being downsized. Therefore, it is not incoming cadets but already commissioned officers who have the most to lose as a result of cutbacks. His impression is that “[Notre Dame] really won’t feel any impact yet ... This year’s freshman class is the largest class in ROTC history at Notre Dame.”
One hundred eighty-three out of 211 Army cadets here receive scholarships. This rate exceeds the national average. “Because of the caliber of student that Notre Dame attracts, we ultimately find that these students qualified for Notre Dame are also qualified for scholarships,” said Gillespie.
Hanson and Navy Captain James W. Pattison also concur that Notre Dame’s cadet numbers will remain relatively large, primarily because of Notre Dame’s academic standards. Being a selective institution, the university issues ROTC scholarships to men and women from high academic brackets, who meet the normal admissions standards of the university. Standards for acceptance to Notre Dame are similar to those for ROTC programs — well-rounded students with strong standardized test scores and positions of leadership in high school. Reducing the number of scholarships naturally means cutting scholarships to students at lower academic levels before those at the top.
Consequently, cadets at Notre Dame are
SCHOLASTIC
feeling few effects from national reductions. Freshman Tim Grohman, one of the 286 members of Notre Dame’s Navy ROTC program, senses the cutbacks in the area of scholarships. When selected, some students receive full four-year scholarships, while others receive what is called a three-year guarantee, stipulating that after the first year, the student must maintain a 3.0 grade point average in order to receive scholarship funds. Grohman’s feeling is that, like himself, many of this year’s cadets — more than in the past — are here on three-year guarantees as opposed to four-year scholarships. But he is confident thatNotre Dame’s program will remain strong and that the Navy, being the most mobile of the branches, will probably be affected the least. “My worst fear,” he admits, “is that the
File Photo
ROTC students stand at attention cutbacks become drastic and affect the ability of the Navy to react.”
Captain Pattison, professor of naval science and commanding officer of the Navy ROTC unit on campus; analyzed the situation, naming the Gulf Crisis and the end of the cold war as two events having had major effects on the size and role of the military. The breakup of the Soviet Union, he proposed, has induced major reductions. “As it stands, the former Soviet Union does not
FEBRUARY 13, 1992
pose a threat which requires us to maintain a lot of military.” He anticipates continued cuts but warns against trying to predict too far into the future. “[They] can’t just stand to cut their military to nothing... they have to do it over a period of time also. So they ’re still a potent force over there, and if they scale back, we’ll scale back. There’s no reason to be unbalanced either way.”
Gillespie agrees that the demise of'the Communist party directly resulted in fewer political and ideological threats from Eastern Europe. Congress has assessed the international scene and recognized this, directing the services to reduce their ranks accordingly.
In addition to the situation in the USSR, officers point to the gulf crisis for establishing a guide for how large a force the country maintains in the face of cutbacks. According to Captain Pattison, U.S. forces have been expected to be prepared to fight a two-ocean war since the 1960s. Now, goals have been altered: The concern is controlling the third world situation as part of a coalition of forces, still keeping members in reserve. Gillespie, involved in Army ROTC on campus since July, says the gulf war impacted the short term by activating the reserves and initiating a moratorium on release from service. Reductions in active and reserve forces are now continuing — by 1995, Gillespie said, the Army should be at the size demanded for a low-threat environment in the forseeable future.
Pattison reported that President Bush and Congress currently plan to reduce the military by 37 percent from 1990 levels by the year 1997. Apart from college ROTC programs, cuts primarily have taken the form of closed bases. Phasing out over a period of years, said Pattison, may help the frustration of officers forced to rejoin civilian ranks. “We’re trying very, very hard not to shrink so fast that wejust throw people outof work. The military has a long history of trying to take care of its people.” Gillespie does not anticipate cuts in the number of graduating cadets in the Army who receive active duty. He said the number of was cut two years ago
man class is the largest class in ROTC f jjliisthry'^t- Notre. ?
to 2300 nationwide, and he does not think it will be cut more in the near future.
The news of cutbacks may seem drastic and frustrating for incoming cadets, but Colonel Gillespie remains optimistic about the downscaling project. Future incoming classes, especially at Notre Dame, should feel minimal effects because they are entering in reduced numbers and will therefore enter an equally smaller military upon graduation. “Chances for promotion and opportunities will be as great, if not greater, for this year’s senior class than they’ve been in the last 20 years.”
“Cutbacks have a bad connotation. The Army’s message would bethat itis going to be a difficult time for those that are in the Army currently ... but cutbacks shouldn’t have a bad connotation to those who are just being commissioned this year becasue the army has been wise in that it is not bringing more on active duty than it needs,” said Gillespie.
Colonel Hanson emphasized the possible benefits of cutbacks. If the ROTC programs continue to downsize according to national averages, cadets will face few harmful consequences. A smaller service demands fewer leaders — Notre Dame is confident that it will continue to turn out a large percentage of those leaders. Hanson explains: “Size is important to us because we want to offer the... opportunity to everyone who is qualified and interested in serving their country. Far more important than size, however, is quality, and we will continue to strive for excellence. Our goal is not to be the biggest; but always to be the best” □
Denisse Marion-Landais contributed to this story.
11
1 ;I
j
J
HtadgetO fe&nintorinii
*2595
SINGLE
1-80 at Exit 77 52825 US 33 N. South Bend, IN 272-9000
♦FREE CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST
♦PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS
♦FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN
♦IN ROOM MOVIES/VCR (over 50 titles)
♦FREE LOCAL CALLS
♦KIT
BETTES

♦LAUNDRY
PRIVATE IN ROOM SPAS
Subscribe to Scholastic Join us as we celebrate our 125th year and follow the Fighting Irish all year long!
Please send year(s) of Scholastic to:
Name:____________ ’ _________________
Address: _________
City:	 State:Zip:
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x year(s) = $
Please send this form with payment to: Business Manager; Scholastic; 303 LaFortune; Notre Dame, IN 46556
CAMPUS LIFE 
ND’s Own Pavarotti
Paul Mahoney leads a double life as library monitor and a cappella singer .
by Maricelle Ruiz-Calderdn
«Tn any human being, in the course of fl the number of years I’ve lived, there’s
got to be elation, happiness, sorrow. So when you... sing a song... you’re transferring your emotions from a previous time.”
— Paul Mahoney
As you rapidly abandon the ‘brare, you wave to them. If you happen to be carrying some library books, you may even chat with them for a while. But have you ever wondered what the library monitors do when they aren’t checking out bags or walking the floors, radio in hand? If your answer is no, you’re in for a big surprise: among ND’s well-known ‘brare monitors features an opera “connoisseur.”
Paul Mahoney, a resident of LaPorte, Indiana, has been a library monitor at Notre Dame for the past 10 years—you know, the one who has sheets of music splayed out before him while he’s inspecting your backpack or flashing a friendly smile.
When Mahoney was a kid growing up in Perham, near Fargo, North Dakota, he recalls, “My father played the violin and my sister played the piano.” They even formed a band that played for local dances.
Influenced by his family’s musical abilities, Mahoney took piano lessons in grade school and developed an interest in drums during high school. His actual singing . hobby, though, didn’t begin until he joined his high school’s chorus.
In his first year at college, “the luckiest thing for me, ” Mahoney says, “was a gentleman who had a chorus of 100 men from the business community and the college community.” As a member of the choir he sang in “a formal set of tails and white gloves” and toured with the group from Fargo to
Minneapolis, Milwaukee and Chicago. “In Chicago, ” Mahoney proudly says, “we sang in Orchestra Hall.”
Mahoney attended music school at the University of Minnesota and the University of Kentucky. He majored in voice and acquired a degree to teach music in the public school system.
Mahoney landed in the South Bend area as a teacher at the Kingbury School and the Union Township and LaPorte schools. Asa music teacher he was also responsible for choir and band. He once had a seventhgrade choir of 250 youngsters.
He decided to work at Notre Dame because “having been a school teacher, I recognized from talking to the students how many talented people there are here, and that makes the job interesting.” His interest in Notre Dame also stems from the fact that his “father was always a great fan of Notre Dame.”
Mahoney first became interested with music at Notre Dame when he attended the
j recital of music professor Father Patrick | Maloney. Mahoney recalls, “I read in the I paper that there was going to be a recital by Father Maloney. So that’s really how; I started coming to Notre Dame, because I’ve heard him sing either once or twice in a recital... and it’s not hard to recognize his great ability and his fine training.”
After the recital Mahoney went up to Father Maloney and introduced himself as a music teacher. Mahoney points out, nonetheless, that “it was years after that that I decided to... work at Notre Dame and then, since I was here, I said ‘Why don’t I talk to Father Maloney about voice lessons?”’
Every day, an hour before he heads to work, Mahoney takes voice lessons at Crowley Music Hall. Among Mahoney’s repertoire are operas and arias from
Schubert, Schumann, Beethoven, Brahms, Mozart and Verdi sung in their original language.
Mahoney sings in German, French, Italian, Latin, and English. Although Mahoney doesn’t speak the languages fluently, he’s learned the meaning of the text from translations that come with the miisic.
Regarding singing in public, Mahoney says, “Sometimes I sing a concert for those who express more than casual interest in singing.” One finds students and friends of both Mahoney and Father Maloney at his a cappella concerts.
Mahoney said that the root of his inspiration “comes from the words. Sometimes there are songs of youthful exuberance ... songs that are happy as aresultof love... [or] songs that are sad because they recall a happier time, and that time is gone forever... The past definitely affects one’s ability to enter into the spirit of a song.” □
FEBRUARY 13, 1992
13
CAMPUS LIFE
about animals. And this one seems to be the
The Perfect Domer
He's Irish, he's smart, and he loves frozen yogurt — what more could you ask for?
by Nicole Pelle and Elizabeth Baytion
There’s a new member of the Notre
Dame family. When he got his first sight of the golden dome, he was only 9 weeks old. The genius of all geniuses, you ask? Guess again. He’s Fr. Robert Griffin’s latest cocker spaniel who’s taken up the legacy of Darby O’ Gill I and II, Fr. Griffin ’ s former canine companions.
“He was named after a character in a book of Irish short stories,” said Fr. Griffin, “and I wanted an Irish name.” Although the two are “close,” Fr. Griffin doesn’t think he and Darby “are of the same blood descent.”
Fr. Griffin bought his first cocker spaniel in 1970. The student who lived down the hall from him suggested that he name the dog Darby O’Gill whose initials happen to spell out D-O-G.
A young woman whose marriage Fr. Griffin had performed offered him a puppy from her pet’s new litter. He picked this particular breed of dog “because you know that it’s not going to get too big, or that it’s not going to get too rambunctious ... and I wanted something that would have a predictable temperament.”
Fr. Griffin bestows the same name on all the pups for the simple reason that he doesn ’t “have to learn a new name.” He admitts that it also “eases the shock of losing a dog.” There was a rumor that thrill-seeker Darby II got a kick out of going down Stanford’s laundry shoot, and that one day the guys got carried away and caused Darby’s early demise.- Fr. Griffin nevertheless! claims that the first two Darbys died? of natural causes.	“
14
“There was a little girl when my first dog got sick who came up and said, ‘I’m sorry to hear that Gilley O’Dell is sick,’ so I was tempted to name the second dog Gilley O’Dell, but that would have spelled G-O-D.” Fr. Griffin thought that that would havebeen a little “too much.”
Darby finds great amusement in chewing his Snoopy and an old rubber shoe. If these tried-and-true favorites aren’t readily available, anything will do — the leg of a table, Fr. Griffin’s pant leg, a Nike tennis shoe...
Darby is a real domer, since the characteristic that distinguishes him from his predecessors is his intellect. “The first dog I ever had ... was the runt of the litter, and he had to suffer to me getting used to animals, so I think when the second dog came along he had a better chance ... He was brighter, healthier. By that time I knew a little more
brighter of the three.”	.
Fr. Griffin said he could use three words to describe Darby. The cocker spaniel ’ s “very, very busy. He’s very, very curious. I also think he has a quality of teasing... If I leave him alone in this room, he won’t touch things. But sometimes at night if I’m reading and he’s bored, he’ll start getting into things, and I can see him rolling his eyes
around to watch me, to see if I’m reacting. It’s a way of getting attention.”
Darby’s popularity is proof that “he’s turned into a charismatic puppy. We’ll see students that I’ve never seen before, and they’ll stop and say, ‘Hello, Darby!’ and they’ll greet him, like an old friend. He really likes conversations with people, I think.”
Despite Darby’s fondness for his Snoopy, his favorite toy is probably the stereo. “He loves to look at his reflection in that glass. He sees himself, then he pushes the door and it opens.” Fr. Griffin adds, “He loves people.”
Darby’s favorite human food is undoubtedly frozen yogurt He’s often seen sitting patiently outside North Dining Hall while Fr. Griffin chats and dines with the students. “I think he particularly enjoys the ice cream cones the students drop, ” his owner says.
If he was human, what do you think he would say to you, and you to him?
“He’d say, ‘Griffin, you’re boring.’ And if he was human I’d say to him, ‘Cool it.’Q
SCHOLASTIC









Monday
IflExtfdJd
Friday
AP MODERATE
JUNIOR
TELE
AST
ARENTS’ WEEKEND
aridid
"The Italian Ristorante"
1412 South Bend Avenue South Bend, Indiana 46617
-HONE 219-232-4244
-ASTAS- 14 VARIETIES
-LUS CHICKEN, VEAL, FISH & BEEF
-IZZA - ORIGINAL SOUTHERN ITALIAN
-ETISERS, SALADS & SOUPS
-RICES
-ASTRIES & OTHER DESSERTS
-ROFESSIONAL SERVICE
-LEAS ANT SURROUNDINGS
-ROPRIETARY AND EXCLUSIVE VIEW OF UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME SKYLINE
FEBRUARY 13, 1992
15
Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call Colin Clary at 239-7569.
Thursday 13
Movie: "Ghost," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m.,; Cushing, $2.
Luncheon: Hospitality Luncheon, "Catholic Worker House." 11:30 a.m., Center for Social Concerns. Basketball: Women vs.
Evansville, 7:30 p.m., JACC.
Performance: "Acoustic Cafe" in the basement of Lafortune Student Center, 9:00 p.m.-12:00 a.m.
Friday 14
Valentines' Day
Movie: "Doc Hollywood," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. Film: "Dances With Wolves," 6:00 & 9:15p.m., Snite Auditorium, $2.
Lecture: "The Survival of People of Color in the 21st Century," 7:00 p.m., Room. 127, Nieuwland Science.
Performance: Folk Dancing. 7:30 p.m., Club House, SMC.
Performance: "Aspects of Love in Song," South Bend Chamber Singers, 8:00 p.m., Haggar Center, SMC.
Saturday 15
Movie: "Doc Hollywood," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $.2.
Film: "Dances With
Wolves," 6:00 & 9:15 p.m., Snite, $2.
Tennis: Notre Dame Men vs. Tennis Legends, 2:00 p.m., Eck Pavilion.
Basketball: SMC vs. Beloit College, 4:00 p.m., Angela Athletic Facility.
Windy City Shuttle: Escape from JPW! Bus leaves from the Main Circle for Chicago at 9:45 a.m., $12.
Concert: Shenanigans JPW concerts. l;00 & 2:30p.m., Snite.
For More Information Call
LaFdrtunelnto
S^ipr-C^ StudentUnionBo^^
•S&t£:Fi^
Sophomore Class: 239-5225
News Line: 239-5110
JACC Ticket Infomiatioh:.239
Notre Dame MenuLirie: 283-
Dial:239-2500, thenpress x 2101 for moyiemfo^ x2114fof themusiclinei x2112’forc<^c^^^. V/ x 2117 for ^eatre m^ x 2525. for college qvent^
x 1600for local weather
Xilddl-forS^sj^^^
S/, S';''SS SS^S^SSS' V * 'z,SS-S;
xvl303
Sunday
16
Performance: "The Last
Word," One Act Play, 3:30 p.m., Stepan Center.
Monday
Film: "Miracle in Milan,
Tuesday
18
Film: "The Conversation," 7 p.m., Snite, $2.
Film: "Easy Rider," 9:15 p.m., Snite.
Basketball: Marquette at N.D.
Wednesday 19
TOUCH
FOUR
COMING SOON...
Sophomore Literary Festival
February 23rd-28th!I!
7:00 p.m., Snite, $2. Film: "Scorpio Rising, 9:30 p.m., Snite, $2.
Perfomance: "Our Town," Washington Hall, 8:10 p.m., $7.
MoBBTheat®
Scottsdale Theatre:
ForumI&II Cinema:
100;Ren ter Cinema l&II
University Park Cinema West:
University Park Cinema East:
Photo courtesy o( 20th Century Fox
Michael Douglas and Melanie Griffith star in "Shining Through."


men's basketball team —specifically the Class of '92 — struggles through a tough season
By Nick Mathews
“Georgetown plays too many cupcake teams. [Georgetown coach] John Thompson should take a look at Notre Dame’s schedule.”
— ESPN basketball analyst Dick Vitale
There is no doubt that the excuses exist.
The Notre Dame basketball schedule, the most difficult one in the country according to USA Today, is not only rigorous in the caliber of the opposition but in the irregular spacing of the games. After the first five games, the last two being away, the Irish had twenty-one days off. Moreover, when they finally returned to the court after this excessive absence, the team took to the road again. They had to complete the final seven games of a nine game road stretch before finally returning to the J ACC on Jan. 23, to battle Missouri.
Kentucky coach Rick Pitino said of the Notre Dame schedule, “Unfortunately, someone with a warped sense of humor scheduled these teams.”
How about the bench situation? With the loss of Monty Williams last year, the lone junior on scholarship, the bench has been comprised of freshmen and sophomores. They’ve performed at times, but generally they lack the maturity to respond with quality minutes in order to alleviate some of the burden placed on the shoulders of the four seniors, LaPhonso Ellis, Daimon Sweet, Elmer Bennett and Keith Tower.
In addition to the rigorous schedule and bench woes, the players have also had to deal with adjusting to a new coach, John
18
MacLeod, and his entirely new style of play.
These are all legitimate excuses for the team to submit and accept defeat Early in the season, it appeared that the over-
whelmed Irish were doing just that. The improvement over the month of January.” quality teams on the schedule were wringing Laphonso Ellis agrees, ‘‘We went out at their hands in anticipation of feasting on the USC game and we just played great
MacLeod has seen progress since the Christmas break and says, "After the
holidays things started to click.'
Matt Cashore
Notre Dame. Finally, the Irish had had enough.
“After the holidays, things started to click,” says MacLeod. “We showed much
SCHOLASTIC
defense. As a consequence, we got going against some very good teams.”
MacLeod has made some major changes in the Irish style of play. When executed properly, the new style has enabled the Irish to apply a tenacious man-to-man defense, complemented by an up-tempo, running offense. This new transition game has often resulted in spurts of “playground” basketball, occasionally finalized with an exclamation point (i.e., an alley-oop).
An added bonus of this explosive running style, as opposed to the half-court game, is that it allows for lost ground to be made up quickly. This has been evident in four of Notre Dame’s seven victories (all of them on the road) So far this season as they have come from behind after being down by sizable margins in the second half. The Irish trailed by 11 points at Valparaiso, fought from nine back at Southern California and overcame an 18 point deficit at Marquette.
Despite the steady improvement, Coach MacLeod believes that his team has still not fully adapted to the new style. As a result, the Irish have been unpredictable and erratic throughout the season and the flashes of excitement have often been offset by careless mistakes and mental lapses.
Offensively, Notre Dame’s Achilles’ heel has been poor ball-handling resulting in turnovers (over 16 per game).
“We’re trying to run, and hopefully we’ll get to the point where we can react without this many errors,” says MacLeod. “That’s what we’re shooting for, and I think we can get there, but we have yet to unleash an attack like I want”
Although the offense has been turnover-prone, it has nevertheless shot consis-
tently at about 50 percent. Overall, what
Elmer Bennett has recently hit his stride offensively , going for 38 points against Detroit Mercy on Feb. 4.
Notre Dame forward LaPhonso Ellis goes up for a dunk against Michigan^ The Irish lost to the "Fab Five" Wolverines 74-65 on Sunday.
Matt Cashoro
has contributed
to the erratic play more than the offensive mistakes, has been the inconsistency on the defense end.
“It all comes down to intensity on defense," says MacLeod, “In certain games and at certain times we just haven’t been intense enough."
A major factor contributing to the lack of intensity has been the fatigue of the starters. The underlying reason for this is the lack of production from the bench. Excluding part-time starter Jon Ross, the Irish bench has accounted for only 34.6 minutes per game and 6.4' points per game.
During the Duke
game, NBC analyst Al McGuire pointed at this weakness commenting, “... in order to beat Notre Dame, what you have to do is shut down the ‘trifecta’ [Ellis, Sweet and Bennett]. If you do that, they don’t have any other scorers.”
In fact, the trifecta has produced nearly 50 points per game (Notre Dame averages 68.9 points per game) while playing 34 minutes each.
Despite these problems, the Irish, with the painful exception of the Detroit-Mercy game, have improved and have remained optimistic. February will make or break the Irish season. There are many big games left which the team must win in order to have any chance for a post-season tournament berth. If the team continues with its erratic play, they will be disappointed come March. However, if they begin to play consistently and intensely, and get some quality production from the bench, they may surprise some people
Ellis, for one, believes that the Irish may still be invited to the NCAA's big dance in March, “We’re a few games in the hole right now. We need to beat a couple of these teams. If we do that, hopefully we can get an NCAA bid.”	□
FEBRUARY 13, 1992
19
S
■
____SPORTS__
Wrestling
With Success
After stumbling through a 4-8-1 season in 1990-91, the 1991-92 Irish wrestlers have already achieved a 4-3 record
i-
Encouraged by coach Fran McCann, the Irish wrestlers have finally found confidence and are "hitting their stride."
By John Regruth
Marl Okuda
Notre Dame wrestler Tom Salvino walks out onto the mat with his highly developed lat muscles, looking like he has a loaf of bread tucked under each arm. Paired up with Syracuse’s hulking, nationally ranked Mark Kerr last Friday, however, Salvino seemed smaller and overmatched.
The two 190-pounders grappled in what turned out to be the crucial match of Notre Dame’s duel with the Orangemen. Salvino, using defensive tactics, avoided being pinned and did not suffer a technical fall. He frustrated the third-ranked Kerr, who could muster only a 4-1 victory and just three team points for Syracuse.
Irish heavyweight Chuck Weaver cruised to his seventh consecutive win in an easy 18-6 victory over the Orangemen’s Chris Butler in the meet’s final duel and solidified Notre Dame’s 20-18 triumph.	.
“I’m really pleased with (Salvino),” said Notre Dame head coach Fran McCann afterwards. “He was a key to the match by keeping the score down. Kerr could win the NCAA and Salvino stuck with him.”
With the win over the tradition-rich Orangemen, the Irish improve their record to4-3 and seem poised to break out of the malaise of mediocrity that has surrounded the program during the past two seasons.
“We’re starting to get on track,” said McCann. “I thinkourwinoverSyracusewaspivotalbecauseour concentration was so good against a high level opponent.”
Since McCann coaxed a strong 10-3 record from his squad during the 1988-89 season — which
SCHOLASTIC
included a program-best 21st place finish in the NCAA tournament
— the team has posted sub-.500 marks of 7-8 in 1990 and 4-8-1 in 1991.
McCann sees the strength of schedule, which included powerhouse Iowa, as being one reason for the team’s trouble over die past
two years.
“We had to be honest with ourselves,” he said. “We don’t have the horses to compete with teams like that yet. A schedule that’s too tough can become counter-productive.”
Even though Iowa was taken off of the this year’s slate, Nebraska, Ohio State, Purdue and Oregon — all teams in the national top 25 rankings—remain on the schedule. Tough competition aside, many players on the team still view this season as being disappointing and marked by periods of ups and downs.
“It’s been a mixed season. We need to be more confident and to believe in ourselves,” said Weaver.
McCann agrees, “Our guys are hard workers, but they have a tendency to leave the results in the wrestling room. When they get out on the mat, they become too cautious. The pressure seems to get to them.”
Weaver was especially in need of confidence entering this season. So far, he has found it After struggling to a 34-39 record during his first three year atNotre Dame, the senior has jumped out to a 15-4 start this year, including an upset victory over Ohio State’s Ray Mendoza, the seventh-ranked heavyweight in the country. Weaver has not lost since January 2, when Oregon’s Chris Anderson edged him 4-1.
McCann says of senior Chuck Weaver, "Chuck is starting to realize his ambitions." One of which is possible AII-America honors.
“He’s been apleasant surprise,” said assistant coach Rick S tewart. “Chuck is starting to realize his ambitions.”
Weaver’s ambitions are far-reaching: he wants to earn An-America honors. “I’m approaching that goal, step by step,” he said.
Perhaps the brightest star for the Irish is senior 126-pounder Marcus Gowens, who McCann calls the team’s best wrestler, “He provides the leadership and confidence for our team.”
Ranked tenth in the nation in his weight class at the moment, Gowens continued his impressive season by beating Syracuse’s Fred Fabbrini 4-2 in a frustrating duel. Gowens overcame the defensive and stalling tactics of the overmatchedFabbrini to pick up his 19th win of the year against four losses, and moved himself closer to reaching 100 victories for his career. Currently 91-38-1
overall, Gowens would be only the ninth Notre Dame wrestler ever
to attain that milestone.
Injuries, however, have added to the team’s woes and have
darkened some of its bright spots. Chris Jensen, Todd Tomazic and Steve King, all of whom are important parts of the Irish lineup, are
currently out of the lineup. Though Tomazic should return before season’s end, Jensen and King are lost for the year.
J.J. McGrew, a sophomore 177-pounder, has recently returned to action after enduring ankle and rib injuries earlier in the year. Using his quickness, he dominated Syracuse’s Seamus Lyman 26-11 and picked up his second consecutive win. His record now stands at 7-4.
“(McGrew) is hitting his stride,” said McCann. “I think he’ll place in the top two in the region (Northern Iowa’s Rich Powers is the favorite],” said McCann. “Our greatest handicap is depth. If you take anyone out of the lineup, we suffer from it more than other schools.”
Jamie Boyd and Tom Salvino have helped to provide strength in the lineup. Salvino, who missed most of his freshman year and all of his sophomore year with a knee injury, has posted an even 10-10 record against strong competition. The coaching staff has been suitably impressed with the senior this season so that he may be asked to return for a fifth year. Boyd bulked up to the 150 lb. class from 142 lb. and has succeeded. He won a hard fought 6-2 match against Syracuse, nudging his season record up to 14-5-1.
“He’s got good ability and he’s a good worker,” said McCann.
Despite all the struggling the pro-
gram has endured, McCann views progress in the long term.
Stewart calls the difficulties of the last few years “growingpains” as the program moves upward in quality and in prominence.
McCann offers a similar outlook, “We’re progressing. When we first started, there were teams we never beat and now we beat them consistently. Now we’re at the next level which includes Syracuse, Illinois and Michigan State. Once we start beating them consistently, we’ll move up to the next level of Ohio State and teams like that I’d say we’ve progressed tremendously.”
As the Irish wrestlers head into the final portion of the season, McCann believes the team is in good shape, “There’s no bum out, and burnout is always a fear for us. We shortened the season in order to prevent burning out. We can relax a bit now.”	□
FEBRUARY 13, 1992
21 i
^^9
SPORTS
A Tradition of Excellence:
1977 National
Champions
Coach: Dan Devine.
Tri-Captains: Ross Browner, Terry Eurick and Willie Fry.
Notes: With aregular season record of 10-1-0 and a 38-10 thrashing of Texas in the Cotton Bowl, the 1977 Notre Dame Fighting Irish football team was the first to win a consensus national championship for legendary coach Dan Devine... This Irish team had a host of All-Americans: DE Ross Browner (who came in 5th place in the Heisman balloting), TE Ken MacAfee(who came in 3rd place in the Heisman balloting), DB Luther Bradley, G Ernie Hughes, MG Bob Golic, DE Willie Fry and DB Ted Burgmeier ... The defense allowed a total of 129 points on the season, and the offense put 382 points on the board ... Also in 1977, President Jimmy Carter was awarded an honorary degree at Commencement
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Lisa Junck: Junck, a freshman from Oregon, Wis., captured first place in the 55-meter hurdles with a time of 8.25 and first place in the high jump with a height of 5-4 at the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championships. Junck also took fourth place in the 55-meter sprint and fourth place in the 200 meters. Her efforts guided the Fighting Irish women's indoor track team to a first place finish at the MCC Championships at Notre Dame's Meyo Track.
is
•4


1977 National Championship Team
f'nmi Row: Bmdby. Wcstw^ Brett:. Johnson, Burgmthx CtuiiU-nien, llarrtson. Diwan. bey, ftjtkk. Btownn*.FoiyMck. Varan. ■ OrMoi. Rttvc, Tuil. MacAfen. Second Row: M-wso. Miranda. Grindutger. lieovens. Calhouc’. Hnnunky; biuake. Bleyrrr Dnsccl!; :
JXtsco, Mdhnieh. Hughes. Geos, Kw:, Svhm:9k. Mutiny. Muhunx DiUv Third Row; R/tily, HutAnitKi, Doinio, HuJltxui,’ Mitos, Flyna. Mong, RcSk. Haurnwu, Browner, Gn!k..C‘j.w, Hdmkivttcr, Meyer, Pallas. Itaw', Haines. Usch. Hot. Fourth Row: Gray. SebxcrighL Bush. Thunty, VnoLteubu^	amp, Whhiingtott, Dtckcnwn; Ow’nin. R&ynm; Uopi&k Utti\ Huowig. ■<
WayrncK Pnrtk. Hot, Ferguson. Malt?, Fifth Row; Mcmweather. M&hcfl. Ihailay. Syiwhrer. .Muotu Ryan. Psglty,	Sadly,
(vot, HuftimJ. MAituuivwh, Craja. Z=;ttcfc.	Wrobkw ski, Cripplri, McGu mick. Sinh Row: Komura. Budmcn Bedard.,
.Moynlh&tu Cmiwy, Anuto, Gibbon-., Svpuut, DcSteto, Acronwe, Vrhr, Burger. Fairhurst, Haggerty, arm»m. Stewc, Ciagrm. Seventh . Row LaHam.Torgwi;!, Deunw. fbnkatd; Hohhiin. Kn:ifdr. Boushka; Doran, KivgH, Siew. Cwdetti. Puhwsid;K<dil, W<uttenk,'- / Fasano, Heftmon. Buck Row; Hailey, O'Neil. CcuncBy, $tqi!WKM'K, Tn:;nt:, Bray. Jolinsm, Yockc KiiJilmanrt, Kelly, Ikvhw. .: : . J»l!!j-.iw.R:>ubr-. Smith, Xbgcr,Wh>mm.F.s$tia. Chain. Soi'Atiski.	■ ■	■'	■.
Courtesy of Sports Information
September 10	W	Pittsburgh	19-9	A	56,500
September 17	L	Mississippi	20-13	A	48,200
September 24	W	Purdue	31-24	A	68,966
October 1	W	Michigan State	16-6	H	59,075
October 15	W	Army	24-0	A	72,594
October 22	W	use	49-14	H	59,075
October 29	W	Navy	43-10	H	59,075
November 5	w	Georgia Tech	69-14	H	59,075
November 12	w	Clemson	21-17	A	54,189
November'19	w	Air Force	49-0	H	59,075
December 3	w	Miami (Fla.) (10-1-0) Cotton Bowl	48-10	A	35,789
January 2	w	Texas	38-10	A	76,701
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Brian Peppard: Peppard, a senior co-captain of the Fighting Irish men's indoor track team from Dublin, Ireland, was named the outstanding male athlete at the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championships. Peppard became the first Notre Dame athlete ever to earn that honor. Peppard earned his award by winning the 800 meter title in 1:54.12 — remarkable considering that this meet was the first this season in which he ran this race.
22
SCHOLASTIC
ON OTHER CAMPUSES
Spunky, The Roadkill Raccoon Rugby Fan
You really bombed this one
Blowing off studying for your impending Orgo test by rampant cases of couch rot? Well take a tip from ol’ Heather Mudek, a junior at St Cloud University in Minnesota. (Actually, don’t, I’ll get in trouble.) Heather decided to make 25 or so random bomb threats to the university thus forcing the evacuation of her library test center, according to the Chronicle of Higher Education. Don’t feel sorry, though. The article concludes, “Ms. Murdek will be allowed to commute from jail to the campus to take classes.” How convenient.
What’s that smell?
Obnoxious fans are common to almost every type of sporting event, but noxious ones? Apparently, the University of Kentucky rugby team picked up a dead raccoon they found in the road on the way to one of their matches hoping “Spunky” would bring them good luck, according to theNational On-Campus Report. Although their number one fan was happily propped up against the bleachers, the team was crushed 24-4 by Middle Tennessee State. When asked what he thought of the team’s roadkill rah-rah, despite his condition, Coach Taylor Manet said, “Very obedient We told himn to stay and he didn't move the whole time.”
UC Berkeley on hunger strike (HPC take note)
Students at the University of California at Berkeley continued their active ways by staging a hunger strike over tuition fees, according to the Chronicle of Higher Education. The university plans to raise fees, Berkeley’s equivalent of tuition, by 22 percent to an average of $3,036 per student. The students vowed to eat only vitamins and drink water as they fast (and it’s not even Lent!). Meanwhile, at the least active campus in the Western Hemisphere, Hall Presidents Cafe debated whether to continue to serve up tacos and bean burritos for the frazzeld overworked crowd.
Princeton in the buff
About 65 Princeton University students braved freezing temperatures, tossed aside their homework, and clothing, for the annual Nude Olympics according to an article in the Daily Kansan. Students feafed that an exceptionally warm winter would force them to cancel the 20 year-old event since it commences only during the first significant snowfall. Yet falling snow and 20-degree temperatures saved the day and even forced the cancellaton of the freshman torch bearer. The race caused a worried parent of a Princeton prospective to write Ann Landers to see if the bizarre tradition was OK. Annie approved.
FEBRUARY 13, 1992
University Presidency: more boring than accountancy?
A student at Butler University realized a dream by spending a day as President of the small college outside Indianapolis, according to th&National On-Campus Report. Itisevenmorelikeadream, since a large part of his day induced boredom and sleeping. Meanwhile, University President Geoffrey Bannister attended the student's ballet classes. The student eventually became so thrilled with the day that he did push-ups in Bannister's office. The student won the prize package in a raffle, which, incidently, is a favorite method of electing University Presidents.	. □
Edited by Mike Owen
23
Whole Health Modale
%
The Beason. Why We Are This Way
Dear Readers:
Well, well. It’s been a while since Pve been able to tell all of you how to break out of the horrors of conformity and depression. But now I'm back after those annoyingly self-indulgent Football Review and 125th Anniversary issues. Besides,!need the money. So on with the advice...
Dear Mr. Manners:
Chalk this one up to a random, out-dated pet peeve, but do you realize that you, me, and the other 1798 or so people in the infamous class of 1993 are the only people who had to suffer through the psychological experiment known as “Whole Health Module” ?!!! I bet the other people on this campus don’t even know what we’re talking about. I used to sacrifice alternate Tuesdays and Thursdays in Social Dance or Women’s Rugby in order to hear about personal hygiene and other such nonsense. It was like a high school health class that you couldn’t skip!
My question to you is: Why were we the only ones to suffer this torture? They never did it before and haven’t done it since!!! I want a refund! I want my social dance back! We never finished learning the slide on the jitterbug! I’m going insane!
Sesquicentennial class, I assume, the administration came up with a program to straighten us out. Each week we would be herded into the basketball court at the Rock and forced to watch films or listen to speakers about the most bizarre topics. Then, of course, we had to have “personal reflection” and “group discussion” about these pressing topics, which usually ran into the lunch hour. The topics themselves were a big hit. One week we were promised a talk on sexual actvity in the Notre Dame Community. So of course everyone showed up. What did we get? A videotape of seniors talking about dating at Notre Dame.
The only benefit I incurred from this experience was an economic one. I sat in other peoples'chairs for five bucks. It is a bummer that we are the only ones to suffer this fate, but it will make good fodder for reunions and what-not.
Dear Mr. Manners:
By the time this issue comes outl will have only a few hours left until my parents arrive and find out what I really live like. My cleaning habits are less than sub-par (mysterious rashes being spread in section), my roommates are foul-mouthed sickos (obsessed with body functions) and I don't have a dress to wear!! What to do?
Most Sincerely, WHM Victim
Class of 1993
Femme Fatale from Farley
Dear Femme:
Dear Fellow WHM Victim:
; First of all, I really feel for you. I noticed random infliction of ' undue suffering on our class when I went to make fun of the ' freshman last year and they looked at me like I was in Shenanigans ' of something. They didn’t understand! So for those of you not - assigned to a plastic-molded chair in theRock every other week, this ; is the story. Just because we were off a year and not part of the
You'd better get moving. I suggest you get some medication and pretend you live with other people for the weekend or else dinner conversation could be a little off-color. Just hope I'm not sitting anywhere near you.
Need some adjusting orjust a little lightening of your load? Give me written communication at 303 Lafortune, Campus Mail, please!
24
SCHOLASTIC
S
WEEK IN DISTORTION
More Meaningless Ramblings From Austria
Dave "Dave" Holsinger explores dirty-sounding German words and football Austria-style
_________by Dave Holsinger _______ A uthor’s Note: The following names 11 are all COMPLETELY REAL. They do exist and have not been changed to protect the innocent (or the guilty).
(1)	Foreign Names: I’m sure you’ve all heard some foreign place names that just don’t sound right to you. During my exile here in the German-speaking world, I’ve noticed that the Germans and Austrians have some real doozies, as far as pronopnceability or just plain aesthetics go. I doubt that many Americans would live in a city with a name like Oberpurkersdorf or UnterperfuB.
Then there are those places that, whether intentional or not, sound like sick jokes to native speakers of English. My personal favorite example is the Austrian village of WINDPASSING, which is located between Salzburg and Linz. I couldn’t figure out why the air would be so fresh in a town with a name indicating gastric distress until I left the place. Everything suddenly became clear when I saw the standard Austrian sign meaning “You are leaving this town’s city limits” — the name “Windpassing” with red slash through it.
It’s not just their place names that come off sounding like that, though. For instance, there’s a driving school in Innsbruck (Driver’s Ed is a privatized deal here) called HARM. Their student driver vehicles are colorfully emblazoned with the words “Go Harm.” The really sick part is the accuracy of their slogan in regard to most Austrian drivers’ attitudes towards pedestrians.
I also had to laugh when I saw a tour bus operated by the FUCKER TOURIST AGENCY, and I nearly fell on the floor laughing in the grocery store when I saw a breakfast cereal called (are you ready for this?)CRACK’S CRUSTYFLAKES. Another grocery store shocker is the incredibly racist product known as NEGERBROT
FEBRUARY 13, 1992
(literally translated “Nigger Bread”), which is a kind of candy bar.
If you’re looking to buy a VCR in Innsbruck, you might try the video store called VIDEO HORNY. No it’s not a pom rental shop - they don’t even rent videos there, they just sell VCRs and TVs.- Some unfortunate Austrian just happens to have the last name “Homy,” and his decision to open a video store may have been one of the few thing he could do to capitalize on it.
And while you do have to feel sorry for Mr, Homy, I feel worse for an Innsbruck grocer whose name, proudly displayed on his storefront in meter-high letters, is KARL JAKSCHITZ. I’ve always wanted to try shopping there sometime, but I’ve heard they don’t have...
American marketing styles and the popularity of many American products in Europe has lead to an increasing use of English in European advertising. The best example of English wordplay that’s lost on non-speak-ers comes from the slogan for a brand of cigarettes which I saw in Czechoslovakia. Like many other brands of European cigarettes, this one is advertised with a slick sounding English name (Lexington) and with English writing on the package. Whoever the native speaker was who came up with this one obviously wanted to give anyone who did speak English a good laugh, because the slogan on the package reads, “After Action, Satisfaction.” You only wish you could find slogans like that in the A&P back home...
(2)	Football: The Europeans have no idea of what American football is. They don’t want to, either, because to them, it’s about the equivalent of Co-Ed Midget Kickboxing. Like Co-Ed Midget Kickboxing, football (or American football, as the rest of the world calls it) is only shown late at night on then-equivalent of ESPN, and during the games the channel markets books called, “American Football and Baseball Made Under-
standable,” which probably sell about as well as the Richard Clayderman albums that are advertised at the same time of night
But we Idiots Abroad did get to watch all of the Notre Dame football games this year —in German. Imagine the culture shock of seeing a picture of Notre Dame Stadium and hearing “Grube aus Notre Dame Stadium, meine Damen unde Herren! Das heutige Spiel zwischen die Notre Dame Fighting Irish und die USC Trojans wird jetzt mit einem Kickoff von Craig Hentrich anfangen.” At that point, one really wonders what football sounds like translated into Japanese or Bantu. The announcers do at least keep the American terms instead of substituting German ones; I’d hate to have an interception called an “Abfang.” I have to admit that I even like the way they explain some things better than the way the announcers do back home. They would say, “Der letzte Pass-Versuch von Rick Mirer hat nicht funktioniert” (Imagine John Madden or whoever saying, “Well, Bob, that last pass play by Mirer just didn’t function properly.”)
It’s just that even with the terms kept the same, there’s not much point in trying to translate football into foreign languages because NO ONE ELSE WATCHES IT.
Europeans do like to wear American football jerseys for some strange reason, but most of these are so badly faked that it’s hard not to laugh when you see one. I think the 49ers will be irked when they find out they’ve become the “L.A. 59ers,” just like the Seahawks will be when they realize that they’re now the “Seattle Fighters.” Or maybe there really is a team called the Los Angeles Rebels? Or the Texas Trojans?
You just have to wonder if the Europeans are doing the same to us — is that leather jacket you have really European, or is it something they’d only wear with naugahyde bell bottoms.	□
25
Univors;j/6f NotreDornef
SESQU ICENTENN I AL ANNIVERSARY
Glancing Back
By Jenny Tate
Every great tradition must have an origin, no matter how humble. The tradition of The Scholastic Magazine began in 1867 and has flourished. However, the growth of The Scholastic has been abetted throughout its 125 year existence by many outstanding people and organizations. One such organization, which has evolved into an internationally recognized book publisher and printer, is the Ava Maria Press.
Ava Maria Press was established in 1865 by the Holy Cross Fathers and Brothers at Notre Dame and, thus, serves as one of the oldest Catholic publishing houses in America. For the first 105 years of its
existence, Ava Maria Press was responsible for publishing and printing, among other things, the Ava Maria Weekly Catholic Magazine, founded by Father Sorin.
Currently, AMP prints many Notre Dame, Saint Mary, and Holy Cross publications, including the Notre Dame Magazine. Students of Notre Dame may be more familiar with another AMP product, the Dav by Day prayer book.
After the discontinuation of the Ava Maria Magazine, AMP expanded more into the field of book.
Chris Werllng
Notre Dame Archives
The Ave Marla Press is one of the oldest Catholic publishing houses in America.
The Ave Maria Press building as it is today.
publishing and printing. AMP has nearly 300 books on its backlist dealing with topics such as spirituality, sacramental preparation, religious education, women’s issues, and ministry. “The vast majority of books are solicited. Wecultivatethe authors that we want,” said Father Dave Schlaver, AMP publisher, in a recent Scholastic interview.
AMP circulates books into English speaking countries all oyer the world. “We sell a lot of books. ...Every parish in the country uses our stuff,” says Schlaver. AMP also markets audio cassettes and special video productions. ,
The Ava Maria Press publishing house presently employs thirty-five people and the print shop employs
26
SCHOLASTIC
W^;y„> -"..z?.:. ■ I	’ :.;.y^li^^	-M	” ?'	/ :.^ i:-< : ;	; - C\y- -- ■-<-
A look at Notre Dame’s oldest publishing house
Chris Werling (2)
The modern printing press at Ave Maria. AMP acts as both publisher and print shop.
students working on the magazine (Ava Maria Magazine). That, actually, is how I got started here,” says Schlaver..
Schlaver remembers the identity crisis suffered by Scholastic following the estab-lishmentofThe Observer,in 1967,as adaily campus news source. The Scholastic shifted from a weekly publication to a monthly edition and then commenced weekly publication again.
Schlaver would love to reinstate the ties between the Scholastic and the AMP. “We could still do it (print the Scholastic), obviously, because we do Notre Dame Magazine. We would love to do it again,” says Schlaver.
With or without the Scholastic, Ava Maria Press remains an intrinsic part of Notre Dame. Not only has the AMP helped to set several campus media sources on their feet, but has created a tradition of printing and publishing excellence.	□
thirty. The distinction between the publish- volvemenl ing and the printing operation rests in the of the AMP responsibility that AMP takes for the docu- with the ment “A publisher takes responsibility for Scholastic. what is printed. A printer simply does the Schlaver rephysical activity. Weareboth. Wecanprint members anything, but on anything that we publish we the former will have our insignia, AMP,” says bond which Schlaver.	existed be-
For 118 years, AMP printed The Scholas- tween the tic Magazine. In 1984, Scholastic relocated two organi-its business to a contract printer in Milford, zations and Indiana. Schlaver remembers the loss of the recalls that Scholastic contract to have been rather many Scho-sudden and based on cost analysis. AMP lastic edi-had difficulty competing with a wet press tors came to which uses rolls instead of sheets and con- work at the denses the cutting and folding functions of a AMP for a press into one machine. “It’s a case of cost year or more consciousness. Everybody wants a piece of after gradu-the Dome and they will operate at a loss just a t i o n . to get a foot in the door. We have to compete “There were with that,” says Schlaver.:	always in-
Schlaver regrets the present lack of in- temships or
Ave Maria Press publishes the current Notre Dame Magazine and circulates books all over the world.
FEBRUARY 13, 1992
27
Iwas a gunner pre-med.
t’s time I own up. I once brought my bio’ book and a Hi-Liter along on spring break. I timed myself studying for the MCAT because I wanted to break 100 hours (final tally: 98).
“Up on the watershed, standing at the fork in the road, You can stand there and agonize, ‘til your agony’s your heaviest load.” —Indigo Girls, “Watershed"
And it was all very good. I relished the prospect of a career that would promise the chance to serve others as well as a comfy living. As far as grades went, I was an academic stud, which was cool. Let’s face it, in the amusement park of college majors, pre-med is the roller coaster that does the 360-degree loop-de-loop. Being a gunner pre-med, well, that’s like standing up in the front car and mooning your fellow passengers.
B ut all the while, I had a secret seduction that would manifest itself every Friday afternoon. For as long as I could remember, or at least since I first realized I’d never be Julius Erving or Bruce Springsteen, I wanted
to write for Sports Illustrated. Every Friday I’d retreat to a private sanctuary and read SI cover to cover.
I loved SI for what it represented: the most sublime union of sport and writing. Sport and writing have always been my two most intense passions. But I was
John Walters (‘88) admits to having watched "Dead Poets’ Society" one too many times. But he is happy and living in New York City—a paradoxical feat in itself.
a gunner pre-med, and a good one. Who would throw all of that away?
Sure, I know that college is a time for rebellion, even for good doobies like myself and most probably you. My friend Mike could cajole me into launching a water balloon onto an unsuspecting prof’ walking from Cushing to the Oak Room. And (HA! Now it can be told) once I even found myself in Badin Hall at 2:45 in the morning — she was an RA, I figured I was safe.
Butl wasn’t a rebel as much as I was a Domer, which meant that I was an idealistic, decent person who’d always made his parents proud and enjoyed doing so. Making my parents proud of me was not my raison d’etre, but like student football tix, it was a beneficial side effect of my being a Notre Dame student
But as I said, I was idealistic. Stop me if you’ve heard this one before: “I don’t want to just make money, I want to make a difference.” When I said it to my parents, after their nausea subsided, they introduced me to an odious document known as a “Student Loan Repayment Program.”
For better or for worse, money doesn’t mean all that much when you’re 21. At 21, dreams mean so much more. So I thought of my idols. I thought of the character Pippin, who sang “So many, men seem destined to settle for something small/but I won’t rest until I know I’ve done it all.” I thought of Lou Holtz, 234th-in-his-high-school-class Lou Holtz, who seemed to have found his windmill to conquer. I even
________________FINAL WORD
What Are You Going to Do
With Your Life? I by John Walters
thought of the Springsteen lyrics, “Is a dream a lie if it don ’ t come true/or is it something worse?” The Boss, by the way, was kicked out of Ocean City (NJ) College in his first week for refusing to wear shoes to class.
Because time does not stand still, no matter how much you may want it to, I eventually found myself standing at the fork in the road. And because I’d rather be a failure than a hypocrite, I am writing this from my office at Sports Illustrated. It’s not all wine and roses, and you don’t have to convince me that doctors serve a more useful purpose than do sportswriters, but this is what I’ve always wanted to do, and I’m doing it.
Think about this: William Shakespeare would have made a great lawyer. His writing skills were, of course, better than average and he was also blessed with a sharp mind, a keen wit and an appetite for work. Imagine, then, how Bill’s
parents musthave taken it when he told them he was moving to London to become a playwright and poet. Can’tyouhear his dad? “Sonnets? You’re goingtowritesonnets? Son,we all love a good verse, but iambic pentameter doesn’ t pay the rent.”
There’s no inherent honor in being poor, and no one is asking you to save the whales, but if you really don’t believe in what you’re doing, ask yourself why not. Here’s what really bugs me. Less talented people, with less to lose, have no fear of taking a big risk and often it comes up all cherries. ND grads, fearful of failing, often take the safe way out rather than realizing that they have a better chance than most schleps. I doubt any of the guys in Nirvana are deferring their law school acceptances right about now.
You, on the other hand, are a proven model of intelligence, talent and diligence. So doesn’t it figure that you have a better chance of realizing your dreams than they do? No, there are certainly no guarantees, but if at this time in your life you are afraid at failing to succeed, then you’ll always be more likely to succeed at failure (I think I read that on a Hallmark card). And failure is not trying. When you look back on your life, do you want to be remembered as someone who had a nice living-room set and a pure-bred dog to pack into the back of your SAAB, or do you want to say that you pursued your passion to its nth degree?
Believe in yourself and be prepared to roll up your sleeves for some hard work. Give yourself some time. And be prepared to have family and friends wonder what the heck went wrong with you. But if it’s gnawing at you, that clandestine dream, realize that no amount of security will expunge the coulda’s, woulda’s and shoulda’s from your mind.
And lastly, remember thata/Z youreally can ever counton is a lifetime guarantee.	□
28
SCHOLASTIC
FRp&EU 3outH e>eMP.
IT IOST	SN0W1U6 SU0W1HG $
SUovJiHG...........
Distributed by Tribune Media Services	.	'
LENNY KRAVITZ
THE CULT
Feb. 25 in the JACC
Student tickets on sale Feb. 12
ND/SMC ID Required, 4 tickets per ID, 1 ID Per student
At JACC Gate 10 $12.00
No one may gather at Gate 10 before 7:00 A.M.
Drawing for position in ticket lines will be at 7:30 A.M.
Sale begins at 10:00 A.M.
STUDENT UNION BOARD
General Public
At JACC and all Ticketmaster Outlets
$18.00