
Scholastic Is Back! 
For The First Time In 15 Years Notre Dame's Student Magazine 
Is Publishing Weekly 
Alumni-It was here when you were. You read it then, read it now for even more in-depth coverage of: 
News Sports 
Reports that go beyond the box scoresDigs beneath the surface of campus and and headlines to give sports fans anational stories, giving readers a detailed unique picture of the Notre Dame sports look at current issues. 
community. 


Student Life 
Columns on the latest music, film and 
literature, and stories which focus on 
student lifestyles. 
Be A Part Of The New Tradition 
Subscribe Now 
Please send years of Scholastic to: 
Name 
Ad res s 

City _______________ State _____ Zip _______ 
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic Magazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $18. 7 5 x years=$ 
Contents 
October 9, 1986 Volume 128, No. 5



Scholastic 

Cover Stories 


A Growing Force 

5 
By Phil Wolf 
Under The Guidance Of Third-Year Coach Dennis Grace, The Irish Soccer Program Is Building For A Strong Future 

A Hard-Working Captain 

9 
By Kathleen McKernan 
Steve Lowney, A Talented Junior Defender, Leads The Irish Soccer Team By Example 



Student Life News 
23/Bringing You The World 
By Brian Padian 


Departments 
3/Letters 4/Week In Distortion: A Land OJ Opportunity?
, ... ••: 
11/On Other Campuses: Bubba Blows Off Lite 12/Calendar 
17 /Music: No Dinosaurs, Please 22/Restaurants: A Change Of Taste 24/Final Word: Sitting In The Stands 
18/Censorship Or Church Doctrine? 
By Miriam Hill 20/Could It Happen Here? By Cindy Rauckhorst 


Sports 
14/An Uphill Climb By Mike Chmiel 


Ed~orial 

1. 
Letters 
Edi tor-in-Chief 
Maher Mouashcr 
Managing Editor Keith Harrison Jr. 
Design Editor Alex Peltzer 
Production Manager Matthew Bradley 

General Manager 
Phil Coghlan 

Editorial Larry Burke/Sports Catherine Coffey/Departments Sharon Dow/Assistant Design Frank Lipo/Ncws Greg Miller/News Lucian Niemeyer/Photography Aimee Storin/Copy Chief Bob Winn/Student Lifc 
Administration 
Pete Cespedes/Comptroller Matt Dolan/Advertising Mike Hoban/Circulation 


Layout 
Jim Doerfler Kathleen McKernan Susan Serrato 
Art & Photography Jim Doerfler Mike Napierkowski Maria Murphy 

The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire edi­torial board of Scholastic or the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or student body. Editorials, unless otherwise indicated, represent the opinion of the majority of the edi­torial board. 
Scholastic is represented for national advertising by CASS student advertis­ing, Inc. Published weekly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at The Papers, Inc. Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $18.75 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, IN 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. Copyright 1986 Scholastic. All rights reserved. None of the contents may be reproduced without permission. 

October 9, 1986 
She Be lllin' 
Dear Editor, 
The recent article by Tim Adams (Sept. 18: "They Be Illin"') con­cerning the new Run-D.M.C. album described the situation quite clearly -the group has taken a bad rap for the violence which has marked a number of its concerts. 
Obviously, Tipper Gore, who is rivaled only by Vanna White as the country's most uninformed person to achieve celebrity status, doesn't have the time to read the lyrics of the groups she criticizes. If she did, as Adams pointed out, she would be shocked to find out that she and Run-D.M.C. probably have a lot in common: the album is heavy with criticism of drug abuse and its many consequences. 

Too bad we "angry, disillusioned and unloved" people can't go whin­ing to our relatives to form special commissions whenever we feel the 
good of the threatened by Tipper Gore.  country persons  is such  being as  
Marc Ramirez '85  
Phoenix, Arizona  

.Drop Us A Line 


If you have an opinion about something in Scholastic, write us a letter clo Scholastic Letters LaFortune Student Center 
Notre Dame IN 46556 


Letters to the editor must be typed and must include the author's name, address and phone number. Letters should not exceed 250 words 1n length. 







ALand Of Opportunity? 
Consider Yourself Warned: Road Trips Can Have Ups And Downs 
By Mike Keegan 

It's four o'clock Friday after­noon, and you leave class filled with nervous anticipa­tion about the weekend. This is going to be the best weekend of your life. Your chance to outdo Otter and find your own Fawn Liebowitz. That's right, you have planned the most incredible road trip ever. 
You pile into a car with six of your. bu.ddies who all crack open a root beer to start the trip off right. After about an hour of who-can­outdo-whom stories, the car falls silent as the passengers dream of their upcoming antics. The car ride seems to go on forever while the pain from a buddy's head rest­ing on your shoulder intensifies. Finally, you sight the land of opportunity. Cheers emanate from the car. 
Because it is already eight o'clock, everyone decides it's time to hit the party circuit. Upon entering the bars, you decide to catch a quick buzz. Twelve beers, two shots of tequila, and a bag of potato chips later, you begin to feel lucky. From across the room you sight the most incredible look­ing girl you have ever seen. It is time to make your move. 
Unconscious of the fact that you arc stumbling instead of walk­ing, you finally reach your ulti­mate destination. Taking a deep breath, you ask the girl if she would like to dance. The girl, totally uninterested, says no. In a state of panic, you try to regain your cool by saying, "That's okay, because I have to go to the bath­
room anyway." Feeling victorious, you head back to the bar for another drink. 
By now, the road trip is in full swing. Everyone leaves the bar and heads for excitement else­where, most commonly fraternities and sororities. After finding these houses of high moral standards, you search for more liquid refreshments. Your quick buzz eventually leads to disorientation and a rush of uncontrollably slurred words. You realize that it is four o'clock in the morning and you must find a place to sleep. 
You remember reading of a recently conducted survey that listed the most suitable places to sleep while on a roadtrip. The options to consider: under a tree, in a corn field, on a bench with a bum, in a jail cell or standing up next to the keg. You select the keg 
option. 
After a two-hour nap, you wake up feeling as though you have been "slimed" by a Ghost­buster. This initial feeling gives way to the realization that four hundred elephants somehow crawled into your head while you were sleeping and have now decided to try to preak your skull to get out. Reaching into your pocket, you pull out the greatest road trip friend of all -no, not a beer -a packet of Alka Seltzer. 
Now its time to search for food. Looking into your wallet, you begin to panic. It has hap­pened again. The notorious "road­trip thief" has stolen all your funds. 

There is no way someone can drink $100 worth of alcohol in one night, but somehow it always hap­pens. Hence, the road trip thief is blamed. Almost penniless, you resort to mooching off others. The day is spent wandering aimlessly around the campus waiting for the night to once again rear its ugly drunken head. 
Saturday night presents the same antics as Friday did, except for one detail. The girl that told you to get lost on Friday night approaches you in the bar. She says that she wants to get to know you a little better, and asks you to buy her a drink. Your heart .pounds with initial excitmcnt until you realize that you have no 
money. 
To save face, you tell her that you must have been wearing the biggest beer goggles in the world last night and that there is no way that you will buy her a drink. The most gorgeous girl you have ever met storms off, leaving you curs­ing the road-trip thief. 
Sunday morning you pile back into the car with your buddies, whom you haven't seen an· week­end. They ask you how it was, and you just put a smile on your face that would make the devil look innocent. Everyone laughs. You awaken four hours later to the smell of ethanol. Home sweet 

home. 



Alittle more tha.n two years ago, Dennis Grace, then Notre Dame's new. head soccer coach, sat in a small room deep in the heart of the ACC. As he sat, surrounded by soccer balls, uniforms and other equipment in his m·akeshift office, the first-year coach reflected on his new posi­tion. "I've been working toward being in an environment of 
October 9, 1986 
growth," he said atAhe time. "I'm like a little acorn.. ~ . I feel I'm in a nice fertile crescent with a lot of rain, and that little acorn is going to turn into a mighty oak one of these days." Grace told of his plans to take the Irish, perennial pushovers in the Great Lakes Region, and :qiake them into a unit capable of competing with the best teams in the country.. 
Now in the middle of his third season, the. acorn has grown in to a sapling. Grace · sits · in a slightly larger -but still cluttered -office in the ACC. The last two seasons have not looked very good for the Irish soccer team, but the coach doesn't seem too disappointed. He still talks about making Notre Dame's soccer program one of the best in the nation. And, despite the disappointing records of his first two seasons (12-6-2 in 1984 and 7-11-4 in 1985), Grace still presents a believable case for Irish soccer's national prominence. 
After a strong start to the sea­son, the Irish dropped three games last week to fall to 9-5 going into last Tuesday's game against Akron. Notre Dame has outscored its opponents 45-16 this 
5 
Sports 

yc'.l.r, after scoring only 44 goals all of last season. 
"We've made great strides," Grace says. "I'm very happy where we are right now. Yeah, we're winning, we're doing some things, but the most important thing is we're playing very, very well. Right now, we're the best team in my three years here. We've made progress and the key is to keep going." 
The building blocks of that progress arc the 19 freshmen and sophomores who compose the ba~kbone of this year's team. The future of the soccer program docs, indeed, appear bright. There arc talented young players, and excel­lent facilities available to the team. There have been obstacles in the path of the rising program, how­ever, and there are sure to be many more before Grace's oak tree matures. 
Playing "very, very well" launched the Irish to a 9-2 mark before last week's losses. After a losing record last year -the first in Notre Dame soccer history -the winning record is quite welcome, although the team doesn't seem very surprised by it. 
"We're doing some really incredible things now," sophomore Joe Sternberg says. "I think this year we're reaping the benefits. We got a lot of experience last year playing top-notch teams." 
The competition to which Sternberg refers includes all of the best teams in the Great Lakes Region and other top-ranked pro­grams around the country. The region includes such national powers as Indiana, Evansville, and Akron. 
But experience comes at a high price, as last year's losing record shows all too clearly. Some critics said the Irish were in over their heads with the competition they faced. 
"It might not have been fair for me in my second year to make up the schedule like I did," Grace says, "because all of the seniors of last year weren't going to get a chance to go do,vn in the record books as having the greatest record. But I think for the overall growth and development of the program, we had to start playing those teams day in and day out." 
Bcfore Grace took the reins of the Irish program, the worst win­ning percentage in the team's seven-year history was in 1979, when the Irish went 20-10-1. In the two years just before Grace arrived, Notre Dame had a win­ning percentage of . 795, going 16-4-2 and 18-4-0 (in· 1982 and 1983, respectively). · 
6 ~ 
~ 
C 
C\l 
·;:; 
3 


Grace hopes to build a team that can com­pete with the best in the country. 
But the problem with those records, as Grace sees it, was that the Irish had not challenged them­selves enough. The wins came easily against weaker teams, and the losses came as drubbings at the hands of the fcw legitimate powers on the schedule. The first step in strengthening the program was to improve the level of competition. 
The second step was recruiting players who could rise to the chal­lenge of the tougher schedule ­and who could bounce back week after week in that transition sea­son. Grace was successful in attracting several talented fresh­men to Notre Dame last year, and he started eight of them regularly. 
"The boys arc mature enough to recognize that they're playing good soccer," the coach says. "They didn't come here to be 22-0 playing nobody. They came here to be very good soccer players." 
Recruiting is a dreaded chore for many coaches, but Grace says he loves to recruit. He says he almost can't wait for the chance to jump on a plane and fly to meet the top high school prospects. 
By putting a lot of his energy into recruiting, Grace hopes to net some players who will pour their 
energy into the team he is build­ing. He says he is most interested in recruiting players who can play several postions, so he tends to go after talented athletes rather than s_ta_rs with a few specific skills. 
"We recruit soccer players," he says. "Our players are everywhere and we're always changing posi­tions. Everybody feels that they have to contribute offcnsivcly and everybody feels that they have to contribute defcnsively, and that's the key. When we get the ball, we play I I-man offense. When the ball turns over, we have 11 men playing defense." 
The result of this recruiting cffort? "I think we've got some people we had no business get­ting," Grace says. "We've got a number of boys that could play on any team in the country, but they've elected to come here and help us build what we want to build." 
Those players include Sternberg and his classmates, Randy Morris, John Guignon and Tom Gerlachcr, among others. Top recruits in this year's crop of freshmen include four starters for the Irish: Rolfe Bchrje, Dave Augustyn, Kevin Kade, and Pat Mcclanahan. 
But perhaps the most important 
Scholastk 


Sports 
Freshman Augustyn, a regular starter, has added quickness to the offense. 
player for the Irish right now is a veteran: sophomore Bruce "Tiger" Mccourt, the team's leading scorer, who is chasing down Notre Dame's all-time scoring record. 
McCourt, in his second year of cli­gibilty after transferring last sea­son from Holy Cross Junior Col­lege, already has tallied 30 points in 14 games this season. 
Combined with his 12 points in I 985, McCourt is ranked 13th on the all-time Notre Dame scoring list. His 18 goals so far place him I0th among career goal scorers, and his current scoring pace puts him. in position to topple Kevin Lovejoy's six-year old school record of 67 career goals. 
Also taking aim at top positions in the record book are Sternberg, who led the Irish in scoring last 
October 9, 1986 

L" 
C 
n 

g· 
~ 
~ 
~ 
year with 10 goals and 25 points, and senior Pat Szanto, who is sixth on the career goal-scoring list with 
33. Sternberg already has knocked home eight goals this season and is just ahead of Mccourt with 44 career points. Szanto, who splits his playing time between the sweeper and striker positions, has scored three goals this season. 
Individual statistics don't tell the story of this year's team, though. The coach and players are talking more about a new attitude. 
"It was kind of a concerted effort on our part last spring to really bring the team together," senior captain Jim Flynn says. "There was a little bit of disunity last year in the fall, and that's why when things got going tough, the team fell on hard times."­
To combat that disunity, Grace scheduled some road games for the Irish in the spring, so the team traveled and lived together long enough to form a cohesive group. Veterans now comment on the closeness of the team, a charac­teristic which apparently was missing from teams of the past few years. 
The result is a group of players who enjoy being together and enjoy helping each other more than any other team Grace has had at Notre Dame. "I can feel it when I'm out there playing or practicing or just hanging out with every­one," Sternberg says. "You can tell that the teammates respect each other and they really want to be together. You can really sense a feeling of togetherness when you're with them." 
It's a good thing the Irish players enjoy ·. being with each other, because Grace says they will be together a lot throughout the year. He already has formulated his team speech for November, when the fall season ends. It goes like this: "Concentrate on your studies and have a good Christmas. Then get back here in January ready to go, because we're going to go 90 miles an hour. And if you don't work, I'm going to work to replace you." 
Strange as it may seem, this is the same coach for whom players say they love to play. Several players say Grace's coaching is the biggest reason why they came to Notre Dame. "Coach's view is, 'If you come as a freshman, I promise you're going to be a better player when you leave as a senior,"' says Augustyn, who decided to attend Notre Dame after playing for Grace in soccer camps before his senior year of high school. 
The first word most Irish players use to dccribe their coach 
Sports 

is "demanding." "He is a very tough coach to play for," Stern­berg says. "He is demanding, and he can bring the best out of a player. Everyone on the team respects him a great deal; he says something, you listen. He's defin­itely the kind of coach that you want to do well for. He wants to win more than anyone else on the field, and that motivates me in a way. He's done as much as he can do, and all I can do is try to play 
my hardest for him." 
Flynn, who as captain, acts as a liaison between the players and their coach, analyzes Grace's style further. "He demands a lot and it's not easy to play for him some­times, but you get so much out of it. It's kind of a love-hate rela­tionship, and I think he knows and appreciates that that's the way it's always going to be with a coach and a player." 
Grace recognizes that good coaching implies a paradox. One minute he appears very angry, and the next he is affectionate, almost to the point of sappiness. "It's not easy "to have somebody rant and rave and grab you by your jersey and then hold you and hug you," he says. "I throw curve balls at them all the time. If I were a pitcher, I'd throw knuckle balls. But they've been around me long enough where now they under­stand." 
With so many young players 

and such a positive attitude, the 
team has been able to talk of the 
possibility of post-season play 
looming on the horizon. Maybe 
not this year, but soon, everyone 
says. 
The NCAA championship tour­namcn t is structured so the top two teams in every region automatically get bids, and up to four other teams per region have an opportunity to attend. Notre Dame has appeared in the regional 
s 

rankings with growing regularity in the past two seasons. This year, the Irish still arc flirting with the top IO, with two games remaining to be played against regional opponents. 
But even if the Irish fall short this season, the regional powers are becoming aware that Grace means business when his team takes the field. That's what his players mean when they talk about the growth of the Notre Dame soccer program. "I wish I were a freshman right now," Flynn says. "I know this is the beginning. We're in the transition years of a great program, and it's kind of exciting." 
Grace does express a small amount of concern that the pro­gram may plateau eventually, because Notre Dame docs not offer soccer scholarships to help 

attract talented players. That pla­teau is still a f cw years away, how­ever, as Grace continues to recruit some top-notch players based on the potential for growth he can offer them. "Eve.n though I don't have scholarships, I have scholar­ship kids," he says. 
He explains that Athletic Director Gene Corrigan m1,1st do what is best for the athletic department as a whole, and the soccer program is only a small part of that department. "We know our role in the University,· and we're very happy with it," Grace says. 

"Don't misunderstand me. think scholarships would make us immediately compct1t1vc with anyone in the country. But I also think we're getting there slowly but surely going the hard way without them. l honestly believe when Mr. Corrigan is ready to make a move scholarship-wise, he's going to do it, and not bcfore. I think he recognizes that we're a program that is up and coming, and we have fan potential." 
Some of that fan potential may be realized next season, when the Irish will move into a new facility for their home games. A 5,000­scat stadium, which Grace esti­mates will cost approximately $3.5 million, will be built for next summer's Special Olympics at Notre Dame. 
The stadium, which is to be built on the site of the present track behind the ACC, must be completed by July, so it will be ready for use by several Irish teams in the fall of I 987. The facility will include a track and a grass playing surface, as well as lights for night play. 
Grace, who dislikes playing on artificial surfaces, says he looks forward to the grass and bright lights which will replace the present Cartier Field's dimly-lit astroturf as 'the home of Irish night games. In addition, he says he expects more fans from the community to attend games, which will be sched1,1led on Friday even­ings, often on weekends of home football games. 
With the new stadium, Grace says it will be easier to recruit talented players to attend Notre Dame. And that means building a powerful Irish soccer program. "I love it," says Grace. 
It seems that little acorn is, indeed, on it's way to becoming a mighty oak tree. 
Scholastic 
Sports 

A Hard-Working Captain 
By Kathleen McKernan 
Steve Lowney, A Talented Junior Defender, Leads The Irish Soccer Team By Example 

While walking home from practice, Ii beral studies major and Irish soccer standout Steve Lowney usually talks with his roommate and team­mate Paul Gluckow about soccer, school and !ife. He recalled one such conversation that took place during a recent South Bend rainy spell. 
"We're reading the Bhagavad­Gita in Great Books (Seminar)," Lowney explains. "It's interesting, but sometimes I just wonder how applicable it is in the western world. It seems somewhat indif­ferent to one's fellow man. On the other hand, as Paul and I were saying after soccer one day last week when it was really raining and grey outside, maybe there's something in the book. Maybe all the things that we worry about just don't matter anyway." 
With training in the Program of Liberal Studies, Lowney naturally questions beliefs, even his own. As a talented athlete on a strong non-scholarship team, Lowney analyzes his own place in the scheme of things as he sloshes back to his Flanner home. There he will confront the load of books, a task he shares with the rest of the students -both athletes and non­athlctes. 
The Notre Dame soccer team jumped off to a 9-2 record this season, which included two wins on its way to capturing the Wright State Invitational Tournament. Its only losses came to the highly­ranked teams of Purdue and Indi­ana. Of late, however, the Irish have experienced some difficulties on the road, dropping games to Bowling Green, Wisconsin, and Marquette in a five-day span. 
Co-captain Lowney has the task of leading the team from fall­season anonymity to new visibil­ity. High-profile coverage may be a little much to expect for a group of athletes whose sport has just recently gained any level of popu­larity in this country -and is just 
beginning to make its mark in the Midwest. Lowney just wants to help lead the young team -which consists mostly of freshmen and sophomores -to solid perfor­mances for his remaining time here. 
Still a junior, Lowney is young for a co-captain, but his experi­ences in. high school as well as at Notre Dame make him particularly well-suited for the responsibility of keeping the team together on the field. 
At Bellarmine Preparatory School in his hometown of San Jose, California, Lowney lettered in three sports: football, track and soccer. But, as a soccer player, Lowney never matched his success in other sports. He didn't start when he was a junior, and when he was a senior, current Irish teammate Randy Morris captained the Bellarmine squad. 
_In California, where soccer is a winter sport, the soccer players practice the entire year. Lowney's many talents worked to his disad­vantage. While his competitors were practicing soccer, he was using~ his speed on the track and football field. He played the tradi­tional speedster pos1t10ns of defensive back and wide receiver and ran the 300-meter hurdles. 
Lowney, who went from being a second-stringer in his junior year of high school to being an all-Central Coast selection as a senior, continues striving to improve. The speed that has been an integral part of his success in all sports remains an important part of his soccer game and has never been an area of difficulty for him. Lowney has, nonetheless, felt the need to improve other aspects of his game. 
"Lately, I've been working a lot on my ball work," L.owney says. "I've been juggling the ball (with my legs and feet) to work on my handling ability. I've been trying to develop •touch' for the ball. It takes a little time to establish." 
· The "touch" Lowney mentions is difficult to explain. It's a lot less lucky -than getting "good wood" on a baseball and not quite as 
October 9, 1986 
Sports 






mystical and more common than the "hot hand" of basketball. A definition may be tough to pin­point, but when you've got the "touch," you know. · 
"'Touch' is a way of relating to the ball," Lowney explains. "Let's say the ball's coming at you. With touch you can control the ball. Without touch, it just bounces a way hard." 
Lowney has been successful in his efforts at increasing his ball handling ability. "He's a very good ball-controller," Head Coach Dennis Grace says. "He's improved 100 percent since he came to Notre Dame." 
In soccer, in addition to the aspect of touch, there's a certain amount of intangibility in measur­ing success, especially for a defen­sive player like Lowney. The for­wards have their statistics: shots, goals, ·assists, game-winners. But the defensive aspect of the game. 

f; ;· 
~ 
~­
~ ~ 
as in most other sports, cannot be adequately put into numbers. Defensive success is not apparent to the neophyte. It takes a deeper understanding to recognize a good performance on defense. 
"If I've had a good game," Lowney says, "the man who I was marking wasn't allowed to shoot or contribute to the game. If a player marked his man out of the game, he's had a good game. It's also good to contribute to the offense." 
In addition to ability in soccer, Lowney has also developed a love for literature over the past few years, which he has incorporated into an ambition to study law and to pursue a liberal studies major. 
This season, the team has started off quickly, and future lawyer Lowney has done his part to handle his co-captain's duties on the soccer field. 
"The co-captain's duties have been going really well," Lowney says. "In the past, I felt a pressure to make things happen on the field. But we're playing so well, I've not had to do much. I just have to say, 'Keep it up, guys.' Everything seems like it's coming together. 
"We should try to take the atti­tude that we can beat anybody. We have to realize that we're going against some of the top 20 teams of the nation. It's the captains' jobs to make sure the players, especially the younger players, stay up. We've done that ~o far." 
"Steve's a very hard-nosed kid," Grace says. "He's unyielding on defense. If I were a forward, I wouldn't want to face him. He isn't afraid to stick or get stuck." 
Lowney's abilities and willing­ness to take control on the field are clear. He's been coming through in the clutch since his freshman year at Notre Dame. Two years ago, at Wisconsin­Platteville, Grace moved the mid­fielder Lowney up to the forward position in the second half, with the Irish trailing 3-2. The defen­sive specialist, playing out of posi­tion, scored the tying goal in a game which Notre Dame went on to win 4-3. 
Off the field, Notre Dame's co-captain wingback-sweep~r Lowney may think about his future in law or read Hindu writ­ings and wonder about the signifi­cance of it all, but on the field a young, hard-working Lowney leads an even younger team with his quick feet and willingness to work himself. 
"I kid Steve Lowney," co­captain keeper Jim Flynn says. "I tell him that he's the on-field cap­tain, and I'm the off-the-field captain. Steve does take care of the team on the field. He leads them. He really does." 
10 





Compiled bv• Rich Corsetto 



Sports 
An Uphill Climb 
By Mike Chmiel 
The Irish Will Have To Avoid The Mistakes That Plagued Them In Birmingham If They Are To Get Their Second Win Of The Season Against Pittsburgh 
... " 
"'>, 
"' 

§ ,IL 
Nz 
~ 
otre Dame defensive tackle ·g ~ 
Wally Kleine summed up ..:1 
what seemed to be the 

attitude among the Irish players. "We're going to work hard," he said, after Alabama had handed the Irish a 28-10 defeat at Birmingham's Legion Field last Saturday. "By no means is this team down and out." 
The hard work for the Irish began this week, in preparation for Saturday's game with Pitts­burgh at Notre Dame Stadium. The Irish will be looking for their second win of the season. And they will be looking to overcome some problems. 
While Notre Dame has put forth strong efforts in each of its first four games, the Irish have failed to develop any great consistency in· their ·attack. Crucial mistakes also have plagued the Irish in their three losses. Going into the Pitt Both Pitt and Notre Dame will Like the Irish, the Panthers lostgame, the Irish will look for con­be looking at must-win situations their home and season opener,sistency and will attempt to escape as far as bowl bids are concerned, beat up on Purdue (by a 41-26costly mistakes. 
according to most observers. The score), and dropped their last 
"We have to develop some con­Pittsburgh press claims that the game. For Pitt, losses have come at tinuity," Notre Dame head coach Panthers' entire season could rest the hands of Maryland ( 10~7 in the Lou Holtz said. "We'll play well on on the outcome of its contest with season opener), and Temple ( 19-13 defense and then give up some big the Irish. With the toughest last week). Like Notre Dame, Pitt plays. We'll play well on offense schedule in college football this will face Navy and Penn State and then have some turnovers. year, the Irish also must look for a later this season. Unlike the Irish, 
We'll play well on the kicking win at the hands of the 2-2-1 Pan­however, Pitt will not have to play game and then have a breakdown. thers. Both teams have new Alabama in Birmingham -a chal­We have to look at all three' areas coaches this year and are looking lenge which Notre Dame was not and go from there." for quick success. able to meet. 
Bennett rang Beuerlein's bell early, and finished the day with six tackles and one sack. 

Sports 

Just before halftime, Milt Jackson took an Andrysiak pass and 
three

gained 22 yards to set up a John Carney field goal. 
backs 
This year, the Crimson Tide will be searching for a 12th national championship and first since Alabama head coach Ray Perkins took over the helm for the late, legendary Bear Bryant. Bryant teams won six titles during his illustrious career. Perkins, now in his fourth season, is hoping to achieve similar success. 
Going into last week's contest, the Irish were confident that they would finally be able to prove themselves as a strong team. Some players even said they believed that an Irish win was inevitable. 
"We came into this game think­ing it shouldn't even be close," Irish center Chuck Lanza said. "We had an excellent game plan, and we thought we could run our offcnsc to their defense very well. Things just didn't work out that well." 
For the Irish, the game against second-ranked Alabama was simi­lar to their season opener against Michigan. Fans wondered whether the Irish could be competitive against a top-ranked opponent. Both Michigan and Alabama were expected to come onto the field and blow .the Irish out of the sta­dium. In both cases, however, the Irish were able to mount strong attacks that baffled their highly­rated opponents for at least the opening quarter. 
The Irish were able to stun the partisan crowd of 75,808 for the first three series of the game until Tide outside linebacker Cornelius Bennett stormed Irish quarterback Steve Beuerlein at the start of Notre Dame's . second offensive drive. Bennett's hit resulted in an eight-yard loss and seemed to key the Alabama attack. 

The hit also resulted in a slight concussion for Beuerlein and an enlivened crowd that literally shook Alabama's Legion Field. Three plays after Bennett's hit, Greg Richardson returned a Dan Sorenson punt 66 yards for the first of four Alabama touchdowns.. 
"That hit he made really did pick us up," said Tide nose guard Curt Jarvis. "That's probably one of the most vicious licks I've ever 

seen on a quarterback. I think it really kind of set the tempo for the rest of the day." 
While the Bennett hit excited the crowd, it was Notre Dame's breakdown on punt coverage three plays later which resulted in the first tally of the day. Early in the second half, another special teams' lapse by the Irish helped set up Alabama's fourth touchdown. 
Tim Brown returned the open­ing kickoff of the second half to the Notre Dame 19-yard line, but fumbled the ball away to the Tide. Three plays later, Al Bell took a second touchdown pass from Hcis­man Trophy candidate Mike Shula to make the score 28-IO and seal the verdict for 5-0 Alabama. 
"We felt at halftime that we were right in the game," said Beuerle in. "W c just needed to come out in the opening drive of the second half and get some­thing out of it. Unfortunately, it didn't work out. We had a bad break on the kickoff and they converted it into 
seven more points. We just couldn't get going after that." 
For the day, the Irish defen­sive unit played well overall, and the . offense showed some 
, productivity in the early going. The Irish used 
quarter-
in the game, platooning two throughout much of the contest. 
Bcuerlein started and com­pleted 5-of-16 passes for 66 yards including an eight-yard touch­down pass to Brown for the first Irish score. Terry Andrysiak came off the bench at various times throughout the contest and con­nected on 8-of-I 8 passes for 90 yards. Beucrlcin, Andrysiak, and Steve Belles each threw an inter­ception. 

October 9, 1986 
Sports 
"We'v.e got to settle down, that's number one," Holtz said. "We've got to settle down and play as a team that can win. We can't work any more on the kicking game than we've worked. Yet the kicking game has put us in some problems." 

Fumbles, interceptions, mis­takes on the part of the Irish specialty teams and confusion in the defensive backfield are the things that Holtz said must be eliminated. 
l 
i Going into the Pitt game, the Irish will be facing a team in a similar predicament. Against Maryland, Pitt had two field goals blocked, while against North Carolina State the Panthers had a key punt blocked and wound up with a tie. 

i Fifth-year quarterback John 
! Congcmi leads Pitt's offensive charge with 93 completions in 168 passing attempts for 1,049 yards. Congemi also has tossed five touchdown passes while throwing only three interceptions. Pitt's top receiver, Reggie Williams (l 7 catches this season for 239 yards) will be sidelined for a second straight game with a fractured leg. Other_ top receivers for the pass­oriented Panthers include senior fullback Tom Brown (l3 catches for 75 yards) and junior tailback Charles Gladman (12 for 142 and one touchdown). 

Pitt spreads out its rushing assignments among three players. Sophomore tailback Craig Hey­ward has carried 59 times for 287 yards while Gladman has rushed for 276 yards and one touchdown and Brown has run' for 219 yards. 
Against Temple, Hayward car­ried 26 times for 171 yards. A diverse Pitt offensive scheme, combined with a hefty offensive line anchored by 6-4, 286-pound tackle· Randy Dixon, has helped 
16 

Pitt average 383 yards per game. 
"Offensively, Congcmi has an impressive arm and he docs the things that you would expect from a fifth-year senior with his experi­ence," says Holtz. "Heyward is a bull of a runner and Gladman and Brown certainly are impressive as well. So this is a team that is more than capable of providing a lot of pro bl ems for you." 
While the chances are good that the Irish will go with two quarter­backs again on Saturday, each will have a challenge awaiting him as the Panthers will look to limit an Irish attack that has averaged 400 yards per game. 
The Pitt defcnsc has allowed only 257 yards per game, and no team has gained more than 300 yards against it this year. That unit might seem familiar to Irish defensive coordinator Foge Fazio, who spent 13 years at Pitt as line­backer coach, defcnsivc coordina­tor and head coach. 
"Notre Dame is a veteran ballclub, playing at home," com­mented Pitt assistant coach John Brown, who has scouted the Irish. "We expect it to be a very difficult game. Offensively, they have two quarterbacks who arc good players in Steve Bcucrlcin and Terry Andrysiak. They can throw, run and scram blc well." 
While the Irish quarterbacks 
found it tough against an unrelent­
ing Alabama rush, they also may 
find it difficult against a rough 
Pitt rush which has helped to limit 
opponents to an average of I83 
yards passing per game. Senior 
Tony Woods, a 6-4, 240-pound. 
defensive end, leads the team m 
tackles for loss. 
"They really put a lot more pressure on Purdue and (Boiler quarterback) Jeff George than we were able to, and a lot of that is because of the ability of Tony Woods, who is just an outstanding talent at defensive end," says Holtz. "He can be as dominating a player as-Cornelius Bennett was for Alabama." 
The Irish, with the nation's toughest schedule, have proved that they can be competitive against some of the best teams in the country. But they must avoid their own costly mistakes if they arc to get another win to show for their efforts. 


No Dinosaurs, Please 


Hits From Bananarama, The Bangles, The BoDeans, Ciccone Youth and Husker Du 
By Tim Adams 

An cnthusia.stic reaction to the return of dinosaur rockers Boston is pretty darn discouraging. Whatever happened to progress? As a break from all that cliched AOR drivel, here's a look at five singles, old and new, which probably won't be getting played on some "headphones only" radio show in the near future. 
Bananarama: "Venus" -This is the "Into the Groove" of 1986, a spotless dance tune with enough hook and effervescence to put a tremor in any grandmother's butt. Yeah baby, she's got it. 
The Bangles: "Walk Like an Egyptian" -Deserving of merit simply for its mention of the cosmic occurrence of cops hanging out in doughnut shops. This is a universal phenomenon; when will the. ignorant masses realize that? 
Besides that hip reference, this 

song is just the Bangles goofing .off in tuneful fashion. Single number three from the Different Light album, and the third one not written by the band. Whatsa 
matter, .ladies? No guts? 
The BoDeans : "Runaway" ­Sounding a lot like Tusk-era Fleet­wood Mac, Waukesha, Wisconsin's BoDeans have produced a hitworthy single here, one which updates chic '50s themes and song structures pretty well. 
Despite all the hype surround­ing this group, the stuff I've heard by them has been fairly good, if not heart-stoppingly original. Sure they could win the "band most likely to appear in a Miller Beer ad" award hands down, but this single is nonetheless an impressive major label debut. 
Ciccone Youth : "Burnin' Up" b/w "Into the Groovy" -Want to hear cover versions of Madonna songs done by underground music stars? No, it's _not bad 1-2-3-4 hardcore; alternative sludge dance music is a better description. 
Mike Watt, ex-bassist of the Minutemen, sings and plays most of the stuff on "Burnin' Up," and the result is neither very funny nor revealing. It's pretty straight­forward, with a drumbox to keep the beat, but just because Watt has done incredible stuff in the past doesn't make this a show-stopper. "Into the Groovy," however, 1s something to be heard. 
Sonic Youth:"Into the Groove" ­Known for their desolate "aural landscapes" and in-concert fccd­back mutilation, this band plays a lethargic version of "Into the Groove," interspliced with snip­pets of Madonna's version, the result being almost frightening. 
Thurston Moore's homely voice, perennially off-key, mixes with Kim Gordon's deathly bass to create a chilling cffcct. When Madonna's original version creeps in, it only adds to the song's sense of possessive schizophrenia. A must for lovers of the unusual. 
Husker Du: "Sorry Somehow" -A couple o' ground rules first: I am a huge fan of Husker Du but I am also open-minded and willing to take swipes at my so-called "sacred cows." Husker Du's most recent album, Candy. Apple Grey, paled in comparison to its four most recent predecessors. 
If these guys suffercd a lapse in songwriting ability, it can be understood. If Candy Apple Grey is a semi-blatant attempt to become "commercially viable" 
(i.e. wimpy enough to get played on the radio), then all respect they had earned prior to their signing with Warner Bros. means nothing. 
"Sorry Somehow" exemplifies what their songs have evolved into: repetitive, borderline catchy tunes. Grant Hart, who wrote this song and many others similar to it on Candy Apple Grey, runs in circles with his song topics; how many times can he rehash his relation­ships? 
"Serious" critics ikc Robert Christgau embraced Husker Du's most recent record like it was London Calling or something. Meanwhile, I keep on listening and listening to it, and 'it just doesn't click. Oh well, I guess I'll 
never bf "serious" enough to write 
for the Village Voice. 
October 9, 1986 


News 

Censorship Or Church Doctrine? 
By Miriam Hill 

The Vatican's Censure Of Father Charles Curran Gets Mixed Reviews From Notre Dame's Theology Department 
I n 1968 Father Charles Cur­ran rallied 600 theologians to sign a statement criticiz­ing the Catholic Church's stance that birth control is immoral. Despite several threats of censure from the Vatican, for the past 18 years Curran has continued to publish works suggesting that the Church reevaluate its position on issues such as abortion, divorce, homosexuality and birth control. Curran's case began to attract national attention last spring when the Vatican announced it would censure Curran unless he changed his views. Curran refused to do so, and he paid a steep price for that dissent last month. In a formal letter signed by ·Joseph Cardinal Ratzinger, the Vatican informed Curran that he was "neither suit­able nor eligible" to teach Catholic theology and barred him from teaching at Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C. 
More than 750 theologians have signed a letter in support of Cur­ran and his position. Curran is currently appealing the Vatican's decision. Debate in the case has centered on whether a Catholic theologian teaching at a Catholic university has the right to dissent publicly from official Church teaching. 
Some Catholics respond to that question with a resounding "no." In a recent issue of Time maga­zine, James McFadden, lay editor of the conservative monthly Ca,tholic Eye, compared Curran's position with "working for IBM and damning computers." Other Catholics, however, believe it is the theologian's responsibility to critically analyze Church doctrine. 
One of Curran's most vocal supporters is Father Richard McBrien, chairman of Notre Dame's theology department. McBricn said Curran was particu­larly vulnerable to censure bec~:;"e he taught at Catholic P:1ivcrsity, the only Vatican-chartered univer­sity in the United States. Curran and all theology profcssors at Catholic University must be licensed to teach by the bishop of Washington D.C. McBrien said 

that if Notre  Curran Dame  were teaching or Fordham  at or  
Georgetown, he teaching today.  would  still  be  
f <'"  

Curran stands at the center of the debate: Church doctrine or academic freedom? 
Nevertheless McBrien said that the Curran case raises serious questions about the relationship between academic freedom and Church authorit:,. What makes the case espcci-:!iy significant is that a recent Vatican proposal, "Pro­;,vscd Schema for a Pontifical Document on Catholic Universi­ties," would give the Vatican the 
power to have a large say in the hiring and firing of professors at Catholic universities. 
"In theology, there's a legiti­mate gray area that allows for freedom of interpretation, and we know through history how that's happened,'' McBricn said. "Many people have been condemned for saying things that have later proved to be true." 
Those who would condemn Curran make the mistake of put­ting him in the same category as someone who denies Catholicism completely, McBrien said. Most theologians consider Curran's views to be moderate, McBricn said. 
Those who attack Curran for his beliefs "hit the wrong target," McBrien said. "They say you can't have someone who's supposed to be teaching Catholic theology and doesn't believe in it. That isn't Curran's situation. He believes in everything. He just doesn't agree with the conservative interpreta­tion of this or that minor point." 
Curran disagrees with points of Church doctrine on issues such as birth control, divorce, homosex­uality, masturbation, abortion, euthanasia and premarital sex. For 
18 
News 

example, Curran believes that homosexuality is acceptable in the context of "a loving relationship striving for permanence." 
In a recent New York Times article, Curran contended that the Church's position on matters of sexual ethics arc less central to the Church's fundamental faith than such questions as the divinity of Jesus or the belief that Jesus rose rrom the dead. 
Some theologians, however, believe that Catholic theologians should adhere to all teachings of the Church. In the Vatican's letter to Curran, Cardinal Ratzingcr said that Catholics must submit their intellect and will to the teachings that the pope or bishops decree on issues of faith and morality. 
Father Edward O'Connor, asso­ciate profcssor of theology at Notre Dame, said he shares this view. "What makes the matter difficult is that this case is on the borderline between the Church and the university," O'Connor explained. 
"We have to consider both points of view . . .. But there's no doubt that the Church has a doc­trine on the matters questioned by· Father Curran. The bottom line, I think, is that the Church's teach­ing interests take precedence because they are concerned with salvation and cannot tolerate a theologian teaching that what is sin is not sin," said O'Connor. 
Father Matthew Miceli, an associate professor of theology and rector of Cavanaugh Hall, said that ·Curran was misrepresenting himself as a Catholic theologian. 
I 

"He shouldn't label himself as a Catholic theologian, on a Catholic faculty, representing the Catholic Church, when he doesn't believe in the Church's teachings," Miceli said. "He (Curran) is teaching con­trary to the ordinary teaching of the Church and, to my mind, that has no place at a Catholic univer­sity." 
As theologians continue to debate the proper role of theologi­ans in the Church, only one thing seems clear: the Curran case will not end with the dismissal of one priest. Some theologians fear that the fallout from the Vatican's action against Curran will stifle debate on Church teaching. 
"I think it's going to have a definite inhibitive, chilling effect on the forthrightness of moral theologians to state clearly and honestly their own conclusions," said Father Richard McCormick, the John A. O'Brien Professor of 
. Christian Ethics, who has edited 
five books on moral theology with 
Curran. 
That "chilling effect," McCor­mick said, would effectively mean that the Church's moral teaching could not change. By censuring Curran "the Vatican has equivalently denied the critical role of theologians by disallowing the public dissent," McCormick said. "That means the Church's teaching is frozen in the last offi­
cial  · formation.  Doctrine  is  
paralyzed."  
The  Vatican's  action  against  

Curran has created an "air of uncertainty" in the Church, said Leslie Griffin, associate professor of theology. She said that theolo­gians arc wary of expressing dissent from Church teachings because they don't know what to expect next from the Vatican. "What I already hear people saying is that they just won't write about sexual ethics," Griffin said. 
In addition, Griffin said that the Church's action against Curran could limit the role of women in 
. the Church. Because the Church hierarchy consists exclusively of men, she said, "any move to cen­tralize authority might end up excluding women." Yet because issues like birth control and abor­tion affect women directly, the woman's voice is crucial to the dialogue about Church teaching, she said. 
Griffin and others say they believe. that the Curran case and the Vatican proposal will affect younger theologians most directly. McBrien said, "The brightest, the most promising young Catholic scholars would be less likely now than before to consider an appointment at a Catholic institu­tion. It's demanding enough to get tenure and get promoted and all the rest without _having to worry about some outsider who starts a campaign against you." 
Father Robert Kennedy, a doc­toral candidate in liturgy, said he has some apprehensions about seeking a position at a Catholic institution. "To get tenure, you have to show creative thought in what you publish," Kennedy explained. "If the environment doesn't encourage creative thought, you're going to go some­place else." 
Michael Ball, also a doctoral candidate, said he hopes to teach at a Catholic college or university. Ball said that while the Curran case might drive some younger theologians to secular institutions, it would not have that effect on him. "I'm not intimidated enough by what's happening to reroute my career to that degree." 
But Ball said the Vatican's actior. will still have a direct effect on his future in the Church. "My concern is that (the Curran case) creates a climate of pain, a climate of uncertainty, a very uncomfort­abie. climate in which to work for 
the Church." 
October 9, 1986 

News 

Could It Happen Here? 
By Cindy Rauckhorst 
Notre Dame's Provost Says That Academic Freedom Is Safe At The University Despite Recent Vatican Actions 
In late August the Vatican barred Father Charles Cur­ran from teaching theology. In a letter from the Vatican, Joseph Cardinal Ratzinger told Curran, a theologian at Vatican­chart(;:red Catholic University of America, that he could no longer hold his teaching post in the theol­ogy department of the university. 
Aftcr seven years of delibera­tion Vatican officials had decided that Curran's refusal to completely recognize and accept Church teaching on issues such as abor­tion, birth control, and homosex­uality, could no longer be tolerated. 
In its position as one of the most prominent Catholic universi­ties in the United States, Notre Dame has closely watched the international debate which has been sparked by the controversy surrounding the Curran case. According to University Provost Timothy O'Meara, Notre Dame will not be significantly affected by the events unfolding at the Washington, D.C. area institution. And students, faculty and administrators needn't ' fear changes on campus as a result of the Curran case, he said. 
Reaction at Notre Dame has been one of general anxiety, O'Meara said. "So far on the Notre Dame campus, the effect has been 
20 
mainly one of anxious concern. I suspect some people may be more cautious in what they say. But some might not. The trouble is, it's hard to measure an increase in caution, because people arc inherently more quiet after some­thing like this occurs," O'Mcara said. "But if they've ceased to be outspoken, then the Vatican. is being effectivc, isn't it?" 
According to O'Meara, Notre Dame's current involvement in the Curran case is mainly one of observation. "So . far, nothing resembling a contact point has been made between what we're talking about and the reality of Notre ·Dame. What we're doing 
now is only speculation on the basis of what we hear," he said. 
August proved to be the turn­ing point in a complex tug-of-war between Vatican and U.S. church leaders trying to agree on the bounds which separate authority and. freedom. Curran's case, cri­tics say, is just one in a series of strong restrictive moves by the Vatican to keep free-thinking Catholic theologians in check. 
But representatives from Rome assert that action toward· · theolo ­gians such as Curran are necessary to assure universal clarity in Roman Catholic teaching. This struggle between Church authority and academic freedom is not a new one, according to O'Meara. Nor is it new to Notre Dame. 
The Curran decision caught some University officials in the wake of a tumultuous reaction to an earlier Vatican action aimed directly at American Catholic colleges and universities. American Church leaders, including University President Father Theodore Hes­burgh, joined in a generally nega­tive response to Rome's "Proposed Schema for a Pontifical Document on Catholic Universities." The document, say critics, is nothing more than a restrictive measure against American Catholic univer­sities. 
Officially, the schema places bounds on who can teach in universities, gives local bishops the power to oversee the "Catholic character" of an institution, and requires that colleges dismiss teachers whose doctrinal teaching does not directly correspond to official Church views. Vatican leaders, whose initial aim in this action was to get feedback from the United States, say they only want to make the worldwide Catholic identity more evident and powerful. 
O'Meara said many American Catholic leaders balked at the schema when it was submitted for reaction. "Frankly, we think we're doing pretty well (at Notre 
Scholastic 
News 

Dame). And furthermore, we think the Church in America is doing pretty well, without going overboard. Perhaps most impor­tantly, we've accomplished every­thing in a spirit of freedom. So why try to make more rigid some­thing which is functioning well through the spirit of freedom?" 
"There is still a feeling in Rome that the American Church has gone overboard. Americans by their very history have a rather outspoken, matter-of-fact, straightforward way of looking at things. And it's not European," O'Meara added. The distance ecclesiastical authority. Catholic universities in Europe historically ha vc shared a closer governing relationship with Vatican officials, said O'Meara. 
O'Meara said that Notre Dame probably could not experience a case similar to Curran's, assuming that the proposed Vatican schema is not implemented. Because its Board of Trustees is composed pri­marily of laypersons, the Univer­sity stands on relatively firm ground and has greater freedom in its control of hiring and firing, teaching, legal questions, and funding, he said. 

between Catholic universities in Europe and the United States ·stretches far beyond the expanse of an ocean, according to O'Meara. 
One basic difference is that most American Catholic universi­ties are founded by a religious order, state-chartered and governed by lay boards of trustees. Only a few American Catholic institutions; including Catholic University of America and some seminaries, are chartered by the Vatican, and th:us are more care­fully governed and mandated by 
October 9, 1986 
"In unity, there is strength. That is why we've certainly made our reactions known through Father Hesburgh himself, and together with other prominent Catholic universities in America," O'Meara said. 
Although O'Meara feels that academic freedom is safe at Notre Dame, he said that tension always will exist between teaching and openness to continued reevaluation of issues. "Obviously, you can't go and teach the students anything you like. There have got to be moral bounds. On the other hand, you can't have things rigidly con­trolled, because then there's no room for people to learn," he .said. 
"It's a question of where those authoritative lines are drawn. A1_1d I would say the general reaction right now in universities like ours is that the bounds are being drawn too tightly," O'Meara added. "If we can't do the learning as Cathol­ics, then someone else will. The world's hot going to stand still." 
On the other hand, O'Meara 

· said, "It's great for someone to say, 'I'm for freedom.' But no one's for freedom without bounds. It's great for people to say they're for authority. But no one's for authority without bounds. Nobody can give you a mathematical equa­tion as to what is the ideal degree of freedom authority should allow. But they can say what degree is too tight," said O'Meara. 
O'Meara cited a challenge to academic freedom, and Notre Dame's support of this freedom, in . the early history of Notre Dame. Father John Zahm, a scientist and -Holy Cross priest, in 1898 wrote a controversial book called. "Evolu­tion and Dogma." The Sacred 
Congregation of the lndex, which censored certain books from Catholic reading, issued a decree banning Zahm's publication. The circulation of the book was then prohibited by the Church. 
Because Rome exerted more control over the American Church at that time, Zahm and Notre Dame eventuaUy had to comply with the decision. Today, how­ever, according to O'Meara, scien­tific disciplines are less likely to be restricted based on Church skepticism. He said, "I don't really see the Church intervening in scientific theories at this point, say in physics or chemistry.'' Yet he 
added, "It's a different situation in the area of psychology or sexual­ity.'' 

AChange Of Taste 
By John Mikulak 
Cook Your Own Dinner In An Intimate Atmosphere At The New Fonda-U Fondue Parlor In Mishawaka 
Taste the aroma or romance" is the slogan of the Fonda-U Fondue Parlor, which proudly boasts a unique dining experience. Located at the His­toric 100 Center at 700 Lincoln­way West/US 33, Mishawaka, the ,' Fonda-U Fondue Parlor caters to a
" 
:I casually· but neatly ·dressed clien­i! tele interested in spending a long
ii 
evening in an rntimate setting, 
enjoying food prepared fondue
ii 
ii style. 
i' 
ti 
I'
;I,, 
i The word fondue comes from the French word fondre, to melt. In its simplest form, fondue is made of a variety of cheeses, melted and kept hot in a special table-top pot, heated electrically or by a low flame. Cubes of bread on long thin forks are dipped in the cheese by the diners. 
Variations on this theme have developed, and here at Fonda-U, the dinner basically involves cook­ing one's entire meal. That's right, you pay to cook your own food. Why? Because it's fun, naturally. What could be more fun than i i being served a platter of raw food I and a bowl of batter, using fondue
r 
forks to dip the food in the batter
1! 
I: and then immersing it in a boiling pot of peanut oil? 
After the food becomes a crispy golden brown -or when you run out of patience, whichever comes first -remove the tasty tidbit from the pot and prepare for a delicious 
22 
mouthful. Just make sure to let it cool first; extremely hot food is one hazard of this type of dining, and a burnt mouth can spoil a good dining experience. 
The selection of entrecs offers three choices for. dipping: beef, seafood OJ:/chic;__~n, or a combina­tion of /·these. All entrees come with a/ house salad, garlic bread, vegetables and a variety of sauces. One may also select a combination dinner without entree. One combi­nation offered comprises a cheese fondue, -house salad, garlic bread and flaming chocolate for $9.95 a 
person. 
For $13.95 per person, and the best buy, one may receive the complete combination mentioned with a fondue entree. Do remember, however, that meals are prepared for parties of two or more, and at these prices, the bill can be expensive. 
The cheddar cheese appetizer, exquistely prepared, includes crisp apples and fresh bread to dip in the Vl-'arm melted cheese. Next, the salad and the garlic bread served as a tasty prelude to the main course, which included chunks of choice beef, a variety of seafood and cuts of tender chicken breast with a beer ·batter for drip­ping before frying. 
The entrees and accompanying vegetables were delicious when prepared correctly. I will also vouch for the exquisite nature of the flaming chocolate dessert. The bananas, cherries, and pound cake dipped in warm chocolate were absolutely delectable. 
The Fonda-U Fondue Parlor possesses an enjoyable and unique atmosphere because of its location in a section of the old Kamm's Brewery. The original brewery walls· and authentic decorations from the original Kamm family's house provide a charming atmo­
sphere. 
The fondue experience, unfor­tunately, can have drawbacks. The service, although quite friendly, can be quite slow. Over two and a half hours passed before we had finished dinner. 
Another problem. can be the actual process of fondue cooking.. At times, food may slip off the fondue prongs and burn. Uncer­tainty concerning the amounts of time needed to cook certain foods can also be frustrating. 
However, one man's frustra­tions may be another's adventure; so if you have a considerable amount of time and either a desire for a new experience or an esta­blished love of fondue cooking, 
make a reservation at the Fonda-U Fondue Parlor. 
Scholastic 


Student Life 

Bringing You The World 
By Brian Padian 
Lectures, Fireside Chats And International Foods Highlight Notre Dame's First Multicultural Festival 
Throughout this week the Notre Dame community has been hosting its first multi­cultural f es ti val. This festival was put together to expose the student body and faculty to the different attitudes and cultures of other nations. The events that are part of the festival include: fireside chats Snite displays, ethnic clubs, multi~ cultural food and lectures. 
Fireside chats are informal gatherings with speakers, who will share their own personal experi­ences in foreign lands. These will take place in the library audito­rium and are set up in a question­and-answer format. One such chat will be with Provost Timothy O'Meara, who will be talking about his travels in China .tonight. 
The Snite Museum will be featuring many different cultural displays during the f es ti val. These displays will be situated in the Snite's lounge area, and are open to the general public. Ethnic clubs will set up booths on the quads· to answer questions and illustrate aspects of the clubs and the cul­tures . they represent. The dining hall has been featuring multicul­tural foods throughout the week, serving a different entree every day. 
A number of inspiring and interesting lecturers will be speak­ing about their experiences abroad. One such lecturer is Billy 
October 9, 1986 
Mills, an American Indian who won the gold medal in the 10,000-meter run in Tokyo in the 
1964 Olympics. Tabbed as "one of the most sensational speakers on the American platform today," Mills will be speaking at 8 o'clock Friday night. 

uThe ultimate purpose of this week is to impress upon the student body the tremendous contribu­tion of multiculturalism here at Notre Dame." 
--Lisa Boykin 
The f es ti val will come to a close on Saturday with a gala at 8 p.m. at Stepan Center. There will be a $2 fee to enter. Highlights include: international music, African dancers and a dance con­test to be judged by Emil Hoff­man, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies. In addition, partici­pants will have the opportunity to taste foods · from all over the world. 
This event was the work of a nine-person team composed of students. According to Lisa Boy­kin, a member of the team, "The ultimate purpose of this week is to 
impress upon the student body the tremendous contribution of multi­culturalism here at Notre Dame." 

0 Boykin went on to say, "One should not just dismiss this as . another lecture (or) display-type event." This is a chance for stu­dents to learn "a lot about the dif­ferent cultural backrounds of the people attending our University," said Boykin. 
Already 800 invitations have been sent to various staff and faculty members. The committee 
expressed its hope that the events of the festival would be well attended by students as well. Notices have been posted listing exactly where and when events are taking place. 
The nine-student orgamzmg team used similar events hosted by other colleges and universities across the country as models for the Notre Dame Multicultural Fes­tival. 


Sitting in the Stands 
By John Foley 
NCAA's Proposition 48 Keeps Foley Out Of Action And Provides Incentive For Next Year 
Ihave been playing football for twelve years. During this time my won/loss record has been 142-9. I've been awarded many honors, but I am most proud of being named USA Today's Top Defensive Player of the Year for 1985. 
Something bothers me, though. 
I can't play football this year 

because I did not score high · enough on my SAT test. 
Sitting out has to be the hardest thing that has ever happened to me. When I think of how hard I worked to get to Notre Dame, I get very frustrated. I've trained four hours a day for four years to earn a scholarship to come here. My workout, then and now, consist~ of two and a half hours of weightlif­ing and one and a half hours of running and agility drills six days a week. 
In high school I didn't have an extremely active social lifc because I just didn't have time for it. I didn't go to many parties, gearing everything to . being suc­cessful in football. People used to tell me thatJ'd mess up my body if I didn't stop working out all the time, but I didn't listen to them. I kept working harder and harder because I've always wanted to play football for this school. 
I went to St. Rita High School in Chicago. During my junior year, I began to feel that all the time I'd put into training was starting to pay off. Notre Dame's 
24 

coaches expressed an interest in coming here. Notre Dame wanted me. My dream had come true. 

I was going to get a chance to play for the Fighting Irish. A chance to play for the blue and gold and have a shot at a great Notre Dame education that would help me for the rest of my life ­everything I had always hoped for w:as coming true. 
.fvly family was so proud. I lived among the South Side Irish of Chi­cago and all I ever heard about was Notre Dame this, Notre Dame that. People would talk about how they wanted their children to go here. 
As a second-grader I went to my first Notre Dame football game with a friend of my family's. He asked me how I liked ND and I told him that all my friends and I, who had started playing pee wee football that year, loved the Fight­ing Irish. 

I also told him that someday I would get a scholarship from Notre Dame to play football. He started laughing, thinking I was crazy. I told him, "Watch, you'll see." Last week I saw that family friend, Father Tom Griffin, and reminded him of the story. He said he remembered that day. 
But some of my happiness has been taken away. The NCAA's Proposition 48 has not allowed me to play football this year. No sum­mer ball, no game tickets, no watching practice -no nothing. 
This really kills me. I feel totally divorced from my friends on the team. It surprises me that I'm even allowed to talk to the players. The proposition took everything else away from me. 
Worst of all, I can't even get a ticket to the games from the team. I can deal with the rest after get­ting used to it, but the ticket deprivation is the ultimate slap in the face. I know other students have to pay to see the team play, but I'm part of the team -except in the NCAA's eyes. This will just give me the incentive to work harder to do the best I can when I am eligible. 
Notre Dame students are the best. They know that I'm not the most gifted student but they try daily to help me with my study problems. I would love to earn a degree from Notre Dame to show everyone who believes in me how much I appreciate them. 
Scholastic 


Scholastic Needs 
Advertising Sales Persons 

.·Gain.valuable business experience.and make some extra· cash by selling ads for Scholastic. No prior experience necessary, but access to a car is preferred. Contact Phil Coghlan at Scholastic office, 239-7569 for more information, 


Have The Final Word 
Everyone has strong views on something but, not everyone gets his opinion heard. 
Stand out from the crowd, and write a Final Word for Scholastic. Final Words must be typed and double-spaced and must be 700-800 words long. For more information, call Cathy Coffey at 239-7569 

UNIVERSITY ARCHIVES 

. NOTRE DAME IN 46556 \~------------­
; 
i~---------------------------, 
;~ 

.Church Doctrine vs.· Academic Freedom 



