SCHOLASTIC
umu orows ncuus to
Commencement Speakers Bishop Alter, Dennis Kelly
IN THIS ISSUE ...
STAGE SET FOR COMMENCEMENT TO HONOR WAR DEAD ANNOUNCE EDITORSHIPS
STATE CHAMPIONSHIP GOLF MEET C.I.C. AND N.C.A.A. TRACK MEETS KLINEMEN PLAY PAIR WITH IOWA
THE WEEK COLLEGE PARADE SPLINTERS
MAY 28. 1937
2
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 28, 1937
continuance. It consists of giving a little more goods
than are paid for; the gift is "lagniappe."
When you buy a railway ticket or pay a freight bill, you purchase a certain amount of transportation—no more, no less. But the railroad is a human institution; its workers want you to know that they appreciate your patronage and hope you will come again. This feeling they show
by special attention to your needs—in other words, by the true “lagniappe" of courtesy and cordiality.
You will remember a railroad for the little things that contribute to your peace of mind—the convenience, speed and safety of your freight, the pleasant word, the information, the pillows, the extra cup of coffee on the diner. We on the Illinois Central sum it up by calling ours "The Road of Cordial Service."
IN PARTING . . .
It has been a reminder of my student days to talk this year to students through these advertisements. Many have submitted essays in our contest and are now awaiting the results to be announced before June. The Illinois Central will welcome opportunities to serve your travel needs during the summer vacation. Andunay that vacation be a pleasant one for you all.
Preaidant
ILLINOIS CENTRAL SYSTEM
------AN INDIANA RAILROAD---
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 70
May 28, 1937
No. 26
STAGE IS SET FOR COMMENCEMENT
Orator Robert Schmelzle
His theme: Individualism.
NAME RICHARD MEIER VALEDICTORIAN FOR CLASS OF '37
By Frank E. Larwood
Richard Henry Meier, senior in Arts and Letters from Faulkton, S.Dak., has been named Valedictorian of the 1937 class, according to announcement this week by Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies. Robert John Schmelzle, senior in the College of Law from Freeport, Ill., was named Class Orator, and Philip J. O’Brien, C.S.C., senior in Arts and Letters from Detroit, Michigan, Class Poet.
Meier leads his class with an average of 97.69 per cent. He has also been a member of the debate team for three years besides participating in other school activities. Schmelzle is another three-year debater and has an average of 92.20 per cent. His oration will be on individualism.
Besides ranking fourth in his class with an average of 95.21 per cent O’Brien has over a period of years written poems for Scrip. Some of them are: “Quatrains,” “Kinsman to the Sea,” “Past this Low Mound,” and “Testaments of Earth.”
Two other high ranking seniors are Charles F. Meyers, in Arts and Letters from Elgin, Ill., who ranks second with a 95.61 average, and William Vincent Hartnett, also in Arts and Letters from Pelham, N.Y., who ranks third with a 95.31 average.
Charles Meyers delivered the address at the annual Washington’s . Birthday exercises this year.
Mr. Dennis Kelly, Bishop Alter to Address 479 Seniors
By Harold A. Williams
On Sunday afternoon, June 6, 479 men in caps and gowns will make their last bows as undergraduate students during the Ninety - third Commencement exercises in the University Field House.
During the three day Commencement program which will begin Friday morning, various reunions by alumni groups, dinners, the annual alumni banquet and meeting, concerts, sporting events, and the Commencement play will be presented.
Recognizing, this year, the contribution of business and commerce to American life, Notre Dame will have for Commencement speaker Mr. Dennis F. Kelly, prominent Chicago merchant and philanthropist, who has been a leader in the development of Chicago’s State Street into a merchandising center known throughout the world.
Conforming to the motto “For God, Country and Notre Dame” inscribed on her memorial to her war dead, the University’s Commencement program follows in the same order.
On Sunday morning at 9 o’clock (C.S.T.), the Most Rev. Karl J. Alter, bishop of Toledo and former professor of sociology at Catholic university, Washington, D.C., will preach the baccalaureate sermon and celebrate the baccalaureate Mass.
After this service the new American flag presented by the. Senior class to the University on Washington’s birthday is blessed, and at 11 o’clock the Seniors carry the flag in solemn procession from the Church to the University flagpole where flag-raising exercises are held.
Leaving the campus with brighter prospects than any class since 1929, the class of 1937 has 219 graduates from the College of Arts and Letters. Next, numerically, are 146 from the College of Commerce, 55 from the College of Engineering, and 42 from the College of Science. In addition, 29 candidates are being awarded bachelor’s degrees from the College of Law.
Valedictorian Meier Tops Them All.
DR. FORD TO RECEIVE LAETARE MEDAL JUNE 6
One of the highlights of Commencement activities will be the presentation of the 55th Laetare Medal to Dr.. Jeremiah Denis M. Ford, on Sunday, June 6, at 3:00 p.m. in the University Parlor.
Dr. Ford is chairman of the department of Romance languages of Harvard University and Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He has been active in higher education since 1895 when he first went to Harvard as an instructor in French.
Since then Dr. Ford has received academic awards from a dozen European nations for his work in both literature and history. Besides this he has authored more than a score of texts and anthologies in French, Spanish, Italian and Portuguese.
Recognized as the highest honor a Catholic layman can receive in the United States, the Laetare Medal has previously been given to 54 distinguished leaders, ten of whom have been women. Last year’s award was made to Richard Reid, lawyer and educator of Augusta, Georgia, and editor of The Bulletin, official weekly publication of the Catholic Layman’s association of Georgia.
Given by Notre Dame as a recognition of merit and as an incentive to greater achievement, the Laetare Medal award originated in the ancient papal custom of bestowing the Golden Rose on a member of the Italian Catholic nobility..
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 28, 1937
NEW EDITORS ANNOUNCED; 1938 MASTHEADS TO FEATURE NAMES OF EUGENE VASLETT, REPPENHAGEN. AND NELSON
'DOME.* 'SCHOLASTIC MANAGERSHIPS ANNOUNCED
Editorial appointments for the year 1.937-38 were announced at the annual Publications Banquet, Tuesday night in the Lay Faculty dining hall. Succeeding Paul Foley as editor of the Scholastic will be Eugene Vaslett, of Brooklyn, New York; Charles Nelson, sophomore, of Decatur, Ill., will be the new head
of Scrip; and Frank Reppenhagen, Buffalo, New York, will lead the Dome staff.
Rev. Lawrence V. Broughal, C.S.C., made the announcements of new editors and also distributed the Scrip awards.
Gene Vaslett, sports editor of the present Scholastic, and editor-in-chief of next year’s edition, has been an active member of the paper for three years; his column, “Introducing,” was one of the most popular features of the sport section. Of par-
Scholastic Editor Vaslett Brooklyn Boy Steps Out.
ticular mention was his behind-the-scene work in the Bengal Bouts.
Frank Reppenhagen, sophomore commerce student, will make the attempt next year to better the high quality of retiring editor Tom Radi-gan’s book. As is usual in the Dome, most of the routine work falls on the sophomores and Frank proved himself invaluable in aiding in arrangements for the technical angles of the year book.
Phil Welsh, Scrip head, will be succeeded by sophomore Charles Nelson. Next year two ’39 men will head campus publications. The Dome is officially a work of the Junior class, but the Scrip is not a class work and the editor usually is a senior. That Charles Nelson was given the post while still a sophomore speaks highly of his ability. A frequent contributor to the quarterly, the new editor’s easy and quiet style proved one of the most popular features ever to appear in the magazine.
The Scrip awards were made to the following: Prose awards, John Broderick and Paul Lochner; poetry awards, William Donnelly and John O’Brien, C.S.C. The Dome awards were presented to their winners: Paul Barker, Richard Meier, Paul Foley, and James Waldron.
To Introduce Two New Philosophy Courses Next Autumn
o
Daniel C. O’Grady, associate professor of philosophy, will introduce two courses next semester, not heretofore taught at Notre Dame, “A Historical Conspectus” of philosophy of religion, and “Dialectical Materialism.” Mr. O’Grady describes “Conspectus” as an expose and critical examination of the interaction of science, and the philosophy of religion since the Middle Ages. “Materialism” will treat the development of “Marxism” as derived from Hegel.
“To cultivate interest among the graduate sections, and to further the development of the study among philosophy majors,” is the express purpose set forth by Prof. O’Grady in inaugurating these new courses of study, which will be taught two hours a week in the first and second semesters, respectively.
In addition to introducing these, Mr. O’Grady will revive a course in “Aesthetics.” This is taught periodically, being included in the curriculum during the four-year cycle of study. “Aesthetics,” an elective for upper classmen, is catalogued for three semester hours in the first term.
Designs By Kroeger In Noted Art Magazine
Francis Kroeger, art editor of the Scholastic, has had three designs accepted for the publication in the June issue of Design, a leading magazine in the art field, it was learned this week.
Kroeger’s picture is to be used with an article describing his work. There is a good possibility that designs will be sold to manufacturers by the magazine for Kroeger.	'	'
A junior art student, Kroeger’s work has appeared regularly 'in the Scholastic as well as being one of the highlights in the 1937 Dome.
Managing editorships for school publications were announced this week by the new editors of the Dome and Scholastic. Louis Da Pra, junior from East Chicago, present news editor of the Scholastic, will take over the duties of the retiring managing editor, Cy Stroker. Frank Reppenhagen, 1938 Dome head, has appointed James Raaf, St. Claire,
Managing Editor DaPra Gets First Mate’s Berth
Mo., to the managing editorship of his staff.
The new Scholastic managing editor, Louis Da Pra, is an English major in the College of Arts and Letters, and has been a member of the Scholastic staff for the past three years. He maintains a maxima, cum laude average.
Jim Raaf, sophomore commerce student, will take over the duties of Louis Dunn, present holder of the manager’s chair. Jim has done yeoman work on the details of the Dome for the past two years.
Quinn Follows J. Drolla As Grand Knight
James L. Quinn, a junior in the College of Engineering from Elizabeth, N.J., was last week elected grand knight of the local council of the Knights of Columbus. He succeeds Joseph Drolla.
Other officers elected were Richard Foley, deputy grand knight; Kenneth Veeneman, chancellor; Joseph Collins, warden; John Murphy, recording secretary.
Robert Weaver was elected treasurer; Joseph Canale advocate; Peter Fluge, inside guard; David Fox, outside guard.
Tentative plans were arranged for a Communion breakfast for senior members and their families to precede the Baccalaureate Mass on Sunday, June 6.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 28, 1937
5
FICTION MARKS LAST ISSUE OF "SCRIP" NOTEWORTHY
•
By Thomas Marker
Fiction filled the May issue of Scrip, the University quarterly, as Scrip editors closed the year of 1936-37. “There is no Breeze in Mexico,” by Frederick James Digby is an adventurous tale of three men in Mexico where thrills and a hot sun are easy to find.
John Michael Broderick tells a story of a young man recovering from a long illness, and learning once more to live.' It’s called “A Strangeness of Day and Night.” Other contributors of fiction for the May issue were William Alfred Donnelly, Herbert Joseph Connelly, John William Meaney, Burley Clay Johnston, John William Gallivan, Paul Adolph Biagioni, and Joseph O’Brien, C.S.C.
Give Piano Recital
Hugo Melchione and William Burke Mooney presented an excellent piano recital in Washington Hall last Monday evening. Their program consisted
of:
Fugue, C minor _____________________:--Bach
Berceuse ____________________________Chopin
Rigoletto, Paraphrase ________  Verdi-Liszt
Forgotten Waltz ______________________Liszt
Andaluza ___________________________de Falla.
Passacaglia __________________________Scott
Jeux d’Eau (Frolic of the Waters) -----Ravel Clair de Lune -------------------------Debussy
Hungarian Rhapsody, No. 6 ____________Liszt
Gymnopedies Nos. 1 and 2 _____________Satie
Gardens in the Spring --------------Niemann Ritual Fire Dance ------------------de Falla
Jesu, Joy of Man’s Desiring ___________Back
Spoon River _______________________Grainger
Prelude (to “The Afternoon of a Faun”)
Debussy
Five o’clock. Fox Trot Ravel Coronation Scene from “Boris Goudonoff”
Moussorgsky
Name Brosius to Lead Commerce Forum
The newly elected officers of the Commerce Forum were inducted into office at the annual Forum banquet held last week in the Rotary room of the Oliver Hotel, South Bend.
Charles Brosius, a junior, was named president in a close vote which saw his group win all but one of the elective offices of the organization.
Deane Wins Again; Is Head ot Patricians
The annual banquet of the Patricians was held last Monday evening at the Rose Marie Tea Room, South Bend.
Before adjourning for the last time this school year, the elections for next year’s officers were held. Those to hold offices next year are John Deane, ■president; Joseph Nigro, vice-president; and John J. Kohn, secretary.
UNIVERSITY TO PAY HOMAGE TO WAR DEAD AT SIXTEENTH ANNUAL MEMORIAL DAY RITES;
N. D. VETERANS ARE TO PARTICIPATE
By F. G. Barreda
Sunday morning at 9:00 a.m., Central Standard Time, the University of Notre Dame will pay her respects to her gallant World War dead in the 16th annual Memorial Day services.
The solemn services will begin at
Rev. M. J. Walsh, C.S.C.
In 1918 Chaplain’s Uniform
Name Residence Hall In Honor of Rev. Zahm
By George Johnson
The new residence hall now under construction to the east of St. Edward’s hall is to be named Zahm hall, in honor of the late distinguished Catholic scientist and writer, the Rev. John Augustine Zahm, C.S.C., it was announced recently.
Ordained a priest on June 4, 1875, his activities for the next 30 years included educational services as a teacher, lecturer, and organizer of the Western Catholic summer school, as well as administrative services as procurator general of the Congregation of Holy Cross at Rome, and as provincial from 1898-1905.
From 1905 until his death he was occupied chiefly as a writer of scientific subjects, and in that capacity contributed extensively to the American Ecclesiastical Review, Dublin Review, The Outlook, Ave Maria, and many other periodicals.
The naming of the new hall continued the long-standing tradition here to honor past-presidents, student leaders, and faculty members in this wise, a practice which dates back to the naming of Sorin hall in honor
9:00 a.m. Central Standard Time with the regular Solemn High Mass in the Sacred Heart Church. The celebrant will be Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., Regimental Sergeant Major, 320th Train Hq., 95th Div. Rev. Edward J. Finnegan, C.S.C., Chaplain, 139th Machine Gun Batallion and of the 61st Infantry American Expeditionary Forces, will deliver the sermon.
At 10:00 a.m. the parade to the community cemetery will be formed at the war memorial tympanum, the east entrance to the Sacred Heart Church. The procession will consist of the war chaplains; the Notre Dame Band under the direction of Joseph J. Casasanta; the Military Detail, including the Color Guard and Firing Squad Detachments from Co. “D,” 113th Engineers, Indiana National Guard, in charge of Captain Robert B. Riordan, 489th Field Artillery; members of the Fourth Degree, Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus; and University students and visitors.
The ceremony at the graves of the deceased members, of the Notre Dame G.A.R. Post will begin at 10:15 a.m. with the floral decorations, of the graves. Rev. M. J. Walsh, C.S.C., Chaplain, 30th Infantry, American Expeditionary Forces, will deliver the prayer for the nation’s dead. The salute by the firing squad detachment of the Indiana National Guard will be followed by the playing of “Taps,” the military tribute to the dead.
The returning of the Colors will occur at the Administration building at 10:45 a.m. The final tribute, the playing of the “Star Spangled Banner^’ by the Notre Dame Band, will terminate the memorial services of the day.
of the Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., founder and first president of the university.
Investigation into the history of the school indicates that one of the. older halls, St. Edward’s, was named in honor of the patron saint of Father Sorin.
Past-presidents honored other than Father Sorin have been Rev. John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., 1905 to 1919; Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C.S.C., 1893 to 1905; Rev. Patrick Dillon, C.S.C., 1865-1866; and Rev. Thomas Walsh, C.S.C., 1881-1893.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 28, 1937
Visits to Sick. Negro Mission Aid, Cose
Work Claims Attention of Vincentians
By William C. Fay
MUSIC GROUPS CLOSE "FINEST YEAR"
JUNE 4-5
Next week-end a quiet army will be disbanded. Without fuss, ■without feathers, with the same calmness and efficiency which marked their nine months’ plunge into the social work
Rev. J. Kelley, c.s.c.
of South Bend, 5 2 Vincentians will place their case reports in the files and lock the door of their headquarters a t No. 10 Lyons for the summer.
But they’ll be back next year. That’s always been characteris-
tic of Notre Dame’s chapter of the St. Vincent de Paul Society, for under the active leadership of Rev. John Kelley, C.S.C., the Society has risen from a group of six or seven members caring for small cases near the campus to a powerful organization with an active interest in every phase of social work carried on in South Bend and Greater Michiana—and all this within the brief period of four years.
Few innovations have marked the work of the society this year: charity has no innovations. Each Thursday afternoon a larger squad of Vincentians has visited the local Healthwin Sanatorium, to visit the sick, and to distribute the books and magazines collected on the campus.
Each Sunday morning Rev. Thomas P. Jones, C.S.C., takes five or six menibers with him when he travels downtown to say Mass for the Negro parish at St. Augustine Church. The Vincentians serve Mass, distribute missals, take up whatever collection there is, and help in the catechistical instruction..
But the work of the Society isn’t confined to Thursday excursions. Any Saturday night will find half-a-dozen Vincentians at the local Y, supervising the Saturday night program for the Junior members. A Vincentian has to be a combination referee, umpire, and life-guard to qualify for this detail.
During the week members visit the “case” families of the Society’s list. The health of the family is investigated; the amount of food and clothing on hand is checked; and a written report is. handed in to John McClurg, the Society’s executive secretary. Relief in.the.form of food aand clothing is then provided, either in cooperation with the.local,relief agencies in South Bend, or directly from the Society.	'
I Members are proudest of their work in connection with a destitute Italian family. The father, a switchman in one of the downtown railroad yards, was attempting to support himself, nine children, and a wife on a salary of $15.00 per week. When the Society first investigated the case, two of the children had shoes, and the whole family was suffering from malnutrition.
It developed that the father had previously held down a better job in the roundhouse, but had been shunted down to a lesser job because a medical examination had found him unfit for heavy work. However, the man claimed he was as able as ever and strong enough to return to his former work. Father Kelly wrote to the railroad officials asking for the details of the case.
After much verbal jockeying, the man was given a re-examination and found physically fit. He was returned to his former job where his pay was more than doubled. Thus, the Society lost a “case.”
O'Connor Wins Senior Class Presidency In Tight Clash
•
By Graham Starr
John C. O’Connor, a Commerce man from Indianapolis, Ind., is to lead the Notre Dame senior class of 1938. He gained the presidency by defeating John Thomas, of Chicago, by a vote of 276 to 227 at the senior elections on Thursday, May 13. The O’Connorites also won the offices of vice-president and secretary when George Fitzpatrick, of North Bellingham, Mass., and Harold A. Williams, of Baltimore, Md., beat Edward Grogan, of Long Island, N.Y., and Harry Fox, of Cleveland Heights, Ohio, respectively.
The Thomas party succeeded in electing one man, John Deane, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters from Wilwaukee, Wis., to office. He defeated Thomas Sheils, of New Rochelle, N.Y., to become treasurer.
On Wednesday, May 19, Scott Reardon, of Sioux Falls, S. Dak., was elected president of next year’s S.A.C.
Tertiaries Inducted
The first Profession of the Third Order of St. Francis ever to be held on the campus will take place Monday night, May / 31, in the Dillon Chapel at eight o’clock. .	•
By Eddie Huff
“We enjoyed the finest musical year I have .ever experienced during my fourteen years with the band and glee club,” said Director Joseph J. Casasanta as he reviewed the year’s musical activities.
The band at present, with its personnel of a hundred pieces, is the largest in the history of the school; the glee club performed in ten cities, and appeared on five radio programs.
The highlight of the band’s work during the football season was the show put on in the Yankee Stadium between halves of the Army-Notre Dame game. The bandsmen repeated with additional maneuvers at the Northwestern game on the home field.
For the third year, Prof. Casa-santa’s arrangements were demonstrated by the band at the basketball games, with concerts before the game and between periods. During the celebration of Music Week, the symphonic orchestra pleased a large attendance with a concert presented in Washington hall.
Founder’s Day saw the glee club and band deliver a half hour program from the campus radio studios. At the premiere of the “Fireside Theatre,” radio presentation of Station WGN, Chicago, the choristers were heard over the Mutual network. Then followed a concert trip to Kansas City, Mo., where the Singing Irish were accompanied by the symphony orchestra of that city. A week-end tour early in February took the glee club to Erie, Pa., and Cleveland, Ohio.
Early in March the band and glee club featured the Pontiac “Varsity Show” over the NBC coast-to-coast transmitters via WMAQ, Chicago, the broadcast originating in the Notre Dame field house.
For the first time in a decade, the glee club went east during the Easter vacation and delivered concerts in five cities and were the guests on Joe Cook’s Shell Chateau over NBC.
“Universal Notre Dame Night” found the glee club in Chicago as they appeared with Richard Himber’s “Studebaker Champions” in another NBC hookup. -
The glee club will participate on June 5 in the annual commencement exercises. The band plays its finale in the quadrangle on the afternoon of June 4.	’
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 28, 1937
7
"BORN LUCKY" TO BE LAST U. THEATRE PRESENTATION
By Richard Riley
“Born Lucky,” a hilarious three-
act comedy with a rollicking college background, will be presented next
Friday night, Jun Washington Hall
Richard Riley used throughout
e 4, at 8:15 pan. in as the Commencement Play of
i 1937.
I The story con-I cems itself with I a college senior, I James J. McAl-I lister, jr., who is I a candidate for I the Silver Spoon, I annual honor I given to the stu-I dent chosen a s ■ the most popular by the student body. The scene is the lounge and
reception of the Pi Pi Pi Fraternity House at Crighton college.
“Mac” is in love with the daughter of a mother who is very much interested in the functions of society. At the formal dinner given by the mother for “Mac” the boy’s father James J. MacAllister, Sr., comes in to create a scene. But boy and girl find their fathers to have been friends and everything ends happily with “Mac” winning the Silver Spoon award.
The leading role of James J. Mac-Allister, jr., a good-looking, well-noised youth of about 22 years will be played by Bob Blake. Mac’s father, about 60 and wearing ill-fitting and untidy clothes, will be played by George McDermott.
Other students in the cast will include, Jerry Hogan, Raymond Sad-lier, Jerome O’Dowd, Harold Jablon-ka, Jack McKendry, Ned Colgan, and Harold Sitt.
Professor Albert L. Doyle, director of the University theater, is directing the production, and Professor Frank Kelly, of the department of speech has charge of the scenery.
Hold Final Meeting
In the mellow feeling of good fellowship that is supposedly one of the chief characteristics of their race, the German club held their last meeting of the year in Badin Rec. President Bernie Neizer, meistersinger of the evening, led the group in typical German beer garden style 'through “O Tennenbaum.” The little German band added authenticity to the occasion.
Barker, Waldron, Meier, Foley Are Selected First "Dome" Scroll Award Recipients
Four Seniors “outstanding in extra-curricular activities,” chosen for the first time this year by a committee of juniors, were awarded Dome scroll awards at the annual Publications Banquet Tuesday night.
The foui’ honored are: Paul Bark
Scroll Winners: Meier, Waldron, Foley, Barker
er, James A. Waldron, Richard Meier, and Paul Foley.
Barker, a senior in the College of Engineering from Rochester, N.Y., has served this year as head football manager. For four years he has been active in the affairs of the manager’s
Work of Fathers Neran, Carrier, Kirsch Told Exchange1 Club
•
“Progress of Notre Dame Students in the World of Science” was the topic of an address delivered to the members of the South Bend Exchange Club by the Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science at Notre Dame.
Father Wenninger related how the College of Science came to be founded and the part that the Rev. Joseph C. Carrier, C.S.C., the Rev. Louis Neran, C.S.C., and the Rev. Alexander Kirsch, C.S.C., played in the development of the school.
The club members were also told by Father Wenninger of the achievements of the former students of science at Notre Dame.
The address was given as a feature of the weekly luncheons of the Club at the Hotel LaSalle.
Lebherz Wins
Jack Lebherz, of Frederick, Maryland, was elected president of the Maryland-District club, at the final meeting of the year, last Friday, May 21. He succeeds Charles Brosius, of Lime Kiln, Maryland.
organization, and this year had the chief assignment. He has maintained a four-year academic average of 86.90 and ranks 130 in a class of 454. Barker this year was active in the promotion of the Monogram Absurdities, and, with his manager’s
group took over part of the work of selling Bengal Bout tickets.
James A. Waldron has achieved the title “Versatile Jim.” He has been active on all fronts from the deeply philosophical to the promotion of prize fights. For three years he has been promoter-general of the Bengal Bouts; he has been a varsity tennis player for two years and seeded number two this year, just behind the captain; he has been a varsity baseball catcher for two years—all sandwiched in between a Philosophy major and a four-year average of 86.69. This year Jim participated in the second annual Philosophical Disputation, spent many days on the road with travelling athletic squads but was home last night to receive his award.
Dick Meier was “Top Man” for four years. His average of 97.69 places him at the very front of the class, earns him the Valedictorian assignment and a Maxima cum laude degree. Meier, has been active in varsity debating for three years, a member of the Wranglers, candidate for the Breen medal, and one of the founders of the Economic Round Table. This year astounded the Philosophical Disputation from the background of an Economics major.
Paul Foley, the fourth award winner, was editor of this year’s Scholastic, and -will graduate Magna cum laude with an average of 90.51 with a major in Journalism. He has been active in the Knights of Columbus and the Press Club. In addition to four years on the Scholastic staff, Foley has been a contributor to Scrip.
The awards were presented by Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, after the winners were introduced by Rev. Lawrence V. Broughal, C.S.C.,. faculty adviser of publications.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 28, 1937
APOLOGISTS HEADED 1936-37 LECTURE PROGRAM
ing speakers on
Frank Reilly
By Frank Reilly
Apologetics and Science vied for honors in number of lecturers presented on the campus during the past year. Five of the nation’s outstand-latholic Apologetics spoke in Washington Hall. Three famous scientists also gave lectures there during the year.
The year’s lecture season was opened in October with a lecture on “Psychic Research” by Arnold Lunn, famous Catholic writer and mem
ber of the faculty during the first semester. At a later date Mr. Lunn delivered a lecture on Communism in which he made a stirring attack on that type of atheistic government.
The Rev. James Gillis, C.S.P., nationally known author, lecturer, and editor of the Catholic World was the next speaker on the schedule. Father Gillis gave a series of five lectures concerning the old and new concepts of religion and urged the need of a new approach to apologetics.
In December Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen, noted orator and author, filled Washington Hall to overflowing each night for five nights with his lectures on Communism. In his series of lectures which were entitled “The Cross and the Crisis,” Msgr. Sheen pointed out tactics that should be adopted in fighting Communism.
Msgr. Sheen was followed by Francis Sheed, outstanding Catholic publisher and lecturer. Mr. Sheed spoke on “Theology and the Writer.” The first lecture in the Science group was delivered by Dr. Arthur E. Haas, formerly of the University of Vienna and now of the Notre Dame faculty. Dr. Haas spoke on “Physics and Religion.” He explained how a deeper and more thorough knowledge of science will fortify more and more the claim of the existence of God..
In April the University was visited by many famed scientists in attendance at the Mathematical Symposium arranged by Dr. Karl Menger. Dr. Menger opened the meetings with a lecture on the subject “What is the Calculus of Variations.” In this talk he explained the application of science to the problems of everyday life. In the other public address of the 'meeting, Dr. Solomon Lefschetz, president of the American Mathematical Society, spoke on “Topology.”
3^	/
nbout the camPys
This week’s spotlight man has been the bane of typesetters and linotypers since he first filed freshmen entrance papers—Robert John Schmelzle (we hope it’s Schmelzle). His last name has been contorted, distorted, and reported in more different ways than we care to catalogue.
At Freeport High School, in Freeport, Illinois, Robert John first tried his vocal wings as an orator—they were strong and able. Ever since then he has been spending half his
time in dress suits on some sort of platform. His masterpiece appearance will be on Saturday, June 5, when he appears as Class Orator for the seniors of 1937.
With Valedictorian Meier, Schmelzle has been a firm backbone in the debating squads for three years— this year he seeded number one.
We have been singularly unsuccessful in getting the “inside” on Orator Schmelzle—we have our own personal, opinion that he is the type . young ladies like to mother—but; there seems to have been no great fuss made about it.
Bob is grooming himself for a career of jury pleading and judge sway-ing—and those who know say he should be a pleader and swayer of no mean ability. “Silver tongued ...” one of his colleagues muttered during a quick interview.	■
It is obvious that Robert John has the Indian sign on most of his cronies—none of them will talk about Bob’s pictures, about his comings and goings; it’s all very secretive and legal.
SET NEW WAGE RATES ON STUDENT JOBS FOR NEXT YEAR
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame, announces that the University Council has approved the following schedule of compensation for students to be employed in the schoolyear 1937-38. Only those students who have met all requirements as set forth in the “Letter of President of the University to Students Concerning Employment” null be eligible for employment.
Yearly Hours .	Hourly Allow- per
Employment	Rate ance - Week
Dining Hall
Waiters 			$ .50	$175.00	10
Kitchen workers 		50	175.00	10
Set Up 			 .50	250.00	14
Cafeteria 	   50	250.00	14
Clerical a. Correctors 		60	125.00	- 6
b. Secretaries (non-stenog.) .55	115.00	6
c. Secretaries (stenog.)	 .70	150.00	6
Note: (a) To qualify as corrector applicant must have 90% average in subject taught by professor to whom he is assigned.
(b) Experience or aptitude for clerical work, and in some instances ability to _ operate typewriter, will be required of non-stenographic secretaries.
(c) To qualify as stenographer, applicant must have ability to write shorthand at 90 words per minute, and type 50 words per minute.
National Youth Administration
Workers in all projects ....		120.00	8
Residence Halls			
Mailmen 		.50	200.00	12
Prefects 	 _ 			200.00	
Gymnasium			
Laborers 		.50	100.00	6
Laboratory Assistants			
Undergraduate, not NYA	.60	125.00	6
-	Guestmasters			
Asst. Guestmasters 		.40	200.00	15
Mailmen 		.50	200.00	12
Store Clerks			
Candy Store 		.50	100.00	6
Book Store. 		.50	100.00	6
Library			
a. Assistant Librarians		.60	125.00	6
b. Clerks 	;		.50	100.00	6
c. Typists, not NYA 		.55	115.00	6
d. Art Gallery Watchmen..	.40	85.00	6
Note: (a) To qualify as	assistant librarian		
applicant must, have experience and ability to do unsupervised work - at times when regular library staff is off duty.	.	.
(b) Aptitude for clerical work required, (c) Ability to type 50 words per min-"ute required.
Some of the above yearly allowances and hours per week are subject to pro rate adjustment, according to the requirements of the several jobs.
Hoosiers to Dance
George Sauter, newly-elected president of the Indianapolis club, and James Carson, chairman, announced recently that the annual club summer dance is to be held at the redecorated Westlake Beach Terrace with Paul Collin’s prominent orchestra supplying the music.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 28, 1937
9
THE WEEK
Editor’s Note: The last spasm from the “Stoing Man”—tiventy-sixth in a series that has somehow reached a new high. 4 word on the perpetrator: J. 4. fields a mean baseball, is a born sucker for every sort of hair tonic and mange medicine (see picture), he was grooming for life as a, chorus boy but altered fate during Easter holidays. He is one of Dr. Cooney’s prime joys in Journalism, and is said to be some pumpkins in social circles back Westfield way. Take it, Gillespie!
* * *
No Tears
Most college columnists we have read dipped deep into the well of sentiment in their last effort; and invariably they were misunderstood or not believed. They poured it on and it rolled off the backs of the readers. During our attendance at Notre Dame we missed innumerable points of knowledge, both on the campus and in the classroom. One fact, however, was inescapable: there is no open door to affectation or man-
“The Week” Gillespie
. . . and The Week was made strong.
ufactured emotionalism. Whether this attitude is right or wrong we agree with it. Therefore, we won’t break down at this late date and irritate you with gush and dribblings about our wrenching sorrow at leaving school. Neither is there room or justification for last wills and testaments, so indigenous to high school annuals.
Another practice of a last colunm writer is to offer an all-inclusive apology to those whom he might have , offended, consciously or inadvertently. We do not remember any invective nor have we heard any serious complaints, so you won’t find any apology. And if somebody did raise his eyebrows or twinge at our words —well, meet us behind the gym at dawn, June 7.
* * #
Baptism
At the risk of being thought too
By John A. Gillespie
self-centered we’d like to tell the tale of our first appearance in Scholastic print. It was in our freshman year. After a few fruitless attendances at meetings we got an assignment—no, there were two tasks. One was the Cracow Club, the other a movie schedule. Art Korzeneski was an official of the Polish organization and we haunted his room for two days, paying a total of fourteen visits and finally learning that he was in the infirmary. Like the demon reporter of the silver screen we invaded the sick-bay. From his bed, between moans and grimaces, Art told this cub reporter that the Cracow boys, for that week at least, would be practically stagnant. Thus went one of our scoops, leaving only the movie schedule. We visioned a brilliantly conceived piece of celluloid criticism in which our radiant personality would capture the awed attention of the student body. The slightly amused priest who released the picture schedule for the next four weeks was kind and voluble, but the only pertinent data we assembled was the bare news that we had been sent to get. In our room we typed proudly and neatly:
“The movie schedule, as announced by Father ---------, C.S.C., is as fol-
lows: ...”
Then came the date, titles of pictures, and, as an added fillip, the names of the stars. In the squib we had only about 15 words of our own making. That was fame.
“We”
Writing, this weekly stint was fun. Only one thing gave us any real trouble. The use of the editorial “we” precipitated tussles with the English language that we’d hate to repeat. It was our wish to employ the first person singular but we bowed to that indefinable and often inexplicable factor—tradition. Now, as we hack our final lines, we urge our successor, whoever he may be, to abandon the first person plural. Few columns retain it because it involves dictional difficulties. At one time the writer must convey the singular and the plural. A man has but one head; yet, by using the editorial “we” he is forced into such ridiculous phrases as “our head.”
He must rely on the readers’ acumen to distinguish between the use of “our” in respect to the university and “our” meaning his personal property. Altogether, there appears to be no sound reason for the use of the first person plural, and we wish our successor the best of luck in his fight for simplicity.
DEBATERS HAD GOOD FORENSIC YEAR;
WON ELEVEN
By Robert McClain
The varsity debating team concluded a successful season by winning 11 of their 19 intercollegiate debates. The debaters engaged' Kent College of Law, of Chicago, over WLS for
their first contest and were awarded the decision by the radio audience.
The varsity question, “Resolved: That Congress should have the power to fix minimum wages and maximum hours for indus
Robert
Richard
try,” was success-MCCLAIX fu]]y defended by. Meier and Robert Schmelzle
against Iowa, Kansas, Chicago, and Creighton universities, losing only to Carleton college. The negative side, defended by Charles Osborn and Thomas Mulligan, defeated South Dakota but lost decisions to Minne
sota, Texas, and Iowa universities as well as to Iowa State Teachers col
lege.
The affirmative team of Schmelzle and Meier lost a decision to Michigan State while the negative team of Osborn and Mulligan returned to even the score with the East Lansing school.
In the Delta Sigma Rho tournament held at the University of Wisconsin, both the affirmative and negative teams were winners. In upholding the question, Notre Dame won from Wisconsin and Western Reserve and lost to Wayne. The negative team won from Albion and Carleton, losing to Marquette.
Prof. J. D. Menchofer of Michigan State College awarded a decision to the Notre Dame team over Alabama in a contest at St. Mary’s College: Debates with Indiana, Florida, St. Mary’s College of California, and Swarthmore were non-decision contests.
The Notre Dame “B” team successfully defended the question, “Resolved: That the extension of consumers’ cooperatives would contribute to public welfare.” Participating in the Manchester College Debate tournament, the affirmative team of Frank Brame and William R. Duggan defeated Akron, Goshen, Bowling Green, and Illinois Normal, losing one decision to Manchester. The negative team of Charles Osborn and Frank Fitch defeated Indiana university, Western State Teachers College of Kalamazoo, Purdue university.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 28, 1937
CALENDAR
Friday, May 28
Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m. until Benediction, 5:00 p.m.; Golf, Indiana State Meet, William J. Burke Memorial course.
Saturday, May 29
Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m. until Benediction, 11:30 a.m.; Golf, Indiana State Meet, William J. Burke Memorial course; Baseball, Varsity vs. Wisconsin, Cartier Field; Track, Indiana State Meet, Cartier Field; Movies, Washington hall, “Polo Joe,” starring Joe E. Brown, first show for freshmen at 6:40 p.m.
Sunday, May 30
Memorial Day; Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; Memorial Day Exercises, 9:00 a.m., to be followed by procession to Community cemetery; at 10:00 a.m.; Closing May Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00 and 7:30 “p.m.
Monday, May 31
Semester examinations in all classes for undergraduates begin at 8:00 a.m.; Profession, Third Order of St. Francis, Dillon Chapel, 8:00 p.m.
Thursday, June 3
Summer vacation begins.
KARL LARK-HOROVITZ DISCUSSES GASES.
LIQUIDS
•
The similarity between liquids and gases was pointed out last Monday evening by Dr. Karl Lark-Horovitz of Purdue university in a lecture in the Chemistry building. Dr. Lark-Horovitz stated that the only difference between liquids and gases is that in a gas the mean free path is about one-thousand time an atomic diameter, while in a liquid the mean free path is of the order of magnitude of an atomic diameter.
The lecture was illustrated by lantern slides showing X-ray and electron diffraction patterns of the substances in question, both in the liquid and crystallized form, and in some instances in the form of a glass, such as Selenium.
Dr. Lark-Horovitz also pointed out an interesting fact concerning liquids. He stated that a liquid has solid groupings surrounded by true liquid and because of this the approach to the study, is through a
. study of solids, and not through a study of gases alone.
At the present time Dr. Lark-Horovitz is head of . the department of physics at Purdue, and previously j taught at the University of Toronto.
COLLEGE PARADE
By Anthony F. O'Boyle
Editor’s Note: We’ve seen “A. F. O’B.” on good copy for many moons —but this will be the last stint. Tony has sandwiched this job into tennis playing and downtown teaching assignments. He won’t be quoted on the co-ed situation locally, but seems to be bearing up well enough. Tony’s efforts here have received wide comment in other collegiate journals— his has been the true pellucid pillar.
About this time last year or, to be exact twenty-seven issues ago we sat down before our portable, drew it closer to us and tapped out a few words informing whatever eyes that chanced to stray across this column that our job for the year was over. And, if we remember correctly, we ended up with the phrase “Until next September then, Goodbye and Good Luck.” It did not dawn on us at that moment that the next time we would write anything down in a similar vein
Columnist O’Boyle Sheds a Tear
we would do so, unable to add “until next September.” The completion of our college existence seemed then to be too remote to be worth contemplating. Besides, there was the summer recess to look forward to as well as the thought of returning to the campus as full fledged Seniors. Well, the summer holidays of 1936 are now only vague memories, and our Senior year is just about to bow itself out and go down in the archives as Notre Dame’s ninety-third Commencement.
Vehemently would we decry the accusation of getting sentimental in this our last weekly column—but at the same time we are not the least bit reluctant to admit that it is with a sincere twinge of regret that we type these closing lines. Through the medium of the countless number of exchanges that flooded our room every week we have come to enjoy our periodic press visits to innumerable campi throughout the nation. As this is the last opportunity we will have, we wish to take advantage of it and thank sincerely those collegiate publications that have made the
CHOOSE CARL F. FLOE TO HEAD CAMPUS UNIT OF A. S. M.
By Fred Sisk
Elections of the officers for next year of the local American Society for Metals unit were held during the annual banquet and business meeting of the club in the Lay Faculty dining hall last week.
Dr. Carl F. Floe, professor of metallurgy in the University, was selected to be the chairman of the Society next year, and James I. Boland of the Oliver Farm Equipment company of South Bend as vice-chairman. George E. Stoll of the Bendix Products Corporation and George J. Foss, graduate student at the University, were elected secretary and treasurer, respectively.
During the business half of the meeting, a motion was introduced to supply eight high schools in the nearby region with the magazine, Metal Progress, and another periodical entitled, The Review. Both publications contain informative material concerning both the American Society for Metals and the advancements in the field of metallurgy.
By virtue of this motion being approved of by the local Society the following high school libraries will be supplemented with the two named publications: Central, Riley, Mishawaka, Buchanan, Niles, Elkhart, St. Hedewige, and Central Catholic.
writing of this particular column a pleasant weekly task. . . . And our apologies, belated though they may be, to any toes we may have stepped on during the two years that this pillar has been our guidance.
More specifically we wish to express our appreciation to Editor Paul Foley for the suggestions he has made to improve the appearance and the quality of “College Parade.” And to Sports Editors Vaslett and Stroker our thanks for allowing us to occasionally pen a few words in their excellently handled department. ... To our successor, whoever he may be, about the best we can wish him is that he too will have the fun we have had in ignoring deadlines and getting enough material every seven days to keep our name on the masthead.
To those who have read this column we can only say that if, perchance, at one time or- another we did write something that interested or amused you the reams of our copy which found nothing but' a cool reception in the waste basket were of some avail. ... So then to all of you, Goodbye and Good Luck.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 28, 1937
11
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
Things We Didn't Know
All together there are twenty-three bells in the tower of the church.
The sun dials of the campus are on Alumni and Dillon Halls.
At one time the University of Notre Dame was in Michigan.
At the time the University was founded, South Bend was a village of one thousand inhabitants.
Juggler Man Rotondo
Wowed ’em in St. Mary’s Lake
At one time the University of Notre Dame was on the point of being sold for its debts.
We all know that Father Sorin was the first president of the school, but how many of you can name the first vice-president? — Father Alexis Granger.
The first Commencement was held on August 1, 1845.
During the Civil War the family of Gen. William Sherman lived here on the campus.
Notre Dame is the largest boarding school in the United States.
That in 1942 Notre Dame will be one hundred years old.
The late Col. Hoynes, former Dean of the Law School, although a resident for more than fifty years on the campus, is not as yet considered as being domiciled in Indiana.
That there is a beautiful legend concerning the “hand” tree which is directly behind Corby Hall.
The crozier of the first American bishop is located in the sacristy of Sacred Heart church.
There was once a military camp where Cartier Field now stands.
There was at one time a Notre Dame daily (it came out three times a week)
At one time there was a manual -training school here.
The the first collegiate Knights of Columbus council was founded here.
That Father John De Groote, pastor of St. Patrick’s for twenty-two years, was a pupil of Father Sorin’s, (that’s linking the past with the present)
That this makes Father Bernard Ill’s one hundredth semester of teaching here.
That the late Rev. Charles O’Donnell was the first editor of the Dome.
That the statue of Our Lady atop the Main Building is twenty-five feet high.
That the first priest ordained in the United States is buried in the Log Chapel.
That the first Scholastic came out in 1867.
There are more than twelve miles of underground tunnels on the campus, large enough for any of you to walk through erect.
That Alexis Coquillard was the first student to register at Notre Dame.
“Go Out and Swing it Gents I”
There are more than 125 various types of birds flying about on the campus (not counting the two or three thousand in the residence halls)
There is more than 80 tons of coal burned here daily.
That the first wireless message completed satisfactorily was from Notre Dame to St. Mary’s. (See Prof. Robert Green)
In the early days, every time the enrollment increased one hundred, there was a holiday.
Not so long ago, students were not permitted to smoke in the residence halls (and how they did blow talcum powder)
That the rock on which the bronze statue of Father Corby stands was brought to Notre Dame from the battlefield of Gettysburg—where he gave general absolution to the soldiers.
Walsh Hall was at one time the gold coast of Notre Dame.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 28, 1937
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C..........Faculty	Adviser
PAUL FOLEY........................Editor-in-Chief
CYRIL F. STROKER...................Managing	Editor
Sports Staff
Departmental Editors	■
John A. Gillespie--------------------------------The Week
Anthony F. O'Boyle___________________________College Parade
Joseph Rotondo--------------------------In The Juggler Vein
Robert L. Grogan----------------------“Scholastic of the Air"
News Staff	
Louis DaPra	_			
Harold A. Williams			Assistant News Editor
Michael Mongoven			 Frank Reilly
Richard Riley		—	Robert McClain
George Haithcock	Vtncfnt nr C’niip^Fv
Frederick Sisk			John Callaghan
Thomas Marker	:			James Hufnagel
Gregory Byrnes	CtRATJAM StaPP
Frank E. Larwood			 	F. Barreda
James Dempsey			John Kohn
Edward Huff			Robert Sheppard
Joseph Miller.	_	*Wl! T TAM C FAV
Robert McEniry			Vernon Sneider
Vincent W. Hartnett!	 Harold A. Williams I		Literary Editors
Vol. 70
May 28, 1937
Eugene Vaslett_______________________________Sports Editor
Andrew M. Crowe________________________Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley Mark Mitchell Allan Bride____________________________Nicholas Lamberto
Frederick Digby------------------------------John Clifford
Charles Callahan William A. Donnelly
Arch Gott______________________________James A. Waldron
Andrew F. Wilson__________________________Robert Voelker
Clarence Sheehan .
Francis Kroeger_________________________________Art Editor
George Elmore
William R. Dooley, '26___L________________Business Manager
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 233 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame. Indiana.
No. 26
BLACK OUT ...
TN CASE you’re interested—this is the twenty-sixth issue of the seventieth volume of the Notre Dame Scholastic—the end of our lap in the editorial relay. And we finish fairly fresh, jumping at the tape and not hilariously happy that the end has been reached. Neither are we bowed down with the salty brine of sentimental tears—which is O.K. with everyone beyond doubt.
There is more to editing The Scholastic than‘meets the lay eye. There are countless “back stage” scenes that are far superior to anything shown on the public stage of a weekly issue. There is, for instance, the weekly staff meeting at which volunteer’ tenors and brassy bassos almost always insist on performing after work is cleared away. There is the weekly search of the famous “morgue” for our cuts—and the result of that search. Need we remind you of the engineering lathes bravely captioned “University Laundry?”
There is our correspondence too, believe it or not, in which we are asked to conduct surveys of N.D. house parties for a New York society scribbler; to find volunteers on campus for Fuller Brush salesmen; in fact we are urged to everything from operating a shell game to crawling under the shells.
Somebody once said (as somebody is always once saying) that the physician buries his mistakes, the lawyer charges a steep fee for his, but the journalist publishes
his. Dubbing ourselves journalists, we are sure that no one can accuse us of belying that sage remark. Our errors have been as plentiful as corns on a mailman—and almost as painful.
Our best editorials were never written, our best issue was never printed, our flag-ship was never quite launched —they rarely are. On Saturday morning we always had a million red-hot ideas for yesterday’s book.
We were scourged by slighted secretaries, pestered by peppery presidents—and yet we successfully escaped really serious damage to life or limb. We hope the seventy-first editorial will be as fortunate.
• Speaking of number 71. To Gene Vaslett and Louis DaPra we extend the palsied hand of one retiring. We are certain they will do well, especially if they can uncover a good second tenor, and get the copy in on time. To this year’s staff we offer sincere thanks for a rather remarkable esprit de corps (to coin an expression). Their efforts were responsible for all of our good points and none of our faults.
To the Rev. Lawrence V. Broughal, C.S.C., ordained by fate to read through all of this copy week after week, we offer thanks for every favor.
The list would not be complete without mentioning a mighty fine Managing Editor and good nine o’clock tenor, Cy Stroker. For an Accounting major, or for anyone else, he has been remarkably helpful, faithful and capable. .
We stagger out only slightly wounded.—P. F.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 28, 1937
Thomism and Pipe-Smoking E X
Being a consideration of reality and smoke rings in which the author dreams few dreams but bites hard on the stem. A new slant on who believes what and why—a bowlful in any pipe.
William James wrote Henri Bergson, on the appearance of the latter’s L’Evolution Creatrice, and thanked him almost hysterically for having slain finally and conclusively “the beast intellectualism.” Both James and Bergson were representative of the modem tide of philosophy, that system of thought which abuses the very mention of intellectualism. That is to say, a great many of the modem philosophers deny the immateriality of the intellect, deny the universal character of the concept, deny that we can know things as they are. This within office hours. Outside of their offices, they are as rational as the normal man.
Most men do not know what “intellectualism” means: they are indifferent as to the materiality or immateriality of the intellect, the representative character of abstract concepts, the objective validity of the first principles of thought. For most men, life goes on rationally, although they could not define that term.
Scholastic philosophy has always held tenaciously to the dignity of the intellect, to the infallibility of its powers when properly exercised. But today, Scholasticism is the only system which can give an organized defence of intellectualism and truth. Outside of Scholasticism are the antiintellectuals, the modem Vandals. Not all of the Vandals are belligerent and directly destructive, the great majority are indifferent.
Someone once said that the Catholic Church was a relic of the Dark Ages, and Chesterton pointed out that the Catholic Church was .the only thing about the Dark Ages which was not dark. Rather, the Catholic Church was the great and shining bridge across the Dark Ages, the link between Greco-Romanism and the Middle Ages. Across that great and shining bridge passed all that we have of the civilization of
. Greece and of Rome. It is stale, but still worth repeating that the monks in the Dark Ages preserved and spread the copies of the classical authors. Had it not been for their toil, college students could not read their Horace today. I think it is perhaps I more remarkable that, were it not ]
for the labors of modern Scholastics, college students could not with calm mind smoke their pipes today.
People used to say, and probably they still repeat the charge, that the Catholic Church was wrong because it was too narrow. They did not see that it was precisely because she was narrow in- some things that she was absolutely right. The Catholic Church was damned because it perpetuated the Index; which is like damning a druggist for putting a skull and crossbones on a bottle of denatured alcohol. And then the Church was abused because of its doctrine of sin. The climax came when the Church was denounced as too narrow because it held to the doctrine of free-will. It was Chesterton again who said that men tried to destroy Rome with Reason, but they ended by destroying Reason. Even in popular speech this trend finds its interpreter. People say, “It isn’t sensible,” when they should say, “It isn’t reasonable.” When men laugh at the syllogism, they will soon be laughing at cigarettes.
It is an awful truth that only men can be suicides, and only reason can destroy reason. An animal never deliberately kills itself; but men very often do. A determinist finds this very hard to explain; he very often is forced to explain away man’s reason. Many modems, including Wil-
CHANSON D'AUTOMNE
By Edward O’Neill
Autumn begins
With violins
Its longdrawn sobs, Wounding my heart
With the languorous dart
Of its throbs.
When, gasping for breath, Pale as with death, I hear the hour toll, There comes to mind Days left behind And the tears roll.
liam James, have committed this intellectual suicide.
Not alone philosophers have used reason to slay reason. It was the infinitely quotable G. K. C. who pointed out that it was not imagination, but reason, which made madmen. Just as I probably could not persuade a madman that he w*as not a bottle of ketchup, so I probably could not persuade an extreme idealist that he was wearing shoes. I could only point out to them the unpleasant places where they would likely land. Modem intellectual heretics begin by denying Bethlehem, and they must end by accepting Bedlam.
I, for one, do not like the idea of Bedlam, and I do like to smoke my pipe with unwavering faith that it is there, and that I am here, and that it is going to light when I apply a match to it. When I think of the blind faith with which I used to take all these things as true (before I became a Scholastic), I am aghast. ■ People condemn Catholics because they have to “take things on faith.” Sometimes I think we ought to at least protest because the sceptics take things, say, a ham-sandwich, on a far blinder faith. When the Catholic Church alone in a mad world can give me the right to eat my hamsandwich and smoke my pipe, I’m all for the Catholic Church.
And then I zvhirl
In the tricked wind’s swirl, Swept, with my grief, Here and there, Everywhere,	'
As a dead leaf.
Translated from the French of Paid Verlaine
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY. 28, 1937
ATHLETICS
NOTRE DAME DEFENDS ITS STATE TRACK TITLE ON CARTIER FIELD OVAL TOMORROW STRONG INDIANA TEAM FAVORED
WALSHERS INTERHALL DIAMOND CHAMPS OF SEASON
By Nick Lamberto
State track and field records will be seriously endangered tomorrow when the pick of the state’s athletes will vie in the annual Indiana state meet at the Cartier Field oval. Notre Dame, the host and defending title holder, will have serious difficulty in repeating their last year’s triumph at Bloomington.
This year’s favorite to cop the state championship is the Indiana team. Runners-up to the Notre Dame team last year, the Indiana team this year is even stronger while Notre Dame seems to be considerably weakened by the loss of men like Elser and Meagher.
Indiana’s star-studded cast includes Don Lash, Tom Deckard, and Jimmy Smith in the distance events.
John Francis Nick’s Hope in the Half.
This trio are three of the best two-milers in the country. Lash, besides running the two mile, also participates in the mile and is capable of running the distance in 4:09. Mel Trutt, a promising half-miler, and Bob Collier, the state record holder in the 100-yard dash, are two.more of Indiana’s stellar performers.
Eight of the 15 existing state marks appear to be endangered by the 1937 array of stars. Three other marks may fall if entrants improve slightly on their best performances. Don Lash leads the record attackers. He holds the record of nine minutes 19 seconds in the two-mile run, but has consistently bettered this time in meets this year. Lash has also bet-(Continued on Page 23)
TENNIS SEASON ENDS ELECT KILRAIN
NEXT CAPTAIN
•
The most successful season in recent Notre Dame tennis history was completed last week when Coach Pedro de Landero and Captain Bill Fallon brought the Irish net squad through a difficult field of nineteen entries in the State Intercollegiates at Earlham. By amassing a total of eighteen points, one for every opponent eliminated, the Blue and Gold racqueteers merited top ranking for themselves as a team. During the course of this year’s strenuous schedule the Irish netters defeated such top flight teams as Indiana University, Purdue University and the Missouri Valley champions from St., Louis University. Teams conquering the Notre Dame netmen were the undefeated University of Chicago squad, the Cats from Northwestern who are second in the current Big Ten race to Chicago, and the strong Michigan State outfit.
Individual honors in the State Championship tournament went to Captain Fallon, Whit Gregory, and Fred Simon for their fine play in advancing to the quarter-finals in the singles, and to the doubles team of Waldron and Fallon which reached the semi-final round in the doubles. The surprise of the tournament was the splendid showing made by the Notre Dame sophomores who were experiencing their first taste of collegiate championship play.
Prior to the team’s departure for the State Tournament Eddie Kilrain, of Anderson, Indiana, was elected to the 1938 captaincy’s berth. Kilrain is a veteran of two years in intercollegiate tennis strife. He is a clever court strategist, and while not of the spectacular type, is equally effective in singles as well as doubles. At the annual tennis banquet Coach de Landero also announced that he had recommended the following men be awarded letters for their play in this year’s team: Ctpaain Bill Fallon, Captain-elect Ed Kilrain, Whit Gregory, Fred Simon, Jim Waldron, Bill Arnold, Frank Reppenhagen and Bob Wolf.
The benevolent gentlemen of Walsh Hall are supreme as campus baseball champions by virtue of their 8-5 victory over the Brownson dorm dwellers. Brilliant pitching in the pinches by Philosopher Ray McGrath, and the timely hitting of exam-worried seniors proved to be the downfall of the boys from under the dome.
Fifteen minutes after defeating Carroll for the right to engage Walsh in the play-off Brownson, with Fireball Mooney on the mound, took the field. After two scoreless innings the Walshites finally managed to catch Mooney’s fast one and pushed over five runs on hits by McGrath, Heinemann, Glass Arm Riley, Jack (Week) Gillespie, a walk to “Deadash” Hurley, and a hit by “Sunfield” Zenner. • Two runs in the following inning swelled the total to seven. Brownson counted in the same inning on a homer by Zontini. In the fifth and sixth frames the Brownson sluggers got to the rapidly-tiring McGrath for four runs. The pangs of hunger spurned the seniors into retiring the first-year men without a run in the final inning.
Baseball Team to Close Against Iowa Here
On Friday and Saturday, June 4 and 5, the Irish baseball team will close its season with two games against the University of Iowa. The Hawkeyes were beaten twice last year by Notre Dame, although both games were nip and tuck affairs. This year’s contests will undoubtedly prove interesting sidelights to the many guests here for Commencement.
For seyeral years now the lowans have been the closing opponents of the Irish, and the games have always been close. This year will be no exception. Notre Dame is especially anxious to clinch the two games in order to make their season a definitely successful one. The Iowa nine, on the other hand, has been making a remarkable record for itself in midwestern baseball this year, and it will require the best efforts of Coach Kline and Company to make the games victorious.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 28, 1937
15
KLINEMEN'S 22 RUNS SWAMP BUCKEYES IN BALL GAME
IRISH TO DEFEND TEAM AND INDIVIDUAL STATE CHAMPIONSHIPS IN 72-HOLE MEDAL PLAY NINE HOOSIER TEAMS TO COMPETE
By Al Bride
For more than two hours co-stars
Puplis and Borowski, aided by a huge supporting cast, enacted the comedytragedy “Follow the Ball” Friday afternoon on Cartier Field as Notre
Al Bride
Dame downed Ohio State in a weird ball game.
Three Buckeye pitchers, including the prospective big leaguer, Dagenhard, gave a grand total of 24 hits. Chief assaulters were Andy Puplis and Chuck Borowski with four safe
blows apiece. Nardony, Mohr, and Kovzelove collected three safeties
each while Joe O’Neill drove in four runs with a long home run to the fence in left field.
The second inning was the beginning of the tornado of Irish bingles. After getting off to a one run advantage in the first inning the Irish batters pounded out seven runs in the second frame as 12 batters paraded to the plate before the side was retired. Five more counters were pushed across in the third and sixth innings. A single run in the seventh and a final three run blast in the eighth brought the Irish field day to a close. The visitors scored all their runs in the fifth when they bunched five hits for three runs.
Captain Arboit started and gave a creditable performance until struck by a batted ball in the sixth. He was replaced in the seventh by the lanky southerner, Boyd, who continued where he left off against Louisiana Tech last week. Boyd’s fast ball and sharp breaking drop completely baffled the Ohioans for the last three innings.
Thirteen Buckeyes saw service in the vain attempt to stop the Kline-men. Washburn was the only Ohio Stater to gamer more than one hit as he singled in each of his three trips to the plate. Mixed in with some erratic fielding was an outstanding bare handed catch of a pop fly by Myers back of second base.
After the Irish had built up a substantial lead Coach Kline inserted many of his reserves swelling the local’s box score with 15 names. Carson replaced Doyle at first base and made a fine catch of a foul ball well in back of first base.
The second game of the scheduled two game series had to be cancelled because of rain Saturday afternoon.
BUCKEYES. SPARTANS DOWN THINLIES IN LAST DUAL MEETS
•
By Mark J. Mitchell
In the past two weeks, Coach John Nicholson’s track men have twice journeyed to hostile camps in quest of the laurel; and twice have they returned empty-handed. On May 15, Ohio State avenged last year’s defeat with a 77-54 drubbing. A week later Michigan State barely nosed out the Irish 66% to 64%.
However, the meets were not a total loss, for they were occasioned by some splendid performances on the part of several individuals. Probably the greatest of these was Bill Faymonville’s discus throw in the Ohio State meet, which sailed 155 feet 4% inches. This heave is the best record made in any event by any college trackman this year, and assures Faymonville of a trip to the National Intercollegiates in California, and probably of a place in his event there.
Danny Gibbs vaulted 13 feet 6 inches for a first place against the Buckeyes, and a new high for himself in the event. Steve Sczumachow-ski’s 9:33.3 two mile in the same meet was the,best time he has ever turned in, and Jake Wolf’s second in furlong in both meets promises Nick a running mate for Clifford next year.
In amassing their total of 77 points, the Buckeyes took eight first places and the relay, and scored slams in four events. Notre Dame won six events, slamming only the shot. Dave Albritton, colored jumper and hurdler was high point man for the Scarlet and Gray with a first and three seconds for 14 points, while Gibbs’ 11 topped the Irish scorers.
The Michigan State meet at East Lansing was run off during a heavy rainstorm which prevented any unusual performances being made. High honors, of ten points each, were shared by Faymonville, who won the shot and discus; Gibbs, who again won the pole vault and broad jump; and Springer of the Spartans who took first in both hurdle races.
Notre Dame won seven firsts and the relay, again scoring a slam in the shot, while Michigan State also took seven firsts, sweeping the high and low hurdles.
By Fred Digby
Notre Dame will play host to the golf teams of universities of the State of Indiana today and tomorrow during the Indiana State Golf Tournament.
The Irish will be defending the championship won last year. They not only copped the team championship in 1936 but also walked off with the individual title. Win Day topped all the participants to win individual honors.
The meet will end tomorrow afternoon. It will consist in medal play
Fehlig in Action Last year’s state meet.
over 72 holes. The Irish will again be pointing for both championships. Captain Fehlig, Mailhes, Donovan, Castleman, Milbourne, and Sheehan will probably comprise the team which will compete for the state titles.
Eight or nine teams will furnish the Irish with plenty of competition. Among the entries are Indiana, Indiana State Teachers, Wabash, and Purdue. The last team named was the first to defeat the Irish during the current season. They scored a surprise victory over the Irish links-men, 13 to 5, on the West Lafayette Country Club course. The stiffest competition which the Irish will face will probably come from this quarter again.
Frosh Golfers Defeat Culver Academy
The Notre Dame Freshmen trounced the Culver Military Academy linksters, 10%-l%, last Saturday at the University course in a driving rain. Donahue, of the Irish, turned in a 78 to capture low scoring honors.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 28, 1937
INTRODUCING By Gene Vaslett
GOLFERS TO COMPETE IN NAT'L TOURNEY JUNE 28 - JULY 3
Just one year ago this issue, Cy Stroker came up to us and told us to write
our first “Introducing.” He had just taken over the managing editor’s reins
and decided to give u§ a break and let us write this column. Our first assignment, or victim, was Win Day, captain of last year’s golf team. This week,
appropriately enough, we believe, we present in our last column of this sort,
Lou Fehlig, captain of this year’s golf team. Sort of a case of getting back where we started from after a year’s work.
Lou Fehlig is one of the famous clan of golfing Fehligs. He’s the third member of the clan to appear at Notre Dame and the second to be awarded the captaincy of the golf team; his brother Vince Fehlig having captained the team in 1934. An earlier brother, the first of the clan, attended Notre Dame a few years ago and was also a member of the team, and another, the fourth, Gene
Fehlig, is scheduled to come here in a few years as soon as he has completed high school. He’s another golfer and Missouri State high school champion, so we think Father Holderith will not be worried when the fourth and last Fehlig
Captain Lou Fehlig will lead his Notre Dame golf team to Oakmont in Pittsburgh for the National Intercollegiate Golf tournament which will be played from June 28th to July
3rd. The highly successful Irish aggregation i s a distinct threat for the team title this year which is now held by Yale. In the 1936 meet Notre Dame rated third place, only two points behind the winners.
Akch Gott
The treacherous Oakmont should prove to be the acid test for the pick of the national collegiate fairway trotters. Over 7000 yards long, heavily trapped and always windswept, Oakmont saw the downfall of many of the country’s most brilliant golfers in the recent National Open held there. However, if Notre Dame can continue to function smoothly as a team the result will be favorable.
appears here.
St. Louis, Mo. was the earlier scene of Lou’s golfing activities. He attended St. Louis University High School for four years, and it was there that he picked up his first golf club and played his first game. Speaking of that first game, which was played under the tutelage of older brother Vince, Lou tells us that he shot about twenty strokes higher than anybody else would during their first game. However, Lou wasn’t on hand when we played our first round of golf.
In his Junior year in high school he was a member of the golf squad, and in his senior year he was elected captain. That year when he had been playing golf for only three seasons he advanced to the quarter finals in the Missouri State Senior Tournament where he was eliminated by his teacher and brother, Vince. The summer of that year, just before he entered Notre Dame he went out and shot a 67 on the Norwood course of St. Louis. Your writer thinks that golf comes naturally to all the Fehligs.
At Notre Dame he has been a regular member on the golf team since his sophomore year. Toward the end of his Junior year he was playing the number one post, ahead of such boys as Win Day and Bill Taylor, who were pretty fair golfers in anybody’s league. The best score he has ever had on the local links is a sub-par 71, and in the National Intercollegiates at Chicago last summer he was high up in the standings when the play had been completed. In that tournament, both he and Pat Malloy sank a hole in one the same day, Lou on the 170 yard 16th, Pat on the 150 yard 3rd, a feat that no one else duplicated during the play.
At one time Lou intended to turn pro when he graduated, but an enticing offer from a business firm in St. Louis caused him to abandon all thoughts of professionalism, and he will be a business man when he leaves school.
The first two days of the tourney are played to determine the team championship while the remaining four days compose match play for individual titles. Each school is allowed to enter as many contestants as it wishes, but only the four lowest scores of each school are figured in the computation of team standings. For these two days eighteen holes are played each morning.
The low 32 automatically qualify for the match play which takes up the next four days and results in the crowning of the individual champion. In 1936 the great Chuck Kocsis, from Michigan, slashed his way through to a victory. He will not return this year, but there will be such dangerous threats as Fred Haas, of Louisiana State, and Sid Richardson, of Northwestern, recently crowned Big Ten champion. Notre Dame can offer a strong group of stars, three or four of whom will have an even chance to come through on top of the heap in the match play. Captain Fehlig, Bob Wilke, Gene Milbourne, Bill Castleman, Bud Donovan, Al Mailhes, and Sheehan will probably be the choice of Father Holderith for the trip to Pittsburgh.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 28, 1937
17
IRISH BATS. HURLERS HUMBLE PURDUE. WESTERN STATE
DILLON CAPTURES INTERHALL GOLF CROWN GALLAGHER LOSES TO COSTELLO
IN FINAL SINGLES PLAY OFF
John Cackley
out 18 at the
By John Cackley
Coach Jake Kline and his baseball nine scored a pair of victories within the past ten days ovei- two supposedly strong teams, when they swamped Purdue, 15-0, and beat mighty Western State, 6-1.
The contest with the Boilermakers, here on May 15, was an old fashioned “slugfest” as far as the Irish were concerned. Captain Ennio Ar-boit limited the visitors to a meager two hits, while his mates pounded pense of Downey,
Doan, and Rosser.
Andy Puplis sent a long homer to right field, in the second inning, while Nardone, O’Neill, and Borowski contributed unusual effectiveness at the plate. The Irish got off to a big start by scoring one run in the first inning and four in the second.
Arboit gave one of the most perfect twirling exhibitions that has ever been witnessed on Cartier Field, when he pitched to 31 batters, and only twice faced more than three in an inning. Braddock, Edelen, and Mohr continued their brilliant defensive play, and were three of the major factors in the Irish victory.
Western State, usually ranked as one of the nation’s outstanding collegiate baseball squads, proved to be no match for Notre Dame, on the former’s home field, May 19. The Irish, led by Johnny Goncher, on the mound, scored six runs, while holding the Teachers to a lone tally.
Mulligan By a Whisker In Chin Go/f Meet
“Fore!” Thomas Mulligan, of Cleveland Heights, Ohio, was warning Chin Golf Judge Robert Voelker, of Stephenson, Mich., to keep out of the “rough” as he looked for patches of bristles on the Mulligan “course” last Tuesday evening. The event was the first Notre Dame Chin Golf contest, and the argument was over the number of bristles on Mulligan’s face, for each bristle counted six points, and the contestant with the lowest score won.
But Mulligan need not have worried, for when the final scores were added he was found to be the winner with 51 strokes! Actual strokes were 29, but 4 points were added for cuts, and 18 for bristles.
ON DOWN THE LINE
By Mike Crowe
CARNEGIE TECH may be an engineering school but some of its students can’t measure distance correctly. In a recent track meet with Western Reserve, GAMBLE stopped at 220 yards and thought he won the race but the tape was stretched at the 240 yard mark so he failed to place.
Whenever an OHIO STATE football player makes All-American honors, a tree is planted on the campus in his honor.
DUTCH FEHRING, Purdue baseball coach, is being criticized by some students because he is playing six sophomores and three juniors on his varsity nine. They believe a senior of equal ability should get first consideration. All we can say is to watch out for Purdue next year.
COACH LYNN WALDORF of Northwestern is wishing he had as much material for all positions as he has for left halfback. Playing there next fall will be Don Heap, Bernard Swisher, and Ryan.
WASYLIK, Ohio State third baseman, has hit safely 17 times out of 33 appearances at the plate this season.
JOE SCOTT, all-around athlete at Western Reserve is in heavy demand for next season. The football coach says he might be the difference between a fair and a great season. However, it is believed that Scott will stick to basketball and track.
NORTHWESTERN lost 12 consecutive conference baseball games last year. They dropped their first five games this year before winning a conference game.
CHARLEY BEETHAM, Ohio State’s brilliant half miler, will stick to his specialty from now on. In a recent meet against Wisconsin, Beetham finished second in the low hurdles and was so fatigued that he could get but fourth in his favorite distance.
WARD CUFF, Marquette’s stellar football and track performer, appeared on the campus recently wearing a pair of artistic cowboy boots to class. He got them in a trade with a southwest star who was in the Drake relays.
JOE GONZALEZ, Southern California pitcher who won 179 straight games, will report to the Boston Red Sox immediately after graduation.
By Clarence Sheehan
The Dillon Hall Gold Coasters walked off with team honors in the interhall golf tournament which was held at the University course on May 15 and 16. The Dillonites were represented by Chick Gallagher, Joe Corcoran, Charles Metzger, Harold Wilson, and Bill Sixsmith. Fifty-five golfers entered the meet and ten halls were represented by five-man teams. George Costello, of Cavanaugh, captured medal honors as he defeated Chick Gallagher, of Dillon, on the nineteenth hole. Both boys turned in a very low 151 for the first eighteen.
Rev. Geokge L. Holdekith, C.S.C.
“Very much pleased.”
Father Holderith expressed great pleasure in the interest shown in this year’s tourney which was the most successful in the school’s history. He modeled the meet after the National Intercollegiate and ran it off in two days rather than have it drag over a two-week period as it did in other years.	.
A silver trophy was awarded to the Dillon team and five individual trophies were given to its members at a dinner in the cafeteria last Thursday evening. The interhall awards for billiards, bowling, and handball were also made at this time.
The aggregate scores of four men from each of the first seven teams was as follows: Dillon 635; Freshman 655; Cavanaugh 663; St. Edward’s 665; Old Infirmary 674; Lyons 694; and Walsh 697.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 28, 1937
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
BY cy STROKER
Now is the time for all good columnists to let down their hair and cry on their readers’ shoulders, if any. (Readers, not shoulders, you dopes.) Consistent with our habit of inconsistency, we refuse to spoil our mascara. Parting being such sweet sorrow we take this opportunity to upturn our journalistic nose at all those well wishers, and especially the gentlemen of Walsh, who spent half the year memorizing passages from this pillar of prose just so they could pick it to pieces and throw it in our face. Scallions especially to those sophisticated dandies who committed the more mortifying insult of ignoring the column altogether.
In our capacity of sports writer for “The Scholastic,” we have seen a lot of sports at Notre Dame. We have seen some' good teams and we have seen some poor ones. This year’s basketball team was the best non-professional outfit we have ever seen. Johnny Moir is the outstanding athlete during our collegiate career; Last year’s football team was tops for the four years. We watched the fencing team (our first assignment) grow from an unhealthy-looking pup into a fine minor sport. We watched the tennis team for four years, laboring under the handicaps of poor playing conditions and short seasons, try desperately but unsuccessfully to get into the credit side of the ledger,. with this year’s team doing its finest job to date. From afar we saw the golf team, consistently pile up a startling record with the 1937 edition standing a good chance to win the national collegiate team championship. We saw the baseball team do a complete about face and once more regain its popularity. Through the smoke haze of Coach Nicholson’s pipe we saw our favorite, the track team, do a fine job of teamwork to win honors that no individual on the team could approach.	.
But we had our bad moments. We can remember times when we would close our eyes when the football team had possession of the ball within twenty yards of a touchdown in order not to see the fumble that we knew would come. We were sorry, at one time, that Notre Dame had to have a baseball team and spoil its athletic record. We frequently ground our teeth in despair to see the Scholastic sports writers treated like necessary evils when any palooka from the Podunk Gazette was treated like a visiting dignitary. In our efforts to make the sport section more readable we tore our hair out in bunches to see the downtown papers scoop us on a story that could just as well have been released to us. There were other things too, but we promised not to get maudlin.	,
If our voice is not one crying in a complete wilderness, let us say a few words of praise for the interhall and individual tournaments. Let us express the hope that these will be continued and expanded upon in the future, so that there might be a revival of a spirit which died three and a half years ago, and which is almost essential to campus life as practiced at Notre Dame. Let us also put in a plea for more handball courts for which there has been such a crying need for so many years. Let us hope, too, that in the somewhat distant future when the new field house is built, (happy day) there will be reached -that goal of Elmer Layden’s, of participation by every student in some sport.
And so, my little children, when this column changes hands let there be no weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth for One Who Has Gone. Rather let there be a smile on every face as there resounds from hall to hall the joyous cry, “Well, we got rid of him, anyway.”'	•	. ' .
IRISH NINE TO MEET BADGERS HERE
TOMORROW
By Andrew F. Wilson
Wisconsin’s baseball team comes to Cartier Field for a game Saturday, May 29. In a previous game played this year at Madison, May 5, the Irish won out, 10-9, with two runs in the tenth inning.
Last year Wisconsin was one of three teams to defeat the Irish, winning 5-2 on their home grounds. This was the first loss of the season, halting a seven-game Notre Dame winning streak. It was later avenged, 13-8, on Cartier Field. Purdue and Iowa were the only other conquerors of the Irish, the former by 6 to 4, the latter by 10 to 5.
This year’s team started out by winning two, then losing three. Not counting this week’s games •with Purdue and Michigan State, it has since run up .a streak of seven straight ■wins. In the three game slump, the team scored just five runs. Then the players suddenly developed a fine hitting streak, • culminating in 22 runs scored against Ohio State, and 43 runs in the last three games. The pitchers, Arboit, Goncher, and Rydell, ' have also displayed great skill, holding their last six opponents to a total of 14 runs, Arboit’s 2-hit shutout of Purdue being the outstanding pitching exhibition of the year. Even last year’s club, over a similar" stretch ‘ of games, had no such record, either offensively or defensively.
The Badgers have a good pitching staff. Notre Dame now seems to have both good pitching and good batting. The combination should win.
C.f.C., N.C.A.A. Meets End Track Season
By Robert B. Voelker
. The Notre Dame track men wind up a stiff season with two meets, the first being the C.I.C. at Milwaukee, on June 4, followed by the National Inter-Collegiates at Berkeley, California, as guests of the University of California on June 18.
Sprinters Clifford and Wolf stand a fair chance to triumph, and Rice, although hampered by a throat infection, may he in condition to show his championship form as miler. Fay-monville’s toss of 155 feet 4% inches ranks him among the top-notchers in discus competition, while Szumachow-ski should be right on the heels of the favorites in the two mile race.
Danny Gibbs, Nick’s champion of the pole vault, will compete in the low hurdles and broad jump as well, and Don Morgan, of .Navy-meet fame, will compete in the high hurdles.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 28, 1937
19
SPORTS YEAR AT NOTRE DAME IS SUCCESSFUL
By Charles Callahan
FOOTBALL
In the records we find the following: Notre Dame football, 1936—six victories, two defeats, one tie. However, a truer picture of the campaign could be presented by saying that it was a season of good, and finally great football.
Carnegie Tech (21-7), Washington U .(14-6), and Wisconsin (27-0), were taken in stride. Then Pitt’s powerful Panthers were encountered. Mentioning it quietly, the result: Pitt 26, Notre Dame 0. Came the next Saturday, and the ’36 eleven, showing the “come back spirit” that has always characterized Notre Dame football, downed Ohio State, 7-2.
The right foot of half-back Bill Ingram gave the Navy a 3-0 victory. But in the annual Army game, the Irish attack, with McCormick, Puplis, Wilke, and Danbom in the backfield, started to click, Notre Dame won, 20-■6. In the climactic contest of the
Thinly Jordan
The Jordan rolls tomorrow.
year the Laydenites “rode roughshod” over the Big Ten champs from Northwestern, 26-6. Southern California tied Notre Dame 13-13, in the final fracas, but it was a virtual Irish triumph as they made nineteen first •downs to two for the coast club.
Of the twenty-nine lettermen, twelve are being lost through graduation. They are Captain Lautar, Wilke, Danbom, Miller, Wojciehov-, ski, O’Neill, Steinkemper, Cronin, Mundee, Kopczak, Martin, and McMahon.
FENCING
Though their record of five wins, three losses, and one tie was not so good as that of the 1935 or 1936 teams, both of which were undefeated, Coach Pedro de Landero believed the 1937 fencing squad to be the best-balanced sword team he has ever • coached. Proof of this rests in the
fact that in the past season, for the first time in Notre Dame fencing history, the Irish won the epee event.
Footballer Lautar “Forget about Pitt.”
And they did it not only once, but three times.
Letters were awarded to Captain Telmo de Landero, and Jack McAuliffe, seniors; Bob Seco, and Jack Zerbst, juniors; and Sal Scarleta, a sophomore. Charles Colgan and Jim Graham were other swordsmen who captured points for the Irish.
Captain de Landero and McAuliffe have closed three seasons of competition as regulars, de Landero won 48 matches and lost 33, while McAuliffe was victorious in 37 battles and was beaten on 32 occasions. •
BASKETBALL
The Notre Dame winter sports program reached its greatest peak in inter-collegiate competition through the National Championship performances of the basketball five. Starting out with what appeared a mediocre but highly-potential team, the Irish gained momentum with each additional contest, finally ending its schedule of 23 games with 20 wins and 3 losses. It was a truly phenomenal record established by Coach George Keogan’s men, against the
Basketeer Meyer Another year to come.
stiffest competition, which lasted from the first week in December until the’ middle of March.
All-Americans Johnny Moir and Paul Nowak were the mainstays in the Notre Dame offense, although both were handicapped by injuries early in the season; the former suffering a broken jaw in an early game, and the latter undergoing an appendectomy a few weeks before the season started. Moir set an all-time scoring record of 290 points which bids well to stand—until next season. Tom Wukovits and Earl Brown were the guardian angels of the squad w'ho prevented many offensive thrusts of the opposition from materializing into anything of importance.
GOLF	’
The Notre Dame 1937 golf season was characteristic of all the matches played throughout the Middle West this year, in that no ranking team of former years went undefeated and all lost at least two meets. To date the Irish have won 7 meets, lost two and tied two. With the termination
Klineman Arboit His work never ends.
of the Indiana State Meet being played on the Notre Dame course today and tomorrow, the Irish, golfers will have concluded a fairly successful season considering the handicaps which confronted them early this Spring.
Washington University tied the Irish in the first meet of the season, which was played in freezing weather. After defeating Chicago, Notre Dame was whipped by Purdue, but returned victorious from the next five matches. Wisconsin, which had previously lost to the Irish, inflicted the next loss on the Notre Dame team. A victory over Michigan State and a tie with Illinois rounded out the dual meets for the year.
TRACK
The victory of the Notre Dame track team over fifteen other schools in the important Central Intercollegi-
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 28, 1937
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
ate Indoor Meet more than balanced the five defeats it suffered in its eight dual meets this season.
The three teams which the Irish beat—Marquette and Illinois indoors and Navy outdoors—were overpowered decisively, while their three conquerors—Michigan State, Pittsburgh, and Drake—won by such a hairline margins that a few yards either way would have meant the difference between victory and defeat. Notre Dame defeated each of these three teams in winning the Central Intercollegiate Championship.
Every important point-winner on the Irish squad has been hampered by an injury at some time during the
year, so that the team has never been able to put forth its full strength for a single meet.
TENNIS
Although the tennis team won only three of its ten matches this year, this showing was anything but a disappointment to Coach de Landero and its followers. Since the squad is composed mostly of sophomores, who acquired a great deal of experience in these meets, it promises some very successful seasons in the near future. The youthful Irish racquet-wielders met some of the best opposition in the Middle West, and bowing to such teams as Chicago and Northwestern, Big Ten champions and runners-up respectively, was no disgrace.
BASEBALL
The record of the Notre Dame baseball team this Spring is a great tribute to the work of Coach “Jake” Kline. Starting with three pitchers and an outfielder, Kline moulded together an aggregation which—prior to the Purdue game last Tuesday— has won nine games and dropped but three. They are undefeated at home, and regardless of how the remaining contests come out, their win-loss percentage cannot be worse than .500.
Sophomore Joe Nardone, who plays
STUDENTS:
TRAVELING CLOTHES can be WRINKLE FREE!
WHOOPS VACATIONEERS
Let staunch, dependable Railway Express ship your baggage, bundles and boxes straight home. Top speed. Low cost. Real economy. Pickup and delivery without extra charge—in all cities and principal towns—and send collect if you want to. Just phone the nearest Railway Express office when to call. Easy as that, and believe us, you’ll relax contentedly in your Pullman.
Go back home with a Val-A-Pak, “The Portable Clothes Closet”— swanky and modem..09.95 up
On train or in your dormitory, you’ll find living heaps easier with the new, practical luggage:
GLADSTONES
ZIPPER BAGS
WARDROBE TRUNKS _
“Distinctive Graduation Gifts!”
501 West South St., South Bend, Ind. ’Phone 3-6121
RAILWAA^EXPRESS
AGENCY INC.
■— NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE —
HANS-RI NTZSCH ’ . “The Daylight Store” • . Michigan at Colfax
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 28, 1937
21
left field, is leading the team in the art of getting base-hits. His average is .421. Second beseman Johnny Braddock, with an average of .382, is also doing all right by himself and the team. “Chuck” Borowski, playing his second season as a regular in the outfield, has an average of .363. Borowski has been a consistent hitter with men on base. Others who are hitting three hundred or better are: Larry Doyle, IB., .352; Bob Mohr, OF., .321; Johnny Moir, RF., 307; Jim Carson, IB., .307; and Andy Puplis, SS., .300.
Captain Ennio Arboit leads not only the team as a group, but also the pitching department with four triumphs and only a solitary setback. Johnny Goncher has won three and lost two, while Rydell and Boyd have each accounted for one victory. All four of these moundsmen are back next year.
The Irish nine met Purdue at La-
The John Marshall
LAW
SCHOOL
FOUNDED 1899
AN
ACCREDITED
LAW SCHOOL
TEXT and CASE
METHOD
•
For Catalog, recom. mended list of pre-legal subjects, and booklet, “Studyof lawand Proper Preparation" address: Edward T. Lee, Dean.
COURSES
(40 weeks per year) Afternoon—3years 5 days... 4:30-6:30 Evening ■— 4 years Mon., Wed., Fri., 6:30-9:20
Post-graduate
1 year..twice a week Practice courses exclusively.
All courses lead to degrees.
Two years' college work required for entrance.
New classes form in Feb. and Sept.
315 Plymouth Ct, Chicago, III.
SAMPLE FARES
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
NEW YORK.....$22.05
SYRACUSE..... 16.50
BUFFALO...... 12.90
WATERTOWN.... 18.90
ITHACA.... 18.95
SCRANTON..... 20.10
ALBANY.... 19.35
ROCHESTER.... 14.70
WASHINGTON... 20.55
PHILADELPHIA.. 21.00
BINGHAMTON... 18.30
CLEVELAND.... 7.50
DETROIT.’.. 6.30
ST. LOUIS.... 8.30
fayette last Tuesday, and on Wednesday they played Michigan State here. Thus there are only three games remaining to be played: Wisconsin will
be here tomorrow, and then on June 4, and 5. Iowa is coming here for a two-game series during Commencement.
Impossible? Not on your life! You’ll hit the old home town in unprecedented affluence. The magic formula is simply this—go by Greyhound. It costs only y^ as much as driving even a small car—and a lot less than any other means of travel. Best of all, you’ll enjoy the trip—a good crowd, a comfortable ride. For facts, figures and such see your local Greyhound agent at the address below.
UNION BUS DEPOT
133 S. Lafayette Blvd.
Phone 3-8283 South Bend, Ind.
GREYHOUND t fie
22
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 28, 1937
The loiu-Douin on High Pressure
At this store we leave the high pressure to the tailors’ irons. You’re always free to come in and examine our stocks without being forced to buy.
Such a policy has paid - for itself many times over in good will. That’s why more than half of our business is repeat—men coming back again and again. That’s why we’ve become one of this state’s important clothing institutions . . . and exclusive headquarters for America’s favorite quality clothes—Hart Schaffner & Marx.
P. S. Have you inspected our new Spring collection of models, patterns, colors and fabrics from Hart Schaffner & Marx? It's really something to see. Stop in and browse around.
SAM’L
SPIRO & CO.
South Bend
REPORTER TELLS OF COMMENCEMENT
DAY IN *68
For some f oui' hundred and eighty-five Notre Dame seniors, the Commencement program to be held this yeai* on June 5 and 6 is looked on as a singular event, crowning a scholastic career of sixteen or seventeen seasons.
Despite the importance attached to the ceremonies by departing members of the 1937 class, the occasion is but another link in the annually increasing chain of Notre Dame graduations. Nor is there anything strikingly new or novel in this ninety-third Commencement program.
Opening the files of the Notre Dame Scholastic to the year 1868, a remarkable similarity is noticed between the graduation of students then and now. Gold and silver medals were awarded prize-winning compositions in the various departments. Washington Hall was the scene of a stirring four-act drama, “The Recognition.” The N.D.U. Comet band, the orchestra, and the choir performed at intervals when music was needed to revive a lengthy program.
Parents are advised in 1868 to come for the opening session, not only because it will “probably be the most interesting part,” but because ’ it will be easier to secure good hotel accommodations in South Bend. That immediately strikes a responsive note in the heart of any student who has scurried about the city the past few weeks seeking lodging for parents, aunts, and uncles.
Phone 4-3601 Hours 10 to 5
Dr. Landis H. Wirt
ORTHODONTIST
1002 Tower Building
Dewey School of South Bend Orthodontia 1919	Indiana
UPDRAFT
BUY A ONE-PIECE TICKET HOME
via South Shore Line
The South Shore ticket agent will be glad to arange for ALL your tickets for your trip home, and for Pullman reservations, too. You’ll find that it’s convenient and quicker to go by South Shore Line.
Just call Mr. C. W. Veach, our city Passenger Agent, ' phone 3-3111, or stop in at the office at 301 N. Michigan Street, and tell him where and when you’re going. He’ll take care of the rest.
50UTHNSEH0REr
X CARBURETOR J YELLO-BOLE
New way of burning tobacco —better, cooler, cleaner. Carburetor -Action cools smoke. Keeps bottom of bowl absolutely dry. Caked with honey. At dealers’ now.
LATEST DISCOVERY IN PIPES
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 28, 1937
23
State Track Meet
(Continued from Page U) tered the meet record time of 4:13 in the mile.
Bob Collier of Indiana holds the records in both the 100 and 220-yard .dashes. He or Bill Clifford of Notre Dame are almost sure to better the existing record of 9.7 seconds in the century. Clifford in a recent meet with Navy ran the distance in 9.6 and with favorable conditions tomorrow should repeat the performance.
Mel Trutt, Indiana sophomore, has equalled the meet record time of 1:53.6 for the 880-yard run. Indiana’s middle distance men are above average caliber and are believed capable of lowering the present meet record of 3:16.9 in the mile relay.
In the discus throw and pole vault Bud Faymonville and Dan Gibbs are almost certain to better the existing marks in their respective events.
Stop with GEORGE J. (Studie) LINS, *02 at the Lins Golden Court Motor Hotel On U. S. 66 Will Rogers Highway Tucumcari, N. Mex.
Filling Station and Cafe in connection.
AND DON’T FORGET TO VOTE MY WAY!!
Important Notice
We are now located at
314 S. Michigan St.
This new location affords us a greater opportunity to give you a better eye service.
. *
LEMONTREE'S
Optometrists
Established 1903 .
Makers of Fine Glasses
Lucky Candidate to have LITTLE FENDRICH campaigning for him and it’s a cinch that after he’s the new class president they’ll still cast their votes anytime for LITTLE FENDRICH PANETELAS!! The favorite cigar among young
men for years...
-Little Kendrick
SUPER MILD - IMPORTED LONG FILLER
Show appreciation of our advertisers by patronizing them.

more pleasure.,.
Copyright 1937, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co,
giving more pleasure to more people every day
Up-to-the-minute trains and modem planes make travel easier. . . more pleasant.
And wherever you see folks enjoying these modern things of life you’ll see them enjoying Chesterfield Cigarettes.
Up-to-the-minute methods and finer ingredients . .. pure cigarette paper... mild ripe aromatic home-grown and Turkish tobaccos, aged and mellowed for two years or more .. . make Chesterfield an outstanding cigarette*