THE CAMPUS SHOP IS READY FOR WITH THE MOST PRACTICAL, COMFORTABLE
unxMv it uueaA,
W fl
Here’s wash ’n wear you can really count on. No matter how many times you wash it . . . and YOU can wash it ... it comes out looking freshly pressed .. . ready to wear! That’s because Palm Beach constructs wash ’n wear suits for top performance . . . adds eleven special construction details for longer wear ... and it will retain its crisp look, good fit and shape for the life of the suit. Get your Palm Beach wash ’n wear suit now ... for your Easter vacation southern trip . . . and all summer long.
$39.95
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY 1-3	1-3	1-3
IN JULY IN AUGUST IN SEPTEMBER
NO CARRYING CHARGE
f
JUST
&
SELFCAIRE
PERFECT
I. Wash it . . .
(By hand or machine)
(from a coat hanger)
3. Wear it .
(needs little or no pressing)

*
£
The Scholastic
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
l
IN JULY
IN AUGUST IN SEPTEMBER
NO CARRYING CHARGE
.WASH AHD WEAR FASHIONS BY HASPEL
FOR EASTER VACATION SOUTHERN RESORT WEAR


Haspel offers you exclusive blends of Dacron and cotton that are as easy to live in as they are to care for. Muggy weather won’t wrinkle their cool, crisp good looks. Famous Haspel tailoring and the inimitable Haspel fashion touch put these fine suits in a class by themselves. Come in and see Haspel wash ’n wear fashions now . . . especially if you’re going south during Easter vacation. You’ll live in it . . . and enjoy it. . . all summer long.
$39.95
On the Campus—Notre Dame
^GILBERT'S
March 20, 1959
Oa Campos IfoSHman
(By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boy s!” and, “Barefoot Boy with Cheek”)
THE GIRL I LEFT BEHIND ME
It happens every day. A young man goes off to college leaving his home-town sweetheart with vows of eternal love, and then he finds that he has outgrown her. What, in such cases, is the honorable thing to do?
• Well sir, you can do what Rock Siga-foos did.
When Rock left Cut and Shoot, Pa., he said to his sweetheart, a simple country lass named Tess d’Urbervilles, “My dear, though I am far away in college, I will love you always. I will never look at another girl. If I do, may my eyeballs parch and wither, may my viscera writhe like adders, may the moths get my new tweed jacket!”
Then he clutched Tess to his bosom and planted a final kiss upon her fragrant young skull and went away, meaning with all his heart to be faithful.
But on the very first day of college he met a coed named Fata Morgana, a girl of such sophistication, such poise, such savoir faire as Rock had never beheld. She spoke knowingly of Franz Kafka, she hummed Mozart, she smoked Marlboros, the cigarette with better “makin’s”. Now, Rock didn’t know Franz Kafka from Pinocchio, or Mozart from James K. Polk, but Marlboros he knew full well. He knew that anyone who smoked Marlboros was modern and advanced and as studded with brains as a ham with cloves. Good sense tells you that you can’t beat Marlboro’s new improved filter, and you never could beat Marlboro’s fine flavor.
This Rock knew.
So all day he followed Fata around campus and listened to her talk about Frany. Kafka, and then in the evening he went back to the dormitory and found this letter from his home-town sweetheart Tess:	.
Alts well that ends well—including Philip Morris. Philip Morris ends well and begins well and is made of superb nature! tobaccos bg the same people who make Marlboros.
6	-
Dear Rock,
Us kids had a keen time yesterday. We went down to the pond and caught some frogs. I caught the most of anybody. Then we hitched rides on trucks and did lots of nuisy stuff like that. Well, I must dose now because I got to whitewash the fence.
Your friend,
Tess
P.S... .1 can do my Hula Hoop 3,000 times.
Well sir, Rock thought about Tess and then he thought about Fata and then a great sadness fell upon him. Suddenly he knew he had outgrown young, innocent Tess, his heart now belonged to smart, sophisticated Fata.
Rock, being above all things honorable, returned forthwith to his home town and walked up to Tess and looked her in the eye and said manfully, “I do not love you any more. I love a girl named Fata Morgana. You can hit me in the stomach with all your might if you like.”
“That’s okay, hey,” said Tess amiably. “I don’t love you neither. I found a new boy.”
“What is his name?” asked Rock.
“Franz Kafka,” said Tess.
“A splendid fellow,” said Rock and shook Tess’s hand and they have remained good friends to this day. In fact, Rock and Fata often double-date with Franz and Tess and have heaps of fun. Franz can do the Hula Hoop 6,000 times.
© 1859 Mu Shdaaa
PLAN NOW TO DRIVE ANEW	<
LARK
HOME IN JUNE ♦ :
Good Buy	4
Prompt Delivery
♦	J
SAVE ON ALL
TRANSPORTATION COSTS 1 ❖
National Financing Available ♦
Also Good Used Cars	J
♦
NEWMAN AND ALTMAN.. Inc. "
STUDEBAKER CABS & TRUCKS * 220 E. JEFFERSON
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA ❖ Student Representative: JOHN KROHA 141 Alumni or 919 South Bend Ave.
Ext 500	Nights CE 3-369S
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
* THE DISENCHANTED by Shulburg
* RALLY ROUND THE RAG BOYS by Shulman
* ST. THOMAS AQUINAS by Maritain
* THE IDEA OF A UNIVERSITY by Newman
* THE ORGANIZATION MAN by Whyte
* HOW TO BUY STOCKS by Engle
Sore Time and Money Shop at the	i ■<
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
ON-fhe-campus
The Scholastic

•the
Viua
* Scholastic
0 --- -
Vol. 100 March 20, 1959 No. 18
Dim Quan Semper Victurm Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
phr
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of • V postage. Authorized June 23, 1918.
BOB SEDLACK Editor
LOU STETTLER Associate Editor
» RON BLUBAUGH.__________News	Editor
WALT RUDGE..............Copy	Editor
* JIM YOCH.______:_____Features Editor
TEDDY THOMPSON________Sports	Editor
JON SIDDLE.............Cover	Editor
DAVE SOMMER...........Photography
PETER HASBROOK-----------Business Manager CONRAD SUSKI-------------Circulation
, ROY RUBELI_________________-Assistant	News
AL GENIESSE................-Assistant	Copy
• CHAS RIECK___________________Assistant	Copy
FRANK DUDA_______________Assistant Features
JERRY KRIEGSHAUSER—Ass’t Features
1 CHUCK MILLER______________Assistant Features
TOM ROSE___________________Assistant Sports
* BOB SCHAEFER_______________Assistant Sports
, BOB HORN__________________Assistant Business
FR. CHARLES CAREY, C.S.C...Moderator
BUSINESS STAFF: Tom Carey, Bernie Dobranski, Jim Keough. Roger McMahon.
NEWS STAFF: Jim Byrne, George Casey, Wade . Clarke, Bill Flaherty, Bill Galvin, John Hoey, Bob
Kelley. Jim McGranery, Tom Marciniak, Tom-
Romans, Charles Tausche, Tom Weiss.
. SPORTS STAFF: William Cary. Dick Ciccone, Dick Corso, Jay Kilroy, Tim O’Reilly, William Reagan, George Voris, Tom Walsh.
k Member of Catholic School Press Aswdation aad Aaodated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Mid""" Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation aad examination periods, at the University of Notre Dime Ssdwcription rate, |5.00 a year. Address all maau-aosptt to the Etfitor, Bo* 185, Notre Dame, ladiaaa.
After the Easter vacation, student government will conduct a survey to ascertain the feeling on campus with respect to a permanent hall residence system. To found such a system here at Notre Dame has been a goal of some members of student government for a long time, and at the present the initiation of such a program is within the realm of the attainable.
The main feature of a permanent hall residence program is that the freshmen, on conclusion of their first year, will be given the opportunity to choose the hall in which they wish to live for the remainder of their stay at the University. Consequently, except for the freshman halls which will be filled as they are under the present system, each hall will contain seniors, juniors, and sophomores. In addition the representation of each class in the hall will be restricted by a set of semi-rigid quotas.
There are, however, other items in the program which tend to qualify the permanence of the new program. Since the living quarters on campus are limited to the extent that there is not enough room for all undergraduates, all underclassmen, except for serious reason, will be constrained to remain on campus while the seniors, according to their academic average, will be given the choice of remaining on campus or moving into town. If enough seniors do not choose to leave campus, a sufficient number, beginning at the bottom of the academic list, will be required to move off campus.
Another aspect of the system is that it is actually semi-permanent — that is to say that it would be possible for a student to switch residences after freshman year. A student may arrange privately with a member of another hall to change rooms or to have a third party complete a larger switch. Such individual arrangements will be honored if they do not violate the quota system and are properly recorded. The second method for changing halls involves the submission by the student of his name with a request to change halls to the Office of Student Accounts. In such a case the student will be given a choice of halls with the freshman class and according to the position of his average on the freshman academic average list.
Within each hall, rooms will be reassigned at the end of each year. A junior, or senior to-be, who will remain on campus will be given the choice, again according to academic average, of remaining in his present room or of moving into a room in the same hall which will be vacated by a graduating senior. When all the juniors have made their decisions, the members of the sophomore class will be given a similar choice. The remaining rooms within the hall will be open for the freshmen. It should be noted that all proceedings, conducted at the official level, will be according to academic average. Also, the present roommate policy will be retained—that is that the student choosing the room has the right to reserve the other space in the room for whomever he wishes.
If such a system would be adopted at Notre Dame, it would, according to its advocates, produce among the students in each hall a better community life. This would extend from the intellectual or academic field, in which the underclassmen by association with the seniors will be able to gain advice and aid in their studies, through the field of athletics, in which hall spirit might more easily be induced, to the social field, in which a hall might be more easily able to conduct an effective integrated social schedule. The permanance of such a system would lend itself to a more stable and effective hall government which would enable the administration to delegate more areas to student responsibility. A further argument used by the proponents of the plan is that it will change the position of the priest from a prefect to a counsellor.	.
On the other side, objection to the system is taken in that it might tend to sectionalize the campus. The elan of a hall might become excessive; at the same time halls might become dominated by interest groups. One certain outcome of such a system would be a modification of the present discipline system and the special privileges accorded to the seniors in the present senior halls.
Most of the arguments for and against the permanent hall residence system are theoretical — there is only a good indication that certain benefits or detriments will follow — consequently the only true test of such a system would be to try it. The possibility of good which might come from permanent hall residences certainly merits considering the proposal and trying it; and if it does not succeed which it may likely not the present system can easily be reinstituted.
—L.S.
March 20, 1959
HOTEL ROOMS anytime to
PREFERRED
. Rafes from
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC INVITES ITS READERS TO
WIN A FIN
4/
from
LIMERICK
LAUGHTER
certain convention peri> ods, all available Chi> cago hotel rooms are frequently taken.
You can be assured of comfortable accommo* dations in the heart of the Loop, anytime, by writing for your FREE “Preferred Guest Card” from the Hotel Hamilton, today. The Hamilton — preferred by the family, and business executives for -downtown convenience and courteous hospitality at sensible rates—guarantees (with advance notice) reservations anytime of the year to. you, the preferred guest. Ask for your “Preferred Guest Card”, today ... at no obligation.

ENTER NOW! PROCRASTINATION WON’T PAY
Put a little sunshine in your life. Put some cash in your pocket. Enter the monthly SCHOLASTIC "Limerick Laughter" Contest. It's easy. It’s fun! You have THREE chances to win every month you enter. Here’s how the contest works:
Each month, the SCHOLASTIC will award $5 for the best limerick submitted with an empty L & M cigarette pack. Another $5 will be paid for the best' limerick submitted with an empty Chesterfield pack, and a third $5 for the best limerick submitted with an empty Oasis pack. Ten (10) honorary mention limerick winners each month will receive Happy Talk game, the new hilarious word game.
Write your limerick on any subject you choose. Enter as often as you wish, but be sure to accompany each limerick with an empty pack of L & M, Chesterfield, or Oasis cigarettes.
This contest is open to all Notre Dame students and faculty members. Entries must be delivered to the Scholastic office or mailed to: LIMERICK LAUGHTER, % THE SCHOLASTIC, University Press Office, Notre Dame, Ind. Limericks for the March contest must be received by March 31. Names of the winners will be published in the April 17 edition of the SCHOLASTIC. So enter now and keep entering each month. The samples below show you how easy it is to write a winning limerick.

I oft must suppress a strong yen, To think for myself now and then. In all this "security,” Why strain my maturity? . It’s done for me by "competent men;
HAMILTON HOTEL
20 SOUTH DEARBORN Preferred by guests in CHICAGO IN KANSAS CITY ITS THE BELLERIVE HOTEL 100% AIR-CONDITIONED
CHESTERFIELD KING
Nothing Satisfies Like the Big Clean Taste of Top Tobacco
While a baby was born to Sue, Hubby knew not what to do. As he went through his paces He swallowed his Oasis When the doctor said "triplets for you;

w
umcit * Him vomcco co
MENTHOL-MILD OASIS Delightfully Different —a Refreshing Change

L A M is Low in tar with More taste to it. Don't settle for one without the other.
8
The Scholastic
»
et in arcadia ego,
a
or it was nice, wasn’t it?
by JOHN BELLAIRS
• Now that all the paper whistles are put away and I am no longer being of-► fered suzerainty over the known universe, I can get back to writing this column and my senior thesis (in that order). Last week I was borne aloft by cheering thousands, and now I hear naught but the hollow laughter of fresh" men and the gibes of my former wellwishers. Summei- soldiers and sunshine r patriots! Remember at least the Middle English lines which caused millions of TV sets to be turned off all across this fair land. Remember us when we represented Notre Dame’s intellectual youth to a slack-jawed nation! Remember the
* Maine! Dieu le veut! Oh, well. . .
k EASTER VACATION PLANS
' In a few days thousands of rapacious students will descend on Fort Lauderdale, the Riviera of the Americas. This migration is re-enacted each year in commemoration of the Gothic sack of Rome in the fifth century. (All those * who would like a Gothic sack may obtain them at any store which sells me-» dieval penitential equipment.) This custom is also a good way of getting even for the Seminole raids of the last century, and besides the town needs remodeling. But there may be some students who want a return to the Good Life as * advocated by Plato, Zoroaster, and Victor H. Lindlahr. For these students, who » abhor the hubbub of celebration and the nerve-shattering clink of glasses, I have compiled a list of Easter vacation trips, any one of which will insure a good time which is devoid of such hazards as sunbum, golfing cramps, and the Demon
* Rum.
* I. THE MICHIGAN TOUR OF FASCINATING TOWNS AND HISTORICAL MONUMENTS.
This tour is conducted by Ennui Junkets, Inc., which has purchased some re> modeled Conestoga wagons for the trip.
The trip starts at Gary, Ind., where the k world’s largest slag pile may be viewed on cleai* days. Here lunch will be eaten at the William Blake Memorial Inn, which is within the shadow of the Crass-
1 more Grime Works. The caravan will then proceed to Hummock, Mich., a town noted for its large rutabagas. Hummock is also the birthplace of General Rufus
i Shafter, the only general to have advocated the unconditional surrender of the
United States in the Spanish-American War. A bronze statue of him stands in the main square or Sinkhole (Michigan dialect) of the town, and every Easter Monday children gather there to throw leftover eggs and half-eaten chocolate bunnies at the general. If the tour gets there in time a custom may be observed which has not been celebrated for fifty years. In this ceremony, Druidic in origin, all the sins of the town are placed in a large burlap bag which is tied around the neck of General Shafter’s statue, which is then thrown into a local lake. All those observing this weird and picturesque rite will be fined $50.00 for having profaned a sacred spot, but it all goes to a good cause, anyway. The trip’s climax comes when my home town, Marshall, Mich., is reached. Marshall, 7,000 pop., was once a station on the Underground Railroad, which has since fallen into disrepair. Now Marshall is not a stop on any railroad, a fact which causes me discomfort at times. However, in this town of sparkling waters (home of the Gastric Pop Co.) one may find such things as the Bilbo House, a mansion built by Sidrach Bilbo, which is an exact replica of the customs house at Port-of-Spain, Trinidad. Here one may also find the custom of the Polishing of the Cannonballs. The populace gathers on the Courthouse lawn to watch the mayor and the High Sheriff of Calhoun County polish the cannonballs which are piled next to the town cannon (kept for defense). The scene is amusing to those who know that the mayor will eventually drop an eight-pound ball on his foot, due to his having swilled too much elderberry wine. The ceremony ends with a drinking bout which usually results in the destruction of one or more of the picturesque mansions in the town. The quaint county jail awaits the survivors of the affair, and thus the trip ends.
II.	THE CLOGNABOG PARK MARSHMALLOW ROAST.
This event involves a 50-mile trip along the occasionally liquid St. Joe River to Clognabog State Park, which is built on the site of one of the largest quagmires in the Northwest Territory. Here the revelers will gather on the clumps of dry ground and roast marshmallows and wieners to their heart’s content. This event, sponsored by the Youthful Cleanliness Society, has never
failed to attract those who prefer comradeship to boisterous rowdiness.
III.	THE QUAVER REST HOME TRIP
This trip is for those who would like an Eastertide filled with quoits and croquet. It is also suggested as a stopover for those returning from Fort Lauderdale.
SERBIA IMMORTALIZED
St. Pati-ick’s Day has just passed, and the Hibernian Society has once more found a use for green beer. While we were wallowing in shamrocks, shillelaghs, and shure-and-begorrahs I decided that it was a shame that only Ireland, of all nations, has been immortalized in legend and tradition. If we had more countries which could be revered in this way we would open new founts of popular song, story telling, and trinket-peddling. The year could be studded with days commemorating the patron saints of picturesque countries. I have decided, therefore, to remedy this lack in world culture by spreading, minstrellike, a body of legend concerning a sadly neglected and presently nonexistent country, Serbia.
SERBIA LEGENDS
Once upon a time an angel stubbed his toe on a cloud, fell flat on his face on the continent of Europe, then got up (cursing) and went away. The imprint he left on the earth mingled with the airy vapors and general ill feeling prevalent that day, and the result was Serina. This country is sometimes called the Glittering Topaz of the Balkans, although this title is but a poor translation of the epithet used by millions of admiring Austrians and Russians to describe this country. Serbia lay in ignorance and superstition until Boleslas the Bilious brought religion to the people, thus precipitating a sixty-year-long Religious War in. which nine-tenths of the populace was killed. Boleslas is also remembered for driving the cormorant out of Serbia. To this day no- cormorant lives in this country, although gnats, rattlesnakes, and tsetse flies do.
National Dress of Serbia: What-have-you.
National-Food: The Zlogy, a pudding made of fingernail parings and succotash.
More on Serbia next time when I have more room.
March 20, 1959
9
Have a *fORU> of FUNI
Twefwitfi SITA
UnMiowablo Low Cost
Europe
2M
Orient
$998
college credit.
low-cost trips to Mexico $14* up. South America $699 up. Hawaii Study Tour $549 up and Around the World $179$ up.
Ask Your Travel Agent
k 332 So. HkfeifM Mo. MC^hicap 4. M 7-2557
OUR COVER
Next year’s basketball manager, Barry McGuire, returns to the cover after a year’s absence to portray a boxer representing the Bengal Mission Bouts.
The Bengals have been held this week and will reach a climax tonight with the finals in the Fieldhouse.
McGuire created the St. Patrick’s cover two years ago and has been a frequent contributor of sketches and drawings since then. -
TQDM Hsaij ahous Oi-s+oH way-ipfiMg
BBS BODED BEB EBB QDBBD EQB □BHHnEHBBEHGQ EBDBQaBDEEBEa

BBE CBBB
riNI !■ Llolsls |0M9

NIN
N I
V a
3
9 3 M
islllsi lh|3|H|lla 3 ±|N|3
EDaEDBaSEBBES
Hal3MV|n|d|V|dM3|A|V|
11 Hid
EGJEBS E)BE1.
aaMSNVTGDM
K3DL (CROSSWORD NO. 19
ACROSS
1. Fordham-ite
4. Savoy-type dance
9. Beta Kappa’s first name
12.	Rocky’s Albany predecessor
13.	New Guinea
14.	End of a bed
15.	Studying each other
18.	How knights would get on the deans’
19.	Paradoxical place to go out to
20.	____out with
22. Lamb who’s gone to pot
26. It's needed for energy
28.	Do you dig it?
29.	Low man in the choral society
31.	Giant in progress
32.	Half of the opposite of fat
33.	Start a weekend
34.	It’s the only snow fresh one
43.	Fellow looking for a shiner
44.	Beginning to betaught
45.	What to give ft wHini
46.	World War H theater
47.	Vanishing New York transportation
48.	Much girl
49.	The thing of it in Latin
15
26
36.
34.
35.
the lowest Kiss Me girl It’s precious, O chum! Work in the
29
48
49
DOWN
1.	Don’t do this with your motor
2.	Swanny river 3. Rendezvous 4. Counter advances
5.	Sometimes a little white lie
6.	Oh, daddy, a fish
7.	Trumpet accessory
8.	Scrub-team item
9.	For literary pigs
10.	What Kools don’t have 11. Kind of tarred 16. Make little impression
17. Paint jobs 20. Ducky network 21. Are backward 23. Going concern 24. It’s human to 25. Bigger than 33
Down.butsmall 27. What bikinis barely do 80. With a Y, it’s kind of foolish 31. Middle of
87.	Facto’s first name
88.	God (German)
39.	Came to rest
40.	To laugh in Paria
41	A________
42.	God of love
12
IS
20
34
43
47
• As cool and clean as a breath of fresh air.
45
46
KGDL

• Finest leaf tobacco.. .mild refreshing menthol and the -worlds most thoroughly tested filter!
your throat refreshed!
Qmericas Maef-l^sfieshing Cgo/efe,
.. . ALSO REGULAR SIZE KOOL WITHOUT FILTERI
k®l

<10
The Scholastic
T
(»
SENIORS, RECENT GRADUATES TAKE TWENTY-TWO WILSON FELLOWSHIPS
*59 Class Takes One of Largest Blocs of Scholarships;
* Grant Provides Living Expenses in Addition to Fees
Notre Dame garnered a total of 22 Woodrow Wilson grants out of the 1200 awarded in the United States and Canada. Twenty of those elected are grad-uating this year while the other two are " recent graduates. These students will be given awards which provide tuition and r fees for their first year of graduate study at a college or university of their choice in additon to a living allowance of $1,500.
This group is among the largest at » any college or university in the nation. Last year, 18 students received fellow-ships and this constituted the fifth largest group from any American campus.
The recipients are the following: Thomas Banchoff, of Trenton, N. J., who 1 is a junior majoring in math, and John Bellairs an English major from Marshall, Mich. Tom is a member of the debate team and was chairman of this ► year’s National Invitational Debate Tournament which was recently held on cam-> pus. Bellairs is a writer of the Scholastic “Escape” column and a member of the Wranglers and Bookmen.
English major, Charles Bowen is the other writer for “Escape.” He is also on the Juggler board, has contributed * to the “Back Page” in the Scholastic, and hails from Attleboro, Mass. Another * “Back Page” contributor, Tom Brady, of
Columbia, Mo., is a history major and a member of the regular NRTOC. Still another Wilson fellow is John Conroy from Chicago, Ill., who majors in phi-losophy and is a member of the YCS.
Debate Team President Bob Dempsey I is concentrating in political science. He was chairman of the Arts and Letters Festival and of the Washington Day exercises. His home is in New Ulm, Minn. Bob Ghelardi, Bloomsburg, Pa., is on the Juggler board, has contrib-V uted to the “Back Page” and is a member of Wranglers and Bookmen. John > Grady is an economics major from
Philadelphia, Pa.
Bill Griffith from Smithfield, Tex., is one of the two Notre Dame graduates to be named as fellows. English Major Mike Halpin is vice chairman of the Blue Circle and a member of the Student Senate academic commission. He is from Rutland, Vt. Tom Hoberg, president of the Bookmen, is a member of the
March 20, 1959
Wranglers, a regular NROTC student, and an English major from Oak Park, Ill. George Langer of Sun Prairie, Wise., is a physics major.
Co-chairman of the YCS Jim Mera is president of the Physics club and is from Teaneck, N. J. Brian Moran’s extracurricular activities have included the Wranglers, Bookmen, and bridge. He hails from Tulsa, Okla., and is majoring in math. AB-physics major, Lucio Noto was chairman of the Lenten Lecture Series and comes from Englewood Cliffs, N. J.
In addition to his Wilson fellowship, English Major John O’Neill, has been nominated for a Danforth scholarship. Joe Ryan, Bronx, N. Y., is the editor of the Juggler and an English major. John Saiz, a major in modern languages, is from Staten Island, N. Y., and is also a Danforth nominee.
Scholastic Editor Bob Sedlack is an English major and a member of the Bookmen. He makes his home in Chicago, Ill. Physics major Jim Short is a member of the Blue Circle and was the 1957 chairman of the Student Trip and pep rallies. Frank Tonini is the second of the two Notre Dame graduates who was named a recipient. He is from Staten Island, N. Y. Jay Walton, an English major from Chicago, Ill., is a member of the Bookmen and a contributor to the Juggler and the Scholastic.
The major aim of the foundation is to encourage college graduates to enter teaching, by recruiting and supporting promising scholars for their first year of graduate study. The project is backed by a $25 million grant from the Ford Foundation.—Roy Rubeli
ARE YOU LITERATE?
Those juniors, sophomores, and, especially, freshmen interested in joining the Juggler staff should send their letters of application to Joe Ryan in 4 Fisher by April 10.
The applicant should include his name, address, college, major, and special interests.

Nekic, Nye Record Pop Songs on Fortune
Following the lead set last year by Eddie Thomas and his recording of “I’m On My Way Home,” two Notre Dame sophomores have just cut a disc on the Fortune label with rock ’n’ roll numbers. It is due for a nationwide release over the Easter holidays.
Ted Nekic and Mike Nye, under the stage name of The Terrigan Brothers (Ted and Tom), recorded both sides of the platter in Detroit during the semester break. One side features “Little
ROCK ’N’ ROLLERS NEKIC ANO NYE
Love”,with both music and lyrics by Ted. The arranging was done by Ray Smolik, a music teacher in Cleveland, Ohio.
“Hi-Ho Little Girl” is on the reverse side. Mike collaborated with Pat Nee, another Notre Dame sophomore, on the music and lyrics and did the arranging himself. The music was done by the Sterling Band, a quartet from the campus, which includes Bob Gore on guitar; Terry Andrews as pianist; Joe Schwartz as drummer, all of whom are sophomores, and Joe Ziller, also on guitar, who is a freshman.
Although this is the first recording for everyone concerned, Ted and Mike have done engagements on campus and have hopes of doing a few South Bend dates. At present they are working as writers and arrangers for a Notre Dame and St. Mary’s variety group headed by Jim Kaval. Their first production is set for just after the Easter break.
Both singers are in the College of Commerce; Ted is from Bay Village, Ohio while Mike lives in Sioux City, Iowa. Ted is also holder of the campus bowling championship and a member of the Inter-Collegiate Bowling team. Mike boxed in last year’s Bengals.
11
SIC TRANSIT GLORIA MUNDI”
Quiz Team Trounced Ending I Week Reign
Soaring high after their trouncing of Georgetown last week, the Notre Dame quiz bowl team found a rude shock in the person of four girls from Barnard College of New York City. The final score found the girls edging the local favorites 225 to 110.
The Notre Dame squad, matching wits with their opponents in the presence of a home audience, had a bad day as they barely managed to answer a few tossup questions. However, with the aid of genial John Bellairs they were quite successful in following these up with answers to the bonus queries.
Unlike last week, every time they broke in on a question, they were penalized. In one of these cases no answer was forthcoming, and in another, an answer to a musical question was given before the selection was played.
Technical difficulties also seemed to plague the team as in one instance it appeared that the buzzers on the ND bench were not in working order.
The defeated team was of slightly different composition than the victorious champions of the previous week. Phillips Gibson, a senior in GP, replaced Junior Math Major Tom Banchoff during the week for undisclosed reasons.
Our all senior squad did not fare as well. Stalling off by jumping the question as to who published the Wall Street Journal, the team failed to pick up any ground during the first half. In the second part of the show they were able to make a slight recovery. Unfortunately the score of the rehearsal in which they trounced Barnard did not count in the real showdown.
The crew of the “GE College Bowl” was very congenial, and both Allen Ludden and the announcer made humorous comments ending with a comment from the latter that next week’s program would not originate from the Drill Hall as previously announced.
Dean T. Coulton Trophy Copped by Debaters; School Accumulates Best Record in 60 Years
The Notre Dame debate team captured three trophies as it triumphed over 50 schools gathered for the twelfth annual Brooklyn College Invitational Debate Tournament held on March 13 and 14. The impressive victory at Brooklyn, in which the team had a 10-0 record, brought the number of trophies won for the year to 13. According to retiring debate President Bob Dempsey, “the victory at Brooklyn boosted the team to its best record in its sixty year history.” To date the team has won over 80 per cent of its tournament debates, having posted a 23-3 record in its last three tournaments. Only a week before the Brooklyn Tournament the team won first place in the Notre Dame National Invitational Debate Tournament. Notre Dame also took possession of the Coffey-Martzell trophy in its annual dual meet with Marquette as well as placing fourth in the Capitol Hill Tournament at the University of Maryland. The Notre Dame team has also won 16 indi-
Ky.a Tenn., N. C. Selected Route for Geology Junket
A group of geology majors, making their required field trip, will leave Easter Sunday for a tour of the Smoky Mountain region that will last for one week. Ten students will be accompanied by Doctors Archie MacAlpin and Raymond Gutschick on the 1,800-mile trip.
After leaving South Bend the group will head for Louisville, Ky., where they will tour Mammouth Cave and after a layover at Murfreesboro, Tenn., go on to Lookout Mountain at Chattanooga. The next two stops are a zinc mine at Ducktown, Tenn., and Murphy’s Marble Quarry at Adie, N. C.
The return trip will be through the Smoky Mountains to the Appalachians and Middlesboro, Ky., via the Cumberland gap. At Cumberland, the students will stay at the Cumberland Falls National Park. The final leg will be across the Bluegrass area of Frankfort, Ky., to the Ohio river from where they will return to school.
At each of these places, stops will be made for lectures and student observations of the geological features. A field trip such as this must be made at least once during the last three years by each geology major. It is done as part of a two-hour course and each student bears his cost of the tour which amounts to $75. In addition there is a summer field camp which must be attended by the geology majors.
Other trips in the past have visited the Ozarks, Canada, the iron and copper areas of Minnesota, and the Canadian Shield. The trips are arranged in cycles of three in order that each year the students will have an opportunity to study a different area. The group will travel in two station wagons.
vidual awards in the tourneys participated in this year.
The topic debated at the Brooklyn Tournament was “Resolved: That the further development of nuclear weapons should be prohibited by international agreement.” Representing Notre Dame on the affirmative were sophomore Joel Haggard and senior Bob Dempsey. On the negative were freshman Dick Meece and sophomore Guy Powers.
Out of 200 participating debaters, Powers was rated the best speaker and received an award for being the best negative speaker. Dempsey ranked as the third best speaker and the second top affirmative. Meece ranked as the third best negative debater. Powers and Dempsey had previously received awards at St. Joseph’s, Wake Forest, Spring Hill, Notre Dame, and Capitol Hill.
At Brooklyn, Notre Dame defeated such schools as Rutgers, Vermont, New York University, Fordham, Harvard, St. Peter’s, and Columbia. The second place school at the tourney was Pennsylvania which had an 8-2 record.
Emblematic of their victory, the Notre Dame team retired the rotating Ralph S. Beiber Memorial Trophy since Notre Dame had previously won the Brooklyn Tournament in 1952 and 1953. The team also carried home the Dean Thomas E. Coulton Trophy, the permanent first place trophy. Previous winners of the tournament have been Rutgers, Princeton, Colgate, Harvard, Union College, New Hampshire, Vermont, Carson-Newman, and St. Peter’s.
The University debate team also sen! out a squad of four freshman debaters last week to compete in the Bellarmine College Invitational Debate Tournament in Louisville last week end. The team won fourth place with a 5-3 score Representing Notre Dame on the affirm ative were Peter Welsh and Bill Beaver and on the negative were Dick Jenser and Ron Vanucki. Jensen ranked as the second best negative speaker.
This week end Guy Powers and Jaj Whitney will represent Notre Dame in the national qualifying rounds for the NationaF Debate Tournament to be held in late April. In addition, Notre Dame will participate in two more invitational debate tournaments to be held at Marquette and Xaviei- Universities.
ENGINEER OF THE YEAR
Nominations for Engineer of the Year awards are now being considered. Any senior in the College of Engineering may send an application to Jim Wulf in 211 Badin by April 5. The letter should include information on the candidate’s scholarship, leadership, and character. The awards will be made known in May.
12
The Scholastic
Band, Glee Club Depart On Mid-Semester Tours
Easter vacation marks the departure !of the University’s Band and Glee Club on their annual spring tours. This year the band will embark on their longest journey in some time, over 3,500 miles.
* It is expected that the 56 bandsmen will play before some 20,000 people during * their tour.
After a stopover in Memphis, La., the band will play in concerts at New Orleans and Alexandria. In Corpus Il Christi their concert will highlight a city-wide Notre Dame Day. All Cath* olic schools in the area will be given a free day and the band’s arrival will be t honored by a parade of high school bands in east Texas.
On April 1 the band will act as judges in the East Texas Band Festival, after which they will leave for Brownsdale, where after a concert they will be given " an opportunity to make a visit to Mexico.
r An open air concert in the stadium, sponsored by the local Catholic Church, is booked for April 3. At San Antonio the band will be given a tour of the city by the Notre Dame Alumni Club.
A western-style barbecue will precede * a concert in Novasota, after which the group will hit the road ending up in * East St. Louis, Ill. where they will entertain an audience including a group from Breeze, Ill., home of band director Robert O’Brien.
Accompanying the bandsmen will be O’Brien, Ev. Warren of the audiovisual department and Rev. Roland Simonitsch, C.S.C., chaplain.
* The Glee Club will head east while the band is in the southern regions. Travel* ing by bus, the 36 will journey as far as Bangor, Me., before they return to academic pursuits. Mr. Daniel Pedtke, choral director will accompany the group
; CALENDAR
TONIGHT:	.
4:00 p.m.—AB College meeting in the Student Center Rathskeller.	.
8:00 p.m.—Bengal Bout finals in the Fieldhouse.
SATURDAY:	.	.
>	1-6:00 p.m.—Farley Hall mixer m the Student
Center.
8-11:30 p.m.—NROTC mixer in the Fiesta Lounge of the Student Center.
SUNDAY:
3 and 8:00 p.m.—The Faculty Film Club presents “The Passion of Joan of Arc” in the Engineering Auditorium. Open to members only. .	4:30 p.m.—Third Order of St. Francis meeting
in IC of the’ Student Center.
y	7:00 p.m.—Blue Circle meeting in the Student
Center amphitheatre.
7:30 p.m.—Student Forum “Right to Work *	Laws” in the Law Auditorium.
|	8-10:00 p.m.—Jazz Festival ticket sales in the
Service Bar of the Student Center.
MONDAY:	.
I	10:30 a.m.—Opening session of the symposium on
!	“Values in American Society” in the Law
Auditorium.	_	_	_
7:45 p.m.—California club meeting in 123 Nieuw-land Science Hall.
TUESDAY:	'
All day—Trains, planes, busses leaving for Podunk, i	U. S. A.
March 20, 1959
as will Rev. Daniel O’Neill, C.S.C., chaplain for the trip for the second year.
The group will travel through Pittsburgh and New York City to Sommer-ville, N. J. where it will give a conceit. After this the club heads for Boston where it will give a concert sponsored by Cardinal Cushing.
Following a trip to Bangor for a concert, the club will make their wake back to campus by way of Ohio.
Szymczak Discusses Gov't. Financial Policy
Federal Reserve Board Governor Szymczak discussed government monetary policy last Monday under the title, “Money Is a Many Splendored Thing.” Speaking to a capacity audience of faculty and students, Mr. Szymczak told of the history and various credit controlling instruments of the United States central banking system as well as those of other countries.
At the beginning of his talk, Mr. Szymczak told how the major banks in Europe changed from being merely sources of credit to becoming controllers of the amount of money and credit available. This was the birth of central banking. From this beginning, methods of control were developed and government eventually came to take over the task of central banking.
The major task of these central banks, according to Mr. Szymczak, is to regulate the amount of money in the economy in such a way as to allow normal business activities to continue unhindered and, at the same time, to prevent the disastrous effects of inflation and deflation.
Mr. Szymczak’s talk was concerned primarily with the three major quantitative controls used by the Federal Reserve to solve the credit problems of our country’s economy. These three are: 1) open market operations, 2) Reserve requirements, and 3) the discount rate.
By means of open market operations, the Federal Reserve buys and sells government securities through the regular channels of the market in the same way as any private investor would — only in much larger amounts.
The reserve requirement is that percentage of primary reserves owned by commercial banks which cannot be loaned out. By raising the reserve requirements, the Federal Reserve limits the amount of credit available to borrowers.
The discount rate is the most publicized of the quantitative instruments used by the Federal Reserve. This is the rate of interest that commercial banks must pay on loans made by them from the central bank, which was raised last week to three per cent.
Mr. Szymczak finished his talk by summing up the present economic situation and relating the problems of the Board of Governors in relation to the present unemployment figure of 4.7 million and the anticipated inflation in the U. S. A question and answer period followed.— Ron Bukowski.
'April Showers' Bids Ready Thurs. After Easter Vacation
Ticket sales for the campus-wide dance, the Senior Ball, and the Freshman Formal, will be held the week after Easter vacation.
“April Showers” is the theme for the final campus-wide dance to be put on by the social commission on April 24 from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the LaFortune Student Center. Bids for the dance will go on sale for $3.75 onf Thursday, April 9, in the Student Center.
The Senior Ball is to be held May 8 in the New Dining, Hall with Les Brown and his “band of renown” providing the music. The theme for the dance will be “Reflections.”
The night after the ball, May 9, an informal dinner-dance will be held at the Erskine Country Club. Gene Ber-toncini and his Lettermen will play from 8:30 to 11:30.
The Senior week end will close Sunday morning, May 10, with Mass in Sacred Heart Church, followed by a breakfast in the New Dining Hall. Principal speaker for the breakfast will be the Most Rev. Leo C. Byrne, Auxiliary Bishop of St. Louis.
Tickets for all these affairs of the Senior Ball week end will be on sale Sunday, April 12, from 7:30 to 10 pan. in the Navy Drill Hall. The Ball bids are priced at $10, with the dinner-dance tickets selling for $8 and $2.50 for the Communion Breakfast.
On May 15 the class of ’62 will hold their first formal, “Hedonia,” in the La-Fortune Student Center. Russ Carlyle and his Orchestra will provide the music for the dance.
The week end will be concluded on Sunday morning with a Communion Breakfast at which Father Hesburgh will speak.	~
FOR EASTER SCHOLARS
The University libraries have announced the following policy in regard to the Easter vacation. Students will be allowed to withdraw books during the vacation period as is the established policy. Each student, however is urged to renew his books immediately before leaving in order that it will not fall due over the vacation.
The libraries will keep the following schedules:
March 24-26,
30-31.....8	a.m. to 5 p.m.
March 27._____8 a.m. to noon
March 28-29__CLOSED April 1-3____8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
April 4_______8 a.m. to noon
April 5_____________CLOSED
In addition to this schedule Humanities will be closed March 3031; Social' Science April 1-3; and Business and Economics March 30-31.
13
SAZZ FESTIVAL
The universal appeal of jazz is timeless. There have been anthographers who have attempted to trace the ecstatic quality of jazz as far back as the early African tribes; they claim to see in the frenetic rituals signs of the unrepressed jazz beat. However accurate this historical interpretation may be, it remains an indisputable fact that, ever since its inception in a smoky New Orleans cafe, jazz has struck the fancy of America.
Back in 1926, when flappers, the Charleston and personalities like the “Oop-oop-e-doop Girl” gave an even more uninhibited flavor to the jazz art form, Arnold Bennett gave this rationale for the existence of jazz:
As regards the spirit, the latest generation has rediscovered, or is rediscovering, the great secrets—lost since the Elizabethan Age — that the chief thing in life is to feel that you are fully alive, that continual repression is absurd, that dullness is a social crime, that the present is quite as important as the future, that life oughtn’t* to be a straight line but a series of ups and downs, and that moments of ecstasy are the finest moments and the summits of existence.
Most probably, Student Affairs Commissioner Tom Cahill never even heard of Arnold Bennett, but when Tom sat down a month ago and mulled over the possibilities of some sort of a jazz festival at Notre Dame he must have decided it would work because. . .well, people like jazz.
Tom outlined his idea to Bill Graham, student body vice-president; both were certain the Midwest needed something like the jazz festival held annually at Newport, R. I., and figured it might prove even more worthwhile on a collegiate scale.
The end result of their brainstorming is MIDWEST COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL 1959; approximately 20 of the best collegiate Dixieland and progressive bands will compete April 11 in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse for four cash prizes and
14
by Jim Naughton
auditions at Chicago’s top jazz cabarets.
There is a twofold purpose in the festival: it may give one or several of the excellent collegiate jazz groups in the area an opportunity to reach stardom and it will provide good, solid entertainment.
The festival committee reasoned — on the first score — that there are a number of good collegiate groups which,
JAZZ FESTIVAL COMMITTEE
(Back) George Milton, Rudy Hornish, Jim Naughton, and Tom Cahill. (Front) Gus Ludwig, Chairman Bill Graham, and Jim Wysocki.
The Scholastic
even though they are professional, have not had the break as yet that will put them in the limelight; Notre Dame’s jazz festival may give them that break.
The festival will receive national attention, largely due to the efforts of Charles Suber, publisher of Dozen Beat magazine. When the committee first approached Mr. Suber with the idea for the festival, he became almost as ex-
MZL FESTIVAL
TICKET SALES Sunday, March 22 8 to 10 p.m. Student Center Rathskeller
cited as a ten-year-old in a penny arcade > (which is not to suggest that the Down Beat office more than slightly resembles , a penny arcade.) Mr. Suber has promised to publish a feature article on the festival and its winners in the Down Beat issue following the competition.
In addition, Mr. Suber helped the ! festival committee line up several out-* standing jazz personalities as judges of the competition. One of these is Art Van , Damme, who will also play his jazz accordion during the intermission. Another is Bob Trendier, music director at s radio station WGN in Chicago and one | of the organizers of the annual Chicago-land Music Festival. Mr. Suber will * serve as a third judge, and there is a possibility that Rev. Norman O’Connor of Boston, one of the initiators of the famous Newport Jazz Festival, may serve on the panel.
Cash awards of $200, $100, $75, and $50, as well as individual engraved plaques, will be presented to the finalists and the winners will have an opportunity to audition at the Blue Note, London 1 House, and Mr. Kelly’s in Chicago.
In short, winners of the day-long competition will receive due recognition from the experts.
But the primary reason for even forming a jazz band is not to gain re-f cognition; it is to suit the public. For jazz is infectious. As a writer- in Literary Digest of August, 1917, put it:
A strange word has gained widespread use in the ranks of our producers of popular music. It is “jazz,” used mainly as an adjective , descriptive of a band. The group that play for dancing. . . seem infected with the virus that they try to instil as a stimulus in others.
;	They shake and jump and writhe
in ways to suggest a return to the |	medieval jumping mania.
The mania that is jazz, whether in the violent expression of the small combos or the smooth syncopation of the bigger orchestras, has infected many in our own society. From the early .days of New Orleans razzamatazz — which made audiences perspire to the tune of “Yellow Dog Blues” and “Livery Stable Blues” — to the modem progr essivism of West Coast jazz —with its captivating interpretations of “Tangerine” or “Mood Indigo” — it has fascinated young and old. Conceived in the alleyways and basements of New Orleans, jazz spread
rapidly to downtown Chicago and, finally, landed in New York’s Carnegie Hall, where in 1924 Paul Whiteman, George Gershwin and company (as every anthologist notes) “made a lady out of jazz.”
In recent years, increasing numbers of college students have fallen in love with that lady. The jazz combo has come into prominence as one of the most called-for forms of entertainment on any campus. The sell-out performance of Louis Armstrong at Notre Dame two years ago attests this popularity.
So it is not unseemly to say that the jazz festival on April 11 will attract a good deal of collegiate attention. The festival committee hopes to accommodate 2,000 people in the Fieldhouse. Because quality will mean much in the competition, half of the seats have been sacrificed for a new seating arrangement. Some of these seats have been reserved for students at Nothwestern, Purdue, Indiana, Butler, Oberlin, and other schools which will have groups in the competition.
For those 2,000 area students who do see the festival, it will be well worth the one dollar admission price. Preliminary competition — from 1 to 6 pjn. — will be informal, so that the audience may get up, move around, even study during the breaks between 15-minute sets. The finals, pitting the top six afternoon contestants against each other, will
be from 8 pan. until the Midwest jazz champions are chosen. During both sessions, there will be enough of a variety to satisfy partisans of the many distinctive jazz styles. There will be misty vocals sung above impressionistic undertones as well as blaring every-man-for-himself Dixieland individualism, three-piece combos in addition to 18-piece bands.
In all the groups, there will be the hint of the original jazz flavor as it was found in Stale Bread’s Spasm Band. This was the band, as Henry Osgood tells it in So This is Jazz, that gave birth to America’s biggest musical contribution.
To quote Mr. Osgood:
In a New Orleans cafe much frequented by vaudevillians, there was a Negro orchestra of four pieces, the playing of which was very eccentric and especially notable for one thing, the musical antics of a blind trombonist (called “Stale Bread”) who did all sorts of impromptu embroidery with his instrument, particularly in the way.of glissandos; if you asked the trombonist what he was playing, he would reply, “Oh, I dunno — jest jazz.”
There’ll be lots of “jest jazz” at
MIDWEST COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL 1959.
March 20, 1959
4
«
KALEIDOSCOPE
A cold, snowy night in 1935. It is one minute before eightthirty, February the twelfth. In a small room over the Engineering Library, five men sit around a heavy oak table. In the middle of the table is a diamond shaped iron mesh box, resting on a black metal stand. The men are silent. A clock ticks. Abruptly, a voice breaks the stillness:
“Five seconds, Father.”
One of the men leans toward the box. The voice again:
“Read.”
“Good evening. I am Father Hugh O’Donnell. This is 4 Radio Notre Dame. . .”
With this perfunctory introduction, the Rev. J. Hugh O’- '*4 Donnell, then Vice-President of the University, began the first student radio broadcast from Notre Dame. The dedicatory program issued in an era of student radio which has grown into the present WSND, one of the largest and best equipped college radio stations in the country.	I
-	4
by Marty Topping
Students began to think of a permanent radio station at Notre Dame as early as 1930. Under the direction of Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., then head of the English department, an extracurricular radio club was formed. At that time, there were no courses in radio offered in the regular curriculum. t
Gradually the club grew. Father Burke was encouraged by student response to the organization and began to formu- 4: late plans for a student operated station. Prior to 1935, WSBT, the South Bend Tribune station, had carried special features from the campus. As the radio club grew, WSBT offered to help. They contributed to the construction of a studio and installation of a control room. This was done with the understanding that the students would assume the respon.-sibilities of production, operations, scripting, and announcing. The radio club was in business.
The first broadcasts were carried by phone to WSBT trans- -mitters, and from there beamed to campus and local audi- * ences. Concerts by the University band and glee club, as well as an educational series, formed the bulwark of early programs. Within a year, programming had expanded to include news, sports, and musical variety shows.
Late in 1936, WSBT again offered to help, donating new control equipment, and generally improving the existing facilities. Programming and technical standards continued to rise. Professors delivered papers and supervised the writing of ~ scripts. Students composed and presented themes and discussions of current topics. Programs of classical music became increasingly frequent.
The infant station had its lighter moments too. In the early days, audiences sat glued to their radios each night at seven, anxiously awaiting the next installment of a serial satirizing western life. This was the brain child of two enterprising, and to say the least, highly prolific, liberal arts jun-
The Scholastic
16
iors. Skits satirizing campus life as well as that of the out-p side world were presented occasionally. In season, members of the Holy Cross Community helped fill out the day with * *	Lenten messages.
With the exception of the summer months when most of .	the student body was absent, as were many of the faculty,
j	WSBT attempted to maintain consistent broadcast schedules
J of Radio Notre Dame. In spite of the fact that no credit was given for work in campus radio, and supervision facultywise 1 * was merely an additional burden, this experience taught so many students so well that most found little difficulty obtain-f » ing jobs in commercial radio following graduation. As the nation entered the pre-war phase, changed conditions on the campus, including lack of space for studio facilities, lack of faculty time for either supervision of student work or preparation of programs and scripts, as well as greater demands upon the time of the students themselves, resulted in a cur-1 •w tailment of programming.
G
But the student station was by no means defunct. At the close of the war, interested students and faculty members resurrected the radio club, and made a major addition. Radio Notre Dame now centered on a campus “wired-radio” station. * A course in radio with a full-time instructor was added to । the liberal aits curriculum. Like everything else post-war, college radio was booming. In many ways, however, it was little more than a loud pop at Notre Dame. With the old studios gone, the new signal came from Walsh Hall.
A Frank Cronan, a EE man from Waterbury, Conn., man* aged to get hold of the few remaining dollars in the treasury of the inactive radio club, and purchased a transmitter. Soon he and a few other members of the old club were organized. Notre Dame again had its own radio station. More students began listening to broadcasts. Even the administration lis-।. tened. The latter was more than pleased when Cronan pointed out that the station could support itself by selling advertising to South Bend merchants. The Fathers readily gave their ; blessing.
5 Now known as WND, Cronan and Company began to move ! up in the world. With the permission of the administration । > and the FCC, in that order, they moved to the band room in Washington Hall. The first night in then- new quarters * brought the students “Requestfully Yours,” a program which clicked from the start. The equipment was hardly uncrated before WND was handed an eviction notice, and operations were moved into the press box overlooking the stadium.
With all this taking down, moving, and setting up again, WND had managed to achieve lofty heights, but few advertisers. However, the administration, a friend of college radio from the first, granted three hundred dollars to the pioneers, and promised them a permanent studio in the Fieldhouse. Once again, WND was on the move.
The new layout, with wall to wall carpeting in Studio A, and soundproof panelling to lower the level of background noise, was looked upon by Cronan and his crew as the last y word in plush facilities. But the last word was yet to be uttered. Within a month, the Bengal boxers went to work in b the adjoining room. The delicate turntable tone arm in Studio B kept time to their calisthenics by skipping five or ten grooves each time they did a jumping jack. For a while the disk jockeys had to hold the turntable with one hand and the microphone with the other, then WSND came to the rescue with a donation of an old remote broadcast unit. This was promptly installed as the new master control panel. Cronan, still Station Manager in March, 1951, moved WND from 630 kilocycles to 1230 to cut down interference. Since then, the station has moved to 640, l virtually eliminating all interference. The programming be
I March 20, 1959
came increasingly varied, advertising picked up, the staff was enlarged, and most important, more students listened more often. The station was growing.
At about this time, new personalities rose to the heights of local popularity. C. Shubert and J. Hynes began shattering the early morning calm with a vehicle improbably titled, Out of the Sack with Chaz and Jack. This epic crackled across the aii-waves at 7:30 a.m. The comedy team became so popular that they were moved to a half hour evening slot. Their “Adventures of Randy Cornball, Space Cadet” reportedly convulsed the campus.
Following “Chaz and Jack” was the Zulu Warrior, whose late afternoon show kept the dining hall empty before six o’clock. The management of that establishment requested Zulu be shifted to another spot.	►
The Warrior was followed by a rather porky creature calling himself “The Vulgar Boatman,” who took over the late afternoon Relax show, and renamed it The Hour of Harm. He claimed that his show originated from Vat 69, Lobund basement.
Jack Mahar and, later, Bob Freckles succeeded as Station Managers, adding new equipment and improving old until the Fieldhouse studios were opei*ating like a compact professional effort. WND became WNDU under Station Manager Bill Ryan. Ryan, evaluating the rapid growth of the student station, saw the chance for permanent studios on the campus. The administration had been friendly toward the station since 1947, and Ryan was successful in obtaining a promise of two floors in the soon to be constructed I. A. O’Shaughnessy building.
In February, 1954, Station Manager Tom Knott moved WNDU into the fifth and sixth floors of the O’Shaughnessy tower. Father Joyce dedicated the station in March, almost nineteen years to the day, after the first broadcast from the Engineering building. A wealth of new equipment was installed on a loan from the University. Advertising sales were shooting up and the station was able to pay off the loan in two years. When plans for a new University radio and television station were announced, WNDU was asked to relinquish its call letters for the new project. The station became WSND, its call letters standing for “Serving Notre Dame.” In the two years following, under Station Managers Fred Cor-kill and Jerry Slater, WSND stai-ted making its greatest effort to improve station facilities and programming, and increase listenership and sales.
This effort has continued and reaped success through 195859 undei- the dynamic leadership of Warren Albright. Improved programming has brought listenership to an all time high. Advertising sales have surpassed all previous records, enabling the station to increase its scholarship fund. The public relations, and traffic and continuity staffs have increased in size, importance, and efficiency.
Programs now emanate from one of two soundproof studios or the master control room. The latter houses the transmitter, control panel, tape recorders, radios, microphones, and banks of other transmitting equipment. Two Gates turntables are located in the studios, and a new underground transmission system, as well as a walky-talky type remote broadcast system have been installed recently by the Technical Engineering Department.
Student radio here has come far. On that Febinary night nearly twenty-five years ago, a voice said, (somewhat hesitantly, we may imagine), “. . .this is Radio Notre Dame. .. Now, new voices, strong with the confidence only a history of progress and the promise of a bright future can bring, tell, “This is WSND, the Voice of Notre Dame.”
17
Decline and Fall of the Main Building
by John Bellairs
The first thing that people saw when they got to the University was the shining golden Dome, rising above the trees, and looking about the same as it did on matchbook covers, decals, and freshman orientation manuals. The trees covered the view of the thing that held up the Dome. The thing was called the Main Building.
The Main Building was built in the 1870’s and wandered across a large portion of the Main Quadrangle. At first glance, the impression would be that someone had taken an ink blot for a blueprint, or tried to spell the University monogram in bricks, and then had built upwards from there. The building, with a basement and four main floors (not counting turrets and chimney-pots) was an architectural joke. The numerous corners thrust themselves out everywhere, and in some cases retreated into dark recesses where they played ring-around-the-courtyard with some cannonballs mounted in stone. The windows, framed in heavy wooden arches, stared
out in every direction, and in some cases, at each other, while on the roof was an idiot swarm of turrets, chimneys, and gadgets. The whole thing was built of a nauseous yellow brick, native to the region, and was honored with a wide main staircase and a useless front porch. Of course there is the Dome; but one does not associate it with the Main Building.
Of course, the interior presented a contrast with the outside. The interior was not faced with yellow bricks. Otherwise, however, the outer dinginess was outdone by the dusky interior. The first floor walls were enlivened by some fading murals depicting the life of Columbus, and the floor was finished in a crumbling mosaic pattern. The basement (or ground floor) was floored with terrazzo. and the second and third floors had been made in such a way that it would have caused widespread panic if anyone knew what materials had. been used. The corridors met in the center of the building at a gaping hole, which reached from the top of the Dome to the first floor, and was protected by a series of railings. Each railing was flanked by foui- niches without statues, and if one leaned dangerously far out, the mural inside the Dome could be seen. The top flooi- had been abandoned for a long time, and the Geology Department on the third floor was in a dan-erous position, since its rooms were full of rocks of various sizes and weights. The last time a drawer full of rocks had been dropped, the president’s office below had found most of its ceiling on the floor. However, the building was unquestionably valuable, since there was no room anywhere else for the classrooms and offices that were there. The building was full of records and data, the care of which employed many pretty young girls and many pretty old ladies from the town.
The clean appearance of the building has always been maintained by the employment of a number of small Slavic men who worked in and around the building; they swept, mopped, and tried to catch people smoking in the wrong places. But its structural soundness was inapproachable, for it had been ap
praised in 1922 by one of the leading engineers in the state. After he had looked the building over, reported his findings, and collected his fee, he left in a great hurry, even leaving his briefcase behind. A few teachers and students, however, have periodically expressed doubts about the building’s strength. For example, years ago, an architect who said his name was Wright said that the Main Building would be lucky to last another ten years. But he was scoffed at by the leading engineers of the University, who had the last word in the matter, of course. Therefore he was dismissed, and never heard from again. However, every now and then, when a board broke under pressure or a railing came loose, people began to wonder.
II.
Lester Rundle stood in the Office of Student Accounts admiring the unsightly murals. Lester, a short young man in a blue double-breasted suit, had come to the Main Building to have his schedule changed. He was a freshman in the College of Engineering, and wanted his only Arts and Letters course exchanged for something more constructive, such as Advanced Cantilever Bridges or Blueprinting II. This would fit more exactly into his plan for a college education, and entrench him more firmly in a specialized pattern, which would prove very lucrative in the future. Already very set in his ways, he would tolerate no departures from his established pattern.
A middle-aged woman suddenly appeared in one of the windows of the partition surrounding the main office.
“May I help you, sir?”
“Yes, I wish to have my schedule changed.”
“The Office of Academic Affairs is upstairs.”
“Thank you.”
Lester walked out of the office and went up the rear stairway, which would take him to the main floor. But while he was doing this, two apparently unrelated events were happening elsewhere in the building. One occurred in the
18
The Scholastic
basement, the other on the third floor.
► > In one of the dark, seldom-visited subcellars of the building, a janitor named Ladislaus Kareckywicz was making his rounds. He inspected the mouldering stone arches and moss-covered brick j walls, and while he was doing this, ,i something caught his eye. In one of the crumbling recesses of the wall, a * brick was sticking out several inches from the rest. Muttering something in Polish about how much he was expected . to do around this place, he inspected this brick and picked inquisitively at the loose mortar around it. Finally, muttering again in Polish, he gave the brick a jerk which brought it cleanly out of its place in the wall and stirred up a fine cloud of dust which eddied out ► of the opening. Noticing what a fine doorstep it would make, the janitor turned the brick over in his hands, humming to himself.
Meanwhile, on the third floor, the second event was taking place. In the Geology Department, a professor was carrying a fine, large specimen of iron • ore to his desk, when he tripped on an upturned board. The rock, of course, fell resoundingly onto the floor as the professor was sent sprawling. He picked himself up, and carefully placed the a rock on a nearby table, while he surveyed the damage. There had been no ।	sounds of falling plaster from the floor
J	below, and the board on which he had
tripped was not completely ripped loose. Deciding not to mention the incident, the professor went about his business. But far below things were beginning to happen.
Just as Ladislaus was about to take the brick upstairs, he heard a sharp crack, followed by series of clicking sounds. He turned toward the place where the brick had been, and saw a veiy unusual sight. As he watched, the bricks began to settle, one on top of the other, so that a series of V’s was formed by the bricks, with the base of the lowest V resting in the place where Ladislaus had found the proti-uding brick. When the bricks had stopped falling, there was another crack, and then the wall began to lean forward until it seemed that the whole thing would come crashing down; then it caught abruptly on something which caused a rain of dust and bits of plaster. Watching all this, Ladislaus was horrified. As soon as he could bring himself to do something, he grabbed a board lying nearby, and used it to support the shuddering mass of masonry. His next impulse, of course, was to do the Polish equivalent of getting the hell out of there. Which he did.
Ladislaus ran up the stairs, through the ground floor, and up the stairs to the main floor. The first person he met was Lester Bundle, who was still looking for the Office of Academic Affairs. The fleeing janitor paused long enough to blurt some rapid Polish imperatives at the surprised freshman, and then made a dash for the door. However, Lester would not allow this strange happening to go unexplained, so he overhauled the janitor as he was almost out the door, and demanded an explanation. Seeing himself cornered, Ladislaus began to explain in very thick English
that the building was going to collapse and that they had better get out. Still not satisfied with this information, and considering himself able to handle foreigners and other inferior races, Lester pressed for details. By way of explanation, the janitor grabbed Lester by the arm and hurried him back down the stairs toward the scene of the disaster, all the while talking as incoherently as possible. When they reached the scene of the disaster, Ladislaus indicated the situation with a wave of his hand.
“Look,” he said.
Lestei* took in the situation at a glance. Not only was this one section of the wall collapsing, but the ones around it, also. Without delving very deeply into his store of engineering knowledge, Lester knew that it was only a matter- of time now. Something essential would give- in a little while, and then. . . catastrophe! Meanwhile, however, an attempt must be made to evacuate the building, thought Lester, and the first one to go had better be this panic-stricken janitor, who was getting more nervous with every minute.
“You may leave now,” said Lester. “Good-byes,” said Ladislaus.
Now that he was alone, Lester began to plan the evacuation. Calmness was par-amount, since nothing but chaos would result from running up and down the corridors and shouting. Keeping this in mind, Lester decided to look for someone to help him spread the news.
On the main floor, the first person he met was an elderly man, obviously a professor, who was walking briskly along, puffing on an empty pipe. He approached this gentleman as if he were going to ask him the time.
“Pardon me, sir, but you’d better leave. The building is about to fall down.”
The professor- turned a sardonic eye on Lester.
“Oh?” he said. “Then before I leave I’d better tell Henny-penny that the sky is falling.” With that he turned and walked away.	‘
Obviously, thought Lester, this is not the way to go about things. The best thing to do would be to inform someone with authority, possibly the president of the University. So, by way of inquiring at one of the offices nearby, he found his way to the president’s office.
In the waiting room of the president’s office, a pretty young secretary in darkrimmed glasses was pecking vigorously at a typewriter. Lester entered quietly and began to speak.
“Pardon me, miss, but I have an important matter to see the president about.”
Without looking up from the typewriter, the secretary responded. “Do you have an appointment?”
“No, but. . .”
“You can’t see the president without an appointment. Besides he’s out. If it can’t wait, fill out this card, and I’ll leave it on his desk.”
Deciding that this was better than (Continued on page 20)
19
(Continued from page 19) nothing, Lester filled out a little white card in his precise style of lettering, and deposited it on the secretary’s desk. Then he made another attempt.
“Perhaps I’d better tell you what the matter it. It seems that the. . .”
Sweeping her typewriter carriage back with a quick hand motion, the secretary looked up and spoke in an irritated voice. “Please, can’t you see I’m busy? I have to have this letter done in triplicate and I don’t have much time. You’ll have to come back later.”
A little while after Lester left the office, a small yellow slip reached the desk of the president (who was still out). It read:
MEMO
From: Outer office
To: Inner office	.
Re: Building about to fall down. Suggest immediate evacuation. .
Meanwhile, Lester had found his way back to the Office of Student Accounts, where he had been in the first place. The same woman who had talked to him before appeared at the window.
“Can’t they help you up at Academic Affairs?” she queried.
“Well, No. . .uh, that is. . . .1 have something important to tell you.”
“Can it be worked out on the IBM machine?”
“You don’t understand. The building is going to fall down.”
“It’s been that way for years, young man, but there’s no call for you to make nasty cracks about it. Now if you haven’t anything constructive to say, you’d better go, because I have work to do.” With that she shut the window, leaving Lester standing open-mouthed outside. After a minute or so. he went out.
Lester walked sullenly back to the main floor, and as he descended the stairway, he felt the whole thing shake a little, and somewhere down below there was an ominous noise. He decided to give it one more try, this time using a last-resort method. Walking quickly to the place where the great “well” extended upwards through four floors to the dome, Lester stood directly in the center- of the floor, raised his head and shouted.
“GET OUT EVERYBODY, THE BUILDING’S GOING TO FALL DOWN!”
After his voice had ceased echoing, there was a dead silence. Then a head shot out from the top of the second floor railing, and a male voice said sweetly, “Your voice sounds lovely under the dome, doesn’t it, dear?” Then the head disappeared, and the silence continued. Lester stood there for about a minute, then started for the stairway. Suddenly he stopped short.
“Oh, fiddlesticks,” said Lester Rundle, and with that he turned and left. As he descended the wide main stair-way which fronted the building (which undergraduates were not supposed to do, by custom), he heard the clock striking four. I’ve got work to do, he thought.
About four o’clock the main building fell down.
20
Zlotte law School	*
-	'	f
*
PRM COM
«)
by Pul B. Caffey
“The Superior Court of Marion County is now in session, the Honor-able Luther M. Swygert, presiding!” With these words, senior students of the Notre Dame Law School begin one of the most challenging phases of their legal education. It is the trial of their first case. Throughout the day, they will examine and cross-examine witnesses, object to their opponent’s attempts to introduce evidence, argue fiercely for their respective clients, and finally see all of their efforts rewarded or rejected by the verdict of the jury.
But this verdict, culminating the day’s work of the student lawyers, is not the most important result of the trial, for it is the trial itself which will contribute to the later success of the Notre Dame lawyer. This trial, as a part of the series called. “The Notre Dame Practice Court,” is a manifestation of an integral part of legal education at Notre Dame— teaching through practice. And *his approach through reality is the keynote of the Practice Court. In it, the law student is confronted dramatically with the adversary system through which our nation’s legal system operates. There is no “ivory tower” pedagogy in this phase of the lawyer’s education, no lofty discussion of abstract legal principles. There is reality here, the reality of hearing a judge ask, “Counsel, what are your grounds for objection?” And counsel had better have an acceptable answer immediately, for here there are no readyreference texts to help him, and no professor to whom he can turn. The future lawyer is on his own, and can expect to have every statement he makes dissected and examined by opposing counsel, and by the judge himself. This, then, is the student’s exposure to the approach through reality.
The story of his trial began six years ago, under the suggestion of Dean Joseph O’Meara of the Law School. It is the product of the efforts of Professor Edward F. Barrett of the Notre Dame Law School, and the Honorable Luther M. Swygert, Justice of the U. S. District Court for the Northern District of Indiana, alumnus of the N.D. Law School, and adjunct professor of law. These two men became the directors of the drama that is the Practice Court and gave to it the vitality that it possesses today.
The scene of the drama is the U. S. District Courtroom, located in the Post Office Building, in downtown South Bend. In this setting, the senior law student tries a case based on the tran- _ scripts of actual proceedings, specially ' adapted by Professor Barrett. The student’s trial may involve issues of criminal law, such as prosecutions for murder, robbery, larceny, or embezzlement. It may be in the field of torts, that is, actions for negligence, fraud, libel, slander, etc. It might be a contract problem, involving the intricacies of business relations between individuals. But whatever the nature of the problem, the stu- 1 dent lawyer must handle three aspects of the case. First, he must investigate the problem by interrogation of witnesses. Second, he must work out the procedural aspects of the case, drawing and filing the pleadings, and perhaps defending them against the attacks of opposing counsel. But finally, he must try the case himself.
The first of these functions, the investigative, is not so simple as Perry Mason might make it seem. Professor Barrett, before each case is assigned, sends to each of the volunteer witnesses a script of their story, which the student counsel , is not permitted to see. In a process which many of the counsel might view as a legal Easter-Egg hunt, they must seek out the information which they will be able to' use at the trial, in an examination of these same witnesses. It is a process of digging and sifting, of interview and evaluation, to determine what testimony of the witness is valuable, and which facts are irrelevant or unreliable. Counsel is for the first time in his career confronted with the problem of transposing a set of apparently meaningless facts into an orderly case. The witnesses may be volunteers from local civic groups such as the South Bend Optimist .< ■ Club, or officers from the South Bend
Police Department (Police Chief Charles J Dutrieux provides police officers as witnesses whenever needed). They may be medical experts, since the South Bend Medical Foundation provides professional witnesses and medical exhibits. But whatever facts these witnesses may know, they can be relied upon to give information only when counsel questions them. Thus, it becomes the job of the
The Scholastic
student lawyer to get the most infoima-> tion possible out of each witness he is planning to use, and transpose this often > confusing set of facts into a case which I will illuminate his client’s cause. To further complicate the problem, there is usually conflicting evidence, even within the witnesses’ own prepared scripts—for example, how could witness “A” have - seen the knife in defendant’s hand on a dark night, from one hundred feet away? * Problems such as this will constantly become apparent to the lawyer during his investigation. It is for him to seek the truth in the problem, and prepare himself through this investigation for the searching analysis of the trial.
When the student counsel has evaluated and ordered the facts of his inves-> tigation, he must begin the next phase of his legal proceeding — he must prepare a trial brief (a statement of his proposed cause, containing names of witnesses, etc.). He then files the proper pleadings which are necessary to bring " the case to ti*ial. At this point, he may have to defend his pleadings, which op-b posing counsel may considei- insufficient or faulty, and amend them correspondingly.
Then comes the third and most dramatic stage of the work — the trial itself. Here is the true test of the student’s ingenuity and preparation. It starts on Friday afternoon at 4:30 p.m., with the ► impanelling of a jury. The potential jurors are summoned from the first year class of the Law School and from volunteer St. Mary’s College students. From among these potential jurors, the student counsel must select twelve for the trial. Just as in actual jury trials, counsel will question these potential jurymen, attempting to evaluate their personal ideas or prejudices, and seeking to exclude
>	MASS SCHEDULE
MARCH 21
' MASS (white) ST. BENEDICT
Second prayer of Saturday of First Passion Week
Third prayer for vocations or
‘ MASS (purple) SATURDAY OF FIRST PASSION WEEK
Second prayer of St. Benedict
Third prayer for vocations
MARCH 22
MASS (purple) SECOND PASSION SUNDAY
r MARCH 23
MASS (purple) MONDAY OF SECOND PASSION WEEK
MARCH 24
MASS (purple) TUESDAY OF SECOND PASSION WEEK
MARCH 25
MASS (purple) WEDNESDAY OF SECOND PASSION WEEK
Preface of the Holy Cross.
those who might be favorable to one particular side of the case.
At 8:30 a.m., on the Saturday following the jury selection, Judge Swygert announces that the Superior Court of Marion County, of the mythical State of Hoynes, is in session. From this point on, the student lawyer learns from the school of experience what it is like to try a case before a jury of twelve laymen. He is familiarized with the pressure of constant objection from critical opposing counsel, while his client’s rights, or perhaps life, is at stake. Counsel may complete an examination of his witness and feel secure in the testimony he has elicited, only to have opposing counsel demolish the fact pattern by cross-examination of that witness. He may, as occurred in one trial during the past semester, question his own witness, a medical expert, thoroughly, only to have this same witness, on examination by the opposition, cast grave doubt upon the original testimony. It is in situations like this that the student lawyer-must react quickly, repair the damage of the preceding testimony, and re-establish his client’s position. All this occurs under the watchful eye of the jury — and they, as the ultimate triers of fact, will decide how effective the repairs have been. It is in situations such as this that many a future trial lawyer has discovered abruptly how critical twelve people may be. But it is better that he learn here, where the judgment will not be carried out, than in the real-life trial situation. If he does not learn now, a future client of his may sustain great financial loss, or even loss of freedom or life. It is this consideration which dictates the absolute seriousness with which these future lawyers conduct their ti*ials. It is not a mock court in any sense of
the word, but has all the earmarks of the reality which is its keynote. Just as a well-done play draws participation from its audience, a well-done practice trial draws forth a feeling of authenticity in its audience, the jury. It provides an attitude of reality in the lawyers, witnesses, and the judge. And along with this comes a serious education by experience. It is this attitude of realism, with the trial complete down to its final detail, from witnesses to exhibits, from judge to jury, which distinguishes the Notre Dame Practice Court as unique in legal education.
Although attempts to set up similar courts have been made in other law schools, they have not attained the perfection in setting, availability of witnesses and exhibits, and the over-all atmosphere of an actual court proceeding which characterizes the Notre Dame Practice Court. The Law School has achieved this success only through the labors of Professor Barrett and Judge Swygert and through the excellent interest and gratifying response of volunteer witnesses from South Bend. Through their cooperation, a doctor is available when medical testimony is needed; a police officer is available to tell of a seizure or search he has hypothetically conducted; but another doctor or another policeman may be introduced by the opposition to disprove or cast doubt upon testimony delivered by another in his field. It is the availability of resources such as these that gives life to the Practice Court. If the plaintiff in a tort action to recover for a broken leg claims that he had to have a pin inserted as a result of the alleged accident, such a pin may be introduced as exhibit “A.” The jury need not rely completely on word pictures, but may have an actual diagram of the scene of the accident or crime, presented to dramatically give life to the testimony. In a tort action to recover for injuries resulting in plaintiff’s being unable to use her right leg, plaintiff will take the stand on crutches — with the full effect of emotional appeals being used. A jury, catching the atmosphere of the proceedings and aided by the fine acting of witnesses, soon finds itself in the jury room, discussing the case without a thought of anything unreal in the trial. And here the first year law students themselves get a great benefit from their jury service. Not only do they have a grandstand seat for the trial itself, but as jurors, they will quickly discover the inner workings of the jury system. They come away from the trial with a greater grasp of what goes on in the closed jury room.
The Notre Dame Practice Court has been called great, and with very good reason. This unique approach to teaching through reality has become an integral part of the Notre Dame lawyer’s education. From his first year experience as a juryman until his final summation as a senior, it is part of the education he receives. For in the Notre Dame Law School, the student becomes thoroughly familiar with the technical and the abstract, with a philosophy and with the tools to make it practicable.
March 20, 1959	21
“The biggest challenge a man has to face is himself”
“Men and businesses are alike in one respect,” says Gerald A. Parsons, 30-year-old marketing and personnel development specialist. “Their success depends to a great extent on how well they respond to challenge. And I’ve found that the biggest challenge a man has to face on his job is not the competition of others — but the far more important one of developing himself to his fullest capabilities.
“During my four years with General Electric, I’ve had plenty of opportunity for self-development. Challenging training assignments at five different locations within the company have given me a broader understanding of my career area. In my present job I have the benefit of working with experts, both in establishing long-range goals and in helping to achieve them. I’ve found that working toward future potential is vital in the development of successful businesses — and successful men.”
Young men such as Gerry Parsons are important to the future of companies like General Electric and to the growth of America’s dynamic, competitive-enterprise economy. Our nation’s progress will depend more and more upon those forward-looking individuals who continue to develop to their fullest capabilities during their lifetime.
That is why General Electric provides a climate for individual progress — with opportunity for increasing knowledge and skills — for all of its employees, including 30,000 college graduates. For it is only as individuals meet the challenge of selfdevelopment that there continues to be progress for a business, an industry, or a nation.
T^ogress/s Our Most Important 'hoduct
GENERAL^ ELECTRIC
22
The Scholastic

i
Coach Kline Prepares Team forOpening Day
Notre Dame’s baseball team has been working out daily in the Fieldhouse in preparation for the upcoming 1959 college season. Hopes are high for another successful season similar to the ones experienced in recent years.
Coach Jake Kline, the veteran Irish mentor, points out that the squad has only three returning regulars, these being Ed Wojcik, Dick Selcer, and Gene Duffy. The pitching staff has lost the two top pitchers of last year in Frank Carpin and Chuck Symeon. Selcer is the lone holdover in the infield, and Duffy the only returning regular outfielder.
Chuck Scrivanich and Jim Hannan head the list of returning moundsmen., Both of these boys are juniors. Scrivanich won a letter last year. Three sophomores back up these two. They are Nick Palinich, Mike Brennan, and Jack Mitchell. Additional help might be forthcoming in the person of sophomore Bill Crosby and junior Bob Bradtke. They reported at the conclusion of the basketball season, and so they are behind the rest of the squad at the moment.
Wojcik heads the catchers. He should be improved after a year’s experience and should do an even better job than last year. He is backed up by sophomores Dan Hagan and Jerry McNamara. McNamara may also see some action as a pitcher.
In the infield, the first base, third base, and shortstop positions are all in doubt. Bob Broemmel and John Coretta are the leading candidates for the vacant first base job. Broemmel is a senior, Coretta a junior. Selcer is a fixture at second. He is one of the co-captains of the team. At the hot corner, either senior Don Costa or sophomore Ross Franco will most likely draw the starting assignment. The Irish lost a topflight prospect at the vital shortstop position when sophomore Carl Yastrzemski signed a bonus contract in excess of $100,000 with the Boston Red Sox. In his place will be either Jack Gentempo, a sophomore, or junior John Dorian. Denny Landry will back up Selcer at second.
Duffy stands out in the outfield. The diminutive flyhawk has been a regular since his sophomore year. He is the other co-captain along with Selcer. He was also co-captain of the basketball team. Duffy will 'play centerfield. The two other outfield berths are up for grabs. Juniors Frank Finnegan and Neal Darrow and sophomores Ed McCarron and Chuck Lennon are the leading candidates. Finnegan won a monogram last year. Mike Graney, the big basketball center, might provide help. He reported at the end of the hardcourt sea-
March 20, 1959
JAKE KLINE
Directs Irish baseball squad
son. He was a member of the squad last year.
The team will make a tour of the South during the Easter recess. These games will give the team valuable experience.
In the past few years, the Irish have done well in the post-season NCAA championship playoffs. Their best showing was in the 1957 season when they reached the semifinals. Once again they will meet top teams from the powerful Big Ten and also will meet a strong independent team in Western Michigan.
Tennis Team May Visit Mexico for Easter Trip
The Notre Dame tennis team, hopefully awaiting the confirmation of their Easter trip to Mexico, has been practicing indoors in the Fieldhouse since Feb. 1. The Irish will begin their outdoor practice as soon as the weather pennits.
If the Easter trip does receive an approval, it will be the first trip of that kind taken by an Irish tennis team. In Mexico, the Irish will meet some of the top teams of that country, including Mexico University, in a round-robin tournament.
Coach Tom Fallon stated he expects a strong team again this season. Losing only the number six man from last year’s squad which compiled a 17-1 record, the Irish have been strengthened by the addition of two sophomores, Don Ralph and Bill Heinbecker. At present, Ralph is the number one man, having edged Co-Captain Max Brown for the position. Heinbecker is fighting for the
Golf Team to Begin Practice With Nucleus of 6 Lettermen
With six returning lettermen and a host of aspiring candidates, the Notre Dame golf team will begin practice April 6, immediately upon return from Easter vacation, with no spring trip being scheduled for this season.	,
Captain Gerald Webster, a senior,. heads the list of returning monogram winners which includes Donald Williams, also a senior, and juniors Frank Hund, Terry Lally, Christy Flanagan, Tom Rose, and Bud Zesinger.
Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C., team coach, said that in addition to these men he has some likely looking prospects in seniors Denny Nead and Bob Marso, juniors Joe Krupp, Richard Manns, Thomas Adamson, and Howard Foley, and sophomores George Mack, Ray Pa-tak, Phil Schuster, and James Stahl. Altogether he estimates he will have about 23 candidates trying out for the team, which will be cut to twelve once the season’s competition begins.
Father Holdeiith, who is beginning his 27th year as coach of the Irish golf squad, remarked that the teams will be made up predominantly of juniors who have had some experience but it is going to be a tough job to replace last year’s graduation losses.
“I’m going to work them hard,’’ he said, “they’re all good capable men and there’s going to be tough competition among them for a team slot. We’re going to have a competing team of six men who can shoot 75 or under; once you go over that in college competition you lose.”
The team’s schedule this year is essentially the same as last year’s when the linksmen compiled a 12-3 record, the losses coming at the hands of Michigan State, Iowa, and Purdue. Minnesota is the only new opponent on the schedule.
Father Holderith expects the toughest competition to come from the seven Big Ten schools, Northwestern, Michigan State, Wisconsin, Iowa, Minnesota, Indiana, and Purdue which the Irish will meet. Particularly strong are Purdue, Wisconsin, Iowa, and Indiana.
The first match of the season will be a quadrangular meet with Bellarmine University, Kentucky, and Center College on April 20 in Louisville. The first home match of the year will be a triangular affair against Detroit and Northern Illinois on April 25.
number three position with Co-Captain Ron Schoenberg.
Although the tennis schedule does not yet have final approval, it is known that Purdue and Ohio State will be two new opponents on the schedule. The Irish will also meet Iowa, the only team to defeat them last year. Most of Iowa’s squad is returning again this year.
23
BOOKS FROM
I UNIVERSITY
of NOTRE DAME
PRESS
PAROCHIAL SCHOOL: A SOCIOLOGICAL STUDY,
by Joseph H. Fichter, SJ.
A thorough case study in an urban, Midwestern parochial school by a team of social scientists. Behavior of groups and individuals in the classrooms and playgrounds, in religious and vocational activities, in various adult groups, and in committees connected with the school is interpreted from daily observation, numerous interviews, and frequent testing during the school year. This report is unique in that it provides comparison with a public school in the same neighborhood and with many other parochial schools. Differences and similarities between parochial and public school systems of education are clearly pointed out. Published. $6.00
THE MEANING OF SACRED SCRIPTURE, by Rev. Louis Bouyer (of the Oratory)
An unusual and comprehensive book that presents the chief revelations God has made about both Himself and His provision for mankind’s salvation. Perhaps the most arresting and helpful summary of Sacred Scripture that has ever been written.	Published. $4.75
WORSHIP: THE LIFE OF THE MISSIONS,
by Johannes Hofinger, S J.	.
One of the most significant volumes ever written on two of the most important movements in the Catholic Church today: liturgy and foreign missions. “A powerful and a practical treatise ... a trail blazer . . . has tremendous scope.”—The New World. '
Published. $4.75
PATTERNS FOR EDUCATIONAL GROWTH,
by Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.
“Six discourses by the gifted and vigorous president of Notre Dame . . . (which) express the guiding lines of Notre Dame’s educational endeavor . . .”—Brooklyn Tablet. "... A genuine stimulation to teachers.”— Social Justice Review. “. . . A well written and literate delineation of what Catholic higher education could be.”—Catholic Bulletin.	$2.25
CATHOLICISM, NATIONALISM, AND DEMOCRACY IN ARGENTINA, by John J. Kennedy
A new and impressive view of the basic factors in Argentine politics which will be prized for its illuminating study of the interplay of ideas and political action and for its evaluation of die role of Catholicism in the life of the Argentine nation.	$4.75
THE IMAGE OF MAN
A Review of Politics Reader edited by M. A. Fitzsimons, Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., and Frank O’Malley. A selection of some of the best essays to appear in The Review during its first twenty years. They deal with the philosophical and historical approach to poltical realities.	March 28. $6.00
MANAGED MONEY AT THE CROSSROADS,
by Melchior Palyi
The author indicts the managed currencies of Europe and charges that much of the American aid to these countries has encouraged financial irresponsibility. He claims that Europe’s economic equilibrium hinges on a gradual cessation of American aid. As long as the United States is standing by to foot the bill, the public and politicians of these countries prefer to muddle along rather than face unpleasant readjustments. Monetary Notes calls it “probably the most important book of this generation in the fields of monetary, fiscal, economic, and related political affairs.” Published. $4.75
THE DOGMA OF THE IMMACULATE CONCEPTION, edited by Edward D. O’Connor, C.S.C.
Thirteen European and American theologians treat the entire historical development and theological significance of the belief in the Immaculate Conception. Contains the first exhaustive bibliography (1830-1957) of this material ever compiled, documents, and 50 illustrations.	Published. $10.00
In its third large printing
THE ART OF TEACHING CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE,
by Johannes Hofinger, SJ.
One of the greatest living authorities on catechetics sets out the principles that should govern the teaching of religion in all its various phases: in schools, released time instruction, classes for adults, sermons and retreats, and in the missionary presentation of Christ’s message. A complete study of modem cathechetics. $3.95
a
4
<1
THE REPRESENTATIVE REPUBLIC, by Ferdinand A. Hermens
Shows how the principles which guided the founders of our “Representative Republic” can, in the light of recent developments, revitalize the thought and action of those working for the preservation of freedom. The general discussion is followed by an analysis of concrete developments in a number of countries, including Great Britain, France, Germany, and Italy. “A major contribution to political science.”—Arnold J. Zurcher, New York University.	‘	$7.50
on sale at the
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Notre Dame, Indiana
24
The Scholastic

BENGAL FINALS TONIGHT
The final rounds of the 1959 Bengal Bouts will take place in the Fieldhouse tonight beginning at eight o’clock.
The results of last Wednesday night’s semi-final bouts were not available by the time the Scholastic went to press.
Good hard fighting marked the opening night of the Bengal Mission Bouts Monday night. In the ten fight card there was not a mismatch or a dull fight.
Each of the fighters gave everything he had, and fast and furious action rewarded the fans who attended.
Top fights of the evening were in the 157-pound division where Pat Arnoult decisioned Chuck Kreil and in the heavyweight class where Bob Pietrzak and Dick Ciesielski were two of the four winners.
In the opening bout of the evening, Dave Glow, a senior from Toledo, Ohio, and Walsh hall, won on a TKO over Dick Morrissey, a freshman from Long Island City, N.Y.
Glow caught Morrissey in the closing minutes of the first round with a quick right cross and dropped him for a count of eight just as the bell sounded.
In round two, Morrissey attempted to stage a comeback, but Glow was able to counter effectively, and the referee stopped the bout in the closing seconds of the round.
In the second 139-pound bout Chuck Eaves won a split decision from Mike Morrow of B-P. Eaves, from Hudson, Ohio, scored his winning points with a quick left jab that won him the second and third rounds.
Eaves staggered Morrow in the second round with a right cross, then carried the fight in the final round to score the victory.
Jim De Bernardi, a senior from Whittier, Calif., won a 157-pound bout from Jim Fitzgerald, a sophomore from Chicago. De Bernardi of Alumni hall copped a unanimous decision in an action-packed fight. He scored most of his points with a good left jab which kept Fitzgerald away most of the fight.
Fitzgerald closed fast but was unable to overcome the early lead De Bernardi had built up. The winner concentrated on body punches to wear down his opponent in the late stages of the fight.
Dave Miller, a Houston, Texas, senior from Sorin, decisioned returning veteran Ron Delamielleure in another 157-pound battle. Miller piled up points in the first two rounds with a series of flurries to the head and body.
In the third round he fought a defensive battle to protect his lead and won in a unanimous decision.
In the final 157-pound bout of the evening, Arnoult of Dillon hall, won a split decision over Kreil, a senior from Ashland, Ky., and Fisher hall. Arnoult. a returnee from last year’s bouts, scored heavily with a good right cross and effectively countered Kreil’s scoring left jab.
Arnoult scored well in both the first and second rounds in fast and furious action. His left kept Kreil away, and he countered with his good, aggressive offensive style.
In the first regular bout after intermission two-time runner-up in the 167-pound class, Frank Nacozy, scored a second round TKO over Dave Ryan of Cranford, N. J., and Cavanaugh hall. Ryan opened fast, but Nacozy caught him with a long overhand right and dropped him to the canvas midway in the first round.
In round two Nacozy of Fisher hall and San Diego, Calif., scored with a series of head and body punches which staggered Ryan and finally put him away with a right uppercut at 58 seconds of the round.
Dick Ciesielski opened the heavyweight bouts with a unanimous decision over Jack Eatinger of Dundee, Ill., and Howard hall. Ciesielski had to rally to put the fight away as Eatinger had him on the canvas in the second round.
He stalled the rally at the opening punch of the third round and stayed on the offensive until the final bell.
Ciesielski, also from Howard, scored heavily with head and body punches and knocked Eatinger through the ropes just as the final bell sounded.
Pat Healy, last year’s junior-heavyweight champion, scored a unanimous decision over Leo Krzywkowski, a freshman from South Bend. Healy dominated the fight mainly through his greater ring experience.
He countered Krzywkowski’s charges and scored well from his left-handed stance. Healy, from Baltimore and Pangborn hall, never pressed hard in scoring the win.
In another heavyweight battle Bob Pietrzak, of Pangborn hall and Hamtramck, Mich., scored a unanimous decision over Bob Nicolozzi of Kenosha, Wis., and also Pangborn hall.
Both fighters fought a hard, clean fight and at the final bell were arm-weary. Pietrzak scored his winning points in the fast, close action of the second and third rounds.
Nicolozzi piled up points early in the second round with a right jab which staggered the winner, but Pietrzak came back late in the round and erased the margin.
In the final fight of the evening Ken Adamson, a junior from Colorado Springs, Colo., and Badin hall, won a
BUCKY O’CONNOR
Co-Captain closes out career
O'Connor Cops Third Place At Case Tech's 41 Tourney
Bucky O’Connor, the Notre Dame . wrestling team’s captain, took third place honors last week in the 41 (Independent Intercollegiate Individual Invitational) Tournament held at Case Tech in Cleveland, Ohio.
Jerry Sachsel and Dick Sapp were the othei* two Irish entries in the tourney.
O’Connor won his quarter-final match but dropped his semi-final match to John Daily of Akron U., 5-2. He then came back to decision Robert Cully of Rochester University, 3-0, and Ray McFarland of Ithaca College, 5-0, for third place.
Sachsel, who had been undefeated all season in the 123-pound class, was beaten by Dick Wilson, a member of the . 1956 Olympic team from Toledo Uni- . versity, 9-2. Sachsel suffered an injured knee in the contest and was unable to continue into the consolation rounds.
Jerry Sachsel, Notre Dame’s 123-pound wrestling stalwart, had a record ; of 22 straight undefeated bouts going into his match last week. Eight of these victories were achieved last year, twelve coming during this season. Sachsel’s string of wins included several conquests of 130-pound opponents. His string also .	-
included two ties, one each year. ,	;
Sapp suffered a loss in the first round of the tourney.
This action was the last on the 1958- -59 wrestling schedule and marked the close of Co-Captain O’Connor’s career . here.
close decision over Tom Gardocki of Lyons hall and Wyandotte, Mich.
Adamson fought an even fight and piled up points with a good jab and right cross to gain the win.	-
March 20, 1959
TIME OUT
Tyler Jr. deserves special mention this week for his performance last week. Unfortunately, the mention does not come for an outstandingly good performance but rather for, on the surface, a poor one.
For the first time in his relatively short career (his first appearance was the issue of November 21, 1958), he has fallen below .500 for a week’s work with a record last week of 6-7. Standing 6-6 for the basketball games, he still could have come out ahead if the Quiz Bowlers had won. But Barnard proved too strong for them and dropped him below the .500 mark.
TROUBLES
Because of misinformation from the West Coast, Tyler Jr. underestimated the strength of California’s Golden Bears who won the Far West regional without much trouble, downing St. Mary’s of California, 66-46, in the final round.
His mistakes in the Mideast regional are certainly understandable since I doubt that more than a few would have ventured that Louisville would upset both Kentucky and Michigan State on two successive nights. This feat is one of the most notable upsets in the history of the tournament.
Since every newspaper in the country has featured this outstanding performance, there is no need for me to duplicate what they have done. It would have required extraordinary powers of sagacity on Tyler Jr.’s part to have foreseen the results here.
The Midwest regional ran according to form until Cincinnati upended the favored Kansas State Wildcats in the final game. Inasmuch as this was a distinct possibility, perhaps he should be held responsible for this flub.
He was at his prognosticating best in the Far East regional where he picked all three winners and only a typographical error in last week’s issue marred his best performance.
16-YEAR-OLD SOPHOMORE
But the final destructive blow to his week’s efforts was the rude overpowering of the Quiz Bowl team by the girls from Barnard, led by a sophomore whiz from Binghamton, N.Y. Miss Phyllis Hurwitz, a 16-YEAR-OLD (yes. 16-year-old) pre-med major dominated the answering for the Barnard squad to engineei- the defeat. According to Tyler Jr., Notre Dame’s defeat was absolutely unpredictable. He feels no remorse about having picked Notre Dame; he feels remorse only at the loss itself.
Tyler Jr. felt, though, in view of his over-all performance last week, that he would decline from venturing his choices on the NCAA finals in Louisville, Ky., tonight and tomorrow night. Instead, he has deferred to me, allowing me the honor of trying to pick the winners in his place.
In the semi-finals, California’s defensive record, the best in the nation, will meet possibly its sternest test of the year when the Golden Bears encounter Oscai- Robertson and Cincinnati’s Bearcats. Robertson and his mates seemed not to miss Mike Mendenhall, ineligible for this tourney, at Lawrence, Kan., last week end. If they had enough offensive power to upend Kansas State, they should be strong and fancy enough to puncture California’s defense and advance to the finals.
In the other game, host Louisville will take on West Virginia, winner of two close games in the Far East regional last week. Since the Mountaineers had trouble in this regional and Louisville seems to be picking up steam all the time, it looks like the home court and the 18,000 friendly fans will prod the Cardinals to victory.
NCAA CHAMPIONSHIP
Saturday night’s game for the championship will pit the tall Cardinals against the fast-moving and talented Bearcats. I think that this game will mark the end of Louisville’s fantastic string of upsets. Cincinnati’s floor strength and its shooting prowess should provide the Bearcats with their first national championship. Cincinnati — to win the NCAA. — T.T.
Five Tracksters Run In Meet at Cleveland
The Notre Dame track squad is in Cleveland today and tomorrow for the Cleveland Knights of Columbus Relays. Runners Ron Gregory, Dan Rorke, Chris Monahan, Marty Clynes, and hurdler Steve Dornbach made the trip with track mentor Alex Wilson. The thin-clads will be up against the finest track squads of the Midwest and the East in the meet.
This same group will travel to Chicago March 28 for the annual Chicago Relays. The major track squads in the Midwest will be entered in the Chicago relays, along with the Irish.
The Irish open the outdoor season during the Easter vacation when they travel to Dallas, Texas, April 3-4, where they
RON GREGORY
Sophomore distance star
will enter the Texas Relays. The Southwest Conference will act as host for teams from throughout the country.
Making the trip for the Irish will be the following tracksters: Ron Gregory, Dan Rorke, Marty Clynes, Chris Monahan, Mike Haverty, Galen Cawley, Dave Cotton, and Mike Miranda.
The Irish will enter the distancemedley relay on Friday, April 3. Rorke or Clynes will run the 440-yard leg, and Rorke, Clynes, Monahan, or Cotton will run the 880 leg. Cawley will run the three-quarter mile, and Gregory will anchor the team with the mile, his usual specialty.
On Saturday the Irish will enter either the two or four mile relay event. Haverty will join the non-runners from Friday’s event and Gregory.
The Irish will enter Miranda in the javelin, an event in which he holds the Notre Dame track record.
Wilson does not know for sure which teams are entered, but he feels that Oklahoma will be one of the favorites on the basis of then* performance against the Irish in the Michigan State relays.
26
The Scholastic
Ever meet a pessimist?
He sees the world through dark glasses. He just knows that he’ll wind up in a job he doesn’t like, that he’ll be underpaid, that he’ll get lost in the crowd. But realistic men know these things depend largely on their own decision in choosing a career.
Realistic men look for companies that provide sound training, advancement opportunities, challenging work, stimulating associates and good pay. These are the fundamentals that insure success and progress in a career.
The Bell Telephone Companies offer these fundamentals to hard-working, ambitious realists majoring in the arts, the sciences, business or engineering. Get the whole story regarding telephone careers. Talk with the Bell interviewer when he visits your campus. Ask him about training, advancement opportunities, salary, job security. We think you’ll like what you learn.
You can also get information about telephone careers by reading the Bell Telephone booklet on file in your Placement Office.
lAb bell telephone companies
< March 20, 1959
Singles Tourney Coming Up
Due to considerable interest among the campus keglers, the Notre Dame bowling alleys will sponsor a singles tourney which will be held on weekday nights during the first week of May, under the direction of Bob Miller.
Only those students who have rolled a minimum of 21 games in a campus league as of March 1 will be eligible for the tourney. Handicaps will be given on a basis of 75 percent of the difference between a 200 base and the highest league average as of March 1.
Anyone wishing to enter the tourney may submit his name and $3.00 entry fee to any employee of the bowling alleys during the week of April 6-13.
Trophies will be awarded at the Keg-ler banquet on May 14. — Ed Silliman
Lucretia Borgia, hostess, says: "Wildroot really does something for a man’s poisonality!”
Just a little bit of Wildroot and...WOW*
Over 500 Summer Courses...
SCHOOL OF COMMERCE, ACCOUNTS AND FINANCE
•
SCHOOL OF EDUCATION
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
DIVISION OF GENERAL EDUCATION
SCHOOL OF RETAILING •
UNIVERSITY COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCE
•
WASHINGTON SQUARE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCE
Met Club Five Grabs Top Title on Campus
The 1958-59 intermural basketball season came to an end last week with the Met club winning the campus title by downing the Howard Bulldogs.
Six teams were entered in the interhall playoffs. In the quarter-final round Breen-Phillips’ Blue bested Breen-Phillips’ Green, 23-22. Stanford White ousted Lyons Red, 33-25. Howard White toppled Pangbom Gold.
In the semi-final round Breen-Phillips’ drew a bye leaving Howard pitted against Stanford. Howard defeated Stanford, 26-18, and then won its way to the campus finals by trouncing Breen-Phillips’, 41-33.
In the interclub semi-finals the Met club drew a bye and the Army ROTC beat the K. of C. In the finals the Met club knocked off the Army ROTC thus winning its way to the campus finals against the Howard five.
The championship game was a rough, hard-played contest, especially under the boards. George Richvalsky was the game’s high scorer with 20. points for the Met club. Dave Hurd led the Bulldogs with 16. The final score was 48-41 with the Met club on top.
ARMY - NAVY AIR FORCE
Insignias
MILITARY SUPPLIES
Gendel's Surplus Sales
Brosso. ROTC Collar Insignia
You Save Everyday at GENDEL'S
512 SO. MICHIGAN
are offered to undergraduates in good standing. Morning, afternoon and evening classes. Dates vary for early summer, mid-summer and post sessions in the various divisions.
Send for new, combined Bulletin SS59
Dean of the Summer Sessions
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
23 Gallatin House New York 3. N. Y.
Enter Three Fencers , In NCAA Tournament
Coach Walter Langford has announced the three fencers who will represent Notre Dame in the NCAA Tournament at Annapolis, Md., on March 27-28. In the foil division Jim Russomano, fourth place finisher in the tourney and AllAmerican last year, will be entered for the Irish. Senior Co-Captain Jim Jock will fence in the epee division, and Tom Lee, also a senior, will be competing in the sabre division.
Langford believes that Russomano, one of the leading contenders for the f NCAA foil crown, has a good chance
JOCK, LEE, RUSSOMANO, LANGFORD 1 Off to NCAA championships
of taking top honors this year. To do i:, however, he will have to get by defending champion Bruce Davis, who won the crown in both ’57 and ’58 for Wayn: State University.
Lee replaces senior Co-Captain Joe Klien in the tournament. Klein is suffering from an ankle injury, and it ; doubtful whether or not he could stan 1 up under the rugged slate of bouts fa< ing the entrants.
Last year the Irish finished sixth i the team standings, and Notre Dam had two All-Americans in Russoman ■ '• and Ron Farrow who finished third i I the epee. The Irish have been one c the top teams and strongest competitors in recent years, having finished in th1 top ten eight times in the last ten year:
New York University and Navy ai the co-favorites in this year’s tourns ment and will provide the Irish with 1 stiff test. There are over 40 teams er tered, and each fencer must meet eac • team’s entry in his division. The champion is determine by the best record in the round-robin action.
“The number of teams entered,” says Langford, “makes this as much of an endurance contest as a test of skill. I will be very happy and proud if we finish in the top ten. That would be a very fine performance.”
The Scholastic
28
News Briefs
VALUES IN AMERICAN SOCIETY
The Office of Student Accounts has announced that it is currently considering the F assignments of the various classes to residence halls for the next academic year. This information will be available immediately after Easter vacation in sufficient time to allow a student time to consider his choice before room selections, April 15 through 17.
At the same time it was announced that >> roommate lists are being prepared and that । they will be published soon, perhaps by g the time this issue is distributed.
A SYMPOSIUM March 23 and 24, 1959 o o o
Sponsored by the Department of Sociology of THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME under a grant from
LILLY ENDOWMENT, INC. O O o
Prof. E. Jerome McCarthy of the College of Commerce has been awarded a Ford Foundation fellowship to attend a special one-year Institute of Basic Mathematics for application to business.
The Institute, to be held at Harvard and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology beginning next September, is part of the Foundation’s program to strengthen American business education and research. McCarthy is one of 41 fellows chosen from among 182 college teachers nominated by their institutions.
The Tri-Military Council will sponsor a smoker this Sunday, March 22, at 7:30 p.m. in the Navy Drill Hall. The movie will be “Command Decision.”
Also, there will be a drill competition and a foul shooting contest between the cadre and cadet commanders. Refreshments will be served and tickets will be sold at the door for 35c.
Pope John XXIII has sent his warm commendation of the Catholic Census and Information Program in a message received by Rev. John A. O’Brien, director of the Bureau of Convert Research at Notre Dame.
“The commendation of the Holy Father,” Father O’Brien said, “will serve as a great stimulus to the spread of the Catholic Census and Information Program to all the dioceses and parishes in the United States and Canada and will enlist an increasing number of our laity to participate in the convert movement in general.”
MAKE YOURSELF INELIGIBLE
Bulletins of information and application for the Selective Service College Qualification Test, to be administered in Room 250 of the Administration Building on Thursday morning, April 30, have arrived.
Any students who are interested in taking the "draft test" may pick up their application blanks at the Department of Guidance and Testing in the Main Building.
The deadline for mailing of application blanks is midnight, April 9.
All meetings will be held in the Law School Auditorium of the University of Notre Dame
First Session
o o o
Third Session
Monday, March 23, 1959, 10:30 A.M.
Welcome—Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., Vice President, Academic Affairs, University of Notre Dame.
The Study of Values
Chairman: Paul C. Bartholomew, Professor of Political Science, University of Notre Dame.
Speaker: Clyde Kluckholn, Professor of Anthropology, Harvard University.
Discussant: William L. Kolb, Professor of Sociology, Newcomb College, Tulane University.
Second Session
Monday, March 23, 1959, 2:30 P.M.
Values and Education in the United States
Chairman: Bernard J. Kohlbrenner, Professor of Education, University of Notre Dame.
Speaker: Robin M. Williams, Jr., Professor of Sociology, Cornell University.
Discussant: John J. Kane, Professor* of Sociology, University of Notre Dame.
Fifth Session
Tuesday, March 24, 1959, 10:30 P.M.
Values and Communication in the United States
Chairman: Robert A. Leader, Professor of Art, University of Notre Dame.
Speaker: Bernard Berelson, Professor of Business Administration, University of Chicago.
Discussant: Thomas J. Stritch, Professor’ of Communication Arts, University of Notre Dame.
Monday, March 23, 1959, 4:30 P.M.
Values and Industry in the United States
Chairman: Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., Professor of Economics, University of Notre Dame.
Speaker: Joseph P. Fitzpatrick, SJ., Professor of Sociology, Fordham University.
Discussant: William H. Form, Professor of 'Sociology, Michigan State University.
Fourth Session
Monday, March 23, 1959, 8:00 P.M.
Values and Religion in the United States
Chairman: Roland G. Simonitsch, C.S.C., Professor of Religion, University of Notre Dame.
Speaker: John A. Hutchison, Professor of Religion, Columbia University.
- Discussant: Joseph H. Fichter, SJ., Professor of Sociology, Loyola University of the South.
Mar ch 20, 1959
GEORGE SHEARING QUINTET will appear at O’Laughlin Auditorium
Monday, April 20, 1959 at 8:00 p.m.
Tickets will be $1.75 The event will be sponsored by the Senior Class of St. Mary’s
HAVE BUSES . . . WILL TRAVEL . . .
•
Departmental Field Trips Geographic Clubs Group Movements of all types Contact ED SILLIMAN. Campus Bep. 263 Dillon	Ext. 631
CHARTER A —
CajtxLuvaX B-ixi
WI10ERNESS CANOE TRIPS
We furnish everything for a thrilling vacation in famed Quetico-Superior wil-
derness! Aluminum canoe, complete ramping outfit, fine food—all at low daily rate. Write today for canoe trip planning kit, map, lists, rates. (P.S. Girls make canoe trips, too!)
Border Lakes Outfitting
P.O. BOX 569H ELY, MINN.
a mu vis W LIBUKYui MoH NIK SHIP
New Catholic Books' Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
$200.00 EASY CAMPUS AGENCY AVAILABLE
Student needed to take orders for delivery of low priced highest quality Orchid Corsages to Mothers on Mother's Day May 10. Satisfaction Guaranteed. No investment required. We deliver anywhere in U.S.A. Agency has been proven and is established at Dartmouth, Princeton, Purdue and Northwestern. Sales Kit and live samples supplied free. Write now:
FLOWER GIFT SERVICE
34 West 10th St, New York City 11, N. Y.
30
At the Movies
AVON
Tides of Passion: March 17-25). French and BB-like, and that makes * it something to C. With Etchika Choureau cavorting across the screen playing the part of autumn. As the great man once said: I will fold my Arab like a camel and silently steal his tents.
Co-Hit: Yesterday and Today. Liberally adapted from the American Kennel Club’s best-seller, “Desire Under the Elms.” Just goes to show that today will be yesterday tomorrow.	*
COLFAX
Lonely hearts: (March 20-26). The Nathanael West novel, considerably cleaned up and straightened out, provides good material for Montgomery Clift, as an “advice to the lovelorn” columnist, and Maureen Stapleton, Academy Award nominee.
GRANADA
Up Periscope: (March 15-25). Bret Maverick meets Kookie, of 77 Sunset Strip fame, and the sure box-office draw is sure to beat any Japs who attack their submarine.
PALACE
Separate Tables: (Started March 19). This outstanding motion picture stars Deborah Kerr, David Niven, Rita Hayworth, and Burt Lancaster. Adapted from the Broadway hit by Terence Rattigan, the story deals with the emotional entanglements of its characters. Cathleen Nesbitt and Wendy Hiller give more than able support in one of the best movies to come around in a long time.
RIVER PARK
(NOTE: The RIVER PARK will henceforth be open only on week ends.
We will keep you informed of later developments.)
Tonka: (March 19-22). Starring Salvatore Mineo and Anton Pichler in a heart-cooling tale of a boy and his horse, respectively. Perhaps another unprecedented and unexpected month-long engagement?
STATE	,
Auntie Mame: (March 15-21). To those of you who haven’t seen it, here’s a chance to see how funny a movie can get. Rosalind Russell practically carries the plot on her shoulders, but still manages to be graceful — and extremely witty. Peggy Cass as the wronged Agnes Gooch comes through with a shining performance.
Shaggy Dog: (March 21 et. seq.). Walt Disney’s delightful, if simple, ‘ story about a little boy who turns into, of all things, a shaggy dog. With Fred MacMurray and Jean Hagen.
TONY WONG’S PICKS FOR ACADEMY AWARDS
Movie: The Defiant Ones
Actor: David Niven, Separate Tables
Actress: Susan Hayward, / Want to Live
Supporting Actor: Lee J. Cobb, The Brothers Karamazov
Supporting Actress: Peggy Cass, Auntie Mame
Direction: Stanley Kramer, The Defiant Ones
Song: “A Very Precious Love”
Color Photography: Leon Shamroy, South Pacific
■ Costume Design: Cecil Beaton, Gigi
■	—Tony Wong
The Scholastic
'Values in American Society’ Set for Monday: Columbia Department Head to Prepare Paper
“Values in American Society,” is the title of a symposium which will be held this Monday and Tuesday. This was made known by Dr. John Kane, head of the sociology department.
Five visiting scholars will address the symposium which will explore the approaches to the study of values as well as the standards of goals prevalent in specific areas of American life. Examples of these areas are religion, communication, education, and industry.
Symposium speakers and their subjects include Prof. Clyde Kluckhohn, of Harvard’s anthropology department, “The Study of Values”; Prof. Robin Williams, Jr., head of the sociology department at Cornell, “Values and Education in the U. S.”; Dr. John Hutchison, head of Columbia’s religion department, “Valuesand Religion in the U. S.”; Prof. Bernard Berelson, University of Chicago, “Values and Communication in the U. S.”; and Rev. Joseph Fitzpatrick, S.J., Fordham University’s department of political philosophy and social sciences, “Values and Industry in the
U. S.”
According to Dr. Kane, a discussion period will follow the presentation of each paper. Serving as discussion leaders will be Prof. William Kolb, Tulane University; Prof. William Form, Michigan State; Rev. Joseph Fichter, S.J., Loyola of the South; Prof. Thomas Stritch and Dr. Kane of Notre Dame.
Kluckhohn, co-author of How the Soviet System Works, is chairman of the National Research Council’s division of anthropology and psychology. He has been associated with Harvard since 1935 and served as director of its Russian Research Center from 1947 to 1954. He is a former president of the American Anthropological Association.
Williams joined the Cornell faculty in 1946 and became chairman of his department ten years later. During 195758 he was president of the American Sociological Society. He is the author of numerous articles in professional journals, and a co-author of Schools in Transition. He was a visiting professor
(Continued on page 32)
Scholastic Subscription $5 a Year Box 185, Notre Dame, Ind. -
J. PAUL SHEEDY,* hair expert says: "Wildroot tames chose cowlicks!”
•of Ml Sb. Harria BW Rd., WiHitxmniUt, N.Y.
Just a little bit of Wildroot and...WOW!
after every shave
Splash on Old Spice After Shave Lotion. Feel your face wake up and live! So good for your skin... so good for your ego. Brisk as an ocean breeze. Old Spice makes you feel like a new man. Confident. Assured. Relaxed. You know you're at your best

when you top off your shave with Old Spice! }OO phMtai
AFTER SHAVE LOTION by SHULTON
March 20, 1959
CANOE TRIPS
Personal service for wilderness canoe trips into the Quetico-Superior wilderness. Camping equipment, Grumman aluminum canoes and choice food supplies only $6.00 per person per day. For complete information. write Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS—Box 717C, Ely, Minn.
EUROPE
Dublin to die boa Curtain; Africa to Sweden. You’re accompanied—not herded around. College groups. Also shorter trips $724 - $1390.
EUROPE SUMMER TOURS 255 Sequoia (Box 6)	Pasadena, Cal.

during Spring vacation, plan to visit OUR FINE UNIVERSITY SHOP created for today's undergraduates Our University Shop features exclusive styles at moderate prices, in sizes 35 to 42 ...including new items you’ll want for late Spring. And attractive furnishings, too.
Lightweight Dacroh^-and- Worsted Tropical Suits, $60 Washable 70% Dacron, 30% Worsted Suits, $60 Washable Dacron-and-Cotton Poplin Suits, $40
Attractive Tweed Sport Jackets, $45 Printed India Madras Odd Jackets, $37.50 And sport and polo shirtsyOdd Trousers, etc. *Du Pont’s fiber •' ,	J ,	‘
Shots -
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK • CHICAGO • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO .
Sociology Symposium f
(Continued from page 31)
at the University of Hawaii during the < spring semester of 1958.
Father Fitzpatrick, who holds a doctorate from Harvard, is a specialist in industrial sociology. His doctoral dissertation is entitled “The Wall Street Worker.” In addition to his teaching at vl Fordham, he has served as a faculty member and engaged in research in Puerto Rico. He is a former president of the American Catholic Sociological Society.
Hutchison joined the Columbia faculty in 1955 after teaching for eight years at Williams College. Ordained to the Presbyterian ministry, he is the author of We Are Not Divided; Faith, Reason and Existence; and The Two Cities. He has also edited Christian Faith and Social Action.
Berelson is a professor of the be' havioral sciences in the University of -( Chicago’s School of Business and Division of Social Science. He was director . of the Ford Foundation’s behavioral sciences program from 1951 to 1957. He is the author of The Library’s Public and co-author of several works, including The Reader in Public Opinion and Communication.	l-
Bertoncini and Group to Play For K. of C. Dance on April 17
The fourth annual Knights of Columbus Dance will be held on Friday, April 17, in the South Bend Columbus Club from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. The dance will feature Gene Bertoncini and his Orchestra, and will be conducted under the theme of “Columbian Capers.” Miss Frances Rufe, escorted by General Chairman Pat Gorman, will be the reigning queen.
This dance was originally to have taken place Jan. 16 but inclement weather forced a postponement and the new date was set.
Miss Rufe, the queen of the dance, is a student at Saint Mary’s College, and hails from Doylestown, Pa.
Bids will be on sale after the Easter vacation, April 7, 8, and 9, from 7 to 9 pan. in the council offices of Walsh Hall, d The price for a bid will be $3.50.	!
WANT TO SUBSCRIBE?
During the past week, seniors have received - free copies of the national Jesuit magazine America. Any senior interested in starting a subscription to America at the spe- 1 cial student rates may make arrangements with Don Gillies in 327 Walsh. This offer is equally valid for the Ave Maria, published weekly here at Notre Dame.
Subscription rates:
17	weeks.......$1.75
'	34	weeks....... 3.50
52	weeks....... 5.25
The Scholastic
, Sociology Dept, to Take Residence Hall Sampling
The week after Easter vacation will be the starting date for the survey vote to decide the question of permanent hall residences. Originally, it was planned to be a “yes or no” referendum vote but this type would not give the basic reasons for a student voting the way he did. All that is wanted is an appraisal of student opinion. . The survey will continue until the first week in May.
The survey will be conducted by the sociology department and will be set up br so as to give as true a picture as pos-! sible of the opinion of the average student. Census takers will be picked at random and they will circulate among the student body with prepared questionnaires. The questionnaire will be such that it will ask specific questions about the reasons why a student voted ► “yes” or “no.” This will give the committee a picture which will include the . emotional aspect also.
Although it will be a survey vote, a large percentage of the student body will be polled. Even though the opinion of each and every student is not expressed it is felt by the committee that enough ' students will be asked for their vote so that definite conclusions can be drawn for the report to be given the administration at the end of the year.
The committee has been carrying on an intensive educational campaign on WSND and in the individual residence halls. At the present time meetingsare being held in the residence halls by ' members of the committee and class officers to explain the workings of the change in the residence system.
If the permanent hall plan passes the approval of the student body it is not felt that it will come into effect before 1961. .
►	_,	,	I ■
New 'Juggler' Issue Appears Containing Poetry Selections
This week the spring issue of the Juggler will be out. The issue features ( a special poetry section and a review of Dr. Zhivago by Tom Banchoff.
The bulk of the poetry section comes from Phil Gibson, who has submitted various works from his “Senior Thesis,” and George Francis.
Two sophomores will be introduced in this issue. Bill Jungels has a poem and a short story, while classmate Jack Engels contributes an essay on Plato’s Apology.
Issues of the Juggler will be distributed to the subscribers and copies will also be obtainable in the bookstore.
The Technical Review is also out this week. The copies of the Review will be placed in the mailboxes of the engineer- 7 ing and science students while additional copies can be obtained at the Review office.
March 20, 1959
Classified Advertising
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be pbced by centacting Peter Hubrook at the Univenity fken Office in Stanford Hall Basement or 3S7 Baffin Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A minimmu of three lines is necessary and all advertising aanst be presented by Sunday night preceding publication.
Junior Year: in	j
New York |
a
MKWTURB0W
EYES EXAMINED
An vmttaal oee-your ■
CONTACT LENSES
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
that erased without a trace—or,
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND Typewriter Paper
It’s a cinch to "rub out’! typing errors and leave no "clues”, when you use Eaton’s Corrasable Bond Paper. Never smears, never smudges—because Corrasable’s like-magic surface... erases without a trace! (A flick of the wrist and a pencil eraser puts things right!) This fine quality bond paper gives a handsome appearance to all your work. It’s a perfect crime not to use it!
Erasable Corrasable is available In all the weights you might require—from onionskin to heavy bond. In convenient 100-sheet packets and 500-sheet ream boxes. A Berkshire Typewriter Paper, backed by the famous Eaton name.
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Made only by Eaton
EATON PAPER CORPORATION (IS) PITTSFIELD. MASSACHUSETTS
Hack Paqc
by CHARLES BOWEN
The recent discussion of “Notre Dame Spirit” as a result of the happenings at the Marquette game has prompted a lot of discussion and some questions. They are disturbing questions because they seem, to me at least, to lead to conclusions that may take issue violently with what seems to be the prevailing attitudes here at Notre Dame.
The bad sportsmanship of the crowd March 7 was not, honestly speaking, an isolated instance or a momentary reversal of some customary fairness. The fact is outstanding to anyone who is willing to face it squarely that fairness is not a characteristic of the Notre Dame sports audience.
If this seems unnecessarily harsh, consider for a moment that basic opposition between the terms “Notre Dame Spirit” (or “school spirit” to purge it of personal associations) and “Good Sportsmanship.” School spirit is the will to win and is based on loyalty; good sportsmanship is respect for the rules and is based on impartiality. There is no reason why the two cannot be reconciled, but not without some necessary emotional conflicts, because the one is definitely a contradiction of the other. We are urged to “get behind the team 100 per cent,” to “shake down the thunder” during every game, to refuse to give up “though the odds be great or small,” and so forth. Well and good. But if we are also asked to be respectfully silent when a foul or a penalty is called, to shake hands at the end and acknowledge that the best team won, can this be done with anything but a complete emotional about-face? A foul or penalty, after all, is an obstacle to the main er.d of our school spirit: winning the game. The famous Irish will to win, to fight to the last minute and, if need be, the last breath, cannot, without an immediate reversal of attitude, include perfect serenity in the face of an adverse decision by the officials.
There is no difficulty for the athlete in reconciling both standards. He is physically involved in the strenuous activity of the game, and his emotional excitement finds its release in his increased effort. At the same time, he is determined to win within the framework of the rules; he is at least resigned to adverse decisions, whatever momentary flareups they may produce. There is nothing whatever to be ashamed of in the unrestricted, fierce desire to win on the athlete’s part — it is our common heritage from prehistory, and besides, it
34
is obviously the only logical attitude to take. The way to win is to want to. The desire is expressed not in a concentration on the scoreboard, the end of the game, or the next week’s AP rating. Instead it is focused on the immediate play, the very next pass or layup or whatever. Undei- the inspiration of the unrestricted will to win, men have time and again transcended their very limitations and risen to magnificence for a short and shining hour. When the game is over, there is plenty of time for serenity, as the adrenalin drains away.
But what about the spectator, who is necessarily removed from the action in a physical sense? His will to win is not channelled into action and so it does have the final score and the AP rating in view. It has no expression in action, and so it expresses itself in sheer emotion. There is no way for it to end naturally because the game is not followed by physical exhaustion. Instead, it is usually followed by curses and recriminations. Curses and recriminations have their place, I am sure, but not as the aftermath of a contest between ten men none of whom are personally known to the cursers and recriminators, no matter what color their uniforms may be.
I’m not proposing the attitude of an aesthete or a connoisseur, who watches a football game solely for the pleasure of seeing a well-thrown pass, regardless of who throws it. I can’t imagine anything more boring. Some degree of identification with one side is certainly desirable. It answers the same legitimate need that it does in the athlete. This is why cheering is a good thing. It is especially true at the high school level, where the feeling of belonging to the winning side satisfies an important adolescent craving. But as the personality matures it ought to be able to keep a certain distance from complete submersion, just out of respect for itself. The degree of emotional identification with the team on the field, therefore, ought to be less as we grow older.
The immediate answer will be, “But they’re the Irish, they’re our team.” Yes, they are our team, but they are not us. This is the distinction we should by this time have come to make. When identification has reached the point- where a 19- or 20-year-old man can be made to scream, weep, and promise votive offerings during a game and feel miserable for a week if it is lost, it has reached a definitely unhealthy point. An athletic contest is quite simply not worth this
in defense of apathy
kind of involvement on anyone’s part, and nobody who has reached college age without realizing this may consider himself mature. Every year someone writes a letter to the Scholastic during the football season and deplores at length the fact that he caught someone smiling when we were two touchdowns behind. The writer of one such letter a couple of years ago became eloquent on the subject of “becoming one with the screaming thousands chanting the Victory March.” I have remembered his image because it is so chillingly reminiscent of the world of 1984. One. gets the unmistakable impression (as also at the sight of people who stand up with purple faces when a basketball referee blows his whistle and make those horrible windmilling gestures of negation) that the student’s life is supposed to be so void of emotional interest that he must seek it by submerging his personality into that of the single-voiced and single-souled mob at the Stadium or the Fieldhouse.
To lose your sense of detachment, if you are a spectator and are therefore detached, is simply to lose for a moment your personality, your individuality, and youi- humanity. Not only is it unhealthy, but I shouldn’t be at all surprised to find that it’s immoral.
I wonder if the all-out 100 per cent total school spirit that we hear so much about from student pep committees is therefore a good or a necessary part of the Notre Dame experience. Do we come here to dip into a well of learning, or to immerse ourselves in some kind of ocean which will miraculously spew us up again completely formed, and with our individualities somehow restored, at the end of four years? Are we to grow, or are we rather to be grown?
I’m sure that the cheerleaders, pep committees, student sports writers, and the rest, are not trying to urge anybody on to insanity. But you must admit that during the sports season here nobody ever dares to speak out in favor of moderation or even a sense of humor. The cry of “Ivy League,” well calculated to strike terror into the non-conformist heart, would immediately be raised. The next time, however, that anyone feels impelled to declare that the twelfth man has let down the other eleven, I wish he would first ask a few of the questions above, and then decide which side of the “Whole Man” is most in need of education.
The Scholastic
ft

"■•gXAMSt
-^^x.
Obviously, he makes the grade
We don’t mean just at exam time, either. The comfort-conscious guy can tell at a glance that these smart Arrow shirts make warm weather a breeze. The mediumspread collar and fresh patterns are just right, alone or with a casual jacket. Arrow sports shirts come in a variety of fine patterns, priced from $4.00 up.

first in fashion
Come see our new selection of
Arrow Shirts and Sweaters
What more fitting companion for warm weather days than an Arrow shirt! Let us help you choose the perfect sport shirt that’s just right for you.
We have a wide, newselection—sure to make you feel every bit as good as you’ll look.
'GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
Its whats
A PURE WHITE FILTER
IS ONLY THE BEGINNING
OFAWINSTOK
up front
that counts!
The big difference is
FILTER-BLEND
IT HASN'T GOT IT HERE
clear, rich tobaccos specially processed for filter smoking!
There's nothing wishy-washy about Winston. For up front of its modern, pure white filter' is America’s best-liked secret —
filter-BtEND j . That’s what gives Winston its famous flavor. (And after all, that’s the whole idea of smoking!)
filter-blend : means fine tobaccos specially processed for filter smoking, filter-blend j is the real difference between Winston and all other filter cigarettes.
I efts i z E
Winston tastes good like a cigarette should!
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.



