

NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE Entertainment reviews and previews, Out of Bounds and a Coming Distractions pull-out calendar of events. In-depth news and sports coverage. 
Read one for the Gipper! Campus Watch plus Week in Distortion and On Other Campuses. 
Campus Life stories to keep you informed of what's 
· happening on campus. Remember: If you see news happening ... you're probably reading Scholastic! 
If you don't have time to write home every week, let us do it for you: Give your parents a subscription!
~----.-"".~___________________________ _
..,, ___ 

Please send.__ years of Scholastic to: 
Name: -----'------------­
Address: ______________ 
City: ______ State: ___ ZipCode: __ 
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x _ years =, $ ___ 
. Please send form with payment to: Business Manager Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, In 46556 
CONTENTS 

NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 


4 Who's Who 
5 Stealing Home 
6 Cowboys, Indians & Irishmen 

10 The Sound of Gunfire 12 The Right Chemistry 



1:
18 Boston College Preview 

'I 
20 The Intangibles 

2 Editor's Notes 3 Letter to the Editor . 


9 Campus Watch 26 On Other Campuses · 27 Week in Distortion 28 Final Word 
22 Out of Bounds 23 SeaQuest Review 24 Alternative Meaning 
Cover graphic by Brian McDonagh 
1 .


FROM THE MANAGING EDITOR 
My friend Mike graduated last year, but his story deserves preserving in the legends of Notre Dame SYR folklore. That SYR disasters are the subject of this week's cover story makes Mike's anecdote that much better. And like Campus Watch' s Gipper, I too must emphasize that I am· Iiot making this up. 
The night started out well for our hero. The weather was beautiful, the night was warm and clear, the stars were shining, and by midnight Mike was hooking up with his date by the lake. 
One thing led to another as lust and a great deal of alcohol seized control of Mike's supercharged hormones. The passion, however, was short lived. Suddenly, a bright light of enormous intensity shown directly into Mike's face. A strange and unfamiliar voice boomed from behind the light, "Pull your pants up, son." 
Panic and fear seized Mike's beating heart He looked closer at the ominous figure before him. Oh no! A Notre Dame police officer. The officer spoke again, in a dry, scientific, callous, authoritative voice. "It looks to me like you two were about to engage in sexual intercourse." · "Uh ... no ... no Officer ... We weren't ..." Mike looked down at his pants, sagging at his knees. "I mean, uh ... Granted. We were close." 
Mike scrambled to get dressed. His date stood in the shadows quivering, sweat dripping from her forehead. Mike was sober now. He tried to collect his senses. He tried to explain. Mike's pleas fell on deaf ears. 
"I'm sorry, son. I'm going to have to report you to Student Affairs. Do you have your student ID with you?" 
Mike and his date were escorted back to their respective dorms. The night was over, but the fear and the waiting had just begun. Weeks passed and no news. No phone calls. No envelopes from Student Affairs. Nothing. 
Three years later Mike graduated, having successfully escaped his first, last and worst SYR nightmare. For more SYR nightmares; See page 12. 
ALSO IN TIIIS ISSUE ... Mascot controversies and what could happen, but hasn't, to the Fighting Irish mascot ... an investigation into converting ofanother male dorm into a female dorm 
•.. an evaluation of the new trendiness of "Alternative" music ... a story on the experiences and responsiblities of varsity team managers ... and of course our usual weekly features; · 
There will be no issue next week because of Thanksgiving, so enjoy the holiday. And an especially good holiday to both the students who will go to class on Wednesday. 
-Kenneth A. Osgood 
Scholllst/J:isP"bllsludwukly lhrm,glun,I t1u sclwolytare:cc,pt utltnto Scholllst/J: mustb,typeda11d /11clwu t1u wrlltt's """''' during aami11ati0ft a•d t!ACAtiOll ptrlo<U at tlu lbilwrsity of 

addrtu 111<d pnallt 1<1lfflbt1. lbilvtnlly ,twlttrto 1hm,ld biclUIM Notrt Dam,, Nolrt Dam,, IN, 465561111d prlnttdGt The PllJJtn, 
thtiryta,/,t school a•d colltgt. FllCllltymtmbtrs shm,ld utcludt l•c• Milfonl, IN 46542. The n,bscript/o11 ,att is $25.oo/y,ar a,ul 
tlul, dtpartnu.t. AU lttttn ,..,.t bt slgatd. Nafflu will bt back lssuts art m,Qilllbltat $1.25 lcopy. The opi,tlmu ap,,sstd 
withhtld"I'°" ttlflltJt I• Ctrla/1< butal<Ct,. bi Schol,ul/J: art thost oftlu lllllhon IUld tdito,s a11d ,lo •ot Scholllst/J: ,...,.,,. tht right lo ,.j,ct lttltn that art libtlous o, 11tctssarily 1tprtst11t t1u opi,tw•• oftlu tfttirttdilorial bo"1dof 
obsctftt by!Tu lawsoft1u lbiiltdStatt,. Scholllst/J:alsowilltdit Scholllst/J: o, oft1u lbilwrsity ofNot,, Da""', its Qdmbilstta­fo, copyfittutg, gn,mmat/J:al o, -,,,lll11g ,,,,,,. a•d Scholllst/J:tlo•, faculty o,studmts. Editorials •l[Illtd Scholastic ,,p,umt •tylt. BtCllllstofspA<t,Scholllst/J: CAftftotprlnt all ltlltnttctlvtd. 
tlu t>pbiio• of t1u =Jorlty of tlu e:c,cut/w tdllorial boAtd. MAKuscripls artwtlcomt. Allu•wl/J:itudmaltrial•b,com, t1u 

Addtt•• all comspo•dt•ct lo : 
p,ope,ty ofScholastic. · The Ed/to, 

Scholllst/J:Copyright 1993Schowt/J:Magubit. Allright.ttUtt!td. Rtpto­
UIFo,lu•t Ct111t, ductloll /,t wholtorl•parlwithovtwrltttllpnmlnw•lsp,ohib• 
Not,, Damt, IN46556 
/ltd. 



LETTER 

Dear Editor: 

I am compelled to comment on your article ''The Friction ... and the Friendships 
between Notre Dame Women and Saint Mary's Women" for two reasons. First, the 
article focuses only upon the social aspect of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's relations, an 
approach that women from both campuses have nothing better to do than have cat­
fights over Domer boys (Wouldn't they love it if we cared that much?). Furthermore, 
women students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have much more than "friend­
ship" to contribute to one another. This article perpetuates the myth that this social 
"conflict" is important or is the only one occurring on our campuses. Why not write 
an article about "Why Everyone Hates Dillon?" 
If it is true that some of the Notre Dame students quoted in the article represent the pretentious and arrogant attitudes of the rest ofthe campus, you make little effort to · dispel the ignorance that leads them to say that we receive "no benefits from Saint 
Mary's." 

• Anyone who has participated in Saint Mary's foreign study programs (such as Rome or Maynooth, Ireland), or a Social Work, Education or-like myself -a Religious Studies class (which is far more interesting than any offered at Notre Dame) could easily dispute this unfounded claim. These and many other Saint Mary's classes and programs can be worthwhile experiences for all Notre Dame students, and it is unfortunate that your article has scarcely mentioned these facts. 
Sincerely, Maggie O'Shaughnessy 


3 


NEWS 



Father Austin

Who's Who: 
Collins 



A closer look at Notre Dame's nationallyfamous artist, our sculptor-in-residence 
like it the best because it is my most ambi­colony in the south of France for a year. I 
by Carmen Walker tious work yet -it is 24 pieces, and it is came back to Notre Dame as a priest and an 
outdoors; it's not confined bythe studio, and art professor nine years ago. I look on teach­
Every other priest has a car; he has a teal in order to achieve what I wanted I had to ing as a vocation just as I do priesthood." green Chevy pick-up truck. A few work with the environment -it was diffi­Father Collins' art has appeared in 62 priests have dogs; he has a bright green cult, but I think it turned out well." exhibitions all over the country since 1982. parrot, Gunther. He is Father Austin Father Collins grew up in Chicago, where He has three sculptures on campus: Collins, and he is not only a priest of the he attended Notre Dame High School, enter­"Firestone Necklace" at Fisher Hall, "Hom­Congregation ofHoly Cross, but he is also a ing the university as a freshman in 1977. "I age to Nevelson" in front of Howard Hall famous sculptor. and "Cages ofSoweto #13" in front ofDecio The tall pieces ofmetal with parabola-like Hall. Having recently set up a show at tops that stand in a circular pattern in front of Purdue University, his next project is a
''I think there is

Fisher are the work of Father Collins, a large-scale sculpture for a tour that begins in priest, teacher and modem artist. This sculp­a good balance Saint Joseph, Michigan. "I work with ture, known as "Firestone Necklace," por­themes and ideas and sketches. But the work trays a suicide method used to protest op­between changes in the labor_ process and in the pression in South Africa.· The victims assemblage; I don't think 'cause art' is very wrapped themselves in rubber tires filled the priesthood and effective, but l think my. work is abstract with gasoline. Then they expressed their enough that it lets the viewer draw his own discontent with the oppressor by striking a art in my Iife. . meaning from the piece." match. The fire does not kill them -the I enjoy my life at Notre Dame. I think
The priesthood·

fumes from the burning gasoline and rubber there is a good balance between the priest­
do. The sculpture conveys a powerful mes­gives structure, hood and artin my life: Thepriesthood gives 
sage on society and humanity when. it is structure, and art gives room for creativity. I 
understood. and art gives room chose to come back to Notre Dame because 
Clad in worn-out sneakers, comfortable it is the only Holy Cross institution with an blue jeans and a cardigan, freckle-faced for creativity." art department, and I truly love the sense of Austin Collins does not look like your aver­community in the Holy Cross order. Fur­age priest. Indeed, he is not His degree in -Austin Collins thermore, I have excellent colleagues and sociology from Notre Dame enabled him to great students. All aspects of academic life become involved more deeply in social and are· respected here -religion, religious political issues. "Firestone Necklace'' ex­never took an art class until the second questioning, faith and academic excel­emplifies Father Collins' style, and through semester of my senior year. I was afraid I lence." it he displays his views. "Most ofmy work didn't have the talent to do art" As his comfortable attire suggests, A~stin 
has a social orpolitical theme to it Contem~ After receiving his B.A. in sociology, Collins is an open, friendly person. "I am porary art today is concerned with social Father Collins studied theology and ceram­dedicated to art, the priesthood and teaching. issues such as the environment, women and. ics at the University ofCalifornia at Berke­I hope that when people think of me, they oppression. I strive to raise awareness of ley. With the encouragement ofteacher and think of someone who is_ approachable as a these issues through my creations." . artist Peter V ocus, Father Collins went on to t~cherand a minister. I hope that as a priest 
Father Collins' favorite creation, "Steel receive his Masters Degree in fine arts and and professor,! can create an environment Workers' Chapel," is presently on display sculpture at Claremont in California. "Aft.er where people can go both creatively and for a year at the University ofAlabama "I I graduated from Claremont, I lived in an art spiritually." . 
4 


NEWS 
men to Notre Dame. 
1981 and 1982 reflected a sharp jump in women's numbers as Pasquerilla West and East opened. This occurred again around 
1986 with the addition of Siegfried and Knott as well as the conversion of Howard.




Stealing 
The most recent conversion, Pangborn in 1992, brought the percentage of women at Notre Dame to 45 percent. 
According to statistics supplied bydean of admissions Kevin Rooney, that 45 percent figure translates to rough! y 850 women each 


Home 
year. Rooney indicated that it will probably remain fairly steady for at least the next few years. That alone necessitates a housing 

·EvictionnoticesgooutDeceinber 1 asStudentAjfairs change ofsome kind. "An increase in the 
female applicant pool causes a recommen­prepares to convert, the third dorm in eight years dation for changes in housing," said Rooney. That female applicant pool is the Presidents' Council spokesman Chris driving force behind the conversion situa­
·by Christopher Reagan Canzonierio. tion, according to Rooney. 
Still, anyone familiar with housing statis-There is much confusion over NotreD1.·non, will you marry me? Love, tics and admissions trends could have seen Dame's policy regarding women's admis­Zahm." . as early as last year, or even earlier, that sions. Manybelievethatstudentsareadmit­As Notre Dame students sat through the women would need more space at Notre ted ~olely on the basis oftheir qualifications 14th endless TV time out, this sign fluttered Dame come 1994. While dorm conversions across their application: grades, SATs and in the Bentley wind over Notre Dame Sta­are highly personal __ __·-c.;;.ul-ar;..;s-._O_thers believe that quotas 
to _th_e_r_es_i_de_n_ts_i_n-e_x_tr_a_cum 

•dium. Despite a fairly exciting game, the volved, they are driven exist for various mi-cloud of the impending donn conversion by the numbers of ''We recognize noritygroupsoncam­hung over two dorms that felt the need to women being admitted h d• . pus, including express their feminine side that day. andbedswheretheycan t •e · ISrUptJOD a women. 
· Perhaps they were trying' to score points sleep. COnVerSiOn can CaUSe According to ad-for sensitivity... Maybe they really are in A look at the current ministration policy, love, but beyond any doubt, oneofthem is in and past campus popu-in the life ofa student, neitheroftheseiscor­
danger. Zahm is on the short list of dorms lations reveals several rect, but the former is that may receive a sex change on December aspects of this' issue. and thatis always a closerto·thetruththan 
1. Cavanaugh and Sumford also are under First of all, it demon-the latter. "We have close consideration, but, predictably, Stu­strates the trends in factor in our decision-whatwecallagender­dent Affairs maintains that no decision has womeri's admissions · neutral admissions been made and no dorm haspeen completely that have changed this making process. policy. We don't ruled out campus radically since have to account for According toStudent Affairs, acommit­1972. Second, it helps whether an applicant 
tee was established in September to study determine what every--Father Edward ismaleorfemale. We the demographics ofthe campus and deter~ one wants to know: knew this would in-mine which men's dorm or dorms would which dorm is going Malloy, c.s.c. crease the number of need to be co.nverted. This is necessary in pink? Finally, it raises women since it had 
serious questions about how the integration been more difficult for women to gain ad­ber of women at Noire Dame. of women into the campus has been con-mission," said associate director of admis-
Scholastic interviewed Student Affairs ducted by the administration. sions Pat Leonardo. assistant vice-president William Kirk sev­The increase in the number of women in Each year, more and more women apply eral weeks ago, at which time he denied that each class at Notre Dame since 1972 has to Notre Dame. With male and female a decision had been made io convert a donn. been gradual. Conversions and new build-applicants being roughly equal in average "This announcement is in direct contrast to ings are the signposts that mark the steady qualifications, more and more qualified fe­what William Kirk told us when he spoke to increase ofwomen in each class from 125 in male applicants are in the pool, according to HPC last month. He told us no decision had 1972 to 851 in 1993. They also mark the the admissions office. If the most qualified been made to convert any donn," said Hall corresponding decline in the admissio.n of students are to be admitted, changes must be 
order to accommodate the increasing num­----------------­
NOVEMBER 18, 1993 

made to accommodate the housing needs of a changing student body, according to Stu­dent Affairs. A further increase in women's applications is, according to Leonardo, hnot predicted," but it cannot be ruled out: "This is not a science." · 
There are a number of options when it comes to making those changes. 
Upperclassmen can leave campus; dorms can be built; donns can be converted or co­educational housing could be instituted. 
The easiest thing to do is force seniors to leave campus to make room for incoming freshman when necessary. This option is frequently used at such peer institutions as Georgetown University, Northwestern Uni­versity and Boston College. This would be particularly effective in Notre Dame's pre­dicament because women move off campus at a substantially lower rate than men, ac­cording to statistics from these universities. No conversions would be necessary (at least not right now) if women moved off campus as much as men. However, forcing students off campus is not an option for Notre Dame's Office of Student Affairs. 
Buildingdorms is anotheroption. "Build­ing dorms is a viable solution, but it must be planned for in advance. Since there is an immediate need for new women's housing, we do not have an operable time-table for construction of a new hall," said university president Father Edward Malloy, C.S .C. New donns are not in the works and prob­ably will not be for the foreseeable future, since The university's Colloquyfor the Year 
2000 does not include plans or recommen­Malloy. dations for new dorms. What would be worse on an individual 
"The Colloquy emphasizes people, not level, some students could move twice in buildings," said Dr. William Sexton, vice­their time at Notre Dame. While Student president for university relations. But while Affairs has emphasized that the number of Notre Dame can be very proud ofinvesting students who transferred to a hall when in its faculty and its students,. it is inevitable Pangborn was converted is a consideration that without new buildings, people are going in the decision-making process, there is the to have to move. Since Notre Dame is not chance that some students will be relocated 
presently planning for --------------more than once in three new residence halls, or four years. the present arrange-''We don't have to Thus the consider­
mentofstudentsneeds . account ~or· Wh·ether ationthatwillweighon 
to be revised. 11 Student Affairs and the Dorm conversion is 1• t • I board of trustees until 
the choice of the ad-an app lcall IS ma e December 1 include 
ministration. While it or female. We knew which dorm has the solves the need for in-ideal n_umber ofbeds, creased housing for this would increase which dorm has the women,ithasobvious fewest number·· of drawbacks. First and the number of women Pangborn transfers and 
foremost, a large since it had been more which dorm is located 
group of students will on the right quad. be moved, against difficult for women to On the basis of these 
their will, from a place variables, there are that according to all get in." four halls on the pos­university literature, sible conversion list: should be very special -Pat Leonardo C a V a n a u g h ' to them. The unique Morrissey, Zahm and family atmosphere of --------------Stanford. Cavanaugh the dorm and its sections is irrevocably dam-has been rumored to be the one all year, and aged as 'family members' are scattered unfounded stories about .discouraged RA around other halls. "We recognize the dis-applications have circulated. It is the small­ruption a conversion can cause in the life of est of the four, with 233 residents. That may a student, and that is always a factor in our work in Cavanaugh's favor because it pro­decision making process," said Father vides the smallest number of new slots for 


Is anyone offended yet? The_littany of jokes about brawling, drunk and stupid Irishmen could go on for pages. Now, do you have to think twice about what "Fighting Irish" really means? If that offends you, should you buy (another) sweatshirt emblazoned with a nickname earned by accumulating numerous violentpenal­ties in the early days of our proud football traoition? 
More to thepoint, will you have the chance to buy that sweatshirt which slurs an entire nationality? As ethnic nicknames around the country are eliminated by athletic departments under pressure from student and faculty ethnic groups; even the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame cannot avoid scrutiny . 

. Fortunately, the number ofcomplaints_the Notre Dame athletic . department has received is tiny compared to. the outcry at other by Christopher Reagan schools. But as sensitivity becomes the only Constitutionally permissible state-sponsored religion in the United States, it is
What's five miles long and has an IQ of 50?. The Saint Patrick's never to early to be c;oncemed. Day Parade. What's a seven course meal in Ireland? A beer Mascots, some with almost as much tradition and hi~tory as 
and a six pack. How many Irishman do you need in a bar to have a Notre Dame, are being replaced with less controversial images. 
brawl? One. Stanford and Dartmouth replaced their Indians for the Cardinal 
6 
· women. In addition, every time the univer­
sity converts. a male residence hall to a 
female hall, the number ofresidents is di­
minished. However, Cavanaugh is located 
toward the interior of the campus, a desir­
able location for a women's dorm for secu­
rity reasons. 
Zahm is in the middle of the population 
curve with about 243 beds. Itis also closer 
to the interior of campus, but has few other 
pointsofinterest. Compared to Stanford and 
Cavanaugh, Zahm has a relatively high pro­
portion of upperclassmen, and this may be 
its undoing. Since there is a concern about 
moving students in the midst of their four 
years here, it would be best to take the dorm 
with the most upperclassmen because many 
will graduate or move of campus. 
Stanford is the second largest dorm on the 
short list. But converting Stanford would 
involve substantially more displaced stu­
dents than any other dorm, not just because 
it is the largest, but because it boasts the 
highest proportion of freshmen and sopho­
mores, 210 out of 276 residents. 
Morrissey is quite possibly the most at­tractive candidate hall on the conversion list. Ithas the highest number of residents, but it has the smallestrooms, making for an attrac­tive final balance after conversion. .Morrissey is near the D-6 parking lot, and it only has appro]{imately 140 freshmen and sophomores out of 300 students. Most im­portant, however, Morrissey has gone the longest without renovation. Morrissey was the first hall renovated in the most recent 

cycle, whichjustfinished with Grace. Thus, of all the halls on campus, Morrissey is in greatest need of an expensive overhaul. Obviously it is in the best financial interests of the university to spend the money to convertMorrissey to female housinginstead of spending funds to convert another hall in addition to renovating Morrissey. 
Itis evidentthat the planned dorm conver­sion will be a major alteration in the campus matrix, disrupting many students. The ques­tion must be asked, could this have been avoided somehow? The first step in answer­ing thatquestion is to realize that the number of female undergraduates did not increase overnight. The conversion for 1994 was a long time coming. "Even before the Pangborn conversion, admissions and Stu­dent Affairs officials knew that another hall would be necessary to meet the rising tide of female applicants," said Leonardo. 
It is also important to realize that it is possible, and.it might even be probable that this is not the last conversion. Admissions is not an exact science, and even if women's applications don't increase substantially, this conversion will barely be enough to accommodate 1994's. population of women. 
Over the next three years, Notre Dame will graduate classes that are 37 percent, 37 percentand42percentwomenrespectively, acc~ding to university statistics. They will each be replaced by classes of around 45 percentwomen, according to the admissions · office. Transfers can affect the numbers somewhat, but the present trends indicate that larger class size and the higher percent­age of women means at least 300 more women on campus in the fall of 1996. That would require two conversions if .anything but a tower is converted this year: 
Why does this have to happen? Why was Pangborn converted with a paltry 202 beds last year when theadministration could have taken Dillon with 339? Dillon could have changed a three dorm conversion to one of two. Flanner or Grace could make it a one shot deal. The administration has given no accounting of its analysis. 
There is one final option that is perhaps the most intriguing, the most innovative, but the least likely. Coeducational housing, in any number of formats could ameliorate the housing problem significantly. 
To preserve the privacy that is said to be safe-guarded by the parietal system, a floor by floor pattern would be the obvious op­tion. If floors are segregated by sex, the doors could be locked or "detexed" after parietals. ifa floor by floor option is consid­ered, the towers are the obvious place to try this. 
Each of them is large enough to accom­modate all the women that will be added to the student body in the next few years. With the flexibility of changing the number of floors year to year and the size of Flanner and Grace,. dorm conversions could be a thing of the past. 0 


7 


Continued from page 7 
inappropriate at Dartmouth no matter how sincere the motives ofpastand present users because it encourages a one-dimensional, mythological view of the Native American and clouds an examination ofthe real Indian 
·life .., the richness ofaccomplishments, suc­cesses and tragedies embodied in Native American history," said Dorris. 
Whether Indian mascots are offensive or not is open to debate. However, the once­famous Birmingham Blackskins or the Har­risburg Honkys were certainly out of line. Accordingly, the argument goes, just be­cause the Native American constituency is not large enough to make noise people can hear, doesn't mean they should be insulted. Where, then, do the Fighting Irish fit in this ethnic matrix? Notre Dame could fol­low Stanford and the likes and adopt an inoffensive name like the Notre Dame · Shamrocks. Or Notre Dame could follow the lead of the University of Wisconsin,


i! 
! · which in April decided that it may notsched­ule teams with offensive nicknames in the 
future. How they plan to. evade the Illini in 
the Big Ten is unclear. 
According to Notre Dame'sathletic direc­tor Dick Rosenthal, neither scenario is par­ticularly likely; "I respect and honor the great tradition here at Notre Dame, and I also . respect the tradition of other schools. I would want the courtesy we extend to visit­ing teams to be returned," Rosenthal com­mented. He does riot expect the Irish to be barred from other fields because of the na­ture of their nickname. 

"We have not looked at our mascot situa­tion. We have not had any significant que­ries. I think the mascot reflects the proud tradition of an immigrant community com­ing to this country working and prospering," Rosenthal continued.· 
While there has been no large-scale, orga­nized opposition to the Fighting Irish mas­cot, some students do f~l that any ethnic mascot is inappropriate. "Fighting Irish is not an accurate representation. It's not nec­essarily meant to be, but it can be taken the wrong way. Any kind ofethnic mascot will 
never be true because it is built on a stereo­
type," said Aoife Moloney, an Irish citizen 
studying at Notre Dame. 
While objections ofthis nature have valid­ity, the Fighting Irish name is viewed in a positive light. Andy Budzinski, better known as the Leprechaun, witnessed the Irish response to their portrayal at Notre Dame. "When I spent time in Dublin and I referred to Notre Dame, I called the team , 'the Irish.' They'd always correct me, say­
ing, 'the Fighting Irish."' 
If the nicknamds cause for pride in Ire­
land, who are we to disagree? Interestingly 
enough, despite the coast to coast mascot 
controversy, the nation's foremost Irish ori­
ented names-NotreDame's Fighting Irish 
and Boston's Celtics-have been relatively 
controversy free. 
Budzinski said, "Fighting Irish has never 
been about intoxicated people out to pick a 
fight. It's about overcoming obstacles and 
beating the odds, though they be great or 
small." 0 



SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY Size Appetite!!! 


Ii 





NEWS COMMENTARY 


Campus Watch 
BY THE GIPPE.R 

INFORMATION, ATTITUDE AND INNUENDO 
ATTENTION MEATREADS: MORE FOOTBALL Ifyou were there, you.remember it With two minutes and one second remaining on the clock, FSU player Toddrick McIntosh collapsed on the field in alleged agony. The Gipp, ~use he is special, happened to be standing a few feet away from the Semi­noles bench as Irish fans.booed, hissed and screamed at McIntosh's clock-stopping an­tics. On the Gipp's left was a Notre Dame stadium usher. On theGipp'srightstoodthe .FSU team priest. Anyhow, the usherjoined thejeeringfans ·in condemning Toddrick's injury: "Bullsh**!!! °That'sacrockofbu/lsh**! ! !" Naturally, the priest was upset from watching his player get denigrated for fall­irig vic_tim to a pretended injury and he ·looked up at the crowd in dismay. As the us.hercontiriued to cussandswear, the priest chastised him. with fire of G~d in his eyes, "How can you say that to an injuredplayer? Have you no h~? · I thought this was a Catholic school!" · To this the usher replied directly to the · reverend: "Oh yeah? Well, F*** YOU!!!" The Gipp is not. of course, making this up. 
CRIME PAYS 
' 

Speaking of ushers, the Gipp learned a great way to get into a Notre Dame home game without a ticket bribery!!! The Gipp's source bribed an usher $20 per per­son and snuck a grand total ofnine fans into the stadium. Apparently, the Gipp's amigo is not th~ only one who does this. ·The Gipper met a student" who ·sells his tickets for all home·games: He spends the firs~ 20 minutes after kickoff partying.· Because most fans stow their goodies underneath their automobiles during the· game, he feasts: · "I had a great bottle of Dom Perignon and some shrimp cocktail," he 
. told the Gipp, "then I bribedan usher twenty 
bucks to get into the game a few minutes late." . 
That's the great thing about Notre Dame. Where else can you start offyour Saturday partying? Eating other people's unwanted food ... In an empty parking lot... Alone ... 

POETIC JUSTICE Thismay comeas ashock, butsomeNotre 
Dameprofessors engageinillicitticketsales as well. However, the Gipp knows at least one prof who should get her Ph.D. revoked 
on account of a common-sense deficiency. 
Attempting to sell her two GA's to the.high­
est bidder, she called a, ticket· agency in Dallas. [Mistake number one: Have nothing to do With Texas.] The agency offered her $750 total for both tickets_. She readily agreedandsentthetickets C.O.D. However, 
.she did riot f1h in the amount on the C.O.D. form. [Mistakenumber two: Really stupid.] The agency, in all its kind-heartedness, filled in the amount for her. Well, not the amount exactly. Twenty-three-dollars were promptly returned to her doorstep. °[Busi­ness.majors: This is what is calloo a loss.] 

FANATICAL FEMALES 
The Gipp did not spend this past week only cheering for the Irish. He attended a colloquium on '.'Genderand TeacherCourse 
Evaluations." · This round table discussion to determine 
why (orit) women professors receive lower TCE_ scores than their male ·counterparts 
quickly degenerated into a Notte Dame stu­
dent bashing episode. According to these 
disconcerted females, Notre Dame students 
are all privileged elites whose Catholic up­
bringing has taught them only.to memorize 
and obey, and who have no clue what aca­
demic pursuit is all about. [Like this is even 
plausible. They also know how to get drunk 
and vomit.] Furthermore, the teachers said 
students know nothing about 
multiculturalism or internationalism, and 
quoteRushLimbaugh extensively inpapers. 
[Note: this is not a good idea] 
The meeting was supposed to feature a 
member of the . administration, from the 
number-crunching department, who was at 
first happy to discuss TCE statistics. Appar­
ently whatevershehad to say was too contro­
versial, however. Sources say she called a 
shorttimelaterinapanickedfrenzy and said, 
"I can't talk to you anymore." 
I suppose that was better than if she had 
showed up and said, "Our study reveals that 
women are unpopularon all counts, in every­
thing, all the time. ... Oh. By the way, you 
all fired. Have a nice day." · 
WHISTLiNG IN THE DARK Speaking of multiculturalism, the Gipp ad the fortunate opportunity to sit in on Monk's Freshman Seminar class. Holy McDonald's commercial, Batman! It was· like walking into the United Nations. Now, the Gipp can count the number of non-white people from the sum-total ofall ofhis seven semesterson his right hand; butthis class was like the debut of a Spike Lee movie. Could · itbe thatsonieoneis tricking theMonkerinto 
thinking that this is a culturally diverse .university? Or perhaps this is all a "specia 
order." Imagine: Monk: "Yes, I'd like two African Ameri­.cans and a Hispanic please." Would you like fries with that? · 
NEXT WEEK: The Gipp uiunasked!!! 







CAMPUS LIFE 
THESOUND OF GUNFIRE 
Notre Dame student Jim Zink spends a week in Haiti amid gunfire and political upheavel. 
by Katie Redding 
Basically, I went to Haiti because I'm a spoiled brat." This is an strange rea­son for travel, but then, very little about junior Jim Zink' strip to Haiti is not strange. LastJuly, Zink spent a week and a half in Port-au~Prince, Haiti. He was able to go through the help of his hometown parish, which adopted a church in Haiti a few years ago and encourages the students in the parish to visit it. "I just decided I wanted to go,JJ Zink said. "So I called up my pastor at home, and he gave me the number for a hostel in Haiti that is run by a lady from Indiana." The parish provided him with a supply of medicine samples donated by doctors, which he exchanged at the hostel for lodg­ing, fresh water and food. Everything else he paid for himself. The food mostly consisted of beans and rice, goats, rooster and mangoes. According to Zink, "it wasn't too bad. Even goat is pretty good ... a lot like rump roast." The hostel also provided fresh water for Zink to drink and electricity for six hours each day. As if the Haitian culture were not enough, the hostel itself was an experience in mixed cultures. Staying there with Zink were the Christian group Pox Christi, a group of television journalists working on 
. a documentary, and three Haitians, one of whom had had both of his arms broken by the military. 
The streets of Haiti were "an experi~ ence," according to Zink. ''There are pot­

:i 
. holes everywhere, and what would be a two lane road in the United States is a three, or even four, lane road in Haiti," he said. In addition, most of the buildings along the road were shanties. Zink described a house with one wall and the roof missing as "pretty nice by Haitian standards." 
However, the mountains hold the homes of the more privileged members of society. "It's the weirdest thing," Zink said. "You are in Port-au-Prince and people are living 
· in the alleys and cooking goat, and then you go up into the mountains and there are these huge estates " Zink spent many ofhis days visiting vari­ous service organizations. One day he went to a home for the dying where he shaved 

people, clipped their toenails and cut their hair. He also visited an orphanage established by Mother Theresa, where he helped to feed, diaper and take care of the c!tlldren for a day. 

Another day he wentto a different orphan­age thatwas established by the recently ousted President Jean-Bertrand Aristede. Aristede was the first democratically elected leader in Haiti as well as. a Catholic priest, and he worked at this orphanage before he was elected president As a result, the orphanage had been bombed on the occasions of both his election and the coup. "[The orphanage] was just a skeleton," Zink said. "One hundred and forty g_rphans lived in a room about the size of · a couple oftriples put together." 
In addition to his visits to service organiza-

I, 

I I ii 10 SCHOLASTIC 
!11.
i 
Ii:
.,i 

lions, Zink spent much of his time learning 
firsthand about the political upheaval in 
Haiti. For example, he had the opportunity 
to meet with a priest on the government's 
hit list and speak to him about the Haitian 
government. 
However, his other·experiences with the Haitian political system were less positive. On his second night in Haiti, he -heard gunfire on the street outside of the hostel. "There were gunshots every night," he said . . "But the second night they were right out­side my window. They would go on for a few minutes, and then there would be about 
thirty seconds of silence" 
In these intervals, he heard the sounds of 

rooster crows, which he later found out 
were thesymbolof SeLavalas, the political 
party of Aristede. The next morning he 
found out that seven people had died in the 
fighting the night before. Of that night he 
said, "I was scared and sweating, but even~ 
tually I got to the point where I could sleep 
through gunfire." 
Most of Zink's experience with the Hai­

tian military came in the gunfire at night, 
but he did see a military.presence one night 
at a concert given by a voodoo band. "I 
guess they· sing a lot about Aristedet he 
said. "Evidently they've tried to kill the 
singer before, but naturally they weren't 
going to do anything that night, not with a 
wh"ite person there with a video camera." 
_On October 30, exiled President Aristede 

was supposed to go back into power. "Iwas hoping to go back for October break to see this," said Zink. "But now it doesn't look like he will be reinsta_ted. Things are pretty messy, but I have no-fear of going back. I figure it would either be a furious riot or a great-party." 


Asfor American involvement in the situ­ation, Zink said, "I'm tempted to say that the United States should go in militarily and force Aristede back into power. I see the pictures of killings in the papers, and Iknow that it wasn't happening when Aristede was in power." ' 
"But I know the people do not want · United States military help/' he added. "They want help, they need lielp, but they are not helpless. They don't want the United States military to come in." He noted that the last time the United States occupied Haiti, they ended up with a dicta­tor for twenty-nine Y,ears. 
The people and culture of Haiti made an impression on Zink as well. "They are an enchanting people,". he said. "Everything aboutHaiti is mystical." One day Zink went to a river bed where he saw many Haitians washing their clothes. "They were smiling and laughing and all the clothes were laid outto dry on the rocks. It looked like a giant quilt I never knevv laundry could be so fun," he said. ''The people just enjoy life. They love to smile and dance. Overall, they are a lot friendlier than people in the United States, even to me as a stranger and a white person." 
Jim Zink 

A common sight In Haiti, an overpriced street stand. 

f 
·r. 
Jim Zink 
Gerard Jean Just, advisor to exiled President Arlstede 


Seeing the voodoo band also seemed to have been one of the highlights of Zink's cultural experiences in Haiti. ''People here don't understand voodoo," he said. "I learned thatit'sjustalaidbackthing. It'skindofa way of life. The band just played music and the people danced. It was beautiful music ... percussion ... guitars." 
"Ina week and a half you can't do a lot," he admitted. "But some people go down and take pictures ofhow bad it is and eat like kings and take iwo showers a day. I did more good than that Ididn'tkeepmyself totally separate. Not only did I do something, but I experienced Haiti." 
Overall, Zink left with a remarkably posi-' tive impression of Haiti. "Everything about Haiti is ugly, but it's not;" he said. "There is incredible pollution and heaps of trash by the side of the road, but it's still beautiful." He said he expected to go down there and be depressed, but that was not the case. "Actu­ally, fora change you aren'tdetached,andyou can do something about it," he said.· 
"lthink what I learned most about myself was that I'm not as selfish as I thought I was," Zink said. ''For a week and a half I kind of forgot myself. I went down because I'm a spoiledbratpretty much, butlrealized I'm not that bad. of a guy." 


"Haiti is a beautiful place, [ with] beautiful people," he concluded. "All people should go, everyone should go ... you should go." D 
11




CAMPUS LIFE 


Notre Dame students try to find the right elements· in their SYR and formal dates. 
man year SYR. A friend set her up with an which Mark I had asked!" she laughed. 
by Laura Merritt acquaintance named Mark. Unbeknownst to After doing some detective work, Hill both of the women, however, Mark had a discovered that she had indeed been set upIt does not take long for a Notre Dame or roommate named Mark. Hill learned of this with the wrong Mark. "What was I supposed Saint Mary's student to discover that surprising fact later. "I was relieved to have todo?" shesaid.C'Call up and say,'Ohsorry, SYRs and formals are an integral part ofthe a date, but I didn't know how to figure out . I wanted to go with your roommate in­social life on campus. ------------------------.stead?"' Hill went with the Mark These dances, which all seem to ---~~. . _:__~!llij//m whom had been asked and now fall on the same non-football game -•---="'· 1 claims, "We both had a great time 
weekends, allow students to show .'.~ ·· after all, and neither of the Marks

2-,~.~Q~~l·,~.\,~

off handsome suits and sparkling : --· .~,~l1 found out about the mistake." 
1 

dresses while socializing, dancing Junior Kristin Kudlacik found her-and hopefully enjoying them-' a self in a: similar s.ituation freshman selves. year. For her flist SYR, she asked a 
However, SYRs and formals are \. , blind date who readily accepted. not as carefree as they might ap-,\ ~ . .. · Little did Kudlacik know, however, 
•. ·•.... pear; countless and unimaginable .\~ that a few days later, another girl problems potentially could arise at named Kristin called the same guy any given moment. But do not fret, to invite him toherSYRforthesame for couples who have struck it , 1; night. Not realizing that she was a lucky and shared a magical, memo-different Kristin, he thought the call rable night do exist It's just a was intended to formalize plans. matter of having the right chemis-Needless to say, when both try. Kristins called the night of the When planning for a dance, the dances to arrange pick-up times, the firststepisobviouslytofindadate, lucky guy discovered his mistake. but often even this can be a chal-Kudlacik was turned down since the Ienge. other Kristin "was all ready to go." 
Sophomore Jennifer Hill found _ Tomakeupforthemishap, "He took herself in a rather alarming situa-"I finally found him sitting In a corner all alone, me to a fondue parlour the next tion whengettingadateforafresh-eating a hot dog." -Christy Blakey ·_ · night," she explained. 
12 


Finding blind dates is not an uncommon said, "but we hit ifoffvery well." The night away for weeks." But it was worth it, Silva practice for SYRs .and formals, although progressed smoothly, and "we've been best claimed, because he and his date "got to-both parties involved take somewhat of a ·· friends ever since,'' she said. gether" soon thereafter. risk. Forinstance,sophomoreGregMurphy As opposed to going to a dance with a Junior Ryan Martin, expecting µ.o prob-was set up with a blind. date for his SYR this blind.,date, friends can always be asked. lems, invited his girlfriend, who attends an­year. W_hen he went to pick her up for the Freshman Molly Pierman, for example, in-other college, to a recent formal. Unfortu­dance, she was not i1,1 her room. "She had vitedafriendtoarecentformal. "Heshowed nately, his date became intoxicated and goneouttodinnerwithherroommates!"he upontimeandgavemea .-----------------, passed out at, the said. "But shefinally came to the dance at half dozen yellow roses "S Id dance. "Shefell asleep 10:30." · and lilies. He rem(lm-Orne guy to in my lap, and I 
However' the two did not dance or talk. bered yellow was my fa-me that.. m.·y· date couldn'twakeherup!!' 
"We.just kind of stood there until she told vorite color, and I had Martin laughed. "All 
me, 'I think this is too tense; I'd rather go onlymentioneditonce!" had left with night,peoplethoughtl 
home."' Surprisingly, was there alone since 
Murphy and his blind---------------the beer man." they couldn't see her d~te have become · head." friendssincethisrather • -Jon Yarusso Eventually. uncomfortable night. Martin and a friend 
Freshman Jamie .,_____,...,._______...., managed to. get his 
Matthews recently was girlfriend up and outside to the bus. He asked to a guy's formal explained that police, waiting at the door of as a blind date. The fl· ·."-=:-·t· the building, "laughed at me." Martin-said
~~ · 

night w~s awkward, n , , · he received three very apologetic messages
c· 

she claimed, ''because l i_-~ _ ·• ':.. from her on e-mail the following Monday. he didn't speakand was ~ Buteven after obtaining a date, the possi­inebriated by the time . ./ft::._.· 11/ bility of being ditched at the dance sadly we got to the danc_e." , =· / I.. exists. Sophomore Jon Yarusso experi-Frustiated, Matthews .. \· . . ? _-;j '-. . / · f , / 11/.i. enced this somewhat unnerving situation danced by herself, ·:·. . . . . . /;/. // ~;I " last year at his SYR. He and his date, who which apparently an-.· . 'if,, 1//.1/ was a slight acquaintance, were having a gered her date,· for his fj.--· relatively good time until they hit the dance friend announced· that .,.,. floor, whereupon •~she danced away to the she was .ruining hi~ other side ofthe room." Yarusso continued night.. "[The friend] to dance, but later found his date and sug­then offered to pay me gested that they go back to the party room. to dancewith mydate!" She asked ifthey could first visit a friend shelaughed. Matthews·. who lived in the dorm. They went to his 
and her date now pre-._____________________....... room, and although he wa,s not there, "a 
tend this night never occurred. she said. MoI"eOver,hecoulddance,"which couple was making out in the comer, and a 
Sophomore Theo Helm also experienced was a plus." guy was sitting at a table, surrounded by a frustrating blind date. He went to go pick Sophomore Gene Silva, who in_vited a· thirty beer bottl~. " "He was taking the her up and "she was wearing the world's friend to an SYR last year, had a fantastic backwash from each of them,''.expl~ned biggestdress. Shelooked-alotlike Barney,'' time as well. ·•we had a summer beach Yarusso, " and pouring it into a bottle in his said Helm. Upon meeting him, "one of the. :theme,'' he explained, "and somebody in rny hand. 'I'm trying to make a beer,' he said. first things she said was [that I should] cut section had the supremely good idea ofpro-My date proceeded to m~e. conversation my hair because she didn't.like long hair." curing a kiddie pool and putting it in one of with him." Tocontinuethetrendoftheeveniilg,Helm's · our party rooms -filled with -water, of A bored Yarusso went. to the bathroom, date left the dance wi~ another person's · course." Halfway through the evening, and when he retur:(!.~ "some guy told me blind date. Everoptiqiistic, Helm noted that party-goers decided to take advantageofthe ·that my date had left with the beer man.". "it was actuaily pretty good ~use then I pool, "which led to the first great flood of Yarusso never saw her again. didn't have to take her home." · 1993/' Silvasaidthatafter,thegirlsleft,"my · Bill Merritt, a senior, also found himself 
However, not all blind dates are frighten-friends and I spent all µight trying to drain in a rather odd situation last year. His SYR ing experiences. Senior·Stephanie Gallo the room while avoiding being found outby date.was an acquaintance, and the couple was set up with a blind date for her SYR our RA." ·Even after the wet carpeting was was enjoying thedance until"sheleft to take freshman year. "It was a random thing,'' she taken outside to dry, &'the stench· didn't go a smoke.outside." Merrittwaitedawhile,but 
13 


when she did not return, he began to check all exits of the dorm. "I couldn't find her; I thoughtmydatehadditchedme!" Giving up the search, he continued to party and even tu­ally went to bed. "Meanwhile, my date must proached, Blakey developed bronchitis and acute pneumonia. Whenshecalledtocancel the day before the dance, her date simply would not let her do so. "Hetold me I should call the next day ifI decided I really couldn't 

have looking for me, ---------------go; otherwise, he 
thinkingiditchedher," "We were sitting,· wouldpickmeupat7 Merritt said, because p.m." eventuallyshearrrived and as I was The following 
at his room, angry and day, Blakey felt no inneedofhercoat. The hoIdin g his rat, [my better and repeatedly door, however, was called her date, but no locked, and he did not date] began tO pUt one answered. So he hear her knocking. She arrived at 7 p.m. as gothisroomkeyfrom the moves on me. planned, wearing a an RA, and after seeing H b I smile and carrying a Merritt in bed, went to e eW OIl IDY frozen, dead poinset­her dorm and began neek." tia. Blakey, who was leaving messages on furious, rebelled by his answering ma--Christy Blakey wearingalong,black, 
chine. 
"When I woke up the next morning, I had morethantwenty,"Merrittsaid. "Sheswore and called me name after name after name." Adininghallemployeeatthetime,sheeven threatened, "Next time you get food from me, I'll spit in it." The two have not spoken since this rather memorable event. 
At a recent formal, sophomore Christy Blakey also experienced being ditched. Her date told her he was going to the bathroom, 

!I 
but when he had not returned after fifteen minutes, Blakey began to search for him. "I finally found him sitting in a comer all alone, 

ii
I eating a hot dog," she said. 
But that was not the only disastrous dance Blakey has had. In fact, she may hold the record for undergoing the most disasters. Last year, she was invited toa friend's SYR, having no idea that he was romantically interested in her. "Hehad a petrat, which he made me hold," she explained. "We were sitting on the couch, and as I was holding this rat, he began to put the moves on me. He blew on my neck," she said. 
To top if off, the rat then urinated on her dress, which was borrowed from a friend. The evening ended with Blakey's date beg­ging her, "One little kiss ... Just one little kiss ... " Now, the two talk occasionally, al­though never alone. 
Yet that was still not the end of Blakey's list ofhellish dances. Also last year, she was asked to an SYR a month and a half in advance by a guy who told her, "I don't · know any other girls." As the dance ap­
14 
terrifically ugly dress. "The only things showing were my head and hands," she said. "I didn't wear any makeup, either." 

Her date took her.to dinner, Blakey re­called, "and tried to impress me with his money. He paid for two other couples and tried to make me eat more than soup, which was all I wanted." The evening was worsened further when they could not find their way back to campus. "He was driving, but when I tried to help him, he told me that he wasn't used to taking direc­tions from a woman," Blakey said. Then, at the dance, her date tried to make her drink, so she left. It was only 10 p.m., and they have not spoken since. 
Though .Blakey might never have a per­fect dances, they do in­deed occur on this cam­pus. Junior Greg Werner, for example, invited his girlfriend from home to a sopho­more formal. They went to a great restau­rant and danced for hours. "It was one of the best times I've had at Notre Dame. It was also nice to share a Notre Dame experience with my girlfriend," he said. 

· Oftentimes, the best dances are those at which disaster occurs but then leads to a 
favorable consequence. Senior Jonathan Walsh remembers his first freshman SYR with strong, mixed feelings. He explained thateveryonewasenjoyingthemselvesuntil his roommate received a telephone call from . home. He was told that a friend from high 
. school had just been killed in a car accident "My roommate was a thousand miles from home,sotheonlythingforhimtodowasto open up to me," Walsh said; "This brought us tremendously close, and we are still the closest of friends." This SYR was monu­mental for Walsh because, "it was the best danceieverwentto,andithadnothingtodo with the dance." · 
Like the study of chemistry, SYRs and formalsaremerelyamatterofexperimenta­tion. The results may occur as predicted, but lurkingsurprisescouldleadtochaos. Either way, dance-goers are sure to receive an education. D 

BRUNO'S 
PIZZA 
. . ' 
.,., ,.,. 
Bruno's North Bruno's South 
Open for carry.out and delivery only. Accepting reservations on weekends. One 18 inch 2-item pizza for $15. Available for private parties and banquets. One 14 inch 2-item pizza for $10. Open at 10:00 a.m. on football Saturdays. 
Or one 12 inch 1-item pizza for $5.70. 2610 Prairie Avenue Prices do not include tax. 
288-3320 . 115 N. 31 Gust North of campus) 
273-3890 

"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We now deliver our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 


After The Game Order . 

CHINESE FAST FOOD 
Right Near Campus 525 N. ~ddy ~t. 232-11777 
We Deliver to Notre Dame· $6.00 Minimum/ $1.00 service charge. for orders under $15.00 
Mon. thru Thurs. 11:00 am -9:00 pm Fri. & Sat. 11:00 ain -10:00 pm 
1­
/ 


Send information for your event to: Jenny Tate, Coining Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call 631-7569. 
' 


Thursday 
Visiting Artists Lecture Serles: "Art Lecture on Photography," JoAnn Callis, California In.rutute of the Arts, 7:30 p.m., 
Annenberg Auditorium. Movie: "An Affair to Remember," 8:00 & 
10:30 p.m., Montgomery Theater, Lafortune,$. Acoustic Cafe: 9:00-12:00 p.m., Lafortune. Comedy / Political Commentary: "Who Shot JFK," Bob Harris, , 7:30 p.m., Room 101 DeBartolo. 


~ 
B 
'I\ 
J, 


,omen vs. Czechslovakia, 2:00 p.m., ACC. 
Lecture: 'The Assasination of JFK," Jack Gordon, 8:00 p.m., O'Laughlin Audito­rium, SMC. Fall Concert: Notre Dame Chorale, 8:00 p.m., Sacred Heart Basilica. 
uesday 23 
Lecture: '"The Image of Spain Abroad: The History of a Stereotype," Jose Varela . Ortega, 12:30 p.m., C-103,Hesburgh Center. Film: "Far From Poland" 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2. African Film Fall Festival: "Sango Malo: The Village Teacher," by Bassck ba Kobhio, 7:00 p.m., Room 140 DeBartolo. Campus Bible Study: 7:00 p.m., Badin Conference Room. 
i­i  SPORTS Will The Irish Soar ...  
Boston College will be looking to spoil Notre Dame's quest for the national crown when the two teams collide in Saturday's game  

by Warren Junium 
After the appropriately billed "game of the year," the Notre Dame Fighting Irish look to continue their national champi­onship quest this Saturday when they face the Eagles of Boston College. "Boston College has won its last seven [games], and I remember being scared to death last year when they came in here unbeaten and had just beaten Penn State," said Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz. Last season the undefeated Eagles came into Notre Dame Stadium ranked number nine, but the number eight Irish sent them reeling with 54-7 defeat. "What happened last year was kind of a freaky thing. They caught us on the wrong day," said coach Holtz. The last meeting marked the most points ever scored by Notre Dame against a ranked team and the biggest margin of victory over a ranked opponent in 26 years. It was last accomplished against USC in 1966 with a score of 51-0. "We couldn't establish a pat­tern in what we wanted to do, and that made our play calling spo­radic," Boston College head coach Tom Coughlin said. "The result was a poor football game on our part." The Eagles return to Notre Dame Stadium this Saturday, but this time the Irish come into this game ranked number one while­Boston Colleg'eisranked twenty-first Just as the Irish did last year, the Eagles would love to be the spoiler and end Notre Dame's journey to their twelfth national championship. 


The Irish are coming off a more than memorable game over previously first-ranked Florida State. The Irish dis-. 
Senior fullback Darnell Campbell lost pelled any pessimism that said only one yard on 72 rushing attempts last season. 
Notre Dame did not deserve the number two ranking when they handed FSU their first defeat of the season with a 31-24 victory atNotreDame Stadium. This victory brought the Irish to the top of the 

polls, giving them their first number one 
ranking since 1990, and it also gave them 
the nation's longest winning streak at seventeen: 
"I'm concerned about our team coming back emotionally this week. Last year, Boston College hit us at the wrong time, and everything went well forus. I don't expect that to happen agajn," said coach Holtz. 
Boston College played the Uni­versity of Pittsburgh last week at Panther Stadium. The Eagles quickly dismissed the Panthers by a score of 33-0. 
After their successful season last year, Boston College looked to im­prove its overall record of8-3-1, but it appeared at the beginning of this season thatitwouldnothappen. The Eagles opened the year with two defeats. In the season opener BC was handed a 23-7 defeat by cur­rently third-ranked Miami. The Eagles then traveled to Northwest­ern, where they were handed a shocking 22-21 defeat by the Wild­cats. 
With the early losses behind them, the Eagles went on their win­ning ways. T~ey cruised to seven consecu­tive victories including a come from behind victory over Syracuse in the Carrier Dome 

: and a 66-14 thrashing of Temple. . 
I .
I In the latter part of the season, Boston
I . 
. College has come together as a team and will prove to be a tough foe for the Irish. The Eagle offense is what the Irish will have to shut down early in order to control the BC squad. The Eagles entered the Pitt game with the fifth highest total offensive output ­in major college football, with 501.6 yards per game. The Eagle offense has generated 3A12 yards and 261 points in the last six games all of which have been BC victories. Coach Tom Coughlin's blitzkrieg-like at­tack rolled up 617 yards of offense against Virginia· Tech, the_ most in a single game 
' since Doug Flutie led the Eagle attack against Miami in 1984. 
The Boston College offense is led by senior quarterback Glenn Foley. Foley has started 43. consecutive BC games with a career record of 23-18-1 coming into the clash with the Irish this Saturday. In the last six Eagle victories, Foley has accounted for 1,864 yards of aerial of­fense, completing 107 of 162 passes. He has _thrown 16 touchdown -passes and 
: has ·been intercepted just 
• twice in the six: game span. Foley had the best day of 
: his collegiate· career two weeks ago against Virginia Tech in the Eagles 48-34 · conference win over the • Hokies. Foley comple.ted : 21 of 29 passes for 448 · yards and_ three touch­downs. He also did not . throw any interceptions and i was not sacked during the i contest. His impressive ac­. tions earned him the Big 
East Offensive Player of ithe Week and the ECAC !offensive Player of the 1Week. 
Foley is also helped. on 

the offensive side· of the :ball by senior fullback !Darnell Campbell. !Campbell has amassed 17 

touchdowns in the Eagles' eight games, making him the number one scorer in major college football to date this season. He is . averaging 95.4 yards per game, ranking him the fifth best in the Big East and number 23 
in all of Division I-A football. 
· The game of the season for Campbell was 
the Boston College victory against Rutgers. 
He ran for 161 yards on 27 carries, and he 
pulled in a six-yard touchdown pass from 
Foley to give the Eagles what would prove to 
be the game's winning points. Because of 
his tremendous play in the Eagle victory, 
Campbell was honored with the ECAC Of­
fensive Player of the Week. 
Also adding to the Eagles offense is junior 
tight end Pete Mitchell. Mitchell is a Foot­
ball News first team All-America who led 
the Eagles with 40 receptions a year ago. 
This season Mitchell already has 43 catches 
for 539 yards and three scores. 
These three players are the bulk of the Boston College offensive attack. There are many supporting members but Foley, Campbell and Mitchell are the ones to watch out for. If they have a good day the Irish could be in troub1e. However, if they are stopped early Notre Dame should have little trouble with the.BC offense. 
Boston College's offense is their strong point while the defense is definitely the Achilles heel of the Eagles. Throughout the season they have been ineffective.against a strong running and passing game. The Eagles have allowed an average of300 total offensive yards per game this season and have allowed the opponents to control the ball well over half of the game. BC has allowed almost 200 yards rushing per game and against the Notre Dame running game, this number could possibly be doubled. With the Irish rushing explosion against 
• • • Past The Eagles ? 
Florida State, who knows what will happen against BC? 
"I told our players they had until three o'clock _Monday when we had out team meet­ing to enjoy the Florida State win. Then it was history. We 
__ approach the Boston College game just like we do any other football game. It's the last home game for the seniors, and it's going to be up to them to rise to the occasion and make the rest of the players understand what that means," said Holtz. 
Complacency. has hurt many top ranked teams. Ifthe. Irish come into this game thinking it will be a cakewalk, they may get burned. But if they come into the game pre­pared in the usual Holtz style and under the tutelage of the seniors, the Irish should be victorious. With a victory over Boston College, the Irish will head into New Years' Day with thoughts of a na­tional championship on their mind. . 


SPORTS 

The Intangibles 
Notre Dame student managers arean integral but unseen part ofIrish athletics 
by Bob Belden 
A lot of responsibility comes with being a member of a team. You are counted on to deliver the goods and give 100 percent effort at all times. Excuses are not accept­able; you either come prepared to get the work done, or find a better way to spend your time. Notre Dame students who are not varsity athletes but still yearn to fulfill that team aspectwhile in school have many avenues to pursue, including various interhali athletics and campus wide clubs. However, there are a handful of students who have a much stronger desire to be where the real action is, in the thick of varsity athletics as amanager. "Being a part of Notre Dame athletics is 
simply a great experi­ence," said sophomore and first year manager Lisa Giannuzzi. "The time spent on the football field during the game is one ofthe most rewarding moments of being a man­ager. Also, when fans, alumni, andstudents walk through the locker room during game prep, I real­izehow lucky Iam to have the opportunity to be a part ofthe action/' 
There are many ben­efits to being an integral part of a varsity team, but the required amount of work is nothing to shake a stick at The time com­mitment is heavy to say 

Football managers are not only expected to paint.helmets, but a 
Holtz is given to junior
select few are assigned to following Lou. Holtz during games with his 
managers, who had better
headset cords and taking down any notes he wants. · 
the least. Managers quickly learn to budget 
their time and work around their managing 
schedules. 
At times the managers will find them­
selves putting in late night hours to make sure everything is properly in order and readyfortheteams. OneofGiannuzzi'sjobs is to "buff' the golden helmets for game day by smoothing out any rough spots that have been incurred in the course of battle. This can prove to be a difficult task; recall Bryant . Young war-tom .helmet when television camera caught him in a moment of respite. 
In addition to the famed buffingandpaint­
ing, the managers secure any loose parts•in. 
·the players helmets and cleats before putting 
them in the lockers. Managers·also need to 
hang up the game uniforms and scrape any. 
mud ordirt off the cleats beforeplacing them · in the lockers. For a home game the entire process takes approximately eight or nine hours! . 

During the week, first year managers workbetween one and three sports practices for various varsity squads. Most pf the managers will work two orthree home foot­ball games during the season, which is the highlight of first year students responsibili­ties. 
There are a number of game assignmen~ that managers are required to fulfill while catching glimpses of the action. Certain managers hold the first-d~wn markers, keep thefootballs cleanandreadyfor thereferees, act as timers or carry the cords for the coaches. 
The current co-head basketball trainer; 
RJ. Nicolosi, recalled his efforts on the sidelines · during football games. 
"While carrying the. cords I;d need to pay at­tention that the players wouldn'tallbegin to stand on them; in which event I'd have to yank them out from beneath them," said Nicolosi. "Also, in order to keep up with my as-' signed coach, .I'd be forced to nudge my way through players twice my size in full pads." 
· n•sobviouslyessential thatmanagers working the sidelines keep on their toes~ The assignment to 
en sg 

hol~ the cords for Lou be sharp. Nicolosi recalled his experiences with Coach Holtz vividly. 

"He is so intense that everything has to be just right There is no daydreaming when dealing with the coach," said Nicolosi. 
Following the managers• first year in which they w-0rk_ for all_ the varsity squads, they are cut down to nineteen following the Blue and Gold game. 
After returning to work the 

-fall practices, these nineteen managers are ranked. The top rated managerbecomes the head football manager and is usually joined by the second and third manager. The fourth and fifth managers become the heads of men's basketball, while the eleven other managers are di­vided up among the various other varsity sports. · Now the manager of the bas­ketball squad, Nicolosi has been delegated a great deal of respon­sibility. He is in charge oftravel and food arrangements for the · team, as well as organizing the money on the road; During 
games Nicolosi sits behind the bench, where he is in close contact with head coach John 
-MacLeod. His requirements during the game include taking notes that MacLeod asks him to record, and keeping statistics on the action. 
..Being involved is the biggest benefit of being a manager,•~ said Nicolosi. Thereare somenicefringe benefits that go 

along with being a manager as well. We've all seen the managers strutting around cam­pus in their jackets that are provided to them. They are also the recipients of football and basketball tickets. 
Occasionally, being so close to all of the action will provide managers with memo-_ rable moments.· Nicolosi was waiting for a rainy and miserable practice to end one 
afternoon, when the late "Moose" Krause pulled up in his big Cadillac. He proceeded to invite Nicolosi out of the cold to relax in style. The two spoke for a while and exchanged some jokes, an experience that Nicolosi found rewarding. 
The moments like these are why Notre Dame managers put in the long hours and heavy workload. They have found the spirit of Notre Dame athletics to be as uplifting as legend claims. They relish their roles as essential pieces in the varsity program. 
"Expectations are high, but the rewards are definitely worth it," · said Nicolosi. . 

FEMALE,ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 

Sarah Riley: Riley, a junior from Hinsdale,Il.,finished fourth in the Regional DistrictlV women's cross country meetthis pastSaturday. Riley finished with an overall time of 18:10.4, leading the Irish to asecondplacefinish at the meet, thatqualifies the women's team for the NCAA championships for the first time ever. 
MALE ATHLETE .OF THE WEEK 


Mike McWilliams: McWilliams, a senior from Grove City, PA, finished third overall in the District IV Championships this past Saturday in Bloomington,IN. McWilliams finished first for the Irish leading the men to the team title, that qualifies them for the NCAA cross country championships on Friday, November 22. 
21


REVIEW & PREVIEW 
by Miranda C. Sanford 
Biblical Diversity 
A new form of the Bible, specifically the Old Testament, is now available. The target audience for this interesting creation is the inner-city black population. For $14.95 anyone can own the new book, Black Bible Chronicles. That's right Possessing this book means readers can thrill themselves with the adventures of a street wise religion. The novel opens with such thrilling prose as: "Now when the almighty was first down with the program, He made the heavens and the earth. The earth was a fashion misfit, being so uncool and dark, but the Spirit of the Almighty came down real tough, so that he simply said 'Lighten up.' and the light was right on time." 
. Conservative Christians, angered by the book, do not consider calling the serpent "one bad dude, one of the baddest" or Eve "the sister" reverent enough. 
For all of its disconcerting content and discrepancies from the King James version, this format may apply better to other people's lives. If not, people can simply read it and smile at the vibrancy of the language. 
Princely Ballet Itseems that present day arts are turning to the popular culture to stay afloat as the Jeoffrey Ballet, a travelling company, incor­porates rock and pop music in its most recent productions. Prince provided the inspira­tion for their show. This classical ballet troupe bonded with a man known for such riveting tunes as "Cream" and "Purple Rain." The dance is set to the "infectious beat" of Prince's most popular songs.like "The Beautiful Ones." Dancers dress the part in "white sparkly costumes" and come alive as they "sway, pirouette, leap and even 
hip-hop to Prince's seductive beat" This makes for a great cultural experience: a bunch of disco balls running around to the now androgynous person's "seductive beat" 
Career Plunges 
It is always very interesting to follow various celebrity career paths and see how one phase progresses to the next Olympic diver Greg Louganis discussed his future · plans in a recent People magazine. He has gone from diver to Speedo promoter to com­mentator to ... off-Broadway actor. That's right, he's in New Yorlc to make his debut in Jefferey, a comedy about gay men in the age of AIDS. Louganis will enter the stage in familiar attire, a bikini. The comical twist is that he is not entering the stage from a pool, but rather a bed full of"writing men." This tended to make me wonder about a few things, which I'll never find out for sure because he stated "I've always kept my private life private." 
Strong Sponsors 
The upcoming Commonwealth Games in Victoria, Canada, will feature 66 nations, 11 days ·of events and one official condom. That's right, prophylactics manufactured by Ortho McNeil Co. will be promoted as the condom of the games; The manufacturer will have to pay up to $200,000 for "official product designation." The logo ofthe games will be emblazoned on the packaging and made available to the athletes. Games spokesperson Amy Hartsimply stated, "We realize some of the athletes are young ..• we believe condom use is a matter of personal choice." Let the games begin! 
Movie Mania 
On November's movie docket, there are a bunch of gems (seriously) that might enter­tain better and posses more diversity than the recent Free Willy and Robo Cop 3 floating around. Remains ofthe Day stars Anthony Hopkins and Emma Thompson in dramatic, powerful roles. This movie's intrigue results from the multiple story lines present. Lost love, Nazi regimes and others are all con­tained in the long -2 and a half hours ­film time. Very involved but very good. 

The Three Musketeers also looks interest­ing. · At first glance I thought it was another attempt at humor and farce using big names. This is a very serious project though and should rival Kevin Costner's Robin Hood. Charlie Sheen, Kiefer Sutherland and other stars present good, clean entertainment 
Carlito' s Way stars Al Pacino in another mafia oriented movie. This one succeed in breaking, or rather transcending, the tradi­tional "bang-bang, shoot 'em up" movie mold. I can not remember seeing Pacino in a bad movie, and he transfers his skill and energy to the screen once again producing a lasting impression. · 
Up and Coming 

There are an inveritable plethora ofenter­tainment choices coming up this holiday season. One eye-catcher is singer­songwriter Barry Manilow's play based on his hit song Copacabana. Fortunately Manilow will not be performing in the pro­duction; he wants to dabble as a producer. But he said the show will be amazing, and he'll be there as often as possible, even if it is in back selling ice cream. 
Locally, the Nutcracker Suite will be performed at Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Au­ditorium December U-13 ... Billy Joel at the Rosemont Horizon on November 19 ... Jesus Jones will be at the Aragon Ballroom in Chicago on the 30th and Janet Jackson _;;. goo4 luck finding tickets -at the Rosemont Horizon on December 1. ~ 

ENTERTAINMENT 

by Jose~ Evans 

It's a dud!" · So proclaims a surpnsed Commander Jonathon Ford (played by Don Franklin), as an attacking torpedo clangs harmlessly against the shell of the high-tech submarine featured in the new NBC series, SeaQuest. He might as well have been talking about the show. Big on money, big on stars and big on ·image, this high-stakes entry into the fall television lineup forgets to write itself a script, among other problems, and the result is guaranteed toinduce nausea and send you running for the remote.control. Here's the premise ofthe show: Itis the 21 century, and humankind has the conquered the new"final frontier," in this case, the sea. People have colonized the world's oceans, and the Sea Quest crew has been sent out as guardian of this new world. This crew is supposedly the "best of the best," selected· for this mission based on their intelligence, strength, personal drive, etc., etc. Sound interesting? It isn't. Sound familiar? It certainly is. Welcome to Star Trek, under­water. · While not colossally bad, this show is a major disappointment considering the mas­sive hype it generated before going on the air. Starring seasoned movie actor Roy Scheider (Jaws and 2010) and produced by Steven Spielberg with a multimillion dollar budget per episode, it promised to be quite a spectacle-and it certainly is. The problem is that there is little but spectacle. The producers have thrown in a numberof nifty technological devices that will suppos­ed!y be used in the future, and a few are new ideas, but the majority are simply lifted from other science fiction works. Virtual reality is played up to a large extent, with interac­tive movies and probes that allow someone to explore the sea without ever leaving their chair in the submarine. The sets are impres­sive, abounding in video screens and com­puter terminals bathed in a constant deep-blue light. 
All this is modestly entertaining, but no more so than the average PBS special on "exciting new developments in technol­ogy." 
Somewhat less interesting to watch ~s the cast. Overacting to the hilt, tliey'somehow . manage to make even less out of an already atrocious.script Especially unwatchable is Stephanie Beacham as Dr. Westphalen, the ship's physician, whose completely con­trived British accent makes her appear more ludicrous than sophisticated. The rest of the cast also does a fine job ofmishandling their simple stock characters, looking unsure of how to handle the stupid situations into which they are put The result is that they either stumble through the motions or tum them into a grand soliliquoy. 
One who looks especially lost is Royce D'Applegare,referiedtoas"Chief''bymost of the others. When he does find his place, the· script has him offering gems such as "slicker than an armadillo on a west Texas highway," (Ihadtotiemyselfupatthispoint in order to keep from smashing in the TV set) 
Scheider, the star of the series, is unim­pressive, but at least he doesn't make you want to take up arms against your set. Be­sides; he really has no opportunities to be impressive, given the show's lame storylines. The best of whole lot would 
probably be Darwin, the dolphin who swims 
around the sub's interior, and that only be­
cause he isn'tforced to utter lines like: "He's 
not a pet, really-he's more of a friend." 
(Oh -it's Free Willy 2!) 
The writing, as mentioned before, is sim­
ply awful. The comedy comes off flat and 
unfunny, the action scenes are less tense 
than the fourth quarter ofNotre Dame -Pitt 
football game, and the drama is on a level with your average insurance commercial. In a recent episode, two young kids were aboard the ship and provided therip-roruing . comic relief that had me on the floor -:­slamming my h~d against the carpet in 
agony. 
. Watch these wacky tykes scribble on the 
captain's navigation charts. Ho, ho, ho. See 
them sit in the captain's chair -hey you 
can'tdo that! Ha, ha, ha. Oh, look. They've 
learned to play the shell game-watch them 
teach ole "Chief'' a lesson or two. Boy they 
sure showed him up! Look over there, Chief 
-whoah! There he goes, pushed into the 
pool! HAR, HAR, HAR!. HILARIOUS 
COMEDY! 
And if that isn't enough, how about the 
girl rescued by SeaQuest after surviving 
three years without her parents? "Nana 
always told us as long as we stayed together 
we'd be all right," she cries, as the violins 
begin to swell in the background. After 
hearing this, my roommate probably de­
scribed best this unoriginal and completely 
formulaic show by asking, "Would you like 
a cracker to go with your cheese?" No, 
thanks. I'll pass. 
Hey,ifyouwanttoseeStarTrekunderwa­
ter, my advice is: jump in a pool and tum on 
the "Next Generation!" .. 
23 



ENTERTAINMENT 
Alternative Meaning: Grunge or Pop? 
by Miranda C. Sanford 
Radical changes in the popular style of music today point to alternative music as the sound of the 90's. For years the "alternative scene" has preached a form of musical morality and complete aver­sion to corporate music and its facets. Recently, this stand changed under the influences of big business and its scheming. t From systematic down-casting of ~ societal mores, groups that reject com­mercial values of mainstream pop thrive. Recently questions arose con­cerning the originality of these groups and whether the proclaimed images are accurate or merely fabricated images. A Time magazine feature article communicated people's, critic's and even group's thoughts about whether "grunge" groups remain true to their original image of rebellion against so­ciety or are succumbing to fundamen­tal desires of fame and greed. The Sub-Pop record label was cre­ated to provide broader musical styles for release. After a few unique albums were released, a music revolution was em­braced by America's youth. Called "grunge," this music gained national atten­tion after some different events. Perry Farrell, the lead singer for Pomo for Pyros, began the Lollapalooza tour in 1991. A few purposes were incorporated to create a c~mcert event which was beneficial to all connected. Tours included well known musicians and exposed regional talents to the national limelight. Unconventional spe­cial interest groups, like the Libertarian party, found support from mass audiences suited to their doctrines. Most importantly, Farrell wanted to end corporate styles of concert tours: major stars promoting re­cently released albums. 

The first tour created quite a stir even· though ticket sales were paltry when com­pared to concurrent concerts. Some groups on the founding tour were Jane, s Addiction, Living Colour and Nirvana. The 1992 tour which included Red Hot Chili Peppers, Pearl Jam and Soundgarden marked a change when the extensive national tour raked in 
record ticket sales but still maintained its alternative aura. The 1993 tour was very different from the original. By far the most successful tour, attendance numbers blew away preceding audiences. 
However, its success came for all of the 
. wrong reasons. No longer the unique and alternative scene, it had become "trendy" in mainstream pop culture. According to Roll­ing Stone, a large percentage of ticket sales rose out of the 12-16 and 25-30 year old age ranges, a far cry from the first tour audiences concentrated with 17-23 year olds. 
Time magazine printed opinions of some "die-hards" who had attended all three tours. Observers stated every year the atmosphere at the shows felt more "fabricated" and less unique. With alternative music as one ofthe most potent forces in mainstream culture, many feel an 'identity crisis has been trig­gered. Notoriety caused these groups to support everything they were formerly against by thriving off of corporate money making schemes. .Pearl Jam and Nirvana's 1991 trend changing releases revealed a refreshing and pure new sound style. The new music broke free from former redundancy. Nevermind and Ten both enjoyed extremely high levels of success with platinum sales and directed attention to other "grunge groups." Slowly songs. from other groups like Smashing Pumpkins and Screaming Trees became the new musical passion. Increased attention propelled popu­larity and revenues, but destroyed some of the unique aura that sur­rounded the music. Rolling Stone re­vealed one instance in an interview with Soul Asylum. Together for eleven years and recording since 1984, success finally came this summer with their platinum album and hit "Run­away Train." The public reaction to the· most "recent" grunge group was 
( unwarranted as sonieradio announcers stated Soul Asylum was a new group just "following the-alternative band­wagon." 
Blind Melon· and Stone_ Temple Pilot's CDs, considered "new hits," have been on the market for over eleven months.. One would be hard pressed to find a great number of people who knew about Blind Melon 
eleven months ago. In fact, had it not been for the extensive publicity from MTV, no one would have ever.known ofBlind Melon. These groups are meritous in their creations but their successes originated from audi­ences being perked to "the alternative sound" by other groups . 
Money and big labels followed the notori­ety achieved by Nirvana and Pearl Jam. So, they left the .Su~Pop label, which started their success, out of desire for increased fame and money. These groups now have two new albums on the market only weeks 
:apart Many people anxiously listen to de­termine which group possesses more skill and "musical longevity." 
Even after the fantastic Ten, Pearl Jam 
SCHOLASTIC 


Welcollle Fans ! Come Joi.n Us At 
now further establishes themselves as mod­em greats with their recent triumph Vs. Very commonly bands maintain their successful sounds to insure sales and popularity, as if they do not want to "spoil a good thing." 
Pearl Jam asserts its position and remains true to the music, experi­menting and moving on from their original style but keeping the "es­sences" of the group. This group man­ages to combine all fundamental de­sires on a single album. Crunching and melodic, raw and graceful describe the ­contents of this new music. 
The instrumentals ai-e fresh and ere-­ative, especially in the songs "Daugh­ter" and "GlorifiedG." Eddie Vetter, in ,,, his excellent tenor, clniws the listener in with emotionally charged lyrics where topics addressed range from a little girl's anguish to.anti-racism. PearlJam definitely won with this four star al­bum. 
Nirvana may have to try again. 

Nevermind eclipsed Incesticide and contin­ues to overshadow the new release of the "sainted Seattle trio." In Utero is by no means a bad album and definitely better than the last release. But the new album is the 
\ I \ I 

product of marketing agents as the over­
stylized package doesn't contain the same 
spice as the original. The album is designed for image and 
effect. The jacket cover disgusts people to such an extent that Wal-Mart decided not to carry it. Designed for shock effect more than musical quality, some of the topics addressed in the lyrics tend to­ward the trite. One example being the song "Rape Me." People will be sorely disappointed by the meaning and the sound. It discusses the over-publicized rapes ofartists' work by societal restric­tion. Nirvana has simply jumped on the bandwagon and loses all of its original charm. These two examples represent the two extremes of the issue at hand: music or money making in mass production of alternative music? In the end, groups who retain their individuality will re­main popular while corporations will continue to create mainstream clones. 
OPEN 24 HOURS 1710 N. Ironwood 277-7400 

*Breakfast served all day *Lunch *Dinner *Or a snack ANYTIME 
Just minutes from campus 

Ironwood 
II 

ON OTHER CAMPUSES 
News ofthe Biwrre from the Nation's Universities 
Somebody's Gonna Lose an Eye! 
Hopefully the recent riots following the Michigan-Wisconsin game have increased awareness concerning stadium safety. Yet some schools are already on top of the game. Earlier this year, Penn State University banned plastic cups from the student section. Cup wars erupting among the students sparked the plastic cup prohibition. Paper cups will now be used by students, but nonstudent fans can still get plastic cups at concession stands. Any students attempting to smuggle plasti_c cups into the stands will have them confiscated. Students and ushers encouraged the ban on plastic cups, citing incidents of being hit in the head as the reason. Obviously, these people have never been hit in the head by a crumpled paper cup 

with pokey edges. 
Starting at Such a Tender Age 
Bob Waddle, a Spring Arbor College freshman finds his English composition, Spanish, algebra and geography classes to be time consuming. Welcome to college, right? But for an 11-year-old who should still bein primary school, the prospect· of midterms, papers and all-nighters can be a little overwhelming. Waddle hopes to major in biology and computer science and earn his degree in five 
· years. Of course he won't be old enough to work or drive a car yet, but these are secondary concerns. Right now, Waddle plans to try ·om for the intramural volleyball squad and adjust to life as a college student. When asked about one aspect of college life, older girls, Bob replied "I like them OK. 'And I think they like me." Can you imagine, "Hey Bob, if you're not too busy playing G.I. Joe would you like to go to my SYR with me?" 

Putting the Lid on_Greek Partiers 
Stanford provides us with yet another zany story of life in·the Greek fraternity/ sorority system. Stanford University recently implemented a policy that allows fraternities to hold keg parties only on odd numbered days. Parties held on even numbered days must be Bring Your Own Beverage (BYOB) parties. On even 
.eillted by Jenny Tate 

numbered days, open fraternity parties may not have any common containers of alchohol present. They can provide only non-alchoholic beverages. People attending the parties may bring their own alcohol. Closed parties, parties in which the number of people attending the party is less than three times the number of people hosting the party, are ex~mpt from this new policy. Gosh, Stanford, have you no mercy on these poor kids? 

SCHOLASTIC 

1...:. 
WEEK IN DISTORTION 
l'mNotFromHell,l'mFromVirginia 
Making the best ofroommate anxiety 
by Sarah MacDonald 

Therearemanyaspectsofcollegelifefor a freshman to be concerned about be­fore arriying on campus: new classes, new . , friends, leaving home and so on. My biggest worry was my roommate. If you get duds, 
· you have to live with them for two whole semesters. Of course,-we are given our roommates' addresses so we can write to them and telephone them, but anyone can soundreasonably normal on long distance. I was lucky eriough to be in a quad. So, as I told my friends, "Attheveryleast,oneoutof my three roommates ought to be partially normal." Well, it turns out that we're ~I pretty 
. normal,relativelyspealdng. Ayakoisorigi­· nally from Tokyo but now lives with a host family in Nashville (in fact, her host father wrote.the Vince Gill song "Pocket Full of Gold;" even th6ugh I've never heard it,· being -from upstate New York). She is in what is lovingly :refered to as "archi-torture" and spends amazing amounts oftime at the weirdest hours drawing what appears to rile to be a simple leaf or column ofthe Basilica. 
Another of my roommates is·from Chi­cago. Joelle plans on majoring in business so she can get a good job after graduation. Sheisalsoexceedinglysmartinandgoodat calculus, to my advantage. · 
My most interesting roommate is from Virginia, however. Reh (short for Rebecca) is in the Marching Band; this is fun for the resfof tis, as· I'm sure you can imagine, at 
5:30 a:m. on football Saturdays. Her most interesting characteristics, however, are her habits. She is by far the pickiest eater I have . or ever hope to meet.in my entireUfe. I thought! was picky not liking onions in my home fries, but her pickiness goes way be­yond not liking crunchy peanut butter ~r sausage on pizza. 
She will eat ham, but not sliced, only 
shaved. She never goes to the dining hall for breakfast ("It takes too much time, and they never have anything good anyway") so she always eats Cheerios in our room, but only with skim milk. She does not eat apples, not because they're a fruit and therefore good for you, but because the first apple she ever ate a few years ago at an orchard was sooo good and sooo juicy that she's afraid no other apple will live up to that first one. Surprisingly,shehasalsoNEVERtriedjam because she's afraid it might be gross­remember, she doesn't like fruit! So she eats . a bagel at every dining hall meal. She basically, then, lives remarkably well on microwave popcorn (butter flavor light, not natural or low salt). I consider one of my biggest accomplishments of this year as ac­tually getting Reb to try (and swallow) a piece of calamari while at dinner at the Wharf ("I hate seafood!") on Parent's 
Weekend. 
~eb'sfunniestfoodrelatedstoryinvolves 
Big Red chewing gum. The girl chews 
through a pack in a half hour, because she 
changes the piece as soon as it starts to lose 
its flavor. The other day she told me a story 
about when she put a whole 17 stick pack in 
her mouth at once. Her friends started to 
notice her teeth turning red. "It's the cinna­
man," she said. It turns out the acid of the 
gum burned her tongue and made it bleed. · . Of course her mouth "tasted really bad. But it was worth it: the cinnamon flavor was so strong!" 
Reb's personal habits always seem to 
amaze us, too. I don't think she's made her 
bed(straighteningoutthebedspread,thatis) 
since August. The socks she throws under 
her bed every night started to get crunchy a 
few weeks ago. Noonehasseenherdesktop 
since the first day. Our remote control 
mysteriously disappeared before October 
break, and we think it's probably some­
where there in her never-ending pile of stuff. 
She has promised, however, to clean it up 
before Christmas break! We have also re­
cently established a new policy of putting all 
the dirty cups Reb leaves lying around on her 
desk. We figure sooner or later she'II wash 
them; hopefully this will happen before she 
notices anything growing in them. 
One of the funniest things aboutReb is her mother. Our latest answering machine mes­sage makes a reference to all the messages we have been getting in which someone waits and listens to the whole message but just hangs up ( during fall break, we got over 8 calls like that). 
So when Mrs. White called and left a message the other day, she said, "Are you getting harrassing phone calls?" Mrs. White always refers to herself as Reb's mother, even though we have all met her a number of times. She also remembers anything we even off-handly mention to her about Reb and nags her about it weeks later. It is neat, though, how she always puts a three leaf clover sticker on the envelopes of her letters and writes, "HiAyako! HiJoelle! HiSarah!" 
So all my roommate anxiety during the summer was unfounded. Even though we poke fun at Reb's habits on a regular basis, we get along remarkably well, though none of us could imagine living alone with Reb. We all have little things we putup with about each other: Ayako lets her alarm ring for at least five minutes at4:30 in the morning, we are always answering the phone and taking messages for Joelle, and they all claim I sometimes snore (I don't believe them­I've just had a cold for the past few weeks). 
Reb may not sound so extreme to some people, but she is so in contrast to the rest of us. So it turns out that all my roommate anxiety over the summer was unfounded. So even though she seems to amaze us almost every.day with something new, we've be­come somewhat accustomed to her. Now we only face the problem faced by roommates across campus: synchronizing our alarm clocks. · . 

FINAL WORD 
Another Chapter in Irish History 
by T. Ryan Kennedy 

The Florida State game in perspective 

ii
I, 
T. Ryan Kennedy is the Assistant News Editor for Scholastic. Scholastic is now accepting submissions for the Final Word. 
Call the office for details. 

A nny of 19. 13, Ohio State of 1935, Oklahoma of 1957, Miami of 1988, Penn State of 1992 -these have been the greatest victories in Notre Dame football history. In 1913, Notre Dame estab­lished itself forever as a football powerhouse; the Ohio State game was labelled "The Game of the Century" at the time. In 1957 the Irish stymied the 4 7-game winning streak of Oklahoma, one of the greatest teams in college football history. We all know about Miami and Penn State. Penn State was special because it marked the last time we will play them in a while. Then there was Florida State of 1993, something we will never see again. Florida State was becoming widely known as the most talented team in 30 years, maybe ever..It had pummeled each ofits opponents,, embarrassing them to no end. But there was Notre Dame, the team with little talent, with little hope­possibly the biggest underdog in sports history. . Despite the mystique, the winning tradition, the fact that Notre Dame has "God on its side," the student fans remained skeptical and sold their tick­ets. After all, Kevin McDougal was a lucky nobody senior, and Notre Dame had struggled with the likes of Purdue, Navy and Northwestern. This was a team that would have to wait until next year. But this was a humble Notre Dame team, one without the selfish stars and the pretty plays. Instead, the team exemplified the qualities of character, heart and bard work as no team ever has. There was hope when Notre Dame exploded in the second half against Navy. The week before the game; the signs and banners were up mocking Scott Bentley and the Seminoles. The loyalty and spirit appeared as strong as ever. There was just a special feeling as one strolled to class on Friday before the game. · The pep rally was the real turningpointin the attitude of the fans, as Haley Scott came up to discuss adversity and her life-threatening challenge. It was the only time the A.C.C. would be silentall evening. The experts had been proven wrong in her situation, and, with regard to Florida State, they were about to be proven y.rrong again. All the ESPN sports broad­casters but Beno Schmidt believed that Notre Dame would lose. Schmidt predicted that the sole reason the 
Irish would triumph was the thunderous support of the 
student section. 
Next, up came the second-greatest coach in college 
football history, second to Knute Rockne himself. Lou 
Holtz reassured the ecstatic fans that he had other 
things in mind than losing to FSU. An awesome air of 
confidence enveloped the arena. Notre Dame was 
going to win. 
Ifthis were any other school-ifthis were any other 
place with any other !Jistory-playing Florida:State, 
then the school would not have had a chance. How­
ever, this is the University of Notre Dame. Although 
many had their doubts, as Paul Failla noted, there' are 
some things you just know. 
It was all over. Celebration and pandemonium. 
erupted in the student section like none ever has, and · onto the field they rushed. The Notre Dame players saluted the fans as long as they could. Soon, however, the gold helmets were seen no more. The Florida State players were mentally crushed, and theystill had to run for their lives. The Seminoles mocked. the Irish mys­tique. Bowden scheduled Notre Danie because, al­-though he knew it might be a challenge, in the end he thought it would be a romp. All too easy, right coach? This was the greatest Seminoles team ever, and Notre Dame embarrassed them. They m~ked us, and in 
doing so they revealed our greatness. 
There will never be a game or a victory like this 
again. It was only appropriate that the game went 
down to the wire. We brought Florida State to the brink 
of hope, to the fringe of a championship, and.then we 
rejected them like unsung hero Shawn Wooden re­
jected Ward's last toss. This victory and the probable 
championship will. never be topped again because a 
team cannot be any more of an underdog than Notre 
Dame was. 
This was not merely the victory of one team against· 
another. This was not merely the victory of a rich­
tradition over an up-start school. This was not merely 
a classic story of an underdog toppling the flashy 
favorite. This was the most recent chapter in the story 
that is the University of Notre Dame. It is a 150 year 
story of overcoming adversity, beating the odds and 
fighting on until victory is ours. 0 
28 





Grist For The Mill Rick Grey 



WE'VE ALL HAb (V(VLT!PU; mrsj LAB 

REPt>R1'51 PAPER.s ~PRES6JJTATltJ/JS fH!s lvf&I<, pLv.s wr IR£ ,sr~L-L r?€[_o{ff3,QtNb FRoM SNTV~DAYs ~ESTIVIT/ES-m Be(;N FUR€ H€LL--­
GEE2, rr·~ (.OLD 
our HE'l.E/ 
zI 1 
LO~, i'I-\ R£.E.-Z.IN<> / 1.' . AND IT'S ONt.'i /',lOVEM~E.'1..I 

WAI TAMINtJ-r,..// tlOTI+ o>= C,\f) Yoo (EMEl•i?,L~ A 
voo 1,-'<.£ C.Ot-<"l'l.}<INING A-oOor 
/..l0'1£.1-1lli,L 'Ojl$ GOll>'• 

THE C.0L1:>, -e.u, NC:rn-t<a.'1.. oi= '{otJ H,\VE. '(00'1.. j,+(.):_ E T5 
AS A-SE'I..VICE. 1V ~ tElrl>E.2-5, II.I£ *E PR.CUD TO OFFER. A /.1Ef1-10i) OF Blitl"li CD/JTR0t. TI-1A1 M16HT PO!'.SIBL~ cE E:l->D0£.SE.D-e,y Tl1E. 
MO'l..,\L M,\-JOR.rr( THE. !=OPE.' ,\-A)b ,\ (.OU>'LE. OF 1'>j1t.050PM~ Die wroe.,tTUtE. i'!l=>F£S.SOl!.S. rr'.s Ur-Tti-Fl!EE , 
E,\-SIE~ Ttt#l TI-iE. "lVt~n-t/,\ 11f);id)' 
il,1-1!) M.JrV OR. M,W ~ ~'/ , WO"i::.~. •• :Z: NTRODUC IN 6 ••• 
(0, ~p 

5TE.P .1.: WHe.,.:, Thl/JGS Ge.r: ~'1. I/JTBlS£. Bl:611:l A-XC-<-~TJC. !MU)6 
tr.5 02tbll-J5 HWM &lr>i ntE cOD~ THE Tr-L!I!'. "-l/rTiJe:.e OF-'P.\:SSIOl-l ••• 
I nmk UJE SHOVd> J)e:ra_1,\ll.lc 
,\/JD Tiila M/JJ b... 
I
l 
?,: 
.., 












