PUBLISHED WEEKLY - FOUNDED 1867
Volume 74	MAY 23, 1941	Number 26
PROGRAM
Friday, May 30 (Memorial Day)
Registration of Alumni, Alumni Office, Main Building. (Alumni this year must register in the Alumni Office before registering in the Halls for room assignments.)
Opening of the Annual Alumni Golf Tournament on the 18-Hole William J. Burke-University Course on the Campus.
9:00 A. M. Memorial Day Mass, the Memorial Door of Sacred Heart Church.
The Mass this year will be specially offered for deceased alumni, and for alumni in the armed forces.
Address—
97th
Annual
1:00 P. M. Forum for Alumni: In the General Field of Politics.
A Panel Discussion by Faculty and Alumni Leaders, followed by an open forum.	'
In the auditorium of the John F. Cushing, C.E., ’06 Hall of Engineering.
3:00 P. M. Baseball, the University of California vs. Notre Dame, Cartier Field.
6:00 P. M. President’s Dinner for the Class of 1916, Faculty Dining Room of the University Dining Halls.
6:00 P. M. Reunion Dinner, Class of 1931, the Indiana Club, South Bend.
6:30 P. M. Concert, University Band, Main Quadrangle.
8:00 P. M. Concert, the University Glee Club, Washington Hall.
• 8:30 P. M. Smoker and Reunion of the Class of 1936, Carroll Rec Room, North Ground Floor of Washington Hall.
Saturday, May 31
Continuation of Registration of Alumni.	’
Finals of the Alumni Golf Tournament.
9:30 A. M. Last Visit to Sacred Heart Church, a private ceremony of the Class of 1941, Rev. Thomas Irving, C.S.C., presiding.
10:00 A. M. Class Day Exercises and Awarding of Honors, Class of 1941, Washington Hall.
11:00 A. M. Annual Softball Game of the Reunion Classes, 1936 vs. 1931, Walsh-Badin -	diamond.
12:00 M. Reunion Luncheon of the Class of 1926, Faculty Dining Room, University Dining Halls.
1:30 P. M. Baseball, the University of California vs. Notre Dame, Cartier Field.
3:30 P. M. Alumni Forum: In the General Field of Economics.
A Panel Discussion by Faculty and Alumni Leaders, followed by an Open Forum, in the auditorium of The John F. Cushing, C.E., ’06, Hall of Engineering.
4:00 P. M. “The Gondoliers,” a Presentation of the University Theatre, Washington Hall (This performance is being given primarily for the parents of the Seniors, and friends. Tickets will be given to the Class of 1941, without charge, and admission will be by ticket only.)
6:00 P. M. The Alumni Banquet, East Hall of the University Dining Halls (Admission this year by ticket only, tickets to be secured by alumni from the Alumni Office). Address, the President of the University, Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., ’16.
6:30 P. M. Concert, the University Band, Main Quadrangle.
8:40 P. M. “The Gondoliers,” a Presentation of the University Theatre, Washington ■	Hall. (This performance is primarily for alumni, to whom tickets will be
given by the Alumni Office.)
Sunday, June 1
8:30 A. M. Academic Procession' from the Main Building to the University Gymnasium.
9:00 A. M. Solemn Pontifical Mass, University Gymnasium.
Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., LL.D., '15, Celebrant-
Music by the University Choir of Moreau Seminary.
Baccalaureate Sermon: The Right Reverend Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen, Catholic University of America.
. (Immediately fidlowing the Mass, the American Flag, presented by the Class of 1941 to the University on Washington’s Birthday, will be blessed and carried in procession to be raised on the flagpole on the Main Quadrangle. The procession will be led by the University Band.)
11:00 A. M. Administration Reception for Visitors, Lounge of the Rockne Memorial. (Members of the University Administration and Deans of the Colleges will receive.)
12:00 M. Luncheon of the Monogram Men, West Hall, University Dining Halls, open to all monogram men.
2:30 to (Concert in the Gymnasium, the University Choir of Moreau Seminary, - 3:00 P. M. [assisted by Mr. Demid Pedtke, organist.	•
3:00 P. M. Awarding of the Degrees to the Class of 1941, University Gymnasium. . (Preceded, as in the morning exercises, by an academic procession from the . Main Building to the University Gymnasium.)
The Commencement Address: Honorable Joseph P. Kennedy. ~
(AU Events on Central Standard Time. Subject to modification.
See final program at Commencement.) ’
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COLLEGE PARADE
.	—- ~ RAYMOND J. KELLY
Swan Song
With only an examination in American History standing between us and that $4,000 sheepskin, oui- college career is almost over. This is the last Parade that our battered Remington will pound out. It is with regret that we fill the wastebasket for the last time with the papers and propaganda sheets that we throw around the room while suffering mental labor, attempting to give birth to a clever column. It is a job, this business of turning out a good column. Every once in a while we have finished one that we liked but at other times, the monsters we produced, overcame even the motherlove that continually burnt in our soul for our own little products.
Last year, to end his final column, Jack Willman, our predecessor as observer of the college scene, issued a set of ratings. He brought forth a list of what he considered the four bell college periodicals in several different classes. We frowned on most of his choices, being of that brand of Irish that agrees with no one. We think that the best college daily is the Minnesota Daily with the Daily Princetonian, half a tinkle behind. The Annapolis Log was the most enjoyable all-round magazine that we received. Some blow should be given the Purple Parrot for the art work and photography it exhibited during the year. We could go on giving out ribbons and cheers for all sorts of things but it would probably get out of hand. Imagine, the Parade ending up the year by voting Didy Boz of the Randolph-Macon Old Maid, the editor with the weirdest name! However, to more important matters.
♦
Random thoughts
After leaving “It Never Rains,” we kept thinking that the Haresfoot Show at Wisconsin, the Mask and Wig at Penn, or the Triangle at Princeton couldn’t have done any better. With the material that runs around this campus, unused and frustrated, Notre Dame could stage productions that would equal any in the nation. The songs written on this campus just during the last three years have been better than most of those that are plugged nationally by well-organized undergraduate dramatic groups. The writing talent is here. Ask any English major. As for actors—look under the nearest shaggy head of hair and you’ll have one. All that is needed is an organ
ization that will fuse all this talent into something.
Parader Kelly Bows Out
Mystery
Of course, everyone has his or her version of “l’affaire Hess.” One of those “all-out” groups, it seems to our faulty memory that it was the Committee to Defend Kansas by Aiding the Allies but we may be wrong, came out with the best one. They sent a telegram to some English official, demanding that he break off any arrangement for an interview between Churchill and Hess. They stated that Hess was powerful physically and “a trained wrestler.” Various lugubrious
Flash: Notre Dame Panzer Division Runs Amuck in Lawn Foray: June 1, 1941
predictions were made as to what would happen to Winnie when he got in the same room with Hess. However, Smoky Joe, the shoe-shine boy at the Hoffmann, gave us a story that we think a great deal of, because Smoky is an authority in sporting matters. He claims that Hess really wants to come to America to challenge the “Swedish Angel,” the “French Angel” and the “Polish Angel” to a rassle-royal. The funds raised by the exhibition will go to Bundles for Britain, Inc.
Higher literature
It was stated by an English professor in one of the eastern colleges that present-day satire had been directed, to a great extent, toward the field of cartooning. All of which prompted one of his apt pupils to burst into verse:
Ne’er throw your paper away
Lest in future be ye sad;	:
For a Dryden might be hidin’	£>
Near a Gimbel’s nightgown ad.	ft
♦	5
Good mording!
It wasn’t so very long ago that the entire staff of the Kalamazoo Daily Buzz had colds or catarrh or sinus trouble, and so decided to make an issue of it. They put out a special “cold” edition, spelling words as if the typewriters themselves had colds. Typical example: “Bister John Smid spog last dight before a crowd of hetallurgy egineers in the Coog Hall of egineering.” It didn’t come out so good.	.	.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
—————————————
I
Laetare Medal Presentation Speech |
' 1
The following speech was delivered by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell,	|
C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame, at Manhattanville	|
College of the Sacred Heart in New York City, on May 20, 1941, when	|
William Thomas Walsh, historian, was. awarded the Laetare Medal for	|
1941. ’	•
I
SIR: The University of Notre Dame names you for her Laetare Medal award on this, the fifty-ninth anniversary of the Medal’s founding, which falls almost on the eve of the one hundredth yeai' of the University’s life. The long tradition of the Laetare Medal has brought together a brilliant coterie of men and women—philosophers and litterateurs, artists and scientists, philanthropists and statesmen—whose lives and works testify so eloquently to the inspiration that the Faith can bring to the sons and daughters of the Church. Now you may join that select company, of which another worker in your chosen field, John Gilmary Shea, was the first member. Like him, you have distinguished yourself as an historian. Like him, you have a genius for giving the past the breath of life, a genius that has always been controlled by your scholarly devotion to truth.
From the roll call of worthy men and women whose names pass in review before her year after year, Notre Dame endeavors to select outstanding worthiness. From grouped competence she names one who is unusually competent. The Laetare Medal is a recognition of living and serving, as well as a prize of accepted excellence.
In naming you, Sir, the University of Notre Dame is satisfied that she is recognizing Catholic living and Catholic learning. She knows well that your life illustrates an enlightened Faith, that your scholarship has been devoted to the valiant service of maintaining and defending that Faith.	*
The quest of your mind has taken you to Spain. It was in Spain that this University found you. It was your returns from Spain that largely determined her decision. Contemporary thought wonders if any good can come out of Spain, just as the thought of two thousand years ago wondered if any good could come out of Nazareth. The greatest Good of all time came out of Nazareth, and Spain carried that Good to announce Him to the world. The mind of His time called Christ a visionary, a seducer, a worker of wonders through demoniac possession. The mind of our time writes of Spain as a land of inquisition, peonage, ignorance, and poverty. Thus it writes of the Spain that was, and still is, the land of Christ.
The honor of that Spain, Sir became your concern, and the subject of your history. From that Spain you brought us the story of her culture, charm, and Faith. You told of the Spain that inspired Don Juan, the last knight of Europe, to sweep the Turk from the inner sea; that sent Conquistadores to open paths in a pathless continent. Out
of that Spain came Ignatius Loyola, the soldier - saint,	?
whose captains and companies won battles for souls	«
through the might of the Cross that takes the life to save 1 it; the Dominic of the white robe, whose sons and daugh- I ters have spread the music of the Rosary over all lands, | beyond all seas; and Teresa of Avila, wise mystic, who | crowned the hills with her foundations. The Spain of J which you tell us sent the sons of the Umbrian Francis | upon glad journeys to our West and South to make places 1 lovely with Christian names, to build monasteries, schools, | and churches for the hosting and saving of the red man I disinherited from his vanishing hunting grounds.	|
. ■
These are the unsung heroes who spread the pattern J of Christian tradition over the waste spaces of a new I world. Their weapon also was the Cross, which they j planted in the pampas of the wilderness that would later । blossom into churches and convents and homes of learn- ! ing. Juan de Padilla, Marcos de Niza, Isidro de Espinosa, ■ Antonio Margil, and Junipero Serra revealed the light J of Catholic Faith to the land which the Catholic Columbus I had discovered. Sir, you have brought Isabella and Ferdi- | nand, the Catholics, out of the dark closets to which | pharasaical history had consigned them, into the warming J light of truth; and you have replaced with a valid image ■ the distorted portrait of Philip II, who lived and reigned ■ when Catholic Spain watched beside the sick-bed of j Europe.	I
The University of Notre Dame has always inscribed on	|
her Laetare Medal the words, “Magna est veritas et	I
praevalebit.” You have contributed mightily to the cause. | You have chosen to pursue the truth of fact, not the	।
fiction of prejudice. By doing so, you may have missed the	|
transitory praise of the thoughtless millions, identified as J popular acclaim, but you have won—and deservedly—the * lasting approval of the wise.	|
It is this service to the truth of fact that makes you 1 one with your illustrious predecessors who have received | the Laetare Medal. Your endeavor gives the University of I Notre Dame the comfort of honoring you. She has no | greater gift than this award. She gives it, as she must । always give it, to achievement and worth. She is happy । to include your name in her long roll of renown, headed s by one of your own kind and calling—John Gilmary Shea. I May you wear her Laetare Medal for many, many years. I She knows you will wear it honorably.	I
William Thomas Walsh, the University of Notre Dame | bestows upon you the Laetare Medal for the year Nine- I teen Hundred and Forty-One.	|
1 I s I
——————____—
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3. 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 74
MAY 23, 1941
Number 26
AFTER FOUR YEARS!
Commencement Program Lists Speeches By Msgr. Sheen and Joseph P. Kennedy
After finishing their last exams tomorrow, 619 seniors of the class of 1941 will relax during the traditional “Senior Week” to prepare for an eventful Commencement weekend.
On Saturday, May 31, they will make their last visit to Sacred Heart Church in a private ceremony presided over by the Rev. Thomas Irving, C.S.C.
Immediately after this the Class of ’41 will conduct their Class Day Exer’ cises in Washington. Hall. Honors and awards will be made to the outstanding students at that time.
In the afternoon a special performance of “The Gondoliers” will be offered for the parents and friends of seniors. A second performance on Saturday night has been arranged for returning alumni.
On Sunday, June 1, at 8:30 a.m., there will be the traditional procession from the Main Building to the Gymnasium where a Solemn Pontifical Mass will be celebrated by the Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., LL.D. The Bacca
laureate sermon will be preached by the Rt. Rev. Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen of Catholic University of America. After the Mass the flag presented to the University by the senior class on Washington’s birthday will be blessed and carried to the flagpole on the main quadrangle in a procession led by the University Band.
At 11:00 a.m., there will be a reception for visitors by the Administration in the lounge of the Rockne Memorial followed by a luncheon for the monogram men in the West Dining Hall.
Finally, at 3:00 p.m., the long-awaited Awarding of Degrees will take place in the Gymnasium. The deans of the various colleges will call the names of the graduating students and the diplomas will then be presented by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. The exercises will be concluded by the Commencement address delivered by the Honorable Joseph P. Kennedy, ex-Ambassador to the Court of St. James.
Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen
is Baccalaureate Speaker
During the first years of the World War Notre Dame had a debating team which defeated 18 consecutive opponents. But a team from St. Viator’s college from the neighboring state of Illinois brought their winning streak to a decisive end. Inconspicuously mentioned as one of the speakers the night of Notre Dame’s defeat was Fulton J. Sheen.
Now, less than 25 years later, the Right Reverend Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen will preach the baccalaureate sermon. Forty-five years old, dark, handsome, he still retains the unassuming dignity which has characterized all of his work. His strong, yet affable voice will bespeak ten years of careful training and use on the Sunday evening Catholic hour and frequent preaching in St. Patrick’s Cathedral. His thought and logic will reveal the depth of his intellectual background. This includes degrees from St. Viator, The University of Louvain in Belgium, Angelico University in Rome, Marquette, and Loyola of Chicago. He maintains his university relationships by teaching philosophy at Catholic University in Washington, D.C.
He emerged from this intellectual discipline with a keen ability to strike to the heart of a problem, exhaust it without being tedious, and yet keep his terms within the reach of the thousands who listen to his popular radio talks. He has a mail of some three to six thousand letters a week, two hundred of which require his personal attention in answering. His writing, which includes over 20 books and many magazine articles, add to his work and audience. Still he finds ten hours a week to give instructions to prospective converts to the faith.
Monsignor Sheen’s prominent converts include such well known names as Col. Horace A. Mann, Heywood Broun, and Henry Ford II, but he is just as proud of the conversion of his own Negro cook.
Notre Dame welcomes Msgr. Sheen back to the campus. No one is more capable to deliver the baccalaureate to the graduating class of a Catholic university, because he knows the problems of men who are laying down their books and picking up their tools. He has a
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
brilliant background and knows supremely well how to bring his audience into complete sympathy with his own beliefs.—Jerry Smith
Joseph P. Kennedy is
Commencement Speaker
Propaganda has become such an exact science, the college graduate is tempted to take up his life with a cynical attitude towards all advisers. He has seen idealists come and go with little improvement showing in their wake. He does not enjoy looking back upon a commencement address fairly dripping with noble platitudes concerning the success of the brave youth who will follow a few simple rules of behavior.
Joseph P. Kennedy will deliver no such dripping address. He will talk not to students but to men. His own life is proof enough of his virility and capability.
He gained his experience in the field of finance. Graduating from Harvard in 1912, it was only two years before he was president of the Columbia Trust Company in Boston. Three years later, under the stress of war production, he became assistant general manager of one of Bethlehem Steel’s shipbuilding plants. Returning to his former profession, the post-war years saw him associated with the firm of Hayden Stone, an investment banking concern. After a brief interlude as president of the film booking offices of America, he was appointed to the Securities and Exchange Commission, in which capacity he served for one year. Early in 1937 he became chairman of the Maritime Commission. In December, 1937, President Roosevelt appointed him to the highest position in our diplomatic service, ambassador to the Court of St. James. Last September he resigned and returned to urge the re-election of the president.
The graduates of 1941 can feel sure that Joseph Kennedy will indicate the right course. That course ■wall be new, but it will be built on the firm foundation of the old.
This world is changing. Change means not only'obstacles, but opportunity. Joseph Kennedy will know how to attack the difficulties in a way which will point to the opportunities. His opinions will be a road map. His challenge will be a running start.—Jerry Smith
Bishop Noll is Honored By Papal Appointment
The Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne, has been honored
by the Holy Father in being appointed an Assistant at the Pontifical Throne. Word of the honor reached His Excellency through the Apostolic Delegate to the United States, the Most Rev. Amleto Giovanni Cicognani, D.D.
The honoi* comes to Bishop Noll in recognition of his services to the Church during the 16 years of his episcopate, and in particular for his accomplishments through the Catholic press, in the institution of the Society of Missionary Catechists, and his recent efforts as director of a nation-wide drive sponsored by Our Sunday Visitor for funds with which to erect in Washington a gigantic statue of Christ as the “Light of the World.”
Pogliano, Del Zoppo and
Gerra Speak on May 31
During the Class Day exercises on Saturday morning, May 31, the three men who have proven to be scholastically the top of the ’41 graduating class will deliver the annual senior addresses. Ralph Gerra, commerce major who leads all seniors with a brilliant 95.19% average, will deliver the valedictory. Felix Pogliano, finally receiving explicit manifestation of the praise due him as poet and editor of Scrip, has been named class poet and will deliver the Class Ode. Al Del Zoppo, prominent student, athlete, Scholastic staff member and Student Council secretary, will deliver the class oration. As in the past, these men were chosen not alone for their outstanding scholarship, but also on the basis of personal character.
New Book by Dr. Hermens
Shows Failure of "P.R.”
Democracy or Anarchy? is the provocative title of this latest book, written by a member of Notre Dame’s faculty. Dr. F. A. Hermens, a professor in the department of politics and associate editor of the Review of Politics, has written a definitive survey of the field of proportional representation.
In this work Dr. Hermens discusses the theoretical basis of both proportional representation and the plurality system. He shows the first premise, on which agitation for this odd electoral system is based, to be false. “P.R.” proponents emphasize the idea that each part of the electorate should be given a proportionate voice in the Parliament. Professor Hermens states that this would have been ideal in an absolute monarchy, where the King decided the issues and
the function of the Parliament was merely “to represent.” At the present time, however, Parliament has an even greater function, namely that of governing.
In order to govern properly, a majority is needed. He shows that this majority is seldom received under “P.R.” In
Dr. F. A. Hermens
the third section of the book, Dr. Hermens discusses the practical workings of “P.R.” in the various countries and cities where it has been introduced. The roster of proportional representative countries, reads like a list of the victims of Dictatorship. “The countries which adopted ‘P.R.’ and in which democracy failed (before being invaded by Hitler) are: Italy, Germany, Austria, Poland, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Bulgaria, Greece, Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia. The pop.-plation of these countries was (as of 1937) 198 million. The nations which have ‘P.R.’ and in which, up to the outbreak of the war in 1939, democracy had survived, are Ireland, Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Denmark, Sweden, Norway and Finland. Their total population, as of the same date, was 40.6 million.”
Extensive chapters are devoted to the discussion of “P.R.’s” effect on the rise of both Hitler and Mussolini. And Dr. Hermens proves conclusively that this constitutional failure on the part of both Germany and Italy allowed the conditions to prevail which in their turn allowed the “strong men” to come to power.	-
The lesson of this book is well stated by its author when he says: “If at the close of this war we want to preserve
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
democratic vitality ov.er here, and if we want to avoid the rise of new Hitlers and Mussolinis in Europe, the legislative bodies of all countries must be elected by the majority system. The majority system in its most consistent form (the plurality system) has, after all, been the basis of political life in Anglo-Saxon countries since time immemorial.”
Class of '41 Initiates
Senior Memorial Fund
The graduating seniors of this year are establishing a precedent at Notre Dame. The Memorial Committee of the Class of 1941, representing the seniors, has inaugurated a memorial fund to be given to the University at the commencement ceremonies. The fund will be employed according to the discretion of the University, but its purpose is to increase the endowment of Notre Dame and to establish scholarships.
The committee is represented by the three senior halls. Sorin’s representatives are: Larry McLaughlin, Heinie Schrenker, Howard Essick, John Maloney, and John Debitteto. Walsh’s are: Lou McKenzie, Jack Burke, John Tor-mey, Bill McGowan, Ed Buddy, Joe Barr, and Charles Dillon. Alumni’s are: Bill Cotter, Bill Moulder, John O’Dea, John Patterson, and Bud Pogliano.
Six Week Summer Session
Begins Tuesday, June 6
The twenty-fourth summer session of the University of Notre Dame will open on Tuesday, June 24, and will continue for six weeks, to Wednesday, August 6. However, most courses in the College of Science and the College of Engineering will begin immediately after the commencement in June and extend through eight weeks.
Courses offered in the summer session are designed to meet the needs of undergraduates who desire to secure extra credits or to make up deficiencies, teachers who wish to prepare themselves better for their work or to secure higher rating from state boards, and persons holding the bachelor’s degree who wish to secure an advanced degree in arts and letters or in science.
In the summer session courses will be offered in art, biology, chemistry, civil engineering, commerce, economics, education, electrical engineering, engineering drawing, English, French, geology, library science, mechanical engineering, metallurgy, music, philosophy, physical education, physics, politics, religion, sociology, Spanish, and speech.
Twenty visiting teachers will make up part of the officers of instruction for the session.—James V. Cunningham
Mike Mozer, Dean of Groundkeepers
Once Grew a Velvet Lawn in Ten Days
He makes the grass grow—forty acres of it. Mike Mozer, stocky, overalled, smiling, Hungarian born landscaper, has been dean of groundkeepers at Notre Dame for the last seven years. Mike has been offered many higher paid positions, but his pride in the beauty of the campus is so great he says- he will never leave.
Mike revealed a gardener’s dream . . .
For nine years before coming to Notre Dame Mike directed the planting and pruning on the South Bend estate of the late John Erskine. When the Bendix president died in 1934, Mike hopped the old Notre Dame avenue trolley and convinced Bishop O’Hara that the campus needed a face lifting, and that he was the man to do it.
In his seven years the lawns have increased in size from eight acres to five times that many. There are now twenty-five varieties of perennials growing and flowers bloom seven months a year. Over one hundred types of trees require constant trimming and spraying from Mike and his men.
From the growing season beginning in March until the last leaves are hauled away in November, Mike has a crew of eighteen helping in his digging, mowing, sprinkling, and other horticultural pursuits. In the winter months his assistants- number ten.
His equipment sheds behind the greenhouse hold several thousand dollars worth of machines, tools, fertilizers and seed, including the new §1200 giant mower.
Once every two years Mike and his crew stretch an iron cable between two boats and clean the sea weed out of Notre Dame’s lakes. This is done without any harm coming to Brother CoIman’s blue gills.
Spring rains have kept Mike smiling and he reports seven new acres of grass planted around the Engineering, Chemistry, and new Ave Maria buildings, as well as the addition of several flower beds to different sections of the campus.
Most amazing feat in Mike’s unsung career at Notre Dame was growing a lawn in front of the Rockne Memorial building in ten days. “It was a lot of fun,” he says, “nobody thought I could do it.” Less than two weeks before the Memorial building was to be dedicated the last of the construction crew left and Mike and company moved in. When Arch ’ Ward delivered the dedicatory speech from the Memorial steps ten days later his audience stood on thick, green grass.
He raises his own shrubs, plants, and pine trees in the greenhouse and open nursery near the student infirmary. At present plants raised in the greenhouse last winter are being transferred into beds on the campus.
Mike was eighteen when he came to South Bend in 1907 from the little village in Hungary where he first learned the gardening art. After two years in a factory he started to work as landscaper for the Studebaker estate. Since that time he has worked on three South Bend properties as head groundkeeper before coming to the university.
In discussing future landscaping for Notre Dame, Mike revealed some of a gardener’s dreams for the years to come. A plaza, similar to the one which now runs east from the Rockne Memorial toward the Engineering and Commerce buildings, may be developed running south from the Biology building, between Breen-Phillips and Cavanaugh and up to the Engineering building where the two plazas will meet at a right angle.
“Notre Dame has natural beauty, we just cultivate it,” says Mike, whose loyalty to the University is as great as that of any student.
—James V. Cunningham
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
'41 "Dome" Shows Evidence of Much Worthy Effort
The 1941 edition of the Dome came rolling off the press last week to create a pleasant sensation on the campus. It was well received by the student body and faculty alike, and deservedly so, for this year’s book is exceptionally well planned and executed.
The cover differs a little from the covers of its immediate predecessors, being made of Irish linen with a full color picture of the Dome inlaid on it. The book this year contains two innovations which may win for it the high honors achieved by the Domes of former years.
These innovations include a ten-page photographic essay, the copy and captions of which were written by next year’s editor-in-chief, Joe Hillebrand. Ed Steeb, another sophomore, took 27 of the 28 pictures, appearing in this section. Hillebrand and Steeb, combining the two mediums of the photograph and printed word, have portrayed life as it goes on here at "Notre Dame.
There is a line drawing of the main building printed in terra cotta, over which much of the first page’s copy is printed. This drawing, by Bill Ducette and Bernie McKay, is well executed for it does not obscure the type, as the small N. D. monograms, which are printed in the same manner, have a tendency to do.
A printer’s rule in the same second . color binds the story together, making it a unit. The lengthy captions, in a smaller type, bold face, aids the essay no end. These captions are most realistic. If a motto were needed to describe these captions it might well be: as it is, not as it should be.
This section contains 28 half-tone engravings, five line cuts and 54 inches of body type. This is almost enough type for two full Scholastic pages.
The second innovation for Notre Dame yearbooks, achieving the ambition of every yearbook staff, that of keeping up the reader’s interest through the faculty and student section, is realized most adequately by interspacing both snapshots and caricatures through the faculty section, without giving at all the impression of lese majeste, and by having a snapshot on each junior and senior page.
The hall section features a rhyme about each hall. Also for the first time at Notre Dame, the hall groups are identified. Activities are well covered as are the campus and city clubs.
The Athletic section contains some glamorizing portraits of the individual
athletes, while the last section of the book entitled “The year at Notre Dame” adequately covers every event of the schoolyear from the movie premiere to the advent of Coach Frank Leahy.
It has been our experience to read from cover to cover every edition of the Dome as well as to see the yearbooks of over 100 American universities and colleges. We can truthfully say that this book is the equal of any we have seen, a fitting companion for the other Notre Dame student publications of this year.
In conclusion the Scholastic staff wishes to congratulate their brother editors, McCarty, Boyle, Byrne, Burke and Garvey for a job well done.
—Thomas F. Carty
Academy of Politics
Elects New President
Tom Carty, president of the Academy of Political Science for the past schoolyear, relinquishes his position to Stanley Litizzette, who was recently elected by the members. The new president, from Helper, Utah, chooses his own secretary, according to the established custom of the Academy. The purpose of the organization is to stimulate an interest in problems of a social and political nature, and all those students majoring in Political Science, elected by a faculty-committee, as well as those students chosen by the members as a whole, are eligible for the club. Paul C. Bartholomew, professor of politics, is the moderator of the Academy in the absence of Rev. Francis Boland, C.S.C.
—Richard Powers
The Grotto at Notre Dame where student* sing hymns nightly
Venerable Ave Building Has Interior Renovated
The original Ave 'Maria building, .despite its age has not outlived its usefulness. Constructed in pre-Civil war days with bricks made by the Brothers of Holy Cross in their own kiln, this venerable building has given many years of faithful service to the University.
The Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., founder of the University and first editor of the Ave Maria, intended that the building be used to house the editorial offices of the then newly-established Catholic magazine. As the years went by and the University grew in size, extensions were added to the original portion of the building. On the south end of the building, a wing was constructed and served as the university kitchen until the present dining hall was built. There the food was cooked and conveyed on small carts to the refectories located immediately below Carroll and Brownson halls.
The Sisters of the Holy Cross who worked in the kitchen ocupied living quarters on the second floor of the building in the north wing. When the kitchen was dismantled the Sisters moved and additional space was provided for the Ave Maria staff.
The Scholastic and Dome staffs have had their offices in the building for many years and still occupy space there.
Today, the portion of the building formerly used by the Ave Maria is being renovated to house the workshops of the carpenters, tinners, and plumbers. This will pave the way for the demolition of the buildings in which the worshops are now located.—Tom Walker
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
Notre Dame Students Manage
A Flophouse With a Difference
OUR DAILY BREAD
The penciled sign on the door reads “Saints John and Paul Hospice.” Inside, steps run between dusty walls up to a hallway which is fed on three sides by bed-rooms, a dining-room, and a room that is at once an office, a bedroom and a sitting-room. Here, Norbert Merdzinski, who was born in South Bend, sits on a hard chair and says that his partner, Julian Pleasants, whose home is in Norfolk, Va., is out of town and that things are going well. On the back of a sofa is a shiny, brown-leather skin with the words of the “Victory March” imprinted upon it. The walls are white, almost unmarked. The brown rug has been pressed so thin it is practically part of the floor. Beyond the hall door men are moving about; beyond them men are in cots, sleeping and talking.
This is the Hospice. It is a twelveroom alms-house atop a store in South Bend. It is managed by Norbert Merdzinski and Julian Pleasants, graduates of Notre Dame. But it is not the ordinary alms-house nor is it a thing to be dispatched with a few descriptive words. Perhaps its history will help describe it.
Last month, after Norbert and Julian made the hospice liveable they permitted word to spread about that men out of luck could have sleep and food there. The men came. The “grapevine” spread the news faster than newspapers could have told it. The men were charged nothing, were asked nothing. In a few days the Hospice was filled. It has been filled ever since. Today, 250 meals are being served on the two board-tables in the diningroom; tonight, it will be home for 50, 60, or 70 men.
Norbert fingered a frayed extension cord, and agreed that the Hospice wasn’t born in a single moment. “Father Tra-hey gave us forty dollars through the Junior Prom,” he said, “and the Prom committee gave us twenty-five dollars. Our jallopy was bought with the forty dollars the Saint Vincent de Paul society donated. Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s have helped a great deal. Most of the bedding and furniture was contributed by Saint Mary’s girls. They have been very generous. And Father Mathis’ liturgical group which meets on the campus at Notre Dame gives us its weekly collection.” He pointed to a spotless bath at one end of which were three new shower-faucets, and explained: “A plumber, a tinsmith, and a tileman collaborated and donated labor for these.”
“The refrigerator,” he continued, “was a gift of Father Szabo. The big crucifix
in the dining-room came from the Brothers at Notre Dame, and the smaller crucifixes from Father Lynch. Julian and I worked in the beginning, but now the boys do all the work around the house. That way, they feel better.” As we walked through the kitchen, one of the “boys” in shirt-sleeves and whiskers was mashing a big wad of dough with his fists; his arms were white with flour well past the wrists.
Justifying the existence of the Hospice, Merdzinski continued: “Most people today are happy to let the other person do the charity work. Charity as it was done by the early Christians isn’t popular. Men come here who have been shunted from place to place; they are hardened to shame and embarrassment at the hands of aid societies which regard them as worthless and not quite human. Naturally, they have distorted opinions of people and God. Here, we must show we are giving them truth, not hypocrisy. That calls for temporary emphasis on the material aspect rather than the spiritual. We welcome all we have room for. What we have to give, we give freely and equally. Sometimes, people call when jobs are open, and the boys fill them. Julian and I eat and sleep here, too. We get to know the boys quite well and they get to know us.”
Norbert told this story about one of the “boys” who left South Bend and went to Kansas where he got a good job. “Then he had to come back to South Bend for a medical exam he knew he couldn’t pass. Now he has no job, no money; he stays here. But not only from Kansas have they come. In the next room was a man who had been to Morocco, Hawaii, and South America. Though Saints John and Paul Hospice has been open only a few weeks, it is already famous. “The grapevine tells them,” Norbert nodded. “When they come in they say this is the best spot between California and New York.” He laughed when he recalled what one of the “boys” said the other day. “We walk in chewing butts and walk out smoking cigars! But that isn’t always true,” Norbert added. “We don’t have enough cigars, yet! We have hopes, though!”
That he and Julian do have the biggest kind of hopes is evident in their plans. “Right now,” he said, “we are trying to arrange with local theatre supervisors for free theatre tickets with which to repay the boys for their work around the house. We hope to publish a paper or a mimeographed sheet, and in
(Continued on page 27)
LITURGY
The notes in this place began midway in the Season after Pentecost, at the opening of the schoolyear.... Now, at its close, they come to an end on the eve of another beginning of the Pentecostal Season.... Their aim has been to draw us nearer in understanding and love of the inner meaning of Catholic life.
The Church is the society of souls to be saved.... The Liturgy continues the living, active presence of Christ among men, in a mystical manner.... Its informing principle is the Holy Ghost.... The Sequence Hymn for the Mass of Pentecost is an illuminating and appropriate end for these notes.
Veni Sancte Spiritus
Come, O holy breath divine I And from heaven send forth to shine That light’s ray tvhich is thine own.
Come, thou father of the poor!
Come, of gifts thou rich bestower! Come, thou light in all hearts shown.
Thou of all consolers best!
Thou of souls the sweetest guest! Thou their sweet refreshment too.
Thou to those in toil art rest! Shelter to the heat-opprest!
Thou, ’mid tears, their solace true!
O most blest light! We implore, Fill thou, in their inmost core, Hearts that place their faith in thee.
Unless by thy Godhead’s call, Naught in man exists at all, Naught is sinless found to be.
Wash thou what is stained with sin;
Water what is dry within;
Heal thou what is wounded sore.
Bend thou what is stiff of will;
Warm thou tvhat with cold is chill; Guide thou what has strayed before.
To thy faithful who remain Trustful in thee, do thou deign Of thy sevenfold grace to give.
Grant them virtue’s merit great;
Grant salvation’s final state Grant them joys that ever live.
Amen—Alleluia
(Mass Calendar on page 22)
10	THE
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
By Bill Scanlan
Men of letters often dream of the sea but three prominent seniors—all English majors—have fulfilled that ambition. In appropriate alphabetical arrangement, we encounter Russ Harris, James Meaney, and William Mulvey, conductors of
Mulvey, Meaney . . . May go to sea . . .
this column for the past 25 issues of the Scholastic. Today the tables are turned and they receive introductions.
Russell Harris
The all-time University record holder of 39 fencing victories, Mr. Harris of Little Rock, Ark., gained much of his ability in that spectacular sport while visiting Europe in 1938-39. Russ wasn’t good enough to win his freshman numerals in fencing but he came back from the European trip, during which he advanced under the direction of an Italian and a Swiss fencer, to emerge as the greatest winner in Notre Dame’s fencing annals. He chalked up 39 triumphs, principally in the foil, during the past season.
Last summer Harris traveled with the Naval Reserves on a cruise to Panama on the U.S.S. Wyoming. His sea-going activities are not over, however, since he’s due to continue his naval education at Northwestern University, Chicago, beginning in mid-June. He says his address will be Abbott Hall and he will welcome mail. When he has finished his training, he hopes to be shifted to the Pacific coast, “so I’ll be able to keep warm.”
While in Europe, he spent considerable time in Rome. He was there at the time of the death of Pope Pius XI, and accompanied 100,000 others who crowded into St. Peter’s for the first blessing by the new Pontiff, Pius XII. Two years earlier Harris had •waited in the rain to
see the then Papal Delegate at Notre Dame. Harris was impressed by the lack of enthusiasm Italians showed for the Fascist program. “They were -worn out by too much flag raising,” he recalls.
Jim Meaney
Genial Jim Meaney, Corpus Christi, Texas, rancher and expert sailboater, is also a competent linguist. He proved that last semester when he whizzed past Mr. Gilbert Cody’s Spanish class with a nifty 100. He is currently learning French by listening to records.
A self-styled “outdoor man,” Meaney has a varied list of interests—ranging from fishing sharks, or sea trout in the Gulf of Mexico to hunting she-Wolff’s around Duluth, Minn. His favorite feminine name is Mary Lucia but he will settle for the nickname “Pinkie.” A fellow English major, William C. (Chaucer) McGowan, claims that Meaney is one of the most generous men on the the campus, be it time, work, or sometimes even advice. Jim is currently trying to peddle a pair of shoe skates—he feels he has no further use for them around the family ranch in Texas.
Jim likes to ride horses, tandem bicycles, and is an expert target shot. He smokes cigars, types his letters, and flashes a southern drawl around the first floor of Alumni hall.
Rumors have it that when Mrs. Meaney calls her sons to dinner, she gets the best action with “Yiiippppeeeeeee.” Jim is one of the few lads around Notre Dame who doesn’t particularly dislike rain or snow—it gives him an opportunity to flash about in his cowboy boots. Yippeee!
Bill Mulvey
One of the stars of the current student - downtown dramatic collaboration, “It Never Rains,” is Mr. Mulvey of Alumni hall, Erie, Pa., and Schenectady, N. Y. Bill’s dominating ambition is to enter show business. At present he is considering an offer from the Massachusetts Stock company, operating out of Plymouth, but he probably wouldn’t turn down an offer to tour with some of his classmates, headed by Jack White, should the production hit the road.
Though he hopes to miss the draft, Mulvey prefers to join the Navy if the call to the nation’s colors comes his way. The black-haired, smooth-speaking senior has been a familiar figure whenever dramatical productions have been on the stage of Washington hall. The young Thespian has had prominent parts in such successes as “Room Service,” “Brother Orchid,” “She Stoops to Conquer,” “Outward Bound,” “Journey’s
End,” and last summer, “Twelfth Night,” — working under Robert Speaight.
At the Schenectady high school, Mulvey gained a reputation for his ability as a wrestler and weight lifter. He abandoned the physical education touch at Notre Dame for the more appreciative activity of dramatics. In addition to writing for the Scholastic, Mulvey has contributed book reviews to Scrip.
Ziemba "Most Improved" In Spring Grid Award
“Most improved player” of the 1941 football squad is the title awarded to Wally Ziemba, recently shifted to center post, as head football coach Frank Leahy announced the seven winners of the Hering Medals this week. The presentation of these medals is made each spring by Mr. Frank E. Hering of South Bend, a Notre Dame alumnus class of ’98, who was the first official football coach of the Irish.
The completed list of awards and winners follows:
Center passing—Tom Brock; tackleblocking guard—Captain-elect Paul Lillis; end blocking tackle—Bob Dove; fullback blocking end — Bernie Crimmins; hardest running back — Dippy Evans; most accurate forward passer—Angelo Bertelli.
A brand new hat and pair of shoes are lying idle pending the complete examination of notebooks to determine the best of the lot.
Physical Education Boys Strike for the Wilds
By this time next week most of us will be home or heading in that general direction, but not the Phy. Ed. boys. They’ll be in Camp Eberhart on Corey Lake at Three Rivers, Mich., attending classes and slapping mosquitoes.
All who are in the Physical Education school are required to spend at least two periods in this outdoor camp before graduation. The periods are 10 days long, and every day is filled to the brim from 6:25 in the morning to 10:00 at night with classes and outdoor exercises. The campers attend classes in archery, archery craft, riflery, trap shooting, handling of boats and canoes, sailboating, leather craft, and riding.
The purpose of these early summer camping periods is to develop the students in camp leadership and to enable them to fulfill requirements as camp counselors in the numerous boys camps throughout the country.
—Jack Sprague
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
11
Bundles for Britain Increase in Number As White's "It Never Rains" Is Success
On stage “It Never Rains” was a good show. Backstage “It Never Rains” was just as good, maybe better.
A dancing chorus which assembled an hour to 15 minutes before its appearance out front, never quite got stopped dancing after it started. Performing before an audience the chorus was mechanical, as good as most amateur dancers ever are. But behind the scenes dancers turned supple, pranced continuously to the music being played on stage of Dick Hines and Johnny Kelley, much to the chagrin of Director Vem Witkowski.
The singing chorus performed well before its audiences, remained quiet back-stage.
Hines-Kelley music was the outstanding achievement of the show. Princeton’s Triangle Club has no composers who belong in the same league with Kelley and Hines.
To make the tunes more clear-toned, singers Jean Chambers, Barbara Cotter, Becky Banghart, and Bob Saggau warbled words at a microphone in center stage. Ten-year-old Jo Ann Brines sang “Run Up To Bed” excellently, should have run up to bed before doing her tap routine; it was strictly routine.
Saggau’s voice was clear, extremely pleasant; Barbara Cotter sounded quite as good as Nan Wynne; Becky Banghart did well in her other parts; Jean Chambers had the most pep in her voice, her antics.
A shadowy plot stumbled along through some 20 scenes. Synopsis: While three spies under the sponsorship of Adolph, Benny, and Joe tried to “get the plans” from a colonel at Camp Loganberry, three buck privates straightened out love troubles and foiled the spies.
Probably the best scene of the show was the drill number. A bit green, a group of privates drove a sergeant to distraction, bronx-cheered the colonel.
In general the production was excellent, though uneven, entertainment. Main fault with the show was the countless number of scenes. Probably the mechanical facilities provided by the Central High Auditorium were more responsible for the periodical slowing down of action than anything else. So many changes of scene require deft handling by stage hands, and a better backstage set up than the bundlers for Britain had.
What made the show really worth seeing besides the songs and the singers was the work of John Kelley, John Cop
pinger, Mike Kinnaire, Dave Curtin, Doc Walsh, and Paul Kruyer. Almost nightly cast members gave Kelley credit for stealing the show. A Mickey Rooneyish mugger, he almost did. But sissified-act-ing Bill Mulvey, all-around man Dave Curtin, bashful Mike Kinnaire, a natural comedian Doc Walsh, and dialectician John Coppinger were definitely on the stage.
These were well-rehearsed actors. Also was semi-pro thespian Jack White who donned a ton of make-up to hide his hair, to look like Benito Mussolini.
Backstage, over and above the informal antics of the entire cast, were Vem Witkowski, Bob Longpre, Joe Stephen, and an army of others. Witkowski, before each performance, said, “I’m boss back here tonight.” The cast proceeded to do almost as it pleased, managed to make the audience like what it did before the footlights.—John Patterson
Catholic Action Cells
End Successful Year
The Notre Dame Catholic Action organization marked the last general assembly of the scholastic year, held Sunday morning in the basement-room of the Library, with reports on the semester’s work of the nine undergraduate and graduate cells of the campus.
During the course of the reports and the discussion of plans for the coming year, members approved the successful and informative discussions held in the weekly individual cell meetings, commended the several professor-student smokers which the group has sponsored, agreed with the policy of cooperation with the St. Vincent de Paul society in their work in collecting old clothes for the poor, and applauded the popular sale and distribution of a collection of reasonably-priced pictures of famous Notre Dame athletes for room decorations.
Martin McLaughlin, graduate student and newly-elected president for 1941-42, presided at the meeting and announced the plan whereby Catholic Action members next fall will help incoming freshmen to orient themselves to the campus. McLaughlin succeeds Gene Geissler, outgoing graduate student in Apologetics; the office of Executive Secretary will be filled by Howard Garrigan of Zahm, while Jim Clark of Cavanaugh will continue as Treasurer.—Howard Garrigan
Father Bolger Urges Study of Encyclicals
Workingmen have a right to the protection granted by such legislation as the minimum wage and other laws, the Rev. William Bolger, C.S.C., authority on Catholic social theory, declared in a sermon in Sacred Heart church on May 15. Father Bolger spoke at a solemn Mass, commemorating the anniversaries of the two important encyclicals, Rerum Novaruni and Quadragesima Anno, now the basis of Catholic social doctrine, issued by Pope Leo XIII, on May 15,1891, and Pope Pius XI, on May 15, 1931.
The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, was celebrant of the Mass assisted by the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president, as deacon, and the Rev. John Burke, C.S.C., subdeacon. The Moreau Seminary choir sang the Mass.
Speaking of the two encyclicals issued by Pope Pius XI and Pope Leo XIII which decried social injustice, Father Bolger said:
“Everyone is entitled to a living wage and to recognition of fundamental and natural rights and our government should protect the rights of the workingman. At the present time 26 states have enacted a minimum wage law and in the very near future it is expected that many more will adopt such measures.”
Father Bolger expressed regret that important encyclicals of the Supreme Pontiffs are not sufficiently read or adequately understood by the layman and he urged meetings such as one held at Milwaukee several years ago under the sponsorsh ip of Archbishop Samuel Stritch, D.D., when 15,000 laymen heard explanations and discussions of the en-' cyclicals.
Brief summarizations of the encyclicals were distributed to students during the Masses in Sacred Heart church last Sunday.
Mangelsdorf Will Head Students from St. Louis
Officers for the year 1941-1942 were elected- by the St. Louis club at their meeting last week. Edward F. Mangelsdorf of Dillon Hall was elected president. Gene Fehlig, Varsity golfer and trackman, of Badin Hall, was elected vice-president. Dan Murphy, also of Badin Hall, was chosen secretary. Norm Mueller, of Cavanaugh Hall, was elected treasurer.
Plans for a large summer picnic at which all incoming freshmen will meet the club members were announced.
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Morrturus
FOUNDED 1867
WILLIAM C. MeGOWAN, Editor-In-Chief
JOHN W. PATTERSON, Jr., Managing Editor
JAMES NEWLAND, Promotion	-
WILLIAM SCANLAN, News Editor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to The Editor, 213 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building;
Editorial Staff, 6:30 PAL; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
A Review and an Appreciation
This is the 26th and last issue of Scholastic for the schoolyear. Since last September, nine months ago, when the football season was the biggest topic on the campus, 104,000 copies of this magazine have been distributed here at Notre Dame and elsewhere. It has carried during that time the story of the campus and South Bend premiere of “Knute Rockne—All American,” a picture describing incidents connected especially with the late coach’s career at the University. So has the Scholastic printed its version of the busy days when Father Lord’s sermons, the Army trip and freshman innoculations at the Infirmary were most in the news.
Such things as the institution of a branch of the Civil Aeronautics Administration have been recorded, and the opening sentence in the news story written by a clever sophomore makes the occasion more memorable than it might otherwise have been: “Unpredictable Indiana skies will be filled with additional uncertainties next week when 70 Notre Dame students begin a course of flying instructions sponsored by the C. A. A.” Most of these 70 students are full-fledged airmen by now, and some will be on their way to military air service in June.
A small item in the second issue of Scholastic told of a group of students who had become interested in “the beauty of Catholic liturgy,” and who were to attend a recitative Mass early each morning in Sacred Heart Church. This group added many new members during . the scboolyear and functions strongly each morning even to this day. One of the most nostalgiac records carried by
JOHN DINGES, Sports Editor
GEORGE MILES, Literary Editor
WILLIAM BAADER, Art Editor
THOMAS F. CARTY Photo Editor
the Scholastic was the “Passing of a Friend,” which referred to the tearing down of Freshman Hall, a venerable stucco land-mark whose site is now a sport field.
A high point in early October, and coming at a moment when the excitement of the “Hollywood” weekend was just beginning to disappear, was the visit to the campus of Mr. Wendell Will-kie, Republican candidate for President. Mr. Willkie visited the campus in the middle of an 8 o’clock class, spoke briefly to a crowd of cheering supporters. A month later he reaped his reward by winning the majority of votes cast on the campus. That same week Father Louis Putz called Catholic Action a “miracle of the Twentieth Century,” and proved it as the year went along by fostering a “cell” growth on campus that numbers over 100 members at this writing.
Perhaps the most highly publicized piece of scientific apparatus on the campus is the new atom smasher. The old smasher had a rather inconspicuous career; but with the advent of the new one and its tremendously increased voltage, a series of stories concerning it have come from all sources. Some are official with excellent photographs to recommend them, but some are unofficial and concern the dismay caused when the new atom smasher lets off air pressure. Only a hardened veteran can stand at ease in a room above the apparatus when it is releasing horrific pressure with a more horrendous Whoosh! “The Week” went to the heart of that situation in one of its columns.
The University Theatre Group has not gone unnoticed this year. In December “Outward Bound” was produced in Washington Hall by the students who associated themselves with the group. But the most auspicious production of all was Gilbert and Sullivan’s operetta, “The Gondoliers,” which in April evoked applause from three nights’ audiences.
The tremendous task of reporting these events for the Scholastic fell on the shoulders of about 60 men over the course of the year. They gave of their time and energy and effort in an endeavor to publish a magazine that would be as competent as a student publication could be, and as inclusive as its size would permit. Some of course gave more than others, and it is a pleasure to give heroic thanks where heroic service was rendered; to be generous to those who were generous in their contribution; and to be grateful to those who helped in any way to create the 1940-’41 Scholastic. All who participated should feel that their efforts have not gone unnoticed or unrewarded, and that if instant thanks and recognition were not granted it was an oversight and never a deliberate omission.
—William C. McGowan, Editor
Scholastic's Honors
The Scholastic is happy to publish the honors which have come to it from various outside, impartial press services for its achievement during the 1940-’41 schoolyear.
The 1941 All-American Critical Service, sponsored by the Collegiate Press Review, awarded the Scholastic with First Class Honor Rating, among colleges whose enrollment is 2500 students or more.
Also, the Scholastic received the Best in Nation rating from the Intercollegiate Press Survey, which is under the auspices of the Department of Journalism of Seton Hall College, which is in South Orange, N. J. The insignia which the Scholastic may now use on its masthead is placed just above this article.
The rating, All Catholic was also awarded to the Scholastic by the Catholic School Press Association of the Marquette University College of Journalism.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
As It Is With Them
By GEORGE EDWARD MILES
Obviously, any change in the writing of THE WEEK would be a change for the better, and at this time a change might easily be effected. It is difficult to understand why some alteration was not made in the past so that THE WEEK would have been THE WEEK BEFORE. Here is the way some people might have written the column if only they had been asked.
JAMES JOYCE (Irish tenor, traveler, and terpsichorean):
Drrrnnnnnngge-innnggguh! Drrrnnnn-nngge-innnggguh! Alpha privative hah? uhanhummm yes bell no yessssss HAH?? six-thirty was it six or really or open now and leave for five minutes just or is it the sun well three minutes and for certain so don’t because it is there the sun the only begotten it must be and it must have so don’t what was it last night one fifteen oh and they would stay all night but anyhow ohhh I offer this day and even after they went first footsteps on the concrete and yes yes some one sick retching in the bowl for a long time retching fetching ketching in the bowl music in the night retching in the bowl or wilt thou go ask the mole William Blake angel of the Romantics ohhhhh better get now did Blake have visions so early in the morning ohhhhhh Blake and Rene Descartes yes rainyday cart another angel both waiting on this day ohhhhhnnnnnnhh all right not today what Monday and four classes well UP! rise up and go forth to meet in order named respectively from left to right William Blake Thomas Aquinas Rasputin and Antigonish its Monday—
ERNEST HEMINGWAY (Prize-fighter, hunter, regular-fellow):
It is Tuesday.
ALDOUS HUXLEY (Member California
Chamber of Commerce):
He traced a carefully manicured finger of his right hand along the calendar. Yes, it really was Wednesday, and he thought that he would go down to the Oliver. He always said to himself that
he would do something else on Wednesday, but he always ended up by riding downtown to the hotel with the bunch. What would he wear today? The blue pin-stripe? Oh no, he had worn that last week. He took out the brown covert; it looked well on him. . . . Oh he knew! The camel’s hair sport-jacket that made him look like Robert Taylor. And he could put on the gray flannel slacks, and a white oxford cloth shirt with a brown knit tie. He hoped that beast of a du Lac fellow didn’t wear the same outfit the way he had last week, or was it two weeks ago when they had gone to the beach, oh well. He combed his hair and fluffed it just slightly with his hand. Before he left he examined himself very closely in the mirror, and found that the knot in the tie was horrible. Quickly he unwound it, then formed a new loop with precise movements; that was much better. As he walked downstairs he decided how he would enter the coffee shop and how he would answer greetings. He thought he would show the left side of his face; it was slightly better than the right, and he wouldn’t have much to say; the conversation was so conventional anyhow. When he got to the bottom of the stairs he remembered that he had not put on the shaving lotion that- smelled so nicely; but it didn’t matter. He did not reply when a group called to him at the front door; he merely smiled his sardonic smile and said “Another Wednesday at the Oliver.”
WILLIAM SAROYAN (Acrobat, praiser of his own virtues):
I, William Saroyan, one of that swiftly diminishing nationality called Armenians, am alive on this Friday, am live and am am hungry. On this day when the sun shines brightly on the rich land which produces more food than can be eaten, thousands of Armenians are starving, and I, William Saroyan, am starving; and I grieve for the dark, sad Armenians who are hungry; and I grieve for myself and for my belly. So I will take this nickel that I hold in my hand, this last nickel which I press tightly in my sweating palm, and buy
a big sugar bun. And I will lick the sugar first, then eat the bun in four bites, and I will gather up the crumbs and eat them, and I will think of all the Armenians in the world. But I will eat it all because it is Friday and my belly is empty.
D. H. LAWRENCE (Citizen of the world):
He knew that it was Saturday; he knew it in all his being. And the knowledge of it penetrated into the deepest parts of him, and pulsed in wild, furious rhythms that rose and fell and brought forth in him a strange, remote mindlessness that dissolved all the pain and all the hurts and carried him to a complete and abiding comfort. He felt it in his veins and in his heart and down deep in some unfathomable place. He felt perfected; full and perfected. He felt perfected and self-sufficient this day.
MARCEL PROUST (Botanist):
The day with its light blue sky, dear in some places, spotted with small clouds that hung without motion in others, and its warm silent air that lay in a vast hush over the countryside, reminded him of some moment in the past when the day had been exactly like this, and he had had the same thoughts and the same feelings. One time, long ago, he had walked like this — somewhere he had done just what he was doing now, and this appeared now to be merely a reproduction of that former action. Out of the past the vague outlines closed upon his mind and he knew a deep, familiar nostalgia, but he could not locate the first setting. He remembered only the sky and the air — and the day had been Sunday, when the scent of the lilacs had been clear and strong, and he had been peaceful and young. And all the Sundays, those he had experienced and those of all the past ages that he had read about came to life again in his imagination, and all the things that had happened or he thought had happened flooded from out his memory like some dam that had burst its barrier and swept irresistibly over all the land.
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME SPORTS
V	--<
Irish Trackmen To Face Wisconsin Tomorrow; In State Meet May 31st
Plan to Send N. D. Stars to California Meet
Moving rapidly into the final stages of its campaign, the Irish track and field team descended on Madison, Wis. this afternoon, where tomorrow they will attempt to run the Badger thinlies into the ground in the last dual meet appearance of Coach Mahoney’s boys this season.
In excellent spirits following their 91% to 39% thrashing of Marquette last Saturday in which they won 12 of 15 events, the Irish are by no means content to rest on past laurels, for they realize that Wisconsin’s team is of a potentially dangerous caliber. The Badgers are possessed with an abundance of manpower, especially in field events, and the Irish may find themselves hard-pressed in that phase of the game for the first time this season. Larry Hadley, Big-Ten javelin champion; Don Timmerman, co-champion in the high-jump; George Paskvan of football fame, and Bob Beirele, both of whom have repeatedly given good performances in the shot-put and discus throw, form the nucleus for a field team which might very easily upset hopes for the Irish in their strongest positions. A close meet is forecast with the Irish getting the nod for superior strength in the track events.
Other Meets
Following the Wisconsin meet tomorrow, the Irish will embark upon a series of championship meets which they hope will eventually bring them to the National Collegiates at Palo Alto, Calif, in the middle of June.
First on the list is the Indiana State Collegiate Meet to be held at Bloomington, Ind. Saturday, May 31. The Irish by reason of the fact that they are the defending champions, and because of their all-around squad balance, rate a
slight favorite to retain the title, though they will be hard-pressed by Indiana’s small but durable band of warriors. Coach Mahoney predicts a very close and hotly contested meet, though the tide of victory should swing toward the Irish if they can break up Indiana’s domination in the middle distances, for they definitely have an advantage in the sprint and field events.
At Milwaukee for the Central Collegiate Conference Meet a week later, the Irish will find as their principle foes this same Indiana team. Marquette, the defending champion, appears sure to be dethroned, though a new champion cannot be forecast at this time because of the uncertainty of the entry list of athletes. However, the Irish and the Hoosiers should score enough points to decide the meet between them, with the other schools offering just enough competition to make the meet interesting.
Palo Alto Trip Planned
The Central Collegiates will mark the end of the trail for seniors: Capt. Joe Olbrys, Frank Sheets, Bill Bogan, Paul Scully, Bill Buenger, and Bob Saggau; who will graduate in June, for they will not make the trip, if there is to be one, to the National Collegiates at Palo Alto, Calif, on June 20 and 21. This meet, recognized as the greatest carnival of its kind in the sports world, will attract established stars from virtually every school in the country. Notre Dame’s entry in the meet is uncertain at the moment, but if plans materialize, the following men: Ollie Hunter, two-miler; Jim Delaney, shot-put star; Ray Roy, quarter mile ace; Keith O’Rourke, high-jumper; and George Schiewe, low hurdler and quarter miler, or Frank Con-forti, miler; are expected to carry Notre Dame’s colors onto the cinder track, in the season’s finale for the Irish.
—Jim Clemens
Buckeyes Oppose Irish
On Cartier Field Tomorrow
Ohio State’s baseballers will attempt to crown with success a rather mediocre season tomorrow afternoon on Cartier field when they meet the Irish in the finale of a two-game series. Play will start at 2:00 p.m. (C.S.T.).
Coach Fritz Mackey heads a team based around eight lettermen and although the Buckeyes have been victorious in only about half of their games to date they have the potential power to complicate things for any team. The Ohioans boast a veteran outfield, but are weak on consistent sluggers. Either Captain Gene Dornbook or veteran Jim Sexton will oppose the Irish from the mound tomorrow. Coach Kline has indicated that he will send Fisher to the hill in an attempt to get back in the win column.
California Is Irish Commencement Foe
California’s powerful Bears invade Notre Dame next Friday and Saturday to wind up the Irish season before alumni fans. Always a powerhouse on the coast, the California aggregation of this year is no exception. Notre Dame is the final stop of a 16-game tour for the Bruins, and they are bent on ruining the homecoming for the Irish. Coach Kline will probably send Fisher and Subby Nowicki out in an attempt to wind up the season triumphantly.
Lose Close One to Navy, 5-4
Notre Dame almost pulled a game out of the fire last Saturday when Crimmins tried to swipe home with the tying run, but a fast throw by the Navy pitcher nailed him and sunk the Irish, 5-4. Bernie passed up an opportunity to tie the score before this when he chose to hold third on an infield out. The Middies started fast, but Notre Dame all but tied the score in the late stanzas.
Juggled Infield Was Problem
In commenting on the season Coach Kline pointed out that while the spirit was ever present the material was sadly lacking. Behind Bernie Crimmins the catching was not the best, and the pitching staff featured only one season performer in veteran Subby Nowicki. A leg injury to George Sobek forced Coach Kline to experiment with a new combi-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
nation of Charley Crimmins and Gore around the keystone. This shifted Ray Pinelli to third, and generally weakened the infield.
With the shifting of Pinelli to short and the return of George Sobek to second the inner defense was greatly strengthened. First base was a problem all season, however, with Chuck Farrell out most of the season with injuries and his understudy Don Tallett on the sidelines with illness and injuries.
Few Heavy Hitters
One of the greatest weaknesses of the team as stressed by the Irish mentor has been weak hitting. Only Farrell, Pinelli, Bernie Crimmins and Captain Andy Chlebeck have been consistent .300 hitters, and with Farrell and Crimmins out a great deal Coach Kline was unable to field a team which batted much over .200.
Only a few veterans graduate, however, and the Irish should be able to field a more potent combination next season.
Ray Pinelli, veteran Irish shortstop, will probably be cavorting the diamond in professional ball next year. Although it is not certain exactly where Ray will land, it is rumored that the New York Yankees have their eye on the youth. At any rate, he will join Norv Hunthausen and Rex Ellis of last year’s team in an attempt to break into the big show.—Ray Donovan
‘44 Trackmen Offer Talent
In Field, Distance Events
Unsung heroes of the Notre Dame track team are the freshmen thinlies who have labored daily since September, forcing Varsity men to reach their peak, and laying the ground-work for their own individual careers, to begin next fall.
Among those singled out for special praise by varsity track coach Bill Mahoney, as being particularly bright prospects for the next campaign, are Austin Jones, a :51 quarter-miler; Ed Dunham, a half-miler who already has established himself as one of the best in the country at that distance; Bill Kelly, another creditable half-miler; Walter Brehmer and Vince Barry two good milers who have already done 4:34, along with Ted Smith who is only a step behind; Ed Keelan in the high-jump has bested five feet, ten inches this year; and “Buster” . Hogue all-around field event man should be good for points in the javelin, and the high and broad jumps.
These boys did not have much chance for glory in the past campaign, but they and many of their teammates did their part in shaping one of the finest varsities in Irish history.—Jim Clemens
INTRODUCING
—By AL DEL ZOPPO ".'N —
If a most valuable player award were to be made to a member of the Notre
Dame baseball team this year, Edward Don Hengel would very likely be one of the leading candidates for the honor. Not only has Don proved himself to be a good man to have at the plate in a pinch; but he has likewise distinguished himself by his versatility, being equally at home in the outfield and at first base.
For two years Don has been waiting
patiently for a chance to be playing rather than watching a baseball game here at N.D. With letter-man Farrell back again this year to handle first base duties it looked as if Don was doomed for an inactive varsity baseball career. But a shortage of experienced outfielders at the beginning of the season gave Hengel his “b r e a k.” The Pierre, S. Dak., athlete was given the right-field job in the opening game against Purdue and he smacked a triple the first time at bat to prove to Coach Kline that he had made a good choice.
Don has played every game but one since the season’s opener, playing in
right field until he was shifted to first base to take the place of Farrell who was stricken with appendicitis. And right now he can be classed as one of the best hitters on the squad. Don is a distance hitter, and though he lacks coordination and follow through in his swing, he packs plenty of power; enough power to have driven the ball deep over the centerfielder’s head in the Northwestern game, and over the prison wall in the Michigan Prison-Notre Dame exhibition.
Al Vandervoort is another one of
those fine ball-players who have learned their baseball on the West Coast. Palo
Alto is Al’s home town, and it was there that he earned his reputation as a baseball and football player, playing against his present teammate Ray Pinelli, against Dom Di Maggio, and several of Stanford University’s football stars. Al played third-base on his high school team for two years, but after his election
to the captaincy in his junior year he
was asked to do the catching because no one else was willing to try out for the job. He has been a catcher ever since, and a good one at that. Although Al has many requisites of a good receiver — a good throwing arm, speed, and pep — his lack of weight has hindered him in his battle for the first-string catching job on Jake Kline’s squad.
Al heads back for the West Coast after graduation this June, and will put
his knowledge of foreign commerce into
practice with some business concern.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Splinters From the Press Box
—BILL SCANLAN	—... —-
Eddie Riska, popular basketball cap
tain last season, will probably pass up
offers from the Akron Goodyears, She
Jim Newland
boygan and Oshkosh teams of the National Pro Basketball circuit because of the selective service act. . . . The peppery Irish ace who led the scoring for the third consecutive year with 174 points posted a three-year mark of 608 tallies, second only to Johnny Moir’s 780 collected during the seasons from 1935-38. ... At present,
however, Riska is starring at shortstop for St. Ed’s A.C. softball team. ... Welcome visitors at the athletic offices recently were George Keogan, basketball coach who is well on the road to recovery after an illness which put him on the sidelines in mid-season, and Joe Boland, Purdue’s line coach'and former mentor here.
This column is dedicated to Jim Newland, regular conductor, who is currently struggling with exams while seeking a criminology degree. . . . After four years with the “Scholastic,” Jim hopes to crash into a position with the International News Service, Indianapolis branch, or he will consider an FBI appointment if one comes his way. . . . As promotion editor, he directed the most successful Bengal Boxing Championships, in matters of attendance and finances, in the history of the event. ... Nearly 8,000 spectators were on hand for the affair which lasted four nights. . . . Newland hails from Washington, the inkspot in southern Indiana which accounted for the 1940-41 state basketball champions and Gene Klier, former Notre Dame basketbailer who is' doing graduate work on the campus. ... Klien’s brother, Leo, also a basketball player, will probably enroll at Notre Dame next fall.
Newland, associated with newspapers since he began as a carrier for the Washington Democrat 14 years ago, hopes to follow the foosteps of such Washington “favorite sons” as Mickey -McCarthy, managing editor of the In
dianapolis News; Wilbur Crawford, head of the Associated Press in Florida; and Charley Crawford, currently with the Los Angeles Examiner. . . . Before coming to Notre Dame, Newland spent a year as sports editor of the Democrat. . . . Highlight of Jim’s career was meeting Henry McLemore, eccentric United Press columnist, at Notre Dame’s pressbox during the Georgia Tech game last fall. He summarizes his impression: “the tomato-faced writer always acted busy. He never wasted time, and when the game was over he was through while other writers continued working.” . . . In addition to publications work, Newland found time to play the bass tuba in the band, and once ran a Mass-serving record almost two years before missing for the Rev. E. J. Misch, C.S.C., former history and religion professor at Notre Dame.
Max Bishop, second baseman of the Philadelphia Athletics from 1924-33, and leadoff man for Connie Mack’s teams which won three pennants and two world’s titles, believes Ray Pinelli’s hitting sag may be the result of “hitting off the front foot instead of off the back foot.” . . . The Navy coach was pleased to announce that Naval Academy officials allowed their team to play at Notre Dame—only game away from home other than the usual tilt at West Point—to repay the trip Irish athletes made to Baltimore in 1940. . . . Navy players were entertained by students of Breen-Phillips hall during their stay here. ... Coach Bishop had several words of praise for Captain Andy Chlebeck, leading Irish hitter.
Captain-elect Paul Lillis, blond football tackle, will put his engineering knowledge to work at the Rochester, N. Y., plant of the General Electric company during the summer. . . . Jack Mahon, son of Cleveland’s assistant prosecuting attorney, No. 1 cheerleader for the Indians on the campus, enthusiastically predicts that his home town lads will win the American league title by a 1 O-game margin, and that Pitcher Bob Feller will post more thn 27 victories. . . . Jesse Sutherland, who is accustomed to roam about the rocky slopes of Colorado creating political dreams, established some sort of a Notre Dame golf record when he recently toured the local layout in 132 strokes. . . . Jack Hart, of Howard Hall and a promising football end who will
join the Naval Reserves in June, verifies the count.... And claims he could throw it around that well.
Splinter’s choice as the preview unpronounceable Irish backfield of 1941 — Peasenelli, quarterback; Peplenjak and Grolowdowski, halfbacks; and Postu-pack, fullback. . . . But Juzwik, Hargrave, Evans, Crimmins, Prokop, Earley and Creevy may figure it takes more than a “name” to carry the ball past Arizona, Indiana, Georgia Tech, Carnegie Tech, Illinois, Army, Navy, Northwestern and Southern California next fall. . . . Tom Gallagher, three-time monogram winner at left tackle, signed to play football for the Detroit Lions last week. ... He joins Captain Milt Piepul who contracted to play earlier in the year ... Gallagher won nine letters at Leo high school in Chicago and will be graduated next week from the college of commerce.
St. Ed's. A. C. Win Softball Title with 7-4 Victory
Brilliant fielding, good pitching and distributed batting strength gave the St. Ed’s A.C. softball team enough balance to defeat the Breen-Phillips “Morning Checkers,” 7-4, in the final game of the Scholastic softball tournament, last week.
The star-studded Athletic Club scored four big runs in the first inning, including a home run by Ed Riska with two on board. St. Ed’s added another in the second when “Effie” Quinn “homered,” and two more in the third when Ashtabula Andy Cherney hit a booming “homer” that scored two other baserunners. Homer Ferguson, A.C. pitcher, allowed only two hits.
Jim O’Neal, A.C. second baseman, was the fielding star of the day, executing an almost impossible catch and then whipping the ball to first - baseman Quinn for a double-play. Short-stop Ed Riska cooperated with Quinn for the second double-play.
Home Run to Chemistry Bldg. Roof
The Morning-Checkers scored three runs in the' first inning by virtue of a hit, a walk and an error. John Ronan, outfielder for Breen-Phillips, hit the longest home-run of the tournament when he laid one on the roof of the Chemistry building, past deep centerfield. The Breen-Phillips team played errorless ball but lacked punch at the plate.
Breen-Phillips entered the finals by reason of their 5-4 defeat of the strong Subway Bullet-heads. St. Ed’s made their 12-7 semi-final win over the Zahm-bies.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
Freshmen Dominate
Interhall Track Meet
Two freshmen halls dominated the annual Interhall Track and Field Meet held on Cartier Field last Wednesday and Thursday afternoon, May 14 and 15, as Breen-Phillips nosed out Cavanaugh for the team championship by the slim margin of one point, 28-27.
Led by Bill Kelly, who scored the only double of the day with a 2:00.8 halfmile and a 4:38 mile, the freshmen from Breen-Phillips had just enough squad balance to hold off a determined Cavanaugh contingent. Other winners for Breen-Phillips were Austin Jones who was timed in a :52.5 quarter, and .“Buster” Hogue who won the broad-jump with a leap of 19 feet, 4 inches. Pacing Cavanaugh were Ed Kellan who took the high-jump with a mark of five feet, eight inches; Dick Dexter, who ran the 220 yd. low hurdles in :26.3; Hank Ver-sen, who did the 120 yd. high hurdles in :19.8; and the 880 yd. relay team of Herb Clark, Ed Keelan, Jack Quinn, and Dick Dexter, who covered the distance in 1:35.5.
Other winners were Sam Rowbottom of Lyons, who ran the century in :10.5; John Henry also of Lyons, who won the 220 in :23.2; Vince Barry of Brownson, who did 10:18.2 in the two-mile run; Jim Birder, Off - Campus, pole - vault champion at 10 ft.; Neil Williams of Carroll, winner in the shot-put with a mark of 35 feet, nine inches; Jack Quinlan of Zahm in the javelin, with a hurl of 141 feet, 5 inches; and “Chuck” Murphy of Morrissey in the discus with a heave of 102 feet, 11 inches.
In points scored Lyons finished third with 20%, and Brownson 12, Off-Campus 10, Morrissey 8, Zahm 6, and Sorin 3, followed in that order.
Individual event champions, as well as the second and third place winners, received medals as rewards for outstanding performances. Trophies will be presented to team champion Breen-Phillips, and Cavanaugh, the relay champion.
—Jim Clemens
Best N. D. Tennis Team
In Indiana Tournament
Northwestern’s Big Ten tennis champions had too much Seymour Greenberg last Saturday. At least that was the consensus of opinion after the nation’s 19th ranking player crushed Dan Canale, Notre Dame’s no. 1, man in the feature battle, 6-0, 6-1, and then teamed with Bill Richards to defeat Canale and Olen
AT THE PUBLICATIONS BANQUET
Bill McGowan, at left, editor of the 1940-41 SCHOLASTIC, handing out keys after the Publications Banquet on May 15. The keys were given to editors and staff members as rezvards for distinguished, service.
Parks, 6-1, 6-4. The victory was Northwestern’s, 5-4.
“It was too bad our first loss of the season had to come in the final match,” said Coach Langford with a faint smile. “Nevertheless these boys are the greatest netters ever to represent the school. A startling 6 to 3 win over the nationally-feared Universiy of Michigan team proved their worth.”
A glance at the statistics will convince any skeptic that Coach Langford’s enthusiasm is well grounded. Before running into the Purple Wildcats the Irish netters bowled over six successive opponents: Detroit, Western State, Indiana, Kentucky, Chicago, Michigan, and Michigan State.
Lost to next year’s squad are Captain Jack Joyce, no. 2 man; Norm Hoeckler, no. 5; Jack Walsh, no. 6, and Joe Garvey a reserve; all of whom will be graduated this June.
Wednesday afternoon the squad departed for Richmond and the state tournament.—Frank L. Kunkel
Student Art Exhibit
Opens Here Wednesday
The annual student Art Exhibition will be opened next Wednesday in the Wightman Art Gallery of the University library. The exhibition will be open to the public from 2 o’clock until 5 in the afternoon, until mid - June. The theses of the four graduating fine arts seniors will be featured.
On May 14 the Notre Dame Art Club annual dinner was held in the Blue Room of the LaSalle Hotel, in South Bend. The four fine arts seniors were presented with special homespun editions of valuable reference books on art, as gifts of the Art Club. The Jacques Mem
orial Medal was awarded this year to Salvatore Andriacchi; .it is a medal given annually for the best thesis done in the department of fine art. The actual awarding of the medal will be made at the Commencement on June 1.
Also at the dinner an illuminated plaque was awarded to William A. Kelleher for excellent scholarship over four years. The plaque is modeled after the Book of Kells.
Biology Club Formed
On May 9 the inaugural meeting of the Biology Club of the University of Notre Dame was held at 4:15 pan. in the auditorium of the Biology Building.
Dean Henry B. Froning outlined briefly the nature and aims of the new club, which is open to all students interested in Biology upon the successful completion of their freshman year. The opening address on “Parasitism” was delivered by Professor Harley J. Van Cleave, department of zoology, University of Illinois.
The first meeting of the club was held on Friday, May 16 at 4:15 pan. in the auditorium of the Biology Building for the purpose of electing the officers for the next school year, 1941-42. Dr. Theodor Just, head of the department of biology, opened the meeting with the announcement of the appointment of Dr. John D. Mizzelle as faculty advisor. Mr. Bernard Marbach was elected president; Joseph Sheedy, vice-president; and Donald Seuffert, secretary-treasurer. An executive board consisting of John Cronin, Edward Mangelsdorf and John Kelly (Kansas City) was also elected. James Leahy was appointed member-at-large by the president of the club.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
the Class of 741 — Congratulations
and BEST WISHES from
THE OLIVER COFFEE SHOP THE OLIVER EMERALD ROOM
The Oliver Hotel is a tradition with Notre Dame Men—and when you come back to visit at Notre Dame—come to the Oliver —the atmosphere of friendly hospitality and the excellent food and service—have made the Oliver the meeting place for Notre Dame Men for over forty years.
EMERALD ROOM -: - COFFEE SHOP
The OLIVER HOTEL, Ine.
An Albert Pick Hotel
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
Confer Third Degree On 38 K. of C. Men
Notre Dame Council was represented by 38 candidates from 16 states, the Panama Canal Zone and Puerto Rico in the class of approximately 70 who received the Second and Third Degree at the district exemplification in St. Joseph’s School hall, South Bend, last Sunday. Conferring of the degrees were undei- the direction of District Deputy Otto P. Geier of Mishawaka and former District Deputy Leo A. Donohoe of Dowagiac, Mich.
Following the Degree ceremonies, a buffet luncheon was served. Members were officially received into the Council at a special meeting last Tuesday.
Those who received the Third Degree were; Harold J. Barres, Elyria, Ohio; William E. Binet Grand Rapids, Minn.; John T. Bolderick, Lebanon, Ky.; James J. Byrne, Detroit, Mich.; William D. Carbine, Rutland, Vt.; John J. Clark, Cleveland, Ohio.; Robert J. Connelly, Fitchburg, Mass.; Earl Joseph Dean, Jr., Cristobal, Panama, Canal Zone; John E. Finnigan, Sioux City, Iowa; Robert G. Fisher, Detroit, Mich.; John F. Fogarty, Fitchburg, Mass.; Robert E. Funsch, Richmond Heights, Mo.; Harold E. Gra
ham, Santure, Puerto, Rico; Victor J. Gulyassy, Cleveland, Ohio.
Thomas F. Halligan, Flint, Mich.; Charles G. Hasson, Ebensburg, Pa.; James J. Hill, Superior, Wis.; Richard S. Kelleher, Seneca Falls, N. Y.; Edward J. Kelly, Seneca, Ill.; Warren D. Leary, Jr., Rice Lake, Wis.; Leo L. Linck, Ravenna, Mich.; Robert P. Lonergan. Wilmette, Hl.; Leo J. Maloney, Honeoye Falls, N. Y.; John H. Moran, Chicago, Ill.; Robert J. McCafferty, Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; John N. McDonnell, Sunbury, Pa.; Arthur A. McGrath, Logansport, Irid.
Larry G. McLaughlin, Royal Oak, Mich.; Kendall A. Niglis, Verona, Wis.; James D. O’Leary, Bayonne, N. J.; Robert E. O’Malley, Phoenix, Ariz.; William E. Scanlan, La Crosse, Wis.; Eugene R. Slevin, Peoria, Hl.; Spalding L. Slevin, Jr., Peoria, Ill.; William J. Waldron, Jr., East Orange, N. J.; James M. Whalen, Chicago, HL; John J. Whelan, Bloomfield, N. J.; and Charles L. Ziebarth, Idaho Falls, N. Y.
—Bill Scanlan
MOVIE
Saturday, May 24, “Strike Up The Band,” starring Mickey Rooney and Judy Garland. Cartoon and news.
Congratulations — 1941 Graduates!
Good luck and a pleasant vacation to the rest of you . . . we'll be looking forward to seeing you and serving you next Fall . . .
Seniors Join Pay Roils
Of Uncle Sam and Others
The senior class of Notre Dame has withstood four years of studies, Saturday night rushes on Washington Hall, Friday meals, and a variously-named thing called Indiana weather; now they are ready for their reward—graduation into the draft or other things. Rapping on doors in Sorin, Walsh, and Alumni halls to find out what those “other
Remember that clothes of quality and distinction will" always be an asset . . . whatever may be your chosen field of endeavor. ADLER-ROCHESTER offers you PERFECT FIT . . . tailored to your measurements . . . DISTINCTIVE STYLE . . . many from which to choose . . . FINE FABRICS . . . tweeds, Shetlands, worsteds, flannels, many imports.
PARKER-WINTERROWD
115^2 N. Main Street (Upstairs)
We are happy to announce our campus representatives for the school year 1941-42:
Captain Paul Lillis Neil J. McCarthy Larry Kelley
MENS SHOES
AS SEEN IN ESQUIRE, LIFE, AND THE SATURDAY EVENING POST
STEP Q TO
(j DISTINCTION
€001 n AIRY!
These handsome ventilated shoes
They help keep your temperature down and your pep up, as a "breathing” action draws in cooling breezes at every step. Inspired by shoes seen at famous resorts . . . Stop in — get a pair today.
120 So. Michigan St.
Q-N SHOE DEN for MEN
20
THE
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Keep Cool as you take your honors —•
Along with your Academic degree—insure yourself of a degree of comfort despite the thermometer.
B—Wilson's "Airloom" Shirt — guaranteed cool under your graduation "gown" — white and new pastels.	$2.00
C—"Congo" summer ties—lightweight and washable—solid colors and patterns.	$1.00
D—"Interwoven" hose — meshweaves and other summer weights —pastels.	35c and 50c
E—Hickok "Live Glas" Belts and
Suspenders. $1.00 and $1.50
WYMANS
MEN’S SHOP
things” will be, we found widely-ranged plans.
Hal G. Barres, Alumni hall, hopes to go into graduate work at Ohio State to secure his doctor’s degree in economics. He then plans to teach here, but he expects to be inducted into the army between the 1st and the 10th of June.
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE. O.D.
W. G. BOGARDUS, O.D. E. C. BERRY, O.D.
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Drive Safely and Save a Life
DENTISTRY as a Career
Dentistry offers an opportunity in the field of health service for men of . ' ability and determination. Advanced standards have ' cut down dental school attendance by 44% in ' recent years.	;
The Marquette University r _ Dental School is one of the , ' 18 dental schools of the _	;
z United States whose diplo- : ' mas are recognized in all of -z the states.	' '
, The close relationship of the
. Dental and Medical Schools ;' ' ' ' at Marquette University is ,.z ' ‘ an advantage to students.	;
' : Entrance requirements: Two : years in a recognized College J of Liberal Arts with satis- : factory credits in biology, / : chemistry, and physics.
i	For complete	information
'	concerning opportunities in	f	,
dentistry, write to the Secre- t i '	tary, Marquette	University	'	;
t	Dental School,	Milwaukee,	t	;
,	Wisconsin.	J
MARQUETTE UNIVERSITY Milwaukee
BOSTON
SHOE STORE
124 South Michigan Street
Congratulations. SENIORS!
and at Graduation why not feel
$3.98, $4.98, $5.85
Advertised in Esquire! Built by Weyenberg! And fitted by experts at BOSTON!

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
Two Commerce men of Walsh hall, Bill Morey and John F. O’Loughlin, are ready to start work after graduation. Morey will work for the Cyclone Fence Co., a U. S. Steel subsidary, while O’Loughlin will be connected with the Illinois Bell Telephone Co. in Chicago.
Sorin hall’s Eugene De Lay mulls over tentative plans for working for a private concern selling securities in Minnesota or entering the Naval Air Corps but his greatest desire is to work with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation as a junior bank examiner.
Robert O’Shaughnessy, pre-med major of Sorin hall is counting on entering St. Louis U. medical school after graduation. For the summer, Robert has a job in a hospital laboratory.	-
—Kelly Cook
Voting, Boating, and
Playing, Keep Band Busy
Not notes, but votes were the main attraction in the Notre Dame band room on Thursday, May 15. On that evening at 6:30, the former officers — President Larry Schmidt, Vice - President John Stack, Secretary-Treasurer Bob Finch, and Business Manager Jack Steidel — completed their year of service and gave way to newly elected leaders. This year’s elections were the closest in the history of the band. Competition was keen; both parties were worthy of the positions. The final results found two members from each party in office. The newly-elected officers are: president, Donal Petersen from Howard Hall and Escanaba, Mich; vice-president, John Nolan from Howard Hall and Chillicothe, Ohio; secretary-treasurer, Robert Heil from Howard Hall and Uhrichsville, Ohio; business manager, Roger Brown from Dillon Hall and Lake Geneva, Wis. The opposing candidates for office were: Floyd Richards for president, Charles Kirby for vice-president, Tom Horak for secretary-treasurer, and Dick Mat-lavish for business manager.
The members of the band have been put through some rather stiff rehearsals during the past few days in preparation for commencement week. Concerts are scheduled for Friday and Saturday evenings. The band will also play for the flag-raising ceremony on Sunday morning, June 1. Plans for Memorial Day services are uncertain at present.
Following the old adage, “All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy,” the band will have its period of recreation on Thursday, May 22, when the
IT’S 1 WHITE
P.IHI II E l I II
the national fashion for day and evening wear. Mix the coat with odd slacks for sports. Wear the slacks with odd jacket for variety. It’s the world’s most versatile suit—and it’s washable. See
the easy-feeling lounge models
at your clothier. Pastels and deep tones, too...
$1775
Palm Beach Evening Formals(white jacket and black trousers), $20. Palm Beach Slacks, $5.50. And by the same makers—the new Goodall Tropic Weight—top value in lightweight worsted suits, $25.
GOODALL COMPANY • CINCINNATI
’ A - 2 a € 3	3-	322SA-.
rn. TijLiLch
$3250'Prize Contest. See your clothier for details.
22
THE
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
entire band will journey to Lake Christiana for an all-day picnic. Full preparations are not as yet complete for this outing, but a good time is in store for Joe Casasanta and his boys.
—C. S. Coco
Mass Calendar: May 25-31
Sunday, 25—Sunday within the Octave of the Ascension. Second prayer, St. Gregory the Great, Pope, Confessor, 3d, St. Urban, Pope, Martyr.
Monday, 26—St. Philip Neri, Confessor. 2d prayer, the Octave, 3d, St. Eleu-therius, Pope, Martyr.
Tuesday, 27—St. Bede, the Venerable, Confessor, Doctor. Mass: In medio (Common of Doctors) Prayer proper, 2d, the Octave, 3d, St. John 1, Pope, Martyr.
Wednesday, 28—Saint Augustine of Canterbury, Bishop, Confessor. 2d prayer, the Octave.
Thursday, 29—Octave Day of the Ascension. Mass as on the feast day. 2d prayer St. Mary Magdalen dei Pazzis, Virgin.
Friday, 30—The Friday after the Octave of the Ascension. Mass of preceding Sunday. 2d prayer, St. Felix 1, Pope, Martyr, 3d the Blessed Virgin (Concede), 4th for Peace.
Saturday, 31—The Vigil of Pentecost (Day of fast and absinence) Mass: Cum sanctificatus (in proper). At six, in Sacred Heart Church, chanting of the prophecies, blessing of the font and High Mass.
Veni Creator Spiritus!
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
gate—nr to ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Motion Picture Tells Story of Notre Dame
The rumble of generating motors, the glare of bright lights and the grind of the camera have cropped up sporadically on the campus since last March when the Warren Brothers Motion Picture studio of South Bend began the photographic work on “The Story of Notre Dame.” The picture, running 45 minutes, is to give a true representation of life at Notre Dame with particular attention to the intellectual, recreational and religious sides of University life.
Beginning with the founding of Notre Dame, the scenes and narration lead to the Carroll and Brownson dormitories, mementoes of old Notre Dame, then across to Sorin hall, first Catholic dormitory with private rooms, and finally to the new quadrangle dorms. With camera glimpses of the campus and of student life and study, the narration will lead the filming into technicolor scenes of the University commencement exercises this June, with scenes from “The Gondoliers” and all other attendant activities. Filming will end wuth the commencement shots.
Copies of the finished production wall be loaned, on request, to any high school, Notre Dame club or other institution interested in its presentation. The narration for the film, being prepared by the Rev. John D. Gallagher, C.S.C., of Breen-Phillips hall, ■will be transcripted into Spanish by Eduardo Alcayaga of Alumni hall. Copies of the Spanish-narrated films will be taken by the Notre Dame
delegates to the Pax Romana conference in South America next summer. These will be presented on request and some copies will be left in each country visited.
Mark G. McGrath
THANK YOU FOR YOUR PATRONAGE DURING 1941 - '42
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
“Hoot mon!” . . .
4nd you save money with the
YELLOW CAB TRANSFER
Call 3-5151
THE YELLOW CAB TRANSFER delivers any trunk to any depot in town for only 50 cents. Service direct from Campus. Our campus agent is:
George Schreiber
107 Sorin Hall
NOTRE DAME
23
THE
K. of C. Holds Party For Senior Draftees
Last night the Knights of Columbus held their first annual Senior Draftee Party in the South Bend Council chambers with over 75 joining in the fun.
Bill Gagan, K. of C. treasurer, and “Stubby” Walters, two of the best known organizers among the senior Knights, formed the committee which arranged the affair.
All Senior members and all those who are to be inducted into the armed forces this summer were invited to attend. Entertainment and refreshments were provided by the Knights.
It is their hope to establish this as a traditional affair for the purpose of a final get-together for the Seniors who are being inducted.—Ed Roney
ADLER MAX
“ON THE CORNER” Michigan at Washington
4 million reasons why this shirt's coo!
A million invisible holes in the fabric of Arrow’s new mesh shirts let the cool air in, the heat out. Many smart Sanfor-ized-Shrunk patterns. Get some today
. and get cool.
It's Adler's tor Arrows!
Must a summer shirt
be a country cousin?
Summer meuu: MANSFIELDS
Step up, you style-hungry shoe buyers and take a sample of crisp style and lasting satisfaction. One trial and we know you’ll be baqk for more.
Hi-Boy . .. JThite Koolbuk and Tan Cheviot Plateau*
to $6.50
Arrow says
• . . . and proves it with city bred summer shirts that are comfortably cool, yet as neat and smart as any you own.
i
4
Arrow shirts have the famous Arrow collar to take you handsomely through the hottest days. They have the renowned "Mitoga” athletic fit. They are Sanforized Shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than 1%). In meshes, voiles, batistes §2 up. Arrow summer ties Si to $1.50. Yours for a better cooling system. See your Arrow dealer today.
MAX ADLER Michigan at Washington
ARROW SHIRTS
COLLARS . . . TIES . . . HANDKERCHIEFS . . . UNDERWEAR
24
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Students' Fancy Captured
By Dining Hall Equipment
Every year the Notre Dame Dining hall suffers a loss of approximately §10,000 because of breakage and the removal by visitors and students of chinaware,- silver and linens. The annual china and glassware inventory taken in June, 1940, revealed missing: 4,440 water glasses, 4,058 tea cups, 3,840 dinner plates, 2,340 butter chips. . . .
ASK US TO PLAN YOUR TRIP
•	The South Shore line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Our agent can handle your every travel detail to and from home.
•	Inquire about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time, to any section of the United States or Canada.
•	Many students have already arranged their trips. Plan yours now without further delay. The South Shore ticket office is open daily until midnight.
C. W. VEACH
City Passenger Agent
Ticket Office:
301 N. Michigan St. Phone 3-3111
TO CHICAGO
SOUTH BEND
The silver inventory revealed missing: 1,056 knives, both steel and silver, 1,092 forks, and 2,818 teaspoons. These are only the more numerous missing items; there are articles ranging from bean pots to mustard jars which were listed in unit dozens to make the filing of the missing articles easier. Some of the severest damage is done to the linens. Students walked off with 7,904 napkins last year. Many that were recovered when the halls were canvassed were utterly destroyed because the boys had used them to shine their shoes or for other purposes that made it impossible to re-use them.
In the past it was the custom to stamp all of the silver with the year of its purchase. However, new students took souvenirs to mark the day of their entrance and departing students took souvenirs marking the day of their departure. When football guests followed suit the system was abolished.
Lyons, Dillon, Alumni . . . tsk, tsk
After every school year the halls are canvassed in search of the various aricles taken from the dining hall. Many students take them for use in their rooms, these being certain fellows, of the domestic type, that do their own cooking on cold mornings, and thus save themselves the trouble of trudging to the dining hall. Revealed by the canvass was the fact that several men have complete dinner sets in their rooms. Water glasses found numbered about 850, although notices were posted warning against the drinking of unpurified water in room sinks. Napkins and knives are the next in count numbering 700 and 300 respectively. The school is trying to correct this practice in which Lyons, Dillon and Alumni halls are among the chief violators.
Mr. E. F. Connolly, manager of the’ dining hall, promises a substantial reward to the student devising the best plan for eliminating this annual loss.
—Elmer D. Silha
State Attorney Advises
Lawyers at Banquet Here
“Lawyers will have to give more determined study to litigation and they will have to provide quicker action in the future because people have become dulled to the legal profession in some respects,” the Honorable John E. Cassidy, former attorney general of the state of Illinois, told the members of the Notre Dame Law club at their annual banquet at the Oliver hotel on May 12.
. Preceding Mr. Cassidy’s address, Dean Thomas Konop and Professor Clarence E. 'Manion of the Law school, spoke briefly as did law students George Milford, Marion, Ind.; Richard Kaczmarek, South Bend; James Gorrell, South Bend;
and Jerome O’Dowd, Fort Wayne, Ind. William McVay, Bradford, Pa., was toastmaster.
Newly elected officers of the club who were introduced at the banquet are: Edward Kelly, Seneca, Ill., president; Jack Barry, Van Horne, Iowa, vice president; Robert Sullivan, Helena, Mont., treasurer; Peter Alonzo, Chicago, secretary, and Robert Richardson, Ottawa, Ill., student council representative.
You will always find a big stock of
FRANK MEDICO
and other leading makes of pipes at
no-wn nuim SOUTH Itn, IM0IAMA
Opposite Oliver Hotel
LOUIS V. BRUGGNER, N.D., ’2S, Prop.
fiaact
ABSORBENT FILTERS!
CENRINE FILTERS
FB* ■ EBIC* PIPES PACKER •BLY IB TAB BEB • BUCK
MEDICO Filtered Smoking in FRANK MEDICO Pipes, Cigarette or Cigar Holders is bringing extra joy to armies off smokers. Ifsthe wisest
LE SCREEN WTERIO*
cellophane- EXTERIOR
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE
Matty Byrne Captures Met Club Presidency
The regular elections of the Metropolitan Club of New York held Monday night in the Law building resulted in a sweeping victory for Matty Byrne and his party. Every man on his ticket defeated the opposing members of Joe Lane’s party. Byrne triumphed over Lane for the presidency by a wide mar-
ENGRAVED
Cards
Invitations
Fine Stationery
Slicks Engraving Company
224 West Colfax Avenue South Bend
SUMMER CLASSES
Open June 9
Special Classes in Shorthand and Typing may be arranged, on full day or half day basis.
Call at office for particulars.
•
SOUTH BEND
College of Commerce
212 S. St. Joseph Street
WATCHES
GRUEN	HAMILTON
ELGIN	LONGINES
Fine Watch Repairing
JOE THE JEWELER 113 East Jefferson J. TRETHEWEY
gin of 130 to 57. Next year’s football captain, Paul Lillis of New Rochelle, also won over Gene Hunt in the race for the vice-presidency. Jim Gibbons beat Ed Dunham in the election for secretary, and the treasurer’s position was assumed by Bill Johnson, nosing out Harry Wright. The trustees elected were Jim O’Brien over Bernie Marbach in the Bronx-Westchester area, Austin Jones over Al Zoilo for Brooklyn, Ed Doran over Tony Maloney for Manhattan, and Bob Martin over Jack Whitely for Long Island.
The new party promises an active regime. Some of the features planned
You feel refreshed afteron ice-cold bottle of Coca-Cola. It's the complete answer to thirst and Coca-Cola has the taste that ak
When it's "Intermission ...pause and
throughout the day, make it the pause that refreshes with ice-cold YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY Co<«-Cola.
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
COCA - COLA BOTTLING CO. of South Bend, 1107 Beyer Avenue
25
are: a tea dance during Christmas vacation, and another on Easter Sunday afternoon in New York, a spring picnic at school and either a summer-formal or a moonlight cruise in June.
—Richard. Powers
Mechanical Engineers
Elect Gilbert Chairman
A special meeting of the Notre Dame branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers was called last Monday night to elect officers for the coming year.
The group, presided over by Chairman
26
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Bob Odenbach, elected the following officers: Chairman, John Gilbert; vice chairman, Frank Brehl; secretary, Ed Buenger; and treasurer, Paul Lillis.
The club, which is composed of junior and senior mechanical engineers, will be host nexr year to the Midwestern Student Conference of the A. S. M. E. An active and progressive year is looked forward to by the members of the club, under-the leadership of Chairman John Gilbert.—Bob McFarland
ranged for Sisters in the summer of 1942. The perpetual adoration will be kept up by the students through the school year of 1942-43.
In stressing the academic side the Administration will offer a three-fold program. There will be meetings of nationally prominent scholastic persons and societies; lectures in various fields by the best authorities will be highly
informative; and intelligent symposia will be refreshingly different and well spaced.
Another feature of the celebration plan will be the aesthetic side. This program will honor the history and chronology of the University with movies, dramas, and musicales. The feature is a pageant, now being considered. Several poems will be composed.—Bill Talbot

Notre Dame Centenary To Begin June, 1942
Following the commencement of the Class of 1942 the President of the University will formally announce the opening of the centennial year of the University of Notre Dame, founded 100 years before by Father Edward F. Sorin, on November 26, 1842. The president will set aside the year as one of special prayer for world peace and for blessings on Notre Dame. Centennial plans -for ’42-’43 may be touched on during ’41 commencement exercises next week.
During the centennial year, which will continue until the commencement of 1943, all phases of Notre Dame life will be properly emphasized. Of foremost emphasis will be the religious side. For this a perpetual adoration will be ar-
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Dr. Grabow _____________$1.60
Yello-Bole Regular______ 1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial_____ 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless ------3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor-----4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran_____5.00
Hollydourt 3.50
Sasieni__________________5.60
Comoy 5.00
w-;
upre’s the refreshes neat veal^ £0 0\u delicious
class,
sweetenyo^t	it costs so 1^®
7oul to°-	G^
you enXial p^es today daily -B’«rse^




NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

THE
STUDENTS MANAGE HOUSE (Continued from Page 9) that way let other people participate. We also hope to have a farm. This is our big hope and the one that is farthest from realization. We are working in conjunction with the Catholic Worker Movement which is sponsored by Dorothy Day and Peter Maurin. The movement presents these three points of action: first, manifestation of Christ in the world; second, clarification of thought between theorists and workers; and third, agrarianism, which means getting the people back to the land. Though the city life isn’t intrinsically wrong it tends to break up the family, whereas the farm is a social and religious unit. We hope the hospice will eventually be replaced by a Catholic rural community. We won’t see the fruits of our work but we know what should be done and are trying to do it.” Norbert admitted that, with the help of St. Mary’s, Notre Dame, and the city the Hospice progressed a long way. Be
cause he and Julian receive no salary for their work they aren’t worrying about vacationing in the army. But they do have worries that are deeper and more serious than greasy rifles and extended marches. Their worries belong to the coal man, the milkman, the laundry man, and the price of seventy eggs today.—George Kelly
Professor Hess Speaks at Social Work Meet
Loren J. Hess, chief probation officer of the St. Joseph Circuit and Superior courts and a professor of sociology at the University, will discuss “Probation and Parole in Its Relation to the State Public Welfare System,” Tuesday, June 3, at Atlantic City, N. J. Mr. Hess will discuss this subject in relation to its background and experience in Indiana. The program, part of the National Conference of Social Work, is under the auspices of the National Probation Association.
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
82S SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER.
M. D.
M. J. THOMTON.
M. D.
TELEPHONE 3 >4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard A. Rose, d. d.s.
Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s. Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
623.629 SHERLAND BLDG.
SOUTH BENO
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
314 J. M. S. BUILDING	TELEPHONE 4-360
Champions for smartest style, and finest service, DOUGLAS SHOES for Summer, win your preference for school and vacation wear. Two-tone tans,—whites—sea-breeze cool ventilated models! And in EVERY pair you’re sure to get perfect fit, perfect comfort from Douglas "Down-To-The-Wood and Up-To-The Arch” construction.
^Douqlas Shots
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
Open Saturday Evenings
Summer and Sport Styles in Lady Douglas $3.85 - $4.95
AMERICA'S BEST KNOWN SHOES
Phone	Residence
3-2805	4-1544
DR. ARTHUR C EVERLY
FOOT AILMENTS
X-Ray Examination hours by	609 j. m. s. Bldg,
appointment	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE EYE, EAR, NOSE. THROAT
PHONE 3-1395	J. M. S. BUILDING
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
434 ASSOCIATES BLDG.	PHONE S-2S74
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST. SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 4-8989	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER ’ DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-12S4	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
/fs Chesterfield
in the clean white pack with the COOLER, MILDER, BETTER TASTE liked by smokers everywhere
Copyright 1911, Liggett & Myebs Tobacco Co,
Just as you know you’ll always find it cooler at the beaches, smokers know they can always count on Chesterfield for a Cooler smoke that’s refreshingly Milder and far Better-Tasting,
Everybody who smokes Chesterfields likes their right combination of the best tobaccos that grow in our own Southland and that we bring from far-off Turkey and Greece, THEY SA TISFY.
BETTY GRABLE starring in 20th Century-Fox's hit "MIAMI" in Technicolor.

