Disce quasi semper victurus ; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 5, 1884.
No. 30.
Can We?
Can we help Father Pye, * you and I, To his floating chapel?
To his little church-boat, for his islands so remote
When the white caps dapple.
All the rolling plain of blue, gull and mew
Have their wings, and seaward
Take their glad, strong flight, in the earlv morning light. And going, blow to leeward.
Let us give our priest his craft, and abaft Set up his bell and whistle,
So that gull and mew shall see—pressing hard on their lee, And dancing like a thistle,
The chapel-boat whose Host to the lost
Means hope—life. And giving
Father Pye his canvas wings fly ourselves to better things That lie bevond this living.
E. L. D.
* The name given by his parishioners to a zealous missionary priest who attends to the spiritual wants of the poor- fishermen and their families that have their abodes on the Eastern shore of Maryland. A short sketch of his good work will shortly appear in the pages of The Ave Maria. The one desire of this priest, who is as learned as he is zealous, is to have a small steam-boat—or floating chapel—that he may the more easily satisfy his ardent zeal and reach his poor sailors.—[Ed.' Sciiol.]
Vocal Music.
Few branches of the fine arts confer so many advantages upon the student as vocal music, and among the most important is the assistance it gives him in elocution. Elocution consists chiefly in the variety, smoothness and volume o’f tones required to express the sentiments, and these are the direct objects to be attained in the cultivation of the voice for vocal music. No song is pleasing unless characterized by that smoothness of tone which is the most difficult attainment of the singer. Variety is, ’ of course, the first essential, and, when united with volume, which practice insures, we have the great essentials of the public speaker. One important difference, however, between the use qf the voice in elocution and vocal music, is that in vocal music the vowel sounds play a more important part than-the consonant sounds, whereas in elocution more
practice must be given to the consonant sounds in order to insure distinctness. Now as no one can be considered a very accomplished singer unless every word be distinctly understood, it follows that vocal music in its practice must aim at the cultiva-tion of the consonant sounds, and thereby it renders a valuable assistance to the speaking voice.
The same aid which vocal music gives to elocu-tion it gives to reading and to conversation, two vocal accomplishments of much benefit to a young man entering public life. One of the results of vocal exercises, and one which influences "govern-ments in introducing them in public schools, is the health of the pupils. Nowhere do we find less consumption and less spitting of blood than among;those nations where vocal music forms an essential branch of education. Eminent physicians have recommended its practice to patients strongly disposed to consumption. There are many diseases, to which the constitution is disposed on account of climate and inability or want of opportunity to exercise the body, which the exercise of the lungs may effectually prevent. Nothing is more reasonable than to suppose that vocal exercises tend to the improvement of health when its effects are considered; the lungs are strengthened and are better able to fulfil their vary, important functions; the chest is made to expand —exercising the vital organs, increasing their ac-tivity and power. With all these' advantages attached to vocal music there are few who should not look upon this study very favorably, even without mentioning the pleasure derived by the performer in the execution of a piece of good composition.
Students. especially should devote some time to music, since after completing "a year’s study nothing would please parents more than to hear them sing with ease and' grace a good song or any secular o	O	O	J
piece that they may have learned during their -absence.
The objections raised against the^study of music, if there are any, are almost unworthy the name. First, it is said “I have no ear.” Now could men speak if they were not taught? could they read or write if they were not taught? Could they draw or paint if they were not taught? But they may say that none of those appertain to the direct cultivation of any of the five senses. Very well, but do they not know that each of the senses can be cultivated as well as the judgment or memory? How do the blind read books? Why are printers
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
remarkable for sharpsightedness? Have you ever heard of the example mentioned by Addison of the cultivation of taste? Finally, how can a piacticed ear discovert in the ringing of a bell, many beautiful chords? The most rude and uncultivated ear can, by diligence and preseverance, be made to appreciate the most delicate compositions of the master artists. This is beyond doubt. Some may say “ I have no voice,” and at the same time they are making use of it, perhaps in a creditable manner. Undoubtedly their voices are not cultivated; but they* can speak, and in speaking they may even use compass of voice sufficient to-perform well a good piece of vocal music. If only one tone can be given forth, the vocal chords can, by practice, be rendered subject to the will so as to extend the compass of the voice in a remarkably short time. No one has naturally a cultivated voice. The voice is made by practice.
Another objection frequently raised is that one should labor to acquire the useful first, and the ornamental afterwards; but should you wait you will find that afterwards the difficulty will be increased fourfold. It is easy to bend the twig but difficult to bend the tree: the vocal chords are pliable when young, but they are not so when their owner is advanced in years.
Here we may safely assert that vocal music, in preference to any other of the fine arts, has been selected by the common consent of mankind to hold the most prominent place in the public service of Him who created the instrument upon which it is executed, for His particular glory and honor. Painting, poetry and sculpture may be made use of in His service, but it is reserved for music and eloquence alone to take the prominent parts. Such is the high mission of vocal music, and if we bear in mind its influence on peoples, scarcely can we refrain from placing it too high in our estimation. Every one knows that in this country the sociability engendered bv the cultivation of music in general is the strongest bond that holds together nationalities; proofs of this we see in every-day life; unanimity in feeling produces concert of action, and in union there is strength.
Still another claim has music upon our earnest attention, viz.: that it is the source of abundant happiness and assists in the cause of virtue. Picture to your minds the father, mother, sisters and brothers surrounding the piano in a cheerfully lighted parlor, where they all unite in the merry song, and tell .me if it is not the charm of music that renders that home happy and unites all in affection which will be as lasting as life. Now imagine a home without music, and it scarcely deserves the name. The father and mother engaged quietly in thinking or reading; the daughters endeavoring to find something with which to amuse themselves; the sons, where are they? No one knows where; certainly in the pursuit of pleasure, for the young mind must have it in some form or other,—it is in nature. How happy and judicious are those fathers ‘who have succeded in directing this appetite for pleasure towards the enjoyments which music affords!	P. T. D.
A Dream?
W. H. JOHNSTON.
“Is there never :i chink in the world above
Where they listen for words from below? ”
In the cool, refreshing twilight
Of a sultry summer day,
When awakening, Nature’s voices,
Sweet and cheerful, seem to say:
“ Wake and gaze, oh, stupid mortal!
Look! my evening beauty see!
Why in meditation dream you?
Wake, and laugh and sing with me,”
Sad, in meditation dream I,
By some solemn spell fast bound;
And I silent sit, not seeing
E’en the things that close surround.
Silent sit I, all unknowing,
When a weirdness draws around;
Hark! e’en Nature seems to listen,
Yes, some faint, etherial sound—
Borne anon by gentle zephyrs,
Comes to me this weird, strange sound— As of murmuring,—music,—mingled.
In the distance,—near,—around, Till with fear my body trembles, Till in fear my hands I clasp.
Sounds this murmuring,—music,—nearer,—
Heavens! ’Tis a demon’s grasp!—	.
No, ’tis but the cold sweat stealing
O’er me like his chilling grasp!
Now a calmness,—hard,—unearthly,— Ghastly,—holds me, spellbound, fast!
Half unknowing—all unwilling—
Raise I up my glazed eyes;
Look, as through some fatal instinct, To the darkening Southern skies:
Gaze I on the Southern Heavens,
Yearning, praying for command O’er my cold and rigid body— Power to move a limb, a hand.
Long I sit, entranced and powerless, Peering deep into the skies;
Eager, frightened,—why, I know not;
There I feel some strangeness lies.
Vanishes my shivering calmness;
Comes there o’er me strange content;
Oblivion silent settles round nie, As on hiding earth intent.
And, my eyes, still fixed above me,
Calmly see the skies divide,	'
Like the curtains from a picture
Drawn by giant hand aside.
And a picture stands before me, To the eyes .of mankind sealed: Where before was endless sether, Lo! a vision is revealed!
Far in distance, and still farther
Than my mortal sight can span, Spreads a host of lovely beings
Of a beauty strange to man,— Beingshuman, yet not mortal,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Lustrous with no earthly light, Brighter than the day, as daylight
Brighter is than darkest night.
Each particular face discern I— Many deai’ to me in past— Clear defined against a background
Tender blue,—a Heavenly cast.
Each particular face seems brightest, Each among that Heavenly band
Stretching oft'into the distance, To the bounds of a boundless land, Seems surrounded with a brightness Born alone of Heavenly light.
Each face as I gaze looks on me;
Joy—a cry of sweet delight
Seems to part my lips, all bloodless, As I see my mother’s face,—
Fairest angel of the angels, Worthiest one of happiest place.—
Looking sweetly, gravely on me, Smiling at my glad surprise.
And her presence banished terror No more when my infant cries On her breast she softlv smothered, Than does now her angel form;
Still my quick and longing heart beats— Heaven’s the power that rules the storm I
Hark! I hear some sweeter music!
Yet not strange unto my ear;
Oh! the fullness of this blessing!— ’Tis my mother’s voice I hear! . Low and soft, like evening music Wafted o’er a tranquil sea, Comes this lower, sweeter music
O’er the sea of space to me: ’
“ Watch we-o’er those left behind us Waiting on the troubled earth;
Hear their words, their actions see we; Know their sorrow, know their mirth.
Anxiously we watch our loved ones, Sadly wishing they could know
All the pleasure, sorrow born us In the deeds of those below.
Oh! could wayward man have knowledge Of regrets his sins give birth!—
If a tear be shed in Heaven ’Tis for friend astray on earth! ”
Vanished is this Heavenly vision, Closed the skies where now did stand
An etherial gateway glorious Opening to the Summer Land.
Gaze I on the stars now shining In the darkened Southern skies ’Till they seem to my strange fancy, To my tear-filled, dazzled eyes, Mournful,—frozen,—tears of anguish
Shed for us by those above;
Frozen by our cold oblivion
To our,happier loved-ones’ love;
Shining on our troubled pathway
With a light which love gives birth— Beaming bright as sad mementos
’ Of the sins of man'on earth!	.
Shakespeare’s “Julius Caesar.”
BY CHARLES A. TINLEY, ’84.
Looking at the world’s great men, we find in Julius Csesar a most remarkable and complicated union of noble qualities. Perhaps Alexander and Napoleon were greater generals; Cicero may have been a greater orator; Livy a greater historian; Webster a greater statesman; but all these elements were so pre-eminently united in the great and mighty Caesar that, apart from religious considerations, we would hesitate before pro- -nouncing anyone his superior, or even his equal as a man. We have not as yet found the man’s name in history that would bear the epithet greatest with more grace or greater dignity. However, without discussion on this point, we shall proceed to our subject.
Undoubtedly, the greatest event of the greatest empire of the world was the assassination of Julius Ciesar—its’greatest ruler. Shakespeare has made this event the foundation of his play. The brilliant but terrible incidents he represents are mostly historical. The opening scene of Act I is laid in Rome, beginning with the festival of the Luper-calia; chronologically speaking, the events occurred some forty years before the date of the Christian' era, and in the 709th year of Rome’s existence. The time, place and scenes give scope to the artist to depict all that is grand in pomp and spectacle. And if these are faithfully- portrayed, without any effort on our part, we, as it were, are placed right in Rome among Romans. A- marked characteristic of Shakespeare is to place us face to face with his personages, and force us to see them just as they- lived. And when he undertakes to represent to us the people of that antique city, their characters, manners, customs, thoughts, he does it with such fidelity to nature that we are hot bound to call upon our imagination, but are actually placed in the imperial city, and see and become acquainted with the grand Romans of old.
Like unto all his plays is “ Julius Cresar” in this respect; but in none: other does he show his genius in this line to such a remarkable degree. We behold with awe the mighty Caesar; we are made acquainted with the noble Brutus, and the cunning and treacherous Caius Cassius; we are introduced to the stately'- orator, Marc Antony-, and are made to admire the beautiful Calphurnia and Portia; and, besides the patricians, we see Rome’s tradespeople, mechanics, and workingmen.
Under Caesar’s generalship, Rome had acquired dominion of the world; the elements of greatness in Warfare, literature, oratory- and architecture were there fostered and developed—all centred in this one city where political agitation was carried on and brought quickly- to an issue. But we are told a free government is incapable of governing subject states. In the attempt its own liberties are risked. We see in Rome a sad example of imperial dominion. This influence yvas weighing it down. The strife for the election to Censorships
468	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
had become a deadly contest. Great military expeditions were always a cause of jealousy among the nobles; military men were plotting one another’s ruin. The conflict between' the people and the Senate was daily increasing, and growing in favor of the people. The Constitution was laid aside, because it did not, and could not, provide for such an empire. Rome was in a dreadful state of anarchy. Here we find Ccesar. A man to suit the times is at hand. He assumed the dictatorship and brought order out of confusion.
Enough has been said to understand the argument or plot, and as the play begins here we will briefly review the story as found in Shakespeare. Julius Ctesar has just returned to Rome, having defeated Pompey’s sons in Spain. This was a day of rejoicing. He was about to undertake another great expedition against the Parthians." But, alas for Caesar! it was suspected that he was desirous of becoming king, and this suspicion was confirmed on the occasion of his particular friend Antony offering him the crown at the Luper-calian festival. His thrice refusing it did not destroy the belief that he still desired it in the minds of some of the greatest men, among whom were Brutus and Cassius who formed a conspiracy against Caesar;—Brutus, influenced by patriotism, seeking to free his country from the hands of a tyrant, while Cassius was actuated by motives of hatred and revenge. The conspirators resolve on Caesar’s death, and he is assassinated by his fellowsenators amid cries of “ Liberty and Freedom! ” The people are amazed,—Rome is thrown into consternation. Brutus makes a soothing address from the Forum, and is followed by Antony. The artful and passionate speech of Antony arouses universal mutiny against the assassins. Caesar is remembered; although dead, he still lives in his deeds. The tide of events changes quickly. The conspirators are driven from the precincts of Rome. Armies are gathered by each side, and a final battle is fought on the plains of Phillipi. Brutus and Cassius are defeated and resort to voluntary death to escape being brought captives to Rome.
Noting the chief incidents of the play, we may mention, in Act I, the soothsaver’s warninc to Cassar; the craftiness of Cassius in inciting Brutus to become the leader of the conspiracy, and the offering of the crown. In Act II, the meeting in Brutus’ orchard and the interview between Brutus and Portia. The conspirators inducing Cassar to attend the Senate; followed quickly in the next act by the assassination and the mourning speeches of Brutus and Antony. The conspirators are found in camp near Sardis in Act IV. Then the quarrel scene—made famous by celebrated actors —and next the appearance of Cassar’s ghost. A change of scene in the last act transports us to the plains of Phillipi, where the defeat and consequent death or capture of the assassins ends the history of the events immediately surrounding the death of Caesar.
Ghosts are a favorite stage device of Shakespeare; he introduces them, besides “Julius Caesar,”
in “Macbeth,” “Richard III,” and “Hamlet.” In “Hamlet’’the ghost scene is the great sensation, and in connection with the stage and dramatic accessories, is very effective.
Let us now look at the individuality of the most important characters of the play. First we take Caesar.. Being the title role, we would naturally expect in him a leading character; it is, however, quite the contrary, as he has comparatively little to say or do. But in these few lines assigned him we have Shakespeare’s idea of this great man, and recognize his nobleness of character and magnanimity.
In the characters of Brutus and Cassius we have a remarkable contrast. Manly and noble bearing and dignity of manner are the characteristics of Brutus who is always calm and collected. With Cassius it is quite the opposite. He is a man of smooth and silvery tongue and quick action. In him we see a singular character, possessing penetrating powers of speech; unwilling to tolerate greatness in others, and especially unable to tolerate Cassar—'who has now become a god.
Shakespeare has given Marc Antony the most famous speech yet recorded, and the role, when properly enacted, completely overtops all others. As next in importance, Calphurnia and Portia claim our attention. Both are beautiful characters. We see in the daughter of Cato and wife of Brutus a truly great woman, and a true and noble wife to the Imperial Cassar is Calphurnia. As to the other characters none, save, perhaps, Casca, demand particular attention. He is a morose Roman and a ready and willing conspirator and the first to raise his deadly weapon.
I-Iow grand is Shakespeare’s idea of appealing to man’s nobler and higher nature for the suppression of crime! Instead of presenting crime repressed by terrible punishment, he appeals to man’s moral and intellectual faculties. It is principally this, among numerous other reasons, that commends the plays of Shakespeare. If asked for a history of the events surrounding, and circumstances connected with the death of Julius Caesar, we would certainly follow the example of George HI, who, when asked for a history of England, handed his Prime Minister a Shakespeare. As for a history of Rome and Romans for the time represented, we know of none, antique or modern, that will give a more practical idea of Roman affairs and customs, than Shakespeare’s wonderful and unique “Julius Ciesar.”
Art, Music, and. Literature
—Wilkie Collins’s novels are about to be translated into Bengalee, o	.
—Five thousand authors were read for the new English dictionary.
—James Redpath has compiled a volume of Wendell Phillips’s speeches.	.
—The English answer to Max O’Rell’s criticism of England will soon appear under the title of “John Bull’s Neighbor in Her True Light.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	469
—Archibald Forbes, the well known war-correspondent who made a lecturing' tour in the United States recently, is engaged as special contributor to the London Daily Nezvs.
—Holland, it is said, has only one poet, who is also a woman. This is Miss Stratenus, who is now visiting London, and who is described as charming, both as a poet and as a woman. -
—A new museum has been formed at Rome, in the Baths of Diocletian, to contain the mural paintings that have been found pretty frequently .of late.years in the course of the excavations. It will be under the charge of Sisrnor Fiorelli.
—Schubert’s ojms number runs up to 1,113, an^ he died at 31 years. Of 457 spngs, perhaps a few dozen only are generally known. They now spend forty-two thousand gulden on his monument; but during his lifetime he received only $2.12 for one of his master works.
—The Munich artists have decided to hold the next International Exhibition in 1S88, the centennial year, of Munich Art Exhibitions. The interval of two years between this and the Berlin International Exhibition in 1886, it is hoped, will leave ample time for a rich and creditable show.
—The oldest diary of English travels extant is supposed to be the narrative of the pilgrimage of Sir Richard Torkington to Jerusalem, in 1517. ' There are two copies of the original manuscript in the British Museum, and from these has been prepared and published the first printed edition.
—John Boyle O’Reilly, Robert Grant, “J. S. of Dale,” John T. Wheelwright and George Parsons Lathrop, it is reported, are going to write a novel together, and they have already sold it outright for $5000. Three of this galaxy of authors are recent graduates of Harvard.—Herald-Crim-son.
—The Frankfurter Zeitung reports that Herr Johannes Brahms has received 36,000 marks ($3,000) for the rights of publication of his new symphony (No. 3, in F), and compares this large honorariumT with the sixty thalers paid to the late Joachim Raff for his finest symphonic work “ Im Waldel-
—There is considerable literary work in progress at Washington. Mr. Blaine and Congressman Cox are at work on political histories. Proctor Knott and Librarian Spofford are writing a history of American humor. John A. Kassan is preparing a diplomatic history of the war period. Dr. Loring, the Commissioner of Agriculture, is writing a book on “Sugar Culture in the United States,” and Mrs. Frances Hodgson Burnett has a new novel and a new play in process of construction.
—The Castellani collection of antiquities and pictures will be sold in Rome, at the Palazzo Castellani, April 17, and twenty-one following days. The property belongs to the heirs of Signor Castellani who died without a will. The catalogue consists of medals, Etruscan and Egyptian • anti-
- quities, ivories, Roman antique jewelry, glasses,
majolica, bronzes, tapestries, furniture, paintings and drawings. Among the old pictures there is a panel by Antonia del Pollajola—a “Virgin and Child,” another by Pinturrichio, and two by Sandro Botticelli. The British Government, it is stated, intends to bid for certain lots, which will fill gaps in the National Museum Gallery.	'
College Gossip.	.
—The students of the Catholic College of Columbus gave their first public entertainment lately. All pronounced the execution of the programme a decided success.	.	'	’
—Mrs. Lawrence, of Chicago, mother of the late T. G. Lawrence, Class of ’84, Yale College, has gi.ven fifty-thousand dollars to that institution, to found a dormitory.
—A new Moral Theology written especially for this country, will be issued soon after Easter, by Rev. A. Sabetti, S. J., Professor of Moral Theology at the College of the Sacred Heart of Jesus, Woodstock, Md.—The Catholic Union.
—The New Plampshire Legislature has passed a bill granting $5,000 per year to Dartmouth College, to be applied in aid of indigent students. This is the first money granted by the State to the institution for one hundred years.—’ Varsityi
— O fomal de Noticias announces the death of Prof. Michael A. M. Lobo, M. D., of the University of Coimbra, Portugal, author of several works of secondary instruction, a clinical practitioner, and erstwhile Professor of Mathematics and Natural History at the University.
—Professor Williams, the Chinese professor of Yale, left in his will five thousand dollars to found a Chinese professorship fund on the death of his sister, but if there is no incumbent in that position the money will apply to the educational expenses of any Chinese student entering Yale.
—The Times says “ more Greek, and better Greek is now taught at Harvard, than ever before.” Where was the “ better Greek ” than the old classics discovered ? We remember a little Scotch weaver, who once told us he had “studied more than any man in America, and in larger books, too.” — Tlsilanti (Mich.) Sentinel.
—The Bishop of Salford, England, has taken possession of the Freshfield College, which he recently purchased for $19,000. This establishment has six acres of ground, and it will be a Preparatory College for the Foreign Missionary College of Mill Hill. It will be immediately under the direction of the Bishop of Salford.
—The venerable Theological Facultv of Vienna is celebrating its 500th anniversary. On February 24, 1384, Pope Urban VI, at the request of Albert III, Duke of Austria, erected this Faculty, and united it to the three Faculties already existing. All kinds of festivities are taking place to commemorate the interesting event.—Catholic Review,
—Schools of Design for Fine Arts are organized in Paris, and will be supported by the municipality,
47°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
offering absolutely free instruction to the students. The one already opened teaches decorative painting and carving, also the treatment of pottery, glass and enamels. The next school to be opened will teach furniture-designing and making. A shop, or work-room attached to the schools, will make the instruction in a measure practical, and all the opportunity possible will be given the students to convert their designs into cash.
—The new Gymnasium of St. John’s College has been lately completely fitted up. It has been open only a few weeks, and has proved a great benefit to the students. The room is seventy-five feet long by sixty-six feet wide. There are twenty-seven laps to a mile on the walking track. The room is furnished with parallel bars, eight rowing-machines, ninety pairs of Indian clubs, horizontal bars, spring-boards, breast bars, ladders, dumb-bells, striking-bags, flying-rings, climbingpole and trapeze. Instruction is given every Tuesday and Thursday by Prof. Shukalski. Baseball is one of the favorite sports at the college, and in bad weather the students play in the Gymnasium. — The Weekly Union and Catholic Times.
■ —Apropos of the recent admission of women to the Oxford University examinations, the London Times remarks:—“The reformation swept away the nunneries without affording women any compensation in colleges, endowed schools, or religious foundations.” The University of Oxford itself, after being founded by nunneries, has lived for ages on their spoil. Now, after three centuries, the old university tardily recognizes something of its obligation 'to women and gives them the right to equal, or pearly equal, competition in the examinations. That they will eagerly avail themselves of the opening, Girton sufficiently indicates, and that they will profit permanently by the opportunity to secure the Hall mark of university education, cannot be doubted.
Exchange-Editors.
They Hold Their Great Convention!
HAND-SHAKINGS, SPEECHES, BANQUETS, ETC.
A FULL REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS!
The great event of the past week at Notre Dame has been the Exchange-Editors’ Convention!
_	O I
Early Tuesday morning, delegates began to arrive from all parts of the country, and with them, of course, considerable escorts drawn from the adjoining States. All the carriages of the University— including, of course, the President’s private coach— were in requisition; and by noon fully five hundred guests were ready for dinner. Of these, certainly two hundred and fifty were college students,—some papers sending six or seven representatives. And what a variegated lot the}7 were! The wild-eyed man from The Polytechnic fbull-pup and all) wandering around with The Dickinson Liberal, clad in glaring green; the demure little body from
The Sunbeam making, up to the characterless voung man from The Nonmonth Collegian : while the Sweet Singer from The Earlhamite stall' was thce-ing and thou-ing a full-blooded Piebrew from the Queen City. At first, however, it seemed very hard to reconcile the Knights of the Shears together. “ Where are you from?” was the oft-repeated question, to whose answer a scornful smile was generally given. But few representatives were present from the Eastern States; and these, though very stiff with each other, seemed mutually to combine against the Western delegates. The Xavier and Stylus suspended an interesting quarrel into which they were entering to combine against a harmless “ co-ed.” from Ann Arbor, who, with a mortar-board "on her head and a cane in her hand, was wandering about in search of acquaintances. The same voung lady threw the editor of The Vermont Cynic into a cold sweat by suddenly asking across the table at dinner: “ Arc you going to the minstrels, this eve?” Mr. R----------, who is a genial combination of bashfulncss and piety, returned no answer, but began, crimsonfaced, to eat his ice-cream with dangerous rapidity. She, however, met her match in the young man from Wooster University, who, though himself of slight build, held in his hand the March number of The Collegian.', which, as it weighed some 7,500 pounds, was a missile that even a “ co-ed.” might well be afraid of. *
At half-past one, everybody started for Washington Hall. Arrived, the meeting was called to order by Mr. C. A. Tinley, and the election of a “Permanent Chairman” declared in order. In a moment the delegate from Vassar was on her feet. As this young lady assumed her eye-glasses, the Chairman was observed to sink half a foot lower in his chair,"and a perceptible tremble ran through the assembly. She spoke as follows:
“ It never was evident to me why this Convention was called; it is still less evident why it ever assembled; and it is entirely incomprehensible to me why such people [pointing to the Western delegates] were ever admitted."
Before she could proceed further, the Alabama University-mtvn pacifically moved “That the Convention elect, not a Chairman, but a Chair-•woman. The resolution was not fairly offered till some sixty fair delegates were insisting at the top of their voices that he change the phrase to Chairlady 1 The poor young man blushed, stammered, tried to apologize—as usual—and—as usual— failed! Flis amended motion read “That the Convention elect a Chair?' An interruption here ensued, owing to the entrance—as an honored guest —of a venerable man with white hair and beard, who was reverently led forward to the platform,— sweet music meanwhile softly playing.
“Who is he?” asked the editor of The Hesperian Student.	■
u Why,” responded one of. the ushers, “ he is the author of that charming verse, beginning
“ ‘ Non faratus dixit Freshie! ’ ”
“I wonder,” began he of The Volante, “if that mail ever went to the University of Chicago;-because if he did I will have to abuse him. We al
i i
! s t
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
4.71
ways use our paper to blackguard old students.”
“ Do you know,” said a delegate from The Lantern (after whose jaw the paper was probably called), “that I never heard that joke before? I will condense to ten columns some society report, and insert the verse without fail next month.”
He was speaking to a delegate of The Cornell Era, a languid young man who asserts the superiority of scissors over the pen; the C. E. only smiled, and murmured, “I havn’t had that joke in The Era for two weeks; it sounds almost new!” And then, gently humming “ Meet me bei dem corner, Gretchen,” fell asleep.
Some order by this time being restored, a motion was finally made to elect a Presiding Officer. The Swarthmore Phcenixvo^ and pleasantly said, that he preferred himself for that position; but, of course, he could make no motion till he telegraphed home for permission. The P rincetonian, who was attired in knickerbockers and carried a baseball bat,suggested Jno. L. Sullivan; The University Press then rose and read a page from some work of President Bascom’s—The Badger, at the same time, simulating great ecstasy—which, when explained by the reader, only meant that the Presiding Officer must be a delegate to the Convention. Two unknown delegates from Illinois then nominated each other, but neither was seconded. The Haverfordian then timidly nominated eight persons at once, but was declared out of order. The Indiana Student nominated himself ;(but, somehow or other, nobody would second him. Finally, The College Courier was proposed on account of his good looks, and seconded by the Scholastic. The Alabama University-wan made a final attempt to gain popular favor by nominating The Vassar delegate, seconded by the editor of The Hew Pork City Journal.
At this point, a terrible tumult arose, owing to the entrance of an athletic young fellow, minus a wig, who, shillelah in hand, was smiting the delegates right and left. “ The Index-wan 1 ” shrieked the Hews Letter. In vain The Polytechnic interposed his bull-pup; The Georgetown Journal, an original joke; The Philomathean Review, one of its illustrations; he kept relentlessly on his fell work of destruction. Then it was that oui Canadian friends came to the rescue; for, while The '‘Varsity hurled at him an editorial on “ Our Right to State Aid,” and The King's College Record read him a poem, The Sunbeam introduced “ Sweetness and Light” into the assembly by moving that Brother Index be made chairman. The vote was quickly taken, and the terrible slasher put out of harm’s way by being ensconced on the platform. On assuming the chair, the Index-wan spoke as -follows: *
“Ladies and Gentlemen:—Lend me your ears. Not yours, my dear boy [to the Virginia University-man\, I hate to take all that a fellow has! If, however, you give me one and stuff the other, it will fill the bill. Don’t cry!
* We are indebted for the 2w<Zt’.v-man’s characteristic speech to the excellent notes of a brother on the Staff' a member, of course, of the Class of ’84.—Ex.-Ed. Scholastic.
Take this poem from the Oregon College, journal—‘Visionary Cogitations’—sit down in the corner and read it. That’s a dear fellow! Brethren, I must here remark, we have been kindly invited to partake of. the hospitality of Notre Dame. Notre Dame,you’re a brick! Three cheers for Notre Dame, with its 1 Our friend John ’and precocious Minims! I came near missing this circus. When I received my invitation, I had just paid a heavy margin on Wall street, and, indeed, would you believe it? was financially embarrassed. I was at a loss what to do. Kind Providence came to my assistance. I remembered a friend of mine—a director of a railroad—[groans]—who offered to give me his interest in the L.- S. & M. S. if I would destroy that poem on Garfield, by Hesperian's ‘Ivy.’ Pride compelled me to make the effort. I had intended to assassinate President Arthur to have a chance to inscribe the dirge to him. I had a letter yesterday from ex-Secretary Blaine. approving of the scheme. The railroad magnate jumped with glee when he saw-me burn the poem; I wept. He said: ‘ If the kuss that wrote that article had given it to Guiteau. it would have saved his life and sent him to the insane asylum.’	•
“ But to business! I fully appreciate the honor conferred on me in being thus chosen chairman of this honorable body. Believe me, when I sav I have waited long for this -opportunity—aye. moment of bliss! To meet ye face to face has long been my fondest desire. Shall I say, come to my arms, let me embrace vou ? But no: the Vassar girl blushes. Do not blush, sweet girl, I meant no harm. There, now, we are all correct; verily, an Exchange-man is great! Hand me my staff; I need support. That’s it; you’re a daisy! Call in and see me when you go East.
“ Brethren, having forced me to the position I now hold, please be so kind as to fall in line and pass before me. I want to size you up. Don’t fall back, K. M. I.; catch on to that charmer over there. Miss Hamilton, happy to meet you, my dear! Now, K.M.I., I hope you’re fixed. Let . the glorious procession proceed, and hands all around! Who is this I see before me? Ah! The Concordiensis; shake! I am glad to meet you! found the latest ‘Rule of Three,’eh? Ha! ha! you look nervous! passalong; ta-ta! Hello, College Mercury! Been writing poetry lately? you look wan. I sympathize with you! Be cheerful, this-is our gala day! Next! What! The Georgetown Journal? I thought the Faculty had sat on you. You smile; tip us your fin and pass along!
“ I must stop here, so take your chairs. I am rather fatigued, and the joy ofmeetingyou, combined with the perusal of the last poem in The St. Mary's College Sentinel, may be my death. Knights of the Shears, let us on this occasion bury the hatchet and smoke the pipe of peace! I am done. Shake hands, and set the ball a-rolling! ”
When he had concluded, the delegate from Vassar, slowly assuming her eye-glass, murmured: “ The Chairman’s speech takes the palm for—vulgarity! ” “ The gentleman.” simpered she of Hamilton, “ will lay himself open to criticism.” “ Ten years hence,” said the editor of that purposeless hybrid, The Student JVbrld, “ I will print this as a news-item in my information column about statistics.” Here ensued an awkward silence, finally broken by our old friend, of The Georgetown College Journal. This young man, who is rather of lanky build and rejoices in a sickly smile, spake thus:
“ The chairman doubtless thinks he is a very funny man, indeed; sometimes he seems to get near a joke; but, as a rule, the only thing he ever gets nigh is Niagara [Smile from the speaker, groans from the audience]! I don’t wish to elicit all this applause: I am a very modest man, indeed. We are here in Washington Hail. Poor Washington! he never bargained for this! Of course, the Convention will accomplish nothing, but roll down hill, like The Notre Dame Scholastic, with all possible rapidity. We drink to the health of che Convention! Now, perhaps, Miss Susy, of The Portfolio, can give us some sweetness and wisdom. Our Christian name is Tom!”
(Continued on page 473.)	.
472
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame, April 5, 1884.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Seventeenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current' Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.jo per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Our Staff.
T. Ewing Steele, ’84.
J. A. McIntyre, ’84. Elmer A. Otis, ’84. James Solon, ’84.
W. H. Bailey, ’84 C. A. Tinley, ’84. W. H. Johnston,’ 85.
C. F. Porter, ’85.
—To-morrow, Palm Sunday, will begin the Great or Holy Week, so called because it is consecrated to the special commemoration of the crowning act in the work of man’s redemption— the Passion and Death of Our Lord. The grand service which the Church prescribes for this time will be duly observed at Notre Dame and the rit-. ual fully adhered to throughout. In few places in America are the beautiful ceremonies of the Catholic Church observed with so much accuracy and performed with so much dignity and decorum as here in our College Church; and especially may this be said of the solemn ceremonies of Holy Week. All should provide themselves with “ Hol}1 Week Books,” that the ceremonies, which are as instructive as they are imposing, may be followed intelligently.
—Owing to an unexpected increase in the number of law students this year, the officers of the Uni-, versity have been unable to provide and set apart for their exclusive use a library and reading-room of sufficient size. But it is expected that the new addition to the main building will oe completed in September, and thenceforward there will be ample room and greatly increased accommodations for
the members of the Law Department. The prospect's are that the Law Classes of next year will be at least doubly as large as ever before, and the authorities are doing all they can do under the circumstances to supply accommodations that cannot anywhere be surpassed. It is intended, that Notre Dame shall be second to no Law School or " University in the country in the number and substantial character of the inducements and advantages it holds out to law students. While it is true that such preparation necessarily entails much expense, yet the friends of the Institution arc aware that it is not wanting in the public spirit and enterprise requisite to meet the outlay. But as it is within the power of many of them, especially lawyers, to render practical service in helping to realize the object mentioned by sending law books, works on constitutional history, and biographies of noted jurists, to the Law Department, it is to be hoped that many will generously second the efforts of the authorities in that direction. Such books will be thankfully received. They may be sent in packages or boxes, by express, without expense to the donors, for the charges of transportation will be cheerfully paid when the books arrive at the University. Notre Dame is to have a good law library, and becom- . ing acknowledgment will be made in all cases where books are received in furtherance of that object.
—The late riot in the City of Cincinnati demonstrates a truth which now, more than ever, needs to be impressed upon the mind of every citizen of our Republic—namely, the necessity of Authority in Society. This outbreak has forcibly brought home to us the fact that the embers of socialism and communism are smoldering in the midst of our social organization and need but a breath to fan them into a flame. It is true that what proved to be the occasion of the late fanatical and destructive uprising was a righteous one, viz., the.reformation of the so-called administration of justice; but it is none the less true that those who met in peaceful and, no doubt, effective, protest against the mal-administration of the criminal courts were respectable, law-abiding, citizens,—while the “mob,” to whose agency the work of destruction is diie, were the socialists and communists of our day, wildly rushing, they knew not whither, with but one mad desire—“to kill, burn and destroy!”' In the presence of a fact so disgraceful to our boasted modern civilization, with all its details— lamentable in their account of loss of life and destruction of property, but consoling in the proper vindication of municipal government—can any reasoning be required to convince us of the necessity of authority and a proper respect-therefor as the support and mainstay of our social edifice?
To society in its present state, authority is what the trunk is to the oak of the forest—namely, that by which it is supported.in its elevating position, where alone its members may perform their re-
473
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
«
spectivc functions, on the proper execution of which depends the welfare of the whole. Remove authority from society, and, like the mighty oak when its trunk is riven; it will fall prostrate,, and soon resolve itself into a mass of corruption.
The Laetare Medal-
The following is taken from the Catholic Re-viezv :
The “ Lictare Medal” of the University of Notre Dame, was conferred last Sunday on the great Catholic architect. Mr. Patrick Charles Keely, of Brooklyn. No more honorable selection could have been made, nor one that would more certainly reflect back on the University conferring it an honor fully corresponding to that which it gave. All public testimonies of honor, such as this, ought to have a mutual and reciprocal effect. In this case it undoubtedly had. In material value and external ornament the Lecture Medal and its accompanying address, designed and wrought by skilful hands, are things of beauty, and coining from such a respectable, progressive and far-seeing Institution as Notre Dame, are well worthy of acceptance by even so ^eminent a master as Mr. Keely. On the other hand, when the University of Notre Dame determined to mark out for its homage and distinction a man eminent in his science and a great master in his truly Christian art, it selected one,' the glory .of whose achievements and the lustre of whose life must reflect honorably on it and this great prize that it has established. The personal modesty of Mr. Keely’s life wiil not permit us to say a single word in praise of himself, but everyone can infer what might be said when it is remembered to what Mr. Keely has devoted himself and his wonderful gifts. “The undevout astron-mer is mad.” Certainly it would be equally impossible for a Christian architect, who designs temples for the Eucharistic Sacrifice, to lack that enthusiasm for his faith which comes from the hourly expression in permanent forms of the most precious thoughts of religion. .That condition of the Lecture Medal may therefore be passed as entirely filled in this case. Of Mr. Keely’s genius we need speak just as briefly. Already he has built seven hundred churches in honor of the Christian name, not to speak of the numberless institutions that accompanied them. The number is wholly unprecedented in the history of any architect of ancient or modern times. It could have been reached only in the phenomenal period of Catholic history that the Church in America has known during the present half century. Mr. Keely was a Providential man, raised up to meet, in his particular line, this marvellous emergency. Nor must itbe supposed that these are petty little structures, suitable for mission chapels in rural districts. Few of them are of that character. Numbers of them are works of the first class. Scores of them are cathedrals that, in cost, size and structure, recall the amazement of those who saw the Cathedral of Seville and believed its designers and builders mad to attempt such a gigantic task. Even a few of them would stamp Mr. Keely as a man of genius and make his reputation anywhere. His first great work was to carve out, with his own hands, the beautiful canopies of the altars in the old Cathedral of Brooklyn, and the crown of all his works, though we trust not his last, will be the new Cathedral of Brooklyn. That in size alone will be greater than any church yet planned on the American continent. Those who have been favored with a glimpse of the well nigh completed plans, are of opinion that its great size will be the very least of its claims to notice. Mr. Keely in his modesty never permits without protest its comparison with any other work. We will therefore simply say that it will be a most beautiful as well . as a massive and impressive structure, leaving to the future to contrast it with anything that the piety of a succeeding generation may achieve. Among his other works, of which everv newspaper reader must have heard, are the Jesuit churches in Montreal, Boston and New York, the cathedrals of Buffalo, Boston, Providence, Hartford, Chicago and Newark, That which he is building for Bishop Hen-
dricken, though not the largest, .will be in every way one of the most complete and beautiful in the country. These facts may show’ that Notre Dame, in selecting Mr. Keely as the medallist of this year, has chosen a man of great eminence, whose life and work will be a suggestion to the young men who are growing up in the fine atmosphere of Catholic public spirit that this Western University is creating within its sphere. The medal was given to Mr. Keely last Sunday evening. The Bishop of Brooklyn hoped to have been present, but in his unavoidable absence the presentation was made through his representative, the Very Rev. Vicar-General Keegan, who, besides reading the poem, added a few words expressive of the reverence in which all the Catholics of Brooklyn, and all throughout the world who knew him, held Mr. Keely. Father Keegan noted the fact that this Christian worker was doing a part of a priest’s work—preparing, protecting and honoring the altar and preaching in letters of stone, from the Atlantic to the Pacific, the great truths of Christianity, sermons that would be eloquent long after the master’s voice had become silent. He praj ed that this beautiful medal and honorable testimony—none too beautiful, however, for Mr. Keely’s merits—would be a presage of the future crown that was in store for one who had done so much for the honor and glory of the holv Church of Christ.
Obituary..
REV. FRANCIS C. BIGELOW, ’62.
The mournful news has just reached us of the death of an old and leading student of Notre Dame, Rev. Francis C. Bigelow. The sad event occurred at his home in Detroit,-Mich., on yesterday (Friday*) morning. The early hour of our going to press prevents us from giving the fitting notice of the deceased, which we shall give in our next number. Many a student of Notre Dame will be grieved at the intelligence of his demise, and will not fail to breathe a prayer for one so well known and loved as Father Bigelow. •
May he rest in peace!	*
Exchange-Editors’ Convention.
{Continued from page 47T)
When he concluded, the audience wept copiously. The Convention now briefly adjourned for lunch, and on re-assembling, at half-past three, a large number of University students were in at_____________ “■
tendance. The following resolution, drawn up by an Oberlin delegate, was seconded by Rouge-et-Noir :
“Resolved, That the Exchange Department, as the phrase is now understood, should be dropped from college papers.”
Our friend from Oberlin remarked that it was perfectly pointless for the Ex.-editor, week after week, to grind out the same stereotyped phrases: ‘Kd falls below the average this week; B has a new cover; C’s article on ‘Napoleon’ is deserving of praise,” etc. The Cornell Era replied quite pertinently by saying that the Oberlin man was not in the question. Concedo totum quid inde ? The Era oniv published in its columns quotations from its exchanges. The Volante remarked that it was a disgrace to a paper to have no exchanges; that they were productive only of good. The NorthWestern suggested that The Vermont Cynic's
474	'	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
genial custom of allowing about a.third of a column a month was worse than leaving- the whole thing alone. As the debate seemed to be getting o	o o
hopelessly away from the point, the oiiginal resolution was modified so as to read—
“ Resolved, That every college paper should devote at least two columns a month to earnest criticism of its various exchanges.”	-
Once more the debate raged hot and heavy. The ' Varsity wanted to know if any paper, at present in existence, lived up to the resolution. The pause that ensued was so disconcerting that The Indi- ■ ana Student had a chance to rise and read from his exchange columns 73 puffs, collected at various intervals from the college press. Noticing the general laugh that was commencing, The Atlantis suggested that it was only the natural outcome of the “ Scratch-my-Back ” principle. The College Message rose to defend the principle—“ the loftiest in College journalism.” The delegate from the Queen? s College Journal then assumed the moderate oracular—something like this: He began by saying that it was generally agreed that a paper should have exchange-notes. But what should they consist of ? Certainly of criticisms—not mere quotations—from the various college papers. The editor should not be snappish as she of The Vassar ; self-congratulating as the Indiana. Student: or an exclusive coterie congratulating as the so-and-so and so-and-so. He thought the worst exchange column of the lot was the Niagara Index-. The editor was reckless, slangy, clownish—
The funeral of the C. J. took place on Thursday last.
***
On resuming the Chair, the ludex-va^xx kindiv begged that the debate might proceed. He then went on to explain that the Ex.-editor should make Exchange-notes of interest to everybody. This remark in turn led the modest Wesleyan Bee to remark that a great many papers had nothing in them distinctive enough to be criticized. The speaker was here interrupted by a scuffle between the Princetonian and Targ-zzzzz-man: the latter o	3
having expressed a demented joy because the Faculty at Princeton had “ whipped in ” the students. After this, general disorder prevailed! The College Rambler from wav down in Illinois, though a new hand (he says) at the exchanges, made a number of cute remarks. The Vanderbilt Observer told the Convention that he had been lax in the past, but henceforth he would issue a big exchange column. The Michigan Argonaut cruelly remarked that he noticed the Kentucky Military Institute News, a little paper of four pages, and generally void of all interest, received more attentioii from Exchanges than the Harvard Herald- Crimson, The Cornell Era, or the St. Mary's Sentinel, and asked “Why this thusness?” The Student's Offering here rose to remark that certainly no person away from the respective colleges could rationally criticize such papers as the Argonaut,Chronicle, Badger, Princetonian, etc.; though’ he admitted such papers were considerably better
than those which were dull reading, both at home and abroad; as, for example, the Blackburnian, Heidelberg Monthly, and the Philomathian Review. Then began an interminable debate on the respective merits of various college papers. But, lo! at half-past six, Poly insisted on supper, and the Convention rose. '
At the evening session it was unanimously agreed that the Convention adjourn till April, 1885. By that time, the following- committees (to be appointed by the respective papers named below) shall have prepared Vol. I, No. 1 of the model college paper. The committees are as follows:
On Cover: Polytechnic (chairman), Cornell Era, Cynic, Argonaut. Advertisements: Northwestern, Cynic, Transcript. On Illustrations : Spectator, Adclphian, Lampoon. On Editorials: Herald-Crimson,'Varsity, Era, Chronicle. On Poetry: Rutger's Targum, Queen's College Journal, Stylus. Exchanges: Index, Vassar, Vo-lante, Era, Poly, Delaware Review. Long Essays: Scholastic, Niagara Index, College Message,' ' Varsity, Rouge-ct-Noir. Original Humor and Astrology: Notre Dame Scholastic. General Excellence and Improvement: Herald-Crimson, ' Varsity, Vassar, Fordham Monthly, Stylus, Haverfordian, Spectator, Earlhamite, and several others, whose names the reporter could not gather. On Heaviness: Wooster Collegian, Oberlin Review, Vassar, Hamilton Monthly. On Decrepid Jokes (with positive instructions not to report): The Lantern, Cornell Era, Queen's College Journal and Sentinel.
&,
Since penning the above, the Ex.-editor has learned that many delegates are safely home. The Convention is now but a pleasant memory; and it is with a tender sadness wc look back to the new-made friends so quickly parted as we sit here by the open window, under the star-lit sky,— “ Sighing weariedly as one
Who sits and gazes on a faded fire	’
When all the goodlier guests are passed away,”— thinking how soon will class and college ties be sundered; how soon the holiest, dearest earthly ties must vanish, and be to us as “ a tale that is told.”	T. E. S.
To Correspondents.
Valentine:—The expression “mittened” applied to one that has been rejected, has nothing to do with a mitten. It is derived from the Latin mittendus, and ought to be spelled “ mittend.”
Philologus:—Yes; sui generis means “by the sons-in-law of a sow,” the dative of sns being elegantty substituted for the genitive, as is usual with words expressing kindred. It is a form of’ oath.
Athleticus:—Even in the-ordinary gymnastic exercises, there is a possibility of danger. The simple operation called skinning the cat” has been
THE A-OTHE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
475
known to be fatal to the integrity of the mew-cuss O w
membrane.
.Cinchona;—No; in spite of their well-known devotion to the interests of the Holy See, Jesuits-’ bark is not identical with the ship of Peter.
Astrologus:—A mole on the face is generally attributed to the planet Mars—it mars the expression of the countenance, you see.
Fragrantia:—Yes; the Chicago River does smell rather strong, but there is a river in Germany which is known bv the Oder thousands of miles away.
' Perpetuus : —“ Toujours pcrdrix ” is attributed to Louis XV. Semper feraties^ an expression of similar significance, is supposed by some to have been employed by Brian Boru.
Coeumbiad:—It is generally maintained that American poetrv is not properly appreciated in England. There is one poet, at least, however, who there receives his meed of praise. Wittv as his own countrymen justly deem him, the English pronounce him W’ittier.
Mephitica:—No; the European pole-cat is not a circumstance to the American skunk, which stands unrivalled in its peculiar method of warfare; although it has been singularly neglected in literature. Thomas Moore travelled in America when young, and the peculiarities of this continent made a deep impression on him. It is interesting to know that* in his original manuscripts, lately discovered, the rough draft of a rather frequently-quoted passage stands thus:
“ Long, long be my heart with such memories filled. Like a dog by which skunks have been frequently killed; You may drench—you mav drown that poor dog if you will, But the smell of the animals hangs round him still.”
It is much to be regretted that a servile submission to the hyper-fastidiousness of the age should have induced Moore to sacrifice strength and originality of expression like* that to the trifling and tame comparison of the vase and the roses, of which we are all now so tired. It is safe to say that if the above version 'had appeared as was intended, it would never have figured so extensively in the • valedictories of “sweet girl graduates;” and the poet would have avoided the danger of over-quotation, which is as fatal as overproduction to the manufacturer. But even the earliest explorers became conversant with the habits of this animal, which strongly impressed' it on their memories, and it was well known, at least'by reputation, in Europe as early as the days of De Soto. It is to the skunk that Madame de Maintenon alludes in her celebrated aphorism: Les victoires de la gron-deuse sont comma ccllcs du patois. Elle met ses ennemis en fuite^ mats dest cn se rendant dc-Q-oiitante.
Johnny Wraw:—Yes; correspond with poetesses, by all means. It will elevate and refine vour mind and manners. Judging from what we know of your style, we should say that an uninter-i;upted correspondence with sixteen distinct poetesses is just about what you need.	•
How Great Minds will Agree!
O inter pocula quanta longinquitas!—Cicero to Pomponius Atticus.
Je trouve, Madame, avec beaucoup de respect, qu’il y a longtemps qu’on n’a pas bu.—Mme. de Maintenon to the Empress of Russia.
Ach! Die lange Zeit von einem Trunke zum andern.—Fichte to the Grand Duke (f Baden- • Baden.	. • .
Hace mucho tiempo entrelas copas.-—Cortez to Montezuma.	-
Oiiw'' m/.os 6	tjA-acb too v.zdj.—Anna Comnena to her Aunt.	•
E molto tempo che non abbiamo bevuto.:—Petrarch to Laura.	'	’
. It seemeth to me, if it be pleasing to your Gubernatorial Highness, that a vast interval, such as can only be compared to one of those extended periods whereof the geologist treateth, hath elapsed since we last participated in the imbibition . of those grateful fluids whose influence is so conducive to the promotion of hilarity and general rambunctiousness.— Governor of Forth Carolina to Governor of South Carolina during the “Era of Good Feeling?'
Personal.
—Mr. Jas. O’Kane, of Cincinnati, accompanied bv his son Oscar, visited the College this week.
—Jas. E. Hagerty (Com’l), ’77, paid a visit to the College this week. He has a brother in the o
Junior department.
—Count Zaremba Kalinowsky and his little son Hugo, were welcome visitors this week. The Count is an accomplished linguist, and one of the-greatest travellers of the age. He is withal a thorough gentleman and we shall be glad to see him again, o
—Our voting and energetic friend, Mr. Palmer; has lately been advanced to the responsible position of General Agent of the Missouri Pacific Railway Company and Wabash, St. Louis & Pacific Railway. He is now located in Chicago. Frank deserves the promotion, and the Scholastic wishes him good luck and prosperity.
—We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Charles and Eben Hutchings, of ’67, and Reuben Hutch- . ings of ’74, in their sad bereavement through the death of their respected father. The deceased was a prominent business man of Brooklyn, N. Y., and made many warm friends by his. genial temperament and generous traits. It is a consolation to the afflicted family to know, that the dear de- -parted quitted this mortal life with all the blessings of religion.
May he rest in peace!
—The following anent Father Zahm’s Mexican trip appeared in the Chicago- Times of March 30th:	.
“The first international train through from the City of
476
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Mexico ai rived at the Union depot yesterday morning, at 7.30 o’clock. The train consisted of one baggage-car, one hotel-car a sleeping-car, and three special officers’ cars. All. including the locomotive, were handsomely decorated with the national colors of the United States and Mexico. The entire partv was comprised of fifty persons—Mexicans, American Presidents in Mexico, and the general officers of the Mexican Central and Chicago, Burlington & Quincy roads. The party was. not a special one, organized under the auspices of the Mexican government to revise the treaty with the United States government, as was first understood, but is comprised mostly of Mexicans who came to travel in the United States. Besides, there are ten young Mexican students in the party, under the charge of Rev. J. A. Zahm, who left yesterday forenoon for Notre Dame, Ind., to complete a course at that educational institution. The students occupied the hotel-car on the trip. The trip from the City of Mexico to Chicago occupied a little over six.davs, the train leaving the former place Saturday afternoon, March 22. The route traversed was via the Mexican Central to El Paso, thence via the Atchison. Topeka <fc Santa Fe, to Kansas City, where the Chicago and Burlington road was taken to Chicago. The trip was made without reference to speed, but rather with a regard for the comfort of the travellers. It was keenh-* enjoyed by the Mexicans, especially after the State of Kansas was reached, although it was uneventful in the extreme. A majority of the party, aside from the students, left for the East, yesterday morning, among them Delegate Luna, who went direct to Washington. Senor Velasco, chief of the interior department of railroads in Mexico, and Jose Calvo y Arias are at the Grand Pacific as guests of Manager Parker, of the Mexican Central. Rev. Father Zahm, who has within the past three years spent a great deal of time in the West, especially in the Rockv Mountains, gathering information and statistics for the Geological School of Notre Dame, of which he is tutor, is loud in his praises of Mexico, and believes that the ’ opening of the country by railroads will boom it beyond all expectations. Speaking of the trip, he said it was extremelv pleasant to everybody on board the train.”
We learn from Mexican papers that this train was organized by Father Zahm personally. For this it was necessary to secure the permission of the Mexican Government as the Mexican Central Railroad has not as yet been formally accepted.
Local Items.
—Phenom'ene!
—Oh, those hat-bands!
—The boat clubs practise daily.
—The wedding didn’t come off!
—Botanical reports are in order.
—Did you attend the Convention ?
—The Dome will be opened soon.
—Snow, last Wednesday,—just for a change.
—The Horticultural Bureau will be reorganized . *	-•	.0
in a few days. .
—One pair of those “ candy’s ” came to grief last Thursday.	-
:—A fat man’s nine has been established in the Senior department.	;
-—Trees, plants, and flowers have been set out. in the Juniors’park.
—Bro. Bonaventure has commenced operations on the College law.n.
. —It has been suggested:that our astrologer take the name of El Mahdi.	;	.
—“And now look out for the April showers that bring forth the flowers.” ©
—The Law Department has now the largest attendance of any previous year.
—The Librarian went to Chicago last Wednes-day in the interests of the Library.
—The Philodemics will appear in a public debate after Easter. Success to them.
—The “Actives” were defeated by the “Amer- '. icans” in a game played last Thursday.
—Competitions next week in Course of Modern Languages, Fine Arts and Special Branches.
—Master B. B. Lindsey’s name was omitted by mistake from the List of Excellence last week.
—“ Syd.” and the “ crushed strawberry-blonde ” were badly left on the hat-bands, last Tuesday.
—The Minims return thanks to Rev. Father Zahm for a’ present of some choice Mexican fruits.
—The double windows will be taken down next week." A spell of cold weather may be expected immediately thereafter.
-—The Seniors’ reading-rooms have been handsomely frescoed. They’ll have to put a little more on yet to equal the Juniors’!	#	'
—Two young gentlemen from the far West who had made a contract for hat-bands, in return for monograms:—well, 1st of April, you know!
—“My young friend,” wrote the Professor in reply, to an “April fool joke,” “ as a.business principle, never again sign your name to a blank sheet of paper.”
—A partial poll of the Grads, on Presidential favorites, resulted thus: General Sherman, 3; General Butler, 1; Sam’l J. Tilden, 1; Jas. G. Blaine, 1; Gov. Hoadly, 1.
—On the 30th ult., a game of baseball was played between the Manual Labor School nine and a picked Junior team, resulting in the defeat of the latter by a score of 15 to 13.
— The Lcetare Rose, which Very Rev. Father General presented for the best boy among the Minims, was voted by all to Don Santiago Arrache, just arrived from the City of Mexico.
—The Philopatrians have the only genuine version extant of “ The Prince of Portage Prairie.”
© ____
It contains all the improvements of Modern Times.
All other versions are on the “ Index.”
—Our weather-prophet is in,, very high glee since the fall of jSnow on last Wednesday. This is the only disastrous result, so far as one can learn, of the recent sudden but short-lived change- of weather.
■ —Our friend John says that copper money is coined exclusively for religious purposes. It enables a man to/feel that he has contributed to the spread of the Gospel without drawing too largely on his income.
—To ensure the prompt delivery and reception of your papers the following should be observed: rst, no written , matter should be enclosed; 2d, papers should be properly wrapped; 3d, papers should be fully pre-paid.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	w
—Father Superior-General has received from Hon. John Howley, of Cairo, Ill., the sum of $25 to aid in furnishing the twelve electric stars that are to constitute the aureole of the statue of the . Blessed Virgin on the Dome of the College. " o	o
—A imtsicale will be given in the Seniors’Read-ing-Rooms, Wednesday after Easter, by the members of the Crescent Club. The programme will consist of vocal and instrumental pieces interspersed with the reading of a few choice selections from “ King Lear.”
—Signor Gregori has sent to their destination the portraits of Mr. and Mrs. William Hake, on which he has been engaged for some time past. The pictures are indeed real works of art, set in massive rich bronze frames, and, as portraits, they exactly reproduce the features of our esteemed friends.
—The members of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association held their 19th regular meeting on the 24th ult. The question, “Was Napoleon a Greater Man than Julius Ciesar?” was debated. On the affirmative side were Masters. M. O’Kane, F. Nester, B. Lindsey, W. Prindiville; and on the negative F. Otis, C. West, W. Devine and W. Stange.	.
—Among the many letters and telegrams of regret received by the chairman of the late Convention, were two from members of Our Stall which,-though written in different hands and different colored inks, seemed both to have emanated from the same brilliant source,—“Hill’s Manual,” perhaps; or “The American Gentlemen’s Letter-Writer,” which?	.
—The 27th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held on the 26th ult. A well-written essay was presented by Master Mug. Declamations were delivered by D. Tav-Jor, H. Foote, J. Monschein, F. Fendrich, and W. Mulkern. The public readers are D. G. Taylor, W; Henry, J. Monschein, AV. Schott, G. Schaefer, C. Stubbs and E. Porter. -
—Oh, did you attend the Convention Of poet, of sage and of wit?
The wondrous multitude made it The season’s successfullest hit!
The eds. came from cities surrounding To see this unparalled fun;
The hall couldn’t hold all the people, So the “Fools” met in room —.
—The Philopatrians held their 25th regular meeting on the 27th ult. Compositions were read by J. Devereux and A. Adler. Recitations were given by F. Curtis, C. - Mason, J. Fitzgerald, J. Garrity, P. Yrissari, S. Holman, J. McGordon, F. Williamson, G. Tarrant, C. Harris, J. Kelly, C. Cavaroc, C. Regan, C. Houck and J. Brown. The Society is now thoroughly organized and bids fair to give the exhibition of the- year.
—The students attending the Shorthand Classes are making good progress with the mystic script. George E. McErlaine heads the list, writing as high as 160 words a minute, followed, at speed varying from 130 words a minute downwards, by other members of the speed class. A . number of Seniors, prominent among, whom are Messrs. Mc
Erlaine, Kolars, Ewing, Johnston, De Haven, Wilson, Ott and Gray, are adepts in the, art.
—The second regular meeting of the Baseball Association was held Thursday, March 27th, for the purpose of electing officers. The result was as follows: Bros. Paul and Emmanuel, Directors; F. B. Devoto, President; O. Spencer,.Treasurer; C. Murdock, Secretary; J. W. Guthrie and F. Wheatley, Captains. The following gentlemen were elected members: Messrs. L. Gibert, Hetz, J. Shea, Sykes,.J. Smith, Brosseau, C. Combe, Snouffert, and Reach. After a few remarks by the Director, the meeting adjourned.
—The 9th regular meeting of the Junior. Archconfraternity was held Sunday evening, March 30th. The society was honored by the presence, of the distinguished Passionist, Rev. Father O’Oon-nor, of New York. Master AV. Henry read a well-written paper on the “ Purification,” and Master G. Schaefer gave a short sketch of the “ Life of St. Francis Xavier.” Masters R. Devereux, Monschein, and Mulkern, were appointed to have essays for the next meeting. The customary ten-minutes’ discourse was delivered by Rev. Father O’Connor, C. P. ,	-
—The 2d regular meeting of the St. Aloysius Philodemic Society was held March 27th', Rev. President Walsh presiding. The literary programme was an interesting one. An essay was read by Mr. J.. Geiser, maintaining that the oath in legal proceedings should be abolished; the paper was a carefully written one, setting forth, in a lucid manner, the points advanced, and supporting them, by strong arguments. Mr. C. C. Kolars then recited, in a graceful manner, the poem, “ Bill and I,” which was received with applause; Mr. Jas. Conway briefly stated some interesting general facts in connection with the Habeas Corpus Act; Mr. H. Fitzgerald read a well written sketch of Cardinal Newman, which, though not extended, was concise.
—The solemn celebrations of Holy AVeek will be observed as follows: To-morrow—Palm Sunday—the blessing and distribution of the palms will take place at 10 a. m., followed by the procession. Immediately afterwards, Solemn High Mass will be celebrated, during which the Passion will be sung-On Wednesday, Thursday and Friday evenings, at 7.30, the Tenebrce Offices will be chanted, with the Lamentations and Miserere especially arranged in four parts, the music of which is singularly beautiful and impressive. On Holy Thursday morning, at 10 o’clock, Solemn High Mass will be celebrated, followed by the procession of the Blessed Sacrament, and the Divesting of the Altars. In the afternoon, at 3 o’clock, the Mandatum^ or ' AVashing of the Feet, commemorative of Our Lord’s act in-washing the feet of His Apostles. On Good Friday morning, the solemn ceremony of the Adoration of the Cross will take place, followed by the procession of the Blessed Sacrament and the Mass of the Presanctified. On. Holy Saturday morning, at 8.30, blessing of the new fire, and the Paschal Candle, Prophecies, blessing of the Fonts, Mass.	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
'—The Faculty of Notre Dame University Indiana. in dignified resolutions enter their protest against the spoliation of the Propaganda property, by the Italian Government. This is a gracious act on the part of Notre Dame and the first voice, as far as we - know, raised against an act of pure vandalism, from anv Educational Institution. The Propaganda Fide has deserved well of the world. A protest in the name of science and letters by every Institution of learning in Europe and America would not be too much, and though we think, it will avail as little as the protests of the world in 1870, vet it is a good thing. A thief is always a thief, and the oftencr he is published the better. A robber government, par excellence^ must be nearing- its end. Adveniatre^num tuunn Domine ! —St. Viatcur's College Journal.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Anchondo, Ancheta, Aguilera, Baca, Bowers, Brosseau, Barron, Becerra, Bailey, Browne, F. Burke, F. Combe. J. Carroll. Carbajal. Cass, Crawford, Dunn, Delgado, De Groot, De Wolf, Dolan, A. Dennis, Delaney, Ewing, Feliz, Fogarty, Farrell, T. Fenlon, J. Frain. Grot-haus, Gibson, Gooley, Gonser, Gandrup, Goulding. Gonzalez, Geiser, Gutierrez, F. Gallagher, Hyde, Howard, Hafner, Hellebush, Hetz, Hamlyn, Johnston, Jackson, Kavanaugh, Kleiber, McErlain, W. M. Mahon, Jno. McCabe, McKinnery, Marquez, Mittendorf, T. McNamara, J. McNamara, McLaughlin, Mahoney, Madden, G. O'Brien, Ott, O'Dea, Orchard, Otis, O'Kane, H. Paschel, C. Paschel, Pour, Quinlan, Rudge, Rogers, Reach, Solon, Shea, Steis, Slattery, Saviers, E. Smith, J. Smith, G. Smith. Sanchez, Snouffer, J. Uranga, J. Wagoner, Warren, Creel.
■	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Arnold, Anchondo, Aguilera, Berthelet Barela, Brown, Baur, Barclay, .Breen, Cohen, Curtis, Courtney, Cavaroc, Cleary, Coleman, Devine, Dorenberg. Dennis, Deaderick, Eisenhauer, Fitzgerald, Fehr, Fendrich, Dexter, Fierro, Foote, Finckh, Gerlach, Gimbel, Grunsfeld, Hagenbarth, E. A. Howard, Halligan, W. Henry, Houlihan, Houck, Holman, Hagerty, Jensch, P. Johnson, R. Lewis, Leony, Luther, Lane, Monschein, Mullane, Miller, Menig, J. McGordon, G. Moye, A. Moye, McDonnell, C. Metz, Mug, Muhler, McCabe, Major, McCullough, ?Jar-tinez, Norfolk, O’Brien, C. Porter, Perley, J. Portillo, Quill, Rogers, Regan, Reynolds, Ruppe, Sedberry, L. Scheuer-man, Schott, Schaefer, Stubbs, Saunders, Strauss, Talbot, D. Taylor, G. Tarrant, Uranga, W. 'Wagoner, Wabraushek, Weiler, Wright.
MINIM DEPARTAI ENT.
Masters S. Arrache, A. Arrache, Ackerman, J. Addington, H. Addington Brown, Boose, Benner, Butterfield. Calvin, Comins, Cummings, Costigan, Crawford, Cole, F. Coad, M. Coad, Delaplane, Devine, Devereux, Ernest, Fitzgerald, Fulwiler, Gibson. W. Grimes, Garrity, Harris, C. Inderrieden, R. Inderrieden, Jones. Kraus, E. Kelly, La Tourette, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, Lewis, W. McCourt, M. McCourt, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, T. McGuire, McPhee, McVeigh, Muessel, Manzanares, Meehan, Mon ison, Morgan, F. Mullen, A. Mullen, F. Nester, M. O’Kane, Otis, O’Connor, Padden, W. Prindiville, R. Papin. V. Papin, Quiggle, Quill, Studebaker, Sumner, Stange, Spencer, Schmitz, Sokup, L- Scherrer, C. Scherrer, E. Scherrer, Smith, Salmon, Thomas, Uranga, West, W. Welch, A. Welch, Wright, C. Young, Schoneman.
Saint JFlauy's Acabemy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Belle Snowbook received too in lessons.
—The execution of Catharine Morrison in her piano piece, on the occasion of the Juniors’concert, elicited great praise.
—The graceful, modest and expressive 'reading of Mary Dillon, at the regular reunion in the Junior department, was greatly admired bv all present. tier subject was an ‘‘Apostrophe to St. Joseph.” Hannah Stumer followed her in a beautiful recitation.
—The Princesses received their notes on Wednesday, after which Lily Johns recited, with good effect, “A Contrast,” by Eleanor C. Donnelly; Eulalie Chapin, with no less appreciation, “ Papa’s Letter;” and Mary Lindsey, in her vivid and touching manner, rendered “Mother’s Room,” by Miss Pollard.
—For those Juniors whose names arc worthy to be inscribed on the First Tablet of Honor for t-wo months, a prize—a handsome gold pen and case— has been offered by Mother Superior. It is to be drawn for by all who shall entitle themselves to the privilege. May the Tablet be crowded to the extent of its capacity!
—The Misses Angela Ewing, Adelaide Kirchner, and Adella Gordon, Class ’81, are now at St. Marv’s. Miss Etta Rosing, of the same Class, gave a call .on Tuesday. Miss Nellie Grath, of Class ’So; and Miss Sarah Hanbury, of Class ’82, are also spending a few days with old friends at their Alma Maier.	-
—The Roman Mosaic cross was won by M. Murphy. Those who drew with her were the Misses Dillon, Duffield, Chaves, Snowhook, Otis, Campeau, McEwen, Bailey, Sheekey, Helen and Ella Jackson, Lord, Roddin, Stumer, Richmond, Cox, Voradenburg, Eldred, Fehr, and Shephard, —an advance upon the number of last week.
—An elegantly painted white velvet placque, composed entirely of roses, and offered to the Juniors by their beloved departed Prefect, Sister Mary Rosa, for perfect deportment in class and study-hall, in January last, was won by Catharine Fehr. Those who were-equally entitled, were the Misses M. Dillon, Helen and Ella Jackson, Clara Richmond and Ellen Sheekey. The drawing was postponed until the present on account of the sad death of the cherished donor.
—The instruction on Monday morning, in the Chapel of Loreto, was upon the “ Solemnity of Passion-Week.” The Very Rev. speaker said “A great anniversary has dawned upon the world. Anniversaries are the memories of sensible minds and genero.us hearts. They are observed everywhere by nations, families and individuals; but
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. -
479
what is the commemoration of great rejoicing to some may be the anniversary of great sorrow to others. One of the most celebrated events of history is the Battle of Waterloo. In the commemoration of the day upon which it was fought, one nation exults, while another is humbled. The very recollection is a source of triumph to the one, and r of abjection and shame to the other. Not so, however, the anniversary which we revive to-day, and which has been commemorated for centuries. It is one of joy to-the whole world. It is the eighteenhundredth and fifty-first time that it has been solemnized from one end of the globe to the other; yet it is as fresh in the mind of everyone as when it first took place, unless, perchance, the mind be insensible to the importance attached to the Mystery of Redemption. To-day it is not a nation, or a family or an individual who is absorbed in the event of the Passion and death of our Lord,—it is the whole world! ”
The venerable speaker drew the comparison between an ungrateful child, who, while her entire household were absorbed in keeping some family anniversary, should protest, and remain indifferent, likening her to those who pass the present season and o-ive no thouHit to the momentous drama o	o
of the Crucifixion, now claiming the attention of the Holy Church throughout Christendom. The heartlessness of those who call themselves Christians and yet who now give their time up to levity remaining forgetful of their share in the ignominy heaped upon our Saviour, while the greater proportion of the faithful, like true children, unite in the spirit of the Church by devoutly commemorating the event of human redemption, was clearly represented. He closed his eloquent discourse—which we would gladly give entire, did space permit,—with a touching allusion to the hushing from Passion Sundav to Holy Saturday of all joyous demonstrations, such as the suspension of the Gloria and Te Deum in the Office of the Church. “You see,” said he, “your beautiful statues every where veiled. Alas! soon the sun itself will refuse its light; the rocks will be rent, struck with horror at the sins of men. Are our hearts harder? Let us try to be impressed with what we see, to the consolation of the Heart of our Blessed Lord.”
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER. AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT. AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
rst Tablet—Misses Adderly, Beai, Bruhn, A. Babcock, C. Babcock, Burgher, E. Call, Cummings, Cirkel, Dunn, Dowling, Fitzpatrick, Fogerty, Gove, Gavan, Heckard, Hale, Hetz, Johnson, Keenan, Keating, Kearns, Kenny, Kearney, King, Legnard, Lintner, Leahigh, Munger, M. Munger, McHale, McNamara, Mooney, McCarthy, Neu, O’Connell, Quill, J. Reilly, Ryan, Reynolds, S. St. Clair, L. St. Clair, Sheridan, Sheekey, Shickey, Scully, Stacker!, Todd, Tynan, Thomas, Taylor. 2d Tablet—Misses Crawford, Carney, Duffield, Ginz, Addie Gordon, Alice Gordon, Helpling, Kearsey, A. Murphy, Ramsey, Sear.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
ist Tablet—Misses Best. Bailey, Chaves, Campeau, Cox, Dillon, Duffield, Eldred, Fehr, B. Halsey/H. Jackson, E. Jackson, S. Jackson, Lord, McEwen, Murphy, Metz, Otis, Richmond, Roddin, Shephard, E. Sheekey, Snowhook, Voradenburg. 2d Tablet—Misses Durlacher, Morrison, Stumer, Regan.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
ist Tablet—Misses J. English, ’ L. Johns, V. Johns, M. Lindsey, B. Murray, G. Papin, M. Paul, M .Reynolds, A. Schnjauss, S. Van Fleet. 2d Tablet—Misses Chapin, M. Ducey.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
[Tor the month of March^ ' ■ Advanced Course—Miss Laura Fendrich.
Graduating Class, ist Course—Misses Reilly, Beal. ist Class—Miss M. Cummings.
2D Division—Misses B. Gove, E. Neu.
2D Class—Misses Bruhn, Keenan, Shephard.
3d Class—Misses Crawford, Ginz, Hale, Keating, E. Sheekey, Tynan.
2D Div.—Misses M. Adderly, Carney, Dillon, E. Horn, H. Jackson, Scully, Todd, Van Horn.
4TH Class—Misses A. Babcock, Campbell, M. Ducey, Evarts, L. English, K. Fehr, Morrison, Ramsey. "
2D Div.—Misses F. Castenado, J. Duffield, Gavan, Kearsey, Lucas, Munger, Moshier, Malbceuf, A. Murphy, Sears, Snowhook.
5TH Class—Misses Call, Dunn, A. Duffield, Fitzpatrick, Platte, Quill, L. St. Clair, Stackerl, Wolven, Williams.
2D Div.—Misses Chaves, Cirkel, Cox, Danforth, Agnes English. M. Fisk, Alice Gordon, Addie Gordon, E. Jackson, Keyes, Regan, Sheridan.
6th Class—Misses C. Babcock, Billings, Brown, M-Barry, B. English, J. Fogerty, Hetz. Hack, B. Haney, A. Legnard, Lintner, 'vlooney, M. Murphy, Otis, M. Rev-nolds, Roddin. Richmond, Steele. S. St. Clair, Schmidt, Stumer,E. Taylor.
2D Div.—Misses Best, Bailey, S. Jackson, Kearsey, M. King, Kearns, McEwen, McCarthy, O’Connell, Peak, E. Sheekey.	•
7TH Class—Misses I. Allen, J. English, Ewing, Help-ling, L. Johns, Kenny, Leahigh, McHale, McNamara, A. Ryan.
8th Class—Misses NI. Ducey, Metz, Schmauss.
9TH Class—Misses Chapin, Lindsey, Murray.
ioth Class—Miss Mamie Reynolds.
Harp.
3D Class—Miss Mamie Dillon.
2D Div.—Miss E. Neu.
5TH Class—Miss D. Fitzpatrick.
6th Class—Miss Crawford.
Guitar.
Misses NI. Beal, A. English, L. Van' Horn.
Violin.
Miss E. Carney.
Organ.
Miss C. Sheridan.	,
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
ist Class, 2d Div.—Misses M. Bruhn, M. Hale.
2D Div.—Misses E. Neu, M. Tynan.
2D Class—Misses B. English, C. Babcock, Ginz, Ramsey.
3d Class—Misses S. St. Clair, M. Ducey H. Jackson, A. English, E. Sheekey.
4.TH Class—Misses F. Castenado, M. Otis.	.
5TH Class—Misses Addie' Gordon, Alice Gordon, M. Chaves, C. Fehr, C. Leahigh.	.
480	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
BUCKESWORF,
. FLORIST.
RARE and BEDDING PLANTS
ALWAYS ON HAND.
ALSO,
CUT FLOWERS, DESIGNING, and DECORATING.
GREENHOUSE, 217 JEFFERSON ST,
SOUTH BEND, IND.
EUGENE F. ARNOLD (Class Of’78).	W. H. LANDVOKJT.
ARNOLD & LANDVOIGT,
Attorneys and Counsellors at Law.
470 Louisiana Avenue, N. W., WASHINGTON. D. C.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 18, 1883. trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.04 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.22 a.m.: Cleveland, 1.57 p.m.; Buffalo, 7.36 p.m.
10.54 a-m-> Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo. 5.07 p.m.; Cleveland, 9.44 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.31 a.m.
8.41 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.17 a.m.; Cleveland, 6.37 a.m.; Buffalo, 12.46 p.m.
11.53 a.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.12 p.m.; Cleveland, 9.42 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.31 a.m.
5.54 p.m., Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.00 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.07 a.m.; Buffalo, 6.41 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.04a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.56 a.m., Chicago, 5.41 a.m..
4.28 a.m., Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.22 a.m. Chicago, 7.51 a.m.
7.11 a.m, Limited Express. Arrives at Laporte, 7.52 a.m. Chicago, io.ii a.m.	‘ •
1.02 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.02 p.m.; Chesterton, 2.47 p.m.; Chicago, 4.31 p.m.
4.07 p.m., Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.54 p.m.; Chicago, 7.31 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend. '
J. W. CARY, Gen’l. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
A. G. AMSDEN, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland.
JOHN NEWELL. Gen’l M’ger, Cleveland.
Catholic Music
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
MASSES, VESPERS,
.	CLASS and CHOIR BOOKS, etc., etc. ’
The Most Complete Stock
WEST OF NEW YORK CITY.
Send for Catalogues.
John Church & Co=9
CINCINNATI, O.
L. CELANIA,
'	Dealer in
CALIFORNIA, FOREIGN and DOMESTIC FRUITS, CONFECTIONERY, etc.
’	in N. Main St.,
Sori tli JBend, Indiana.
GRANR CENTRAL ROTEL
Centrally located in the business part of the City 114 S. Michigan St., Sontli Bend, Indiana.
M. L. DENNIS, Proprietor.
Crowned With Stars, -
An Exquisite Volume of P >ems in H mor of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Queen of Heaven,
BY
Eleanor C. Donnelly.
Published to Aid in Placing on the Dome of the New University of Notre Daine, Indiana, a Colossi!
Siatue <>f the Bkssed Virgin Mary, .
Crowned with Twelve S'ars.
Price, -	-	- gilt, $1.25; plain, $1.00.
Address STUDENTS’ OFFICE, Notre Dame, Indiana.