




PHOTOGRAPHY·. 
Personalized photography for: . Engagements • Bridal • Families Special "SENIOR" discounts 36 Hr. passport and I.D. service 
Call 288-2506 for information · 1920 S. Michigan 



A Candle for <the Messiah 
This evening, December 7, at Mass, a second candle on the Advent wreath will be lighted in. the Keenan­Stanford chapel. With its promise· of the nearness of· the Messiah's coming, the little beam will be a comfort to us in the winter darkness. 
Early this m"orning .,--December. 7; according, to temporal calendars -a candle was lighted in heaven, as a young man, losing his life• in an accident, found life again in the Everlasting Arms. What comfort is needed by the Comforter can scarcely be guessed at; but Gospels tell us there is joy in heaven over its children's. homecomings. 
Jim ("Scuffer") Gallagher's light was the second candle in two months to be furnished by the Keenan­Stanford community. for the Messiah's wreath ·of glory; on October 7, we also knew the· grieving side of darkness when we lost sight of the brightness · among us of young Bob Rieman, who · also died in a tragic accident. 
When death comes· unexpectedly, there is a special blessedness in the Advent symbols that promise our movement out· of darkness into light, out of terror into joy, out of death scenes into birth. In Keenan, this . morning, we needed all the help we could get. Through the last hours of the night until sunrise, there were little groups of Scuffer's friends keeping the mourners' .. vigil: some in priests' rooms, some in hallways, many at the Grotto. Again and again, they asked each other: ,iWhy?" It seemed such an unnecessary death, they said. The smallest change in a thousand arbitrary cir­cumstances could have made the difference that would have averted .the accident. Yet, out of. the merest "chanciness," it seems, events were so linked together that a boy was in the pathway of a speeding car; after that, there was only the sudden numbness of a stunning loss. Advent candles commemorate events of salvation history, as the wisdom of God has arranged history and as His mercy has planned our salvation. God comes into our world as Messiah at hours announced by the prophets; but • where are the timetables of our arrivals in heaven? · 
Are there hidden agendas in the mind of God, asked a student, or is death the rip-off game of tough, mind~ less luck that says: pretty tough for you, kid; but if, you had watched where you were going, you would not have ended up as a statistic? 
Faith replies: our creeds are based on God trusted to keep His eye trained on sparrows and His love cen­tered on children, the least of whom is more precious to Him than all the sparrows that ever filled the skies. Death is one of the mysteries of love which could be understood only if I knew life as God· knows: life:· of ·. 
by Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 

the ways and times I need my brother, and the need he . has for me; of how I bring one brother peace, .and an­other brother suffering, just as he rejoices or despairs 
. over me, until at last, soon or early, we have helped shape the other for the uses of eternity. Concerning death, I am sure only of this: I shall not be sent for until I am needed elsewhere, and all of us finish the errands we were asked to do, until dying, for one of us, is the final· experience by which we touch the others. · 
For myself, I have lived long enough to know better than to ask the reason for another person's death. But I am not nineteen, and I was n"ot with Jim Gallagher on the night of his accident. .· . • 
At three o'clock this morning, within minutes of the. announcement of Scuffer's death at Memorial Hospital; · there was a Mass in the K.-S. chapel offered by three priests, sharing the grief of a large number .of stu­dents in attendance from the dorm. (For me, it was the second time in ten hours I had stood at that chapel altar asking eternal rest for the newly departed. ·At three o'clock on Friday, John Murphy's father died; and at five o'clock, John and I shared a liturgy togeth­er.) At Scuffer's Mass, symbol and language, ritual .and Scripture struggled to be thecomfort of those who . mourned, commemorating this recent death with the remembrance of the ancient violence that wounded the gentleness of the firstborn Son. On the altar, alongside the bread and wine of the Lord's memorial, was a golf cap, red and absurd and touchingly. pathetic. It had been jauntily worn as a protection on that winter night · After the accident, it had been picked up from the high­way, useless now to its owner. All during the Mass, it .. lay on the altar; at the Canon, Father Conyers moved 
· . it close to the corporal, near the Eucharistic presence, as though it, too, belonged to the sacrifice; · A single red cap, folded into shapelessness now, belonging to a young. man. who ·has. died. Someone at the Mass remembered how he had teased Scuff er, seen . in the hallway the previous night, about whether he was wearing the cap to the showers. No, Scuffer had said, it was merely travelling with him to the bathroom. The incident was cited as though such constancy of use· could explain how a cap· could represerita life. , · · Jhis evening, at Mass, the second candle on the Advent wreath will be lighted, signifying· the nearness · of the Lord's coming. But· how. does Christmas, with its legends and carols, touch our senses, on their jour­ney to the heart, as vividly as the reality of a.red cap left behind by an owner whom the winter's cold can no longer touch? Mostly, I guess, because Christmas .itself, likeScuf­. fer's death, is a truth belonging to the darkness. 
A cold coming we had of it, Just the worst time of the year For a journey, and such a long journey:· The ways deep and the winter sharp, · 
The very dead of winter ... ... were we led all that way for Birth or Death? There was a Birth, certainly, 
We had evidence and no doubt. I had seen 
•birth and death, · . But had thought they were different; this·· Birth was · ·Hard and bitter agony for us,· like death, our 
death ("Journey of the Magi") 
Whether through accidents or through Bethlehem, the journey to God is a hard one, if you understand the suffering. · Faith can be a fantasy land' where there is no place for us to place.our sufferings, like a. red cap on an altar cloth, next to God's suffering, as. though, through His own experience, He knew nothing of vio­lence and horror and heartbreak and loneliness. A faith that is a.ll consolations belongs to stained-glass windows; it is just color·and ·half reality and merely surface truth. -That kind of faith is a palliative to our fears, forgetting the agony, denying the nails. A Christ­mas faith should celebrate the experience of birth as a kind of death. 
For ·whenever · Mass is said, we reenact the Passion and Death of Our Lord; and on this Christmas Day we do this in celebration of His Birth. So that at the same moment we rejoice in His coming for the salvation of men, and offer again to God His Body and Blood in sacrifice ... at this same time of all the year that we celebrate at once the Birth of Our Lord and His Passion and Death upon the Cross. Beloved, as the World sees, this is to behave in a strange fashion. For who in the world will both mourn and rejoice at once and for the same reason .... 
("Murder in the Cathedral") 
Of any violence or horror, like a highway accident, we can say that in a well-ordered world, it shouldn't have happened. But it does happen, and it happened to 
·Christ; and afterwards strangers who gambled took home the clothing He wore to his death, leaving noth­ing like a red cap for his friends to cling to. Faith has a reality that is as bitter as any we have at the death of a friend, and Christ's world and our world are one. 
So the Advent candles are lighted that move us to­ward the birth and death of Christ, Who gave dignity to all life and to every man's death. Nothing is made easier by Christmas until it is understood as the begin­ning of hardships, as though on a journey that man and God, like Magi, must travel together. 
... the householder counting over his peaceful gains, the swept hearth, his best wine for a friend at the table, his wife singing to·the chil­dren .. ; . Those men His disciples· knew no such things: they went forth to journey afar, to suffer by land and sea, to know torture, imprisonment, disappointment, . to suffer .. death by martyr­dom .... 
("Murder in the Cathedral") 
A candle was lighted in heaven this morning, the second candle that has been borrowed from our winter darkness. To tell the truth, God seems a little like a thief, robbing our needs to serve His. Hopefully, Christ­mas will have candles of its own, burning in the lonely places that grief has left in our hearts. 

-------------,·
.. . . . 
:~-:::::::•--.--·•---·---, >. • • .-· : 
' Let the Christbrand burst! . . . . . · ;::: Let the Christbrand blazon! 
:.. 

Dartle whitely under the hearth-fire,
i., AUndwind the wind,tth~rn _the thunderer, J n never, never mnmg, ! 
!f:;::~f:;:rtly, fix, flex,_bless, in~pire, ;_: 
. Instar the time, sear the sorcerer, And never, never sparing, .Save all year
I., 

Let the Christbrand burst! ·, Let the Christbrand blazon! -Francis J. O'Malley 
~~~~~~~~­
DECEMBER 13, -1974 
Marriage and the Family 
Fairy tales usually end happily ever after, the beautiful princess and handsome prince celebrating their wedding feast with all the gracious people of the realm. They end rejoicing and we close the book on this blissful scene, turn out the light, and wake up the next morning with a small thought in the backs of our minds that someday. we too will marry the prince or princess of. our dreams. 
But the story really begins in the days after the feast, when the prince doesn't put his dirty clothes in the hamper, and the princess sleeps in hair curlers and night cream; or when the prince wants to go to law school in Duluth and the princess is heading to gradu­ate school at Yale. When two people come together and try to unite their lives, they usually find a lot of differ­ences they didn't realize were there. When two become three -or four or five-the problems are compounded. 
Many people do not live happily ever after these days: they drink, or argue, or get divorced. Or some­times they wake up after ten or twenty years of mar­riage and family life and. realize that they've been talk­ing to themselves for 98% of that time, that they see each other with as much sensitivity and compassion as they see the closet doorknob or kitchen table. Statistics on the number of broken marriages and families abound. 
How many people become alcoholics, depend on psychia­trists, or commit suicide due to unhappy home lives? 
The traditional values and cu'stoms of family life are no longer unchallenged. The women's movement has shaken a number of marriages; Why should a. woman with a law degree or Ph.D. spend her time cleaning house-or even changing diapers? Are men inherently incapable of cooking dinner, washing dishes, bathing children? Alternative life-styles are ·being proposed and explored. Yet how open can a marriage be? More im­portantly, why do some survive and flourish while others flounder? 
What constitutes a "good marriage"? Is there any way to prepare for family life, besides merely reacting to or perpetuating the family form_one was raised in? Many students of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's com­munity will be marrying someday, some are already engaged or married. Perhaps now is· th~ right time. to begin to actively examine the is~ue, to begin to formu­late our own answer to the questions.. Good marriages do not just "happen," they are the result of . much creative giving; it is only through serious dialogue that a firm sense of position can be established. 
-Sally.Stanton 

Attitudes: Conflicting and Unrealistic 
If one were to make a list of the most dreamed about but least talked and thought about subjects at Notre Dame, marriage would probably be at the top. Nearly everyone here plans to get married eventually, but the emphasis is very heavily on the "eventually." Why should a fresh­man worry about marriage and a family when Emil T. is coming up and he hasn't even got the nerve to ask the girl across the aisle where she's from? Why should the sopho­more girl from Davenport think ab_out marriage while she's at school if she's got a boyfriend at home she's been in love with since eighth grade? Why should a senior think about marriage and a family at Notre Dame when · he'll be out of this un­natural environment into the "real" world soon? These questions .. are real ones and indicate a problem: will students at Notre Dame and St. 

Mary's be ready for marriage when . they finally do think about it? 
Faculty members and counselors 

seem to sense this "eventually" at­
titude towards marriage that is so 
prevalent in the student body and 
believe it should be changed. Fr. 
Hoffman who teaches "Sex and Mar­
riage" sees the majority of students 
as fairly traditional in their views 
towards marriage. They come from 
Catholic families for the most part 
and desire to follow their parents in 
a traditional marriage. · But rather 
than accept traditional marriage as 
a · whole, there is a desire to com­
bine the traditional, the wife as 
childbearing housekeeper, with the 
open marriage, in which roles are 
nebulous and freedom for both 
.partners is all-important. The cause 
of this conflict goes along with the 
reason for so little discussion of it. 

Careers. are considered more im­
portant and more immediate than marriage. Students look at life as a series ·of · nonoverlapping projects; first school, then career, and finally marriage. Children don't even enter· into . serious thinking. 
In Fr. Hoffman's opinion discus­sion of the subject is rare "because there is no structure where men and women can talk about marriage in a nonthreatening situation. · Dating. is awful." Because .of this lack of . a structure, among other thirigs, stu­dents in Hoffman's class · are· "ex­tremely romantic." Students love the idea that they will meet the prince or princess of. their dreams, be married and live happily ever after. The students have so sheltered themselves from marriage that their ideas are unrealistic. A real ex­ample is the couple who are married never having discussed children. The wife decides it's time for a child, the 
. -­THE SCHOLASTIC 


The McCabe Family 
DECEMBER.13, 1974 
to do with the individual's reactions and attitudes towards marriage and family life. A course dealing with· the American family. was taught this semester with the same sort of emphasis. Besides these purely aca­demic courses: all that remains is Fr. Hoffman's "Sex and Marriage" course. It seems to be the only real study in the classroom of marriage on an individual basis. Hoffman's course is small and dominated by discussions in groups of six to nine which vary depending on the inter­ests of the particular group: The most immediate function of the course . is to expose the students' naivete about marriage. Fr. Hoff­man senses a definite · commitment to the traditional idea · of marriage and little desire to experiment with cohabitation without marriage. In the class the emphasis is on allow­ing the students to. explore alterna­
tives within the traditional Christian framework. Despite. this meager . offering of . classes,. Notre Dame does offer op­

portunities for students to explore their attitudes and values and emerg­. ing life-styles. Mrs. McCabe, coor­dinator of educational programs for human development in Student 
contemporary trends, it seems to me extremely important to articulate, as a viable option for youth, our be­lief that a total co~mitment to an­other person for· Hfe can result in a 

Affairs, describes it this· way: "We and the hall s~affs are working to find ways to make residence life even more effective; In regard to marriage, particularly in view of 
J 

dynamic relationship, the depths and dimensions of ·which we can hardly begin to know in a lifetime." . 
Dr. Sheridan McCabe, Director of the Counseling Center, sees the hall 
Discussing : 1V1arriage 
.In .order to get some sense of 
• 
what students are thinking in terms ofmarriage and family life, Scholas­

• 
tic reporters Sally · Stanton arid Larry Stanton (no relation) asked 

• 
Paul Bollwerk, Sue ·Darin, Colleen 

• 
McCarthy, Pat Smid, and Theresa 


: Stewart to discuss the subject. The following are excerpts from that discussion. 
Larry: We'll start out with the most basic question: Do you plan to . get married? When? Why? 
Theresa:· Yes, I've been dating a · guy for three years this coming Feb­. ruary and we've been talking about 
• marriage a lot. I think that we :really know what marriage is about now, · after three years. There's so much , you have ·to learn and so many con.'. , flicts you have to go through that I could never have considered it with­, out· this time we've had. We've · learned that .it's not all romance. 
Pat: H's an interesting question.. 
8· 
For sure, definitely I'll get married, but I don't know how long it will be -eventually though. 
Larry: You couldn't say that if someone happened along tomorrow, you definitely wouldn't get married? 
Pat: Well, no. You can go for years knowing a person but · you don't have to get married right away. I think there are a lot of al~ ternatives right now to marriage. 
Sue: I know I'm going to get mar-· ried. I don't know when though. I know I need that one-to-one rela~ tionship. But listening to Theresa­she has somethingI've never had.· 
Theresa: As -far as women, it's really important to work on yourself because I don't want to get married if I don't have anything to offer. It's the guy who _is making the living, the guy who has the apartment, the guy who has the car, the guy who is· doing the giving. I'm ·obligated to make up for this. For instance, if I'm going out to dinner and the guy 

, pays, I feel like I owe him some~ 
thing. 
Sue: I know I'll have to work at 

least. a year or two first to establish 
my independence before I can ·get 
into a marriage. · 
Larry:· Are you saying that the 

woman has less to offer? 
Sue: We're conditioned. Marriage 

is· the fulfillment of our lives. To be 
fulfilled we supposedly have· to please 
the man. . . ... 
· Paul: I feel just the opposite; I've always felt that I had to please the ·woman;·r don't know if that's just me, butI've always tried fo be that way. It's always been very impor­tant. I always thought that I had to 
make her happy: ' 
Sue: In my parents'· marriage and 

a lot of ·other marriages I've seen, 
the men do very much to try tc> 
please the wives. Butcould they have 
been successful without ma:rriage? 
Probably. ·r think a woman is _raised 
to. think she_ can't be., 
THE SCHOLASTiC 


experience as potentially Notre Dame's primary contribution to this awareness of marriage. "You can't live four years in a place without it having an effect on you. There is a real potential for students to prepare for marriage through living as a part of a community in a residence hall." Mrs. McCabe expounds on this. "Marriage is a big step -, a totally committed one --:-in trust: .trust in each other and trust and hopein the possibilities .of · the relationship despite the obstacles we place in the way of love. , One can become pre­pared for that· trust by experiences on the . campus. Trust must be ex­perienced to provide a basis . for growth into personal freedom and maturity." The McCabes don't be­lieve that the classroom situation is adequate. "You can, learn a little something about marriage in ·the classroom, but I don't think that's basic. We cannot)eave the prepara­tion for marriage to one center. Ex­periences with personal interaction must be added to the academic look of marriage." 
For those who are engaged to be married a specific program exists which is required by the Church be­fore marriage. Mr. and Mrs. Daniel O'Brien, Keenan Hall Fellows, work 
,., 
Fr. Joseph Hoffman 

with the Campus Ministry office in the Pre-Cana program. The program · deals with financial, sexual, and in­terpersonal problems on a discussion . basis between married and engaged couples. The O'Briens see one of the biggest problems among those who attend Pre-Cana as learning to relate to one another as people. "We've been brainwashed into thinking that two halves are needed to make a marriage. It actually takes two whole people, each complementing the other. Often, couples who come to Pre-Cana. are starry-eyed. They are sure that their relationship will be without the problems typical of a new marriage. Because of this they find it difficult to cope with problems as they arise in a normal relation­ship. We talk to. tqe couples about what to expect and' how we have learned to deal with problems. Per­haps the most important point which we can make is Jhat. marriage is something which must be worked at each day. A lifetime of happiness is• not secured at the, altar --,-it ,must grow as the . couple faces new ex­periences." 
All of . this is probably true any-. ¥. here, but the O'.Briens see Notre Dame as making a unique contribu-. 
(continued on page 18). 
Larry: What about the large num­

ber ofwomen aiming at careers? 
Theresa: I think that they're in trouble; We're supposed to have a career, have arid raise children, look beautiful, have a wonderful husband who loves us, and love him. Who can do all .that? The whole idea of a woman with. a career has to be co­ordinated with·a family. If I had a family I would not work. It is far more important for my children to have a.mother. . . , 
Sue: I have a hard enough time just . being . a student. To occupy a position of authority ·in a man's world~and it still is very much a man's world-is very difficult: It is so hard to do this and remain a person that a guy would like to have for a wife. It really , scares. me. I've always wanted to.have a.career, and wanted to be a wife and wanted to be a mother and now I don't know how to doit. If. you want to just get . married and have a career, that's 
easy, but to havechildren? 
Pat: Why can't you postpone one? 

You can have kids . until .you're 
thirty, it's not too late to go into a 
career at thirty ~rthirty-five. 
Colleen: I think that's especially a 

proble~_'\Vith a lot of_girls who are 
DECEMBER 13, 1974 . 
in pre-med or who plan to . go to law 
school. It would be really hard if you 
went through law or medical school, 
.then got married and after getting 
into your profession decided to have 
children. How do you drop out of the · 
practice and come back fifteen years 
later and catch up? · 
Pat: I don't understand what the 
attraction is to something Hke that. 
What would attract a woman to be 
a doctor? Why would she want to be 
a doctor and married and have kids?: 
:frs too many responsibilities. 
Colleen: She feels tile same attrac-: 
tion as a guy does to be a doctor, the 
same goals, the same desire to help . 
people.. ,. 
Pat: But she has a natural com­
mitment she can't get out of whereas · 
a guy doesn't. 
Colleen: What commitment? 
Pat:.The children. 
Coleen: If she has children-,'
. 

she doesn't have to stay home with , 
them until they're twenty-five years ; 
old.,. 
. Pat: Let's say.she didn't have any: 
children· at all, then she wouldn't. · 
have to drop out of. the profession. 
• Theresa: But the thing isthat you 
. have to come to a point· where the. __man is ?-n equal in this. 
Sue: The man can't be only· the provider and the wife only the mother. 
Theresa: If she wants a career you have to split up housekeeping, and you have to split up raising the chil­dren because one woman can't do all. Any person, man or woman, can't do · all that with a career. 
All of us are raised with the idea 
of being successful/being a doctor, 
being a lawyer, just fulfilling your­
self. We have people pushing us to 
go to Notre Dame or to reach acer­
tain intellectual level.· What do you 
do with this when you have the nat­.ural urge to have children? 
Larry: Would you feel betterwith­
out these · desires for success and 
achievement? 
Sue: No, we've gone too far, we've 
taken that·step. 
Sally: We're thinking of this as a 
man's world and trying to fit into a 
career in this man's world-maybe · 
there is a possibility of working out 
a different model, a more "feminine" 
model.· : 
Sue: If-you thought of it as a 
person's model, the · word •· sounds 
terrible. But the thing is, you can't.· · 
Society limits you. ·. · 
(continued on page 19) 

Searching for Guidance 
Professor William Liu is the Di­rector of the Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society. He is also the Associate Dean in the Col­lege of Arts and Letters. As a pro­fessor in sociology and anthropology, Professor Liu directs a family sem­inar course in the graduate studies. His participation in the International Commission of Scientific Study of the Family· indicates not only his qualifications in the following inter­view, but also his personal interest in marriage and the family. 
Professor Liu provided several ob­servations about the historical back­grounds of people in the Notre Dame community. "As you know, this Uni­versity has a conglomeration of ethnic groups. This had usually pro­vided a clear distinction when it came to studying the concept of fam­ily in the Notre Dame community: But as the society changed in ,the past ten to fifteen years, these dis­tinctions. have diminished. The con­cept of marriage and the family is partially affected by this. As strengthening solidarity blurs some ethnic differences, some characteris­tic elements remain strongly ~xed in norms, and traditional behavior. The differences in faiths have been, up until recently, one of those in­alterable distinctions. Do you see?" 
Professor Liu provided several ex­amples of values that the Catholic community would have demon­strated in the past. Catholics gen­erally favored having a large fam­ily. Their disapproval -of contracep­tion, abortion, and intervention in family matters by the state_ was strongly maintained. The notions of celibacy and chastity were not only promoted as virtuous, but demanded as a consequence of adherence to family needs. 
"Perhaps what is most important, Catholics have traditionally had a better concept of community and cohesion. But all that is changing. There are the obvious signs such as the great drop in family size and the increase in economic status. These you. could regard as welcome 

in Marriage 
changes. But there are deeper, se­rious signs. There is a tremendous , amount of pressure placed on the Catholic -your student here at Notre Dame. Many Catholics are disregarding the Pope's decree on birth control. The notions of celibacy and chastity are also under fire. Sexual discrimination and Church tradition now must also be heavily transformed. The Catholic family is in trouble, but what exactly is the real trouble? Are the new changes 
/ 

a matter of changing norms under some great pressure? Or is what we are seeing the actual stress between the ideal norm versus the actual practice? Either the norm is wrong or there is a great pressure that is forcing the abandonment of Cath­olic tradition." 
When asked how the community of Notre Dame is affected, Professor Liu explained, "When a student comes to Notre D_ame, he will more than likely reject most of the mar­
,( 

Warm, Accepting Environment 
Abigail McCarthy, writer, lec­turer, and wife of former Senator Eugerie McCarthy (D-Minn.), re­flected on the condition of the American family in a recent inter­view here at Notre Dame. She viewed the traditional and current status of the family and offered her sugges­tions for the future of the institu­tion. 
Mrs. -McCarthy stated that the 
-family is an old and honored -insti­tution. She feels that there is a great sense of primary importance in regard to the family, and thus it should be considered as a separate institution and not classified with man-made institutions such as gov­ernments and states. The family serves as the crux of our interper­sonal relationships. Before age five, our familial experience develops within us the way in which we will relate to other people. In view of these things, Mrs. McCarthy does not regard the importance of the family lightly. 
The American family is currently "under pressure," says Mrs. Mc­Carthy. Part of the problem rests with the position of the children in ari otherwise disintegrating family setting. Referring to a recent study 

conducted by Senator Walter Mon­dale (D-Minn.), she stated that the position of the child has _become one · of extreme· importance in s_o_ciety, but this has little value when the father is either abserit or constantly busy and the mother feels -displaced. "We did all things rightfor children, but, i_n so doing, we·tore the family apart." Her recommendation is that children should. take a more active role in supporting the family struc­.ture -a position that she believes 
not many children take today. · 
The family should provide "a 
warm, accepting environment." It is 
Mis. McCarthy's belief that this may 
not be quite as true today as in the 
past. She illustrated this idea by 
saying that since 1968 her own home 
in Washington, D.C., has been some­
thing of a dropping..:off · place for 
displaced youth whose parents are 
either divorced or separated. She 
sees the position of these• young 

people as a "very unsettling situa­-tion. I do not find these people· to be as successful human beings as they could be by coming ·from a more stable matrix." 
She cited an article written by 
her for The Atlantic Monthly last 
year to state the current diffi-

riage and family beliefs that already have been crippled in his home. en­vironment;i"Parerits and priests keep on preaching rules that are obviously weak and unconvincing. There is no counseling. There is• no answer to the population problem. They are weak on sexual equality. They keep 
preaching the rules about sexuality and marriage, but there is no at­tempt to ·formulate an understand­able need for new legislation. There is no coimterlegislation to off-balance what no~ seems obvious and persua­sive in the current changes in norms,, If we ·had something, ·anything -· this would ,be better." 
It seemed obvious that the papacy could do something -would · do something · to remedy this .urgent situation.' . Professor. Liu. commented 
culty. facing.· the.· A~erican. family: The article concerned the ·pub-. lic televi~ion programs which cen­tered on the Loud ·famiiy. She ·be­lieves that the series had a detri­mental effect on the American fam­ily because the idea of the producer was that the institution of the Amer­ican family was inherently bad. In fact, a search was conducted among family counselorsin an effort 
to find a "troubled family'~ on whom .. ily life today:: Families should not the series could be based. Mrs. hold on to their children too long, McCarthy declared this to be an ex-but should be willing to let them ample of "the camera producing life, . find their own way after a certain rather . than .the camera recording . age. This, she believes, will provide 
life." Because of the tremendous in­fluence of television in our society, Mrs> McCarthy said that the show could riot possibly have · given any other impression of the family ex-· cept ·a' negative one. 
Drawing on her own past experi~ · ence, Mrs: McCarthy commented on the position of the wife and children of a politician iri our society; She declared -that· the_ widespread idea that political · wives ·.face .greater stress than other people· is a myth.. She believes.that wives and children of politicians. do face certairi'•prob­lems, such as a loss of privacy, but·• there are· aiso .rewards to be gained · in political life. The family ·serves as· a boost to the politician's ego' and a beneficiaf experience ·cai{be the ul~ timate result.· Mrs: McCarthy stated ·• that the presidential family is' an ex-. ample ofone which pulls. together fo · support'the husband and father: She feels that this also helps family re-. · 
DECEMBER 13, 1974 
on this. "What is needed is a con­certed , effort among theologians, scientii;ts, lawyers, '.and sociologists. There was a pontifical commission appointed whose purpose was to establish a line of communication and a unified effort to generate the change and progress necessary. be­tween· the various bishoprics, sects, and universities. As it is, .this will never· work though, because there is no Catholic··intellectual leadership. There is no effective scholastic leadership on marriage and the fam­ily. The pastoral advisors are very poor. There are some segments that feel we shouldn't · even discuss it. That's a tragedy. There is hardly any theology of marriage or· the family." 
Where can a student at Notre 

lations in that; '.'the good thing about 
the White House is that they .(hus­
bands and fathers as presidents) 
work at home:" 
Mrs. McCarthy suggests that Amer­icans need to develop "flexible" families in the future. She stated that the "ideal family" of the early 1900's was a short-lived anomaly and that we should not always look .to it as an example for perfect fam­
for a -better, more ·accepting atmo­sphere, and will enable families to stay in touch with one another after the family has separated. She echoes the advice given to youth by a Har­vard professor -that··· if. ·young people decide to become parents, then they should stick to that de­cision and view the ·responsibilities realistically, rather than romanticiz­ing the situation. 
Overall; Mrs..McCarthy views the position of the family with great hope. "The family may not be in as . 
.desperate straits as we think." She stated that "families suffer from periods of great national stress," evidenced by the fact that the di­vorce rate hit its peak during World War II. She said that families are influenced by their times; arid, like the· times, tend to travel .in · cycles.' "We' are now ending orie cycle and beginning another, perhaps a more hopeful one."· · -John F, Hanley 
· Dame seek help with any interest in 
~arriage. or the family? "That's a 
good question," said''Dr. tiu. ''Pas~­
toral advisors are generally poor 
and none of them are given any 
training. ·The counseling services 
help, but I've been told they can 
offer no literature. What else? Let's 
see. No single course can provide an 
integrated education on marriage 
and the family." 
The student, according to Doctor 

Liu, must depend on his family for 
supportive information on this sub­
ject. Professor Liu already pointed 
out that any person· that holds to a 
norm in this changing world will 
suffer a stress and disadvantage that 
will place· an even greater burden 
on the family for support. As. we 
have seen, at least in the· Catholic 
family as a minority group, there 
are customs, · laws, and principles 
which. the family hopes the institu­
tions of society will provide. The 
Church, with .its theologians, law­
yers, sociologists, scientists, commis­
sions, committees, bishoprics,. and 
pastoral advisors, fails to provide 
this essential support. The radically 
adverse nature of a permissive so­
ciety will not only fail to provide 
support, will not only aggravate and 
prolong the chaos or frustration, but 
will, in effect, create an oppressive, 
morally objectionable, pathological 
social system. . . 
A number of students, teachers, 

priests.and administrators have said 
that' the_ concepts of marriage and 
the family are indispensable and 
that they are naturally transmitted 
through the, examples set by the 
family members. They say there is 
no need for a formal . education in 
such matters. After a thorough .in­
quiry in the various administrative 
and campus offices, it appears there 
is no information .on the topic of 
marriage; the ·student's convictions 
on marriage are con~idered so per~ 
sonal that only through ·injunction, 
prohibition and moral ·imperatives 
do social and theological .authorities 
hope to induce external strictures on 
this private matter. Theologians con­
sider marriage to .be a vocation. 
Sociologists· .consider marriage.to be 
an institution._ Psychology, accou·nt­
ing and the .practices of law and 
medicine are als~ vocations arjd ·in­
stitutions, with laws, systems,' struc­
tures and practices of their · own. 
(continued on. page '21) 

Marriage and Its. Cultural Variations 
Family can be found in one form or another in every known society and is often the frame of reference for the society's members. The basic function of the family is the nurture of the children, though this is not always performed by the biological parents. 
Kin groups are formed by a com­bination of the principles of-con­sanguinity (blood relation) and af­finity (marital relation). Depending on cultural norms, a_ person may owe allegiance. to his or her blood relatives, as is the case in Ghana, or to the spouse's · relations. In some cases; the man goes to live with the wife's relatives, while in others, such as the Chiricahua Apache society the wife must face her in-laws. Patrilocal residence (living near. or with the husband's family) is or­dinarily found in societies in which men work together in integrated labor forces; matrilocal residence, where women do. This allows for the working groups to remain as­sociated from the. time of birth. 

Blood relations ·are very strong. In Ghana, family demands are re­sponded to immediately whether they be assistance in building a house or the donation of another quart of gin for someone's wedding. Existence is ruled by reciprocity. Each person is obliged to contribute what he can. 
A unique occurrence is the female­father-she _accumulates wealth, but lacks heirs because she. is barren, so she marries a wife, an_d studs her, and is considered the father of· the_ children. 
As among Aztec freemen; sonie­times two or more clans trace their descent through a mutual ancestor (possibly fictitious), organizing the clans into what is termed a phratry. The Aztecs had twenty clans which were divided into ·four. phratries. Phratries and other such descent lines serve as . a · means .of defining group .affiliation. 

The .United States is among a small minority (5%) of known so­cieties whose .formal codes of be­havior prohibit any sexual involve­ment_. outside of_: marriage. Tradi­tional Eskimo culture offers the sexual favors of .the wife to a visitor as a means of expressing hos­pitality -,-and in the morning the wife will soften the leather of his frozen • boots" by I chewing on them. Among Eskimos: work is distributed evenly: the men hunt, fish, and per-
Matrimony and the Self·.· 
"You have_ to know yourself first, before you can consider marriage." One of the · first comments by · Mr. Dennis Byrne, Assistant Professor of Economics at Valparaiso College, the.statement reflects a main theme of an evening discussion of marriage with the Byrnes. Married two and one half years, the Byrnes' could answer both the "before" and "af­ter". questions of marriage. Mrs. Jean D. Byrne majored in sociology at St. Mary's College, then received her doctorate in sociology at Notre Dame. She· is presently a visiting Professor of Sociology at this Uni­versity. Mr. Byrne graduated from Villanova University, then acquired his doctorate in Economics at Notre Dame.' -They have· a son, Kevin, who · is five months old. · 
The first topic of discussion with the Byrnes' was dating: they them­seives met while_ graduate students at Notre Dame -on separate dates: · · Mr.. Byrne noted that there is a distinction between dating in and out of college. "\Yhile college is four of the best years of your life, it is. also somewhat of an ego trip. On a date you are attempting to create an impression, or impress, for -fiv_e or 

. six straight hours." The desire to impress still exists outside of col­lege, but the pressure is not as great. Mrs. Byrnes commented that the college environment was not as con­ducive to dating as that outside of college. Campus life often promotes the one boy, one girl, at one time syndrome, which is evident at Notre Dame. Mr. Byrne noted a result of this syndrome: "There are many . guys who have an image· of what their 'future wife' should be like, and compare every date with this . image.. And inevitably, the girl will do something which . doesn't cor­respond to the image, something as ._· absurd as opening .the door in the wrong way, with the wrong smile, and the guy breaks off the relation­ship." In the end result, the girl be­comes insecure .and. defensive; the 
guy. con~inues in the . naive·• belief that he hasn't met the "right" girl yet. Mrs.. Byrne recalled that in col­lege the BMOC_ (big man on campus) quality was _sought by many girls in dating. As one.matured in dating, she noted, the· physical appearance priority became much less impor­tant than the quality,_and character of the guy. 
In cliscussing what occurs when dating leads .· to· the possibility of marriage, Mr. Byrne mentioned cer-.. tain qualities he felt were necessary for an individual considering. mar­riage: "You have to know_ y_ourself first, before ycm can enter into mar­riage. . Marriage does not change you, shape; your personality into some conceptio_n of . the ,~ay you would like to_ be.". Thus th_e point was made that the way.you-are be­fore entering. into. marriage, your personality,· intere~ts, opinions, -_idio­syncracies, etc.', will not be changed by this ne'Y relationship. Further­more, you·. must recognize that all 
.Jcontin'lie_d_!)n page22) 
.. THE SCHOLASTIC 
. 

-~ 

Fifty·ve:ars ~qf Fr¢epom. 
form operations requiring strength, while the women prepare food and clothing, care for children -and chew boots. Eskimos are united al­most solely by the nuclear family except when hunting bands are. formed. Both man and woman must be capable in their duties or chances for survival are slight. Thus, spouses are chosen not for beauty, but rather for physical abilities. 
So marriage often serves as a con­necting link in a network of eco­nomically a11d socially valuable _ties. The tendency is to seek a marriage which is beneficial .or at least satis­factory for.both concerned. families; Because of this, courtship_ may often become.an extensive· and _quite, pub-lie display invoiving,many. relatives. of the courters. · · 
Many societies qu~lify the. court­

ing possibilities of their me~bers. "results in a· greater percentage-of This is_ called preferential m~ting. monogamous unions. Of known so­Kareiras, aborigines from western cieties which permit polygamy, the Australia, limi~_marriage bonds to Baganda ofUganda, Africa, practice cross-cousins; a father's-sister's progeny. Contrarily, Bedouins of northern Africa practice parallel_. cousin marriage in trying to keep loyalties within the.band of nomads the person belongs _to. 
Chiricahua Apaches follow a prac­tice known as Ievirate and sororate, ­the former being the obligation of "it brother to marry his brother's widow, and the latter, the obligation of . a sister .to marry her sister's widower: the Chiricahuas believe that marriage unites families per­manently. These. Apaches are .also required to marry someone who is in no way consanguineally related. 
Mo~ogamy. prevails as. the dolll­inant form of marriage. Even :where polygamy is ac;cepted, a lack of in­dividual economic resources and/or an equal ratio of males to females polygyny (more than one wife) be­cause males ·are used as religious sacrifices, and the Todas of southern India practice polyandry (more than one husband) due to female infanti­cide. 
Apparently, extended lineage sys­tems as. well as the individual mar­.riage grouping are. everywhere a set of cultural patterns with the 
. purpose of sanctioning . parenthood and providing a stable background for the care and rearing of children.· In other societies, children ·are _ini­tiated into , the. social structure at birth; in our society family groupings play a -relatively small role in . the enculturation of. the individual as nearly all soc~alizing efforts .have _been delineated to the social whole. This is true in terms of American· education, religion, politics, and basic behavior. Soon we may give up even toilet training to social control. 
-Don Pausback·. 

Dr. George . N. Shuster and his wife' Doris have long been a part of the Notre· Dame·· community: Hav-' ing graduated from Notre Dame and St. .Mary's College, respectively,·. within the decade that began; the First. World· War, they• met·beneath the. Golden Dome (he ·was her Eng­lish prof) and were married in June, fifty years. ago. .,, • · 
Their. experiences : together· have been many and diverse;· Through the years they have seen the writing of sixteen books and articles;· diplo­matic service in Germany; her vol­unteer work .. in ;the 1 League of· Women Voters/ the .· Girl Scouts; and the Mental Hygiene Society; his twenty-year-long presidency . of· Hunter College; ·and ,his· subsequent appointment to ,the posiUon of As­sistant to ·the• President._of :Notre Dame. Now--he'is• retired( ·retaining the· post ·of Trustee of .the Univer­
sity.: · · _· · · · · · ·Residing :in South'· Bend, in a simple home adorned•. with many· pieces of•memorabilia,: Dr.•·and Mrs .. 
DECEMBER 13, 1974 
Shuster shared some of their happi_. ness and secrets of their-marital sue­. cess wi!h the community in a recent 
interview. : , "To keep. a marriage such as ours, I 
The Shusters 

you have got to keep the· affection ~iive,"· asserted _Mrs. -Shuster, "but at ·the same time you. cannot force 
it. We-have been very fortunate in 
that we have managed to keep our 
mutual affection freely alive. Along 
with· the affection,' you need· trust, 
faith, confidence, and loyalty in your 
spouse. It is quite difficult to keep 
a marriage going if these qualities 
are lacking: .Our continuing com­
patibility was enabled because these· 
things have always · been present 
with us; not once has there ever. 
risen an . occasion.· where. T ever · 
doubted my husband in these re­
spects-.,•. 
·"Another thing that is active in 
maintaining our relationship _is our 
common interests," • Dr. ·• .. Shuster 
added.•''Whether it be business, gov~· 
ernment . service . or ·whatever, , a . 
happy marriage often has·both part.;. . tiers interested in a career, and finds a willingness in . the two to face dangers .together that ·niay · accoin,; pany'ttiat career.-One of the worst 
things that could· happen. to a mar-· 
ried couple:is when· one of them. is 
afraid ..:... afraip \Vithin ariy one of 
( continued on page 23') 


ND's _Author in Residence 
"The Mass is ended. Go in peace 
to love and serve the Lord." "Thanks be to God." The last benediction of the seven­
thirty Mass has been given. The light pouring through the small window on the left of the altar is brighter now than when the congregation of four and the gray-haired celebrant entered. 
The main quad is peaceful. The day is stretching and yawning as the young men and Father John O'Brien leave the Saint Thomas Aquinas Chapel on the fourth floor of the Ad­ministration Building. This ritual, shortly after dawn, sets the tone of the day. Its mood will influence all of the tasks that await their atten­tion. 
They go their separate ways, _the students to the North Dining Han· to breakfast, the 81-year-old priest to Corby Hall to meet with his fellow priests. Later they will at­tend to their respective duties in the classroom or in an office· on the sec­ond floor of the Administration Building. 
Room 204 of the Administration Building has been the home of Notre Dame's ·"Author in Residence,"_ Father John A. O'Brien, for many years. Within the small confines of the office and adjoining living quar­ters is the accumulation of a man's lifetime. Ensconced in a large chair, especially designed to slip under. the top of his 50-year-old desk, both self­built, Father John is surrounded by his history, his life and his works. 

The desk is cluttered, situated near a window .which provides a view of Sacred Heart Church, Sorin Hall and the main quad. It is equipped_ with two high-intensity lamps, the kind artists use. Father O'Brien explains that his eyesight is a bit poor. now, a. manifestation of ... his age. Working to eleven at night, light is ·an essential tool for this man 
who has shared, for over fifty years, his illuminating philosophies with in­ternational readers. He is the author of 25 books and editor of 12 others and has written countless articles and monographs. 
"I'm almost always working on something," said Father O'Brien. He has just completed two books. One, published by the Paulist Press, is an expansion of a monograph he wrote on the Spanish Inquisition 25 years ago. The book, simply titled, The Inqufaition, is, according to O'Brien, a "fair representation of a period that has been greatly misunder­stood." Also available at this time is. O'Brien's Treasury of Great Thoughts. This is a collection of random thoughts Father O'Brien has encountered in his readings ·and re­search. Happening upon a valuable quote, Father O'Brien will open a Notre Dame Bookstore spiral note­book kept expressly for this purpose and transcribe the words in a script which speaks of careful practice un­der the tutelage of a tartar of _a nun. 
All of his •works are collected on the third shelf of a large bookshelf built into the wall on one side of the writer's .sanctuary.. His personal files, kept rather haphazardly in steel gray office filing cabinets, line the opposite wall. In the course of discussions with the many friends and students who drop in intermit­tently throughout the day, Father O'Brien will pop spryly in and out of his chair-throne to look up a per­tinent -fact or point to one o_f the many icons; pictures or other objects of memorabilia that are scattered everywhere. This contact with stu­dents is an essential· one to Father O'Brien, a writer ·who finds the stimulus of other people vital to his work. 
·. When he first came to Notre Dame 

in 1939, at the invitation of Father 
O'Hara, president of the University; it ·was· to teach and train a "lay apostolate." He instituted courses in Christian Apologetics, as he had at the University of Illinois, and lec­tured nationally.. 
Soon the publishers' demands be­came great and •Father O'Brien found it necessary to involve him­self more in the apostolate ·of writ­ing than in the1 teaching apostolate: The choice was not· an easy one. He explains that he felt a greater duty to the several -million people who could be reached through his writ­ings than a small group of students. One thing that helped him make his choice was a sign he saw in Chicago. When passing a bookstore, Krach and Brentano's, he saw the sign, "Verba_orata volant ... verba scripta manant.'~ (Spoken word flies, writ­ten word remains.) · 
"In the long run," reflects Father O'Brien, "I knew that's where my chief contribution would be; writing books that are readable, up to date and challenging. 
"Writing is more precious than a heralding life...·. To remove dark­ness in the minds of rrien . ; .'' he trailed off, as· if thinking aloud. 
"I believe I've met many people through my writing. Here is the right atmosphere to do it..•.. In this way three or four hours of writ­ing might reach three or four million readers.'' 
Father O'Brien paused to look out his window, his veined hands folded calmly under his chin. The former professor continued,· now speaking of how important he feels it is fu keep in tune with students. '!It keeps my .feet on the ground. '.-fhe under-. standabi!ity of writing necessitates having to keep in touch." 
Talking with students who know Father O'Brien lends· an interesting insight into the man. Some· have come to know him through .at­tendance at the Mass he says daily 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


re¢1>~1,,t..t!tiD •·• ·.·.•··••·
1.:..,-:..-..;'.¼_,,,.. ' ~--Jc»·,._.,~::-~·.. -.:·'. -·... · ;·:> ·_ ·--~~d · ..·-,;'·.--~-·. -·.u~--....,.,,.~ _.-;'.<'~----"'"" __--~---..... ~ 

i, in the Administration Building. Others have met him while ducking in out of the rain in Sacred Heart Church, walking down the corridor in the Dome or through fathers who were once •his students. All· are amazed, charmed and seem rather honored that he takes the time to take a· personal interest in their lives. "He is very concerned with the status of coeducation and the whole social scene around here," one stu­
dent commented. "His big thing seems to be getting people, especially . young people, together for purposes 
of companionship." 
Father O'Brien is largely con­

cerned with the loneliness of many · 
of the young people he knows and 
even those he does not know. Con­
versations with him suggest that this 
is, perhaps, an area of life that the 
Church has neglected. 
Father O'Brien is dedicated to 

alleviating this anxious situation at 

The . mention ·of a trip to Cali­fornia could. bring. back a few bad memories for most members of the Notre Dame community, but for Dr. Robert Caponigri the prospect· of a trip west offers the promise of a successful experience. . For Dr. Caponigri, ·a professor of philosophy at Notre Dame, has been appointed a Visiting Fellow at the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions in Santa Barbara, California. The officials of the. institution announced the appointment last month and in­dicated that Dr. Caponigri will be spending the months of January and February in residence at the Center. There Dr. Caponigri will take part in colloquia.on problems of political theory .and ethical principles with participants attracted from major universities throughout the United States. A distinguished member of the Notre Dame faculty sirice 1946, Dr. Caponigri is currently on leave as a. Rockefeller Fellow• and is de­voting his time to work on his new, book. The book centers on· a study of the • principles . of a philosophy 
DECEMBER 13, 1974 
of western culture. In California, he 
will continue his research on the 
concept of ethical liberalism. · 
Social events sponsored by the 

Student Union, through the Socia} Commission, will be headed by the commission's new chairman, Norb Schickel. Appointed by direcfor Pat Burke, with less than one month to· go in the· current semester, Norb has begun to reorganize the commis­sion in preparation for the spring semester. Norb, a senior economic major, was tapped by Burke from Sorin Hall where he currently serves as the hall's vke president. At Sorin, Norb is an active member in the .initiation and organization of the many social events sponsored by the hall. His resourcefulness and ability to meet .the challenge of providing creative entertaining events were demonstrated. by the successful square dances sponsored by his hall. Norb's major concern is currently with the reorganization of the social commission and the planning of fu­. ture events. He hopes that . next 
Notre Dame, one which is very pain­ful for him to observe. He has built up quite a reputation as an "intro­ducer." He encourages all of those he meets to say hello to five new people every day. His theory, of course, is that eventually everyone will be smiling and communicative. 
But he is more than just a letter of introduction to the students he knows. He is counsellor, a friend, a teacher and even a confidant. 
-An·n McCarry 

Iri a meeting held prior. to the Thanksgiving break the Freshman Advisory Council held elections and announced the appointment of Jim Russell as president. The Freshman Advisory Council is the creation of the Dean of Freshman Year, Dr. Emil T. Hofman, and consists· of a freshman representative from each of the twenty halls. The primary function of the Council is to provide a·. communication link betwe~n the freshman student body and the Freshman Year Office. Jim, a Holy Cross resident, was chosen by the hall's president in early October. Jim looks on the. Council's respon­. sibilities and function as extremely flexible, providing an excellent op­portunity to reflect a true represen­tation of the current attitudes and opinions of the freshman class. ' 
-Tom Birsic 

"Fellovvs" 

here for Dr. Bain and the · two are· now working together as director and playwright in the interesting situation of a first performance of a ·new play. Along with the two actors, Dan Daily and Bill McGlinn, • they worked on the play for over four weeks, continually finding ·new di­mensions and aspects of ·· the play: The actors, it must 'be noted, have had to work ·very hard, with over hyo hours of intricate blocking and difficult lines to memorize· and in­terpret. Each of.the fouringredients of ''Fellows," playwright,• director, and the 'two actors, have added some­thing uniquely .· of themselves, and they are all eager to get some re­sponse to :the result. 
. They are now inviting the ND­SMC. community to· join them· and "take some. delight in . something new" as Dr. Bain puts it.. :New and perhaps unique, for Dr. Bain says that he knows of no other theatre in the country which uses undergrad­uate work for major productions. Yet, the fact that this is the second such production ·they're • doing · · in three years indicates that. it's· being done· here, that ·it's working here, and that it's being encouraged here. Says Dr. · Bain, "If· we· didn't do things like this· we would -feel that we were failing the students some­how." .. The department , certainly seems to· have helped and encour~ aged,. not failed, Chris Ceraso. 
__;_;_Michael D. :Feord 
THE SCHOLASTIC · 

-1 
l 
.1 
J 
The last time the ND-SMC audi­ence saw Chris Ceraso, it was in his highly moving and dramatic per­

. formance of the title role of Shakes­peare's "Richard III." This semester we have another chance to see him, but from an entirely different view­point. He has come back to us as a playwright, not an actor, and in a comedy, not a history..We have• a chance to· see another side of him in his own play, "Fellows," being pre­sented· by the ND-SMC· Theatre at Washington Hall on December 6, 7, 12, 13, and 14. 
You've heard· of tongue in cheek humor; well, "Fellows" is Tongue in Cheek humor. It's a fugue of self-justification and self~deception of two characters -Mssrs. Tongue and Cheek. For two hours Tongue and Cheek perform verbal .and physical · acrobatics in a comedy which is at times slapstick, at.times quite · sophisticated. It was written by Chris last year, while he was a senior here majoring in Drama.:: 

"One of the best students ever to come out of the department" accord­ing to Speech and Drama chairman Reginald Bain, Chris worked on sev­eral other ND-SMC productions be­side "Richard III," and during this last summer worked with the ND­SMC Summer Company. Among many roles he played with the com­pany, he 'played Thomas More in "A Man for All Seasons," and taught a workshop in mime and acting for high school students. Chris is now at Florida State University working on an MFA in playwriting. While.he is up at Notre Dame, he is getting credit for working on "Fellows" which will go towards his master's program. 
"The most interesting thing about doing this is watching the play shift from written words to a theatrical performance." The play was written for an independent study under Dr. Bain, and when it was compiete he asked Chris to let him use it for pro­duction. Chris did most .of his work 
..... 
...,_\.-· >· 
-->~;_-:. ,_ .:· 
. .. -. 
: • ·.-··:_: , _I '.
l~:·..·•·•·..··;:.• -.. 
',, , : .._·_:.-. -·.. :._ ~ >/i~--:-... 
____ . -•. -.-__ ·,·___ -.:.
--... ' ' "--·
' 

Author and Director Confer. on the Play 16 

Wee·k.. ln :: 


Every yuletide Scholastic decides it would.be a nice gesture to present l_ittle tokens of appreciation to those to whom we never have enough time to show our true feelings. But every year we: have great difficulty in choosing who should be ·the lucky one to pick the presents in the name of the· staff..This year I lost. 0 joy­ous burden! 0 happy_fault! 
So' here they are! Merry Christ­mas! with_, love, . · 
Scholastic 

To Fr. Hesburgh: A campus map and a tour.. 
To Fr. Burtchaell: · Lessons · iri charm from toe~tapping instructress Fran DeMarco. '' 
To Observer e~itor Tom Drape: A smile, a staff position on Scholastic and a life~time: subscription to the Course Evaluation Booklet. 
To Security Director Arthur Pears: A magnifying glass, a badge, and a pair of handcuffs. 
To Instructress Fran.DeMarco: A rhinestone-studded bullhorn. 
To Bill· McLean: A rest. 
To Student Body President Pat McLaughlin: (who?). 
To Food Service Director Edmund Price: Crayons to color his roast soybean au jus. 
, To Fr. Bill "Silver Fox" Toohey: An· appoin.tment as chaplain to the Teamsters Union. , To James A. Gresser, Sclwlastic Editor: A, pen filled with invisible ink. 
.To the members of Grace Hall: A new hall in the shape of a birthday cake so they can save money_five years from now. 
To Scholastic Sports Editor Bill Delaney: A baseball cap and a whistle. 
To Scholastic Magazine: (what's that?). 
!Ct»ffiifig-:'Dii~{trctcti·J~-~ .-:,: ·,:·~~ 
To Fr. Robert "Darby-and-I-never­said-we-didn't-love-you" Griffin: A returned letter from a lonely god, marked "Moved, left no address." 
To the Cheerleading Squad: Cheer­leaders. To Mike Melody and Matt Kubik: Diplomas. ·· 
To Fr. Terry Lally: A lifetime membership in the Office of Student Affairs and tenure at the Senior Bar. 
To J. Edgar Macheca: A large chicken. To the library: A low-flying B-52. TO Jim Ward, Chris Grace, and The Science Quarterly: Readers. 
To Bro. Just "Oh, that wicked little man" Paczesny: A warm puppy. 
To the_ Juggler: Taste. To the Student Body: Absolutely nothing; and a biU for it. They're used to it. 
-Leo J. Mulcahey 

-. ·--~--~.__--...·-,:.·;1 
.L.... ,,-:r~·;,_; ,. ~·a·.~-~:> · ,~;;(_0~i;-: .. --~-, -«-? ~'-~L~--•¼I ·.:....~·; .. ·:,.•;/~...-:.<< .:....h,:::~--,,.,,~:¼:· :,....__:,_,' _,-:,:, ~ .... :::& J····· ,·--. -~·----_;_....;._.,·;·_ :,:--·1:;~j 
·, : FAU SEMESTER 1974-75 FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE 
Monday Tuesday -Wednesday Thursday Friday December 16 December 17 December 18 . December 19 December 20 
II MWF  3 MWF  ACCT 261  9 MWF  9 TTII  
II M  3 MW5  ENGL 109  9 MWII  9 TU  
8:00 A.M..  II W II F  3M 3W  FIN 231 rs 1so  9M 9W  9 TH  
to  3 r  ·  HUM 185  .9 r  
SEM 181  ARCH 144  
10:00 A.M.  SMC  . BIOL 103, 201  
· soc 153  
CHEM 155 ·  

10 TTl2  3 TT5  JO MWF  1 MWF  8 TTIO  
10 TU  3 TU  . 10 MW12  1 MW3  8 TU  
10:30 A.M.  10TH  3 TH  10 M  IM  8 TH  
10 w- IW  
lo  EE 362L  10 r  IF  
12:30 P.M.  SMC  "ART 151  
HIST IOI, 103 '12 TT  

CHEM 115  MATH All I00's  HIST 109, Ill. 113,  PHIL 101  MARK 471  
2:00. P.M.  EASC IOI. I11, 121. . 141. 159  MATH 225 MARK 472  ·115 ECON IOI, 121  THEO 111. 112. 114, 115,116,117,  MGT 373 MLFR II I, 121  
lo  PHYS Ill BIOL 101  FIN 362  ANTH 109 soc lll  118,119,120, 121.  MLGR Ill MLRU Ill  
. 4:00 P.M.  UNSC 100, 1 IIABC  PHYS 221. 125, 141  PHYS 201. 210, 221  MLJA  Ill  
EG 334  EG 120, 126  FIN 361  Ml.SP 111, 121  
FRESHMAN  MGT 461  FIN 372  Ml.SP Ill. 121 ·  
MARK 371  
DEPARTMENTALS  SMC  SMC  SMC  SMC  SMC  
BIO 103 PHYS 101  MATH IOI. 102 HUM 463 .  GO_VT 152  RLST 111, 211, 331  MLIT IOI Ml.SP IOI, Ill  
4:30 P.M.  2 MWF  I TT3.  8 MWF  2 TT4  · II TT!  
.to  2 MW4 2 M -;  I TU I TH  8 MWI0 SM  2 TU 2 TH  II TU ll TH  
2W  SW  
·6:30 P.M.  2 r  s r·.  SMC  
ENGL 307  

4 TT6  ECON 223  4 MWF EE 222  7 MWF EG 321  7 TU  BA 234  12 MWF  ACCT 221  
·'7:30 P.M.  4TU  ·EG328  4 M  MGT 231  7 W  FIN 370  7 TH  EG 226  12 M  EE 232L'• ·  
4 TH  CHEM223  4 W  GOVT340  7 F  MARK231  FIN 371  12 W  EE 240L  
to  · BA 340  4 F.  · MGT 463  7 M  MARK374  MET 225­ 12 F  EE 451L  
' .'  9:30 P.M. ,  SMC  MGT 475 PSY Ill ·  SMC soc 203  SMC  SMC  CHEM !ISL  12 TU  FIN. 360  
·. BUEC 201  BUEC 307  BUEC 251, 252  BUEC 313  
RLS ISi  MLFR Ill'  , HIST 459  ENGL 102, 103. 253 ·  

DECEMBER_13, 197 4 
r-. 
Letters 
Dear Editor: 
. Sometimes a football coach will 
learn it is better to win a game than 
to try to make the game interesting. 
Why would any coach kick di­
rectly to A. Davis to start a second 
half when momentum means so 
much? Yeah, that kick probably cost 
several of your seniors hundreds of 
thousands of dollars in pro contracts. 
You can only blame one person and 
th_at is you, Ara. 
You have known that McKay has 
said Notre Dame is never ;going to 
win another football game against 
Southern Cal as long as he is coach. 
He stated before he leaves S.C., the 
games won by Notre Dame will be 
even. Truthfully he doesn't think 
Ara can beat him on any field. 
The American· people want college 
football played to the best· of each 
team's ability at all times. They 
don't want pro football tactics to 
entertain the public by close scores, 
and dropped passes. 
Maybe this game in Los Angeles 
will wake Ara up as to an exciting 
game. The last half was not exciting 
to the public and especially the 
Orange Bowl Committee. 
They may even have trouble sell­
ing the tickets. I for one have no de­
sire to go now, nor do I even care if 
I watch the game on TV. 
· Sincerely, 
T. Manasit 
Dear -Editor, 
History seems to show a confused 
swing of the pendulum from one set 
of extremes to another. For example, 
in this matter of achievement and 
success, the stiff traditions and moral 
codes of the past have been dis­
integrating in favor of a more per­
missive view of things· where we 

tend to do our own thing. This has . 
resulted in a campus environment of 
distrust and resentment where each 
person's "thing" constitutes a threat 
to others. Thus the rise_ within 
administrations of affirmative action 
policies and the parallel rise among 
student groups of decentralized 
chaos in organizational affairs. 
We are beginning to discover that 
· 18 the letter kills (rules, d~mands, sep­aration by language, race and sex, etc.) but the spirit gives life. 
Spirit, however you want to define it, begins to emerge when we see that· neither the traditions of the past nor the independence of the present helps solve our problems. The very attitude of ·seeking one's own fulfillment' at the expense of the whole is the thing which needs to be challenged. This self-seeking, self-centered approach to life must be changed if the pendulum is to be stopped and a true direction found. The need of the hour is for those who may be willing to look beyond their own petty personal· fulfillment or salvation to the fulfillment of Life's purposes -and this includes much more than the human race! 
I would be delighted to hear from 
any of your readers on this matter. 
I am a professor at a university in 
Indiana. 
Sincerely, 
W. Lee Martin 
Dear Editor: 
The article on the buildings of the 
south quad was the brightest spot 
in an otherwise_ bland issue. I ap­
preciated the discussion, never· hav­
ing heard of O'Donnel and Fagan. 
_Two things you did not discuss that fit your thesis nicely, perhaps because you never noticed them be­. fore, are the athletic figures at the 
bottom of the arches on the east arid 
west doors of the South Dining Hall. 
They would seem to suggest·that the 
architects not only had piety and a 
feel for the Catholic tradition, but 
also a sense of humor and perhaps 
a questioning attitude toward the 

•jockstrappism that must have been pervasive even then. 
On the west door, at the ·bottom 
of the arch, are two baseball players . 
-with grot_esque faces, turned up , 
toes on their baseball shoes like 
clowns, and an overall cartooned 
look. The one on the left is a pitcher, . 
and he is throwing the bali across 
the doorway to the player on the 
right. -. 
The east door also has athletes on 
the-arches ~ little -sculpted foot­
ball players. _ 
Anyway, I reco"inmend them to 
you if you ·haven't already -noticed 
them. 
Name· withheld upon request. 

Environment · 
-(continued fro,;,_ page 7J 
municating the ideas and experiences 
resulting from their 'life together. 
Knowing that the primary prepa­ration for marriage takes place in the home, the University could play a part in enriching this process by educating parents on how their hap­piness as a couple influences their children's whole philosophy on mar­riage. Father Payne suggests that under the auspices of Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Education, a program could perhaps be estab­lished to educate parents on the im­portance of their roles, possibly uti­lizing its radio or television station or even classroom situations. 
As chaplain for -the married stu­dents of Notre Dame, Father Payne f Pels that the couples he has had con­tact with anr more mature than their parents were. This is due to several -factors, _ one being that younger people of today_ are not as willing to immediately accept gener­alizations and stereotypes· in_ their marriage.· Newly married couples are more· apt to take things into critical consideration and often de­. cide on compromises or even -alter­
nate solutions to al)y problems. 
Another factor leading to the 
couples' increased maturity is their 
indep~ndence, which is -often forced 
Attitudes 
(continued from, page 9) 

tion to preparation for marriage. "The couple must be friends and partners in a truly caring relation­ship. Notre Dame offers, students a chance to · appreciate such a rela­tionship. Although every college · ca·mpus is somewhat of an artificial atmosphere, Notre Dame seems to be 
. one which is especially intolerant of phoniness. Students learn to . criti­cize one another, --accept criticism, · and respect one another in an atmo­sphere of -friendship. Of course' stu-· ·­dent_s will disagree at times, but part of learning howto make a good mar­riage is learning how to disagree and to keep things. in:_perspective. 
. So much of marriage is real human relations. Those expecting a charmed 
-'l'HE SCHOLASTIC 

upon them by circumstances. With no family close enough to fall back on except in emergencies, they learn to fend for themselves. They have found that it is not easy to be mar­ried when one partner is. a student.. Studies sometimes cause a strain on the relationship when one of them is forced to spend great amounts of time with homework.. With one member's life revolving around study often, the other -usually the wife -must take on a job to ease the financial situation . as well as care· for the children. 
How the couples react to those problems is the key to the situation, however. ·Their troubles may bring: them closer together or tear them apart. 
In short, marriage is a complex and long-term proposition. Risks are involved and iLtakes much loving and giving by both partners to suc­ceed. It cannot be enteredinto light­ly and it should not be entered into with .the wrong expectations. The more preparation received before­hand the better, and with the need so common in the people it serves, surely Notre Dame should have a part in that preparation. 
-Chris Meehan 

existence will be disappointed and find it hard to accept everyday living. Too· many people are hung up on role playing, in striving to be the 'perfect wife' or the 'perfect hus­band!'" 
Perhaps it is time then to seriously reevaluate our thoughts on marriage. while still in an environment con~ ducive to dialogue. Although the actual. occurrence may be far·in the future, its consideration, if only theo­retical, should not be. Attitudes need to be questioned and alternatives ex­plored. A "nonthreatening situation" must be created. 
-Larry Stanton, 
Kathy McElroy, 
John Kenward 

Discussion 
( continued from page 9) 
Sally: I think this indicates that we have to be more creative. We can't fit into the models as they are now, but we can create a whole new area. 
Colleen: This would be good for the man because he would have to spend a little more time with the family than most men do. · 
Theresa:· Do you think they'd be happy? 
Colleen: I think they'd be happy. The thing is maybe so many men wouldn't die at forty-five or have ulcers with this sharing of the stress. 
Theresa: I was talking to this guy who works in a nursing home and he told me about this old guy who came up to him :and said, "I'm not a man anymore because I can't do any­thing." But right next to him were all these little old ladies · weaving baskets and · knitting and they're very happy. Maybe it's because their lives weren't defined in terms of work. They aren't women just be­cause they work. 
Sue:· For so many men retirement is the end because they aren't pro­ductive anymore. ' 
Pat: If you were, say, a doctor, would you mind having your hus­band be a part-time painter or some­thing like that? 
Theresa: I'm afraid I would. I'm sorry to say that, I wish I could feel so open as to say no, but I don't want the man "below" me. I want him to be equal to me-I don't think lcould be satisfied otherwise. Let me ask you, do you want to spend your life with a woman you know·is in­ferior? 
• Pat: No, you want someone more or less equal, as equal as possible. I would have no problem with a woman who was a doctor because I have no aspirations for that profes-· sional status. That would put me below her? 
Colleen: That's something ahead that has to be overcome, seeing a doctor as a status profession, really when you look at it most people are pretty much equal. Maybe some guy had a good education but possibly personality-wise he's less than out­standing. You have to look at those aspects too, I think. · 
Theresa: I think in each person you will make certain compensations although these compensations can only go so far. For instance, if you're used to very intelligent men you can't make that kind of a compensa­tion. You cannot live with a person in whom you find no compensation for what he lacks. 
Sue: I don't think a person has to be professionally oriented as much as into what he is doing. 
Larry: What sort of an effect has Notre· Dame· had on you as far as preparation for marriage? 
Paul: For me it's had a bad effect. I've had a tendency to withdraw from things~ study or go over to the radio station. I don't think I've de­veloped socially. 
Pat: It seems like kind of a strange social atmosphere. 
Theresa: For a long time I never felt comfortable. Always being scru­tinized -and there's nothing more horrible than somebody staring at you and not being friendly enough to say "hi," · or at· least honest enough to honestly stare. It's kind of like a "Peeping Tom.'' It almost drove me crazy sometimes. But it's so much better now-but for the guys I don't know if it's any dif­ferent. This sounds so· patronizing, but I worry about some of the guys around here who are lonely, haven't met any girls and aren't going out, and are too shy to put themselves out. I just wonder what they're go­ing to do when they get out. 
Pat: People seem to go to ex­tremes here in their relations. It's either nothing or everything. Like Paul said either you see too mu.ch of a girl or not enough of her. 
Sue: It bothers me the .way that people constantly publicize the bad social life around here-it isn't that bad, it's getting better. Why keep reminding people that it's bad? 
Theresa: I live in an apartment complex-in the summer and talk to some single guys. They're about twenty-nine or thirty. They're al­ways complaining, '.'I can't find any women, all the single: girls are just 
DECEMBER 13, 1974 
hussies at the bars." And then I realize how bad people think it is at Notre Dame. These older guys have it even worse. 
Colleen: What's it going to be like when you get out and start work­ing? Think of that. 
Larry: Don't be so encouraging! 
Pat: One positive thing about school is that if you are talking about .compatibility and careers, where else are you going to find someone more easily than in school where you've got classes and activi­ties? You have the chance to meet someone here, know them for a num­ber of years and decide to go off and eventually get married. But how often does that happen? 
Larry: Working on this issue, in­terviewing various people, we began to wonder if there was something specific, any. concrete suggestions, solutions to the problem, a new structure for guys and girls to relate within. Do you have any? 
Sue: I was out having breakfast with this guy who works on the Dome and I made some comment and he said, "You're always talking about children." I said, "What do you mean?" "You really want to be a mother." "Yes I want to be a mother, but does it bother you that once in a while I will do something in a 'motherly' fashion?" I know I can't restrain myself from this and the feeling I have is that maybe it's because guys don't talk openly in front of members of the opposite sex about such things. I feel that I shouldn't be holding myself back be­cause of that. 
. Pat: Really, don't hold yourself back because some guy said you talk too much about kids..-. ­
Sue: Do you feel that guys are threatened .by talk of marriage? · 
Paul: It's a personal thing. I know I never was.• I figured if the right girl came along we'd get married. I never thought about it one way or the other. That's just me.. 
. Sue: Do you think that's typical? 
Paul: Probably-not. 
Sally: I'm interested; when the 
time comes, when the right guy comes along-how does one know that?· 
Theresa: You stick with. it, you 
just put yourself in the position 
where you're going to stick with this 
guy and you do. 
Pat: Why•didyou stick with it? 
20 
Theresa: Crazy. I fell in love, that's the only way. You can't'pick out the way, you just sort of boom, fall in love, and then this person means enough to you that you fall out of this "in love" and really love. Then you love him for his faults just as much as for his strengths. It's a process you have to go through. 
* * * 
Larry: Why don't we switch to the family. What about children? How many? When? or have you really given it any thought? 
Colleen: Don't you feel like the population should. keep people from having a lot of children? 
Sue: I don't feel that way at all especially now that zero population growth has been achieved; I have no qualms. 
Colleen: I don't feel that way at all. I couldn't consider any more than two maybe three children. Even if you can afford it, even.if you can afford to have twelve or thirteen children, I don't think it's fair to re­place more than just yourself and your husband. 
Larry: Don't you _think there is something to be offered by a big family? 
Colleen: I think that those fami­lies are very happy. They tend · to share more than small families; there is more giving of themselves, but I would never have more than. two or three and maybe adopt one.· 
Theresa: I don't think we can de­pend on the large family anymore for the social development of chil­dren..We've got to create CO!J1muni­ties where _children will be exposed to other children as they are in the big family:-the relationships to older children and younger ones. The large family just isn't viable any­more. I would love to have one, but I'm afraid it isn't right anymore. 
Pat: Isn't if OK if you can afford to have a lot of children to go ahead· and have them?. • -· 
Colleen: Well, I look at the United States with 210 million people and I think that there are enough. Who wants any more, even if-we can sup­port them supposedly with all the vacant land out west. Why?Lthink we have enough people and can be happy with a small number of chil­dren.; ..·. 
•Theresa: No 'matter how many children one. has there is a need for the men to take a greater partin the raising of the ·children. Women need 

a part in raising their children and 
so do men. 
Pat: Do you think it would be 

worth having less money to have a 
husband who was able to get in­
volved with the children? · 
Theresa: Yes, I definitely want my 

husband to have a part in raising the · 
children and be willing to sacrifice 
for it.. Children need a father. 
Pat: But doesn't the woman in 

many cases become the drive behind 
the man? The woman· lives her life 
vicariously through the man's suc­
cesses? Isn't it that she is in many 
cases the cause for the husband's 
lack in child raising? 
Sue: There is a problem for a 

woman in this area if she has a career, because she has to be a good mother and also try to ·pursue her own interests. The -father in most cases doesn't have this conflict. What is necessary(,is for the couple to share that parenthood. The wife is oftentimes forced into living this Dr. and Mrs. complex existence, be­. cause of the lack of anything in her 
own life. ··. 
• Larry: Isn't there -a problem in the traditional marriage set-up with persona, freedom that this sort of a setup might help or at least suggest possible changes? 
Colleen: _Instead of.· the typical 

marriage of our parents, something 
where the man goes off to work and 
when the children are older ·the 
woman can go out and write news­
.paper articles or paint, just get into 
a career of some sort seems possible. 
There has to be. a certain independ­
ence. There are certain things that 
not everyone can do together, some­
times you have to be alone, you have 
to do your own type of thing. If you 

can get that-worked out with some­
one who's like a best friend. to you, 
you've got it. 
Paul: That's important, that's· 

very important. If I'm not a friend 
to somebody, how can I .really love. 
them? I think a lot of people skip 
that stage and go on. What do you 

have besides sex without friendship? 
Colleen: Beyond sex, it has to be. 
someone you have fun with, who you 

really enjoy talking to.'. ·. 
Sue: There is.something about go­ing home and knowing there will· be someone who's really going to listen. I think: that;s the way a marriage has to be. 
· THE SCHOLASTIC 

-Larry: This will be the last area we'll hit, but what about educating your children? Catholic schools? Public schools? Have you become so cynical and negative about Catholic schools and the whole :educational system-that you couldn't send your kids to them? '·, 
Pat: That's a loaded question. 

Theresa: I think the whole reli­gion question for the parents is a very important one. One big prob­lem· in a marriage is resolving reli­gious differences. · 
Paul: Are you asking if I'd send my son to · Notre Darpe -or my daughter? I'm really not able to answer that. If they wanted to go I wouldn't stop them, · right now I couldn't say. Maybe over the years the golden glow will come back. 
Sally: · How important do you think education is for children, where they are educated and how? And how much control do you want to have over that? 
Colleen: I'm ncit Catholic and went to public ·schools:·· It was really fun going to school with · boys. They're different in certain ways, sometimes they think differently and I' really liked that a lot. · · 
Theresa: And they laugh differ­ently. You get sick of the tee-hee-hee all the time. · 
Sue: I really admire my parents and the way they handled education. A~ for college they let everyone go wherever we wanted and I guess it worked. But I think that _parental input is so· important. in. elementary education.._. . . .. .· _· 
Pat: Something I'm facing-I'm 

not into cities, so if I want_ to settle ·down in the mountains in Colorado in a small country towri or in a cabin with people miles apart, what hap­pens to my kids? It's great for me and: my wife,, but the kids would be growing up in a culture that would be. ~ore wilderness than society. 
Now will that affect them? 
Theresa: I think you. ought to 

have·_ a lot of kids-:--:-look at the Wal­
tons. ·_. _ ._ •. _ 
(General laughter) 
Sally: I always .wonderedwhat it 

was like in the communes in the 60's. 
You see all those kids, but they have 
no touch with society. 
Sue: •-The· people -I. know from 

small towns and farms don't seem 
demented or anything. H's not so 
much the culture as just having kids 
DECEMBER 13,:1974 
around to go out and play with. In 
my neighborhood we didn't have 
that and I really missed it. 
Sally: What about values? Do you think that comes out of the educa-­tional system or the parents? Would you enforce your values?· · · 
Paul: I think you live your values -arid your kids wiil catch on'. I would hope so anyway. 
Theresa: The kid's got to lead his or her own life. I have found that most girls I know who ran away or · got into trouble were the ones whose parents were the strictest and niost enforcing of their values. · 
Colleen: I agree withTheresa. Just knowing the kids I kriew in school, the kids whose parents were a little more liberal, let them have the car, allowed them out till midnight-they 
Guidance 
( continued-from page '11) 
Your business occupation' \ViUseldom last. for a period greater than twenty-five years, while, you may maintain your marriage for over fifty years. Yet, for yourbusiness you will be required. to obtain _. af least sixteen years of formal· educa­tion,. while . the .· time . spent in formal education on either-'sex, mar­riage, family or love will be seven months -for no more than fifteen percent of any given class· ofgrad­uating students -here· at Notre Dame. 
It is further argued that the edu­cation provided. by the example set by each family is far too simple, ob­vious and thorough to· waste much time on it in .the classroom. They· claim that the need• for anything inore than an academic· aloofness or casualness is not evident here, -It need only to be asked -whether mar­riage and the family are any less complex or more subtle than, ·say, two of. the components that play an integral part in both -concepts ­those components being psychology and accounting.' Where, in the cases of over one million Catholic divorces and separations every year, did those individuals obtain and sustain an adequate education on marriage and the family? -,· 
-More than fifteen years ago, Fr. 
Hesburgh started a ,lecture series 
called the Marriage Institute. Held 
during the Lenten season, six lec­
tures were provided for all inter-were the mies who turned out fine. 
Sue: When your children ask, "What should I do with my life?" or "Is there a God?" or even questions beyond these things you live your answers and allow your children to live their way. You can't demand it although there is a certain point in adolescence where a kid is going to rebel. A child at one point is quite probably going to reject all your values and might never come back to them. Or he might try others for a while and eventually _return .to yours. 
Pat: I don't think you can instruct people on values, but only , show them by example. If they can follo\V your good example that's the best 
way to do it.·_ · , · . ~Lar~y Stanton 
ested students. Without fail each presentation -was welcomed in a large hall with an overflowing at­tendance. Father Louis Putz suc­ceeded Fr. Hesburgh in this series. He continued to draw ove.rwhelming crowds and gained comparable in­terest in his heading the . Pre-Cana or.ganization here on campus and in South Bend. Father' Putz provides the foliowing views on marriage and family within the Notre Dame com­munity. 
"A student needs an education on marriage and the family now more than ever; The family ·has become more crucial than. ever. There was a ·time · when customs and morals were taught by the family. Family unity and cohesion provided the con­cept of community. The students were able to come together to share their lives with others. The family provided motives and principles. Now mobility breaks · these apart. Roles change a way from the family into psychological isolation.-· Business draws the father away from hoine. And now the mother, too. Children can go their own way, and parents can go on their own, too. They couldn't do that before. So what does this leave? More people are more dependent on only a few avail­able people. -Students need -much more education on marriage and the family."· 
What type of education should this 
21 

I 
i 
be? "There should be a wide variety of courses. There are so many as­pects to marriage. There is the medi­cal aspect. You know. about the complexity of human sexuality. And there's the matter of pregnancy and child care. There's also the concern for the everyday health and welfare of your husband and wife. Keeping each other happy is a big thing. Car­ing for your elders is also very im­portant. Then there is _the economic factor. Married, or even engaged couples should be taught how to manage the family income or in­comes. An education on the psycho­logical elements of marriage is very important. The Church hasn't done much on this yet. It's a new idea that has one of the biggest roles in marriage. The religious value of marriage is another angle of mar­riage. The Church has hardly de­veloped any theology of marriage." 
This seems unusual. What is the sacrament of marriage based on? Isn't marriage well defined by dogma and canon law? If there is no strong theology of marriage, what prin­ciples or morals are the Churchlaws based on? How important are these laws? "These laws are very im­portant They are based on the the­ology of man. The theology of man is very old. This theology of man, in light of his relationship with God and with other men, has developed and changed through time. Today the theoiogy of marriage must be based on social and psychological studies. As I said before, this is new. The Pope has directed the change of canon laws.. Any progress, how­ever, has not been published. Canon law must be base_d on the code of the community." 
. When asked whether the Notre Dame community provided such a code, Father Putz leaned back, clasped his hands behind his head and took a deep breath. "Some people may be very well prepared by their parents. Many people think no more of marriage than dating. The youth culture, which is in control, thinks less and le_ss of. marriage nowadays. The more important their concern, · the more they would want to learn." 
The implication that students were 
not concerned about marriage di­
rected the question whether . he 
thought required classes might cre­
ate more interest. "That wouldn't do 
it. It's not the interest that is lack­ing, but rather an appropriate atti­tude. Youths are concerned more with rights tha'~ they are with privileges and duties. They don't want to think about commitments and obligations. They aren't solely to blame for this.. The news and mass media provide two views (of marriage). In the first case, it's the. cure-all for all dreams and all prob­lems. And that's not true, and you know it. Anyone who believes that is bound to be. disappointed. Two married individuals should expect to have their differences. That's the way it should be. The other way of showing marriage is like changing clothes; It's one marriage rig_ht after another, without stopping." 
There was Ume for one last ques­tion. What was Father Putz' advice to the students at Notre Dame? "The crisis lies in the family.· Where there is less and less a spirit of sacrifice, there is little success. Everything we do is sexual. But just because you subscribe to Playboy or some other comic book sex, everyone thinks they are experts. The theology of mar­riage must come from the families. As long as priests direct the theology of marriage there will be no thor­ough, permanent success. You need an education for a job -right? Well, marriage is much more im~ 
The Self 
(continued from page 12) 
the facets of your personality (i.e., a quick temper) are a part-of you and cannot be continually re­strained. Neither you nor your spouse will always be in good humor, and each .will have to deal with those times too. Mr. Byrne defined self-knowing as recognition of your limits; understanding of your own likes and dislikes: realizing what your goals are and how you intend to pursue them; finally, secureness of yourself and your actions. · Mrs. Byrne stressed that this secureness with oneself was· an essential qual­ity to bring to marriage. She noted that college was a very good time in a person's life; but also a very self-centered, perhaps even selfish period. "Many marriages that take place the summer after graduation occur, I believe, because of insecu­rity. A student looks at the world outside of the campus and becomes insecure. Marriage is then a possi­portant than the job. More people are completely dependent on you. As I said before, the student must de­pend. more and more on . his educa­tors to provide such· an education. Any administration that says mar­riage and the family are not an aca­demic matter is very nearsighted.· We. must depend heavily on divine and social support. Such services as Pre-Cana are sufficient for. imme­diate marriage. • Most other forms of counseling are post-factum and .. are only sought in dire circumstances. We need much more formal educa­tion, but the essential benefit must come from the family. Marriage and family sessions within the. commu­nity would be the most fruitful." 

The pastoral office and the educa­tional posture of both religious lead­ers and educators, in general, are not in the. position, and perhaps inten­tionally so, .to advise and educate the Christian . couple at Notre Dame. That !eaves one last source of as­sistance. The family must struggle through the ugly void created by a negligent Church. The old. adage 
·that God helps those who help them­selves will be put to the test. There's another saying about the blind l_ead­ing the blind that might very well be applied here. 
-David Miller 

· bility for· not having to make· the transition· alone." But she also sug­gested that marriage entered into by an insecure individual s_uch as this could very easily lead to greater insecurity. . The Byrnes stressed the point that the decision to .marry involved both an emotional and rational element. "You have to make a~commitment to marriage with both your heart and your head. You should never be forced into making a decision. ; . '. . You have to like, as well as love, the · person." Mr. Byrne explained Jhe commitment of the heart as the emo­tional level of the decision to marry; it encompasses the caring and love one feels for the other. The commit~ ment of the head, on the other hand, involves a deliberative and rational decision that: yes, you do like the person; yes, you can live with the person; yes, you·do want to marry. Mrs. Byrne noted that marriage can 
become a forced decision for many out that trust marriage might lead graduating students: a couple -that to insecurity and mistrust. has been going together for. three Finally the Byrnes' emphatically or four years can face an ultimatum stressed the effect of their son,­upon graduation of marriage or Kevin, on their lives: "As a teacher, separation: "If you have any doubts, you don't exert a great influence on then it would be unfair to you your students; you meet and ex­and the other person to make the change ideas with them for one commitment." semester, but then they move on. 
In the transition from the .single When you have a child though, you life to marriage, the Byrnes' per­ceived several changes in their lives: "The transition may best be ex­pressed in the change of the pro­nouns from I to We." Mrs. ·Byrne further noted that for twenty years or so, her interests and decisions cen­tered upon her own ·wants and de­sires. With marriage, she now has to consider the interests and desires of her husband and child. In the first 
Fifty Years 
year or two of marriage, she also faced, decisions with Mr. Byrne that 
(continued from page 13) 
were momentous to their life: where to live, what career to pursue, ·how the many aspects 'of life but espe­to plan their famiiy. "For the first cially within occupation. I am happytime, you are making decisions that to say that in our marriage, we have are more permanent than any you · never been afraid though manyhave previously made." 
dangers have risen to confront us be­
Mr. Byrne acknowledged that cause of what I have been involvedmarriage changes your life-style and in. But Doris never flinched once;responsibilities, but reiterated the she always wanted to share." 

fact that marriage does not change Dr. Shuster went on to tell of the 
your personality: "I don't think I've time when he served as a state com­
changed because of marriage, nor do m1Ss10ner in American-occupiedI believe that having a child has Bavaria, at a time when U.S.-Soviet 
changed or improved the marriage relations had deteriorated badly be­
itself. But it certainly has added a · fore the icy blasts of the Cold War, 
new dimension to it." 
and his office was given instructions 
Mr. Byrne believed that a sense of in the event of a Russian takeover. 

priority has to arise out of the re­"The orders called for me to stay
lationship. "I, personally, had to set and surrender my office to the So­
marriage as my highest priority. 
viets, should the need ever arise, and 
Your relationship with your wife . 
send my wife off with the r~st of 
(husband) will be the most complex the civilian personnel to safer points
and important one of your life." In · in the West. But she would not go.
setting this priority, the Byrnes' felt " 'No,' she said, 'wherever you many of the other necessary . ele­are, there I will be.' At one point I 
ments evolve. Compromise is essen­considered having her arrested and 
tial and inevitable in a marriage. 
thereby taken out of Germany, but 
Concern for the_ other, working the situation at last relaxed." 
through the relationship out of love, During the course of a long mar­
facilitates the compromises. Trust riage such as that of the Shusters', 
was mentioned by Mrs. Byrne .as a there have been times of working co­
necessary and growing element of operation contrasted with times of 
the marriage relationship. One must not exactly seeing eye to eye. 
trust his mate implicitly, for with­
."We have been fortunate in that we have been able to do much work 
together," commented Dr. Shuster.
ACNE SCARS, PITS 
FRENCH HERBAL HOME SKIN 
"Yes. He gave me his things to 
PLANING TREATMENT 

read and I was his severest critic," 
Write: 

added Doris Shuster. 
HERBS FOR YOUTH 
"Through her critiques on my
BOX 943 / DANIA, FLA. 33004 

work and opinions on many other realize for the first time how much of an effect you can have on his life, and the responsibility this en­tails," Mrs. Byrne said. Mr. Byrne had only one comment: "Kids are great. I have had more fun caring for and playing with Kevin these past five months than anything else I've ever done. Every couple should have one.'' -Jim Wiehl 
subjects, we often fell into disagree­ment. But you have to disagree once in a while if your marriage is to last," said he. 
She went on to add to his state­ment, "I do not think that you can have a happy marriage without dis­agreements and discussions. You have to keep communication open; that is very important." 
The subject of freedom and growth in a marriage arose, and the feeling that many young people hold that marriage limits these. 
"A newly wedded couple really 
runs into trouble when both sides 
feel that freedom and growth will be 
inhibited, and they act accordingly 
without discovering otherwise," Dr. 
Shuster said. 
Mrs. Shuster nodded her head in 
agreement and added, "I have felt 
very free within our marriage and 
have left my husband free. As for 
growth, in contrast to. many mar­
riages where one or the other has 
not grown, I've always felt that both 
of us have grown as individuals and 
as one. 
"What perhaps, those considering matrimony do not realize is that marriage gives one ,much more free­dom than in any other way. The only aspect you can consider your­self limited in is with regard to sex on an individual level. But realize ·that though it is very important in a marriage, this is not all that is in­
volved.'' 
-John Kenward 

DECEMBER 13, 1974 
You'll never· know ·howtnuch · goodypu. ·cando until· you do it. 
You can help people. 
In fact, there's a crying need for you. Your talents. Your training. Your con­
. cerns. They make you · valuable to your 
. business. They can make you priceless to your community. 
· lfyou cari spare even a few hours a week, call the Voluntary Action Center in your t~wn. . : 
·Or write: "Volunteer,"· Washington, D.C. 20013. 
It'll do you good ·to see how.much good you can do. 
• 
Volunteer. 
The National Center for Voluntary Action. 


LOVE IS.­
.··• iLove is·a giving thing, . so give the gift of love . . .. a Keepsake diamond ring. · 
. Choose from perfect solitaires, . -beautiful matched sets and trios. Modern and traditional setting·s in precious 14K gold. Keepsake, ·there is no finer diamond ring. 

Top t~ bottom-LADYLOVE, RACHEL. LADY VALLEY. BRITT ANIA H< Aeo. A.H·. Pond co. : Find your Keepsake Jewelers in the Yellow pages or dial free 600•243-6000, In Conn. 800·882·6500..
----------------·------------------·--.. ------.....-·-------------·--·--------, 
HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING _I:::,._·. 
Send new 20 pg. booklet. "Planning Your Engegement and Wedding" plus full color folder and 44 pg. Bride's Book gift offer all for only 35¢. F-74. 
Name (Pleau Prinl) 
! 
: ; ·.

Addreu, __________________ 
Cily·-------------'------­
Slate_______z, 0,__________ 
KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS. BOX 90, SYRACUSE, N'.v. 132()1 
.............._______..........................................·-·---------------------­
~---~---.~
l .. ·. . . . . .. . 
1 ,Irish Sport :Shorts. 
L,_.,.,, ,-:•'-:,..,.,, -• -~-------•-•, •• ••~--~-• ___ .;v•"-.. •~ :• ~-,-••---/ • •' 


This past fall has been a very. good one for many Notre Dame teams, but in the case of the Irish Lacrosse Club, the past six weeks will always be remembered. 
Having its best season in a few years, the cluti finished the fall undefeated, with victories over Purdue, the Chicago Lacrosse Club (last year's Midwest Cham­pion) .and their own Alumni in the annual Alumni game. 
The key·game of the season, as it has been over the years; was the Alumni contest. In this, the tenth anni­versary of the Club, a special banquet was held before . the game, honoring the past stars of the club. The game itself saw the present Irish win, 9-5, with stand­out:, performances by Tom McHugh, Bob Thibodeau and Steve Tarnow contributing to the win. ·· 
With the season over, the club.is· looking forward to its spring schedule with a ·southern trip to Miami in their plans. Its past success .this season indicates that great things will be heard from one of the two un­defeated Irish .teams this semester, the Notre Dame Lacrosse Club .. 
The other undefeated Irish team, the Rugby "B" team, completed its season with -a hard~fought 1-0 win over the Chicago Lions, always a perenniaUy tough team.. Together with the "A" team, the Irish Rugby Club. enjoyed arather successful season with teams the likes·of Michigan; Purdue, South Bend Rugby Club and John Carroll coming out on the short end of the stick to' the Irish. A midsemester trip to California is in store for the hooters next semester, and what better way can at least one Notre Dame team defend our honor with a win out in sunny' California than the Irish Ruggers? 
DECEMBER 13, 1974 
Track · coach Don Faley welcomes back a veteran crew this indoor season for the_ Irish as they vie for the Nationals in early March. Lettermen Mike Housley, Mike Gahagan, Joe ·Yates, Jim Hurt and Jim Reinhart come over from a successful schedule to ·anchor the middle and long distances, while Mike Hogan returns at pole vault. "With our performance from outdoor last spring and this fall's cross-country, we should have a fairly competitive season,"_commented captain Housley. With the talent Faley has to work with this season, the Nationals may indeed be a reality with his Irish Cin­dermen. · 

Many thanks to Father Joyce, Athletic Director Edward "Moose" Krause and Assistant Athletic Direc­
. tor Cot John Stephens for. their help arid assistance in sending Scholastic to USC. for ·the ball game. Even though_ ND did lose, we had the times of our lives, and we owe them a lot. It's actions like this that make our job as sportswriters of this great school very rewarding.· -Bill Delaney 

' --"--·~-~-~---•/~ ,.,.___, 


More Than a Hockey Coach 
(Ed. note: Bob Kissel, a senior in psychology, is an avid fan and for­mer participant of hockey, and is a true and invaluable friend of the Irish hockey program and Scho­lastic.) 
"Come on, girls, let's play hockey," is not the call . of Notre Dame's women athletes, but a one-liner typi­cal of hockey coach Charles "Lefty" Smith at hockey practice. 
Lefty may be the least publicly visible of the three major coaches at Notre Dame, but he certainly is open and available to his players, man­agers, those who work with him and for him, and the press. 
To the people constantly around Lefty Smith, he is certainly much more than a varsity hockey coach; he's a racquet-ball partner, a friend, a comedian in his own· right, a father, a husband, and probably a man countless people have come to know and respect. 
At a place like Notre Dame, filled with rich traditions in academics and athletics, hockey could be easily grouped with the others as having a long history of intercoll~giate com­petition. 
But varsity hockey in its present form has been around the Golden Dome for the short span of six years. Notre Dame hockey started back .in the early 1900's when the varsity team was lucky to play three or four games a year, only. if St. 


Mary's Lake froze. A few years later an outside rink was put up where Badin Hall presently stands. 
The modern .era of Fighting Irish hockey got off the ground back in 1964 as a club. team organized by students from New England, the Chicago area, and Minnesota: · Ac­cording to Smith, the club team was one of the/ better squads in the Midwest.· 
As plans for the Athletic and Con­vocation Center were formalized, the idea of elevating hockey to var­sity status was agreed upon. Lefty was selected as the best man to fit ND's unique needs for a varsity coach. His 1968 selection was based upon· his. success in Minnesota high school hockey at South St. Paul. 
As a hockey player himself in ear­lier • days, Smith , had an enviable reputation which started in his own high school days at South St. Paul. . "When Lefty was back in high 
. school; he always loved the game of hockey, enough to set up his school's first team," explained Dave Barrett, longtime friend of Smith and now one of his ''Zamboni people." "When he. went to St. Thomas College, his involvement was not limited just to his college career. He organized Pee Wee and Bantam programs for the kids in South St. Paul." . 
Smith.played defense at St. Thom­as and was selected all-conference three seasons ·and all-state four times in the early 50's, not your average player. 
"When I was in high school play~ ing against Lefty's ~outh St. Paul teams, our team·always looked for­ward to playing his squads," added 
··Barrett. "Win or lose, Lefty's teams would always play good, solid hockey, physical, but not cheap." 

Success at the high school level? Lefty compiled a record at South St. Paul most coaches would give an arm and a leg for-seven state tour­naments, average of 19 victories per season, not one losing season, and a total record of 201-69-11. 
"As varsity hockey coach at the University of Notre Dame, Lefty is in a position of great responsibil­ity," remarked Tim McNeill, one of· Smith's assistant coaches. "He has the responsibHity of ensuring these kids get their education and second­arily develop as hockey players." 
. This attitude can't help but rub off on his players. Last year Eddie Bumbacco was being pressured by Montreal to sign a contract, after his great junior scoring year. Ed told the Montreal organization he wanted his degree first, before he made any decisions about pro hockey. Just an­other. reflection of Lefty's whole coaching philosophy. 
"He believes that pro hockey is a future consideration," noted Barrett. "Lefty· wants his kids to get that education number o·ne, and second­
ly  play  and  . win  in  collegiate  
hockey.  
"Lefty  thought  it . important  

enough to go to . college besides playing hockey. He really tries to impress this on _the kids.". 
Tuesday, November 5, Lefty and a few friends drove to Chicago · to see the Vancouver Blazers take on the Chicago Cougars in a WHA tilt. Larry Israelson, who graduated last May, assisted on the tying goal and scored the . \\'inning goal for the Blazers. 
"I was . extremely pleased with Larry to have the opportunity to play in the major leagues," said Smith; "but what was most impres­sive to me was the fact that Larry was out on the ice with a civil engi­neering degree and also a Blazers uniform.,, .· 
Building a hockey team at Notre Dame takes a particular combination of athletes who are willing to work hard on the ice, yet at the same time be ·competitive in the classroom. Both assistant coaches Tim McNeill and Kevin Hoene handle the. major portion of on-the-road visiting of prospective recruits. . · 
There are a lot of places in the WCHA that .offer an education-but ND offers a special recipe of top­notch academics and the best in col-
f

f: • 
j,' ,;... ·;, 
..~; . . : ~ ,._,
•·.· .. ·•S.· ·.• 
:','{
~ 

._.Pl '. ;'.·,, 
·\,': 

legiate hockey competition. 
"When Kevin (Hoene) came out to visit me, he was very open and frank about his description of Notre Dame," noted freshman goaltender Len Moher. "He told me freshman year would be tough and that extra work would be needed to carry a full school load, while playing var­sity hockey at the same time. 
"In reference to hockey, Kevin told me he couldn't guarantee me a starting job," added Moher, "but he did tell me I would have to work as hard as anyone for the starting nod." 
"I get 200-300 letters every year from hockey players all over Amer­ica," explained Coach Smith. "Be­cause this is Notre Dame and the standards are much higher, 50% of the kids can't get in and another 25% can't tie their skates -without falling down. 
"Because of the length of our sea­son (36 games and six months) and the rigors of the college academics, I stress personal maturity as equally important as hockey ability. We in­form the kids and their parents from the start exactly what . to expect." 
Lefty is probably best known among his friends for his easy­going, relaxed manner. Coach Smith always seems to have time to talk, and actively goes out of his way to help out when he can. 
Daily hockey practices are very loose and relaxed in their intensity, but also disciplined and well-organ­ized. This year Lefty is the total 
boss, mainly because he has the type 
of kids who fit well into the Lefty 
Smith system. 
"His easygoing style has proven 

to me it can work, but at first I was 
not so sure I liked his coaching phi­
losophy," remarked alternate cap­
tain Les Larson. "Lefty gets along 
with everybody, he's not strictly a 
disciplinarian coach. Someday I 
would like to coach myself, and I 
know what ,Lefty has taught me in 
four years, on and off the ice, has 
definitely influenced me." 
jlThe season is so long and it's im­
possible to read a coaching book and 
fit yourself into someone else's phi­
losophy," noted Smith. "The only 
way to coach is according to your 
own personality. 
"I always wanted to be treated like a human being, not a number or a player," he went on to add. "It would be much easier to go on out and crack the whip, but that's not me. With these friendly jibes, I hope . to get across a message which may­be shouldn't be spelled out for the . player. The pokes also keep the guys loose, which helps in enjoying while 
.· playing the game of hockey." 
· Don't get the idea· that Smith's 
easygoing manner makes him· out to 
be a pushover. 
. "He expects certain duties· from 
me, but doesn't · tell me how to 
do them," explained senior hockey 
manager Mark Exley. "I certainly 
know that if Lefty does not get the 
type. of work he expects, he'll tell 
me. With ·this type of approach, I 
DECEMBER 13; 1974 
find it very easy and enjoyable work­ing with Lefty and the hockey team." 
"Lefty may seem to be easy­going most of the time, but during the games he's all business, tense and excited," added senior Pat Con­roy. "If the refs aren't doing their job, Lefty surely lets them.· know about it and in no uncertain terms." 
The mark of a top-notch coach is not necessarily a question· of bring­ing a player with super talent into instant stardom, for super players are few and far between. Coach Smith has a·sharp understanding of the problems involved in the differ­ences between high · school and col­lege hockey. 
Pat Conroy and Les Larson, both seniors and alternate captains, are hockey athletes who were not blessed .with instant stardom talent: Yet through Lefty's system of pro~ gressive development and motivation toward hard work and discipline, Les and Pat are respected players in the league. · 
j'I believe this is really my · best year," commented Conroy. "Lefty knows his hockey, -, which · has brought about my hockey develop­ment. You can't help but admire a coach who takes a team of so many personalities and put it together into. a team, not a bunch of indi­viduals." 

i:=~-----, 
a I 
i 
.; 
, ~l :.• 
;~: ../ ::·· 
_•....,• :•.,.•-•a 
. ····,-, 
-.!• ;'.. 
"Lefty's practices prepare the team really well for the games in the. three•· fundamentals of hockey, passing, position, and skating," com­

. mented rookie goaltender John Peterson. "My first game up in Wisconsin 
. I let in a couple of bad goals. Lefty told me to forget about the bad ones. The season is long and my game will come, that kind of concern I need as a goaltender and as a freshman." 
Possibly more than in previous years at Notre Dame, Coach Smith is really enjoying his duties on the ice. This year's squad has players of all levels of abiHty and motivation. Lefty's challenge is developing and motivating · every player's perfor­mance to the best of his ability and then mold those players into one team. 

"I've been having the' most fun bringing these kids along," remarked Smith. "This group is a young bunch that accepts coaching very well, both .realizing their· potential . and also knowing that we have to work· for everything. . · · 
· "You know the old, shopworn 

. cliches between sports and life; · well, it seems to me there is a definite correlation between. the discipline and attitude which ·good .competi­tive sports breed and the principles by which I wish to live by." -­Lefty Smith has astrong ·corrimit­
,;;,, i4ii 

ment to the game of hockey, on ali levels. Most of his.actions within the WCHA and around Soutn Bend are geared to benefitting the sport itself 'and the people who get involved in 
hockey. 
Coach Smith has rendered an in­

valuable service to the South Bend 
community. He introduced and culti~ 
vated a sport previously foreign to 
the Michiana area. The growth of 
hockey, as in other new hockey hot~ 
beds, in South Bend is mushroom­
ing. The Irish Youth Hockey League, 
Michiana High . School Hockey, .or 
Michiana Figure Skating all are in 
debt to Lefty Smith. _ 
"I value hockey a great deal -it's 

been my life," noted Smith with all 
seriousness. "Without the opportuni­
ties h'ockey has given me, education 
at·St. Thomas and now Notre Dame, 
I might still be back in South St. 
Paul,· working in a packing factory: 
like most of the kids of my era. 
"Very few kids went to college in 

those days, and my athletic skills 
gave me that chance. I played semi­
pro hockey after graduation · from 
St. Thomas, · but after one · year I 
realized my future was·elsewhere. 
"Sure there are· times· ·in .any 

coach's life that your coaching job 
robs you of sonie of your family 
life. But I'm very fortunate that my 
wife and family :are supportive, and 
they have become great fans of the 
game .and the kids . who play for 
Notre Dame." .. . . 
It doesn't really matter whom you 

talk tp arotirid the ice rink; whether it's Big John Witmer, hockey train­. er, Lefty's players, Mark Exley, his · student manager, assistant coaches Hoene or McNeill, or his Zamboni people -they all 'agree Charles "Lefty" SmUh is a man who is easy 
to work for·and easy tc:i respect.· 
When the sorry day comes that 

Lefty decides it is time to get out of 
Irish hockey, the University of Notre 
Dame will be hard pressed to find' a 
replacement for' the man, not to 
mention the hockey . coach, Lefty 
Smithi 
-'-Bob Kissel_ 
.THE' SCHOLASTIC 

Holiday Wishes 
The Christmas holiday season is usually a time for giving and re­ceiving between friends and . loved . ones. Since this is the final Scholastic before break, I'd like to offer these holiday wishes to all those who are concerned, with Notre Dame Ath­letics before we all get bogged down with exams. So just sit back, relax, and enjoy yourself .. 
. TO ARA-the hope that the last thirty minutes of.the USC game can be a pipe dream_.; Also, a wish that you have . your ..· best Christmas present of the New Year-a victory over the Bear down in Miami. 
, TO DIGGER -a strong and , TO JOHN McKAY AND WOODY healthy team for the upcoming HAYES. -a scoreless tie in that games against powerhouses UCLA, glamorous New Year's Day extrava­Kentucky, Maryland and Marquette. ganza, the Rose Bowl. As my dear Perhaps a cannon would help in old dad has said, "It couldn't happen 
the battle. Your schedule is suicidal, to a nicer bunch of guys." but as you always say, "If you want to be the best, you have to beat the TO JOHN WOODEN -an auto­best." Here's hoping A.O., Apple and graphed copy of Digger's book, A the boys can "make it happen." Coadi's World, and the record that 
accompanies it, with the last 3:22 
TO LEFTY -continued success of our 71-70 victory last year in­with your youngsters in the wonder-eluded on it. I also hope that you ful world of brawling and officiating have the unfortunate luck of for~ that's commonly called the WCHA .. · ·feiting our. upcoming. game•because With no band, few fans, and the you can't find your team after their Blue Line Club. as your major draw-guided tour of . Disneyland by .Art ing card, your . teams somehow al-Best.(for he can't find his way back ways provide sixty .solid minutes of here from Columbus). excitement game after game . ( de­spite the attempts of the referees to TO BEAR -that you continue change the situation). Now, if only your uncanny knack of losing Bowl more of. us could understand a games; six, going on. seven. Hope­"deke" ·as well as we know a "down­fully, this record will be held intact and-out," we'd be in great shape. on January 2, the day after the 
bowl. 
TO MIKE. DeCICCO .-:-.that your fencers gain the recognition they . TO ROGER .VALDISERRI AND truly deserve after all these years BOB BEST-the greatest, most suc­of obscurity. The "Errol Flynns'' of cessful and magnificent . · holiday Notre Dame are really coming into sporting stories for the two great­their own, and this season may bring est sports information men. Also, them into the . big.· times once.· and that you can have continued patience for all. with rookies from Scholastic. 
DECEMBER 13, 1974 

TO TOM PARISE-that the screen test for your role in the upcoming Story of Muhammed Ali or, I'm So Bad I Can Make Medicine Sick goes as well as you hope it will be. 
AND FINALLY, TO THE REST 
OF YOU PEOPLE: We've tried to 
do something different this semes­
ter with the Sports Section of 
Scholastic. I only hope that you've 
enjoyed our attempt and will stay 
with us for the next semester. 
A very merry and joyous Christmas ·and holiday season to you all, and we'll see you down in Miami. -BillDelaney 

A Christmas, Message from Fr. Hesburgh 
Each of us has a favorite remembrance of Christ­
mas. Mine goes back to a year in the fifties when a 
friend invited me to fly down to a tiny Mexican village 
called Rancho Las Cruces on the very southern tip of 
the long peninsula of Baja California. In those days, it 
was a five-hour flight in an old DC-3 south from Los 
Angeles. As we neared our destinaUon, we flew down 
mountain valleys with the peaks above; us on all sides, 
finally turning seaward to land on a dangerous gravel 
strip that went into the Pacific Ocean at one end and 
into a blind canyon on the other. 

It was December 23. The campesinos saw me get­
ting out of the plane in my black suit and collar and 
immediately gathered round asking if. I was a priest. When I said si, then they asked, Catholic? Again si. Then again, Catolico romano? Once they had estab­lished my legitimacy, they all shoulted, misa de gallo, · Midnight Mass this year! When I asked them when was the last time they had a priest · there, they . answered, "About forty years ago." Okay, I said (bueno to them) we'.ll have a Midnight Mass, but everyone has to go to Confession first, and I guarantee light penances. . Eleven o'clock Christmas Eve they all came, men 
in the best sombreros, women in fancy mantillas. After 
Confessions, we fixed up an altar in front of the fire~ 
place in the main room of the Rancho. All the guests, 
except me, were Protestant, and they all came to Mass, 
in fact, got a better Christmas sermon in English than 
' 

the Mexicans did in Spanish. One had to be touched at the faith of the campesinos who were welcoming the Infante Jesus into their village, and their hearts, with great fervor and joy, after forty years. I went back there many times for Christmas, but that first year was something very special. 
I hope Christmas this year is something very special for each of you and your families. I hope you experi­ence the true inner joy of Christmas, which is to re­ceive Jesus Our Lord and Saviour, willingly, hungrily, and lovingly into your heart and into your family. Of all the gifts you give to those you love, make the best one the gift of yourself in love and service. We do not receive Jesus at Christmas just for ourself and our need, but most lovingly in sharing Him, through our gift of self-enriched by Jesus-to all who need him most. Whether that happens in .a sleepy Mexican vil­lage, on the field of the shepherds outside Bethlehem, in the tingling cold darkness of New England, or in a warmer California clime, Christmas is really only Christmas when Jesus is given· and received by those who need and love Him. That Jesus may be yours this Christmas will be .my prayer for each of you when I celebrate my Midnight Mass for the less favored in far­off Kenya, Africa. 
(Rev.) Theodore M: Hesburgh, C.S.C. President 
r----~........-~·'",~ , ·~ . :~_,.~~~·~~-;-·r,•:•~~:~~~~:---~~7~---··:-,,:·:---:-·-:.,,."'.7-'"""",.,..~c•~,:-·".""'7:--:-~~-•~<-7 
i The Last .Word".· .. -· ··. '.· _.·_ .·:,.-.._.·. ·_ : .. ·.,1
L.--...:........___~ ••h,.,/4.'.,:. ,~:~~;,,.:.~.~-,,...,__,_;_,,.,,.~..,~....----·_._·:,~.......,--~;;;__;~i~~~~~-.LJ
-< _ _..._~,,;____;_.,_.--bu:::_,..,_...,.. .,.l,,; .... ..-,...:_~~ 
In a little known verse of a famous Christmas carol, "What Child Is This?" it is suggested that at this time of year we should "hang grief" and "cast cares away" and look for­ward with a renewed energy to the new year. 
Few people would disagree that these times have the potential to be very oppressive. In fact, with the immediate problems in our ownUttle world of finals, papers, grades,_rides, roommates and housing, and those of injustice, starvation and the econ­omy in the larger world, the oppres­siveness is almost overwhelming. 
If these problems and our ability to solve them are not put in their proper perspective, we could easily become discouraged. I'd like to sug­gest that during these times a little mental relaxation and serenity might be the proper thing. 
I'm not saying that problems like world hunger have been given too much attention; in actuality they haven't been given enough. But it is too easy to lose hope and say that the · problems are too large for · one person to have any effect. The struggle must continue. And that takes strength. 
Nor am I saying that a student shouldn't work his hardest for a good grade. That too, however, de­mands strength. 
Christmas time is a time to get that strength. In the midst of the student's "Christmas rush," it's good to know that you have a family 
by Jim Gresser 

and friends, both here and at home, 
that care about you and that 
shouldn't · be forgotten. They are 
what's really important. 
Soon you'll be home and get the 

mental and physical rest that you 
need to face the challenge of the new 
year with renewed energy. So hang 
grief. • Go home and make this Christmas one of the best yet for ·you, your friends, and your family.· 
Well, then, on behalf of myself, 

the editorial board and the Scholastic 
staff, I'd like to extend the warmest .. 
wishes for this season and the new 
year to Fr. Hesburgh, Fr. Burtchaell 
and all the members of the admin­
istration, staff and faculty, and es­
pecially to the students. 
Merry Christmas! 
~ THE SCHOLASTIC 


Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program 
If you're one of tomorrow's physicians, there,are_some things you should know
today.-· ·· , · 

For instance. You should know about the op-· . Just one more thirig ••• we think if you portunities offered by Armed Forces Health know all the facts, today; you maywant to be Care. As an officer in the service of your. one of us tomorrow. · choice you'll work in modern facilities. With Find out. Send in the coupon and get · up-to-date equipment. And modern; up-to-the facts •.• today. · date professionals in every area of Health There are limited openings for academic year 1975-1976.: Care. . . . •r-;;:;;;;dF;~;;;s;;~i;r7hip;-----: -;.;:2;-, 
For example. You should know that. .1 P.O. Box AF· Armed Forces Health Care offers opportuni-· I Peoria, 111•616l4 ties for initial training and advanced study in ', I desire information for the following program:
Army . Navy . AirForce . Medical .
practically every specialty. Not to ,mention I Dental D Veterinary• . Podiatry . Optometry D 
the opportunity to practice it I Psychology (PhD) o 
' You should know, too, that we make it I Name____.,..(p'""lea_se_p...,rin°"l),------­possible for you to pursue a post-residency I soc. sec. ;,:-______Phone___ · fellowship at either military or civilian ir:isti-I Addres____________ tutions. · 1 City
And if all this strikes a spark, then you · .I -----------­
should certainly know about our scholarship I stat.,_________;.ip,_,___ program. · · · I Enrolled a If you qualify, the tuition for your medi-. -I To graduat._e_i--....,.,<sc:::h-:-oo-::-o-----­cal education will be covered fu"lly while you I Date of birt , (month) (year) (degree) participate in the program. And during that . '(month) (day) (year) I 
. t• '11 • · oocf manth J t' d• , L,. •veterinary not av3ilable in Navy Program. -· . ....,
1me you rec_e1ve a g y s 1pen I ___________1____________ I 
Armed Forces Health Care; · Dedicated to Medicine and the people who practice it. 



