R.J RCV.OIOS TOBACCO CO Wir.STON-SALCM. N.C.
tEs
°R
Wherever you go, folks go for Winston! You will, too. You’ll like the full, rich flavor of fine tobacco. And you’ll like Winston’s exclusive filter, too — the pure, snow-white filter in the smart, cork-smooth tip. It’s a great cigarette in every way!
Now available in crush proof box, too!
I
WINSTON TASTES GOOD!»
UKEA CIGARETTE SHOULD!



G$SX , • Z £
For bright, dear flavor— switch to WWSTOBI

Smoke WINSTON America's best-selling, best-tastina filter cigarette!
Ever meet a fanatic?
He’s got just one thing uppermost in his mind. If he’s looking for a job he’s thinking only of pay or only of security. Reasonable men. however. weigh these and many other factors when they’re evaluating career possibilities. Such factors as opportunity, challenging work, training. professional associates—things fanatics never bother to consider.	.
College Employment Supervisor
American Telephone and Telegraph Company 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.
Please send me your free booklet, “Challenge and Opportunity”
Name...............................................................
A ddress...........................................................
City............................. Zone....... State................
College..............................Course........................
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
The Bell Telephone Companies have a booklet for reasonable men. It’s called “Challenge and Opportunity.” It’s not the sort of thing that’ll make a fanatic’s eyes light up, but it ought to interest a thoughtful young man— whatever his college background—who is weighing career possibilities. Get it from your Placement Officer or send the coupon.
November 22, 1957
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 99 November 22, 1957 No. 8
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate, of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
JIM STEINTRAGER Editor
DAVID L. KUBAL
Associate Editor
JOHN GLAVIN
Associate Editor
GEORGE CLEMENTS ..............News	Editor
HARRY McKEE .................... Copy	Editor
BOB EARLY .................. Features	Editor
MIKE FITZPATRICK ............. Sports	Editor
BOB WILLIAMS ................... Photography
LORAN SHEFFER............Business Manager MIKE KURAS ..............Assistant Business
JOE DEZELAN .......... Circulation	Manager
TOM BANCHOFF .............. Assistant	News
WALT RUDGE ................ Assistant	News
JIM YOCH ...................Assistant	News
STEVE ROAKE ............... Assistant	Copy
JIM SCHUH ................. Assistant	Copy
TOM EDWARDS ............ Assistant	Features
TOM LAMONT ............. Assistant	Features
BOB SEDLACK ............ Assistant	Features
ED ROHRBACH ............... Assistant	Sports
TED THOMPSON .............. Assistant	Sports
News Staff: Ken Baumgartner, Alan Bosch, Art Dechene, Luino Dellosso, Alike Dudgeon, Ron Dvorak, Geremy Kaye, Bob Maruyama, Bob Messinger, Gil Paprocki, Ed Plunkett, Lyn Relph, Charles Rieck, Tom Romans, Roy Rubeli, Dave Samudio, Milt Streifel, Tom Swanstrom, Chris Watters, Dick Zang.
Sports Staff: Bob Briggs, Jim Brogan, Dave Cole, Jack Dolan, John Koch, Bob Miller, Mike Murphy, Tim O’Reilly, Bob Schaefer.
Sports Features: Joe Bride, John McMahon, Greg Rogers.
Business Staff: Bernie Dobranski, Pete Hasbrook, Bob Horn, Bob Pruett.
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $4.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Publication Schedule for the 1957-58 school year. Volume 99: No. 1, Sept. 27; No. 2, Oct. 4; No. 3, Oct. 11;	No.	4,	Oct.	18; No. 5,	Oct. 25;	No. 6,
Nov. 8;	No.	7,	Nov.	15; No. 8,	Nov. 22;	No. 9,
Dec. 6; No. 10, Dec. 13 (Football Review); No. 11, Jan. 17;	No.	12,	Feb.	7; No. 13,	Feb. 14;	No. 14,
Feb. 21;	No.	15,	Feb.	28; No. 16,	March 7;	No. 17,
March 14; No. 18, March 21; No. 19, March 28; No. 20, April 25; No. 21, May 2; No. 22, May 9; No. 23. May 16; No. 24, May 23.
Printers
Publishers
DIAMOND RINGS
INTERLOCKING RING SETS

$300.00
DUDLEY
Wedding Ring $125.00
Your diamond rings are more brilliant, more beautiful in a Keepsake Interlocking Set — because they’re secretly locked, never to turn, twist or separate. Choose from our big Keepsake selection.
Rings enlarged to show details Prices include Federal Tax
$125.00
BRANTLEY
Wedding Ring $50.00

CREDIT OR LAYAWAY AVAILABLE
JEWKIEK •
121 W. Washington
25tt Year
332 So. Michigan Ave. INC. Chicago 4, HA 7-2557
Have a WORLD of f UN!
Trave! with IITA
Unbelievable Low Cost
Europe
60 Days	from $585
Orient
43-65 Days	from $998
Many fours include college credit
Also low-cost trips to Mexico $149 up. South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour $498 up and Around the World $1398 up.
Ask Your Travel Agent
BREEN’S JEWELRY . . Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Silverware Men’s and Women’s Costume Jewelry Four Ways to Buy: Cash, Charge, Layaway, Handy Charge .... Fine Watch Repairing 325 South Michigan AT 7-3630
AROUND THE NATION
SPORTS EDITOR:
CONGRATULATIONS ON A STUNNING VICTORY. WE WERE BE-HIND YOU FOR 60 MINUTES. ■
ASSOCIATED STUDENTS ' UNIVERSITY OF SANTA CLARA;
ROSES FOR THE SENIORS	‘
Dear Editor:	i
I am happy to send you the following^ letters. We are very pleased with the' responsible way this senior trip was’ planned and carried out. The seniors; who made the trip really brought credit] on themselves and Notre Dame. |
We are often blamed—it is really heartwarming to be praised.
The Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C.
Vice-President—Student Affairs
Dear Father Joyce:
I am very happy to report that the trip for your seniors to the Michigan State game has been reported to me from all areas as having been highly satisfactory.
These young men are to be commended on their fine attitude and conduct during their stay here. The people in the Residence Halls, who came in contact with them, were much impressed with the caliber of these students. I am sure that we would be pleased to have them at any time.
... I think you caught our football team in perhaps its best effort of the year. I am sure that all of us here wish you much success in your remaining games.
Tom King
Dean of Students
Michigan State University
Dear Father Norton:
We thought you might be interested in knowing that we were very much pleased with your group of 55 students, under the leadership of Bob Pivonka, who spent Friday and Saturday nights in our YMCA dormitory. The arrangements which they made in advance including the deposit requested and sending us the names of men in advance were very helpful. They cooperated in every request that we made and so far as we can determine conducted themselves in the building in a manner to do credit to your great institution.
Mr. Pivonka and two of the young men assisting him were here until all of their men checked out and everything was satisfactorily taken care of. We will be glad to have any other group from Notre Dame that might be coming this way.
Paul N. Campbell, Residence Secretary, Young Men’s Christian Association
4
The Scholastic

irritation
Before the game last week in Norman an Oklahoma City newspaper was reported to have said that Notre Dame playing Michigan State, Oklahoma, and Iowa was like feeding “the Christians to the lions.” Needless to say the score is now even between the two, but as far as we are concerned the Irish are way ahead in the debate. But this is not what we are interested in here. As a matter of fact we should overlook the issue altogether and excuse the sports writer for his bad taste and perverted sense of humor, but this statement holds implications that can not be ignored.
This type of insinuation, hidden under a caustic smile, should not be tolerated in American professions, if they are American at all. This was an indirect slur aimed at one of the most respected Catholic universities in the world. The name of Notre Dame is synonymous with Catholic thought and morality in the United States and has the right to be respected, even though it may not profess the beliefs of the individual.
However, we can not be alarmed at such happenings, for they have appeared before and it is a certainty that they will occur again. Perhaps, the next time we may encounter it the consequences may be a little greater personally. Minority groups will always meet with prejudice. Graduating seniors could find it next year in business, or in the future in their professions. It is well known that a ‘distinguished’ Midwestern university has a set percentage of Catholics which they can accept each year, and probably there exists the same quotas for other groups. But this is just relating platitudes. The point is that we, as Catholic students, must prepare ourselves for this — we must become aware. If we adjust ourselves to the fact, we will not be disillusioned by the reality. Some have undoubtedly experienced some discrimination, but a good number have not. Prejudices grow deeper where money or position is involved.
We must learn to symphatize with these people and understand their situation. But by no means should a Catholic ever be afraid to advance himself because of his religion. The Church needs leaders that will fight for their faith in politics, business, and in the professions no matter what the opposition. We must approach our fellow man with reverence, in order to understand him. This is our peculiar problem — it is only met with courage.
—D.L.K.
November 22, 1957
improvement
Recently Notre Dame’s “student leaders” and members
- of the Administration attended a dinner given by Father Hesburgh. The purpose of the dinner was to talk over the “domestic” problems of the University — to give i the students an opportunity to present the problems which j have been bothering them and to give the Administration ] an opportunity to answer these questions and to let the students know where the University stands on these points. It is hoped by all concerned that out of such an interchange will come a better Notre Dame.
Among the topics discussed were the Religion courses, an honor system, re-evaluation of the grading system, and problems concerning the Placement Bureau. Many of the students came away from the dinner considerably heartened. j
Often the term “cynical senior” is used. Many feel j sometimes that the Administration resists all changes which | might result in an improved University. It was encouraging | to them, therefore, to see that the Administration is truly I aware of the problems which concern the students and is ' anxious to do something about them. In many instances they are presently involved in trying to solve these problems through study and evaluation of the existing conditions here at Notre Dame and at other universities.	i
Unfortunately many of us who attended the dinner will j not directly benefit from the promised improvements — and : Notre Dame does need improvements (after all no uni- i versify is perfect). But if we really have the interests of the University Community at heart we must not become cynical but rather must work even harder to inform the Administration of problems which concern us. The University does exist for the students. And the students should be free to air intelligent criticisms of the University in the hopes of future improvements. Again these improvements may never directly affect us. But such vigorous interest in the future good of the University is a real demonstration of the much talked about Notre Dame spirit. It is a desire that Notre Dame will not just be the outstanding Catholic college in the country but one of the outstanding colleges in the United States. While some of the criticisms and complaints may go unheeded for the present, if they are really aimed in an intelligent manner at an improved Notre Dame they will in due time have their effect in producing a truly great University.
-J. 5.
5
BE READY FOR THE HOLIDAYS AHEAD IN A NEW IVY TUXEDO
They’ve done a lot to the tuxedo in the last year or two. The lapels are slim and trim . . . the trousers have no pleats, fit better, look smarter. A lot of the padding is gone — the shoulders have a natural look — the fabric is practically weightless — they’re comfortable to wear! Why not see the new Ivy tuxedos at the Campus Shop now — and be ready for the holidays ahead!
$42.50
6
The Scholastic
some more
by BOB COLAIZZI and GERRY PASTULA
m jest
Yes, we’re back again, despite two weeks of dirty looks, poison pen letters, and a large ticking package from a * place called St. Mary’s. But being of steadfast character, we decided once 4 more to take pen in hand, and with I inky fingers, make another attempt at }	Escape.
j We were extremely pleased with the I many fan letter we have received in the > past two weeks, so we decided to print it.
Bob and Gerry !. “ c/o Scholastic.
Dear Bob and Ger:
I can’t tell you how much I enjoyed ‘l reading your column. You are two of | the most promising writers the Notre Dame campus has seen in many years. F y. ... In spite of what everyone says. I i am anxiously awaiting your next column ! almost as anxiously as I am awaiting the payment of your room rent. You’re three weeks behind.
Love,
I	7
Your Landlady.
A CONTEST
* With Thanksgiving just around the corner, the administration has informed us they are planning a contest for all K students planning to bring a car back for use at Christmas. The names of those successful will be engraved on a permanent bronze tablet atop the water
* tower. For those who lose ... a catalogue and the mailing of their transcripts, free of charge, to the trade school of their choice.
I*
[ YOU MAKE ME FEEL SO YOUNG
I Pity the poor twenty-six year old
* veteran who dropped into Holy Cross hall to visit his younger sister, and was
told by the Freshman at the desk, “Would you please wait in the parlors, young man?"
A WUNERFUL A WUNERFUL
Wanting to keep you posted on the many social activities which have been graciously provided by our student government, we attended a “Dollar Hop.” The ballroom was cleverly and authentically decorated to resemble a Navy Drill hall, and the faint glow of 1,000 candlepower lights lent a romantic atmosphere. After we had exchanged our dollar for a ticket stub “favor,” we began to take notice of the myriad of personalities present. There was the Freshman, whose mother took him aside the night before he left for college and taught him the “two-step.” We admired his spirit, but wished someone would tell him you don’t two-step to a Mambo. The upperclassmen had attended also (probably those on the lower-half of the Dean’s List). There, explaining the intricate design on the Ml rifle was the Junior. . . . Hair neatly parted, shoes shined, and his ROTC patch sewn smartly on the sleeve of his sport coat. We saw a Senior at the next table, deep in conversation with a Sophomore’s date. There he sat, trying to look casual as he slid his arm in a puddle of spilled coke.
So as to appear gentlemen, we asked our dates if they would like to dance. They thanked us, but said that the song wasn’t in their key. After much coercing, we joined the “wrestle to music,” only to be pushed six times, poked in the eye twice, and have the cuff of our new charcoals torn by a spike heel. We finally gave up to enjoy a bracing round of “7-up on the rocks.” Gee dad, to think we get all this for only a two-dollar tax.
GETTING TO KNOW YOU
One of the advantages of college away from home is “the real getting to know your classmates.” Unfortunately some of the students in women’s universities seldom get the chance to spend an “evening with the girls.” We were gratified to hear, though, that when they become Juniors and Seniors, they often get that chance on Friday and Saturday nights.	.
COMMUNITY SING
Have you noticed the new “rock and roll” songs have no significance to the Notre Dame man? Well, to remedy this situation, we’ve come up with one for all the troops. Just turn Paul Anka’s “Diana” down low, and follow the -“bouncing ball.”
I’m so young and you’re so cold, Oh St. Mary’s we’ve been told, We have heard just what they say, Better Irish stay away.
Grads have told us what to do, How to duck the barbs from you, Oh please, stay away St. Mary’s.
To those mixers Friday night,
With our collars too darn tight, We see you right by the post, Can’t tell which ive like the most, After waltzing ’round the floor, We get a handshake at the door, Oh please, stay away St. Mary’s.
PROVERB
“Bread cast upon the waters, comes back a hundredfold.” . . . But who wants soggy bread?
That about does it for another week. We’ll be back in two weeks, strictly . . . in jest.
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY...
Pay 1-3 in January —1-3 in February —1-3 in March
A new tuxedo — your Christmas shopping — the clothing you need — whatever you buy at the Campus Shop can be charged the Campus Shop way — pay nothing until January. Pay one-third in January — one-third in February — and one-third in March. Naturally, there is no carrying charge for this Campus Shop service. Use your Campus Shop charge account now!
DRESS RIGHT — You can't afford not to!
On the Campus — Notre Dame
The Scholastic

ssscssseei?

Jiiik SceM
From Coach Terry Brennan:
“On behalf of the coaching staff and the team, I want to thank all members of the student body for the sincere display of true Notre Dame fighting spirit which began on the Monday before the Oklahoma game and carried through to the wonderful welcome on our return Saturday evening. It was truly great, and as the game itself, it was a victory achieved by the student body as well as the team.
“It is also the wish of the coaching staff and the team to extend our appreciation to Coach Bud Wilkinson and the Oklahoma team on their graciousness and sportsmanship in defeat. We look forward to playing the Sooners again in the not too far distant future.
“Again, many thanks, and now let us all get together for a tremendous effort again this week, against Iowa.”
November 22, 1957
Irish halfback tells what it feels like
to have beaten Oklahoma as he says:
“We Went Down
There To Win"
by DICK LYNCH as told to TED THOMPSON
We went down there to win!
Before the game, we were joking and laughing in the locker room about Oklahoma’s winning streak and were relaxed when we took the field. The spirit was very high just before game time. Coach Brennan and Co-captains Ed Sullivan and Dick Prendergast talked to us and reminded us how much this game meant to us and to the Notre Dame followers throughout the country.
We were just glad they stayed undefeated during the year so that we could get a shot at them.
We were definitely ready for Oklahoma. Coach Bernie Crimmins did a terrific scouting job on Oklahoma. I
KABOOM!
Pietrosante drops Sooner after short gain
(AP wirephoto)
don’t think there was a thing he missed. And we can’t forget the great effort put out by all the coaches all week long. Everybody knew what he was supposed to do, and then we went out and did it. All the boys played a wonderful game. It was probably the greatest game any of us have ever played in. Forty-seven teams couldn’t stop them, but we did. This was one of the best victories Notre Dame will ever get. It was good for all the Notre Dame fans across the nation, good for football, and good for Oklahomans.
Coaches, players, the school, everybody put out, and we came up with a deserved victory.
THE AUTHOR
Oklahoma hit hard and played a very good ball game. They were a very well-coached team and played rough, clean football. But by the half we knew we had them. We should have scored twice, in the first half and knew it was just a matter of time before we finally did score against them.
When I crossed the goal line in the last quarter, I saw their 47-game winning streak tumble. I didn’t realize at the time that it was fourth down. If I had, I think I would have been too nervous to run.
But it was just luck that I was the one who scored. If ever eleven men should have been allowed to take that ball across, this was it. Last Saturday was a terrific team job. You can’t single out any one individual who stood out. Everyone played great football.
GOOD OFFENSE
In the drive to the winning touchdown we played our best offensive ball of the day. That last drive was the ball game. The line opened the holes, and the backs just followed them down the field. Bobby Williams did a great job. He called a near-perfect game. He took us all the way in the fourth quarter. Even when it got to be third and fourth down right in front of their goal line, we knew we were going to score. Bobby had taken us that far, and he’d take us the rest of the way. We had complete confidence in him. He had those Oklahoma linemen going after his fakes consistently.
LAWRENCE GREAT
Frank Reynolds picked up valuable yardage in the last drive when we needed it as well as playing a fine game all afternoon. But Don Lawrence probably
10
The Scholastic
put out as much as anybody in the touchdown march. He slammed into his * defenders, pushing one and sometimes two men back four and five yards on almost every play. Nick (Pietrosante) just F followed him. Don was really pooped after the game; he showed how much he had given.
The whole line played beautifully. It * was the line that made the difference.
They hit harder than they have in any game this year.
Frank Kuchta and Jimmy Colosimo really proved themselves last Saturday. Kuchta cut through Oklahoma’s offensive line whenever one of their guards » pulled out and made some fine tackles in the Sooner’s backfield. Jimmy made some beautiful catches of Bobby’s passes and did a very good job of replacing Bob * Wetoska, who hurt his back in the first half.
. MAKE MOVE
The Sooners made their move midway in the third period when Clendon » Thomas, their All-American halfback, carried the ball on three successive plays. But we stopped him and forced Oklahoma to punt. Then we just kept exchanging punts until we were able to drive for the score.
November 22, 1957
Their punting kept us down near our goal line all day. It seemed like there must have been a wall up over the goal line the way all their kicks kept bouncing the wrong way and rolling dead inside our ten yard line. But Nick did a great job of punting right back to them, keeping them outside our thirty until we started the winning march.
RALLIES HELPED
The whole week of rallies that preceded the game really helped us too. Those guys that came out in the rain. We couldn’t let them down. We really admire the ones that did come out. They were just as much a part of that win as anybody. The telegram with the 3,200 signatures just gave us that much more desire. It too was a real booster.
We want the Iowa victory next. We’re not going to stop now. Notre Dame’s back on top, and we’re going to stay there.
Iowa has the biggest line we will face this year, even bigger than Pittsburgh’s, and they have speedy backs to go with a fine passing combination of quarterback Randy Duncan to left end Jim Gibbons.
If Iowa had won last week, they would
have won the Big Ten title, moved close to the top in the national rankings, and Forest Evashevski might have been the Coach-of-the-Year. Since we are the last team they play, they will want to take all this out on us. And they love to beat Notre Dame anyway.
We expect a real tough battle all the way and want to get back at them for the pounding they gave us last year.
NEED STUDENT SUPPORT
The Oklahoma victory gave us the confidence we need to take these last three games. The only other thing we need is to know that the students are behind us. More guys turning out at the rallies. They have to make us feel like we are going to win. If everyone will come and cheer his head off and mean it, it can make all the difference in the world to us.
We need the students. They have to keep backing us up like they did this past week, not with the complacency they showed at the Navy rally. This rally tonight has to be the biggest and best Notre Dame has ever had. If it is, the Hawkeyes will be in for a very rough afternoon tomorrow because—
We’re going out there to win!
11
CELEBRATING
ED SHAY
and
BOB FANCHER
All Hail the Twelfth Man
The gladiators of Constantine falter, Fumbling on the great green field, they reeled; But an unseen soul a singing saber wheeled That pierced Goliath and spurred their fervour.
“What friend aids our cause?” demanded the king. And suddenly a black crossed youth arose, “The Fire-tongued sealed me and inspired my blows For your courage,” he added, “deserved rewarding.”
The battle won, the hero disappeared.
Yet, he still lives in we that are judged fit, Who hallow the warm breast of springing spirit. Because of Him, we shall go unconquered.
I saw twelve black crossed knights as in a dream Rise and conquer another Philistine.
—James Lenox
Hundreds throng to the Grotto after the game
12
The Scholastic
Lynch obliges a young admirer
November 22, 1957
Once-Beaten Hawkeyes Next Irish Hurdle As Teams Collide Tomorrow in Stadium Tilt
by ED ROHRBACH
Iowa’s Hawkeyes, smarting from their 17-13 defeat by Ohio State last week that dropped them from the Big Ten championship race and gave them their first setback of the season, invade Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow afternoon to oppose the Irish. The Hawkeyes, while trying to re-establish their winning pattern, will face an Irish team revitalized by their stunning upset win over Oklahoma. Iowa’s record now stands at six wins, one loss and a 21-21 stand-off with Michigan.
In seeking their sixth victory of the 1957 season Notre Dame will have to beat a team that is one of the country’s strongest.
The key to Iowa’s success this fall has been their mammoth line, anchored by tackles Alex Karras and Dick Klein. Karras, an All-American selection last year as a junior, stands 6-2 and weighs a solid 233 pounds. The Hawkeye left tackle is unusually fast for his size and is especially adept at breaking through the line and smacking passers down for big losses. Klein, the right tackle, is a veteran of service ball and is in his junior year at Iowa. He is the second biggest man on the squad, packing 250 pounds on a 6-4 frame.
Starting left guard for the Hawkeyes is Frank Bloomquist, a three year regular. Big and strong at 6-2 and 205 pounds, Bloomquist is a fine blocker and rugged tackler. At the other guard spot tomorrow will be Bob Commings, who weighs only 173 pounds and stands 5-9. Though extremely small for a lineman, Commings was an important cog in
JIM GIBBONS Iowa Captain
Iowa’s 1957 Rose Bowl championship team.
Jim Gibbons, captain of the Hawkeyes and their best pass receiver, will start at left end. At 200 pounds, on a lanky 6-3 frame, Gibbons is especially dangerous on long aerials. He can cut quickly,, and has good speed. At right end opposing Notre Dame tomorrow will be Don Norton, a sophomore. Though slightly built at 6-1 and 175 pounds, he is a tough defensive player.
Biggest of the big men in the Iowa front line is their center, 283-pound Mac
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP
NOTRE DAME	IOWA
Royer..........LE ......  Gibbons
Puntillo ______ LT........ Karras
Schaaf__________ LG	   Bloomquist
Kuchta ......... C	__________ Lewis
Ecuyer________ RG ...... Commings
Lawrence ......  RT......._ Klein
Stickles .....  RE	   Norton
Williams ...... QB	  Duncan
Reynolds ....... LH	   Gravel
Lynch _________  RH	  Hagler
Pietrosante .... FB	   Nocera
KICKOFF—1:00 p.m. C.S.T.
Lewis. Difficult to move because of his size, Lewis (he stands 6-6) is very prominent on defense though his offensive blocking is somewhat of a drawback.
Randy Duncan is the 1957 Iowa quarterback. He is a fine passer and is speedy. Duncan runs the Hawkeye offensive very well and has helped to make it one of the most potent in the nation. Chunky Bill Gravel will start tomorrow at left halfback for Iowa. The junior back carries 180 pounds on a 5-8 frame and has displayed good power and speed this fall. His forte is the off-tackle slant and he cuts well in turning the corner on the option play. Paired with Gravel at right halfback is Collins Hagler, a very dependable runner. He, like all the Iowa halfbacks, is small but stout, weighing only 163 pounds. First line replacements for these two halfbacks will be Geno Sessi and two-year monogram winner Bill Happel.
Starting Hawkeye fullback will be John Nocera, a 6-1, 203 pounder. He is the team’s best blocker and can pass. Nocera’s replacement will be Fred Harris, last year’s starter who carried 61 yards for a touchdown against Notre Dame in 1956.
ALEX KARRAS
Hawkeye Tackle
TYLER’S PICKS OF THE WEEK
Auburn over Florida State Arizona over Marquette	«
SMU over Baylor	-
Stanford over California
Vanderbilt over Citadel Colorado over Iowa State Duke over North Carolina Yale over Harvard Illinois over Northwestern Purdue over Indiana Notre Dame over Iowa Michigan St. over Kansas St. Minnesota over Wisconsin Oklahoma over Nebraska Oregon over Oregon State Penn St. over Pittsburgh UCLA over So. California
Syracuse over West Virginia	«
Tennessee over Kentucky Maryland over Virginia
UPSET OF THE WEEK: MICHIGAN over OHIO STATE
THANKSGIVING: Colgate over Brown Cornell over Penn Texas over Texas A&M Utah over Utah St.
November 30:	‘
Auburn over Alabama
Clemson over Furman
Georgia Tech over Georgia	„
Mississippi over Mississippi St.
Notre Dame over USC Oklahoma over Oklahoma St. Army over Navy	•
Tennessee over Vanderbilt
LAST WEEK:
21 Right; 4 Wrong.	*
SEASON:
141 Right; 43 Wrong; 6 Ties.
PCT. .766.
14
The Scholastic
TIME OUT
The game last Saturday made up for a lot of things. It will make many fans forget last year’s Oklahoma game, and a few more will minimize last season. Notre Dame’s victory over Oklahoma marked the Irish’s return to big time football, and they couldn’t have done it in any finer style.
In Oklahoma the Irish beat a fine ball club, one that never quits and was never really out of contention. Perhaps the biggest tribute to Notre Dame was by the former OU great Buddy Burris. When congratulating Coach Brennan he remarked that it was the finest job done against the Oklahoma line in the past seven or eight years.
One thing must be said for certain. The Sooners went down like real champions. They made no excuses nor tried to minimize their defeat. They t said simply that they were beaten by a better team. They were outplayed and outfought, and they admitted it.
The Oklahoma fans too accepted defeat in the same manner. They were ,	stunned but were free to admit that Notre Dame deserved to win. The
Okies can be proud of their team and look forward to many more fine seasons under Coach Wilkinson.
Special mention should be made of Coach Crimmins’ fine scouting of * Oklahoma. The Irish knew exactly what to expect and played accordingly. They were especially aware that Oklahoma was weak on passes and that they couldn’t throw as in previous years.
*	Bobby Williams mixed up the offense and threw like a pro. He seemed
always to select the right play on the 80-yard scoring march, especially the touchdown play. The Notre Dame defense was perfectly set up to match the Oklahoma offense. In the second half coach Brennan moved his linebackers up a little tighter and choked the Sooner outside stuff completely.
LOOKING AHEAD
Tomorrow the Irish can expect more of the same. Iowa will be tougher 7 because of their defeat by Ohio State last week end and might be tougher to defense than Oklahoma because of then- passing attack.
They were barely beaten by Ohio State who some think are the best in u the country. Iowa will be every bit as tough as anyone that we have met all season, and it will take a fine performance to beat them. However, we again have to go along with the Irish.
Last Saturday, Notre Dame matured into a well-knit machine which * ground out yardage and was unbelievably tough on important third down situations, both on offense and defense. They learned what it’s like to beat a real good club. They liked what they learned.
>	The Notre Dame second unit also matured a great deal with Saturday’s
win. There was no appreciable difference between the play of our first and alternate teams, especially on defense. This should give our first team a chance to rest and it will also keep the pressure on the Hawkeyes as * was done to OU last Saturday.
The only thing to be feared tomorrow is a let down by both the Student Body and the team. If this happens, it will be all over. Iowa is a fine < team and one that must be taken seriously. If we are “up” anywhere near as high as we were last week we have nothing to fear.
> TYLER HAPPY
Tyler wrote to say that he was quite elated ovei- the “upset of the week.” He said further that he knows that we’ll play a fine game against * Iowa. Also for the first time this year, he gave us the point spread, Notre Dame by seven.
We’ll call it Notre Dame by six.—M. F.
Pietrosante, Lynch Still Head Statistics
After seven games, .Dick Lynch and Nick Pietrosante are the individual leaders for the Irish. Lynch leads in number of passes caught with 12 for 122 yards, in scoring with 30 points, and kickoff returns with six for 163 yards. Pietrosante leads in rushing with 444 yards in 89 carries for a five yard average, and in punting with 1,450 yards in 37 attempts for a 38.2 average.
Behind Lynch in the pass catching department is Bob Wetoska who has picked off seven passes for 124 yards. Monty Stickles and Dick Prendergast have caught five and four passes for 76 and 78 yards respectively. Pietrosante is tied with .Frank Reynolds and Bob Williams for second place in scoi-ing. Each have two touchdowns for twelve points. Williams has returned five kickoffs for 89 yards while Reynolds has returned three for 72 yards.
Lynch has carried the ball 71 times for 258 yards and a 3.7 average while Reynolds has gained 195 yards in 58 attempts for a 3.4 average. Jim Just has 125 yards in 27 carries for a 4.6 average. George Izo has punted five times for 133 . yards and a 26.6 average with Williams booting once for 16 yards.
Lewis is the leader in punt returns with two for 27 yards and an average of 13.5 average. Just has returned three for twelve yards and a four yard average. --Williams has thrown 77 passes with 37 completions for-390 yards and ■ a percentage of -.481. Izo has completed seven .-passes in 22 attempts for- 179 yards for a .318 average.
Jim Schaaf has made 65 tackles with Al Ecuyer close behind with 58. Bob Scholtz has 39 with Pietrosante, Royer, Puntillo, Lawrence and Nagurski following with 37, 34, 31, 29 and 28 respectively. Lynch has broken up six passes with Pietrosante breaking up four. Izo has intercepted two passes while Pietrosante has recovered two opponents fumbles.	,
The Irish have outscored their seven ! opponents 93-82 and have nine more first downs with 101. Notre Dame has gained 1,265 yards by rashing in 364 attempts for a 3.5 average while the opposition : has gained 1,365 yards in 333 attempts for a 4.1 average. Through the air, the Irish have gained 659 yards in 118 at- ‘ tempts and completed 50 for a .424 per- : centage. The opposition has completed ; 40 passes in 99 attempts for 550 yards ' ] and a .404 percentage. The Irish have ; fumbled 21 times, losing the ball eleven i times, while the opposition has lost the ball to the Irish eight times in 24 s fumbles.	j
15 J
I November 22, 1957
Wilsonmen Prepare For NCAA Meet After Sharp Showing in CCC and IC4A
Last week end was the busiest week end of the fall for the Notre Dame ci'oss country team. Friday they journeyed to Chicago for the Central Collegiate Conference Meet, and Monday they were in New York for the IC4A Meet, perennially one of the toughest of the year.
This coming Monday the Irish harriers will close out their season at East Lansing-, Michigan, by competing in the NCAA Meet.
Last Friday the Irish took the CCC title by edging Western Michigan, 27-30. These two were the only full teams that competed. Other schools sent individuals but did not have the full five men in the meet that are necessary to make up a team.
Captain Dale VandenBerg paced the Irish with his second place finish. The senior 880-yard dash man was followed by Ed Monnelly, Dave Cotton, Vic Dillon, and John Burns in that order. VandenBerg’s time was slow, much slower than usual inasmuch as the course was longer than the regulation four miles and was very muddy.
The Intercollegiate Amateur Athletic Association of America Meet, featuring the top teams in the East as well as some of the strongest teams from the Midwest, was led again this year by the schools from this part of the country. Michigan State repeated as champions this year and Notre Dame improved their position from fourth last year to second in this season’s meet.
COACH WILSON
Prepares for NCAA meet
MSU collected 86 points while the Irish amassed a total of 102. Next in line were three Eastern schools, Penn State with 119, Cornell with 125, and Syracuse with 128. Twenty-one schools fielded full teams and finished. Numerous other schools sent their best individuals.
Top Irish finisher was Ed Monnelly, who was timed in 24:54, good for fifth place. He was followed by John Burns, 25:25, eighteenth place, Dale VandenBerg, twenty-second place, Dave Cotton, twenty-fourth place, and Mike Haverty, thirty-ninth place.
The cross country team is looking forward to the last meet on their schedule. This is the biggest meet of the year in that all the best teams from across the nation will be at East Lansing. Notre Dame will be out to atone for the losses suffered to Michigan State in a dual meet earlier this fall and in the IC4A Meet last Monday. Besides this, there will be the added incentive to dethrone the defending champions, who have won this meet for two years running.
In addition to Notre Dame and Michigan State, two of the top teams in the Midwest, and Penn State, Cornell, and Syracuse, probably the three top squads in the East, on the basis of their showings in the IC4A, Kansas and Houston will lead the teams from the rest of the country in their attempt to take the championship away from the talented Spartans.
Bill Easton of Kansas, one of the best coaches of distance runners in the nation, always comes up with a fine cross country squad. Houston is led by Polish refugee John Macy. Macy last year had the best time of all the freshmen in the country in the two-mile and was near the top in the mile also.
Coach Wilson commented after the IC4A Meet that the NCAA Meet coming up would definitely be the hardest meet of the year. “Besides the teams we faced in New York,” he said, “we will have to take on the best from the South, Southwest including Kansas, and the Far West. We showed last week that we are better than the Eastern teams, and, if we run as well next Monday as we did last Monday, we will do all right.”
NO ‘SCHOLASTIC’
There will be no issue of the SCHOLASTIC published next Friday because of the Thanksgiving vacation. The next issue of the SCHOLASTIC will be published on Dec. 6.
ALL-AMERICAN
Results from the SCHOLASTIC’S “College Sports Editors All-American Football Team” poll have been coming in for the past two weeks. Over 300 college sports editors from across the nation were asked to send in their nominations for the “dream team” and so far the response has been gratifying. Already, over 100 team selections plus “Player of the Year” and “Coach of the Year" votes have been received by the SCHOLASTIC.
This is the second year of the poll, and with the large response already received, the indications are that this year’s team will be a truly representative All-American team. Fifty-three more colleges and universities were asked to send in their nominations than last year.
Sailing Team Victors Last Week at Purdue
Last Saturday and Sunday at Purdue University the Notre Dame sailing team captured first place in the midwest regional eliminations to qualify for the Timme-Angston Regatta that will be held in Chicago over Thanksgiving. The sailing team won eight of the 16 races to beat out second place Purdue.	‘
Skippering for Notre Dame were: Tim Rice, Lou Morgan, Ron Meissner and Dan Schuster. On Saturday, when twelve races were held, the wind reached a velocity of 35 m.p.h. and many boats were swamped. It alleviated somewhat on Sunday when the remaining four-races were held. •
Other teams competing besides Notre ’ Dame and the host team at Purdue were Indiana and Cincinnati. DePaul had entered but dropped out when some of its team members contacted the flu.
Over Thanksgiving at Chicago’s Belmont Harbor the sailing team will compete with twelve other teams, all elimi- 4 nation qualifiers from their district.
New England will be represented by Brown and Boston University. Brown is the defending Timme-Angston Regatta champion. From the Middle-Atlantic eliminations will be Cornell and Fordham. Other competitors will be from * Purdue, which qualified by placing second to Notre Dame last week, Wisconsin, Marquette, Wayne, (Detroit), Ohio State and Ohio Wesleyan.
Sailing team skippers in this regatta will be Ron Meissner, Tim Rice, Lou Morgan and Ray Nelson. Last year in » this same meet, Notre Dame finished fourth. It will be the last fall action for* the . sailing team. Spring sailing meets will begin in April.
16
The Scholastic
IOWA:
¥
ALWAYS TOUGH
by Joe Bride

Noverber 21, 1953, was supposed to be ; a normal football Saturday on the campus of Notre Dame. The 1953 Fighting Irish team was steamrolling through their opposition. They had out-fought * ♦ Oklahoma in their opener, stopped a
Georgia Tech winning streak at 31 games, fought back under John Lattner 4 for a win over Penn, and won seven straight games. They were the number one team in the country—sure bets to win the national championship. They •i * had hurdled their toughest obstacle of the season—the illness of Coach Frank Leahy—and continued winning.
> They entered the game on this gray November day as 13-point favorites. Their opponents were the Hawkeyes of the State University of Iowa. On the surface, the Irish had little to worry about. Iowa had finished its 1953 Big Ten season and was assured of no better than a tie for sixth place. They had lost to Michigan State, Michigan and
CONFERENCE DURING ’53 IOWA CONTEST
Coach Leahy consults with Frank Varrichione about injury
November 22, 1957
Wisconsin. Their wins were over Washington State, Wyoming, Indiana, Purdue and Minnesota.
The only person in the Irish camp who seemed worried was Coach Leahy, who termed the Hawkeyes the toughest opponent of the season. But, his reputation as an archpessimist ruined his foresight.
Fans were forgetting what Iowa teams had done to Notre Dame. It was way back in 1921 when they started torturing the Irish. Notre Dame traveled to Iowa City with a string of 22 straight victories. The string was snapped, 10-7. In 1939 the Irish were boasting a six-game streak, but Nile Kinnick moved the Hawks to a 7-6 win. The next year Bill Green scored a touchdown for a 7-0 Iowa win. And in 1950 and 1951, the Irish had to realign themselves in the second half to extract ties from the stubborn Iowa squads.
But, this was 1953 and Notre Dame
was going to be the national champions. No mention was made of the shutout and the four touchdown wins Iowa had scored in their last two times, out over Purdue and Minnesota. For that latter win, Bill Fenton, ace Iowa wingman, was named “Lineman of the Week” for leading the surge that stopped Minnesota’s Paul Giel.
Two hours and 38 minutes after ND Captain Don Penza had won the toss for the eighth straight time and Menil Mav-raides had kicked off for the Irish to Binky Broeder of the Hawks, Notre Dame was trailing Iowa, 14-7. And, only six seconds remained in the game. But, on third and nine, Ralph Guglielmi passed into the end zone. Dan Shannon was there and the game was only one point away from being a tie.' Don Schaefer converted and the Irish tied the Hawkeyes, 14-14.
SHANNON TWICE
Shannon’s TD catch in the final seconds of the game was a duplication of his theatrics at the end of the first half. Then, the. Irish had fourth and eleven, Guglielmi had been smothered while attempting to pass, and the clock showed only two seconds remaining in the half. Frank Varrichione was found rolling on the ground by the referee and his “injury” necessitated a time out. Guglielmi had time for one more play and he hit Shannon in the end zone to make the score 7-7, at half.
Dramatic plays and freak incidents were the rule throughout the afternoon. The Irish completely mauled the Iowa squad of Coach Forest- Evashevski statistically. Notre Dame had 21 first downs to Iowa’s ten. The Irish had 358 total yardage to 198. And, they had 12 completed passes to three for the Hawks.
LEAHY RIGHT
But, the gloom of Leahy was accurate. The Hawks scored their first touchdown after a fluke interception of a Notre Dame pass. Penza had deflected a pass from Guglielmi into the arms of Dusty Rice and the Hawks moved to score. They scored their other touchdown after intercepting another Guglielmi pass and moved 52 yards on 13 plays to take the lead in the last quarter with only 2:06 remaining.
Then, the Irish had to move back. And they did, driving 57 yards on four completed passes by Guglielmi, the final one the touchdown toss to Shannon.
Coach Evashevski was most unhappy after the game. Referring to the manner and method the Irish scored, he quoted, in the manner of a parody on Grantland Rice, “It matters not that you won nor lost, but how you got gipped at Notre Dame.” •
17
1
SEASON’S OUTLOOK BRIGHT
by JOHN GLAVIN
Notre Dame opens up its 1957-58 , basketball season on Dec. 3 when they host St. Ambrose of Davenport, la. The prospects this season are the brightest they have been in a long time and indi' cations are that the Irish will make a great attempt at their first national championship.
Coach Johnny Jordan will begin his seventh season as head coach and has compiled a 100-51 record in his six seasons. An indication of Jordan’s ability •r is that 25 of those defeats were recorded in two years when the Irish were rebuilding after great years in 1952-53 and 1953-54.
p Although the Irish have been picked , for fourth and seventh respectively by two national magazines, Jordan is quick to comment that “I’d rather be up there at the end of the season. I guess they don’t realize what a loss John Smyth will be. But, we are probably as set * as we have ever been at this point in the season.”
Last year’s club compiled a 20-8 record averaging better than 84 points per game which was eighth in the country. Smyth became the second highest scorer in Notre Dame history. His three-year total of 1,236 is topped only by Jack Stephens’ total of 1,251. He also became > the holder of the third highest one-season total with 534 points. The team scored a total of 2,364 points which broke the record of the 1953-54 team which totaled 1,896 points.
Four of last year’s five starters are returning, but this year’s schedule is the , toughest in the school’s history. Notre Dame plays both the NCAA champs in North Carolina, and Bradley, the NIT champions. Also on the schedule are * games with the Big Ten co-favorites — Indiana and Michigan State. Holy Cross and Canisius, two outstanding eastern quintets, will make their first visits to the Fieldhouse. Traditional games are listed with Marquette, DePaul, Loyola, Louisville, Illinois and Butler. For its * eastern trip this year, the Irish have scheduled NYU in Madison Square Garden and Navy at Annapolis. •
' MUST REPLACE SMYTH
Coach Jordan’s biggest problem is finding a replacement for last year’s • captain, John Smyth. “Smitty” in scoring 534 points last year, averaged 19 per game. He was also second in rebounds to Tom Hawkins with 423. Between the two, they grabbed almost 60 per cent of the rebounds. Finding some
one to take up the slack is not going to be easy.
The four returning starters are set in their- positions; Co-Captains Bob Devine and John McCarthy, Tom Hawkins and Gene Duffy.
Devine, the 6-1 senior guard from Philadelphia, was fourth in scoring with a 12.7 average. He was of much more value the past two years as a playmaker but this year will have to score much more to fill the scoring gap left by Smyth.
McCarthy was the surprise of the Irish last year. He started off very slowly but after Christmas vacation averaged almost 20 points per game. He was also a valuable rebounder with 286.
HAWKINS TOP SCORER
Hawkins is Notre Dame’s candidate for All-American honors. The lanky junior stands just 6-5 but can go up higher than most men five or six inches taller. He possesses a jump shot which is almost unstopable from in close. He led the Irish in scoring with 576 points which broke the single season scoring mark formerly held by Lloyd Aubrey with 539. With two seasons to go, Hawkins is almost assured of breaking the career mark of Stephens.
Duffy is a crowd pleaser because of his height. The 5-6 junior from Davenport, la., broke in the lineup last year just about the time that the Irish started their 12-game winning streak. He made the Jordan double pivot work to perfection. Although it is almost impossible to score outside in the offense, he will have to score better than last year when he garnered 79 points in 22 games.
Jordan is undecided about the center position or the high post man on the double pivot. Tom Reinhart, a 6-5 junior from Minneapolis, and Jim Williams, a 6-4 senior from Danville, Ill., have been battling it out for the position. Jordan probably will not name a starter until game time. It is most likely that he will alternate the two quite frequently in the games because both lack experience. Mike Graney, a very promising sophomore was expected to take over the starting position but has been declared ineligible until the second semester.
Williams and Reinhart have come along rapidly since the opening of practice five weeks ago. Jordan indicated that “if they hadn’t showed so well, we would really be in trouble but both have worked very hard. As things stand now, if one falters, the other can take over.”
The number one backcourt reseiwe will be the veteran Ed Gleason who has filled starting roles at various times in the past two seasons. Gleason was sixth in scoring last year but as is true of most' of the guards, is much more valuable as a playmaker.
As for the rest of his squad, Jordan is reluctant to rate them because “with the progress some of them have been making, it is getting real confusing to pick one over another.”
For reserve forwards, Jordan can call on Lee Ayotte, a 6-4 senior; Mickey Bekelja, a 6-4 sophomore; Emmett McCarthy, a 6-3 soph; and two other sophomores, 6-4 Harry Morgan and 6-5 Mike Farrell. Ayotte is a two-year veteran of the ’54-’55 and ’55-’56 seasons. He dropped out of school last year because of illness but returned this yeai- to add some experience to the club.
Bekelja played his high school ball in Harrisburg, Pa., and possesses a fine jump shot and is a capable rebounder.
McCarthy, like his older brother, does everything well and is one of the hardest workers on the team. What he lacks in height, he makes up in hustle.
MORGAN GOOD SHOOTER
Morgan is a tremendous shooter from New Orleans and as soon as he learns to work smoother in the pivot, he will be a valuable asset.
Farrell is a lefthander from West Orange, N. J., who drives well and has a potent jump shot but lacks the necessary experience to crack the lineup.
Another top sophomore prospect is Bob Skrzycki, 6-5 forward from Detroit.
Another capable center, the tallest player on the club, is Mike Ireland. The 6-7 junior- is the son of George Ireland, former ND court star and present coach at Loyola University in Chicago.
The two guard replacements are two very fine sophomores, Bob Bradtke and Don McGann. Bradtke has a good jump shot and a one-hand push shot that he hits from outside.
McGann is a product of Joliet Catholic in Joliet, Ill., where the present coach is Leroy Leslie, a former Irish court star. McGann is very quick and drives well.
The whole key to the season lies in the ability of the Irish to adjust to the loss of Smyth. Neither Reinhart nor Williams can be expected to take on the whole task. Hawkins, McCarthy and Devine must carry the scoring burden while these two gain experience. If the Irish do adjust, they will be tough.
November 22, 1957
19
With Hope:
Academic Honor Society
Bravo! A bit of excitement and heated discussion on campus not directly concerned with a football game, a prom, or a holiday!
If, in offering to the University student body and administration an academic honor society, the Academic Commission accomplishes nothing more than stimulation of a review of that old question of “Why are we here as students?”, we will feel that our time has still been well spent.
However valuable the discussion raised, it nevertheless seems to me that the majority of the doubts and objections presented in opposition to the honor society are missing the central points and scattershooting the limbs.
Basically, as presented to us in private discussions and in the two thoughtful articles in the Scholastic issue of Oct. 25, the objections revolve around two points.
First, that acquisition of knowledge and wisdom is its own reward and does not require nor is it benefitted by any recognition of the student* who excels such activity.
Secondly, that any system of rewarding scholarship by recognition of grade achievements is unreal, false—that it is not necessarily true that “superior average denotes superior intellect’.’, in the words of Frank McGraw.
I would take issue with both of these points, as being substantially wide of their mark.
The first charge misses the point by assuming that the absolute end of the academic honor society will be the benefits conferred on the students who are members—that is, it looks at its value only from the standpoint of those students.
This is not, I would suggest, quite justified. There is something to be said, I think, for giving the outstanding student recognition, for we are all human and no matter how idealistically reward- ’ ing any work, a pat on the back is seldom unappreciated.
Nevertheless its primary value must be seen in the community, the University community, as a whole. In our own little world, one can now say' a student is awarded the “ND Monogram” and acclaim upon performing exceptionally well in a school sport; he is admitted to a service honor society upon determination of his past and potential intelligent leadership qualities; he is cited by cam
pus publications in “Who’s Who” and “Man of the Year” for extracurricular leadership in general.
Recognition of the successful career of a student as student comes only with the graduation honors, coming automatically and at the very conclusion of the student life. (By and large I would agree that Mr. Woods’ analysis of the Dean’s list is essentially correct: it is, primarily, designation of certain individuals as having taken their studies seriously enough to ibe themselves taken seriously as students and allowed more freedom in class attendance, and little more. It is in fact in some instances an unpublished designation.)
The net result of all this is that our community, supposedly one intrinsically formed by a unity of intellectual endeavor, having as its highest ideal the acquisition of knowledge and wisdom, says in effect to itself and the rest of the world, “Look, old chap, come here and devote yourself to anything else but your studies and you’ll be properly acclaimed. If you achieve maximum excellence in your studies, well, fine, but we’re not particularly interested in that accomplishment.”
And so we have an unfortunate situa
Academic Honor Society squabble
tion where no one bothers to say “Well done!” to the student who realizes his true end as student, and theoretical ideal gives way before the recognized fact that we place more importance on a well-played game and a well-planned dance than a well-written thesis.
We offer the honor society as a small
means of combating this spirit within the community, of helping all students to realize precisely what the true aim of their years as a student is by extending the highest possible honor for academic achievements.
If with regard to the second point, one concedes for the moment the desirability of such recognition but objects to doing so on the basis of grade averages, we can only suggest that theoretically the considered opinions of a student’s intellectual accomplishments by a multiplicity of professors should be a good estimate.
Practical difficulties of course arise, and injustices creep in, but it is a real question as to whether this system is not more free of these practical evils than any other would be. To dismiss the grading system as saying nothing about a student in the way of intellectual evaluation strikes us as being rather unrealistic in the extreme. No one would claim it to be perfect, but it is widely held as the best means of selection that we could attain.
Whether or not the proposed honor society, if it is approved, will improve our cognizance of our aim here as students, will be told by time. We offer it with hope.
20
The Scholastic
Architects and Their Department
'I
At present, only two Catholic universities in the United States have an ac-( credited Department of Architecture; the two are the Catholic University in Washington, D. C., and Notre Dame. The Department of Architecture was founded * here in 1898 with offices in an aerie of the Main Building. Since the mid-30’s ’ it has been in its present location, south of the Student Center. The two-story brick building together with a recent annex and the third floor rear of the Center provides more than 1600 square i feet of floor space for drafting rooms, library and offices.
by BOB SEBLACK
or church property such as pews, communion rails, or chalices. This year’s Rambush prize winner, a bell tower designed by junior Gary Victor, is shown here.
As has been mentioned, the architecture curriculum is a five-year, program of 182 credit hours, the completion of which merits a degree of Bachelor of Architecture. Fifth year students live on the upper two floors of Fisher Hall and have all the privileges of graduate students. The culmination of a four-yeai- program in design is the senior thesis, done in the final year.
Prof Paul Grillo assists
In recent years a tremendous amount of experimentation has taken place in ‘ this department with regard to courses, sequences, and general program. At the present Mr. Francesco Montana, head of t the department, feels that the curriculum is fairly well set although some changes, notably the addition of new courses such as the Option in City Plan-*• ning which arose from a recent series of lectures on Urban Development, are still being made.
, The primary aim of the department is “instruction in theoretical and applied subjects pertaining to the design and construction of buildings. In keeping with the tradition of architecture as a creative art as well as a science, the r aesthetic as well as the practical side of the profession are equally stressed.”
As a result of this approach, the Department of Architecture includes courses in all the colleges of the University. The prescribed program for the .. five-year course in architecture consists 1 of courses in science, engineering, the humanities, and design and construction.
Some of the really outstanding courses _ in the department are those taught by Mr. Ernest Brandl on the history and the philosophy of architecture and on the research of the development of , American church architecture. Specialization can be made by a particular choice of electives.
In addition to the usual collegiate reward, a degree, the architecture students strive for certain monetary rewards on the merit of workmanship. . Each year four problems, varying in length, are assigned to the students. A number of prizes totaling $3,000 are offered by various firms for the best t designs. Two of the more important ones, especially at a Catholic school such as Notre Dame, are the Rambush Prize and the Church Property Prize, $50 rewards for the best sketches of churches
The subject for the thesis is selected by the student, subject to the approval of the faculty adviser and head of the department. The class meets fifteen periods a week and includes the preparation of elevations, plans, sections, perspectives, and models, suitable for preliminary presentation to a client. Students can be seen working on these theses till all hours of the night, so the Scholastic photographer had no trouble getting these pictures.
Although there are only about 150 students in the architecture program, they are, perhaps, the closest-knit unit in the University. This is the opinion of Bob Hoffman, president of the Architects Club. Since the architects are so comparatively few in number it is nat
Rambush prize winner
ural that there should be a camaraderie among them.
Outside of class the chief interest of many of them is the Architects Club, a campus club by and for the students and an affiliate of the American Institute of Architects. Through this organ-' ization the students are able to work with professional architects and discuss current ideas. The aims of the club are fourfold, professional, academic, religious and social. Since Notre Dame has the only school of architecture in the state, the Indiana Society of Architects is interested in Notre Dame and holds a meeting on the campus during the second semester.
Through the Architects Club, students
November 22, 1957
Frankie’s rathskeller
participate in numerous conventions around the country during the school year. Three weeks ago Bob Hoffman and Steve Dragos attended the events of the Chicago Dynamics Week as guests of the United States Steel Corporation. They were part of a group composed of ten Midwestern universities whose representatives acted as liason between the
years in the office of a practicing architect or interior decorator or on a building construction job.” The significance of this is clear to anyone (21 or over) who has visited Frankies, the remodeled basement that is.
Last summer John Chihan, Orlando Maione and Jack Pruss were in South
Bend for summer school. Since they had to buy their own meals, the Italian cuisine of Frankies attracted them. One night they were shooting the breeze * with Frankie when the subject of expansion came up. Frankie wanted to do something with his basement “rat cellar” and asked for suggestions. The r' three architects got together and made some suggestions. Frankie liked what he heard and told them to go ahead and to bill him. The result was dual: the three had no more worries about their next meal and Frankie has an attractive rathskeller, The Manhole.	4 1
An Osorio mural proclaiming “Go Down Moses” greets the entrepreneur as he heads downstairs. At the bottom of the stairs and to the right is a small room for a group of eight or ten. Continuing toward the front of the building, the customer has a bar on his left and - , a large-size couch on the right. The main room is in front and it consists of redwood paneled walls, wooden furniture, and lamps with hand wrought metal shades. The object for which the rathskeller was named, the stolen manhole, is the centerpiece, a few feet inside 4 the entrance to this room. With the idea that nothing should be concealed, building supports were painted red as were some pipes. A piano which plays i the Victory March (and other songs) is here along with an inspiring picture of the Main Building donated by the graduate law students.	*
This work, of course, was not sponsored in any way by the University but was a student project in applied knowledge.
practicing architects and the students of their respective schools as well as participants in the discussions and forums.
Later this month Jerry Shank will journey to Washington, D. C., to participate in the meeting of the National Association of Student Architects.
The officers of the Architects Club in addition to Bob Hoffman are Marco Asturias, vice-president; Steve Dragos, secretary, and Jerry Shank, treasurer.
Two statements in the bulletin describing the Architecture Department are noteworthy. First is the collaboration which the department urges with other students in the fields of art and engineering. Though many people are unconscious of the practical value of this collaboration, nevertheless, it is evidenced in the hall homecoming displays, dance decorations, and posters. The Tech Review runs a contest for the four best cover drawings each year and uses them for their quarterly issues. Even the delightful devils of Osorio are proof of the extracurricular activity.
Another bulletin statement regards application of knowledge and requests that- “each student spend at least part of the summer vacation between school-
Group discussion of a thesis problem
22
The Scholastic
4 <
POPULAR FILTER PRICE
The Marlboro Ms
Jowly atd th* cigareffMpa* up. Nodgg»g-NorrwWa.
N£W -SllF-STMTW
A lot of man ...a lot of cigarette

“He gets a lot to like—filter, flavor, flip-top box, ” The works.
A filter that means business. An easy draw that’s all flavor. And the flip-top box that ends crushed cigarettes.
(MADE IN RICHMOND. VIRGINIA. FROM A PRIZED RECIPE)


November 22, 1957
23

CampaA- Scuta
'Executive Holiday' in Florida Setting Planned For Annual Commerce Ball in Center Tonight
Warm, sunny Florida is the setting for “Executive Holiday,” which will be held tonight in the LaFortune Student Center from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Dan Belloc’s band will provide the music for the “vacationing businessmen,” at theii’ annual Commerce Ball.
Miss Claudia Carr of Kansas City, Mo., will reign as queen over the week end’s activities. She will be crowned during the intermission of the dance by The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. Miss Cari’ is the date of the dance chairman, Bob Massman, a business administration major.
The Center will be provided with a swimming pool that will help to carry out the colorful Florida setting. Other features of the unusual decorations will be palm trees, coconuts, and sand.
Commerce Dean James W. Culliton and Assistant Dean T. T. Murphy, along with their wives, will act as chaperones for the Ball.
Tomorrow afternoon the Commerce men and their dates will attend the Iowa game. In the evening there will be a victory dance in the Drill Hall from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. Gene Bertoncini and his Lettermen will play.
Keenan Hall Formally Dedicated Tomorrow
Keenan Hall, one of two new University dormitories, will be formally dedicated tomorrow morning in ceremonies starting at 9 a.m.
Bishop Loras Lane, of Rockford, HL, a Notre Dame graduate, will bless the building following a Mass to be celebrated by The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president.
Accommodating 300 students, the four-story buff brick building is the gift of Mr. and Mrs. James F. Keenan, Fort Wayne, Ind., in memory of their son, James F. Keenan, Jr., who died in 1941. Mr. Keenan, who attended Notre Dame, is president of the Keenan Hotel Co. and a member of the University’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees.
Keenan Hall was designed by Ellerbe and Co. and built by the M. J. McGough Company, both of St. Paul, Minn. The building provides 150 student rooms, quarters for four Holy Cross priests who serve as rector* and prefects, a foyer, study hall, and television lounge.
The chapel serving both Keenan and
24
On Sunday morning The Rev. Lawrence Broestl, C.S.C., will celebrate Mass in the Dillon Hall Chapel at 9 a.m. for the couples attending the Ball. Following the Mass there will be a Communion Breakfast in the Mahogany Room of the Morris Inn. The Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president of student affairs, will be the guest speaker.
Assisting General Chairman Massman are: Jim Carell, decorations; Tom Bartley, tickets; Fred Booth, hotel reservations; Mike Kuras, .publicity; Jerry Maurer, refreshments; Bob Cushing, entertainment; Andrew Aman, business;
COMMERCE BALL QUEEN
Miss Claudia Carr
and Gerry Pastula, Communion Breakfast tickets.	■
Late permissions for those attending the dance will extend until 2 a.m. Saturday morning. There will be no admission to the dance after 10 pan. The car permissions will extend until noon Saturday.
Stanford Hall students seats four hundred. It includes a travertine marble main altar and four oak side altars. A mahogany crucifix which hangs above the main altar is the work of celebrated sculptor Ivan Mestrovic of the Notre Dame faculty. The chapel’s pipe organ is the gift of Mrs. Helen Kellogg of Chicago, Ill.
Stanford Hall, the other new campus dormitory, was dedicated by Archbishop John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., of Philadelphia, Pa., in ceremonies held on Nov. 2.
'Tamburitzans' Open Local Series Dec. 6
The Concert and Lecture Series of 1957 gets underway with the presentation of the “Tamburitzans” at Washington Hall on Dec. 6 at 8:15 p.m.
Tickets can be obtained at the theater box office from Dec. 4 through Dec. 6 from 3:30 until 8:30 p.m. Prices for ' students, faculty and employees are $.75 balcony and $1 orchestra.
The “Tamburitzans” is a group from Duquesne University made up entirely of undergraduate students. This year is their twentieth anniversary and the second time that they have appeared -here at the University.
The tamburitzan is one of man’s first musical instruments and is the forerunner of the mandolin and guitar. Besides music the group also performs dances in colorful Slavic costumes.
Their repertoire includes songs and dances from Croatia, Dalmatia and Serbia as well as from the Ukraine, Hungary, Poland and Russia.
The “Tamburitzans,” who are all of professional caliber, began rehearsing in August at Lake Nebagamon, Wis. They will tour the northern part of the country before returning to Pittsburgh to begin the school year.
The purposes of the “Tamburitzans” are to create and maintain scholarships and to keep alive the musical culture of the southern Slavic peoples. To date they have given scholarship aid totaling a half a million dollars to 146 students.
Walter Kolar, managing director of the group, has been a member of the “Tamburitzans” for 17 years. He assumed his present post with the group in 1952. Kolar is also the director of the Tamburitzan school at McKeesport, Pa. He established this school to stimulate interest in the Slavic culture and music in the Pittsburgh area.	41
At the present time the group is planning a “Tamburitzan Hall” at Duquesne, which will house all of their equipment, provide dormitory space and rehearsal space for the group.
FINAL TRYOUTS	*
Final open tryouts will be held for “Pygmalion”, the University Theater's Second Production of the Year, on Dec. 2 at 7:45 p.m. However, if anyone interested finds it impossible to attend they should 4 contact Mr. Fred Syburg in office 9, on the top floor of Washington Hall. Personal tryouts will be arranged.
The Scholastic
Fall Freshmen Elections Planned For Dec. 12;
. Balloting to Determine Senators, Hall Officers
The annual freshmen elections, in » which the hall presidents, senators, and council members are elected, will be held on Thursday, Dec. 12. Balloting will be from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 5 11 to 6:30 p.m. in each of the freshmen halls.
In order to be eligible for nomination 4 a student must have a satisfactory disciplinary record and have received no “pink slips.” To receive a nomination he must have the approval of his rector * * and the signatures of 25 of his hallmates.
1
■u
•> !• 4


Nomination forms may be picked up at the Student Senate office in the Student Center beginning Monday, Dec. 2. They must be turned in by 6 p.m. Monday, Dec. 9, to Vick Clesi, 205 Walsh.
“Meet Your Candidate Night” will be held in each hall on either Monday or Tuesday, Dec. 9 and 10. At these meetings those nominated will have an opportunity to explain their reasons for running for office and elaborate on their platforms.
Up to this time, provisional hall governments, organized by the YCS, under the leadership of Bruce Babbitt, in cooperation with student government, have been functioning in the freshmen halls.
These pre-election groups have set up hall funds from sandwich sales, organ
COMMITTEE PLANS FRESHMEN ELECTIONS
Bruce Babbitt, Vick Clesi, and Dick Corbett
November 22, 1957
ized hall rosaries and the intramural athletics groups, and published hall news-letters. There have been discussions held on the place of student government in the community life.
The preferential balloting system, as used in all campus elections, will be used in the freshmen balloting. In this system the student indicates the order of his preference for each one of the candidates for an office.
The ballots are marked by placing a “1” after the name of the voter’s first choice, a “2” after the name of his second choice, and so forth for all the candidates nominated.
The ballots cast for the candidate who received the least number of first place votes are credited as full first place votes to the voter’s second choice as indicated on each ballot. Then the same thing is done with the ballots of the candidate with the lowest number of votes among those remaining. This continues until one man has accumulated a majority of the ballots cast.
If the second choice candidate has already been eliminated the vote goes to the third choice, then the fourth, and so on. In case the voter has not indicated his preference for each man, but only for the first two, for example, the ballot is thrown out when it becomes necessary to credit it to the third choice.
Third Order Selling Missals, Pamphlets
Brothers of the Third Order Fraternity of St. Francis here on campus are conducting a campus-wide sales program of daily missals, The Little Office of The Blessed Virgin,, and The Office of The Paters.
Sales began last Sunday and will continue until Dec. 1. They are offering §7.00 missals for §4.50 while The Little Office of The Blessed Virgin is selling for $.50 and The Office of The Paters costs $.30.
One of the brothers in each hall will try to visit all the rooms but in addition there will be posters in the halls telling when and where information and missals may be obtained.
The Holy Father strongly recommends that every layman say a daily office. The Office of The Paters has a different prayer for each day of the week and takes between 10 and 15 minutes to say. The Office of The Blessed Virgin has a permanent’ part for each day along with a special daily prayer.
Off-campus students can pick up their office books and missals from Claude Heath in 161 Alumni.
Detroit Planner to Present Lecture on 'Urban Design'
The seventh lecture in the Urban Planning Seminar, sponsored by the Architecture Department, will be presented this evening at 8 p.m.
This evening’s topic, “Urban Design,” will be presented by Carl W. Almblad, principal planner, City Plan Commission of Detroit. Almblad will discuss the urban renewal program with a step by step discussion of the development of actual urban redevelopment and neighborhood conservation projects.
The Architects Club recently had a dinner at Alby’s in South Bend.
A Sketch Party was also held last Sunday with St. Mary’s College Art Club. The affair was organized by Barbara Kluth of St. Mary’s and Ivan Osorio of Notre Dame. A mixer followed the party. .
ST. MARY’S LECTURE
The Rev. George B. Flahiff, C.S.B., Superior General of the Basilian Fathers, will deliver the first of the St. Mary’s Christian Culture Lectures in the Little Theater of Moreau Hall next Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Father Flahiff’s topic will be “Art and Theology: The Blessed Virgin in Medieval Art.” The faculty and students are cordially invited to attend.
25
Academic Affairs Office Announces Schedule Regarding Spring Semester Preregistration
Preregistration for spring semester classes will begin on Monday, Dec. 2, and end Friday, Dec. 13, the Office of Academic Affairs announced recently.
Schedule books will be available around next Wednesday. They will be delivered to the hall mailboxes. Off-campus and graduate students can pick up their schedule books at the Office of Academic Affairs. The booklet will not be replaced if lost. It will be needed to preregister and to register at the Drill Hall next January.
On the second page of the booklet the schedule and the days allotted for each class will be printed. The students should also watch the bulletin boards of their respective colleges for additional announcements concerning the times they are to appear at the deans’ offices.
Those who have selected a major should also report to their department office and make an appointment to see the department head or their adviser. Many departments will have appointment sheets posted outside the department office. The student is to fill in his name after an appropriate time. On the same day he is to see his schedule adviser, he should report to his dean and pick up the three-part preregistration form.
The schedule of days for the various classes are as follows: in the College of Arts and Letters, seniors who have selected their majors will report Dec. 2-6; and juniors from Dec. 2-9; non-majors will have allotted times as follows: combination students from A-M, Dec. 2, N-Z, Dec. 3; sophomores A-F, G-N, O-Z, will j-eport respectively on Dec. 4, 5 and 6; freshmen A-F, G-N, O-Z will report on Dec. 9, 10 and 11, respectively; transfer students and irregulars will report on Dec. 12.
The physical education majors will report as follows: seniors Dec. 2 and 3; juniors on the fourth and fifth; sophomores on the sixth, and ninth; and freshmen on Dec. 10 and 11.
In the College of Commerce seniors and sophomores will report the first week, and juniors and freshmen the second week.
Those in the College of Engineering should watch their department bulletin boards for their reporting times. Seniors in the College of Science will report Dec. 2 and 3; juniors on the fourth and fifth; sophomores on the sixth, ninth and tenth, and the freshmen 11-13.
Before reporting to their schedule advisers, upperclassmen are to make a tentative program. If they are in a two-semester course they must remain in the same section, and, as usual, undergrad
uates must have two classes in the afternoon and one on Saturday, or the reverse. Each student is responsible for selecting a correct program of courses which fulfills the requirements of his college and major department.
The trial schedule must be presented to the adviser for approval. Necessary changes will be made and the preregistration forms completed and given to the adviser for his signature. The preregistration schedule form is to be taken to the college tally board and must be kept intact. No one is registered for a course until this is done.
All non-engineering graduate students must return their schedules to the Graduate School office.
THE OFFICERS
Christmas Concert
Sei For December 15
The annual Christmas concert of the Notre Dame Glee Club will be held Dec. 15 at Washington Hall. At this time an entirely new program will be presented, along with the traditional Christmas carols.
Included in the new program will be a repertory of Gilbert and Sullivan. This section of the program will serve as a replacement for the “Song of the Free” which was a featured part of last year’s program.
The members of the Notre Dame Glee Club will combine with the St. Mary’s College Glee Club to present Handel’s “Messiah.” The performance will be given at St. Mary’s on Dec. 9 and at
Notre Dame on Dec. 16, and is under the direction of Miss Mary Williams of StJ Mary’s.	i
WSND featured a 15 minute selection' of Glee Club songs last Friday. This was the first of a series of programs the club is taping for use on the local station. The club will also appear next Friday at the Iowa pep rally.
This year’s officers are: Franz Scheuermann, president; A. Blasdel Reardon, vice-president; Al Harding, secretary; John Thomas, treasurer; Thomas Cook, business manager; and Warren Ginda, publicity manager.
Thomas Plafchon and Thomas Clifton will serve as piano accompanists this year, and the former will also fill the capacity of assistant director. Thirty-five freshmen were added to the Glee Club to bring the membership to 126.
Arrangements have been made to sing several concerts after the New Year, including ones at Blue Island, Illinois, and St. Mary’s-of-the- Woods, Terre Haute, Indiana.
Preliminary plans are being mapped out at the present time concerning a concert tour of the southern portion of the country. This will be the club’s annual Easter vacation tour.
Halftime Show Features Songs of Minstrel Days
“Minstrel Show,” featuring songs of the minstrel show days in the South, will be the theme of the University Band’s halftime show for the Iowa game.
The band will march downfield in company front formation to the tune of Sivanee. Following their rendition of Stvanee, the “Marching Irish” will play Rock-a-Bye Your Baby to a Dixie Melody, Bye Bye Blues, April Showers, and will conclude their halftime formations with Waiting for the Robert E. Lee.
The Monday following the Iowa contest the band will begin practicing their “Cold Show” for the Southern Cal game, next Saturday. Highlighting this winter program will be such favorites as: Button Up Your Overcoat, Winter Wonderland, Frosty the Snoivman, Baby It’s Cold Outside, and Sleigh Ride by Maxwell Anderson.
Before both games the band will play Notre Dame Our Mother and will also salute the St. Mary’s students with the Bells of St. Mary’s before the USQ game.
Tryouts for the Concert Band will end with the conclusion of the football season. Those who do not try out will play in the Varsity Band, which plays at all the home basketball games.
The first band concert is the week following the conclusion of the football season, while the Christmas concert will be held Dec. 17.
26
The Scholastic
Moot Court regional champions
Representatives of Law School Take First In Annual Moot Court Regional Competition

Donald Very, Raymond Tam and William Ragan, representing the University of Notre Dame Law School, won the eighth annual Moot Court regional contest in Chicago last Saturday.
The three men will go to New York in the latter part of December for the
national finals where the winners and
runners-up in the 15 regional contests will compete.
Very, whose home is in Pittsburgh, Pa., attended St. Joseph High School there. He went to Duquesne University and graduated with a B.A. in political science. He plans to become a trial lawyer.
Wahiawa, Oahu, Hawaii, is the home of Tam, who hopes to become an appellate lawyer. He graduated from St. Louis High School, Wahiawa, and then went to the University of Michigan where he received an A.B. in economics.
Ragan is from Buffalo, N. Y., where he attended Canisius High School. He graduated from Canisius College, Buffalo, with an A.B. degree in history.
The regional contest was held from Nov. 14 to 16 in the City Court room, Court of Appeals, and Federal Court Buildings in Chicago. After defeating teams from Marquette, Loyola Day School, and Chicago University, the Notre Dame team defeated Loyola Night School in the final session.
Judges were: Hon. Charles H. Davis, Chief Justice, Supreme Court of Illinois;
November 22, 1957
Hon. Harold E. Achor, Supreme Court of Indiana; and Hon. E. T. Fairchild, Supreme Court of Wisconsin.
Other major teams who attended the contest were those of the Universities of Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana and Northwestern.
The contest, which was hypothetically held in the Supreme Court of the United States, argued the case of the dismissal of a research scientist working on a government contract for a private corporation. This worker was fired by the firm upon a directive from the government on the grounds of being a security risk.
Notre Dame and Loyola Night School, winner and runner-up respectively, will go to the national rounds of the Moot Court, sponsored by the Young Lawyer’s Committee of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York, as representatives of the district of Indiana, Illinois and Michigan.
FACULTY FILM
The Faculty Film Club, in cooperation with the Dept, of English, will present a special showing of the film “Great Expectations” this Sunday Nov. 24 at 3 p.m. and 8 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium.
An English film, based on Charles Dicken’s novel, will be open to the public. Admission is 25^.
Pick Sherman Hotel For Chi Club Dance
The Chicago Club will hold its annual Thanksgiving Dance next Wednesday night from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the Grand Ballroom of the Sherman Hotel, Clark and Randolph streets, in downtown Chicago.
Johnny Palmer and his band will provide “continuous” music. Chairman Tony Cappetta explained that there will really be two bands, one small, the other large. The smaller band will fill in while the larger is resting so that dancing need not stop.
Tickets may be purchased from Gene Donibroski and Al Boerschinger in Farley; Gene Epperly in Breen-Phillips; Tom Paulick, Zahm; Steve Murray, Cavanaugh; Bob Toland, Lyons; Paul Kerwin, Badin; George Christopher and Jack Callahan in Morrissey, and Dick Phelan in Sorin.
Others selling tickets are: John Donovan and Julio Sparacino, Pangborn; Ed Hickey and John Cashion in Dillon; Bob Kucera in Stanford; Mike Ehler-man, Howard; Pat McCullough, Fisher; Charley Kilb and Mike Leyden in Alumni; Bill Rees, Walsh; and John Tiberi in Keenan. Off-Campus students should get in touch with Brace Malik in Alumni for tickets.
The bids are $4.50 for members of the club and $5.00 for non-members. Tickets can also be reserved and picked up at the dance.
Clubs to Submit Designs For Mordi Gros Booths
Representatives of the campus clubs met this week with Dave McMahon, general chairman of the Mardi Gras, to be briefed on plans for this year’s festival. Each club will submit plans for a booth at the carnival and the best 25 designs will be used in the drill hall for the February 15-18 carnival.
Chairman of the Mardi Gras ball this year is Gep Durenberger. Also working on the ball are: business manager, Jack Revord; decorations, Jack Saladino and Joe McArdle; tickets and invitations, Crane Day.
Other members of the carnival committee in addition to Chairman Bernie McGowan are: bogus money, Dave Cook; booths, Butch Hayes and Steve Dragos; business manager, Jim Brennen; publicity, Mike Fitzpatrick and John McMahon; supplies, George Couzens; games, Jack Flanagan and Bob McHale.
As usual, two automobiles will be raffled off this year. Bernie Pellegrino is chairman of the raffle, and will announce details of the raffle in the near future.
27
Notre Dame to Sponsor Student Conference, j Over 250 Delegates to Meet Here on Dec. 6-7 -
Kif P Al fKT TOR A
BETTER POINT AVERAGE!
Don’t let that "drowsy feeling” cramp your style in class ... or when you’re "hitting the books”. Take a NoDoz Awakener! In a few minutes,
Notre Dame will be host to the annual Student Union Conference for Region Six of the Association of College Unions Dec. 6 and 7. Twenty-five of the 35 schools of higher education in this area, which includes Indiana, Illinois, and Wisconsin, are expected to send upwards of 250 delegates to the conference.
The conferences are set up throughout the country so that student leaders of ■different schools can discuss, evaluate, and solve the problems which they have in common. This will be the first time that this meeting has taken place on the Notre Dame campus.
The unique system of running the LaFortune Student Centex- that exists here provides an excellent background fox-the conference. Notre Dame students participate in an administrative capacity in
wide awake . . . alert! Youi doctor will tell you—NoDoz Awakeners are safe as coffee. Keep a pack handy!
15 TABLETS, 35c
the Student Union while most other schools act as group for the professional the actual administrating.
students at an advisory
men
who do
Jerry Brady, Notre Dame body president, will give the
35 tablets i to bandy tin 4
69c
NOQOZ
A WA KE NE RS
r
r ®
student keynote
speech at the conxmencenxent banquet. In his speech he will discuss the “philosophy of the student-run union.”
The conference will officially begin on Friday afternoon, Dec. 6, with registra-
The Excitement
of a Home Game
N. D. Novelties and Souvenirs
Sports Wear
Jewelry
Books ~ 2nd floor
N. D. Famous Football Teams
N. D. Famous Football Coaches
The Notre Dame Story
Notre Dame Bookstore
tion in the Morris Inn. Next there will; be campus tours fox- the delegates fol- j < lowed by a hospitality hour iix the Morris ■ Inn.
Following the commencement banquet, at which Brady will speak, the evening will be spent in the Idea Corners of |. the LaFoxtune Student Center. Each j-Idea Cornex- will be held in a separate room of the Center where a prepared j speaker will state his ideas on a pre- = assigned subject.
The Idea Corner speakers, who will
be delegates from the visiting schools, will discuss topics pertinent to Student Union management. Some subjects to be discussed are movies, social forums, how to make money, campus talent, coffee houx- and forums, outing activities, tournaments (bowling, bridge, chess, etc.), fine arts and music appreciation, publicity, miscellaneous, and big name entertainment. Following the talks there •will be entertainment in the Center which will complete the first day’s session.
Saturday morning there will be eight talks going on simultaneously dealing with foui- broad aspects of the Student Union. Two groups will speak on the same topic in order to give a wider variety of ideas.
The first topic is “The expanding educational role of the College Union.” The discussion leaders will be from the University of Illinois. Two representatives from Purdue will lead the other group.
Indiana University will lead the discussion on “College Union relationships with other groups on campus.” This topic will also be discussed by two students from Indiana State Teachers College.
“Keeping your program up-to-date” will be the topic of the delegates from Wheaton College and the University of Wisconsin. This topic will include special interest groups and orientation programs.
The fourth topic will be “Organization of Union Boards.” The leaders will be from Ball State Teachers College, and the Indiana University Medical Center.
On Saturday afternoon there will be two talks. One will deal with personnel systems. The talk will explain the recruitment, selection, and training of sei-vice workers. The second talk will go into both internal and external communications of Student Unions.
Student chairman fox- the whole conference will be Fred Holzl, the Student Center manager. The Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., is the directox- of the conference. Consulting student members from Notre Dame ax-e Don Corbett and Gep Durenberger.


it

f
28
The Scholastic
’Wranglers1 Wrangle About 'The Outsider'
Tom O’Reagan, a senior in the General Program, presented to the Wranglers a paper on Colin Wilson’s study, The Outsider, at their last meeting.
“Sartre, T. S. Eliot, and Hemingway have, through their books, brought the Outsider into prominence. He is a man living in the world, but is excessively troubled with it. He is aware of something wrong in the world, in the lives of the men around him. Preoccupied with a feeling of the world’s unreality, of its wasted lives and aimless activity, the Outsider is obsessed with a personal quest for value.
“ ‘Man is a useless passion’ he thinks, and the choice between life and death becomes for him the only significant one. Alike only in their search for their own ratio existendi, they people the arts with their names: Lawrence, Van Gogh, and Nijinsky. To embrace the cosmos
in their souls like Raskolnikov or burn themselves out in their failure like Nijinsky, that is their fate. Only Nietzsche’s man-god could find a third solution. The Outsider plumbs the depths of his being to find the answer to his existence; and upon that answer, his very existence waits.”
The discussion that followed O’Rea-gan’s paper was, perhaps, more provocative than enlightening. Special note was taken that this was a figure that appeared almost exclusively in the arts. The rarity of this phenomenon in everyday life, then, became the bone of contention, on whose strength, Wilson’s book appeared to rise and fall. That the book, itself, was not a complete absurdity, was the center of some of the warmest, if not the lengthiest, debate of the evening.
This week Ed Hurley will discuss the position of American Catholic radicals in our contemporary society.
—Pat Heffernan
Now is the time to plan your trip home for the Christmas vacation. Don’t forget to include a
in your plans.
John W. Birk, charter agent
158 Alumni Hall
WHERE NOTRE DAME SHOPS WITH CONFIDENCE
Fine Quality Diamonds Nationally Advertised Watches Jewelry and Gift Items . Jewelry and Watch Repairing
126 N. Michigan. Ph. CE 2-1202
ENGINEERS, CLASS OF '58

KEARFOTT
Is Interviewing on your Campus
DECEMBER 3
...
iy3rtem«fstahle
of
industry

>

for Assistant Project Engineer positions, open to you upon graduation. The work is in the development of precision instruments and controls—in both systems and components.
MAKE YOUR APPOINTMENT NOW WITH YOUR COLLEGE PLACEMENT OFFICE.
These opportunities are right in line with the increasing importance to the young engineer joining a company with a record of steady growth and a reputation for the high calibre of engineering it puts into its products.
TO FIND OUT IN DETAIL WHAT KEARFOTT OFFERS YOU IN:
Professional training • Aid for graduate study Project responsibility from inception to production Opportunities for advancement Stability, growth and resources Liberal salary and benefit policies • Living advantages
...BE SURE TO MAKE YOUR APPOINTMENT NOW WITH YOUR PLACEMENT DIRECTOR, OR WRITE TO:
Robert J. Sperl • Technical Placement Supervisor Engineering Personnel Office
eartbtt COMPANY, INC.
1500 Main Avenue, Clifton, A Subsidiary of General Precision Equipment Corporation


*««•*«» ten, en9»neet*jn w^niaturhatioti inCr9°^ Potion.
November 22, 1957
29
Debaters Meet Albion Team
cam-
Every afternoon practice debates are held in the Student Center at 4:30.
at the compe-Robert on the Gerry
The Notre Dame Debate Team engaged Albion College here last Wednesday. This was the first in a projected
here Cor-
program of debates to be held on pus this year.
Among those schools competing later in the year are Columbia and
-V
MONDAY
DECEMBER
ENGINEERS
Make Your Appointment Now For That Important Career Interview With
MAGNAVOX
ON CAMPUS, WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4
There are opportunities at Magnavox in advanced communications equipment, radar, computers, electro-mechanical equipment.
Three attractive locations: Fort Wayne, Indiana, described by Look magazine as “the happiest city in the United States”; Urbana, Illinois, home of the University of Illinois: Los Angeles, California.
PLEASE MAKE ARRANGEMENTS WITH YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE TODAY
THE MAGNAVOX COMPANY
nell. Last year’s opponents included the University of Chicago, Yeshiva, and Columbia.
This week end four freshmen are at Bradley University to take part in a novice tournament. On the affirmative are Guy Powers and John Whitney while William Hanley and Richard Whearty
are taking the negative.
Also four upperclassmen are Purdue Tournament, a national tition. On the affirmative are Dempsey and Jack Martzell and negative John Sullivan and Goudreau.
IKORSKY AIRCRAFT
A SIMRSK	HO*
TO » HEUCOHER
30
The Scholastic
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER
j 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
Order a full year’s subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
MORE MANPOWER!
All freshmen and sophomores interested in working on the SCHOLASTIC are invited to attend the regular news staff meeting which will be held this Sunday night at 7 p.m. The meeting is scheduled for the SCHOLASTIC office which is located on the second floor of the LaFortune Student Center on the side toward the architecture building.
0RRWTURB0W
^OPTOMETRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated
“Bring in the Pieces”
EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5///
in top condition. 1.00 olus tax
AFTER SHAVE
LOTION
SHUITON New York • Toronto
AVAILABLE AT THE
Notre Dame Bookstore
ON THE CAMPUS
November 22, 1957
31
At the Movies
THE NEW EDDIE’S BiiiigRNi&Lonnge WHERE DINING IS TREATED AS THE PLEASURE IT WAS INTENDED
TO BE MORE ROOM FOR PARTIES TOO
1345 N. IRONWOOD Just a few minutes from campus
3-Minute Pizza Pies PIZZA BURGERS
CARRY OUT ORDERS Eve’s Drive In SOUTH BEND AND EDISON RD. OPEN 5:30 A.M.—1 A.M. BREAKFAST—LUNCH—DINNER
FISH FRY FRIDAY
Pizza, Spaghetti, and Ravioli Italian Style
Simeri's Cafe 410 NORTH HILL STREET
COLFAX
Time Limit: Besides being an excellent movie this is unusual in one other respect: it gives you something to think about.
April Love: (Nov. 27). This one is designed primarily to exploit Pat Boone’s vocal ability. With Shirley Jones playing in it also and doing a little singing of her own it makes for a happy little movie.
GRANADA
The Ten Commandments: (A-l). Better hurry; this is the last week for this one.
Pal Joey: (Nov. 28). Frank Sinatra again finds himself in one of those nightmarish positions where girls are fighting over him. This time Rita Hayworth and Kim Novak provide the competition and Frank, caught between them, becomes quite frustrated trying to referee. For those that can’t get home for Thanksgiving this will be a real torture to sit through, but no doubt it’s worth a try.
AVON
Bells of St. Mary's: Tailor-made for anyone who wants to feel warm and friendly and can’t afford Scotch-on-the-rocks. Crosby, Bergman and a good plot make this a first class movie.
RIVER PARK
Bachelor Party: Don Murray decides he’s going to get married and the boys think he should have one last fling. Quite a fling, too. Really something to tell the grandchildren about later on.
Co-hit: Target Zero.
Man on Fire: (B) (Nov. 24). Is a superior show from many standpoints. Bing Crosby proves that his dramatic success in Country Girl was no fluke and Inger Stevens takes over where Princess Grace left off in the classic beauty part. In fact some may agree she even enhances the position. Man on Fire deals with the sociological implications of a divorce where a child is involved and the dramatic performance is carried off well by all concerned although it does seem to strain somewhat at the end of the picture. No one who sees the show should be disappointed, however.
Co-hit: Night Passage: Jimmy Stewart versus Audie Murphy for the King of the Cowboys award. -
Bzmdle of Joy: (Nov. 28). Debbie Reynolds and Eddie Fisher.
Co-hit: Davey Crockett and the River Pirates: My little brother told me this one was excellent.
Nabicht Bros.
FAMOUS FOR THEIR FOODNOW IN CAFETERIA STYLE
1415 UNCOLNWAY WEST
SUNNY ITALY CAFE A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food 601 NORTH NILES AVENUE
STATE
The Abominable Snowman of the Himalayas: Word has it that this one isn’t even worth poking fun at. However, this is its second time around so probably it was a success the first time and if this is so—then it would seem that perhaps it is well worth seeing in spite of the fact that every / one who has seen it has said that they certainly wouldn’t go to see it again—even if they had the chance.	.
Co-hit: Ghost Diver.
Teenage Doll: (Nov. 24).
Co-hit: Undersea Girl.
WASHINGTON HALL
An Affair to Remember: (Nov. 23). Cary Grant and Deborah Kerr. A good one to see just before going home.—George Oess.

32
The Scholastic
“Variety is the spice of life.” Enjoy
■ GOOD—WHOLESOME
DELICIOUS & DIFFERENT
CANTONESE FOODS
Steaks Chops
Fried Chicken
Sea Foods
REASONABLY PRICED
Mark’s Cafe
134 N. MAIN ST.
ROCCO'S
South Bend’s Original House of Pizza
Still the Best—serving Italian and American Dishes
Special Noon Lunches 11-1:30
537 N. St. Louis
Open—11 a.m. — 12 Midnight
AQUim LIBRARY and BOOK SHOP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
A Non-Profit Organization
WSND News
The upkeep of any radio station is high, but the campus station, WSND, is kept completely self-supporting thanks to the efforts of the Business Division.
The Business Manager, Jim Zilles, a PFA senior from Green Bay, Wisconsin, is in charge of all the bookkeeping, budgeting and billing so necessary to any such enterpise. Before any requisitions for new equipment or other expenses are made they must go to Jim for approval. Since he has his hands on the purse-strings, he must know the financial condition of the station and keep an eye out for its solvency.
But where is the income of WSND derived? That is where the Sales Department comes in, with the four-man sales crew headed by senior Gerry Pastula.
Notre Dame’s student station is not University subsidized, rather it derives its total income from the sales of commercial air time to national, South Bend and campus accounts.
Sales Manager Pastula, a commerce senior from Detroit, Michigan, has been a member of the sales staff for four years and has held his current position since his sophomore year.
Other members of the sales staff are Pat Kiley, Con Suski, Pete DeGross and Dave Sanger.
The job of the sales department is to contact clients for advertising with the “Student Voice.” Contracts are drawn up for either spot commercials or whole shows. After the contracts are brought to the station for scheduling, the salesman then delivers copies of the commercial to the client for his approval. Since WSND is a carrier-current operation and cannot be heard outside the Notre Dame campus, the salesman is the only contact that the client has with the station.
Besides a great number of South Bend accounts, WSND handles nationwide accounts such as Reader’s Digest, Lucky Strike cigarettes, Sports Illustrated, North American Airlines, Chance Vought Aviation and Sam Goody, New York phonograph dealer, to mention only a phonograph dealer, to mention only a few.
HEADQUARTERS FOR MAGNIFICENT GIFTS
FOR ALL OCCASIONS
Our displays are so arranged as to make shopping and gift selecting an easy and a convenient chore. We package, giftwrap and ship at no extra cost.
Ill SO. MICHIGAN
Open a Convenient Charge Account
GOMIS Sirptos Siwe “The store with the two dummies in front”
PARKAS — HEAVY SHOES AND BOOTS FOR WINTER
512 S. MICH. ST.	AT 7-6277
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
HANDBAGS	LUGGAGE
HansA Rintzsch
Suqqatfe Shep
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202
OUR SUPERBLY DELICIOUS OLD-WORLD
PIZZA WAS CREATED FOR THOSE WHO ENJOY THE FINEST IN ITALIAN DELICACIES
FOR
Real Italian and American Food
Enjoy a Private Party in the Seclusion of Our Hideaway Room
2-5881
PHONE CE2.5882
MICHIGAN AT COLFAX
LEATHER GOODS	GIFTS
Walker’s
Footwear of Fashion 207 N. MICHIGAN (Next to Palace Theater)»
November 22, 1957
33
our greatest
i
by JOHN KEARNS
adventure
What I would like to promote here is what the French call the joie de Tivre. This is translated in English as the “joy of living,” and it represents a fundamental outlook on life. This outlook, or attitude, is needed to give life any real meaning. Unfortunately, it is not a universal attitude, nor is it even present in the majority of us. But without it, life is colorless, without value.
To understand this outlook, life must he seen as a great adventure. And an adventure is stimulating, it is exciting. The excitement comes with the realization that life is indeed an adventure. It is the greatest adventure imaginable. It lies before us an unknown. We view it primarily in terms of the future, not of the past. The past is only something to spur us on, something to be bettered. Its chief value is not as a limitation, but as an encouragement to overcome any limits. The mystery which surrounds life, arising from its unknown content, is not a cause for fear. The darkness of the future should bring no hesitation. For this is just what gives life it quality as adventure. This is what gives rise to the zest of living The prospect of •our greatest adventure creates a boundless excitement and an overwhelming desire to tear into it.
We must advance joyfully into life. He who hesitates is truly lost. Life involves responsibility, but responsibility is not something to fear, but something to embrace. The acceptance of responsibility is the acceptance of life. The embracing of responsibility is the only way that we can give meaning to our lives and to ourselves. Without it, we fade into insignificance. We, who could become everything, become nothing.
Failure to view this existence as adventure brings about a corrosive force. The lack of this vision steals from life its meaning, and our lives and ourselves Become valueless. A life that is only a dull, mechanical routine is no longer life, for it has no vitality. Fear can do this, for the feai- of responsibility leads one to seek just such an existence. A mechanical life involves no responsibility, hut neither does it have any significance. Or a person can empty his life by becoming bogged down with trivialities. An over-concern with insignificant trifles c can cause the loss of the vision of adventure. Such a loss is the greatest
34
of tragedies, for nothing has any meaning without this vision.
The whole of life is a glorious opportunity. It is an opportunity to be taken advantage of. Life must be seized in one’s teeth and shaken, as a dog shakes a rat. The opportunity is an unbounded opportunity — its range approaches the infinite. We must be quick to grasp what life offers; indeed, we must grip it with a strangle-hold. For we are essentially undetermined as we face the future — it is up to every individual to seize the opportunity that is held before him.
The opportunity presented by life is not to be confused with a chance for wordly success. It is indeed a chance for success, but not success as commonly understood. The amount of wealth or power amassed by anyone is not an accurate measurement as to the degree of his achievement. The opportunity of which I speak is not so narrowly confined. What a horrible thing it would be if this tremendous adventure were reduced to a quest for wealth. In fact, all of life is exciting; every aspect has value. We must not allow our lives to slip through our fingers because of some mistaken value judgment; it must be seized in its entirety.
The opportunity which is life is an opportunity for self-realization. Life is the locus of our becoming — it is up to each individual to make of himself all that he can. Everyone is able to reach greatness, although in many different ways. And this greatness is not determined by public opinion. It is not necessary to be recognized as great in order to be such. Any value that one attains is in him, not in the minds of others. To become all that one can, to leap over limitations in order to seize whatever is offered is to achieve greatness. No one is kept from this.
It is easier to let life go by without action than to grasp it by the throat, but to do this is to deny the implications of being a man. By allowing this one loses the color of his personality, and becomes a drab semblance of a man, having no claim to individuality. Such a person is Sinclair Lewis’ Babbitt, who only conformed to a pattern; and who was not truly an individual. And such is the person whom David Riesman considers to typify the modern American—
in his Lonely Crowd, Riesman analyzes the trend toward an inward anonymity in which even the individual is unable to j recognize himself as a distinct person. I Such a colorless existence is frightening to behold, for it robs the entire universe of meaning.
The ideas which I have been setting forth involve an essentially artistic view of life. For art is a making activity, it is a creation. It involves an insight from the artist which finds expression in a concrete work of art. The insight is within the work of art, and is even developed for the artist in the process of creating this work. Life is artistic because it is a creation — each man in a sense creates himself.
Our whole life should be an artistic creation, a making activity. And this is 4 the vision of the Renaissance — this explains the tremendous explosion of activity that took place during the time of , “rebirth.” Man’s insight into himself and into the world is developed as his life develops. We make ourselves what we are — our whole existence should be a making activity. There is no time . when we can rest — we must go forward until death halts this progress. Man as artist is not essentially determined to any particular form, for he , creates himself.	1
The range of possibility before us is breathtaking — our only limitations are । self-imposed. There is only one tempta- * tion to overcome, that which the French, who seem to have the expression for everything, call “ennui.” This “ennui” , is a lethargy, a kind of laziness. It । paralyzes the will and prevents any ' creative activity. It often requires a superhuman effort to overcome it, but it ' must be overcome. We cannot allow this to cheat us of our heritage as men.
The basic attitude which this artistic | vision brings is a gladness to be alive. Life is wonderful, and is to be lived to the fullest. This joy gives rise to excitement, to an enthusiasm for living. The । future stretches before us — we must plunge headlong into it. This is a joyful undertaking; it is a glorious adventure. $ Such an attitude gives meaning to our lives and everything in them. This is the only way that the fullness of life can be enjoyed. Life is too exciting to be described in words, it must be lived.
The Scholastic
c
Introducing — the Arrow
Car Coat
Here’s a wonderful coat for outdoor activity. It’s windproof, water repellent, finger-tip in length—looks and. feels great.
o	o
Yours in two models; choice of lightweight patterned lining or quilted lining and detachable hood for colder weather.
Arrow Car Coats from $19.95.
Other jackets from $12.95.
Arrow Crew neck sweater just $10.00. Cluett, Peabody & Company, Inc.
ARROW^
CASUAL WEAR
first in fashion
Your Arrow Car Coat is here!
It’s here, the winter-resistant Arrow Car Coat. And it has everything: warmth, water repellency, comfort and good looks. In solid-colored poplin, polished cotton, twills and fine corduroy. Choice of plain or patterned linings. Come in and get yours ... now.
GILBERT’S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS
Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
3 ways to say Merry Christmas
GIVE L M~CHESTERFIELD - OASIS TO EVERY SMOKER ON YOUR LIST ___________________ _ _	_	Oliggett & Myers Tobocco Company