Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVI. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 28, 1882.	\ No. 8.
Santa Teresa.
There is a fire from which the human soul, Asbestos-like, comes whole and purified; A Magdalen, an instant burnt, outvied Chaste anchorites in rigid self-control: And, on the hill of Calvary, the goal That waits the good was pledged to him who cried, —Thief though he was—for mercy, where, beside His tortured God, he hung in bitter dole. What wonder that Teresa, mystic saint, Whose breast, a furnace of God’s love, was fanned From infancy to age to a white heat By angel wings, knew not an earthly taint, And went before her Maker’s judgment-seat As pure as when created by His hand!
T. W. Coakley, ’83.
Notre Dame, Oct. 15, 1882.	'
Sir Humphry Davy.
On the 13th of December, 1778, at Penzance, a little town in Cornwall (England), a child was born who was destined one day to be an honor to his country and to science; a child who was to become famous at twenty—at an age when other youths have hardly yet left school. It was in reserve for him to be the first to understand the great role which electricity was to play in future time; he was to be the first in the list of those chemists whose labors were the forerunners of the invention of photographic art; important discoveries in chemistry were to.be his; he was to be the means of saving the lives of a number of miners by the invention of the celebrated lamp-which ■ bears his name; finally, he was to provide a great boon for suffering humanity in the discovery of the first anesthetic. This child was Humphry Davy. -	■	•
At the age of sixteen,* in consequence of the death of his father, which threw the burden of a large family on a poor mother, he was-apprenticed to an apothecary. It .was during this time that, inflamed with an ardent love of science, he constructed his first apparatus with a few tubes of glass, which he purchased from an itinerant peddler. “ He at the same time entered upon a course of study all but universal. A system of mathematical study, sceptical philosophy, Scotch metaphysics,
successively engaged his attention. The study of natural philosophy brought him nearer to that department which was to be his own; but it was not till he had reached his nineteenth year that he had entered seriously upon the study of chemistry.” It was at this time that he entered the “Pneumatic Institution” lately established by Dr.'Beddoes, at Clifton,, near Bristol. -Here he first studied the gaseous substances discovered by the chemist Van Helmont, two hundred years before.
The first work of Davy made him famous both at home and abroad. He had undertaken the study of a very singular gas—nitrous oxide—the* respiration of which, it was said, would produce the most terrible effects, even death. In fact, during his experiments he had more than once' nearly sacrificed his life.
After having discovered the properties and the composition of this gas, he undertook to try its effects upon himself. He thus describes the effects of his first experiment. “ I immediately experienced a curious sensation from head to-foot. I
: soon lost consciousness of all relation with an external world; traces of visible images passed through my mind like flashes of lightning, I lived in another world. I was about to make new theories and discoveries, when I was rudely awakened from my ecstasy by Doctor Kinglake, who had torn away the vial of nitrous oxide, which I held to my mouth. At sight of those who surrounded me I first experienced a feeling of pride, and I walked up and down the room, indifferent to what was said of me. At length, I exclaimed: ‘Nothing exists but thought; the universe is but made up of ideas, impressions, pleasure and pain!
Thus it was discovered that this gas, nitrous oxide, far from causing the death of one who breathed it, on the contrary, produced the most delightful sensations, placed for a moment the inhaler outside of the real world, while he was plunged in an ecstasy accompanied with violent fits of laughter. This last effect has given rise to the name of “ laughing gas.”	.	-
Davy then thought that this exhilarating' gas, because of the impression which it produced upon the nervous system, might perhaps relieve or destroy all physical pain, head-ache, tooth-ache, and the like. If the previsions of Davy have not as yet been fulfilled in this regard, the discovery at least gave occasion to many researches the sole ob
”4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ject of which was the destruction of pain. The results of these have, to a great extent, proved beneficial, but they were, abused in the employment, as anesthetic agents, of chloroform, chloral, etc.
Davy published an account of his researches, which led to his appointment as Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution which had been lately established at London. He soon produced a largre number of works and was named associate of the Institute of France. He demonstrated that potash, soda, lime, magnesia, were not, as was then believed, simple bodies, but were, on the contrary, composed of oxygen, and a metallic base: potassium, sodium, etc. In decomposing these substances by means of the electric pile, Davy separated the metals which composed them. It was potash that he first succeeded in decomposing, Oct. 8, 1807. His brother John relates that nothing could equal his joy when he beheld for the first time that singular metal, potassium, which. suddenly burst into flame upon contact with water and air. “ He danced up and down his room as if seized with an ecstatic frenzy: it took him some time to recollect himself and continue his experiments.” The announcement of the discovery of potassium and sodium by Davy created great commotion in the scientific world. In France, the Emperor Napoleon was affected by the prevailing excitement, and at once placed at the disposal of the Ecole Poly technique the funds necessary to the construction of a colossal pile, by means of which the experiments made by Davy might be carried out on a larger scale.
We cannot stop to speak in detail of all the chemical labors of Davy, nor of his many wonderful experiments in physics; for a time he gave his attention to the discovery of means by which to preserve the copper sheathing of vessels from corrosion by the action of sea-water. “ This he effected by altering the electric condition of the copper by means of bands of zinc; but the bottom of the. vessels became so foul from the adhesion of weeds, shells, etc., that the plan had to be abandoned.”
In 1815, Davy invented the miners’ lamp. “ It has been long known that when marsh-gas, or light carburetted hydrogen, which is frequently disengaged in large quantities from coal mines, is mixed with seven or eight times its volume of at-mospheric air, it becomes highly explosive, taking fire at the approach of a light, and burning with a pale, blue flame.” As may be readily seen, such explosions, before the invention of the lamp, were of frequent occurrence, due for the most part to the lights which the miners carried to direct them through the mines. Davy, after some experiments, discovered that metallic gauze completely arrested the passage of flame in explosive mixtures; and a lamp enveloped in this gauze would prove in reality a safety lamp. It is but too true, however, that despite Davy’s invention, explosions from fire-damps are still frequent in mines; these accidents are owing, as a general thing, to the imprudence of miners, who, growing accustomed to danger, become careless, and either remove the metallic covering of their lamps in order to see bet
ter, or light their pipes without regard to the explosion that may follow.
After this, the health of Davy became very delicate. He made several trips to the Continent for the recovery of his health, in the last of which, during the year 1829, he undertook a journey through Italy; but he had hardly arrived at Geneva when he expired, at the age of fifty-one years. The authorities of Geneva showed their respect for him by giving him a public funeral. His tombstone bears the simple inscription, Sfero, —“ I hope.”
This year, 1829, beheld the disappearance of many great lights in the scientific world. Herschel, the astronomer; Piazzi, who gave a new planet to our solar system; Watt, whose observation of “Papin’s Kettle,” produced one of the most powerful apparatus in industry; Volta, celebrated by his electric pile; Wollaston, “who never failed, either in the number of his experiments, or in his subtile theoretical speculations;” Jenner, the inventor of vaccination; and last and not least, Davy, who had the rare happiness of being able to apply his discoveries to the good of humanity.
It is not England alone that may rejoice in the birth of this one of her most distinguished sons. Men like Davy belong to no particular country or clime; they belong to humanity. * S. A.
To Maecenas.
(Horace, Odes, Book 1st.)
Macaenas, progeny of regal sires, t My guard, my love, the all my heart desires, Many there be in th’ Olympic game With glowing wheels how seek the .palm and fame; This one, the fickle Roman may elate By giving him some honor in the State;
One hopes with Libyan grain his barns to fill, Another loves paternal fields to till, In vain you tempt him from his rustic home, The wealth of Atlas could not make him roam. The timid merchant, fearing Afric wind, Lashing th’ Iscarian waves, his fleet may find, Praises the ease and rest of country life;
But soon refits his ships, rejoins the strife. . Many, again who love the massic vine, Breaking the solid day with yellow wine, Now languidly reclining ’mid a grove, Now by the source of streams beloved of Jove. The youth rejoices in the camps of Mars The martial music loves, and yearns for wars To mothers hateful. While the hunter lies A haply sleeping ’neath the frigid skies; Pursuing still the Marsian o’er the plain, Forgets his pleasure to espouse his pain.
But me, the ivy-crowned, poetic grace With gods above hath fitly given place, If but Euterpe please, O gracious muse! To play, and Polyhymnia refuse Us not, the nymphs, the comely and the light With throngs of Satyrs hide me from your sight, If by their grace the lyre to me be given, My head with pride shall reach the stars of heaven.'
T. Ewing Steele, ’84.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	115
The Picturesque in Art.
Our observations may be said to be of two kinds. An abstract observation is one by which you recognize the relations between phenomena or discover the cause of what you see; a concrete observation is one by which you reflect a picture or image of what you see; and these refer alike to the internal and external universe. What we understand generally by the Picturesque is any arrangement of natural objects which produce a pleasing picture. A flat or a mountainous country has each its picturesqueness, different soever as the details which produce such effects may be.
Any scene which is painted by an artist, employing colors or words, when alive to a sense of its peculiar beauty, may be rendered picturesque. Graphic delineation roughly represents the striking characteristics of natural scenery, or of an individual or situation; while in all picturesque repre. sentations, the element of beauty of some sort must enter, and thus render it poetic.
Let us first adduce a few examples of the “ Picturesque in Literary Art—of picturesque expression, of lines which paint a picture to the eye or ear—before proceeding to its illustrations in the pictorial domain. The prose writer describes, produces his effects by detail; the poet paints. Any composition which makes us see and feel what is represented, which is more or less ideal, and infused with the spirit of beauty and with passion, is poetic. Add to these qualities rhythm and the music of verse, and we have—Poetry. By the use of an image or metaphor, an expression, even a single associative word, the poetic artist frequently creates an effect which no elaboration of detail could produce. Ovid abounds in picturesque expressions of a peculiar sort. Thus, describing Ixion tied to a revolving wheel, he says:—
“ Volvitur Ixion, et se sequiturque, fugitque;” or, of Somnus, rousing himself:—
“ Excussit tandem sibi se.”
These expressions verge on what the Italians call “concetti,” of which there are so many in their own poets.
On the other hand when Shakspeare says, “ See how the moonlight sleeps upon the bank,” we have a picturesque expression. The single word “ sleeps,” paints the quietude of the moonlit scene.
The chief literary peculiarity of Dante’s poetry is the narrow but intense way in which he idealizes reality—common objects; unlike Shakspeare, who says, “ the truest poetry is the most feigning,” i. e., imaginative. ' Dante’s poem is a vision of the unseen worlds, terrible, tearful and beautiful, and he seeks to render its scenes visually realistic by simple and plain illustrations, derived from the common objects of daily experience. The use of comparison is to aid comprehension, and Dante is highly graphic in this way; but with a few exceptions, such as the simile of the sheep in the Purgatorio, Canto III, and his lovely reference to
the swallow in the description of morning, Canto IX:—	. ’	■
“ Nell’ ora che comincia i tristi lai' La rondinella presso alia mattina, Forse a memoria de suoi primi guai.” . .. . his illustrations are not poetic in the highest sense. On the other hand, Milton exalts the scenes or objects he depicts by his illustrations. He selects the vastest and most sublime objects, and surrounds them with imaginative associations in order to elevate his descriptions. In the picturesque sublime he is supreme; and though for concentrated diction the third canto of the “ Inferno ” is unsurpassed, the sustained majestic harmonies, measures and cadences of Milton’s blank verse have, perhaps, no equal in any literature. The two first books of the “Paradise Lost” contain incomparable examples of the picturesque sublime. The scene which brings before our “soul’s imaginary sight ” the fallen angels, confounded, though immortal, overwhelmed by storms and whirlwinds of tempestuous fire rolling on the burning lake—
“ Thick as autumnal leaves that strow the brooks Of Vallambrosa, where the Etrurian shades, High over-arched, empower,”	’	-
is one of highest power; the illustration is associated with a recollection of the poet’s wanderings when a youth, during his visit to Italy, among the venerable woods of Tuscany. Then there is the encounter of Satan and Death, and the succeeding scenes: that in which Satan is surprised by Michael, and many others. There is nothing in Homer or the poets of chivalry to equal the imagination or diction of these passages.
The first beauty of any class of composition arises from the choice of its subject; then- its representation. After the situations, fancies and sentiments, those portions of a poem which the mind selects as most poetic, are the “ Picturesque ” passages and lines. We dwell on those which bring the subject or object before us once and forever, in the most imaginative and choicest diction. As an instance of rhythmical modulation with appropriate pauses, which satisfy ear and eye, both as a musical and objective picture, nothing can surpass Milton’s description of Sin opening the gates of Pandemonium:—	'
“ Now in the keyhole turns ’
The intricate wards, and every bolt and bar Of massy iron and solid rock, with ease Unfastens: on a sudden open fly The infernal doors, and on their hinges grate . Harsh thunder, that to the lowest bottom shook Of Erebus.”	‘
Dr. Johnson said the most musical line in Virgil was that in the first eclogue:—	.
“ Formosam resonare 'doces Amaryllida silvas.”
But there are others not less so; and for the harmonious recurrence of aspirates and syllabates, a fine instance is found in the description of the rising storm in the first Georgie—when the friths begin to swell, the dry crashing of the trees is heard on the mountains:—	‘	.
“ Aut resonantia longe .	•
" Litora misceri, et nemorum increbrescere murmur,”
n6	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	I
--:----------:f
which may be compared, with the Italian storm in Dante, where—
“Te polveroso va superbo
Et ta fugi la fieri et Ie pastori.”
Lines, picturesque and sonorous, are also scattered through Catulus, such as those describing the Bacchic rout in the green forest,- and the sound of the tombourines on the distant air.
“ Plangebant alia; proceris tympana pahnis ' Aut tereti tenues tinnitus aere ciebant.”
In the verbal painting of sensuous beauty Keats, however, excells Milton; his richest passages of this sort realizing his own conceptions of poetry, namely, that it should surprise by fine excess. In his most perfect poem, “The. Eve of St. Agnes,” the objective painting has hardly been equalled in the entire domain of the Muse, and most similar depictions by the Italian writers seem prosaic in comparison to those which paint Madeline retiring to rest; the colored casement with its imagery; the the chamber where the moonlight sheds its hallow; nor is a more lovely image to be found anywhere than that which illustrates the maiden in her soft and chilly nest, sinking into repose; when at length:— '
- “ The poppied warmth of sleep oppressed
Her soothed limbs, and soul fatigued away; Flown-like a thought until the morrow day; Blissfully havened both from joy and pain, Clasped like a missal where swart Paynims pray, Blinded alike from sunshine and from rain, As though a rose should shut, and be a bud again.” The collection of exquisite things which Porphyro disposes for a feast, the fruits, the
“Jellies, smoother than the creamy curd, J And lucent syrups, tinct with cinnamon,”
are among the many examples of picturesque word-painting in this poem, in which also is the fine line describing the distant harmonies:—
“ The music yearning like a god in pain.”
The choice of associative words in painting an object or image frequently electrifies a description, producing by a single touch, an effect finer than any which could be realized by elaborate detail. Thus, in a recent paraphrase of the “Peleus” and Thetis Catullus, referring to the sisters of Phaeton whom the gods, in consideration for their anguish at his death, transformed into poplar trees, we find:—
“And poplars, sisters of fallen Phaeton, Quivering innumerate inconsolable leaves.”
One of Tennyson’s finest picturesque images is the description of the long wave breaking on the solitary shore:—
.	“ As the crest of some slow, arching wave,
Heard in dead night along the table shores, Drops flat; and after the great waters break, Whitening for half a league, and thin themselves
• Far over sands marbled with moon and cloud, . From less and less to nothing.” •
In D’Arcy McGee’s “Celts’ Salutation” there is a fine line—the second—ref erring to the ad venturous ubiquity of the race:—
“ Whether they guard the banner of St. George in Indian vales,
Or spread beneath the nightless north experimental sails, One in name and in fame are the sea-divided Gaels.”
Whenever a selection of the objects which form
a sceiie, or of emotions which realize a situation	L
are.so painted in words as to make them visual or	|
emotive pictures to the mind we recognize the	|
picturesque in literary • art. Sometimes, as we	I
have said, a single word, happily chosen for its	|
representative truth or associations, vivifies a de-	|
scription. Picturesqueness has many phases: some-	||
times it is connected with the rythmical form of	g
the poetic phrase or sentence. Thus, some of the	1
Greek epigrams have a.simple, graceful nobleness	i
of outline, resembling the straight profile and ma-	J
jestic ease of the faces of the gods. To the readers	i
of ancient, modern, and current poetry, many such passages realizing the -visibile jiarlare of Dante will occur. The painting which renders situation, scenery, scene or image alive and picturesque, is not confined to poetry or painting. It also enters into musical composition; and while no music per- ; haps appeals so strongly to the affections as some | of the Irish melodies, and while the best Italian translates southern feeling into sound, some of the German is more intellectual, ideal and picturesque than any. In all arts picturesqueness depends on | form, arrangement and color; the first depending | on sight and intelligence, the latter on sensibility; : and while in music the melody is the form, the harmony is the color. •
■	N. W.
Art, Music, and Literature.
—To the long list of English magazines two I more are to be added, Macmillan’s English Critic, with - John Morley as editor, and Longman's Magazine. The latter will be sold for sixpence.
—The catalogue of the British Museum, now being printed, will fill. 500 volumes, and at the present rate it will require 40 years to complete it, by which time there will be new matter enough to begin afresh.’ .	•
—Out of the nine. chiefs of the London newspaper reporters, five use Taylor’s system of shorthand, while Pitman, Gurney, Mavor, and Byrom ' can claim only one each. The body of stenographers prefer Pitman.	•	•
—A tablet is to be erected in Westminster Abbey to the memory of an American, the late Col. Chester, a native of Norwich, Conn., but for many years resident in England. This is in recognition of his service as editor of the Westminster Abbey Register.
—Charles Reade, in his story “ Singleheart and Doubleface,” has one of his characters, who is in I a house on One Hundred and Fourth street, New ■ York, inquire the way to the Custom-House. Reade I adds, “to her surprise, it was very near.” In re-	■
ality it was seven good miles, but the novelist	I
makes the unfortunate woman walk the entire dis- || tance in a few minutes, leading a little child.	«
—A printing press has been founded in Constan- . K tinople under the patronage of Osman .Bey, Sec- H ond Chamberlain to the Sultan, for the purpose of H reproducing the chief works of Mussulman his- ■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	117
torians and theologians at a price that would render them accessible to the great mass of the .followers of Islam. The first installment of this se-. ries, a copy of the Koran, has been already issued.
—A painting lately uncovered in Pompeii seemed identical in subject with the Judgment of Solomon. In the centre is a bench with three judges; kneeling at their feet, in an attitude of prayer, is a woman; further toward the foreground is a butcher’s table, and upon it a naked babe, which a man is preparing to kill with a large knife, while beside him stands a second woman with an indifferent air. Soldiers and people close the scene.
—The largest library is the Bibliotheque National in Paris, founded by Louis XIV. It contains 1,400,000 volumes, 300,000 pamphlets, 175000 manuscripts, 300,000 maps and charts, and 150,000 coins and medals. The collection of engravings exceeds 1,300,000 contained in some 10,000 volumes. The building which contains these treasures is situated on the Rue Richelieu. Its length is 540 feet, its breadth 130 feet. The largest library in New York, in respect of separate works, is the Astor. About 190,000 volumes are on its shelves.
—Dr. Johann Jacob Maximilian Oertel,*who died a short time ago in New York city, was an earnest defender of the Catholic Church, in whose interest he published, for more than thirty years, a German Catholic weekly, the Katholische Kirchen Zeitlin^. For his service to the Church, Pope Pius' IX conferred upon him the Order of St. George, of which he was very proud. He was born in 1811, at Ausbach, Bavaria. He was educated and ordained as a Protestant clergyman, and in 1837 he was sent: New York by a German missionary society. A few years later he became a Catholic, and soon afterward he began the publication of his paper, which became very popular.
—A curious incident happened at one of the rehearsals of the “ Redemption.” M. Gounod is rather excitable, and when directing his own music he is especially so. Finding it was desirable the orchestra should have an idea of the melody of the chorus (for no choir is employed at the orchestral rehearsals), he began to hum the melody himself. As if the idea had suddenly occurred to all of them, the principal artist took up the part, and there was presented the extraordinary feature that the choruses were sung by an unrivalled choir, consisting of Mme. Albani, Mme. Marie Roze, Mme. Patti, Messrs. Lloyd Cummings, Santley, Foli, and Kings. The effect was often very good indeed.
—A Bristol English bookseller recently catalogued a Bible, which is assumed to have belonged to John Milton. On the margin of a page, appar- ’ ently in Mil ton’s own handwriting, are the following lines:	.
“	When that day of Death shall come,
. then shall nightly shades prevaile-^ soon shall love and music faile—-soon ye fresh turf’s tender blade *
shall flourish ore my sleeping shade. •
J. Miltonius, M. A. C. Coll.”
Underneath is a pen and ink portrait profile, and below is written; “Myself, 1640.” This old relic will probably bring a higher price than Milton in his lifetime could get for the whole of “ Paradise Lost.”’	'
—The pitcher gave the proper “ pitch,”	'
. Then turned to his first “base,”. -	'
Then followed quite a rapid “ run,”
The brilliant “ score ” to grace. j . • The “second base” gave pleasure great , '
To many who were there;
But soon a short “ stop ” changed the “ tune”
■	As he struck in the “ air.”
There followed soon a pretty “ catch,” Which many hailed with “glee,”	.
And then a little “ double play,” Quite wonderful to see.	•	•
To what church did this choir belong? .	.
, Why, to no church at all!	-
It merely was two famous nines
'	Contending at baseball.
—Musical Visitor.
—Among the Vatican manuscripts is an Arab Codex: “Arbatat eldsih crachick,” written at Buluk, Egypt; also a manuscript formerly belonging to the Albani Library, on parchment, in fol., date 1150. The editions which embrace the primitive, dating back to the invention of typography, likewise those most celebrated, whether Italian or foreign, of the “ Giunta” of Venice, not citing the “Aldine” and others, number over 200 varieties. Amid the “ Veteres,” for-example, of the complete works of Hippocrates, in folio, are the splendid Roman and first Latin edition of 1528; that of the “Giunta” of 1588; that with the Greek text, of Geneva, of 1657; the other, very rare, with various Notes, Lugduni Batavorum, of 1665, down to the recent Paris edition of 1855?' French text annotated by Daremberg. All this scientific wealth is graciously placed by his Holiness at the service of students, who have merely to address themselves for permission to the chief custodian of the Vatican Library, Mgr. Ciccolini.
—The cable announces the death of Miss Emilie Gavin, the well-known dramatic reader, at Algiers, where she had gone to spend the winter in the hope of improving her impaired health. Miss Gavin made a dramatic debut, with Mr. John McCollough, in New York, three years ago, playing during that season Queen Katherine, Tul-lia, and Lady Macbeth, with recognized success, in that city, Washington, Boston, St. Louis, and Chicago. Her exceptional stature led her to prefer the reading-desk to the stage, and for two years she travelled with the Swedish Ladies’ Quartet, giving readings and dramatic scenes in costume. Residents at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s remember with pleasure her many kind visits, and the readings with which on such occasions they were favored. Last spring her lungs became impaired, and she went abroad for rest and health. Of high personal character, great industry, studious mind and amiable disposition, she was universally respected, in public and private, and her death, at the age of 27, will be widely deplored,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Books and Periodicals.
Six Lectures on Light. By Prof. John Tyndall. (Illustrated.) Price 15 cents. J. Fitzgerald & Co., Publishers, 30 Lafayette Place, New York.
As a popular expositor of science, Prof. Tyndall holds the very first place, and the work named above is admittedly his masterpiece. A subject of no little difficulty and abstruseness is here treated by him in a style which for clearness of expression and grace of diction challenges the admiration of all lovers of “ English undefiled.” __	o
The work forms a valuable addition to the excellent series of popular scientific books known as the Humboldt Library of Science.
The Judges of Faith and Godless Schools. Addressed to Catholic Parents, by Rev. Thomas J. Jenkins, of the Diocese of Louisville, Ky. 1SS2. Published by Thomas J. Egan. New York: Catholic Agency, 33 Barclay St. & 38 Park Place.
This little brochure comes in good time and should be in the hands of every parent, as it is to them especially addressed. The question of education has become so trite for the ordinary reader that any work on the subject is merely glanced at and then laid down. In this pamphlet of 106 pages the author gives testimonies from thinking minds of the present day from among the clergy and laity. As to time, he confines himself to fifty years; but for place, from the four quarters of the globe he brings forward against “ Godless Schools ” the testimony of fifty judges—or rather fifty sentinels who raise their voice of warning against what Archbishop McHale stigmatized as “ the wooden horse.”
—The North American Review for November presents an unusually diversified table of Contents. “ English Views of Free Trade,” by the Hon. John Welsh, of Philadelphia, is a clear and forcible exposition of the difference between the economic situation of England and that of the United States, and of the considerations which make Free Trade imperative for the former country, if she would retain her present position as the world’s workshop. Joseph Neilson, Chief Judge of the Brooklyn City Court, writes of “ Disorder in Court-rooms,” a subject of profound interest to good citizens at all times, and more especially now, in view of certain recent occurrences. The obiter dicta of the learned author touching the Guiteau trial and the. Lawson-Gray incident at Dublin, are characterized by the best judicial temper. Dr. Wm. A. Hammond, ex-Surgeon-General of the U. S. Army, offers “A Problem for Sociologists,” the problem being to determine the degree of responsibility before the criminal law, of persons affected by certain forms of insanity. “The Industrial Value of Woman,” by Mrs. Julia.Ward Howe, is a very able reply to an article recently published on “ Woman’s Work and Woman’s Wages.” “Advantages of the Jury System,” by Dwight Foster, formerly a Justice of the Massachusetts Supreme Court, will command the. attention of every thoughtful citizen, being a grave, and learned defense of an institution which it is becoming the fashion to belittle and decry. The remaining articles are, “ Safety in Theatres,”
by Steele Mackaye, the distinguished actor and theatrical manager; “ The Pretensions of Journalism,” by Rev. Geo. T. Rider; and a symposium on “The Suppression of Vice,” by Anthony Comstock, O. B. Frothingham, and Rev. Dr. J. M. Buckley.
The American Phonographic Dictionary.
By Elias Longley, Author of the “Eclectic Manual of Phonography,” “The Reporter’s Guide,” and other Works. Cincinnati: Robert Clarke & Co. 1882. 8vo, 36S pages. Price, $2.50.
Hitherto the phonographic Dictionaries published on this side of the Atlantic have been scarcely worthy of the name. Isaac Pitman’s was the only one that gave engraved stenographic word-characters. Graham’s and Munson’s are in ordinary print, figures indicating the position. Mr. Longley has given in this valuable work nearly all the useful words in the English language—about 50,000 in number—in stenographic characters, besides the best forms for 2,000 geographical names; nearly as many family, personal, and noted names in fiction; Latin and French quotations; etc. The author possesses exceptional qualifications for the preparation of such a work. In 1858 he was called upon to assist in determining the phonetic representation of all the words in the English language, while printing the phonotypic dictionary of D. S. Smalley; of Boston, and a similar experience as author of a Pronouncing Medical Lexicon extended his familiarity with classical and foreign terms, etc. The preparation of the Phonographic Dictionary occupied three years; so comprehensive is it that one would imagine it the work of a life-time. .Instead of the usual form in dictionaries, Mr. Longley has adopted the etymological order —the root being first, then the derivatives in their order, with the contracted forms of many words in juxtaposition.
To the scattering schools of stenographers without a standard Mr. Longley’s dictionary will prove a great boon, and even Isaac Pitman writers will o	*	,	_
fi nd the geographical forms very useful. The book is issued in the handsome and substantial manner characterizing the publications of Messrs. Clarke & Co., whose Art-works, especially, have given them a high reputation.
Wilford’s Microcosm. A Religio-Scientific Monthly. Hall & Co., Publishers, New York.
This work is now in the second year of its existence, and in external appearance it .comes to us greatly improved. We cannot but commend the object which this journal has in view, viz., “ to set forth the bearing which the discoveries, theories and investigations of Modern Science have upon the Religious Thought of the Age.” Religion and Science are and must.be inseparable—Darwin to the contrary,, notwithstanding. Each indeed has its own sphere of action, but both may and do prove of assistance one to the other. In the present order of things all scientific investigations are ultimately and fundamentally based upon truths of revealed religion. It is utter folly for our modern scientists to speak about the “Unknowable,” etc.; they have simply “left the track.” Truths which
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	119
they learned from their mother’s lap have been their starting point, and had they simply followed the path which those truths pointed out for them, they would not have wandered as they have done. The fact is this,' and it cannot be gainsaid, that revealed truths are; and have been, the basis of all scientific investigations. We regret that we cannot give more space to our notice of this work in our present number, but we shall certainly refer to it again. We must say, however, that Dr. Hall presents a weak defence against the charge of Pantheism which has been brought against him. He says that he believes “in a Deity above Nature, prior to Nature; and independent of Nature;” but that u God did not create the universe out of nothing, but out of His own substance.” Is not this the sheerest Pantheism? We commend to his attention these short sentences: Whatever is from God is God; God is not composed of parts; the infinite cannot suffer increase or diminution of substance. Let Dr. Hall weigh well these truths and see whether his teachings are Pantheistic or not. In reasoning upon such matters it will not do to seek to stem by words the logical consequences of one’s position. No: abandon the-position when the consequences are found to be false —it cannot be safe. With a false conclusion, there is some error in the premises. Look it up. Because he cannot understand hoiv something can be created out of nothing, he cannot believe it. Dr. Hall will not certainly say he believes only what he understands.
The October number of the Microcosm is very interesting, and we especially commend the editorial, “Does Death End All”? It promises to be a good proof from reason of the existence of a future life.	.
Exchanges.
—The Heidelberg Journal for October is almost full of memorial matter and obituary notices. The gaunt Reaper has been making havoc among Heidelberg’s alumni of late. An alumna of ’68 has credit on the Journal's books for four years’ subscription. Although one swallow doesn’t make a summer, such a swallow as this is quite refreshing.
—The Wooster Collegian has “ emerged from the small almanac-like pamphlet of former issues, to the large, better, and more conventional form for a college paper.” The Collegian comes out in an entire new suit. The editors congratulate themselves very justly on the addition of a Conservatory of Music, with Karl Merz, editor of Brainard?s Musical World, as the director.
—The Dial for October (Jansen, McClurg & Co., Chicago) gives an elaborate sketch of Thomas a Kefhpis, the author of the celebrated “ De Imitatiorie Christi,” or the “ Imitation,” as it is familiarly called. The sketch is from the pen of W. M. Blackburn. Clarence L. Dean gives a review or criticism of “Mr. Howells’s Female Characters.” He regards the motive of “ A Modern Instance ” in a rather dubious light, but thinks
“ the influence of the book, repulsive as some of its chapters are, will be wholesome.” “ A Certain Dangerous Tendency in Novels” is examined by R. O. Beard in an article of some length. The writer mentions “Anne,” by Constance Feriimore Woolson; “An Echo of Passion,” by George Parsons. Lathrop; “Through One Administration,” by Frances Hodgson Burnett; and “Two on a Tower,” by Thos. Hardy, which have appeared, or are still appearing, in the pages of the chief monthlies, and says that all of them betray a disposition, which may well be called alarming, to trifle with the marriage relation, and that their pages are stained by a covert but unmistakable depreciation of the most sacred of human vows.
—Among our phonographic exchanges we have representatives of nearly all the leading modifications of the Pitman phonography, the only system used to any great extent by English writers. The oldest of these is Graham’s Student's Journal, mentioned elsewhere, which is now in the nth year of its publication. Brozonds Phonographic Monthly comes next in age, being well through its ninth year. Although cosmopolitan to a great extent, and very judiciously giving the pure Isaac Pitman and Munson methods a large space and attention, the Phonographic Monthly is an ardent advocate of the Benn Pitman modification, and publishes a series of lessons for students of the art according- to that method.- It also contains much valuable information on stenographic matters in general. The Monthly has been until lately the principal organ of the reporting profession in America, but The American Shorthand Writer, Bengough?s Cosmopolitan, and Brown and Holland’s Shorthand Nezus, the latter from Chicago, have lately given much reporting and general stenographic news. The latter publication is strictly cosmopolitan as to news and reading-matter, but its stenographic pages are devoted principally to the Benn Pitman method. The News is in the first year of its existence. It is chiefly valuable for its home and foreign news-notes and its foreign correspondence. The American Shorthand Writer, published by Rowell and Hickcox, at 409 Washington street, Boston, is also cosmopolitan, admitting to its pages writers by the various methods, both in regard to reading-matter and stenographic notes, but it publishes annually a series of graded lessons in pure Isaac Pitman phonography, which the editors think the best extant, an opinion in which we heartily agree with them. From Canada we receive Bengough's Cosmopolitan Shorthand Writer, conducted by Thos. Ben-gough, official reporter in the York County courts. Bengough gives general news, and stenographic matter in all methods, but Mr. Bengough himself is an Isaac Pitman writer. From the foregoing, our stenographic readers, or those wishing to become acquainted with the art, can make their choice. Munson writers can have the Munson Phono-, graphic Monthly, published by Mark W. Dewey, Cazenovia, N. Y., which is not on our exchange list. .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, October 28, 1882.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Sixteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students. •
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,	.
Old Students should take it.
Terms-, Si.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
MAress. EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
.	Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—As a general enthusiasm seems to prevail regarding the competition for the Prize Essay Medal, of which we spoke in our last issue, and in order to still further encourage laudable efforts in this direction, we are authorized to announce that second and third prizes will be given for the same object. Of course, each of them will be of lesser value than the Grand Prize, but still will furnish a meritorious object of competition.
—The students of Arizona and of Old and New Mexico are under special obligations .to the officials of the Atchison, Topeka, & Santa Fc Ry., for many acts of kindness. They are particularly indebted to Messrs. C. C. White, General Passenger & Ticket Agent, and H. B. Keeler, who left nothing undone to make their long journey agreeable. Now that so many parents and students are coming' from the above-mentioned places, we cannot too highly recommend a road.whose officials are always as obliging as tlfey are courteous. Although but recently completed territories, the road has all. the comforts and advantages of the old and well-tried routes of the East. . It is already
famous for being one of the longest roads in the world, and its equipment is second to none in the land. To all our friends, then, coming from Old or New Mexico, from Texas or Arizona, or Kansas, we say unhesitatingly, take the A. T. & S. Ed R. R. For particulars apply to C. C. White, Gen. Pass., & Ticket Agent or H. B. Keeler, Topeka, Kan- • sas.	‘
—Visitors to the printing-office are always welcome, and great pleasure will be taken to point out everything connected with its workings. There are, however, some few constant visitors for whose benefit it- must be stated that no one should consider himself at liberty to take up and examine proofs of the Scholastic, or anything else; there is a proof-reader appointed for that purpose, and he will attend to that particular duty. It is certainly, in a sense, gratifying to the editors to note such interest in the paper, and it is their aim to try and make it still more pleasing to all. At the same time, we strive to get our paper out in time —3 o’clock p. m. Saturday—and we are sure that if our much-interested visitors would be patient and ’bide a few hours, they would find that their paper would possess tenfold more interest.
'Another consideration, but one which we shall not dwell upon, .is that such visitors as we refer to, are a source of annoyance to those immediately connected with the office and seriously interfere with their work.
Please, wait until your paper is out, Saturday afternoon.
—It would seem unnecessary to say that the Scholastic is the students’ paper. But, if it is so, is it not natural to expect that its principal support come from the students. Yet, how few there are here in the College who are regular subscribers. We know that many, very many prefer to borrow a. Scholastic from their neighbor,-and perhaps wait their turn in this undertaking, rather than sacrifice the small sum which would secure them a copy, and at the same time help to support their college journal, which they certainly cannot but feel interested in seeing kept up. The subscription price of the Scholastic is as low as it can possibly be, for a weekly, the editors do their best to make it pleasing and interesting, and it is encouraging to them to know that thus far they have, to some extent, been successful. But, on the other hand, like the body and soul in man, neither of which can be affected without the other being in like manner influenced or death ensuing when the separation between the two takes place, so, too, with our paper; its body is the pecuniary assistance it receives from its friends, and the health of the soul, its literary part-, will greatly depend upon the material support which it receives; Now, certainly, we are justified in looking for this support from the students of Notre Dame,—and we simply say to them, “ If you want your Scholastic to survive, hesitate not, but at once subscribe for it. You will not miss the small amount, and we think we can guarantee you the worth of your money.” "
THE NOTRE bAME SCHOLASTIC.
121
■ i	—Every thinking man will readily admit that one
■	of the essential elements of a perfect education is
|	religious or moral training. . He will certainly
grant that it is through the possession of the great faculty of the will that man is distinctively constituted a moral, responsible being, and conse-i	quently the training and perfecting of this faculty,
’	which directs and controls all the faculties of the
!	moral nature, must not be neglected in the culti-
; ,	vation of the mental powers. However evident
this may be—and it needs but little reflection to make it evident—in practice, it would seem that our modern educators, to a great extent, have yet • to realize its importance. It is a well-known fact * that the great defect in the educational system which prevails in many of our American institutions is precisely the want of a moral training, or, in other words, religious instruction. And more than this, those . who would favor its ■	introduction are decried as illiberal and fanat-
|	ical;—as men imbued with sectarian prejudices
and enemies of- the free institutions of our country. Such charges are especially directed against the Church, because its every effort has always been directed towards preserving a union between religion and science—because it has ever insisted upon the necessity of a moral as well as intellectual training for the youthful mind. It is gratifying, however, to know that fresh interest has been awakened !	in this subject, and that prominent men openly ad-
vocate the imparting of this religious instruction.
1	; Dr. Joseph Rodes Buchanan, writing in The Home
Journal, pointedly remarks:
“ Colleges are supposed to be devoted to intelligence, but I affirm that they should be devoted first to virtue, and * that it is as practicable to take the plasmic elements of ;	youth and thereof make a good man as it is to make an
intelligent or wise one. Intellectual without moral education simply increases the dangerous and corrupting eleE	ments of society. It gives the sceptre of knowledge into
•	the hands of the social Lucifers. I affirm that every ele-
ment of the human constitution is capable of being educated and developed, and that the moral nature, which is associated with the coronal region of the brain, is as capable of being developed as the muscles of the arm. As we know that we can increase the circumference of the arm or * the circumference of the chest by proper exercises, it would" be contradicting the laws of nature to say that we cannot also increase the energy of the moral faculties.
;	When we know that this can be done—that it is just as .
practicable to make a good man as to make an intelligent
■	one, we can see in this principle a glorious future for. hu-
|	manity! If this be true, all the evils of our earthly life
:	can be abolished, and we are to-day responsible for the
|	future of humanity.”	■
|	Now, apart from such materialistic expressions,
;	as, the moral nature is associated 'with the coronal
■ region of the brain, and others that may be readily observed, the writer, in this short passage, Ij	endeavors to give expression to an idea which lies
j	at the basis of the whole'system -of education in all
I	our Catholic colleges,—in all ..schools subject to
■	Catholic influences. “ Intellectual without moral
i	education simply increases the dangerous and cor-
rupting elements of society,”—this partly expresses the necessity of what should be the grand object of all education. “ Colleges should be devoted first to virtue,”—this should be understood as expressing the importance of moral training. Virtue and in-
telligence should go hand in hand, and those powers of the human soul which have both as their object, may be developed and perfected 'pari passu. The whole theory of the writer in regard to a liberal education is somewhat visionary, but we have not the space to review it now; we may recur to it in a future number. We would simply call attention .to the passage quoted, and say that it speaks of .an element in education which is not neglected by all our colleges.
—Attention has been frequently called to the Van Dyke painting now in the possession of the University. In response to numerous inquiries, we print the following copy and translation of a letter lately written by Signor Gregori, whose reputation as a Master is already established in this country, as it has been long since in Europe: . Certifico io qui sottoscritto con pura coscienza e verity che il quadro dipinto in tela largo oncie 33, e alto oncie 47, reppresentante il crocifisso con la Maddalena ginocchioni piedi della croce, e una magnifica opera di Antonio Van Dyke; avendolb esaminatoscrupolosamente in tutte le sue parti caratteristiche, tanto per il colore come nel disegno, armonia di tono, tocco franco dilatato senza esagerazione come ho sempre osservato, in tutte le sue opere esistenti nelle grandi Gallerie, dove per molti anni ho studiato le opere dei grandi maestri. Nei viaggi da me fatti onde ac-quistare per ordine del Marchese G." P. Campana, di Roma, per formare una collezione di pitture dall’ origine dell’ arte fino al secolo passato, come spiegai nel catalog© da me fatto di questa raccolta, oggi visibile a Parigi nel Museo del Louvre, col titolo Museo Campana, ebbi 1’opportunita di poter sciegliere e studiare gli antichi maestri. Servendomf di molta esperienza, percid venni piu volte chiamato in tribunale quando sotto il governo Pontificio per dare la mia opinione su delle pitture antiche: piu avendo fatto una prat-tica particolare con molto studio per restaurare, pulire e conoscere come si deve restaurare senza alterare 1’original-itit come ne fa fede il quadro del Bonifazio Veneziano nella Gallera Vaticana, che restaurai per ordine di Papa Pio IX. Questa pitturaera tutta ridipinta e alterata. Come gia aveva certificate, e la ritornai al suo stato primero, come pure Sua Santita mi ordino di staccare dal muro e mettere su tela l’affresco nella Floreria del Palazzo Vatican©, una pittura del Pinturicchio, della quale Pio IX ne fu tanto soddisfatto che voile averla nel suo appartamento.
Dissi cid per far conoscere 1’esperienza che ho sopra le pitture antiche. Quindi sostengo che il quadro posseduto a Notre Dame e un vero Van Dyke e che non ha prezzo come lavoro di quel maestro di gran bellezza e rariti e Io confermo per la pura verity	’
Luigi Gregori.
Notre Dame, 16 Ottobre, 1882.
. [Translation.]
I, the undersigned, certify that the painting on canvas, 33 inches wide, and 47 inches high, representing the Crucifixion,.with the Magdalene kneeling at the foot of the Cross, is ■ a magnificent work of Antonio Van Dyke. I have examined the work with scrupulous care in all its characteristic parts, noting especially the coloring, the design, the harmony of tone, and the free and easy touch that is observed in all the works of Van Dyke preserved in the larger art galleries of Europe where, during- many years, I made a particular study of the works of the great masters. In the •journeys undertaken by me, by the order of the Marquis G- P-Campana, of Rome, with a view of making a collection of paintings from the origin of art down to the last century (as is explained in a catalogue made by me of this collection, now to be seen in the museum ofthe Louvre, with the title of “Museo Campana.”), I had an excellent opportunity of selecting and studying the old masters. In this I was- not without previous experience, as I was frequently, under the Pontifical government, called before
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the tribunals to give my opinion regarding the works of the above-mentioned old masters. More than this, I made a special study of restoring old paintings, in which I had great practice, and of the means to be adopted for preserving their originality. As evidence of this, I might adduce as an instance the picture of Bonifazio Veneziano, in the Gallery of the Vatican, which I restored by order of Pius IX. This painting was entirely repainted and altered, and I restored it to its original state. In addition to the above, His Holiness ordered me to transfer to canvas a fresco in the Floreria of the Vatican Palace, a picture of Pinturic-chio; and he was so well pleased with the work that he wished to have it in his own room.
I have written the above, in order that it may be seen that I have not been without experience regarding the works of the old masters. Having, then, the knowledge and experience that I have, I unhesitatingly certify that the afore-mentioned painting now at Notre Dame, is a genuine Van Dyke, and that, as the production of that master of rare beauty, it is a work beyond price.
Luigi Gregori.
Notre Dame, Oct. 16, 1882.
Personal.
—Frank Reeve, of ’80, is teaching school near Dexter, Mich.
—Geo. W. Lowrey, of ’78, is in the grain business, at Seward, Neb.
—E. H. Croarkin, of ’81, is working in his father’s store, at Dexter, Mich.
—Mr. Kit Carson, of ’70, is living at Taos, N. Mexico. All the Pueblos, with whom he lives, have a good word for Kit.
—Master Chas. Echlin, of ’82, is now in San Francisco, and doing well. .He wishes to be remembered to all his old friends.
—Eugene Cullenine (Prep.), of ’80, is at Assumption College, Ontario. The Crow brothers, Minims, of ’79, are also studying at the same place.
—Tommy Cullenine (Prep.), of ’80, is living •with his parents at Dexter, Mich. Tommy’s old friends would hardly recognize him now, he has grown so strong and hearty.
—Albert J. Hintze (Com’l),.’80, is in the drug business, at Milwaukee, Wis. His old friends will be pained to hear that he has lost the use of his right hand and arm from blood poison.
—Mr. Frank T. Dever (Com’l), ’81, is in the employ of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Co. He expects soon to visit his Alma Mater. Welcome, Frank! we will be glad to see you.
—Residents of Notre Dame, when passing through Peru, Ind., should not fail to call on Mr. G. M. Webb (Com’l), of ’69. He is a genial gentleman, glad to see his old college friends, and has a couple of little fellows whom he intends to have entered as Minims in a year or so.
—We were pleased to receive a call from Mr. Aaron Jones, of South Bend, to whom the students are greatly indebted for much of their enjoyment during their visit to the late Agricultural Fair. Mr. Jones is mild and courteous in manner, and a gentleman who will ever prove himself, as he has in
the past, deserving of the confidence of all in whatever position he may occupy.
—H. B. Keeler, M. S., of ’69, is now living in Topeka, Kansas, and holds a lucrative position in the service of the A. T. & S. F£ R’y. Since leaving Notre Danie, Mr. Keeler has been steadily climbing the ladder of success, until now he is one of the ablest and most trustworthy officials of the large corporation with which he is connected. The Scholastic, of which H. B. was one of the first1 editors, rejoices in his success, and trusts that he ’ will continue on in a career that is now so bright and promising.
—Mr. Louis Scott, of ’66, is American Consul to Chihuahua, Mexico. Mr. Scott, according to the report of one of the Faculty, who saw him during vacation, is one of the most prominent business-men of northern Mexico, and is held in the highest estimation by all who know him. He is still the same good-natured, noble-hearted, Lou Scott as ever, and is as much of a favorite now wherever he goes as he was with Faculty and students during his stay at Notre Dame. He has for some time been promising himself a visit to his Alma Mater. No one will be more welcome.
—Rev. D. J. Spillard, C. S.- C., ’64, is now the efficient President of St. Edward’s College, Austin, Texas. We are glad to learn that, under his administration, the College is in an unusually flourishing condition. Father Spillard might be said to be one of the pioneer students of Notre Dame. As a student, he was ever popular among the boys, and subsequently, when in due course of events, he became Prefect of Discipline in the College, during the two years he governed, he procured for himself the love and respect of all. His administrative abilities he displayed in the wise and efficient direction of the parish of St. Patrick’s, South Bend. And therefore we are not at all surprised to hear that St. Edward’s flourishes. Long may it continue so!
Local Items.
—I wot not.
—Technique !
—Alas, our Chef!
—How we miss him!
—Do not write on your papers. .
—Shall we ne’er see him more?
—Who is that solitary oarsman ?
—-Subscribe for the Scholastic.
—How about that “free-for-all” race?
—Bedder of dot Bastor gome pack once.
—The Latin Class in the Minims is flourishing.
—Jie does not warm his feet any more with liver-pads.
—There will be a grand soiree soon. No, sir! Tes, sir!
—Another Chicago delegation is coming. En^ core fot costumes.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
-—Competitions in the Preparatory Course will be held next week.	'
—The billiard-room is being partitioned off, thus giving a new private room.
—The reports about the “ free-for-all ” race have been authoritatively contradicted. ..
—The new dormitories in the upper floor will be ready for occupancy next week.
—Can we not have that, cement walk between the printing-office and the College?
—The Minims return thanks to Father' General for the grand “ St. Edward’s cake” sent them.
—The Minims had two hours extra “ rec.” on Tuesday, the feast of their patron, St. Raphael.
—Lost:—A First Honor Gold Medal. The finder will please return to Mr. W. H. Arnold.
—The pulpit has been removed into the sanctuary. Should it not be placed on the Gospel side ?
—The Ordo is printed-. The director says it will be secundum ordinem, this time. Speratmts sic.	'
—There’s an edifice in the Juniors’ Campus which, like the last rose of summer, “ stands blooming alone.”
—Two young men, of the Junior department, are posing as sons of Columbus for Gregorys mural painting.
—We were pleased to see Mr. and Mrs. Fenlon, of Leavenworth, Kansas, who visited the College during the past week.
—B. Lawrence is devoting all his energies to the o	o
“fixing up” of the Juniors’reading-room. What are the Seniors doing?
—The Directors of the Musical Department are preparing for a grand soiree, to come off during the second week in November.
—Notice to Correspondents :—Prof. L.----------- has Tylerized and thereby forfeited the support of the Democracy of this township.
The Scholastic Staff return thanks to President Walsh for a beautiful painting of St. Francis de Sales, the patron of Journalism.
—We received a flying visit this week from Rev. M. F. Campion, ’62, the popular and energetic pastor of St. Peter’s Church, Laporte, Ind.
—The Curator of the Museum returns thanks to Mr. J. C. Larkin, of Pottsville, Pa., for a donation of specimens to the Cabinet of Mineralogy.
—They all seem to look upon the genial Secretary as apolitical “boss.” Malicious reports are in circulation, that he has tapped the “barls” of both parties.	-
—Twenty new desks, from the factory of Liphart & Co., South Bend, arrived during the past week. There is now study-hall accommodation for 400 students.
—The Euglossians tender a vote of thanks to _________o
Professors Edwards and Paul, Bros. Simon, Emmanuel and Paul, for favors extended to them at the last exhibition.	.
—Messrs. Otis, O’Neill, Larkin, Bums and Gallagher, of the Senior department, deserve thanks for the active interest they took in the Minim • field-sports on Thursday.
—All communications must be signed with the name of the writer, as a guarantee of good faith, , not necessarily for publication, otherwise such effusions shall be consigned to the waste-basket.
—The Seniors wish to express their thanks t<? ~ the Rev. President, Messrs. D. H. Baker, Alfred ' Klingel, C. Pollack, J. Rush & Co., Deacon and son, and Meyer Livingston, for their donations to the Athletic sports.
—Temporary walks-will be laid from the Juniors’ Campus to the Church, and from the Seniors’ grounds to .their study-hall. It was the intention to have them laid in cement, but the fall is now too far advanced to permit it.
—In the Junior contests on last Thursday, the First prize for longest throw of baseball was won by F. Lund, Chicago, Ill.; Second prize won by P. Warren, Chicago, Ill.; Third prize won by J. Hellebush, Cincinnati, Ohio.
—To-morrow, \ 22d Sunday after Pentecost, Missa de Angelis will be sung. Vespers of one-martyr, p. 40. Next Wednesday, Feast of All Saints, Missa Regia will be sung. Vespers, p. 214. Next Thursday, Commemoration of All • Souls, Mass de Requiem, at 10 o’clock.
—The reporter of Senior sports, last week, forgot to mention the names of the efficient committee, who spared no pains in arranging the long programme of field-sports and labelling each prize, thereby avoiding all confusion -in awarding them. They are M. E. Donohue, Harry Morse,-Frank Gallagher and W. Bolton.
—The latest number of the Indo-European Correspondence, published at Calcutta, contains an extract from the Scholastic and also the continuation of a serial story—“Warp and Woof”—which appeared originally in the columns of The 11 Ave Maria." “ How far doth our little candle send its beams of light?”—Shakspeare.
—The Curator of the Museum is indebted to Mr. and Mrs. Louis Scott, of Chihuahua, Mexico, for a valuable collection of minerals from the mines of Pulalia, Batapilas, Sta. Rosalia and Cusihuiriachic. In the collection is a number of interesting specimens of silver ore from the famous mines of the Sierra Madre.
—The Minims rejoice in the possession of a beautiful and valuable 12-inch terrestrial globe, the gift of Mr. William P. Devine, of Chicago; The globe is the work of Juret & Co., has all the latest improvements, and, at the lowest, is valued at $25. The Minims feel very grateful to the generous donor, and desire to return publicly • their heartfelt thanks for his kind remembrance of them.
—The 3d and 4th regular meetings of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Association were held Sept. 30th and Oct. Sth. Masters J. Armijo, J. Nester, W. Berthelet, C. Cavaroc, J. McGordon, * D. O’Connor, B. Rothschild, were admitted as
124	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
members. Compositions were read by E. Wile, F. Fishel, and R. Devereux. Recitations were given by P. Warren, F. Danielson, H. Goldsmith, J. Livingston, W. Hanavin, F. Kengel, B. Rothschild, -A. Schillo, T. D. Walsh, H. Metz, and L. Gibert.	•
—Referring to our notice of the recent visit of Don Juan Terrazas to the University, the Ypsilanti Sentinel of October the 18th says: “It looks from the following paragraph, in the Scholastic, as if Notre Dame were becoming almost an international University. The self-sacrificing interest of its devoted friends is certainly sending it forward in advance of favored State institutions. Though just over the line, in Indiana, it is so near Michigan that one can almost feel a little State , pride in it.”	.
—A meeting of the Seniors’ Archconfraternity was held last Sunday night. The ten-minutes’ address was given by Father Fitte. Instructive papers were read by Messrs. Zahm and Solon. The former took as his subject, “ The Inquisition; ” the latter spoke of “ St. Bernard and his Times;” Mr. G. E. Clarke, in an eloquent speech, presented a motion that a committee be appointed to aid in furnishing the ends of Father General’s circular as regards the erection of the Dome. The motion was seconded and unanimously adopted.
—We regret that, being obliged to go press earlier than usual this week, we can give no description of the sports on last Thursday. One piece of news, however, we received in time. The most interesting and exciting event of all was the footrace between the “ Champions of St. Edward’s Day”—Juniors and Seniors. The “ Champions” were—-Juniors: H. Austin, M. Dolan and D. Allen; Seniors: J. Fulton, E. Otis and J. O’Neill. Great and prolonged were the cheers when Master H. L. Austin, of the Junior team, came in the winner.	•
—We were shown, a few days ago, some novel electrical apparatus lately secured by the Professor ' of Physics from the McIntosh Galvanic Belt & . Battery Co., of Chicago. The instrument deserving of most notice is a new form of Toepler-Holtz Machine which gives all the effects of the plate machine, induction coil, and readily works in all kinds of weather. Father Zahm, we understand, has promised to give, at no distant day, a lecture on Statical Electricity, when, judging from the large number of fine apparatus he has at his disposal, we may expect experiments of unusual interest and brilliancy. -	’
—The 6th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held Oct. i6th. Well-written essays were read by A. Browne, C. Porter, J. Fendrich, M. Foote and D. Taylor. Declamations were delivered by Masters H. Foote, E. Dillon, W. Jeannot, M. O’Connor, H. Dunn. F. Johnson, J. Bush, and G. Schaefter. Public readers for this week are, A. Browne, W. Schott, W. Mug, Jos. Courtney, F. Brice, W. Dolan, H. ’ Snee, and H. Busch. Mr. J. Solon, of the Euglos-sians, closed the exercises with a spirited declama
tion entitled “Alexander Hamilton,” which he prefaced with a few chosen remarks.
—On Wednesday evening the Notre Dame Scientific Association met for the purpose of reorganizing. The following officers were installed: President, Rev. J. A. Zahm; Vice-President, F. E. Kuhn; Recording Secretary, George Clarke; Corresponding Secretary, Jos. P. O’Neill; Treasurer, E. A. Otis; Librarian, A. Zahm. The question of membership was disposed of by approving the clause in the constitution which limits the membership to .those students in the Junior and Senior years. Messrs. Malloy, Flemming and Gray were elected members. There being no further business, the meeting adjourned, to meet again next Saturday.
—The Crescent Club Musicale, last Monday night, was a decided success. An excellent Overture, composed of the national melodies, was well rendered by the Club Orchestra. Master Schaeffer sang in good style the popular aria “ When the Leaves Begin to Fall.” This was followed by a duo for violin and piano, by Prof. Paul and Master Schott. By special invitation, Prof. Ackermann favored the audience by singing in German “ When the Swallows Homeward Fly,” and, in response to a hearty encore, he caused much merriment by singing a comic German song with guitar accompaniment. Mr. Marlette executed a difficult Cornet solo, to the satisfaction of the critics, and Mr. M. T. Burns contributed to the success of the entertainment by giving a vocal selection from Martha. The programme closed with piano solos by Master Schott and Prof. Paul.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Armijo, Ashford, Anderson, Arnold, E. Bailey, Brady, Browne, Burns, W. Bailey, Bolton, Becerra, Blackman, Cavanaugh, Coll, T. Clarke, Coghlin, Conway, Celia, Clements, Carroll, Claffey, J. Donohue, M. Donohue, Drover, Delgado, Jas. Delaney, Dickerson, Eisenhauer, Eaton, Fogerty, Flynn, T. Fenlon, E. Fenlon, Fitzgerrell, Fitzgerald, Farrell, Freese, Gall, Greever, Garrett, Golon-ski, Grange, F. Gallagher, Godfrey, Gooley, Johnston, Kane, Kolars, Kimmell, Kavanaugh, Larkin, H. McCarthy, McEniry, Monoghari, McErlain, Marlett, Muhlke, W. McCarthy, J. McNamara, T. McNamara, Molloy, Mullen, McIntyre, S. Murdock, Morse, Magoffin, Metz, Nelson, Noble, Noonan, O’Dea, Orchard, O’Connor, O’Neill, Otis, O’Reilly, O’Brien, Paquette, Pour, Parrott, Pillars, Peery, Piefer, Peters, Ratterman, Rogers, Ruger, Ryan, Sturla, Solon, Stover, C. Smith, Seitz, Stull, Saviers, Spencer, G. Smith, Terrazas, Veal e, Walsh, Warner, Wheatley, Whalen, Whitiver, Yrisairi. .
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Auston, Brice, Browne, Bacon, Busch, Braunsdorf, Curtis, J. Courtney, Coghlin; Caveroc, Chirhart, Cain, Dolan, Dorenburg, Dillon, De Haven, Dunn, Eisenhauer, M. Foote, H; Foote, Ferguson, Fishel, Goldsmith, Grat-haus, Gerlach, J. Hetz, Hagerty, J. Henry, W. Henry, Hornaday, Hibbeler, Hess, Halligan, Hannavin, Halbrook,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Hagen, Hegenbarth, Jeannot, Kahman, Kengel, J. Kelly, M. Kelly, Livingston, Leffingwell, McCawley, Mug, Mc-Gordon, McDonnell, Morris, McCartney, J. P. O’Donnell, J. V. O’Donnell, Peery, C. Porter, Schott, Schillo, Smith, Smeeth, Schaeffer, Talbot, Taggart, Terrazas, Violette, Warren, Waggoner, Wilkinson, Wright, Whitman, Zeigler, Achkoff-.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackermann, Adams, Beall, Bunker, Burlingame, Bannantine, G. Costigan, E. Costigan, Chaves, Chirhart, Cummings, Colwell, Cain, Coad, Devereux, Dirksmeyer, G. Dunford F. Dunford, H. Dyer, J. Dyer, W. Devine, A. Devine, Harris, Hynes, Hopkins, Huestis, Hewitt, Johnson, Kellner, Keeffe, J. Kelly, Kraus, Luther, Landenwich, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, Lare, J. J. McGrath, J. McGrath, Moss, R. Morri'on, E. McGrath, W. Masi, C McGordon, Metz, McPhee, McGuire, McNaughton, Nester, F. Otis, A. Otis, Pick, Papin, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, Rebori, Roberts, Rea', Roper, Studebaker, Stange, Spencer, Smith, Schmitz, Sommer, F. Stamm, G. Stamm, Thomas, Unger, Warner, E. Walsh, W. Walsh, Whitney, Welch, Windsor, Wright, Quinlin, L. Young, C. Young,
Class Honors.
[In the following list may be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all. their classes during the month past.]
COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS AND SPECIAL BRANCHES.
Messrs. Kahman, Saviers, Ludwig, Fishel, Heffernan, Munce, Grever, Kengel, Whitman, Ruger, Magoffin, Drover, Lease, Mug, Dickerson, Austin, Becerra, Murphy, Gerlach, Yrisarri, Caveroc, Spencer, Muhlke, Celia, Ackhoff, Ziegler, S. Murdock, C. Murdock, Coll, Rhodius, Carroll, Bush, Schott, C. Porter, Johnson, Ryan, J. Armijo. Schaeffer, H. Porter, E. Fenlon, O’Connor, Reed, Fitzgerrell, McErlaine, Fogarty, Marlette, Paquette, Mason, Eisenhauer, Garrett, Hibbeler, J. McCarthy, Jos. Courtney, Kerndt, Gall, Grothaus, Katz, Muller, Flynn, Berthe-let, Ohnick, J. Delaney, Peery, Castanedo, Kolars, Whalen, Metz, Wheatley, Lund, Simms, Sturla, Fulton, Campbell, Robb, Heffernan, McIntyre, Guthrie ,Crawford, Ashford, Bolton, Farrell, Multhern, H. Foote, Snee, Chirhart, Hagen, Dillon, Halbrook, Violette, Chelini, Devereux, E. Baily, Ayers, McDonnell.	’	.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the courses named—according. to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]	‘
COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS AND SPECIAL BRANCHES.
German—Messrs. Grathaus, F. Fylnn, Schott, Mug, Whalen, McIntyre, Halbrook; French—Messrs. E. Fenlon, Rhodius, Schott, Caveroc, Gibert, Castanedo; Instrumental Music—Messrs. Schott, Schaeffer, Coll, C. Murdock, F. Johnson, Marlett, Armijo; Vocal Music—Messrs. E. Fenlon, McGoffin, S. Murdock; Telegraphy—Messrs. Mason, Ruger, Fulton, Sturla; Phonography—Messrs. Guthrie, Kolars, Sturla, McErlaine, Ashford; Elocution—Messrs. G. Clarke, Tinley, W. McCarthy, Solon, Otis, Cleary, Burns, Coakley, Saviers, Grever, Morse, Larkin, Johnston, J. Browne, A. Browne, T. Flynn, Rhodius, Castanedo, Bolton, Kolars, Conway, Marlett, Eaton, Dunn, Claffey, A. Coghlin, Guthrie.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters W. Walsh, G. Stamm, G. Costigan, Spencer, F. Stamm, Cummings, Colwell, Luther, A. Otis, E. McGrath, W. Prindiville.	■
Saint JFlary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The subject.,of the lecture on Saturday evening, before the St. Cecilia Society, was “ The .Ancient Italic People.”	,	,
—At the reading of St. Mary’s Chimes, the Rev. Father Queeley, late from Ireland, honored the young ladies by his presence. The genial chaplain, as well as his Rev. guest, appeared well pleased with the efforts of the youthful litterateurs.
—On Saturday, Feast of St. Ursula, a profusion of lamps, artistically grouped, were kept burning before the relic of one of her companion martyrs, which is deposited at the left of the altar in the Chapel of Loretto. It is one of several rare souvenirs obtained by Mother M. Angela on her visit to Cologne, in 1875.
—Sunday evening St. Mary’s Chimes, Vol. VII, No. 1, was read. Edited by the Misses Keenan, Lancaster, Barlow, and Owen, of the Second Senior Class, and Miss Murphy, of the Third Senior Class. Contents: I, Editorial; II, Feast of .St. Ursula; III, Matilda of Tuscany; IV, Phlebotomy; V, Fairy Foot-Prints; VI, AIL is well that Endswell; VII, Strength of Character; VIII, Excelsior; IX, Mysterious Emulation; X, ^Esthetic; XI, The Superlative Degree in the Second Senior Class; XII, Welcome; XIII, -Felony; XIV, The Adventures of an Autumn Leaf, composed by herself; XV, Culinary; XVI, University of Virginia; XVII, Feast of St. Luke; XVIII, In Memoriam.
—On Wednesday, Feast of St. Luke, the Art pupils, in honor of their patron, were granted the privilege of visiting the Art treasures of Notre Dame. The entire afternoon was taken up in the delightful occupation of examining the skilful productions of Signor Gregori and other eminent artists. At the special invitation of Very Rev. Father General they were treated to a view of his . rare collections of art, one piece of which was received but a fortnight since. It is a painting ex-. ecuted by a member of the Congregation, of the Holy Cross. The picture, to quote. from the wonderfully-illuminated inscription beneath, is “ a copy of an ancient Spanish crucifix, supposed to have been brought to Mexico, about the year 1624, by the early missionaries. It was discovered in the ruins of an old mission, near Tucson, Arizona, by a Mexican woman, and given by her to Right Rev. J. B. Salpointe, D. D., Vicar-Apostolic of Arizona, in 1869. In 1873 it was presented by the Right Rev. J. B. Salpointe to Major A. J. Dallas, and painted from the crucifix for Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior-General, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Ind., presented Oct. 13,1882.” Just above the crucifix, in letters traced in delicate imitation of thorns, are the words, “ He was wounded for our iniquities.” The painting is pronounced a masterpiece by Signor Gregori.	...
126	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
In Memoriam.
Ax Offering of Esteem to the Rev. Paul E. Gillen, C. S. C., who died in Brooklyn, N. Y., Oct. 2otii.
i.
Brave soldier of the Holy Cross, Say, shall we count thy death a loss? Nay, rather, joy we shall accord, That thou hast gone to thy reward; For ardently thy life hath been, One tireless contest against sin.
• ii.
Since Holy Cross first to our land Came from the far-off Eastern strand, Thy life, thy labor, earnest, true, Were steadfast ever, ever new, And toil, and hardship, cold and heat, To thee, by zeal, were rendered sweet.
"	in.
O, valiant Father! if our prayer
* Be needed yet, how full the share Thy deep devotion claims to-day, From those whom thou hast taught to pray; Heaven, grant him loving, blest release, Flood his pure soul with light, with peace!
iv.	•
Brave soldier of the Holy Cross, -Thine is the gain, ours is the loss; Therefore we would not call thee back To linger on life’s thorny track;
Aye, even now we feel thy power	'
• Has grown not less in this sad hour.
v.
Who e’er in life burned with desires - Like thine, to free from cleansing fires The souls detained? Who e’er like thee Made sacrifices to set them free? -The mercy of a loving Heaven
Will give to thee as thou hast given. .
Strength of Character.
Observe the influence on society of one possessed of a noble strength of character. He elevates the tone of morality wherever he is, by discountenancing all customs that tend to degrade morality. Others feel his superiority, and look to him for an example. The influence of Madame Swetchine over the great Lacordairennay be cited as an instance of the power for good of one endowed with strength of character. Under God, he owed to her his extraordinary success as an orator, as a saint.
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Clarke, 2X.. Dillon, Feehan, M. Campbell, C. Campbell, C. Donnelly, Johnson, Laffer, Sullivan, Shickey, Walsh, Todd, Hoag, Barlow, Call, Duffield, Dunn, Gove, M. Heneberry, Keenan, Knott, Mohl, Owens, O’Connor, Pease, Richardson, Semmes, E. Slattery, Ramsey, Van Patten, Crawford, Rulison, Lancaster, Sawyer, Adderly, Munger, Heckard, Stackerl, Danforth, Daily, Dickson, Coakley, Clifford, Unger, Pick, Madole, Hunt, Cox, Taylor, O’Connell, Anderson, M. Hawkins, M. H. Ryan, Fenlon, McCoy, Adams, Durphy, Chirhart, Kolb, T. Slattery, Rettig, Harris, McCauley, Legnard, • Donahue, Hughes, Donnersberger, Hagan, McCarten, Cas-tanedo, Dolan, Newton, Pampell, Foster, Commerford, Gavin, L. Hawkins, King, Eldridge, Hintz, Shull, Maginn, Mooney, Gallagher, Kirkham, Schmauss. 2d Tablet— Misses Fox, Wiley, Wright, Fendrich, M. A. Ryan, Beal, Bathrick, V. Reilly, J. Reilly, Wood, L. English, Wallace, Williams, Harrigan, Leydon, Black, Murphy, Hunter, B. English, Donahue, Myers, Babcock, Drover.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses J. Spangler, Dignan, Dillon, Coogan, Nevius, Howlett, E. Donnelly, Grist, Richmond, Gale, Shephard, Johnston, Van Horn, B. Haney, Halsey, Best, Chaves, Mary Otis, T. Haney, Snowhook, Spencer. 2d Tablet—Misses Morrison, Duffield, Morgan, Considine, Fisk, Ewing, Schmidt, Hibben, Coyne, Otero, M. Sullivan.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	.
Par Excellence—Misses Sawyer, English, J. McGrath, Martha Otis, Burtis, McKennon, Lindsey, Westfall, Paul.
If one thing more than another is at the present day necessary in society, it is the cultivation of strength of character. This is but another name for virtue, and is more essential than skill in science, or perfection in art, or even efficiency in securing what the world calls success. Success without it is but a new failure, for it is giving to the world that to which it has no right. Let us see how strength of character is manifested. Inclination clashes with principle. The inclination is ignored, and principle gets the better of it without half an effort. A stand is to be taken in favor or against a given mode of action‘ the young girl, possessed of strength of character, hesitates not one moment in investigating the reason why she.should enlist for or against the proposed course. • She does, not ask is it popular, but is it right? Once convinced of what is right, nothing will deter her from^it. On the other hand, convinced that it is‘ wrong, she is equally resolute in taking her position against it.
Class Honors.
[The pupils mentioned in this list are those best in classes named—-according to competitions held during the past month.]
Geology—Misses Wiley, Feehan, Clarke, Dillon, Fox; Literature—Misses Clarke, Wiley, Feehan, Dillon, Fox, Wright; Rhetoric—Misses Barlow, Dunn, Keenan, Mohl, Gove, E. Slattery, Call, Semmes, J. Reilly, V. Reilly, A. Rulison, Richardson; Chemistry—Misses Johnson, Barlow, Dunn, E. Slattery, Gove, Call, Duffield, Pease; Philosophy—Misses J. tjuffield, Pease, Dunn, Rettig, McCoy, Gove, Clifford, Madole, Dickson, .Danforth, ^Williams, Stackerl, M^ Ducey, Cox, Anderson; Astronomy—Miss Johnson; History—Misses Barlow, Keenan, J. Reilly, E. Call, Semmes, E. Slattery, Owens, V. Reilly, Munger, L. English,- McCoy, Heckard, Williams, Fenlon, Danforth, A. Duffield; Grammar:—Misses Moshier, Hibben, Richmond, M. Rodgers, Campau, Coyne, Chaves, Robinson, Haney, Best, Alexander, Otero, Sawyer; Orthography— Misses Chaves, Coyne, Alexander, Robinson, Otero, Cas-tanedo, .Best; United States History—Misses' McCauley, M. Dillon, Morgan, Pampell, Chirhart, K. Ducey, B. English, Shull, Legnard, Coogan.	_
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
K Most Attractive Book for the Holidays.
The Household Library
.	OF
CATHOLIC POETS FROM CHAUCER TO THE PRESENT DAY.
Crowned With Stars,
An Exquisite Volume of Poems in Honor of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Queen of Heaven,
BY
Eleanor C. Donnelly.
Edited by ELIOT RYDER.
The Only Work of its Kind in the Language !!!
This important Volume, representing the best work of Catholic Poets, and containing many of the brightest gems of English poetry, has selections from more than one hun-• dred authors, English and American. It contains many Poems which have become favorites the world over, besides others of note and popularity.
The work is furnished with an alphabetical index of the names of poems, an index of authors, and also one of first lines. Both in contents and in manufacture this is one of the finest specimens of Catholic book-making ever produced in this country.
Price: Subscription Edition, (with an admirable portrait of Chaucer,') - - Sj OO
Cheap Edition, post free, - - - - - 3 bo
Address
JOSEPH A. LYONS, Publisher,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
. Wabash, St Louis & Pacific Rwy.
The Popular Passenger Route of America !
Smooth Track, Steel Rails, and Elegant Equipment serve to make a
TRIP OVER THE WABASH
Safe, Rapid, and Pleasant 11!
♦** Special Tickets Sold to Students attending Notre Dame University.
Tourist Tickets to all Summer Resorts throughout the Country, at Greatly Reduced Rates, for Sale by all Agents of the Great Wabash Route.
Special inducements offered to Colonist, LandSeeking, and Emigrant Parties.
IF YOU ARE CONTEMPLATING
A JOURNEY IN ANY DIRECTION you should apply either in person or by letter to the nearest Agent of
The Great Wabash Route
and obtain full information, Tickets, etc.
Rates always as Low as other Lines, and facilities for ease and comfort far superior.
F. A. Palmer, Pass, and Ticket Agent, Indianapolis, 40 W. Washington St.	.	.
J no. C. Gault, ad Vice-Prest., St Louie, Mo.
Published to Aid in Placing on the Dome of the New University of Notre Dame, Indiana, a Colossal Statue of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Crowned with Twelve Stars.	.
Price,
gilt, $1.25; plain, $1.00.
Address STUDENTS’ OFFICE,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
who ts unacquainted with the geography of this coun-
try willsee BY EXAMINING THIS MAP THAT THE
CHICMaROCKISLAKD&PACIFICR'Y Calls the attention of traveler, to the central position of ita line, connecting the Eut and the West by the shortest route, end carrying passem|ere, without change of cars, between Chicago and Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, Atchison, Minneapolis and St. Paul. It connects in Union Depots with all ths principal lines of road between the Atlantia and the Pacific Oceans. Its equipment is unrivaled and magnificent, being composed of Moot Comfortable and Beautiful Day Coaches, Magnificent Horton Reclining Chair Cars. Pullman's Prettiest Palace Sleeping Can, and the Best Lins of Dining Can in the world. Three Trains between Chicago and Missouri Hi ver Points. Two Trains between Chicago and Minneapolis and St. Paul, via the Famous
“ALBERT LEA ROUTE.”
A Hew and Direct Line, via Seneca and Kanka-kse.haa recently been opened between Richmond, Norfolk, Newport News. Chattanooga, Atlanta, Augusta, Naahville. Louisville, Lexington, Cincinnati, and Lafayette, and Omaha, Minneapolis and fit. Paul and intermediate pointe.
All Through Passengers Travel on Past E iprees Trains.
Tickets for sale at all principal Ticket Ofllceain the United States and Canada.
'	checked through and rates of fare al-
waya aa low aa competitors that offer lesa advaa-’^for detailed information, get the Maps and Fold-era of the
GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE, At your nearest Ticket Office, or address R. R. CABLE, E. ST. JOHN,
Vlss-Fna. A Qsn'l M’g’r,	Oea'l Tit. A Psm Sgt,
CHICAGO.
I
112
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
University of Notre Dame.
St. Mary’s Academy.
St. Joseph’s Co., Ind.
'This UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, and chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana, in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The College can be easily reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the great AYestern and Michigan Central ; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the railway between that city and South Bend. .
The College buildings are massive and commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.	■	.	■
The University affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of .	.
CLASSICS,	LAW,
MATHEMATICS,	MEDICINE,
SCIENCE,	MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notre Dame gives a more thorough business training than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College.	.	. . . . “	’ •
THE COMMERCIAL.COURSE..
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution.
In all'the courses, the best systems of teachingare adopted and the best authors for each branch selected. .
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.	•
Catalogues, giving full particulars, will be sent free, on application to the President.	.
THE MINIM DEPARTMENT.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age. -
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in the primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. The personal neatness and wardrobe of. the pupils receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care df--their young charges. •	-	•	•	'
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months.
Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.	’	' .
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address.
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C.S. C.,
Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
. AND SCHOOL OF	.
DRAWING, PAINTING and SCULPTURE. (Notre Dame P. 0., Indiana,) _ Conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
Tn the Academy the course is thorough In the Preparatory, Academic. and Classical grades.
The institution possesses a complete set of chemical and philosophical apparatus, choice and extensive heroariums of native and foreign plants, and a library of some thousands of volumes.
No extra charges for German or French, as these languages enter into the regular course of academic studies
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on the plan of the best Musical Conservatories of Europe, is under charge of a complete corps of teachers, eleven in number. It comprises a large Music Hall, and twenty-eight separate rooms for harps, pianos, and organs. A thorough course for graduation in theory and practice.
Esthetics and Composition —A large Musical Library in French, German. English, and Italian Semi-monthly lectures in Music, Vocal Culture, Chorus Singing and Harmony.
THE SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING AND SCULPTURE.
is modelled on the great Art Schools of Europe, drawing and painting from life and the antique. A choice Library of the Fine Arts in. English, French, German. Italian, and Spanish is connected with the School of Design. Graduating pupils who have passed eredit-ably through the Academic or Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medal of the Department.
Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in Conservatory of Music, or in the Art Department.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rules of the Institution.
Full particulars of three Departments given in Catalogue, for which address	.
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ind.
L 8. & M. 8. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 7, 1881, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.32 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.30 p.m.; Buffalo, 8 05 p.m.	-
11.23 a.m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p.m. ;• .Cleveland, 10.10 p.m. ;• Buffalo, 4 a.m.	.	,
9.27 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.45 a.m ; Cleveland, 7.05 am.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m.
12.38 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.40 p.m. Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 4 a.m.	’	’
635 p.m. Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.45 a.m.; Buffalo, 7.25 a.m.
GOING WEST:	.
2.32 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m.
Chicago, 6.10 a.m. '	‘	•• .	V.’.
4 48 a.m. Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.45 a.m. Chicago, 8.20 a.m.	'
7.40 a.m., Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte, 8.44 a.m. Chesterton, 9.40 a m.; Chicago, 11.30 a.m.
1.17 p.m, Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte 215 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.10 p.m ; Chicago, 5.00 p.m. •
426 p.m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5.18; Chesterton, 6.07 p.m.; Chicago, 8 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket. Agt., South Bend. . ■	’	.
J. W. CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt., Cleveland. .	,;
■ J.- H. PARSONS, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P. JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago; • ■ P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Bup’t., Cleveland.
'	’ JOHN NEWELL, Gen’l Managerj Cleveland.