BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY of South Bend
1107 Beyer Avenue
2
COLLEGE PARADE
By ROBERT LeMENSE
"The Daily Cardinal"
Masthead “info” says “Founded April 4, 1892, as a daily newspaper at the University of Wisconsin, owned and controlled by the student body. Published every morning except Monday during regular session by the New Daily Cardinal Company.” Easy-to-maneuver tabloid size is to our liking. Varying from eight to twelve pages as the occasion demands, the paper is largely confined to college news, or presents collegiate aspects of national news. Makeup basically good, but sometimes there seems to be a lack of pre-press time planning. Writing generally good but features and lead stories are too often mediocre jobs. Not many timely photographs; mostly individual portrait shots. Editorial, policy: wide open (note first sentence from masthead. Overall blow: Just Short of Very Good.
A friend of ours said that he read in the “Weak” that the fellow who writes the column under the pseudonym of J. Q. O’Connell wants us to put him in his place. It’s not our policy to hit a fellow when he’s down. If you don’t think so, go ahead and read it.
The Truth Will Out
“And remember oui' new slogan since the draft:
“Get that date, thin or fat— A Man’s a man for a’ that.”
—The Rosarian
All But Dali
Surrealism Puzzles U. W. Students.
—Daily Cardinal
Pessimists
“In 1492
Columbus sailed the ocean blue— Which may be more than you can do In 1942.”
—Queen’s University Journal ❖
What!—And be a wallflower?
Interviewed by one Miss Rosalie Blackman, Dr. Mortimer J. Adler had some interesting advice to give the girls of Immaculata College. We quote from the ImmaculdJan:	.
“‘Knit or think!’—In the sharp, ex
plicit language of Dr. Mortimer J. Adler, medievalist, educator and author of How To Read a Book, these are the two fields of activity open to the American woman in the present crisis. College women particularly have an “obligation” to read and understand the implications of the world situation. Reading the Neiv York Times or Time Magazine (he prefers the former) ought to be compulsory—yes, even for freshmen. They are aware of the world around them, Dr. Adler maintains, and ought to get acquainted with it.
“Reminded that he had once declared, ‘The only thing that the American public can really read is a love letter,’ Dr. Adler laughed. Still he reiterated his statement, explaining with characteristic specificness that a love letter is the only literary work the American public makes an effort to grasp—his desire being that Americans should direct the same analytical energy to more worthwhile literary endeavors.”
Modern Design
“Spaghetti Hay-Ride To Be Among Week-end Events”
—The Daily Lariat
Irony
I like an exam
I think they’re fun.
I don’t cram
And I never flunk one.
I’m the teacher.
—Fagots
For Frank
We may be infringing on the territory of “Splinters” but we couldn’t resist lifting this bit from the “Sports Slants” column by Clint Kanaga in the University Daily Kansan.
“The Coach of the Year”
“The most overlooked team and coach in the nation until last week-end were Frank Leahy and his “Fighting Irish” from Notre Dame. Stepping in as head coach at South Bend this season, Frank Leahy had a sensational record for his two years at Boston College. There his teams won 20 out of 22 games, including a loss in the Orange Bowl game of ’40 at the hands of Clemson 6-3, and a victory in the Sugar Bowl game of ’41 over Tennessee 19-13.
“Notre Dame has probably, year in and year out, the best football material
in the country. However, Leahy stepped in with a new system, a new bunch of players to get acquainted with, and one of the toughest schedules ahead. Leahy molded a great team immediately with a fancy backfield boasting three headline stars in Angelo Bertelli, Steve Juz-wik, and “Dippy” Evans.
“Notre Dame opened the season with a 38-7 win over Arizona. Indiana was Leahy’s next victim 19-6. In their third start, the Irish whipped Georgia Tech 20-0, a touchdown better than Duke did. A weak Carnegie Tech eleven fell next 16-0, and then Notre Dame slaughtered Illinois 49-14. Ohio State won from Illinois 12 to 7 last Saturday.
“Army, having one of its best years, tied the Leahy-coached crew but unbeaten Navy fell before the Irish a week later 20-13. Northwestern, hard-luck loser to Minnesota and Michigan, was nosed out by Notre Dame 7 to 6 last Saturday, Southern California, in the throes of a disastrous season, is the only hurdle left for the Notre Dame team to an undefeated season. Leahy has done a swell job.”
(Parader’s note: Southern Cal 18, Irish 20—to the top of the list Coach Leahy).
Honor Points To—
George Harvey Cain who writes the “Listening Post” in Georgetown U’s Hoya. Mr. Cain had much to say about “Little Flower” LaGuardia’s letter to the ; pastors of New York City churches suggesting (?) that the next Sunday be called “Freedom Day,” and appending a sermon outline for the day. Said sermon was to explain the relation of religion to democracy. Said G. H. C.:
“It insulted the American people, the American principles of religious freedom which it proposed to espouse, and stamped upon the New York Mayor a mark of irresponsibility and imprudence that will be difficult to erase....
“We must not confuse the issue. The idea of the sermon is commendable. We are not criticizing the theme, for all of us know how sadly lacking our country is in religious spirit. But such a proposal should have originated in a church, organization, and not in the state.
“Perhaps this episode will awaken all Americans to the inroads being made upon their freedom. ‘Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty.’ If Mayor LaGuardia’s letter induces us to buy that vigilance it was a good advertisement.”
We have taken only excerpts from this lengthy denouncement of Fiorello’s unwarranted action. What we liked most about the article was its sharp analysis. This made the article good even though one could realize that the writer had much personal feeling involved.
3
THE WEEK
NEXT WEEK
By J. Q. O'Connell
Top of the Week:
15 Shopping Days ’Til Christmas.
"Scoop” Scanlan
We noted with respectful pleasure the criticism Mr. Scanlan offered us last week, and felt the least we could do in return was to give the world some insight into his remarkable personality. Seeking first-hand information, we journeyed over to the Stadium press box last Tuesday to see if we couldn’t find him.
The watchman, a kindly old fellow, let us in. “Dunno why you want to look at the press box this time of year,” he said. “Ain’t nobody in there now.”
We explained that we hoped to get a glimpse of Mr. Scanlan at work, splintering.
“Splintering!” exclaimed the watchman, removing his pipe. “What do you mean, splintering?” We told him that was Mr. Scanlan’s business. He scooped up splinters.
The watchman scratched his head. “Aint nobody in there now,” he repeated.
He was right. The press box was empty. Long rows of tables, and chair after chair, all quiet and undisturbed. We turned to go, but as we did, something up in one corner caught oui- eye. Maybe it was the gathering gloom. Maybe it was just our imagination. We thought we saw Bill Scanlan, hat tipped back on his head, cigarette dangling from his lips, pecking away expertly at a typewriter. And there behind him were two shadowy figures that looked like Arch and Warren, peering over his shoulder and busily taking notes.
We tiptoed down the stairs.
❖
Commercial Cut-ups
That interview for senior accountants is over, but the memories live on. The boys were each given a column of figures to total, as one of the proofs of their ability. Jim Doyle and Charlie Clapham ripped off the answers in jig time, handed them in, and were half way out the door, when the interviewer called them back. “That was fine speed, boys,” he said, “but do you always add the red and black numbers together?”
The Comic Influence
Inspired by the strip “Dick Tracy,” the Walsh Hall Dramatic Society has consented to reenact the daily adventures of those true-to-life characters appearing therein for the benefit of those “Gentlemen” who don’t have the price of the morning paper.
Dramatis personnae:
“The Mole”: Mr. Jack Reilly (Mr. Reilly throws his whole nose into this difficult role and his performances have been commendable).
“Oily”: Mr. Edward Ryan.
“Duke”: Mr. Leo Lanigan.
“Steve”: Mr. Nicolas Marchioli.
Gallup Wrong?
After last week’s article on the subject of English majors, we thought it only fair to canvass those gentlemen themselves, to see what they thought of their fellow-students. Here is a casual cross-section of opinion.
Matthew Byrne (president of Metropolitan Club), Walsh Hall: “Well, dey’ll all be voters some day, and yuh gotta remember dat.”
Charles Kearney (president of Bookmen), Alumni Hall: “In the coming struggle for power, strength of numbers ■will no doubt play an important part.”
Daniel Canale (captain of Tennis Team), Alumni Hall: “I hear there is some very fine freshman material.”
Charles Kirby (editor of Scrip), “I counsel those outside the fold against a defeatist attitude. The gift simply is not given to all.”
Sed Zombies
The first Freshmen Party, at St. Mary’s last Sunday, came off rather well, we hear. There were, of course, the boys you find in every crowd. Their deportment moved one raven-tressed lassie to remark, with wisdom beyond her years, “Non ‘Zahmbies,’ sed ‘zombies.’ ” On the whole, though, a good time was had by all. Several seniors, with welcome optimism, are looking forward to a “Walsh Sunday” along the same lines.
❖
Bottom of the Week:
“It’s not a bird; it’s Superman!”
By John A. Lynch
SATURDAY, DEC. 6:
Basketball, St. Louis University vs. Notre Dame, Notre Dame field house, 8:00 p.m.
Movie, “Trail of the Vigilantes,” across the prairies with rootin’, tootin’ Franchot Tone and Peggy Moran, Disney cartoon and news, 1:30 and 3:30 p.m.
SUNDAY, DEC. 7:
Catholic Action on the radio, inspirational talk on “No More Fairy Tales,” WSBT, 4:30 p.m.
Movie, “Second Chorus,” Fred Astaire and Paulette Goddard dance to Artie Shaw’s orchestra, Popeye cartoon and news, 6:40 and 8:00 p.m.
MONDAY, DEC. 8:
Feast of the Immaculate Conception, no classes.
Preliminaries of the Breen Oratorical Contest, Washington Hall, 4:15 p.m., continued each day through Dec. 12, same time and place.
Campus Newscast, Jack Kelly and Vail Pischke present the latest rumors concerning the vacation, WSBT, 4:15 p.m.
TUESDAY, DEC. 9:
Christmas Novena for Parents begins.
Commerce Forum radio program, a round-table discussion of “Inflation” by four students and a professor acting as moderator, WSBT, 4:00 p.m.
Italian Club meeting, pictures will be taken, 117 Main Building, 7:30 p.m.
WEDNESDAY, DEC. 10:
Student Commission for Decent Literature meeting, Rockne Memorial lounge room, 4:30 p.m.
Technical program for engineers, “Hydrogen in Iron and Steel,” Engineering Auditorium, 8:00 p.m.
THURSDAY, DEC. II:
College Quiz, Notre Dame and, tentatively, St. Mary’s meet on the air, WSBT, 4:00 p.m.
FRIDAY, DEC. 12:
Campus 'Sportscast, Jack Morrison and Pete Moritz, WSBT, 4:00 p.m.
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Bntered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Anthorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 75
DECEMBER 5, 1941
Number 10
Football Banquet To Be Held January 19
The 22nd annual civic testimonial banquet for the members of the Notre Dame 1941 football squad, to be sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley, will be held Monday, Jan. 19, it was announced today.
The Football Banquet, held annually by the St. Joe Valley Club, will be held in the evening in the east wing of the dining halls. Outside speakers are now being arranged for with emphasis being placed upon persons from the sports and entertainment world. Already definitely scheduled to speak are the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, and Frank Leahy, football coach who guided the Irish squad to its first undefeated season since 1930. The squad will be introduced to guests by one of the assistant coaches.
SHAKESPEARE'S "THE MERRY WIVES OF WINDSOR" SET FOR TWO-NIGHT RUN IN WASHINGTON HALL
With only a week to go, a cast of 20 is working ardently to make the “Merry Wives of Windsor” a success. The dates for the presentation, Monday and Tuesday, Dec. 15 and 16, were announced by Rev. Matthew Coyle, C.S.C., director. Said Father Coyle: “Both nights will be open-house, that is, everyone is invited: religious, lay faculty members and their wives, students, and townspeople.”
The theme of this Shakespearean play is certain to produce many a laugh from the audience. Sir John Falstaif, the leader of a band of thieving rascals, and a rogue himself, insists on flirting with Mistresses Ford and Page, the wives of two gentlemen of Windsor. How anyone can put up with the hilarious hulk of Falstaif is more than the two ladies can see, and they succeed in tricking him into many an embarrassing situation, cut of which he finds it difficult to escape. Hard upon his heels for his continuous villainy throughout the play are the two gentlemen Ford and Page.
Among those who have important parts are:
Bill Hickey, an Alumni Hall senior from Chicago, who has the lead role of
General chairman for the affair is Francis Jones, prominent South Bend attorney and alumnus. Heading the program committee is Charles “Chuck” Sweeney, former All-American end, who is now living in South Bend.
It was announced that tickets will cost $3.30, government tax included. They are now on sale at the Athletic offices in Breen-Phillips Hall with Robert Cahill in charge.
James Armstrong, alumni secretary, indicated that a national radio hook-up is being arranged for to accommodate Irish followers who will not be able to attend the banquet.
Music will probably be furnished by student musical organizations as in the past.
Falstaif. Bill, enrolled in the College of Commerce, is well known on the campus for his portrayal of Hardcastle in “She Stoops to Conquer” and his many activities with the Knights of Columbus.
Mary Ahearn, instructor of speech and dramatics at St. Mary’s, takes the part of Mistress Page. Miss Ahern received a master’s degree at Columbia University after attending Notre Dame in Baltimore where she played the part of Portia in “The Merchant of Venice.” She has written several plays herself, one of which, “The Piper Plays” was produced in her home state, New Jersey.
Elizabeth Jankovits, from South Bend, has the part of Mistress Ford. Besides being a member of the Community Theatre, Miss Jankovits has been very active on the Hungarian Radio Hour and has given sketches in many neighboring cities. Last year marked her first appearance in an English-speaking play, having specialized before in Hungarian productions.
Jerry Heinlen, a Walsh Hall senior from Garrett, Ind., plays the part of Page. In the operetta, “The Gondoliers,” presented last year, Jerry had the part
of Antonio. For three years he has been a prominent member of the Glee Club and one of its outstanding baritone soloists.	•
Dave Curtin, a Badin sophomore from Rochester, N. ¥., portrays the part of the fiery Ford. Besides being a talented member of the campus Radio Club, Dave proved to be distinctive on the stage, as his performance in “It Never Rains” of last year showed. While still in high school he was a member of the Blackfriars organization and played with Allison Skipworth in “Hay Fever.” .
—Daniel Downey
24 Players Receive Their
Blankets Tomorrow Night
This week it was announced that the 24 Notre Dame football monogram men will receive blankets as gifts from a group of South Bend business men. Significant in the story is the fact that the monogram men have been announced.
Players receiving the blankets are: Ziemba, Brock, Maddock, McBride, Crimmins, Riordan, Laiber, Brutz, Ebli, Lillis, Rymkus, Dove, Bolger, Murphy, Kovatch, Barry, Wright, Hargrave, Evans, C. Miller, Bertelli, Warner, Juzwik, and Earley. Coach Frank Leahy and manager Jack Bermingham will also receive blankets.
The blankets are blue with gold binding. They will be presented between halves of the Notre Dame-St. Louis basketball game tomorrow evening in the Field House. Frank Coughlin, captain of the 1920 football team, and team-mate of George Gipp, will make the awards.
Among the South Bend men who contributed to the awards are: James Devaney, Leonard Menucci, Jacob Hoffman, F. Harper, David Brazy, Paul Gilbert, Julius Tucker, Eugene Pajakowski, Bernard Voll, Thomas L. Hickey, William Sheehan, Rudy -Heintzelman, Hugh Mulligan, Fred Weidman, Fred Busscher, John O’Brien, C. A. McMillan, Lee Mattes, George O’Brien, George Yunkers, Will Edwards, C. J. Peterson and William Lubbers.
A special scholarship is maintained at Dartmouth college for a “religious man from Missouri.”
5
Preliminaries Set For
Breen Oratorical Contest
The preliminaries of the Breen Oratorical Contest will be held Dec. 8, 9, 10, 11, 12—at 4:15 pan. in Washington Hall. The oration must not exceed 800 words. The speakers will be divided into five groups, one group speaking each afternoon. Two speakers from each group will be chosen to appear in the finals to be held sometime after the holidays.
The Breen Medal for Oratory was founded by the Hon William Patrick Breen, ’77, and is awarded annually to any University student excelling in oratory. The award is made after the decision of three judges selected by the faculty.
The schedule of speakers is as follows:
Dec. 8: Richard Terry, C.S.C., James Newman, William Lawless, James Irwin, C.S.C., Louis Scibelli, Mark McGrath, Tim McCarty, Thomas Clemens, William Connelly, C.S.C., James O’Dea.
Dec. 9: Arthur LeBreton, C.S.C., Raymond Conmy, C.S.C., John Bennett, Robert Tack, C.S.C., J. Ford, Jerome Coleman, John Shannon, James Atkinson.
Dec. 10: Joseph Tracey, Thomas Ban-igan, John Gera, Francis Carver, F. Kennedy, James Poinsatte, Donnelly McDonald, John O’Toole, Earl Christman, C.S.C., John Morrison, Henry Malone, C.S.C.
Dec. 11: Robert Nenno, Leo Raymond, C.S.C., Robert Kasberg, Norman Van Sile, Hugh McGuire, C.S.C., Robert Malone, Robert Bauchman, John Fallon, John Collins, John Utz, James King.
Dec. 12: Alphonse Sommer, Joseph Murnane, Edward Eschelman, Jeremiah Goldkamp, Anthony Earley, Daniel Morgan, Roland Steinle, William Gorman, Paul Hurd, Gerhart Sternal, John Sheridan, C.S.C.
Where Notre Dame Men Will Be Dancing
Kansas City—Dec. 27, Milburn Country Club
Buffalo, N. Y.—Dec. 26, Statler Hotel Boston—Dec. 26, University Club Detroit—Dec. 27, Grosse Pointe Country
Club
Chicago—Dec. 27, Stevens Hotel Minneapolis—Dec. 27, Hotel Radison St. Louis—Dec. 29, University Club Cleveland—Dec. 27, Statler Hotel New York—Dec. 26, Essex House Rochester, N. Y. — Dec. 27, Rochester
Club
Appleton, Wis.—Dec. 29, Conway Hotel Indianapolis—Dec. 26, Indianapolis Ath-
letic Club
Newark, N. J. — Dec. 31, Robert Treat Hotel
South Bend—Dec. 26, Palais Royale
6
Cosmology Students Plunge
Into Thick of Fundamentals
The age of miracles has not as yet ceased to exist. Last week four members of Dr. Francis McMahon’s Cosmology class locked in debate on a purely metaphysical subject—Resolved: There is a real distinction between essence and existence. John Denny and Carl Coco upheld the affirmative and Thomistic point of view, while George Bernard and John Dunlavy took the negative and Suarezian stand.
The experiment proved most interesting. Fine arguments were presented by both sides which showed evidence of extensive research.
The entire class participated in the rebuttal by asking questions of the speaker. Much interest was manifested by all in this new type of work and a second debate has been arranged for this Friday. It will be, “Resolved: Prime matter informed by quantity is the principle of individuation in corporeal substances.” Those taking part are: Affirmative, John J. Fitzgerald and Henry M. Kane; Negative, Brother Dunstan and Michael Godfrey.
Collegiate Literary Mag
Asks for Contributions
Planned to circulate nationally, Trend, a literary magazine to be published at the University of Chicago, will make its appearance on Dec. 12.
The scope of Trend will include short stories, articles on the theatre, music, and art, literary criticism, verse and satire by students of the U. of C. and other universities and colleges, as well as featured contributions by nationally-known literary figures.
The purpose of Trend will be to publish the works of up and coming university students from all over the country. It has long been recognized that university writing has needed an outlet in a national publication, and Trend hopes to fulfill this need. It is the editors’ wish that the younger writers submit maml-scripts, so that this purpose may be carried out.
Range of Speakers1 Bureau Widens Continually
The range of the Notre Dame Speakers’ Bureau is gradually spreading. Two speeches have been given in Dowagiac, Mich., •within the past few weeks. One of these was by Mark McGrath and the other by John Specht. Recently John Malone visited Elkhart, Ind., where he addressed a Holy Name Communion Breakfast. Several other members have
journeyed to South Bend and surrounding parishes and have addressed Holy Name meetings, study clubs, and young peoples’ groups.
Some of the most popular topics on the list of speeches are “Causes of Leakage from the Catholic Church,” “The Necessity of Religion,” “Catholic Action in South America,” “Pan - Americanism through Catholicism.” These are of special interest to gatherings of the older set. Talks on the Sacraments, the Mass, “marriage,” and courtship have a special appeal to the younger groups. Such topics as “Catholic Action,” “Study Clubs,” “Heaven,” “Hell” and “Purgatory,” however, are of great interest to both young and old.
Requests are beginning to increase in number as time goes on. St. Joseph Parish of South Bend has asked for a weekly speaker to attend their meetings An Elkhart parish has requested a monthly speaker for their CommunionBreakfasts. And as the word is spread, requests and speeches increase.
Vincentians Specialize
In Boys' Work Now
Departing somewhat from their usual custom of accepting almost all types of case work brought to their attention, Notre Dame’s Vincentians are devoting most of their efforts this year to a branch of charity in which they have found much success and satisfaction the last few years. This field, never the least of the local Conference’s interests, is that dealing with young boys . . . boys who need more than the help which regular social agencies are equipped to give them . . . boys who need a real friend, a big brother to help them organize their recreation, turn their energy toward a constructive end, and lead the normal life a boy is entitled to enjoy.
The local conference decided to specialize in this branch of work in preference to delving into the types of case work which really demand a more complete experience in social work. They have received the full approval and encouragement of the Vincentian Service Bureau and have begun to carry out new plans in cooperation with the nearby parishes.
The activity of the society in this new specialty will be aided considerably by the gift of §50.00 from the Sophomores, following the highly successful Cotillion this fall. In a few .weeks the student body as a whole will be permitted to do their part in the annual pre-Christmas clothes drive sponsored by the St. Vincent de Paul Society and approved by the Third Order of St. Francis.
—Jack Bennett
ADMINISTRATION
Commerce Forum Hears Advertising Specialist
“Be able to understand other people and get along with them and you will make a success of yourself after leaving school.” This was the main point stressed by Mr. Homer J. Buckley of Chicago in a talk before several hundred Notre Dame students in the Engineering building Monday night.
Mk. Homer J. Buckley
The talk by Mr. Buckley was the first of a series scheduled to be presented to the Commerce Forum during the 1941-42 school year.
Mr. Buckley who is the president of the Buckley, Dement Company of Chicago, a direct-mail advertising firm, talked on the topic, “Business Procedure and Ethics.” He is greatly interested in youth education and has spoken at Notre Dame previously.
He was associated with the store of Marshall Field & Company in his early
Well Known Author
Speaks on Languages
Professor Albert Schinz, of the faculty of the University of Pennsylvania, will speak, Friday evening, Dec. 5, on The Battle of the Tongues. He will be presented by the department of modem languages.
Professor Schinz has studied in several European universities as well as at Clark University. He received his doctorate from the University of Tubingen in Germany and his Phi Beta Kappa. He has taught at several American colleges including Bryn Mawr, Johns Hopkins, Minnesota, Columbia, Harvard and Chicago.
“The Catholic Church and the German
business life, and since forming his own company, has made many contacts among all types of firms. He said that one of the best means of building customer good-will and maintaining sales volume is often merely a matter of doing very simple (and generally inexpensive) ' things well.
Mr. Buckley told the group that a rule followed today by all successful retail business is “satisfy the customer, for, right or wrong he is always right.” He went on to explain that the customer is right because in his own mind he is right. This can be allowed because 991^% of the people are honest in their dealings.
In introducing the rule Mr. Buckley recounted the story told by an Indian. The story goes as follows: If white man fool Indian once, shame on white man; if white man fool Indian twice, shame on Indian.
There were four points explained to the group by the speaker which, if followed, will lead a man to success in any walk of life. These four qualifications are: possess the ability to make friends and meet people with an ease and graciousness; be able to create favorable impressions and confidence; be a good listener as well as a good talker; and radiate good cheer, and kindness every day.
John Moriarty, president of the Commerce Forum, introduced the speaker.
—Lennon Kelly
Prof. Gurian Speaks
State,” was the subject of an address by Prof. Waldemar Gurian given Thursday evening, Nov. 27, in the Engineering auditorium.
Doctor Gurian’s talk set forth the current tendency in Germany toward repressing the Christian way of life by the growth of socialism as a state religion. It encompassed a short survey of the Catholic Church in Germany and stressed the present threats of Naziism to the Catholic religion.
The presentation and content of Dr. Gurian’s speech were evidence of his intimate knowledge of current German affairs and the psychological state of Catholics under Hitler.
Priorities Bogs Down Purchasing and Maintenance
The draft is not the only defense project interfering with the smooth-running-organization of the University. True— Uncle Sam has been, and is, “selecting” some of our boys for service in his new army. But alas—that is not the end of this war preparation program and its effect upon life at Notre Dame! What more, you ask, could despoil the complacency of our family? We need not search far for the answer to this one. It’s those cursed priorities again. Down in the purchasing and maintenance department, head man Fr. Reddington is experiencing real difficulties these days in his business of buying and looking after the school’s physical welfare. Orders put in over a year ago have yet to make an appearance. For many materials and the like there is now no purpose even to try -to procure them, as the government list of priorities has the field well covered.
So, if you’ve been inclined to think that the material progress about our institution has been lagging—dispel all notions of laxness on the part of the authorities concerned. For it is not they —but our mutual uncle, Sam, that persists in deterring our advancements.
Wagons, Ships and Altars The Work of Fr. Lange
One of the things that most characterize the Notre Dame campus is the sight of utility wagons in their unmistakable colors of blue and gold, with their rubber-tired wheels, and the Notre Dame monogram.
The services of the small wagons are not to be underestimated; at almost any time of the day you see them transporting books or other items to many places on the campus. The man responsible for these diminutive carriers is Father B. H. B. Lange, C.S.C., who makes the wagons in his carpenter shop in the old natatorium, behind the Main Building.
Utility wagons, however, do not occupy all of Father Lange’s time. In the Sacred Heart Church are two beautifully handmade altars in the chapel of Our Lady, which are products of Father Lange’s craftsmanship. These are distinguished for their hammered metal effect, which Father achieves by the use of a ballpeen
hammer, a chisel, and gold paint. A missal stand on one of the altars is also his work. In the chapel of the Community House may be seen another of his altars.
Father Lange, Litt.B., M.A., B.S., Ph.D., has busied himself in this work of an artistic craftsman since 1936 when he was forced to give up teaching due to failing eyesight. Before that he taught comparative anatomy, physical anthropology, and general biology at St. Edward’s University in Austin, Texas, and at Notre Dame. In his scientific library, which is valued at $10,000, are some of the finest books on surgery in the country.
In his spare time, Father Lange works on a large model of a square-rigged ship of the 1850’s. The prow proudly bears the Notre Dame monogram. When the ship is finished Father is going to print the names of outstanding Notre Dame men on its sails. And so Father Lange spends his time in the carpenter shop, happily employing his vast constructive ability for Notre Dame.
—Charles Kleibacker
Professor Maurus Dies
Notre Dame lost one of her most loyal friends when Professor Edward J. Maurus died of a stroke at his home in South Bend on Nov. 26. Born at Seneca, Ill. in 1874, he came here at an early age, attending prep school and college at Notre Dame and graduating in 1893. He immediately became a teacher of mathematics.
In his diligent work, Professor Maurus was honored by being appointed the first head of the department of mathematics. Many of the present teachers in the College of Engineering were his pupils. He was methodical and business-like in the classroom, and if a pupil could not solve a problem, he was made to work at it until he found the answer.
From 1893 until his marriage in 1926, Professor Maurus lived in one of the Tower Rooms in Sorin Hall. His room was open to all students at any time, and many students went to him for advice on scholastic or personal problems.
After 1926 he made his home in South Bend. During the last years of his teaching career, he was in ill-health but nevertheless discharged his many duties faithfully. In 1939 he was forced to relinquish his position because of his bad health.
His death last Wednesday brought sorrow to all those who met him during his 46 years here, especially to those who knew him as an intelligent teacher and friendly counselor.—Tom Duffy
FACULTY PORTRAITS
It is a good thing that Mr. Downey teaches at Notre Dame; he now has a place to center his loyalty. For this gentleman acquired his education at nine universities. Numbered among these are: Wisconsin, Minnesota, Michigan, Marquette, Valparaiso and Notre Dame. And
Professor William H. Downey
it is a good thing for us to have Professor Downey’s support for he is a great sportsman, loves a good game of football (today he prefers to watch it) and as far as baseball is concerned, keeps an eye on the standings of the two Chicago teams, the Cubs and the Sox.
“I was born in a little town in northern Wisconsin,” Mr. Downey rambled, “A little town by the name of Antigo. It was buried so deep in the woods and lumber camps that I have often wondered how I found my way down here to Niles.”
And so, though Mr. Downey teaches at a college in Indiana, his home is in Niles, Mich. Mr. Downey has made the ten mile trip between Notre Dame and Niles twice a day for the past 15 years, all of which means that the professor has traveled some 75,000 miles just coming to and going from work. And, as our little Sunday school friend said as he read from the 18th psalm: “He rode upon a cherub; yea, he did fly upon the wings of the wind.”. . “That’s traveling some!”
During one summer vacation (while a lad in college), Mr. Downey was a sailor on the Great Lakes. Fate might have had the good professor sailing the seven seas except that he continued his education and received his master’s degree in economics. After teaching that subject here for seven years, he was appointed head of the department of economics at Notre Dame in 1937.
Professor Downey’s hobby is real estate. Many of the anecdotes he uses in class to clarify various points are based
on his adventures in this field. As a teacher of economics, Mr. Downey isn’t supposed to stress any political issues, but he has many decided views on the political drama. For instance, he believes that it will be best for the whole world if neither Germany nor England wins this war, and that out of the stalemate would come a lasting, honest treaty and an everlasting peace. If you’re of Mr. Willkie’s or Mr. Roosevelt’s opinion and would like' to converse on this subject, catch Mr. Downey when he’s in a talkative mood; he’ll clarify his opinions, and he will know what he’s talking about.
—Paul Carr
Prof. Birder Is Chosen
Choirmaster at St. Pat's
Professor Cecil E. Birder, member of the faculty as head of the department of speech and teacher of singing here at Notre Dame, was chosen by the Rev. Patrick Dolan, C.S.C., pastor of St. Patrick’s Roman Catholic church to be choirmaster and Mrs. Wanda A. Birder, organist.
Mr. and Mrs. Birder have had experience at this capacity, as choirmaster and organist at the Church of St. Stephen, in Minneapolis, Minn., for the past 12 years. Mr. Birder was a student of the late Dudley Buck. Before coming to Notre Dame, he taught voice at the University of Minnesota for 14 years and was the narrator of the Buck society at that university. His choirs sang with the Minneapolis Symphony orchestra over the national network.
Mrs. Birder, a graduate of music and artist pupil of Jan Chiapusso, has studied organ with George Fair Clough at the University of Minnesota, and church organ wiith Rev. Ermin Vitrys, O.S.B.
Dr. Kuethe Addresses I.A.S.
In the season’s first meeting of the Notre Dame branch of the Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences, Dr. Arnold M. Kuethe spoke before professional engineers and production men of the local plants of the Bendix and Studebaker Manufacturing Corporations. Choosing for his subject “Some Modern Problems in Boundary Layer Flow,” Dr. Kuethe aroused considerable interest since at this time many of his audience are vitally concerned in finding new ways of improving the performance of present-day aircraft. The speaker has contributed a great deal of his time and efforts to various engineering problems and was recently appointed Associate Professor of Aeronautical Engineering at the University of Michigan.
8
Mechanical Engineers1
Inspection Trip is Success
Loud yells and shrill cries cut the chill, gray dawn of a November morning, disturbing the peaceful sleep of Alumnites and Dillonites recently, when the Mechanical Engineers departed for their annual plant trip. At 6:00 a.m., Nov. 12, 24 very tired but noisy Juniors and Seniors and one very alert Professor C. C. Wilcox boarded a chartered bus for Chicago and points north.
The group arrived at the South Works of the Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corporation in South Chicago at 9:00 on the dot. Here the entire day was spent inspecting the gigantic plant. The group was first escorted through the shops containing the Open Hearth furnaces, giant “converters” capable of producing 200 tons of steel in one charging. These furnaces are “charged” with crushed limestone, coal, pig iron, and other ingredients after which they are kept at a predetermined temperature until the mixture has undergone the change into steel. The students then watched the molten steel poured from the furnaces into giant ladles, from which it was moulded in the form of ingots. Other operations seen were the rolling of 36-inch I beams from ingots, emptying and charging of a Bessemer Converter, heat treatment of steel, hardness testing, and the operation of the blast furnaces. Iron ore, taken from the ore boats as they arrive, is placed in these furnaces with coke and limestone, in a continuous process. Air is forced upward through the mixture, causing the coke to burn, melting the ore, which is removed at the bottom of the furnace. The melted slag is also removed as a liquid, later used in concrete manufacture and for other purposes.
After seeing the South Works, and with the “five o’clock feeling” the fact-weary and footsore group took to the bus once more, this time heading for Beloit, Wis. Arriving there at 10:00 p.m., some time was spent accepting the hospitality of Beloit College, after which the weary inspectors gladly partook of some much needed sleep.
Most of Thursday was spent in the Fairbanks-Morse Diesel Plant. Here are manufactured the largest Diesel engines in the world. The forging shop, where mammoth Hydraulic Squeeze Presses and Steam Drop Forge Presses forge crankshafts over 20 feet in length, held the attention of the boys for several hours, after which they were shown the casting shop, the brass and aluminum foundries, and the Diesel assembly shop. Because of the size of each unit the “tools are brought to the job” instead of the job being brought to the tools, as is
done in mass production operations such as automotive work. This procedure characterized the entire plant, as differing from other plants inspected. After lunch the engineers were conducted through the Electrical Department where both small and large electric motors and generators are manufactured. Completing the tour was the inspection of the Diesel Injection Nozzle Shop.
One novel feature of this plant was that all the electrical power was supplied by generators, connected to the Diesel engines on the test floor; accomplishing the twofold purpose of engine testing and power generation.
Thursday evening the bus turned back toward Chicago. After stopping at the home of Ed Buenger for a feast of “turkey and fixin’s” the 25 engineers proceeded to the Stevens Hotel where the group checked in.
Friday morning the by-now-factorywise students made a rapid three-hour tour through the International Harvester Tractor Plant, in South Chicago. Here a number of intensely interesting opera-(Continued on page 31)
Prof. Shifts Represents N. D. at State Engineering Council
At a meeting held in the Claypool Hotel, Indianapolis, by the Engineering Council and Society of Professional Engineers of the State of Indiana, the Notre Dame College of Engineering was
Professor Walter L. Shilts
represented by Professor Walter L. Shilts. A member of the engineering faculty since the September of 1922 and licensed engineer in the state of Indiana, Mi-. Shilts is well known to the student engineers on campus especially those aspiring to be future bridge builders and highway engineers.
Besides his many duties as a professor in civil engineering, Mr. Shilts has found time to participate actively in the American Society of Civil Engineers, the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education, and as honorary chairman of the student branch of the American Society of Civil Engineers.
Engineers Plan Skating Party
In a meeting of the Engineers Club held Wednesday, Nov. 26, plans were revealed for a skating party to be held in collaboration with the Cleveland Club. The party is tentatively scheduled for Sunday afternoon, Dec. 14, at the Playland Rink. Arrangements will be made for buses to and from the rink, via St. Mary’s.
Elimination games in the singles division of the annual handball tourney were announced as being scheduled to start Dec. 1st. Also, it was reported that efforts were being made to obtain official Engineers Club keys at cost for all members.
Football captain, Paul Lillis, then acted as commentator during the showing of the pictures of the Georgia Tech clash and part of the Northwestern game. A technical movie showing the modern process of the manufacture of wrought iron by the A. M. Byers Company was viewed with considerable interest. The meeting was then concluded with an informal discussion of the pictures and the serving of cider and doughnuts as refreshments.—Frank Brehl
Metallurgy Dept. Expands
The quarters on the first floor of the Engineering building recently occupied by the Physics Department as a control room for the famous belt-charged copper globe atom smasher will soon become part of the Metallurgical department. Dr. Mahon, professor and head of this department, has indicated that he plans to use this welcome addition as a research . . laboratory for graduate students in the various branches of metallurgy and as offices for Dr. Troiano and all graduate students acting as assistant instructors.
This new laboratory will undoubtedly enhance to an even greater extent the already fine reputation which the metallurgical department holds in the industries and among the other engineering colleges throughout the country. This department boasts of some of the finest instruments in use at the present time in the microscopic study of the ferrous and the non-ferrous metals and their related alloys. Many of these prize instruments are not obtainable in this country at any price because of theTimi-tations in foreign trade brought about by the European war.
9
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus	Founded 1867
John A. Reilly, Editor
Thomas V. Powters.....................Managing	Editor Don Heltzel................................Campus	Editor
William Scanlan.............................Promotion	Ed Drinkard .......................Staff	Photographer
John Dinges......................-.......Sports Editor Leo Lee.....................................Advertising
William Baader.............................Art	Editor Frank Kiener................................Advertising
Robert E. Brooks................Administration	Editor Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C..............Faculty	Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate. Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest.. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 225 Walsh Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P. M.; General Staff, 7:00 P. M.
IT'S NOT ALL FOOTBALL
According to the Religious Bulletin, an undefeated football season and too many week-ends have sent the pink slip market to a new high. Football discussions now, however, can leave the speculative heights to which they rose prior to each succeeding triumph and descend to rehashes of the season.
But that doesn’t mean that Notre Dame athletics are dead until next fall.
We still have a basketball team that will rank with the nation’s best. Their twenty-one game card opened last Saturday night against a small-school team that has been a jinx to the Irish. But not so, this year — the Irish triumphed, 49-30.
Indoor track practice starts soon in preparation for what promises to be another very successful season for young coach Mahoney and his charges.
Fencing practice, coached by genial professor Langford, who doubles as tennis coach in season, is just about ready to develop a first string lineup from a graduation and draft riddled squad.
Notre Dame isn’t “just a football school,” despite the fine turnout and exhibitions put forth by the Interhall squads. Our teams year after year strive for success with sportsmanship in every contest. Our fencers and golfers are as welcome among their fraternities as our football men are on the gridiron.
Most striking evidence of the catholicity of the Notre Dame student body’s taste in athletics is found in a visit to the Rockne Memorial, a tribute to “Rock’s” dream of sports for every boy. Despite the many opportunities for varsity competition here, all three thousand of us can’t be on a team, but all of us can, and most of us do, patronize die Memorial as Interhall Basketball, Handball and Squash, Swimming and Gymnastics fans enjoy their sports and Bengal Bouters start swinging.
Our athletic instincts are deeper than merely sitting on a stadium bench four or five times a year. Furthermore, campus facilities enable us to give expression to every phase of our sport inclinations.
THE FOUR-YEAR PLAN
No one can say exactly just how or when it all began. It is sufficient to remark that social relations between Notre Dame and her sister school, St. Mary’s, have been almost dormant for some time. In recent years class after class of Freshmen have raised the dust on what the University Bulletin calls “pleasant walks leading westward”; and have eagerly stormed the gates and crowded the halls of St. Mary’s for the first two or three Sundays in die fall. Then, since nothing but confusion resulted, the majority stopped going. And in their disappointment they proved soft targets for prejudices of already resentful upperclassmen. So between the two schools there has arisen a flimsy kind of social wall that grows stiffer with each year.
Last weekend saw the first real attempt to break it down. Jim O’Neal, president of the Senior class, had an idea. He appointed a committee to assist him. The plan was to strike first at the heart of the problem by acquainting the Freshmen early with the advantages and possibilities of St. Mary’s by sponsoring a series of dances for them especially. The first of these was held last Sunday. Was it a practical success? Ask any of the pleasantly surprised nuns who beamed their approval. Better than that—ask any one of the boys and girls who attended.
These affairs are to be only a beginning. The entire plan embraces a movement which will eventually realize a sincere understanding between the entire Notre Dame student body and the entire St. Mary’s student body. All students will receive the benefits—even those narrow individuals who already have begun to scoff and deride. Surely we, as intelligent college men, can see the value of a vital, sympathetic relationship with St. Mary’s. Now is the time to establish that relationship. It is within easy reach. To ignore this opportunity would be foolish, for another may not come soon.
But we have built the barrier, and only our complete cooperation and enthusiasm in the attempts at readjustment which are to come can ever remove it.
10
CAMPUS NEWS
SENIORS: VACATION DATE IS DEFINITELY CHANGED FR. BURKE: THAT'S RIGHT. YOU'RE RIGHT—ALMOST
Rumors seem to be more prevalent at
Notre Dame than in any other school.
They are as
much a part of the students’ life as clipping down to “Rosie’s” on Friday night or sleeping through youi’ last cut.
With an ear to the ground, the Scholastic has noted the distant rumblings of the annual Christmas rumors, and de
cided to conduct a survey among the Seniors to determine their views on the
rumors they have heard.
The question, “What rumor have you heard concerning the Christmas vacation and why do you believe it to be true?” brought these replies:
Neil McCarty, Sorin: “I heard that we were getting out on the 23rd of December' because the army is sending the soldiers home for Christmas around the 20th and we couldn’t get train reservations. I don’t think this is fair to students not using the trains.”
Howard Cavalero, Alumni: “I understand we will get out sometime between the 20th and the 23rd, but I think it will be the 18th because of the undefeated season.”
John Kelly, Sorin: ..“The rumor I heard was that we were getting out the 16th. The sooner the better, I think.”
Jerry Heinlen, Walsh: “I have heard definitely that we are getting out on the 23rd. This seems logical to me because I heard that the government has all the trains reserved for the soldiers going home for Christmas from the 18th on. I
Hanifin, 23rd.
Cavalero, 18th;
McCarthy, 23rd;
don’t think we will be let out early because of the rules of the North Central Association.”
Larry Aubry, Alumni: “I heard the rumor that we would be let out on the 23rd. This seems illogical to me because some fellows would not be home for Christmas.”
Phil Glasse, Sorin: “I have heard rumors but nothing specific. I have been hearing them for four years now and still don’t trust any of them.”
John Hanifin, Walsh: “I heal'd we were going to get out on the 23rd of December. The rumor seems logical
because of the soldiers’ furlough. I hope that we get out early, instead.”
Jay Cahill, Walsh: “I heard that we were getting out on the 23rd and am afraid it is true. But what about the fellows with jobs before Christmas.”
Jim Haley, Off-Campus: “I heard rumors that we would be out either the 18th or 23rd but don’t know which to believe. I guess we will have to wait for the school to decide.”
Father John Burke, Prefect of Discipline, announced this wreek, that the Christmas vacation will begin on December 19th.
—Bob Knipers
Naval Officers Will Get
Their Stripes Soon
The excellent showing of the Notre Dame Naval Officers Reserve Unit at the Southern California game reflects considerable credit upon the officers of the corps. These men have been chosen for the preliminary work of the first semester largely on the basis of previous experience in preparatory schools. This detail is scheduled for the first semester only, but the best qualified will retain their officer designations. In the future, officers of the corps will be appointed upon merit alone. Merit, in the corps, is determined by the standing of the cadet in his Naval Aptitude Mark, in which he is judged and rated on some 20 important military characteristics. The following cadet officers and petty officers, who are in charge of the Notre Dame unit for the first semester, will probably receive their officers’ stripes sometime this week:
Battalion Staff: Battalion Commander: Cadet Lieutenant Commander Robert L. Bobbett; Battalion Sub-commander: Cadet Lieutenant Thomas T. Reyburn; Battalion Adjutant: Cadet Lieutenant (junior grade) James L. Phillips; Battalion Commissary: Cadet Ensign John R. Keane; Battalion C. P. O.: Cadet Chief Petty Officer Charles M. Urruela; Battalion Bugler: Cadet Second Petty Officer James T. Crowley.
First Company: Company Commander: Lieutenant J. E. Herlihy; Company Chief Petty Officer: E. J. Dowd, First Platoon; Commander First Platoon: Lieutenant (junior grade) T. L. Brundage; Mustering Petty Officer: Petty Officer (first class) C. F. Merrill: Second Platoon; Commander Second Platoon: Ensign R. L. Rohde; Mustering Petty Officer: Petty Officer (second class) J. R. Soulliere.
Second Company: Company Commander: Lieutenant D. C. Callaghan; Company Chief Petty Officer: J. R. Fena. First Platoon: Commander First Platoon: Lieutenant (junior grade) F. P. Crowley; Mustering Petty Officer: E. R. Eckenrode, Jr. Second Platoon: Commander Second Platoon: Ensign A. F. Earley; Mustering Petty Officer: R. J. Grumbine.
On next Tuesday, Dec. 9th, at 7:00 pjn., ’ Phillip Morris will salute Notre Dame on “Johnny Presents” over NBC.
11
Report 13 Men Sign Up With Army Air Corps
Thirteen Notre Dame men, headed by Paul Lillis will enter the Army Air Corps as the result of the five days examination conducted by the Aviation Cadet Examining Board on the campus, it was announced by Major Joseph F. More, president of the board. In a number of instances, minor physical defects must be corrected, or the application forms completed before the files can be forwarded to the chief of the Air Corps. Two freshmen, Theodore R. Nardone and William Katz, will take the February educational examination. The board proceedings on Roger H. Henry and John E. Busse already have been forwarded to the chief of the Air Corps.
The other candidates include: Charles L. McMahon, Robert E. Shade, James F. Sullivan, Richard J. Cotter, Lawrence F. Hickey, Harry E. Scott, Walter J. Heek-in, and Donald F. O’Brien.
Major More said that he had a very fine tour of duty. He stated that the men of Notre Dame are of an exceptionally high type. Said he, “Every man passed is a definite asset to the Air Corps. The cooperation of the faculty and the student body has been the very best of any institution. We enjoyed the excellent atmosphere of. friendliness which permeates the entire campus. We appreciate the patriotic spirit of Notre Dame and it is with regret that we leave the school.”
Major More and his staff will return to Notre Dame in the late winter or early spring to conduct further examinations.
After all the details are taken care of and the physical examination is completed, the files will be sent to the Chief of the Air Corps. He makes the appointments within two or three weeks from the time he receives the files.
All the men that fulfill the requirements will be admitted to the Air Corps. The Army is seeking to train 30,000 pilots a year.
The training period lasts for 30 weeks (or 7% months). For the first two and one half months the trainees are sent to a civilian school under the supervision of the Air Corps. They spend about half of the time doing class work and the
O'Brien and McMahon ... Anny's pride 12
DIRECTOR OF STUDIES DISTRIBUTES LITERATURE;
1,788 PINK SLIPS FLOOD CAMPUS; MORRISSEY LEADS
Until last week the mailmen almost lost the distinction of being the most popular group on the campus. But with
. . . With Law students, it's more books, less pinkies . . .
the end of mid-semester exams, they suddenly became a group scorned, for many thought they were to deliver the dreaded pink slips. But since the distribution of such important notices are left to the rectors of the various halls, these employes of Uncle Sam were exonerated and restored to their former standing.
According to the Director of Studies, 1,788 pink slips were issued to 1,118
other half in the air flying ships of approximately 200 h. p.
For the next two and one half months they are sent to Randolph Field where they fly ships of 450 h. p. During this period they also do considerable class work and learn by actual practice to tear motors apart and reassemble them.
The last two and one-half months are spent at an army air field such as Kelley Field or Moffet Field. The cadets there spend almost all of their time in the air, learning aviation tactics and team-work with other branches of the service, such as the infantry, cavalry, and artillery.
During the training period the men are paid $105 per month. Of this $30 is deducted for rations. They are allotted uniforms, medical care, and shelter. The government pays the premium on a $10,000 life insurance policy.
When the cadets graduate they have a second lieutenant’s commission in the Air Corps Reserve and are ordered to active duty for three years. They have an initial uniform allowance of $150 and their pay is approximately $245 per month. Aside from this they are given a bonus of $500 a year which they receive when they are’relieved from active duty.
Major More said that this examining board covers Indiana and will frequently
students, 400 more than for the first quarter of last year. The least number of deficiencies in a particular college, two, were issued in the College of Law, while the Graduate School ran a close second with three. The College of Commerce turned in the greatest number, 352. Arts and Letters had 327; Engineering, 262; Science, 172.
Morrissey might have finished second in interhall decorations, but it came in first in the total number of pink slips with 106. Badin was next with 104, and Lyons a close third with 103. The senior halls had the least deficiencies: Walsh 23, Alumni 27, and Sorin 49.
The real worry behind the pink slip is the writing of an explanatory letter to those at home. Many such messages, 1,118 to be exact, left the campus for ‘ various parts of the country to soften the unexpected arrival of deficiencies. Among the many remarks of students over the receipt of-one of these “pinkies” was that of a freshman from the East: “Gee! They sure do print these things on good paper!”—Dan Downey
be in the vicinity of Notre Dame. Any time a student wants to take the examination he can get application blanks from a recruiting sergeant in South Bend who will tell him where he can report for the examination.
—Harry Osborne
Ten Men in Varsity Debate
Finals at Law Auditorium
The Law Library is still reverberating with the verbal bombs of the varsity debate team aspirants as the Scholastic is being distributed today. The bombardment started yesterday afternoon at 4:10. William O’Neil, John Utz, and Mark Lies upheld the affirmative while Robert Galvin and Joseph Tracy defended the negative. Today the affirmative side was presented by Robert LeMense and James O’Dea with Don Heltzel, William Lawless, and William Meier speaking for the negative. The question is, “Resolved, That the Federal Government should regulate by law all labor unions in the United States.”
Eight men will be chosen out of this group of ten to form the varsity debate squad. Four men will make the “A” squad and the other four will form the “B” squad. Professor William J. Coyne is Director of Debate.
"MAMA" CLARK FINDS "CUDDLES" IN FLOOD OF FAN MAIL
Hires Private Secretary
The fan mail situation has become so complicated for John “Mama” Clark these days that the K. of C. cook of Walsh Hall had to hire a private secretary, Walter McCourt, to help him answer the letters he has received since his now-famous “Vox Pop” broadcast. It all began when “Mama” Clark, after his panegyric on “French fried wieners,” launched a plea for a girl whom he met two and a half years ago to write to him and continue their acquaintance. His appeal was successful. Betty Hendricks, “Cuddles”—is the girl and she wired “Mama” as soon as her friends told her about the broadcast, which she did not hear because of a play rehearsal at her school in Rochester, N. Y.
However, though his broadcast met with success, it also touched the tender emotions in the hearts of many other American girls. For Mr. Clark’s personality was pleasing enough to bring forth about 37 letters, two telegrams and one post-card. Generally, the letters are written in a friendly, sympathetic tone by young girls about the ages of 19, 20, or 21. Here is a typical example which may act as a composite of the letters in general:
“Dear Mr. Clark,
I heard your broadcast over ‘Vox Pop’ this evening and I sincerely hope that you find your girl.
I hope you don’t mind my writing you like this. I’ve never done this before, but I couldn’t resist after hearing you. I liked your voice.... I would love to taste your cooking.
Please write to me....”
Usually there follows a description of the writer, with measurements, and information about their school-work, favorite sports, etc. Three»sent photographs of themselves. Almost all of them say that “they have never written such a letter before but....” There were several
Postponed or Deferred?
Chief of the Bureau of Navigation C. W. Nimitz recently issued a memorandum which cited the distinction between draft deferment and postponement. Read the paragraph: “It is essential that the distinction between deferment and postponement of induction be clearly understood. A deferment is granted to a student because it will be in the national interest for him to engage in a certain occupation upon completing his training and preparation, whereas a student’s induction is postponed solely to prevent undue hardship to the individual.”
Cuddles Worried about a controversy
however which might take the prize for boldness and humor. For instance, one of the telegrams read:
“Wanted chef specialty French fried wieners must weigh over 200 have sense of humor and marrying type bring stove and refrigerator kindly omit autograph.
Cuddles Nominee.”
Another from Long Island is short and to the point:
“Mr. Clark:
Don’t tell me that with all the goodlooking girls in the U. S. a big football player like you is carrying the torch for a Betty H?”
One or two of the writers pretend to be the real “Cuddles.” A big utility com-
A Letter About "Cuddles"
Nazareth College Press Bureau Rochester, New York Nov. 26, 1941.
The Editor, The Notre Dame Newspaper Notre Dame University Notre Dame, Indiana
Dear Sir:
Monday night when the Vox Pop program introduced leading Notre Dame men to the American public, one of your seniors, John J. Clark, said that he was in love with a girl by the name of Bette Hendricks but that he had lost her.
The Bette Hendricks he meant is a freshman at Nazareth College in the Secretarial Department. She has studied dramatics, and at present has the leading part in the college production “The Barretts” as Elizabeth Barrett Browning.
This morning in the Democrat and Chronicle newspaper, which is a Rochester daily paper, there was a story and picture of Bette. I thought perhaps you might be interested in this article, and also in a newspaper glossy print of Bette for your paper.
Incidentally, her father is really an oil salesman. She is a member of the Gleaner staff (the college paper) and has a regular column called “A Freshman’s Day.”
“If you are able to use this story, I would appreciate it ever so much if you would send me a copy of it for our bulletin board and later for our scrap book.
Sincerely yours,
Nazareth College Press Bur.
Kaye M. Lechleitner, Pres.
P.S.: Please show photo to Jack in case there is any controversy as to my identity.—Bette Hendricks.
pany in eastern Ohio sent Clark a business offer.
He intends to answer this one and the other “special” letters like those quoted above personally while his “secretary” McCourt answers the more ordinary type of letter. As for the cause of such “fan mail,” Mama theorizes that it is probably the American custom of “write-to-your - Congressman” that brings forth such frank letters. His secretary, being of a more psychological frame of mind, however, thinks that most of the writers are what he calls “love delinquents,” that is love-lorn young ladies in search of a man.—Richard Powers
13
ART TREASURE FOUND AT SAINT MARY'S
The finding of an art treasure, worth an estimated $500,000 has been disclosed by the Rev. Gregory Gerrer, curator of the Wightman art galleries at Notre Dame.
The discovery is a wood panel painting of St. Francis of Assisi. It is believed by several art critics to be the most important find in the last 20 years. After several months of research, the painting has been identified as the work of Giotto, a 13th century artist.
The Sisters of the Holy Cross received the painting as a gift from Cardinal Francisco Satolli, first apostolic delegate to the United States, after his visit to St. Mary’s in 1893.
For 58 years the painting hung in the
St. Mary’s galleries. About six years ago it became lost. The portrait was found a few months ago, and Father Gregory desired to discover the identity of the artist. His research, and that of other experts, found it to be the work of Giotto, who was leadei- in the revival of art in the renaissance period.
In a later statement, however, Sister M. Madaleva, C.S.C., minimized the first extravagant reports of the find and expressed the opinion that further research will have to be pursued before the authenticity of the work can be definitely established. The Sister also added that the first estimations of the picture’s worth were probably greatly in excess of the true value.—Frank Kearns
Met Club Plans Made For Annual Christmas Dance
President Matty Byrne announced this week that plans have been completed for the annual Christmas ball under the
auspices of the Met club. One of the highlights of the club’s activities for the school year at Notre Dame, the dance
is likewise a highlight in the holiday social whirl of New York town. The
Notre Dame dance has always been one of the largest college gatherings in New-York and is highly regarded in the metropolitan area as an accurate reflection of Notre Dame ideals.
Sophomore, Junior Win Football Score Contest
Parker - Wmterrowd, popular tailor and haberdashery shop in South Bend, announced the winners in their annual score-guessing contest. Eugene Trinkley, Badin Hall, won the first prize, a $55 suit or overcoat. Patrick Madden of Dillon Hall won a $45 suit oi' overcoat.
The contest consisted in forecasting the scores for the football season and was decided on the basis of naming the correct aggregate points which N. D. scored and which were scored on them in each game. Four students were very close in this respect, so the final prizes were determined on the basis of individual game scores.
The contest this year drew over 1,000 entrants.
"My Sister Eileen" To Be At Palace Next Tuesday
On Tuesday afternoon and evening, Dec. 9, the stage show “My Sister Eileen” will be presented at the Palace Theater, South Bend. The comedy, written by Joseph Fields and Jerome Chodorov and based upon stories by Ruth McKinney, is still running on Broadway and has just completed an eight month engagement in Chicago. The road show comes to South Bend via Detroit and Chicago.
Included in the cast, in order of their importance are: Guy Robertson, Marcy Wescott, Effie Afton, Phillip Lobe, John L. Kearney, Donald Cameron, Edith Gershwin, Gretchen Davidson, Marjory Dalton, Larry Sothern, Merrith Stone and Ralph Simone.
The comedy concerns two theatrically ambitious sisters who journey from Columbus, Ohio, to New York, settling in
14
a basement apartment in Greenwich Village. From there on in they are concerned with the trials of putting themselves over in the big city, and combatting the mental obstacle provided by a noisy excavation crew. The play reaches its climax when one of the street workers drills himself into their apartment.
Tickets are now on sale at the Palace Theatre box office.
To the Desk of an Editor
Come All Sorts of Things
Stuck in the door leading to the top floor of the old Ave Maria building was a typewritten sheet of paper. A reporter opened the door, the paper dropped to the floor. Later it found its way to an editor’s desk and was read.
The paper said:
“To those who have not even been exposed to the slightest hint of what this ‘Notre Dame In Portrait’ is all about, perhaps these next few words may be of help. The portraits are a group of 12, one for each month of the year, and chosen for its portrayal of that month. Each is a formal view of the campus. Yet, not alone are these portraits presented. To fill a need long felt on the campus, these beautifully-prepared portraits are presented in a richly-bound case, making them most suitable to take care of that Christmas gift angle. That the whole affair may be useful and practical besides filling its primary function of presenting the campus in most glowing pictorial form, a calendar section has been added in which are listed the many dates important to Notre Dame men.”
Richard Klee, of 336 Morrissey, the author of the above notice, is now canvassing the halls daily in behalf of his brain-child.
This year the dance will be held in the Collonades Room in the Essex House on the night of Dec. 26, to the accompaniment of Harry Arnold and his 15 piece orchestra. Notre Dame alumni and their friends are especially welcome and from all indications a large crowd will again be present for the event.
Jim Burke is general chairman of the dance, with Bill Farrell in charge of the musical program. Frank Herbert is handling the seating arrangements. All students from the New York metropolitan area are urged to see Frank, in 288 Dillon, as soon as possible so as to secure their tickets before the last minute rush.
On Dec. 18, one of the most successful smokers of the year was held in the
Boike and Boine, Chairman & Prexy
Engineering building. A record crowd of 250 attended the meeting and was treated to pictures of the Georgia Tech-Notre Dame game of this season, along with an appealing “spread” to conclude the' meeting. It was at this meeting that final plans for the dance were laid. In the near future a Communion breakfast will be held for all members. Fr. Brennan will be present as the principal speaker at the breakfast, with Johnny Druze, popular assistant varsity coach, and Paul Lillis, varsity captain, completing the speaking program.—Ray Duggan
Jack Remelton, erstwhile gunner on H.M.S. Malaya, created a stir among coeds when he registered in the business school of New York University.
Knights Plan Xmas Dance
And Party for Next Week
“This dance is to be a closed affair, strictly for K. of C. men and their personal friends. Each knight has the privilege of bringing one guest couple. There are to be only 125 bids, so get yours early. The number will be limited to insure a nice-sized and friendly crowd; our aim is to give you a real Christmas party and to make this a social rather than a financial success. The Progress Club will be decorated with a Christmas tree and all the trimmings. Tops for the evening will be: Mama Clark’s Yuletide Buffet Banquet served promptly at 11 p.m.” Thus this week’s tidings went out to all Casey members bearing information of an informal Christmas dance and party.
The dance will be held the night of Saturday, Dec. 13, at the Progress Club. Tax for the evening will be §1.00 per couple. Activities are scheduled to get undei- way at 8:30 p.m.
Chairman of the dance is Don McNally who announced Wednesday that a date bureau has been set up in the council chambers in the basement of Walsh Hall for the convenience of knights and their guests. Rumor has it that Jim Brutz will play the part of Santa Clause.
Former N. D. Student Now In Naval Reserve
Robert Patrick O’Donnell, former member of the varsity fencing team at Notre Dame and prominent University of Chicago student, has been called to active duty as a member of the United States Naval Reserve.
O’Donnell, who entered the Navy as a yeoman, third class, reported for duty at the Great Lakes Naval Training Station Nov. 22.
The new petty officer attended Notre Dame two years and was a member of the varsity fencing team as a sophomore in 1939. In 1940 he enrolled at the University of Chicago where as a first year student he was ineligible for varsity competition, but the 22-year-old athlete won the epee championship in intrasquad fencing competition.
O’Donnell, son of Mr. and Mrs. L. A. O’Donnell of Gary, Ind., will undergo three weeks of intensive training in the fundamentals of naval procedure and seamanship at Great Lakes.
At the close of this initial training period, he hopes to gain advertising experience in the Chicago Naval Reserve public relations office. O’Donnell also is planning to complete his education by attending University of Chicago night school courses while serving in the Navy.
CAN you SPARE A MOMENT? K. OF C.
OFFER STUDENTS FOUR CASH AWARDS FOR NAME
Ed Reidy and Jim Fayette, local Knights of Columbus powers, ran smack up against a stone wall this week. For a month they had talked and planned a great adventure: promotion of the biggest show the Notre Dame campus has
Reidy, Fayette—a stone wall
ever seen. Last week their plans were going well, the wheels begun to grind, but Ed Reidy and Jim Fayette had one more thing to do: tag a name to their show.
They were negative to such proposals as the Knights of Columbus Charity Winter Carnival, the Knights of Columbus Mardi Gras. They were looking for something new, something different, and they decided to turn to the student body for aid.
This week they announced that a list of cash prizes has been set up for the best title names suggested. First prize will be a ten dollar bill and there will be three consolation prizes of two dollars each. Said . Reidy and Fayette in making the announcement: “A moment’s inspiration may be rewarded with a nice roll of date or spending money.”
The two promoters announced that the title name 'will have to exemplify the theme of the show, which will be military. As an example they cited the name “The Knights of Columbus Reveilles,” added apologetically that they hoped
Villagers Will Dance Night After Christmas
’Twill be the night after Christmas.
Once again, Friday evening, Dec. 26, the traditional date for the Notre Dame Villagers Christmas formal dance, will find the Villagers host in the Palais Royale to the college set of South Bend and environs, home on Christmas vacations.
Tom Hoyer, general chairman, has announced that Will Back and his orchestra, of Chicago, has been engaged to play from 9:30 to 1:30. The Backfield Trio is a feature attraction of the orchestra, which has played in many of Chicago’s famous dance spots, including the Aragon ballroom and the Edgewater
for something better.
They said all entries in the contest must be in on or before Wednesday, Dec. 17, two days before the Christmas vacation, and added that the decision of the judges would be final. An announcement of the four prize winners, along with the first-place name, will be printed in the first Scholastic of the new year.
All entries should be addressed to Edward Reidy, Grand Knight, Box 73, Notre Dame, Ind.
The show, as announced in last week’s Scholastic, will be a three day affair, on Thursday night, Feb. 12, Friday night, Feb. 13, Saturday afternoon, Feb. 14. The three-day festival will be climaxed by a dance in South Bend Saturday night.
The affair will take place in the Field House, with a complete program of entertainment being run off each night. Efforts are being made to bring a “name” band here to take part in the affair. Friday night has been designated as “Celebrity Night,” during which a number of well-known persons will appear.
The whole show -is for charitable purposes and all proceeds will go direct to charity.
The complete rules for the name contest follow:
1.	The name must exemplify the mil-itary theme.
2.	Suggestions must be written legibly or typewritten and addressed to Edward Reidy, Box 73, Notre Dame, Ind.
3.	All entries must be in bn or before Dec. 17.
4.	A committee of judges will select the four winning suggestions and the announcement will be made in the first Scholastic appearing after Christmas vacation.—Joseph Shane
Beach Hotel.
The ticket committee is in' charge of Vail Pischke. He announced that bids will be §2.75 per couple, including tax. Assisting him are Nick Pappas, Don Hoover, Wayne Zellers, Sam Eder, Francis Sellers, John Hickey, John Guthrie, and James Inwood.
Warren Deahl is music chairman and Les Fahey heads the decorations committee. Les has promised some novel arrangements. Helping him are Vernon McArdle, William Wishing, Albert Plotkin and Jerry Orosz.
William Strycker has as his assistants on the program Fred Beckman and John Brehmer. Dallas Milem and Bill Santocki are aiding Bob Uhl with publicity.
15
GLEE CLUB PROGRAM RANGES FROM SPIRITUALS TO "VICTORY MARCH" IN INITIAL CONCERT
Before a capacity audience last night, the 1941 edition of the Notre Dame Glee Club presented its initial concert of the current season in Washington Hall. Professor Pedtke’s musical skill was reflected in the diversity of the club’s program. The selections offered by the 85 voices went from religious hymns to the impressionistic music of Gretchaninof, exemplified in “Dusk”; from the soulful rhythms of Negro spirituals to the Handelian style of “Old Mother Hubbard”; from the spirited “Victory March” and “Anchors Aweigh” to the romantic solos by Anthony Donadio.
Soloists for the evening were Anthony Donadio, Jerome Heinlen, and William Scully, who were well received by the audience. The double piano team of Joseph Savord and Philip Foote drew applause with their sparkling presentation of “Gavotte in B Minor” by Bach.
For the second year, the club presented the “Song of the Free,” exciting much comment from the new members of the student body and renewed praise from the old. The spontaneous applause of the audience was a tribute to writers Felix Pogliano and Jack White of the Class of ’41 and last year’s glee club, as well as the musical artistry of this year’s club, the soloists, Anthony Donadio and Robert Fountain, and of Jack Molloy’s band.
The Program
I.
1. Ave Maria ----------------------------Witt
2. Hymn To The Madonna_______________Dremser
The "Officers" quartet: Jim Treacy, Ted McDonald, Jerome Heinlen, Anthony Donadio.... ■ . . .
Anthony Donadio, soloist
3.	Oh Lord Increase My Faith___________Gibbons
4.	Dusk Gretchaninof
5.	It’s A-Me.___________________Negro Spiritual
II
1.	The Star ---------------------------Rogers
Jerome Heinlen, soloist
2.	The Trumpeter___________________________Dix
William Scully, soloist HL
1.	How Merrily We Live................... Este
2.	Sing Maiden Sing__________________.Palmgren
3.	Old Mother Hubbard__________Hely-Hutchinson
4.	Ho Jolly Jenkins___________________Sullivan
5.	Anchors Aweigh___________________ Zimmerman
6.	Victory March__________________________Shea
IV.
1.	Ah Moon of My Delight_______________Lehmann
Anthony Donadio, soloist
2.	Gavotte in B Minor.____________________Bach
Joseph Savord, Phillip Foote—piano duet
V.
The Song of the Free
An original arrangement of American music in song. By Glee Club, soloists, and Jack Molloy’s band.
_	—John McCabe.
Students Vote Nine To Two in Favor of "Scrip"
(SCHOLASTIC’S editors were surprised when this story was received. When asked what they thought of “Scrip,” nine men out of eleven ivere in favor of the magazine. The two dissenting opinions were indifferent. This is startling. It represents a complete re
versal of campus opinion in rbgard to the literary quarterly. The editors are not passing judgment on “Scrip” when they imply that the magazine has not been well-received by the majority on the campus; the editors are merely stating fact. The SCHOLASTIC will follow up this lead after the next issue of “Scrip” in a more complete poll of campus opinion to determine whether the student body as a whole is this year setting a new precedent.)
The question: “What do you think of Scrip?
Jack Brown, Walsh “gentleman,” enrolled in the College of Commerce said, “I never read it.”
George Thompson, English major residing on the second floor of Alumni, gave the following reply, “I thought the sketches by the underclassmen were better than usual especially the essay The Purity of Art.
Frank Ebner, a Dillon drake who is an A.B. man, was high in his praise of Scrip. “The writing was up to its usual terrific standard. Some changes and new vigor have improved it a great deal.”
Dick McCormick, off-campus student, “It needs life.”
John Borkowski, an A.B. man from Detroit, “It was very well done and much improved over last year’s. The wit and humor were the better points.”
Charlie McGill, chemical engineer, “I’m sorry I waited until my sophomore year to commence reading it.”
Sam Wing, commerce, “The article on the barber shop displays the disinterest of the modern youth in current affairs.”
John Dowling, of Zahm and pre-med student said, “A very informative issue. The book review sectiion was especially fascinating.”
Tony Bristol, a Brownson man from the Bronx, in commerce, said, “Excellent evidence of the work being done here at Notre Dame in the literary fiield.”
Matthew Bajorek, a mechanical engineer in Brownson: “It proved that Notre Dame has its share of promising authors, especially the Dillon pseudonym.”
Ted Weber, a Breen-Phillips A. B. man: “For the most part it was very interesting.”
Eddie Chute, an A.B. man in Carroll: “Most enjoyable. Every article was natural and well composed.”	-
The last was a Cavanaugh commerce man, Earl Melia. “The stories lacked the entertainment suitable to college students.”—Frank Sierawski
More than 60 per cent of students work at the University of Texas. . _
16
N.D.-ST. MARY'S FRESHMEN DANCE A SUCCESS;
GIRLS AND BOYS AND MISS O'KANE ARE HAPPY
Over behind Breen-Philhps last Sunday afternoon, promptly at 1:30, three big red buses pulled up. Notre Dame
began this story of
Freshmen from Zahm and from Cavanaugh’s first two floors swarmed towards them, and piled in. Fifteen minutes later the buses started for St. Mary’s and when they arrived, there “boys meet girls.”
Each Zahm or Cavanaugh man, with name-card pinned on his coat, was paired with a St. Mary’s Freshman, similarly identified. The dance began, with Jack “Mama” Clark presiding as master of ceremonies. After a few minutes, Mr. Clark presented his round version of the “square dance,” which was designed to mix the dancers up. It did. They were then put on their own, original pairings having been forgotten, and the party was in full swing.	’
Sometime later the couples walked down the long, shiny hallway, and into the plushness of the sitting room. There they were served refreshments. Entertainment was provided by Tony Donadio, tenor pride of Notre Dame, and Phil Foote, well-known campus pianist. More dancing until five, and then a happy bunch of rug-cutting Irishmen walked over the railroad tracks toward home.
The whole idea, known as the four-year plan, recently originated with Senior Class President James O’Neal. For a long time, incoming N.D. Freshmen have been fed mistaken ideas about St. Mary’s. These prejudices, aided by an eager but confused Sunday tea dance stag line, served to strain, somewhat, social relations between the two schools. Why not sponsor a series of dances for the first year students, and so give them an honest picture of the situation? The immediate purpose would be to introduce St. Mary’s Freshmen to Notre Dame Freshmen, but that would be secondary to this objective: to help establish a congenial and appreciative relationship between the. respective student bodies.
O’Neal appointed this committee to assist him: Frank Pollnow, Edward Griesediech, Thomas Hennigan, Vic Assad, Mark McGrath, Ralph Simons, Jack Utz, Bill Meier, Frank Haley, and Tom Clemens. A similar committee was arranged at St. Mary’s. And since authorities here and across the road heartily
approved, conferences were held, and plans made. That the first effort was fully successful is evidence by comments like these from St. Mary’s:
Said Miss O’Kane, assistant dean of women: “The affair shows how much we can sometimes under-estimate the ability of young people to meet a problem. I think it is a grand idea.”
Louise McSorley, Cleveland, Ohio sophomore who stood watching the proceedings, moaned: “It’s just a shame we aren’t allowed in there!”
Helen McDonald, freshman from the West, decided that: “Wyoming was never like this....”	•
But it was auburn-haired Barbara Rempe, Chicago freshman, who summed up all opinions, for she thought: “It was wonderful!”
The Notre Dame views were voiced by Frank Culhane of Cavanaugh: “The whole deal was very good—one of the best ideas they’ve had around here, and I hope they keep it up.”
Committee members plan to do that. Another tea dance has been set tentatively for Dec. 14, and the lucky lads will come from the third and fourth floors of Cavanaugh and from Brownson. A third section on Jan. 11 will include Breen-Phillips, Freshmen in Carroll, and off-campus students.
The idea, as originally conceived, embodies plans for a number of other activities for the whole of both student bodies, such as skating parties, sleigh-rides, and so forth.—Charles J. Patterson
Form Central N. Y. Club
The newly formed Central New York Club of Notre Dame held its first meet
ing recently. This club is for all students
F'AUL KELLEY
within a 55 - mile radius of Syracuse. The main topics of the first meeting were the election of officers and the planning of a Christmas dinnerdance.
The officers that were elected are:
Paul W. Kelley, president; Thomas Farmer, vice-president; Robert Madden, secretary, and Edward Reagan, treas
urer.
Speaking of famous threesomes, Ed Monahan, at Charity Ball, completed the first triple play of the season. Not entirely unassisted, however.	-
Roses are Red, Violets
Are Blue: Sellers Tells Why
The long semi-circular desk below, littered with test tubes, microscopes, a spectroscope and a sheaf of notes.... a blackboard covered with formulae.... a man with a phial of dark green liquid in each hand.... this was the focus of attention at the recent meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science in the amphitheater of the Biology building. Francis M. Sellers, senior pre-med majoring in biology, unfolded the secrets of green meadows, brilliant autumn, and Miller orchids in his paper on “Plant Pigments.” He explained how some of the substances which cause colors in plant life have even more important functions, and—giving chlorophyll as an example — disclosed how this compound reacts with rays of sunlight to convert, solar energy to plant energy.
“Interesting from an aesthetic and. practical view, and important because it. is one of the pigments, chlorophyll, is. directly responsible for photosynthesis... the color in a plant.... is due to definitechemical compounds or pigments. Plant organs possess a definite color due to the-dominance of one pigment over several, others which may be present.”
Following the lecture, members of the-Academy were invited by Sellers to inspect the microscopic demonstrations as. well as the spectroscopic analyses of light, passing through a dark green alcoholic solution of chlorophyll as compared with, light passing through water.
Dean Froning spoke briefly to the-scientists and announced his offer of an award to the man voted the most worthy contributor to the discussion of the: papers given at each meeting.
—John C. Bennett
Knights of Columbus
Vaudeville is Postponed
The Knights of Columbus announced, early this week that their vaudeville show has been postponed until the week of March 8.
Discovering that Rev. Matthew Coyle felt that he needed the facilities of Washington Hall for some extra rehearsals of his production of Shakespeare’s “The Merry Wives of Windsor,” they offered their two reserved nights to him. These were graciously accepted and the vaudeville show will be presented at the later date, announced, above.
Appearing during that long, drawn-out period between Christmas and Easter, it should receive greater appreciation than at the busy time just before the Christmas holidays.
IT
MAKE PLANS FOR "BATTLE OF BANDS" BETWEEN THE "CAVALIERS" AND THE "MODERNAIRES"
Fetch yore shootin’ irons, boys; it looks like the greatest feud since the Hatfields and McCoys will soon come to a head. • Tentative plans are now being made for a “Battle of Bands,” to decide once and for all the controversy raging over Notre Dame’s two dance bands.
On land, in the air, and in the Huddle, this band question has been cussed and discussed. The pros and cons of Bob Richardson’s Modernaires have been compared and yardsticked against the whys and wherefores of Jack Molloy’s Cavaliers. The feud promises to shunt the Fred Allen-Jack Benny brawl to a minor league position.
Discussion of the virtues and vices of both orchestras has been paramount around the campus, with every John Q. Freshman and Gustavus H. Senior siding with one band or the other, or reserving opinions for the Gallup poll.
With the tiff nearing, the Scholastic grapevine has received word that the
“Battle of Bands” has been tentatively scheduled for some date in the near future, possibly immediately after the Christmas vacation. It is understood that plans and preparations for this contest are under way, and that negotiations are nearing the final stage.
Tentative plans call for a dance with both bands holding sway at opposite ends of the hall, with each orchestra alternating. It is hoped that in this manner students may decide once and for all the band question.
If the music contest between the Modernaires and Molloy’s dispensers of '‘Modern Design in Rhythm” is held, it promises to be one of the highlights of the school social year. It ■will mark the first time two campus bands have engaged in a competitive contest at a dance. The battle, under present plans, will be very definitely a battle of music, and not merely a contest “to see who can make the most noise.”
The Modernaires, organized in 1936, received their first practice at tiffing when they and Paul Whiteman debated the question of who should use the name “Modernaires.” At that time Whiteman had a group of singers named the Modernaires, and for a while diplomatic relations between the N.D. orchestra and Whiteman were strained. Whiteman soon
discontinued his Modernaire warblers, however, and the Irish jazz babies had the field to themselves.
With a victory over Whiteman on the ledger, the orchestra looked for new fields and played engagements at such popular- places as the Glen Island Casino, the Hotel Statler in Cleveland, and other stands. The band is led this year by Bob Richardson, a senior lawyer. Likeable Jim O’Laughlin, former Scholastic columnist, books engagements for the group.
In the opposite camp, the Cavaliers, with piano-tickling Jack Molloy as leader, outnumber the 10-piece Modernaire aggregation by two men. Molloy’s lineup features some of the best campus musicians and a group of footers who are well known in the jive world. The Cavaliers, formerly known as the “Midwestern Orchestra,” carved their niche in the N.D. hall of fame when they accompanied the University Glee Club in a trip around the eastern circuit last spring.
This year the Modernaires have more scalps to their credit by virtue of their playing at a larger number of the Victory dances and at other engagements. The Cavaliers, however, have come up strong in the last few weeks and provided tunes at the Southern Cal Victory dance. Jim Fayette does the booking for the Cavaliers.
La. - Miss. Club Re - Forms
After Two Years Absence
After two years of hibernation, the La-Miss Club has once more made its appearance on the campus of Notre Dame. This organization is made up of all the students from the states of Louisiana and Mississippi who are enrolled at the University. Their purpose is to create greater coordination and friendship among the southern students in general and among those of the two specified states in particular, to increase the campus activities of these students, and to increase the number of southern students attending Notre Dame.
After three meetings, the club is well organized and preparations are under way for an active year. Preliminary details are being rapidly concluded and smooth sailing lies ahead. There are at present 16 members of the club, 13 coming from Louisiana. New Orleans leads the individual cities with six representatives, followed by Lake Charles with three, Alexandria, La. and Bay St. Louis, Miss., with two apiece.
Officers for the present year are: Carl
S. Coco, Lake Charles, president; Jack Watters, New Orleans, vice-president; James Bryan, Bay St. Louis, secretary; and Paul Limont, New Orleans, treasurer. Other members of the club are: George Schott, Kermit Rousseau, Billy Johnston, and Noel Digby of New Orleans; Joseph Zimmermann and Floyd Vincent of Lake Charles; Hughes Engstrom and Bill Welch of Alexandria; Harold Edwards of Shreveport, La.; John Gooch of Yazoo, Miss.; Pete Juden of Bay St. Louis; and A. Henry Sommers of Clarksdale, Miss.
—C. S. Coco
Some Facts About The
Old Notre Dame Revealed
The team of Armstrong and Dooley, as active as they are, had some serious competition years ago by an unknown publicist. Some person or persons unknown had a lot of spare time about 20 years ago and decided to dig up some facts about the school. We pass these on to you as they were put out by this fact-finding Gallup of the “Roaring Twenties.”
“Indiana is deservedly famous for many things, — her corn belt, hex- thrifty towns, her manufacturing cities, her fine roads, her network of steam and trolley lines, her schools, academies, colleges and universities, which are among the largest and finest in the country. One of Indiana’s universities is the largest boarding school in the world. This is the University of Notre Dame near South Bend, in St. Joseph’s County.
In many ways Notre Dame is different from most universities:
It is for men and boys only.
It boards and houses all its students.
It has no endowment.
It gives common school, high school, and twenty-five collegiate courses.
It has three thousand acres of cultivated land.
It has its own G. A. R. Post.
It has the largest college chapel in the United States.
It has the second largest bell in the country.
Its campus is second in beauty in the United States.
It has two beautiful lakes.
Its site was an Indian Mission as early as 1686.
Marquette visited its site in 1675 and LaSalle in 1679.
It was founded in 1842 with resources amounting to about two hundred dollars in cash, forty acres of wilderness and a log hut.
It has more athletes for its numbers than any other American .school.
Its present baker has baked more than twenty-five million breakfast buns.
Its farm overseer gets the largest wheat yield in Indiana.
18
NOTRE DAME SPORTS
ST. LOUIS U. GAME PITS KEOGAN AGAINST OLD COACHING POST
Tomorrow night’s cage game will probably cause mingled emotions to surge in the heart of the head basketball coach, George Keogan, as he sends his Fighting Irish quintet against the invading forces from St. Louis University.
It was back in 1914-15, that Coach Keogan, then at the helm of all varsity sports at the Mound City institution, first introduced the hardwood game to the Billikens, who since have become a rising power in the crack Missouri Valley Basketball Conference.
Though his team met with indifferent success in last year’s campaign, Coach Bob Klenck will present an all-veteran quintet on the fieldhouse floor and one that is highly capable of giving the Irish a busy evening. His attack centers around Herb Van Deven, 5 ft. 11 in. 160 pound junior forward who last year, as a sophomore, paced his team in scoring with 126 points in 17 games to take second honors among the Conference’s leading scorers, and was the first soph, in history to make the All-Conference team. Charlie McCarthy, 6 ft., 2 in. forward; Fred Mueller at center; and Don Bandle and Steve Brady at the guard-posts, all of whom won letters last year, round out the starting five.
For reserve strength Coach Klenck has Johnny Waller, who won his letter last year at forward, and sophomores Bill Bandle, Dick Dorsay, and Jim Nichols, all of whom are 6 ft., 2 in. or over.
Lineup Change Predicted
After watching his team rip into Franklin College for a 49-30 victory last Saturday night, and thus marking the 300th victory of his coaching career here at Notre Dame, Coach Keogan made the following observations on his boys: “It was a typical opening game, being both ragged and good in spots. The youngsters were nervous, as was to be expected, but they will overcome that and acquire the necessary poise as time goes on. The team is by no means set, and changes in the line-up will be plentiful until we hit on the right combination.”
In beating Franklin, “Chuck” Butler, slender junior forward from Chicago took high-scoring honors racking up 13 points, however, it remained for three of Coach Keogan’s sophomores, Bob Faught, 6 ft., 5 in. center; “Buster” Hil
ler, and Johnny Niemi era, two hard-driving forwards, to spark the team in a second-half rally that turned a close game into a rout. Bob Rensberger, junior guard, also served notice that he can be counted upon to play plenty of basketball during this campaign. The veterans, Capt. Art Pope, Cy Singer, Frank Quinn, and George Sobek, all played a steady game, insuring the Irish of a first rate team once they start hitting on all cylinders.
Irish Seeking Second Victory over St. Louis
Tomorrow’s game with St. Louis is the second between the two schools, the Irish winning the other game, played during the ’37-’38 season, by a score of 50-25.
The contest will also mark the last home appearance of the Irish until Jan. 3, when Harvard invades the fieldhouse. For the students it will be the last glimpse of their heroes until the Jan. 7 game against Washington University of St. Louis. Taking to the road for their next four games, the Irish will tour the Big Ten and attempt to bring home the scalps of Wisconsin, Michigan, Illinois, and their New Year’s Eve rivals, Northwestern. In keeping with the spirit that prevailed during the football season, let’s everybody be on hand to give the boys a big send-off.
. The probable line-ups for the game:
Notre Dame	St. Louis
Sobek ----------------F.____________ McCarthy
Butler ---------------F.___________ Van Deven
Quinn ----------------C._____________ Mueller
Singer ---------------G------------ D. Bandle
Pope(C.) _____________G________________ Brady
Starting Time: 8:00 (C.S.T.).
—James A. Clemens
Snappy Great Lakes Team Nips Fighting Irish, 52-46
A youthful, but ever aggressive, Notre Dame basketball team bowed in defeat on their home floor Wednesday to a star-studded and more experienced Great Lakes Naval Training team 52 to 46.
The game was one of speed and impossible shots from beginning to end with real scoring being done in the second period. After the first half ended in a 19 to 15 score in favor of the Irish, both teams came back working more smoothly and swiftly.
The Great Lakes team managed to hold only a slim margin during most of the game until a young sophomore sensation, Hiller plunked in two buckets in a row to tie the game. It was then that men like Menke and Andres of Indiana, and Bob Calihan of Detroit proved their reputations to put the Great Lakes team out in front to the end.
Menke led the visitors scoring with 15 points, while Butler compiled ten for the Irish.
During half-time Lieut. Commander Gene Tunney, U. S. Navy, delivered an address before the large gathering. The former undefeated heavyweight boxing champion spoke on the advantages of the training provided in the Navy, and the type of men the Navy wants.
"Ollie" Hunter Accepts Bid To Run in Sugar Bowl
Contrary to many reports, Notre Dame will be represented in one of the many “bowls.” But “Ollie” Hunter is not going to play football in the Sugar Bowl at New Orleans on Dec. 28. “Ollie” will be doing his best to keep up with four of the nation’s crack cross country runners in a special invitational three mile run, a feature event of the Sugar Bowl week which starts on the 28th and ends the following Saturday.
Late Wednesday afternoon “Ollie” received official University sanction to participate in the all-expense-paid event. The invitation which came some time ago listed Greg Rice, who is known to all track fans, Mel Trutt, former Indiana star, Fred Wilt, present intercollegiate cross country champion, and Forest Efaw, former Oklahoma A. and M. star and present national steeplechase champion, as “Ollie’s” opponents. Hunter’s best time in the three mile is 14:57; Greg Rice holds the world’s record for the run indoors at 13:56.
“Ollie” ran second in the National Intercollegiate Cross Country meet two weeks ago with the time of 20:40 over the four mile course. He is a junior and hails from Erie, Pa. He is at present working out every night in preparation for the Sugar Bowl event. A special feature of his warm-up program will be running of the six mile grudge race against the “Dissipated Dukes.” This grueling event is scheduled to come off on Sunday, Dec. 14. It was postponed from last Sunday due to weather conditions.—Robert LeMense
19
HARRY ELMORE, PHOTOGRAPHER OF N.D. HEROES, IS LINK WITH GLORIOUS PAST AND PRESENT
WHAT ABOUT SPORTS?
“Now that the football season is over, I’m going to take a vacation for a while.” Harry Elmore, Notre Dame official sports ^photographer, who has been on the job since 1914, was speaking.
A vacation for him consists of a trip to Florida, where he can make the rounds •of the golf courses and show the boys how it is done. “My best score so far this year is 68 out on the Notre Dame course. I have won a few titles. The Erskine cup of South Bend is the best one. I gave it back to them after I gained permanent possession, though. It’s worth $450 but what good was it to me?”
His vacation will include a little work •on the side, however. Mr. Elmore will •cover the Orange Bowl game in Miami on New Year’s Day. He has handled this .assignment for the last seven years.
Although a man of slight build, he .swaggers back and forth among his pictures telling stories of each player and .game, as though he had some experience as an athlete himself. Delving into his past more thoroughly, we found that he played a lot of semi-pro baseball in his younger days. “I played ball with old Hilly Sullivan of the White Sox. His son is the only Notre Dame alumnus now in -the major leagues.”
He rehashed an incident of a priest who played with them. “Father Green could have played for any big league team in any country, but he wanted to be a priest. He hit .380 on the Pacific Coast one year. One day he donned a baseball suit and played in an exhibition with us. He was just another baseball player to the people in the stands but he hit three home runs.”
The interview became more interesting lor him as we left his life and began talking of the Notre Dame greats. Mr. Elmore leaned back and smiled. “There have been some great boys here in these •2 7 years. Rockne, Dorais, Walsh, Schwartz, Carideo, and on down to the present. But the Gipper was the greatest natural athlete I have ever seen. He had a contract with the Cubs to pitch baseball before he died. He sure could wing that ball. But he was a great hit--ter too . . . and runner. Besides, George was state champion in billiards while he was in college.”
Harry leaned forward now as his face took on a more serious look. “I was teaching him how to play golf before he died. To show what a great athlete he was, he would have been shooting in the 70’s within a year. He took to every sport just that fast.”
Turning from the Gipper, he tried to 20
recollect some of the greats in the other positions to form an all-Notre Dame team. “Ted Toomey was the greatest tackle I ever saw. Although he didn’t get much of a blow, Walsh was about the best center of all the great ones that Notre Dame has had. However, remember this: I am betting that Wally Ziemba will be placed at the top of all the great centers after next year. He was underrated by the all-American pickers this year.”
“Cannon and Metzger were great guards. Joe Savoldi was the best of the fullbacks and Marty Brill was the best blocker. Of course Gipp stands as the triple - threat back. Carideo was the smartest quarterback I ever saw. As for the passers, Marchy Schwartz was in a class by himself until this year, but now, I think Bertelli is even better than Schwartz. There is no telling where Angy will finish if he plays like he did this year, I think Wayne Millner, now with the Washington Redskins, was the best of the great ends. But Sweeney, Devore, and Earl Brown are not far behind. It is hard to pick an all-star team like this because the play has changed a lot since I first came here.”
When asked what was the most thrilling game he ever saw, he answered quickly, “You’ll never see a fourth quarter like that Illinois game. I don’t think any one ever saw a game with so much football packed into 60 minutes and most of that was in one quarter. It was even more exciting than the Ohio State game of 1935.”
The walls of his office are covered with shots of past Notre Dame teams, individuals, and perfect plays of the games. One shot shows every Wildcat accounted for as Wilke sprints 38 yards in the 1936 Northwestern game. Another shows Bucky O’Connor on the rampage against Southern California.
Mr. Elmore, a free-lance photographer, has pictures published regularly in all the leading magazines in the country. Warner Brothers used a number of his pictures of Rockne and his home for their movie, “Knute Rockne—All-American.” There is a large screen in his office with a number of action shots from Rock’s life. He is shown with Babe Ruth, Jimmy Walker, and Lou Turbin. Other - shots show him as captain of Notre Dame, as a member of the Christy Walsh All-American board, and with some of his famous players. Among these portraits is the last picture every made of Rockne.—Don Murphy
By Red Lonergan
The selection of a mythical All-American football team every year meets with the approval of nearly all people interested in that sport. For one thing, it gives credit to all those who have tried to be tops and have succeeded in doing so. It is interesting to note, however, that there are many professional players who were almost unknown in college competition. One explanation for this may be that the pro star attended a small college and received little publicity. Then, too, the best known All American selectors can’t watch all of them. That is, they say they can’t watch every one.
It is odd to notice at this point that the scouts for pro teams have shown that somehow it is possible to watch more players than the All-American selectors do. The unknowns who star in pro football show the sagacity of these scouts by becoming famous in so short a time as one season. The All-Star football games also bring out hidden talent and show that the vote of the people can still be a whole lot truer than a vote by a few “experts.”
At the end of the ’34 season most people picked Pug Lund, Buz Borries, Cotton Warburton, and Stan Kostka as the ideal backfield. When the All-Stars played at the end of the following summer Bill Shepherd of Western Maryland and Al Nichelini of St. Mary’s were in the backfield.
In the same year a gentleman by the name of Tony Blazine was one of the prize prospects of pro football. Even so, his efficiency wTas considered below that of Jim Sten of Syracuse, Bill Lee of Alabama, and Phil Bengston of Minnesota. Joe Stydehar of West Virginia was an unimportant figure in the ’35 season but stayed around to put on a fine performance in the All-Star game and prove himself a great lineman. He has an enviable record with the Chicago Bears if you care to investigate. In that same year Jay Berwanger, Bobby Wilson, and Bill Shakespeare were among the nation’s best. When the - last lights went out at the All-Star game following that season Tuffy Leemans of George Washington was as famous as any of these three.
In ’38 the same thing happened. Goldberg, O’Brien, and Luckman were expected to lead the All-Stars to a big victory. Nobody thought of Parker Hall of Mississippi before the game, but not one of the other three mentioned followed
the All-Star game with so brilliant a professional career.
Many more could be named who have done what the big names were supposed to do. Let us remember that the greatness of a player is not judged by the school he attended or the number of people who saw him play, but rather by the ability he displays.
QUESTIONS FOR THE WEEK
1.	What Notre Dame football player not on the the first two teams has his photograph in unusually wide circulation?	'
2.	Where was the first six-day bicycle race held ?
3.	Who invented basketball and where ?
4.	What does a “sweep” designate in football?
5.	Who are the two most famous bridge players of our time?
6.	To whom is the credit given for the invention of chess?
(Answers on page 28)
JCCOP’N JEIINTEIJ
FROM THE PFEXf ECX
BY BILL SCANLAN
IRISH CAPTURE NO. 300 FOR COACH KEOGAN
When Notre Dame mastered Franklin College, it registered the 300th victory since Coach George Keogan left La Crosse, Wis., Central high school to succeed the late Knute Rockne as basketball mentor here. . . . Previous coaching assignments have found Coach Keogan at Charles City, Iowa, College; Lockport, Hl., Township high school; Riverside, Ill., high school; Superior, Wis., State Teachers College; St. Louis University—foes of the Irish on Dec. 6—; St. Thomas College, St. Paul, Minn.; Allegheny College, Meadville, Pa.; and Valparaiso, Ind., University. . . . Currently begins his 19th season with a won and lost percentage of more than .770. . . . Wonder what coach, if any, can match that mark.
More N. D. Statistics
Notre Dame, which ranked sixth in passing offense for the nation with an average of 135.9 yards a game, was unranked among the country’s first 15 teams in total offense. The Irish were tenth, however, in total defense and eighth in rushing defense. Opponents made an average of only 67.9 yards a game on the ground against Coach Frank Leahy’s unbeaten eleven. They made 142.6 yards a game by rushing and passing.
Grid Banquet Jan. 19
The annual Notre Dame football testimonial banquet will be held here Monday, Jan. 19, it was announced today by Francis Jones, chairman. The affair is sponsored each year by the Notre Dame club of the St. Joseph Valley. Ticket reservations are being taken now by Robert M. Cahill, Notre Dame ticket manager and ticket committee chairman for the fete at the Athletic Association, Notre Dame, Ind.
Bertelli Third in Nation
With only a few games yet to be played around the country, Angelo Bertelli, Notre Dame sophomore passing artist, whose season has ended, ranked third among the nation’s passers in the matter of completions. Accurate Angelo completed 70 out of 124 for 1037, Schwenk of Washington U., St. Louis, who led with a new record of 103 completions, attempted 200. His percentage was .515 as compared with Bertelli’s .565. His total yardage was 1331, less than 300 yards more than Bertelli’s. Price of Texas Mines completed 78 out of 124 for 808 yards, and a .629 percentage. Schwenk averaged less than 13 yards per completion, Price about 10, and Bertelli 14.8. Bertelli passed for eight and set up seven of Notre Dame’s touchdowns.
CLASHMORE MIKE GETS FAN MAIL
Irish football stars and members of the coaching staff have been flooded with mail all season but the prize letter of the season arrived at the Athletic Offices for “Clash-more Mike.” . . . Written by a young friend from Baltimore, Md., the query stated:
“Dear Clashmore Mike,
“I suppose you get lots of letters from your fans. I would like to be one of them. I saw you at the Notre Dame-Navy game. I thought you were very brave the way you went after the Navy goat.
“Mike, if you have any autographed pictures, I would dearly love to have one. I am sure you must have lots of requests for them. Well hears wishing the best o’ luck to you and your team.
“As ever your ardent’fan,	Mary Kiehne.”
Genial Dan Hanley, Mike’s faithful caretaker, fulfilled the wish.
ACCOMMODATING THE CLASS OF ’42
Various All-America pickers were thoughtful of the class of ’42 when they selected Bob Dove, ace junior left end. . . . Dove wears No. 42, same as that displayed by so many numeral winners among the senioi- class. . . . And on top of that, it’s the Centennial number . . . we think. . . . Ray Kuka, giant sophomore basketball center, hails from Havre, Mont., where he was a high school cage rival of Frickey, one of the many backfield greats of the 1941 Minnesota Maulers. . . . Notre Dame freshmen walloped Aquinas college of Grand Rapids, Mich., last week, 79-9. . . . Fine start for the proteges of Coach Al Del Zoppo. . . . John Creevy, freshman basketball center and baseball pitcher of Clawson, Mich., had students hanging out the windows of Science hall and gasping for breath along the sidelines as he leisurely tossed 40, 50 and 60-yard passes to a friend on Brownson field Monday afternoon. ... A two-man stage show, unrehearsed.
BERTELLI RUMORED TO BE REPLACED BY FRESHMAN
According to current national football records, Angelo Bertelli’s .565 average on 70 completions in 124 tries tops the pass throwers in the nation.'. . . Schwenk, Washington U., St. Louis, has a percentage of .515 on 103 completions in 200 attempts. . . . Price of Texas Mines completed 78 in 124 for 808 yards. . . . Angie also averaged 14.8 yards per try, Schwenk less than 13. . . . Then there’s that awful rumor that a freshman gridder may supplant Angelo in ’42. . . . He must be a whiz.
TRACKMEN BEGIN DRILLS FOR INDOOR SEASON
Coach Bill Mahoney inaugurated indoor track drills this week. . . . Not too optimistic. . . . But he hadn’t counted his returning monogram men yet. . . . Most frosh gridders pick Bob Maddock as the toughest lineman in the Irish forward wall, but the “Bull” seems the most overlooked by All-America makers. . . . Contrary to reports— Capt. Paul Lillis won’t join the Army Air Corps. . . . Defective eyesight nullified physical requirements. . . . Jim Carnes, carrot-topped basketball forward, is currently working in the Muncie, Ind., Chevrolet plant. . . . Bob Saggau, the lad they tabbed Knute Rockne’s son in disguise, was on hand for the Franklin college cage tilt. . . . He’s currently a member of the Glenview, Hl., Naval forces! ...	.
21
INTRODUCING
-____'   —'	By RAY DONOVAN
[Editors note: Due to an oversight on our part we neglected to give Jim Clemens credit for his “Introducing” last week. Gentlemen, Mr. Clemens.]
The tough luck kid of Coach George Keegan’s high-powered varsity basketball machine is scheduled this year to have the outstanding season of his long and star-studded hardwood career. He has been sparkling even during his perennial siege of injuries and during the 1941 campaign is expected to write his name alongside the all - time greats : Moir, Nowak, Krause, Risks & Company.
George Edward Sobek, veteran high-scoring forward on the Blue and Gold cage squad, played several campaigns for the Hammond High School squad under the handicap of a trick knee, and performed brilliantly. This same trick knee has bothered George constantly during his last two years on the Notre Dame varsity. During the past summer, however, the speedy Sobek underwent an operation to remove a piece of cartilage from the joint, and expects to be able to make his last season of intercollegiate competition his most memorable one.
George began his long climb to fame as a member of Hammond High’s Wildcats back in 1935, reaching his peak as a senior in 1938. It was during the 1937-38 season that the Wildcats, sparked by Sobek, piled up an enviable season record and then went on to come within two points of capturing the coveted Indiana state title the following March. It was during the finals of the state tourney in the Butler field house that the flashy Purple forward displayed before 15,000 hysterical fans one of the greatest individual performances ever witnessed in the history of the tourney.
Basketball Foes, Roomies at N.D.
One of the outstanding games of So-bek’s high school career took place on the occasion of the dedication of the new Hammond Civic Center in a game between the Wildcats and Muncie. Advance
publicity forecast the battle as a struggle between Sobek, Hammond star, and Muncie’s Jim Carnes, who was later to become his opponent’s roommate in St. Ed’s last year. The two boys lived up to all advance notices, each contributing something like 20 points towards their teams’ totals. Teammates on this great five with Sobek were Irish footballer Wally Ziemba and Northwestern star Bud Hasse.
George fitted into the Notre Dame style of play as into a glove and, after an outstanding year on the freshman unit, earned a starting position on the varsity as a sophomore. Teaming with Eddie Riska, he proved himself to be one of the outstanding offensive men on the Irish squad in recent years. Towards the end of the season, however, Sobek’s trick knee began acting up and he was unable to operate at full speed for the remainder of the season.
The same story may be told concerning Sobek’s junior year on the squad. Early season performances indicated that he was headed for the greatest season of his brilliant career, but a late-season injury to this same knee forced him to the sidelines.
This, his senior year at Notre Dame, promises to find the veteran overcome
this injury jinx and take over the position as the squad’s leading scorer. By George’s own admission, the knee feels better and stronger following the midsummer operation than it has since it was first injured.
Sobek had the reputation in high school of being the most easily fouled player in the district and he has brought that same reputation along with him to Notre Dame. George has a peculiar manner of shooting which makes it almost impossible for his opponent to avoid fouling him.
Stars on Diamond Also
Although Sobek has gained most of his fame on the basketball court, he is also a baseball second baseman of no mean ability and performs at that spot with Coach Kline’s baseballers. Baseball was not developed to the extent of being a major sport at Hammond high, but this did not hinder Sobek’s playing. He performed for various independent and industrial league teams during the spring and summer months and thought nothing of playing on two or three such teams during the course of a season. His ability at this sport can be verified by the fact that several major-league scouts have praised his work around the keystone.
A Popular Politician
Sobek’s popularity both in the sport limelight and around the campus from the time he enrolled at Notre Dame is shown by the fact that he was elected to the office of vice-president of the sophomore class by a wide majority. When the president failed to return to school the following year, George was elevated to the presidency of his class, which meant he had complete charge of the Cotillion. The fact that the class dance that year was one of the largest and most successful in the history of the school is a compliment to the leadership and organizing ability of this popular athlete.
George is not the only athlete in the Sobek family, and last year found his younger brother, Joe, taking over as the leading scorer for Hammond High in his senior year. Although Joe doesn’t quite have the stature of his brother, great things are predicted for him as a future member of the Irish varsity. Joe is a prominent member of Coach Al Del Zop-po’s freshman team this year.
This season, his last year of intercollegiate competition in basketball, is destined to be the greatest one of his brilliant career for George Sobek. The student body joins with yours truly in wishing the best of luck to one of the truly great basketball stars in the history of the sport at Notre Dame—George Edward Sobek.
22

Arrive in Style for the
Christmas Holidays
You will appear elegantly at ease during this gay Christmas season in one of our suits — CUSTOM TAILORED — MADE TO YOUR MEASURE — or READY MADE. See us soon and we can deliver your garment before you leave the campus.
Shetlands, tweeds, flannels, camel’s hair — a variety of fine fabrics . . . Tailored in a style to suit you . . . fitted by experts.
PARKER-WINTERROWD (Upstairs) 115^4 N. Main Street
Or see our campus representatives:
Paul Lillis
Larry Kelley
Neil J. McCarty
Alumni Hall
Bowling League All Set
This is “Catch-up Week” in the K. C. Bowling Alleys in Walsh Hall, and by now the league schedule of play is about as much up to date as it ever will be. Those that have missed matches because of football trips, home-goings, or other reasons, have either made up the delayed games or have lost them by forfeit. And now, all is in readiness for the sixth week of play.
One new note in league affairs comes to light namely, that matches held at night, i.e. in the Blue League, will henceforth be on Tuesday, Thursday and Friday. Also, according to a new rule, all night matches will positively end by 8:15 o’clock. On nights that see no league match, the alleys (but not the pool tables and ping pong tables) will close at 7:30 o’clock.
Up-to-date standings (not including the teams that have dropped out of the league) are:
Red League:	W L Blue League: W L
Knights ________ 5	1	Alley Rats______11	1
Hot Dogs ______ 5	1	Sonneborns______12	3
Champs ________12	3	St. Ed’s A. C. _10	5
Gaels ----------  2	7	Nu Deltas---------7	-	5
Golds _________ 1	5	Aero’s ---------- 7	5
Whirlwinds _____ 0	6	Hy Mares----------1	14
The schedule for the coming week is:
Red League: Monday, Hot Dogs-Gaels; Wednesday, Knights-Golds; and Friday, Whirlwinds-Champs. Blue League: Tuesday, Hy Marcs-Aeros; Thursday, Sonneborns-Alley Rats; Friday, Admirals-St. Ed’s A. C.
In place of the Nu Delta team which dropped out of the league during the past week, we now have “The Admirals,” a team captained by Quent Marshall (of Walsh Hall). This team should by rights be one of the really outstanding ones as Marshall, Tom Dillon, John Maguire, and Dick LaJoie have all been among the high men in the downtown league.
—Joe Palmer
The Shillelah Returns Home
“The same old shillelah me father brought from Ireland” came back to the campus of the Fighting Irish Monday, in the burly right hand of Capt. Paul Lillis. This trophy, a blackthorne Irish walking stick about three feet in length, is the annual trophy going to the victor after the yearly Northwestern - Notre Dame gridiron battle.
Gift of Irish President
First presented to the Irish council of Chicago in 1931 by the then president of the Irish Free State, William T. Cosgrove, the shillelah was, in turn, offered by the council as a symbolic football trophy in the Notre-Dame - Northwestern series to remain with the winning school until its football team was defeated by the other.
During the past year the shillelah has remained in the trophy case of Patten Gymnasium in Evanston, where it found its way after Notre Dame’s 20 to 0 defeat by the Wildcats in 1940. This year, however, the trophy comes back to Notre Dame as a result of the 7 to 6 Irish win on Nov. 15. At the final meeting of the alumni wailing wall, Monday, in Chicago’s Sherman Hotel, Alf Bauman, Northwestern’s All-American tackle, substituting for Capt. Floyd Chambers, presented the Irish walking-stick to Notre Dame’s captain, Paul Lillis. Northwestern Director of Athletics Kenneth L. “Tug” Wilson, who received the shillelah from Elmer Layden last year, introduced the two young men to the guests.
At present the trophy reposes in the head coach’s office, as it did in the Layden era, but there is a chance that it may be displayed with the other mementos in the Rockne Memorial cases.
Athletes, There’s Something in the Library For You
If you’re looking for some real inside “dope” about your favorite sport, you’ll find a veritable gold mine in the University library, a place said to be shunned by “muscle-men.” Here, in the monthly issues of The Athletic Journal the sports fan has an opportunity to study the strategy and details of the various sports.
A recent issue features an article “Individual Line Play” by E. R. Godfrey of Ohio State University. This is not a “How to Play Football in Ten Easy Lessons” type of article, but sound facts on the principles and stratagem of line play. Types of defensive charges, defensive tackling when outflanked by a wing halfback, and offensive blocking are just a few of the points considered. Fifty pictures and diagrams give the reader a clear idea of the various plays and aid greatly in explaining the text.
The November issue, with “Football Offense of 1941 in the High Schools” as a main theme, leaves little to be desired in this field. The 159 diagrams, with accompanying descriptions, covering 14 pages show the plays used from coast to coast by the top high school elevens.
This is just an example of the opportunity offered athletes, both active and side-line variety to improve technique or appreciation as the case may be.
Journalists to Hear Editor
J. Raymond Hunt, picture editor of The Chicago Times, will address the junior members of the School of Journalism Saturday morning at 9:00 in the Journalism room in the Library basement. Any other interested persons are invited to attend.
23
“THE PORTRAITS”
A Limited Edition of Unlimited Usefulness
St. Louis Soccer Men Win;
Play Phy. Ed. Seniors Sunday
It finally happened; the St. Louis club had their first soccer game of the season. They beat a sophomore Phy. Ed. team 4-0 Sunday morning
JIM BELLINGER
on a muddy, windswept, bedrizzled Biology building field. Contrary to pre-game publicity, there was no exchange of currency.
Three of the points were scored on place
kicks, Dan Murphy booting two and goalie Jim Bellinger sending one across. Waldo Wilson scored the remaining St. Louis point on a kick from scrimmage.
The Phy. Ed. men were a continuous
threat but were staved off by fine defensive play featured by the always good goal tending of “Slim Jim” Bellinger. “Babe” Murphy, brother of two-point Dan was outstanding for the sophs. Another Phy. Ed. Murphy received a dislocated knee in the fracas and was “re
paired” in the nearby infirmary.
Special credit is due to Vince Trainor who officiated the game so capably during its 15 minute quarters; he was also active in keeping the Interhall Football boys in line during their season.
This Sunday the St. Louis club has a game scheduled with a senior Phy. Ed. team, with a tilt with the La Raza club a good prospect in the near future. The La Razas have been a very potent team in local soccer circles in past years.
St. Ed's and Dillon Promise
Interhall Cage Domination
Practice opened for Interhall basket-bailers in the Rockne Memorial last Monday. While the official season will begin, following Christmas vacation, the teams have been given an opportunity to get together for practice games before the holidays, and to work on team play.
Mr. “Tommy” Mills, Memorial administrator and interhall basketball organizer, announced that the lightweight limit would remain at 150 pounds, the same figure as for last year, and that individual medals will be given to the members of the winning fives from a field of 14 lightweights and 18 heavies. Extra teams, in addition to the hall squads, will this year represent the Naval R. O.
T. C., the St. Mary’s lads, off-campus students, and last but possibly not least, the would-be lawyers.
The regular schedule, to be announced later, will find the game played Monday through Thursday nights and refereed by the men from the Phy. Ed. department.
Last Year's Champs Intact
On the basis of last year’s performance, the team to beat in the heavyweight ranks will be St. Ed’s, as Badin’s championship outfit remains practically intact under the colors of the St. Ed’s A.C. Their only serious competition from last year, Alumni, starring “Moose” Piepul is now out of the way.
Morrissey’s lightweight champs have also kept together pretty well, and will this year represent Dillon. And, from a slightly biased viewpoint, don’t overlook Alumni.—Coleman McGuire
Among the graduate students seen on campus over the Southern California week-end was Francis Sheets, mechanical engineer of the Class of ’41, now working for the Union Carbide and Chemical Company plant located at Charleston, W. Va.
We Carry...
Not only DR. GRABOW and HOLLYCOURT Pipes but also KAYWOODIE, YELLO BOLE, DUNHILL, SASIENI and many others.
BRUGGNER'S Cigar Store
110 N. MAIN ST. (Opposite Oliver Hotel)
SWJiMEDICO
_ FILTERED jF"'™
agfiO	Alf II smme rubs m medbo ms
I PACXEB WKIffl THIS BEDS BLACK BOX ;i
■Eh 66 Baffle Filter whirl-cools smoke; traps juices, flakes
1
■X' Jr-’
and nicotine in pipes, cigarette and cigar holders.
FINEST BMAR MONEY CAN BUY




Navy Leads on Irish All-Opponent Team
In picking an All-Opponent team, 20 Notre Dame players named a total of 38 gridders from eight different schools. Navy led the poll in the number of players selected with 10 men gaining mention; Southern California’s squad had eight players mentioned, and Northwestern seven. All of which goes to say that Navy must have been the toughest game, with the Trojan and Wildcat clashes not far behind. In spite of the closeness of the score, Carnegie Tech apparently did not furnish Notre Dame with any real trouble. The Skibos failed to have a single man mentioned. One Arizona player was mentioned—Henry Stanton, the left end, who ranked third among eight ends mentioned. Two Illinois players gained recognition, as did three each from Georgia Tech and Indiana, and four of Army’s Cadets.
None of the all-opponents were chosen unanimously. However, Alf Bauman, Northwestern’s great tackle, gained the vote of 18 of the 20 men participating in the poll. Bob Robertson, Southern California’s troublesome left halfback, garnered 16 votes and was the only other player to get more than 12 votes. Center proved the toughest position to
0 ABSORBENT FILTERS! hsuink ME DW
kv
I
24
MAIN AT COLFAX
PLAIN DULL CALF and PATENT LEATHER SHOES for those FORMAL NIGHTS this CHRISTMAS
$5.95
FLORSHEIM SHOES — $9.50 up
Huddle
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Dr. Grabow ______________$ 1.50
Yeflo-Bole Regular_______ 1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial ___ 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless ..  3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor __ 4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran __ 5.00
Hollycourt ____________ 3.50
Comoy .................  6.00
Corncobs__________10c and 25c
fill. In all, six center were named. Chee-ley of Illinois captured seven votes to get the first team berth. Wright of Georgia Tech, the second ranking center, received four votes, the other nine being pretty evenly distributed among the four remaining men. An interesting sidelight on the selection of the All-Opponent center is the fact that both of Notre Dame’s centers, Walt Ziemba and Tom Brock, picked Evans of Army as their best opposition—these were the only votes that Evans received.
Irish Honor "88"
Illinois’ Ken Cheeley will be remembered at Notre Dame as the infamous “88.” Perhaps it comes as a surprise that Notre Dame placed him on their AllOpponent team; if so, then this should be an even bigger surprise: Steve Juz-wik turned in the first ballot naming Cheeley as center.
The closest balloting was among three guards, George Zorich of Northwestern, Gene White of Indiana, and Vito Vitucci of Navy. These three men drew 32 of the possible 40 votes; had Vitucci gained one more vote the three would have ended up in a three-way tie with 11 votes each. Three of Southern California’s crew of good ends gained mention, but only one gained enough votes to rate either the first or second team. Northwestern’s number three fullback, Hirsch, drew three ballots, whereas the first and second-string Wildcat fullbacks, Clawson and Benson, did not get mentioned. In spite of the fact that Navy had more men mentioned than any other team only one, Tackle Bill Chewning, drew enough votes to merit a first-team berth. Northwestern led in the number of men placed on the first team with three. Navy with five men on the second team led in total number of men placing with six men, compared with four for the Wildcats.
Notre Dame All-Opponent Team, 1941
First Team — L.E., Ralph Heywood, Southern California; L.T., Al Bauman, Northwestern; L.G., Gene White, Indiana; C., Ken Cheeley, Illinois; R.G., George Zorich, Northwestern; R.T., Bill Chewning, Navy; R.E., George Webb, Georgia Tech; Q.B., Bob Robertson, Southern California; L.H., Bill DeCorre-vont, Northwestern; R.H., Hank Mazur, Army; F.B., Billy Hillenbrand, Indiana.
Second Team — L.E., Stanton, Arizona; L.T., Flathmann, Navy; L.G., Burke, Northwestern; C., Wright, Georgia Tech; R.G., Vitucci, Navy; R.T., Trimble, Indiana; R.E., Froude, Navy; Q.B., Clark, Navy; L.H., Eldredge, Georgia Tech; R.H., Busik, Navy; F.B., Griffin, Illinois.—Bill Reynolds
Brockport (N.Y.) State Normal school is entering its seventy-fifth year.
The PURSona/ify Sfore
HANDBAGS
LUGGAGE
GLOVES
COMPACTS
BILLFOLDS
GIFTS of LEATHER
INITIALS IN GOLD — FREE!
Gift wrapped or wrapped for mailing . . Free.
TUVHHMS 7hefESTHER. Shop.
121 W««t Washington Ave.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
HEADING FOR HOME?
Start right and easy! Send your luggage round-trip by trusty, low-cost Railway Express, and take your train with peace of mind.We pick-up and deliver, remember, at no extra charge within our regular vehicle limits in all cities and principal towns.You merelyphone
NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE
25
WHEN IT COMES TO GIVING AND RECEIVING, ARE YOU CONSCIENTIOUS? "NOTRE DAME IN PORTRAIT
... BEING A LONG COLUMN OF NOTES CONCERNING THE ACTIVITIES OF LAST YEAR'S SENIOR CLASS
The Scholastic is reprinting below from the November Alumnus a column concerning last year’s senior class. The editors believe the column is of interest to present Juniors and Seniors, as they will probably know some of the individuals mentioned.
Ed Henselee, Jr., was recently commissioned as an ensign in the U. S. Naval Reserve in ceremonies at Northwestern University. Ed was married in September to Miss Maria Jane Haven, and is now stationed at Newport, R. I.
Bob Sweeney is working for the Studebaker Corporation in South Bend, checking back-orders in the parts and accessories plant. Donald Tiedemann has begun a three-year law course at Harvard.
After three months’ training in the Naval Reserve Midshipman’s School at Northwestern University, Francis Baldy, ex- ’41, was commissioned as an ensign
in the U. S. Naval Reserve in September.
Eugene Geissler, M.A., ’41, is assistant to the Rt. Rev. Luigi Liguitti, D.D., executive secretary of the Catholic Rural Life Conference.
Rev. Robert E. Fitzpatrick, of Alpena, has been appointed superintendent of schools for the Diocese of Saginaw, Mich.
Bill Meyers was recently licensed to practice law in Illinois, in keeping with a family tradition.
Jim Newland has been with the Indianapolis News since June. Joe Semen-czuk was drafted, after starting with high success, as coach at Francis Borgia High School in Washington, Mo.
Bob Schulz is at the Studebaker Aviation Corp, in South Bend.
Both Gerry Hickey and Joe Russo are working for TVA in Kentucky. Joe Papa is back at Notre Dame for the first semester.
Jim McCarthy is an accountant for the Armour Co. in Chicago, while Jim McGrath is with Addressograph in Cleveland.
Antonio Benedosso is a buck private with Uncle Sam’s army.
Warren Deahl is back at Notre Dame for law. Bob Iliff is working in the Lockheed Aircraft plant in Burbank, Calif., in the aeronautical engineering department. Frank Hopkins is with the E. I. duPont Company, Wilmington, Del.
Ed Alexander, recently elected president of the freshman class at the University of Newark Law School, is serving his law clerkship in the office of Attorney General David T. Wilenz, in Perth Amboy, N. J.
Fritz Nagel is back at Notre Dame working for his master’s degree in organic chemistry. Fritz will also continue his studies for a Ph.D. His address is: St. Joseph’s Hospital, South Bend.
From John Patterson:
With the Irish football season running
NOTRE DAME REPRESENTATIVES of
THE MODERN GILBERT’S
"SmUi BenA'l Jl&UfeAt State jab Men”
If you want the best in fine quality apparel see any one of our campus representatives.
THE MODERN
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
26
Cfllti, jflGSn Maine,
SCHOLASTIC and SCRIP
Publications of the undergraduates of the University of Notre Dame. Academic and sports news complete coverage in the SCHOLASTIC — 26 issues per year — 32 pages per issue. SCRIP is the literary quarterly — around one hundred pages per issue.
$3.00 per year for both
AMERICAN MIDLAND NATURALIST
Primarily, though not exclusively, devoted to the natural history of the middle west. Papers on botany, geology, paleontology and zoology — published bi-monthly.
$5.00 the year
REVIEW OF POLITICS
International in the range of its contributors, this quarterly review deals with “the philosophical and historical approach to political realities” . . . interpretations of current problems by the world’s great minds.
$2.50 the year
“LESSONS IN LIBERTY”
by Dr. Clarence E. Manion, Dean of the College of Law
A Study of God in Government — acclaimed by the press of America as timely, authoritative and very interesting — full evidence of the fact that you will find the “root and stem of democracy in Christianity.”
$1.50 per copy
Address orders to:
Board of Publications
Administration Building University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana
along at a fast clip, Irishmen of the ’41 Class have set aside some of their worrying time for Coach Frank Leahy’s boys. Some are more concerned about Northwestern than about the draft.
After the Carnegie Tech game in Pittsburgh, a get-together for the team is scheduled for Bill Hawes’ “home” here. The Carnegie-Illinois magnate is on the brink of the draft (as who of us isn’t).
The once steady flow of mail is now a mere trickle. Thankful am I that the four (4) ’41ers who have written had some news about their silent classmates.
The outstanding stylist of William J. Burke’s golf course, Jack Keegan, dropped a line from Rochester. In the last Alumnus I reported that he was headed for Rochester med. school. My mistake—he’s at Syracuse.
Jack modestly writes: “Bob Odenbach and Red Dowling have been lucky enough to keep clear of me since June 1.” And according to correspondent Keegan, John Tormey is located at M.I.T. where he is further pursuing his engineering work.
Of Lou McKensie and Ray Clark, Jack writes—“I have had letters from those two disgraces of Wm. Burke’s torture pasture. Lou is on Wall Street ■with Haskins and Sells, and I have a dollar to the worst Pittsburgh doughnut that says he’s doing well. Ray is at Fort Bragg, N. C., a bit chagrined because of the charming lassie he left behind. I’ve met her, and ‘charming’ is a weak word, believe me!”
Two letters have come from Jim Spellman. The first was just a little late for the October deadline, so both are included here.
Items from Jim: Ted Hines is at Fort Bragg. Among the Haskins-Sells boys not already mentioned are Bill Sturm and Fred Vogelwede. Rube Marquardt is in the accounting department of a Chicago firm. Joe Gillespie works for Presto-lite in Indianapolis; Bill Carson is also in Indianapolis. Paul Puglia is a theatrical man in Waynesburg, Pa. And, finally some news of “the chin,” Sammy Neild —he’s at Fort Bragg, N. C.
In his second letter, Jim had a very worthwhile bit of information. He said that Bishop O’Hara visited Camp Croft, S. C., (that’s where Jim is), and gave the sermon at a Solemn Pontifical high field Mass. Jim and a bunch of other N.D. men had a long chat with Bishop O’Hara. The fellows were introduced to Archbishop Cicognani, apostolic delegate to the U. S. Pictures were taken of the group, including, besides the others, Bishop Walsh and Brig. Gen. Patch, commanding officer of Camp Croft.
At the comer of Colfax and Michigan “Where you wait for the Bus”
HANS-RINTZSCH Luggage Shop
We can help you with your Christmas gift problem — you make your selection and we’ll wrap and mail it to any place you wish.
GLOVES
LUGGAGE HANDBAGS TOILET SETS MAKEUP CASES TRAVEL CLOCKS MANICURE SET DRESSING CASES BILLFOLDS
fOM HOPKINS
DRUG STORE
Your friendly DRUG Store in the Oliver Hotel.
•
STUDENTS!
Make us your Off-Campus Headquarters
Try our delicious food at budget prices.
Need DRUGS? Prices to meet your purse.
"It ain't so much the hours, it's the WOIK.. "
You said it, Butch — driving to Chicago these days is just plain woifa! That’s why so many people prefer to ride the South Shore Line. It’s the carefree, sensible way to go. No traffic congestion. No driving jitters. And when you get there, no parking problems.
Next time, you go to Chicago, ride the South Shore and relax!
For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket office, 301 N. Michigan St. Phone 3-3111.
TO CHICAGO
Plus Tax
ONE WAY
FROM SOUTH BEND
In 1859 the University of North Carolina had the second largest student body in America.
First Class	.
Shoe Repairing
James McAllister
Watch Repairing
Jim Warner
All work done promptly and at reasonable prices.
Next to the HUDDLE
Also—Hawley Van Swall is married; Larry Walsh is-to-be. Larry and Tom Huck are being transferred away from the New York branch by Haskins-Sells (is everyone working for that gang except me?). Ray Fidler is a U.S.C. law student. Bill Clark is at Bellevue Hospital, New York City, continuing medicine.
A short note from Louisville’s Bill Garvey solves the problems of his whereabouts. Bill is at home, and he is working for the Reynolds Metals Co. (aluminum). He’s a correspondent in the sales department.
A well-constructed letter* from Dick Bail came my way from out at Indiana University. Dick is after his master’s in economics there. He claims that there is a lot of grinding to be done before he finishes.
From Dick’s letter the information comes that “Torchy” Dora is at Camp Lee; Bill Cotter at Harvard Ensign School; and Jay Reynolds in the floating, not the flying, division of the Navy. (Note to Vern Witkowski—Dick asks where you and your “huge ears” are these days.)
That’s all the dope from the dopes for this issue. Hopes are high for a flock of mail before December rolls around.
ANSWERS TO SPORTS QUESTIONS
1.	Bud Dudley, a fullback who has appeared in adds for underwear and life insurance companies.
2.	It was held in Birmingham, England, where one man instead of two rode for six days.
3.	Doctor Naismith invented the game while a YMCA instructor at Springfield, Mass., in 1891. It was the first deliberately invented game.
4.	It is a very wide run around the defensive end.
5.	Culbertson and Sims.
6.	A Buddhist priest invented chess to give men’s fighting instincts an outlet without fighting.
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY
Optometrists arid Mfg. Opticians 228 South Michigan Street
DRIVE SAFELY AND SAVE A LIFE
MUSICAL POWDER BOXES
with
NOTRE DAME VICTORY MARCH and other tunes From $2.95
•
JEWELRY GIFTS for All Occasions.
•
Guaranteed Watch Repairing at Reasonable Prices.
•
Mail orders will be given prompt attention.
BLOCK BROS.
| CORNER MICHIGAN «= WASHINGTON
N. D. BOOKSTORE
Notre Dame Christmas Cards
5 cents
(Two different scenes) GROTTO or ADMINISTRATION BLDG.
Notre Dame Monogrammed Jewelry
Notre Dame Pillows, Pennants and Souvenirs
Religious Articles
(Gift Wrapped Free)
BADIN HALL
Notre Dame
28
MAX ADLER
ON THE CORNER”	Michigan at Washington
It's Adler's for Arrows!
You'll find a huge selection of authentically styled, long-wearing Arrows at Arrow Headquarters. The snappy patterns for winter are here. See them tomorrow.
hriA-wv
The Shirt That Speahs
For Itself. . .
One look at the Arrow Sussex shirt tells you why it’s a “must” for the college man’s wardrobe. Sussex is a handsome shirt with the new lower neckband and the wide-spread collar that is flattering and comfortable for any n earer. In whites, solids, or stripes. Trimly tailored to fit the torso and Sanforized-shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than 1%). Get some today, $2 up.
ARROW SHIRTS
DISC-CUSSION
. By Ed Roney
You’ve been hearing a lot of Tschai-kowsky lately and probably finally getting tired of it. So this week coming in the form of relief is a Tommy Dorsey recording of the theme melody of Rachmaninoff’s Concerto No. 2 called “I Think Of You.” It’s in moderate tempo and gives you Tommy’s trombone plus a chorus and a half of Sinatra. On the flip-over is “Who Can I Turn To” featuring that Stafford gal again and can she sing! A slow, easy beat with piano rambling for a few bars. Two more T.D. hits.
Count Basie teams up with the great bass singer, Paxil Robeson, to produce a new kind of record. Called “King Joe,” it is a blues number written about one of the great athletes of the century. The Count gives it that famous Basiestyle with swell trumpetry and fine background effects to set off Robeson’s debut as a blues singer. After two sides of-“King Joe” or the “Lou Louis Blues,” this couple emerges as two of the headliners in the blues field.
“And So It Ended” appeared as last Sunday’s Vaughn Monroe choice as the Hearst weekly song hit. The time is a natural for the Monroe voice and in this recording Vaughn sounds his best. Medium slow tempo with vocal starting at the edge and the second chorus by the whole band, this record is swell music from start to finish. To gild the lily is to present “A Sinner Kissed An Angel” on the other side. With a slightly faster tempo, this side has Monroe on the vocal again with some nifty sax and muted brass work. ,
Bing Crosby has recorded another great number in “Shepherd’s Serenade.” Done only as Bing can do it, this rendition of the well-known tune is mellow. On the reverse is “The Anniversary Waltz,” slow and dreamy as it should be and very, very nice listening the way Bing does it.
A little-heard-of orchestra is that of Harry Sosnik. Although in the business a fair length of time and never reaching the top, this group usually comes through with some excellent records and their latest is no exception. “I See A Million. People (But All I Can See IS You)” is a swell tune with some mellow vocals by Bob Hannon. Sweet and sentimental is the word for it. Platter-mate is “Sym-phonie Moderne,” that “Four Wives” number that is picking up followers every day. This version features Sam
29
ARE YOU CONSCIENTIOUS . . . ?
DO YOU DREAD the unexpected gift ... the gift from one you’ve overlooked . . . the gift you cannot reciprocate?
BE PREPARED for such emergencies . . . stay off that uncomfortable spot! STOCK UP NOW — in the few days left before vacation. When you go home, be ready for such embarrassing situations with . . .
"NOTRE DAME IN PORTRAIT"
Liner at the piano and is very good. Try a Sosnik record sometime.
“Let’s Do It” is the number chosen by Benny Goodman for his debut on the OKeh label. Blending of brasses and reeds with a couple of piano runs are flitted in nicely while Benny himself takes a lick on the licorice stick. Companion piece is “The Earl,” a tribute to Earl “Father” Hines, the great jazz pianist, featuring some fast-and-furious ivory-tickling with heli) from the rest of the band.
How to Win Friends
- in one easy lesson
• Treat yourself and others to [V 1 wholesome, delicious Wrigley’s p j Spearmint Gum. Swell to chew. ■
i J Helps keep breath sweet, teeth
CHRISTMAS "CHEERIO"
*
★ GIFTS FOR MOTHER, SISTER and YOUR BEST GIRL . . . from our lingerie and accessory shops.
★
★ GIFTS FOR DAD, BROTHER and PALS from our men’s shop . . . street floor;
★
Attractively Gift-Wrapped at a nominal charge.
30
Trackmen Start Drills
Frosh Report Next Week
Since Monday, some two dozen varsity track men have been spending their afternoons jogging around in the field house, watched by the critical eye of Coach Mahoney. Next week the complete varsity squad will all be out, and the Freshmen are also required to report for practice.	.
Bill Mahoney will put the boys through conditioning workouts, stressing practice on over-the-distance races, which are given so that each runner will acquire a strong finish to his specialty. Work of this type will be carried on until Christmas vacation. After the trackmen return they will be drilled daily in fundamentals.
As yet the track schedule is not made up, but the indoor season will probably start about Feb. 1.—Bill Rogers
ENGINEERS TRIP
(Continued from page 9)
tions were seen, but due to the speed of the guides few details were learned. Several interesting processes were explained, however, one of which was the crankshaft hardening process developed in the plant. A high frequency electric current is passed through the crankshaft for a few seconds, heating the outside portions of the shaft. Before the heat has time to be conducted far into the metal the shaft is water quenched. This hardens the surface of the metal, yet leaves the interior tough, allowing the surface to resist wear by abrasion, and the interior to withstand large stresses without breaking.
This plant is gradually making the change from peacetime to wartime production. At present a number of artillery tractors are being produced for the Army every day, and the plant is being made ready to produce tanks in the near future. The plant impressed thq whole group with its up-to-date production methods, the speed and efficiency with which the men worked, and the modern tools and machines used.
After seeing the South Chicago Pumping Station in the afternoon the very tired engineers retired to the Stevens where some gathered together their belongings and boarded the bus to return to Notre Dame. A majority, however, stayed in Chicago to see the Notre Dame-Northwestern game Saturday.
A recent visitor to the campus of the University was John Zeindler, a former • student here in mechanical engineering, now in attendance at the University of Detroit.
A.I.E.E. Start Radio Course
The American Institute of Electrical Engineers Student Branch of Notre Dame has inaugurated a Radio Amateur Course for the electrical engineers desiring to obtain a license for operation of a “ham rig.” Chairman C. M. Rively has obtained the able services of Mr. P. A. Guarino, professor of radio engineering, to conduct the classes.
The classes, held on each Friday night at 7:15, consists of lectures by Professoi-Guarino on radio theory and particularly on the application of this radio theory to practical work. Informal discussion is encouraged, and after this a period of half an hour is spent in code practice. The purpose of the code session is to increase the speed of reception by systematical increase in transmission. The continuous practice of code sending and receiving is left to the individual.
In the second semester the radio course is expected to be fai* enough advanced so that each member of the class can experiment in the laboratory. Facilities for wiring up circuits, of receivers, transmitters and similar apparatus will be available.
By the end of the school yeai- it is hoped that the prospective radio amateurs vail take theii- FCC exam together with Professor Guarino.
—Dodge Angelakos
So What?
Comparing the scores of Notre Dame’s opponents during the season, one finds that, on paper, the Irish could beat nearly any team in the country. However, the old argument about Notre Dame and Minnesota, is still unsolved since Northwestern was beaten by both by only a single point.	.
Probably the greatest triumph of the Blue-and-Gold is the Southern California game. The Trojans, in an early season battle, knocked off Oregon State, which is now headed for the Rose Bowl—which proves something or other.
However, the most unimpressive showing the Irish made via pencil and paper was its victory over Carnegie Tech, 16-0. On this basis, Muhlenberg, Case, Cincinnati, and Pittsburgh could have knocked the pants off the Irish. Muhlenberg beat Carnegie 26-6, Case won 27-0. Cincinnati 20-0, and Pittsburgh was victorious 27-0.
The strangest situations arose from the service school games with Army and Navy. The Irish tied Army and Harvard beat them. This gives Harvard the edge over Notre Dame, but Harvard tied Navy and Notre Dame won this game, so we are back where we started.
| SOUTH BEND’S Matinee and
Evening Ferfonnanees 4U. SEATS RESERVED ONE DAV ONEX TUESDAY, DEC. 9th 2:30 and 8:30 f. M.
THE TERRIFIC LALGH
I “A Hosey of a Show”
1 I TR. II I. T.—« MOS. IB CHICM0
MAIL ORDERS NOW!
' Prices — Tax Ine. — Matinee: Ore*., ' $2.20 - $1.65. Bale.. 55c - 83c - $1.10 ' Evening: Orch„ $2.75 - $2.20 - $1.65 j i Bale.. 55e-83c-$1.10-$1.65» Tax Jae.
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
702 J.M.S. Bldg.	South Bend. Indiana
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
Phone 3-1254	South Bend. Indiana
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT ORTHODONTIST
314 J.M.S. Building	Telephone 4-360
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER, M. D.
M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
Phone 3-2805	residence 4-1544
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY FOOT AILMENTS
X-RAY EXAMINATION 609 J.M.S. BUILDING HOURS BY APPOINTMENT SOUTH BEND. 1ND.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard A. Rose, d.d.s. Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s. . Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
623-629 SHERLAND Bldg.
South Bend
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Bldg. Phone 3-2B74
31
DOROTHY McGUIRE
. . . popular star of John Golden’s hit play^Claudia/ says Merry Christmas to her many friends with the cigarette that Satisfies.
jXXom, Wick & Warn/ Ifs Ches terficld
Milder Better-Tasting ... that’s why
... it s his cigarette and mine
This year they’re saying Merry Christmas with Chesterfields. For your friends in the Service And for the folks at home What better Christmas present Than these beautiful gift cartons Of 10 packs, 3 packs, or 4 tins of 50. Nothing else you can buy Will give more pleasure for the money.
Buy Chesterfields For your family and friends Beautifully packed for Christmas.
Copyright 1941, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.