Vol. XXV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, March 5,1892.	No. 26.
[From The “Ave Maria.” J
The Goddess of Gold.
BY REV. W. J. KELLY, C. S. C.
The world sets up its idol, .
All draped in flowing gown, With a golden mask on her visage pale, O’er her raven tresses a shimmering veil, On her head a glittering crown.
The world sets up its idol, And bids its slaves adore:
On their knees they fall and their strength and health, With the hopes of youth, at the feet of wealth
Of their Goddess Wealth, they pour.
All other creeds forsaken,
They offer worship blind; -
For all dreams of joy and all thought of rest, With each wish that springs from the longing breast, On her altars are resigned.
They woo her glance of favor,
Her look of scorn they fear,	-
Till the years go by and their youth is flown, And the Angel Death on his darksome throne
Comes at length and beckons them near.
Then falls her mask,—the goddess ’
Reveals her haggard face;
And the slave can see, for he now is free, To what worthless idol he bent the knee, ' When he sought to win her grace.
The Lyrical Qualities of “As You Like It.”
Lyric poetry meant originally poetry which the reciter accompanied on the lyre, from which instrument its name is derived. The study of olden times informs us that the ancient Greeks and Romans always sang to the notes of the lyre, and that hardly any person, who made claims to refined education, was unskilled in the use of this instrument.
With us, however, lyric poetry has come to
have a different signification. By a lyric we . -mean a poem written with a view to musical recitation; but the lyric must' delineate the poet’s impressions and sentiments about the subject he treats. Lyrics are short bits of poetry, generally about a light theme, and done in musical, easy-flowing verses. They are always the embodiment of a mood.
Shakspere understood the art of writing lyrics admirably. In most of his dramas there are one or two songs which fairly rival with any composition of the kind. In “As You Like It” we find several lyrics of surpassing beauty. Of one of them, which ranks among the best in English literature, it may in all truth be said that
"---sweetest Shakspere, Fancy’s child, Warbles his native wood-notes wild.” ,	’
This lyric appeals to the human heart; it expresses a sentiment which every man, at some time or other, has experienced. Who that has heaped benefits on his fellow-man and has devoted time and labor to the advancement of others has ever reaped the full measure of his kindness?	.
“ Ingratitude, thou marble-hearted fiend!”
Of blackest sins the blackest is surely thanklessness. It smites the human breast more sorely than any other offense. It is, indeed, “the most unkindest cut of all.” Poor old King Lear learned, but learned too late, that he had been the object of vile flattery up to the time of his banishment from court. He is not offended by the howling winds, the pouring rain, the piercing cold. He understands that these, at least, are not flatterers and ungrateful. courtiers. Similarly, the elder Duke in “As You Like-It” perr ceives the truth of Amiens’ statements, when the latter sings: '	.
.	“ Blow, blow, thou winter wind,	> . : ‘
’ Thou art not so.unkind ’
As man’s ingratitude; '	* ■
43$
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Thy tooth is not so keen,	.
Because thou art foreseen,	.
Although thy breath be rude.
Freeze, freeze, thou bitter sky, That dost not bite so nigh As benefits forgot:
Though thou the waters warp,	•
Thy sting is not so sharp
As friend remember’d not.”
But why consider the songs of this drama in particular when the whole is one long lyric? It shares all the qualities of “ Midsummer Night’s Dream,” only the latter is, as its title indicates, a dream, dealing with a subject of no consequence treated in a charming manner. “As You Like It,” however, contains serious reflections, and pictures mankind in various phases. It is a mirror. It reflects the images of people from all parts of society. It deals with young and old, happy and wretched, virtuous’ and, villainous.
The whole work would make one exquisite song, in which jovial melodies would follow melancholy airs. Touchstone would delight us with joyful tunes; Jaques render us pensive' in long-drawn accents; while Rosalind would sway our feelings by warbling now in airy ditties, and then in serious strains. • ’
...	~ J’ J’
. ------------------------ -
A Last Word .
,	TO J. R. & CO.
Poor humble, lisping baby J.—
And did I wound his precious feelings?
Alas, alack, and well-a-day!
. That with such kids I should have dealings! -Forgive, sweet child; each poignant pang
That set your pearly tear-drops running, Had-I but known you shrank from slang,
I might have substituted punning. .
. That you have learned a thing or two Consoles me much, and I would gladly, Had I the leisure, put you through
- A thorough drill—you need.it sadly.
Yet take this hint, ,’tis not enough .
. To make assertions bald, though funny;— , . You think my sonnet wretched stuff,—
’ Talk’s cheap—why don’t you prove it, sonny? And now, fond-babe, good-bye for aye!.
' - Come off your perch, you’re in the way there;
;; Go, crawl within some.knob-hole, J., .	. .
. . Then;pull it after you, and stay there. .
The Minor Poets.
Pope has said, and truly, that . . , “ Order is heaven’s first law; and this, confessed, . „ Some are, and must be, greater-than the rest.” This applies well, to the sphere of poetry which is illumined by. great suns, like Dante, Homer and Shakspere, and filled with smaller ones, that
revolve around these great centres, reflecting, in some measure, the light borrowed from them. Many of our so-called poets are but meteors, shooting brilliantly through space for an instant, and then as suddenly disappearing. America possesses few of these poets, yet she cannot boast of great ones. Her Dantes and Homers are for future ages to produce; and I have no doubt that they will produce them, for even our minor poets possess the divine fire, and have lived for some part of their life near to God, breathing the same atmosphere as the angels.
The first place among these must be given to E. C. Stedman, a poet of whom America maybe proud, and who may be set up as a fair . successor to Whittier. If he would give himself exclusively to poetry, he would merit a front rank among our.great poets. .He is truly American; and his poems show great genius, and glow with the warmth of his patriotic heart. His “Undiscovered Country” is worthy of the pen that wrote:	.
“ Only the actions of the just, Smell sweet and blossom in the dust.”
He says here:
“ Might we but hear
The hovering angels’ high imagined chorus, Or catch, betimes, with wakeful eyes and clear One radiant vista of the realm before us,— . With one rapt moment given to see or hear, Ah, who would fear? ”
His “Discoverer” is charming, full of sweetness and pathos; his very heart seems to have been turned into this poem, and expressed in our frail human language. He says:
“ He knows, perchance, how. spirits fare,-. What shape the angels wear;
What is their.guise and speech In those'lands beyond our reach;
. And his eyes behold ■	:
Things that shall never, never, be to mortal hearers told.”
His “Pan in Wall Street” is known to every American who reads the English language, and they are many. His other poems, “The Death of Bryant,” “The Hand of Lincoln,” “Liberty Enlightening the World,” are very beautiful, even worthy of Whittier. They are strong and vigorous, both in language and thought; full of spirit and patriotism. He makes affine eulogy on Lincoln when he says:
- “What better than this voiceless cast To tell of such a one as he,
. Since through its living semblance passed .
.	■ The thought that bade a race be free.”
It is now very easy to pass to R. W. Gilder, the well-known editor of the Century. He is a remarkable poet, and one whom I hesitate to rank in the minor class. His language and thought are very forcible and energetic, yet withal possessing an elegance and- ease so characteristic of
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
437
the true poet. He has in a great degree that sweetness of Longfellow, which soothes while it invigorates. All his poetry is the expression of his heart; and this quality conceals all efforts, if there-were any, used to produce such charming poems. The verse is terse, picturesque and musical, showing an exquisitely delicate taste.
His “Woman’s Thought” is putting a delicate thought delicately. The “ Master’s Poets” is a fine poem, concise and strong. It contains this grand thought:
“ Once in each age, to keep the world in tune, He strikes a note sublime.”
His “ Love is not a Summer Mood ” is exquisite. In a few lines there is expressed a thought that is often in all minds, but which never could be brought out so perfectly. Here the mind of the poet has turned into winged words, wafting over the world the perfume of a noble poet’s mind.
“ Love is not a summer mood,
Nor flying phantom of the brain, Nor youthful fever of the blood, Nor dream, nor fate, nor circumstance. Love is not born of blinded chance, Nor bred in simple ignorance.
Love is the flower of maidenhood;
Love is the fruit of mortal pain;
And she hath winter in her blood. True love is steadfast as the skies, And once-alight, she never flies; And love is strong and love is wise.”
His other poems are as beautiful, and well repay, not only one reading, but many. In all his poetry, there is hidden under exquisite.lan-guage a beautiful thought like a gem concealed in a lump of gold.
As a sonneteer, he is the greatest in America. His best sonnet is “The Sonnet.” To quote it would be presumptuous as it is known to everyone. This form of poetry is very difficult to write, and few attain perfection in it; but it can be truly said that R. W. Gilder has done so.
It would be useless for me to say more of this charming poet, as he is known and appreciated by all. However, I may finish by saying, that if we should rank a poet by his influence for good, then R. W. Gilder justly deserves the title of great, and a rank with Longfellow and Whittier.
There is another poet who, not as great as Gilder, yet is a great pbet: I mean John Boyle O’Reilly. He is not as careful as Gilder in pruning his poems, yet all his poetry comes from great, though not always highly poetic, . feeling. He is richly luxuriant, musical and very pathetic. His thought and figures are strong, and the latter sometimes become beautiful. He loved nature with his large and generous heart, and in her praises he pours it out, not to mere animal nature and flowers and plants, but to his
fellowman, no matter in what part of the earth* For all, his sympathy was great; this spirit pervades all his works.
His “Western Australia” is a beautiful piece of work. It is full of charming figures and grand imagery of the poet’s soul. “I<i Bohemia” is the expression of the desire of all men tired of the turmoil of life, sighing for a place where time can again be a Golden Age. His other poems are “The Celebes,” “A Savage,” and “Uncle Ned’s Tale.” The “Savage” is a very pathetic poem, showing that honor can be found even in a savage, and that he can keep his word, though death be his reward. “Uncle Ned’s Tale” is a fiery war story told in verse. The reader is carried away irresistibly by the force of the language, and finds himself mixing involuntarily in the carnage of the battle.
With poets like those I have spoken of America need never fear of producing in future ages “ master poets” to vie favorably with those on English soil.	-	J. M.
Well! Well!
Great Petrarch! Here comes “H. G. T.”
With warning to the young to cease
Their playing with the lyre that he
May twang its tortured strings in peace.
Oh. “floral dews!” his “been” and “green!”
“ Coy Cupid” with the “sugared lips!”
A sonnet worse I've never seen
(Except my own). He hates our slips;
He! for the sonnet takes his stand.
Ha! ha! those “daisies!” Gosh! good land!
J.R.
------------------------
• Different Theories of Levelling-.
Levelling is one of the most delicate operations within the province of an engineer, requiring the greatest possible care to avoid the numerous sources of error to which he is.liable; more especially, as it is seldom possible for him to conjecture in what portion of the work his error lies,—if he should then find that he had been so unfortunate as to commit any,—and not infrequently in such cases sufficient time cannot be spared to go over the ground again.
Extreme accuracy in all work done is of the greatest importance, more especially, however, in that branch of engineering which pertains to railroading, canaling and the laying out of turnpike roads. This importance is felt when it is known that from the section the engineer has to make his calculations of the quantity of earthwork in cuttings and embankments
438
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
necessary to carry into execution any intended measure, whether of a canal, railroad or ordinary road. Moreover the estimated expense is involved, and the fitness of the ground for such works determined. .	.
Levelling in itself is an essentially simple operation; it must, however, be conducted with great precaution against errors of various kinds, instrumental and personal, some accidental, others systematic and cumulative. Instrumental errors arise from negligent adjustments and careless handling of the instrument in use. The non-perpendicularity of the visual axis of the telescope to the axis of rotation is to be guarded against; the focusing tube should move.parallel to the visual axis. The first error is eliminated, and the second avoided, by placing the instrument at equal distances from the staves. This procedure has the advantage of eliminating the corrections, both for curvature and refraction, and is generally adopted.
Certain errors are liable to constantly occur; and although they might not be noticed at any one station, still in a series of stations they tend to accumulate to considerable magnitude, and make quite a discrepancy in the results obtained. One source of cumulative error is the action of the sun. It often happens that its light will fall endwise on the bubble in such a manner as to illuminate the outer edge of the rim at the nearer end, and the inner edge at the farther end. This will so bias the observer that he will take scale readings of edges, not equi-distant from the centre of the bubble. This error has the tendency to raise the south and depress the north ends of lines of level in the Northern Hemisphere; in the Southern, the results are reversed.
Many authorities have endeavored to give satisfactory rules for the avoidance of these errors, but it has been proved that careful study of the instruments and long practice in the field are the only means of triumph over these obstacles.	'	-
Levelling is defined as the art of tracing a line on the earth’s surface which shall cut the direction of gravity everywhere at right angles. If the earth were an extended plane, all lines representing the direction of gravity would be parallel to each other; but in consequence of its sphericity such lines invariably tend toward the centre. If the earth were everywhere surrounded by a fluid, every point thereon would be equally distant from its centre; but oh account of the roughness of its surface, places and objects are differently situated, some farther from, others nearer to, its centre, and consequently at differ
ent levels. The operation of levelling, therefore, may be defined as the art of finding the difference of distances of two or more points from the centre of the earth.
There are three principal and independent methods in use: The first depends upon the law of. the decrease of pressure of the atmosphere with an increase of altitude; this method employs the barometer, and is called Barometric levelling. The second consists in determining the difference of level of two or more stations by means of the measured angle of elevation of one, and the known horizontal distance between them. It employs angle instrument, the horizontal distance usually being found by triangulation; the elevation is then determined from the known parts of the triangle, hence the name of Trigonometric levelling. The third consists in measuring the distance of two points above or below an assumed horizontal line: in this a common spirit level is employed. It is the most accurate method in use, and universally adopted in railroading and canaling.
BAROMETRIC LEVELLING.
The earth is everywhere surrounded by an elastic gaseous envelope, which we call atmosphere; that it is denser near the surface and becomes rarer as we ascend is a scientific fact; that it exerts a pressure was early demonstrated by experiments. It follows as a logical consequence, that the higher we go, the pressure exerted is correspondingly less. From this, then, it can be easily seen that the weight of the atmosphere will give us, if not an accurate, an approximate idea of our altitude above the level of the sea. The instrument employed in determining this is the barometer.
It has two quite distinct uses: one to indicate. , the varying pressures of the air at some fixed point for meteorological purposes, and the other to indicate difference in altitude of points to which the instrument is carried, by affording a measure of the greater or less amount of atmosphere above it. The barometer most frequently used for such purposes is the one invented by Torricelli in 1643. It is too well known to require description here. Suffice it to say that it measures the varying pressure of the air by the varying length of a column of mercury, which balances the pressure.
The barometer is subject to variations of two kinds, accidental and daily. The former present no regularity, and depend bn the seasons, the direction of the wind, and the geographical position; the latter are produced periodically at certain hours of the day. _ ’	-
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
At the equator and between the tropics no accidental variations are observed; but the daily variations take place with great regularity. The barometer sinks from midday till about four o’clock; it then rises and reaches its maximum at ten in the evening; from this hour it sinks and reaches its minimum about four in the morning, and its second maximum at ten. It is also influenced, to a large extent, by the .elastic force of the vapor of water suspended. in the atmosphere, and is subjected to two maxima and two minima of pressure every twenty-four hours. As regards temperature, it also has a maximum, and minimum each day;’ the former occurring at the period of greatest cold, and the latter at the time of greatest heat.
Formulas for computing heights from barometric observations, based on physical laws, have been prepared by many physicists; they may be divided into two classes, the statical and dynamical. The former are dependent upon the assumption that the air is in a state of equilibrium; the latter, that it is perpetually undergoing local changes of pressure, temperature and humidity. A careful consideration of the facts, however, will show the inaccuracy and insufficiency of formulas founded upon an assumed state of static equilibrium. Corrections, therefore, should be made for both temperature and humidity.
In nice observations, where the greatest accuracy is desired, allowance should also be made for the expansion of mercury, the variations in the force of gravity, and the capillary attraction of the tube. Errors of observation, and those due to the gradient and the effect of the wind must be carefully guarded against.
Although the barometer cannot be regarded as a hypsometric instrument of great precision, yet with care it can be made to give results with sufficient accuracy for reconnaissance or exploration. For this purpose it is unexcelled, but can hardly be regarded as important to the engineering profession.	.
The aneroid, like the mercurial barometer, may also be used either as a weather indicator, or in the measurement of altitudes. In construction it is very simple, consisting of a box with flexible sides, hermetically sealed, the air having first been exhausted. It changes its form as the pressure of the atmosphere varies.
In ordinary practice, formulas of little complexity maybe used; the correction depending upon the gravity of mercury would be omitted; the other corrections, in very nice work, may be retained.
A good aneroid has its advantages and
439
defects. It is nevertheless of much assistance in a survey or reconnaissance in mountainous districts, on ride trips of one or even several . days’ duration, when the instrument had been previously compared with a standard mercurial barometer at various temperatures, and proper tables of correction made. It is evidently important that there should be a good thermometer attached. It should be compared both before and after use, and if everything is satisfactory, the results .can be relied upon. .
In all probability the use of the aneroid will soon become more widely extended,’ and engineers, when made familiar with the qualities of well-made instruments, will welcome' so valuable an aid in preliminary surveys.' The conditions of satisfactory work with barometers, ' are certainly peculiar; but when these are fairly’ understood, the engineer may easily take precautions which will avoid too large errors, and conduct surveys on hilly regions with a speed not heretofore attained.
TRIGONOMETRIC LEVELLING.
The trigonometrical determination of the relative heights of points at known distances apart, by the measurements of their mutual vertical angles, constitutes the second method of levelling. It is less accurate than Spirit Levelling, but best suited fbr the requirements of a general geographical survey to obtain the heights of all the more prominent objects oh the surface of the earth. It is also peculiarly adapted to finding the heights of stations of a. a triangulation survey, since the extra labor required to measure the necessary vertical angles is slight. Of the several methods it is the only one used when one or more of’ the stations are inaccessible.	.
The curvature of the earth and refraction give rise to many difficulties in the employment of this method. The former depresses ah object; it increases with the distance and varies as its square. The correction in all cases must' be added, and can be simply stated as equal in feet to two-thirds the square of the distance in miles. The latter increases the altitude’of an object, and is only a minimum when the object is well elevated; it varies inversely as the temperature, and directly as the pressure of the atmosphere, but is much influenced by local climatic conditions.	.
Experience has proved that refraction is greater and more variable at sunrise than at any other hour of the day; that it gradually diminishes in both respects until about io a. m.; that from this hour till three p. m., it is nearly

NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
stationary, and from three till sunset, it increases in amount and variation, being the greatest during the night.
’ The best period for observing, therefore, is between 9 a. m. and 3 p. m., and the worst at sunrise and sunset. During the night the refraction is less variable, but greater in amount. A day with a sky wholly overcast is to be preferred to one clear or even partially clear. Refraction is slightly greater for lines crossing water than for those over land, and, as has been stated, it diminishes with altitude and with increasing temperature, but increases with .atmospheric pressure.
The angle of refraction divided by the arc of the earth’s circumference, intercepted between the observer and the station observed, is called the coefficient of refraction. Its value is found in any of several ways, and varies from .07 for heights below 6000 feet to .04 for 18,000 feet. The uncertainty as to the amount of the correction is a great cause of inaccurate work in trigonometric levelling. The instrument employed is an ordinary angle instrument, simple in its construction and easily handled.
For short distances curvature and refraction may be neglected; if, for instance, the height of a wall, steeple or house is desired, note carefully the angle of elevation, and measure the horizontal distance. Then from the known parts of a triangle, ?the height of the object is easily determined, care being taken to add the height of the horizontal line above the ground to that calculated by the formula.
In a geographical or topographical survey, where the vertical element is equally as necessary as'the horizontal, and where the distances are great, more complicated formulas are used. In these formulas are incorporated the corrections for curvature and refraction.
Other formulas may be used, in which the zenith distance of the sea’s horizon, or that observed at one station takes the place of the angle of elevation. But the best results by far are obtained by measuring the reciprocal zenith distances of any two stations at the same time, or under the same conditions of the atmosphere. It is not only a very easy and simple method, but has also the advantage of eliminating both curvature and refraction.
The condition of the atmosphere and the relative refraction may be so different at stations situated very far apart that the difference of level determined, even by reciprocal observations, cannot be relied upon for the desired degree of accuracy at distances greater than twenty miles. Moreover, the difference of height
determined by the second method depends upon the coefficient multiplied by the square of the distance, and therefore there is a limit to the distance for which any assumed mean value can be depended upon for accurate results.
SPIRIT LEVELLING.
The method to which the term levelling is always applied is that of the direct determination of the differences of height from the readings of the lines at which graduated staves, held vertically over the points, are cut by the horizontal plane which passes through the eye of the observer. It is one of the simplest methods in use and the most precise, and is specially valuable for the determination of the relative levels, however minute, of easily accessible points, however numerous, which succeed each other at short intervals apart; thus it is most generally undertaken with geographical surveys to furnish lines of level for ready reference, as a check on the accuracy of trigonometric heights.
In levelling with staves the measurements are always taken from the horizontal plane which passes through the eye of the observer; but the line of levels, which it is the object of the operations to trace, is a curved line everywhere conforming to the normal curvature of the earth’s surface, and deviating more and more from the plane of reference as the distance from the station of observation increases. Thus either a correction for curvature to every staff reading is necessary, or the instrument must be set up at equal distances from the staves. The curvature correction, being the same for each staff, will then be eliminated from the differences of readings. Thus the true difference of level of the points, on which the staves are set up, will be given.
It is essential to the good execution of work that the surveyor should possess instruments most proper for the purpose and of the best construction. The Y level is very popular among American engineers, while the Troughton Improved and Dumpy levels are generally used in Europe. The former consists essentially of a telescope, supported on a tripod of convenient height, and capable of being so adjusted that its line of sight shall be horizontal, and that the telescope itself may be turned in any direction on a vertical axis. Its adjustments are convenient to be performed, but the instrument seldom retains them perfect for a great length of time. The staves are made of light, well-seasoned wood, and usually divided to feet, tenths and hundredths.	•
To find the difference of level of two points not far apart, it is only necessary to place the
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	441
instrument, carefully adjusted, between them, sight on both, subtract, the lesser from the greater, and the difference will be the difference of level required.
If the distance is great, and the nature of the ground makes it necessary to set the level more than once, add the back and forward sights separately, and the difference of their sums will be the difference of level required.
This method of levelling is not only very precise, but great speed is possible, depending on the accuracy to be obtained, the power and delicacy of the instrument, the nature of the ground and the state of the weather.
Each of the foregoing methods has its advantages. Barometric levelling is useful in a reconnaissance or exploration; Trigonometric, where a number of the points are inaccessible, while Spirit Levelling is employed when extreme accuracy is desired.
C. J. Gillon, ’92.
Il Cabaggio.
In Greece, so famed for vegetable dews, The cabbage, greeny in its greenliness, First flourished fair to titivate and bless
The palate: ’twas not planted by the -Muse, Nor did this latter blossom with fair hues; But Cupid did this fancy plant impress With sharpened grinders, and with rude caress
Oft shared with Will, who ate with mouth diffuse.
Its natal bed was just the common soil, Not rare its kind, nor few as pearls in sand;
But now its culture is laborious toil,
And scarce can tillers meet the large demand; Yet cabbage heads abound in recent years— Beneath the hats of youthful sonneteers.
-	T. G. H.
Books and Periodicals.
—The March number of St. Nicholas contains a novel and useful sketch by John M. Ellicott of the Navy, describing how a landing is made, through the heavy surf of the Pacific Ocean. Joaquin Miller contributes a poem, ’’Artesia of Tulare,” telling, in vigorous style, the good fortune of a Scotch shepherd evicted from his ranch. “Hold Fast, Tom,” is an incident of the capture of the Island of St. Helena from the Dutch. An English sailor climbs a crag, hauls up a rope, and thus enables his comrades to make a Bank attack which secures a speedy victory. The tale is told by David Ker, who never writes a dull paragraph, and it is strikingly illustrated by C. T. Hill. Arthur Howlett Coates throws some needed light on the construction'and use of “The Boomerang” by the Australian blacks,
—The March Century is particularly interest
ing to the many thousands who have constituted the audiences of the famous Polish pianist, Paderewski, in different parts of the United States. These papers on Paderewski are parts of the musical series which The Century is publishing this year. The frontispiece is an engraving of Paderewski from a photograph, and in addition a drawing by Irving R. Wiles is given, showing the great virtuoso at the piano. Accompanying these pictures are a “A Critical Study,” by the distinguished American pianist and composer, William Mason, “A Biographical Sketch,” by Miss Fanny Morris Smith, and a poem by R. W. Gilder, entitled “How Paderewski Plays.” The biographical sketch, brief as it is, contains, we understand, the fullest particulars ever yet given of the life of its famous subject. In this number of The Century Mr. Stedman’s essays on poetry are begun. Mrs. Schuyler Van Rensselaer has an article on St. Paul’s Cathedral,” which is brilliantly illustrated by Joseph Pennell. The United States Fish Commission is described by Mr. Richard Rathbun, a scientific member of the staff. Professor Henry C. Adams presents a timely study of “The Farmer and Railway Legislation.” Professor Boyesen tells of “An Acquaintance with Hans Christian Andersen.” Col. R. Malcolm Johnston, has a paper illustrated by Kemble, on “ Middle Georgia Rural Life.”
—“The Hierarchy of the Roman Catholic Church in the United States” is the title of a work that will attract a great amount of attention. It will be composed of about twenty parts, the first of which are now ready, after, several years of preparation. The book is handsomely gotten up, and the illustrations, especially the steel engravings of the prelates, are artistic and accurate. The accuracy of the text and portraits seems established by the publisher’s announcement that the biographical sketches were not accepted until read and approved by the prelates, who also supplied the photographs from which the portrait-engravings were made. The text of the first section is profusely embellished with pictures of cathedrals and episcopal residences, both interiors and exteriors. The titular church of Cardinal Gibbons at Rome is also represented. Professor Maurice F. Egan, of the University, has charge of the literary work, as editor. The biographies of the several prelates bear the imprint of his style, and while necessarily brief, present not only an accurate and succinct account of the lives of the various prelates, but also of their work and of the growth and status of the Catholic Church in the various dioceses, so that the influence of the Church in the United States may readily be contrasted with that of earlier periods. In the biography of Bishop. Keane a history of the new Catholic University is given from material furnished by the rector himself. The book, as a whole, must be of special value to Catholics as containing much valuable material never before gathered together, and not easily, obtainable piecemeal by the individual student or.reader.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
442
WWW SCHOlffE.
J3u61t8f)fli tbtra ^aturtag bitting SEtnn STintr at N. S. Sntbrrsftg.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind
Notre Dame, March 5,1892.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff.
Hugh O’Neill, ’92;’
R. B. Sinnott, 92; M. A. Quinlan, ’93;
J. R. Fitzgibbon, ’92;
A. Ahlrichs, ’92; B. C. Bachrach, ’92;
J. J. McGrath, ’92;
F. B. Chute, ’92; Louis P. Chute,-92;
F. J. Vurpillat, ’92;
Ernest DuBrul, ’92; W. Houlihan, ’92;
H. C. Murphy, ’92.
—The Catholic Review last week contained a very interesting and sensible article on Convent Schools by Maurice Francis Egan. Prof. Egan takes, as an instance to refute the frivolous assertion of the superficiality of convent education, our sister-institution, St. Mary’s. He cites but one entertainment given at the Academy to justify the facts; first, the musical training of a convent, its thoroughness and the amalgamation of the German and Italian schools. Second, that the text-book drudgery is not the beginning and end of education. As to the first, the programme of every entertainment given at St. Mary’s is so prepared as will convince him who reads it that Wagner, Gluck, Bach and Rubenstein are names very familiar to each and every pupil of that school. The Catholic Review gives the progammme of the greeting to Father Sorin on his last birthday. This is but one of the many which deserves great credit; On it we see the names of Verdi, Schumann, Haydn and Mendelssohn,—not by any means too Italian, as, Prof. Egan says, the objectors to Convent schools take exception to.
In regard to teaching out of text-books, which < seems to be the only method in certain schools, it is mere drudgery for the pupil to be obliged to sit down and learn a page of this and a page of that, verbatim, without making use of his or her reasoning powers. Text-books were good enough in their day, but modern teachers must
speak learning to their pupils and help them to understand more than what was in the textbook. To do this requires the facility of speaking clearly, intelligently and sympathetically to intelligent minds. St. Mary’s teachers are gifted with rare talents that enable them to impart knowledge to their two hundred students with sincerity and effect.
Lowell and Westminster Abbey.
British prejudice against America and everything American has not been overcome; on the contrary, it has manifested itself most strongly in the recent movement to place a memorial for James Russell Lowell in the poets’ corner of Westminster Abbey. The opposition to this movement has been characterized by the most bitter feeling throughout. The St.James' Gazette, the organ of the aristocracy, asks: “Why go out of our way to lick a Yankee’s boots?” ;
Why, indeed? The Yankees never did the English justice, as is shown by the Surrender at Yorktown, in 1781, when haughty John Bull was compelled to kneel in the dust and lick the boots of Uncle Sam. Notwithstanding the statements of the British press, the placing of the memorial for Lowell in the Abbey would reflect credit on the English nation as well as our own. Lowell was one of the sweetest bards that ever sang, and he deserves to rank with the noble poets of the centuries forever past.
The Fope and the French Republic.
There is a mistaken idea, born of prejudice and ignorance, that the Pope is opposed to the present form of government in France. His recent letter to the French bishops is the best evidence that can be brought against this popular error. In this letter His Holiness exhorts his children to be faithful citizens of their country, to regard obedience to its laws as one of their primary duties as Catholics, and to remember that a Republic is as good as any other form of government. Friendly relations remained unbroken between the Popes and the French people until the “Reign of Terror,” when the warnings of their best and wisest friends were drowned in the chaos of that stormy period.
“The continued efforts of the Church,” says the Comte de Maistre, “directed by the Sover
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
443
eign Pontiffs, did what never had been seen before, and what will never be seen again where that. .authority is not recognized. Insensibly, without threats or laws or battles, without violence arid without resistance, the great European Charter was proclaimed, not on paper, nor by the voice of public criers, but in all European hearts, then all Catholic.” Leo XIII., true to this wise policy of his predecessors, grasps the full situation of affairs, and models his coriduct on the principles of prudence, love and justice.
Emperor William and the Socialists.
The demonstration of the socialists at the. gates of Berlin is an indication of the present discontents in Germany. Many of the vyorking-men are out of employment in the metropolis, and it only took the senseless speech of Emperor William at Brandenburg to set on fire the; smouldering embers of anarchy. . William still believes in the divine right of kings, as is manifest by his speech at the Brandenburg banquet. He thinks nobody has a right to attack his policy; for in his belief it is promulgated by divine right. Poor William! we thought you had more sense! Replying to the recent attacks on his policy, he says: “ My course is the right one, and it will be prosecuted to the utmost. I trust my brave. Brandenburgers will assist me in my task.” Ah! William, your policy is right! Who thinks so but yourself? If he is going to play the tyrant—and that is only what can be gathered from the tenor of his whole speech—then he will need his Brandenburgers. The man who can give expression to the sentiments “He who bars my-way I will dash to pieces,” and “There is only one ruler in the country,” is surely a despot in embryo. We condemn the.looting of the stores and shops in Berlin; but.we are glad, to see that the people of Germany are not ready to be trampled on by any man who wishes to plant the flag of absolutism on the ruins of German liberty. By what right does he order the discontents of Germany to flee the.country? Is it not their home as well as his? By what right, human or divine, does he give such orders? Let him take warning by the demonstration in the German capital; let him read his fate from the firm, defiant looks of the men who marched in dev Strasse imter den Linden.
' The German workingmen must, have bread. They are tired of supporting a large standing army and thousands of useless royal and gov
ernment officials. Their demands, as expressed in the resolutions proposed at the Berlin meeting, are moderate. They only ask constitutional government, the direct participation of the people in legislation, universal suffrage, the election of public officials by the people, the right of public opinion, the secularization of the schools, religious freedom, and the abolition of the standing army. These are only just demands. The Emperor is imprudent, and the multitude will go farther if something is not done. Germany has no Cardinal Manning to restrain the mob from deeds of rashness. Cardinal
-	-	• I	.
•Manning saved England several times. He was the great mediator of peace between the laborers and capitalists; and did more for the peace of . England than all the legislators within the walls of Parliament. Where is the Manning in Germany?. Germany without a Manning, Germany with at little despot as. a ruler, Germany, the stronghold of socialism and anarchy, may sound the reveille that will be the death-knell of many of the present governments of Europe. .
The Columbian Centenary.*
.... October 12 will indeed be an eventful day. Kingdoms and principalities that turned a deaf ear to Columbus when he broached his great project, that scoffed at it as visionary and chimerical, and that denied him aid or encouragement, will now. unite in doing honor to his memory, and will re-echo the tributes of the centuries to the grandeur and glory of his services to Christianity and civilization. In Genoa, his native city, which now rejoices in the renown of her distinguished son, to whose project she gave little countenance, preparations are on foot, and already far advanced, for a general jubilee, in which all Italy is expected to join in celebration of the great event. And in other parts of Europe plans are being formed for deriionstrations on the anniversary. But it is to Spain and to North and South America we may look for the most fitting and most notable testimonies and demonstrations that shall be worthy of the memorable occasion.
To Spain, especially, where his momentous enterprise took shape, where Columbus first received encouragement, sympathy, and where, through the inspiring ardor and generous sympathy of glorious Queen Isabella, he was finally enabled to undertake the exploration which 'was destined to be crowned with a success so glorious to Columbus, so honorable to Spain,
* Extract from an address delivered before the Young Men’s Catholic Union of Pittsburg, Pa., by the Hon. W. J. Onahan, LL. D., ’76.	-	•
444
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and so bewildering and stupendous in its consequences to the world in general.
The story of that memorable voyage and discovery has never been more fairly told than by an American historian, Washington Irving— a circumstance in which as Americans we may take just pride. And perhaps I may be pardoned for adverting to the fact that we owe to the enterprise of a Chicago journal—the Chicago Herald—the identification of the spot where Columbus first landed, now known as “ Watling’s Island,” and the erection there of a stone shaft, which will perpetuate the event of the first landing.
Let it never be forgotten or lost sight of that the world owes to a Franciscan friar, Juan Perez, of the convent of La Rabida; to a Dominican monk, Diego de Dieza, who pleaded the cause of Columbus before the Council of Salamanca; to a great Cardinal, Mendoza, who earnestly championed the expedition before the court; but above all to the glorious Catholic Queen Isabella, that the project was finally crowned with the royal favor and received the needed support. See the picture: the Catholic monk, the Catholic queen, the Catholic navigator!
And see before all and above all the lofty underlying motive and inspiration for this great resolve! It was not avarice for gold; it was not greed for conquest and increased dominion; it was not the glamour and phantom of fame! It was not any of those alluring motives, nor all of them combined. The governing and controlling motive that led to this exploration, that moved Isabella to pledge her jewels, if need were, to support it, and that animated and inspired the great heart of Columbus, was that elevated Christian thought: God’s greater honor and the salvation of souls; in other words, the love of God and the propagation of the Christian faith. This is the concurring acknowledgment of every fair-minded historian. It is all the more important we should record this fact, and keep it before the public mind, since it is the material and the social and political results of the discovery, which seems likely to be noticed in the coming celebration in this country.
Spain will naturally and appropriately re-call to mind the services of Columbus, and celebrate his great achievements next October with majestic pomp and solemn and befitting ceremonies; and so in Madrid and in all the principal cities of the peninsula, and above all with special fitness in the little port of Palos, from which Columbus set sail—now, by a strange freak of the sea, no longer accessible to ships— the memorable anniversary will be celebrated and honored. Spain may justly exult over the achievements of the discoverer who gave a New World to the crown of Castile and a new empire to Christianity and civilization.
It is a fact, also, to be made prominent that, when Columbus landed upon the shores of the new found world, his first act was to plant the standard of the cross, declaring at the same
time that he took solemn possession of the New World “in the name of pur Lord Jesus Christ” and for the crown of Castile. He then reverently named the country first discovered “San Salvador.” Thus by an act and circumstance of discovery and possession the New World was consecrated a Christian land; and that title, please God, will never be forfeited. This is a Christian country, and we are under the dominion of Christian law and Christian civilization.
The United States, by act of Congress, has determined to commemorate the landing of Columbus, and the discovery of the New World by a great Columbian Exposition in Chicago. It is intended thereby to testify to the nations of the earth America’s appreciation of Columbus and of his memorable achievement. It is designed, at the same time, to demonstrate to the world the stupendous resources, the marvellous progress, and the limitless activity of the United States of America. This wonderful exposition will, moreover, include exhibits from every country, and the participation of every nation and people is invited. It is to be in deed and in fact a veritable World's Exposition. It cannot fail to be an imposing and magnificent spectacle. I do not say this out of merely local pride, albeit Chicago is proud to be the chosen theatre for this World’s Exposition. The plans are on a scale of grandeur calculated to amaze and delight, and the progress made in the work of preparation justifies the statement that the buildings will be ready, and everything in the necessary order at the appointed time. It is the confident prediction that the World’s American Exposition of 1893 will surpass in splendor and magnificence any exposition ever held any where. This, you might say, is Chicago boasting. Well, wait and see for yourselves.
But after all the spectacle more suggestive and instructive than the exposition to people from other lands, more and greater than wonders of human skill and ingenuity to see shown there; more suggestive than the exquisite creations of art and triumphs of creative intelligence; far above all these, and more impressive to the thoughtful observer, will be the spectacle of sixty-five millions of people, self-governed, recognizing no hereditary classes, with no standing army, or practically none; every citizen equal before the law, and all respecting the law; possessing liberty without license, and secure in the enjoyment of religious freedom, equal rights for all, equal opportunities for all.
This is assuredly a spectacle for the nations of the earth greater and more instructive than the exhibit of the mere material progress, great and wonderful though these may be. I know that blemishes are to be found in the picture. I need not bring them before you, nor seek to explain and justify them. But the great fact stands—a mighty nation growing up here under new conditions, destined, as we believe, to con- . tinue on in its unexampled career of prosperity, the coveted home of every people who seek
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	44S
freedom and opportunity under a government of law and order, with one flag and a common: civilization. Assuredly we may hold to the conviction and the hope that this nation is destined to endure, and that the principles upon which the Government was founded—a Government of the people, by the people, and for the people—will continue unimpaired to the end.
And of this country and this • people we Catholics are a part. This is our home, here is our future. Every high and elevating nature appeals to us to be faithful to it, to love and cherish its unity and its liberty and to promote its welfare and prosperity. Those who think of us and speak of us as though we were intruders or unwelcome need to learn anew the history of the United States. This is a Catholic land. More than a hundred years before the Pilgrims set foot on Plymouth Rock, Catholic explorers and missionaries had pre-empted it for the cross. Its capes were entered, its rivers explored, its lakes penetrated, its prairies and mountains traversed by Catholics. From the golden gate to the Gulf of Mexico, from St. Augustine to St. Paul, you can track the footprints of the Catholic Missionary. History would have to be re-written, as in some instances it has, to deny the Catholic claim to priority. We are no intruders here. I do not intend to offer any vindication of Catholic loyalty and Catholic devotion to this land, to its Government, to its laws, to its principles, to its civilization. No one but a bigot or an ignoramus—: the terms are synonymous—would deny it I do ’ not believe the American people in general doubt the loyalty and devotion of their Catholic brethren to the American Constitution and flag.: Bigotry and ignorance cannot long hold sway in the light of historic truths, in the presence of everyday facts, in the truth of personal obser-. vation and experience.
Assuredly Catholics have a right to look for equality and fair play in the land discovered by Columbus, explored by Marquette—a land : everywhere consecrated by Catholic blood and , missionary heroism.
Surely the time has come when we may hope that a juster appreciation of Catholic doctrines and teaching will spread amongst the people. It is time that the walls of bigotry were broken down, that the mists of prejudice should disappear, so that we may truly become one people; if not all joined in,a common faith, at least all united in bonds of brotherly love and fraternity, esteeming what is good in one another and standing together shoulder to shoulder in support of a government—the hope of the world, the envy of the nations—which under God’s blessing and protection shall endure unto the farthest limits of time. And the country will yet see and realize that the surest guarantee for this consummation lies in devotion to religion and to principles of conservatism of the law-abiding, order-loving Catholic citizens of the United States.
Exchanges. .
—The February number of The Bethany Collegian contains some, very instructive articles contributed by the professors and a few fairly well-written essays from the pens of the students. The Collegian is one of our neatest and most welcome exchanges.	.
—-TheArgo-Reporterol February I ith sacrifices its usual “make-up” in order to publish the orations delivered at the State Inter-Collegiate . Oratorical Contest, Topeka, Kansas. We congratulate The Argo-Reporter on its enterprise. One has but to read the several orations to appreciate their value and the claims which the Argo has on the gratitude of the students of Washburn College; ,•	.
----The Norfolk Collegian is one of the latest visitors to our sanctum. It seems to be a very bright little paper, truly worthy of the patronage of the young ladies of Norfolk College. “Philanthropy as a Profession” is chiefly remarkable for what the writer does not know about philology. A young lady who does not know Greek, would da well to consult her Webster before explaining the derivation of words formed from that language.
—The Penn Chronicle is a fairly well-edited college paper—better, in fact, than the great * majority of our exchanges. In “Think it Over” and “Chronics” of the number before us there is some very erratic spelling. The writer, consistently enough, always spells certain words phonetically; but it is a noticeable fact that the number of words so spelled is limited. It is also noticeable that the columns in which this eccentric spelling occurs are the brightest and most entertaining in the paper.
—The University Quarterly is a handsome magazine published by the students of New York University. In the number before us the editor makes an appeal to the students of the University for original contributions. He says:
“ There seems to be but one reason (for not contributing),—a natural dislike for the work. You say it helps the periodical. Yes, but it helps you far more .than it does the paper for which you write. You intend to be a leader among men. Hbw are you going to do it if you cannot write? And when do you expect to learn this art? Do you think it an inborn trait in you which will suddenly crop out at the proper time?”	.
These are very sensible remarks, and, appealing, as they do, to the self-interest of undergraduates, ought to produce the desired effect— an abundance of original contributions.
. —It is hardly to be expected that the editor of a college paper will take upon his shoulders
446	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the responsibility for the accuracy, historical and logical, of the articles furnished by contributors. He ought, however, to exclude from the columns of his paper anything glaringly false or maliciously calculated to lead readers astray. The editor of the Spectator evidently entertains quite different views. In “A Messenger of New Education” are statements so palpably untrue, insinuations against religion so wilfully malicious, and assumptions so entirely without foundation that we cannot conceive Spectator, otherwise carefully edited, can defend itself for placing before its readers these absurd vagaries in lieu of incontestable facts arid honest deductions therefrom. In a spirit of friendliness we counsel the Spectator to revise carefully contributed articles.
—We desire to inform :the readers of the Scholastic that our exchange department is not a bureau of general information, and that, consequently, we shall not in the future pay the slightest attention to such letters as the following:
“Notre Dame., March i, 1892.
“Exchange-Editor Scholastic: ‘
“ Dear Sir:—I recently received from a friend in the East a copy of the February number of The Philosophian Review. My friend was probably led by the title of the little journal to fancy it might contain something of interest to a student. Am I mistaken in thinking that perhaps the.February number is below the standard? Will you also kindly inform me why it is called The Philosophian Review? Could you further accommodate .me by ascertaining, which of the girls who devote their mighty intellects to the criticism of exchanges wishes to use The Message for shaving paper?
“ Respectfully,
“G. M. H.”
We cannot imagine what motives G. M. H. has in asking the foregoing questions; but in compassion for his evident distress of mind we will try to satisfy, in part, his curiosity. Well, G. M. H., The Philosophian Review of February, though utterly silly and absurd, is rather above, than below, its usual standard. Why it is called The Philosophian Review' is a mystery too deep for us to fathom with any degree of certainty. We have always been under the impression that it was so named ironically. We respectfully decline to answer your last question. It is more than ungallant, it is impertinent. Your gbpd sense ought to have suggested to you that most probably the girls in charge of the exchange: department of the Review, had nothing to do with the offensive passage to which you refer, but that it was introduced surreptitiously by the printer’s devil in revenge for affections scorned or attentions slighted. ’
Local Items.
—Lent.
—March.
—Base-ball.
—Locals are at par.
—Chemistry cabbage.
—Over the fence is out.	'
—Are you going wid ’im ?
—Was it a hop or a step?
—I’ll show you “bees-ness.”
—Similia similibus curantur.	.
—He was ready to quit; but—
—The Oregon Phenom, is looming up.
—Scott is alive and kicking once more.
—Ye local fiends, beware of Aiderman!
—You kick the bucket, we’ll do the rest.
—Storm doors are useless at this season.
—-The ice is disappearing from the lakes.
—Rules change color when they are wWated.
—“The Pivot doth make cowards of us all.”
—The law debate takes place next Saturday.
—Papal authority seems to favor lean (?) men.
—Bob White has become quite notorious lately.	...
—The Band suits everybody that wears its livery.	-
—The Historian, like Orpheus, was “but of sight.”
—Band concert this afternoon. Don’t fail to atterid. .	.	.
—The Band is about to concert something this evening.
—The patent pivot mode of election was immense.
. —Excavations from Xenophon have been suspended.
—That humble (?) apology will, no doubt, be accepted.	.	.
—Most of the “locals” of the past month were Allright.	’
—The “Carroll” orator made'his delrut early in the week. .	.
—The feature of -the game was Hennessy’s all round playing.
—Diana is offering consolations to Venus on the ingratitude of Jupiter. .	.
—Mirabile dictu! Aiderman is correct in his answers, except when he is otherwise.
—The subject of our poet’s (?) new work: Oh, why are the zephyrs so silent to-night!!! .
—With practice the man with the unpowdered cue (queue) will become a crack billiard-player.
—The War of the Roses ends with this number. Both forces withdraw and leave the field undisputed.	.	.
—Base-ball on the third of March is riot quite
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
447
as unusual as tennis on Christmas Day, as was the case a year ago.
—Donny thinks that it shows lack of brains to be without collar and necktie. Donny, however, is no dude himself.	•
—We are glad to see Bro. Julius, the genial foreman of the Ave Maria office, again with us convalescing from his recent illness.
—The latest improvement is that of the shore road at the lake. A new coat of gravel is being placed thereon which improves it wonderfully.
—It is reported on good authority that the Director of the Manual Labor School will soon set a force of carpenters at work making improvements.
—Sonny, sonny,
Ever will be his name, E’en when he’ll play that organ We’ll call him it all the same.
—In response to the wishes of many friends the “Staff” emerges from obscurity. We were willing to let our little paper speak for itself— as it will ever do—but, here we are, kind readers, —the Scholastic Staff. Yours to command. •
—The Carrolls are greatly excited nowadays. Athletics are booming on their campus. Last Thursday a contest for a' silver medal took place. The medal was to go to the best running high jumper; and in consequence it now decorates the breast of Bauer, with Pope and Gibson good seconds.
—While it is conceivable that cultured young men should desire to reproduce, in their present surroundings, scenes that recall the conditions of their home life, perhaps it would be as well for those who engaged in the cuspidor function of Wednesday night to refrain in future from reproductions so realistic. There are homes and homes.
—There is a Western Catholic paper for which we have entertained sentiments of the deepest respect ever since we were honored with the privilege of an exchange. But now, is our. idol to be dashed to the ground? Is it going into the cheap caricaturing business, which wellnigh proved the bane of an Eastern contemporary? Don’t do it any more, e. c.
—Ye Modern Grammar.—Mother: “It’s terrible late. Why don’t you go to bed?”
Little Daughter: “I’m studyin’ my grammar lesson.”
“ But you said the teacher gave you but'one rule to-day, and you learned that in three minutes.”
“Yes’m.”
“Then, why are you poring over that grammar at ii o’clock at night?”
“I’m learnin’ the’xceptions.”—Good News.
—There are individuals who would experience the bitterest self-abasement were they led into the crime , of stealing money from a neighbor, and would suffer the keenest remorse until they had restored what they had taken. And yet these same individuals, posing, it may be oftentimes, as men of unswerving integrity
and uprightness of character, do not . hesitate to steal from their. fellowman what is of far more value than gold or precious stones—a good name; and that too without a thought of an obligation to make reparation for the injury done. What a civilization, ours would be were infidelity supreme and, as a consequence, all sense of moral responsibility lost! .
. —League of the Sacred Heart, Directors:' Revs. A. Granger and W. Connor. Promoters: . Revs.L. J. L’ Etourneau, S. Fitte, J. A. O’Connell, J. French, J. Klein, J. Kirsch, J. Maloy, W. Kelly, J. Boland, J. Burns, J. DeGroot; Bros. Fidelis, John Chrysostom, Valerian, Ralph, Caesarius, Emmanuel, Hilaripn, Hugh, Albius, Cajetan, Columba; Messrs. E. Ahlrichs, M. Ryan, V. Vurpillat, F. Carney, J. Fitzgerald, E. Scherrer, E. DuBrul, J. McKee, F. B. Chute, E. J. Maurus, R. Delaney, T. Quinlan, J. Kearney, R. Frizzele, F. O’Rourke, P. Hagus, J. Rend, W. Sullivan, J. Delaney, C. Furthmann, J. Burns, G. Chapoton, R. Ball, F. Ransom, W. Corrigan, R. Case.
—The Forty Hours’ Devotion at Notre Dame began Sunday with solemn High Mass at ten a. m. and procession of the Blessed Sacrament. It ended Tuesday evening with Benediction and procession as on Sunday. The main altar was lighted by two hundred candles. Many of the rich ornaments of the church were appropriately made use of for this grand occasion, among which was the receptacle of the Blessed Eucharist. This is a magnificent piece of ornament being finished in gold and adorned with, gold fringe. The many lighted candles dazzling, around it during the days added greatly to the splendor of the altar.	.
—Base-Ball.—Thursday being a fine day for sports, a game of ball was in order, “Blues” vs. “ Reds.” As it was the first of the season good playing could not be expected. Combe made a “great” hit to left field, but Cullen got his hands on it, and that settled “Joe’s” home run. The following is the -
Score by. Innings:—i 23456789	.
Blues:—1 0220004 0=9
‘	Reds:-—o .1032100 1=8	<
Hits: Blues, 15; Reds, 11. Errors: Blues, 5; Reds, 9.. Struck out: by Healy, 7; McCarrick, 4. 2, Base Hits: Combe, Gillon, Roby, McDermott and Healy. 3 Base Hits: Combe, Chassaing, Thayne and Funke. Home Runs : Ferneding. Umpires: Ryan and Shapeze. Scorer: Stanton. Time, 2 hours, 15 minutes. .	.
—Moot-Court.—Saturday, Feb. 20, the case tried in the Moot-Court was Wheatland vs. Miller, P. Coady and T.Alnsbery were attorneys for plaintiff, and J. Henly and L. P. Chute for defendant. On May 10, 1891, John Wheatland agreed to supply Milton Miller at the latter’s warehouse and mill, with 600 bushels of wheat, worth one dollar per bushel, for which he was to receive in return, on request, a certain quantity of flour and bran for each bushel of wheat. The wheat was delivered in the following October and mingled with the common, mass, in the warehouse. On November 12 plaintiff received on request $150 worth of flour and bran.. Three
448	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
days afterward defendant’s warehouse, mill and entire property, was destroyed by fire without fault on the part of the defendant. Plaintiff demands damages of $450, the balance still due, claiming the contract to have been one of sale. Defendant as strongly maintains that it was a bailment and not a sale, and denies that he is responsible for the loss, and it appears some discussion ensued. Plaintiff, in his declaration, based his action on breach of contract, alleging that he demanded recompense of the defendant and was refused. Defendant demurred to the declaration for want of sufficient facts appearing therein, and claimed that the demand for damages was improper before demanding the specific consideration itself, namely, flour and bran. The opinion of the court was founded upon the evidence, and was as follows: the contention as to whether the contract was a sale or a bail-, ment amounted to a demand and refusal to deliver the flour and bran and, consequently, plaintiff rightfully claimed damages for breach of contract.
—Mock Congress.—The nth regular meeting of Mock Congress was held Sunday evening, Feb. 28, the Hon. N. Sinnott, of Oregon, in the chair. After the preliminary business of the house had been settled, the discussion on the amendment to the U. S. Constitution, as House Bill No. 9, was resumed by the Hon. C. Rudd, of Ky. (Dem.), who made a reply to a previous speech of the Hon. E. DuBrul, of Ohio (Rep.). His arguments were clear-cut, and showed careful research. The Hon. E. Mitchell, of Ill. (Dem.), also replied to Representative DuBrul. He was followed by the Hon. P. Murphy, of Washington (Rep.), who spoke in opposition to the bill. He argued that, since the lower house of Congress is elected by the people directly, and even then is susceptible to corruption, no benefit would be derived, if the senators also were elected by popular instead of electo-rial vote. The Hon. E. DuBrul then took the floor, and spoke at length upon the subject, aiming chiefly to explain and emphasize what he said in the previous meeting. He vehemently opposed the bill. He was followed by the Hon. A. Ahlrichs, of Ala. (Dem.), who became especially eloquent towards the end of his speech. He said: “If Washington were here to-day, he would be dissatisfied with the way politics are carried on. There was a Judas in the twelve; how many corrupt men must there not be in the senate?” The Hon. L. Whelan, of Ind. (Rep.), took a very active part in the debate, and during the evening made not a few eloquent speeches. “ Men,” he said, “ are on the wrong road to purify politics, if they themselves do not practise the principles of honesty.” The Hon. J. Raney, of Mo. (Dem.), spoke in favor of the bill, and, .in the course of his remarks, gave many solid arguments to sustain his opinions. The Hon. J. Doheny, of Ill. (Dem.), also spoke in favor of the amendment. By mistake in the report of the last meeting the
name of M. McFadden was omitted from the list of those who favored the bill. Being put to a vote, it was lost, not receiving the two-thirds’ vote necessary for amendments.
Roll of Honor.
SORIN HALL.
Messrs. Ahlrichs, Bachrach, Brady, Combe, Carney, Cartier, L. Chute, F. Chute, Coady, Dechant, DuBrul, Fitzgerald, Flannery, Gillon, Hannin, Joslyn, Lancaster, P. Murphy, H. Murphy, Monarch, Maurus, McAuliff, McGrath, Neef, O’Brien, Rothert, Schaack, Sullivan, C. Scherrer, E. Scherrer, N. Sinnott, R. Sinnott. F. Vurpillat.
BROWNSON HALL.
Messrs. Ahlrichs, Arts, Ansberry,. Burns, V. Brennan, J. Brady, E. W. Brown, T. Brady, Beaudry, Brinnin, E. J. Brown, Corcoran, Corry, Cosgrove, Crawley, Cassidy, Carter, Correll, Chilcote, Caffrey, Crilly, Castenado, W. Cummings, Cherhart, Coady, Cullen, Doheny, Dinkel, Delaney, Devanny, Egan, Ellwanger, Ferneding, Flynn, Foley, Flannigan, Fardy, Heneghan, Healy, Hesse, Holland, E. Harris, Henly, Houlihan; Heer Hagan, Hoepe, Hennessy, Hartman, Jacobs, F. J. Kenny, Krost, Kleekamp, Kearney, W. M. Kennedy, Kelly, Karasynski, Kintzele, W. A. Kennedy, Kearns, Kunert, Lindeke, Libert, S. Mitchell, McFadden, Monarch, D. Murphy, McGonigle, McKee, F. Murphy, McCarrick, McCullough, Murray. Maynes, Maisen, Nester, Newton, O’Shea, O’Connor, Patier, Powers, Pulskamp, D. Phillips, T. Phillips, Quinlan, M. Ryan,J. Ryan, Ragan, Raney, Riordan, Sherman, Stanton, Schopp, Stace, ,Thome, Vinez, A. Vurpillat, Welsh, Zeller.
' CARROLL HALL.
Messrs. Arvidson, Ashford, Bixby, Barbour, Baldauf, Ball, J. Brown, Byrnes, Brennan, Burkart, Bates, Bearss, Casey, Corry, Curran, Connell, Cullen, Carpenter, Corcoran, Dion, Dix,DuBrul, DeLormier, Duncombe, Dillon, Dillman, Delaney, F. Dempsey, Dixon, Dorsey,- Evans, Edwards, Fleming, W. Ford, Foster, Fitzgerald, Feehan, Grote, L. Gibson, Gilbert, Griffin, Gerlach, Gillam, Gar-fias, Girardiri,, Gerner, Glass, Hill, Hagan, Hilger, Hargrave,. Hagus, Hittson,'Hack, Harrington, Janssen, W. Kreicker, Kinneavy, • W. Kegler, A. Kegler, Kerker, Levi, Lee, Lowrey, Lawlor, Lane, Leonard, Mills, Mitchell, W. Miller, Marre, Marr, Miles, Mahon, Major, McCarthy, McLeod, W. Nichols, H. Nichols, Nicholson, O’Brien, O’Rourke, Oliver, J. O’Neill, Peake, Prichard, Pope, Rupel, Rogers, Ratterman, Renesch, Rumely, Regan, H. Reedy, C. Reedy, Rend, Sullivan, Strauss, Sparks, Sedwick, Shimp, Scholer, Stone, Sweet, JSlevin, Stephens, Smith, Thornton, Thome, Teeter, Tobin, Todd, J. Tong,, Vorhang, Washburne, Walker, Weaver,. J. White, N. Weitzel, B. Weitzel, Wells, Wagner, Warner, Yeager, Yingst, G. Zoehrlaut.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Masters Ayers, Ahern, R. Brown, O. Brown, Burns, Blumenthal, V. Berthelet, R. Berthelet, Ball, Cornell, Corry, Christ, Curtin, Curry,' Chapoton,* J. Coquillard, A. Coquillard, Croke, Cross, H. Durand, B. Durand, Dugas, DuBrul, L. Donnell, S. Donnell, W. Emerson, F. Emerson, Everest, Elliott, Egan, Finnerty, Fossick, Fuller, J. Freeman, N. Freeman,S;B. Freemann, E. Furthmann, C. Furthmann, Girsch, Gregg, Gavin, Gilbert, Hoffman, Howard, Roy Higgins, Ralph Higgins, Hilger, Healy, Hathaway, Holbrook, Jones, Jonquet, King, Kinney, Kuehl, Krollman, Kern, S. Keeler, G. Keeler, W. LaMoure, E. LaMoure, Lysle, Londoner, Lawton, Langley, Loughran, Longevin, Lonergan, Lowrey, McPhee, McIntyre, R. McCarthy, . G. McCarthy, E. McCarthy, D. McAlister, Maternes, R. Morris, F. Morris, Morrison, Nichols, Ninneman, Oatman, O’Neill, O’Brien, W. Pollitz, H. Pollitz, Pieser, Pursell, Platts, Pratt, Ransome, Rose, Repscher, G. Scherrer, W. Scherrer, Stuckhart, Swan L. ; Trankle, F. Trankle, Tussner, Trujillo, Weber, L. Wilson, W-. Wilson, Witson, Wilcox, White.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	449
St. Many’s flaademy.
One Mile West of Notre Dante University.
—Rev. D. Riordan and Rev. H. McGuire, of Chicago, honored St. Mary’s by a most welcome visit on Thursday last.
—The beautiful devotion known as the “ Forty Hours ” was held as usual on the three days preceding Ash-Wednesday. The altar was richly decorated,and the perfume of flowers and incense seemed a fitting type of the prayers that ascended from hearts in adoration before the Blessed Sacrament.
—The notes read at the Sunday evening reunion were excellent, and elicited words of congratulation from Very Rev. Father Corby who presided. Miss Margaret Barry read, in a clear, well-modulated voice, an article on “ Benediction,” and Miss L. Farwell essayed the difficulties of a German selection, success crowning her effort.
—The Novices were favored last week by a delightful visit from Very Rev. Father General, whose presence is ever a source of joy to all at St. Mary’s. A programme of musical selections, vocal and instrumental, spoke a welcome more eloquent than words, after which expressions, of appreciation and counsel from Very Rev. Father General contributed to make the'day memorable in the annals of the Novitiate.
—Prof. Maurice F._ Egan’s lecture for February was one of special interest to the many admirers of the great novelist, Thackeray. After a very pleasing introduction, in which Professor Egan defined the term “popular” as applied to writers, he sketched with graceful touch the life of Thackeray with all its lights and shades. Some of the charges brought against the author of “Vanity Fair” were ably refuted in the careful analysis of his principal works, wherein was pointed out the charm of his humor and his pathos. The critics of to-day would have us believe that to our own time belongs the novel which teaches a lesson; but in both Dickens and Thackeray does Mr. Egan find material whence every reader, with whatever tastes, may draw instruction.
The Cross and the Shamrock.
Does the spirit of song awaken at the mention of Erin’s name to anoint the lips of those who sound the joys and sorrows of Ireland? - Were all as eloquent on the subject as was Rev. A. B. O’Neill, C. S. C., who lectured at St. Mary’s last Friday, one would unhesitatingly answer in the affirmative, for with beautiful word-paint
ing did the reverend speaker portray the varying fortunes of that land wh ose verdure is fed with grief’s tears. “The Cross and the Shamrock” was his subject; and with an enthusiasm worthy the theme, Father O’Neill outlined the history of Erin from the time of the great St. Patrick, through those centuries of peace and’ learning, when the “Island of Saints and Sages” was the University of Europe, through the changing destinies of the next period, until, alas!
“ The Emerald gem was set in the crown of the stranger.”
Father O’Neill then painted in warm and tender colors the moving picture of the brightest, even though the saddest chapter of Irish history, when her sons proved their loyalty to faith and fatherland by sacrificing riches, ties of kindred, and in many cases, life itself. And as the lecturer expressed hopes for Erin’s future— hopes born of the prayer which rises from every quarter of the globe: “ God save Ireland!”—the responsive echo in many a heart told how true are the words
And here in the beautiful land of the free,
The home of the brave and the true,
The shamrock is planted deep down in stout hearts That honor the “red, white and blue.”
To Erin, America holds out her hand With love to her sister in need,
And warm is the clasp which her sympathy gives, • And fervent her hearty “ God speed 1 ”
The Religious Element in American Poetry.
As Prometheus borrowed fire from heaven to infuse life and beauty into his statue, so the true poet must receive from on high the fire of inspiration, if he would have his work go down the ages surrounded by the halo of immortality. Whether we examine the epics of antiquity, or the masterpieces of modern times, we find that true poetry soars towards God, and this tendency is recognized in the Greek odes, lyrics and pastorals dedicated to the favorite deities, in the Roman poets singing of gods and goddesses, as well as in the works of a Dante or of a Milton. Among the great English poets we see Shakspere filled with a spirit of reverential awe of God and holy things, while, in our own day, Lord Tennyson gives us in his Idyls, another evidence of the close relationship between religion and pure song.
But has this spirit crossed the seas and found a place in American poetry? -To the writings of our country must it be conceded that no literature is purer, and though we have no Cardinal Newman and no Tennyson, the flights of our poets have ever been in an upward direction, thus paying the highest tribute .to a nation’s heart and intellect.
Extracts from a few of the representative poets of America will serve to .show us the drift of their religious sentiments. Take Edgar Allen
45°
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Poe, and amid his gloomy imaginings, we find glimpses of light, as for instance:
“At mom, at noon, at twilight dim, Maria, thou hast heard my hymn! In joy and woe, in good, in ill,
. Mother of God, be with me still.” .
Lowell, in his “Vision of Sir Launfal,” is Christian throughout; and his reverence for religion is evident from his conception of the highest duty of a poet, which he says is
“---------to bring the Maker’s name to light To be the voice of that almighty speaking Which every age demands to do it right.”
Among the accepted prose writers who are dowered with the gift of poesy, we find Thomas Bailey Aldrich, in whose poems are many illustrations of a strong appreciation of virtue and a deep respect for religion. On Judith’s lips he puts these words of confidence in Providence:
“ Who so trusts in God, as Jacob did,	•
Though suffering greatly even to the end, Dwells in a citadel upon a rock, .
That wind, nor wave, nor fire, shall topple down.” And in “Lost at Sea,” in speaking of the children’s glee at Christmas-tide, he writes:
“ I think the face of our dear Lord
Looks down on them and seems not sad.”
Whittier, whose war-poems kindled courage and love of country in many a heart, has given us tender and beautiful lines that show how close to his soul hovered the spirit of Christianity, as for instance, in these words:
“ The clouds which rise with thunder, slake Our thirsty souls with rain:
The blow most dreaded, falls to break From off our limbs.a chain; •
And wrongs of man to man but make The love of God more plain.”
In the conclusion of “ Thanatopsis ” we find, despite the pantheistic spirit throughout the poem, a beautiful exhortation to a noble life. Had Bryant possessed no belief in a future state, it is a question if he could have written the lines:	.
“ So live, that when thy summons comes to join The innumerable caravan that moves
To that mysterious realm, where each shall take His chamber in the silent halls of death,	.
Thou go not, like the quarry-slave at night, Scourged to his dungeon; but, sustained and soothed By an unfaltering trust, approach thy grave, Like one who wraps the drapery of his couch About him, and lies down to pleasant dreams."
By “an unfaltering trust” can anything be meant but a trust in the promises of an “hereafter?”
The sweet verses of Alice and Phoebe Carey, Thomas Wentworth Higginson’s lines, clear as the woodland brooks he loved so well, Helen Hunt Jackson’s tender, womanly poems,—all breathe the sweet spirit of reverence for religion.
It would seem quite unnecessary to bring up the question of Longfellow’s tendencies in this regard; for not one of his well-known poems could be named that does not suggest some idea of a religious nature. In “Hiawatha,” in his“Tales_of a Wayside Inn,” in “Miles Stand
ish,” or the “Spanish Student,” and above all in that sweetest and most appealing heart-poem, “Evangeline,” the tendency to exalted views and heavenly aspirations is too well known to need further comment.
And among some of the sweetest singers of America, do we not count many whose trills and carols are dedicated to none but God and His holy Church? Writers whose graceful lyrics and stately odes and sonnets breathe of naught but piety and religion? The popularity of “the Poet-priest of the South,” Father Abram Ryan, and of the gifted John Boyle O’Reilly, proves indeed that, with God and our country as a theme, song must ever be sweet and strong. Among the many who have long contributed to Catholic poetic literature, the great orator Bishop of Peoria, Rev. John L. Spalding, Eliza Allen Starr, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Maurice Francis Egan and Charles Warren Stoddard stand foremost. Nor should we marvel at the beauty and the depth of their writings since They are imbued with earnest devotion to that ; Church which inspires her sons to consecrate their efforts to God and to Religion, even while they know that greater renown and more substantial earthly rewards would be theirs, did they but use their gifts in portraying subjects in other than a Catholic light. Their inspiration is from God and is kept burning by the flame of the sanctuary lamp whose steady rays proclaim the Presence of Him who is the “Way, the Truth and the Life.”
Helen Nacey, Class '92.
Roll of Honor.
[For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, correct deportment and observance of rules.]
;	'	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Augustine, Agney, Bassett, E. Burns, M. Burns, Bell, Brady, A. Butler, K. Barry, Buell, Byers, Charles, Crilly, Carpenter, L. Clifford, D. Davis, Dempsey, Duffy, E. Dennison, M. Dennison, Fitzpatrick, Griffith, Green, Galvin, Grace, Lucy Griffith, Gibbons, Gage, Hellmann, Higgins, Hutchinson, Hopkins, Hittson, Hunt, Jacobs, Kirley, Klingberg, Keating, Kemme, Kieffer, M. Kelly, Kasper, Kingsbaker, Kimmell, Kiernan, Kinney, Lynch, Lewis, Ludwig, Londoner, Lennon, Lancaster, La Moure, Lantry, Moynahan, Morehead, E. McCormack, D. McDonald, McGuire, A. Moynahan, M. McDonald, Maxon, McColm, L. Nickel, M. Nichols, B. Nichols, O’Sullivan, Plato, Patier, Payne, Pfaelzer, Quinn, A. Ryan, K. Ryan, Robinson, Roberts, Rizer, Russert, Rothschild, Schmidt, Sena, Shaw, Sleeper, M. Smyth, Singler, Thirds, Tietjen, Tod, Van Mourick, S. Wile, G. Winstandley, B. Win-standley, Wurzburg, Wolffe, Whitmore, Welter, Whitney, Wolverton, E. Wile, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Adelsperger, Boyle, Baxter, Berg, Cowan, K. Coady, Crandall, Dreyer, Doble, Ford, A. Girsch, Garrity, Hickey, Hopper, Meskill, Nacey, O’Mara, Palmer; Ryder, Scott, N. Smyth, Schaefer, Tilden, White, Whittenberger. Wheeler.	-
MINIM DEPARTMENT. .
Misses Ahern, Buckley, Dysart, M. Egan; Finnerty, Girsch, Keeler, Liiigard, Murray, McCarthy, McKenna, McCormack. ■ '	’	-	■