♦5
m -
wrarwi
FEBRUARY 21, 1936'
NOTRE DAME
Scholastic

a
not to
Sftis book 1“ T<Krar? taken	U
DUL^spes
VEflKIflDO
Volume Sixty-Nine
Number Sixteen

Established 30 Years
L@NTRE|8
OPTOMETRISTS 222South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
▼
Glasses promptly repaired to avoid delay in your school work.
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
Two
COLLEGE PARADE
By Anthony F. O’Boyle
It is not the purpose of this column to revive that freqeuntly discussed question “Should the United States enter this year’s Olympic games ?” — the American Olympic Committee answered that for us quite definitely a few months ago. We do feel, however, that it is of interest to note the sentiment expressed in the editorial of the Daily Californian, official student paper of the University of California, because if the press of any school in this country has the right to voice an opinion on the subject this collegiate journal is the one. Providing that California University permits, its “Golden Bear” crew will be striving for its third successive Olympic championship; yet the student paper says “We would like to see the Bear Crew win at Poughkeepsie and then come home.”
With admirable frankness the editorial bluntly attacks participation by our country. We quote in part from the Daily Californian: “We do not particularly object to the fact that the Games are being held in Berlin, or that they are being conducted by the German Government. But we do object to the fact that the Nazis are using the Games as a political football; a device to show the world, particularly the helpless German citizens themselves,, how wonderful the Nazis are. ... By participating in the Olympics this nation indirectly would be giving help “to a political cause -we all abhor”.
—o—
When “Blondy” Bishop, President of the Students’ Union at the University of Alberta, returned to the campus that University’s publication hailed his coming with this headline: “Blondy” Bishop Back; Brings Big Batch Bunk; Behaved Boisterously on Broadway; Brags Blushingly.”
—o—
The University of Colorado added a novel twist to its recent Junior Prom Program by serving a Prom Breakfast in the school’s cafeteria to all the Prom-goers “from midnight on.” The reason given for the added attraction was that there was a definite feeling on the campus of “leap year equality and its implications.”
—o—
If you are one of those who have ever wondered what makes an otherwise attractive young lady destroy your good opinion of her because she incessantly resorts to “baby talk” chatter we offer the solution of Dr.
Frederick W. Brown, director of speech correction in Floral Park, N.Y. public schools. This authority explains the apparent defect in the sweet young thing’s character by saying that it is not the male’s overpowering personality that dominates her but that quite possibly she is either mentally defiicent (not seriously, though), emotionally unstable, or a victim of malnutrition. If you doubt us, statistics are available.
It’s No Secret!
. . . The cheapest and quickest way to Chicago is Via SOUTH SHORE LINE
Now it can be told! Actual comparison of the cost of driving an auto between South Bend and Chicago as against South Shore Line riding proves “hands down” that the latter is much cheaper. 2 cents per mile . . . that’s South Shore Line cost! From 4 to 8 cents a mile . . . that’s auto cost! Get the South Shore Line habit and you’ll be money ahead. It’s fastei- and safer, too.
The Scholastic
CALENDAR
Friday, February 21
“Scholastic of the Air” broadcast from campus radio station over WS-BT 3:15 p.m.; Junior Prom, Palais Royale, beginning at 9:30 p.m. Movie Washington Hall, 6:40, 8:30 p.m.
Saturday, February 22
Annual flag presentation in Washington Birthday exercises, Washington Hall; Junior Class Tea Dance, Oliver Hotel, 4:00 p.m.; Basketball, Notre Dame versus Pittsburgh, Gym, 8:00 p.m.
Sunday, February 23
Student Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a.m., Sacred Heart Church; Interhall basketball, University gym, 9:00 to 12:00 a.m. and 1:30 to 4:00 p.m.; Officers’ Meeting of Knights of Columbus, Walsh Hall clubrooms, 10:30 a.m.
Monday, February 2b
Bengal Boxing practice, gymnasium, 3:30 p.m.; “Reader’s Spotlight,” from campus radio station over WSBT, 4:30 p.m., Paul Biagion-ni, “The Life of Walt Whitman”; Dean Thomas F. Konop broadcast over WSBT and WIND, from campus radio station 7:00 p.m.; “Psalmody” by Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C. and the Moreau Seminary Choir over station WSBT through campus radio station, 7:30 p.m.
Tuesday, February 25
Bengal Boxing practice, 3:30 p.m., gymnasium; Speech department broadcast by Professor Frank Kelly over WSBT, 4:30 p.m.; “Headline Personalities” program over WSBT featuring Rev. Joseph McVinney speaking of “Pope Pius XI,” 7:30 p.m.; meeting of campus radio group, Engineering building studio, 8 p.m.
Wednesday, February 25
Bengal Boxing practice, 3:30 p.m., gymnasium; Radio program “You the Defendant,” featuring Joe Boland, over WSBT from campus station at 4:30 p.m.
Thursday, February 27
Bengal Boxing practice, 3:30 p.m. gymnasium; “Athletics in Education,” broadcast by Joe Boland over WSBT from campus station at 4:30 p.m.
THE HUNT
It's New ... It's Smart
It's just about time a change occurred in men's shirt fashions — and here it is — the button-down, wide-spread collar, authentically styled by Arrow for university men. This shirt is presented in white and colored woven oxford and madras cloths.
$2 and $2«5O
ARROW™!™
For a Complete Showing .Arrow Shirts and Ties Informal and Formal
Stop at South Bend’s most convenient spot
Approval of a fund of $1,983,000 for radio education has been given by President Roosevelt.
Alexis Carrell, Nobel prize winner, will teach at the University of California during the spring semester.
MAX ADLER
February 21, 1936
Three
The Notre Dame Scholastic
t Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing"] at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXIX
February 21, 1936
No. 16
JUNIOR PROM WILL BE HELD THIS EVENING
Chairman Harry Baldwin Soft lights . . .
STORY OF UNKNOWN SOLDIER TOLD BY REV. EDWARD DUFF
By John Hurley
“I have not come here to sell the Navy, but rather to give you the story of the unknown soldier,” declared the Rev. Edward Duff, chaplain-general of the United States Navy, in his lecture Tuesday evening, Feb. 18, in the auditorium of the Engineering Building.
Following his opening remarks, Father Duff read a paragraph from a letter written by Admiral Sellers, superintendent of the United States Naval Academy, in which he requested Father Duff to express to the students of Notre Dame the admiration tendered them by the Academy’s young sailors.
Father Duff went on to tell how he was chosen to accompany the body of the unknown soldier back to Washington from France. He told of the extreme care exercised in selecting the body which was buried in Arlington cemetery. Not a single mark which might identify the man was found on the body of the soldier finally chosen.
At eleven o’clock on the 11th of (Continued on Page 9)
By Robert L. Grogan
Soft lights and sweet music will be in order tonight for the Junior Prom —the social highlight of the college man’s third year. Bernie Cummins will furnish the sweet music at the Palais Royale, accompanied by the soothing voice of Dorothy Crane.
On Saturday afternoon the informal Tea Dance will be held at the Oliver Hotel, South Bend. Steak dinners will be served and Bud Simpson’s 11-piece orchestra wil furnish the music for the dance which will last from four until seven.
A rhythmic waltz entitled “You” has been composed especially for the Prom. Hugo Melchione, collaborating with Frank Barbush, has written this delightful number which will be featured by Cummins’ orchestra tonight.
McCarthy, Mr. and
Dancing will be from 9:30 until 1:30, and permissions will extend until 2 o’clock. As announced previousy, cars which are registered with the prefect of discipline may be used for the weekend.
The list of patrons was released this week by Harry Baldwin, Prom chairman. They are: Mr. and Mrs. Elmer Layden, Dean and Mrs. Irs. William
Dooley, Mr. and Mrs. William Cer-ney, Dr. Daniel C. O’Grady, and Messrs. L. T. Flatley, F. J. O’Malley, and Paul Halbert.
Proceeds of the Junior Prom will be donated to the St. Vincent de Paul Society for charitable purposes. Chairman Baldwin announced again this week that tickets to the Notre Dame-Pitt basketball, game may be obtained by presenting Tea Dance tickets and athletic books at the Athletic Office.
President Martin Burns . . . and sweet music.
ORGANIZE MUSIC ARTS CLUB AT INITIAL MEETING
Thirteen charter members were enrolled in the Music Arts club, newest of campus organizations, at its initial meeting held on February 13 in the Music hall.
Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the Department of Music, was installed as honorary president of the new club. The other officers ' are: Arthur C. Davidson,' president; Fred Crollard, vice-president; and Leo Boyle, secretary.
The purpose of the club, outlined at the charter meeting, is to promote interest in music on the campus, to give students a better knowledge and appreciation of the musical arts, and
Membership is to be limited to those who are taking a course in music, or who have at any time participated in Glee Club, Band, or Symphony Orchestra activities. Faculty members as w’ell as students are eligible for the new organization.
The next meeting of the club will be held in the Music Hall at 7:45 on Thursday night, February 27. Future meetings will be scheduled at two week’s interval.
February 21, 1936
Five
SENIORS PRESENT TRADITIONAL FLAG IN NINETY-FIRST ANNUAL PROGRAM
Three Prizes Offered For "Absurdities" Skits
Fieweger to Deliver Address
By Louis Da Pra
In the observance of a ninety-one year old tradition, Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, will accept an American flag, a gift of the Class of 1936, from the hands of Howard C. Cusack, senior class president, in the annual Washington Birthday exercises tomorrow morning in Washington Hall.
Charles J. Boyle, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, from Duluth, Minn., is the general chairman of the observance exercises, and
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C.
He zvill accept the flag.
the traditional appreciation of Washington’s. Farewell Address will be delivered by William H. Fieweger, a senior in the College of Commerce from Menasha, Wisconsin.
This afternoon at 12:30 in the basement of Walsh hall, Chairman Wilbert J. Higgins of the Cap and Gown committee and his assistants, Frank J. Smith, Leo J. Cushing, Arthur W. Vervaet, and Charles Dohn-alek distributed the caps and gowns to seniors.
In the gown and mortar board, the graduating class will march in historic procession from the Main Building to Washington hall to participate in the presentation. Rev. Leonard J. Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, is faculty marshall of the march.
The observance will open with the (Continued on Page 23)
Student Survey . . .
Survey of the present freshman class conducted throughout the first semester by personal interviews in the Alumni Office has been completed and work begun establishing a permanent 'file.
This personal record is not one of the complex forms so prevalent in the personnel field, but simply an effort to compile a source of information concerning the individual which will give a complete picture of the boy, something more than whether he has a 70 or a 95 grade. The record of this year’s freshmen will initiate a permanent file which will be kept each year- so that in four years the office will have cards on the entire student body.
The cards will embody the educational and home background information concerning the boy, his general averages at Notre Dame, course, extra-curricular activities, self help, and a few other fundamental facts. At the end of his college career, the card will be turned over to the Alumni Office and carried on through the post-Notre Dame life of the individual, with additions for occupation, change of address, family statistics, and other personal data.
These files will be of help in developing the University and alumni service in employing men on the campus and placing them after graduation.
The Alumni Office is planning a survey of the Senior Class this spring through the departments of the University with the object of assisting those graduates of the Class of 1936 not otherwise placed to secure jobs.
ITALIAN CLUB
The Italian Club held a meeting Thursday evening, Feb. 13, in Carroll Rec Hall. Plans for a dance were discussed, and Dan O’Brien and Charles Pieroni delivered papers before the gathering.
BENGAL BOUTS
Wheel It’s a knockout! Only one ring, but loads of action at the Bengal Bouts — March 20th.
Three prizes of five dollars each .are being offered by the Monogram Club for the best skits submitted for use in the forthcoming Monogram Absurdities, Secretary Paul Rubly announced this week. The skits may treat of any phase of campus life. Those who saw the one entitled “South Bend Inn” in last year’s show will know the type of light humor that is desired. If possible the cast should include more than two characters.
The skits should be of sufficient length to occupy at least five minutes. All entries will be judged by a committee of professors, and must be submitted by March 15. Manuscripts should be addressed to Paul Rubly, 409 Walsh hall. The contest
Secretary Paul Rubly Will award the prizes.
is open to all except members of the Monogram Club.
Two tickets to the Absurdities will be given to all those who submit a skit that is at all representative. The three skits that are used in the show will bring their authors five dollars apiece, and any man can win all three prizes providing he submits the three best entries. There are no restrictions except that the story must in some way relate to life on the campus.
According to present plans this year’s Absurdities will be bigger and better than ever. The success of this entertainment in past years augurs well for this year’s show which will be presented early in May. Nick Lukats, who is now in Hollywood with Paramount, had his first part in the Absurdities of 1933. The committee hopes that everyone interested will submit a skit; for even if some should fail to win one of the three awards they will see the show free of charge.
The Scholastic
S i x
University Theatre
To Present New Play
ANNUAL BENGAL BOXING CONTEST
WILL BE HELD FRIDAY, MARCH 20
By John Hurley
Shakespeare’s play, “The Comedy of Errors,” as revised and presented by the Globe theatre players, will be the next production staged by the University theatre, Professor A. L. Doyle, director of the theatre, announced Monday. The tentative date for the presentation of the play is set for March 17.
• The production of this type of play at Notre Dame will be innovated in an attempt to stimulate interest in Shakespeare’s works. The Globe theatre players made these revised versions of the Shakesperian plays famous during the World’s Fair in Chicago.
“We hope,” Professor Doyle stated, “that the students will go away from the theatre the night of the play wishing that there were more productions of that type to come. If we accomplish that, then the play will be a success.”
It is hoped that the female parts in the play will be filled by students. If enough interest and ability is shown by those trying out for the production, all female roles will be assigned to the students.
Tryouts for the play will be announced in the near future.
“Selection of the Doyle said, “will be
ability with no reference to experience either in local or outside productions.”
DOME PICTURES
Work will begin next week on the taking of club pictures for this year’s Dome, Editor Delancey Davis announced yesterday. Photographs of all campus organizations, including city clubs, will be included in the book, and will be taken every noon in Washington hall.
Individual portraits of the seniors and juniors have already been taken and assembled for publication. The fall section of the annual, including a record of the football season in pictures and comment, has been finished.
NEW ENGLAND BASKETBALL
Antiquated “band-box” gymnasiums are to blame for the mediocre brand of basketball played in New England, say Al McCoy, coach of Northeastern University, Boston
Director. . .
Professor Albert Doyle “The Comedy of Error's” is next.
CATALYZER
The Catalyzer, official publication of the Department of Chemistry, made its fourth appearance of the year on Tuesday, Feb. 18. The feature article, “Hydrogenation of Petroleum,” was written by Thomas P. Carney, junior chemical engineer. The purpose of hydrogenation, according to the author, is to transform low grade petroleum into more valuable products. “Hydrogenation,” he declares, “actually reconstructs the undesirable constituents in the feed instead of merely removing them by separation.”
The “Industrial Development of Cellulose Acetate” is considered in an article written by the editorial staff. In the last few years this compound has been found suitable for a wide number of uses. Proof of this is seen in the fact that in 1933 about 40 million pounds were produced as compared with 15 million pounds in 1931. It is used in the manufacture of Celanese (cloth), safety glass, moving picture and X-ray films.
Besides these two articles, the chemists’ monthly contains reports on “A Chemical Industry in the West Indies,” “ ‘An Industrial Giant Lives on Air’,” and the club news of the Academy of Science, American Chemical Society, American Society for Metals, and the Chemists’ Club.
BENGAL BOUTS
The big news is the Bengal Boxing Show. Remember the date — it’s March 20th.
Conner-Tancredi to Perform
By Paul Foley
The fifth annual Bengal Boxing show, sponsored by The Scholastic, will be presented on the night of Friday, March 20, it was announced this week.
The first Bengal bouts held under the auspices of The Scholastic were in the spring of 1932, when Neil J. Hurley was editor of the weekly publication. Hurley’s direction furnished what was considered superlative boxing entertainment, with the added attraction of the now famous Perrone-Heitz comic battle. It was in this show that Jerry DuWan, an Indiana boy, won the heavyweight title.
The Scholastic sponsored shows under the direction of Editors Edmund Stephans and James S. Kearns in 1933 and 1934. The bouts were growing steadily in popularity, and it was in 1934 that Max Marek, now tenth ranking heavyweight in the country, made his collegiate debut.
Last year’s show set a new high for box receipts when a near-capacity
crowd flocked to see a card packed with real scraps. “Packy” McFarland officiated at last year’s show, where Marek again appeared.
The card this year, carrying nearly all of the champs, from last year’s campaign, promises to be one of the best in the history of the bouts. Nearly all of the contenders are veterans, and with another full year of experience to their credit they should be ready to present the best in collegiate boxing.
Arrangements are going forward to secure the services of some celebrity in the boxing world to officiate at the bouts. The announcement of the referee will be made in an early issue.
Nick Tancredi and “Gy” Conner are being groomed for another hectic session, politely known as “rasslin’ ”. These lads should be in fine fettle and, barring mayhem, will turn in a neat performance in plain and fancy mauling.
Further details of training for the bouts along with stories of the fighters will be found in the sports section.
February 21, 1936
Seven
Parnell As A Patriot
Discussed By Hollis
By Robert L. Grogan
“Charles Stuart Parnell’s pride was greater than his love for Ireland,” stated Christopher Hollis in his lecture on the famous Irish statesman, last night in Washington Hall.
“Parnell went to Parliament at Westminster determined to compel people to listen to him by making a nuisance of himself,” said Mr. Hollis. “His policy was one of obstruction; he set out to make Parliament ridiculous, knowing that if he did so, the English would gladly grant Ireland’s Home Rule if only to get rid of him.
Leaders in Landlord Class
“The Irish leaders were all of the landlord class, and not especially enlightened landlords, so Parnell was forced to back the Agrarian policy in order to gain the full support of the people of Ireland,” continued Mr. Hollis. “The mistake of looking on the Irish landlords as the villains of the agrarian situation has always prevailed. True, the landlords did extract high rent from their tenants and punished them with eviction if they could not pay, but they only did so because they were themselves hopelessly indebted to the English banks, and they only exacted that which they owed to the bankers.
“Parnell was at loggerheads with .Parliament as well as with the Irish people. It was very difficult to decide how other* people ought to have behaved in the-face of Parnell's demand that lie continue in Parliament as the leaden of the Trish party. There can be, however, little hesitation in say-
Prof. Christopher Hollis Parnell was too proud.
ing how Parnell ought to have behaved. He certainly ought to have resigned and thus saved his friends and allies from the cruel decision of saying whether or not they should repudiate him. There can be no doubt that had he behaved so, Ireland would have had her freedom some thirty years earlier than she did.” .
Charles Joseph Boyle, has connections with the S.A.C., the Wranglers, and Duluth, Minn. . . . Cold spells are nothing to him . . . Enjoys Indiana’s mild winters. . . . Majors in Economics and intends to make America insurance conscious . . . Makes roomie Achilles Moorman conscious by wearing his brown pants.
Is the guardian of Duluth gals across the lake . . . Hurries over when one gets homesick . . . Waited until his third year to experience dorm life . . . Led all “sessions’ with his tall stories of Duluth life. . . .
Will receive a rent bill at the end of year for the afternoon naps he takes in Tancredi’s room . . . Keeps Nick in condition with light bouts down in Sorin’s sub . . . From experience, he picks. Cy Connors in coming Bengal Bout. ...
Was unanimously voted by the submen to possess the nastiest laugh. . . . Doesn’t go with his usually pleasant smile . . . Worked last summer in a warehouse where he spent a week enforced by some labor difficulties. . . . And brick-bats on the outside . . . He won’t admit he was a strikebreaker. ...
• . Used to be a member of an athletic duet with his track brother Eddie ... Prefers to rest on his laurels and modestly admits that all great athletes come from Minnesota. All great girls, also . . . And of course, he is chairman of . the Wash- . ing Day exercises . . . He’ll wave the fag....
Debaters Open Season With Pair of Contests
By Harold A. Williams
The Notre Dame debating squad opened its 1936 season in the Engineering Building auditorium on February 18 against St. Viator College, of Bourbonnais, Ill. It was a nodecision contest.
The question discussed was, “Resolved, that Congress have power to over-ride, by a two-thirds majority vote, decisions of the Supreme Court declaring laws by Congress unconstitutional.” Notre Dame upheld the affirmative.
' Proctor Presides
Mr. Buttgen and Mr. Black represented St. Viator, while John Mar-bach and Robert Burke spoke for Notre Dame. Thomas Proctor, president of last year’s Senior class, acted as chairman. The constructive speeches were limited to twelve minutes; the rebuttals, to five minutes.
The three main points stressed by the affirmative to bring out their contention that Congress should have -final power were: the Supreme Court exercises too judicial a role; was too conservative in its actions; and it has handed down decisions which have retarded the United States in needed social reform.
The main contention made by the negative was that until the new system could be proved better than the existing one, the present form of government is the more suitable, and that the individual rights and liberties of man are not violated under the present working of the Supreme Court.
The Notre Dame team met the Uni-
Debater Richard Meier Upheld the negative.
versity of Pennsylvania’s. debate squad yesterday in the Engineering building. The question discussed was the same as used in Tuesday’s debate, and no decision was given. Robert Schmelzle and Richard Meier upheld the negative for Notre Dame. Mr. Kety and Mr. Deibler represented the Universit yof Pennsylvania.
The Scholastic
Eight
Musical Comedy Cast is Rehearsing Daily
Singing and orchestral units of “Tune In,” the two act musical comedy to he presented by the Glee club and University singer's, dancers, and. musicians, on the evenings of March 28 and 29 are taking definite shape. Because of the unusual ar-ray of tuneful me^°^es’ cas^ is rehearsing with keen enthusiasm. •
Director Joseph J. Casasanta has been drilling the leads in their solos at special rehearsals this week. The play centers about a broadcasting station, and the players must learn the technique of “mike” singing. The orchestra, always an integral part of any broadcast, is being specially trained simultaneously with the cast.
The glee club proper composes the choral background of the comedy. In the script the members are described as technicians, and general employees about the radio station. Every opportunity is being used by Prof. Casasanta to present the chorus in as many numbers as possible.
Love songs, ballads, and snatches of opera -are contained in the book of “Tune In.” On Saturday afternoons, strains of music from Washington Hall sound like a mixture of a Forty-Second street revue and the Metropolitan Opera.
FR. DUFF LECTURE (Continued from Page 5)
November, 1921, the entire nation stood for two minutes in silent tribute to the unknown soldier who was being interred at the Memorial Amphitheatre outside of Washington.
In speaking of this, Father Duff declared, “More than one mother really thought that it was her son who was being buried; more than one thought it was his buddie who was being placed in the grave.”
Father Duff concluded his lecture with an appeal to the young men of today to fight “for the maintenance of loyalty, obedience, courage, honesty, and religion, the qualities which this unknown soldier fought and died for.”
EXAM PAPERS
The University of Alaska has been closed because of a scarlet fever epidemic.
A Harvard zoologist risked his life to enter his burning home the other day. He was after a set of corrected exam papers.	'
RIORDAN LAUDS SCHOLARSHIPS OFFERED SOPHOMORES IN MARINE CORPS
“I consider this an excellent opportunity for those students who are interested to gain valuable training,” declared Mr. Robert Riordan, Registrar of the University, and an officer in the national guard of this district, when interviewed regarding the six Marine Corps Reserve Platoon Leader’s Scholarships that are now available to sophomores. “Since the school has no organized military training,” he said, “the plan should be particularly popular here.”
Mr. Riordan spoke of the value of such officers’ training, not only to the nation but to the individual concerned, in time of emergency. In the event of a war the men so trained would become officers with the rank of second lieutenant in the Marine Corps.
The Rev. Francis Boland, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, said that announcements giving full information will be posted in all the sophomore halls during the coming week. The
Registrar Robert Riordan “. . . an excellent opportunity.”
applicants will first present themselves to the rectors of their respective halls. The only qualifications necessary are good moral standing, qualities of leadership, and proficiency in studies.
There are two annual training periods of six weeks each in the summer- of the student’s sophomore and junior years. At the completion of this course, and- upon graduation from college, he will receive, a commission as second lieutenant in the Marine Corps Reserve. This training will be given at the Marine Barracks at Quantico, Va.
While in camp each student will
Campus Radio Station To Have New Programs
By Gregory Byrnes
During the past week the new series of departmental radio programs was inaugurated by eight additional periods of broadcasting from the campus studios. Some of the more out
in the life and work
standing programs were as follows:
At 4:30 Monday afternoon, James J. McGinity, AB 1, gave some unusual facts of John Keats.
At 7:30 in the evening, Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C., director of the Moreau Seminary choir, spoke on “Hymns and Antiphonal Types,” using the choir to illustrate his lecture. The regular Monday evening faculty lecture, broadcast over both WSBT
and WIND, was delivered by Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science, who spoke of “Religion and Science.” Father Wenninger, pointed out that there is no real conflict between, the Catholic religion and modem science.
Law Program
On Tuesday afternoon at 4:30, Professor Francis E. Moran, of the Department of English, gave an address entitled “Word Collecting.” Mr. Moran discussed words as to their history, function, and general classification. In the 15 minute program presented at 7:30 Tuesday evening, Edward O’Connor began the series entitled “Headline Personalities” with a brief sketch of the life and work of the movie director, Darryl Zanuck. On Wednesday at 7:30 John Locher and Art Sandusky, the directors of the Law program called “You The Defendant,” discussed the question: Has Guilt a Defense?
Joe Boland, of the varsity coaching staff, inaugurated his series called “Athletics in Education” on Thursday afternoon at 4:30. Mr. Boland will be heard every week at this time. Next week he will interview* some of the coaching staff. The Friday evening program, “Science at Work,” was conducted by Ed Kenefake and Al Hiegel who spoke on radio.
receive room, board, clothing, and pay of $30 a month. If ,when commissioned, he decides to remain in active service in the Marine Corps, he will be paid $125 per month plus $58 for quarters and subsistence. If he remains in the Reserve Corps he will be paid only in accordance with the amount of time per week which he spends in active participation in the activities of the reserve unit of his district.
February 2 I, 1936
Nine
SMILING SWEETHEARTS, MUTED MUSIC,	Plans For Swimming Meet
LOW LIGHTS IN PAST PROM PARADES Submitted for SAC Action
By John A. Gillespie
Everything connected with the Junior Prom is not sweetness and light, muted music, and smiling sweethearts. Strip off some of the glamor, and what do you find?
It all started last May when the Sophomore Class elected its officers for this year. Then it was that the skeleton of the Prom was constructed. Committees were dealt out, voters were thanked, and losers told to try again. Great projects call for equally great plans. So as you take
the polish off the Palais Royale floor, remember election day of last May, the springboard of the Prom.
The first junior class dance was held in 1907, and, according to the Dome’s record of the premier Promenade, customs and people have changed very little: “The inviting cozy corners, in different parts of the hall, gave evidence of their enticing qualities not a few times during the evening.”
Preparations for this evening’s gayety were launched during the past Christmas vacation. A few girls from the East, thinking that Notre Dame was in Pennsylvania or Connecticut, accepted bids to the Prom. When they discovered that the trip was long and tiring, as well as costly, they regretted their rashness, and switched to the Dartmouth Winter Carnival.
Every year presents new and funny misunderstandings, broken dates, and impeded romances. Word came to us of a particularly annoying and embarrassing complications. At Christmas, an Easterner extracted a premise from a home-town girl to visit Notre Dame tonight. About a week ago, she wired that the snow and cold would make the journey impossible.
So the frantic third-year man turned to St. Mary’s, where his request for a partner was granted. Skies cleared, and tails went to the
Ten
cleaners. But the wind shifted, and the storm came. His original date sent a second message: she would come, if the bid still held good. Who’s crying into her pillow tonight?
It seems that a good band is the rule rather than the exception at the Prom. The 1922 Dome tells us that “At 9 o’clock Isham Jones stopped the chatter and the laughter of the groups, which were already in the ball-room.” What will the Dome of 1936 say about the notes of Bernie Cummins? History is in the making.
Some indication of the importance of the Prom to the attending beauties can be obtained by the news that many St. Mary’s girls will wear their very best gowns, sent from home. Our scout assures us that the lassies are just too, too excited.
A junior from Alumni received a crude attempt at subtlety a few days ago. Underneath is door came a short letter from a girl with whom he had not corresponded for several months. Aimless remarks about such banalities as the weather, exams, and his health comprised the body of the
letter. But the post-script read: “I hear your class is holding a dance on February 21.” Only his marvelous
Editorial note: We print the following communication because the sender is justified in his demand for a continuation of the annual S.A.C. sivimming meet. For further editorial comment refer to page IS.
Editor of The Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind.
During the flood of attacks on the inactivity of the Student Activities Council, there was one answer which always stood out, “Please tell us what you want done?”
The purpose of this letter to The Scholastic is to fulfill the wish of the S.A.C.—to tell them what they could do.
In past years the S.A.C. has conducted a very well managed swimming meet. Now is the time of the year for an indoor meet.
If the S.A.C. would like to know how to go about it, I would suggest the following plan:
1.	Get the official authorization.
2.	Secure the cooperation of the South Bend Natatorium manager (which can be easily done).
3.	Determine a good schedule of events
4.	Provide for fitting prizes (medals have been awarded in previous years).
5.	Give the meet adequate publicity.
There are many in school who are excellent swimmers, and who would appreciate such an opportunity as this. Giving a swimming meet to the students who elected them, moreover, would not be a great expense on the S.A.C. members, and could be easily drawn from the fund which the S.A.C. has on hand.
—R. T. B.
restraint kept him from answering “So what?”
When one man promised that he would bring on a bevy from a girls’ school in Pennsylvania, three of his friends thanked him and thought no more of the matter. Now the promiser has his meals brought to his room and wears dark glasses — the girls withdrew from the field, of entries.
That the dance is popular there is no doubt. The Juniors may be outnumbered by the Seniors. The men of ’36 will probably take notes for their Ball.
We hope that every rented car runs perfectly; that the night is clear and crisp; that all the girls whose pictures appeared in the local papers are satisfied with their images; that — well, that everything is as it should be. Let joy be only slightly confined (until 2:00).
The Scholastic
Catholic Oratorical Finals
Will Be Held April 4-5
THE WEEK
The annual Indiana Catholic Oratorical Contest, sponsored by the Wranglers, honorary forensic society of the University, will he held in Washington hall, April 4-5, President Eugene Malloy announced this week.
Charles F. Myers, chairman of the I.C.O., has invited 18 Catholic high schools in the state to send finalists to compete for the Joseph McNamara trophy, donated by the deputy attorney general of Indiana.
The 1936 I.C.O. will differ from preceding contests in that the former elimination trials, by which only six contestants reached Notre Dame, has been dropped, and the entire contest will be run off in the two day session.
Medals To Be Awarded
The semi-finals will be held April 4, and the finals on the following day. The winner of the final will receive a trophy for his school and a gold medal for himself. Second place will be rewarded with a silver medal, and the remaining four contestants will be awarded burnished gold medals.
The judges for the contest will not be named until later, but Chairman Myers declared that the judges for the semi-finals will include a member of the Wranglers, a past-president of that organization, and a member of the faculty. Judges for the finals will include the president of the Wranglers, a member of the faculty, and a member of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
Jerome O’Dowd, representing Catholic Central High School of Fort Wayne, was last year’s winner with his oration entitled, “State Aid To Catholic Schools,” while the entrant from Reitz Memorial of Evansville, Joseph Hammerstein, placed second with “Lest We Forget.”
In the 1935 contest, Catholic Central of Fort Wayne, St. Mary’s of Anderson, Catholic Central of Hammond, Reitz Memorial of Evansville, Catholic Central of South Bend, and Cathedral High of Indianapolis were represented.
PRESS CLUB
Members of the Press Club heard an informal talk delivered by Paul R. Martin, editorial writer of the South Bend News-Times Thursday afternoon, Feb. 13, in the cafeteria.
“An Ideal Managing Editor,” was Mr. Martin’s subject in which he paid tribute to the memory of Henry Justin Smith, late managing editor of the Chicago Daily News. He pointed out that Mr. Smith had known every member on his staff and helped them to become successful writers.
By Andrew D. Hufnagel
Any comparison between Notre Dame and Tin Pan Alley would be altogether far-fetched and out of ■replace. On the other hand, the University isn’t entirely without a num-ber of individuals whose T ability to write music in the modern manner might give the observer an opportunity to see at least a partial similarity between our institution and New York City’s famous melody row. Tom Bott and Joe Casasanta, for instance, have often revealed an adeptness at composing original dance tunes of an above average quality. But Mr. Norbert Anthony Engels, A.M., Associate Professor of English, is the dean of all local “jazz” song writers. He’s deserved that title ever since he wrote a piece called “Matrimonial Blues.
•
You can depend upon our little feminine friends from St. Mary’s to do the sporting thing. Last Sunday they took their turn in holding one of those sleigh riding parties for the benefit of their pals on this campus. Everything went smoothly until the fellows decided that they wanted to see if the horses, still harnessed to the sleighs, could jump the many fences along the Indiana countryside. Feminine logic prevailed, however, and everything ended happily at the Oldenburg Inn with a hot meal and a little dancing. It might be worth mentioning that one chaperon was assigned to keep an eye on Ralph Cardinal this time.
One little error threatened to throw into chaos tomorrow’s ceremonies which involve the presentation of an American flag to the University by the members of the senior class. It goes without saying that great stress is laid on the importance of using one kind of flag, and only one kind, in this traditional custom which takes place every year on Washington’s birthday. Well, you can understand the consternation of the authorities when informed that, by mistake of course, a Japanese flag was on its way here instead of an American one. Fortunately, the error was perceived in time, and tomorrow’s ceremonies will be conducted in every way according to tradition.
•
Local boy makes good in a great big way! Achieves greatest honor ob
tainable in South Bend and vicinity! Such might be the headlines concerning Mansfield and his recent coup. Since the latest of Joe’s achievements has advanced him well on the way in his journey to the North Pole of the radio world, such publicity on the front pages of the South Bend newspapers w'ould not be out of place. All due respect must be paid to a man who has been given the important part of the sheriff on the Dan Dunn radio program.
Previous to Notre Dame’s engagement with the University of Kentucky’s basketball team, Parker Sullivan of Alumni had been living a miserable existence. Carlisle and Walker, two of the members of the Kentucky squad are intimate friends of his, having formerly played on the same high school team with Sullivan. It’s obvious, therefore, that the Ken-
tuckians in their letter to Parker should have predicted dire things for Keogan’s men and an uncomfortable evening for their friend when the Colonels performed in the local field house. Being only one against two, Sullivan had difficulty convincing them that the opposite would most likely be the case; so he decided to let the Notre Dame basketball team do all the talking with baskets. Well, it seems that our athletes talked so eloquently that when Parker met Carlisle and Walker after the game, the latter two were speechless.
We’re going to enjoy the Prom tonight. Goldman can’t dance; so he won't be there. For one night at least we’ll be free from his shadowing.
While we’re gone, don’t let him try to convince any of you that he’s a writer.
February 21, 1936
Eleven
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAFSMOKE
Through the keyhole - Top hat, white tie and tails; bouquet, gold pomps and fan; soft lights; softer music; (2 o’clock pers); and Bernie Cummins. And thus begins and ends the Prom of 1936. ’Tis a grand occasion and years from now many little fellows will up and say, “Tell me about the Prom of ’36, Pop.” . . . But there are other and just as important events that must be remembered. . . For example SIDDALL of Howard remaining in his room for approximately ten hours behind locked doors. Why? For the simple reason that someone told him his girl was in town and coming out to see
“Yeah, Fm one of the Committeemen”
him. At times, love takes on the most inexplicable form. . . .
One can easily imagine the Prom of many, many years ago. It constituted ruffles, cane, horse and sleigh, punch, and everything that today is looked upon as an absurdity when applied to a modern party. . . . Another absurdity is the remark made in the dining hall the other day by one of the well-known quarterbacks, “I don’t go dancing unless I’m nuts about the girl. ...”
“Will you waltz this one, Lizzie?” has been regretfully changed to “Come on, I’ll give you a break, kid.” . . . Time changes all men . . .
And so does the University laundry. Displayed on the Howard Hall bulletin board a few days ago was an old shirt under which was pinned a sign reading, “The result of a non-profiteering laundry.” If a straight jacket is not handy, grab a formal. This formula was proved the other* night by JOE DI MATTEO who got caught in his own tuxedo and was forced to sleep standing up . . . (Have a nice time at the Prom!) . . .
After finally winning one of those “name the Band” programs, JACK GILLESPIE gave away his two theatre passes because he erroneously thought he had seen the picture. Lindsey Phoebus took the passes, saw the show, and reported that the feature had been changed just that day.
“I don’t know me own strength. I steps up to the pulley, gives one easy tug and the gym almost flops down like Badin chapel,” says HANK LEDERER, ’38. . . . Don’t be too sophisticated tonight. It’s a warm reception that melts a cold shoulder . . . LEE DOUGLAS (of WSBT) makes some funny noises each morning which are suposed to come out as jokes. About the funniest yet was his announcement the other day that ran as follows: “And now—I’m in the Mood for Love,” said Mrs. Goldsmith . . . Nevertheless this Douglas fellow is - ■> useful as an alarm clock. He woke JOE “STATIC” MANSFIELD up the other morning.........	-
“All right now you prom trotters we want to take your picture.’ Be careful when you hear these words. In past years hundreds have been hurt in the scramble to get as near to the camera as possible.
But back to such items as JOE O’BOYLE and Betty Grable. The latter sent the former a picture with the inscription “bestest wishes.” “All I Have Is Yours,” was a request granted JAKE KOVALCIK over WSBT for none other than his own pride and joy back in Donora, Pa.
Oddities of the week: TOM VICARS of Walsh writing to a Miss Flanagan of Flanagan, Illinois; and . JIM BURKE of Sorin being roused from bed at three o’clock in the morning to trek across the quadrangle to the Main Building for a long distance telephone call from California. On the other end of the wire were a couple of Burke’s home town cronies who wanted to say hello!	.
And so off to the Prom, to the mu-
Advice—not to the boy or girl but to the Clock
Little clock on the wall, You got no feelings at all!
You got no sense of care.
Don’t you see the lovers there?
Keep your hands still—
Wait till she says ‘I will.’
Don’t go so fast—
It’s getting late.
She’s got to get home—
And he’s got an ‘eight.’
Valentine Day comes but once a year and “thank goodness,” say the hall mailmen.
Some of us wonder when:-----
It’s going to stop snowing.
A Senior can get all morning classes.
The Frosh will grow up.
The Seniors will get jobs.
The Juniors will become regular guys.
Marks won’t mean anything.
The folks will increase our allowance.
Our date will mean all she says.
The WEEK will stop running.
This nonsense will cease.
Extra
The most unusual scene in the . dining hall — the waiter who among other things walked into the kitchen with a beer bottle on his tray.
The Prom girl of 1900.
sic, to the date and to all that enhances youth ... You can have your Prom and all that it means but—we are off to the land of Rational Psychology and the Short Story. . . .
The Phoney Fellows.
Twelve
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 421 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C________________Faculty Adviser
JOHN S. MORAN_____________________________Editor-in-Chief
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST_____________________Managing-Editor
Departmental Editors
Andrew D. Hufnagei______________________________The Weefe
Irwin L. Goldman__________________________In the Juggler Vein
News Staff
Paul Foley______________________________________News Editor
Robert L. Grogan Assistant News Editor
John A. Gillespie ___________________________Feature Editor
Clifford F. Brown_____________________;___Anthony O’Boyle
Lindsay Phoebus___________________________Gregory Byrnes
Harold A. Williams___________________________John Hurley
Louis Da Pra------------------------------Albert Torribio
Sports Staff
Cyril F. Stroker________________________i___Co-Sports Editor
James A. Waldron____________________________Co-Sports Editor
Eugene Vaslett__________________________Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley James M. McMullen
Allen Bride________________________________________Arch Gott
.	Michael Crowe
Art Staff
William V. Ellis___________________________________Art Editor
Francis Kroeger-----,_______________________Daniel Sherrod
William R. Dooley, ’26_____________________________Business Manager
Memher Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest
February 21, 1936
,	MINOR SPORTS
D URING the past few weeks there has been a revival of interest in three minor winter sports—boxing, hockey, and indoor swimming.
On page seven will be found a story announcing the j selection of March 20 as the date for the annual Bengal Boxing Bouts sponsored by The Scholastic. The response this past week to the first call for boxers points toward one of the most successful shows in the history of the bouts. The appeal directed to those who merely r	wish to learn the fine points of boxing, under an experi-
t	enced tutor, has resulted in a large turnout of eager
. candidates.
With the erection of a hockey rink by Director of Athletics Elmer Layden, interest in hockey has been noh ticeably revived. Several contests have already been scheduled, and The Scholastic hopes this may be the * first step in making hockey a recognized minor sport at the University.
In this issue we are printing a letter from an under’ graduate in which the suggestion is made that the S.A.C. again sponsor, as in past years, a swimming meet to de> termine campus aquatic champions. We believe the idea February 21, 1936
an excellent one, as it affords the S.A.C. a chance to encourage this popular indoor sport.
Until the Rockne Memorial is built, lack of space and equipment will necessarily retard efforts to develop a well-rounded winter interhall sports program. In the meantime, it is gratifying to note the interest shown in these three minor sports, and we hope that this interest will be encouraged as much as possible.
•
THE TOWNSEND PLAN
TT HE average college man is little interested in the great political issues of the day. This is unfortunate, for it is to the graduates of our universities that the less educated should look for leadership when seemingly plausible schemes such as the Townsend Plan sweep the country.
The Townsend Plan should have a particular interest for the college undergraduate since it is, in essence, a proposal to tax the younger element in society for the support of those over sixty. The university graduate of today does not face a difficult enough task in fitting himself into a highly competitive and chaotic economic order —the smooth-talking Dr. Townsend would also impose an excessive burden on the younger worker.
The plan, apart from certain undesirable social results, reeks of bad economics. In the February issue of Review of Reviews, Donald R. Richberg presents some rather disillusioning figures for the exponents of the Townsend Plan. Twenty-four billion dollars would be needed to carry out this scheme, yet our national income is not-much more than seventy-two billions per year. Hence, the proposed two per-cent transaction tax to raise the necessary money would in reality be taking from every worker one-third of his income. The plan is unjust, impractical, and dangerous. Its burden will fall heavily on the poorer working classes and, more to the point, on the young man trying to set himself up in business.
While a Townsend family of two would have a monthly income of four hundred dollars, the younger workers would be eking out a bare living and yet be forced to contribute heavily to keep these non-productive • members of society in comparative luxury. One-third of the national income going to this unproductive onetwelfth of the nation would mean hardship to thousands.
The passage of the Townsend Act should be opposed vigorously by every college man old enough to vote. Tremendous pressure will be brought on Congress this fall, by local groups, for the passage of the bill. The support of the younger voters will be necessary to counteract this harmful influence. Although the Townsend advocates are not in the majority, it is well to remember that a well-organized minority once put over prohibition on the country. Should the act pass, the youth of America may ultimately be forced into near anarchy as an escape from a social system which saddles them with an oppressive and unjust burden before they even get started in the economic world.	-
Thirteen
ATHLETICS
IMPROVED PITT BASKETEERS HERE TOMORROW
PANTHER FIVE IN TOP FORM OF SEASON AS THEY AWAIT TRADITIONAL CONTEST
Brilliant Irish Fencers
Win Two More Matches
TEMPLE AND DUQUESNE, LATEST VICTIMS OF CARLSON'S COURT FIVE
By Gene Vaslett
A revived Pittsburgh basketball team will appear at the Notre Dame field house tomorrow night to do battle with the victorious Irish cage team now riding on the crest of a ten-game winning streak wave. The
George Ireland
He stopped the city slickers.
spectators, augmented by a large delegation of Prom-goers, are expected to reach capacity figures, as interest in the Pitt-Notre Dame basketball series has always been high in South Bend; and is now more so because of the “stopped-watch” incident of last year.
The Panthers and the Irish have met once before during the current season in a game that saw the overthrow of Pitt athletic domination by Notre Dame. The Irish won this game in stride, but since that game the Pitt team has shown a remarkable reversal of form and has been steadily climbing back to the heights of the basketball world where it had
enjoyed a long period of supremacy prior to this season. Last week the Smoky City boys defeated Temple, one of the three teams besides Notre Dame to hold decisions over N.Y.U. this year. When a team is able to defeat the Owls, it is looked upon as a tough customer for any basketball aggregation no matter how great its previous record. The Irish basketeers realize this and are not taking the game lightly because they defeated Pitt earlier in the season. All week long Coach Keogan has been working the team hard, rectifying mistakes made in the N.Y.U. game, and conditioning his players that have been out of action for the last few games. Ray. Meyers, scrappy little forward, is expected to take part in tomorrow night’s game after a long absence because of a knee injury suffered earlier this year. Tom Jordan, sophomore guard, who has been out with a cold, is also anticipating playing against the Panthers.
George Ireland, who has been troubled with a bad cold, will be in the opening line-up. Ireland did a magnificent job of guarding the high scoring N. Y. University forwards, and is also a valuable asset to Notre Dame in the scoring column.
The most recent victim of the Panther’s vastly improved form has been their city rival Duquesne. On last Tuesday evening the Dukes were thoroughly humiliated by losing to a reputably weak Pittsburgh team, 46 .to 41. Dr. Carlson, eminent mentor of the visiting aggregation, develops great basketball teams. This season’s quintet started off very disastrously, but has really hit its stride within the last three weeks. The tilt at the fieldhouse tomorrow night promises to be both as close and hard fought as are all the Irish-Panther battles.
Pete “High” Noon, lanky Pitt center who has shown a great development in playing ability since the first Irish-Pitt game, will be ready for the opening whistle tomorrow night. Noon figured prominently in the Temple defeat last week and naturally hopes to aid his mates in defeating this Notre Dame team that has established such a great record thus far this year.
Staging two of the most exciting comebacks in the history of local fencing the Notre Dame fencing team came through with their 11th and 12th consecutive victories last weekend. Ohio State was the first victim, the meet being on Friday night.
The contest began disastrously for the Irish—they soon discovered themselves at the short end of a 5-2 count in the foil matches. After a short
Carlos and Pedro de Landero
The father coaches the son.
rally they brought the score up to 5-4. In the foils Co-captain Kehoe won from Caplin and lost to Craig and Voss; Telmo de Landero won from Craig and Caplin, but was trimmed by- Voss; Bob Seco put up a fine defense to trim Amster, but he slipped and lost to Craig and Voss of the Buckeyes. In the sabers the Irish Co-captains Kehoe and Carlos de Landero won three out of four tilts and brought the score to the Notre Dame balance, 7-6. Finally the Epee section of the meet was in progress, and it was one sensational session. Jack MacAuliffe opened with a loss to Amster, 2-0, Kehoe following with a loss to Voss of Ohio State. Only
'	- (Continued on Page 20)
Fourteen
The Scholastic
N. D. Track Team Beats Marquette, 49 1-3—41 2-3
NOTRE DAME SHELLACKS NEW YORK U.
UPHOLDING INDIANA'S NET PRESTIGE
“Passing the buck” may be a favorite means of diversion in diplomatic circles, but in the Notre Dame fieldhouse circles “passing the baton” is by all means one of the most advanced of arts.
Coach John P. Nicholson has this Grecian track manoeuver so near perfection amongst his proteges that they just seemed invincible in Marquette track circles—to use another roundhouse term. For the second
Jos McGrath Hotfooted the mail, Saturday.
straight year and by means of the same identical method the Marquette thinlies were outcircled, to again use that same round-house vernacularity, by a score of 49 1/3 to 41 2/3.
The Irish were leading the Hill-toppers 44 1/3 to 41 2/3 with the relay race about to be run. Rubly, Nick’s lead-off man, picked up two yards in the first leg of this final event. Pete Sheehan increased Notre Dame’s lead to four yards on the second leg, Parsons, who accepted the baton from Sheehan, picked up eight yards on his two turns around the dirt track to give Bob Bernard a substantial lead which he held to the finish.
Joe McGrath put on a driving finish to down Captain Beckett of the visitors in the 880 yard run. This was a surprising ■victory according to advance information, and was wholly unexpected by Nick. The time was 1:58.
Don Elser set a new meet as well as gymnasium record in the shot put with his heave of 48 feet, 834 inches.
Pandjiris, of the Jenningsmen, was the high scorer of the meet. He won both the low and high hurdle races. In the first heat of the latter hurdle event a queer incident took place. Three Irish runners, Mahoney,- Elser, and Johnson, were running to qualify two for the final. All three Irish athletes were disqualified for upsetting two or more hurdles each. This gave the losers five points without having to have Pandjiris run the finals for the high hurdles.
“The South Bend quintet started off with a demonstration of speed and power fairly breathtaking and was never in danger of losing. It ran the very able and hard - fighting Violet team ragged, and convinced the most Eastern enthusiasts that the finest basketball is not played in New York.”—Edwin Dooley in New York Sun.
“In contrast to Notre Dames highly polished play, N.Y.U. was ragged, uncertain and profligate in its throwing away of scoring chances from point blank range. This latter weakness was especially pronounced in the second half, when Notre Dame began to feel the effects of its torrid pace and so concentrated on defense and control of the ball rather than seriously attempting to widen a lead that at one time in the period reached eighteen points.”—Everett B. Morris in New York Herald Tribune.
“Did you know that the Irish still own New York? Take that Notre Dame team now. There’s a passel o’ rogues, me fair colleens! And Paul Nowak, that red warring Tipperary lad, leading them through the gore. Faith, and when Notre Dame hits this, town, be it football, basketball or plain country shillalah flailing, Broadway looks like South Bend’s Main Street. What a wake they held for N.Y.U. last night! Shining Irish eyes in the best seats. Honest pug noses in the gallery. And that Nowak, a broth of a lad with a wee touch of Slav in him, whaling the daylights out of New York’s old champs!
“The final score was 38 to 27, but sure, that only a detail. It was the way those Irish lads swept N.Y.U. right off its feet that had the crowd roaring like the banshee at a murder. Them as said New Yorkers played the best basketball in the world held their tongues this night. Is it basketball you want? Then you’d better get an ancestor who played ‘hurley’.
“It was the cool classy style of the Irish that kept N.Y.U. in the bog. At no time were the bouncing boys from South Bend disturbed. They passed the ball like a faro banker deals cards. They feinted like a flock of Jim Corbetts. And they shot like Fin McCool’s aiming at an Englishman— for keeps!” — Tom Reilly in the New York World-Telegram.
Irish Were Never In Danger
The hoopsters of Notre Dame turned in their greatest victory of the past two years last Friday night as they ran roughshod over the highly praised New York University cage aggregation, 38-27, before the packed galleries and boxes of Madison Square
John Hopkins
Ten points for the home town folks.
Garden. The crowd that witnessed the game totaled nearly 19,000, the largest assemblage ever to witness a basketball game in New York City.
The defeat was the first suffered by the Violets in three years on a New York City court and the first defeat they have ever taken while playing on the Madison Square Garden court which has practically been their home court ever since big time basketball moved into the Garden two years ago. The restricted court space did not seem to hamper the Irish as they swept up the court in inspired sallies on the N.Y.U. basket. The only thing that did seem to hamper Notre Dame wras the apt dribbling employed by the N.Y.U. players in their desperate attempts to score on the team from South Bend. The Irish capitalized on the roughness of the Violets by scoring 14 points from free throws that were given them as a result of the fouling tactics used by the New Yorkers.
The Irish could have been playing on their home court as far as spectator support was concerned. When the Notre Dame squad came on the Gardlen court to warm up, the cheers that greeted them tripled in volume those rendered for New York. Every Irishman who was lucky enough to secure a ticket had crowded himself into the Garden to support his team from South Bend, adopted or otherwise.
The Violets started the game by (Continued on Page 20)
February 2 I, 1936
'Fifteen
INTRODUCING
University Gym Team May Give Campus Exhibition
By Cy Stroker
Room 409 of Walsh hall is an interesting room. It is interesting because its walls are decorated with countless pennants, banners, pictures, and signs; and it is the modest boast of the occupants of the room that there is not a square inch of bare wall visible in any one place. Amidst this display of the colors of Northwestern, Purdue, Rutgers, et al., of advertisements of “Three Men on a Horse,” and of pictures of mamma, papa, and at lea§t four girl friends,
dwell Matt Themes and roomie Paul Rubly, — quarter miler, relay man, and subject of this column.
Paul Rubly has been a member of Coach Nicholson’s track team for three years as a long distance runner. He competes in the quarter mile, in which event he comes in quite regularly second or third, and in the one mile relay, in which he quite regularly comes in first. Not the least of his abilities is the fact that, once given the lead in the race, there is hardly a man who can pass him.
Paul is a product of Highland Park, Illinois, where he was born 22 years ago and where he was educated
at Immaculate Conception grade school and Deerfield Shields High school. It was at this high school that he first began his track activities. Under the direction of Coach Deek Walters who established a reputation by setting records in the quarter and half mile on the same day while a student at Iowa State. Paul began to run the sprints, quarter, and half mile events foi* his high school team. He competed in high school track for two years in 1930
and 1931. In 1931 he was a member of the team that won the two mile relay event in the Drake relays. That year the same, team competed in the Stagg Interscholastic meet in Chicago and set a world’s record for the event which still holds. The time was 8 minutes, 9 and 3/10 seconds, 9 seconds faster than the old record.
Paul stayed out of school a year before coming to Notre Dame, but once arrived here, made for himself a permanent berth on the track squad. Starting with the Marquette meet of his sophomore year, he has competed in every track meet since, and is considered to be one of the (Continued on Page 20)
The gym team, under the direction of Mr. John Scannell, head of the Physical Education Department, has been very busy this winter demonstrating their activities before the various high schools of
The program calls for performances on the horizontal bar, parallel bars; and features tumbling, elephant vaulting, Indian club and wand drills. The Phillip Walker duration of each entertainment generally requires 50 or 60 minutes.
This is the third year in which this group has been an official organization. The physical education men are contemplating a show to be given in the near future on the campus.
The personnel of the team is as follows: Phil Walker, captain, Harold Hauser, Frank Maxwell, Joe Donnino, Bill Saffa, Larry Palkovic, Mark Shiel, Hubert Gallagher, Don Hennessy, Joe More, Larry Danbom, Pat McCarthy, Andy Puplis, Phil Galletto^ Joe Sternad, and Bob Sullivan.
COLLEGIATE BILLIARD TOURNEY STARTS SOON
The dates of the annual national intercollegiate billiard championship tournaments have been announced by the Association of College Unions, sponsors of the events, through its president, Carl Lauterbach of Rochester University. The National Billiard Association of America will, as during the past four years, lend advisory aid.
The pocket billiards tourney will be held on February 27; straight rail on March 5; and three-cushions on March 12.
The tournaments are conducted by telegraph, each college using a uniform set of key-shots, which were drawn up before the first intercollegiate competition five years ago by' Charles C. Peterson, noted billiard authority and today called “The Father of Intercollegiate Billiards.” The highest score determines the winner. Each entrant sends their scores to the tournament headquarters. Cornell University has been selected as tournament headquarters this year.
Approximately 55 leading colleges are expected to compete in this year’s tournaments, including Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Purdue, Brown, Michigan, .Kansas, Rochester, North Carolina, Cornell, Duke, Indiana, Iowa State, Notre Dame, Michigan State, and Minnesota.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
Coach Kline Issues Call
For Battery Candidates
Coach Jake Klein issued the first call for baseball practice last Tuesday to battery candidates. Quite a sizeable turnout greeted the coach who announced that battery workouts would be held every afternoon at 2 o’clock from now until the weather allows regular outdoor workouts. The gym is the scene of these daily sessions which will find the boys merely limbering up for a few weeks until they loosen some of the winter kinks.
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By Joe Prendergast
Jake Kline
A tentative schedule has been arranged including many Big Ten teams but it will not be published until it has been verified by the Athletic Department. There are still some open dates due to the cancellation
of the Southern trip. There had been some hope of the team heading South during the Easter vacation; however certain difficulties necessitated the change of plans.
HE Irish athletic teams reaped all kinds of victories and plaudits ovei- the past week-end. The basketball combine under Coach Keogan stormed into New York and swash-buckled the vaunted and able Violet Cannoneers of New York University off the court, 38 to 27; the track team, for the second year- in succession and by the identical same method—winning the relay, captured a thrilling track meet from Marquette, 49 1/3 to 41 2/3; and the Notre Dame fencing team foiled their way to touching victories over both Ohio State and Chicago, the score in both matches being 9 to 8 in the Irishers’ favor.
It was the most successful week-end of sport fbr the Irish reams that this correspondent can remember—save one, that delightful and eventful Saturday last October when Irish stars fell on Columbus. The netmen’s victory in Gotham was given the lion’s share of the sport pages and justly so—in New York, but here on the campus the most significant feat was the hard-fought wins which were garnered by Coach Pedro de Landero’s duellists. The fencing team has won four straight meets this season, seven straight last season, and the last match of their 1934 schedule which compiled, makes a total of twelve consecutive victories. The record was established against the highest class of opposition. Chicago, Ohio State, Illinois, Michigan State, Purdue, and Wittenberg all have felt the sting of the Irish rapiers who overcame these teams and many more in establishing this remarkable and deserving record. Their next meet is on the 29th of this month when they line up against Purdue here. An undefeated season seems to be in the making from the looks of things, and looks don’t lie in this feint and touch game.
At this early date it is doubtful as to the caliber team that Coach Klein will turn loose in his first Spring tilt but there is a wealth of strong material returning from last season. The pitching department received a blow last week when it was learned that Charley Brogan, star freshman pitcher of last year, was declared ineligible. Nevertheless the hurling department will not be weak with Matt “Streaky” Themes, tall and powerful twirler, returning to achieve bigger and better triumphs. Then there is another veteran in the person of Fred “Lefty” Rydell whose technique has improved with consistent rapidity. Rydell specializes in tricky curves while Themes is an expert at the old fireball.
In the catching job we find Frankie Gaul, the captain of the team for 1936. Frank has more than enough of the skill and pepper which go to make up a swell catcher. Along with such other men as Pilney, Velcheck, Fromhart, Wentworth, the Irish team will have new added strength rising from freshman ranks. Meanwhile in emulation of their big league brethren who go to training camps this week, the ballplayers will go through the seige of getting into shape during the next month.
ODD MAN WINS
The “Four-Minute Men” are at it again. Tomorrow night in the N. Y. Carden three of those 4-minute-odd-seconds milers, Cunningham, Venzke, and Mangan, will participate in another torrid affair. It is the National A.A.U. meet, and the distance is 1500 meters —120 yards less than a mile. This trio of runners will be out there on the track tomorrow to prove to the populace at large that they are still tops in this event, but three of them can’t prove this, so the result seems to be a new record. Glenn Cunningham, that Prairie Iron Horse from Kansas, has been beaten in his last two times out against Venzke and Mangan. Joe Mangan, former Cornell star, accomplished the envied feat at the Boston A.A. games on Feb. 8, and Gene Venzke, senior at the University of Penn, ran second to Mangan at the B.A.A. games, and last week at the
N.Y.A.C. games at New York he defeated his arch foe by four yards to win the very old Baxter mile. Mangan did not compete in last week’s meet in New York, but he will be in the race tomorrow evening from start to finish.
Cunningham will run one of the smartest and hardest races of his career tomorrow, you can rest assured of that, for he is a silent fighter and will be seeking to retain his title which he won in this event last year. There is no love lost between Mangan and Cunningham because of a certain crowding incident that occurred in one of their duels this season, and Venzke and Cunningham have always been “that other way” about each other. It is hoped that the broadcast of this event will go on the air, so keep your ears open, my frans.
February 2 1, 1936
Seventeen
SORIN AND WALSH HALLS STILL LEAD COMPETITORS IN INTERHALL RACE
By James A. Waldron
Play Crucial Game Sunday
By Al Bride
The second round in the throw-it-up-and-pray league brought forth several close contests, a few runaways, and two forfeits. Sorin again proved invincible and ran wild over their gold coast class mates from Howard in chalking up their second win of the season. Brownson and
Walsh heavyweights also kept step with the Sorin Tigers by winning their second straight victories. In the lightweights both Brownson and Walsh continued their winning streak.
Last year’s champions, Corby, returned to the fray for the first time this season and were hard pressed
by the sophomores from Lyons until
the last quarter.
In the last quarter the boys by the lake spurted and managed to double the score by the time the final whistle sounded. Several of last season’s veterans were absent, and with the new men
Patrick Malloy, jr. jn the lineup Corby’s play at time was ragged, and was not characterized by the smoothness that won them last year’s crown. Ned Joyce was high point man for the winners, and was closely followed by Hubie Gallagher. Castleman led the Lyon-ites in their struggle against the juniors.
Sorin proved that the previous week’s performance was no flash in the pan by snowing undei* the Howard lads, 31-13. Sorin jumped into the lead and was never seriously threatened once play got under way. Wentworth continued his quest for all-hall honors by leading the victors. Big Don Elser took time out from his decathlon training to aid in the victory over the fellow seniors. Sorin’s passing, Wentworth’s keen eye for the hoop, and the tight defensive play of Pat Malloy, all combined to install Sorin as a favorite to cop the title.
In one of the day’s closest-battles Freshman bowed to the Brownson quintet, 15-12. The outcome of this contest was in doubt until the last few minutes when baskets by the boys from the dorm gave them the lead and the game. In this game the offense of both teams was ragged, and there wasn’t the passing and all around team play that leads to a successful attack. McMahon of Freshman Hall was the outstanding player
Interhall Basketball Results
Heavyweights: Sorin 31, Howard 13; Walsh 16, Morrissey 12; Corby 24, Lyons 12; Brownson 15, Freshman 12; Dillon 20, Off-Cantpus 15; Badin 23, St. Edward’s 22.
Lightweights: Walsh 23, Morrissey 10; Corby 26, Lyons 23; Brownson 26, Freshman 13; Dillon 2, Off-Campus 0 (forfeit); Sorin 2, Howard 0 (forfeit).
The schedule for Sunday follows:
Group I—Feb. 23: 9:00. Freshman vs. Dillon: 9:50. Carroll vs. Badin; 10:50. Off-Campus vs. Brownson : St. Edward's—bye.
Group II: 1:30, Sorin vs. Walsh; 2:20. Alumni vs. Corby; 3:10. Morrissey vs. Howard : Lyons—bye.
of this skirmish, garnering ten out of his team’s 13 points.
The closest and most exciting battle found the Badin team eking out a one point victory over the St. Edward’s five. This contest was well played and held the interest of the loyal onlookers who were cheering for their teams. The lead changed hands several times, and a final bucket by the Badinites brought them the decision. St. Ed’s displayed a smooth attack, and a defense that loosened up just enough to cost them the game. Badin combined speed, passing, and good shooting to win by the slim margin of one point. Ku-harich, Schwartz, and O’Riley were the outstanding for the winners.
. In another tight game the Walsh seniors downed the second year men from Morrissey, 16-12. Each of these teams showed a bettei' defense than offense, and as a result the ball went up and down the court many times without finding the way into the hoop.' It was the second win for the victors, and Morrissey’s second loss.
The Off-Campus boys finally found
Harold Reagan
their way through the snow drifts only to drop a well played contest to the first year men from Dillon. This game was close all the way through, and the g o 1 d masters finally iropped in the leld goals that
brought them victory.
In the lightweight division the preseason favorites, Walsh, had little trouble in downing Morrissey, 23-10. The defending champions displayed a great deal of power and reserve strength in defeating the hard fighting Morrissey men. Sherry’s height (Continued on Page 23)
DID YOU KNOW:
The last three-quarters of the great mile race in which Joe Mangan and Gene Venzke both finished ahead of Glenn Cunningham, was run in 3:04. That’s less than a second off the world indoor three-quarter mile mark of 3:03.4 . . . Chief among the pointgetters on the Army basketball team is Monk Meyer of gridiron fame. His
latest achievement was a total of seventeen points in the losing cause against Georgetown . . . Pete Barry played basketball with one professional basketball team for 24 years— the original Celtics. He is missing from the lineup this year for the first time since the team was organized in 1911 ... In a recent game between Joliet High and Thornton High of Harvey (Illinois) on the latter’s floor, it was so cold that the opposing coaches sat oh the bench with their feet in galoshes, and two of the players came on the floor with ear muffs on . . . Captain Pat Echols, West Point public relations counsel, predicts the Army will defeat the Notre Dame and Columbia elevens next Fall, but will have trouble with Navy. Princeton will play some first class opposition too, Captain.
BY A NOTRE DAME ROOTER
(Clipped from the Indianapolis News) When Notre Dame rolls up a score You hear high praise for Mr. Moir. The opposition says he’s fire, This sniping forward, Mr. Moir.
His dribble, pivot, stop and go ir-Pitates the guys who guard this Moir, He grabs the ball and says bon soir To all the boys, does Mr. Moir.
•
MUSSOLINI “BUYS AMERICAN”
Boyd Comstock of Los Angeles was appointed track coach of Italy’s track and. field team. Comstock, who coached Italians during the past season, was ordered to move his headquarters from Florence to Genoa because better weather will enable the athletes to start training earlier. During the past year, Italian athletes, under Comstock’s guidance, have established new native records in almost every distance.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
Six Difficult Games
Remain For Keoganites
MARCH 20, DATE OF BENGAL BOUTS; PURCELL, WELTER CHAMP MAY FIGHT MIDDLEWEIGHT
Coach Keogan’s competent eagers are being hailed by basketball experts as one of the season’s outstanding quintets, yet their position is similar to that of Elmer Layden’s grid-ders following the sensational upset over Ohio State. The Irish basketball team reached its peak by defeating two of the strongest aggregations in the country, Kentucky and New York
Ray Meyers Again ready for action.
University, within five days. The Irish hoopsters have six more teams to meet before the toughest schedule ever carded in Notre Dame basketball history is completed, and each of these six teams will be eager to crash the headlines with a victory over the Irish. Northwestern caught Notre Dame on the rebound from its peak in the Ohio State contest, and any let-down on the part of the basketbailers is liable to result in the same
disaster.
The ex-Irish jinx, Pittsburgh, will be the first to encounter the conquerors of N.Y.U. The Panthers will not only be anxious to down the team that was the first to defeat the N.Y.U. boys on the Madison Square Garden floor, but will be out to avenge the licking handed to them earlier in the season at Pittsburgh by Notre Dame. Pitt, in its past two appearances in the local fieldhouse has furnished Keogan’s charges with strong opposition. While the Panthers have been spotty this season, there is every indication that the contest tomorrow evening is going to provide the prom guests with plenty of excitement.
The following Tuesday another Big Ten team, Minnesota, moves in to tackle the Irish. The Gophers are a traditional rival and usually put on a game that keeps the Notre Darners stepping all the way. Minnesota holds an early decision over Ohio State who recently upset Indiana.
Butler is the next opponent on the (Continued on Page 20)
Gridiron Notes
New York— (ACP) —Predictions that intercollegiate football as it exists today “will be dead in 1942” unless drastic steps are taken immediately, and the loudest furore in years over the perennial problems of athletic subsidization and spectator drunkenness marked the close of the hectic 1935 gridiron season.
The “slow whistle,” increased use of laterals, side-line rules, gambling, the black-listing of officials, and a movement to put the posts back on the goal-line furnished minor headaches at coaches’ conferences here.
Major Griffin Attends
Outstanding amongz1935 developments was the forthright approval of aid to athletes by two big Southern conferences, the Dixie and Southwestern. A marked tendency to folow suit was noticeable all over the country.
The Dixie Conference voted that room, board, and tuition were no more than an athlete ought to get for his labors on the playing field, and Southeastern made a sudden decision in favor of above - board athletic scholarships. Despite the importance of the move, little excitement was evident in the comment that followed. It was generally recognized that the Southern schools were merely legalizing and admitting a common undercover practice.
Major John L. Griffin, Western Conference Mogul, was one of those viewing with alarm, as did officials of Southern Methodist, one-half of this year’s Rose Bowl clash, but the Universities of Texas and Kansas openly applauded. So did Prof. C. Willett, Pacific Coast Conference chairman. The attitude of the Eastern schools was one of indifference.
Blame for increased drunkenness. rowdiness wras laid squarely on the shoulders of the colleges themselves. For incidents such as Dartmouth’s twelfth man against Princeton, and the tearing down of the goal posts Before the completion of the Princeton-Yale game the schools have themselves to blame, said such outstanding footballers as Dr. Mal Stevens-of N.Y.U.; and the Board of Temperance, Prohibition and Public Morals of the Methodist Episcopal church dealt itself a hand with the statement that, “the leading teams are invariably followed to the field of battle by all of the barber shop sports of their home environment, (Continued on Page 20)
By James A. Waldron
The Bengal Boxing Show sponsored by The Scholastic -will be held on Friday, March 20, in the University gymnasium. Preliminaries will be run off on Monday and Tuesday night of the .same week.
When you speak of Bengal boxing champions, the name “Purcell” ranks at the top of the list. When the titleholders were crowned after last year’s show, Lou Purcell won the honors in the welterweight class while his senior brother, Phil, was co-holder of the light-heavy crown. Their father evidently believed in making certain that his boys could handle themselves, by having an instructoi- teach them the fundamentals. Before coming to Notre Dame, Lou entered and won the welterweight title of the C.Y.O. tourney held in his home town of Salt Lake City. Purcell entered the Bengal bouts in’his freshman year, and knocked out his opponent in the second round. Defending his crown last year, Lou fought his way into the finals where he faced Basil Gillespie.
Being a Junior in the Aeronautical Engineering, Purcell is having a difficult job trying to find time to condition himself. Having filled out considerably, Lou finds it impossible to make the welterweight class and defend his crown.
February 21, 1936
Nineteen
NEW YORK U. GAME (Continued from Page 15)
scoring three points while the Irish were held to none. Then George Ireland began to hit the basket from all angles and dropped three field goals in the first eight minutes of play and the Irish team was on its way. The Violets never caught up with it after the first two minutes of the game and at times Notre Dame was able to lead the New Yorkers by double their score.
At the end of the first half N.Y.U. trailed Notre Dame, 25-13. The spectators were waiting for a second half drive of the New York team but it failed to materialize and the Irish carried on their first half drive into the second half paced by Johnny Hopkins of northern New Jersey, who was playing on what was virtually his home town court. Hopkins was the individual star of the game scoring 10 points from mid-way in the first half to the end of the game. In the second half Johnny took the fire out of the New York offensive with his remarkable shooting from all spots on the court.
Toward the end of the game the Irish started to freeze the ball, and at one point kept it in their possession for three minutes, much to the disgust of the N.Y.U. team. But it tended to keep the Violets from scoring and had them scrambling madly for the ball.
Numerous fouls marked the game throughout, most of them committed
THE BENGAL ECLTG
Year’s Entertainment Bargain
March 20, 1936	University Field House
by N. Y. U. players. Two New York men, Captain Rubenstein and Terje-son, were withdrawn from the game because of fouls and “King Kong” Klein was taken out by Coach Cann Klein was also later taken out by Coach Cann. Nowak had eight free throws given to him and converted seven of them into points. The Violets had 16 personal fouls called upon them, to 12 by the Irish.
Johnny Ford, carrying on his ball hawking activities that have made him a stalwart of defence, kept pace with Hopkins in the scoring and tallied nine points to take scoring honors second only to Hopkins who gathered 12 points. Schulman, of N.Y.U., was high scorer for his team with seven points, six of them the results of three sparkling long shots from the middle of the court.
The summary:
Notre Dame (38) B F P
Moir, f ........ 113
Hopkins, f .— 4 2 2
Ford, f ..... 3 3 2
Nowak, c .... 17 1
Peters, c ... 0 0 1
Wade, sr .... 0 0 1
Wukovitz. g .... 0 0 0
Ireland, g .. 3 12
12 14 12
New York (27) B F P Schulman, f 3 1 2 Maidman. f 0 2 2 Geffen, f .— 0 0 1 Terjesen, c .. 1 1 4 Boardman, c 1 0 0 Klein, g ---- 10 3
Witty, g ---- 3 0 0
Carnevale, g 0 0 0 Strauss, g .— 0 0 0 Rubenstein, g 2 1 4
11 5 16
SIX GAMES REMAIN
(Continued from Page 19)
schedule, and the Irish will travel to Indianapolis to engage the hoopsters from that city. Butler boasts a decision over Purdue and has a strong
offense. However the Irish defeated the lads from Butler, 35-27, three weeks ago in one of the best games on the local court this year. On its home court Butler will be more dangerous than they were here.
On March 4 Ohio State comes here to meet Keogan’s boys. They have been in-and-outers this season, but from their victory over Illinois this week it appears that they will be decidedly in when they reach the local camp. Then there is the little matter of a football game to be settled.
The last two games will be played away from home, Marquette being met at Milwaukee, and University of Detroit at Detroit. Both opponents, while not outstanding, have teams that are capable of pulling an upset on their own floor.
Ray Meyers, one of the Irish’s sophomore court performers, who has been out with an injured knee for the past three weeks, has recovered and will be available for the rest of the season.
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 16)
most consistent men on the team. - He has never run the short distance events in collegiate meets.
He is now a senior in the College of Commerce where he is majoring in Business Administration. Intends to enter business upon graduation. Worked two summers in an investment house. Kept his legs in condition during the summer of 1935 by pushing a rickshaw at the World’s Fair. Has roomed with Matt Themes for three years, which he thinks to be an all-time record for endurance. Was vice-president of the Junior class last year. Plays a wicked game of pinochle. Goes a-sleighing at Sweetbriar whenever opportunity presents itself. Worked with Scrap Young in the patching and rubbing room of the gym last year. Intends to work his way to Europe this summer with Themes.
FOOTBALL MEETING
(Continued from Page 15)
including the full roster of village idiots.”
The bogey - man of professional competition poked its leering head into coaches’ nightmares again, a good many prophets professing to see college football following baseball into oblivion within a few years. The sensible, thrill - producing pro rules were cited as a big threat, and cries for revision of the amateur rules were loud.
The posts ought to be put back on the goal-line, said Chuch Meehan of Manhattan, and the college game would benefit by following pro sideline rules, moving the ball in 15 instead of 10 yards after out-of-bounds play.
Twenty
The Scholastic
General Motors
« J v<^
General Motors

invites you to a showing of
CHEVROLET-PONTIAC OLDSMOBILE - BUICK La SALLE-CADILLAC
FRIGIDAIRE • DELCO-HEA1
THREE BIG FEATURES!
FRANKIE MASTERS’ ANSON WEEKS’
ORCHESTRAS
AMATEUR CONTEST with Valuable Cash Prizes
For information about entering, call Station WSBT Granada Exhibition Hall
FEBRUARY 22nd to 29th — 1 P. M. to 10:30 P. M.
MUSIC • ENTERTAINMENT - EXHIBITS FREE
j
de
h 3
set 9,
pearance, losing to Richardson to the final score at Notre Dame, Chicago, 8.
In an interview with Coach
FENCING
(Continued from Paste 14)




3
two matches to go and Notre Dame was on the short end again of an 8-7 score. Showing plenty of the good old Irish spirit, Kehoe stayed on the mat for his second consecutive match and squeezed by Amster, 2-1, tying the count at 8-all. MacAuliffe of Notre Dame came out to the mat with the outcome of the meet depending upon his showing. Jack proved himself more than equal to the occasion by indulging in the bout of his life to shut out Ohio State’s Voss, 2-0. By his amazing demonstration MacAuliffe pulled the meet out of the fire for Notre Dame, and the final count was Notre Dame, 9, the Scarlet Scourge from Ohio State, 8.
Saturday afternoon it was the Chicago Maroons who encountered the brilliant fencers of Coach de Landero. The Irish team were faced with the fact that in the morning Chicago had whipped Ohio State, 11-
Twen ty-two
6, the meet being held in the Notre Dame gym. Evidently the Notre Dame squad was all heated up by this news because the ensuing matches surpassed even those of the night before in thrills and skill.
In the Epee, MacAuliffe beat Gelman, Kehoe lost to Lemon, then he also was taken into camp by Gelman, but MacAuliffe came through with a win over Lemon to tie the count at . two apiece. The foils saw among other things the defeat of Captain Wilson of Chicago by Co-captain Kehoe of Notre Dame. Telmo de Landero was heading Walters of the Maroons, 3-1, when he pulled a tendon. He finished the match in his handicapped position, losing 6-4. Chicago won 5 of the 9 foil matches and pulled away with a one point lead, 7-6. It might be added that Kehoe was thrice victorious in three foil matches at this stage of the meet.
The last part of the meet saw Coach de Landero sending in his two Co-captains Kehoe and Carlos de Landero to fight two saber matches
apiece. Carlos fought his way by Marks of Chicago, 5-3, being followed by Kehoe who won two smashing victories in a row to cinch the meet for Notre Dame. His victims were Richardson and Marks. Carlos de Landero made a post-mortem ap-
Landero it was learned that the two meets were the most expert and hard fought he had ever witnessed here. The noted mentor was strong in his praise of the officiating at all three of the weekend meets saying that the “judging was the best that can be had in fencing.” The officials responsible for the line cooperation were Coaches Merril of Chicago, and Snow of Ohio State, alternating as directors and being ably assisted by student representatives of all three schools. It is an interesting fact that fencing is one of the most difficult contests to judge, and it requires expert officials.
The Scholastic
3
o
O
O
co
a
C/J
CZ2
a
0
cz>
a
co
O
Q
CL)
Q o
□
a o
s o
o
4J c
a <u
G a>
5
c 3 s
c o o
I) 3 >
.3 'S £
□
a <u co <u
o
co
<U
9
03 <U ■ca a
03
03 03 <u Q O
u
■CD
3 U
<U
<u T5 C
9
□
Q
O >
o > a
3 Q. o
Q
<U
<u
c
o o
o
03 c o
3
03 s o Q
<u
3
03 03 <u o o
o
03
03
03 c o
□
03 <u
► o £ a>
a o □
4-1 O
a <u £
C <u £ ex o
u >
'5
3
03 03
<U
iu Ui a
03
<u
<u
•CD
a
■cd C ft
V
a
£
swished through.
<u a 03 4—I c Q 5
03 <u 03 03 <u Q O
£ a u 3
03 <u
03 a .o
4-* 3
75 3
■co Q
3 4->
3 u V a £ <u


03 a o Q
03 □
□ 4-»
<D a g <u
cn <n <D
tn O


INTERHALL BASKETBALL
(Continued from Page 18)
was a great asset under the basket, and the losers were unable to control the rebound. Conley and Reagan excelled for the small seniors, and Sokerka was Morrissey’s chief threat.
The dark horse, Corby, won by three points from the Lyons basket-eers, although they held the lead throughout the game. Corby’s passing at times was faulty and the defense allowed the Morrissey lads to get set for long shots that often
In the last few
minutes Morrissey put on a delayed rally that fell short when the juniors dropped in two field counters. Gannon, Heinemann, and Fox led the victors in scoring, while Putnam and McClain broke up many passes that might have resulted in scores. Barron played a steady game fox- the losers.
Brownson doubled the score against the youngsters from Freshman in
February 21, 1936
o
O
Ok
■00
‘•ob a
o
S S3
■00
□ u
E
©
£ on
«]. J?
3
■cd a
4-*
3
<U
J5
<U
3
V a £ <U
o 'tii w &
in
■a
0: E
a o

winning easily, 26-13. The Freshmen were unable to solve the fast cutting attack of the winners, and several times men sifted through for set up shots. On the other hand the defense thrown up by the lads from the dorm prevented the freshman aggregation from excessive scoring.
Dillon was awarded a decision over Off-Campus when the lattei* failed to put in an appearance. Sorin also won on a forfeit.
WASHINGTON DAY
(Continued from Page 6)
singing of the “Star Spangled Banner” by the audience. Following this Fieweger will give his appreciation address. John J. Locher, Jr., delivered the address last year.
John F. Ryan, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, from Oak Park, Illinois and the leading tenor on the campus, will sing an appropriate song, following which the presen-
Announce Plans
For Student Tour
Rev. Charles Over of Howard Hall, and Lyman Hughes of Dillon, representatives of the Student Travel Exchange on the campus, this week advised those interested to consult them in the near future regarding the special student allexpense tour planned for next June. The large number of advance bookings for the Olympic games have made it necessary to secure early reservations.
The all-expense tour, composed of student groups from many universities throughout the country, will leave on June 27 and return on August 1-5. The trip, which will cost §395, will take the student through England, Belgium, France, Switzerland, the Bavarian Alps, Germanv, and will also include
D) the Olympic Games. Complete n information may be obtained at 420 Howard or 127 Dillon.
I —--------------------------
NEW INVENTIONS
(By Associated C’olleeriate Press)
The “sluroscopes,” new to modern science and literary research, has been used by Prof. Mendal G. Frampton, of the Pomona College English department, in deciphering ancient manuscripts.
An ingenious ultra-violet ray machine, the “sluroscope” enabled Prof. Frampton in reading passages obliterated by time, usage and weathering.
The device is thought to be the only one of its kind.
tation and acceptance of the flag will take place. Father O’Hara will deliver the speech of acceptance.
The exercises will draw to a close with the singing by the audience of a Notre Dame song written by Francis C. Schwab, ’02. Last year’s song was “Notre Dame, Our Mother” written by the late Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., former president of the University, and Professor Joseph A. Casasanta.
Boyle was assisted in making the arrangements for the observance by a sub-committee composed of John J. De Garmo, James C. O’Keefe, and William M. O’Connor.
Tomorrow’s exercises had their origin in 1845, when Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., founder and first president of the University, arranged a program in observance of the day. The senior class at that time was given the responsibility of the program and has retained it to this day.
Twenty-three