-Cbe
Dotre Dame Scholastic
•DisceQVAsi-ssmpeia-victvrvs- •vivs-9vasi-cras-moritvrvs-
Vol. XLIV.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, August, 1910.
No. 1.
Student Spirit at Notre Dame.
One day a visitor to the University, who had just placed his two sons in the Preparatory department, watched the students file out of the refectories and separate for their various residence halls. He was silent for a little while, . and then said to an official who stood with him: “How do you run this place?” The official answered: “It runs itself.” Literally, of course, Notre Dame does not run itself; nor did the official in question wish to give such an impression. But in a sense, and in a very strictly accepted sense, Notre Dame runs itself from the first week classes begin till the rank and file of the students have passed beyond the gates in June. It is true to say that every institution, from a small candy, factory to a complicated railway system, runs itself—must run itself to a great extent. Directors, presidents, vice-presidents, superintendents and lesser officials without number exist and are necessary, but of themselves they can not run a business. They can exercise vigilance, but they are not omnipresent; they can direct, but other hands must execute; they can secure skilled mechanics and every nicest- device for -swift and sure execution, but neither all these, nor salary nor a minimum of working hours will in themselves secure the most efficient service and the surest results.
Every institution to be run successfully must be propelled by conscience. Sometimes they call it “honor,” “honesty,” “righteousness,” “sincerity.” After all, a name is not so important. The idea is the main concern. Let it be called “conscience,” “honor,” “honesty,” “righteousness,” “sincerity;” if it connotes thinking right, acting right, doing right in every circumstance that may arise, the word is a matter of usage.
Notre Dame has a conscientious staff of officials from the President to the youngest Prefect that puts away the Minims’ stack of toys in the game rooms. They are “on the job,” as the saying’goes, from twelve to sixteen hours of the twenty-four. They do not get much pleasure out of life in the ordinary use of that word. The pleasure they get is that which comes from the happiness one finds in doing well the work that falls to one’s lot.
Two are a party to every contract. And in the contract to make an institution like Notre Dame run with a minimum of friction we find the required two. There is the relatively small force of those who govern in comparison with the immense number of those who are governed. The work of the governing force is twofold. The first and more immediate is to maintain discipline, to secure efficient teaching and serious study. The second is less apparent but much more important, and may be called the foundation of the first. It is to educate the conscience, to impress the student with the idea of responsibility, honesty, decency; to make him feel that he is not one apart; that his interests are bound up with the interests of the University; that his life is a part of her life; that he is a member of a great family, and that what he does is of concern to all. He is reminded that his college life is the seeding time, and that if he sows in idleness he will reap in ignorance. This is not done merely in the opening discourse at the beginning of the school year. It is preached in the Sunday sermon, it is repeated in a more familiar way in the Christian Doctrine classes every morning. In the personal, private talk, repeated as often as found necessary, it is brought to the attention of the individual student. And for the Catholic boy there is the more intimate word of counsel in the monthly confession.
The results that follow are crystallized into
2
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
what we call “spirit.” And, by the way, this is not the popularly accepted package which is labelled “college life.” To many, college life suggests “ rah rah bovs run riot aftei' a foot-ball game, — anarchists in little gone bevond the bounds of rule.” Rather it means a fine loyalty to ideals and traditions, a sense of responsibility for the honor of Alma Mater] the following out a line of conduct so uniformly correct, it will cause no worry to superiors, and will not prove a false road to the young. It means an eye always open for what is brightest and best in the development of the institution. It shuns the over-
Exposition Altar, Holy Thursday.
critical attitude of one who stands apart. The student who is trained to this spirit is not like some passenger in a sleeping car whose one purpose is to reach the end of his journey as soon as possible, and meantime grumbles over every delay and every slightest inattention. The journey ended, he thanks his star of destiny and forgets the sleeping car. To the student who has caught this spirit referred to, his school is a home around which are gathered tender associations. And while, when the time comes, he too is glad to see the end of his journey,
yet he carries with him memories that linger with him through the after years.
What creates this spirit which nearly every Notre Dame student catches after a few months of residence at the University? The question has been partially answered already. But like many another big question its complete answer will admit of divisions. One division has already been suggested in what may broadly be called educating the conscience.
The second results from the intimate relations existing between the students and teachers. The students and teachers live together; and this oneness of life begets friendship, comradeship, which you will look for in vain where they live apart and meet only in the classroom two or three times a week. Ideals are formed from the lives men live rather than from-v. hat they teach; from what they say in quiet conversation, rather than from what they announce in measured phrases from the lecture stand. At Notre Dame priests, religious and high-minded lavmen commingle with the students in their daily life. Religious who teach them are responsible for their wellbeing in their various dormitories. Lay teachers live in these dormitories also. So it happens all these men are acquainted not only with what students do in class, but with what they do outside of class. They are not only able to give them work to prepare, but they are enabled to see they prepare it, and to give them methods of preparation when necessary. On the campus at play, in their excursions through the country, in their short morning and evening walks, in their society meetings, in their summer picnics, priests and religious are with them and take part in their conversation and even in their games. The most desirable result of this relationship is the doing away with that aloofness which so many mistake for respect. The individual who has to keep aloof to secure respect misses golden opportunities for teaching high lessons which can never be taught so well otherwise. Those who have experience with students understand how important is sympathy. An element of friendship, or fellowship, must enter if the work is to be agreeable as well as profitable. Not all lessons are gathered from the pages of a textbook; not all problems are worked out mathematically on the blackboard. Encouragement that will stimulate to newer effort, sympathy that will soften the sting of failure,—these are as necessary to the student’s advancement as
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
is ability to ' communicate instruction.
Notre Dame has no high wall constructed by tradition to keep apart the student from the teacher. And experience has shown the wisdom of this policy. If golden lessons may be taught in social companionship the student is entitled to them. He who as a teacher can give no lesson beyond that which he reads from the manuscript of his lecture is not alive to the opportunities which his position affords.
The third reason for the existence of this spirit is the fellowship which exists among the students themselves. There are no fraternities to create an exclusive, privileged class. Age,
Students listening to an address delivered on the porch of Main Building.
temperament and courses of study divide the students into groups, but the lines of separation are never so tightly drawn that one may not enter. A line democracy exists, which neither wealth nor social standing in the outside world has ever been able to break through. Merit counts. The boy who works his way through school has an equal chance with him who has millions waiting for him. There exists an equality of life which fosters modesty in tastes and bearing. And this very equality begets comradeship and loyalty.
Critics, for example, are worried to find
letics. She has not always stood highest, but she has always stood high. The simplest explanation—because for them the easiest,— is to charge professionalism, and without more ado they make the charge. Had they been more painstaking in their search, they would have found that where a thousand students live together year after year with every facility for training and development, and with no opportunities thrown in their way for dissipation and consequent loss of form,—they would have found that necessarily high athletic standing must result. Add to this the close companionship, democracy and loyalty already
an explanation for Notre Dame’s work in ath-mentioned and the explanation is complete.
The conscience of the students, the intimate friendly relations founded on admiration and respect existing between the teachers and the taught, the spirit of fellowship from which results a genuine democracy and a fine loyalty,—these are among the reasons why “Notre Dame runs itself.”	C. L.
If thou art able to bear without flinching all that men shrink from, there is nothing great thou mayst not attempt.—Spalding.
4	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Pen Pictures.
Thomas A. Lahey, ’ll.
College life! How much that phrase suggests to the uninitiated! How it glows with the light of promise in the imaginative mind of the new student. Alas, that so many of our universities should so soon dispel that golden ideal with their cold, training-camp methods of education. At Notre Dame it is not so. Here is found college life as the youth dreams of it, fellowship as the writer would revel in, and that added something which the boy forgets, but the man, never—the influence of noble association. The school which must act as the tutor, the parent, and the preceptor of one thousand or more students during ten long months of the year must needs be a varied, a wonderful institution,—and Notre Dame is all that. It is more, it is a home with its vast family of members, ran "in" from the minims in knickerbockers un o o
to the "rave seniors, and bevond that to those elder brothers of the pulpit, the bar, the doctor’s office, all claiming a common bond of fealty to the Alma Mater of their youth.
❖ V ❖	$	❖	$	*	❖
To the eyes of the visitor, Notre Dame appears as a city in miniature, becoming the more wonderful as its workings are studied, after bein" observed. The clusters of buildings, including dormitories, gymnasium, theatre, recitation halls, science buildings, observatory and shops, tell their own stories. The activities of the family, the university, the city and the cloister, are all there, mingled in such a way as to make of those various walks of life one harmonious whole. It takes a longer acquaintance than mere visiting to know its inner life, to realize that this little city also has its modern bakery, its railroad and freight depot, its farms, its slaughter houses and butcher shop, its blacksmith, machine and tin shops, its painting and carpenter establishments, its magazine and printing offices, its tailor and shoe shops, its candy and clothing stores, its livery, its government post office, its policeman’s lodge; yes, and its modern undertaking establishment. And at the head of each, with a corps of skilled assistants, a master of every craft and trade directs his own particular business, according to the most up-to-date methods. Nor is the
artistic side of the University dominated by its business aspect. The two beautiful little lakes, with their wooded shores, give that to the exterior of the University which the Italian painter Gregori has produced upon the walls of its buildings. The altars, paintings, and statues of the cathedral-like church are such as remind one of the magnificent edifices of the middle ages; a collection of valued relics and mementos bearing upon the history of the Church in America makes the Main Building something unique in this country. And all this in the magical period of half a century.
Has any Notre Dame visitor everforgotten the Minims? What a happy crowd! How full of young life and animal vigor they are! At one time you see them,—a miniature army in khaki—marching over the country roads in strict military order; at another, they have donned their baseball suits, and each one of the diamonds for the little boys, and the larger diamonds for the larger boys, is filled with rival teams battling with all the earnestness of their young hearts for that victory which comes to the quickest of brain and the sharpest of eye; again, they are dressed in their track suits, running, hurdling, pole vaulting, or if the season has changed, the football and moleskins have full sway. What youngster of seven or nine or twelve years is not the competitor in at least some team? I am certain such a one would be a curiosity. Rosy cheeks, healthv lungs, tireless limbs,—these are the fruits of the Minim campus. Play over, devoted Sisters take the healthy youngsters in charge. Then it is that the sweet influence of home and religion touches the impressionable lives of this future manhood. It is the seed which will blossom the more readily for the noble environment in which it is sown. It is a difficult task, this moulding of youthful brains and hearts, but who are more competent than those who have been accustomed to see their youthful charges grow up and become an honor to their faith and to the institution which guarded them in their tender years. Mens sana in corpora sano is indeed a reality in St. Edward’s Hall.
One of the peculiar facts of college life is the accuracy with which an experienced eye can place the average student outside of the classroom. Within that sanctum they are much
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
5
6	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
the same, but remove them and at once they t	take on all the peculiarities of diverse races.
-	.	With the Minims and Carrollites it is a simple
•	matter, since age and size tell the tale, but
with the other halls it is different. Two or three examples will suffice. A Brownson man, for instance, has always that care-free look about him which characterizes the happy of heart in life and manners; a lover of comradeship, he enjoys a seat in the sun during “rec” hours as no other can, unless, perchance, there is a game on at the campus. Then he throws oft that nonchalance and becomes a lusty rooter, more often, indeed, a knight of the field himself, and as such his bone and muscle,—for that seems a common property of the Brownson man,—are never to be despised.
The Corby man is known by the cut of his trousers no less than by the serenity of his smile. He is a power, and he knows it, for the loyalty of his hallmates is proverbial.' It has made them time and again the champions of the field in baseball, football and track. Back of it all is that good-natured fellowship which » sticks to a comrade through thick and thin.
He may be small of limb and stature, often is so, but behind him is his hall. When he practises on the field, it’s “lots of pep, fellows,” and when he plays for his hall it’s “all together now, everybody work together.” And that is how Corby wins. These are the men and that is the spirit that rule the world.
The students of Sorin are the upper classmen. They were mostly all at one time mem:	bers of the various halls, Carroll, St. Joseph;
•	Walsh, Brownson and Corby, but, strange to
;	say, they too can not be mistaken. The dignity
:	of acquired knowledge sits not lightly on their
I	shoulders, and hence, no Bohemianism, no
j	boyishness for them. Of course, there are
j	exceptions; but the exceptions in this case
•	only heighten the general effect. The Sorinite
;	has a pose peculiarly his own, and it is inimitable.
Of course he laughs and smiles and “jollies,” but he does it as only an upper classman can i	do, and should do. He plays baseball and
‘	football too, but his dignity does not forsake
<	him there, nor does his skill, for he is always
i	the finished player of a few years back. Great
।	- is the joy of the other hallmen when they can
I	humble his conscious superiority. .One score
at least, Corby 6, Sorin 4, is registered on grand stand and gym, fence and sidewalk wherever the eye can turn,—the triumphal memory of
a great football battle and a great defeat administered to the senior men a few years ago. But the Sorinite only smiles; he is thinking of the greater battles so soon to be fought with the grim world as his competitor.
$
There is nothing like a real college game in the outside world. Professional baseball may number its fans by the thousands and measure its noise with the thunder, but no pennant series, however interesting, can come so close to the grand stand and bleachers as a simple struggle between the Varsity and some acknowledged rival. Whether on the diamond, cinder path or gridiron, it is all the same. The battle is fought out, yes, and as often won and lost, on the bleachers and sidelines as it is upon the field itself. If any one doubts this let him turn from' the game and look at the faces, or listen to the voices of the college “rooters” during any hard-fought contest. He will see pictured - there the progress of the struggle, more, he will read the feelings, the hope, the determination, the half despair, the wild joy of the players themselves, for are they not all one, playing and “rooting,” battling and calling for the victory which means added glory for Alma Maier? There is no selling of games, no striving after individual honors, no fishing for remunerative offers. It is the knighthood of old come back again. It is the conflict of manly honor, and every student, player and “rooter” alike feels his own interest in the outcome. Of course every college game has not that same intensity. The easy’-victim team is not at all interesting for the student, and woe unto such, for there is no one, I think, who can evidence his disinterestedness so easily as a college boy. But the “big” game,—the game that counts, the game that means—but why elaborate? Only the college student can understand, and he knows too well to be told.
The final farewell when vacation begins is the season of air castles, of planning and rejoicing, yet withal a time of sadness. Like sunshine and showers it presents the glad light of anticipated pleasures in close proximity to the lingering hand shake, the tearful “goodbye.” The youngsters are mostly happy, for youth seldom thinks; but the old ones—yes, they know. The heart of a college lad has all the qualities of a heart, whatever we . may think of the boy himself. Friendships are
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
never so strong as those contracted under difficulties, and that, as a rule, is how college comradeships are formed. The fellow who fought next to you on the football field, who imbibed his knowledge in the same classes, who remained true to you in all the little trials and difficulties of college life, he is bidding farewell. Are you an under classman—you will be back, he will be back; so you both say, who can tell? Are you a senior,—you may never meet again. Truly college leave taking with all its laughter and promise is a sad affair.
together have raised the standard of university activity to a high mark that augurs well for future success.
At the beginning of the scholastic year the Faculty of the University was greatly strengthened by the addition of professors who had spent years in special preparation for their respective classes. This was done in nearly all the courses, but most particularly in Law, English, History and Economics and Physics. Besides this, new courses were added to the curriculum, notably, Chemical Engineering and
Handing out the Sunday Mail.
A Glance at the Past Year.
George J. Finnigan, ’10.
In looking backward over the scholastic vear of ’09-10, an unprecedented success in the general workings of the University is easily apparent. It does not reveal itself particularly in the size of the class that has just left Notre Dame, for there have been larger ones; it does not show itself in athletic success only, though th? University has been eminently successful in the world of athletics this past year; nor is it in a special manner discernible in oratory and debating. Rather the success of the past yea; has been great, because of a combination of all these and many others, which joined
Mining Engineering. The growth of the History and Economics school has been very remarkable. It is now one of the most popular of all the courses, as the great number of students who entered that school during the past year clearly exemplifies.
Early in October, Walsh Hall was opened. It was constructed to meet an urgent demand for private rooms on the part of the student-body. By Christmas it was nearly filled. Everything ~ possible in the way of modem equipment was introduced, the rooms ranging from single apartments to suites of three, with private bath.
While it is not the purpose of the Universitv to place the importance of bodily culture above the position that it should always hold, relative to moral and intellectual development, still,
8
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
recognizing the necessity of athletics in the modern university, she has always taken the field in intercollegiate competitions. Her teams have developed as she grew, and have always been worthy of her. Year after year they have come to the front and have done much to attract attention to the University. It is not saying too much to state that the past year has been the most successful in the history of Notre Dame. Two years ago Notre Dame championed the West and made a heavy Eastern trip on which she suffered but one defeat. A year ago her basket-ball team toured the West, South and East and lost but three collegiate games in the season. Last Fall, when Notre Dame defeated Michigan and
tallying n points. Never before has a nonconference college won this meet, consequently Notre Dame holds indisputable Championship of the West in football and track.
The basket-ball team was crippled this year by the loss of Vaughan, who was injured in the football game with Miami. As a result a light schedule was played. The baseball team, while probably not the best that Notre Dame has had, suffered but three defeats. One was lost to Arkansas out of two games played; and Michigan won two out of three, the last of which was an 18-inning contest, 2 to 3, the longest ever played at Michigan University.
The oratorical and debating ventures of 1909-10 are well worthy of commendation.
“U. N. D. Rah, Rah.”
Michigan beat Minnesota, the Conference Champions, she won that title which her sons had striven many years for, “The Champions of the West.” Stimulated with her indomitable spirit, the track team followed this victory by one that carries with it singular honor—the winning of the Western Conference Title in Track at the Illinois Meet this spring. In that meet all the leading colleges from the Alleghenies to the Pacific were represented. The winning margin was most decisive, Notre Dame scoring 29 points, while her nearest competitor, Leland Stanford, scored but 17. Philbrook of. Notre Dame was the biggest point winner of the day,
Mr. Francis K. Wenninger represented the Universit)' in the intercollegiate-contest held at Indianapolis, winning a close second to Pennington of Earlham. Although he failed to secure first place, he won three firsts in delivery, which was unprecedented at Notre Dame. He likewise obtained third place in the Intercollegiate Peace Contest held at Wabash College.
It was expected that the debating schedule would be exceedingly strong for the past year. Debates were - arranged with three or four colleges, but all were cancelled by opponents except the Law debate against the Detroit School of Law. The Notre Dame team, com
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
posed of Messrs. Donovan, Hope and Sands, won this debate by a unanimous decision. Hard work, conscientious study, and the unconquerable Notre Dame spirit won the contest. Notre Dame still holds her enviable record of some seventeen intercollegiate debates with but one defeat.
Several plays were staged by the students during the year. On President’s Day “ The Toastmaster” was presented. This play is one of student life and made a decided hit. The work of Messrs. Sorg, Murphy and McElroy was of a particularly high order. On March 17 the Philopatrians staged “The Prince and the Pauper,” which was marked in a special manner by the good acting of Master Clark. On Easter Monday, the Senior Class gave the ’difficult piece, “A Pair of Spectacles.” This play is a high class comedy, and was made interesting
Notre Dame has been fortunate in her choice of lecturers, but in no case is this more noticeable than in that of Dr. John Talbot Smith of New York. For several years he has visited the University and lectured to the English classes. This year he was with us nearly a month and spoke on American Literature. Dr. Smith is a master of eloquence, and by his fine talks and pleasing personality has endeared himself to the whole University.
Throughout the year the relations between the Faculty and students have been all that could be desired, and this has done much to further the aims of the University. Certainlv, harmony of purpose is a requisite for success, and the students seemed to realize this fact.
A scholastic year of such glories and achievements deserved a brilliant ending. This was fully realized in one of the most successful
The Boat Crews Getting out for Practice.
bv the exceptional work of the same trio that figured in the “Toastmaster.” Near the end of the year, the annual vaudeville was carried off and proved excellent.
Am on sr the fine institutions at Notre Dame is the Lecture and Concert Course. The best talent of the country is procured, and in this wav the students are brought in touch with the best thought and expression of the present day. Among the lecturers were Max Pam, Maurice Francis Egan, Senator Beveridge, Dr. Walsh, Dr. Monaghan, Governor Taylor of Tennessee, Seumas MacManus, Frederick Ward, John Corley, Judge Kickham Scanlon. Concerts were given by Skovgaard, violinist, Victor’s Band, Adrian Newans, Negro Jubilee Singers, the Welsh Singers, the Grand Male Quartette.
Commencements ever held at Notre Dame. The Baccalaureate sermon was preached by Dr. Pace of the Catholic University of America, and the Commencement Orator was Governor Marshall of Indiana. Monsignor Falconio, the Apostolic Delegate, celebrated Pontifical High Mass. At the Preparatory Graduation, J. Washington Logue of Philadelphia gave splendid talk on the need of good CathGKc citizens. The regatta and Alumni game.-Hestfl off successfully. Many old “grads” for the Annual reunion, and the UnuS6&iiy (ton flowed with visitors and friends.- norJanitarb to
The year 1909^’10 is gone, afidlM^ fiblPWithd out great joy that one looks bfitfcfbn it^&hiiTe-ments. May Notre DamdUia^eMrfaiJ^ifs^ . the hope and prayer 'bf WeryWbya<hJom^dt-B':I idf ni amlorfaz lo noitnaths
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
IO
Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the University of Notre Dame
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid Address: The Editor Notre Dame Scholastic
Notie Dame, Indiana
Vol. XLIV.	August, 1910.	No. 1.
Faculty Announcements.
We announce with regret the retirement of the Rev. Timothy R. Murphy, C. S. C., from the important position of Prefect of Discipline. For three years Father Murphy has borne the burden of this arduous office with singular fidelity and with brilliant success. As is well-known this position makes serious demands on the practical judgment as well as the energy of the incumbent, and it must be a satisfaction to Father Murphy to know that in the opinion of the whole University, Faculty and students, his work as Prefect of Discipline has been crowned with a very large measure of success.
The successor of Father Murphy as Prefect of Discipline is the Rev. Joseph A. Burke, C. S. C., Ph. D. This is Father Burke’s second year at Notre Dame as a member of the Faculty, but like Father Murphy he is an alumnus of Notre Dame and knows the University in all its details. Father Burke was one of the disciplinarians of Sorin Hall last year and begins his new work with an important asset,—the confidence and friendship of large numbers of students who came under his genial influence last year. He was a valued and most successful member of the teaching staff, and though he will not entirely abandon the class-room, it is to be regretted that the number of classes will be greatly reduced. Father Burke begins his work under the happiest auspices.
The Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C. S. C., Ph. D., well-known to the present generation of students, comes to take up work in the Department of English. Father O’Donnell is a poet of distinction and the master of a forcible, fresh and felicitous English style.
The Rev. Charles Doremus, C. S. C., Ph. D., is an addition to the staff of professors in Latin. Father Doremus has already attracted the attention of scholars in this field of work by
his conscientious labors in the Catholic University at Washington.
Dr. Frank L. Powers, late of Northwestern Medical College, has been appointed Professor of Anatomy and advanced Physiology. Dr. Powers is an alumnus of the University and a well-remembered professor of a former day. He has all the best gifts of the teacher, and is admirably prepared for his work.
One of the most distinguished graduates of recent years is Mr. Frank L. Derrick, Class ’oS. Since his graduation Mr. Derrick has been employed as professor in- the High Schools of Oil City, Pa. He combines talent, preparation and enthusiasm. He has been engaged as a teacher in the University for the coming year.
Some other instructors have been added to the Faculty list. Their courses will be announced in due time.
This year all of the Law classes will be given separately for the first time. Hitherto, it was deemed advisable to combine two or more classes, giving the work of various rears to the same group of students at the same time. Nine classes are now organized for the Law School, and professors will be able to bestow very special attention upon students.
The Commercial Course has been modified in a notable way. No candidate is eligible for the certificate in the Commercial Course whose work has not covered a period of four years after the completion of the Grammar School. In other words, the Commerical Course is now a Commercial High School Course. The work of the last two years is practically all Commercial work while the first two years are given over to the regular classes of the ordinary High School course. It is to be observed, however, that students who have not done two years of High School work will be admitted as special students in this course with the distinct understanding that on completing the Commercial subjects they are not to receive the diploma of the Commercial School. They will, however, be awarded a statement recording the classes taken by them in the Commercial College.
The scope of the Department of Philosophy has been expanded by the addition of a thorough course of Scholastic Philosophy.
All signs point to a prosperous year, for 1910-11. Reservations for rooms ought to be made early, and must in all cases be accompanied by a deposit of $15.00 as a guarantee of good faith.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ii
Obituary.
Dr. Smith’s Views of American Literature*
Brother William, C. S. C.
The death of Brother William, C. S. C., at Newport, R. I., where he had gone to spend some weeks with relatives, proved a shock to his many friends. On Monday, July 18, he was stricken with paralysis. . He lingered for three days, and on Thursday, July 21, peacefully expired. Every student at the University knew Brother William and appreciated his kindly disposition. The tenderest expression of helpfulness they can now extend is to offer earnest prayers for the repose of his soul. Every life has some measure of imperfection to be atoned for. Hence the Scholastic knows it is giving expression to his own wishes in requesting for him heartfelt prayers from, all its readers. May he rest in peace!
Sister M. Rita.
Om behalf of the University the Scholastic extends to St. Mary’s and the Sisters of Holy Cross sincere condolence in a great loss. Sister Rita, editor of the Chimes and head of the Department of English in St. Mary’s College, passed to her great reward on the morning of July 23. Of a retiring disposition, this gentle Sister was known personally to a comparatively small public. But the quality of her literary work had carried her name to every corner of America and beyond. To those who had the precious privilege of knowing her she was a never-failing source of inspiration and solace. Generations of students of St. Mary’s will go to their graves with the memory of the gentle nun of brilliant talent, of highest ideals, of splendid unselfishness and of rare womanly charm. Under the guiding genius of Sister Rita, St. Mary’s Chimes became one of the most solid and brilliant college publications in America. May she rest in peace!
A letter from Anderson, Ind., contains the following information: “Mr. Volmy Hunt, at one time a student of the University, died in Cleveland, Ohio, July 15, 1910. He was a veteran of the Spanish-American War and died as a result of illness contracted during the service. He was an Electrical Engineer and quite prominent in his work.”
John F. O’Hara, ’ll.
That American literature up to date is of no earthly account except as literary history was the theme developed by Reverend John Talbot Smith, LL. D., of Dobb’s Ferry, New York, in a series of lectures at the University during the month of April this year. The work of Father Smith in the cause of American literature, particularly in the field of criticism, is so well known to our readers that no introductory word is needed. The visits of Father Smith are anticipated each year with keen delight, and each year the fulfillment of the anticipation endears him more and more to his student hearers.
While Father Smith is always known to have a severe shock in store for his interested listener, ■ his departure from beaten lines of thought was never more radical than this year. The textbook campaign and the press-agent and publicity-bureau criticisms have made idols of our' American authors, and this belief, supported no doubt by a strong patriotism, has given them a false position in the world of literature. There is, however, a reactionary movement on foot which will ultimately determine the category of our writers. There is a manifest reluctance on the part of many present-day critics to concede to Washington Irving and Edgar Allen Poe the high positions to which they have been exalted.
There has been no more potent factor in producing the mediocrity of the literature of our times than the multiplication of the press. Yet the subvention of the press makes impossible any just estimate of any work. The system which has gradually worked into American journalism has destroyed individuality and honesty of opinion: the critics are confused in their criticisms, they lack precision and -clearness, and they are dictated by the interests that have worked them into the network of their system. They have no basis of criticism and consequently have no standard to which to refer in their critical estimates. The Catholics alone have a standard of criticism, and they alone are capable judges of what is worthy in literature. The Catholic belief and the doctrines
* Notes taken while attending Dr. Smith’s Lectures.
i2	' NOTRE DAME
of the Church have stood for ages as the only true standard of criticism.	•
Father Smith divides American literature into three periods for convenience in criticism. The first may be called conventionalism, and was represented by the Puritans in the North and the Cavaliers in the South. It was a barren period, for Puritanism was opposed to art, literature and the drama. It was a period of imitation. The second period was a period of revolt against the conventional school, but was an aimless, wandering movement, which, for some reason or other, took the name of ' Transcendentalism. George Ripley, Margaret Fuller, Emerson and the other leaders of the movement were all people of culture and refinement, but they had not the slightest idea of what they were aiming at. They followed the line of least resistance. The natural outgrowth of the Transcendental movement was a gradual drifting awav from all forms of religion, the third period in American literature. This reaction against the revolt takes various forms, the most common of which are Atheism, Materialism and Agnosticism.
He next considered the particular claims to recognition presented by different American authors, and some of the odd vicissitudes that have kept real genius in the background, while false genius was elevated to a position far beyond its worth. The insistent claims of Poe’s admirers were considered at length, and dismissed as worthless. Poe was clever, and when he found competition too strong for him in legitimate lines of prose, he “ functioned outside ” the recognized spheres and revelled in the horrible. His chief claim to distinction lies in the fact that he had nine volumes published, yet a man like Fitz-James O’Brien, with his one story, “The Diamond Lens,” far outshines him as a master of prose.
Washington Irving was the first American to adopt the publicity trick of a trip to England. For years he has been heralded as one of the great masters of prose, but of late confidence has been shaken. His “Sketch Book” is the only one of his works that is read at the present time; even “Knickerbocker’s History of New York,” the only work that would entitle him to fame, is losing its popularity. Brownell • does not mention* him at all among the prose writers of America, while Sears says that “he wears well,” at the same time indulging in a few meaningless phrases of critical comment.
SCHOLASTIC
The only thing that Hawthorn ever wrote that is worthy of preservation is “ The Scarlet Letter, ” and he remains as the author of a single novel.	-
James Fenimore Cooper was the only one of the long line of American novelists who is worthy of consideration. He was a real novelist, a world novelist. His sea stories have never been surpassed, and while for years his Indian stories were despised, they are now recognized. He was great because he was Catholic in his knowledge and Catholic in his sentiments. He approached Catholic standards, and the nearer an author approaches to Catholic standards the nearer he comes to being great, o o
Leaving the novelists, Father Smith next took up the drama. This discussion was necessarily very brief. Although the position of the drama leaves little room for encouragement, dramatic literature has not been wholly barren. Booker, John Savage, Campbell, Dion Boucicault, Augustin Daly and James Hearne were representative dramatists, and produced some works of merit. The real trouble with the dramatists was that they were men without knowledge and without culture; thev were shallow.
The problem of the American poet is a much more trying one than that of the dramatists, for while no claim to eminence is laid for the latter, the poets are heralded and proclaimed as worthy of a high place in the world’s literature. And yet, of all the poets that have sung since the first days of America, none but Longfellow, according to Father Smith, is worthy to be classed as a world poet. John Morley said deliberately that Longfellow was the only poet that America had so far produced. Longfellow was a broad man; he had travelled extensively; he possessed knowledge and culture; he had studied and knew historv and he knew enough not to break with tradition. From these magnificent qualities, which so admirably fitted him for his work, Longfellow drew his greatness.
Fitz-Green Halleck never caught a poetic idea; Bayard Taylor, in his grim determination to become a poet, wrote thirty-seven volumes, but he missed his vocation; William Cullen Bryant was only too conscious of his limitations, and dared not venture beyond his nature songs; John Greeenleaf Whittier, stopping to “dally with art,” tried to establish^a poetry without traditions, based on an ignorance of
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

philosophy, history and true culture. As in his prose, Egdar Allen Poe “functioned outside” in his poetry: he did not care to enter into competition with the already established forms of verse, so he cultivated the unique. Poe was essentially an artist. He never felt anything that he wrote; his only object was to create an impression, to produce an effect on the minds of his readers. The volume of verse left by Emerson was^so slight that its quality fails to make up for it. He, like Poe, refused to enter into competition with legitimate forms of verse, and adopted mysticism as his peculiar form of revolt.
The historical literature of America is the only literature which entitles us to any place in the world of letters. The success of the historians must be traced to their manner of education and to the themes which they chose for their labors. The knowledge acquired by Bancroft, Prescott, Motley, - Ticknor and their contemporaries made it possible for them to rise above the spirit of their times and produce notable works. They studied abroad; they knew the world before they began to write; they knew history, philosophy and the art of criticism. They rendered inestimable service to Catholicity in America and to America in general, for they gave unprejudiced accounts of the beginnings of America, and they gave their work to the whole world. They brought America before the eyes of the world' as a nation, and they alone made American letters respected abroad.
A consideration of the sad tragedies of American literature gave little consolation to those who consider Father Smith’s work iconoclastic. Lowell offered no encouragement, and Emerson, whose previous characterization by Father Smith was so apt and striking, showed up to no better advantage on this occasion. His critic this time advanced a theory which, if correct, will greatly palliate the literary offense of Emerson; a theory that from the time when he abandoned the pulpit Emerson was suffering from neurasthenia, a disease unknown in those days. The fact that the symptoms exhibited by the Father of Transcendentalism, including finally death from softening of the brain, conformed exactly to those recognized as neurasthenic by medical men of to-day, gives ground for belief that this theory is the correct one.
13
The minor writers of this period exhibited the same tendencies as those already considered. Ignorance and shallowness characterized them all, and made impossible any strong production. Walt Whitman, Thomas Bailey Aldrich, Joaquin Miller, Richard Watson Gilder, Ella Wheeler Wilcox and others of like calibre in poetry, and Henry James, William Dean Howells, Bret Harte, Marion Crawford, and Robert W. Chambers in prose, are representative writers of a period of agnosticism and -indifference, and their productions are characteristic of the spirit of the age.
The public can not, however, continue in a state of total inactivity and uncertainty, and its revolt has taken various forms. Spiritism was an outgrowth of the attempt to ignore the spiritual side of man’s nature, and as always happens when an attempt at reform is made without having a predetermined standard to determine the limitations of the reaction, the movement went to the opposite extreme.
The second force of protest was the American Oxford Movement, contemporaneous with the Oxford Movement in England, with which it was associated. It produced some vigorous writers, and it created a spirit which found an audience for Longfellow, who was writing at the time. However, the circle of its influence was naturally restricted, and those outside the pale sought other means of expression. Christian Science arose to fill the want of this class of people, and it is one of the most powerful influences at work in American life and literature to-day.
Following a logical line of thought and illustrating his arguments with well-chosen practical examples, Father Smith by sound reasoning established his contention with regard to American literature. Of course, opinions differ, but many will not find difficulty in accepting his conclusions. They are the result of long, careful study and investigation, and their value is worthy of high recognition.
Personals.
—Leo Rasche (student ’92-96) is editor of the local paper in Grafton, West Virginia.
—Robert L. Sturkin, student in Brownson
i4	NOTRE DAME
Hall ’08-9, is now in business in Logansport. Bob holds the position of Secretary-treasurer of the Sturkin-Nelson Cabinet Company.
—The present address of Armand Larranaga (student ’04-06) is 254 West 46th St., New York City.
—Mr. Victor M. Place, football coach 190S, is an attorney-at-law in Seattle, Washington. His address is 800 Leary Bldg.
—Mr. Frank T. Dever (student ’79-S1) holds an important position in connection with the Pittsburg and Lake Erie R. R., Pittsburg, Pa. Mr. Dever never misses an opportunity to enlarge the attendance of Alma Maier.
—Mr. Samuel J. Guera announces the coming of a little stranger to his home June 28, 1910. Sam notifies the University that Eduardo will be ready for matriculation in a very few years. Good for Samuel!
—Charles E. Wheeler, student ’70-72, is of the firm of Dawley and Wheeler, Cedar Rapids, Iowa. His son will probably attend the University the coming year. He says: “ I have been very grateful ever since for what I obtained at the University of Notre Dame.”
—Daniel J. O’Connor (Ph. B. ’05) moved from California and is now employed with the -Western Electric Company, New York City. This company is the largest manufacturer of electrical apparatus in the world, and Dan informs us college graduates, whether trained in electrical work or not, are eagerlv sought after by the company.
—A recent announcement reads: “Mr. and Mrs. John B. Tibor, 6033 Vincennes Ave., announce the marriage of their daughter Charlotte Anna to Dr. William Patrick Grady, -Tuesday, June 28th, 1910.” The Scholastic -extends its congratulations to Dr. Grady who 'is remembered as one of the most prominent students of his day as well as one of the most devoted and loyal of Alumni.
—William Johnson (Com’l ’82) is president of the Perry County Bank, New Lexington, Ohio. He writes: “It affords me a great deal of pleasure to meditate on the days that I spent at old Notre JDame in the company of Fathers Sorin, .Corby, Walsh, Hudson, Stoffel, O’Keefe, Cooney, and Brothers Paul, Edward, Albert, Philip Neri and many others, a great many of whom have passed to their reward.” ~' —John F. Cushing, C. E. ’06, is connected with the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Co.,
SCHOLASTIC
Chamber of Commerce, Chicago. His resi-deuce is 56 W. Schiller St. John sends us a bit of encouragement as follows: ‘‘With reference to prospective business I might state that I am the proud possessor of two candidates for training at Alma. Mater; to state particulars—one aged three years and the other one month.”
—The marriage of an old Notre Dame bov is announced as follows: “Mr. Thomas C. O’Connor announces the marriage of his sister, Anne Ethel, to Mr. Daniel C. Dillon, Tuesday, June the twenty-eighth, nineteen hundred and ten, at the Chapel of the Blessed Sacrament, Buffalo, New York.” More congratulations. Dan is one of the best-known N. D. men in modern times, having been an instructor at the University for years. There is nothing too good for Dan. o
Local Items-.
—Only forty-one days more.
—It doesn’t seem so much like vacation to the Scholastic.
—“Billy” Ryan carries his characteristic smile and is ready for another thirty yard run.
—Prospects look bright for a big school next \ ear. If you have not reserved your room do it now.
—The Rev. M. A. Quinlan is supervising the publication of his thesis for the doctorate in philosophy.
—The different residence halls are undergoing o o repairs before the opening of the University in September.
—Several stories of great catches have come from the lakes. They arc purely fish affairs, and are so recorded.
—It seems like looking far ahead, but watch for the Senior and Junior boat race of next year. It will be no victory-at-a-glance affair.
—George Philbrook is in Cleveland and writes that he is in fine condition and happy most of the time. He has lost none of his football form.	*
—Members of the English faculty are getting out a graded list of poems for memorv work in all the English classes of the preparatory department.
—Dr. Schumacher and Dr. Walsh represented the University at the annual conference of the associated Catholic Colleges held in Detroit early in July.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC '
Western Champions No. II.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
—Priests of^the archdiocese of Chicago and of the diocese of Fort Wayne will hold their annual retreats at the University during the month of August.
—“Bill” Martin from the remote West writes that he is in splendid condition and expects to assist in' holding that conference trophy for another year.
—The walls of the natatorium bathrooms are being fitted in marble. When finished the “Nat” shower and needle baths will bear comparison with those of Walsh Hall.
—A meeting of the Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, was held early in July. Considerable business was transacted without oratory. There was no rising vote of thanks.
—Several of the Alumni who were present at Commencement have written enthusiastically of the varied. program of exercises. The change introduced this year meets with approval on all sides.	'
—The rotunda of the Bishops’ Memorial Hall has been strengthened by eight steel-eye beams. . This will afford a sense of security to those who are accustomed to lean over the railing at the change of classes.
—Writes William Cotter, official scorer and boss politician: “I have met a number of the' old boys. They are always anxious to talk about Notre Dame and all ready to go back.” In his leisure hours, which are many, William C. is rounding up new members for the Oseola club.	.
—The clerical team which humbled the exCarrolls in baseball on the day of their picnic repeated the trick on the Seminarians early in . the vacation. The Seminarians won a second - game largely because the clergy saved their good pitcher and put Father Farley in the box. Father Carrico’s batting was a feature. Father Maguire at second was so so.
—A new Directory of Graduates has been brought out in an attractive form. Among the improvements noted, in comparison with the old directory, is a list of students by states. Any Notre Dame man who is travelling may apply to his fist and see what graduates, if any, are living in any town of the state. The Directory is of folder size which makes it very convenient.	. .
—In his “Some Off Side Plays,” Chicago
Tribune, “By Hek” has this to say of “Dad” Moulton’s whine because the coast invaders didn’t invade to the extent they expected:
San Francisco, Cal.. June n. [Special.]—‘‘Dad Moulton has been telling the Leland Stanford athletes that the Notre Dame representatives in the recent conference meet were a bunch of ringers and had no business competing against unsullied college amateurs such as his. Do the Leland Stanford athletes believe suc^ to have been the case? What a question. There is not a coast newspaper that is not shrieking “outrage.” ■ By"the way, how is it Notre Dame can’t get away with any athletic honors without having poison sprinkled on it?
—On Saturday, June 19, the following members of the Congregation of Holy Cross were ordained to the priesthood in the Chapel of the Catholic University, Washington, D. C.: Revs. Charles L. O’Donnell, ’06; Charles L. Doremus, ’06; Edward J. Finnigan, ’06; John C. McGinn, ’06; James H. Galligan, ’06; Francis X. Zerhusen, ’06; Boleslaus Sztuczko. The newly ordained priests received the following appointments for the coming year: Fathers O’Donnell and Doremus are added to the collegiate faculty of the University; Father Finnigan goes to Holy Cross College, New Orleans; Fathers McGinn and Galligan to Columbia University, Portland, Ore.; Father Zerhusen to St. Edward’s College, Austin, Texas, and Father Sztuczko will be assistant pastor of St. Casimir’s Church, South Bend. . —A Spanish issue of the Scholastic was published early in July. Edwin Lynch’s “ Notre Dame Spirit” was done into the language of chivalry and romance. The title read “ El Espiritu de Notre Dame.” Two poems bearing the titles “El Placer” and “Reucerdos,” respectively, possess poetic merit. The author took fictitious names, but there are not wanting those who suspect John Romana. Jose Mendoza ’13, writes a brief but very readable history of Notre Dame, and Sr. Vera, To, of some fame in these parts, gives an enthusiastic review of the Notre Dame engineering courses. E. Porteno, ’12, presents a very readable paper on the special department of civil engineering. Athletics are treated by the famous “Pete” De Landero, ’n. Two editorials, entitled “Salve” and. “Adi6s,” a detailed write-up of Commencement and a record of the awards and diplomas, conclude a worthy enterprise which will prove useful and entertaining to old and prospective students in Mexico and South America.