• The Notre Dame
You are Always a Guest Here Before You are a Customer
Home of Famous Names in Men’s Quality Clothing
Hickey-Freeman . . . Society Brand . . .
Burberry ... “GGG” . . . Alpagora . . .
British-R . . . Dobbs
GILBERT'S
813 - 817 S. MICHIGAN STREET
SOU
BEND'S
LARGEST
STORE
FOR
MEN
The Scholastic
T H

I
J
* Letters
%. J»ef4 && >t<^-
♦ That Man Again
■ Editor:
fe “There warn’t no Justice”—but we had a Hart!
—J. Gelson
& 322 Zahm.
$ Sportsivriters who overworked the
| cliche didn’t—Editor.
On ‘A Minor Prophet’
;	Editor:
£ In the future, please let the Juggler f	print those alleged stories without any
sense to them. I refer to that “thing” by James S. Hurley in last week’s maga-9 zine. Take pity, editor, I’m only a science student and am not up to spraining my brain on Scholastic’s pages.
Dan Brennan Off-Campus.
Take pity, son, we’re only an editor.
—Editor.
, What Gives ?
Editor:
In the editor’s column of last week’s Scholastic, it was noted that the pep rally for the Michigan State game was one of the best rallies for spirit that we have seen in some time. When the head cheerleader was unable to be found, my roommate was contacted, and he both cheered and ran the rally as M.C. The head cheerleader had taken a weekend and had failed to arrange for cheerleaders for the rally.
All those students who attended the £ game in New York were disgusted, I’m sure, with the cheerleaders for the very poor job they did. Not only did they fail to lead many cheers but the cheers they did lead they couldn’t even get together on if they attempted to do them at all. We in the stands took it upon ourselves to cheer and make up chants as the game progressed.
My roommate didn’t go on the trip because he was a junior and the others were seniors. One of the men who went A was conspicuous for his absence at the game. My roommate and this man are both in their second year as cheerleaders and this man also went on the trip last year.
In my opinion something in this matter “smells from Denmark.”
John Cleary
409 Badin Hall
Cheerleaders, lend an ear; explain yourselves.—Editor.
9 Nov. 18, 1949
white collar men keep in the pink with
TWO-TONES
Step up your beat with the extra tone you get from Van Hensen Bolder Look Two-Tones! Wide-spread Van Bold collar and French cuffs are white. . . the shirt is in clear, bright pastel. Van Heusen keeps you in great shape with fine quality... smart, new styling... S3.95
0 Van Heusen
"the world's smartest”
shirts
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1. N. Y.
It’s Adlers for
Van Heusen
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
initial 'Technical Review' Hits Newsstands Today
This University’s newest publication, The Notre Dame Technical Review, came off the presses today.
Edited by engineer William J. Ruoff, the initial edition contains articles of interest to engineering and science students written by local students and faculty members.
Lead articles for this issue are “Liquid Fuel from Coal,” by Valentine V. Reisig and “Evolution of the Skyscraper,” by Edward Denning.
The magazine, which will be distributed free to all engineering students, can be obtained by others at the Dining Hall newsstand and the bookstore. The price is twenty-five cents.
Dining Hall Tells Menu For Thanksgiving Dinner
Attention, all gourmets and gourmands ! Through an exclusive interview with the Dining Hall Board of Directors, it has been learned that the “Hash-Slingers” have gone out of their way to make this year’s Thanksgiving Day dinner a real feast.
It will be noticed that the dinner* is somewhat similar to the one which has
received favorable comment on recent Sundays. Foremost on the menu is the roast turkey and dressing. The customary cranberry sauce will not be lacking, and there will also be mashed potatoes, peas, head lettuce with Thousand Island dressing, bread and butter, milk (only those with friends will get more than two glasses), and finally mince pie.
This dinner strictly conforms to Mas-
MARRIAGE FORUM
The sixth session of the Institute on Christian Marriage, sponsored by the Department of Religion, will be held next Wednesday evening at 8 o’clock in the Law Auditorium. Mr. Patrick Crowley will deliver an address entitled “Aiming for Sanctity in Marriage” and Mrs. Patrick Crowley will speak on “The Apostolate of Catholic Family Life.”
On the following Wednesday, Nov. 30, Rev. Philip Hanley, O.P., will lecture on “Current Moral Attitudes on Marriage.” Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., will speak on “Virtues of Christian Married Life.”
The Institute is being presented for graduate students, January graduates, and married students. It is open to men only.
sasoit’s Handbook on Thanksgiving Day Dinner, and will not soon be forgotten.
Don’t forget your tickets, as it is rumored that there will be a bounty on line-crashers, and the old story that your room burnt down last night will not be honored.—Tom Kelley
Catholic Theater Players
To Present 'Mrs. Moonlight' £
Mrs. Moonlight, a three-act drama by Benn W. Levy, will be presented Dec. 7, 8 and 9 by the Catholic Theatei-Guild of South Bend. Directing this second play of the Guild’s 1949-50 season is Leonard Sommer, assistant professor in the Department of Speech at Notre Dame.
The play has a fascinating plot centered around the character of Sarah Moonlight, who never grows old, while her family and friends all around her '** steadily show signs of age. It has to do with the psychological reactions produced by this situation and the startling results affecting the lives of all concerned.
Mrs. Moonlight is scheduled for 8:15 p.m. in St. Patrick’s auditorium on Scott street. Admission price is sixty cents, and all students and faculty of Notre Dame are especially invited to attend.
the most comfortable Tuxedo ever made • • •
SHRADMOOR TUXEDOS
’395°
For special occasions when you “dress” it is important that your dress clothes possess the distinctive styling that is such an integral part of fine quality clothes. The Shradmoor label assures style authority plus the comfortable look and feel that only fine tailoring can give. Tuxedos or Full Dress Suits by Varsity Town, $58.
THIS WEEK’S BROWSER WINNER: DENNIS O’NEILL, Jr., 302 BADIN HALL
The Scholastic
’the week
by flack McGoldrick -
the New York Times'. ORONO, Maine, (AP) Dr. Wilmarth H. Starr, head of the University of Maine’s Romance Language Department, ordered twenty copies of Victor Hugo’s “Notre Dame de Paris” for a French literature dass.
The order came through recently. Neatly boxed were twenty volumes of “Notre Dame: The T Formation.”
Top of the Week
The team brought home the bacon, but. . . .
Metropolitan Movies
The student trip is over for another year. . . . Sadder but poorer, the lads staggered back on the train Sunday at 4, and chugged uneventfully back to Hoosierdom. . . . They had come, seen, I and conquered. . . . The metropolis managed to swallow up the various victory exhibitions without too much effort. . . . The German-American club down on Third avenue had an even Saturday night representation of N.D. and N.C. students celebrating and crying in their beer, respectively. . . . After’ the game, Choo Choo Justice said, “there ain’t none”. . . . Subway alumni, real alumni, Carolina alumni, Reverend Fathers, distinguished guests, and fellow students . were all saluted at half-time by the ' band . . . and there were only six minutes in which to do it. . . . Following the final whistle, the band marched back to the lobby of the Embassy Hotel, where they ran through practice maneuvers for the Iowa game . . . naturally, it was raining when the train pulled into (ugh) South Bend.
Sophs Glide and Slide Tonite
। Four hundred fifty sophs paid $5.40 "a bid, and tonight they will listen to Griff Williams’ band play against a “Night in Old Erin” background at the 1949 Cotillion.
Willy Nilly, now in his fifth semester as a sophomore, will be at the Palais with tails on. His date will be there in buttons and bows. Only this morning, Willy received the good news concerning his girl’s arrival:
Dere Willy,
It sure was sweet of you io invite me up to your- dance. Ma says if I get the chores done in time, I should be able .to catch a ride on one of them beer trucks that goes by here every day. I’d much rather travel that way than take the train like I did last year. All them college girls had dresses on, and they looked at me kinda funny because I was wearing my blue jeans. Remember?
I got a new dress for this time though. I only wore it once before, and that
Nov. 18, 1949
was only last week to the freshman hop at the high school. And I’ll try to remember what you said about not yelling, “Gad, look at all the men”, when I get up to the campus, like I did last year.
Who is this Griff Williams band? Is he any relation to that there quarterback Bob Williams? I’m sure glad there’s this ‘Night in Old Erin’ theme to the affair—I went to an Irish wake once, and had a swell time.
Don’t forget now—meet me Friday afternoon at the junction of 31 and 6. (That’s where most of them big trucks turn off for Chicago.) Just so’s you won’t mistake me in the crowd, I’ll be carrying a toothbrush and a Toni kit.
Love,
Evalina
Question of the Week
Q. Why do they cheer so loud when a football player is hurt?
A. So you can’t hear what he’s saying.
Victor Hugo Wins ND Monogram
The following news item appeared in
If You Can Walk Well Teach You to Dance
the GEORGE DAVIS WAY
Don’t pass up all the good times this year. Learn to dance now with one of our talented George Davis teachers. With just a few lessons you’ll gam confidence, relax, and really enjoy Fox Trot, Waltz, Rhumba, or any other dance.
FREE TRIAL LESSON
PHONE 3-8229 or Come In
Northern Indiana's Largest Dance Studio
106 W. Monroe at Michigan
(No comment)
Bottom of the Week
.... it’s too bad there’s not enough to go around.
WASHINGTON HALL MOVIES
The following is the new list of movies in Washington Hall up to Christmas vacation:
Sat., Nov. 19—Down to the Sea in Ships;
Cartoon; News. 6:40—9:00.
Wed., Nov. 23—Africa Screams; Cartoon; News. 6:40—8:15.
Sat., Nov. 26—Adventure in Baltimore;
This is America—Girls in White;
News. 6:40—8:40.
Sat., Dec. 3—Bank-Dick; News. 6:40— 8:20.
Wed., Dec. 7—Sorrowful Jones; Popular Science Reel; News. 6:40—8:25.
Sat., Dec. 10— It Happens Every Spring; March of Time; News. 2:00—6:40— 8:40.
Sat., Dec. 17—Home of the Brave; Cartoon; News. 2:00—6:40—8:25.
Studio Hours: 10 a. m. - 10 p. m.
Entertainment
NOVEMBER 18
SOPHOMORE COTILLION—The second-year men will squire their hometown belles to the Palais Royale this evening for a Night in Old Erin. The top social event of the first semester will start at 9 and end at 1. Griff Williams and his orchestra will be on the podium.
COLFAX (through Nov. 23)—Trench-coated Alan Ladd is a newspaperman in Chicago Deadline (Legion of Decency Rating A-2). At times the plot doesn’t make sense, but on the whole it’s not a bad piece of entertainment.
AVON (through Nov. 22)—Walt Disney does it again with his doubleheader Ichabod and Mr. Toad (A-l). The cartoonist’s magic is as great as ever and shows up best, as always, when he depicts animals rather than humans.
NOVEMBER 19
IOWA GAME—Coach Leahy’s Irish, returned victoriously from New York and the North Carolina battle, face Coach Eddie Anderson’s Hawkeyes. Kickoff at 1:30.
DRILL HALL—Cotillion-goers wind up the weekend with the Victory Dance.
WASHINGTON HALL—A big bow of gratitude should be paid to Father Eugene Burke for' his fine schedule of movies slated for the antique auditorium. This week’s feature is Down to the Sea in Ships (A-l) starring Richard Widmark, Lionel Barrymore and Dean Stockwell. It’s an excellent epic of the sea.
NOVEMBER 20
CARTIER FIELD—The inter-hall east and west grid champs meet each other in the afternoon for the campus title. The Freshmen of Farley and the Seniors of Walsh should put on an interesting encounter.
GRANADA (through Nov. 23)—George Murphy and Ricardo Montaiban star in Border Incident (B), a story of Mexican migrant workers in the southwest. The Dalton Gang is the co-feature.
NOVEMBER 21
WASHINGTON HALL—The Notre Dame Orchestra presents its first concert of the year at 8:15 p.m. On the program will be classical selections of Mozart, Tschaikow-sky, Rossini and Grieg.
NOVEMBER 23
CHICAGO—The Chicago Club tosses one of its parties in the Congress Hotel for all holiday revelers.
NOVEMBER 24
THANKSGIVING—What is usually one of the best meals of the year will be given in the Dining Hall at noon. One day of rest and then back to classes.
COLFAX (through Nov. 30)"—Twentieth Century-Fox comes up with another of its frothy, technicolored musicals entitled Oh, You Beautiful Doll (A-2). Mark Stevens and June Haver have the leads. The film doesn’t deviate much from its predecessors, but also like the rest of them, it’s a pleasurable way in which to pass some time.
15 PHOTOS $100 for
• FRIENDSHIP • APPLICATION
Size 2/2 x 3/2
Copied from your favorite photograph.
MAIL 51.00 and PHOTO to
"PRocopy"
Box 115-A Greenville, Ohio
DIAMONDS—JEWELRY—WATCHES
J. TRETHEWEY Joe the Jeweler
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
Absorbent filters in Medico pipes and holders have 66 baffles that stop flakes and slugs... absorb juices ... reduce tongue bite ... give you the utmost in smoking pleasure.
MEDICO V. F. Q. (VERY FINE QUALITY) f
Specially selected imported briar Pipes. Wt
Wide variety of shapes. With 10 filters... A Alto Frank Medico "Standard"...
America's Outstanding Dollar (il) Pipe
Frank Medico Cigarette Holders *1 & ij
MEDICO FILTERED SMOKING
*. M. frank C Co., Ine. • Fifth Avenue. New York 2z
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 91 November 18, 1949 No. 9
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917, Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor JOSEPH HERRINGTON
Associate Editors KENNETH A. THOREN VICTOR O'G. DORR
WALTON R. COLLINS__________________News
JOHN H. JANOWSKI----Assistant News A. J. SCRIBA--------_____ Features
RALPH H. WRIGHT__________________Sports
WILLIAM RILEY.__________Assistant Sports RICHARD CULLEN._________Photography
LEON GARDNER__________________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER_____________Advertising
LOUIS P. LOURO Advertising
EDMOND FOLEY________________Circulation
WILLIAM KLEE________________Circulation
DALE FRANCIS__________Faculty Moderator
From the Editor’s Desk..
Wonderful Weekend
When a student activity comes off as well as last week’s New York trip did, we feel that a fair share of congratulations are in order. Most deserving are the students who made the trip. Seven hundred men, suddenly let free from campus restrictions and turned loose in a town like New York, could conceivably, and perhaps understandably, go too far in a number of ways. It is to the credit of Notre Dame as a Catholic institution and to the students who made the trip that the weekend came off without a single incident that could be construed as a reflection against either the school or the individual concerned. Notre Dame is in the public eye perhaps more than any other Catholic institution in the country. Notre Dame men, consequently, are sometimes looked upon with a would-be-critical eye. It is easy to make a bad impression when you are in the spotlight. It is also a chance to do a vast amount of good.
We feel that the students who made this trip took the latter opportunity. During the years that Notre Dame played Army in Yankee stadium New Yorkers became used to the yearly swarm from the midwest and many even looked forward to it. It may have been that during the three years we have not visited the city, they have had a chance to forget what a Notre Dame man was. We showed them this year that Notre Dame men are Christian gentlemen. Memories are short, but they won’t forget the game in a hurry. And we think that any of them who came in contact with our students will have a long memory of them as well. Congratulations to the trippers for recognizing an opportunity when they saw it, and for seizing it in the long-standing ND tradition.
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: The Class of ’52 takes possession of the campus this weekend for their Sophomore Cotillion. The four pictures on this week’s Scholastic cover is a photographic recap of some of the weekend’s main events. In the upper left hand corner is a shot depicting the arrival of a home-town belle. In the upper right hand corner, a couple enjoys tomorrow’s Iowa game together. In the bottom left hand corner the couple stand shyly with hands clasped, while chatting (unseen) tete-a-tete. The final pic, in the bottom right hand corner, depicts the formally-garbed Cotillion-goers dancing at the Palais Royale with a Night in Old Erin as the theme for the big social event. Four hundred fifty couples will attend tonight’s dance from 9 to 1 with 2 o’clock permissions granted. — Photos by Charles Murphy.
Nov. 18, 1949
Just a Holiday?
Next Thursday, people all over the country will get up late, eat a tremendous turkey dinner, and spend the rest of the day sleeping off the meal or listening to a football game. Even Notre Dame students will feast according to an announcement by the Dining Hall authorities. But if that’s all they do — just- eat and relax — Thanksgiving Day will have lost most of its original meaning.
Although established as a national and a more or less secular holiday, Thanksgiving should be devoted to doing just what its name implies — thanking God.
The American people probably have more to be thankful for than any other nation. We have peace (even though it isn’t too definite), prosperity and freedom. Notre Dame students have all this and more. A few minutes of contemplation should bring special gifts to your mind.
Every day at every Mass, the sacrifice is offered for four purposes: adoration, reparation, petition and thanksgiving. Because of constantly thanking God in this manner, many Catholics let Thanksgiving Day go by without noticing it too much. Perhaps this attitude isn’t sinful, but it seems only appropriate to consecrate this one day toward thanking God for his many gifts.
Instead of sleeping in, get up a-little early and go to Mass and Communion. By doing so, you’ll be making Thanksgiving more than just a secular holiday that doesn’t mean much, and you’ll manage to repay God in some small measure for His many gifts.
7
THE DU PONT
DIGEST
!FOR STUDENTS OF SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING
yarn from corncobs!
A DU PONT PROCESS CONVERTS FURFURAL INTO A CHEMICAL
FOR MAKING NYLON
One of the fascinating things about nylon is the unlikely sounding raw materials that go into it. Popularly, nylon is said to be made from coal, air and water. This is because originally, in developing its chemical intermediates, chemists used benzene (from coal), ammonia (from air and water), and oxygen (from air).
But Du Pont is always looking for new ways of doing things. After the discovery of nylon in 1934, research men immediately began looking for alternative ways of making the two main intermediates—adipic acid and hexamethylenediamine. In 1935, when nylon was still in the laboratory stage and three years before its commercial debut, they started work on the possibility of using furfural in the process.
A. G. Sveinbjornsson, Ph.D., Organic Chemistry, University of Kansas, 1948, and H. B. Copelin, M. S., Organic Chemistry, Cornell, 1941, studying new furfural derivatives.
Furfural has been used in the chemical industry for 25 years, but it is little known to the layman. A tancolored liquid with a faint bitteralmond odor, it is made from a wide variety of agricultural by-products. Among these are corncobs and hulls of cottonseed, oats, rice—all available in practically unlimited quantities from America’s farms.
C. R. Dewey, B. S. Chern., Niagara University, 1941, and J. M. Estes, B.S. Ch.E., University of Missouri, 1937, engaged in production. of adiponitrile at the Du Pont Electrochemicals plant in Niagara Falls, New York.
14 Years of Research and Development
It seems a far cry from corncobs to nylon, and it was. The development from the first small-scale laboratory experiments to the present full-scale plant cost 14 years of time and about five million dollars. But it enabled chemists to produce large quantities of adiponitrile, the compound from which hexamethylenediamine is made, by an economical process which uses natural materials that are in continuous supply.
In the new process, furfural is converted by a series of steps to 1,4-di-chlorobutane. The next step explains in part why Du Pont undertook the project in the first place. As producers of cyanides, they had sodium
Scale model of a part of the Du Pont adiponitrile plant at Niagara Falls. Here furfural, an agricultural by-product, is converted into a chemical intermediate for making nylon.
cyanide available for converting the 1,4-dichlorobutane into adiponitrile.
The final product, hexamethylenediamine, is then reacted with adipic acid to make nylon "salt.” Still more processing and the salt becomes yarn, and the nylon flake used by the plastics industry.
Opportunities at Du Pont in many scientific fields
This is an excellent example of the interesting work in industrial organic chemistry carried on at Du Pont. It required the technical knowledge and skill of highly trained research and development men, including organic and physical chemists; chemical, mechanical, civil and electrical engineers, and others.
Only a large company with ample resources in men and money could afford to engage in research of such magnitude. To the young college graduate, Du Pont offers the broad-estof opportunities in many scientific fields, along with the advantages of working directly with a small group of associates.
Keynote of Du Pont personnel policy is promotion from within on a competitive merit basis. A conscientious effort is made not only to choose college-trained people of promise, but to develop each individual as rapidly as possible.
■W.U.S.PAT Off-
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Entertaining, informative—Listen to "Cavalcade of America” Tuesday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
The Scholastic

8
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
VOLUME 91, NUMBER 9
' NOVEMBER 18, 1949
Fr. Farrell to Speak Reedy Named President, 475 Frosh Vote On Campus Tonight As '53 Express Party Claims All Offices
By BOB BUTLER
By JIM CARRIG
Tonight, in Washington Hall, the second in a series of faculty lectures on Sacred Theology and the Church will be presented by the Notre Dame Department of Religion. The lecture will begin at 8 p.m. and all students are invited to attend. The Very Rev. Walter Farrell, O.P., will be guest speaker, and Rev. Leo Arnault, O.P., professor in the Graduate School of Theology at St. Mary’s College, will be discussion leader. The topic Father Farrell has selected to discuss is “Theology and the Modern World.”
dh Trained in Switzerland
Father Farrell received his early training at the Catholic University of Fribourg, Switzerland, where he received the degree of Doctor* of Sacred Theology. In Rome, in 1940, Father Farrell received the degree of Master of Sacred Theology which is the highest degree bestowed by the Dominicans.
Besides writing many magazine ar-• tides, he was one of the original editors of The Thomist, a speculative quarterly review of theology and philosophy. He is now associate editor of Cross and Croivn, the new Dominican publication.
Was Navy Chaplain
Father Farrell’s best known work is A Companion to the Summa, in which he presents the matter of St. Thomas Aquinas’ Summa Theologica, not in its original form of objections and re-9 sponses, but in chapter form written in a modern idiom. Shortly aftei* completing this work Father Farrell volunteered for duty in the U. S. Navy. He served sea duty on several carriers and was also a member of the faculty of the Navy Chaplain School at William and Mary College.
At the present time Father Farrell is a professor on the Pontifical Faculty of Philosophy at the Dominican House of Studies in River Forest, Ill.
® Nov. 18, 1949
The freshman election wasn’t much of a contest as the ’53 Express party swept every office last Wednesday.
Four hundred seventy-five men, or about 35 percent of the freshman class, voted. Tom Reedy garnered well over half of the total vote for the presidency. His party-mates, Jim Gibbons, Al de Crane and Bill Goudreau, did equally well in securing the other offices.
Reedy lives in Farley hall and comes from River* Forest, Ill. He is in the College of Commerce. The new president beat four opponents.
Jim Gibbons, Farley, won the vice-presidential post. He comes from Chicago and is an A.B. student.
Al de Crane is the new class secretary. He hails from Cleveland Heights, Ohio, and 317 Zahm. De Crane is also in Arts and Letters.
These Express party candidates swept into Freshman offices: president, Tom Reedy; vice-president, Jim Gibbons; secretary, Al de Gane, and treasurer, Bill Goudreau.
Two-thirds of the voters cast their ballots for Baltimore’s Bill Goudreau, putting him in the treasurer’s slot. He majors in architectural engineering and lives in Breen-Phillips hall.
Already these ambitious officers have outlined a program of activities for the year. Tom Reedy was not available for comment but secretary Al de Crane made this statement:
“We are promoting a six-point program to include a freshman class meeting after mid-semesters, a frosh retreat, freshman Olympics, another picnic, a spring dance, and renewed cooperation between the four freshman halls.”
The Combo party, composed of Vince La Puma, Art Casey, Bob Evers, and Jerry Marchand, took second place in each of the four races. The “Combo-ites” won about 100 votes each.
Miss Shirley Klocke
Cotillion in 'Old Erin' Opens Doors Tonight
A little bit of Ireland will pervade the Palais Royale Ballroom when the sophomore class unveils its “Night in Old Erin” before a sellout attendance of nearly 500 couples tonight at nine.
The annual Cotillion will be the highpoint of an activity-packed weekend that will include tonight’s pep rally, the Victory Dance tomorrow evening with the football squad as guests and a special Cotillion section at tomorrow afternoon’s meeting between the Irish and Iowa. The big weekend will end for the sophs and their fair guests at a special Mass in Sacred Heart Church at nine on Sunday.
With bids and favors a complete sellout a week ago, Griff Williams’ very danceable music will provide the background for one of the largest crowds in the history of the annual Sophomore Cotillion.
Guests of the co-chairmen will occupy the dual thrones as the CotilTion Queens. Soph president Jim Garvin will escort Miss Joanne Dugan, of Toledo, while co-chairman Ed Noonan •null be accompanied by Miss Shirley Klocke of Aurora, Ill.
A former schoolmate of Garvin at Toledo Central Catholic High school, Miss Dugan is a 17-year-old brunette colleen now doing secretarial work for Msgr. Norbert M. Schumaker, Superintendent of Schools in the Toledo Diocese. Miss Klocke, 19, is a former student at St. Mary’s College and is currently featured vocalist on a local Aurora radio show.
Sophomores took the majority of the
Miss Joanne Dugan
ducats early in the sales, but a surprising number of upper classmen will swell this evening’s crowd. With 2 o’clock hall permissions and a go-ahead on cars, the Student Council-backed Cotillion looks like a social as well as a financial success, thanks mainly to the work of a committee that began laying its plans for this evening as far back as last May.
Graduation Plans Set For 380 ND Seniors
January graduation plans have named the Most Rev. Joseph E. Ritter, archbishop of St. Louis, as Baccalaureate speaker, and the Hon. John F. Kennedy of the House of Representatives as principal speaker at the graduation exercise.
The remainder of the events of the commencement weekend are tentative, but will closely resemble those of January, 1949. On Saturday, Jan. 28, there will be a final Mass and visit to Sacred Heart Church in the morning, with a faculty reception in Washington Hall in the afternoon. On Sunday, Jan. 29, there will be the Baccalaureate Mass in the morning and the conferring of degrees in the afternoon, both ceremonies to be held in the University Drill Hall.
There are approximately 380 men scheduled to receive diplomas this January, of whom 116 are Commerce men 102 A.B. students; 19 from the Science college; 91 engineers; 19 law students, and 25 graduate students, four of whom are candidates for doctorate degrees.
History Dept. Gives Byzantine Lectures
Father Franz Dvornik, the outstanding authority on early Byzantine history, who is at present attached to the Harvard University Research Library at Dumbarton Oaks, Washington, D. C., will give two lectures under the auspices of the Department of History on Nov. 21 and 23. The lectures will be given at 4:30 p.m. in Room 102 of the Law Building. The title of the first lecture is “Byzantium, the Slavs and the Franks,” and will treat the period of the shaping of Central Europe from the seventh to the tenth centry. The Wednesday lecture will be entitled “The Emperors, the Popes and the Councils” and will deal with approximately the same period in Western European History. Last year Father Dvornik published his history of the Schism of Photius, in which he changed the commonly accepted notion of the position of Photius in the origin of the Greek Schismatic Church. The book has been very widely acclaimed by scholars.
Father Dvornik has recently been made full professor at the Dumbarton Oaks Research Library of Harvard University. Before the war Father Dvornik was Dean of the faculty of divinity at Charles IV University in Prague. Exiled by the war, he lectured at London University until he came to the Dumbarton Library in Washington, which is the center for Byzantine studies in the United States. Father Dvornik will remain on the campus several days and will be available for consultation by students of mediaeval studies in the Departments of History and Political Science and the Mediaeval Institute.
Dr. Chroust Will Speak at St. Paul College Lectures
Notre Dame’s Professor Anton-Hermann Chroust was chosen this week to speak on St. Thomas College’s Archbishop Ireland Memorial lecture series.
Dr. Chroust, who will speak on “The Natural Law in Common Law Traditions,” will give his lecture at the St. Paul college next February. Appearing on the lecture series with him will be such well known scholars as Jacques Maintain, Yves Simon, Dr. Heinrich Rommen and Canada’s minister of justice, the Right Honorable S. S. Carson.
The Very Reverend Vincent J. Flynn, president of St. Thomas, announced the lecture series this week and said that the natural law will be the theme for the lectures this year.
The Scholastic
10
Law Ball 'Subpoenas' Almost 200 Couples
Summoned by “subpoena” bids to the court of the two snow queens, Mrs. Vincent Scully and Miss Marilyn Luyckx, almost 200 couples will attend the annual Law Ball this evening at 9 o’clock.
Dancing to the music of Herb Ger-mann’s orchestra in the main ballroom of the Indiana club, future lawyers and their dates will be enveloped in a realistic “Winter Wonderland.”, Evergreens, revolving snowmen, gently falling snow, and winter scenes will comprise the decorations.
A novelty of this year’s ball are the bids. Each invitation is in the form A of a legal summons to court, subpoena duces tecum. The penalty to be imposed upon any girl who receives a subpoena and fails to present herself at the dance is “to attend the great books lectures for one year!” revealed Tom Nelson, president of the Law club.
Co-chairmen of the ball are Gene Mathews and Vince Scully. In charge of decorations are Dick Heyl and Ed Roswadowski. Ed Coleman supervised arrangements. Meyer Kroopnick and Wilmer McLaughlin served as co-chair-9 men of the ticket committee. Aiding them were Bob Moskal, Vic DiFiori, Jim White, Clark Fisher, Lou Mustico, John Globensky, John R. O’Connor, George Kiernan, Bill Greif, Frank Quinn and Bob Drummond.
Ca+holic U. Players £ To Put on 'Much Ado'
Another Shakespeare production will play to Washington Hall audiences next month when the University Players from Catholic University of America put on Much Ado About Nothing, one of Shakespeare’s three famous “joyous comedies” which have delighted centuries of audiences. The play will run for two days, including an evening performance on Dec. 7, a matinee on Dec. ,	8, and a final performance in the eve-
9 ning of Dec. 8.
In the feature roles of Beatrice and Benedick, Miss Teddy Marie Kinsey and Bill Callahan promise to give excellent performances. Miss Kinsey is a graduate of Wilson Teachers College in Washington, D. C., and received her Master’s degree at Catholic University. She has appeared in a number of University Players performances in recent years, among them The Barber of Seville. She was hailed by Washington
9
Mrs. Vincent Scully
critics for her portrayal of Rosine in that production.
Mr. Callahan will play the sophisticated, stylized Benedick. He is a teacher at Catholic University, where he is also studying for a Master’s degree. Like Miss Kinsey, he has also had several years of experience with the University Players and is perhaps best remembered for his comic role as Hestor Hushabye in Heartbreak House, which was produced by the company in the summer of 1948.
The University Players are made up of a group of recent Catholic University of America drama graduates. Their Notre Dame stop is part of a 7,000-mile tour which will take them through 15 states to leading colleges and universities. This will be the first road trip for the Players since before the war, and is under the direction and supervision of Rev. Gilbert V. Hartke, O.P., head of the Speech and Drama Department at Catholic University.
Much Ado About Nothing is the company’s road play for this year. It is based on a text by Mr. William Kerr and is billed as a “modern acting version” of the Shakespeare classic.
Students will be admitted to this production on their ID cards. For everyone else, tickets will go on sale shortly at 60 cents apiece.
Illinois Club Plans Cage Squad
At its latest meeting, the Central Illinois Club made plans for the organization of a Campus league basketball team. President Bob Finnegan also announced tentative plans for a trip to Chicago for a Notre Dame cage game. The meeting was held in the Law Auditorium and refreshments were served.
Miss Marilyn Luyckx
Gridders Will Surprise Young Autograph Fans
The Fighting Irish have a habit of doing things in a big way — even with autographs.
Hereafter, whenever a young admirer asks a Notre Dame gridder for his autograph, he will be pleasantly surprised. The team intends to answer every such request from the small fry by presenting them with a scapular medal and chain and a new 1950 Notre Dame Prayer Book, signed by the little fan’s idol himself.
The Rev. Richard J. Grimm, C.S.C., Prefect of Religion, announced this “new look” in autographs last week.
Glee Club to Visit Chicago For Concert With Rosary
The Notre Dame Glee Club, with Dean Pedtke as director and AI Gavan as president, will journey to Chicago Dec. 10 for a concert with the Glee Club of Rosary College. Beginning at 8 p.m., the concert will include a half hour of radio time over WMAQ, Chicago. Jointly the glee clubs will present a varied program and each glee club will have four or five individual numbers. This concert will be held for the benefit of the Student Guild of Rosary College.
This is one of the first of many concerts planned by the Glee Club for the coming year. Plans are now being made for a tour of the Southwest between semesters. Al Gavan, Glee: Club president, is hard at work trying to arrange a schedule comparable to the one of last year’s tour of the Southeast. At present the plans are incomplete but the Glee Club has high hopes of another successful tour.
Nov. 18, 1949
11
Julius Caesar holds court under Fascist eagle in Roman Forum as Margaret Webster's troupe delights Washington Hall audience. Modern costumes spiced famous drama.
Margaret Webster's Modern 'Julius Caesar' Pleases Large Audience at Washington Hall
By VIC DORR
If last week’s production in Washington Hall is any indication of the type of entertainment the University Concert and Lecture Series has slated for the year, then students here can turn flip flops with glee. The Margaret Webster Shakespeare Company presented one of the finest dramatic performances to be seen at Notre Dame in many moons. The play was Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar, done to a turn by Louisa Horton, Kendall Clark, David Lewis and a fine supporting cast.
Heralded as Shakespeare in modern dress, this Julius Caesar presentation was victim to much skeptical criticism before the play began. But once the curtain was up, the effectiveness of trim, bright officers’uniforms, radiant evening dresses and sombre peasant clothes was amazing. Supplanting the customary sandals and flowing togas of the classic Roman era, it was, in Miss Webster’s words, an attempt “to honestly interpret what seems to us Shakespeare’s thinking in terms which bring it closest to our own minds and our own society.”
As such an interpretation, this play does very well. It was pleasantly surprising to see how well the Shakespeare of centuries ago could be fitted to problems of the present day. Instead of the
12
ambitious Caesar under knives of conspirators, it might have been an aspiring dictator of any modem nation rubbed out by free-thinking people before he attains absolute power. The theme—that no human being is capable of wielding absolute power over his fellows—is equally as apropos today as it was then. The modern dress effect merely brings it more clearly into focus.
Acting Holds Audience
The acting excellence in Julius Caesar kept the audience on edge throughout, even through some of the Bard’s most tedious dialogue. If orchids are to be tossed, Frederick Rolf gets a fat one for his distinguished portrayal of the mighty Caesar. His was one of the most satisfying characterizations of the evening and he did the role of the haughty Roman ruler to perfection. Kendall Clark, as the charming, smooth-tongued Mark Antony, likewise wins much praise —not only for his classic funeral oration, but for his entire role. Looking much like a young Nazi officer in his dapper uniform, Clark was well-suited for the role.
David Lewis, as Brutus, handled a difficult role with distinction and understanding. His voice was a bit too mellow, however, and his words melted into
each other a few times. Pretty Louisa Horton, of All My Sons film fame, did an exacting job as Portia, wife to Brutus. Hei- voice was cleai- and pleasing, and her diction was superb. John Straub, who enacted the cruel, scheming Cassius, turned in an excellent performance. The entire supporting cast, (nine of whom played double roles) essayed their parts most satisfactorily.
Realistic Scenery
The staging and scenery in Miss Webster’s production were certainly responsible for a big slice of the play’s success. Much realism was apparent from the giant lattice-like fascist eagle in the background, in the brightly colored banners and costumes and from the sound effects.
Playing her Caesar in Washington Hall, Miss Webster gave a fine example of what can be done with a tiny stage when necessity calls. At the opening of Act II a crowd of Roman citizens had to enter from the right exit door in front of the stage, but it was handled deftly, caused no confusion, and served the scene’s pose well. In other cases, superlative lighting placed emphasis where it was needed most. Especially was this true when Caesar presided in the Forum, when he appeared as a ghost to Brutus, and when the infuriated mob pounced upon inoffensive little Cinna, the poet, because his name was like that of a conspirator.
The success of this play was easily apparent in the enthusiasm of the audience. The kind of applause seldom heard in Washington Hall brought the cast back for repeated curtain calls. There were few faults to be found with the performance, and none of them were glaring. One slight kink was the loud music in the first act that drowned out actor’s lines. It was soon corrected. But on the whole, Miss Webster’s interpretation of Julius Caesar was superb. It was an evening of exceptional entertainment for all who saw it; it was an evening of success for Margaret Webster’s troupe; and it was a feather in the hat of the Concert and Lecture Series for bringing such a play to Notre Dame.
Construction of Ice Rink Started East of Infirmary
Construction has been started on a new ice skating rink east of the Infirmary. The purpose of the rink will be to provide students •with a place for skating that can be kept clear of snow and debris and resurfaced' periodically to insure good skating throughout the cold season.
Plans for the rink call for a large wooden platform which will be flooded with water when temperatures hit the sub-freezing level.
The Scholastic
Tom Wolff, with megaphone, stirs up student trippers' enthusiasm for proposed giant Times Square pep rally the next day.
After things quieted down, these fans managed to get some sleep as the Student Special continued to roll toward N.Y.
Seven Hundred Students See Hottest Gome on Coldest Afternoon
Some 700 ND students boarded a Diesel-powered Pennsy train last Friday to head for New York on the student trip. The trip allowed them 48 hours in the big city — 48 hours they’d planned for months ahead. Thirteen and a half hours in a day coach can be quite dreary, but the Fighting Irish spirit prevailed.
The club car was filled in five minutes and the inevitable card games began — canasta, bridge and a little friendly poker too. Those who couldn’t find tables in the club car found their luggage made a good substitute for a card table. Others were in a more festive spirit; they sang practically every
college song except that of North Carolina which none seemed to know. The boys didn’t even get “midnight lights” for the trip, but most of them wanted a little shut-eye anyhow.
The surprisingly-speedy train stopped briefly in Pittsburgh and Harrisburg, then wound through the mountains. Some of the bends were so sharp that those in the rear coaches saw the engine directly across from them. When most of the students arose in the morning, slightly the worse for wear, the train was already in New Jersey. Then came Pennsylvania Station, New York. Most of the students headed for St. Francis of Assisi Church and Mass;
members of the parish couldn’t seem to figure out the sudden migration to their Church. Or the huge stacks of luggage in the corners. After Mass, the cliques all went their ways to reassemble at Yankee Stadium in the afternoon.
It was the coldest football afternoon of the season, one of the hottest games and most colorful Notre Dame affair since the ’46 Army game. Tarheel fans were the proudest 36-point losers ND students had ever seen; they waved their Confederate flags and blue and white pennants as much after the game as they did before. The ride back was comparatively quiet. Everyone was glad he went to New York.
Most cheering was done Friday night, as trip back to ND was spent in sleeping.
Nov. 18, 1949
Photos by MURPHY
Wightkin reaches up in Yankee Stadium gloom for Bob Williams' aerial special.
A student, much wearied after the weekend of gaiety, walks toward the train.
13
Orchestra to Present First Concert Monday
The Notre Dame Orchestra will present its first concert of the year at 8:15 p.m. next Monday in Washington Hall.
The program will begin with the Overture to Rossini’s Barber of Seville. Rossini did not originally intend this overture as part of the famous opera, but its colorful tunes lent themselves so well to the Barber’s character that he decided to include it.
The symphony for the evening will be Mozart’s 35th, the Haffner Symphony. The orchestra will also play the Marche Slave, by Tschaikovsky. This march is a favorite with audiences everywhere. Its strains are dignified and catchy, as the theme is repeated in every section of the orchestra.
■ Feature of the evening will be Henry Ketterer at the piano in the first movement of Grieg’s Piano Concerto. Ketterer is a senior music major from Charleston, Mo. His keyboard stylings are familiar and well-received in local music circles.
The Concert Orchestra is in its third year at Notre Dame. Under the direction of Mr. Charles Biondo, the group boasts 53 members. Mr. Biondo said that the program for Monday’s concert has been selected with an eye to bringing out the talent of each section of the orchestra. Woodwind and brass passages as well as the string specialties are included.
Liturgists Sponsor Mass of Eastern Rite Tomorrow
Early risers tomorrow will have an opportunity to hear a Mass of an Eastern rite. At 5:45 tomorrow morning in Sacred Heai-t Church, the Benedictine monks of the Abbey of Saint Procopius, Lisle, Ill., will celebrate Mass according to the Byzantine (Ruthenian) Rite, the liturgy being that of Saint John Chrysostom.
As celebrant of the Mass, sponsored by the Liturgy Club, Rev. William McAuliffe, C.S.C., club chaplain, hopes to procure the abbot of the Benedictine monastery. Although the Mass is sung in the Ancient Slavonic language, those present can follow it by means of mimeographed English texts, distributed by the Liturgy Club.
Holy Communion will be distributed under both species, bread and wine, to all who wish to receive. The Sacred Body of Our Lord is dipped into His Precious Blood with a spoon, then is placed on the tongue.
In spite of the early hour, a large turnout is expected to witness the beautiful Eastern ceremony.—Don Carbone
14
Mass Schedule for the Week of Nov. 19-25
Saturday, Nov. 19—Double—White—St. Elizabeth of Hungary, Queen and Widow; Gloria; 2nd Coll. St. Pontian, Pope and Martyr; Preface of Apostles.
Sunday, Nov. 20—Semi-double—Green—XXIV and Last Sunday after Pentecost; Gloria; 2nd Coll. St. Felix of Valois, Confessor; Creed; Preface of Trinity.
Monday, Nov. 21—Greater Double—White—Presentation of the Blessed Virgin Mary; Gloria; Creed; Pref, of Blessed Virgin.
Tuesday, Nov. 22—Double—Red—St. Cecilia, Virgin and Martyr; Gloria; Common Preface.
Wednesday, Nov. 23—Double—Red—St. Clement I, Pope and Martyr; Gloria; 2nd Coll. St. Felicitas, Mother and Martyr; Preface of Apostles.
Thursday, Nov. 24—Double—White—St. John of the Cross, Confessor and Doctor of the Church; Gloria; 2nd Coll. St. Chrysogonus, Martyr; Creed; Common Pref.
Friday, Nov. 25—Double—Red—St. Catherine of Alexandria, Virgin and Martyr; Gloria; Common Preface.
NOTE—	■
Missa Recitata in Our Lady Chapel every Saturday 6:40 a. m.
Compline and Vespers—Dillon Hall daily 5:20 p. m.
Vespers—Howard Hall daily 5:30 p. m.
Compline—Sorin Hall five days a week 6:45 p. m.
Compline—Walsh Hall 11:00 p. m.
Four Debaters at Purdue For Invitational Tourney
Four men represented the Notre Dame debating team yesterday and today at the Purdue Invitational Tournament, held at Purdue University. Some 40 other schools from different parts of the country participated in the tournament.
The four ND speakers composed two teams on the national topic for this year, “Resolved: that the U. S. sho„uld nationalize basic non-agricultural industries.” Veteran speaker Tom Nin-neman and freshman George Pearse held the affirmative side of the argument, while Bill Carey, president of the Debating Club, and another freshman, Pete Ninneman, took the negative viewpoint.
Notre Dame won the Purdue Invitational Tournament last year, with three of our men placing for individual speaking honors. The tournament was not limited to actual debating, but pro-
NO ‘SCHOLASTIC’ NEXT WEEK
Because of the Thanksgiving holiday the SCHOLASTIC will not publish an issue next Friday. The magazine will be under your door as usual the following week, Dec. 2.
vided the debaters with an opportunity of understanding the point of view of debate judges and the utility of debate criticism by means of a series of debater-judge discussions on this subject.
History-Philosophy Relation Subject of History Parley
The November discussion of the Department of History will be held in Room 101 of the Law Building at 7:45 p.m. Tuesday, Nov. 22, on the subject of “The Relation Between History and Philosophy.” The leaders of the discussion will be Father Thomas Brennan, director of the Great Books Program and member of the Philosophy Department, and Dr. Marshall Smelser of the Department of History. The Chairman of the discussion will be Father Franz Dvornik of Harvard University, who will be visiting the University during that week.
The general theme for the history discussion this year is the relation between history and various other fields of knowledge. The October discussion : was on “The Relation Between History and Sociology,” with Drs. A. I. Abell	i
and E. K. Francis as leaders. The De-	|
cember discussion will be on “The Rela-	I
tion Between History and Mathemat-	|
ics,” with Dr. Ross Arnold and Dr.	|
M. A. Fitzsimons as leaders.	i
The Scholastic 41
Your Future
5: As a Salesman
By ROBERT ROMAKER
“You don’t have to be a college graduate to be a good salesman,” says Mr. Jasper Lawton, Industrial Sales representative of the O’Brien Paint Corporation, but it helps.”
“A college graduate has the background which his less talented competitor does not have. Say for example you’re selling paint and you’ve just graduated as a chemical engineer. It stands to reason that you know more about paints, varnishes and laquers than your non-college rival unless he’s
Mr. Jasper Lawton is the Industrial Sales representative for the O’Brien Paint Corporation of South Bend. He has been with them for 2U years. Mr. Laivton received his B.S. degree from Notre Dame in 1911.
been in the business all his life. As a result your superior knowledge is going to make most of the sales, because the buyer knows that you know your product.
“Then too you’re ten jumps ahead of the non-college man because your mannerisms and refinement will stamp you as a gentleman. You don’t have to tell your customers that you are a graduate £ of such and such a college. They’ll know it by your demeanor.
Why a Chemical Engineer?
“Perhaps you’re surprised because I used a chemical engineer as my example of a salesman. Maybe you wonder just what he’s doing in sales work. I’ll tell you.
“It’s been my experience that 90% of analytical workers eventually go into sales work. By analytical workers I mean engineers, chemists, etc. Why? Because the technical field just doesn’t offer enough remuneration.
“Salesmanship presents opportunities for making money that the analytical fields do not. A good man in the sales field can reasonably expect to make from 12 to 15 thousand dollars annually at the end of five years.
“Then too, the sales field is a versatile one,” remarks Mr. Lawton. He pointed
out that if you graduate as a doctor or lawyer, chances are that you’ll be one for the rest of your life. But as a salesman you could take on another line tomorrow and succeed after some concentrated studies of the new line, aided by your background knowledge, contacts and courtesies.
Advertising Invaluable to Salesman
“As you know, a professional man usually puts out a big initial outlay to get started,” Mr. Lawton continued. “He’s hampered by professional ethics which forbid him to advertise. If a doctor advertises he’s a quack. If a lawyer advertises he’s an ambulance chaser. But advertising is a salesman’s business.
“Unlike the doctor or lawyer the salesman does not have to make this big initial outlay to get going. But like the doctor and lawyer he is in business for himself. You are your own ball carrier. If you’ve got drive and energy you won’t fumble.
“Because you’re in business for yourself you’ve got to work and work hard. Make 200 to 400 calls while the other fellow is making 100. The law of averages will take care of your sales. Even if you only sell one item in 100 calls,
Ace huckster and O'Brien Paint Corporation industrial sales representative Jasper Lawton (left) really drives a hard bargain. When SCHOLASTIC asked for his photo, he sold us on the idea of also using one of his friend, William Schmitt (right).
you’re better off than the man who sells one in 20 calls, because you’ve made contacts; you know the people and you’re going to come back and hit them again.
“You’ve got to work seven days a week, get used to hardships, and plug, plug, plug,” Mr. Lawton stresses. “That’s the key, the more calls you make the more sales you’ll get. Don’t let football games, parties, dances or even your personal life interfere with your work.	•
Plug, Plug, Plug! !
“When you go out to make a sale let the buyer know that you’ve got a wife and kids. There’s a lot of sympathy in people. They’ll appreciate the fact that you work for a living and they’ll want to give you the order rather than some big impersonal corporation.
“Show me the man who can blush,” smiled Mr. Lawton, “and I’ll show you the man who makes the sales.” He said that the day of the brash salesman is over. The purchaser may laugh weakly at the salesman’s dirty joke but deep down in his heart he’ll vow never to give that so and so an order. Most of the men in the business world don’t enjoy filthy stories.
“Probably the cheapest and the most expensive thing in salesmanship is courtesy. It’s my stock in trade,” Mr. Lawton explained. “It doesn’t cost anything to be courteous, yet courtesy pays the biggest dividends. A successful salesman is a courteous salesman. This pleases and impresses people. How do you suppose so many worthless articles on the market are sold every year? Simply because a buyer was impressed
Nov. 18, 1949
15
by a salesman’s courtesy and wanted to give him an order.
“During the war years an unnatural situation existed. There wasn’t much salesmanship—just order taking. This was due to the exigencies of war. Now the situation is straightening itself out. I’ve seen the lazy boys with nothing on the ball being let out. The point is that salesmanship is becoming more competitive. It’s the alert boys who get the orders and keep their jobs.
“Don’t go into sales work unless you are absolutely honest at heart,” Mr. Lawton warns, “otherwise you’re almost certain to be a failure. To succeed permanently in salesmanship you have to be absolutely honest in your selling. You have to have the buyer’s confidence. Don’t sell your product, sell the character of your company.
“Remember, if you want to succeed in this job work and work hard. Selling is about three per cent luck and 95 per cent consistency.”
Audio-Visual Movies
Shows Begin Daily at 12:30 p. m.
Monday, Nov. 21
WINGS OVER LATIN AMERICA—(Color—45 minutes)—Clipper plane takes us from New Orleans to Yucatan, Guatemala, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia, Chile, Argentina, Brazil, Surinam, Trinidad, Virgin Islands, Jamaica, Haiti, Cuba and back to Miami.
Wednesday, Nov. 23
EPIC IN THE AFTERNOON—Football film—The story of the San Francisco ’49ers-Cleveland Brown game for the All-American Conference championship Nov. 28, 1948, Kezar Stadium, San Francisco.
HOPI ARTS AND CRAFTS—Includes weaving . . . silversmithing and basketmaking, and pottery making by the Hopi Indians, using their ancient tools,
Friday, Nov. 25
THE CITY—A documentary film which contrasts the awesome condition of human living in a modern industrial city with serenity of life in an 18th Century New England village and with the architects and engineers’ concept of the model community.
Monday, Nov. 28
OPPORTUNITY—A documentary film on why the Cleveland-Northeast Ohio area is “the best location in the nation.” (A March of Time production.)
A MILLION TIMES A DAY—This film outlines the steps followed by telephone operators as they complete the longest possible telephone call in the continental United States.
Wednesday, Nov. 30
NOTRE DAME—TODAY AND TOMORROW—The latest film on life on the Notre Dame campus.
Friday, Dec. 2
THE GREATEST GIFT—Bartolome, a juggler in mediaeval France, performs his feats before the statue of the Blessed Virgin as an act of veneration, and receives her blessing.
THE AMERICAN HOME—The story of a typical American family in a typical American family home at Christmas time.
Newly Revived Campus Council of NFCCS Meets to Plan Year's Student Relief Drive
Notre Dame’s recently revived local council of the National Council of Catholic College Students, with Jim Garvin, sophomore prexy and A.B. student from Toledo, Ohio, as campus chairman, met last Wednesday. The council began its preliminary preparations for the Mardi Gras Carnival and the automobile award both of which are to be directed this year by the Council. In previous years they have been handled by individual campus representatives of the NFCCS.
The car award and carnival will be run in practically the same manner as the 1948-49 drive, which netted §25,000 for Foreign Student Relief. Donation books will be distributed to all students before the Christmas vacation begins. The winner will receive a new 1950 auto
mobile as will the student who sells the winning ticket.
The local council has proposed a new two-fold program of operations which is now awaiting ratification. Should it be adopted, the council would be free to set aside a certain portion of the net proceeds from the Student Relief Drive to cover all the tuition, traveling and incidental expenses of a full four-year scholarship to Notre Dame, which will be awarded to some foreign student whom the NFCCS deems as “talented, worthy, and displaying considerable leadership ability.”
Secondly, the group also wishes to retain enough of the proceeds to defray its own operating expenses, which have previously been paid by the Student Council. Such a budget would cover the cost of sending the Notre Dame NFCCS representatives to monthly Regional meetings in Chicago, and to the annual national meeting. Thus, according to the new program, the local council would virtually become a self-sufficient unit.
Campus Clubs at Meeting
Present at Wednesday’s meeting were representatives from some fifteen campus organizations, including the Student Council, WND, the Scholastic, YCS, the Liturgy Club, the Debate Club, the various International Relations Clubs, the Inter-American Affairs Club, the Inter-Racial Club, and the Knights of Columbus. These fifteen members make up the local, or Notre Dame council of the NFCCS. From that number there will be elected or appointed approximately ten members who are to handle all correspondence carried on with the various National and Regional Commissions of the NFCCS, which closely corresponds to the Notre Dame clubs or organizations which the ten members will themselves represent.
Another aim of the local council will be to acquaint the student body with the real nature of the work being done by NFCCS. This is to be done by having the chairman, the assistant chairman, and the other members of the local council give informal talks whenever possible before the members of various geographical club meetings. The campus press and radio services will also lend a hand in this service.
Mardi Gras plans are as yet rather indefinite and will not be forthcoming until the local council has completed its orientation of the student body. But chairman Garvin advises the geographical clubs to begin discussion soon on their carnival plans.—Jack Bradshaw
16
The Scholastic
Father Mathis, Head of Liturgy School, Works at Restoring Primacy of Worship
By John McAuliffe
Probably few Notre Dame men have met Rev. Michael A. Mathis, C.S.C., * chaplain of St. Joseph’s hospital, or even recognize the stocky priest as he visits the campus. Yet, spiritually, few students of the past ten years have left Notre Dame completely unaffected by the humble work of Father Mathis.
However, the limits or scope of his influence are only with difficulty definable, as is the case with most priestly work — at present he is head of the • Liturgy School at Notre Dame, author of a weekly series of commentaries on Vigil preparation for Sunday, and is in widespread demand by parishes and dioceses making an effort to restore the liturgy to their* churches. Such a litany hardly completes the story which began some 13 years ago.
For 25 years Father Mathis had been promoting the Holy Cross foreign mission; he had founded ‘the Foreign Mission House in Washington; started the Bengalese magazine; and was co-£ founder of the Society of Catholic Medical Missionaries, a society of nuns dedicated to professional medical practice where women of the Moslem and Hindu faiths cannot be attended by male doctors.
‘Discovers’ Liturgy
Then, in 1936, Kaplan Goertz, who was studying at Munster University in A Westphalia when Father Mathis first met him three years earlier, came to study the organization of the Medical Mission mother house.
His visit over, he left behind Dr. Pius Parsch’s The Year of Salvation. Interested by the book, Father Mathis wrote to Dr. Parsch for more material on the liturgy of the Church.
With this reading, the course of Father Mathis’ apostolate changed. He had just about finished writing a book " on India. He abandoned this writing for* what he termed “the discovery of the biggest thing in the world.” This was the holy liturgy, “the only thing in the world that could produce what it teaches.”
So, after many years of fruitful missionary work, Father Mathis turned to a closer study of the liturgy, in preparation for entering his second apostolate — the ' restoration of the public
) Nov. 18, 1949
worship of the Church to its full primacy. Three years later, just ten years ago, his new priestly work began.
He had been assigned to Notre Dame, and had been selected to answer a student request for lectures on mission work. In reply he organized the University unit of Catholic Students’ Mission Crusade. Then, when these students became determined to join in lay missionary work, Father Mathis turned to the liturgy.
He introduced them to the glories of the liturgy, emphasizing their dependence upon the public worship of the Church as a means of deepening and developing their own Catholic lives — so necessary for members of the apostolate.
Group a Forerunner
This group of students was the forerunner of the present Liturgical Life movement on campus. Of the first group of twelve, eight became priests, and the others have followed in centering their lives in the liturgy. One, now living in South Bend, considers the liturgy the point of integration for his “whole spiritual, intellectual, and practical life.”
At this same time, Father Mathis began publishing a commentary on the Mass, prepared bi-weekly for the student body. Later he began publication of brief commentaries on the Divine Office for the general public. This is still a weekly publication, showing the value of the Divine Office in vigil preparation, and in understanding the propers of the Mass for feasts and Sundays.
Two years ago, with the approval of the University, Father Mathis founded a summer Liturgy School on the campus. Here he hopes to do his greatest service to Catholicism in the United States.
Plaudits from Magazine
Commenting on its opening, the editor of Caecelia, a music magazine, wrote: Father Michael A. Mathis, c.s.c., fof the University of Notre Dame, is to be highly commended for breaking definitely with the conventional summer school, and for having inaugurated last year his school of Liturgy and Chant. The school at Notre Dame is not primarily a music lesson, but a school of
Liturgy, in which, however, the Chant is an integral element.
Father Mathis had known, as he had in advising the young missionary aspirants, that it is impossible to teach the public worships of the Church merely by lecturing, since it is an act you learn only by doing.
As now constituted, the purpose of the undergraduate summer program is to give the student a comprehensive view of the liturgy and to prepare him intellectually, spiritually, and musically to participate in liturgical functions, and, of course, provide the student the understanding which will translate into action the lessons taught in the liturgy. The school also offers graduate degrees.
Attracts Leading Liturgists
In two years, the school itself and the personal esteem for Father Mathis’ longtime work have attracted many of the Church’s leading liturgists and scholars—Donald Attwater, Blackfriars School, Great Britain; James A. Corbett, professor of History and Paleography, Notre Dame; Rev. Joseph A. Jungmann, S.J., s.t.d., professor of Pastoral Theology, University of Innsbruck, Austria; Dom Ermin Vitry, O.S.B., editor of Caedlia and professor of Gregorian Chant at St. Mary’s Institute, O’Fallon, Mo.; Rev. H. A. Reinhold of Sunnyside, Washington; and such Benedictines as Dom Hugh Farrington and Dom Edmund Kestel of Conception Abbey, Missouri; and Dom Godfrey Diekman, editor of Oratre Fratres, St. John’s Abbey, Minnesota.
It is hoped that the Liturgy School will develop into a permanent research center for liturgical studies. If it does it would be a unique center on this continent.
At the same time, Father Mathis’ other work continues — his chaplaincy of St. Joseph’s Hospital, his publications that have grown in number to the dozen mark, his mimeographed commentaries, his work in South Bend liturgical development, and his charitable assistance elsewhere — as far as Canada and England.
This work by a member of the Congregation of Holy Cross and the establishment of the Liturgy School have not only joined Notre Dame to the Liturgical Movement, thereby beginnings the steady restoration of the liturgy to the campus, and demonstrated the significance of Father Mathis’ realization of 13 years ago. It is also a testimony to the work of the priest whose tremor-ing pronunciation of the words, “the Liturgy,” includes a large part of his love for the Church.
17
Going Our Way?
Veteran Hitch-Hikers Give Lowdown on What to Expect When Traveling by Thumb North, East, South and West
In Crosley and Cadillac the riders of the wagging thumb are scattering in all directions these beautiful fall weekends.
Hitch-hiking is an old tradition at Notre Dame. But in the school rule book it is a tradition that is officially frowned on. The administration says: “A city ordinance for South Bend reads: ‘No person shall stand in the roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride from the driver of any vehicle’.”
To date no students have been arrested under this law. Apparently the students have been keeping their thumbwagging legal — and apparently the school does not object so long as the city does not object.
Now with Thanksgiving almost here, the penniless, the adventurous, and the leisurely are once again buying stickers and collecting roadmaps. For most the impetus to the open road home is an empty purse, for some it is a novel change, for a few it is just a day off and freedom.
To provide first hand information .on all the main flight routes out of South Bend the Scholastic questioned four thumb artists — one for each general direction. Jim McCarthy has practically commuted to Chicago for three and a half years. Les Logan has long rolled
By A. J. SCRIBA
the roads to Fort Wayne and the east. Tom Roney knows the Dixie north into Michigan.
Know of What They Say
These men aren’t the autumnal fairweather kind of thumb men. They are the professionals, the veterans of countless snowswept “hangups,” of many dreary viaduct encampments. They know of what they say.
Lend an ear to Jim McCarthy, patriarch of the westbound crew. “To get out of South Bend to the west you have a choice of two main roads — Route 20 or Route 2. Most of the boys favor 2 because it’s a four-lane highway and has more traffic. I like 20 because most of the troops crowd up 2 and because most of your through traffic is on 20.
“I’ve been hung up in a lot of places since I’ve been hitching, but I’ve never yet failed to get at least as far as Gary in pretty good time. I usually take the Lincolnway West bus out a few blocks, just enough to get out of town proper, then roost on the first chunk of clean curb I can find. Usually I’ll hit a ride inside of 15 minutes. I’ve never waited more than an hour. And I’d
say about one out of three will take me “ all the way to the Chicago Loop.
“I’ve found that Bob’s Barbecue at the junction of 2 and 20 isn’t a hard place to get a ride, so long as it isn’t too crowded. But the cloverleaf junction of 20 and 12 just this side of Michigan City is one of the worst sinkholes on the road. Brother, when you get set off there you’re really hung. Gary is another bad place. You’re better off to pile out before you get there if the ride isn’t going through — if you land in town you're sunk. The same goes for East Chicago and Whiting.
“If you once get to South Chicago you’re far better off to grab the IC electric and ride in than to try to buck the city traffic. They just won’t stop. And in any case stick to 12 and 20 no matter what. I tried Route 6 twice and ended up in the Illinois cornfields both times.”
In spite of Mr. McCarthy’s rather S dark picture the Chicago run is the best of the lot. The south run to
Indianapolis is probably the next best —at least for the first 150 miles. From Naptown on it’s Indian trails. But of the route that far, says one commuter, “it’s a good deal if you get on the road early, at least by 7 a.m. Then you can nearly always catch a through ride with somebody who has an early appoint
The others gone, Al DeCrane tries his luck solo. He looks happy now, but...
Time out for a cigarette. A whole afternoon and lots of cars on the road.
" What's the matter with these drivers? I'll never make dinner at this rate."
18
The Scholastic
ment at the statehouse or one of the conventions. If you wait until later, 8 or 9 o’clock, you’ll probably spend half the day in town hopping with farmers and high school kids.
To Get Started
“To get started I take a South Michigan street bus and ride until it turns — that’s just inside the city limits. Anywhere out there is pretty good, but it isn’t a bad idea to hike south a couple of blocks and clear the town. The local law occasionally protests if you’re inside the limits. From there on one place is about as good as another. Except for Kokomo and Logansport, none of the towns is big enough to cause trouble. In these you can hop a local bus to get clear.
“I think that it’s a little better to stay on Route 31 all the way. Some go through Logansport on 25, but 31 usually carries the heavier traffic. Too, if you get stuck in the rain there are more viaducts to hide under on 31, and there are more towns and gas stations.”
Most of the thumb traffic east is going a long way east, and for these either Route 6 or Route 30 is good. Both roads carry a lot of through traffic and both go all the way. Les Logan has word on the shorter- runs to Elkhart, Kendallville and Fort Wayne. “To get to Elkhart all you have to do is take the Notre Dame bus down the hill to 20 and park yourself on the apron of that filling station. The traffic is always good and you can’t miss. But don’t try to follow 20 beyond Elkhart. Nothing but manure spreaders and crickets for the next hundred miles.
“The Kendallville run is a cinch. Just take route 31 to 6 and you’re in. The Fort Wayne run is a little harder.
Downcast DeCrane. He hasn't given up but things are looking worse and worse.
) Nov. 18, 1949
Five wayfaring Notre Dame students start out for Chicago on a Saturday morning.
For some reason or other it is almost always a job to get out of Plymouth.
“It’s possible to take Route 6 to 33 and get to Fort Wayne — but don’t try it. Thirty-three is deader than the Wilderness Road and there isn’t a cup of coffee from Nappanee on. There’s a tough town marshal in Bremen, too.”
The runs north into Michigan are undoubtedly the hardest of all. Says Tom Roney, who has often been unhappily aware of the fact, “From school to Niles is a breeze. Just hike out to Dixie and it’s better than taxi service.
"Will ya look at that last car. Not a soul but the driver and he passed by."
DeCrane takes bus back to South Bend. He missed the evening chow line, too.
From Niles to Benton Harbor, Three Rivers, or Dowagiac it isn’t too bad. But beyond these you’d better be prepared to camp out and live off the land. Except for the deer hunters in the fall and the fishermen in May there’s nothing going north but Canadian geeself I can’t get a through ride out of Niles I usually get on a bus.”
And there you have it around the: compass. All you need is a big ND sticker, a broad collegiate-type smile,, and an agile thumb. The road is. yours! And for free!
19
Students to Handle Institute 'Leg Work'
Behind the meeting of the third annual Natural Law Institute next month will be a large amount of preparation and arrangements. To accomplish the “legwork” necessary for the success of the meeting, a committee of students from the College of Law has been appointed. The group will assist Professor Edward Barrett, of the College of Law; student general chairman will be Frank Peluso of Rochester, N. Y.
Aided by Dan Long, John Noonan, Tony Girolami and Rex O’Connor, Peluso’s job will be to coordinate the efforts of the various student committees involved.
To date, the invitation committee has sent out over 5,000 invitations to at
tend the Institute. Those invited include Cabinet members, Judges on Federal benches, state governors and United States Congressmen. No more than 400 invitations had been proffered by any other single session of the Institute. The committee is headed by Louis DiGiovanni and Thomas Murray.
Transportation will be handled by Jerome Frazel and John Hyland. The reception committee is headed by John Smith and Edmund Burke. Keith Ball, Ed Coleman, Robert Michaud and Fred Coufal will act as assistants to the main speakers.
Previous addresses given at the Institute will be available in book form at this year’s meeting. Book sales will be handled by Robert Flynn, William Huston, and Robert Davenport. Bob Skipworth will head the registration committee and Joe Conerty and Jim
Ferstel are in charge of publicity. W Dean Clarence Manion of the College
of Law has stated that the number of inquiries concerning dates and speakers has been a pleasant surprise. The College expects a record attendance for* this year’s meeting, which is scheduled foi' Dec. 9 and 10.
The principal speakers at the Institute will be Brigadier General Carlos P. Romulo, who will speak on “The Natural Law and International Law,” sand Dr. Edward S. Corwin, who will discuss the natural law and constitutional law. Dr. Stephen Kuttner, of Catholic University, will, lecture on canon law and an address will be delivered by the Honorable Richard O’Sullivan, former King’s Counsel of Great Britain.
The Institute is being sponsored by Alvin A. Gould of Cincinnati, Ohio.
$29*o
In CHICAGO
FOR RESERVED SEAT TICKETS: 144 S. Clark St. A Stevens Hotel A The Palmer House. PHONE: DEarborn 2-5711 or your travel agent.
Capital’s Sensational Travel Bargain!
-NIGHTHAWK ,
Hircoach

LOW-COST 4-ENGINE SERVICE
> NEW YORK
1	Leave 1:00 a.m. Only 4 hrs. 5 min. (Rail Coach: $27.30, 16 hrs. 25 min.)
WASHINGTON .*24“
Leave 12:15 a.m. Only 4 hrs. 5 min. (Rail Coach: $23.03, 15 hrs. 40 min.)
CLEVELAND . . *12”
Leave 12:15 a.m. Only 2 hrs. 16 min. (Rail Coach: $10.28, 5 hrs. 35 min.)
PITTSBURGH . W
Leave 1:00 a.m. Only 2 hrs. 10 min. (Rail Coach: $14.10, 8 hours)
DETROIT
Leave 12:15 a.m. Only 1 hr. 17 min. (Rail Coach: $8.34, 5 hours)
This is the Original "Nighthawk” Aircoach ...
UNEXCELLED in Experience, Reliability, Popularity
Capital carries MORE Aircoach passengers than any other airline in the U. S. A. (All fares plus federal tax)
20
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Iowa Invaders To Challenge Irish Power
Jack Dittmer
Mustangs Triumph, Iowa Loses, USC Rests While Irish Defeat Gallant Tarheel Squad
By MIKE CUDDIHY
While Carl Snavely’s Carolina boys threatened to make ND-NC the Upset of the Year, the student trip the Flop of the Year, and F. Leahy the Prophet of the Year, two of the three future Irish opponents were also playing games.
The “great one,” as Doak Walker- is now called, led Matty Bell’s Mustangs to a 34-6 victory over an Arkansas team that figured to put up more resistance than they did. His three touchdowns (he also passed for one) and three extra point kicks convinced the home crowd of 42,000 that their hero v^as over the flu and ready for the Irish. Whether or not he is remains to be seen. SMU, supposedly weak on defense, held the Razorbacks to a lone six-pointer. Tomorrow the Mustangs play Baylor, a team that has lost only to Texas.
Iowa had rough sledding Saturday. They were smashed 35-13 by a fired-up Wisconsin team at Madison before a weatherbeaten but exuberant crowd of
45,000. Although the defeat was convincing, the statistics don’t show it. Iowa had three more first downs, and the two teams were almost even in total yards gained. The Hawkeyes, trailing at the half by two touchdowns, were behind 28-0 midway through the third quarter. Then they struck through the air for their first score as Gene Drahn passed 29 yards to Don Commack in the end zone. As the final period began, Jerry Nordman climaxed a 67-yard march by butting over from the one. Wisconsin retaliated in the last moment of play, capitalizing on an interception. Bob Petruska’s passing and punting kept Iowa bottled up or at bay for most of the game. Iowa attempted 41 aerials, a new conference record, and while only 12 of them were completed, these were good for 208 yards. Iowa is not afraid to throw, and that much is in their favor tomorrow.
Southern Cal’s Trojans had an open (Continued on Page 25)
Anderson's Hawkeyes Aim at ND Win Streak
By BOB RUBERY
Reeling from two consecutive conference setbacks, the Iowa Hawkeyes invade Notre Dame stadium tomorrow with the prime objective of snapping the 35 game undefeated streak accumulated by Frank Leahy’s green-clad legions.
Dr. Eddie Anderson, an N.D. alumnus, will bring a formidable array of stars into the Irish lair as he prepares to close out his eighth season as head coach of the Hawkeyes. Owning a not-too-im-pressive season record of four wins and
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UP
NOTRE DAME	IOWA
Wightkin ...........E_______ McKenzie
Martin_____________.T________ Winslow
Johnson ____________G_________ Turner
Grothaus ___________C_________ Laster
Lally ______________G__________ Banks
McGehee____________.T_________ Geigel
Hart________________E_________Dittmer
Williams ___________Q	Drahn
Spaniel ___________.H_______ Commack
Coutre______________H__________ Faske
Sitko _____________F________, Reichardt
Game time—1:30 p. m, South Bend time
	IOWA RECORD	TO DATE
Iowa		Opp.
25	UCLA 			 41
21	Purdue 			 7
		
14	• Illinois 			 20
35	Indiana 			 9
28	Northwestern .		 21
34	Oregon 			 31
7	Minnesota 			 55
13	Wisconsin 			 35
177	Totals 			219
Notre Dame, 273; Opponents, 59.
four losses, the Iowa lads were at one time a Rose Bowl threat until they collided with powerful Minnesota and Wisconsin teams.
This year’s Hawkeye squad, however, stands out as the swiftest scoring unit in the annals of Iowa grid history. They grabbed headlines this year when they engineered an upset victory over the then-touted Northwestern Wildcats. A second half team, the Hawkeyes have
Nov. 18, 1949
21
opened all their quick scoring bursts in the final two quarters.
It is reported that the Andersonmen are bringing “a lot of offense” to South Bend to cope with Leahy’s vaunted aerial and ground circus. The backfield promises to show plenty of speed and power in its effort to penetrate the Irish forward wall. Among the brightest sports in the sophomoi’e backfield are Jerry Faske, 185 pounds of speed and deception and the team’s leading groundgainer with a 7.4 average so far this year, and Bill Reichardt, a 200-pounder who does all the kicking along with his fullback chores. Capably assisting these two in the ball-toting department are Don Riley and Don Commack.
The threat in Iowa’s T is their new quarter-back, Glenn Drahn, a capable successor to Al DiMarco. Drahn has established himself as one of the best passers in the Big Nine this year by connecting on better than 40 percent of his aerials. He is aided by sophomore Fred Ruck, who may see a lot of action.
On the receiving end of the lowans aerial offense are a pair of the best and lightest ends in the country—Jack Dittmer, lanky 168 pounder who has been the leading Hawkeye scorer since 1947 and is a good bet for. all-conference honors; and Bob McKenzie, a standout on both offense and defense.
The remainder of the Iowa line is led by all-conference guard, Earl Banks and right tackle Bob Geigel, who has played a lot of football for Iowa in the past three seasons.
The Hawkeyes will need “a lot of offense” to reach the objective seven teams have missed thus far this year, the last being a gallant troupe of tar heels who put up a great fight in losing to the Irish 42-6 last Saturday.
Scoring three touchdowns, on a lateral from Leon Hart, a pass from Bob Wil-
Bill Reichardt
liams and a pass from Johnny Mazur, Billy Barret topped the N.D. scoring show last week. Not to be unsung was Frank Spaniel, who kept the Irish in the game in a desolate first half with his effective leather lugging.
The Tar heels started the game with a bang as they scored on a blocked kick in the first three minutes of the game. It looked like the upset of the year in the making as the men from Dixie led at the quarter mark, 6-0. Spaniel then came through to put the Irish back in the game with a beautiful 78-yard TD run and the half ended 6-all.
Led by the great play of Co-captain Leon Hart, the Leahymen began to move in the second half. The passing arm of Bob Williams began to strike with great consistency. From there on in it was Notre Dame’s game completely.
Irish Wind Up Home Season Next Saturday In Sellout Game With Southern California
By RUDY UNGER
One week from tomorrow, Nov. 26, Notre Dame will wind up its home season, taking on the Trojans of Southern California. The game was sold out last August, and 58,000 ticketholders will file into Notre Dame stadium next Saturday to see if Southern Cal can accomplish what it came so close to doing last Dec. 4. On that occasion the Trojans broke a lengthy Irish unbeaten, untied streak. Notre Dame’s undefeated string is still unbroken, however, and now stands at 35.
If the Trojans can defeat UCLA tomorrow, they will go into next week’s fray with a record of five wins, two losses and one tie. The losses were to California and Stanford; the tie was with Ohio State. Trojan coach Jeff Cravath considers the latter team the toughest foe his team has faced this season.
Despite their record and regardless of the outcome of tomorrow’s game with UCLA, the Trojans are expected to offer stiff opposition when they tangle with the Irish Nov. 26. But the Green Shirts are not likely to have forgotten last year’s "breather” with the Southern California boys. Also, this year’s Trojans are the finest offensive squad Cravath has had in his eight autumns at the Los Angeles institution. The present band of Troy boys have run up 194 points in seven games so far, compared to only 142 points in 10 games last year.
The ND-USC series is not the most spectacular the Irish have had hut it
is certainly one of the hardest fought. In the twenty games played, the Irish have won twelve and the Trojans six. The other two games were ties. The Irish handed out the worst beatings of £ the series, 27-0 and 38-7. Southern California, however, has shut out ND on three occasions, 13-0, 19-0 and 13-0 again. Three games were decided by one-point margins. One of these was Notre Dame’s 13-12 triumph in Chicago’s Soldiers Field in 1929, before 123,000 fans.
Although this year’s Trojan line is fairly hefty, averaging 209 pounds, it _ is perhaps USC’s weakest point. For W the team has gained only 966 yards on the ground, compared to a ground total of 1,457 for their opponents.
The Troy forward wall is anchored by center Boyd Hachten, who is a fine all-around man, with a knack for pouncing on enemy fumbles. The ends are strongest points on the Trojan line. Despite the loss of injury-ridden Bob Stillwell, stellai- receivers have been available in Harry Hatfield, Jack Hix and Bill Jessup. The latter has pulled * in eight passes for a total gain of 184 yards, along with two touchdown passes, to lead the flankers in this department.
The Trojan backfield features a double barreled offense in the persons of quarterback Jim Powers and fullback Bill (Battleship) Martin. USC’s greatest offensive mobility is in the (Continued on page 24)
The Scholastic O
22
Harriers Will Defend Central College Title
The cross country team will try to defend its Central Collegiate title tomorrow morning when it meets 10 other' teams on Michigan Normal’s home course in Ypsilanti, Mich.
Jim Kittell is the only returning £ scorer from last year’s championship team, but sophomores Benny Almaguer, Con Tetrault, George Gross, Bob Fielei-and John Mohar are all good replacements for the lost 1948 squad members.
Notre Dame had an easy time of it in winning last year’s meet with a very low 20 points, since both the Big Nine schools and Michigan State were running elsewhere that weekend, but tomorrow the Irish will have to fight • for anything they get. Wisconsin, fresh from winning the Big Nine title last week, is expected to be on hand at tomorrow’s meet, along with a few other Western Conference schools. However, powerful Michigan State probably won’t be around—the Spartans are expected to go East for the ICUA championships which are also being held this weekend.
In two weeks, the harriers 'will have closed theii' season in the National Collegiate Meet, which will be held at • Michigan State on Monday, Nov. 28.
j No Notre Dame team has ever won this meet, although a wartime Navy squad, unofficially representing the school, did carry off the title in 1943, and Irish squads have been close several times since then.
Greg Rice and Oily Hunter, Notre Dame’s two all-time great distance runners, were NCAA cross country title holders in 1938 and 1942 respectively, but Coach Handy’s sophomores are a little too young to dream of equalling such past glories, at least this year. However, the fifth spot, taken by last year’s team, is conceivably within their reach.—Ted Prahinski
i
Bullet Bob Approaches Bertelli's Passing Mark
Sideline coaches who are comparing Bullet Bob Williams with Lujack, Ber-£ telli et al, for all-time quarterbacking honors now have another arguing point on their side.
Scholastic statisticians have discovered that Williams, in five games, has already surpassed Lujack in yards gained on passing in a single season, and is pushing Bertelli. Williams has 900 yards so far; in ’47 Luje passed for 777, and in ’42 Bertelli hit what is believed to be an all-time Notre Dame high with 1044 yards.
• Nov. 18, 1949
SPLINTERS
from the Press Box by Kalph Wright
Nice Going, Irish
After reading several New York write-ups on the North Carolina game last Saturday, one might come to the c^nc’nsion that Notre Dame was lucky to win. The Tarheels deserve a lot of credit for the fine game they did play, but, after all, we won by 36 points.
Football games are won by brilliant playing in four quarters, not two or three. Twenty-seven points count just as much in the final quarter as they do in the first. Notre Dame completely dominated the statistics, used all 39 players in uniform and won by more points than all the professional betters expected. What more do some of the metropolitan sports writers want?
Tarheels fans talk about “ifs” and early bad breaks (a blocked kick and two intercepted passes) and if Leon Hart hadn’t fumbled on that end-around on the ten-yard line, the game really would have been lop-sided.
It takes a real football team to get all the bad breaks and still win by a large margin. We’ll be happy if the Irish squeak past their remaining three opponents by a mere 36 points or so.
We Wanted Choo-Choo
This may sound a bit crazy, but we’re inclined to believe that N.D. would have played a better ball game if Charlie Justice had been in there. All week, Irish linemen were yelling “Stop Choo-Choo” out on Cartier Field; they were determined they could stop Justice and they wanted a chance to prove it. When Charlie said he couldn’t play, it may have taken as much pep out of N.D. as it did North Carolina.
Frankie and Johnny
On our side, Frank Spaniel continued to show some fancy running. Frank was the best running back in spring drills and he’s pretty close to it right now too. People seldom talk about Frank’s speed, but he sure made his pursuers look like they were standing still on that long touchdown gallop.
We were glad to see John Mazur get a chance to play without shackles. Ever since he tossed that scoring pass in the opener against Indiana, John has entered the games in the late stages with orders not to pass and to run only routine plays. As a result, the attack
bogged down somewhat and John didn’t have a chance to show much. Saturday the Pennsylvania sophomore handled the ball beautifully and displayed both poise and accuracy on his passes. We see still another N.D. All-America quarterback for the year 1951.
Now Biggie Knows
A couple of years ago, the coach of a Notre Dame football foe said: “I don’t mind playing Notre Dame so much; it’s the two weeks after we play them that bother me.”	'
Biggie Munn from Michigan State probably has a good idea what the man meant. His Spartans expended much of their vim and vigor against Notre Dame two Saturdays ago, and got upset by Oregon State last weekend.
Friends and Foes
We’d like to publicly thank all of the people who send us stuff about Notre Dame teams. Last week we got several letters, some cartoons and even a poem by an N.D. grad. We’d also like to chastise the always-anonymous characters who write and accuse N.D. of playing dirty. Most of them can’t even spell so we can’t expect them to know much about football.
Interhall Championship Sunday
Some of you people who haven’t seen any interhall football games this fall ought to go out to Cartier Field Sunday afternoon. Farley and Walsh should put on quite a show. Since Walsh Hall is a senior hall (and we happen to live there), we’ll pick Paul Schafly’s boys to win this game.
Prediction of the Week
Iowa blew its chances for the Rose Bowl trip and has only one way to regain its lost prestige — giving Notre Dame a tough game. The Hawkeyes have shown tremendous scoring ability at times this year, but their defense has never looked too sharp. It’ll be tough to keep the lowans from scoring’, though not tco tough to score on them. The Irish could reach their season high in points on this one. Let’s hope Iowa doesn’t resurrect that old jinx they used to save for N.D. Notre Dame 49, Iowa 14.
^4
Ralph McGehee (74) helps to clear a path for fullback
Sitko (14) as Red
bursts through stiff North Carolina
Bill Wightkin, on ground, claws desperately at Williams' pass on the soggy turf of Yankee Stadium before 67,000 onlookers.
Emil line.
i
Southern Cal
(Continued from Page 22)

s
Swiftness Is Password for Irish Cagers;
Two Sophomores May Start With Regulars
By JACK ECONOMOU
A
■a
While their gridiron brethren continue to monopolize the national sport spotlight, the Notre Dame cagers are steadily preparing for their Dec. 8 debut against. Creighton University of Omaha. Under* the guidance of Moose Krause and John Brennan, the basket-eers are holding daily practices in an effort to iron out their remaining minor flaws.
Speed will be the password of this predominantly rookie team. Gone are the Barnhorsts, O’Hallorans and Gordons of yesteryear, and gone with them is the finesse which they developed in their many contests on the hardwood. The only holdovers from last year’s regime are Kevin O’Shea, Marty O’Connor and John Foley.
!
>

Speed Policy
The speed policy of the Irish will result in more fast-breaking, long overhead passes and a tricky change of pace. There will be less use of the patterned plays and the ancient weave, and the pivot man will not be quite so conspicuous. Since foul-shooting is one element which no team can overlook, the hoopsters take their share of practice at the free-throw line.
Heading the new youth movement will be two sophomores, Don Strasser
and Leroy Leslie. Don, whose pet shot is a two-handed set, has flashed ample skill in his role as a playmaking guard. Leslie is a tall, fleet-footed kid with a deadly southpaw one-hander. When
he develops a right-handed shot, he
could be a scourge to enemy defenders. Having prepped in the racehorse type of basketball, Leroy has a little difficulty pacing himself to the various tempos of collegiate play. Competition and experience however, should correct this drawback.
Teamed up front with Leslie is Dan Bagley, another pupil of the aggressive and speedy type of play. Big and rugged, this junior works best from the corner where he either lets loose -with a one-hander or cuts under the basket. Because of Leslie’s inexperience, Bagley may be the offensive pacesetter for this ’49 edition of Irish basketball.
O’Shea Steadies Team
When this offensive built around speed gets bogged down or when the pace becomes too blistering, Kevin O’Shea and John Foley will be around to steady the team. O’Shea, three-time All-American, has been toying with a two-handed set shot, but the one-hander is still his favorite. He and Strasser, as the two guards, have a knack for anticipating each other’s moves and should eventually prove to be a great pair.
Foley is having his share of preseason troubles. His once-deadly hook shot hasn’t been too effective and he is
having trouble fitting into the speeded-up system of ballplaying. John hopes to soon hit his peak and have his biggest year in spite of all.
Krause’s chief problem is a shortage
(Continued on Page 32)
passing arm of Powers and the crushing drive of Martin.
Powers, this season, has become the greatest passing quarterback in Southern California’s history. In his first seven games this season he has broken almost every passing record ever set by a Southern Cal player. He has completed 81 out of 132 passes for a .614 percentage, a total gain of 1,140 yards and 12 TD’s. In his sixth game of the season against Washington he set six new records by completing 19 of 26 for 293 yards and three touchdowns and running for a fourth one.
The second barrel of this powerful offense, Bill Martin, will not soon be forgotten by Notre Dame men. For Martin is the gentleman who bent and pounded the Irish line for two tallies in last December’s 14-14 tie. He scored in every game this season until the
Stanford contest. He has tallied TD’s thus far in 1949. Martin is outstanding as a linebacker.

To back Martin and Powers the
nine also
Tro-
jans have a fine group of halfbacks, in-
cluding Johnny Cantor, ground yards.
Johnny Fouch, Bill Bowers, Williams, Pat Duff and Al
Duff and Cantor each own a gaining average of nearly four
Southern Cal will miss the services of halfback Jay Roundy, who was injured
in the Navy game, and Frank Gifford, their extra point specialist, and a vital cog in the pass defense system, which has allowed opponents only 853 yards through the air. Roundy underwent an
appendectomy after the Stanford game.
24
The Scholastic 3
Opponents
(Continued from Page 21)
date. Tomorrow they play UCLA in their traditional game which promises to be a good one.
Elsewhere, among former opponents, Michigan State, fresh from their lastditch losing battle with the Irish, ran a. into some Irish on the Oregon State • team and were upset 25-20. The two Hibernians, Ken Carpenter and Stan McGuire, were highly significant factors in a game which saw the Spartans blow a 13-0 second-period lead to a mediocre bunch of battling Beavers. Tulane, finally recovered from their South Bend shellacking, walloped Vanderbilt 41-14. Navy easily beat weak Columbia 34-0. Purdue slaughtered Marquette 41-7. Washington crumbled be-f fore UCLA 46-27, and Indiana bowed stubbornly to once-mighty Michigan.
Records of Notre Dame Opponents
W.	L. T.
Indiana ............... 17	0
Washington ............ 2	7.0
Purdue ................ 3	5	0
Tulane ................ 6	11
Navy .................. 3	4	1
Michigan	State ........ 5	3	0
North Carolina ........ 5	3	0
Iowa .................. 4	4	0
USC ................... 4	2	1
SMU ................... 5	11
Totals	............ 38	37	4
David’s Run Wins for Saints
St. Ed’s captured a second place tie in the Eastern Division by upsetting Breen-Phillips 6-0.
The boys from St. Ed’s jumped to an early lead which they never lost. On the first play of the game Joe David cut off left tackle and raced 68 yards to pay dirt. The try for the extra point was no good. Play bogged down as B-P. couldn’t get started and the rest of the half was spent in their* territory.
In the second half the B-P. offense came to life, but they were not able to threaten until the closing minutes of the game. Unable to dent the strong St. Ed’s forward wall, they took to the air. They moved from theix* own 42 to the St. Ed’s 18 before a fumble halted them. This drive was sparked by the outstanding passing of John O’Brien, B-P. quarterback, who completed five out of six passes. The game ended a few plays later.
The St. Ed’s offense was led by David and Pete Kucharczuk who were great
ground gainers. The forward wall, led by the center and captain, John Steepler, together with. Joe Trucco and George Kershner, was very strong on defense. They allowed little to be picked up through the middle.
O’Brien of B-P. passed sensationally the whole game. His chief targets were Richie Hynes and Ray Deatrich. Jacksec was the star of the line on defense.
The St. Ed’s supex-iority was greater than the score indicated as they had two touchdowns called back on penalties.
—John Cox
Farley, Walsh Play for Title
The 1949 interhall football play comes to a close Sunday afternoon when Farley and Walsh halls clash for the league championship at Cartier Field.
Coach Paul Schlafly’s Walshites are slight favorites since they went unbeaten, untied and unscored-upon in their three Western Division games. They scored 41 points .themselves.
Farley, under the guidance of Coach ‘ (Continued on Page 32)
Irish Statistics
RUSHING
	Carries	Yards	Average
Coutre			71	523	7.4
Sitko 			 77	510	6.6
Spaniel ..		 51	395	7.7
Barrett ..		 42	207	4.9
Landry ...		 32	128	4.0
Zalejski .		 20	112	5.6
	PASSING		
	Att.	Com. Yds. Aver.	
Williams .		 86	54 900	.628
Mazur*			 5	2	36	.400
Barrett ...		 1	1	24	1.000
	PASS-RECEIVING		
	Caught	Yards	Average
Wightkin		 13	244	18.7
Coutre —		 9	173	19.0
Hart 			 12	162	13.5
	SCORING		
	TD	PAT	Total
Sitko 			 8	0	48
Coutre ....		 7	0	42
Oracko ...		 0	29	29
Interhall volleyballer leaps to drive the ball over the net in league play south of the tennis courts. Mr. Rank Maxwell of the Phy-Ed Department, directs play.
® Nov. 18, 1949
25
The most famous backfield in football history returns to Notre Dame for the USC game. Left to right: Don Miller, Elmer Layden, Jim Crowley and Harry Stuhldreher.
Southern Cal Weekend to Feature Reunion Of Four Horsemen and Famed 1924 Mates
By BILL RILEY
“Outlined against a blue-gray Octo-' ber sky, the Four Horsemen rode again.
In dramatic lore they are known as Famine, Pestilence, Destruction and Death. These are only aliases. Their real names are Stuhldreher, Miller, Crowley and Layden.”
In never-to-be-forgotten words, Grantland Rice immortalized the Four Horsemen on the day they defeated Army a quarter-century ago, Oct. 18, 1924. Twenty-five years later, on Nov. 26, 1949, he will be among the guests at a silver anniversary celebration to be held in conjunction with the Southern California game.
All the living members of that famous ’24 squad have been invited to the celebration but the Horsemen will notice a void. Absent will be their coach, Knute Rockne, and the following squad members who are dead: John Weibel, Noble Kizer, Wilbur Eaton, Vincent Harrington and Max Houser.
But present will be the living members of the most famous line of all time, the Seven Mules. Here is the line-up of the vaunted Mules: Collins and Hunsinger, ends; Rip Miller and Bach, tackles; Weibel and Kizer, guards; Walsh, center. Harry Stuhldreher was the quarterback and field general. Don
26
Miller and Jim Crowley were at the halves, and Elmer Layden was their fullback.
The ’24 squad has the distinction of being the only team in Irish grid history to play in the Rose Bowl. They capped an undefeated season with a 27-7 win over Pop Warner’s Stanford team, powered by the immortal Ernie Nevers. Layden was the hero on Jan. 1, 1925. He intercepted three of Nevers’ passes and returned them for touchdowns to clinch the game for the Irish.
The celebration will begin when the mellowed and successful Horsemen and Mules meet at a private dinner on Friday evening. Immediately after the dinner, the entire squad will go to the fieldhouse where they will be honored guests at a gigantic pep rally.
From there the Horsemen will go to a St. Joseph Valley Club Alumni Rally and finally to the pre-game press party.
The climax to the celebration will be at half-time when they join in the ceremonies marking their 25th anniversary.
The following men have been invited to attend: Assistant Coaches Tom Lieb and Hunk Anderson; Joe Bach, Joe Boland, Bill Cerney, Chuck Collins, Clem
Crowe, Jim Crowley, Gene Edwards, Charlie Glueckert, Dick Hanousek, Joe Harmon, Tom Hearndon, Ed Hunsinger, Elmer Layden, Bernard Livergood, John McManmon, John McMullan, Joe Maxwell, Don Miller, Edgar “Rip” Miller, Harry O’Boyle, Frank Reese, Harry Stuhldreher, John Wallace and Team Captain Adam Walsh. The ’24 cheerleader, Ed Luther, has also been invited.
Bill Sheehan, a South Bend business- | man, a monogram basebailer while the Horsemen were at school, and general chairman of the affair, says that early responses have been encouraging. Committee members hope for a complete representation.
ND Sailors to Race
In Angsten Regatta j
One week from today, Notre Dame’s sailing squad sets sail against 15 of the nation’s top shell teams in the third annual Timme Angsten Memorial Regatta to be held at the Chicago Yacht Club in the Windy City’s Belmont Harbor.
This is the second year in which the Irish have participated in the annual Thanksgiving meet. It runs for three days, Nov. 25, 26 and 27, and is sponsored by Northwestern University’s . sailing club. This meet climaxes the 1 fall season activities of the nation’s collegiate sailors.
Over the three-day period, 32 races, all over a one-mile course, will be held. The course is a triangular affair. The sailors will use 10% -foot dinghies in the races.
In last year’s competition the Irish placed fourth out of a field of 15. Yale, 1949 Intercollegiate champs, won last year and is pre-meet favorite this year. Also invited to participate are three other topflight eastern crews: Georgetown, Princeton, and Harvard. Heading the midwestern delegation will be the host squad, Northwestern, Ohio State and Michigan. The latter is the top sailing team in the midwest.
The six-man team to represent Notre Dame at the regatta will be picked on the basis of individual performances in the two previous encounters with Illinois Tech and Northwestern.
Regatta squad officers, Commodore Fred Joyce, Vice Commodore Jim Crowe and Secretary-Treasurer Joe Caldwell will pick the squad. The 10 outstanding candidates are Dick Brotherson, Joe Schrank, Bill Jonak, Tom Starshak, Bob Edmundson, Jim Amy, John Waterbury, and the three officers.
Amy and Waterbury are freshmen and are the first frosh ever to be in the running for starting spots in an important meet.—Rudy Unger
The Scholastic
* Names Make News
He has five sons, one .of whom, Rupert, is a sophomore here this year. . .

Compiled by DAN BRENNAN
Four new directors of the Notre Dame Law association have been elected in a mail ballot conducted among more than 1,500 graduates of the College of Law who compose the group. Those elected are JOSEPH F. DEEB, of Grand Lapids, Mich.; WILLIAM B. JONES, of Washington, D. C.; HENRY P. SCHRENKER, of Anderson, Ind.; and LEO B. WARD, of Los Angeles, Calif. Mr. Deeb is a United States District attorney, Mr. Schrenker a county prosecutor, while the others practice law. The new directors will assume their duties at the fall meeting of the board •of directors preceding the third annual Natural Law institute, Dec. 9 and
REV. JAMES SMYTHE, a professor at Notre Dame, recently gave the third in a series of lectures sponsored by the Parent-Teacher committee of the National Council of Catholic Women in St. Joseph’s parish hall, Mishawaka. . .
RAYMOND J. EICHENLAUB, star fullback here from 1911 to 1914 died last week of a heart attack. He was 56. Mr. Eichenlaub was a regular for four years on the Notre Dame team which featured such other greats as KNUTE ROCKNE and GUS DORAIS.
DR. LAWRENCE H. BALDINGER, Dean of the College of Science, is the developer of a flavoring for coffee cake which was introduced in South Bend this week. Dean Baldinger worked in cooperation with Paul’s Bakery of South Bend to develop the flavoring, which is said to be superior to any flavoring previously known. The formula has been licensed for use by 24 bakeries throughout the country. . .
JACK SHEA, class of ’08, will be on the campus for the Southern California game. Shea is one of the two composers of the “Notre Dame Victory March.” He is now a representative of the Perkins Gear Machine Co. . . .
10. . .
Crime in the Atomic Age was the subject of Professor HUGH P. O’BRIEN’S talk before the Mishawaka Women’s Club in theii- clubhouse recently. Professor O’Brien is director of correctional curriculum at Notre Dame. . .
EUGENE KORMENDI, artist in residence at Notre Dame sculptured a statue representing Our Lady of Hungary and a relief of St. Michael which adorn the new Our Lady of Hungary church now nearing completion at Calvert and Chapin Streets in South Bend. The madonna is eight feet tall and is carved out of Indiana limestone while the seven foot relief is cut into synthetic marble. . .
BE THRIFTY .	.	. SHOP AT BREEN'S
AND SAVE $ $ $
•	Nationally Advertised Watches
•	Diamonds
•	Birthstone Rings
•	Men's and Women's Costume Jewelry
•	Rogers Silverware
•	Electric Appliances — — USE OUR LAYAWAY PLAN — —
EREEN’S JEWELRY
EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING
406 SO. MICHIGAN ST.............- - - PHONE: 2-0400
Last week’s “lineman of the week,” LEON HART, was the principal speaker at a banquet honoring the schoolboy athletes of St. Joseph’s Parish, Mishawaka, early this week. Coach JAMES MARCHELEWICZ of Central Catholic High School, South Bend was another of the speakers on the program. BENNY SHERIDAN, Notre Dame freshman coach and HARRY THILMAN, assistant ticket manager at Notre Dame, were honored guests. . .
REV. CHARLES SHEEDY, C.S.C., head of the department of religion at Notre Dame outlined the aims of Catholic education in a program at St. Mary’s academy recently. The program was a part of the observance of National Education week. . .
Nov. 18, 1949
Sunny Italy
A Notre Dame Tradition
"Rosie's." Here You'll Always Enjoy the Italian Accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE 601 NORTH NILES
For Appointment Phone 3-0678	CYR'S BARBER SHOP “South Bend's Leading Barber Shop" SAVE TIME BY CALLING FOR APPOINTMENT	5 Barbers Manicurist
W. E. Cyr, Prop.	100-102 South Main Street	Chair No. 5
Books
■
: PROVE
► TO YOURSELF 4
no cigarette HANGOVER
HERE'S I ALL YOU L DO!
when you smoke Philip
; Morris!
'X
In just a few Seconds you can prove PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING than the brand you’re now smoking!
I..light up a PHILIP MORRIS
THEN, just take a puff—DON’T INHALE -and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come'through your nose. Easy, isn't it? And NOW ■..
2 ..light up your present brand
Do exactly the same thing—DON'T INHALE Notice that bite, that sting? Now you know why you should be smoking PHILIP MORRIS!
:.PHIUPMORRIS
The Juggler; Fall Issue, Vol. 4, Number
1, 25 cents, Notre Dame, Ind.
Commencing its thirtieth year of publication with this issue, the Juggler has come forth with a magazine as rich and satisfying in literary effort as any pro- -duced at Notre Dame in recent years. This is an issue for which editor and staff alike can swell with pride. It has shortcomings, surely, but the Juggler’s overall excellence overcomes any faults the magazine may have. Editor Bob Lowry and his colleagues are off to a good start.
Packed full of good material, this black-and-white-bound Fall issue contains a wealth of pleasant, interesting writing. In it are three short stories, four small fiction sketches, nine poems, an essay and a play, in addition to regular department features. This in itself makes the magazine worthy of acclaim. But more than that, this Juggler, carries honest, intent, appealing writing, some of the best writing produced by students at Notre Dame. The short stories, especially, are fast moving, readable and generally have something worthwhile to say. They are a noteworthy improvement over some Juggler -fiction of the past.
Of the short stories, Garrett Bolger’s Square Peg seemed the most realistic and appealing. This unusual tale about a boy who wants to be left alone and a girl who “wiggles,” reflects clean, forceful writing at its best. Charles C. Conley’s A Pretty Girl, presented in a lighter vein, is pleasant, entertaining fare, but lingers too long on the point of the stoiy —that the girl was pretty and happy. The Wall, by James C. Curran, a tale about a firing squad, though not without merit, is the least appealing of the lot. It is a narrative and scarcely more.
The one essay in this issue, A Chanter of Personality, by Thomas R. Gorman, is a lengthy dissertation on Walt Whitman as a tragic paradox of personalism. It is a rather dry, scholarly approach to the subject, and is even, in parts, tedious and hard to follow. But it £ covers the difficult topic with distinction that speaks well for the author.
The four small sketches are better written and more satisfying than the fiction. Bob Thompson’s The Hewing of the Oak, Walt Clement’s The Sky That Once Was Blue, and Tom Dunn’s Alone, all possess a smooth, free-flowing style, packed around unusual glimpses of life. They make for pretty good reading. Frank Brophy’s Execution is a bit more difficult
The Scholastic *■
28
to grasp. The image it created in the opening is somewhat distorted by heavy phrasing, but once the story gets under way, it moves well and swiftly to conclusion.
Juggler poetry, still adhering to a well-worn modernistic form, seems to slip into two categories: good, and not so good. George Murphy’s Asheville . . . Stmmer of 1949, carries a real punch. £ It is lucid, interesting, and full of good images. Earl Hauen’s Trinity Church, Three Poems, by George Labdik, and Dixie Highway South, by Fallon Evans all are worthy contributions, possessing charm, beauty and imagination. They should be read. The other poems make no particular sense and seem almost wasted effort.
Fallon Evan’s play, The Sign of the Pilgrim, is delightful. Not quite a takeoff on Geoffrey Chaucer’s The Pardoner’s Tale, it nevertheless embodies many of its characteristics. It might be called a “modern version” of The Pardoners Tale, even though it is set in the 15th Century. Evans has done a fine job with the dialogue; it flows well, carries impact, and is a pleasure to read.
The regular departments are well done throughout. Juggler reviewers grapple with such works as Bernanos’ Under the Sun of Satan, George Orwell’s Nineteen Eighty-Four, Leo Brady’s The Edge of Doom, Father Leo R. Ward’s Blueprint for a Catholic University, Merton’s The Waters of Siloe, Willa Cather’s book on writing, and
Christopher Dawson’s Religion and Culture. The Caps and Bells department, probably the most well-done section of the magazine, presents two intriguing fiction pieces by Robert Casurella. These clean cut stories combine genuine humor, writing talent, and knowledge of people. Their matter-of-fact presentation makes them good and extremely pleasing to read.
All in all, reading this Juggler was a rewarding experience. It represents the efforts of a number of students to set their literary ideas down for others to enjoy. Whether all readers enjoy it or not is up to the individual. But the Juggler has done a good job. It deserves far more credit than is usually sent its way.—V. O’G. D.
1000 Specialists tell us “When you can measure...”
Lord Kelvin, writing in 1883, summed up once and for all the importance of measurement.
“When you can measure what you are speaking about,” he said, “and express it in numbers, you know something about it, but when you cannot measure it, when you cannot express it in numbers, your knowledge is of a meagre and unsatisfactory kind.”
The need is still great for accurate ‘numbers.’ For example, G-E engineers working on water-purification equipment required a device to measure water’s turbidity. Another group needed data on vibrations of their equipment.
But at General Electric any group up against tough measurement prob
lems does not have to be stymied for long. It can “appeal” its case, can seek the aid of men who make a specialty of measurement—the more than 1000 staff members of the G-E General Engineering and Consulting Laboratory.
GE & C solved the two problems above by developing the first “turbidimeter” and a “recording vibrometer” now finding applications throughout industry.
The work of GE & C illustrates again how General Electric backs up research and creative thinking, implements new projects with the best available facilities, and so remains in the forefront of scientific and engineering development.
GENERAL^ ELECTRIC
Nov. 18,
1949
29
Get your Official NOTRE DAME CLASS RINGS before Christmas by ordering NOW!
Don’t delay! If you place your order right awav. vou will have it to take home Christmas!
The official Notre Dame ring as manufactured exclusively by the L. G. Balfour Company shows the tower and dome of the Administration building modeled on one shank. The ND monogram is reproduced below with crossed torches in the background, an emblem of the ideals and attainments of Notre Dame.
The. opposite shank shows the seal of the University in high relief and t	o
below arc crossed torches.
The raised letters “University of Notre Dame” frame the stone, set in the oval top.
The Bookstore offers you facilities for perfect fittings and displays sample rings of the various types and stone colors.
Reverse	Reverse
OFFICIAL RING
This ring is actual size. The illustration shows the massive ring which symbolizes the strength and dignity that is Notre Dame.
MINIATURE RING
This ring is actual size. Both views show designs on shanks of this sweetheart ring which is now available.
A NOTRE DAME MINIATURE:
The Ideal Gift for Wife or Sweetheart
Also available is a miniature of the official size ring for the sweetheart or wife. This is an exact replica, two-thirds size, of the large ring and has been manufactured to meet the great demand for this style. Your sweetheart will treasure this lasting gift and it will make the Christmas of 1950 the most memorable in her life.
Both the miniature and the official class ring are available with the following stones: black onyx, green onyx, bloodstone, sardonyx, garnet synthetic, amethyst, aquamarine, synthetic ruby, blue spinel, tourmaline, and dark blue synthetic sapphire. You have your choice of either the light weight or regular styles of 10K gold or sterling silver.
IN THE BOOKSTORE BETWEEN ONE and FOUR EACH DAY! HURRY! HURRY!
30
The Scholastic
Fighting Irish Nickname Amazes N.Y. Seminarians
Maryknoll, N. Y. — (NC)) — The priests and priests-to-be here at Maryknoll are wondering whether the gridiron warriors of the University of Notre Dame are mis-nicknamed. After last week’s experience here, they’re wondering whether the footballers are the “Fighting Irish” or the “Hungry Irish.”
The football squad, enroute to New York for the game with the University of North Carolina, stopped off here as the guests of Bishop Raymond A. Lane, M.M., Maryknoll Superior General. They assisted at Mass, a number received Holy Communion, and then came the breakfast. Regarding the breakfast, Herb Jones, Notre Dame business manager, had wired ahead. His ■wire stated:
“It is a training meal because the boys will practice in the afternoon and our trainer does not want them to be overstuffed. Some of the linemen find it difficult to get along on a light breakfast, but in these matters we feel that the trainer knows best.”
Whereupon Mr. Jones ordered the following breakfast menu: baked apple, hot cereal, three scrambled eggs, hashed brown potatoes, toast and butter, coffee, tea or milk.
the Universities of Southern Cal, Duke, Missouri, Tennessee, Oklahoma A. & M., Southern Methodist, Minnesota, and Boston College were all written by the same man, Mike Sweet?
. . . that sealed in the cornerstone of
AULT'S SHUTTER BUGS
A VIEW—EH,GEORGE?*
WHY LET GOOD
TIMES PASS BY?
the Biology Building are six bacteria cultures in glass tubes? Some dangerous, some harmless, the microbes are expected to keep up their drab, foodless existence for about 200 years, when they will be uncorked and re-examined.
Don’t take a chance on missing “Perfect Views”? Let us eliminate the guess work for vou.
SEE US FOR YOUR PHOTO NEEDS
AULT
Camera Shop, Inc.
212 So. Main St., Phone 3-5401
Did You Know ...
. . . that beer was a regular part of the luncheon menu in the Notre Dame Dining Hall during the summer session of 1933? Obviously the whole thing was just a fad.
. . . that the Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C.s.c., third president of Notre Dame, taught a college algebra course at the age of 12?
. . . that a detailed model of the central heating system on the campus was sent to the 1900 Paris Exposition and was termed “revolutionary”?
. . . that it’s a man’s world up in the lofty press box? No woman has ever-set foot inside; it’s an old rule.
. . . that the student regulation manual here now is simple compared to the one great-grandfather had to cope with? In the winter of 1864-65, one rule ordered all students to wash their feet at precisely 4 p.m. every Saturday.
. . . that when Notre Dame played its first intercollegiate football game in 1887, their Michigan opponents brought along their own set of rules and explained them to the novice Irish grid-ders before the tussle began? The U. of M. then went on to an 8-0 victory.
. . . that the official football songs of
Nov. 18, 1949
• Good • Good • Good • Good
Dancers are always in demand.
Dancers Dancers dancers
are popular, have more fun. are self confident.
YOU TOO
ARTHUR MURRAY’S
120 E. WAYNE
Dial
2-333?
Can be a Good Dancer after a few friendly lessons at
Don't be satisfied with anything but the best in Ballroom instruction ... It costs no more at ARTHUR MURRAY'S.
31
Around the Halls
(Continued from Page 25)
Bill Powers, won the Eastern loop with three wins and one loss; the lone sethack was a forfeit to Cavanaugh. Farley rolled up 25 points in its three wins.
Besides Schlafly and Powers, other interhall coaches are: Dick Greenwait, Cavanaugh; Dick Soisson, St. Ed’s; James Shaughnessy, B-P.; Joe Mos--chella, Zahm; Tom Simon, Morrissey; Pete Varda, Dillon; and Dick Coury, Alumni.
FINAL STANDINGS
Eastern Division
W L T
Farley -........... 3	10
Cavanaugh ......... 2	11
St. Edward’s ...... 2	11
Breen-Phillips .... 13	0
Zahm .............. 13	0
Western Division
W L T
Walsh ............. 3	0	0
Morrissey   ------- 111
Dillon ............ 12	0
Alumni ............ 0	2	1
Champion Game—Farley vs. Walsh, Sunday, Nov. 20.
Basketball
(Continued from Page 24)
•of experienced reserves. Marty O’Connor and Gene Kenny are the only subs with any game time to their credit. Marty has not regained the form he displayed in the late stages of last season, hut should be valuable because of his experience. If Gene could develop his floor plays to match his twohanded set — probably the best on the squad—he could be an invaluable aid to the Krausemen.
The other reserves who will see action are all sophs. Jack Neumaier has been progressing steadily, Bob Wray will use this season to develop his latent potentialities, and Hughes Wilcox will groom himself as Foley’s understudy.
A recent intra-squad game shows what an important part the newcomers play in the youth and speed program. The box score of that scrimmage:
sound shape. O’Shea has recovered from his knee operation, but lately has been having trouble with his feet. Bagley and Foley take daily wind sprints to increase their speed. Otherwise the squad has that lean look of a top-
$ •
THANKSGIVING IS HOMECOMING TIME
1
Frequent	Comfortable	Dependable
Schedules 9	Coaches Service
conditioned outfit.
The fieldhouse has a new look too. Glass backboards, a la big time, with bright orange rims have been installed to add some color to the dreary structure.
Sample Low Fares
One Way
Chicago .. Boston... Buffalo ... Cleveland
16.40
8.15
4.65
New Orleans.... 14.75
Miami......... 22.55 Minneapolis... 8.80
Louisville.... 5.50 St. Louis..... 6.30 New York...... 14.90 Philadelphia .... 13.50 Detroit....... 4.25
Memphis ...... 9.95
Los Angeles... 41.75
Washington.... 12.25 Cincinnati.... 5.45
Dallas........ 17.25 Milwaukee..... 3.05
Plus V. S. Tax
Big EXTRA Savings on Round Trips
	FG FT T	FG FT T
Neumaier	0 2 2	Bagley 3 3 9
Fichtel	0 0 0	Leslie 2 0 4
Wray	113	Foley	10 2
Kenny	4 0 8	O’Shea 113
O’Connor	0 0 0	Strasser 6 0 12
	—— 	 		~ —	■	I.	1	-
Totals	5 3 13	Totals 13 4 30
Physically, the squad is in unusually
GREYHOUND TERMINAL
Main at Western
Phone 3-8283
GREYHOUND
32
The Scholastic
Two 'Holiday1 Ac+ors Join Antony's Army
Two members of Notre Dame’s University Theater had an unusual experience last week — at the last minute they were called upon to serve as warriors in Antony’s army in Margaret Webster’s Julius Caesar, a fact un-V known to most of the audience. The tales they had to tell are well worth hearing.
Jim Maher and Leo Blaber, currently practicing top roles in the Theater’s Dec. 12 production, Holiday, got hurry-up calls last Thursday, just before Caesar opened. More extras were needed for the battle scene. They hastened over, and spent most of the play back-stage learning what to do. At A the same time they absorbed information most of the cash customers never knew about.
Remember Caesar’s death scene in Act I? A minor casualty resulted there. David Lewis (Brutus), in delaying the last fatal stab to Caesar (Frederick Rolf), actually did stab the man, Jim and Leo reported. His dagger, when descending, missed its mark for illusion and scratched Rolf on the chest.
The mishap so upset Lewis that in Brutus’ own suicide scene there was " another casualty. When he was supposed to run himself on the sword held by his soldier, he missed his mark again. The sword should have slipped through the space between Brutus’ arm and his chest, giving the effect that he actually was skewered on it. But when Lewis threw himself forward, the tip of the weapon caught his jacket, ripped through the side of it, and gouged him. This was unexpected realism.
Other back-stage sidelights concerned the professional actors and actresses and the anxiety and nervousness they feel during a production. Kendall Clark (Mark Antony), the leading man, became so tense that he resorted to an unusual pastime to calm himself: he pressed his trousers between acts. Other" members were equally as anxious over the outcome of the play, Jim and Leo said. But Louisa Horton (Portia), the feminine lead, had little time for worry over her big part. She doubled in brass as one of the women in the mob scenes.
Meanwhile, the University Theater itself was continuing its work on Holiday. With but five practice sessions behind them, Frank J. Hanley said “our first act is cold." Which, in theater parlance, means act one is completely rehearsed, blocked and set. Both Hanley and William J. Eisen, director of the Theater, were enthusiastic over the play’s progress.
WAW.V.WWA
Quite right, young-man-about-to-Iive-in-a-cavel
Their perfect-fitting, good looking collars are downright irresistible. They ccn "take it," too, and will give you long, hard wear. Your choice of broadcloth or oxford— regular or French cuffs. $3.65 up.
j "A Man Hasn’t s a Chance in an
Arrow White Shirt!
ARROW SHIRTS
> TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS j
Ifs ADLERS for
ARROW
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
Nov. 18, 1949
33
Roughly Speaking
by Ken Xhoren tewi
“Notre Dame Serves Another”
JOE HAAS
CLASS ’47
Gi ■ D C D T 1 C 813-817 South I L D t K I O	Michigan St.
Viva New York!
The student trip chatter is dying down, so before the last flicker goes out we would like to add a few words of comment. From start to finish it was great. A handful of students got to the old Pennsy station early and had the cars well chalked-up before most of the trippers arrived. The Pennsylvania Railroad is in line for a blow. They left both South Bend and New York right on time. Although they were a bit late arriving at both cities, they were tops en route. The service staffers were all fine and couldn’t do enough to help the crowd. They had a good sense of humor, too. We’ll never forget the conductor with a cheerleader’s megaphone in his hand, leading a carload in a rendition of Tve Been Working on the Railroad.
After arriving in New York most of the rooters filed over to St. Francis of Assisi for Mass. Then uptown they went to register at the hotels — a term that won’t be mentioned again!
Tom Wolff, that red-haired Noth Calinian from Alumni Hall, was the instigator of an impromptu pep rally at Father Duffy’s statue at Times Square at 11 o’clock Saturday morning. Several hundred showed up. What the . group lacked in number, in comparison to Friday night’s Tarheel rally, was made up in spirit. It was an orderly affair and well carried out.
After that all roads led to Yankee Stadium. And what a game! It alone was well worth the arduous trip. It’s hard to remember a more exciting game. The students had fine seats but stood practically all the time because of the excitement.
The North Carolina supporters were the loudest bunch we’ve ever heard. The ND contingent came through fine, however, despite the pool' job turned in by the cheerleaders. More cheers were started in the stands than from the sideline operators. The band did great and haven’t put on a better show all year.
The jam after the game proved again what wonderful facilities the Irish stadium has for dispersing the crowd. A word should be said for the sportsmanlike attitude of the Tarheels. They took the game in their stride and, on the
whole, were an exceptionally friendly lot.
The New York Alumni and Met Club cocktail party at the New York Athletic Club reminded us of a Chicago Club affair. The celebrators were something to see. Although it was jammed, it was a good way to start the night off. After it everyone left in all directions. That’s when the fun really began.
The next morning the trippers looked a bit green about the gills. The general concensus, though, was that it was worth it. The ride back provided an interesting comparison with the journey to New York. The latter was a loud and partying trip. The former was quiet, subdued and livened only by an occasional moan.
We didn’t hear one unfavorable remark about the trip. The most complimentary remark we heard came from a chauvinistic Chicago Club stalwart: “You know,” he said, “I’ve got to admit it—New York is really some town!”
The school spirited legion dragged their tired frames onto the campus just in time for their 8 o’clock classes. The 1949 Student Trip was over. A better one was hard to remember' and now, how about next year’s? The most persistent rumor had New Orleans pegged. No matter which city is picked, it, and the entire trip for that matter, will have to go some to beat this year’s.
To wind it up for good, we offer some varied comments and impressions: . . . a bow to the friendly New York Alumni . . . the subway alumnus who asked his crowd to sing the National Anthem and started off with the Victory March . . . we heard of one ND man who got to bed before 1 o’clock! . . . the student who was seen sliding on the Rockefeller Plaza ice skating rink at — well, it was early Sunday morning . . . the cabbie who gave some fellows a free ride because he had won $50 on the game . . . the two rooters who after taking their dates home to Brooklyn lost their way, and didn’t get back to their rooms until after 8 . . . the fourth-quarter lights at the Stadium provided an interesting picture . . . the rapid coverage of the game by the NY papers . . . the bellowing jam down at the G.A. Club . . . and the credit given to the Irish, the finest team ever.
N. D. REVERSIBLE JACKETS $12.95
N. D. Blankets....$7.95 and $19.95 Make Ideal Christmas Gifts SONNEBORN’S Sport Shop 121 W. Colfax Ave.
South Bend Phone 3-3702
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised
Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
Featuring
CHICKEN IN THE ROUGH
•	J/2 Fried Chicken
•	Shoe String Potatoes
•	Hot Buttered Rolls
•	Jug of Honey “Every bite a tender delight” •
ORDERS BOXED TO TAKE OUT $1.05
Open Sundays
Around the corner from the Colfax
JOE NABICHT'S Chicken in the Rough 213 N. Main St.
Phone 3-1215
34
The Scholastic
’’There’s no better deal than
SKIPPER
SPORTSWEAR!”
<
says SPARK THORNTON
MAX ADLER COMPANY Michigan at Washington
HECK & AKER 111 W. Jefferson Blvd.
RASMUSSEN MEN’S SHOP
ROSE & KATZ, INC. MainatColfax
WYMAN’S 103 No. Michigan
PLENTY OF COLORS and patterns from which to choose! Skipper Sweaters give you lots of warmth, little weight. Priced from $3.95 to $19.50.
For guys who make a study of economy, you can’t beat the practical value of Skipper Sportswear. It’s made to look good, made to last.
THEY NEED NO IRONING, so there’s no laundry problem with Skipper T-Shirts—wash ’em out quick yourself. Many patterns and models. $1.00 to $3.95.
THE
MOST FITTIN’ THING you can
wear—Skipper Sportshirts are tapered neatly at the waist, broad through the shoulders. Washable, too. $3.95 to $15.00.
Nov. 18, 1949
35
Printed at AVE MARIA PRESS