1
Dotre Dame Scholastic


•015
VIVE ‘(pVASI* CRAS-MOfclTVWS
Vol. L.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, December 9, 1916.
No. 12.
The Captain.
YOU have doffed the headgear and the suit
You nevermore shall wear, And taken off the cleated boot
That scored from anywhere;
While every jagged rent bears fruit
Of Captain Cofall’s share.
And now what honors shall we pay To him with heart so true, Who bore the pigskin in the fray For love of Gold and Blue?
The only thing our hearts can say— We will remember you.
T. Healy.
Football at Notre Dame: A Retrospect.
MICHAEL A. QUINLAN, C. S, C.
N the twenty-third of November, 1887, Hl Notre Dame engaged for the first time in what is now called intercollegiate athletics. . Prior -to that date it. had been the custom oj the University to encourage athletic contests only in so Tar as they- were of purely local interest. In the matter of track contests, for example, the men’ who could run and jump and throw weights had made repu-’ tations for themselves locally during, a period
of nearly ten years before there, was any attempt only when natural rivalry is taken as a.basic made to participate in contests with other element for scheduling any contest that may be universities, as was the case when Hal Jewett
- represented us at Ann Arbor, May 24, 1890. His success on that occasion is represented by a score of thirteen points. Football, however, was the branch of sport in which -we were first represented by a team which competed for the University- of Notre Dame against an outside
. University, Michigan University being our opponent. \
- At’the- time of our first .game of football, J twenty-nine^ years ago,' the , University of
Michigan came to us not only as an opponent but also as a. teacher of the game, as appears from the fact that the visitors on that occasion gave the Notre Dame team some coaching on the principles of the game, a preliminary contest being staged in which the players took sides irrespective <of the schools to-which they belonged. On this account the actual contest; which followed was not of full length for a - regulation game; and as a result the score which
was made—Michigan, 8; Notre Dame, o— . does not' represent the comparative strength' _ of the two teams at the time. Nevertheless, . the contest is memorable in the history of ;, athletics at Notre Dame; and the spirit of friendly rivalry'- which brought both teams together at that time was,the ideal spirit for > intercollegiate athletics, a spirit that brought Notre Dame and Michigan together in two other football contests during that same scholastic year, one on the twentieth of April iii the following -spring, the score being six. to; twenty-six in Michigan’s favor, and one on the twenty-first of April, when Michigan won by a-; score of ten to four.	.	; :
For these reasons, as well as for other reasons, 'Michigan has been a natural rival of -Notre .
Dame in athletic contests-of all kinds; and it; seems that in the, nature of “things these two ■; schools should keep this fact in mind. Intercollegiate athletics serve their best - purpose :.
under consideration.. Permanent interest; is■ attached to such contests in all parts of the United States; traditions grow up favoring such contests; and in the. long run contests; of this w kind are the only ones that count for much in a season’s success. -	' .	. -
Considered in their total, the j games. of football which have been played between Notre Daine and Michigan have been nine in nuinberg Only one of these games—the last one—was won by Notre Dame, the combined' scprejofi
V
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
the nine games being twenty-seven points for the representatives of the Gold and Blue, and
Notre Dame against one-hundred and twenty-four points for Michigan.	.
Purdue and Indiana Universities are two other natural rivals of Notre Dame. In the case of Purdue eight games of football have ' been played, resulting in two tied 'scores, Purdue winning three games, and Notre Dame winning three games. The sum total of scores made, gives Notre Dame sixty-nine points, Purdue getting one hundred and eighteen. In the last two games scheduled Notre Dame was victorious. '
In a general way Indiana’s record of football games played. with Notre Dame is much like Purdue’s record. There was one tied score, four victories for Notre Dame, and four for Indiana, making a total of nine games. Notre Dame won the final game of the series. Again ’ Notre Dame had the small end in the tqtaj scores of all games played, the combined result being fifty-six to sixty-one in Indiana’s favor, s' ■ Notre Dame has met Illinois in football only once; that was eighteen years ago, the score being five to nothing in favor of Notre Dame. Three times out of four the Gold and . Blue defeated Northwestern. Four times we lost to Chicago, and three times to Wisconsin. Twice we won and once we lost to Ohio State. With Nebraska - we have broken even in the only two games played. Ten games have been played with the Michigan Aggies,-the general result including-nine victories for Notre Dame
with a total'score of two hundred and thirty-six - ..the membership of the teani that* played
points to twenty-three. The Aggies are a
. natural and formidable rival of Notre Dame;
because of their growing strength and consistent development, they should take their share-of* the victories in the future. -	. '
. * Our eastern classic—with the Army—has been an even break so far. Our two victories and two defeats have resulted , in a total, of fifty-nine
: . points to sixty-three, the Army -barfing, the advantage in This respect.' Yale, Syracuse, Pittsburgh, Penn State and Carlisle, of the
‘ East, are also to be listed, among' the teams ' James Maloney of Missouri, Eugene Melady which have tested our strength; Texas and. Rice . of; Minnesota, Patrick-Nelson,of Iowa, Thomas of the South, and South Dakota, of the North- O’Regan of Minnesota, Edward Prudhomme
‘ west,,have likewise contributed a share to.the of Louisiana, Edward Sawkins of Ohio, and success pf .our schedule'oi games. Contests ..with Frank . Springety of \ Georgia,ty-these were the . teams nearer home would have been more de- ... men -Who. gave ■fopt&an its real start at.Notre sirablefor many reasons. Nevertheless, the wide Dame twenty-nine -years .ago and it is hoped range of territory embracedzin: our football thatI when the Monogram men have - their .. experience has1 brought national recognition, to . reunion7 here; next? June in connectionwith the
in that way has enabled the critics of the game to form a surer judgment concerning the relative strength of teams in widely separated sections of the country. In particular is it true that our games with the Army have contributed largely, to the recognition accorded the West in general by those who speak with authority for the East.	-	.
Besides the games already mentioned there are, of course, many others that must be taken into account in any complete record of intercollegiate football at Notre Dame; but it would be out of place to treat the subject so exhaus- ’ tively in a paper of this nature. The' Notre Dame Athletic Guide contains a tabulated 'record of all information touching upon intercollegiate games of football, baseball, basketball, and track, from the time of the Michigan football game in 1887 down to the present season. ' With the scores of- the games is given also a list of the names of the monogram men who competed in the games. Much other information of an -interesting kind is added, making the Guide very complete as a history of intercollegiate athletics at Notre Dame. ■
It is not' at all improper that in a review of the history of Notre Dame football spec'al attention. should be given to the men .who belonged to the first team that competed for the University. Fourteen students, of the University, representing residence in thirteen different States of the .Union, constituted
Michigan University three games of football during the. scholastic year of 1887-1888. This " fact is in itself particularly interesting, since it ■ directs attention to the .cosmopolitan character of the University at a time when the total enrollment' of students at the University^ was less than half the-present enrollment. George Cartier of Michigan, Joseph Cusack of Nebraska, . -Frank - Fehr of Kentucky,, George Houck of .. Oregon/Joseph .Hepburn of . Texas, Harry
'Jewett of Illinois, Henry Luhn of Washington,

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC ’ .	179
• - • celebration of the . Diamond Jubilee of the University, these men will take advantage of the occasion and return to the old school.
' To any one who has been closely associated with the University during the period of time-included in a survey of the entire history of Notre ' Dame football, it is apparent that the natural strength and latent athletic skill of the men who were members of that first football squad were of such excellence as to compare favorably with similar qualities to be found in the high class .“material” out of which the coaches of later times were able to develop some of our unusually
~ strong teams. In those early days, however, the teams had to get along as best they could without’ the services of an experienced coach.. It*was only in the fall of 1893 that the University teams. were given for the 'first time the . benefit of any formal and-,regular instruction
in the game. .Morrison, Hadden, Hering, O’Dea, Faragher, .Salmon, McGlew, Barry, Place,/ . Longman, Marks, and Harper—these are the names of the men who-for nearly a quarter of a century have had the task of developing the football idea in the teams of Notre Dame. To this list other names are to be added, the names of those who have rendered regular service as assistant coaches, namely, McWeeney, Bracken, Lantry,. Lynch, Philbrook, Dunbar, Edwards, Rockne, and Hamilton. .	'	.
Aside from the service rendered to the University . in the department- of coaching, many . of the members of the -Notre Dame football teams have found In other universities an . opportunity to teach the principles of the game; and this is true not only in the depart. ment of football but in other.branches of sport' ' as well, the complete list ' including about sixty names of athletes who might be. enrolled in what could be called the Alumni Coaching Staff.	■	.	..
. -Year after year there are added new names to. the galaxy of football stars whose, deeds have challenged, the admiration, of’ all lovers of the - game: To this distinguished group Notre JDame has contributed her share in numbers' and in degree of excellence;; and sometimes, as at the close of the present; season, the critics must needs refer to several of bur players as worthy
. of consideration iii the choice of an All-Western Eleven. Be that1 ask it may, it will always be high praise for any football player ever to be
. mentioned as the equal of Louis J. Salmon, who, . . ' as captain and fullback of- the Notre Dame
team of 1902, achieved such success as entitles : F him to a permanent place in any honorary -J-eleven that may at any time be chosen from , among the best that Notre Dame may claim , as her own. This would be high praise in- . C deed; for we need only remember that a few	'
years ago the Chicago Herald, after conduct-	:
ing a nation-wide canvass of opinions concerning	.
prominent football players, proclaimed Louis	.
J. Salmon to be the’best fullback of all time.	-
Football Elements. -
A is for Andrews a tackle- silk fine. B is for Bachman a bull on the line	-
And also for Baujan a wizard at end. .	'
C is for Cofall whom critics commend.	■	.
Also for Coughlin a bear on defense.
D is DeGree of a stature immense ‘Who sends the ballskying for numberless yards, ' And “Dutch” with his speed passing tackles and	. .
guards.
Dorais too, has-piayed a great game.	-
E is for each fan at old Notre Dame.	. “ .
F is Fitzpatrick who hits the line low,	1
And F for the fellow who. falls at the blow.’	' - '	.
G is for Grant a slippery young eel.
H is for Harper whose strenuous zeal	..	....
Has built up a team of which we are proud.. .	. ■	>
I for the redskin whose blanket’s his shroud. .	?
J is for jay, or the Comhuskers’lot.	-
K is for King, just as fast as a shot.	.
L is for Lee who gave us advice.	-	.
M is for Mac who surely is twice	D
As large as our Bachman and Cofall and Fitz;'	.
And John Miller too who destroys what he hits. . ’	-
And Walter the halfback quite helpful indeed, r '
. And Meagher a wing man of marvellous speed:	:.
Not to miss Grover Malone as a back .	- .
At dodging and plunging he’s surely a “crack.” *
N is for night with its slumberous cheer .	- r ?
O is O’Hara as fleet as a deer. ’	. , •	~
P is for Philbin, and Phelan of fame.	.	. L 7
Q is a letter that stands for no name. .	.	' :
R is for Rockne Jess Harper’s right-man	..	;	’
And also Rydzewski now beat him who can.	’;
S is for Slackford an all-around half.	;
T is the teams that we’ve given the laugh.	£	■
U is the umpire who ‘calls’ all the fighting. , '	;
, V is the Varsity of which I am writing.	~ ? . - - .
W too claims "Hard” Whipple and Ward	\	;
While Y is for yearlings the best on the board. . .. . .7 < -X is for extras that are not in this list,	,	\ z
And Z I’d leave out if it wouldn't be missed. '	' A . T
D. Devereux Smith,’19. _ -_‘..y
'A 7A ~	/’ - A . AV - Xj
i8o
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COACH HARPER
The 1916 Football Season.
HARRY E. ’SCOTT
Well, it wasn’t such a bad season'after all. Case, Western Reserve, Haskell, Wabash, South . Dakota, the Michigan Aggies and Nebraska (the same Cornhuskers that nosed us out last year T>y one point), all went down io defeat before the powerful Notre Dame eleven in 1916; The wearers of the Gold and Blue came out of just one game holding the smaller end of the score.. The Army did it.
. The past -season was a great deal like the 1914 season, when our team' played wonderful . football against everybody except Yale. That one game they, slipped, just as they slid this . year at West Point. :	.
:	We could go on to say that Notre Dame
scored 293 points during the season to her opponents 30, and that she gained two thousand, nine hundred'and eighty-three yards to; her— - but what is the'use of all these figures.
The season opened on Cartier Field September < 30. Case was the victim, and she played her y part well. ; Chet Grant,- who played his first game, showed lots of promise and class. His - work in returning punts was good to look ; upon, while the end runs of Cofall and Bergman : brought joy to the heart of every'N. D. football
bug. ' When the.day’s work was over, the score stood 48 to o with the Clevelanders on the zero end. It was a superb opening, and everything pointedTo an unbroken string of victories.
But then the injuries started coming. First John Miller broke his hand; then Malone was injured, then Bergman, then Cofall—mind you, we are not “alibi-ing” for we have no reason "to alibi; but just the same it is only fair to say that Notre Dame suffered more from injuries this year than ever before in the history of the Autumn sport at the University. . We could inject a whole paragraph of ifs— however we will not. Just’one! If it had not been for Oliphant to throw their forward passes . and Vidal to catch them, the score would have been—well, probably 10 to 9 in our favor. Dimer Oliphant, himself a native of the Hoosier Sta'te, opened up his forward passing in the last seven minutes of play; 'and by the time Vidal and himself had enjoyed themselves sufficiently, they had annexed seventeen more points to the .Army’s score. .
This may be some consolation: the New York Suh said that “in tackling Notre Dame made the' cadets look like novices ... in rushing the ball the cadets were outclassed . . . in line play Notre Dame stood but above the cadets like a giant among pigmies .... had the forward passing. game been barred the Army might have gone down to a bad defeat.” - However that is another story. We were
defeated, but not without doing credit to ourselves. -
Feeling the sting of the Army defeat, the team journeyed to Sioux Falls on November . ii,’ where they mauled the Coyotes to the tune of 21 to o score. South Dakota , always has a strong team, but it is to - be doubted whether a team of Oliphants could have stopped the Hoosiers on that day.
A return to the schedule of the Michigan Aggies was welcomed by" the football public, ' as well as by followers of Notre Dame and the Michiganders. It was especially appreciated by Notre Dame, who won by the score of 14 to o. In this game Cofall played one of the greatest games of his stellar career. John Miller, Bergman, Rydzweski, and in fact every - man on the team, played a wonderful game.
Then came Alma! They came, saw a lot of football, and were conquered. We say -they were conquered, by the score of 46 to o.
Next,, and last of all, came Nebraska, the same joroud, chesty Nebraska that nosed out Notre Dame by one teeny-weeny .fatal point • last year. Notre Dame went out for Revenge, and got it. In a slashing, lightning attack, she swept the husky Cornhuskers off their feet. Captain Cofall and Bachman were forced to retire early in the game, but the rest of the team fought just the harder because the services of these two had been lost. Bergman was the shining star in Notre Dame’s attack; -he ran around the ends, pulled passes out of the air, and covered the' ground between the line of -formation and the Nebraska goal with such speed that, most of the time the Nebraskans . couldn’t see anything of him except his heels. .Twenty to nothing’ was the final score, and victory was doubly sweet .because of that 20 to 19 score last year.
At any rate, it was a fitting finale to a successful season. Cofall, Bergman, Bachman and Baujan have played, their last game, but Notre •'Dame-will not soon forget-them, .especially when she thinks of that Nebraska score. .
, Va’sity Voise;
- -  !—-
That team, I-guess, was not so woise. /
It gave cause to rejoice. _	'
Though Army game left bare my poise -
. I still am. glad to raise my voice -
To praise the boys of Harper’s choice-—.
To write them up in voise.
. .	..	••...?	.. L. J. B.
THE NOTRE DAME SCUOLASTfC ’	. r8i
*	- I '
Monogram Men.
EDWARD J. McOSKER
Captain Stanley Cofall.-.	.	■
A fighting leader, a demon at carrying .the ■ D; ' ball, and one of the hardest tacklers in. the	•
history of football, his place will be hard to . . fill next year. It is little wonder that eastern J football critics were unanimous in terming .. him the greatest all-round backfield man in	;
America. Cofall never-knew the word quit; ; . in his three years as_a member of Notre Dame - -football squads, he gave the best that he had, .	-
and that in itself was'enough to make him one’ . -of the best halfbacks of all time.- Cofall will be : badly missed next yqar, but his name' will • long-go down in the annals, of Notre Dame -	-
football as a star of the .first degree.	;.
' Charles Bachman. • - .	-
Another man who leaves after three years ... of valiant service at Notre Dame. “Bach’s” \ name is familiar to every student on the campus. ’ , A His record is of the best. Bachman was a wonder at opening holes in an opposing liqe, and it was seldom that gains were made . through his- position. Always in the fight, whether his team was winning easily or was battling to defend its own goal, he never _ shirked. In addition to his own brilliant play, his was always a steadying hand in the line and his words of counsel were of great value to the young player. ’
’	- John Miller. .
Injuries did not prevent John from showing his spirit for his school and his fight for the -team. The fleet fullback was one of the bright . and shining lights>of the season just closed.. . Miller was a brilliant broken field runner,, a. consistent gainer in‘smashes through the line, a powerful man in interference and a tower ~ of strength on the defensive. John completed., a great football career in the Nebraska game, , and he will leave school in June with the best. wishes of every student.’ -	- .D .
■ Harry Baujan.
Harry won his third football monogram this . year and his deeds, on the gridiron will be-, remembered long after he is gone. Harry was, ‘ ‘ sure death ” . to opposing backs when - theyJ-tried his end. -He was full of fire and “pepper” and fought constantly, in every game from the

182
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COFALL
first to the last whistle. Baujan is another man whose place it will be exceedingly difficult to fill next year.
Gilbert Ward.
“Gillie” won his monogram this year after a steady, faithful exhibition of football .ability and fight. As a substitute lineman, he could be called upon at any time and he never failed to “deliver the goods.” Always willing, he won his way into the hearts of coaches and students. It will be a hard task to find a man
so able to step into the breach and take a regular’s place as was Ward. He too goes forth with the best wishes of all the students.
Arthur Bergman.
' Steve Fitzpatrick.
Though it was his first year in college football, “Fitz” showed abilitv that ranked him as one J
of the best backfield men in the west. He could step into cither halfback position or into fullback and play excellent football, and he did. Steve was a most valuable man to the team and he never failed to give his best. In the next two years, he should be a great power in Notre Dame teams.	_
‘ Chester Grant.
He is another man who stepped into the > front rank in his fir.t year in college football. As an understudy to Phelan, he improved steadily as the season advanced. Possessed of a world of speed, he was one of the team’s most valuable broken field runners, and on the defense, he never failed. Grant will be back for two more years and again Notre Dame can consider itself fortunate.
The1 “flying Dutchman” is undoubtedly one of the best halfbacks in the country. In the games this season, he was one of Notre Dame’s most brilliant performers. At carrying the bally - he was a wizard. Time and again, he broke away for long, brilliant runs. At Nebraska, he was the man who arose to the occasion and scored two of Notre Dame’s touchdowns. Practically all that the Cornhuskers saw of the speedy little halfback was his heels. He has one more year to play and the fans wish it were five.
Frederick Slackford.
“Slack” gave exhibition after exhibition this year that thrilled the rooters. Overcoming an , injury- which handicapped him during his play in 1915, he proved a.most valuable substitute to John Miller in the fullback position. Slackford was a powerful driver on line and-off tackle plunges. He was clever and 'consistent at carrying the ball in the open field and a steady man on the defensive.
Jim Phelan. ■
Steady old Jim is. one of .those players who know the game df football, from A'to Z and who use that knowledge to wonderful advantage.
‘ As a field general, Phelan is hard to beat. Always cool under the heaviest fire, his signals ring out with a spirit that sends the Varsity plunging ahead to victory. Jim has also been consistent in carrying the ball and a most reliable man on the defense. Notre Dame is fortunate in having him back next, year to run the team from the quarterback position.
Ray Whipple.
Whipple likes football and he likes to fight for his alma mater. The stocky little end played the style of “game that the rooters like. Always ready for a hard struggle, he put forth his every.effort. “Whip” is a deadly tackler and a terror t the opposition. At the end position, he has been a most valuable adjunct to Harper’s great machine, and fans are happy that he has one more year of service to give to Notre Dame.
John Meagher.
The rise of Meagher was phenomenal. At
the beginning of the season, he was simply one" of a number of candidates for an end position. But as the season progressed Meagher improved, and by the middle of the schedule he was
ranked as one of the first three ends on the team and as a powerful factor on the squad. “Jack” was another man who never knew the word quit. He was always full of consistent, effective fight,' and in the. two years he has left to play, Notre Dame will receive much more valuable service from him. .	:	'
Arnold McI-nerny.
“ Big Mac ” was a bulwark in the Gold and Blue line. On
the ,offense, he bore through bachman -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
■183-'
THU 1916 VARSITY
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
BAUJAN
opposing, lines with deadly effectiveness ; on the defense, he broke through time and again and hurled the opposing- players back for losses. Mclnerny’s tackle position was always well taken care of by the big, but “peppery” guardian. “Mac” has another year at Notre Dame. Once more Notre Dame is fortunate.
Frank Coughlin.
Mclnerny’s runnnng mate, Coughlin, played the left tackle’ position with the manner of a veteran, despite the fact that it was his first year in college football. Big and rangy,, he
. used every bit of his strength and energy with telling effect and it was seldom that gains were made through him, while on the offense he was consistent in opening holes for his own backs. “Cough” has two more years and the students are glad.	'
■ Dave Philbin.
DeGree.has two more years mid the school is happy.	.
.	Frank Rydzewski. .
“Big Frank” played McEwan, the AllAmerican star of the Army, to a standstill a few weeks ago- and thereby gained recognition from the critics as' one .of the greatest centers in football. But his West Point play was only . one of his consistent exhibitions of ability. He was. a never-failing pivot. .He played the . offensive game steadily and brilliantly, and he was a great bulwark on the defense. Frank has another year and again fortune smiles sweetly.
Tom King.
King long' ago displayed his ability as a basketball and track star and his performances ' on the gridiron this season were almost as brilliant. As a utility end, he was most valuable. He was a good defensive man and - speedy and consistent on the offense. Tom has another year to play Varsity; football.
. There are other men who gave valuable - service to the squad during the season. Among
u-r<,	,. ■ ,	.	... . , them.are Grover. Malone, the great-little half. Phil upheld the reputation established ,	,	...	;.. , . . ■
,	■ 5.	. .	,,	.	-	back for whom injuries that kept him out of the
long before him by athletes from the far west. . c ,	7	= , '	T
•	\	; ,	. .	,	,	-. game for weeks stopped a brilliant season; | oe
1	lime and again he stepped into the.shoes of . „	- A	-s i i
_ ~	. .	, .	,	. Dorais, the little quarterback who mever failed
Mclnerny and tore viciously into the opposing ■ - ‘ .	, /'	•	-
,.	,, , . .	.	.	,	, , . to give valuable service and. who constantly
line or blocked attempts at gams through him. ,	.	’	. r	■
-	;	-	, ,	,7 r displayed the nerve of -men twice .his size,
- Philbin isn.t through here yet, and the fact	~,TT	:
. _	.	-	r /	. Walter Miller,- 0 Hara, Ward .Miller, Allison,
. causes manv a smile of happiness, because ,,	,	M	, T ir i
1	. ,	. ' .	<	K	' Morales, Yeager, Garrv, Frantz, Terry Murphy,
he s coming through with-a lot more valuable	i	' n r	,
,	, r ,	. -	• c . Madigan, and Kelly,—all of them acquitted ,
play before he receives his diploma.	,	„ . - -	.	, .	. ,
- .	" themselves well, m games and worked consist-
ently in practice, and they should be heard from; in future years. ..	..	.	-•
“Bodie” Andrews.
Andrews was ‘ considerably .lighter than the .. other tackles on the Notre Dame, squad, but - . ^this Jact	prevent him from displaying
his-true. worth. Though it was only his first
•	- i *4. * ' '	’
, : W hipple McIn.E rny ':
year . on . the team, he was a-steady, valuable . „ - o . > • -.	.	’	.	. J 5	. Rydzew S ki .
. substitute, , one who could be called upon to . /a
. ■	. .	.	■	1	- Gran T .
go in at .any juncture in the game;and deliver .. ." j^gr E e ' offensively and defensively, and he never;failed. -	7 /i-i,	-
>	«	. “Cy” DeGree. ’	;
.. . No man on the team had more fight,- more , . consistent energy, than did ..the ypuhg guard V from way up 'north' in Minnesota.Another
■ first, year . man , he too played . like, a veteran, ; . never failing in;the pinches,- always - ^holding
? Mown ' the right 'guard ■ position - against the -
;. ..-greatest’driVesatid^opening holes when'cal1 ed upon. DeGree is also a punter of the first rank,
; < -; and;jhis; long/;-' dangerous spirals -took ;Notre
: - v	zone many a 'time.;
■J. MILLER
Bachma N
. C
Coug H
Bauj A.
' •' M
OFALL.
LIN n •
ALONE
f P - HELAN yf ; , . M XuerJ•. /; V;;
O’ Hara .< _
Ki N g :J ‘ "j /. S LACKFORD John Williams Dant.
THE NOTRE DAME .SCHOLASTIC
The Freshmen.
CHARLES W. CALL.
- A victory over St. Viator’s Cpllege, holders of the high score record for one game—210 to o against Lane—by the score of 10 to 7; a win from Michigan Western State Normal College, conquerors of M. A. C. Freshmen.77 to 3, by the score of 10 to 6; a .lone defeat at the hands of Kalamazoo College, M. I. A. A. Champions, by the score of 34 to 7, are the record of the Notre Dame All-fresh football team for this season.	•
" Kankakee, Illinois, was the scene of their first battle. St. Viator’s College boasted of one of the best teams in her history and after she had run up a double century score on a Chicago school early in the . season her followers did not hesitate to predict a victory over the. . Notre Dame yearlings. When the two teams clashed these predictions were almost realized. Two teams could scarcely have been better matched and each team played-all the football it knew y to come out a winner. Bach side scored a touchdown, and each ' .
side added a point by kicking the goal following its touchdown. Captain George Gipp, fullback for the Freshmen, contributed ‘a goal from 'the field, and these three points were the slender but alto-
COACH FITZGERALD'
■ gether sufficient margin for-victory.
Kalamazoo, Michigan, was the destination and they had a good brand of the scarce article \ before the season hadprogressed far. Teaching
of the Freshmen’s second trip. Michigan Western State Normal College was the foe. -
. Unbeaten for five long years, convinced that a team which could beat the M.. A; C. Freshmen 77 to 3 could beat any other team outside of the Western Conference and maybe one or two select teams in the Bast, the Wolverine embryo teachers were prepared to smother our yearling aggregation. As in the St. Viator’s game each side scored a single touchdown. As in the St. Viator’s game the booting ability of George
r Gipp.decided the contest. Standing on his own . brought'the forward passing of their team- up I forty-yard line in the latter part of the gamehe- to a high standard by midseason. .	- s
sent, a long low field goal -sixty-yards , directly	Some sort of recognition of the individuals;
between thefKalamazoo uprights for a second that comprised the Freshman team .seems victory, and for'what is reputed to be a season’s • fitting in a resume of the season. To ; their, record for a drop kick.	’ ?	credit let it be-said the .members of-the .team
A second invasion of Kalamazoo punctuated -the season with a defeat. . Kalamazoo . College .; turned the trick. The Celery. Pity team are the champions of their restricted “conference” / which includes all the. minor Michigan institu- . tions, and they play a first-class article' of. foot- / ball. After setting-down the fact that-the better Team won, and deserved to win, it would not be fair„to ignore the fact that Notre Daine , was severely handicapped before and throughout . the game by injuries. Backfield men .were - f ' played, in the line when the regular, linemen., were forced out of the game following injuries? y -
But-all this is the glamour connected with being a member of the Freshman squad.; The , games chronicled above were parlor pastimes ; compared with the unheralded bruising scrim- . jnages the yearlings endured at. the hands of ^he Varsity, once, . twice, or three times a week. . ~ Whatever prestige the Notre D ame Varsity team has attained during its 1916 campaign is due . in no ' small measure to the meh who will get their degrees in 1920. - Personifying Wabash at one time, .. . the Army at another,' M. A. C. : • ■ and Nebraska at others, they gave . _• their best on. every occasion. J AL
Who coached this wonderfully Freshman team? Freeman Fitz- '
gerald and “Biff” Lee. Two of the best athletes Notre Dame ever. - ; turned out guided the destinies • of the first year men. “They separ- ..
' ated the chaff from the wheat ”	-
a green bunch-of material the-unique type, of ; . football peculiar to Notre Dame, they .exhib- . ited a world of patience and perseverance- / They turned a line which-was little better than ' a sieve during the. first few scrimmages into a . ; stone wall that could hold the Varsity with - -f; considerable regularity; they turned the offen- / sive strength of their proteges from a joke into a genuine actuality that could -make it :mtef-—y7 esting for the Varsity or any other team; they
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
186
did not confer this recognition upon themselves at any time during the year, but each one gave his best efforts for the success of the team and never reached out for individual glory. Captain George Gipp distinguished himself by his extraordinary kicking throughout the season. He played fullback and he played it well. He has the drive necessary for the position and he proved a consistent ground gainer all year. Murphy at quarterback' showed considerable class. His generalship was good on all occasions and he displayed a lot of ability with the..
never failed to give a good account of himself. Hayes made a good end and could catch a forward pass on slight provocation. Stanley, McGuire, Stein, Powers, Sullivan, Ryan, Flanigan, Fusick, and Evans, played hard, consistent football and all were better players for their efforts. All these recruits will bear watching, and we venture the prediction that the team that flung the colors of Notre Dame from Kankakee to Kalamazoo will do much to plant them in the East and West next year.	'
FRESHMAN TEAM
forward pass. Dent arid Farwick played good games at halfback. Norman Barry, hero of many a former interhall “shamble,” also played a fine game at halfback during his first collegiate year. The Eiglesbacks gave their best to the team and played good games whenever given the opportunity. Holton.came all the way from Texas to contribute his athletic prowess to Notre Dame and he held down the center-position admirably all season. Ambrose at guard was about the pluckiest thing on the line. Everj’- game and every scrimmage found him .battling away at men twice his size, and he
We Win.
The Senior Class can boast that they .
Have five men on the team;
There are but four good Juniors, but As stellar lights they beam. *
The Sophomores have only two, Although they should have nine;
But when it comes to Freshmen, boys, ‘ They’ve eleven in the line.
'	P. Loosen, 'ig.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
187
The Critics’ Choice.
Football critics began getting in their “deadly” work before some of the prominent teams had completed their schedules. AllWestern and' All-Conference and All-American selections fly thick and fast these days. Notre Dame has received much mention on these mythical teams, but it is in no sense egotism to assert that she has - not received a bit more’ than she deserves. What team Bast or West, North or South, would not have gladly found a place for a Cofall, a Miller, a Bergman, or a Phelan? What team would not have gladly added any of our linemen to its roster? Each was a star in his own position without displaying
center and Cofall, halfback, on his second team.
Malcom McLean, Chicago Evening Post critic, placed Bachman at guard on his first All-Western team.	~
Charles E. Parker, writing for the Boston Post,, honored Bachman with a place on his All-American second team.
Jack Velock, International News’ sports editor, claimed Bachman and Cofall were good enough for his first All-Western team.
The selections of the United Press for the All-American teams placed Madigan and Cofall on the second squad.
These are the extent of the selections to come ^before our notice previous to going to press.
INTERHALL CHAMPIONS
it. The superb team play developed by. the Gold and 'Blue outshone the brilliancy of any one man. The team was successful beyond a doubt; that a few men should obtain particular recognition is no reflection on the men that assisted them.' However, it is a little something to be heralded as the best in your work, no matter what it is, so we take pleasure in • cfironicling some of the selections on mythical teams that have come to our-attention.
Walter Eckersall, writing for the Chicago Tribune, placed Arnold Mclnerny at a guard position on his first All-Western team. Captain Cofall found a place on his second team.
G. W. Axelson, the Chicago Herald football expert, named Bachman for a guard on his first All-Western team, and he made Rydzewski
Not to be outdone by Walter Eckersall, Walter Camp, G. W. Axelson, Ring Lardner, the editor of the Valve, or anyone else, the referees who decided the fine points of the interhall games have picked an All-Interhall Team. They pretty generally concur that the team they have picked could beat any other team recruited from interhall.
The selections come after a season singularly . successful in the annals of Interhall Football. Corby slowly but surely eliminated every' contender for the championship and all the honors _ of’ the season belong to the hall beyond the Church. “To the victors belong the spoils” t is again demonstrated by the number of Corby men selected for honors on the All-Interhall ’ team.	.	•*
i88	- THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
—	First Team.	Forward Passes.
-	Player Spalding	... E. Miller	 Walsh		 Zoia			 ,	Huber.		 Dixon	...	 - Wrape...	 O’Neill	...	Position 	L	E...			 			™.L	T	 		„...L	G			 			..C			 '		R G_		 		 R	T....		 ..:	  -R	E		 	  -Q-- -—---	Hall	’	' 	Corby	- Who’s Who? 		.Corby	Who showed the football world some stunts? 	.....Corby	~Cofall. ‘	” -	Brownson	Who ran the ends and kicked the punts? 		Sorin	. „ .	Cofall. 		 Sorin	. Walsh	Who’s there at any kind of game?	_ 	Sorin	The one man Army couldn’t tame?
'	Kasper (capt.)..		R H			Corby _	Who will be missed at Notre Dame?
^Reilly			 Farwick								L H.	.„_z	 .2	:	F..					......Brownson	‘ CofaU	’	, 		Corby	■
While they were at it the referee’s picked a second team. Here are the alternates:
■	‘ Second Team.
Player
Ryan______ King______ Huxford___ Cullen ™.„ Madden____ Noonan ..... Keenan____ Lockard..:. Haberer._. Brandy____ Fitzgerald
Position
—L E......
._L T.....
...L G....
...C...... ..R G..... ...R T........ ...R E....
..R H„™„ _LH..L..
Hall
____Walsh Brownson ____Corby ....„-Corby ____Cor.by-____W alsh ____Corby .......Corby ____Walsh ....... Corby ____Corby
Who was the backbone of the line?
Bachman. _
' In every game who’s work would shine? Bachman’s.
Who'made the holes for Stan Cofall " To run through wild with that old ball? "Who is the pride of Corby Hall?
• Bachman.	’
The IrPerhall mentors further., agreed that some mention should be made of Dorwin, . Glynn, McConnell, McKenny, and- Fucik who played good ball throughout the season. -
Who wouldri’t give Wabash a chance? ' Miller. .
Nor let the Injuns do their dance? Miller. . .	.
Who helped to beat the U. S- P’s, Nebraska U’s and M. A. C’s?
Whose very name'ineans victories?
■ Miller. ;	'
The brand. of football familiarly known- as' ' “-Chick” also, flourished during the season just closed. More'enthusiasm was shown this year . than ever before, and. this can be laid at the door . of Rev. Cornelius Hagerty,.Jerry Noonan, _ Norman-Berry, and “Chief” Meyers, the men ■ .who coached the different organizations. = Four games were played by each team, and again .
. Corby carried off .the championship. The following All-Chick team selected'by the coaches \ and the referees who witnessed the gameswill ; furnish “fan food” for the winter! .	.
Who is. as solid as a rock? ‘	.
' . Baujan. '	.	.
Who played left end, ’long side of Bach?
..•	• -Baujan. . ■ :
-Though .he might strike a darn tough team, Whose’happy smile would always gleam? Who never could they hurt, ’twould seem?
.	‘ . Baujan.	.
• .	.	' L. J. Blake.
. . .	- . Poor Thing!. \	.
I’m.just a little ‘Big-Nine’: school, Demure and inoffensive, .	_ .
About my football team l’m most ..
A Absurdly apprehensive.. -..	J
‘Player
‘White.__„._.. . Shields—^._______
Kahe.....:....:. JiinesiAAz Ryan 'Faseninayer lKennyL_A2. ReiDyO.™ .^MboreL'AA ^Brandy-.-.:z. yP.enverAA.
‘Position
—C...LEM ..........L T... IaACgC
LZ-jriR- G.’_ .... ..._R T.„ M__RE_ ALARi-C. AzARH^
f
Hall • .Brownson ; Brownson
.Walsh .. :.M..-Walsh. . All Corby . ..._„.Corby ....... Walsh ^Brownson
Walsh -. . .-.AlCorby^ ' '. ..„Walsh ■ '
C Throughout the entire year I-claim , ■ Arid boast" in manner cheerful, .
. But when they mention Notre; Dame, ‘ : I own Tin rather fearful. " \
Of course Em riot afraid, you kriow, • -That’N.T)	'■ v . .
Though I welLkriow Ed come to woe, -	;
< 'P'sheis^	;	1
b A 7;	AM A A	y
3S

s
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

- When Miller Hits the Line.
O’er my cute and classic features,
When I’m cheering in the bleachers,
Comes a look of wild, enthusiastic glee;
And a joyous glow suffuses,	,
There’s no sign of gloom or blueses,
When I hear the chorus riot: "U. N. D!
The signals are the batt’ries, they sure make our Charlie go-.	.	. ‘ ,
There’s
There’s'
no one who can hold him, he is always there' to win, '	_	~	-
nothing that can stop him. short o’ nitro-, glycerin.	•	J;

O it’s off my seat I’m tippin’	-	.
When I see young “Bergie” slippin’
Back of perfect interference to a goal;
And I chortle and I cackle
’ When Cap. Cpfall runs off tackle
Through the. place, where "Tiny” Bachman made a hole!	-
We expect great deeds of Charlie, he’s been doing great things here,	■	-
When he was on the N. D. line, all rooters did was cheer. In football he’s a wizard, and in classes he’s, a “shark,”. So when it comes to "playing” law, watch Charlie make his mark. ■	... .•
On offense now he has no peer, he’ll have no equal then. For defense give us Charlie, keep a thousand other men.

But the sight I’d rather gaze on	* .
And the one I’ll lilt my lays on "
For it.iills complete this cup o’ joy of mine.
Is that most exquisite thriller,	z
Dashing, smashing, John 'M. Miller, \	.
As he plunges through the center of the line.
We watched and marvelled in the past, his very name.	■ .
We’ll watch and cheer in days to come, Notre Dame.
we cheered
we men: of
John A.
Lemmer. =
0 if I were like Gregori
And could tell, in painted story,
Of the deeds I thought were justly superfine; A
I would grab my bristling brushes, -	-
Draw you one- of Miller’s rushes
As he plunges through the center of the line;
-	Stuart H. Car roll.
Captain. Cofall. J
Your N. D. football days are o’er, Your togs are packed away; _
The Blue and Gold you’ll lead no more
Upon the field of play. •
In years to come, when others tell Of heroes young and great,	'
We’ll-think of you, and hearts will swell'.
When your deeds we-relate. '
A TOAST. ’
Cheers for the men of yesterday, ■ Cheers for the men of old.
For those who fought in the bygone day, For Salmon and Eich, the giants of the fray For all our warriors of the play,
For those with the hearts of gold.
For me you’ll speed ’round ends again, .
Again you’ll hit the line, .	/
You’ll break through ranks of struggling men-: In fondest dreams of mine.	.
With warriors of bright days' gone, by -Shall rank your mighty name, .	.
. Its greatness shall best glorify
The great "-All-Notre Dame.”
A.:
Cheers for the men of to-morrow’s sun
Cheers for the men to be; •	■
For those who will fight till the day is won, For those who will do what a “Stan” has done, For our warriors each and every one,
Cheers for the heroes to be._ - —T. Healy.
. ' ’ Charlie-Bachman.
We love to sing the praises of the valiant N. D. line, The tackles, centre, and the ends, in marble we’d . enshrine; ’ .	.	. .	‘
Yell or Yelp? . .
I’ve heard the roaring breakers lash the. bosomspHthe ' sea ■	.	; -	.	.. . <•.
The wail of. wind through forests grim is not unknown' • to me,	•	‘ ’	; .	'
I’ve heard the typhoon howl and moan while swirling;
sand soared high, '	' ' . V .v.^
Across the weald from battlefield. I’ve heard 'the wounded’s cry; -	. i..
But! have yet to hear a plaint as mournful, as forloin.-As the yell which from a thousand1 throats across the gridiron’s borne, . .
-When wearied by the strenuous strife—or by the battle
■S-L


’ For guards, too, we would, seek a place, and in the-best .*	' worn,	__ -AA-AA
.	' Our warriors weaken for a trice, our brawny line is torn
. of all '	,	.	.."	'	'
We’d fix-a golden pedestal and Bachman there install
He’s the. other “Stonewall” Jackson, he’s a human J . dynamo, . .	..	.	; .
Then low and slow with rytinnic flow in fear almost in
■	.	. shame	.	;
Rolls out that gloomy gruesome groan, “ Oh, hold; ’em
•' ■ Notre Dame!” ' . ■ ' . A "A-.
. Sylvester Mersch/ ’.ig


190
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Terms: $1:50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: THE EDITOR, NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Noire Dame, Indiana ,
L.
DECEMBER 9, 1916
No. 12.
BOARD OF EDITORS
Howard R. Parker, ’17
Speer Strahan, ’17
F. Jennings Vurpillat, ’iS
Harry E. Scott, ’17
John A. Lemmer, ’iS
Delmar J. Edmondson, ’18
Thomas F. Healy, ’19
Edward J. McOsker, ’17
Michael J. Early, ’17
Charles W. Call, ’iS
—Announcement that Coach Harper has signed a contract to supervise athletics at Notre Dame for three more years after his present contract expires in June was Coach Harper, received joyfully by students and alumni of the university.
During his four years as head of the athletic - department and coach- of the football, baseball, and basketball teams, Coach Harper has displayed constant efficiency. In arranging schedules, he has succeeded in sending Notre
Dame teams'against those of, the representative schools, of the country. As a coach, he has always 'brought out the best in his men and Jie has never failed to develop ‘ winning teams in every branch of sport. Mr. Harper and his . assistant, Mr. Knute K. Rockne, one of the best football and track men in the history of our school, form a combination of which few,., if any, schools in the country can boast an equaL Mr. Harper stands for all that is clean and . -fair:in athletics. His standards are high and his principles are always expressed in his actions^ a,s director of - athletics. The many
students and alumni of the school appreciate
his . conscientious efforts of the past and wish	—I)r.Bdgar-J. Banks, the noted archeologist
him the greatest of Success in his future work. ' „ and the conductor of .several Babylonian
“Not only am I . completely satisfied with , expeditions,!opened a series of three lectures ’ the work of Coach Harper in athletics,”- said in Washington, Hall .Tuesday/afternoon. The-Bather f Cavanaugh, ink speaking of- the new first of the series was on Pompeii-and the "talk .'contract,{. “but I'have': the. greatest admiration was-illustrated, by a number of slides?
for him and the greatest confidence in him. . —The organization of the Class of .1919 has ’ His ideals. ofsport are the-. highest and his . been completed, The. officers are as»follows:
record is the greatest in American athletics. .His influence over the students is all that could, be desired, and they have for him not only admiration as a leader, but respect for him as a man. I consider Coach Harper the finest.figure in American athletics.”
—The Scholastic is devoted this week to a review of the 1916 football season, together with an appreciation of the men who made it the success it was. Bor their ser-The Season, vice, every student, every alum-. nus, and every friend of the University'is heartily grateful; Along with a consistent display of courage on the gridiron the men of this year’s Varsity kept alive the venerable tradition governing the monogram man of Notre Dame. Brom the banks of the'Hudson westward to the Nebraskan plain they carried upon the field the invisible banner of Christian manhood, from whose pinions ever}'- true son of our University draws his inspiration. They were gentlemen athletes all. With characteristic self-effacement the men of the eleven now leave -the glamour and the hurrah of the field and quietly resume their, places among the private citizenry of the campus.- Given a heavy assignment last September, they have turned in a glowing record. Bor some, the game on Thanksgiving' Day sounded the swan song of college football. ’ To these especially’the University extends the-
right hand of gratitude. With a final word of thanks to the others who helped to uphold the Gold and Blue the football season of 1916 is' formally ushered-into history.
Local News.
—Have you‘counted the hours until Christmas ?
—The Junior Class' a at meeting last week elected the following officers': William Breen McDonald, president; -John A. Demmer, vice
president; Robert B. Hannan,'secretary;' Joseph W. McKenna, treasurer;, Robert J. Ovington, sergeant-at-arms.
—X>r. Bdgar-J. Banks, the noted archeologist '

THE NOTRE DAME, SCHOLASTIC
- 191
i.
President, Henry L- Morency; vice-president, Edward Meehan; secretary, Austin McNichol; treasurer, Francis Mulligan; sergeant-at-arms, • William M. Allison; chaplain, John J. Garry.
—By a recent purchase the University has come into the possession of a rare old Bible of the age of 438 z years. This volume was printed in Latin in Venice in 1478 by Theodoric Reynsourch and Renaldus Novimagio Gheu-tonicon and Company. The book was purchased - in London.
' —The LaSalle County Notre. Dame Club, composed of 24 students from LaSalle County, Illinois, elected the following officers at their regular meeting Monday:—J. E. Cassidy, prescient; E. Breen, vice-president; R. J. Dunn, treasurer and G. Cain, secretary. The semiannual dance of the Club will be held at the Clifton Hotel, Ottawa, Illinois, on Jan. 2.
—The official announcement states that the Christmas vacation will be as per the catalog schedule from Dec. 20 to Jan. 5. There will be no extension of time this year, the classes will be over on Wednesday afternoon. The regular examination in all of the classes will be held on Wednesday, December 20.
* —Thursday evening at 8 o’clock the final contest for honors was held in Washington Hall.
The judges for the occasion were:
script, Fathers Matthew Walsh, Cornelius Hagerty and Charles L. O’Donnell; for delivery, Senator-elect Charles Hagerty, Attorney William ^Mclnerny' and Rev. ' Leonard Carrico, Dean of the Department of English at the University.
—On Tuesday night the Sophomore Class organized and elected officers as follows: president, Henry L- Morency, Sturgis, Mich.; vice-president, Edward Meehan, Philadelphia, , . Pa.; secretary, Austin A. McNichols, Chicago, Ill.; treasurer, Frank Mulligan, New York City; sergeant-at-arms, William T. Allison, Georgetown, Tex.; historian, George Haller,
Sault Ste. Marie, Mich.; chaplain, John Gary, local club, or whose places of residence have
Richmond, Va.
Thefirst preliminaries of the Breen Ora-' torical Contest resulted in-the following four men winning places in the order named:. Bernard Voll,; Francis Palmer, Frank Boland and Oscar Dorwin? The other- entrants in the . . contest won the following places, in the order . named: Speer Strahan, John Lemmer, Edwin
Hunter, Matthew.. Coyle, Thomas Healey .and The'place and program have not as yet been ' Bernard Heffernan;..	.;. • - decideci upon. Save the date. '	'
Personals.
—Walter Clements (A. B., .’14) attorney-at-law, announces the establishment of offices'at 237 South Fifth Street, Louisville, Kentucky.
.—Jose F. Bracho (C. E., ’15) writes Professor McCue that he is now with the Mexican Geographic Commission, and that his. work is similar to that of the- United States Coast and Geodetic Survey.
—James “Tip” Hogan (C. E., ’16) visited friends at the University last week. Jim is now working with the Interstate Commerce Commission valuating the property of the Pennsylvania Lines and is doing well.
—rHarry G. Hogan (LL. B., ’04) and Miss . Virginia Olds were united in marriage in Fort Wayne on November 28th. Mr. Hogan is one of the most popular members of the younger Alumni and has already an enviable reputation as a lawyer.
—Rev. Francis M. (“Happy”) O’Connell (A. B., -’11) was ordained to the holy priesthood by Bishop -Dougherty in Buffalo, December 7th, and will solemnize-his first Mass in the ? Church of the Annunciation, Williamsport, Pa., to-morrow. The Scholastic unites itself with'
a multitude of friends in wishing him every , for manu- . blessing in his priestly work. '	'	.
—The Notre Dame Club of Chicago held the first of a weekly series of luncheons last Wednesday at the Hotel Morrison, Chicago. It is the desire of the club to have every alumnus and former student attend these meetings. Notre ;. Dame men residing outside ' of Chicago are cordially invited to attend. These luncheons will be held every Wednesday at noon in the ' Hotel Morrison and there will always be some of the boys from your alma;mater there to greet you. Be sure and come whenever possible; “
Notre Dame men residing in Chicago and vicinity whose names are not on the'list of~the
been-changed recently, will. kindly send their names and addresses to Fred. L.. Steers, secretary, First National Bank Building,' Chicago,Ul.: Also 'please forward the names of any former students whose names you know , are not in the hands of the secretary. .. .	~ L
The annual banquet of the Notre Danie Club of-Chicago will be held on January.2'7, 1917.



192
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Interhall Athletics.
The Carroll Hall football team went to Cassopolis, Michigan, on Friday, December Sth, to play the high school team of that place. This post-season game brought to a close a most successful season. The Carrollites have played three games and won them all. The scores were: Carroll, 13; Ex-Carrbllites, 12. Carroll, 27; Spiro’s, o. Carroll, 30; G. P’s, o. By virtue of their victory over the G..P’s and Spiros of South Bend, the Carroll haliers claim the Northern Indiana _ Championship in the 135 lb class, as these two teams had defeated all-other teams of that class. " ~ The men who are entitled to wear the Qarroll Hall monogram are: Williams, R. E.; Welch, L. E.; McGrath, R. T.; Bailey, O., Capt.; Soldani, R. G.; Perley, L. H.; Rokosz, C.; Wood, JI. H.; Grace, L. G.; Wolfe, F.; Oelim, L. T; Vaquie, Keenan.	'
Famous Frays
' New York Times, Nov. 1, 1913.—“The Notre Dame eleven .swept the Army off its feet on the plains this afternoon, and buried the soldiers under a’ 35 to 13 score. . . . the Eastern gridiron has not seen such a master - of the forward pass as Charley Dorais, the Notre Dame quarterback. A frail youth of 145 pounds, as agile as a cat and as restless as : a jumping-jack; Dorais shot forward passes with accuracy into the outstretched arms of his ends, . Capt. Rockne and Gushurst, as they - stood poised for.the ball often as far as tljirty-. five yards away. . ... . the little quarterback displayed great judgment at all times, and. was ■ never, at a loss to take the Cadets by surprise.
He got around as if on springs, and was as cool as a cucumber bn ice with the-forward: pass. Half a dozen Army tacklers bearing down on - him in full'charge didn’t disconcert the quarter;
and Surgeons’ team of Chicago.. Weight and ’ experience were .on the visitors’ side. Everyone
..	.	.	. .	.. was a veteran whose worth-may be estimated
. Scholastic, Nov. 15, 1913.—“Dorais,: the/ by the fact that , an; All-Western . man . was great little general was completely outdone last forced to remain bn the side’lines as.a substitute. Monday.' The football team was tendered a. . . . . .Mullen and Farley, our plucky little banquet at St. Mary’s . after which they 'were ends; put up the kind of football that one would taken through ,tlie'building by a prefect. In go miles, to see.,.Downthe'field: they .went * : -spite::; of : DoraisF generalship,?, the yteamy never : -?af ter \the >hea vy ;dbctof s, ? and' brought - them. t to “ .. Sgot nearer than;a?corridorjs length tbu5he:bf- the JA	/ ;
;St7y Mary’s: students., ; .The .Sri	guide .made./W	at".’quarter? was very
Iwas ;some; general; ^Attention,;Walter .Camp.’ ’ ? A J tjnuch.jm. evidence; all jthroughA His^punting^was y -
Chicago Examiner,. 1913., “Capt. Rockne, who led the Notre Dame eleven through such a successful season,' is placed • at right end. (All-Western). This player possesses all the qualifications of an ideal end rush and the ’ clever manner in which he handled forward passes was one of the reasons why" his team negotiated thirteen successful passes. . . Rockne was a sure’ tackler in the open. . . He was an ideal leader and. his words of encouragement to his teammates never failed to bring forth results.”	v
New York Evening Mail. “Mr. Dorais and Mr. Rockne of Notre Dame probably never set foot, on eastern soil, until they began making and catching forward passes all over it a month ago.” -	-
. Scholastic, Dec. 19, 1903.—“Capt. Lou J. Salmon (fullback).. His fame as a line bucker punter, and all-round football player extends from coast to coast, and the past two years he was selected as All-Western fullback.” .
Chicago Record - Herald, 1913. “Salmon placed on the All-American All-Time Team by G. W. Axelson. Salmon earned his place several years ago when he hammered every line in the West for so manjr yards that even statisticians -have been unable to keep track of his gains. That Salmon was able to carry the ball nine -times out of ten'and to make his distance every time stamps him. as the greatest line-plunging fullback in the history of the game and easily makes him the .choice: as the running mate for the’ others.” ,	.	’	‘
Scholastic, Nov. 3, 1900. (After the Indiana-Notre Dame game.)—“Farley’s playing created a sensation on the side-lines, and Captain John is .now tiie football idol of two universities.”
Scholastic,'Dec. .2, 1899; “The’99 varsity made a grand finish to their season last Thursday when they lined up . against the heavy Physi cians .
A-- -- c	- -.w - -
AW -

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
I '	-	-	'	_	'	•
I -	*	'	.	.
remarkable, one kick measuring 82 yards, . and another 68 yards. ”	•
•	* Scholastic, Oct. 15, 1S98.—“John Eggeman
. ' was a whole game in himself. When we had the ball, he made way for our backs to crawl ahead a few yards; when Illinois had the ball they could rush it until the}’- struck him, and then their, gain stopped. Coach Smith calls him .the greatest centre rush he ever saw.”
_ ‘Scholastic, Nov. 16, 1889.—“On Thursday last the Notre Dame eleven defeated the Northwestern University of Eyanston, Illinois, by the score of 9 to o. It was the first game the boys ever played outside of their own grounds.
...........In the second half, Notre Dame had the kickoff, and Cartier having dribbled the ball the rushline closed in around him and as a “human wedge” .gained nearly 25 yards. Then the playing became harder than ever. They crossed and recrossed the field, and it seemed -that neither side could gain any advantage, and the half was nearly closed when Ed Coady and S. Fleming played the • neatest and most successful trick of the game.
Ed got the ball and hid it, and Steve, pretending . to have it, set off across the grounds. Three or four- of the Northwesterns followed him, and -	Ed had a comparatively clear road. He rushed
through and made the only touchdown of the .	game.”
’ Scholastic, Nov. 26, 1904.—“Turdue wins .•	championship.—After seventy minutes of des-
perate fighting, the like of which Stuart Field has never' seen before, Notre Dame was- compelled to relinquish her claim on the title as State Champions. Captain Shaughnessy played his last game of college football and was the hero of. the day. Bruised and battered until he-could barely talk, he “fought, bucked, and squirmed past_the Purdue men for gains, time
. and again. On defensive'work little Nate Silver ( . saved a number of scores by diving into, the
Purdue interference and downing his man when . the-feat looked impossible. Our backs, Guthrie, - Fansler, and Church,’ and later Waldorf and
Bracken, tore great holes in the line. Fansler ; in "particular butting the line, hard and well.
McNerney also played a :great game even after = . he was badly injured.” .	.
•	Scholastic, Nov. 2 o, 1909.—‘ ‘ Harry Miller— ;
‘ After, all the papers. in the West have lauded the Y 'work of.-Our/Red to the skies we can hardly . . add to his fame. He is a.great player of course.
193 -'Xi
The greatest halfback- in the West without a doubt and so the great Walter Camp pronounced him. Even the celebrated Yost, while, he watched his own team go down to defeat, said: “It was certainly,a treat and took some of the sting of defeat away to watch that Red-headed Irishman shake ’em off. His brilliant work in the backfield earned him the place on_the AllIndiana eleven for which he was unanimously , chosen.” •	..
“When Coach Longman was looking about for a man to back up the line, he wanted a. man who could tackle hard, and such a man who knew the game’ thoroughly, and Rosie (Sam Dolan). was the man for the job. It was Rosie who stood behind our line and stopped the terrific plunges of the heavier Pittsburg ’ backs. It was Rosie who shifted from side to side at Michigan, encouraging his teammates and plunging fearlessly into the difficult forma-	~	b	f
tions of Yost’s men, and it was Rosie again who was picked unanimously for the' All-State team.”	.	.
“Coach Harper of Wabash picked seven Notre Dame players on his All-State eleven. Theyv are Miller, Dolan, Dimmick, Collins,. Edwards, Philbrdok, and Lynch.”
Chicago Record Herald, 1913. “One man at least knows how Rube Marquard feels when Baker comes to bat; he is the lone tackler who. . stands between Eichenlaub of Notre Dame and a touchdown.” .
Ring W. Lardner, Chicago Tribune, 1913.
And Notre Dame you thoroughly convinced me.you were there,
You whipped each tough opponent with, a bunch of - points to spare.	.
And if ’twere up to me to pick the country’s all-star team,.	-	■
I’d have old Gold and Blue for my prevailing colorscheme. .
H.-Lacey, .’16, “Looking Backward.” “Have you a ‘Back’ to lead your push?’
His croaking voice began,
‘Or a midget Dory, to cop off glory	'
From fields with foeman’s blood made gory.	-
. Or a single Finnegan?	.	.
Have you a Pliska or a Jones,	i	.
A Feeney*or Lathrop,	*	-
An Fichenlaub to start the throb •	•
Of joy a-spurting through the mob _
When Hie other plungers flop?	;	:
A-Gushurst holding down the wing, ,	-
A Fjtz stuck in between,...	'
A good old Keefe, and, to be. brief, -	. .	.
Great subs?—No chaff in the wheated sheaf .	.
Of these 'Champs’—Nineteen thirteen!” /
194
THE NOTRE DAME- SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame 20; Nebraska 0.
Revenge was sweet! On Turkey-day the final ‘curtain went down on the meditated tragedy, “The 1916 Football Season;” and ' Notre Dame occupied the center of the stage. As a fitting finale, she walloped Nebraska by the score of 20 to o, getting more than even for that last year’s 20 to 19 defeat. Through injuries and so Jorth, Cofall and Bachman were forced to retire early in the game, else the Notre Dame score would have been much larger. Every man on the team gave all he had, and everje man deserves a lot of credit for the victor)- but Bergman was the individual star. His speedjr end runs, his agility in grabbing forward passes out of the air, his lightning open field running; in all of these he was at his best. An account from the Lincoln Journal follows:
Nebraska’s football hopes went down with the declining sun Thursday afternoon. The eight thousand - people who filed out of Nebraska field in the dusk had witnessed the defeat of the Cornhuskers by Notre Dame 20 to o.
•Notre Dame had the better team, but the cause of the victory was speed, speed, speed in the backfield. Every man on the Nebraska squad can describe in detail "the contour and color of Halfback Bergman’s heels.	.
Nebraska showed a few flashes of offensive strength during the game, but Notre Dame’s goal never was seriously threatened. The Cornhusker’s great claim
to glory was on the defensive side. The monolithic . line from Indiana was played to a standstill by the . lighter Nebraskans. _ Rhodes, Corey, Cameron and Riddell continually broke through to spill those Hoosier speeders for losses.
- . On the offensive, it was the old off. tackle that netted gains for the Cornhuskers. The forward passes which gained so nicely against Iowa were not tried.
' Then Nebraska resorted to those which had been tried in previous games and though, ten were tried, not one ' gained a yard. ’	“ .	. .
. _ .	/ Spoiled Forward Passes
: Before the game Coach Harper of the visitors .. had,said, ‘Tm,spraying that Nebraska will try those forward passes.” : ,	-
- His prayers were as effective as his formations. Nebraska tried the ‘ flips which. Harper’s, men had learned to break up and they* failed._ Only one had a
chance for completion and it was out of'bounds.
- involuntary, cheers 6?: groans called forth by some' play
The first two, periods provided the best part bfThe . on the field. - - .	. 5 1 .' ■ _	,
’..The first.half ended with the score 6 to o in favor of
’. game?. Notre .Dame started a- parade down the field ' just-as the men’ did last year arid a. touchdown was1
'? achieved almost-as quickly, as in the 1'915 game. - Then : .^Nebraska 'spruced 'iip and for the remaining moments . of tiie'flrit. half , made it'fifty-fifty.' ;	L ?	-
{ )_The ' second was .-not so, thrilling? -Nebraska settled ydownyto? fighting , doggedly; .the visitors: pre-
" tyeiitirig <their?carrying>; the- bait -to tyny: extent. - The.
third, period was largely a puntirig exhibition with Dobson of Nebraska holding his own with DeGree, the giant expert from Hoosierland. Captain Cofall had retired from the game and much of. the fire in Notre Dame’s attack seemed to depart with him. There was a touchdown in this, period, the result oPa fumble back of Nebraska’s twenty-yard line. Neither -team would have been entitled to a score in that period on football.
Miller Gets Revenge.
The last quarter found Notre Dame renewing the battle. The triumph of Jesse Harper, Johnny Miller
and the others and their revenge for 1915 was' completed when Bergman forward pass from Miller and raced to his second touchdown.
the beating of pulled down a fifty-five yards
That forward pass was a work of art. Bergman grabbed it on the run and the diminutive speedster had no trouble in eluding Cornhusker tacklers as he sped diagonally across the field. „
Notre Dame clearly outplayed Nebraska in most of. the game. Still it is doubtful that the team would have won without Bergman. No other player on the squad made, large gains or consistent gains. Nebraska’s line withstood the heaviest charges of the enemy. Indeed it once flung’back the heavy invaders on the ten-yard line. With the ball in Nebraska territory, Notre Dame could not get tllrough the line. It was Bergman and Bergman alone who had the speed and skill to skirt the ends for .long gains. Once past the outposts he was off" for a touchdown or at least a long -
. gain. Twice he flashed by Caley who was playing safety. The third time the doughty little general of the Huskers was prepared. Bergman was glad to retire in favor of a substitute when he. picked himself up from the sidelines. .However, he had done his duty. He retired too late to help the Cornhuskers. '
Nebraska was whipped but not dishonored. There is no discounting the fact that Notre Dame presented the. superior team; That superiority was in the backfield alone. Nebraska’s line will rank with the best ever turned out by the Cornhuskers. Lack of exceptional speed among the backs and unusual speed in
the Notre difference.
Dame backfield was what made the
The Biggest Crowd.--
. The game'attracted the largest crowd ever assembled r on-Nebraska field. Recollections of the battle of 1-915 had-pulled them otit td the field to see a possible . repetition of Nebraska’s triumph. Every, seat was taken, and at' either end ..where’ no bleachers were provided there weretyooters standing “four and five deep. • "	.	.	■
The cadet band, played just as cheerfully as ever, . but -the rooters._were-practically silent except for. the
the visitors. TThe Nebraskans had shown so much -' power in their attacks bn. the line that there were hopes of. an eventual triumph for Nebraska, when,the two ' squads , lined, up for the- second half. , This period started auspiciously-and then came a tragic fumble near 'the twenty-yard 'line and the'.subsequent Notre Dame score:*From then: on the case for. Nebraska was'

■ THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
hopeless. The visitors didn’t try their offensive to any extent, preferring to keep the ball in. Nebraska territory with DeGree’s long punts. In that last quarter the visitors again secured the ball near the middle of the field and launched the attack which wound up with the long forward pass and the final touchdown.
In- addition to the touchdown, Notre Dame made-three attempts at field goals, all of them failing by wide margins. Miller tried a place kick from the fifteen-yard line and saw it blocked. Cofall tried a drop-kick from near midfield and it went wide. Miller toward the end of the game tried another place kick - and it too, went wide.
Bergman is Dangerous
Bergman was the- great. ground-gainer for the visitors. Around the ends or at the end of a forward pass he was good for most of -the big gains.. Like many another speed man, he showed a tendency to . % run toward his own goal and it was that tendency which brought him grief once or twice. Riddell, Rhodes and Shaw each took great pleasure in ddw'riing ' him for a loss of from eight to twenty yards.
Miller and Slackford did most of the gaining through the line on split bucks. '	'
' Caley, the little field general of the Nebraskans, ran off most of the Nebraska’s gains. With Johnny Cook running interference and Corey and Kositzky
’ making a path for him, Caley usually was good for yardage.	.
Otoupalik on the few occasions he was given the ball made good and his running mate, Dobson, also smashed his way through for neat gains.	, -
Bergman’s first run for a touchdown was a pretty effort. Notre Dame had taken the kickoff to the west and DeGree punted after the first down. Dobson returned the kick to > midfield, the visitors making a nice, gain on the exchange. From midfield then, Notre Dame reached down the field, a sixteen yard pass, Cofall to Bergman helping. A fifteen-yard penalty for interference with a pass put the ball on Nebraska’s ten-yard line and a Notre Dame score seemed certain-. However the visitors were repulsed in three attempts and Miller tried a place kick from . ' the' fifteen yard line. Cameron broke through and spoiled it.
Punts out of Bounds
, Dobson’s punt went out of bounds on the forty-four-yard line: Cofall gained but two yards through - the left side, then Bergman took the oval and started around Nebraska’s left end. -.Four men formed the Notre Dame interference and they cleaned up on .the buskers. Once clear of the first line, “Bergie” doubled back inside the secondary defense and then hiked diagonally .for the goal line. He wasn’t touched until he had slowed up on the other side of the chalk line.
The next score came in the third quarter. Neither . side could puncture the line and both sides were . kicking. DbGree.’s last punt had landed on Nebraska’s twenty-two yard line. Cook and Caley dropped back to their favorite formation. The ball was passed, evidently to one of the fullbacks immediately' behind, the line. .There was a brief struggle. Then Left-End Baujan emerged from the pileup and streaked‘for the line, twenty-two yards away. ..	'
- . ‘The last score was in .the third quarter. TNeither
side was gaining consistently and the punting duel was , A . - -still on. Notre Dame finally secured the ball near the _■ A-A middle of the field, but a fifteen yard penalty set the '	. b
squad back on its own forty-yard line. Two plunges ; netted five yards. Then came the long pass, Miller- . . A-A to Bergman, and the fleet little halfback made his : ”‘‘A fifty-five yards to a touchdown without trouble. ;
Miller, the man who failed to kick goal last year . vA? • ' and thereby lost the game, was revenged when his	,
pass succeeded and the score had been run up to 19.	.
It stayed there last year, if you remember.. The same	‘A	-
Miller arranged the ball for the goal kick. This time .	a
he made it and ran the score up to 20, the same number . of points acquired by Nebraska last year.	. A'
Revenge was his.	. '	~
, Better Team Wins	: - ■
To one who witnessed the game there was no ” question that the better team.won. It was the better' 1 team because it had some elements which Nebraska > > lacked. .	. ".	'
Statistics compiled at the end of the game showed . f . that Nebraska had nlade but eighty-nine yards in r .\-scrimmage, while Notre Dame had run off three hundred . and twenty-four.	.	-	. .	”	'
Not one of Nebraska’s ten forward passes con- ' . -nected. Five of eight attempts by Notre Dame were . . successful and the total gain was one hundred and one . -	;
yards—an average of twenty yards' to the pass. The penalties were even, each side being set back fifty . yards. Notre Dame made eleven first downs..' Ne- A . braska made four excluding one completed with the . aid of a penalty.	• ■	•	_
The Notre Dame squad was banqueted by the. . A Catholic Students’ Club after the game. The men ‘	,
will have another banquet in Chicago on the way home.	-	:
The Cornhuskers will select-their captain next week ; after the .athletic board has awarded them their ~ * A. letters.	- ,	-	-
*	The Game in Detail	.	;
Captain Cofall won the toss for Notre Dame and ‘ . chose to defend the west goal. Captain Corey kicked -s - . to Miller, who returned the ball 12 yards to Notre	A-_
Dame’s 27-yard line. Miller went around right end -	-.AA
for a yard. DeGree punted 56 yards. - An exchange of A.~- } punts netted the visitors a gain of 11 yards. Three- , -7 line plunges were good for a total of 10 yards but-'in	.
the meantime the visitors had suffered a 5-yard penalty. -	\ < fA forward pass, Cofall to Bergman, was good for 16	; A ;A.
yards, and the ball was advanced, another 15 yards on a N'i Nebraska penalty for holding. .Miller .twice failed	- -	\
to gain, but another forward pass, Bergman to Miller, ‘	-^A;A?
was good for 4 yards. Miller’s attempt to place* kick A J A was blocked by Cameron, giving Nebraska the ball / .A
.on its 14-yard line. Dobson punted out of danger, - A- A. the ball going out of bounds after a flight of 45.yards;. AA1 Cofall’s 2-yard smash through the line was followed by a brilliant run by Bergman for 42 yards and ; a A A ' touchdown. Cofall kicked out to Mfller,-who failed to hold the ball. Score: Notre Dame 6. Nebraska o.
Corey’s kickoff which went to the enemy’s n-yard z‘ line was returned 35 yards by Bergman. ■ MillerfsA AA -‘AAA 4-yafd gain was more than offset by a‘5-yard penaltyAvAAA AAAW ‘An exchange of punts between! DeGree and.pobsonty. A Aj - netted the Huskers a gain oF 23 yards. Phelan negoA v-tyTAjAA--tiated a gain 'of yards. DeGree’s 40-yard punt was
196	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
disallowed when Bachman slugged Cameron and set his team back half the distance to the goal. Cofall hit.the line for 3 yards and DeGree punted out of bounds'to Nebraska’s. 33-yard line. Caley, Otoupalik and Dobson advanced the ball a total of 13 yards on line plunges. Cook, Caley, Dobson and Otoupalik carried the sphere another 23 yards in another series of pretty smashes. The quarter ended with the ball in Nebraska’s possession on^ the-enemy’s 15-yard line.
The second - quarter opened with the Nebraska rooters feeling sure that their favorites would score. Their hopes were short lived.. A double pass, Cook to Caley, was fumbled and Caley was down on the 20. yard line. The ball then went to Notre Dame on downs.
Miller and Cofall made 10 yards on two plunges, but Shaw spilled Miller for a 6-yard loss. Following two unsuccessful’ attempts to penetrate Nebraska’s stone wall, Notre Dame punted to Calejr on Nebraska’s 32-yard line. Caley and Otoupalik were good for 7 ' yards, and then Dobson punted to Bergman, who was downed on the, visitor’s 22-yard line. After Miller .. had .made 3 yards through the right side, Bergman circled fight end for 28 yards. Nebraska had cause for more grief when the Huskers were given a 10-yard ' penalty. Miller and Phelan had little success in getting through the line, but Bergman was good for 5 yards. ' A series of short gains’ was followed by a 12-yard forward pass, Cofall to Bergman. Two line smashes netted only 2 yards, and Bergman was hurled back for no gain. Unable to penetrate the Nebraska line, the visitors attempted another place kick, but the aim was bad.	.	’
From the twenty-yard line Dobson punted fiftyeight yards. Miller failed to gain, but Cofall crashed through for four yards. Bergman was thrown by Riddell for a twenty yard loss. DeGree punted to ■ Nebraska’s forty-yard line, and Caley returned the ball eighteen yards. Two forward passes by Dobson were incomplete, and so he punted to Notre Dame’s six-yard line. DeGree came back with a punt to Nebraska’s. forty-nine-yard line. Miller intercepted a forward-pass from Dobson.’ Slackford made four yards ..on two plunges. A. forward pass, Phelan’to Miller, was good for fourteen yards. ■ The half ended with the ball in Notre Dame’s possession on Nebraska’s forty* four ryard line.	*	.	-
- .	.	.. The Second Half. ,	.
' . At the opening of the second half Otoupalik returned . Miller’s kickoff twenty-five yards. Cook and, Caley gained a total of five yards? Dobson punted to’Phelan. Corey spilled Bergman for a% five yard loss. Two more attempts" netted two yards for Notre Dame: DeGree.
-> punted, and/the ball rolled to .Nebraska’s twenty-two-
yard -'.line;.(.Nebraska -was/penalized five-, yards for .. Wilder.
off-side. ; Baujan recovered, a fumble . on - Nebraska’s
" seventeen-yard line and raced ' over, the J line f dr. a touchdown. -Millerkicked goal: Score: .Notre -Dame/ 13; Nebraska, o. - ; .	./	.. . ..	//' ' , :	_________
/^There/was no more scoring in . that quarter. ’ For; the ~ Otoupalik. E/.res^bfithe;^ it; was a/repetitibh "of.'the first two -> Dobson/./" < /quarters/.both; sides being-forced tp.punt. when /they //were/nmable-to/find holes - in; their ^opponents’ /.lines.
,/?FqUpwing/a series;^
:tp,/Cqpk;/Caley/and/Dobsoir ..m
line-smashesfor./fi/yards.Dobsonpunted'.-NotreDame
rrr.\V~	__‘ V~ .	' :A
made small gains and then returned the punt. Another series of Nebraska emashes, and another punt. The quarter finally ended with' the ball in Notre' Dame’s possession on its 20-yard line.	.
Following DeGree’s punt to the Nebraska 46-yard " line at the opening of the final quarter, Dobson went through the line for 4 yards on a fake punt formation. A forward pass was incomplete, but Caley went through for 2 yards. Dobson punted, Notre Dame was unable to gain, and Phelan punted. Two forward passes by Corey were incomplete. Again 'the old story, Dobson punted. DeGree did the same after his teammates had failed to get through the^line, and Dobson again punted after he had missed a bad pass ' from centre and had been downed On the 14-yard line.
The final score came at this point. Phelan was downed on Nebraska’s 42-yard line after receiving . Dobson’s punt. Notre Dame was penalized 15 yards for holding. Slackford made 4 yards through the line. Miller added a yard. A forward pass, Miller to Berg-■ man,- was good for 55 yards and a .touchdown. Miller kicked goal. Score, Notre Dame, 20: Nebraska, o. '
The. Nebraskans, hopelessly beaten, Then' settled down doggedly to prevent more scoring. Corey kicked off to the enemy’s 5 -yard line. The kick was disallowed because Nebraska had been offside, and Corey tried it again. - This, time the ball went to the 20-yard line and from there Slackford returned it thirteen yards. Miller added eleven yards through the left side. Three small gains, and a forward pass from Phelan was broken up by Riddell. .
Nebraska took the ball on-downs on Notre,Dame’s 48-yard line. A forward pass from Corey was incom- -plete. Another from the same source was intercepted by the visitors on their. 34-yard line. Plunges by ’ Phelan and Slackford netted eleven yards. On a double pass, Bergman went around left end for thirty-two yards. Miller added four yards. Phelan attempted to place kick from .the 34-yard line but the ball went wide of the -mark. Nebraska was given the sphere .. on its 2-yard line. - Dobson punted to Phelan orf Notre Dame’s .45-yard'line. Phelan returned four yards. Phelan punted to Nebraska’s 35-yard line., Caley failed to gain. . Dobson punted to Miller, who was . downed on Notre Dame’s 40-yard line. The ball had -scarcely touched the ground when the thistle blew for the end of the game and the season. "
The line up: -j.
Nebraska, o;
Corey....'_______'..
Kositzski..;././../.
- Rhodes____ Cameron_____.______
Shaw.-..
Biddell
- Caley./ Cook....
- . . Notre Dame, 20	.
—L E.---------------:.Baujan
.......... ...Coughlin
—L ,G„..—•....-.....’....Bachman
......C..^_-...............Rydzewski
...R G./.........__.____DeGree.
...iR T./......„../.^
--R .E.—-Whipple
___..Cofall
_eR H.....//./C„^	-
/... Q.i.'„./.._^-^_L....„..,...;Phelan .
^/F. .../„./. 1/LL.../......Miller .
/ Score by-periods':/ / . : /	/
. Nebr^kai/i/s^	2./in/..//,b ? o0 o—. o
Noire; Dame/rS;^	o ■; - 7 , 7^-26.
. Eeferee-/Quigley,-St/Mary’s.Umpire—Birch, Earl/ ;ham.//Fieid^	/ex-Michigan:: Head lines/
&



3

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
inan—Masker, ex-Northwestern. Time of periods—. 15 minutes each. Notre Dame scoring: Touchdowns— Bergman (2), Baujan. Goals from touchdown—Miller
Substitutions—Nebraska: Selzer for Otoupalik.
Notre Dame: Ward for Bachman; Andrews for
Coughlin;
Mclnemy
Miller for
Slackford for* Cofall; Malone for Bergman; for Philbin; Meagher for Whipple'; W. J. Miller.	-	■
Figures on the Game
Yards from scrimmage,
Nebraska___
Notre Dame.
Quarters
1	2
5i 7 .86 .86
3	4
25	6
i5'i37
T’tl-
S9
First downs (including touchdowns):
Nebraska_____________
Notre Dame...............
Passes completed: Nebraska______;....... Notre Dame.A..........
Passes failed: '
Nebraska..............
Notre Dame............
Penalties:
Nebraska______i_______
Notre Dame____________
- Forward pass gains: Nebraska.............. Notre Dame.....
3
o
o o
15
30
o
Book Review.
. 197
of Joseph T. Lantry, football, 1906-1907, now a promi- ' nent contractor at Tulsa, Oklahoma.	•
The second section of the volume contains the. monogram membership of each year’s team: in foot- ■ ball since 18S7, in track since 1890, in baseball "since . 1892, and in basketball since 1898. In each case there -is given.also the name of the state and city from which-: the individual player came at the time he became a member of the team. Following this Section is a list of the scores made in all games played by the teams given in the monogram list. This list, by the way, contains the names of many of the old-time players . who were official!}' recognized as monogram men by ~ action of xhe faculty board of control at a meeting
~ held last May.

o
4
o
o
4
11
o
o
o
o o
o
io o
o o
o i
o
5
5
3
o
15
o
55
The Notre Dame Athletic Guide.
io
3 .
50
50
o roi
The
University' Press, Notre Dame, Indiana. - Price, , 50 cents.
In February, 1902, there was published at the University a volume called the "Notre Dame Athletic Almanac,” a book which contained the names of those who had the best records annually in the various
In the section of the book given over to - track ’ affairs the'exact number of points made by each con- , testant is given, regardless of the fact of his earning a. ' monogram or. not. Under the heading "Best Track .' ’ Records” are included Varsity Indoor Records,. Varsity Outdoor Records, Notre ADame Gymnasium . Records, Cartier ■ Field Records, Interhall IndoorRecords, - Interhall Outdoor ' Records, Preparatory , School Indoor Records, and Preparatory .Out- ty door Records,—in each case the latest relay performance being the only one listed. '	- .
There is a section of the book devoted to the names of the captains of the teams, another section . ’ to the managers, and another to the coaches. There are about sixty names given in a list of : those who, after being students, at Notre Dame, Have- ' < become members of prominent professional baseball’ A, clubs, twenty-three - names being . taken from the A . National League. In like manner there is given a list . of those who have obtained recognition as athletic5 - A.. instructors, the number of names being again about -sixty. .	’	.	-
There is also a section devoted to the rules governing; -athletics at Notre Dame, and finally an account of the ■ organization and a transcript of the constitution of the.
track events during a period-of twenty years; the book contained also the names of those who had made the Varsity teams and likewise the scores made in games with teams from outside. ~	‘	-
Six years later there was published-yanother sum-
Notre Dame Monogram Club
Safety Valve.

Davenport, Ia., Nov. 29, 1916.
marized account of the activities of the University Dear Editor oe Safety Valve:—	.	• A
teams, a book in which special attention was given to I saw from the columns-of the • Scholastic that I
the classification of the scores of'all games between ' Notre Dame and other colleges. There was no attempt made to give the names of the players who represented Notre Dame.	,	.
Now, for the first time, we have at the University a published volume which gives us not only the scores and names of monogram players in all, our intercol-
again have been made a target of your mirth-pro-; voking pen. Your witty_ ditty is captioned "Erich A ' Hans Come .Back.”. The body is willing but the spirit, is weak. So I’ll migrate back in spirit., I would, like to advise the building commission of the library J as follows: I would willingly purchase a flag pole for,” the Asylum, of Books, but. as the war has caused prices on everything to aviate, I will fiave to desist; Ai'
5.
legiate games but. also the addresses of the' players
in a section of the *book called the Directory. As a - and anyway flag poles come pretty high.. They should
source of .material for a complete history of the' intercollegiate activities 'of Notre Dame athletic teams, "The Notre Dame Athletic Guide” is highly valuable.
have put’up the flag pole , first, and . then put .up ^the building, under it. If I remember rightly there are
oh the Campus two flag staffs that' have "lightpccu
-The section called the .Directory gives the addresses ' patidns.” One is on. the boat house (home: „of . the-and-years of- monogram- membership on teams for the University Canoers) and , the other. one is on. Cartier, entire, range of-intercollegiate competition at Notre Field.- The one-on'Eichenlaub Field-would.-make, a: Dame’ dating back to the fall of 1S87. To this list, . sky-piercing spectacle, perched upon.theAnew structure.
■ by way .of' correction, should ’ be added .the name ■ .The Oracle at Delphi just hieroglyphed■ torme’that


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
the best thing to do in your dilemma would be to send out “Doc” Cook, he undoubtedly would discover a Pole for you.
I have had blue prints made of all these suggestions, and will gladly furnish details as to the realization of your Polar wants. Please do not consider this letter a “crepe hanger,” but merely a chat for old time’s sake. A Big U. N. D. for all the boys,
“Shorty.”
Very sincerely yours
“1915 Goat of the Column”
Originally burdened with the appellation^ Erich Hans de Fries.
P. S. I dare you to print this letter.*
I
THE TEAM.
Adam Brungardt_______________
Michael Murphy_______________
James Malone........;........
Bernard Heffernan_____________
Alonzo Finnup________________
Shorty Quinlan_______________
Rubio___________________-t.__
LeRoy Schinkoeth.............
Mr. Murphy...................
Mike__________,______.'._____
“Murph ”.........   -._______
__Centre __Right Guard __...Left Guard __Right Tackle __Left Tackle __....Right End __Left End __Quarterback Right Halfback ...Left Halfback __Fullback
We have placed Adam Brungardt at Centre, on account of his ability to make himself misunderstood, thus confusing the other players. Adam is the first man—on the Brownson team and Eve finds him as fresh as he was in the early Morning. On account of his not being a regular sophomore—according to his own statement he is taking the course .of gasoline this year—he is not playing on the Varsity. Adam can keep silence in seven languages or can gurgle forth
in all seven at the same time, reminding one of busy “busy” signal on the telephone. It is for great proficiency at eating fish and absorbing tails that he is best known among us. In using first name care should be taken not to separate first letter from the last three, however strong
‘ temptation may be.
the his the his the the
.Michael Murphy goes to Right Guard on account of his travelogue ability: Murphy can go right through an oration on himself in the largest audience without giving any one a chance to get a word in. There is no department of football, baseball, higher mathematics, Hebrew or long division in which Murphy has not excelled, and we are not guessing at this either. We know it for a fact, because he told us so himself. His line would ta"ke his opponents completely . off* their feet, onto? his feet or head but they couldn’t stand his modest way of belittling himself and must succumb.	.
; James Malone goes to Left .Guard for his ability to . talk like . five-in-a-bdd,- to people who have not : asked him to join their company. He payed a license

never knew, dr could learn a signal in-his life but other- -wise he is a wonderful football, player and easily
.	..	.	.	.	deserves" a place at Right End;	'	“	-
.	-of	ten. dollars some two years ago for the privilege	- If there are any .places that are not yet filled, they
of	being a public nuisance andheismaking the. best	- wm be^ cared for by. the. same aforementioned Mike
of	the privilege. If there is anything , you don-t want	Murphy of Sorin .who.has played and says he can play
..	$0	know or haven t time to hear Malone will insist	z any position. At a signal from, the Quarter,-Mike will
drop out of the-line and do.the work for the backfield. He will shine too as a’Kicker. - ■
oh orating it to .you in his own mixed up way, andAf .
* Noth ng too tough for us.
you break a book over Jiis head in self defense he’s a friend of yours for life, and will visit you daily.
’ He has nothing but a howling wilderness above his neck but then his neck" is so long that he doesn’t care. He rushes in with hob-nailed boots where angels fear to tread and exits just as quickly on another portion of his anatomy.
Bernard Heffernan goes to Right Tackle and deserves special mention^as this is his second year on the team. He was formerly cheer leader in an old ladies’ home and was so popular that he was made athletic director in a hospital for incurable cripples. From thence he rapidly rose to teacher of vocal expression in a deaf and dumb asylum. He can use the deaf and dumb-bells and the injun clubs with grace and ease. He is a tall, dark complexioned, lean, long, lanky, cadaverous, son-of-a-sap-sucker who joined the Republican party when its leaders began to give out campaign- cigars. He is to carry concealed in his football suit a copy of the song that Kanaley and Cartier can sing. This he will wave defiantly in the face of opponents until they sink unconscious. He ‘come’ from Washington, Ind. .	_
Alonzo Finnup fits in at Left Tackle because he is an old fish with only one fin and that always turned up. He would have been an orator or a policeman in ancient days had he never come to like hamburger sandwiches. As it is he has the hamburger spirit which will not down—any more than the hamburgers. He dearly loves' onions and can be recognized at 300 paces. We dare you to tackle him.
Shorty Quinlan who will play Right End needs no introduction. All he needs is a hair-cut and a cap that will sit straight oh his head. He acted for some years as head rooter at a correspondence school and was a complete success. He is to wear a white duck suit and carry a basket so that he'will be recognized by the fans in the stands: When making end runs he will be allowed to put-the ball in the basket and carry a hand mirror in his left hand so that he may see himself as others see him. .
Rudolph who easily made last year’s team was disqualified this year on account of his class standing. He flunked in Arithmetic and Elocution. His place therefore goes to Rubio who is a veritable whirlwind '
at running back punts, and at eating beefsteak at the training table? He has a wonderful head for running a team and could run it into the' ground when the captain happened to be absent. Opposing players would mistake him for the.tackling dummy and would pass by him without stopping his progress. He likes graham'bread and prunes and has a regular mania for having the dentist drill holes in his teeth. 1
LeRoy Schinkoeth has never, seen a football, cannot ' take two steps without tripping on. his own feet,


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
199 .
jSNISSVd
200
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
. Old Students* Hall—Subscriptions to December 9,1916
The following subscriptions for Old Students’ Hall were received by Warren A. Cartier, Ludington, Michigan, treasurer of the building committee:	'	.
$2000.00 -. Samuel T. Murdock, ’86 .
, -	$1000.00
Thomas B. Fitzpatrick P. T. O’Sullivan, ’68 ■Rev. E.'J. McLaughlin, '75 ' M. F. Healy, ’82
John C. Shea, *98 Clement C. Mitchell, ’02-Byron V. Kanaley; '04	'
Daniel P. Murphy, '95 John P. Lauth, '6S
$500.00 '
. Robert Sweeny, ’03
’ C. A. Paquette, ’90 - Rev. John Dinnen, ’65 Warren A. Cartier, '87 Stephen B. Fleming, ’90 , Thomas Hoban, ’99	'
Angus D. McDonald, 'co William A. Mclnerny, ’01
* Joseph M. Byrne, ’14
' Cassius McDonald, '04	.
William P. Breen, ’77 Student from Far West Rev. I. E. McNamee, ’09 C. C. Craig, '85 Frank E. Hering, '98	~ .
Peter P. McEHigott, '02 James J. Conway, '85 George Cooke, ’90 $250.00' John H. Neeson, '03 •	-
Joseph B. Naughton,.’97 Peter Kuntz	.
John H. Fendrich, ’84 -. John Eggeman.’'00	.	’
A. A. McDonell, ’00	.
Eugene A. Delaney, ’99	.
R. A. O’Hara, ’89	■
.	$200.00	\
W. G. Uffendell , John O'Shea.-'11	. - •	•
-James F. Kennedy, '94	’
’ Louis C. M. Reed, -98 '	■ . -
Francis O'Shaughnessy, ’00 Joseph J. Sullivan,’02 ? G. A.Farabaugh,'04;.	"
Robert’Anderson, '83;, - '	..
' Joseph'Lantry. ’o? ' Rev. F. J. Van Antwerp, '14 _ _ John’Dowd, ’99	’
-Rt. Rev. Thos. F. Hickey, ’63 Christopher C. Fitzgerald,*94 ‘ "F. A.'Kaul,’97 - - .
' • William Hoynes, ’77	...	~.
Edwin J. Lynch.- ’16 .	- , : :
T. D. Mott. ’95	,>• J .
: : F. Henry. Wurzer, '98.. -. - A Paul R. Martin. ’iy ■	-7.	~ -	•>.	- r- 4	.	-•
Timothy V. Ansberry, ’93 . John M. Quinlan, ’04 .//A
Darnel Madden,- '06 .7:-^
-•Fred J/Ka^er,'-’^'.;.;^-?'-
j.' S.'Corby, ’98 ,' ; ’
AThoxnas Steinerr’99 -
? Rev? Michael Shea/’o^A/ 'Ambrose O’Connell? ’07/k. /William Byrne, j’95'_ = >75/?; jam^L/Tong,' '94; A •W;’A. Draper?’06.:/: ‘ '
$120.00 A
$100.00 M--P?Bums" ' •
157;.Revf MidmriRya^
William P. Higgins, ’03 James Frederick Coll, ’89 George J: Hanhauser, ’01 -James P. Fogarty, ’00	'
Rev. John B. McGrath. .’So John F. Fennessey, ’99 Cyril J. Curran, ’12 Ernest E. L. Hammer, '04
' Alfred J. Pendleton, ’97 Edwin Wile, ’74	'
Francis C. Schwab, ’02 Rupert F. Mills, ’14 William H. McCarty, '99 Edward J? Gljmn, ’ti Frank P. Crowley. ’09 Thomas B. Curry, ’14
' James A. Curry, ’14 Harry V. Crumley, '03 Harry S. Cahill	.
Walter V. Heekin . William McKenzie Rev. Bernard P. Mun ay.
- Mark M. Foote, ’73 Patrick J. Houlihan, '92	.
. E. J. Maurus, ’93 Thomas J. Swantz. ’04 H. G, Hogan,-'04	.
Harold P. Fisher, ’06	'
John B. Kanaley, ’09 James F. Hines, ’09	.
John B. McMahon, ’09 Rev. John M. Byrne, ’00 .
- J. H. Gormley, ’03^
. Thomas O’Neill, ’13 Robert E. Proctor, '04	.
v John F. O'Connell, ’13
. Frank- C. Walker, ’09	;
- Rev. Gilbert-Jennings, ’08
. - George O’Brien, .'90
:. Vitus Jones, ’02 ,
; W. A.'Duffy,-’o8	.
' • Rev. J. H. Guendling, ’14 -Fred C. McQueen, '00 Charles J. Stubbs, ’88 -	'
■ Rupert2 Donavan, ’08
' ' Rev.;Francis H. Gavisk, ’14 Rt. R<^v. Frank O'Brien, ’95z
i Frank L.’ McOsker, ’72	-
- ' Charles E. Ruffing, '85 - - -- James F. Foley, ’13 . .
Rt. .Rev. T. C. O’Reilly, '09 ’ Thomas J. Welch, ’05 - . - .
. .William E. Cotter, ’13.	_
(John C. Tully/’ii' -. < ■ / John F. O'Connor, ’72.
• < T. P. O'Sullivan, ’02 <	-
■ /.G. MA Kerndt, '82	- . ;	'
Dr. Frank J. Powers, '94
• Rev. John Talbot Smith, '07^ . Daniel C. Dillon i -
Thomas C. Butler, 'o8 j ■’ - - / Edward M. Kennedy, 'oS' . - - '/John J. .Kennedy, '09	. -
:■ y? Peter M? Ragan, ’92 - -A
James D. Barry;r’97,- ’ ■ '
; ’ AFred L?Steers/..’ 11 - ? --"</■ -, ";
-A'S?Walter Clemen	.
A. :f~'Edward-J./Carlton,; !£6 -■?'??-: '- 7Lebriard M./Carrpll;’;’i6-’,. f-;' AAALuke,:L?M ’iff ; ;
Frank E: Swift/’x6 k.. f.k
A’/ik C?P.:Mottz; £x&Sk?k.: A.’
'	’ Samuel Ward Perrott, ’i6
Edward C; Ryan,?’x6 / ?
James Francis Odem, ’i6 / Emmett P. Mulholland. ’i6;
Thomas-A-.Hayes, ’16 /.	■
Joseph J. McCaffery, '16 Walter P. McCourt, 7x6 : M. J. McEniry, '81
Thomas J. Shaughnessy, '15 James F. O’Brien, ’13 Michael L. Fansler, '04
■ A. C. Fortin, 'ox	’
Daniel J. O'Connor, ’05 M. H. Miller, '10. ' . William D. Jamieson, '05. Grover F. Miller, ’16 Thomas A. McLaughlin, ’16 Edwin H". Sommerer, 1x6	.
Joseph O’Sullivan . _ Jacob E. Eckel, ’x6 Vincent Mooney, '16 John T. Shea, ’06 Edward M. Schaack. '93 Anton C. Stephan, ’04 Dr. F. B. McCarty, '07 Harry F. McDonagh, 'xo' Charles W. Lahey, '13 Adam J. Kasper,. '95 - ' . George W. Kasper,.’95	■
Robert A. Kasper,, ’07
. Charles Girsch, ’94 Gerald A. Fitzgibbon, ’07 ■ John-B. Fruechtl, ’04 Hugh J. Daly, ’12 -Edward K. Delana, ’.13	'
Harry Curtis, ’08	-
Charles Cullinan, '07	’
Daniel Cullinan, '07 t Dr. W. P. Grady, '99	-
Edgar Crilly, ’90 -	’ • ;
George S. Crilly, ’88	"
' James V. Cunningham. ’07 ' M. H. Milier, ’10 Frank X. Cull, '08 ; Jesse E. Vera, ’10 . Walter'Duncan', ’12 „	'
James-W. O’Hara, '13	-.
. Joseph Collins, ’11	-
. Dr. H. G. McCarty, '12 James' Dubbs.'’o6 -Raymond E-Skelly, ’11 '-
■ William R. Ryan, ’11 -. William A. McKearney, ’08 ’	-	' • $75-b° ’
John W. 'Costello, '12 "
*	. .~	$50.90.
William Fish, *12 J. Clovis’Sxnith ’14	•
Frank' B. Cornell, '00	■ .
, Rev.* John Schopp, ’94 • A.'J. Major, ’86	’	' '.
Charles Vaughan, '14 •	?
' Stephen H. Herr,10 .	, '
‘ J. N. Antoine, ’70 . " \ : . . Rev. Thomas Cleary, ’69' ' ' Fred Stewart,'’12 , - ; ’ : -A , Jay Lee,’12 .--- -•
- Albert F; Gushxirst; ’<Sg, - Edward P. Cleary. ’og vs .
. Rev. John J. Burke; ’83'.
■?Rev.;M. Lr Moriarty, ’id
' < Rev. J.-E..Sculiin”; .’09,J-
- Rev.:John P;Quinn, ’83
.	Simon E.T wining, ’13
A J.?V<Bifiier /: 13.J-*:'? /k
! CeciLE?;Birder,7*i4': V,' J
• ’5.EminetCWalter/,’15 /*
.......- - ..........- -
/ “ Timothy; P; .GaWn/.’id'^AgCA^^	E.;Roach, ,i6- :
• -V %Ray.M.-Humphreys/.li'6^^^^	*16-.?-A ;
' Hugh E-r CaSdll,’iff	•_	, $5.00	\
/ $ /Jesse C./Harper .-A'.	;• A. -; Robert D.-Murphy, *01
■Ronald S.' O’NeiU,1.;*14 7- ; .'//aJ /Mark Duncan, *15	_
Lbuis'P.'Harl,'s'i6-i k ’’ ? Hiram Halliday, ’06 -Joseph D. Kbvack3, -i6-. ; i.? : Claude S. Moss, 95
J. F. Delph, '16 ■ Hugh O’Donnell, ’16 - James Sanford, ’14
" Ira W. Hurley, ’14 . Emmett G^ Lenihan, ’15 Francis H. Hayes, ’14
- E. P. Cleary, ’09 Raymond J.'Kelly,'16	'
Ernest P. Lajoie, '15 Rev. P. J. Crawley. ’95 Arthur Pino, ’06 William Milroy. '13 Dr. Robert Frost. ’02 Eustace Berry, ’03 A Friend from the South
. Daniel Shouvlin, '14 '	.
• x. $40.00 Gerard N. Krost, '04	>
$25.00
Joseph M. DeLone. ’02 . Simeon T. Flanagan. ’14
W. B. McLain, .’04 Lawrence Janszen . Rev. A. A. Lambing, '83 James M. Riddle, ’13 . Henry Hess, '82
Dr.-E. M. McKee, ’06
‘ Robert B. Gottfredson, ’13 ■ - Rev. John H. Mullin, '11 I. N. Mitchell Sr., '92 ’.Frederick Williams, '13
. .Rev. Joseph Toth, ’xx . • - Joseph M. Walsh, ’14 ■ ~ Max Adler, '89
. John G. Mott, ’95
' . Rev. T. O. Maguire, ’09 -Paul J; Smith, '16
. C. I; Krajewski, '16 ‘ .. , Joseph P. Flynn, '16
; John P. Gonboy, ’16 W. W. Turner, ’16	'
Alfred Fries, '16 J. A. McCarthy, ’16 J. Harry Sylvestre, .’16 Harold P. Burke/’i6 Peter C. Verns, '16
■ Fred M. Pralatowski, ’16 Francis J. Kilkenny, ’12 .Edward L. Figel,'x 1	-
Thomas J. Dooley, ’97 Mark A. Devine, 'xo Daniel E.. Cooney. ’10 5 . Fremont Arnfield, ’12
>W. W. Harless,.’86 ’
. Edward J. Walsh, ’00 . . Thomas Curran,’16 ’	.
' - - ’ . - - ■ -■	. : '	... $20.00	’
■ Gabriel Davezac, ’94 ' Jamfes R. Devitt,’13.
Albert A? Gloeckner, ’ 16 ■A?;"'' $15.00 •-:■ 7 .'. Bernard Durch,- 'is . ' '’A'-'.	■ $10.00 ,-i .
A-^P.;J.'O’Connell,’73 ; *
. PauhTl -Markey ?.'
■'- Edward-J? Markey -‘ Alfred;Vignos. ’95 . - . ; -
-. . 'Andrew L- Shimp, *91 Frahk Niedecken, ’09 > '.
A-?-Harfy.Kirk,-!i3' - ’ - . :y .Chute, 92 • • *	’06	;
