|c^e]Pame||c^^^
DISCE- QUASI- SEMPER-VICTURVS-VIVE • QUASI- CR^S- MORITVRVS
Vol. LIV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, April 30, .1921.	No. 24.
THE SEA.
Vincent Nagel, ’22.
T SIT and watch the silver waves
1 As to the shore they roll;
They seem to be an endless chain . Of sermons to my soul.
They speak in strong and solemn tones Of Him Who made and guides
The restless, deep and surging sea, And rules the mighty tides.
-------.*<«»-----
A MODERN PILGRIM’S PROGRESS.
P. EMMET SWEENEY, ’21.
ONE Saturday morning Christian bounded out of’ his Sorin Hall bed at the first buzz of the alarm. Having only one class that day, Christian faced the world with all the assurance of one endowed with the power to come, see and conquer. An unusual care in attiring himself caused Christian to arrive at the chapel when his more careless mates were in the process of a grand exodus.
“ Twenty-five demerits,” said the rector. “Morning prayer begins at twenty-seven minutes before seven.”
“Beaten in round number one,” muttered, Christian.
Christian betook himself to his room to become possessed of a book he had promised to deliver to a friend at breakfast. He took a last opportunity to read a poem the book contained and finally made a dash toward the refectory. At the entrance to the Junior dining room, he was confronted with'a muscular and exceedingly florid prefect.
“Breakfast commences at nine minutes of seven,” roared the official/ “It is now two minutes after seven. You cannot eat here.”
Christian retired to his room to regain his morale. Twenty minutes spent over Marden’s “Success Through Power” sent the youth over the campus toward the barber shop.
“You’re half an hour too early” he was informed by a resident of Brownson Hall who was entering a recreation hall. “This .dump opens at eight.”
“Well, if that’s the case, I’ll shave myself,” thought Christian. “I haven’t had any breakfast, but I’ll try to wait until noon.”
Christian made a detour to the Main Building intending to secure a Chicago Tribune at the .news stand. Darkness shrouded the portal of -that famous establishment. A placard in the window informed the youth that the place closed at seven forty-five each morning.
It was ten minutes after nine before Christian felt able to brave the storms of student life. He put three-fourths of his library under his arm and dashed wildly toward the classroom where daily he learned interesting things about the Drama.
“You are one minute late,” he was informed, “you will receive seventy-one on your bulletin instead of seventy-two.”
When class disbanded, Christian rushed to the bookstore. An administrative official passing into his office informed the pilgrim that although the book store was open at ten o’clock on other mornings, on Saturday’it remained closed until ten-thirty.”
“Now for a little’ breakfast,” reflected the belated youth. The Cafeteria door would not budge. “We are closed until eleven,” he was informed.
Torn asunder with despair, Christian finally resolved to improve his education by. visiting the art galleries of the University and gazing upon the immortal and priceless works of masters who spent most of their time in garrets or in jail. He mounted the beautiful staircase and entered the beautiful door: before him stood a handsome desk.
“I have come,” said Christian rapturously, “to gaze upon the works of the masters.”
“They’re locked up until two,” was the answer he received.
41 $	Notre- dame Scholastic
SHINNING THE MOON.
H. V. MCKEE, ’22.
It was midnight. In. twenty-five minutes the flyer from New York was due in Edgetown, a Kentucky village in the heart of the Cumberland Mountains. The inhabitants of the place had long since gone to bed.
Drawn up close to one end of the darkened railway station was an automobile. In the front seat sat a grey haired old man who was nervously chewing a lighted cigar and beside him sat his negro chauffeur.	'
“What time is it, Sam?”
“It’s almos’ due, mistah Reed, almos’ due.
’Rout twenty moh minutes.”
“Twenty minutes more,” mumbled the old man. He leaned back in the seat and slowly puffed the cigar. “Sam, will you be glad to see him?”
“Yessah, mistali Reed, mos’ glad, mos’ glad.”
“Does it seem four years since he went away from here?”	.
' “Longa’ ’n that mistah . Reed, longa’ ’n that, mos’ eight yealis anyhow.”
. “It has seemed ages to me, Sam; ages. Four years is a long time for a father to be parted from his only child.” The two sat for several moments, in silence. “It was just this ■ sort of a' night that we brought him down here to the train, just four years ago.” The old
. man paused. “Four years ago. Remember how excited he was because he was going north
. to college? Do you remember that night? ” “Yessah, ah remembah that night mos’ pufficly.”
“Were you happy that night, Sam?”
- “Lawd no, mistah Reed, ah wuz pow’ful. sad, mos’ pow’ful sad' ’cuz mistah. Ralph wuz lebin.”	.
“I was happy that night though.” There was a catch in. the old man’s voice. “I was happy that night because he was going to college. But to-night I—I—. Are you happy ' to-night now that he is coming home?”
“Ah can jus’ hardly wait ’till ah see him;
* Ah’m as happy as de—.”	-	,
“I’m not. I should be happy to night but
I’m not because I—I. Oh I feel miserable. Sam, I’m afraid Ralph will not stay with his' ' old father very long and that’s why I—I.
But I shouldn’t be talking this way to you.” He tossed into the road his cigar which had gone out and nervously lighted a fresh one.
“Do—do you know why I am afraid he—he will not care for his old father any longer, Sam?” .	;	'
“No, sah, ah—.”
. “You know Ralph has been taught and unfortunately, most unfortunately, made to believe that there are no things too good for, and nobody so good as, a Reed.”
“Ralph am a good boy, mistah Reed.”
“Yes, I know he is, and I love him as only a father can. I have given him everything that he has‘wanted. Everything that money can buy. You know yourself Sam that I have given him every thing he wanted.”
“Yessah, you hab gibben him—”
“Sam, I spoiled him. I have given him too much. But I promised his dead mother that I—I.” : There was a ’ slight tremor in the old man’s voice. “I promised her that I would let our son want for nothing and, Sam, I have , tried to keep my promise.”
“You hab, mistah Reed, you hab.”
“.Then I sent him up north to college, just four years ago.” The old man spoke in a hoarse whisper. “.Then came that awful day. Sam, the day I lost my money. That was a terrible blow for I was getting old. I cared not for, myself. I worried about Ralph for what would become of him if he had to support himself?”
“Ralph am a smart boy.”	,
“Yes, he’s smart enough but Ralph is too proud to work. It would kill him. Thank the Lord I have made it all back. Do you know Sam, that I have—?”
“Yessah, ah knows.” .	.
“You know! What do you know?”
“Ah know; you- made—you made moah money.” . .	,	'
“Sain, .do you know how I have done it?” The bld man was becoming excited.
“Yessah, ah—.”	.
“ Sam, who told you? Tell me who told you? ” “No one, mistah Reed; ah—ah jus’ know.” “But how did you find out?”
‘ “Ah saw you one night. Oh, mistah Reed, ah couldn’t help myself but I saw you.” The negro was, frightened. “Ah swear ah habn’t told a soul. But ah couldn’t help maself. Ah saw you.” The negro was trembling. -
“What'did you see?” The old man spoke low and stem.	•
“Ah—ah saw you and de rest ob de men go into de barn. Oh, mistah Reed, ah couldn’t help maself. Ah thought dere wuz sumpthin .4
'SfieNovre ©ame Scholastic	419
wrong an—an so ah peeked true de crack in de doah.”	:
“Did you ever breathe a word of this to anybody?”	•
“Ah swear ah didn’t. Hope to 'die, ho'pe to die right heah, mistah Reed, if ah did.”
“What did you see in the barn? Tell me what did you see?”
“Oh, mistah Reed, ah—ah saw—ah saw you. Das all.”
“Well, it’s true, Sam.” The old-man’s head sank onto his breast. “It’s true I’m a—a moonshiner, an outlaw. That’s why I am miserable to-night. When Ralph finds out that he is the son of a moonshiner it—it will kill him. Sam, it will kill him.”
“Ah swear ah won’t tell him, mistah Reed. Ah swear ah won’t.”
“But I am going to tell him, Sam, because— because—well he will find it out just as you have. I am going to tell him just as soon as— oh, Sam, it will kill him but I’m- going to tell him. He will hate me; his father a moonshiner, he will never want to see me again. That’s why I have never let’him come home during vacation. I was afraid he would find it out but now I must—but I did it, Sam; to keep the old home, to give Ralph an education. I promised his mother. I am getting old,; Sam, and I. want my boy. It will- almost kill me.” The old man buried his face in his hands and sobbed.
Faintly from the distance came the sound of a locomotive whistle. The negro straightened in his seat and listened. The train whistled again. This time much louder.
“Heah she conies, mistah Reed. Heah she comes.” '
' The old man, his face still buried-in his hands, said nothing.	-	. - •
The flyer rounded a curve and its glaring^ ‘ headlight swung into view. Thundering across a trestle, and with sparks flying from the brakes, the passenger rolled into Edgetown and came to a stop: Far down the long line of darkened coaches a brakeman, with a lantern,- swung off the steps of a .pullman. Following him was a tall thin boy, the only passenger for Edgetown, the son'of the moonshiner. The old man and the negro ran down the platform to meet him. When the boy saw the two men coming towards :him .he dropped the grip he was carrying and rushed into his father’s arms. •
“Dad, dad; how’s dear old dad?”
“My son. My boy,” was all the father could say.
When the three were in the automobile the old gentleman put his arm around his son’s shoulders. “My son are you glad to be home once more?”	: :
“Glad! Father, I’m happy; overjoyed but— but—.”
“But what Ralph?”
“There is something which is worrying me.” “Worrying you? Is—is it ab—about me?” The old. man trembled. Did his son already know?
“No, dad; it is something I did. while at school. Oh it was terrible. It has made my life miserable. For the last two years I have lived in horror that the fellows at school and— and you would find out—.”
“Find out what?” The old man spoke in a half frightened tone.	-
“I was afraid the fellows would find out that—that I was.unfit for them.” The old man groaned. His son knew. His son knew. “At first I thought I would be afraid to tell you but dad you are all I have in the world and you have been so good to me and to think that I would do such a thing.” . The boy broke down . and cried.-
“But tell me—tell your father what-you—” “But you will hate me; you will hate me if
I do.” '	- -
. “Can a father hate his only child?”
“Dad, it was awful, terrible, but I was lonesome. No one knew me. No one seemed to care to know me. Those who did speak to me called me a snob and a cad. I—I wanted to prove to them that I could be a regular fellow and so I—I. Oh, dad, I despised myself afterwards for doing it.” The boy paused., “But it made friends for.me. Every one at school spoke to me and called me Ralph or Mr. Reed. Even a club in. New York, a very exclusive club, dad, offered me a membership. For a time I was very Happy. But then I thought of you. What would you do if you knew what I had done.”
. “My boy, you are all I have.” :
; “When I left New York to come home many of the men from the club, influential men of New York-,, came down to the station to bid me good-bye. An—and dad, they . are. coming down in a few days to visit me and then—.”	'
420 .	Isf?e Norre dame ^cholascic
“These men must not come here, my son, or you shall be disgraced, for I am a—”
“I know I shall be disgraced for who has respect for a liar for I—I—oh, dad, please forgive me but I lied to them, deceived them into believing that you had a cellar plumb full, that you had a still of your own, that you were a moonshiner and—. Father! Father! What’s “the matter? Sambo, stop the car! Dad’s fainted!”
JOURNALISM FOR SORE EYES.
BY EDWIN W. MURPHY, ’23
“I. see by the paper,” commenced Mr. Dooley with the ceremony of clearing his throat that preceded any utterance of his fireside philosophy when—
“Sure, you can’t believe phwat’s in the newspaper,” interrupted Hennissey with scorn-- ful bravado. Mr. Dooley looked up, opened his mouth and shut it again with a swallow that ' included what might have been the latest of the veteran’s quaint observations. There was a dead silence. Mr. Dooley turned at length to his pipe and the paper under suspicion and Hennissey left, after a pause, in search of further conquests.
In the daily controversy of conversation many another no less experienced commentator has felt the force of similar retort. It is a common matter for popular cynicism to prevail over even the habitual wisdom of the news columns. Judging from the sneer that so universally indicates the attitude of the people toward their newspapers, the power of the press must be paralyzed. And it may quite possibly be the first indication of paralysis in our civilization, for it points out instead of smiling determination typical of health and confidence a sneering distrust that is enervat-’ ing. For in the last analysis a sneer is no more than a lifeless smile.
The philosophy of the age is best symbolized by a. questionmark.. And as in every era where frank agnosticism has prevailed there is crass hypocrisy. If the agnosticism of the newspaper public were sincere there would not be any newspaper public or any newspapers. If people do not believe what they read in their newspapers, the fault is that they read newspapers they db not believe in.-^ As a’matter of fact, however, the class of people who read the news columns with a sneer of doubt is
insignificant. In most cases this very attitude of doubt is- downright duplicity. Practically the only source of candid disbelief is the weather report. It is not the news which is published which gives rise to condemnation of our journalism, but rather that which is not printed. The latter aspect of the question is the crux of the matter of censorship.
A newspaper plainly speaking is a practical commercial enterprise. Its ultimate purpose is to repeat several thousand times every day what somebody has said or done once. Its part is that of the sedulous parrot. Now, a parrot can do many things but you cannot teach him to tell a lie. He can learn to swear or scream or even to talk obscenity. And it is just this offense that our journalism is flaunting so disgustingly. But journalism is not guilty of perjury unless silence is perjury. If the newspapers have been deceiving the people it is because the ^people want to be deceived, for in no other profession does the element of human nature enter so obviously and essentially. A man is little concerned if he buys a pair of shoes from a proprietor who advocates hedonism, but he is deeply concerned if the publisher of his newspaper preaches hedonism.
The average person subscribes to the paper that is most in sympathy with his individual views. If a man believes in socialism he will read the New York Call and not the New York Post. In the Post H. G. Wells may picture Petrograd with “streets with great holes where drains had fallen; stretches of roadway from which wood paving had been torn for firewood; lamp-posts that had been knocked over, lying as they were left without an attempt to set them up again.” For rebuttal the Call will publish an article by George Bernard Shaw playing up English labor riots in which the city hall and government buildings are seized and soviets set up. If the Post should use the story of Bolshevik massacre in Poland the Call describes the English soldiery patrolling with levelled revolvers the thoroughfares of. Irish cities. When the Post prints an account of bread riots in Moscow the Call may bring up Red riots in Madrid. Taken in panorama journalism is an immense debate on matters that naturally divide men’s opinions, or prejudices. The fact that the audience listens on one side to.the exclusion of the other is the feature that breeds mistrust. For when a
Tofte Moure Same Scholastic
421
man suddenly comes to the realization that he is not hearing all. the facts, he rushes to the conclusion that he is hearing false facts.
If, in the'debate, one side is winning or at least winning wider hearing, it is because the facts are not available for the losing party. That is possible in any debate. In editorial disputation it is the main consideration. The Associated Press is the central source of all American hews, and this is under control of the winning side. Before raw news is distributed over A. P. wires it is sifted in the antiseptic strainer that is the A. P. policy. The agency incurs the blame of neither libel or falsification when news is omitted or minimized in this manner.	.
In foreign news the A. P. has no choice in the product it imports. That British interests control practically every cable connecting the U. S. with other continents was revealed in the recent Western Union cable controversy arising from the attempt to land a British cable at Miami, Florida. Through this American corporation a British combination operates every American cable connecting with Europe as well as with the east coast of South America. Foreign news reaching this country has been sifted several times and, incidentally, American news passing to Europe goes through the sane process. But the huge debate proceeds in the face of all handicaps, and it is for the unprejudiced reader to calculate the equilibrium of truth if he is in search of uncolored information. But prejudice is an instinct of human nature and the unprejudiced individual is a curiosity.
The appalling blemish on the front page , of American journalism is not suppression. The screaming silence of censorship is eventually sensed and truth unmasked by some sixth sense that never fails. It is an insipid appeal to carnality, an invidious attitude of abandon that is the true symptom of cancer. The . morbid.morality of the newspaper is significant because it indicates the morality of the times. Nauseating details are unearthed to be portrayed with a realism that does not hesitate even at the magots of the buried past. Under the guise of sensationalism the newspapers follow a course of merciless publicity that really allows no mercy^for the sensibilities-of the readers. The astounding thing is. that people stand for it.	.
Instead of achieving the sensational as it is
commonly termed, present-day journalism has vitiated to the cheaply sensual. Like any boor seeking to be facetious, our journalism has not hesitated to be salacious. If the press had really succeeded in being sensational the effect could have been justified as rational. But when the average editor thinks to explode a bomb, the best he does is to explode a stinkbomb. And when people get sick of the stench the editor seems to believe they are sick from excitement. Instead of stirring up a row that would attract a vivid interest the new journalism will stir up mud that attracts . nothing but livid interest. The repeal of reticence,, as Agnes Repplier terms it, has been replaced by a false sincerity. It is sincere only in its hypocrisy. In the name of retribution whole columns of delirious details will appear . if a prominent financier’ is indiscreet with another’s wife, but if he should be indiscreet with another’s money the matter is deleted unconditionally. In place of shame we have sham and instead of news there is scandal.
Not only does the parrot prate obscenity but he does* so with a screech. The best claim to being sensational that can be pointed to by the new journalism is the use of red ink and shrill headlines. Yet as an effect the use- of huge capital letters is hopeless. “The editors use this gigantic alphabet in dealing with their reader,” asserts G. K. Chesterton, “for exactly the same reason that parents and governesses ■ use a similar gigantic alphabet in teaching children to spell.” There is no consistency in the present use of headlines. News from day to day is of variant value but type fonts are certainly not equally various. This year the close of the world’s series may take the same size type as did the close of the world war. Capitals are certainly an essential adjunct of journalism, but when the fall in the price of -hogs and the fall, of an empire take the same headline space as has happened it is time for the editors to learn the^use of capitals.
The crux of the situation may be said to -lie in the tendency towards unbiased, and non-partisan newspapers. What is really needed to get better journalism is more partisan journalism. The unbiased indifference of the editors has opened the way to the present looseness of the press. It is immeasurably better to have men with rigid.principles and strong moral purpose editing our newspapers than fair-minded editors who do not care *
Noire- dame Scholastic
4.22
particularly what they print as long as it is read. Probably why most journals do not uphold any set principles may be because they are unprincipled. When people know who own their papers and who write them they will know how to rely on what is published. And editor who finds himself held unquestionably responsible for the tone of news he prints is not going to risk his reputation by digging into the moral sewer for news and it is certain he will find enough to print without filling his paper with huge capital type. If newspaper readers then do. not get the truth as they conceive it, it is their own fault.
■ As it is the new journalism contains a quality of news that is nothing less than eyesore to the respectable public. And for the ’ remedy immense type is brought into use out of feeling for the sore eyes caused. “To people wholly weary or partly drunk in a dimly lighted train,” according to G. K. C., “It is a simplification and a comfort to have things presented in this vast and obvious manner.” But considerably more simplification and comfort could be accomplished by simplified spelling. It is not necessary to use great headlines to reach the intelligence of the American public, although the present journalism does not appear to worry about insulting popular intelligence.
“CLEVER CAL.”
* BROTHER SYLVESTER, C. S. C., ’22
A young man, in a coarse brown suit and with a dark cap pulled well over his eyes, emerged from the seething crowd around the Union Sation in New York City and walked hurriedly down the street. He continued liis rapid pace for several blocks and then, after a quick glance over his shoulder, turned sharply into an alley-way. / In the. dimly lighted passage, he cautiously drew from his pocket a large wallet, extracted the contents and deftly cast the empty purse into .an old barrel. He then breathed a sigh of relief and mopped the perspiration from his.
brow. Now that the dangerous evidence which .might identify him with the theft had been disposed of, he. sauntered slowly back to the busy thoroughfare.
“Clever Cal,” for that was the name by which the young man was known among his associates, 1 was a professional pick-pocket.
He had plied his trade, and with notable success, in and about New York for five years. So he had eluded detection, although on several occasions he had been suspected. No evidence, however, that would convict him could be produced. Many passengers on the subway cars had recently reported that their , pockets had been picked, and it happened that “Cal”, had frequently been seen on these cars of late. Hence suspicion rested ' upon him again. He was aware that a detective had been detailed to watch him and, what was -more, he knew the detective personally.
It. would be an hour yet before “Cal” would go to the subway where his nimble fingers were accustomed to do their day’s work. He decided to go in -the meantime to the park for a quiet smoke. On his way he	•
observed that he was being followed. ‘ This	i
fact troubled him very little just then, but	|
he realized that it would make his evening’s	•
work more difficult, if not impossible.	■
Shortly after he had sat down another per-	1
son also sat down on the other end of the	I
same bench. “Cal” knew instinctly that the	|
newcomer was the man assigned to watch . I him. Calmly lighting a cigarette and	i
without even looking up, he addressed his	|
companion in a friendly tone: “Well, Gray,	1
what big job are you working on now?” _	;
.“You know well enough, Cal,” replied the . detective in an. equally familiar tone; “and I want to give you this bit of. advice: if you know what’s good for you, keep away from the subway.”.	.
“Say, Gray,” said “Cal” vdth a chuckle, “you’ve got.too big a heart to be a detective; ■ you ought to study for the ministry.”	--
“Take it or leave it,” answered Gray; “I am determined to. get you.”
“Thanks,” said “Cal,” as he arose to depart; “I hope you may not be disappointed.” .
He , did not try to lose the detective, but
went directly to. the subway and boarded the first car. that came. Gray; kept close upon the heels of his man and succeeded in catch- ~ ing the same car. As is usual at that hour of the evening, the car was crowded., “Cal” . hanging on one of the strains could see the detective <afew steps behind 'him watching intently, his ; every move. .. He gave, up all hope of doing, any business that, evening.
Nocre ^ame Scholastic
What would have been the . sequel had another in that car been aware of those vigilant eyes ?	.
As the car lurched in turning a corner “Cal” felt a hand thrust dexterously into the pocket in which he had placed the roll of lared the thief. There was no doubt that bills. In less than a twinkle Gray had col-the fellow had picked “Cal’s” pocket. Gray had witlrhis own eyes seen him do so. The accused flatly denied the charge, of course; whereupon Gray reached over and pulled out the roll of bills from his side pocket.
“Is’nt this yours?” demanded the detective of “Cal.”	‘
“No, that money doesn’t, belong to me,” answered “Cal” most truthfully.
“It isn’t, eh? Well, I saw him lift it from your pocket,” continued the detective.
“You must be mistaken,” replied “Cal,” with an exasperating grin; “I haven’t had such a roll of money in a long time.” .
The detective was sorely chagrined at being thus baffled and deeply humiliated left the car. He could not arrest the man unless the victim of Ilie theft would identify and claim the property.	_	~
The man who had thus escaped arrest got off at the next stop, and “Cal” followed him. The benefactor did not doubt but that the stranger would be duly grateful and that his sense of honor would compel him to return the money. “Cal” remained a little behind until the stranger had turned into a quiet street. Here “Cal” called to him:, “Well, friend, you can hand back that roll now. You had a mighty lucky escape.”
“Say, kid, do you really think I’m so green as all that. I’m not in the habit of doing business that way.”
“I don’t know who you are, stranger,” replied “Cal” menacingly, “but if you”—he got no further with his threat, for his com-paniomgave him an unexpected blow in the face which sent him reeling. Before he could recover, the man had. stepped on a passing car and was gone.	:	- ■
That might “Cal,” in a rather dejected mood, wended his way towards a certain cafe, notorious as a resort for criminals. His heart leaped for joy as he entered, for there seated in the back of the cafe was the very . man for whom he was looking. He concealed _ ■ - • ' ♦ ’ .
423
himself in a position where he could watch his man and awaited an opportunity of meeting him alone. The opportunity, however, was not to be granted.
Shortly after “Cal” entered, the place was raided by the police. Everyone present had to be searched. . When the detective who was doing the searching pulled out a roll of bills from the pocket of the man whom ~ “Cal” had been watching, he looked at them intently for a moment and then said to his fellow-officers: “All right—open the doors. Here’s the man we want.” “You see,”• con-* tinned the detective, “ordinarily you would; have got away with this; but these bills. have been marked especially to enable us .to trace a gang of black-mailers. You’ll'come -along -with us.”’	rr
“After all,” moralized “Cal” as he walked * towards his lodgings, “honor and. honesty are good things—even among thieves.”
VARSITY VERSE.
A Trip to Spain.
This is the sea that the Sultan crossed In the year when his arm was strong; ' And this is the sea where his ships were lost -In the year of the Christian song.
This is the castle the Moslem, built By the mellow light of the moon. This is the castle where fairies tilt	-
In the langour of afternoon.
This is the land which Roland saved
In the mountains where he died; ,	■ -	.
This is the land that the Arabs braved
And its sail their blood has dyed.—p. o. .
.	•	' Fire Arms?	‘
A frosh in law sat next to her . ' He filled the maid with awe,	. .
Because around her waist she felt . The strong arm of the law.
.	_ The Modern Version.	.	.	*
’Twas the night before Christmas	’
, Through the house, cold with chill . .
Not a sound could be heard
But the drip of the still.
’ And when its time for an Exam	.
* -I never, break a book or .	.	.
■	Cram *
. You think I’m.going flunk	.
’	. I am.
....(From an old print.) . =
.	. ■	•	.---A. c. s.
424
^fie Noure dame Scholastic
DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER-VICTVWS-V1VE- QUASI- CRASMOR1TVRVS
Entered as Second-Class Mail Mailer.
Published every Saturdaj- during the School Term at the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
VOL. LIV.	APRIL 23. 1921.	NO 23.
BOARD OF EDITORS.
Alfred N. Slaggert, ’21 Charles P. Mooney,’21 Henry Stevenson ’21 Aaron H.Huguenard, ’22 Edwin W. Murphy, ’23 Leo R. Ward, C. S. C., ’23 R M. Murch, C. S. C., ’23 Edward B. Degree,
’23 Charles
M. Joseph-Tierney, ’21 Walter M. O’Keefe, ’21 J. W. Hogan, C. S. C., ’22 Harold E. McKee, ’22 Vincent Engels, ’23 Frank Wallace, ’23 H. W. Flannery, ’23
M o l z, '24
Notre Dame is at the zenith of her social season. With the occurrence of the Sophomore Cotillion and K. of C. Spring Dance, affairs of a fortnight ago, Society’s Social and the brilliance of the
Value. - Senior Ball still dazzling his mind, the student is wondering why the social activities of Notre Dame are so few. If he had his way about it, he would certainly increase them. But,
since the student is not the Grand Sachem in such matters, he can only theorize on the value of social functions, and hope that the stars will eventually realize that his speculations are sound.
There is true philosophy in the old saw that variety is the spice of life. We have often been told about the boy who became a dullard because he. had all work and no play. The necessity of recreation is granted. The question arises, is the social function the proper sort of recreation for the student, and if it is, what should be its frequency? When we take into Consideration the conditions peculiar to the student, his age, his station in life, his need of poise, and certain natural yearnings‘for companionship, the first part of the enquiry must be answered in the affirmative. Education in books is merely an aid to living well and would be useless if one
did not know how to comport himself in society. Attendance at social functions is as much a part of one’s liberal education as the most thorough acquaintance with one’s books.
In answering the second part of the question, we tread warily. There is such a being as a lounge lizard and then there is his mate, who diets .with her poodle on Whitman’s Sampler exclusively. These however, are probably just as useful as the double-glassed dissecter of logarithms or of the rule in Shelley’s case, who hasn’t the slightest idea • of how to sit • on a lounge. Somewhere between these opposities is the man we would call friend.	—A. E. H.
To commemorate the fourth centenary of the appearance at Worms of that “hero,” undoubtedly immortal, Martin Luther, some of our editors, giving out-Running Wild, let to pent-up convictions, are making rather sweeping assertions. Indeed they are even contradicting their own and each other’s statements. After a lifetime of research and historical analytics, one high authority is forced to. conclude that Luther is the progenitor of us all, that his courageous refusal to say that one word “Revoco,” evoked our Declaration of Independence and our Constitution: blit he does not say that this refusal sent Columbus across the Atlantic
and wrote Ireland’s Declaration of Independence, yet surely these are the works of free and bold minds. Another writer, equally anxious to eulogize one whose teachings and life, “will ever be the inspiration of free peoples,” discovers that to-day we need another Martin Luther,. to duplicate the original’^ liberation from politics and religion, with a decisive cutting of the chains which fetter our present-day morality and society. It is decidedly easier to agree that Luther was a political and religious iconoclast and innovator of his kind, than that he had a direct or very potent influence upon the severance of our connections in 1776 from the. great offspring of Luther’s teaching, or that present-day morality is tightly chained. Without straining" the point or the facts, it might be asked whether Luther’s teachings of freedom of ; belief and of
'sne Noure etome Scholastic	“	425
action, and hence of morality, have not had something- to do with the shameless freedom of modern immorality; whether the inspiration of his free life and morals, has not had its due effect in modern free love, and the ■freedom of the marriage tie.	—L. W.
Economy has long been a favorite practise of the Notre Dame man. As a result a school of practical economists has- been developed which has far Getting Paid for outstriped all rivals in
Economics. the subject. Now it is to be hoped that these economics may be emboldened to display their knowledge of economy and capture the economic essay prize which is being offered by Hart, Shaffner and Marx through a committee of learned men of which Professor J. ■ Laurence Laughlin, University of Chicago, is the chairman.
Entrants will be divided into two classes, A and B. Two prizes of $1,000 and $500 respectively will be offered in class A, and first prize of $300 and a second prize of $200 in class B, which is limited to undergraduates in colleges.	*	.
The essays may be written on any subject approved by the chairman of the committee. Information - will gladly be given by the members of our faculty in economics. So dust up your old Ely and Seager and Taussig this summer and be ready to write a corking composition in the fall. If you win, the prize money will not hurt. If you fail in the contest, you will have won a knowledge-of your subject, an increased power of concentration and organization of material, and confidence in your own ability to manifest the power of your own brain on paper. Thus you cannot lose altogether. It’s a winning proposition. Try it.	—V. E.
MAURICE FRANCIS EGAN.
Old Washington Hall was opened once more to an American of the royal line when Maurice Francis Egan addressed the student body, last Wednesday. Everybody knew that the distinguished minister to Denmark had been Dr. Egan, during many years professor of English literature at Notre Dame, one of the mainstays of the Ave Maria, and later the, recipient of the Laetare Medal, The audience
that listened came to honor his age, but also to emphasize its. understanding of fellowship with a great Notre Dame man. .
Dr. Egan, having been introduced by the Very Reverend President, began to speak of experiences in the diplomatic service. There was just enough seriousness in the narrative to lend stability to its twinkling fun; for, as the world knows, the former Minister to Denmark is the leading exponent of Irish-American humor imits most engaging manner. He talked among other things of Henry Ford’s wonderful peace ship and the intricacies of etiquette, with a view towards illustrating the difficulties of the diplomatic service.
> It was an interesting and useful afternoon address. Notre Dame is grateful for the honor of this visit, wishes her distinguished exprofessor godspeed, and above all hopes that a certain rumored series of lectures will become a reality.	‘
THE LAYMEN’S RETREATS.
This year, the annual retreat for laymen ' at the University of Notre Dame will be held from August 11, Thursday evening, to Sunday morning, August 14. Because of an exceptionally crowded schedule and the arrangement of more than the usual number of clerical retreats, the University authorities are unable to offer the usual retreats for women this year. Other organizations, who wish to meet at Notre Dame during the summer, cannot, for the same reason, be given dates.
/ With each succeeding year the retreats for laymen at Notre Dame have been rapidly becoming more popular and men from, all the states of the Middle West, especially Illinois, Michigan, Indiana, Iowa, and Wis- ’ consin, have come to rest their bodies and souls at this ideal spot, away from the noises and distractions of the city, amid the silence and peace of a green country on the banks of; two picturesque lakes. Last year one hundred and fifty made the laymen’s retreat at Notre . Dame and hundreds more attended the retreats of the priests of the diocese of Fort Wayne and of the archdiocese of . Chicago. . This year, it is expected that there will be. twice as many for the laymen’s retreat. - : /
Clubs of men who really care for their souls., and who wish to' learn more about their faith; have been formed to attend the retreats/ . .
Tote Moure dame Scholastic
Last year two large bodies from Ft. Wayne, Ind., and Racine, Wis., were at Notre Dame. This year, with the impetus that has been given to the work, there will be clubs from many nearby cities.—H. w. F.
SENIOR VAUDEVILLE.
“How beautifully the Seniors do things!”
Poor old Washington Hall fairly rocked with glee Tuesday night, as the gallant knights and the beautiful ladies that made up the audience held their sides, while tears coursed down their cheeks and their jaws ached from laughing. After the showing of an orthodox movie weekly there came a tumbling act which was really a comedy classic. There was neither rhyme nor reason to it, but, in spite of this— more probably because of it—the act was —funny. Without any cause whatsoever, the actors finished their performance by barking like canines and proceeding to chew up an apparently inoffensive bystander. The curtain fell on the gruesome scene, leaving the spectators in doubt as to just how it all ended. Hector Garvey and Ed Degree, assisted by Seyfrit, MacEmry and Mickey Kane, were responsible for all the hilarity. The next act was reminiscent of a poem that begins “from the castle to the gut-tah,” with, to use garage parlance, the engine reversed. Miss Josephine Decker of South Bend rendered some very lovely songs in a charming manner. Her voice is tender, sympathetic and unusually tuneful. Domke and Butterworth followed in a sketch that was as amusing as it was non-■ sensical, and, if any man knows a better compliment than that, let him stand forth and say it. Butterworth had an absolutely ridiculous line of chatter and Domke was, to quote Dickens, “one vast, substantial smile.” The audience refused to let them go until Walter O’Keefe announced Mr. William Rogerson, of the Chicago Grand Opera Association. This artist was greeted with a storm' of applause. His voice seemed to be in better form than on his previous visit to the University this year,, and he lifted his hearers up, .up, up, thrilled by the magic of a glorious voice. Tribute must also be paid to his accompanist, whose playing was unobtrusive and thoroughly in accord with the spirit of the songs. We have seen Helen Miller dance before and we like her better each time we see her; -Lithe, graceful, modestly
gowned, she interpreted a weird dance of the Far East and executed a charming ballet to the music of Irene. In the next act a darkfaced comedian, Nelson Jones, was very funny in pantomime. Charley Davis, at the head of an exceptionally fine orchestra, next appeared. His lively, delightful - music kept everybody’s feet moving; and, when Aunt Jemima (Mr. Domke) sang “Mammy” to the orchestra’s accompaniment, the house wildly applauded.
The large audience paid them the highest compliment the managers of this highly successful. vaudeville- could have receivek, nobody was ready to go at the drop of the final cur. tain.- Our hearty congratulations and cordial thanks are offered to all.	—H. s.
PARLORMENTARY PROCEDURE.
President.—“ Gentlemen, there still remains a surplus undisposed of.” \
“I move we throw a banquet.’.’
“I move we don’t.”	. .
Pres.—“It is moved and seconded we don’t. All in favor show dignity by sitting down. Motion is carried. Now we are in a position to take up—”
“Mr. Pres, that vote was illegal. There ain’t a quorum here to say we can’t have a banquet.”
Pres.—“The gentleman objects on point of honor. Mr. Secretary,Jiow many members are there in the Chicago Club?”
Sec.—“I think there were about 80-at the Easter dance.” -	.
Pres.—“There is a quorum lacking. The objection of the gentleman from back of the Yards is sustained. According to Hoyle, however, we are now sitting as a committee of the whole, empowered to dissect all issues. Proceed with the concession. (Tosses Hoyle to member.) '	'
“I move we throw a dance.” .
“I move we don’t.”
“Motion moved and endorsed that we don’t. All in favor signify by silence.—Motion is not—”	-
“Division, of the house,, Mr, Pres. I call for a secret ballot.”	.
' “Say, how many thnes do we have to win our vote?” ’	. - .	•
Pres.—“There is a division of the house.”
“ Mr, President, a. house?, divided > against itself cannot stand, I move we adjourn ’ in time.”	• - •	?	? -•■■■	■ '
Nocre Same Scholastic
“Mr. President, how many times do we have to win our vote?”
. “I move we throw a dance by secret ballot.” “I move we throw out the president.” “I move we don’t.”	'
' President.—“It has been moved and sec-
-x onded we don’t. All not in favor of the president, signify by moving into the corridor.”
. “Mr. President, how many times do we have to win our vote?”
President.—(Very much put.out after some exciting moments'). “Meeting is adjourned!” -	—1. W. W. T.
THE GLEE CLUB AT VALPO.
- Notre Dame’s hard-working choiristers journeyed to Valparaiso on April 20, and did things. The hospitality shown them was most generous and is attributable in large measure to the Knights of Columbus and the Daughters of Isabella. We reprint .the following from the Daily Vidette.
The excellent entertainment given by the club last year served to attract' music lovers to this concert and they were not disappointed, although this year’s program was somewhat different in nature. The university orchestra, proper, is not traveling with the club but a five piece orchestra, under the direction of Mr. Harry Denny, furnished an opening overture and kept the audience well entertained during the intermission.
The program was divided into two parts, each ! of which consisted of three numbers by the glee club and two specialties. The glee club opened the ~ program with the “Soldiers’ Chorus” from “Faust” , and followed this with a Folk Song number, concluding its part of its first half of the program ' with, two sacred songs. The specialties in the.first part of the program were a baritone solo by Mr. Lenihan Lally and a piano solo by Mr. Casasanta. Both of these soloists displayed exceptional talent.
The glee club opened the second half of its program with what was probably the best number of the evening. “Rouge Bouquet,” a choral arrangement of one of the late Joyce Kilnier’s war poems. This number was written especially for the Notre .Dame Glee club by its director, Professor John J. Becker, and tl\e success of its rendition was a tribute ■ to both the composing and directing ability of Professor Becker. ,Mr. Lally carried the solo part in this number with pleasingeffect.	.
Next on the program came a violin solo by Mr. Harry Denny, president of the club. - Mr. Denny displayed again the artistic power which made his efforts of last year well remembered. The glee club' followed with Schubert’s “Serenade”-: and a very-fine rendition of Schumann’s “Gypsy Life.”
The final specialty on the program was rendered by the irrepressible Mr. Walter ~ O’Keefe.	Mr.
427
O’Keefe is without doubt the peer of any amateur entertainer in the country, and for a half hour he kept the audience in roars of laughter and applause. -His singing of popular. songs was even better than his previous effoi-ts in Valparaiso; while his dialect stories and dramatic recitations were up to his usual standard. -	’
The concert as a whole was heavier- than that given last year and, consequently, did not make such a broad popular- appeal. However, from the musical standpoint the concert was a real tribute to the ability and labor, both of the director and of the singers. It showed that the Notre Dame Glee Club has this year accomplished something really worth while in the field of music.
IN MEMORIAM.
. Death in the early months, of - collegiate endeavor came to Martin A. Conroy, of Amsterdam, N. Y., who has entered Notre Danie this year, as student in mining- engineering. He died recently at the home of his aunt in Amsterdam, of tubercular peritonitis, at the age of 17 years. Conroy worked hard during his short time’at Notre Dame, where he became most popular among his friends and associates. During the first part of the present year he was obliged to enter the university infirmary^ from which he was later removed to his home., ' ‘	'
Sister M. Paulinus Richards, teaching Sister of St. Mary’s of the Mdunt, Pittsburg, Pa., died April 15 at Pittsburg in the sixteenth year of her religious life after a long illness of pneumonia, and was buried from Mt. St. Mary’s Academy df Scranton, Pa. Sister Paulinus, of the Servants of the Immaculate Heart of Mary,- entered the university summer school with seven other sisters from Scranton, when the summer school opened several. years ago. Her pleasant manners and agreeable personality made her. well-diked by those who knew her at the summer . school sessions, in. Scranton, in Pittsburg, and elsewhere.	'	, - : .
. ***	-
The Scholastic recently learned of the death of Patrick McGuire, an old student, at Holstein, Iowa, on the 30th of March. Mr. McGuire attended Notre Dame for several
years, entering the’University shortly after he came to this , country from Ireland in 1866. Our sincere sympathy is respectfully tendered to the members’of his bereaved family.' ; :
428	Noure dame Scholascic
MEN YOU REMEMBER.
—Joseph Smith, LL. B., ’17, has resigned his position with the Michigan CentraLRailroad in Detroit. He -will begin the practice of law in Cleveland.
—Leo Vital Dubois, who was a member of the Varsity baseball team in ’16 and ’17, recently took the bar examinations in Cincinnati, Ohio.
—William C. Henry, assistant state’s attorney of Cook County, Illinois, spent last Sunday among old friends on the campus. “Bill” received his LL. B. degree in the class of ’16.
—Friends of Alfred C. Dent, one-time Notre Dame student, have learned of his election to the vice-presidency of the Merchants Savings and Trust Bank of a prominent mid-west -city.
—John Miller, Varsity full-back in 1916 and 1917, was almost fatally injured in an' explosion in Akron, Ohio,, several weeks ago. His friends will be glad to know that he is recovering.
—Alvon Reading, former Carrollite, of Detroit, was a visitor over the week-end. He was accompanied by Mrs. Reading who heard many startling stories of the prowess of her husband when he was a pitcher on the Carroll baseball team.
—John Heffernan, varsity half-miler, is convalescing from a fractured arm. The “bronze Apollo” was injured when he inadvertently crashed into Judge Vurpillat’s Law Building.	*
—Morrie Smith, All-Western guard for 1920, has finished his studies at N. D. and taken the position of aide-de-camp to Father Gene Burke at Columbia in so far as athletics are concerned. Recent word from the Coast tells us that the “ biggest little guard ” has made a flying start.
—We have learned with pleasure of the appointment of Mr. Antonio Aldrete, E. E.,' of the class of 1913, as Chief Engineer of one of the largest hydroelectric power plants in Mexico, the Compania Hidroelectrica-e Ir-rigadora-del-Chapala—Guadalajara, Mexico. We congratulate Mr. Aldrete upon his success. He writes that he can place a few Notre Dame electrical engineers in his company;, those interested may write to him directly.
—Advance copy on the first marriage of C. Aloysius Grimes, holder of thejourth degree
in Journalism from the present University, recently came over the wire. The ceremony will take place on Wednesday, April 27, at St. Patrick’s Church, Providence, R. I. The fairy in the affair is Mary Bernadette Barry, having the reputation in Providence as among the fairest of the unfair persuasion. In his college days Mr. Grimes was unanimously and anonymously known to many readers of current literature (including the Scholastic) and local journalism. He broke into print as , editor of the Scholastic and never suffered a relapse. While serving as president of the Press Club he was chosen to cover the Republican Convention at Chicago. When not otherwise occupied as secretary to Prof. Cooney or as Varsity Scribe, Mr. Grimes was editorin-chief of the Dome of ’20. So much of his time was devoted to Notre Dame correspondence that it comes as a huge surprise to know that Mr. Grimes had any time for Providence correspondence, to which developments so eloquently testify. Mr. Grimes is at present a representative of the press, to which all indications would imply that he will probably devote his life. Somebody has suggested that Mrs. Grimes must be an expert copyreader as well as expert in all other respects.
. ---------*♦*------- UNDER THE DOME.
—The art students under Professor Vincent O’Connor’s direction have been, roaming the campus of5 the University with pad and pencil during these warm days, forsaking the indoor quarters with their casts and still models for the living and kaleidoscopic outdoors.
—On May 16 the journalists will endeavor . to get some natural inspiration when they leave for their annual outing along the banks of the St. Joe. The Freshmen arranged the affair tl is year and picked on' Bertram Springs as the place of • frolic and food inhalation.
—Recent motion picture showings at Notre Dame include a comedy that combines Wanda Hawley with somebody’s telegram. Like Miss Hawley, the picture was ‘wholesome arid delightful,’ even though its finale is inclined to give the Writers’ Club an exaggerated idea of the future income of its members.
At a recent meeting of the very active Latin-American Association the following officers.were elected: Mr. Tarriava, Mexico, President; H. Key de Castro, Peru, Vice-
'we Moure dame ^cholasuie
President; U. P. P. Rubio, Cuba; Sec’y; A. school. What say ye, Juniors and Seniors?
Rodrigez, San.Domingo, Treas.; and E. Rey de Castro, Peru publicity manager.
—One of the most interesting talks that has been given before the Knights of Columbus was delivered. at the recent regular meeting evening by Father Bernard Ill, C. S. C. Father Ill’s subject was “The Unwritten History of Notre Dame.” The talk was full of reminscences. of earlier days at Notre Dame when Charles Warren Stoddard and others were instructors.
—The ' Knights of Columbus Informal Spring Dance was held at the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel, Wednesday evening, April 13, 1921. “Post-mortems” concerning the dance are unanimous in the opinion-that it was one of the best affairs ever given by the students. More than one hundred couples were present. Much credit is due Slaggert, Higgins, and Champion, committeemen, for the success of the dance. The chaperons were Professor and Mrs. Benitz, Professor and Mrs. Tiernan, and Mr. and Mrs. Harry Poulin.	. .	-
—The Chicago Club .Easter informal which was held in the Gold Room of the • Congress Hotel on Easter Tuesday evening was a success both socially and financially. Three hundred and fifty couples were in attendance and dancing was continuous from ten until one-thirty. The Sunset orchestra furnished the music. Mr. and Mrs. Byron V. Kanaley and Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Shaughnessy acted as chaperones. The officers of the Chicago Club are John T. Dempsey, president, Norman C. Barry, vice president, Roger J. Kiley, secretary, and George A. Dever, treasurer.
—Promptly at eight o’clock, on the evening of April 16, the Miller-Anderson orchestra blustered forth into a roar of jazz. One hundred couples -hastened into the Oliver Ball Room. and—the Sophomore Cotillion began. It is rather difficult to determine the feature of the evening. Plainly it was either the prize dance or the punch. The Soph’s merry-making was at its height , when Midnight entered uninvited—and the Sophomore Cotillion ended. It is rumored, by the Sophs, that this year’s Cotillion was the most brilliant one in’ the history of the
—The Chemist Club met last Monday night in Chemistry Hall. The meeting was opened by Pres. Bailey who gave a brief outline of the history of the organization. The Club’s new constitution was brought forward and unanimously ratified, after which the following Club officers were elected for next year: James Bailey, President; A. H. Vallez, vice-president; G. A. Uhlmeyer,. secretary and treasurer; H. Hoffman, member at large of the executive committee. The Club will hold meetings every first and third. Monday evenings of the month, in Chemistry Hall, and all students of Chemistry are urged to attend.
—The Sophomore journalists, about twenty in number, gathering together their latent ambitions, have organized for the publication of their number of the Scholastic to appear June 4. They named H: W. Flannery, editorin-chief, and selected Louis Bruggner, verse editor; Edwin Murphy, editorial editor; Vincent Engels, feature editor; R. L. Lightfoot, humor editor; and Frank Wallace, news editor.
—Blue Grass men showed each other how well they could eat when they had their annual banquet at the Oliver and listened to words of honey that fell from the lips of Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the department of journalism, Jack Young, Walter Clements of South Bend, former students at the school, and Frank Bloemer, as food vanished into the mouths of the-rest.
—Harry Botsford, editor of the Dodge Idea, and contributor to Collier’s, Leslie’s, and many other magazines, will be the speaker at a luncheon of the Writers’ Club in Kable’s Banquet Room on the evening of May 6. The members of the department of journalism will-be the guests of the club at the affair, in which -Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the department,- Louis Bruggner, Clifford Ward, and R. L. Lightfoot will also take part.
It is not impossible that the next Sultan of Zolo may be a Notre Dame man. Just now he is merely Pio Montenegro. Eventually he expects to announce his engagement to the heiress presumptive of the carved ivory throne of Zolo, and princess of the blood royal of Zololand. When Pio hangs his hat on the family hall tree he will automatically assume the rank of heir presumptive. The princess
'Sfie Noure dame Scholascic
430
is now studying domestic science, at the Illinois University.
—Plebian inmates of the University will have the opportunity of viewing her royal shyness when Mr. Montenegro gives his lecture on the Philippines in Washington hall, Saturday night. Duke Gonzales will officiate. Mr.-Montenegro has been commissioned by the Philippine government to lecture and is supplied with 200 slides showing the cocoanut groves of the Islands, from which the monkeys are known to throw cocoanuts on unsuspecting pedestrians.
—Ambassador Jules Jussefand shortly before his return to France, conferred the “palmes academiques” on Sister Mary Eugenie, instructor of French at St. Mary’s, in recognition of her 44 years sen-ice in behalf of the French language in America. She is the only religious in this country beside Father Sorin who has had the honor of being “officier d’Ac'ademie.” Father Sorin received the distinction in 1888 following one of his eight trips to France. The position of officier was created by Napoleon in 1808 for the promotion of French language and literature.	■
—Last Wednesday night was supposed to •be a “rec-nite.” But our brethren of the Junior persuasion got together anyhow, and looked to see what could be done with .the Dome. - As a result, Harold V. McKee, of Oak Park, Ill.—author of “Shinning the Moon”—-was elected editor-in-chief; George Swirtsley, of Waukon, Iowa, is in charge of'the dollars and cents department; and George B. Fisher, of Rochester, N. Y., will endeavor to. find a new "view of Notre Dame and supervise the palette. The Juniors have used their domes so well in making these selections that success is as sure as anything can be. ~
—“One of the best talks I ever heard,” was the universal opinion of those who assembled in Washington Hall on the . morning of April 22, to hear Mr. -Knox, of the Knox School of . Salesmanship. of Cleveland. Mr. Knox, who addressed the Advertising Club bf South Bend the . preceding evening, gave a striking and. interesting, talk upon the nature and-value of true advertising. The only regrettable thing- about his speech was the fact that the "necessity of catching a, train . limited Mr. Knox’s address, to forty minutes.
In response to numerous requests from the advertising and salesmanship students, Father Lahey has promised to bring Mr. Knox here next year for a more lengthy discussion of his subject.	'
—A sense of humor is valuable in many ways. The Juggler is one. Beginning in the Spring Fever number to be released May 10, his ridiculous majesty is donating $10 for the best (which is to say the most side-splitting) screed. This will happen in every issue H. R. M. puts out thereafter. All embryo Chestertons, Leacocks, Edwyns (Murphys) are requested to see Robert Shea, Sorin Hall, second floor back. If that brings no results, write a letter to your Congressman. .An N. D. monogram fob, embroidered with inlaid gold dust, according to design drawn by “Obie” is to be presented to the star contributor of the season in Washington Hall shortly. His majesty also offers a free subscription to unrepentant contributors; so, if there is no humor in the air it is not because the Juggler is not doing his share to create atmosphere.
—The last debate of the season will happen in Washington hall,. Friday, May sixth, when the Detroit University three will take up the oratorical cudgels against our glorious affirmative. The N.. D. negatives, consisting of Hogan, Cavanaugh and Ward, will travel to Detroit in search of victory. The Varsity affirmative includes,; Orator Engels, the mighty Gallagher, and the invincible Rhomberg. Since he has transferred his opinions to the affirmative point bf view Mr. Engels predicts defeat for the negative. Several times Detroit and Notre Dame have come to oratorical fisticuffs on the insignificant questions of the hour, and always to the humiliation of the Detroiters. The record of the season suggests the probable outcome of the contest. In six scheduled debates the varsity teams have lost one—to Wabash.
“How is the fishing?”
“Oh, the water’s fine.”	.
“I mean, how’re they biting?”	.
“Oh, the fish; why they’re harmless. I’ve been fishing since I was knee , high to a clodhopper, and never been bit.”-
—FLANNERY-MURPHY.
Notre dame Scholastic	431 -
WHAT’S WHAT IN ATHLETICS. '	’ I ■
THE TIMBER TOPPERS.
Notre Dame sent three entries to the Drake Relays at Des. Moines on Saturday, April 23 and returned with a winner'and two extremely close seconds. The local squad, Desch, Meredith, Ficks and Montague, won the University half-mile relay in 1.39:2-5, Chet Wynne finished a scant foot behind Wright of Nebraska in the 120 yard high hurdles and the mile relay team, Desch, Montague, Hoar, and Kasper, lost to Illinois by the narrow margin of 2-5 seconds.
' Wright’s time was 15 2-5 and Illinois stepped the mile in 3.22.	‘	.
Wynne’s excellent race in a field of 13 allstars marks him as a hurdler whose consistent performances this year entitle him to rank with the best in the land. His victory over Knollin of Wisconsin, who finished in fourth place at Drake, was particularly gratifying as there was the shadow of a doubt over the former defeat which Wynne suffered from Knollin at Wisconsin, in the N. D— Badger dual meet. ,
The modest “Chetter” will get his big chance of the year at Penn today where he stacks into the lanes against Champion Thompson, Conference title-holder, Knollin, Barron, Younts, Hile, Deering, Massey and seven other leaders.
Johnny Murphy and Gus Desch will be in the thick of stirring action at Penn today. Murphy meets Champion Landon, our old friend 'Dewey Alberts, and other scintillators of the high jump, among whom is Chamberlain, of the University of Virginia, who. recently leaped 6 feet 5 3-4 inches. Desch will meet Champion Earl Thompson, Gallagher, and other low hurdle steppers.
Buck Shaw will be the fourth entry at Penn if his recent form holds up. Buck is another Wynne—unheralded and unforeseen, but stepping out and performing with the best of them. After winning the shot put at dual meets with Illinois and Wisconsin, the well-built Iowan shook Western track with a 43 1-2 foot toss at the Illinois Relays. Another such heave will come very close to winning at Penn today.
ON-COMING EVENTS.
Notre Dame athletes are in top form for the contests, with Iowa and St. Viator’s. The .dual meet with Illinois will take place Saturday,
May 7th on Cartier field; the four diamond battles will occur on foreign lots.
The Illini outclassed Rockne’s stars in an indoor meet last February, principally because of their exceptional strength in the distance runs. N. D. is still weak in these events but will gather enough power from the extra events ■ outdoors to offer Harry Gill’s point-getters their greatest battle of the year.
Bill Hayes took the 40 yard indoor dash from Prescott by. a shave but the big sprinter is expected to pay in both the 100 and 220 on the outside path. Gus Desch, holder of the World’s record in the 40 yard low hurdles, was in eclipse in the indoor meet where his event was not run. Outdoors he is expected to produce handily. Chet Wynne is the favorite in the high hurdles and will run a close second to Desch in the low sticks. The form shown by Wynne in taking second place in the highs'at Drake stamps him as a comer who will be more prominent as the season advances.
' Johnny Murphy will attempt to regain lost laurels from Dewey Alberts, and Buck Shaw will attempt to better his mark of 43 1-2 feet with which he took the shot put at the Illinois relays.	-	-
The ability of the Illini runners gives their team the edge; but regardless of the outcome a great crowd of track enthusiasts will witness the meet which will probably produce the winner of the Western Intercollegiates.
~Coach Halas will send his men on to the Illini field primed for the big test of the year. Unless Michigan stops the local basebailers today Notre Dame will enter with all the psychological advantage of an undefeated . combination. Falvey and Castner will do the hurling with Capt. Mohardt in reserve. ’
INTERHALL '
The Interhall league got away with a rousing “bam’’ Sunday afternoon when the first wonderful sunshine of the season played around the banging bats and whistling balls of ten full teams in action. Walsh and Corby tied Brownson for the lead in the Hall series, Badin and the Main Building Orioles won special games and Brownson took the St. Joseph’s -nine of South Bend into camp.
Corby smothered Carroll under a 17-5 tally, mixing 15 bases on balls by the Carroll pitchers with ten juicy hits. Eddie Anderson,
432
Noure Same Scholastic
Lieb and Gilchrist starred for Corby and Rigley and McTieman for the Preps.
Badin took a six-inning contest from the Junior Seminary nine, the work of Degree and Seyfrit, Badin battery, featuring the contest. McGivney twirled Walsh to a 11-7 victory over the Olf-Campus nine which boasted six varsity candidates. The Walsh twirler allowed but two hits in the first eight innings. McEwan starred for Brownson in a 6-2 win from the St. Joseph parish club of South Bend.
Kalamazoo— Walkotten, cf. Chapman, ss. . Bracket, 3b. ..
Staake, If.
Lambke, lb.
Petschulat, Casteel, c. Binga, 2b. Fenner, p.
Totals.
rf.
B. R.
H. 0.
4
4
2
4
4
4
4
3
4
0
1
1 0
0 0
0 0
1
1
1 0
1 0
1
1 0
1
1
. 3
0
1
7
0
10
2
2
0
1
2
1
1 0
1
1
3
0
1 0
0
0
1
1
3
0
33 3
6 26*10 6
Reass hit a Babe Ruth which nestled on the roof of Chemistry Hall in the Brownson-Sorin game of Saturday but . Dear Old- Sorin took the air just the same. Brownson started like a real team, relaxed slightly but .had. enough punch left to check a Sorin rally in the Jth which lacked one run of tying the score,
Sorin......’. . '.231 000
Brownson........015 302 . Siisep, Reass, Wilcox Burns, Sammons and Daly.
104—11 7 6 001—12 12 4 and Anderson;
Notre Dame
Kane, 3b.......
Miles, ss......
Mohardt, cf. . Garvey, c. ... Bleivernicht, c. Fitzgerard, lb. Prokop, If. .. .Morgan, rf. ..
Kiley, 2b...... Steinle, p. ... Castner, p. ...
Totals.
B. R.
4
3
4
2
0
2
1
0
2'0
3
4
4
1
2
0 0
1 0
0 0
H.
0 0
1
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
1
0. A. E.
2
1
1
4
6
7
3
1
. 1
0
0
0
1
1
1. .0
1
1
0
4
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
32 4 4 27 9 2
*Two out when winning run was scored.
Walsh.................
Off-Campus............
- McGivney and WalkCurtain.
• L \	- -
. Corby. , . . -...
Carroll. . , ...._.
303 010
000 012
R 400—11 000— 7
H
13
6
Carberry, Sweeney,
,.227'060—17 10
E
3
5 and
0
000 140— 5	8-5
Ratsford, Geegan and Anderson; Martin, Avilez,
DeCorps and Rigley.'
Brownson.........'.
St Joseph..........
130 000 20x— 6
000 100 001— 2
6
8
2
6
. Reardon, Gillinger and Wagner; Matt and Barry.
Orioles.
Dujarie.
300
002
010
020
100 1—6	9	2
010 0—5 11	4
Kalamazoo.
Notre Dame.
Summary: Purdue.
Stanwood, If. . White, 3b. .;. Strubbe, 2b. .-. K. Fawcett, rf. Hisser, c. ... ; Everman, cf. . Strack, lb. ... Wagner, p. ...
Totals.
Sanders, Avilez, Morrison bert, Matthew and Harold.
and Cochrane;
Cuth-
Badin. . . Seminary.
102 300—6
200 000—2
4
2 .
2
2
Degree and Seyfrit;Riley and Murphy.
, Interhal! games for next Sunday: Sorin—Walsh;
Brownson—Off-Campus; Corby—Badin.
THE PURDUE AND KAZOO SCORES:
Notre Dame—
Kane, 3b. ;......
Miles, ss........ Mohardt, cf. .. Blieverriicht, c. .
Fitzgerald, lb. .
Prokop, If.......
Morgan, rf. ....
Kiley, 2b........
Falvey, ,p.......
Totals.
00000300 0—3
10 0 0 0.2001—4
R. H.
0. A. E.
0
0
1
0 0
.0
0
0
1
1
1 0
0
1
1 0
0
2
6 0
7
2
7 0
0 0
2 0
2 0
0
2
0
2
1 0
0 0
0
1
1
5 26
9 5
R.
.. 1 .. 1 .. 1 .. 0 .. 0 .. 0 .. 0 .. 0 ...1
H.
0 0
3
1
1 0
0 0
1
0.
3
1
0
11
10
0 0
1
1
A. E.
3
1 0
2 0
0 0
2
5
1 0
0 0
0 0
0 1
0
4
6
27
13 2
Three-base hit—Falvey. Two-base hit—Bliever-
The following summaries, of last -weeks 'hicht. Sacrifice hits—W. Fawcett, Miles and Mor-games were imvoidably omitted from the 'fan' P^le play—Falvey to Kiley to Fitzgerald. Scholastic for April 23: . . -' ? S	Basc
.	; ..	.	.	bails—Off Falvey, 3off Wagner, 4.
>rLineup and 'summary
—WALLACE
