
THE nr PONT
DIGEST
R. E. Sugg, B.S. in M.E., George Washington University, 1948, doing mechanical research to improve machine design. His optical-slit microscope measures surface scratches as fine as 20 millionths of an inch.
AT DU PONT THEY FIGURE IMPORTANTLY IN MANY FIELDS
Studying product development in a rotary dryer are: H. J. Kamack, B.S. in Ch.E., Georgia Institute of Technology, 1941; and F. A. Gluckert, B.S. in Ch.E., Penn State, 1940.
Checking component for machine used to finish rolls to high degree of precision: Donald F. Miller, B.S. in M.E., Lehigh, 1950; and Albert TF.G. Ervine, M.S. in M.E., Michigan, 1950.
R. I. Stearns, B.S. inCh.E., Yale, 1949;andH. Peterson, B.S. in Ch.E., Northeastern University, 1942, checking a multi-stage carbon-monoxide compressor used for making methanol.
Because Du Pont is a chemical company, you might expect most of its technical men to be chemists.
Actually, there are more engineers than chemists at Du Pont. In each of the ten manufacturing departments there is important work for men trained in chemical, mechanical, electrical, metallurgical and other branches of engineering.
These departments operate much as independent units with their own research, development, production and sales staffs. In their respective fields, they do fundamental and applied research on both processes and products. Sometimes engineers participate in the early stages of a project. More often, however, they enter ' the picture when the project has moved to the point where commercial production is considered. They see it through the pilot plant and semi-works stages and assemble data
2
necessary for the full-scale plant.
Even after manufacturing has begun, development work is continued to standardize and improve the process. Normally, engineers whose main interest is production and plant operation take over when the works stage is reached.
Engineers on the technical sales staffs help maintain contact between Du Pont and its customers. They present data on new products and guide customers in process development and similar problems. They also use their technical knowledge in making surveys of possible markets for the Company’s products.
In addition to the manufacturing groups, the Du Pont Engineering Department—a central staff organization—requires engineers with many types of training. This Department carries on its own program of fundamental and applied research. It also
makes site investigations, lays out and designs new plants and laboratories for the manufacturing departments. It serves them in research on process development, on materials of construction and on methods of measurement and control.
Yes, engineers figure importantly at Du Pont. Through their teamwork	<
with chemists, physicists and other | trained personnel, the Du Pont Com-	,
pany produces its "Better Things for ' Better Living...through Chemistry.”
"EG. U.S. PAT. Off-
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Entertaining, Informative—Listen to “Cavalcade of America,” Tuesday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
The Scholastic
I	Yazoo Poetess
*	Editor:
After pondering events of past two games Mr. Dolan and I enjoyed seeing Notre Dame play. ... I wrote some sentiments on paper.
. . . Personally, we only know two players, Jim Weithman and Jerry Marchand, but did meet several in New Orleans. Am confident the entire roster and Notre Dame student body are champions all in Christian spirit and sportsmanship. . . .
'	* TRIBUTE TO LEAHY’S TEAM OF ’-50
Dear sons of Our Lady just listen and hear,
Your team rate champions, though losers this year.
Sports toriters all clamor for scores that are high,
For upsets and new stars to laud to the sky.
If Saturday’s grid score .should dozvzi Notre Dame,
•. Champion sportsmanship zvill zein ultra fame.
Fighting Irish e’er true so deserves their name,
Putting forth best efforts as playing life’s game.
Our Lord and Our Mother knezu earthly defeat,
But zue knoiv o’er their deaths zvere victors complete
A fine Christian spirit stazids foremost alzvays
, Though minzis grid glory, The Champs are Leahy’s!
Mrs. M. B. Dolan Yazoo City, Miss.
Thanks, Everybody!
Editor:
On behalf of the Sophomore officers, I wish to thank all who made the 1950 Sophomore Cotillion the pleasurable success that it was.
The committees did a wonderful job
FOR YOUR ACTIVE CAMPUS LIFE . . .
Arrow "Gabanaro'sports shirts
In Your Exact Collar Size And Sleeve Length!
Sleeves too long? Collar too tight? Not a chance! This superb sports shirt is sized like your regular Arrow shirts, so you can ask for your exact collar size, your exact sleeve length, and be sure of perfect fit. Fine quality gabardine . . . really washable!
In a wide choice of colors!
$5.95
ARROW SHIRTS & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Choose your ARROW SHIRTS
from the complete selection in the Men’s Shop at
First Floor
ROBERTSON’S
SPoutk^end
Make GILBERT’S your ARROW headquarters
GILBERTS
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
3
Nov. 17, 1950
and should be especially commended for the fine decorations, favors, programs, band, and the arrangements made for room reservations. It was because of the work of these and the other committees that the whole weekend was such a smooth success. '
Also to be most highly commended are the general chairmen, Mike McNulty and Jerry Kelley, who bore the brunt of the responsibility so well and who so successfully coordinated all committee work. To all who worked, the officers of the Sophomore class offer their hearty congratulations for a job well done.
At this time, we would also like to thank formally the Scholastic and WND for their fine publicity; Father ’ Kehoe and Father Leahy, without whose time, cooperation and good counsel the success could not have been achieved; the upperclassmen who advised us on technique; and last but by no means least to the men of the Sophomore, Junior, and Senior classes who so marvelously supported oui' efforts by their enthusiastic attendance.
438 Cavanaugh
John M. O’Connell
President of Sophomore Class
£
1
<<
Nous ne savons pas
Editor:
I am inquiring whether your spelling of Villa Duchesne (Academy) in St. Louis County as Villa du Chien is a halfhearted pun, or just ignorance of the French language.
The school is named for Mother Duchesne, foundress of the Religious of the Sacred Heart. It is situated in Clayton, Mo., amid beautiful natural scenery, which its graduates and students admirably reflect.
Dave Burrell
259 Zahm
Just ignorance of the French language.—Editor.
Heads in the sand
Editor:
If the editors of the Scholastic had consulted the facts, they would have found that at the Engineers’ Ball last February, two bands provided continuous dancing. This is not a new innovation by the lawyers.
Of course the editors are probably not aware that the engineers are capable of doing anything but read slide-rules. If the editors of the Scholastic would pull their heads out of the sand, they would not so often display their unmitigated ignorance.
Alumni Hall
Chuck Lensenmeyer
We apologize to the engineers for this mistake and must blame it on a short memory.—Editor.
The Scholastic
'^1

by
Top of the Week
Thursday is Thanksgiving Day. . . .
Shutter Trouble
Remember those I.D. photos you had taken when you registered this Fall? They were supposed to go into the plastic football ticket holders. They were supposed to serve as identification when the waitress at Walgreen’s refused to serve you a soda. They were supposed to do a whole lot of things, but they didn’t and you can bet your Eversharp Shick Injector they never will.
Out of more than 4,500 photos snapped in the Drill Hall, 800 turned out. Some people say the shutter was fouled up, but the WEEK correspondent in charge of photos and their derivatives reports that it wasn’t the camera’s fault at all.
Whoever was taking the pictures was so impressed by the architectural magnificence of the Drill Hall, they took more than 3,800 views of the beams and buttresses, not to mention cornices and caryatids.
Another Fumble
from Cambridge, is always the poison of the Ivy League.
What we’re working on now, between term papers and book reports, is a foolproof system of ranking football teams. We are considering all press malarky, traditions, schedules, rosters, statistics, school colors, girl cheerleaders, mascots, weather conditions at each game, etc. It should be done about 1974.
Frosted Pumpkins
Soph Cotillion-goers nearly shivered out of their tuxes and Diors last Friday evening as the temperature dipped to practically nothing. We didn’t go to the dance because our buttoniere wilted, but those who did attend said it was O.K.— Overcrowded and Knotted-up.
While the Sophomores shivered, the neophyte barristers at the Law Ball kept themselves warm by burning torts and writs, while they bundled up in fur-lined moot courts.
Elections Again
Everybody else had their elections earlier this month, but ND Freshmen
have to buck tradition at this early stage in the game and hold their ballot- ' ing next week. A list of candidates offers little in the way of forecast material, but some of the party names have an interesting ring.
That Centralist Party sounds pretty Red to us and the Square Deal Party reeks with Trumanism. The Chicago Tribune has been running a series of articles about the United Halls Party and attacking both the organization and their flag, which they say will never replace the good old “stars and stripes.”
Brother Publication
An editorial in last week’s issue called the Juggler and Technical Review our “brother publications.” Such statements can promote birth control more than you realize. Who, in their right mind, would ever be a brother to a Juggler or a Technical Review?
You can think of us as cousins, or maybe mothers-in-law, but never brothers. If such talk continues, we’re going to have to stop publishing for the whole second semester, to let the Dome come . out.
Bottom of the Week .
. . . for those pink slips we should be thankful?	•
DIAMONDS—JEWELRY—WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St J. M. S. Bldg.
Our 1950 home football season came to a chilly close last Saturday in the “House that Rock built.”
With the home finale, marvelous in itself, came the realization that another football season is fast approaching its demise and that Army is still being considered for the “best team in the nation” award.
We hate to bring up the Army, whether it be West Point or the others who do the fighting and classifying, but this sad situation should be cleared up in a hurry or we’re liable to stop believing football polls.
Coach Blaik’s “Black Knights of the Hudson” should be on the top of one poll we know of. Army deserves a first for being the only team in the country to play New Mexico, Colgate and Harvard in one season and still keep their victory string intact. Why, we remember when mighty New Mexico was the scourge of the Southwest and at the mere mention of Colgate opposing coaches signed up for long terms with the French Foreign Legion. And everybody knows that Harvard, that colossus
learn to dance the George Davis way

II RATES NOW , IN EFFECT
. . . two can learn to dance for the cost of one the GEORGE DAVIS way and save 50%. Call 3-8229 for free trial lesson.
DANCE FIESTA Every Thursday, 9 p. m. All Notre Dame students invited to attend our friendly socials. No charge.
SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST DANCE STUDIO
CjuftCJt' 7)^1^ STUDIOS
106 W. MONROE comer Michigan SOUTH BEND Dial 3-8229
Nov. 17, 1950
5
NOVEMBER 17
COLFAX (through Nov. 22) Glass Menagerie (Legion of Decency Rating A-2) has lost some of its charm in transition from stage to screen. Tennessee Williams allowed them to ham up parts of the story and a few of the characters. Jane Wyman, Gertrude Lawrence, Arthur Kennedy and Kirk Douglas are the stars. GRANADA (through Nov. 22) Frank Lovejoy and Kirk Douglas are in The Sound of Fury, a brutal, adult story of a kidnaping. The film is marred by a duel plot—the weaker half brings in some preachy moralizing about the power of the press. Everybody*’ Dancing (A-2) has Spade Cooley in the leading role— whoever he is. PALACE (through Nov. 22) Lucille Ball makes more out of Fuller Brush Girl (A-2) than it deserves. The co-pic, Last of Buccaneers (A-l), is a sad example of a swashbuckler, with Paul Hen-ried and Jack Oakie in the lead roles. AVON (indefinite run). Those who saw the sneak preview of King Solomon’s Mines (A-l) will tell you of its entertainment values. Stewart Granger, Deborah Kerr and Richard Carlson are supported by a continent full of African animals.
NOVEMBER 18
PALAIS ROYALE—One of the best bets in town is the Student Council Dance. WASHINGTON HALL—Claudette Colbert and Robert Ryan are the headliners in Secret Fury (A-2), a fair-to-middlin’ thriller.
NOVEMBER 22
WASHINGTON HALL—For all those who don’t leave the premises for Thanksgiving, there will be a showing of Bride For Sale, an innocuous comedy with Claudette Colbert, again, and Robert Young leading the merriment.
NOVEMBER 23
CAMPUS—Holiday means no classes. COLFAX (through Nov. 29). With Fred Astaire and Betty Hutton as the stars of this technicolored musical, there’s no reason why Letts Dance (A-2) couldn’t have been better. Despite its plot failings, it stilb rates as pretty good entertainment. GRANADA (through Dec. 2)—John Ford has done it again. This time the western is called Rio Grande and features such old standbys as John Wayne, Maureen O’Hara, Claude Jarman, Jr., Victor Mc-Laglen, Ben Johnson, Chill Wills, and J. Carrol Naish. When it comes to this type film, Ford can’t be beat. Holiday Rhythm is one of those things that can be skipped. PALACE (through Nov. 28)—Joan Caulfield and Robert Cummings can’t do much for Petty Girl (B) a tired musical if there ever was one. Between Midnight and Dawn (A-2) with Mark Stevens and Edmund O’Brien is a good cops-and-robbers meller-drama.
NOVEMBER 24
WASHINGTON HALL—Rev. Joseph LaFarge, S.J., a member of the editorial staff of America magazine, ■will speak at 8 p.m. undei- the joint auspices of the Lecture and Concert Series and the Department of Sociology.
NOVEMBER 25
WASHINGTON HALL—White Tower (A-l) will be remembered for its many beautiful colored shots of the Alps. The story of mountain climbing is a bit too pat but Glenn Ford, Valli and a fine supporting cast aid it a lot.
NOVEMBER 27
WASHINGTON HALL (through Nov. 30) The University Theater opens its season with Kaufman and Hart’s uproarious comedy, The Man Who Came To Dinner. Advance reports seeping out say it’ll be the best production the group has ever put on.
NOVEMBER 30
LAW AUDITORIUM —Professor Etienne Gilson, noted historian of philosophy, will present a talk at 8 p.m. under the auspices of the Medieval Institute.

Vol. 92 November 17. 1950 No. 10
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus
Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
KENNETH A. THOREN '51
Associate Editors WALTON R. COLLINS '51 JOHN H. JANOWSKI '51
JOHN J. POWERS '52________________News
CHARLES B. DULLEA '52____Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE '51_______Features
JOHN F. MEANEY '52 Sports
JACK R. VARLEY *52______Assistant Sports JAMES E. McLAUGHLIN '51____Photography
LEON GARDNER, '52____________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER Advertising
WILLIAM J. HOSCHEIDT '51___Advertising
ROBERT WILDEMAN *52 Circulation
JAMES ROGERS '51___________Circulation
DALE FRANCIS__________Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Thanksgiving Day is Turkey day according to a tradition established somewhere in New England. (This is before the invention of the Midwest, needless to say.) Never one to break a tradition that has its tasty aspects, we picture a typical (?) pose of expectation before the feast on this week’s cover. Phil Roehrig, of Ludington, Mich., is all set to tear into the white meat and giblet gravy and mincemeat pie. Photo by McLaughlin.
6
The Scholastic
They Deserve Something
The game was in the bag. People were already clogging the aisles on their way out. Time was gone but Pitt was allowed one more play because of penalties.
Bestwick of the Panthers dropped back and tossed a long one. Warriner snagged the pass, waited until he got some protection and then with his escort rolled down the field. If Pitt’s big end had made that touchdown it wouldn’t have changed the score decisively but it would have taken some kick out of the victory. The fact is, however, War-rincr didn’t make that TD—he didn’t make it because a guy named Tom Carter nailed him.
A guy named Tom Carter has never made the headlines. Neither have guys named Bill Higgins, Chuck Feigl, Ray Jonardi, Ed Smith, Gene Smith oi' Bill Whiteside. Their total playing time is slight. And sports writers go after just stars.
There’s no colorful copy in these players. They haven’t done much. They merely started practicing with the Notre Dame team in the Fall of ’47 and have kept at it ever since. All they did was go out on Cartier every day for a few months in the Fall and a few more months in the Spring for four years. They went out there and banged heads.
Some of them probably knew they’d never become AllAmericans, yet that didn’t affect their desire to work. A few of their number dropped along the route. These seven men, however, stuck it out.
Every year the team graduates a handful of players like them. They’ve never brought glory to the school—in the headline sense—but they have worked for it—and hard!
A few years back the Athletic Department gave out Monograms to all Seniors on the team. If they had the required amount of playing time they received the regular type. If they did not have the required amount of time they received Monograms with a small AA printed in one corner.
Although there’s nothing wrong with the fencing squad or the rifle squad, it’s hard to see the logic in how they can receive Monograms while the battered second-runners on the football squad go unrecognized. It just doesn’t make sense.	■
Maybe Carter, Higgins, Feigl, Jonardi, the two Smiths or Whiteside will garner enough time to win a Monogram this year. If not, then they should at least be rewarded with some sort of recognition. ■
For when you come right down to it, isn’t throwing a block harder work than pulling a trigger? And isn’t being tackled somewhat out of the physical contact class of clashing a few swords?
You say, of course? Then why aren’t the men who play football recognized more? Ask the Athletic Department.
Nov. 17, 1950
No One to Blame
In four days Freshmen go to the polls. Election of class officers is being held. Perhaps the first year men haven’t been told, but Notre Dame makes a big thing of elections. And maybe that’s why their elections have been thus far a washout.
Generally during election time the campus is covered with posters. You can’t help but know who’s running. This year the frosh must be keeping their candidates a secret. Unless, of course, they aren’t taking the election seriously.
If that’s the case then they are making a big mistake. It’s true that the officers of the Class of ’54 won’t have much to do. Much, that is. in line of directing social activities. But the officers are needed, among other reasons, to represent the .class in the Student Council.
The Freshmen should try to know all candidates who are running. Sure, that’s a big order, considering the size of the class. So, get to know as many as possible. Do a good job of picking. Why not be at the rally in Washington Hall at 7:30 tonight? o	*
Don’t look upon next .week’s elections lightly. If your year as a class is a bust because of poor officers you’ll have no one to blame except yourselves. Get good men to lead your class and you’ll have a successful year. Reverse that and you’ll find it’s also true.
Jobs for You
This year another record number of American College students will leave the ivy-covered, walls to seek their fortunes in the outer world. As in the past few years, the employment situation isn’t a happy one. Jobs are hard to find!
There’s not much we can do about this right now. But it stands to reason that college men should be making every effort to secure satisfactory futures for themselves. That’s why we can’t understand why Notre Dame men, Seniors especially, don’t pay more attention to the Placement Bureau. The present director, Mr. William Dooley, has put a great deal of time and effort into making it work. From all reports, it’s beginning to pay off.
Right now, the Bureau is sending brochures to leading O'	O	o
businesmen and corporations all over the United States. The brochures explain the function of the Placement Bureau and describe the courses and training Notre Dame students receive.
This is just an example of the efforts the Bureau is making in trying to place N.D. men in jobs of their choice. Why not check on the bulletins the Bureau posts all over campus? Why not stop in and see what can be done for you?
’	7
Bvrt—oxford button-down collar with the soft roll (the college man’s staple diet). A "Manhattan,” of course.
Range —fine white broadcloth with the wide-spread collar. Made by "Manhattan,” which means perfect fit.
The Manhattan Shirt Company, makers of "Manhattan" shirts, ties, underwear, pajamas, sportsnirts, beachuiear and handkerchiefs.
"CHRISTMAS?
. .. sorry,
— we don't understand!"
60 MILLION
people in Bengal province of India don’t know the meaning of this word!
•	WHY?
Lack of missionaries.
Lack of facilities to expand Christ’s kingdom.
•	HOW can I help?
By prayers for the missionaries.
By prayers for vocations.
By your material support of the Bengal Bouts and buying religious Christmas cards in your residence halls.
•	WHAT do I do?
See that the “Christ” is kept in Christmas by sending out and talking up the religious meaning of Christmas.
THE MOREAU MISSION SOCIETY
Moreau Seminary
Notre Dame, Indiana
Dear Seminarians:
Yes. I’d like to help spread the meaning- of Christmas among India’s pagans. Please send me----------'box(es) of religious Christmas
cards at $1 a box of 18.
Name_______________________________________
Address____________________________________
City.______________________________________
Postal zone and state__________________________________
The Scholastic
8

VOLUME 92, NUMBER 10
NOVEMBER 17, 1950
University Theatre Starts Ticket Distribution; Final Castings Made on Kaufman-Hart Hay
Tickets for the University Theatre’s production, The Man Who Came to Dinner may be obtained free of charge by all students, the faculty, the staff and also their guests from Nov. 23 through Nov. 25, in Washington Hall. The times of distribution will be from noon to 1 p.m. and from 5 to 6 p.m. each day. Curtain time for the Kaufman and Hart production, which had a long impressive run in New York, is at 8:15 p.m. with performances in Washington Hall from Nov. 27 through 30.
Mr. William J. Eisen, head of the Department of Speech, and Mr. Leonard Sommer, director of the play, have announced that final preparations are in order and that rehearsals are running smoothly. Final casting for all roles has been made. The leading part of the contentious Sheridan Whiteside will be enacted by Skipper Swift. Patricia Mc-Caughn as Maggie Culter, Dick Wolfgan as Bert Jefferson and Alice Weiss as Lorraine Sheldon will constitute the romantic trio involved in the play. John Schneller will act the part of Banjo, Mike Murray as Beverly Carlton and Jack Roberts will play as Dr. Bradley.
Three prominent athletes will also
Skate Rink Erected
Optimistic ice-skating enthusiasts can start sharpening their skates soon. If the freezing temperatures of the past several days continue, Notre Dame will have an ice-skating rink with ice in it.
Last year the rink was constructed in anticipation of much good skating weather, but an unusually balmy winter hampered the project; the water reC fused to freeze, and the rink was used as a football and baseball field. -
For the last few weeks, during their spare time, the University’s maintenance men have been assembling the wall sections of the outdoor rink, located just north of Zahm hall. The enclosure will be flooded and, if the water freezes, opened to all skaters.
Another rink is being considered for the erstwhile tennis court behind Lyons hall. Work will begin on this pond only if there is no danger that the cinder - road nearby will be washed out.
make an appearance for the first time on the University stage. Bob Williams and Dick Cotter, both experienced turftreaders, and Marty O’Connor, of hardwood fame, will operate as the three convict luncheon guests.
The stage manager is Bill Hank. Dan Caulfield is head of the stage crew and is assisted by John Jarnot, John See, Dick Simon, Francis Ferro and James Barry. Bob O’Neill and Jane Sparks are the make-up artists. The setting was designed and executed by Prof. C. Robert Egry of the Department of Mechanical Engineering, and he is assisted by Dolores Io Rio.
Properties are handled by Pat Shanahan and she is assisted by Dorothy Jones. The house manager is George Pope. Ushers are James Good, Lou Matt, John Greulich, Edward Hughes, Tom Stadler, Joe Seiner, Lawrence Schneider, Cornelius Desmond, Harry Snyder, Robert Gavin, Tom Hanrahan, Joe Martin, Robert Mortensen, James Foley and John Manhoeffer.
----- CLUB REGISTRATION ----------
The Student Council Office wishes to inform those clubs which have not yet registered that they are not recognized by the Council or by the University, and, as such, they will not be permitted to hold meetings, dances, dinners, and other activities as organizations.
The presidents of the clubs listed below, and of any other existing organizations which have failed to do so, are urged to register their clubs at the Student Council Office, 122 Main, before the final deadline, Nov. 23.
Boston Cent. New York Chinese Cleveland Connecticut Florida
Iowa
Kampus Keglers Memphis
Minneapolis Minnesota Monogram Oklahoma Press Servers Toledo Utica
Western Pennsylvania
Official charters for the 70 clubs registered with the Council so far this year are now being sent to the club presidents.
Council Brings Law To Saturday Movies
One of the last strongholds of anarchy in our modem society is faced with reform in the near future.
Under the firm and unrelenting direction of the Blue Circle, the law will come to Washington Hall on Saturday nights, destroying an old tradition of spontaneous pandemonium at the weekly exhuming of even older motion pictures. This revelation was made by Tom Carroll at last Monday’s Student Council meeting.
Plans under consideration call for the Ushering Committee of the Blue Circle to provide ushers at the showings, perhaps some of them football players.
These men would see there were no seats saved later than ten minutes before show time, no standees to block the exits (in keeping with the fire ordinances) and none of the unwarranted rowdiness which is at present a trademark of these affairs.
Complaints on the flower concession were also aired at the same meeting. These were answered by Dave O’Leary on behalf of himself and Wally Purcell, who hold the concession.
The Hall Council Committee reported that there will be a meeting of the Freshman class in the near future to introduce candidates for Freshman class offices. Details will be posted on the bulletin boards.
Old Political Science Club Revamped for Operation
Recently re-established, the Academy of Political Science has resumed activities aimed at promoting a genuine inter-, est in the field of politics and the application of Christian principles to that field.
The club, which existed on the campus in pre-war days, intends to have speakers of particular interest and stature in the political science field address its members. Social affairs are also in the offing.
The organization, open to all political science majors, has held two meetings to date, amending and ratifying a constitution and electing officers. The year’s staff of leaders includes Richard Small, president; Dan Minahan, vice-president; William Lewis, secretary; and Frank Gambroni, treasurer.
Nov. 17, 1950
9
Emphasis Given Importance of Library: Steps Being Taken to Improve Facilities
The modern university can be no better than its library facilities. Recognizing this fact, Notre Dame is currently making an all-out effort both to improve and to exp a n d its library s y s t e m. The exhaustive library survey now in progress is the first step in this direction.
Two of the foremost library tech-n i c i a n s in the country are making this study, at the request of Univ e r s i t y officials. The surveyors are Dr. Louis Wilson, head librarian of the University of North Carolina, and former Dean of the Graduate Libraries of Chicago, and M r. Frank Lundy, Director of Libraries of the University of Nebraska. Dr.
Wilson has already completed similar studies of library facilities at a number of other colleges, including Cornell, Stanford, and Alabama Polytech.
For- the greater part of the past ten days, Dr. Wilson and Mr. Lundy have concentrated upon a series of interviews with members of the administration, Deans of the Colleges, departmental heads and faculty members. The topics discussed included the degree of support which the present library system lends to the educational program in each department, and the amount of material available for research and supplementary reading. Also, an effort was made to determine whether sufficient funds were available for the acquisition of new books in each field.
Later, a number of graduate students were queried to find out if library resources are sufficient to meet the needs of graduate level research and study. In addition, a large number of questionnaires have been distributed to undergraduates, asking their opinions of library service and available books.
Within a few days, the study will have been completed, and Dr. Wilson and Mr. Lundy will begin an extensive
report on their findings. This final report will contain all the recommendations agreed upon in the survey, and
Here to inspect Notre Dame's library system are L. R. Wilson (left) and Frank A. Lundry, American Library Assoc, surveyors.
should be available within a few months.
Special attention will be given to the problem of whether all the University libraries should be consolidated into one unit, or whether separate departmental libraries should be maintained. Other’ recommendations will help decide whether present library space is adequate, or whether plans should be stepped up for the proposed library annex.
Met Club Selects Waldorf For Annual Christmas Hop
The Starlight Roof of the famed Waldorf-Astoria Hotel has been selected by the Met Club of Notre Dame as the site of its annual Christmas Formal. This year’s dance, to be held on Dec. 26, will feature the music of Harry Arnold and his orchestra. Dancing will begin at 9 p.m. and will continue until 2 a.m.
Dance Chairman John O’Brien has ex‘ tended an invitation to all New Yorkers and their friends. Tickets for the dance, which are priced at $6 per couple, can be obtained from the Club’s hall representatives, or from ticket chairman Bob Clemency of 232 Dillon.
-------- PREREGISTRATION ------------
Preregistration began yesterday and will continue through Wednesday. According to University regulations there is a fee of $10.00 for preregistration after the close of specified registration period. All A.B. and Commerce students who have not received preregistration cards arc requested to report at the Office of Academic Affairs so a time may be assigned to them. ■ ■
Gilson to Speak Here On History of Thought
Under the auspices of the Medieval Institute, Professor Etienne Gilson, one of the leading historians of philosophy, will present a series of four lectures beginning Nov. 30. Three of them dealing with “The Fundamental Positions of Duns Scotus in the Light of Historical Research” will be given in room 101 of the Law Building, Nov. 30 at 4:15 p.m. Dec. 1 at 4:15 p.m., and Dec. 2 at 11 a.m. The other, entitled “Historical Research and the Future of Scholasticism,” T is scheduled for the Law Auditorium Nov. 30 at 8:15 p.m.
“It is difficult to describe Gilson,” stated Rev. Gerald Phelan, of the Medieval Institute, “his work has been extensive. He holds honorary degrees from such leading universities as Oxford, Cambridge, Glasgow, Yale, and Princeton.”
A member of the College de France, Professor Gilson also is Director of Studies at the Pontifical Institute of Medieval Studies, Toronto. He is co-founder of this latter institution. His native country of France has bestowed upon him the highest honor open to a French scholar, membership in the French Academy.
In addition to his lecturing, Professor Gilson has produced, numerous volumes on the history of philosophy. In his noted work The Philosophy of the Middle Ages he treats the period from the ._ Fathers of the Church to the Italian Renaissance. Other works of his include The Unity of Philosophical Experience, Spirit of Medieval Philosophy, and Being and Some Philosophers.
For the past few years Professor Gilson has divided his time between his work at the Pontifical Institute and the College de France. He has been in Canada since October- and plans to return to France at Christmas time. This series will mark the third time he has lectured at Notre Dame.	—
The Scholastic
10
NFCCS Wing Elects Chairman, Secretary
F. A. “Buck” Hennigan, a Morrissey Hall Sophomore and representative of the Young Christian Students organization, was elected chairman of the campus NFCCS Apostolic Chapter at its weekly meeting Monday. The post of secretary went to Sorin Hall’s Arnie Lane, Knights of Columbus representative.
In the future, Hennigan will conduct all meetings of the Apostolic group. Lane will serve as “contact man” with student religious and Catholic Action organizations in other- NFCCS-affiliated colleges, as well as handle reports to the Fort Wayne Region Apostolic Commission.
Previously, while the chapter was still in the early formative stages, these duties were performed by the NFCCS Notre Dame Council officers, Jim Garvin, John O’Connell, and Don Carbone. These men will continue to serve in an advisory capacity, and will now be free to concentrate on the creation of similar NFCCS chapters covering other fields of student activity at Notre Dame.
With the election of officers accomplished, the Apostolic group will concern itself with formulating a constitution. The council is still awaiting word from the Administration regarding the approval of its May Day Ceremony plans.
In addition to Hennigan and Lane, those members present include Fred Brice and Ed Burke of the Third Order of St. Francis, Don Krebs and John Maclnnes of the Liturgy Club, and Bill Rich, YCS president.
Rich and Brice outlined the aims and activities of the organizations. The other groups will do likewise at next Monday’s meeting, scheduled for 4:15 p. m. in Room 120 of the Main Building.
At the suggestion of Rev. Richard Grimm, C.S.C., Prefect of Religion, this week’s meeting was closed to the club moderators.
The Apostolic Chapter may include a fifth organization soon. Attempts are being made to form a Confraternity of Christian Doctrine here, composed of students willing to instruct Catholic children deprived of a religious education. The Confrateraity at St. Mary’s College is a leader in this field.
Albert G. Feeney, mayor of Indianapolis and former Notre Dame All-American, died of a heart attack Sunday, his 59th birthday. Mr. Feeney was a teammate of Knute Rockne.
Father Mendez Completes ’Hat Trick1 Between Halls
Sunday was moving day for Rev. Alfred Mendez, c.s.c., rector of Badin hall.
Because of the sudden illness of Rev. Robert Woodward, c.s.c., rector of Dillon, Father Mendez has been asked to assume the rectorship of that hall. Rev. Regis Riter, c.s.c., will step into the open position at Badin.
Father Mendez
Moving to Dillon is the latest in a long line of steps by Father Mendez. On the first day of this semester he was living on the second floor of Walsh, after spending the summer in Mexico. He claims that he was routed out of bed the first night back, and told that his-new home was Badin. Now he has moved again.
Father Mendez admits that switching halls does have its little problems. After learning 146 names while at Badin, he faces the prospect of trying to learn 440 new ones. “At least,” he observed, “I can prepare the way for my boys for next year.”
Degrees to Be Conferred On 171 January Grads
A total of 171 men will receive their degrees during the Jan. 28 commencement exercises. Five of the University’s colleges will be represented among the graduates.
Sixty-five men will complete their stay in the College of Arts and Letters, this group being the largest of all. The College of Commerce comes next with 49 graduates. Next come engineering,-25; law, 23, and science, 9. As yet the speakers have not been selected.
Job Brochures Sent By Placement Bureau
Endeavoring to increase the employment opportunities open to Notre Dame graduates, the Placement Bureau is sending brochures to all the leading businessmen and industries in the country to inform them of the workings of the Bureau and of the courses taught here.
Mr. William Dooley, director of the Placement Bureau, also disclosed the following list of men coming to interview this year’s prospective graduates:
Dr. Schumacher, representative for the Standard Oil ompany of Indiana, Hammond, Ind., was at Notre Dame yesterday to interview M.S. and Ph.D. chemists who will be available for work anytime in 1951.
Monday Dr. Ralph M. Hill, from Esso • Laboratories of the Standard Oil Development Co.. Linden, N. Y., will interview Ph.D. chemists.
Mr. Sandford S. Cole, assistant manager of research of the National Lead Co., South Amboy, N. J., will be on the campus Tuesday to interview prospective graduates in chemistry, chemical engineering, and metallurgy at the bachelor, master and doctorate levels in these fields for research and development work.
Messrs. Les Jasker and J. E. Caldwell, of the Armour Laboratories, Chicago, Ill., will be at Notre Dame Dec. 4 to interview those students graduating by June, 1951, who may be interested in employment with Armour & Co.
Dec. 4 Mr. Frank S. Coe, representing the Chance Vought Aircraft Co., Dallas, Texas, will interview senior engineering students.
Freedom Foundation Award Bestowed on Father Keller
Rev. Edward A. Keller, C.S.C., professor of economics and director of Notre Dame’s Bureau of Economic Research, has been named a recipient of the 1950 Freedom Foundation award. He was so honored for his work “in bringing about a better understanding of our American way of life.”
Father Keller has been a member of the faculty since 1934. He is also consulting economist to the American Economic Foundation and a member of the advisory board of the National Labor-Management Foundation.
He is the author of many publications on money, wealth and the distribution of wealth in the United States. Father Keller is also the author of The Church, and Our Economic System.
Nov. 17, 1950
11
John Brady and date deep in thought. Eager Cotillion couples wait in crowded Palais lobby for their bids and favors.
ABOVE: The happy smiles
are proof that the Sophomore Cotillion was a success.
Cotillion co-chairmen Mike McNulty (left) and Jerry Kelley pose with their queens.

BELOW: The dance obviously wasn't all work and no play for the committee heads.
12
The Scholastic
Terpsichore Rules Supreme
If you had been walking through the streets of South Bend one week ago tonight, you would have been struck by a rather odd scent in the air. Instead of the essence of exhaust fumes which usually perfumes the Athens of the West, there was a new, fresh, different quality to the ozone.
Upon further investigation, you would have discovered it to be a compound, much prized in the storied East, of Tabu and Mennen Skin Bracer, in equal parts. For this was the night of the dance. Beg pardon, dances.
To the Palais Royale ballroom trooped scores of Sophomores, dates, flower vendors, tuxedo renters, creditors, and other friends. To the Progress Club streamed countless young Clarence Darrows, then’ accompanying Portias, process servers,
junior partners, dyspeptic bailiffs, and other denizens of the legal world.
One was the Sophomore Cotillion; the other, the Law Ball.
For some 550 couples it was a night in Paris as the second-year men transformed the Colfax Avenue ballroom into a Gallic park scene. For 175 pairs it was carnival time with fledgling advocates creating a little atmosphere of the tanbark in true Barnum fashion.
Frankie Masters and his orchestra provided the Parisienne strains for the pan de deux, or whatever Berlitz calls it. At the Progress Club it was Herbie Germann and the Aristocrats giving out with the rhythms down the midway. The Jerry Costello quartet also lent its melodies to the evening while the Aristocrats were off riding the ferris wheel.
Honored guests, Prof, and Mrs. Sullivan, applauded loudly by young barristers.
ABOVE: Law Ball Chairmen Dave Matthews and Bill Ethridge danc e with their queens (left) and pose with Court of Honor (right).
BELOW: Dean and Mrs. Manion (left) chat with their fellow guest s, while one couple (right) coaxes the photographer to take a ride.
Nov. 17, 1950
Natural Law Institute
•	J'
Schedule Announced
Friday, Dec. 8, will mark the beginning of the Fourth Institute of Natural Law, held in the Notre Dame Law Auditorium. The Institute will be spon- • sored by Alvin A. Gould, Cincinnati businessman, and will last for two days. The speakers will be George Sokolsky, the Hon. Thomas J. Brogan, the Hon. Joseph C. Hutcheson, jr., Felix Morley, and the Rev. John’C. Ford, S.J.
George Sokolsky, a nationally syndicated newspaper columnist from New York City, will speak at 2:30 p.m. Dec. 8, on “The Source of Human Rights.” That night, at 8 p.m., the Hon. Thomas J. Brogan, of the Jersey City, N. J., Bar will speak on “The Right to Liberty.” Following Judge Brogan’s talk, the Hon. Joseph C. Hutcheson, Jr., Chief Judge of the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals, Houston, Texas, will discuss “The Right to Property.”
At 9:30 on the following day, Felix Morley, of Washington, D. C-, will speak
K.C. Holds Forma! at Indiana Club Tonight
Reigning as queens at the Knights of Columbus Formal tonight will be the dates of the co-chairmen. Mrs. Carol Savage, from Streator, Ill., a nurse at Memorial Hospital, will attend with her husband, Robert Savage; Miss Fat Ad-amshick, of Maumee, Ohio, a graduate of Barry College, Miami, Fla., will be
Co-chairmen of this evening's Knights of Columbus dance, John Celusta (far left) and Bob Savage (far right), talk over the formal affair with their committeemen.
on “The Right to Self-Expression.” The Rev. John C. Ford, S.J., will have “The Right to Pursue Happiness” as the subject of his talk, following Judge Hutcheson. Father Ford is professor of Moral Theology at Weston College, Weston, Mass.
The final meeting of the Institute will be at 2 p.m., Dec. 9. There will be a panel discussion before the audience by all five speakers. Mr. Sokolsky will act as monitor of this discussion.
Stork Does Double Duty, Vetville Census Reveals
All noses have finally been enumerated in Vetville. Final figures show a total of 439 residents, 205 of them children.
The little village is becoming more youthful by the day, as the 234 adults are discovering. In addition, 22 more members of the younger set are on the way. The residents are a cosmopolitan group, representing 37 states and all the colleges of the University. All the above statistics are based on the premise that each person has one nose.
the dance guest of John Celusta.
Music for the dance, which will be held at the Indiana Club, will be provided by Bud Simpson and his orchestra from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Those students attending the dance will have 2:30 permissions. Car permissions may be obtained from the Director- of Studies Office.
Four Quartets Sign For Frosh Elections
Four parties have registered candidates for the election of Freshman class officers next Tuesday. This election, which is being conducted by the Blue Circle, will be held in the basement of the Dining Hall during the regular lunch and dinner hours. There Blue Circle men will give out ballots to the Freshmen.
The men who are elected president and vice-president will automatically become members of the Student Council. As such, they will be expected to attend its meetings and participate in its projects. They will have a major part in planning the Freshman Frolic in the Spring.
The four parties which have registered for the election are the United Halls Party, 'the Frosh Party, the Centralist Party, and the Square Deal Party. The United Halls Party’s candidates are John Reidy of 408 St. Ed’s for president, Joe Katchick of 341 Zahm for vice-president, Bill Sullivan of 250 Farley for secretary, and John Reynolds of 125 Breen-Phillips for treasurer.
The Frosh Party offers the following slate: president, Tom Schoen of 316 St. Ed’s; vice-president, John Lattner of 262 Zahm; secretary, Jack Burns of 319 St. Ed’s; treasurer, Joe Bertrand of 114 Farley.
The Centralist Party has for its candidates four Breen-Phillips men, Joe Weis of 316, Smitty Meehan of 128, Russ Hagerty of 309, and Don McLaughlin of 419 for president, vice-president, treasurer, and secretary, respectively. Like the Centralist Party, the Square Deal Party’s men are all from one hall—Farley. Its candidates are Jim Lantis of 151, Mike Harrigan also of 151, Jim Bertrand of 150, and Dick Crowl of 352.
ND Starts Clothing Drive For Korean War Victims
Beginning Sunday, the University will conduct a clothing drive on campus to aid victims of the Korean conflict. Old clothes will be collected in a canvass of the halls by a campus organization throughout the week.
The drive is Notre Dame’s answer to a proposal by the Catholic Bishops of America for- an emergency clothing campaign on behalf of the people of war-ravaged Korea as well as European refugees.
In a special appeal sent to the University, Rev. George Carroll of the NCWC War Relief Service, stressed the needs of these impoverished people. The drive will end Nov. 26.
14
The Scholastic
Report from Rome...
Our Lady's Assumption
Rome, Italy, Nov 1 (Special to the Scholastic)—Many new and wonderful experiences have come to us during these months in Italy, but today, we feel, has eclipsed them all. For today we were privileged to assist at the proclamation of the Dogma of the Assumption in St. Peter’s Square.
To be exact, the ceremonies attending the proclamation began, not this morning in St. Peter’s Square, but early last evening in the church of Santa Maria in Ara Coeli. Evening had just begun to fall in a russet mist over the ruins and the square as the image of the Virgin descended the long scalata which leads from the Ara Coeli to the Corso. Traffic had come to rest along the streets and boulevards and a hush to match the evening quiet had fallen over the
Professor A. R. Caponigri is a teacher in the department of Philosophy at Notre Dame. He is currently in Italy, on temporary leave of absence from the University, carrying on a research project under a U. S. Fulbright Scholarship.
Professor Caponigri and his wife are living in Naples, where he is affiliated for the duration of his research project with the University of Naples. This is a report on the recent Papal proclamation of the Assumption, sent to the SCHOLASTIC by Mr. and Mrs. Caponigri.
throngs gathered along the course of the procession.
As the dusk deepened, the tapers lighted in the hands of the attendants, and the procession became a shimmering rivulet of light. In the strong but mellow light of the candles, the smile of the Virgin took on a human, living warmth. The choir which preceded the statue lifted its voice in the Salve Regina and the people, massed on either hand, took up the song.
Arrival at St. Peter’s
In this way Our Lady arrived at St. Peter’s, where His Holiness waited to crown her with a slim fillet of gold, the same delicate crown which had been sent to him by the people of France on the
Nov. 17, 1950
occasion of his golden jubilee in the priesthood.
Thus crowned, Our Lady was lifted to the niche which had been prepared for her, and the Pope read for the first time in public the prayer which he himself had composed in honor of her assumption.
This morning the dusk which had attended last evening’s procession had scarcely begun to lift, and the Roman moon still shone brilliant and cold above St. Peter’s dome when the throngs began to fill the Square.
By the time the sun stood above the Castel Sant’Angelo, the throng had become a solid and seamless mass stretching from the foot of the throne, which had been erected before the central door of the Basilica, down the Via della Con-ciliazione, to the Ponte della Vittoria and the very banks of the Tiber.
In addition, faces were banked like flowers along the rim of the porticos, between the heroic statues, and along the roof tops of the Vatican buildings which look down into the square. Before the (Continued on Page 30)
Truman Names Reyniers to Science Board
Professor James A. Reyniers, director of LOBUND Institute, has been appointed by President Harry S. Truman
to serve a six-year term on the newly-established National Science Board.
The board, which is composed of 24 prominent educators, industrialists and scientists, has been designated by President Truman “to develop and encourage the formation of a national policy for the promotion of basic research and education in the sciences.” Among the board’s specific duties will be the review of all government research grants from the National Sci-ence Foundation for
to serve to serve a six-work in medicine, biology, mathematics, and engineering.
Professor Reyniers, alumnus of Notre Dame, has spent nearly 20 years of research at Notre Dame on a process by which laboratory animals can be reared in a germ-free atmosphere for scientific research. LOBUND was established as an institute this summer, when the laboratories’ new germ-free colony tank was dedicated. New light may be shed by LOBUND’S germ-free animal tech-
Illinois Zoologist Discusses Aspects of Species Problem
Dr. Hobart M. Smith, assistant professor of zoology at the University of Hlinois, spoke Nov. 7, at a seminar for the Department of Biology on “Some Aspects of the Species Problem.”
Dr. Smith is one of the country’s foremost authorities on the taxonomy of amphibians and reptiles, especially the lizards, of North America. He has done extensive work on the herpetology of Mexico under the Walter Rathbone Bacon traveling scholarship from 1938-41. He is past vice-president of the American Society of Ichthyologists and Herpetologists (1937), and is the current president of the Herpetologists League.
At the relatively young age of 38 Dr. Smith has published some 200 scientific articles on these interesting groups of animals. In addition he has written the only complete reference book on the liz- ' " ards of North America.
nique on such complex medical problems as tooth decay, heart disease, cancer and many others.
Professor James A. Reyniers
In requesting Professoi’ Reyniers’ membership on the National Science Board, President Truman stressed in a letter to the Notre Dame scientist the great responsibility which rests with the group because of the influence it will have on industrial deevlopment, national defense and the general welfare. The board will meet for the first time in Washington, D. C., on Dec. 4 to select a chairman and to formulate plans for its operation.
New Radio Club Operates Amateur Station K9FAB
With 22 members already enrolled, the Amateur Radio Club of Notre Dame expects an increase in membership during the forthcoming year.
First organized last December with the aid of the local AROTC, the club now operates amateur radio station K9FAB in the basement of the Social Science building. Recently, the “Hams” inaugurated a series of instructional classes on the international Morse Code and technical radio theory. “These courses,” stated club vice-president Joe Cusack, “are designed to assist members in securing amateur radio licenses. With five licensed members at the present, we will have a dozen or more by this coming June.”
In addition to Cusack, the Amateui-Radio Club officers are: Bernard Franz, president; Frank Halula, secretary; and Pat Redmond, treasurer. Any student who is interested in joining the organization is urged to contact membership chairman Ted Byrne at 356 Farley.
Alumni Wins Contest; Walsh, Dillon Follow
Featuring movies of former Notre Dame football games, p ennant-draped Alumni Hall drew the biggest crowds and the $50 first prize for the best hall decoration in the campus contest for the Pittsburgh game last week end.
Walsh won the $30 second prize, and Dillon, last year’s winner, pulled down the third prize of $20. The money was given to the hall councils to use as they see fit, at a halftime ceremony by Rev. J. A. Kehoe, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of Student Affairs, on behalf of the Student Council.
The displays were judged by Gerald E. Cosgrove, associate editor of the South Bend Tribune and a member of the Department of Journalism faculty, R. J. Nash, member of the Alumni Board, and J. B. Searles of the Department of Journalism of the College of Commerce. Five points formed the basis of the judging—presentation, originality, message, workmanship, and color.
The Alumni scene depicted the Pitt football players watching actual movies of the Irish games and trying to find a method to stop Bob Williams and Company. Other small scenes included a plea from Oklahoma and Ohio State players to an Army player atop a “national pole” to “Please play Notre Dame so we can get up there.”
Runner-up Walsh presented huge pages from a Life magazine, showing a student, Mike Shannonview III, struggling through a football week end, and scenes from Notre Dame’s glorious victory over Pitt. An eye-catching adver-t i s e m e n t stated that “Earl Blaik switched to New Mexico because it is milder.”
Dillon transformed its lawn into a jungle to win the show money. A defeated Panther was being carried through the jungle by the green-shirted crew of Frank “Bring ’Em Back Alive” Leahy.
Washington Club Party
Plans for a club Christmas pai-ty will highlight the Washington Club’s meeting next Monday. The meeting is scheduled for 8:00 p.m. in Room 101 of the Law Building. Also to be discussed at Monday’s meeting will be a draft of the club’s constitution. All members are urged to attend so that the Constitution may be accepted and submitted to the Student Council.
Elected officers of the club at the first meeting of the year were Brian Doherty, Tacoma, president; Jim O’Brien, Seattle, vice-president; and Whit Smith, Spokane, secretary-treasurer.
16
The Scholastic.
Poll of Students Differs From Judges1 Decisions
A poll conducted by members of the Advertising Club Saturday disclosed a rating of football decorations somewhat different from that made by the judges. Querying some 200 wondering students, the club’s tabulation showed Alumni first, as in the official selection, but followed with Howard and Sorin, neithei-of which figured in the awarding of prizes.
The question asked was “Which hall, excluding your own, has the best display • in your opinion?” Second preferences were also obtained. Alumni received 72 first-place votes, while Howard garnered 39. Sorin and Walsh, in fourth place, had 29 and 24, respectively.
Dillon, which placed third in the official tallies, did not fare so well in the student poll. However, the only three St. Mary’s girls interviewed cast their first-place votes for the Senior hall. This may be indicative of a trend. Breen-Phillips, which did not have a display, still managed to garner two votes for the initial slot.	,
Members of the Advertising Club selected students equally representing the different halls. The poll was the first in a series involving questions of general student interest which the club hopes to conduct in the near future.
Commerce Groups Complete Two Industrial Field Trips
Approximately 65 guests of the Accounting Club, including guest members from the cost accounting classes, recently toured the South Bend plant of the O’Brien Corporation as guests of the company.
The trip enabled students to see the complete processing of paints and varnishes from raw material to finished product.	’
The Commerce Forum, together with Assistant Dean Edmund Smith, Mr. J. P. Bergin, Mr. J. Alexander, and Mr. Frank O’Malley, recently engaged in a two-day industrial field trip, annually sponsored by Mr. James Gerity, Jr., president of the Gerity-Michigan Corporation, Adrian, Mich.
The group was shown through the Gerity automotive plant division and the United States Air Force manufacturing methods pilot plant, both in Adrian. They also inspected the Cadillac plant in Detroit.
The third in a series of four-hour panel discussions given jointly by the Notre Dame Accounting Club and the South Bend chapter of the National Association of Cost Accountants was held Nov. 7.	, .
Scholarship Winners Named For Better Reading Course
The Office of the Director of Studies has announced the 30 winners of the scholarships offered by the Foundation for Better Reading.
Intended to increase the student’s speed and efficiency, the course will extend over four- weeks. The winners were divided into three groups of ten. Each group will take the course separately since the Foundation isn’t equipped to handle large classes.
Every college of the University was represented in the selection of scholarship winners. Using the reading scores on English essential exams, representatives of low, average and superior classifications were chosen.
The winners by groups are:
GROUP I ■
James J. Adler (CM), Ernest J. Bartell (CM), Louis J. Garvey (Engr.), James H. Harrington (Engr.), Martin V. Earley (Sei.), Michael A. Geraghty (Sci.), John P. Bladel (AB), Alexander J. Colgan (AB), James A. Carrig (AB), Michael J. Forster (Sci.).
GROUP II
Victor B. Kroeger (CM), Louis H. Meece, Michael E. Long (Engr.), John A. Messina (Engr.), David I. Graf (Sci.), Fred lonata (Sci.), John W. Jarnot (AB), John W. Neumayr (AB), Oscar M. Hudson (AB), Thomas P. Martino (AB).
GROUP III
John R. Mullen (CM), Robert A. Tripeny (CM), James A. Reid (Engr.), Wendell G. Toomey (Engr.),’ Michael P. McDermott (Sci.), John J. O'Hara (Sci.), John C. Noel (AB), William E. Toomey (AB), Edwin C. Mertz (Grad.), Thomas L. Murray (Law).
Mike Tangles With Panther
Shannon View Mike, in company of Head Cheerleader Dick Herrle, investigates Pitt Panther. Mike asked, "Why doesn't this cat turn tail like all the rest I've met?"
Four Moot Court Trials Start Local Competition
Last Wednesday night the Law Building was the scene of the Moot court trials. Contestants in the Senior division’s first match were Louis Wynne and Charles H. Roach against John Randall and Albert Richter with Sars-field Rugley as Junior Counsellor. William Huston, Mr. Thomas Broden, and Judge G. Cavanaugh were the judges of this contest. The subject of this case was breach of contract to marry under the statute of limitations.
In the second case Richard Farrell and Daniel Walkowiak faced Cyril Vidra and Edward Duffy with William Nesbitt as Junior Counsellor. This case was on the subject of the infringement of trade names, and was judged by Arthur Beaudette, Mr. Robert Sullivan and Mr. Bruce Hammerschmidt of Ham-merschmidt and Johnson.
Chicago Club Gives Dance
A Thanksgiving Dance will be held by the Chicago Club next Wednesday evening in the Sherman Hotel. Paul Meeker and his band will play. Dancing will be from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m.
Bids may be purchased from the club’s hall representatives at $3.00 per. They will cost $4.00 at the door. All Notre Dame men are welcome.
Nov. 17, 1950
17



Plays
Just Don’t
Happen!
•j
s:
8
§
B
Slowly the curtain parts. There is a set, glowing with color and light. The actors speak and the play is on. The audience will see and laugh at the finished product. But they will not see the work and time that went into it. This is as it should be; the play should look completely natural and unrehearsed. But behind The Man Who Came to Dinner, as there is behind any good play, is a lot of work.
Director Leonard Sommer began with a play, “The Man,” and a theater, Washington Hall. The first thing to be done was the selecting of a cast. So early in October, notices of a tryout were
i
posted around campus.
f
t
More than 70 people showed up for the two tryouts. There were ten important male parts and a number of smaller “walk-ons” with only a line or two. The process of selecting a cast is a curiously boring and exciting thing. -
The tryouts were held in Room 327 of
By LARRY McDERMOTT, ’51
Photos by Al Muth, ’51
the Main Building. Parts were assigned the second night of tryouts. Only one man tried out at a time. The hours dragged slowly. It was boring; yet, there was an excitement about it; those who had read would compare the person reading with others who had read and with themselves, trying to figure out if they had a chance. Then everyone had read once and it was time for the final eliminations to begin.
Mr. Sommer read a list of those he wanted to hear read again. The others were permitted to react fbr another part if they wanted to. A few did; most of those whose names had not been called
picked up their coats and books and left quietly.
For the final eliminations the men read in direct competition with each other, one after another. When everyone had read for the part Mr. Sommer would announce the man who had the part. Sometimes it would be close and two or three men would be asked to stay. The crowd thinned out as the parts-were cast. Then there was only one part to be cast. “The Man.” Mr. Sommer, standing in the rear of the room, listened gravely to the few remaining. When the last man had read he looked down at the piece of paper he held, checking the name. Then he looked up, “Skipper Swift, you’ve got the part.” The tension was over; the speaking parts were cast and the process of blending the actors with the stage and play could begin.
Mr. Sommer met the cast together for the first time in Washington Hall. The
18
The Scholastic

women’s parts had been cast from the Catholic Theater Guild of St. Joseph Valley and the Presbyterian Players downtown. Introductions were made. But there were so many names to be remembered that it was a hopeless gesture to politeness. Throughout the play most of the cast would be calling each other by their stage names off-stage and on. For all practical purposes of identification John Schneller is Banjo and Jack Roberts is Dr. Bradley and so on throughout the cast. Weeks later most of the people in the cast still would not know the real names of the others.
Then Mr. Sommer announced the rehearsal dates and the acts to be worked on each night. There were to be 22 of them before the dress rehearsal, Nov. 26, for the seminarians and religious. Then, beginning the 27th, for four nights the play would run. Play books were passed out to some of the cast; the smaller parts received “sides” with their lines and the cues typed out.
Mr. Sommer explained the set to the cast. He walked over to the right side of the stage and pointed at a spot on the wall, “This door leads to the library.” He walked over and pointed at another door that wasn’t there and said, “This one leads to the dining room and kitchen.” And so on around the stage, showing where windows and stairs and doors would be when the set was finished. “This is a sofa.” He gestured at three chairs standing next to one another. “We’ll use this for the wheel chair.” He pointed at a rocking chair.
The first night was spent in “blocking” the first act. The learning of the lines is the smallest part of rehearsals; the actors are supposed to do that on their own time. Every move on the stage must be planned. A movement that looks easy and natural may have been worked on hard many times during rehearsal.
Striking a dramatic pose, Director Sommer shows his actors the proper way to emote.
Every movement should have a motivation; no one should cross the stage unless there is a reason for him to do so. The direction he is to face must be planned. If a person moves during another’s speech, it may distract attention from the speech and the plot of the play. The players must be arranged so that they will not be “upstaged.” That means that an important player will not find himself talking with his back to the audience because the person he is addressing is behind him.
This blocking out of every movement takes time, often a couple of hours to do one act. But though each movement is calculated it must look natural.
So the work of making a play began. Each night at rehearsal the actors arrive in Washington Hall and throw books and coats on the battered, red cloth covered piano. The chair and tables that represent the pieces of furniture are placed on the stage and the overhead stage lights turned on. Mr. Sommer sits at the front of the stage and the work begins.
Those who are not on perch on the steps, reading, studying lines, watching, talk in lowered voices. Perhaps on the stage Bill Fagan, who plays Sandy, is working on an English paper as he waits for his cue. In the back room John
(Continued on Page 31)
An Irish thespian rehearses his lines with fitting gestures.	Here is one view of “Dinner” set the audience won't see.
Nov. 17, 1950
19
Ground Broken for Inn; New Look for Main Entry
Ground was broken last Friday for the new Morris Inn which will be constructed at the main entrance of the University to house visitors to the Notre Dame campus.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, dug the first shovel of dirt for the Inn at groundbreaking ceremonies conducted in conjunction with the Fall meeting of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees at Notre Dame. It is expected that the building will be completed some time next Fall.
Mr. L M. Morris breaks ground for the new Morris Inn which was made possible by his donation of $1,000,000. Father Cavanaugh, Mrs. Morris, Morris children watch.
The Morris Inn was made possible by the recent gift of $1,000,000 to Notre Dame by E. M. Morris, Chairman of the Board of the Associates Investment Company, South Bend, Ind. Mr. Morris, a member of, the Associate Board of Lay Trustees at Notre Dame, was present at the ceremonies. The Sollitt Construction Company, general contractors of South Bend, are constructing the new building.
The new Morris Inn, which will offer living accommodations to those having occasion to visit the ND campus, will be a three-story, brick structure.
St. Mary's President Selected for Award
Sister Mary Madeleva, C.S.C., president of Saint Mary’s College, has been selected as one of seven “Women of Achievement” for 1950 by the Women’s National Institute. She received the award during the week of the twentyseventh Women’s International Exposition at the Seventy-first Regimental Armory in New York. .
The St. Mary’s president was selected by over 50 Catholic lay organizations, local, national and international, as their “Woman of Achievement” for outstanding work in Catholic endeavor. In 1948 she was awarded the Sienna Medal as the “Catholic woman who had made a distinctive contribution to Catholic life in the United States.”
The awards, to be conferred by Hon. Henry Cabot Lodge, senator from Massachusetts, will go to the following: Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt; Her Excellency, Mrs. Eugenie M. Anderson, ambassador to Denmark; Begum Liaquat Ali Khan, wife of the prime minister of Pakistan; Mrs. Asta Meidell, outstanding worker among blind Norwegian children; Mrs. Ruth Bryan Rohde, first woman ever appointed minister- to a foreign country in American history; and Hon. Mary T. Norton, congresswoman from New Jersey.
Debaters Face 36 Schools In Weekend Bradley Meet , This weekend a delegation of eight members of the Notre Dame debating team will journey to Peoria, Ill., where they will participate in the two-day Bradley University Invitational Tournament.
The Notre Dame debaters will compete with students from 36 colleges and universities from all over the nation in such events as discussion oratory, extemporaneous speaking, and news casting. Picked from a recent inter-squad tournament, the eight-man team includes Al DeCrane, Tom Field, Paul Davis, Bill Fagan, Don Dowden, Dave Burrell, Joe Bellon and Hugh Braun.
At the conclusion of the Bradley tournament, the 24 members of the squad will have participated in some 44 debates, with nearly 200 more scheduled in the forthcoming months.
Recently, a group of four debaters competed in Chicago, where they walked off with team honors in matches with Mundelein College and the University of Chicago.
On December 1-2, four men will represent Notre Dame at a conference on postwar problems, to be held at the University of Iowa.
20
The Scholastic
Japanese Jurist Visits ND During U. S. Tour; Discusses Home Politics and Korean Reaction
By JUSTIN
One of Notre Dame’s most distinguished visitors of the year was a small, bespectacled Japanese jurist, who was here last Tuesday and Wednesday as a ' guest of the Medieval Institute. The visitor was the Honorable Kotaro Tanka, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Japan.
Dr. Tanaka is the head of a special mission which was sent to the United States by General MacArthur to study the American courts in action. The objective of this mission is to improve the present Japanese legal system which was created by the new democratic constitution.
Court Troubles
Before the occupation, Japan had no Supreme Court. The power of judicial review belonged to the Diet and to the Minister of justice. Under the new constitution, the judiciary was separated . from the executive and legislative • branches of the government, a 15 member Supreme Court was established, and the justices were made independent of political parties.
But serious troubles soon beset this system. All legal proceedings were painfully slow, and the courts fell far behind in their schedules. Japanese lawyers were almost never willing to accept jury decisions as final, and appealed even the most trivial cases.
In the United States, the Supreme * Court need handle only the most important cases referred to it, by assigning the rest to minor courts. But in Japan, the Supreme Court had to accept every case, and as a result, became hopelessly overburdened. Each Justice found himself required to hand down as many as 400 decisions every year.
Study U. S. System
To remedy this situation, American authorities sent Dr. Tanaka’s mission to the United States, to study ways of re. modeling the Japanese legal system along American lines. To date, the mission has spent two weeks in New York City, two weeks in Washington, and shorter periods of time in Boston and Trenton before coming to the Mid-West. While in the nation’s capital, the Japanese jurists visited the United States Supreme Court, and were introduced to the American Justices.
What has interested Dr. Tanaka most about American courts is their .energy and activity. In Japan, judges listen to cases silently for the most pail, and
BOLGER, ’52
rarely even enter discussions. When he returns to his own country, Dr. Tanaka intends to recommend that Japanese judges act more like their American counterparts, interceding and taking part in conversations between sides.
To further expedite the slow proceedings, he plans to recommend that the Japanese Supreme Court be empowered to assign unimportant cases to lower courts, and also that a number of changes be made in the Japanese jury laws.
It was while his party was visiting the University of Michigan that Dr. Tanaka decided to detour down to Notre Dame. “I have always been interested in natural law,” he explained, “so it has been a long time desire to visit Notre Dame.”
Dr. Tanaka spent the first of his two days on campus discussing legal questions and political philosophy with Rev. Gerald Phelan, director of the Medieval Institute, and the other members of the Institute. The following day he addressed a group of law students on the topic of “World Law in Natural Law.” His talk summarized the opinions which are expressed in his three-volume work entitled A Sketch of a Theory of WorldLaw, in which he denies the absolute sovereignty of the state.
Although this is the fourth time that Dr. Tanaka has visited the United
"How many times have I told you to set the alarm for 7:50—NOT 7:40!!"
States, it is his first extended visit. Because the time of his tour coincided with the recent election campaigns, he was particularly interested in the American political system. While in New York, he was present at a political rally in Times Square, which, he confessed, was unlike anything he had ever seen before.
In Japan, he explained, there are three major parties, the Liberals, who are currently in power, the Democrats and the Socialists. There is also a Communist party, but it is small, and its power has dwindled lately because of the arrest of most of its leaders for subversive activities.	'
Dr. Tanaka mentioned that many changes have taken place in Japan since the war. The University system has expanded greatly, primarily as a result of a survey, made by an American educational committee a few years ago. At the suggestion of this committee the period of compulsory- education in Japan was prolonged from six to nine years, so that all Japanese children must now attend a minimum of six years of grade school, and three years of junior high. And while girls could hope for no formal education a few years ago, today a large percentage of Japanese schools are coeducational.
Women in Politics ■
The trend toward equality for women continued into politics. Under the new constitution, women may vote and hold office, and approximately 40 members of the lower legislative house are members of the fairei- sex.
Concerning the Korean situation, Dr.
(Continued on Page 32)
Nov. 17, 1950
21.
OPERATION BENGAL
What are these Bengal Missions anyhow? Are they a waste of time? Are the men that man the missions a strange breed of supermen or merely regular guys? Let’s look at the setup in Bengal.
India, although smaller than Australia in territory, surpasses that country in population nearly 50 times. India today is an important mission field because of its new independence and because it is rapidly being surrounded by Communist controlled areas. India has plains, mountains, cities of great artistry and culture; she also holds rivers and ricefields bordered and overrun with jungle and flatlands.
In a land of many universities, some attended by thousands of students, hundreds of millions cannot even read. With cultures and traditions thousands of years old, India has watched herself broken into 562 provinces or states. Herein dwell Hindus, Mohammedans, Sikhs, Jains, Parsees, Buddhists, Garos and Christians, sometimes in harmony, more often in revolt. Terrible useless riots and bloodshed have only served to emphasize the divisions between them. India today is now only a portion of her former self, being divided into and sandwiched between the two new countries of East and West Pakistan.
Bengal is in East Pakistan. It is the section called Dacca that serves as operations base for the Holy Cross missionaries in Bengal. Located north of the cholera-breeding delta of the Ganges and extending across sun-baked plains into the wilds of Garodom, the country
By JOHN FITZGERALD
(See advertisement on page 8)
in the Dacca area is extensive, wet, irregular’ and roadless ... a good place to begin spreading Christ’s message to His people.
Yet there is much more than a beginning in Bengal. For two years less than a century the Congregation of Holy Cross has been in India. In fact, it was this Order that sent the first American missionaries to India. The language spoken is the well-developed, highly inflected tongue called Bengali—the language of Rabindranath Tagore, the Indian Nobel Prize winner. Though the natives are skeptical of foreigners, they are a gentle people, kind and thoughtful to one another, and possess great respect for their elders. Nevertheless, for a large part, they are a poverty stricken people earning the equivalent of between 8 cents and 10 cents a day, about $35 a year. Famine and sickness are not strangers, but close associates. Barber-Philosopher
Bengal territory alone embraces over 60 million people with 13 million of these in and around Dacca. Holy Cross now has three dioceses here under a newly-created Archdiocese. The whole spiritual network is guided by Archbishop Lawrence Graner, c.s.c., who still holds the reputation of being one of the best bar
bers and most eloquent philosophers ever to pass through Moreau Seminary. Out of these 13 million caste-ridden Hindus, fanatical Mohammedans and hill tribe aborigines, only 29 thousand are Catholics. In plain language that equals approximately 1 in 448 showing a field truly ripe for harvesting, although the laborers are few.
Who are the laborers and what do they do? The answer isn’t spectacular for the missionaries themselves are not so. They are ordinary people from all parts of the United States and Canada, no different from anybody else unless it is in their hunger for souls.
The Holy Cross Order boast 46 American priests, 23 Brothers and 13 Sisters — 80 missionaries in the fullest sense of the word. They run 32 established mission stations and almost twice that number of outstations. The priests tour their extensive “parishes” by bicycle except in the monsoon season when a boat is required. To cover the sand, -v hills and mire without the aid of a road, the priest stays “on the road” about two weeks, toting his bed roll with him and sleeping out at night. He gives instructions, baptizes, settles family squabbles and .land disputes, administers medical care. The missionary priest is doctor, lawyer and Indian-chief, all rolled into one.
Native Indian laymen, chosen for their above-average intelligence and ability, instruct the people in the faith. These “catechists” make it possible for the * priests to cover their parishes by tran-
In the open-air sanctuary after Mass, Father Brooks, an American from Watertown, Wisconsin, is presented with the festive offering by a group of Garo villagers.
Father McMahon and these grid stars have found common interest in football.
22
The Scholastic
Missionary deaths from wild animals so far are zero, although on ce when two priests were on the porch, two tigers charged out of the moonlight. So flustered was one missionary that he slammed the door in the other's face. The noise frightened the cats off.
sient tours and still carry on a constant program of instruction. The Bengalese make good Catholics and 22 native priests are today establishing the foundations for the greater progress of the Faith among their people, for it is they rather than the foreign missionary, who know their people best and so can work with them to best advantage.
The presence of Holy Cross in Bengal is not permanent. Once the Church is firmly established, the Holy Cross mis-sioners will push on to new territories. It seems strange at first until we consider that missionaries are above all the planters and organizers of native clergy —they plant, the native priest waters. Although their presence may last for centuries, it is still transient and temporary. It was the Louvain Mission Congress back in 1925 that reduced the first mission principle to the one single formula that missions are not meant to convert people but to establish local churches to do the convert work.
He Must Be Trained
With this in mind, Holy Cross has established three hospitals, six high schools, a college, a seminary and numerous other establishments for the welfare of their chosen people.
Before the missionary can lead others to Christ, he must be trained also. The first part of his actual missionary training begins at Holy Cross Foreign Mission Seminary in Washington, D. C., after graduation from Notre Dame. There he learns the backgrounds, languages and customs of the people with whom he will live. He studies about the dusky, squat, hardy Garo hill people who came down to the plains below when the Holy Cross padres first began their work. He knows that theix- language has
no such a word as “thank you,” for charity has yet to be taught them. Still he knows that since they are neither Hindu nor Mohammedan, they are much more easily given to Christianity, and that persevering labor has brought 15 thousand Garoes to the Church.
The Journey Is Long
It is a long journey for the newly ordained missionary. After four years of study in Washington, he must go by train to New York; ocean steamer from New York to London and another steamer to Bombay. Here he goes by train to Calcutta and then by river steamer to Dacca, Bengal. As if this were not enough, there follows the journey to one of the many outlying missions in Garo hill country, three miles by bicycle, six by bus, 30 by train, 37 by bicycle and four by foot. But at the end of the journey he will distribute Christ’s peace to those who but for his efforts might never have known the faith.
When the missionary has time to answer the letters from his family and seminarian friends, there are usually three large needs: missionaries, resources and prayers. Missionaries to handle the missions and expand their influence. Resources to cure bodies to save, for building schools, chapels, hospitals and paying catechists. Most important of all, prayers.
True, the missionaries do not have an easy life. 1^ requires much of a person —often all. Normal piety, average intelligence with good common sense in a generous and zealous heart, and a good sense of humor- provide the essentials from which missioners are made.
Notre Dame men, students and seminarians alike, know this. They know that their stamps, junk, cards and prayers
are really a vital part of “Operation Bengal.” The missioners in turn know that they are backed up in their efforts. This helps when they meet with discouragement, neglect, indifference and hostility in their labors. It helps them in teaching their people of Him who can make their yoke sweet and their burden light.
Aeronautical Field Open, Dr. Dryden Says in Talk
Dr. Hugh L. Dryden, Director of Aeronautical Research of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, told Notre Dame aeronautical engineering students that there are opportunities unlimited in the field of aeronautics.
In his lecture entitled, “The Pathway from Vision to Accomplishment in Aeronautics” which was held in the engineering auditorium last Thursday evening, the former Associate Director of the National Bureau of Standards said that progress demands better engineers now more than ever.
Dr. Dryden followed the deveolpment of the aeronautical industry from its beginnings in Greek mythology to present day trends, following closely the three main steps in the presentation of an invention; the conception of the object in the mind; the development of creation of the object; and finally, its application in the particular field.
Air power is definitely not at its peak, so says Dr. Dryden, and he thinks that gradually, speeds exceeding 1000 m.pJi. will be reached by our newer planes. He is the holder of many awards for achievements in the basic aeronautical, sciences and he is considered one of the foremost aeronautical scientists in the; United States.
Nov. 17, 1950
23
wedare them AU!
Philip morris l n
***• b„nd ,o cs“ “srLxrher
I HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF SMOKERS, who tried this test, report in signed statements that PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER!
1 Light up a Philip morris. Just take a puff— DON’T INHALE—and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose. Easy, isn’t it?




2 Light up your present brand. Do exactly the same thing—DON’T INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
Other brands merely make claims—but PHILIP MORRIS invites you to compare, to judge, to decide for yourself. Try this simple test. We believe that you, too, will agree . . Philip Morris is America’s FINEST Cigarette!
no cigarette hangover
C"’ "°“ “O»NG
“PHIUP MORRIS
The Scholastic

Comeback Irish Face Harried Hawkeyes
Hosts Aim for Fourth to Even Year’s Record
The Iowa Hawkeyes will attempt to salvage something from a disappointing season tomorrow when they face the Fighting Irish before a packed house of 53,000 in the Iowa Stadium. In their first year under new head coach Leonard Raffensperger, the Hawkeyes’ three won, four lost record falls far short of expectations.
Iowa’s victories include an upset win at the expense of Southern California and triumphs over the two Big Ten cellar inhabitants, Purdue and Minnesota. On the wrong side of the ledger Iowa has dropped four conference starts to Indiana, Wisconsin, Illinois and Ohio State, with the Buckeyes running up an 83-21 score against them.
The Hawkeyes are a far better team than theii- record to date would indicate. They have 29 major lettermen from last year’s squad returning and in most instances the ten men lost to graduation have been ably replaced.
The Iowa offense has been built around fullback Bill Reichardt and Quarterback Glenn Drahn. Reichardt is a pile driver with enough speed to have been considered earlier in the season for a halfback spot. His five yards per try average in rushing last year earned him the fullback position on the Big Ten’s All Conference second team. His replacement, Mike Riley, is primarily a defensive player. Drahn is one of the better passers in the conference but his effectiveness has been lessened this year by the shortage of glue-fingered ends. Last year, Drahn completed 51 passes for 735 yards and nine touchdowns.
Jerry Faske stands out when it comes to Iowa’s halfbacks. Faske was the toughest runner on the field for Iowa last year when they faced the Irish and he hasn’t let up this season. His 6.6 rushing average was second in the Big Ten last year. The other half post is a toss up with three men Don Commack, Bob Wilson and Bernie Bennett vieing for first string. Commack has the experience and also seems to have the edge.
Loss of last year’s two first string ends has hurt Iowa considerably. The replacements for Jack Dittmer and Bob McKenzie, Bob Hoff and Jerry Long, have done a good job defensively but they have fallen down as pass catchers.
At the tackle posts Raffensperger has two of the best in the conference. Hubert Johnston, a 240-pound junior, has been out off and on through this season with a bad knee but when he is in shape he is one of the best. Andy Buntz will start at the other tackle position. Buntz is a good defensive player but he is a better offensive one. Harold Bradley has been giving Buntz a battle for his job since the beginning of the season.
The Middle of the Iowa line is one of its strongest points. John Towner, a defensive center last year is doing double duty this year. Towner is a 200-pound man who has started every Hawkeye game this year. At the guards Raffensperger has four- good men to pick from. Lon Giusburg with four years of college ball and two years playing with a service outfit is the most experienced of these men. Austin Turner won a start
ing spot on last year’s Iowa club and thus far this year he has opened up at right guard in every game. Running close behind these two are Bob Lage, who started at left guard in a few of the opening games and converted center Joe Paulsen.
Bill Reichardt
Probable Starting Lineups		
Notre Dame		Iowa
Ostrowski 		..E...			Long
Toneff 		..T			 Johnston
Wallner		..G			 Turner
Groom 		..C			Towner
Burns 		..G ... ...		 Ginsberg
Flynn 		„T„„			Bradley
Mutscheller ...	..E				 	 Holly
Williams 		..Q			 Drahn
Gay 		..H			 Conunack
Petitbon 		..H			Faske
Landry 		JF			 Reichardt
Kickoff: 1:30 CST		
It was Bob Williams who again led the Irish to victory last Saturday when they whipped the University of Pittsburgh 18-7. It was Notre Dame’s fourth victory in seven starts this season while for Pitt it was their sixth loss in seven outings.
Notre Dame scored first midway in the first period on a 15-yard pass from Williams to end Jim Mutscheller. Williams shifted receivers in the second quarter but the result was the same. John Petitbon latched onto a Williams pass as he crossed the goal line and the Irish led at half-time, 12-0.
With their running attack completely bottled up by the hard-charging Notre (Continued on Page 29)
Glenn Drahn
Nov. 17, 1950
25
Morrissey, St. Ed's Meet in Interhall Finale; Ground Play Expected to Keynote Contest
“Can a good defense stop a good offense?” That will be the question of the day when the freshmen from St. Edward’s square off against the Morrissey Sophomores at 2 p.m. Sunday in Notre Dame Stadium for the 1950 Interhall Football Championship.
As they go into the title game, neither team can boast an unblemished record. Each squad received its black mark in the opening game, with Western division winner Morrissey being held to a scoreless deadlock by Off-Campus and St. Ed’s being dropped by Farley, 13-21. For the season it’s 3-1 for St. Ed’s and 2-0-1 for the Sophs. The Saints posted a 14-12 victory over a strong Zahm entry, defeated Cavanaugh, 6-0, and blanked B-P., 15-0. Lyons and Alumni were the Morrissey victims by 6-0 and 1-0 scores, respectively.
Although both teams employ the single wing, their styles of play are totally dissimilar. St. Ed’s winning ways were fashioned by T.D.’s while Morrissey’s strength lies in her defensive. The Sophomore line was unscored upon in its three encounters; only once did St. Ed’s fail to tally twice in a single game.
However, St. Ed’s will enter the game under a tremendous handicap. Bill Scott, the 140-pound 5’5” Freshman dynamo, broke his collar bone in the season’s finale with Breen-Phillips. Scott was the Saints’ chief offensive weapon and his loss will be sorely felt. In every game except the B-P skirmish, he was a constant scoring threat. Scott was
easily the best man on the field in the Farley defeat, and against Cavanaugh it was Scott who scrambled the six yards for the game’s only score sixty seconds before the final whistle. The all-important triumph over Zahm was another Scott special. He raced thirty yards with an interception for six points and booted two PAT’s in the 14-12 shading. At first Scott even did the passing, but was forced to give it up when he had difficulty spotting his receivers over the heads of the linemen.
Despite this severe blow, St. Edward’s still has quite a few good ball players to trot out onto the field. Ray Tierney and Lee Bazany fill the offensive flank positions and each has a touchdown catch to his credit. Fred Crowe does the major part of the passing and has thrown two scoring heaves. With Scott
----- Probable Starting Lineups---- Morrissey	St. Edward’s
McGovern ......E......... Tierney
Fcldpausch ....T........ Campbell
Tolle .........G............ Will
Stoeppler......C.......... Defato
Smith .........G.......... Jensen
Kennedy .......T........... Moran
Brewer ........E...........Bazany
Walsh .........Q.......... Conlon
Endres.........H..........Austgin
Hynes .........H......... Mehegan
Kucharczuk ____.F.......... Crowe
Kickoff: 2 p.m.
out, Bob Austgin and Crowe will do the bulk of the running. Furthermore, Coach Jim Riha claims he has the best defensive wingman in interhall football in the person of Ray Salvino. Both Riha and ' his right-hand man, Gene Perry, agree that the team as a whole has improved greatly since its loss to Farley, and even without Scott they expect the boys to play top-notch football.
In the opposition camp, Coach Canfield’s charges are nothing daunted by the reported power of the St. Ed’s attack. The Morrissey stone wall defense is ready and waiting to test the Freshmen’s strength. Only once have the Sophs been scored upon, and that tally was wiped out when an eligibility infraction on the part of Alumni was discovered, and the victory awarded to Morrissey. Even that touchdown did not penetrate the massive Morrissey forward wall, but came via the air lanes. However, the Sophs themselves have yet to exhibit any offensive power. The Western division champs garnered only six points during the season and those when Guard Mark Tolle grabbed a blocked punt and raced 15 yards to pay dirt. Tom Walkers does the passing for , Morrissey and Ned Brewer is his favorite receiver. The entire backfield shares pretty evenly in the ground offense, with Dick Hynes having slightly better luck than his teammates.
On the basis of past performance, it should be a duel between the St. Ed’s offense and the Morrissey defense. But it can’t be said for certain what one team will or will not do. With both squads determined to cop the crown,
(Continued on Page 29)
John Petitbon vies in mid-air with John Reynolds (28) for possession of the ball.
John Reynolds (28) hugs the ball in a determined drive to pick up vital yardage. •A Panther lineman to his left takes out one tackler, but another is moving up.
26
The Scholastic
Harners Take Pair;
; Race for CCC Crown
A new school individual record for the Notre Dame cross country course, and two dual meet victories in the same race featured the closing of the dual meet cross country season for Notre Dame last Saturday. With the dual record now complete with four wins and two losses, the harriers will compete tomorrow in the Central Collegiate Championship Meet at Ypsilanti, Mich.
Ben Almaguer set the record last week _ with a 20:6.2 performance for the four mile course. The two victims of the Irish were Pittsburgh, by a 24-32 score, and Loyola of Chicago, 27-33. Though Ben broke by two seconds the old Notre Dame record set by Jimmy Murphy, the red-headed “midget racer” of the harriers of two years back, he missed by seven seconds the course record set last year by Wisconsin’s Don Gehrmann. Ben was all alone over the last two miles, and looked so strong that it is quite possible that he might have broken that record, ,. too, had he been pushed.
Despite Almaguer’s spectacular showing, the most remarkable thing of the day was the fast times turned in by the rest of the Irish team. Almost every one of them hit the fastest time of his life. Bob Feiler ran 20:54 and George Helfen-stein, John Joe O’Connor and Con Tetrault all finished within a two second spread—21:05 to 21:07. The other two Notre Dame men, Tony DaDamio and Harry Snyder, both beat the final scorers of Pitt and Loyola.
- >- The Loyola meet score keeping (both meets were run in one race with separate scores kept between the teams) showed that Notre Dame’s 27-32 win was strictly a team job. After Almaguer took first, the Loyolans took the second, third and fourth spots, and needed only one more low place to win. Then Notre Dame put all six of their remaining men across the finish line before Loyola could take another place, and that more than doused any of their victory hopes.
Marquette, one of the dual meet conquerors of Notre Dame, will be the favorite in tomorrow’s Central Collegiate Meet, and t h e i r Sophomore, John Stearns, will be the individual favorite. Stearns has won six races this season, including a triumph over Ben Almaguer, and only in the meet with Notre Dame did he fail to set a new course record this year. Notre Dame is believed to be the only other strong team in the race, but individual stars from such schools as DePaul, Michigan Normal, Butler, BowlingGreen, Central Michigan, and Drake should make the meet interesting.


Man of the Week
There’s a sportswriter back in New York by the name of Joe Trimble. Joe, like a lot of other people, wondered why Notre Dame was losing games this year after having been undefeated for so long. But, unlike some of his colleagues, Joe didn’t want to just guess at the answer. He wanted the real lowdown. So he came out here to the campus, talked to Coach Leahy and others close to the scene and got the story he wanted.
It was a simple explanation. Coach Leahy told him that Notre Dame can’t compete on an equal basis on the highly competitive football player market because Notre Dame doesn’t believe in operating that way. Still, you can’t help but picture what it would have been like to have Johnny Olszewski of California, Vic Janowicz of Ohio State and Al Pollard of Army taking handoffs from Bobby Williams.
Wilson the Wizard
Judging from the individual and team performances of the Irish cross country squad this Fall, the Athletic Department made a wise move when they selected Alex Wilson to succeed Doc -Handy as coach of the Irish harriers and cindermen. •
So far this season, practically every member of the cross country squad has bettered his own record for the local course and is running better than ever before.
Last Saturday, Ben Almaguer ran the fastest four miles of his life in leading the Irish to wins over Pitt and Loyola of Chicago. Ben’s time was 41 seconds faster than his previous best time. To give some indication of just how fast that is, the course record is 19:59, set. by the great Don Gehrman last year.
Wilson’s method is simple. He has his harriers set a fast pace for the first two miles, leaving the other team far behind, whereas the general rule is to just hang in there for the first two and save yourself for the final two miles. The idea is that the othei* team will not keep up the pace for fear of tiring, and will be so far behind that they’ll have a tough time catching up the two remaining miles.
The squad is pretty much enthused over their improvement, and Coach Wil

son ought to be pretty happy too. Everyman is either a Junior or Sophomore and will be back next year. By that time, they ought to have the “Wilson method” down pat.
Monday Morning Quarterback
Their 11 point win over the Panthers last Saturday was the biggest margin of victory the Irish have had all season. Even so, the general consensus seems to be that it could have been much greater. The Irish gained ground every time they had the ball, but they didn’t have it often enough. Pitt just didn’t want to give it up. After a Pitt running play or two they would fail to gain or would lose yardage, Bestwick would fade back and rifle a shot down the middle or out into the flat. These were usually good for nine, ten, or 11 yards, or whatever Pitt needed for a first down. This irritating performance was displayed 19 times, and was primarily the reason for only an 11 point difference.
Again the defensive line was outstanding. They held Pitt to a mere 20 yards on the ground.
Player of the Week
No one player was outstanding against Pitt but there were two or three Irish who made themselves conspicuous by their fine play.
In case you hadn’t noticed who takes over Jim MutschelieFs place when he’s sitting out a few downs, you found out last week. Bob Kapish is the name, and 84 is the number Pitt had in their backfield all afternoon. Bob Kelly, the other defensive end, also played a fine game and teamed up with Kapish several times to drop Pitt backs for huge losses.
Defensive back Dick Cotter became Leading Ground Gainer Dick Cotter as he piled up a six yard average in his final home game for Notre Dame. He, along with Jack Landry and John Petit-bon, carried the Irish ground game.
Prediction of the Week
Despite their poor record and the fact that they were mauled by Ohio State, Iowa will be a tough team to beat. If the Irish win by just one touchdown it will be o.k. with us.
Notre Dame 20, Iowa 14.
Nov. 17, 1950
27
Compiled by KEN STEAD, ’53
RAYMOND. THROCKMORTON, one of the first four graduates of Notre Dame Geology Department (June, 1950), is now with the Corps of Engineers, Nashville, Tenn., where he is engaged as a geologist in core drilling work at dam sites.
Professor GEORGE S. WALLACE is presenting an address before the South Bend Transportation Club. On Nov. 16, he will speak upon “Economic Aspects of Two Current Economic Probelms— The Implication of the Full Employment Act of 1946 and the Problem of rent control.”
On Oct. 20, Professor LeCLAIR H. EELLS spoke before the Exchange Club at the LaSalle Hotel. His topic was “Guns, Butter and Inflation.”
On Nov. 3 and 4, Professors EELLS, BALL, KENT, MURPHY, and WALLACE will attend the annual meeting of the Indiana Academy of Social Sciences. Mr. Murphy is a vice-president of the organization, and Mr. Wallace will present a paper on “The International Monetary Trend after- Five Years.”
WILLIAM ENSIGN, Cleveland, Ohio, former ND Drum Major and now a graduate student in Correctional Admin
istration, will be married Nov. 18 to Miss Joan Marie Kennedy of Oak Park, Ill.
A reception for Rev. LEO R. WARD, C.S.C., whose latest book, Concerning Mary Ann, has just been published, was held in the Aquinas Book Shop Monday . night. Father Ward is an authority on scholastic philosophy and on the theory and application of social philosophy.
Now professor of philosophy, he received his bachelor of arts degree from Notre Dame and doctor of philosophy degree from Catholic University. Father Ward has also studied at Oxford and Louvain.
Among his other books are The Philosophy of Values, Cooperative and Christian Democracy and God in an Irish Kitchen.
Air Force Officials Visit
Notre Dame NROTC Unit
Six top Air Force officials from the East were here at Notre Dame over last week end on an informal visit and inspection tour of the University Air ROTC unit.
Representing Air Force headquarters in Washington was Mr. Frank T. McCoy, Jr., deupty assistant secretary of the Air Force. Assistant Secretary Harold Stewart was also scheduled to come with the party, but the Defense Depart-
------ CLUB PUBLICITY ---------
The SCHOLASTIC urges all campus clubs desiring publicity of Christmas dances and other social affairs to supply the necessary information to the News Editor at the magazine’s office in the basement of Farley Hall.
ment required him to make several speeches at an Armistice Day celebration at March Field, Riverside, Calif. The rest of the group were hierarchy Continental Air Command at Mitchell Field, N. Y., which controls the nationwide Air ROTC program.
Their visit was not a routine one as was Maj. Gen. Harry A. Johnson’s on Oct. 12, which was a regular unit checkup within his Tenth Air Force. Rather, it was one of unofficial character which Headquarters and ConAc now make from time to time on some of the larger AF Schools.
Arriving after lunch Friday, the group spent all of the afternoon auditing class-room instructions at the Social Science Building, inspecting facilities, and discussing unit problems with the local Air- Force personnel. They did not attend the drill session east of the stadium.
Saturday they talked with Father John Cavanaugh, president of the University, and Father Theodore Hesburgh, vice-president, in’ their offices in the Main Building and lunched in the faculty dining room at the Cafeteria.
The party had seats for the Homecoming duel with Pittsburgh that afternoon. Shortly after which they departed for Washington.
Basketball Headliners Strut Stuff for Publicity Shots
Jack Neumayr poses for publicity shot.	Dan Bagley (center) and Marty O'Connor show Bruce Harlan how they'll do it when the
C. Callahan directs; B. Harlan shoots.	Irish basketball season gets underway Dec. 6 against Franklin in the ND Fieldhouse.
28
The Scholastic
Hing flround the Halls
St. Ed’s Cops Eastern Division Title
St. Edward’s footballers won the Eastern division pennant of the Interhall . football league by drubbing a tough . Breen-Phillips aggregation, 15-0. It was only the second loss of the season for the luckless B-P eleven. The game was played under miserable weather conditions. The first period was scoreless, j .. B-P gambled with several long passes - and almost hit the jackpot on a couple of occasions.
St. Ed’s got rolling towards the end of the canto, but the stubborn Breen-
• Phillips defense stopped them on the BP 21 yard line. But four downs later >	on an attempted punt by the losers the
<	pigskin rolled into the end zone. A horde
of St. Ed’s tacklers downed the would-be punter for a safety.
The winners’ attack just couldn’t start rolling. Midway in the second _ quarter they worked a pass play for 41 , yards and a T.D. but a penalty nullified the score. With St. Ed’s offense stalled, defensive end Ray Salvino took matters into his own hands.
• Just before the period ended he teamed up with big Lee Bazany to ' squash any B-P hopes of victory. Ba-zany tackled a Breen-Phillips ball carrier and the ball squirted out of his ; hands. Salvino grabbed the fumbled ball :	in mid-air and ran it over for a T.D.
Conversion failed.
. . Mid-way in the third quarter these :	two ball hawks got together again on
the same type of play for another tally. Bazany made the tackle, Ray tucked in the pigskin, and. walked the remaining j five yards to the goal line. Bazany booted the PAT to end the day’s scoring.
j - The win was a costly one for St. Ed’s & squad. In the- second quarter- they lost their star tailback, Bill “Scotty” Scott. “Scotty,” who played both offense and defense and was the leading scorer for the champs, broke his collar bone.
• Breen-Phillips put up a good fight but they were outmanned. Only 13 players showed up to represent the team that a week previous had shoved mighty Farley all over the field before settling for a 12-12 tie. Gene Kelly, a monstrous fullback, kept the onslaught going with his powerful smashes.
—Roger Fernandes, ’54.
■ 1 * *
Cavanaugh Upsets Zahm
What may be classed as the upset of .. the 1950 Interhall season took place last
week when Coach Owen’s Cavanaugh team defeated Coach Amata’s Zahmites, 12-6.
Sharp line play marked the first quarter. Neither team was able to pick up much yardage rushing. Cavanaugh’s line bolstered by Joe Trucco and Tom Tubbs slowed Zahm’s running attack, led by Billy Peters and Billy Sinozich, to a standstill.
Late in the second quarter Cavanaugh broke into the scoring column when little Jerry Adler- went around right end to score. The extra point attempted by Art Midili missed the crossbars and Cavanaugh led by 6-0. The Frosh tied the score when quarterback Jimmy Crowe lugged from the Cavanaugh 17 yard line to score. The extra point was missed and the half ended 6-6.
After an exchange of punts Cavanaugh surged ahead 12-6 when Jack Mooney pulled in a pass and went 55 yards to pay dirt. The remaining minutes of the third quarter resulted in a defensive stalemate, neither team gaining much yardage.
Late in the last quarter the autumn
Iowa Pre-Game
(Continued from Page 25)
Dame line, Pitt took to the air in the second half. Pitt Quarterback Bob Bestwick began throwing to anybody in sight and he completed 16 out of 18 in the second half as he brought Pitt their only touchdown.
Leading by the slight margin of 12-7, thanks to one Panther touchdown that was called back, the Irish took charge again in the fourth period and sparked by the running of Dick Cottei- and John Petitbon they pushed the clincher over soon after the fourth period began.
Jerry Faske
------‘ESSENTIALS’ EXAM----------
Upperclassmen who have not passed the Freshman English “Essentials” examination may take the examination on Tuesday, November 21, from 7 to 9 p. m. in Rooms 250 and 254 in the Main Building. ID cards must be presented at this examination.
haze began to close in. The result was three fumbles and two interceptions with the ball changing hands two times in about four minutes. A Zahm pass intercepted by Cavanaugh’s Jerry Adler enabled the Sophs to freeze the ball until the clock ran out.
The game marked the first win for Cavanaugh in league play. Zahm finished with a season record of two wins and two losses.—Joe Deiss, ’52.
Inter-Hall Ball
(Continued from Page 26) anything can happen and probably will. Final division standings for the Interhall Football League are as follows:
EASTERN DIVISION
W L T PCT. TP. OP.
St. Ed’s________ 3	1	0	.750	48	33
Farley _________ 2	1	1	.625	41	39
Zahm ___________ 2	2	0	.500	52	26
Cavanaugh ------ 1	2	1	.375	12	20
Breen-Phillips	..0	2	2	.250	12	47
WESTERN DIVISION
Morrissey ______ 2	0	1	.833	7	0
Alumni________ 111	.500	14	1
Lyons ________ 111	.500	14	6
Off-Campus____ 0 2 1	.167	0	28
Flight Theory and Methods Subject of Glider Club Talk
Notre Dame’s newly formed Glider Club heard its moderator, Mr. ‘ Robert Eikenberry, associate professor of aeronautical engineering, discuss the technical aspect and theory of flight as pertains to glider flying at its Nov. 6 meeting.
The lecture was first in a series which will eventually cover the complete theory and proper operation for glider flying.
The club’s new tow car, use of which was donated by member Jerry Baker, has been painted canary yellow for greater visibility from the air. Permission to tow the club’s glider aloft for advanced training of students has been asked of the CAA. A special safety release has been attached to Mr. Eiken-berry’s plane, an Ercoupe, for this purpose.
Nov. 17, 1950
29
Makes a Man Love a Pipe and a Wbman Love a Man
The Thoroughbred of Pipe Tobaccos Choice white Burley • Smooth and mild
coffee cum mure
right this minute... roaster-fash/
Boning up? You’ll cram more study into each night session by taking time out (just sec* onds!) for the guide "lift” of Nescafe*. .
No coffee-pot. No grounds. No brewing. Yet Nescafe makes roaster-fresh coffee... right this minute! Simply put
1 teaspoonful in a cup, add piping hot water and stir.
In flavor, price, convenience, you’ll find it’s a real eyeopener. The 4-oz. jar makes as many cups as a pound of ordinary coffee, yet costs at least 20 (less. Get some today ... for pure coffee enjoyment!
More people drink NESCAFE than all other Instant Coffees!
Assumption
(Continued from Page 15) papal throne, even at this early hour, , the brilliantly uniformed guards were < massed, and the boxes reserved for the diplomatic corps and other select bodies had already begun to fill.
From over the powerful public address system, a choir grouped on the north side of the throne led the people in hymns and prayers, and, at intervals, voices interrupted the prayers and hymns to outline in precise terms and in seven different languages, the course which the ceremony would take.
Papal Procession Emerges	-
The papal procession emerged from the Sistine chapel at about nine o’clock. Behind the spearhead of guards in shining breastplates and plumed helmets, came the procession of bishops; more than 500 in number, more, it is said, than had ever congregated on one occasion before.
Behind the bishops came the cardinals, in single file, each attired in full robes and attended by chaplains and gentil-’uomini. As this procession advanced toward the places prepared about the throne, the Litanies of the Saints and of the Blessed Virgin were chanted in unison by the choir and the people.
Half an hour had elapsed from the moment when the helmets of the guards had first appeared undei- the north portico, before the Pontiff appeared. Borne on the sedia gestatoria, beneath the baldachino, flanked by the waving plumetrees, he sat crowned by a mitre of gold and wrapped in the sweeping folds of a glowing white dalmatic, which j imparted to his figure something of the immobility of an image.
But this immobility was instantly belied by the vivid and restless countenance of the Pontiff. His glance moved swiftly from side to side over the waves of faces as though eager to drink in, not only the anonymous and formless presence of the crowd, but the individual features of every single person who had come to share this hour -with him; from beneath the stiff dalmatic his hand was raised and moved in ceaseless benediction above the throng, in that singular and characteristic gesture of inclusion with which he reaches out to embrace every group of the faithful which comes before him.
In their turn, the crowds pressed so close about the papal presence, that it was with the greatest difficulty that the chair-bearers, surrounded though they were by guards on every hand, made their way forward; again and again the baldachino paused, faltered, moved on slowly, so that in a short time a sizable .
30
The Scholastic
interval opened between the Pontiff and the rest of the procession.

When at last the Holy Father had reached his throne, however, the tempo of the ceremony swiftly increased. The Holy Father called upon all present to join him in prayer and then intoned the opening line of the Vent Creator Spiri-tus. The dean of the Cardinals advanced and read the formal statement, in Latin, expressing the desire of the whole Church, as ■witnessed by the opinions of the bishops and the desires of the faithful, that this solemn article of the Faith be irrevocably fixed and defined.
In answer to this declaration, the Holy Father, in a voice so firm and strong, so vibrant with purpose and conviction, that without the aid of any device it carried well out over the assembly, read the formal proclamation. His words were weighty Latin; his tone full and golden as that language itself, swelled in a delicate crescendo until he reached the culminating words, “quapropter auctoritate Jesu Christi . . . et nostra . . . definimus. . . .” When he had finished the silence was unbroken and profound. It was as though no voice dared lift itself, until the echoes of that Voice, the voice of Christ Himself on earth to every believing heart, had died away beyond the porticos, beyond the Tiber, beyond the hills of Rome.
At last, at the instant when the tension of the silence had grown almost unbearable, one shrill voice was raised, “Viva il Papa dell’Assunta.” These words released the pent up response of the people, and wave on wave of “Viva” rolled over the Piazza.
From this point the ceremony moved in a swift denouement to its close. In an extempore allocution the Pope spoke feelingly, but briefly, of the significance of this new honor to Mary for our time and generation. He expressed the hope above all that her influence would bring a new power for peace into the world. The Te Deum was intoned, and the Cardinal Deacon, together with the people, in a great act of contrition, recited the Confiteor.
The Holy Father then imparted the Apostolic Benediction; and before his words had died away the bells of St. Peter’s broke into swelling sound, echoed throughout the city by all of Rome’s five hundred churches. . . .
Late afternoon, and again the russet twilight of Rome is falling. St. Peters square is still as populous, or nearly so, as when the bells first pealed this morning. It is as though the powerful force which had drawn them here from every quarter of the earth, would not release these people. They lingered, wandered away a bit, returned.
This place had become for them, and tor us who had by the grace of God stood with them, in a new and pregnant sense, the holy place, the place where God had spoken in the voice of Christ’s own Vicar. Who could blame them if only with reluctance they could break the spell of that voice and depart?
Play Coming
(Continued from Page 19)
Schneller and Dick Wolfgram are playing a game of cards. In the first few rows others of the cast are huddled in coats—it gets very cold in the Hall.
Someone gets up, “I’m not on for a couple of pages. Anyone want to go out for a smoke?” And so a couple of others get up and go inside on the side steps to have a cigarette.
Down in the band room Gene Hull’s band is practicing and the rhythmic beat of the music sounds muffled, yet loud.
“You just walked through the wall.”
Sarah, the maid, stops, “But,”
“Come in again. You’ve got to get used to coming in where the doors are going to be.” Mr. Sommer looks at Lee Wermuth who plays the part and says sternly, “The hired help can be replaced, you know.” So Sarah, or Lee that is,
SPECIAL OFFER
Ansco Plenachrome Film
The All-Weather film — Guaranteed with any camera in all weather — all the time.
TWO Rolls of either 127-620-120-616-116 for the price of ONE.
Originally NOW
2 rolls 127 Ansco Plenachrome________________ $ .80	$ AO
2 rolls	620	Ansco	Plenachrome__________________   .90	.45
2 rolls	120	Ansco	Plenachrome_________________    .90	.45
2 rolls	616	Ansco	Plenachrome_______________ 1.10	.55
2 rolls	116	Ansco	Plenachrome________________ 1.10	.55
Notre Dame Fighting Irish Album, $2.90
Mail your order to SOUTH BEND PHOTO Post Office Box 1439 South Bend 24, Indiana
smiles and makes her entrance again.
The characters are tiny as they walk around the huge, bare stage. At the sides the rows of stage ropes reach up into the dark, where the Washington Hall bat lives. He comes out occasionally to scare the girls into putting on kerchiefs and then goes back. On the back wall is a pastoral scene painted on the bricks. In the middle of it is a huge “NO SMOKING” sign.
The theatre seats curve back into the darkness, reflected light gleaming faintly on the gaping empty rows. In the back room the sounds on stage are a meaningless string of voices. Someone comes in and says, “Banjo just made his entrance.” A couple of people get up and go out to wait for their cue.
“O.K., take five and then we’ll do the first scene of Act I over again.” Mr. Sommer gets up and the cast moves off stage, some of them to get cokes at the Main Building or coffee at the Huddle. Some go for a smoke. Mr. Sommer talks with his prop man, Pat Shanahan, about where they’re going to get the mummy case they need.
And then the rehearsal continues. Hour after hour, night after night. And then one night Mr. Sommer- announces that' the next week books will not be allowed on the stage. “If you don’t know
Nov. 17, 1950
31
We carry a large showing cf fine Watches and Jewelry . . .
We maintain a complete Watch and Jewelry Repair Service.
cW
111 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
Aquinas Library and
Bookstore
YOUR CATHOLIC SHOPPING CENTER IN SOUTH BEND
110 E. LaSalle
your lines, we’ll read them for you until you do.” Skipper Swift looks worried; the part is a huge one. He has something like 500 cues. “You can have a couple of more days, Skip.”
The rehearsals begin to take longer— three or more hours. The cast begins to work on interpretation more, and expression. “Walk as if your feet hurt you,” Mr. Sommer tells Jack Giambruno, who plays Dr. Metz. He sends one of the cast back to sit under the balcony to listen to the voices and yell if anyone can’t be heard. “You’ve got to talk louder. Youi- stage voice has to be ten times as loud as your natural speaking voice.”
After the first week or so Pat Shanahan had most of the hand props ready. Some of them aren’t the ones that will be used in the play, but they get the cast used to holding and handling them. So for the present Newsiveek is used in place of Time and Phil Bolin, who plays Richard, nightly expresses admiration for an old rag of a tie that “The Man” is wearing.
The smaller parts come a few times to get used to their entrances. For instance, three convicts are played by Bob Williams, Marty O’Connor and Dick Cotter.
Gradually the play begins to fit together; scenes that have been worked on over and over gain precision and ease.
Meanwhile, C. Robert Egry of the De
YOU PAY NO MORE
FOR BARCE LESSORS AT
SOUTH BEND Trial Lesson Today.

• You actually save money because you learn the new dances in a fraction of the usual time.
Dance After Only I Lesson
Arthur Murray’s amazing Magic Step gives you the shortcut to mastery of all the new steps! His talented experts quickly bring out your natural grace and sense of rhythm — make you fun to dance with and a pleasure to watch.
With the prestige of Arthur Murray behind you, you step out with new confidence ... to new popularity.
See what Arthur Murray offers you. Come in or phone 2-3339.
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. WAYNE, Call 2-3339 for a FREE
partment of Mechanical Engineering with the help of Dan Caulfield, John Jarnot, Bill Hank, and John See are. working on the set, doing the dirty, un- * heralded work. Also helping in the designing of the set is Dolores loRio of the Catholic Theatre Guild.
The work of all of these, the prompting of Francis Ferro, the cast’s time and work will come together- to make a play, a play that will show for only four-brief nights.
Actors and actresses who have been appearing in slacks and sweaters and shirts will appear in business suits and dresses, with the makeup causing them to look strange up close, but natural at a distance under the lights.
There will be excitement and nervousness back stage on the night of Nov. 27. Props will be mislaid; actors will worry that they’ll forget their lines. But on the stage will be only the smooth effect of work and energy and time, blending together to make a play.
Japanese Jurist
(Continued from Page 21) Tanaka stated: “The American success in Korea has done much to stabilize the Japanese government. The people were very much heartened to see the United States take such prompt action to check the Communist aggression, and they believe that this American intervention has removed the threat of Communism temporarily.”	.
He added that during the first stages of the conflict, when the U.N. forces were suffering reverses, the Communists lost nearly all popularity in Japan.
“The Japanese people hope that there will be no war,” he said, “but they do not like the idea of invasion by the Reds. We are not absolute pacifists; we will fight, if needs be.”
When asked whether or not the new constitution enables Japan to raise an army to wage war, Dr. Tanaka replied:
“Japan wants to be received as a member of the United Nations. If we can contribute to the aid of the UN by furnishing man-power, we will do it if the UN decides that Japan should fight. The fighting would have to be under the name of the United Nations, however, not under the name of Japan. Both the old and the new constitutions enable Japan to enter a league of nations.”’
Dr. Tanaka was formerly professor of law in Tokyo University where he taught commercial law and legal philosophy for 28 years. After the war, he was called upon to take part in the educational reform. In 1947, he was elected to a six year term in the upper house, where he served until he was appointed to head the Supreme Court last year.
The Scholastic
A typical comment about the F.B.R.’s course in better reading made by Harold Larsen, Senior in Commerce:
“During this course I have improved my reading abilities tremendously. I can read comfortably from two to three times faster than I did before, and I understand and enjoy more of what I read. I think everyone should take this training.”
What would it be worth to you to be able to comfortably do all of your assigned and leisure reading in half the time you now require — and do it with equal or better comprehension?
Come in today for a FREE rate check. Find out how fast and well you are reading now. Learn how in a short time you can easily double this rate.
Gftsrvouw
One Way	One Way
In connection with the recent free scholarship announcement, we wish to congratulate and welcome to the Foundation for Better Reading the thirty men who were selected out of the large number of applications received by the office of Academic Affairs.
THE FOUNDATION for BETTER READING
114 E. LaSalle Ave. 2-8670	3-0077
CHICAGO ._________$ 2.00 ST. LOUIS......____ 6.50
BOSTON__________.... 18.60 NEW YORK_________ 16.65 BUFFALO______ 9.35	PHILADELPHIA.___ 15.25
CLEVELAND__________ 5.40	DETROIT.__________ 4.30
LOS ANGELES.......41.75	MEMPHIS.......... 10.15
WASHINGTON....... 13.80	GRAND RAPIDS........ 3.00
DALLAS___________ 17.25	KANSAS CITY........ 9.75
MILWAUKEE_________ 3.30	MADISON.....______ 4.20
NEW ORLEANS....... 14.75	OMAHA______________11.80
MINNEAPOLIS______ 9.05	DENVER____________20.50
Plus U. S. Tax
Big EXTRA Savings on Round Trip Tickets
____GREYHOUND TERMINAL Main at Western Phone 3-8283
GREYHOUN
Come in for a free demonstration of the methods used to develop this unusual study skill.
Nov. 17, 1950
Cotillion
Hats off to the Sophomore Class.
We refer, of course, to the Cotillion, the finest class dance in some time. High praise for the dance goes to co-chairmen Jerry Kelley and Mike McNulty. And also to the more than 80 hard-working committeemen.
Two aspects of the 1950 Cotillion are particularly worthy of note. The Palais is not an easy place to decorate. No ballroom is. But the Sophs did one of the finest jobs in memoriam hominum. Secondly, the favors were original, eyepleasing, and well-received. On these two counts alone the dance was a walkaway.
Frankie Masters is a good dance band. A dance band, by definition, is a band that plays music for dancing. Masters did. And that flute in the sax section made some fascinating spots for listening.
There was, in fact, only one point toward which criticism can be levelled. Which is a pretty good average. We refer to the people who had to wait in line to get in.
For a while, the line stretched all the way to Walgreen’s. It was cold last Friday night. As we see it, the fault lay in the method of collecting bids. Two tables were set up behind the ticket window. The first table took the dancers’ bids and checked the bid numbei' on a master list.
The second table passed out the favors and rechecked bid numbers on a second master list. Which took almost a minute for each couple. With a couple of hundred people waiting to get in, it seemed to the -waiters- like slow business.
There seems to be little you can do about a situation like this. Perhaps more than one table could be set up to take bids. It was a small item, but future class dance chairmen might take a cue from an unforeseeable mistake and try to avoid its repetition.
In all, the 570 couples who attended the Cotillion got their money’s worth and maybe a bit more. We wish there were room to list all 80 committeemen here.
Thanks
Thanks to H. Lee Hope and the Notre Dame marching band for listening to our suggestion concerning post-TD Victory Marches. We think it helped.
Thanks also to the band for an excel
lent football season. They outdid themselves last Saturday.
Juggler Bow
The Fall issue of the 1950 Juggler is on sale. Our first suggestion is: buy it! Our next suggestion is: read it!
This is not a review of the current Juggler. It is merely a short summary of our impressions of the magazine.
The fiction section includes six short stories and sketches. The great outdoors seems at times to predominate. Extremely well-done are James Curran’s “The Pike,” and Herbert Hoene’s “A Sign of Change.”
The Cap and Bells department is the novelty highlight of the magazine. It features two beautifully-done fables, along Pogo-Thurber lines, which are given added glamour and pointedness by the imaginative drawings of Lenz.
For the philosophic minds, the best piece of writing in the Juggler will be Brother Francis Englert’s essay “God’s Deep Wound.” This is a commentary on contemporary existentialism which resolves into a defense of Kierkegaard and Hacker. It is a fine and penetrating essay.
For the literati, essay appeal will lie predominantly in Rodney R. Forbes’ “The Moral World of Hawthorne,” a well-documented analysis of morality in the Puritan author.
The poetry is sound and image-full.
Sunny Italy
A Notre Dame Tradition
There must be more than one poet in the University though. Especially interesting in the poetry department is a sample of a Japanese verse-form known as haiku. This is a sort of Morleyan oetry, rich in terse imagery, rich in effulgent words.
The book reviews are readable and to the point. We particularly recommend co-editor Clement’s review of Robert Penn Warren’s latest novel for a lesson in reviewing.
A final word of advice to readers of the Juggler. Before you do anything else, read and carefully digest the editorial on page four. It is a statement and resolution of a problem that has not been so well put in a long time. It is a fitting apologia /or a fine job.
The Juggler is worth two-bits.
—— +T+ — ■ ■
The Last Word
Decision of the judges is final, but Pittsburghers surely don’t rank above Club 50’s or Barber Colleges.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
So. Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
“Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
34
The Scholastic
new corduroy sport shirts
>•2
ron MEN WOMEN AND CHILDREN
209 West Colfax Avenue Paul Whalen, Mgr.

be irresistible... in VANDUROY
J
Flowers by Williams
ORCHIDS and GARDENIAS
Specializing in
Corsages
WILLIAMS, The Florist 219 W. Washington
Phone 3-5149 “Just West of the Oliver”
THROW AWAY
NICOTINE
to for to*
MEDICO V. F. Q. (VERY FINE QUALITY) Pipes of specially selected imported briar.lA Wide variety of shapes. With 10 filters... A Also Frank Medico 'Standard*...
America's Outstanding Dollar ($1) Pipe Frank Medico Cigarette Holders M MEDICO ... FILTER PIPES
When the Filter in Medico Pipes or Cigarette Holders turns brown, throw it away with the nicotine, tars, juices and flakes it has trapped. Insert a fresh Filter to get cooler, cleaner, dryer, purer smoking!
Rail Filter* ..not intro hollow tubos
No need to slalom or Christiana—just bowl em over in rugged, tough Van Heusen Vanduroy sport shirts. In bright, wide-awake colors, these corduroys do amazing things with skis or with the she’s. Let nothing stand in your way, see Vanduroy today.
Van Hensen hjr
'the tcorld s smartest”
FHILI.IFS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N
Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters

GILBERT'S
Open evenings until 9 o’clock
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street'
Nov. 17, 1950
35
•l’1
V«’|
«
every tobacco man knows...tobaccos that Smell Milder-Smoke Milder
HESTERHEID/
4
Chesterfields smoke Milder*" and leave no unpleasant after-taste Its MY cigarette"
starring in "UNITED STATES MAIL A Paramount Picture
Make your own comparison' says (Z 0/voaM^
PROMINENT TOBACCO FARMER, BLANCH, N. C.
Make your next pack Chesterfield...Open it up Smell that milder tobacco aroma - no other cigarette has it.
Smells MILD E R • Smokes MILDER • No unpleasant after-taste "'
Copyright 1950, Lkceit & Mrou Tobacco Co.