
The Notre Dame
»
Scholastic
15 CTS. A COPY	May 5
$3.00 THE YEAR	_	_	1933
’til night.
Tired fingers so worn, so white, Sewing and mending from mom Tired hands and eyes that blink, Drooping head too tired to think-
Tired fingers so nom, so true, Sewing and mending the whole day through, Front break of dawn ’til setting sun, A Mother’s Wo^k Is Never Done.
TIRED FINGERS
Tired amis that once had pressed A airly head to a mother’s breast.
Tired voice so soft, so dear Saying "Sleep well, darling, mother’s near.
Jn honor of Mother—
WHATSOEVER
ye would that others should do for YOUR MOTHER
if she were left destitute, do ye even so for other mothers
and dependent children, millions of whom today, through unemployment and other causes beyond their control, are suffering, and some of them dying, for lack, of the simple necessities of life.
Suggestions for Mothers Day Observance ILLUSTRATED SOUVENIR BOOKLET, containing poems, including new hymn "Faith of Our Mothers”, scriptural quotations, classical tributes, suggested programs for churches, clubs, schools, lodges and homes will be sent free of charge upon request. Address:
I	—
1 THE GOLDEN RULE FOUNDATION
| Lincoln Building, 60 E. 42nd Street, New Yorlc.N.Y.
j Without obligation on my part, send Mothers Day booklet referred to above.
I
j	(Indicate Rev , Dr., Mr.. Mrs , or Miss)
I STREET------------------------------------------------------------------ I
Photograph and poem by Rupert Dancll. art work contributed by Etheridge and Company, engraving by Powers Engraving Companies, advertising sen ice by Frank Presbrey Company, space by this magazine
Two
The Scholastic
May 5, 1933
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub- TFI	hk I	I I	Entered as second-class
lished weekly at ths Univ ere- I	|\1a|i|>A I	/•I*I	f matter at Notre Dame, Iritis of Notre Dame. Manu- ■ I	1 iVMw	W* diana. Acceptance for maO-
scripts may be addressed to	.	ing at special rate of postage.
the scholastic, PubK- Disce Quasi Semper Vidurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus section nos, October s. n>n.
cations Office, Main Building.	FOUNDED 1865	authorized June 25, 1918.
Edmund A. Stephan.....................Editor-in-Chief
James S. Kearns........................Managing	Editor
Associate Editors F. GRANGER WEIL WALTER JOHNSON
LLOYD TESKE	LESLIE RADDATZ
WILLIAM DREUX
News Staff
MITCHELL TACKLEY..........News Editor
JAMBS BYRNE.......Assistant News Editor THOMAS PROCTOR.. .Assistant News Editor EDWARD MANSFIELD RICHARD TOBIN JOSEPH BUCCI......ROBERT ERVIN
FRANK KELLY	MICHAEL WIEDL
JAMES A. HART	JOHN WALKER
Desk Editors PATRICK CORCORAN JOHN CONLEY ROY SCHOLZ	ROBERT DILLON
Department Editors TIGHE WOODS................The	Week
ROGER BEIRNE ..........Theatre	Talk
ROGER McGOVERN.........College	Parade
RICHARD PREZEBEL,..........Staff Artist
Sports Staff FRED MacBETH	ALBERT L. McGUFF
JAMES F. McKEON NICHOLAS CONNOR JOHN CARBINE	HOWARD WALDRON
EDWARD VAN HUISSELING
Features Staff
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD.. .Features Editor LOUIS HRUBY EDWARD J. O’BRIEN WILLIAM KENNEDY BRYAN DEGNAN PAUL DOYLE	LOUIS GIRAGI
GEORGE LEYES JAMES FITZPATRICK
Business Staff
JOHN F. ST OECKLEY.... Graduate Manager J. ALBERT SMITH......Advertising Manager RAYMOND J. NABER...Circulation Manager HARRY McGOWAN * JOSEPH SIMON JOHN F. SWEENEY
Volume LXVL
MAY 5, 1933
No. 25
S UMM ARIES
NEWS
Monogram “High Jinks” Scores Hit at First Showing
I.ast Night .................................. 5
Band Will Give Open Air Concert Sunday.......... 5
Glee Club Is Booked for Twelve Week Summer Tour.. 6
Governor Paul V. McNutt, of Indiana, Will Deliver the
Commencement Address; Rev. Charles E. Coughlin,
Detroit, Will Give Baccalaureate.............. 7
Modem Language Dep’t. Plans Summer Tour to
Mexico ...................................-... 9
Fr. Eugene Burke Addresses Journalists..........11
James Dunnigan Elected President of New Yorkers..11
Father Tiernan Speaks at Irish Club Meet........13
FEATURES
Man About Presents “Alvie” Drymalski............ 8
“Voice” Talks About Editorial Policies and Walking on the Grass ...................................... 9
Details of Politics Trip to Nation’s Capital Described....14
Col. Bradley’s Derby Hopes.......................15
Johnson on “Business Cycles”...................  16
Changes on Campus Will Act as Camouflage to Alumni at Commencement .................................17
SPORTS
Track, Golf, and Tennis Meets Against Michigan State
Occupy Saturday’s Sports Calendar Here............20
Irish Track Men Place Twice in Drake Relays.........20 Michigan State tennis team drubs Notre Dame varsity
8-1 ............................................  21
Purdue Golfers’ Ambitions Wrecked When N. D. Golf
Team Wins 15-3..................................  21
Michigan State Nine Beats Keoganites, 5-3, Wednesday..22
Freshman Hall Leads Interhall	Softball League......23
N. D. Baseball Team Ties, Wins at Purdue..........23
Introducing—John Montedonico.......................24
Splinters From The Press Box.................-.____25
On Down The Line..............................    32
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, May 5.—Scholastic meeting, editorial board, 6:30 p. m.; news, sports, and feature staffs, 7:00 p. m., Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building.
SATURDAY, May 6.—Track, Michigan State, Cartier Field, 2:00 p. m.; Golf, Michigan State, William J. Burke Course, 10:00 a. m.; Tennis, Michigan State, University Courts, 1:30 p. m.; Baseball, Northwestern at Evanston; Movie, “Movie Crazy,” Washington Hall, 6:45 and 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, May 7.—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m.; Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, for upperclassmen, 7:00 p. m., for freshmen and students in Morrissey and St. Edward’s Halls, 7:30 p. m., St. Vincent de Paul Banquet, Dining Hall, 10:45 a. m.; Monogram “High Jinks,” Washington Hall, 8:15 p. m.
MONDAY, May 8.—Wrangler meeting, Law Building, 6:30 p. m.; Symphony Orchestra practice, Washington Hall, 6:30 p. m.
TUESDAY, May 9.—Golf, Northwestern at Evanston; Rochester Club meeting, Law Building, 7:45 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, May 10.—Baseball, Iowa, Cartier Field, 3:00 p. m.; Commerce Forum elections, Law Building, 12:45 p. m.; May Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, for upperclassmen, 7:00 p. m.; for freshmen and students in Morrissey and St. Edward’s Halls, 7:45 p. m.; Concert of Two-Piano Music, Washington Hall, 8:15 p. m.
THURSDAY, May 11.—Baseball, Iowa, Cartier Field, 3:00 p. m.
Four
The Scholastic
By Tighe Woods
{J ALUS populi supremo, lex esto, and the class elections are with us again. There is something fine about politics at Notre Dame. Any one who says they do no good and should be discontinued would do well to drop into the Alumni Office and see what early campus political training has done for some Notre Dame men. The Democratic landslide saw many of them in action. We imagine a Notre Dame district attorneys’ club formed among the alumni would make one of the largest groups among the graduates. Well, good luck, and remember, a dance chairman ceased having a bed of roses in 1929.
V
HE subpoenas sent out for the Lawyers’ Ball always have been one of the cleverest stunts ever arranged for a Notre Dame dance. This year’s edition was no exception. In fact, most of the lawyers chose to keep them as a remembrance, rather than send them to their guests. Knowing that the Lawyers’ Ball had a reputation for being a good party, they did not think it necessary to employ legal means to get a date, and we haven’t heard of a case where the young lady in question attempted to quash the indictment to attend. Good party, good time, and, owing to the new deal, it’s Monday, and we’ve still got a dollar.
X HE signs are unmistakable. The other twenty-five students who didn’t wear their white shoes all during winter have them on now, a few have tried the lake, and everybody carries an armful of books — to use for pillows under the trees. The spring yawning season is with us once more! Even the library is getting a play:
we suppose that some one has discovered that it is always cool in there. It’s always hard to do justice to soft May breezes on paper especially when ... ho hum . . . wake me for my three-fifteen. . . .
HE best bad luck story we have heard in a long time concerns the ill-fated senior who waited until the last minute of the last day to do his thesis and then had the lights go out in the senior halls just four hours before the deadline. It’s times like that that try men’s hearts, and eyesight if the candle happens to be a bit unruly and dim. But it is much more fun to get a thesis in, just under the wire — like people who purposely wait until they have to rush to catch a train. It’s great to talk about afterwards, — providing of course that the taxi doesn’t get playful with a street car or a truck.
X HURSDAY night the Monogram club gave the first showing, “at popular prices” of their annual show, “High Jinks of 1933,” and Thursday night a new comedy team joined the ranks of Wheeler and Wolsey, Clark and McCullough and those other great funny fellows. If you didn’t laugh at the antics of Krause and Vejar you must have a psychosis or something (ask the sociology majors). But we shouldn’t pick out those two because the entire cast did well. A word of praise should be given to Joe Kurth and his staff for their excellent work. They had to go at top speed for six weeks. The finesse of the cast and the way they went through their show are merely results of this tedious work. The printed program had one regrettable slip—Notre Dame consistently disavows “Ramblers” as designating its teams.
May 5, 1933
Five
FIRST PERFORMANCE OF ‘HIGH JINKS’ LAST NIGHT
Senior Committee Chooses
Favors for Ball; Ticket
Sale Closes Mon. May 8
BAND WILL GIVE OPEN AIR CONCERT SUNDAY
Monogram Club Show To Be Staged Again Sunday.
By Tighe Woods
“High Jinks” of 1933, the annual show of the Monogram Club, opened to a well-filled house Thursday night in Washington Hall.
From the first ripple of laughter that greeted the opening words of Nick Lukats out-Jolsoning the Mammy crooning Al, to the grand finale with Norb Christman et al doing the beautiful Marilyn waltz, the show
was a success.
Krause, Vejar Slay ’Em
The honors for the first night’s performance, by popular demand, went to that sparkling dance team, Krause and Vejar. Such ennui! Such savoir faire! Can you imagine Krause being languorous in gondolier trousers and a billowing orange silk blouse? Or Vejar made up as a voluptuous lady of the night? If you were there last night you can, otherwise you had better see it Sunday.
Moving from skit to skit, the show runs swiftly through fourteen different scenes. The hackneyed blackout method of changing scenes is used sparingly, and its place is taken by that versatile young man, Nick Lukats, acting as master of ceremonies. In the first half of the show he imitates the daddy of all mammy singers, Al Jolson, but his real triumph comes when he apes the wise-cracking, browtwitching Groucho Marx.
Tobin Almost Dies For Yale
While the lines are still a little weak in spots, the men handle the character bits nicely. One of the most humorous skits, “For Old Eli Yale,” reveals a new actor to the campus. John Tobin, playing the father who did and almost died for dear old Eli, gives a fine character interpretation.
A fine thing about this show is its variety. The chorus and George Rohrs introduce several new dance steps to the campus, Leo Cronin makes Cab Calloway sound like a news hawker with his version of “Minnie The Moocher’s Wedding Day,” and Ossie Osborne gives something new in pantomime.
Tickets for Sunday’s performance are on sale in all the halls. All seats are reserved, and those who come early will get the best choice.
Favors for the Senior Ball have been procured by the committee in charge of that detail of the dance during the past few days. To the guests will go a sport vanity purse made of pigskin; to the men, more leather in the form of attractive bill folds.
Reservations for a seventy-five cent steak dinner- at the Chain-o’-Lakes Country Club after the tea dance Saturday afternoon may be made at the present time with Jack Travers, in 423 Walsh Hall.
The ticket sale for the Ball opened last Monday and 'will continue until May 8—the deadline. Each senior hall has a representative of the ticket committee. The orchestra which will play at the dance Saturday will be announced in the next issue of The Scholastic.
‘The Scholastic,* 50 Years Ago
May 5, 1883.—The brick work on the Dome may now be seen above the roof. There is a slight delay, however, owing to the non-arrival of the iron-work which is daily expected from Chicago. The iron fastenings require to be deeply imbedded in the brick structure, and until they arrive the work cannot proceed. When one considers that upwards of 500,000 bricks, together with the thousand of feet of lumber collected on the premises, to say nothing of the iron-work which will form the external elliptical body, he can form an idea of the colossal proportions of this monument to the Mother of God, unique in this country.
A feature, article on the Kentucky Derby will be found on page 15 of this issue. Written by Mattingly Spalding, a thoroughbred Kentuckian himself, the story has chiefly to do with Colonel Bradley and his horses and the possibility of another “B” winner.
Spalding’s tips:
1.	Mr. Khayyam.
2.	Broker’s Tip.
3.	Head Play.
Program to be Presented On Quadrangle, 6:30 p. m.
The University concert band will present its first open air concert of the season from the porch of the Main Building, Sunday evening at 6:30 o’clock, Central Standard Time. The seventy-two musicians comprising the organization will play selections ranging from marches to light opera.
With Professor Joseph J. Casasanta conducting, the group will give the following repertoire:
I.	Marches
(a)	“El Capitan” by Sousa
(b)	“The Washington Post” by Sousa.
II.	Intermezzo “East of Suez” by Strebor.
III.	Processional March “Pomp and Chivalry” by Roberts.
IV.	Mexican Waltz “L a Golon-drina” by Serradell.
V.	Selection “Victor Herbert Favorites” by Herbert-Lak
VI.	“University Grand March” by Goldman.
Sunday’s presentation will mark the opening of the open air concerts on the quadrangle. The concert band is also scheduled to take part in the annual blossom festival at St. Joseph, Michigan, next Saturday, May 13.
Boy Guidance Grads Can Win $400 Scholarships
According to information just received by Prof. Ray Hoyer of the Boy Guidance Department, the Knights of Columbus will award scholarships for graduate work in Boy Guidance at Notre Dame for the 1933-34 college year. This will be the 10th consecutive year scholarships have been awarded.
The amount of the 1933-34 scholarship, however, has been reduced to $400. The new scholars, therefore, will be required to defray all fees in excess of this figure. Heretofore the scholarships have covered all required fees.
Interested seniors may secure further information from Mr.’ Hoyer or by writing directly to the Knights of Columbus Boy Life Bureau, New-Haven, Conn.
Six
The Scholastic
Glee Club to Tour U. S.
During Summer Months
30 WILL MAKE TRIP
To Leave Campus June 3;
Will Open Concerts in Washington, D. C,
The University of Notre Dame Glee Club, under the direction of Professor Joseph J J Casasanta, has been signed for a twelve week concert tour throughout the United States this summer. The musical unit will leave the campus shortly after Commencement in June.
The Glee Club will open the series of concerts in Washington, D. C., about June 4. Following this they will journey to Baltimore, Md., where they will present their second concert. Other cities on the itinerary include Philadelphia, Penn., Newark, N. J., and a group of other large Eastern centers.
In Gotham Three Weeks
The longest stay of the organization will be in New York City where the Club is booked for three solid weeks. After the New York concerts, the members will begin a tour of the mid-west. They will give concerts in Detroit, Mich., Cleveland, Ohio, and Chicago, Hl. From this group of cities, the Gleesters will travel to the west coast, stopping several times en-route.
The Glee Club will travel in two specially chartered Pullman cars. They will have a private baggage car for their use. The coaches, lettered with “The University of Notre Dame Glee Club,” will furnish living quarters for the students.
Thirty members of the organization will be chosen to make the trip. The present personnel numbers fifty. The
Thirty members of the N. D. Glee Club icill tour U. S. this summer.
Hess And Jandoli Are Nominated for President of N. D. Commerce Forum
John P. Hess and Leslie Clement Jandoli, juniors in the College of Commerce were nominated for the presidency of the College Forum for the coming year at the meeting held last Tuesday evening in the Law’ Building.
Other members nominated at the meeting were: John G. Sullivan and Robert T. Hogan, vice-president; Francis J. Shay and James J. Quinn, secretary; Alfred F. Loritsch, Jr., and William G. Burkhardt, treasurer.
Joseph A. Caulfield, junior, running unopposed for the board of directors, was the only officer to be elected at the meeting. Other nominees for the board of directors are: philosophy majors, Thomas Flynn and Edward A. Kerns; business administration majors, James P. Colleran and John C. Flanigan; foreign commerce senior, John F. Egan and Albert G. Phaneuf; foreign commerce junior, Harold H. May; and accounting major senior, James Clark.
The final elections will be held next Wednesday, May 10th from 12:451:15 p. m. in the Law Building.
selections, being made by the tryout method, will be completed tomorrow.
The tour was arranged by Mr. Thomas O’Brien, Chicago, an independent manager who presents artists and organizations of a musical nature. The concerts will be given only in first class opera and play houses.
Professor Casasanta and his Glee Club already have begun rehearsals on a repertoire of fifty selections which will be used during the tour.
ECONOMIC MAJORS TAKE NATIONAL EXAMINATION
N. D Seniors Show Mettle In Comprehensive Quiz.
Forty-five seniors in the College of Arts and Letters sat in a classroom last Saturday afternoon, with the temperature popping into the 70’s, to take a comprehensive examination in	(
Economics—their major subject.
The test handed them had been prepared by the American Economic Council. It asked 175 questions which had to do with topics ranging from Malthus’ Essay on Population to the kinds of boats used in Colonial transportation.	V
Similar tests given to students throughout the United States showed a normal mark to be 108 out of 175 for college economists, 91, for high schoolers.
When the N. D. major’s papers r , were totaled it was found that the average mark w’as 126, that 80 per cent of the class was in the upper third of the grade graph, that the University apparently boasts several budding Babsons. (Consult “Voice”;
page 9, in re: Economic Majors)	t
Ping Pong Tournament To Begin Next Monday
A “Ping Pong” tournament will get underway in Brownson “Rec” room, Monday, May 8. Fred Fayette, student manager of Brownson recreation room, will conduct the contest. Twenty-five cents is the entrance fee.
The championship will be held in singles and doubles. The winner in each case will be picked by elimination. There will also be a consolation tournament. An appropriate prize will be offered for the three tests.
The tournament will go according to the New York State Table Tennis Associations rules. Among some of the contestants already entered are: Louis Chreist, captain of the tennis team; Frank Weldon, Seton Staley, Bob Forbes, and Frank Hurley.
Fred Fayette has also announced a Pool tournament will start along with Tennis. Many of the best players on the campus have already enlisted for this event.
There’s no art to tell the mind’s construction in the face.—Shakespeare.
May 5, 1933
Seven
POWERS WINS BREEN ORATORICAL CONTEST
Russian Recognition is Topic of Winning Speech.
By Tom Proctor
Maurice E. Powers, C.S.C., A.B. ’33, won first place in the finals of the Breen Medal Oratorical Contest held Wednesday evening in the auditorium of the Engineering Building. The title of the winning oration was “Shall We Recognize Russia?”
By virtue of this victory, Powers will be awarded on Commencement Day the gold medal for excellence in oratory, presented by the Hon. William P. Breen, LLD. ’77, of Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Seven Men Compete
Seven men were selected through a comprehensive system of tryouts during Monday and Tuesday of this week to deliver their orations in the final contest. These seven were: Max Baer, James Boyle, John Clancy, John Locher, John Logan, William Monahan, and Maurice Powers.
Powers began his oration by citing examples of Russian propaganda and undermining efforts in the United States. He pointed out the actual toleration of eleven Communistic summer camps in this country last summer, camps in which American youths took oaths daily, to destroy our Democracy and to uphold the Communism of Stalin’s Russia. “Despite this and other' equally startling facts, thousands in this country are clamoring for United States recognition of Soviet Russia,” continued the orator.
Boyle Places Second
With clearness and precision Powers also outlined the other reasons why this nation should not recognize Russia. He refuted the claim of many that recognition would aid our market by showing that the drop in commerce between the two nations is not due to lack of recognition, but rather to the general world-wide depression. Power’s words of condemnation against the crushing dictatorship of Stalin were forceful and fiery.
James A. Boyle, A.B., ’33, was given second place for his oration “European Peace,” by the three judges of the evening, Rev. Michael A. Mulcaire, C.S.C., Professor William E. Farrell, and Professor Daniel
Gov. McNutt, Fr. Coughlin Commencement Speakers
Reserve Officers Club
Hold Bi-Monthly Meet;
Committees Appointed
The Reserve Officers Club of Notre Dame held its bi-monthly meeting in the Commerce Building Wednesday evening. The organization appointed committees on dues and publications, made arrangements for a Mass to be said for the repose of the soul of Col. Hoyne, and completed the new requirements for membership.
Sal Costa received the chairmanship of the dues committee, while Charles Landmesser, George. Gorman, and George Hill compose the remainder of the body. With Jim Byrne as chairman and Jerry Lambiente, Ed Hammer, and Walt Powers as coworkers, the publication committee hopes to work out some plan for a small military paper to come out every two weeks during the next school year. Mike Santulli was appointed to arrange for Col. Hoyne’s Mass.
C. O’Grady. Boyle traced the underhanded statesmanship of European nations preceding the Franco-Prussian and World Wars, and showed that at the present time statesmen and nations are “balanced” for another struggle.
The titles of the other orations were as follows: Max Baer, “Reflections on the World’s Fair”; John Clancy, “Disarmament”; John Locher, “Will Capitalism Survive?”; John Logan, “The Reign of Error,” and William Monahan, “Jews Not Admitted!”
In addition to the three judges of the final contest, Professor W. J. Coyne, director of the activity, was assisted by others of the faculty, in judging the tryouts. These were Professors Stephen Ronay, Frank Moran, Joseph Apodaca, Louis Has-ley, Ronald Cox, George Wack, Frank O’Malley, Louis Buckley and the Reverend J. A. Fogarty, C.S.C.
All written material for the Commencement Number of the Notre Dame Juggler must be turned into Room 117, Sorin Hall, by Wednesday, May 10.
GOV. SMITH ACCEPTS
Dr. James J. Walsh, Margaret Anglin to Speak to Laetare Medallist Assemblage.
By James S. Kearns
The Honorable Paul V. McNutt, Governor of Indiana, will deliver the commencement address at the 89th annual Notre Dame commencement exercises Sunday afternoon, June 4, it was announced today by the Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University.
The Baccalaureate sermon will be preached by the Rev. Charles E. Coughlin, pastor of the Shrine of the Little Flower, Royal Oak, Michigan. Father Coughlin is nationally known for his radio speeches of exposition of Catholic principles in economic life, r
Walsh Is Renowned Author
Two outstanding members of the American Catholic laity will also speak during the commencement week-end activities. Dr. James J. Walsh and Miss Margaret Anglin will address an assemblage of Laetare medalists gathered at Notre Dame to observe the golden jubilee of the first presentation of the medal.
Dr. Walsh, author of The 13th, The Greatest of Centuries and other volumes, famed historian and physician of New York City, was awarded the Laetare medal in 1916. He has spoken to the student body here many times on subjects of historical interest.
McCormack To Be Here
Miss Anglin, recipient of the medal in 1927, has long been an outstanding figure on the American stage. She is the most recent woman to receive the medal, and the tenth in the history of the presentation.
The Honorable Alfred E. Smith, medallist in 1929, has accepted the invitation of the University to attend the celebration.
The presentation of the 1933 Laetare medal to John McCormack, noted Irish concert tenor, will be made in connection with the Golden Jubilee celebration.
V
Eight
The Scholastic
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
SECRETARY ARMSTRONG
ISSUES APRIL‘ALUMNUS’
By Fred Becklenberg, Jr.
This article must begin with a word or two of advice to all reporters who, at any future time, may seek an interview with Alvin Drymalski. Don’t be hesitant, men! Fear not that you are intruding upon sacred ' domain, or that you are disturbing one who takes offense at being disturbed! Instead adopt that sang-froid insouciance so typically journalistic, bang open the door of 309 Sorin Hall, flop down full length upon the bed therein, and begin your inquisition with the query, “What’ve you got to eat, Alvie?” (Don’t worry; such a manner of approach has not been without precedent). Knowing Alvin Drymalski as the kind, considerate individual that he is, I can assure you not only a very interesting interview but also one that you will find to be very delicious.
His Room A Paradise
Long ago—’way back in September of ’32—Alvin came to be known as the most popular man on Sorin’s notorious third floor. His room is pointed out as the meeting place of all who enjoy pleasant companionship ’midst delightful surroundings. A full-toned radio, a selected library (The Saturday Evening Post, complete from Benjamin Franklin to the present day), a locker abounding in the choicest of edibles are only a few of the enticements subordinate to Alvin’s personality that lure third-floorers from near and far. Of course, if one has not “arrived” as a campus luminary he may at first find the company embarrassing; for 309 Sorin Hall is mainly the habitat of Notre Dame’s great. Alvin is the friend of leaders —presidents preferred! To name a few: President of the Presidents’ Council, Cleve Cary, President of the Press Club, Jack Jaeger, President of the Menominee Club, “Baron” Kreuz, President of the Adirondack Club, James Munn, President of the Boston Club, Boh Morrissey Monahan, past-President of the Indianapolis Club, Jack Scanlon, and, last but not least, past-President of the French Club, Bill Dreux. Only natural though, that his friends should be so distinguished, for Alvin, as President and Charter Member of the newly-formed Cracow Club, the local Polish organization, is in line for the proper political connections—just as he has already made
the proper connections with the State’s Attorney’s office in Chicago.
Alvin prepped for four years at De Paul Academy in Chicago. As an
Alvin Drymalski
For him 98-3 N. D. breakfasts
athlete in high-school days, he played one year of bantamweight basketball and two years of lightweight football; as a social light, he served as one of the chairmen of his high-school’s Senior Ball. Since entering college, however, he has given whatever time he can spare from entertaining his friends to the acquisition of knowledge of marketing, accounting, and banking. Despite the fact that he is enrolled in the commerce school, he is a Philosophy Major.
Summing Up Alvin
We. <puld go on like this forever because Alvin is sure-fire and neverending “copy;” but lack of space compels a summarized account from here on. Ambition: to become president of the Polonia Coal Company of Chicago within the next two years. Interest: only one, a charming young lady who resides within a block of our subject’s residence. (We’ve never met her, but Alvin promises to bring her ’round to see us during the Ball week-end). Hobby: dashing up and down the Boul Mich in either his La Salle, his Buick, or his Ford. Candid characteristic: a winning smile, an ingratiating manner, and a whole-hearted exuberance at being known and recognized as “Alvie of Sorin, friend to all, enemy of none—
Alumni Publication Contains Bits of N. D. News.
Reunions, Laetare Medalists, candidates for election to the offices of the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame—1933, PreCommencement news, and letters from the various alumni clubs are bits of data included in the April number of The Notre Dame Alumnus which should be of particular interest to the graduate.
John McCormack, renowned Irish tenor, is to be present at the Commencement exercises and will be presented with the 1933 Laetare Medal. In addition to Mr. McCormack, the other living recipients of the Laetare award plan to be at the celebration of the Golden Jubilee of the Medal during the Commencement program, June 2nd, 3rd, and 4th.
Attacks Pragmatic Outlook
In his article “Don’t Sell Your Children Short,” Mr. Armstrong points out the fallacy of measuring the value of an education in the terms of the financial success which it brings or fails to bring to those who have been privileged to receive it.
“Higher education has two major values. In recent years it has become too common and too misleading a practice to emphasize the material values of the advantages of college as weapons in the battle of business. The percentage of the success in all material fields is held out as attractive bait, and the accommodating science of statistics provided its customary bearing-out,” writes Mr. Armstrong.
Right Thinking Greatest Asset
“Neglected in a large measure, but of far more vital and fundamental value, was the asset to the right thinking and subsequent right living that a college education is to the individual enjoying it. That value, the formation of character rather than the sharpening of the talents exclusively, has increased rapidly, as the ‘gold standard’ of education has fallen with the markets,” explains the Alumni secretary.
the only senior student at Notre Dame,' who has never missed a breakfast in the University dining halls!”
May 5, 1933
Nine
MODERN LANGUAGE DEF’T PLANS TRIP TO MEXICO
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
Mr. Langford Will Conduct Tour During Summer.
Walter M. Langford, of the Department of Modern Languages, is at present planning a summer excursion trip to Mexico City. Although this trip is intended primarily for students of his Spanish classes, it is open to all who are interested. As yet the excursion has not been definitely arranged, but there is every indication that it will be made.
According to tentative plans the party will leave St. Louis, the official starting point of the journey, between August 10 and August 15, over the Missouri Pacific Lines and the National Railways of Mexico. The train time between St. Louis and Mexico City is two days and three nights. Through Pullman service is maintained, making it unnecessary to change trains at any point.
Nine Days In Mexico City
Nine full days will be spent in Mexico City and vicinity. Numerous other excursions out of Mexico City to such spots of interest as Xochi-milco, Cuernavaca, Pueretaro San Juan Teotihuacan, Amecameca, Milpa Alta, the Shrine of Our Lady of Guadalupe, will also be made.
The expense of this fourteen day trip including all of the necessary details will not exceed $150. Mr. Langwell will meet the party upon their arrival in Mexico City where he will spend the greater part of the summer attending the summer session of the National University of Mexico.
All those who are interested in this trip are asked to communicate with Mr. Langford at 622 W. Colfax Avenue.
Movie Schedule
Movies to be presented in Wash. ington Hall are as follows:
May 6—“Movie Crazy,” with Har-
old Lloyd.	•
May 13 — “Prosperity” starring Marie Dressier and Polly Moran.
May 20—“The Big Broadcast” with Bing Crosby.
Art Lecture Postponed
Frank M. Ludevig’s third and last art lecture, previously scheduled for May 4, in Washington Hall, has been postponed to May 11.
All letters to the Voice of the Campus must be addressed to the Editor of The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall. Names must be signed in full. Initials vriU be used upon request.
Tapioca
Editor of The Scholastic
Dear Sir:
There are many fellows on the campus—and among them a goodly number of Economics Majors—who know very little about the present economic situation. Hence these fellows (of which I am one and I strongly suspect that you are too) find that the articles on Economics appearing in The Scholastic are interesting and enlightening. These feature articles help us to get at least a slight idea of the fundamentals underlying the economic chaos of today.
And it is really pleasant, and somewhat unexpected, to run across such material in your weekly. Outside of the actual news reports there is little that is not mediocre in The Scholastic. Your editorials with their innane repetitions of “The Scholastic believes . . . The position of The Scholastic has ever been etc ...” are marvels of banality. The Week lacks its flavor of last year, and now contains nothing but a dull collection of Notre Dame platitudes. So, as I say, these articles on Economics make up partially for the deficiencies of your paper.
And apropos of your editorials I rather think that your editorial entitled Pharisee, which appeared in the April 2Sth issue, is nothing but literary tapioca. You say that The Scholastic is the official news organ of a Catholic School, and hence represents Catholic thought. “But,” an outsider might well ask, “how do we know that the young editor knows Catholic thought thoroughly enough to represent it accurately?” If it were not for faculty supervision The Scholastic would probably misrepresent Catholic thought in every issue.
M. H. R.
The position of The Scholastic has always been that banality, if it exists, is deplorable, but that student misconceptions call for more immediate action. The Scholastic not only did not say, in its Editorial “Pharisee,” that because it was the news organ of a Catholic school it neces
sarily represented Catholic thought on all matters, but attempted to show in simple language that there are many obvious exceptions to such a statement, that the causal relationship frequently does not exist.
To wit: Just as there can be no cut and dried ‘Catholic stand’ towards people who write letters of the above nature, so can there be no one dogmatic attitude towards disarmament, the gold standard, The Chicago White Sox, The Vienna Saengerknaben, tapioca, etc.
Romanticist
The Editor,
Notre Dame Scholastic.
Dear Sir,
Do you find news and feature material so sparse about the campus that, in combating a weekly “copyless” deadline, you must inevitably resort to our old and trusted “filler” friend, “Please keep off the grass” ?
Page after page, issue after issue, ever are those who trespass upon our verdant scenery rebuked, ever are future culprits warned. The editorial column denounces us as vandals, “The Week” indicts us as ignoramuses, the news department, less severe in its accusations, gives us a break with the dubbing “careless.”
All campaigns aimed at constructive reform are to be endorsed.. Every action furthering betterment of existing conditions is to be encouraged. But, Mr. Editor, why attack us who prefer a blade of grass in our shoes to a large dissymmetrical clinker, who prefer the dampness of the grass to the inundation of the cinder-path, who seek for our foot-wear the soft protection of grass and dirt rather than the harsh destructiveness of pointed stone and jagged boulder?
Sincerely,
P. F. C.
What’s in a name? That which we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet.—Shakespeare.
Dear damned inconstant sex:
Not all the gods have power of doing good to man as thou of doing harm.—Dryden.
Ten
The Scholastic
NATIONAL SHORT STORY CONTEST IS ANNOUNCED
Galleon Press to Accept Work Until June 1.
The Galleon Press, of New York City, announces its second annual competition for manuscripts to be included in its two anthologies “The American Short Short Story—1933” and “Modern American Poetry— 1933.” Short short stories, to be eligible, must be hitherto unpublished and may not exceed 1200 words. Poems must be unpublished and may not exceed 32 lines to each poem. There is no restriction on subject matter or presentation other than originality of content and forcefulness of style.
New Ideas Preferred
In general, however, the editors will favor new, experimental material of a nature not found in magazines. Psychological stories, stories of character rather than situation are desired. In both anthologies the editors desire to foster new literary forms rather than to perpetuate existing ones. It is the purpose of these two volumes to call literary attention to the most worthy new writers who have not as yet achieved widespread publication and to provide a meeting place for ideas and expression that might not otherwise receive a hearing.
Contributions are welcomed from undergraduate students who are assured of thorough reading and prompt attention. Students desiring to submit to either or both anthologies may send manuscripts directly or write for a prospectus detailing the full rules for submission.
Prizes Come To $300
Six prizes totalling $300 will be given for the three best contributions to each anthology. As substitute awards for the poetry anthology the publishers will issue, on a royalty basis, individual volumes of verse by the two most outstanding contributors if the winners have enough poems of consistent merit to warrant such publication.
The final date for contributions is July 1st, 1933. All manuscripts and inquiries should be addressed to Mr. W. Keene, Sec’y, in care of the Galleon Press, 15 West 24th Street, New York City.
News of the Week
By Paul Doyle
Central and South America served as background for two violent political uprisings. In Cuba, President Machado was smothering a rebellion of political antagonists in the eastern part of the island. (When our new Cuban Ambassador, Sumner Welles, takes office, he will convey instructions for Machado to vacate. The instructions also demand a general election within six months — a threat of intervention backing them up.) And next day after the Cuban revolt, President Cerro of Peru was shot to death by a member of the opposition party, Aprista.
By a vote of 64-20, the Senate passed the combined farm bill, farm mortgage bill, and the Thomas inflation amendment. The House concurred with Senate action on the measure. Conservatists think the currency amendment will be ineffective much the same as past inflationary measures of our own and other countries. Those who back the bill do not promise inflation to be a sure cure, but they do feel confident that it will be a factor towards recovery.
Although no definite agreements were reached in the International conferences held in Washington, they served their purpose in allowing President Roosevelt to ascertain foreign policies. Knowing the attitude of foreign powers will enable us to form an intelligent policy for the coming World Economic Conference. (London, June 12th.)
Hostilities are imminent between Russia and Japan. The Russians charge Japan with failure to protect Soviet interests in Manchukuo, and the Japan-Manchukuo combine demands from Russia the return of locomotives and other rolling stock of the Chinese Eastern Railway. Dispatches claim that Moscow has warned its border citizenry to be ready to evacuate, and other dispatches report Japanese troops voluntarily withdrawing from the advance on China, in preparation for -an early conflict with the Reds.
The Black Bill, proposing a 30-hour week, is resting for the time being. . . .
30 SCIENCE STUDENTS TAKE TRIP TO DETROIT
Fr. Wenninger Accompanies Group to Parke, Davis.
Thirty students of the College of Science went to Detroit, Sunday, April 30 on the trip sponsored by Parke, Davis and Co., Pharmaceutical and Biological Manufacturers. Faculty members accompanying the group were Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Science, Mr. L. H. Baldinger of the Pharmacy Department, and Mr. V. T. Oester of the Department of Biology.
Stay At Statler
The special coach on the New York Central Railway arrived in Detroit, Monday morning, May 1. At the terminal the students were met by members of the Parke, Davis and Co. sales department. A special bus took the group to the Hotel Statler, their, residence while in Detroit, and then out to the pharmaceutical plant where breakfast was served in the cafeteria.
Immediately following breakfast the men were divided into small groups, and were conducted through the manufacturing division by trained guides. Some of the more interesting departments visited were the following: the warehouse, with its millions of pounds of crude drugs; the ampoule and capsule manufacturing units where scientific precision and cleanliness are applied to million lots; the percolation rooms where huge copper tanks are used to extract drug principles ; the tablet and pill departments with their complicated machines ; and finally, the weighing floor where all ingredients are accurately prepared for compounding.
Banquet Monday
That afternoon, having had lunch in the firm’s cafeteria, the members were taken through the analytical and research laboratories in the Research Building.
Monday night, Parke, Davis and Co. provided a banquet for the students in the Statler. Entertainers obtained for the occasion included a Detroit Civic Opera tenor, a girl vocalist recently with Ben Bernie, and a professional violinist and master of ceremonies.
Mr. W. F. Glass, assistant domestic sales manager, acted as toastmaster (Continued on Page 11)
I
May 5, 1933
FATHER EUGENE BURKE TALKS TO JOURNALISTS
“Ave Maria” Editor Offers ' Advice to Writers.
Keeping a “commonplace book,” developing the memory, and training the. powers of observation were the aids for writers suggested by the
Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C.
For your memory: “a common place book.”
Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C., editor of the Ave Maria, in his lecture to the members of the Department of Journalism, Thursday afternoon, May 4.
A “commonplace book” modeled after Nathaniel Hawthorne’s “American Notebook,” in which the writer may keep sentences, paragraphs, essays, or even a chance word, that might some day prove to be the basis of a story plot, an editorial, or an essay topic, would indeed prove invaluable, Father Burke emphasized.
“A real artist will never work without a model. Why? Because he cannot remember shadows. So writers are always keeping the kind of material found in a commonplace book for that same reason—they can write more accurately,” the Ave Maria editor brought out.
“In one’s mind should be stored up a supply of adjectives, nouns and verbs, of course. By memorizing a few lines each day from the essayists, Shakespeare, the Scriptures, or any similar worthy source, and increasing
JOHN QUIRK IS ELECTED PRESIDENT OF CHICAGO CLUB WEDNESDAY
Chicago Club elections held last Tuesday night ended with the president’s gavel going to John Quirk, the • vice-presidential cloak falling on the shoulders of Bob Hanley, the secretary’s quill being left to John Jordan, and the treasury mite coming under the guardianship of Tom Dugan.
Hanley, the new vice-president, tied with George Reese for that office, and won when the flip of a coin decided the successor to this year’s office holder.
John Jordan, varsity basketball man, received the secretaryship with the unanimous backing of the entire club. The executive committee is to be appointed by the president at the beginning of the school year next September.
PHARMACY TRIP
(Continued from Page 10)
the amount learned each day, many of the program. Those who spoke after the banquet were Father Wenninger, William Kenny, President of the Pharmacy Club, Mr. F. 0. Taylor, chief chemist with Parke, Davis and Co., Mr. Baldinger, and Mr. Oester.
Tuesday morning, the group was taken in a special bus to Parkdale, the biological farm of Parke, Davis and Company. The entire morning was spent in inspecting this 700 acre farm. At Parkdale, in the most sanitary conditions, hundreds of horses and cattle are kept to yield the valuable disease-preventing serums. The process of getting diphtheria antitoxin, from disinfecting the horses to withdrawing the final substance was shown. Of particular interest at Parkdale was a horse, “Tess” by name, which produced one half of all the tetanus antitoxin used in the World War.
The students returned to Notre Dame late Tuesday evening.
Disciplinary Regulation
Students are forbidden to take University Blankets to the bathing beach.
words and phrases will be added to the vocabulary, and will later prove priceless. It takes courage and will, but it can be done,” Father Burke stated regarding the training of the memory.
Eleven
DUNNIGAN IS ELECTED NET CLUB PRESIDENT
Defeats Doerfler by 34 Votes; Bracken Vice-President.
James J. Dunnigan, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, was elected president of the Metropolitan Club at a meeting of -that organiza-
James J. Dunnigan A president on Skates
tion last Thursday. Jack Bracken, also a junior, was elected vice-president.
Dunnigan, succeeds Al Ripley as head of the New Yorkers. Ed Kosky was president of the group for the greater part of the year, but was succeeded by Ripley when he left the University this spring.
One hundred and seventy club members turned out for the meeting. Art Doerfler, nominated to run opposite Dunnigan, was defeated, 102 to 68. John Ffrench, president of the sophomore class last year, was defeated for the office of vice-president, 85 to 78.
There are more than 200 members in the Metropolitan Club. It is the second largest organization of its kind on the campus.
History Majors
The comprehensive examination for majors in the Department of History will be held at 10:00 a. m. Monday, May 8, in Room 1 of the Main Building.
ELECTION NOTICE!
Final Class Elections have been postponed until Tuesday, May 9. Voting will take place in the basement lobby of the Dining Hall.
Twelve
The Scholastic
DR. M’M ARON ADDRESSES ITALIANS ON “DANTE”
May 1 «s^in:' ?a,e Fr?r ST- VINCENT GROUP 10
— X OBSERVE CENTENNIAL
Relation to St. Thomas Aquinas Is Discussed.
'Dante Alighieri and His Relation To the Philosophy of St. Thomas Aquinas” was the subject of a talk given by Dr. Francis McMahon of the Department of Philosophy to members of the Italian Club Tuesday evening, May 2, in Room 2 of the Main Building.
“The religious ideas of the great 13th century inspired not only the mass but also the great men, the intellectual giants,” said Dr. McMahon. “Dante and Aquinas were both products of that century, one which gave rise to the controversy as to whether or not faith and reason could be reconciled. St. Thomas established his system of Thomism after carefully distinguishing between the sphere of reason, and pointing out the harmony between them. Dante in his ‘Divina Commedia’ is fundamentally but not altogether Thomistic.”
Hold Elections
Following Dr. McMahon’s address, the annual club elections were held in which the four offices were filled by unanimous vote. Emilio J. Gervasio, sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, was elected president; Joseph Bucci, vice-president, Joseph Costa, secretary, and Andrew W. Maffei as treasurer.
The next meeting will be held Wednesday evening, May 10, at 6:30 o’clock in the band room of Washington hall. Mr. Russel Stemper, Glee Club soloist, will offer a program of Italian songs including the ‘Prologue from Pagliacci.”
Light on Dome Causes Speculation Tuesday Eve.
Heavy and low-hanging layers of clouds produced a low ceiling over the campus Tuesday night. The arclight from Sacred Heart Church shone on the Dome and the Dome in turn shone on the sky. The golden reflection thus created caused much speculation.
Some seemed to regard it as an omen, others asserted it was a meteorological phenomenon, while one held out for a community miracle. It wasn’t any of these. It was merely a natural result from a natural cause.
Owing to some misunderstanding of the change in regulations, the final date for making the $5.00 deposit with the Registrar has been postponed to include May 10, 1933.
The $5.00 so deposited will be credited to the student’s account and will permit him to secure his class schedule from his Dean on or before May 19. A penalty of $10.00 attaches to pre-registration with the Registrar after May 10 or with the Deans after May 19. No exception may be made to the foregoing.
The $10.00 penalty is an additional charge and is not credited to the student’s account. For obvious reasons students should not wait until the final date to see either the Registrar or their Deans.
Room drawing lists will be posted on the Main Building bulletin board as soon as possible after May 1.
Landscaping Continues on Notre Dame Grounds
Work started last week by the University workmen in improving the campus has been greatly increased this week. Trees in front of Dillon, and Alumni halls have been cleared away except those which fringe the walks and line the upper part of Notre Dame avenue.
In addition to the work done to Dillon and Alumni lawns, similar labors were performed on the lawns of the Law building and Cushing hall of Engineering. The road connecting the Post Office with Eddy street road has been torn up and graded for a lawn. A new strip of road for the use of automobiles now extends from the rear of the Dining Hall, running parallel to the rear of the Law and Engineering buildings.
The parking lot for cabs formerly located alongside of the Post Office has been established in the rear of the Law building.
Financial pressure coupled with active hostility in some quarters makes it important that we avoid anything that can furnish our opponents with even a semblance of an excuse for attacking the college.—Dr. Morton Gottschall, acting dean of City College, New York, advising ag-against student peace poll.
Mass and Breakfast to Mark Local Celebration.
Plans for observation of the centennial of the founding of the St. Vincent de Paul Society were discussed at a meeting of the society in Walsh hall Tuesday night. There will be a high mass at nine o’clock Sunday, May 7. Members of the conferences of South Bend and Mishawaka will attend the Mass here with student members.
After the services, a breakfast will be served to the members in the dining hall. The meal and other arrangements are looked after by Mr. Connolly. It will be what is termed as a “Poor Man’s Banquet,” in accordance with the principles of the society. The charge is twenty-five cents.
Another Magazine Drive
At the meeting it was also announced that there will be another drive to collect magazines before the end of school. In line with this drive Richard Prezebel painted some attractive posters for the society.
A general report of the activity of Notre Dame in the Society will be sent through the St. Joseph’s conference in South Bend to the central cenference of the St. Vincent de Paul Society in New York. The report will include an account of the magazines delivered and clothes collected and the number of men who have answered the call for candidates.
Colorado Students Help With Hoover Dam Problems
Fort Collins, Colo.—In the hydraulics laboratory of the Colorado Agricultural College professors and student aids are developing new theories and practices to help solve the problems which confront the builders of the mammoth Hoover Dam.
According to Dr. Elwood Mead, writing in the April issue of Scientific Monthly, the college data “have proved valuable and conclusive in connection with the design of a number of outstanding hydraluic structures, including the spillways for Cie Elum Dam, under construction in the state of Washington, for Owhee Dam in Oregon, and for Madden Dam in the Panama Canal Zone,” as well as at Hoover Dam.
1
May 5, 1933
Thirteen
FATHER TIERNAN GIVES TALK TO IRISH CLUB
‘Australia* Subject of Address by Former Missionary.
The Reverend John J. Tiernan was the guest speaker at the meeting of the Irish Club this week, when he talked about Australia where he spent a number of years in missionary work.
“Australia,” according to Father Tieman, “is a land of opposites.” The large cities on the coast are little different from American cities of the same size, but the inland bush region is quite primitive. The country, in the opinion of the speaker, will never be able to support a large population, because of the limited area available ■ for cultivation.
People Lazy
The people are of an indolent nature, because of the ease with which they have been accustomed to earning a living. For a long time, it has been the El Dorado of those who seek great wealth with little effort. All forms of gambling and speculation are popular; even the parochial schools are maintained largely by proceeds from horse races sponsored by the government.
The aborigines, or native Australians, are rapidly dying out. At present, they do not exceed two hundred thousand in number. Although black, they are more closely related to the whites than to any other ethnological group.
Relations'With U. S.
Father Tieman stressed the fact that Australia’s interests are more closely bound up with those of the United States than with any other nation. He ventured the hope that an ecnomic alliance between the two countries may eventually be effected. Their allegiance to England, he said, is almost entirely nominal, and the economic ties between them are negligible.
In event of war women should be drafted for service on an equal basis with men. It seems to me that unless you ladies are willing to bear arms for your country in war you should not adopt resolutions favoring increased armies and navies—Amelia Earhart, to the D. A. R. congress.
Sermons For Wednesday May Devotions Announced
The Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., Prefect of Religion, announces that the following priests will deliver the sermons at the Wednesday night May devotions: May 10, Reverend Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., editor of the Ave Maria; May 17, Reverend Thomas Burke, C.S.C., associate editor of the Ave Maria; May 24, Reverend Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C., associate editor of the Ave Maria.
Last Wednesday night, May 3, Reverend Thomas P. Irving, C.S.C., assistant superior general of Holy Cross, gave the sermon. Last Sunday, April 30, the opening sermons for May Devotions were given by Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., and Rev. John J. Reynolds, C.S.C.
Argue Question of Beer Ads in College Newspapers
Huntington, W. Va. — Whether the college papers which are members of the West Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association shall accept and publish beer advertising is to be threshed out this week at the meeting of that organization at Concord State College at Athens, W. Va.
Charles McGhee, former editor of the Marshall College Parthenon here, and president of the press association, is prepared to introduce a motion at the convention calling for the acceptance of advertising by college papers from brewers and retailers of the legal brew.
Commenting on the refusal of some college papers to accept such advertising, McGhee said: “I do not think the stand taken by college papers on the beer question is at all worthy of a group that has existed on a liberal basis heretofore.”
Cummins To Speak
John Cummins, Walsh Hall, will give a talk on the Life of Pope Pius XI to a parish club of St. Bavo’s Parish, Mishawaka. The date set for the talk is Monday, May 8.
I made some money back in 192425 and it knocked me out for two years. I have a whole new picture of life when I have some money, and it isn’t a change that is good for me.— Sherwood Anderson.
UNIVERSITY “BULLETIN” RELEASED THIS WEEK
Announcements, Regulations, And Courses Given.
The general University Bulletin for the scholastic year, 1933-34, has been released from the University presses and is ready for distribution to present and prospective students. More than 12,000 copies of this 409 page book have been printed.
The Calendar on page three of the Bulletin announces that the next schoolyear will open with registration on September 12-13, and the formal opening will be on Sunday, Sept. 17. The map of the Notre Dame campus pasted in the front of the book shows the changes being made on the grounds.
Revising Cut System
The following pages of the catalog give a history and statistical report on Notre Dame’s enrollment since 1905. Requirements for admission to the various colleges of the University and a general information section regarding fees and expenses can be found on the subsequent pages.
Under the department devoted to Academic Regulations, is a notice regarding the permission for class absences. It reads: “The regulations in regard to absences of students from classes are at present being revised. The new regulations will be published in the Undergraduate Manual, a copy of which is given to every student at the opening of the schoolyear.” At present, a student is allowed twice, plus one, times the number of semester hours in each class.
A. B. Section
Next in order comes the announcements of the College of Arts and Letters. A noticeable change in this college is in the Department of English where many previous semester courses have been expanded and made into full year courses. Under the Arts College are the Department" of Art, Music, Speech, and Journalism. The curricula leading to the degrees of Bachelor of Fine Arts, Bachelor of Music, Master of Music, as well as Bachelor of Arts with certificates in Music, Speech, and Journalism, are given in detail.
The College of Science curriculum is given on the next 28 pages. There (Continued on Page 1-1)
The Scholastic
Fourteen _______________________________
Politics Students Enjoy
Eventful Trip to Capital
By Thomas Proctor
If anyone had prophesied the countless scenes, sights, and inspiring incidents that awaited us the four days following that bright Sunday afternoon of April 23rd, we would have accused him of possessing a rampant imagination. Yes, life seemed mighty good to us, thirty Politics students, and Professor Paul C. Bartholomew, “boss” of the tour; but we never dreamed what was in store.
After leaving South Bend we observed nothing of interest through Indiana, Ohio, or West Virginia, but Pennsylvania gave us something to get enthusiastic about: famous Horseshoe Curve, at the crest of the Alleghany Mountains near Altoona. The group particularly enjoyed this spectacle between mouthfuls of roast beef, courtesy of the dining-car. Then . . . darkness . . . improvised beds (take your foot out of my face) . • . Mallett annoying us with his knickers and songs.
Visit Annapolis
“Arrive Baltimore, Maryland—1:13 p. m., our tour-sheet said. Baltimore is quaint but historical. First the bus took us to the home of the present Archbishop Curley, . where we paused to honor the remains of Cardinal Gibbon, and Bishops Spaulding and Carroll. We prayed in the beautiful Cathedral of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin. From there . . . Merchant’s Shot Tower . . . General Butler’s Hill • . . white steps . . . Ft. McHenry, where Francis Scott Key wrote the national anthem in 1814.
At the Naval Academy, Annapolis, we watched Uncle Sam’s defenders in the making. The gobs wondered if we had come to scout their football team. “Rip” Miller wasn’t around, but Christy Flannigan and Johnny O’Brien were there, carrying on for Notre Dame. All aboard for Washington!
In the Capitol City at last, after a healthy slumber, we headed for the Bureau of Printing and Engraving. Tour-conductor Hall got us in at once, but we hated to come out. How there can be so much money in one place is a mystery. They wouldn’t give us souvenirs. From the top of that slender shaft known as “Washington’s Monument,” 800 feet high, we could see all of the city, Lincoln’s
Memorial, the Capitol, and across to Virginia. Next we visited the Pan-American Building, the White House, and the old and new Smithsonian Institutes. Two weeks wouldn’t have been sufficient for an exploration in these museums; we barely glanced over Wright’s aeroplane, Lindbergh’s plane, the first autogyro, thousands of guns, swords, uniforms, antiques, relics, the first automobile, replicas of every type of man, prehistoric animals, (Miller and Cronan liked the Pterodactyl), and a host of other things. Smithson wasn’t even an American.
Impressed By Mt. Vernon
After luncheon we set out for Mt. Vernon. Down 16th Street . . . Embassies and Legations . . . Henderson Castle . . . former home of Charles Dawes . . . Rock Creek . . . the Zoological Gardens (360 species) . . . Chevy-Chase . . . historic Georgetown and Charles Carroll’s home ; . . across Francis Scott Key Memorial Bridge to Ft. Myer, Virginia . . . . Arlington Cemetery. We entered the Cemetery behind a funeral cortege; visited the ancestral home of Robert E. Lee and the Shrine of- the Unknown Soldier. On the stone of this monument are these words, “Here rests in honored glory an American soldier—known but to God.” We were reminded of the verses, “And so sepulchred in such pomp dost lie, That Kings for such a tomb would wish to die.”
Mount Vernon, home of Washington, impressed us deeply. The spirit of Washington has been preserved in that peaceful retreat. It seemed to us that the sun must always shine on Mt. Vernon — that skies are always blue there — that the Potomac slows its muddy current in reverence as it passes that sanctuary on the bluff.
Wednesday we were taken to visit Catholic University of America. A royal welcome was afforded us there by Dr. Wright, head of the Politics Department. He conducted us about the campus and to the Shrine of the Immaculate Conception. We left regretfully and proceeded to the Franciscan Monastery. In the catacombs of this monastery are replicas of the (Continued on Page 15)
UNIVERSITY “BULLETIN” RELEASED THIS WEEK (Continued from Page 13)
are six Departments in the Science School, that of Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Astronomy, Mathematics, • and Pharmacy.
Five phases of Engineering are described fully under the College of Engineering. The degree of Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering is offered to all students fulfilling the requirements of the Department of Civil Engineering, the degree of Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering is . offered to students fulfilling the requirements of the Department of Mechanical Engineering. The degrees of Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering, Mining Engineering and Chemical Engineering are offered by the respective departments.
Other Colleges Follow
Degrees of Bachelor of Science in Metallurgy and Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engineering are offered by the Departments of Metallurgy and Architecture respectively. The Department of Mechanical Drawing, headed by Mr. Francis X. Ackermann, offers training in projection and topographical drawing.
The Colleges of Commerce and Law complete the catalog. In the College of Commerce, courses are offered that lead to the Degrees of Bachelor of Philosophy in Commerce and Bachelor of Commercial Science. The College of Law confers the degree of Bachelor of Laws and the degree of Juris Doctor.
The remainder of the Bulletin is devoted to graduate studies, details of the summer session, the degrees conferred last year, and the register of students for the scholastic year, 1932-33.
French Club In Session
Salvatore Ferrari was toastmaster of the program presented at a meeting of the French Club held Last week in Washington Hall. Joseph MacDonald, a member of the club, opened the meeting with a talk on sports in France.
Reverend C. L. Doremus, C.S.C., of the French Department, delivered the principal address of the evening. Father Doremus discussed the Romantic writers of French history. He briefly reviewed and praised Henry Bordeaux’s book, “La Peur De Vivre.”
May 5, 1933
Fifteen
POLITICS STUDENTS HOME FROM CAPITAL (Continued from Page 14)
Ascension, of the Birth of Christ, and of other events of great religious significance.
Back to Washington. In the Senate, Reed of Pennsylvania was orating against dictatorship and inflation. There were Carter Glass, William Gibbs McAdoo, Joseph Robinson, and others. In the House, Speaker Rainey was presiding over the hustle and bustle of important business, eager' members, and stirring times. The Supreme Court had adjourned, but we visited the chamber.
Meet Mrs. Roosevelt
The real treat of the perfect tour came when we went back to the White House. Representative Pet-tengill, his secretary, John Chester, Senator Van Nuys, of Indiana, and we suspect Postmaster-General James A. Farley, had arranged for us to meet Mrs. Roosevelt. We broke precedent by driving up to the very steps of the Mansion, and entered the blue room. Mrs. Roosevelt spoke to us. She was charming. The President’s wife is taking the responsibility for all social engagements, while Mr. Roosevelt manages the nation’s affairs. Lights burn in the presidential offices nearly all night. ’ •
For Only §32.75
We ignored another tradition and ate in the private dining-room of the Senate. Washington apparently likes Notre Dame.
They say that we ignored tradition, that we broke precedent, but we saw Washington as it has never been seen before—for §32.75.
Cracow Club Holds Smoker In Walsh Hall
In observance of the 142nd anniversary of the adoption of the Polish Constitution, the newly formed Cracow club of the University held a smoker this week in Walsh Hall.
Charles Dewey, Jr., son of the former financial adviser to Poland, showed a set of movies taken during his stay in that country.
Speakers for the evening included Fathers Lisewski and Gierut, Frank Czyzewski of the South Bend Tribune and Professor Charles Phillips- of the English Department of the University.
Kentuckian Tells of Col.
Bradley's Derby Hopes
By Mattingly Spalding
“Oh, there’s Colonel E. H. Bradley in his box!” said a flimsy sweet young thing, decorated in fashion. “He owns Burgoo King and Brother Joe. . . I wonder if it is he?”
“I don’t care, I want to see the Derby,” from her escort, equally spring-looking in his decorations.
The bugle call! Everybody’s on edge, straining, tingling, excited— “They’re coming on the track!”
The parade. The balking at the barrier. Then—
“THEY’RE OFF!” The unconscious roar of thousands.
“Can you see—Burgoo King’s running third!”
“There they go around the turn!” “Look! Look! Come on—come on!”
Why Kentuckians Like Bradley
And now they’re entering the stretch.
“Here they come—Burgoo King’s in front—he is—he is—he is! Oh, hold me up, so I won’t miss it— C’mon, c’mon, c’mon! He WON!!!”
Can Colonel Bradley pull another thoroughbred streak out of his oat bag this year? Well, maybe. He has a beautiful, powerful, and promising colt in Broker’s Tip.—And don’t be surprised if the good ole Cunnel pauses over his mint julep to turn magician for a couple of minutes on May 6 at Churchill Downs.
Why do Kentuckians favor Colonel Edward Riley Bradley? I once heard a sportsman tell, and 1 know it’s true, that there is no Derby so spectacular as one won by a Kentucky owned horse. Kentuckians are sentimental folks, the most loyal people on earth. They are Kentuckians first, and then Southerners, or citizens of the United States. Frosty headed old ladies, stooped old gentlemen cry over such a victory; prim ladies, proper-looking gents raze their throats with wide flung cheers; fair debutantes forget their dignity and poise, disheveled and screaming; bedraggled non-de-scripts howl. And they will all tell you that only on soil where the bluegrass grows and blows can the thoroughbreds run, and only there can you find THE DERBY.
The Colonel seldom disappoints his Kentuckians and that is why his following is legion. He is their pride and joy and his name has become almost a tradition. His generosity is felt after every great victory. All of those in his employ from manager and trainer to lowly colored stable boys receive special presents, and anyone about the farm who can in any possible way maneuver and jumble the letters of his name so that they are headed by a B (the names of all the Bradley horses begin with B, except some three or four not bred at Idle Hour), will eventually enjoy a namesake among the racing string. And any reflections on Black Mosie’s or Brother Rank’s fourlegged god-child will be challenged by “Put up or shut up!” even if it takes that bottom dollar.
The Liberal Colonel
The Colonel’s liberality is one of the marks of his fine character. He has given many of his racers to the . United States cavalry, recent ones being Buckeye Poet and Battering Ram, the former a starter in the 1930 Derby. I knew four roommates at a boarding prep-school who wrote a letter of good wishes to Mr. Bradley just before the 1926 Derby:
“Here’s to Bubbling Over, Bagen-baggage, and Boot to Boot. May they run first, second and if possible, third.
(Signed)
The Domicile
P. S. We smoke Camels.”
Boot to Boot was a doubtful starter when the letter was written, and he was later withdrawn. What the other two did is now history. And a letter the following week to the Domicile: “Buy yourself some Camels,” bearing a §20 bill, is also history to four young men.
Rochester Club W ill Hold Session Tuesday
Peter J. Connelly, president of the Rochester Club, has announced that the election of officers in the club for the coming school year will be held next Tuesday evening, May 9 in the Law Building at 7:45. All members of the club are asked to be present.
The Scholastic
Sixteen	_______
No Unanimity on Causes
Of The Business Cycles
By Walter Johnson
NEWSPAPER AT BROWN U. STARTS PEACE CAMPAIGN
‘Daily Herald’ Begins Petition Against Arm-Bearing.
t
The primary tenets of economists, and they are many, supporting a “money” theory of the business cycle is that for a healthy, normal, level period of industry and industrial production, there must be an even flow of money from producer to consumer, and from consumei' to producer. That is, the manufacturer must return to the public, in wages, dividends, interest, and rent, just as much as he receives in return for his product; and conversely, the consumer must purchase to the full extent of his income. Let’s see what some of the particular men have to say.
The May Theory
R. E. May, a German economist limits himself to a consideration of wages, assuming that they constitute the largest part of the income stream; his second assumption is that wages increase less rapidly than the aggregate of goods. This excess continuing for a period of several years produces a situation where available purchasing is definitely unable to take off the market the supply of produced goods. Overproduction is realized (or is it under consumption?), and depression follows. May’s study indicates, at least, that some of the other factors are exploiting labor—and that . someone is getting too much of the money paid for produced goods.
Professor Emil Lederer, of Heidelberg, after a study of the cycle, introduced the idea that prices run all around incomes—that during depression they drop more rapidly than wages, salaries, and incomes of property owners; and during prosperity, they increase more rapidly than do those incomes. Thus the cycle offers a chance of reversion to equilibrium periodically. But he doesn’t explain why.
Problem Of Adjustments
Catchings, Foster and Hastings, basing their theories on the tenet that disbursements must equal income for both producer and consumer say that this essential is disregarded in actual practice—and that apparent overproduction is only a monetary phenomenon, and can be prevented by monetary adjustments.
They explain the eternal “why,” by saying that in the beginning of prosperity some of the money received by producers goes to other producers for capital goods; moreover, money is spent for governmental projects. Since these latter products are not for consumption, the consumer at first has purchasing power in excess of supply of consumption goods, and prices rise. But immediately production of consumption goods is increased, and that slack is soon taken up.
The modern business can’t in the long run, pay out in wages, salaries, and consumers' incomes, all that it receives, because it must provide for expansion, that is, “to plough part of the profits into the business.” Moreover, even consumers fail to do their part and spend their whole income, for savings are necessary, under • the present system. Thus an equilibrium between consumption and production seems to be impossible.
The Martin Outlook
Finally, P. W. Martin, of the International Labor Office in Switzerland, summarizes his theory as follows: “So long as the community’s buying power is used exclusively to pay for goods if equilibrium between the flow from time to time industry must increase its liquid capital. This means that part of the community’s buying power, which is needed to pay for goods if equilibrium between the flow of buying power and the flow of prices is to be maintained, goes instead to induce the production of more goods for sale. As a consequence, goods are produced for which no buying power exists.”
All of these theories explain to a certain extent the business cycle— they tell why, and not what. And from them we can work out, possibly, some plan for solution or elimination.
Professor Charles B. Lipman, who recently discovered that. meteorites contain living bacteria of possible extraterrestrial origin, does not believe this discovery proves the theory that life may have been brought to earth by transportation of living matter from some other planet.
Providence, R. I.—In an effort to help unite the students of the country against war and militaristic propaganda, the Brown Daily Herald, undergraduate newspaper at Brown University, has inaugurated a nationwide peace movement in which it is seeking the aid of 145 colleges and universities.
A petition has been sent to these colleges and universities, with the hope that students will sign it and forward it to Washington. The petition reads:
Resolution
“To the President and Congress of the United States:
Whereas: We believe that it is to the best interests of the United States and other nations that peace be maintained, and
Whereas: We believe that war is futile and destructive and should be abandoned as an instrument of international action, and
Whereas: We believe that peace can be maintained by open opposition to the selfish interests that promote war, and
Whereas: We believe that the increasing militarism and nationalism in the United States must be opposed by united action, and
Whereas: We believe that war is justified only in case of invasion of the mainland of the United States by a hostile power, and
Whereas: We believe that the united refusal of the youth of America to bear arms, except in case of invasion, will do much to prevent war,
We, the undersigned students of ■— ---------- University pledge ourselves not to bear arms, except in case of invasion of the mainland of the United States, and to work actively on the organization of the world on a peace basis.”
Leaders in .the movement point out that since most of the officers of the army are furnished in time of war by college students, a united agreement on their part not to go to war would help a great deal in making the country’s political leaders hesitate in placing the country in the position of having to declare war.
May 5, 1933
Seventeen
OKLAHOMA NAY ASSIST PRIVATE INSTITUTIONS
Governor Would Help Schools Not State Supported.
Old Boys May Not Know Their Alma Mater in June
.	By J. D. Porterfield
Oklahoma City, Okla.—William H. Murray, Governor of Oklahoma, recently announced a comprehensive plan for the co-ordination of state institutions of higher learning. He emphasized the debt which tax-supported educational institutions of the state owe to the independent colleges, and proposed a Greater* University of Oklahoma Foundation to “solicit and receive gifts and bequests for a fund to be used by both the state and the independent institutions.”
If Private Schools Fail
The Governor stressed the point that “perhaps as high as 75% of the men and women who today are the backbone of state-supported higher-education. received all, or the greaterpart, of their training in these independent institutions. These represent a contribution of ability and brains at no expense to the State.
“Yet, if the State allows these independent colleges to go to the wall, it is plain that the burden of the taxpayer must needs be increased. He will have to take care of thousands of students who now cost him nothing.”
In selecting the Most Reverend Francis 0. Kelley, Bishop of Oklahoma City and Tulsa, as one of his co-ordination committee, Governor Murray paid tribute to the contribution which religious institutions have made to the cause of education in the state.
The Religious Side Of It
“Another advantage,” he stated, “would lie in giving the independent colleges that are under religious control additional freedom to enforce their own tested ideas of discipline. Far from discouraging them for giving their students moral training and instruction, I would encourage them in both; always keeping in mind the rights of the personal conscience. As a matter of fact, too little attention is now paid to character-forming influence in State education.”
. To man propose this test: Thy body at its best, how far can it project thy soul on its lone way?— Browning.
At Commencement time, it is the custom for the old boys to return to the campus of their Alma Mater if possible. A worthy tradition it is, and long observed. But what must be the thoughts of the old boys as they wander slowly down the road from the new cab stand? There are many old familiar features. But where are as many more?
Time marches on, and the old gives way to the new. The pyramids are crumbling and the tombs of kings are forgotten. But we digress—Philosophy class meets Tuesday morning at ten. And meanwhile new improvements are springing up while we temporize.
The Progress Of Badin
Let us recollect the changes that occurred here just in the last two years. There are many of them. Remember the draining of the famous Badin chain-o’-lakes and the grading of the new lawn ? They tore down the steps of Badin Hall too, and gave Badin the first balcony on the campus.
What the well-dressed man will wear on Wednesday afternoon was learned in the old campus shop of Max Adler, then situated right beside the candy store next to Washington Hall. Later Livingston became the campus fashion leader, but with the passing years left the old location for the new shop in Badin Hall, where sophomores may gaze longingly at the svelte tux in the window. Well, they think it’s swell.
And The Off-'Campus Office
The bookstore went Badin too, and the forsaken quarters in the Main Building were occupied by the “Lost and Found.” (Brother, the Monogram Men sent me over to see if anybody had found the key to the curtain. “High Jinks” goes on tonight.)
Southward went the campus, and the Gold Coast once more shifted. They moved the old observatory (Remember, Napoleon’s gift?) over by Cartier Field and put up a new Commerce Building in front of Chemistry Hall. The Main Building no more saw Brother Cyprian hurrying down at 7:30 to fill the inkwells in the Accounting. Room and put fresh flowers
at his shrine before the first class. Accountants moved to the Commerce Building and walked carefully to avoid slipping on the new corridors. (I dunno; they’re leather or rubber or something.)
Across the road lawyers were already deciphering inscriptions over the doors of their new building. Freshmen wandered into the library and thought ‘what a place to throw a dance.’ Lawyers strode in and murmured ‘peace at last.’
Engineers had their own troubles, finding rooms in the new and somewhat disconcerting Engineering Building. The old Engineering Labs were torn down to make room for the new dorms. Alumni and Dillon, largest dorms in the world, they tell me, went up, and Lyons and Morrissey and Howard yielded the crown. The Off-Campus office moved into Alumni, and the Employment Office left the vicinity of the dining halls and faced the postoffice, whence the Off-Campus office had just moved.
Bill Moves
Bill’s barber shop went west and Badin once more became the new home. Last year’s Collier's now reside in a refined atmosphere of green paint and hair trimmings. At the same time the telegraph office moved to the old campus shop hangout, and with that Washington Hall ups and had the- old steps tom down and a new interior set erected, supposedly so the second-nighters would not have to wait in the rain on Saturday night.
Filling Badin ground floor, the laundry service moved into the north wing, and no more did freshmen get lost among the transepts and apses of the church.
The animal building beside the Physical Education Building was tom down, and still more forgetful of old traditions Freshman Hall was razed. The palace was no more and the old boys wept.
Old Power House Tumbles
The power house gave way to a new one, and many a lab was cut while the old smokestack fell according to scientific methods and bellowed directions from the cameramen.
The Editorial offices of the Dome (Continued on Page 30)
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
A NEW DRAFT
A radio is used to relieve the tension of work in the drafting room at the University of Illinois.
▼
PATER?
Men at the University of Utah insist that the best girls are taken before they reach college, and that the coed is uninteresting, unintelligent, and expects nothing but patter.
WHO’S WHO?
Students at Northwestern University must hand in their photographs with their notebooks so that the profs will know who’s who as he grades them.
HOLY SMOKE!
Because the school is largely supported by earnings from the tobacco crops, North Carolina students are allowed to smoke in classes, even in exams.
A NEW FIVE YEAR PLAN!
A University of Texas undergraduate will trade five years of his post-graduate life for $3,000, another new way of financing a college education.
▼
LET YOUR CONSCIENCE BE YOUR GUIDE
Georgetown University has adopted a new system of cuts, leaving the matter to the conscience of the individual.
PERSONAUTY BARONS
According to several professors at Washington University students who aim for “A”
grades are “barren of personality.” “It is the band of *C’ students who move the world,” one declared. Another said “A” students are freaks.
THESE ARE THE DAYS—
These are the days when the delightful pleasure of daydreaming commences. These are the wonderful days when serious minded students pouring over their books, suddenly become aware that their minds are on the tennis courts where they are slamming over aces much to the chagrin of their opponents.
To the students of a less serious mind, these are the days when type in their text book is a mere blur of black horizontal lines. They think of possible trips to other scenes, of tugging fish lines, of swimming pleasures, of easy chairs under shady trees where they can sleep, sleep, sleep. Breathing is prolonged and all conversation develops into languid grunts.
To the dreamy minded students, these are the days of soft and wonderful dawns when the sun slowly and gloriously arises, being accompanied in its majestic orientation by the songs of the many birds. These days begin the many when it is difficult to hurry along. Sunsets become more and more beautiful; their former orange glow becomes a deeper and deeper crimson. Calm and hazy are the evening dusks.
Anything with a touch of romance to it becomes exceedingly distracting. The airplane flying overhead, the locomotive whistling, the river packet hooting, all seem too much to be able to endure for the remaining five or six weeks.
Thoughts of semester finals cause the flesh to roughen on the spine. Yes, these really are the days.—Xavier University Nezus.
May 5, 1933
Nineteen
EDITORIALS
BROWN’S PACIFISM
A country-wide movement against the bearing of arms for any reason other than home invasion has been recently undertaken by the student newspaper at Brown University. The appeal is being directed chiefly to the students of 145 universities in the United States. They are asked to sign a resolution stating emphatically that they will refuse to carry a gun except in the event of the above mentioned attack by a hostile power.
The whole affair raises some nice question: Can one be an American citizen and flatly refuse to bear arms if his country calls on him? Will the movement itself be effective? Supposing every collegian in America signs the resolution: Will that in itself get at the basic cause of war? Have the proponents of the drive realized that many people who will not sign the petition are as equally surfeited with militarism and know perfectly well the futility of slaughtering a million men to make the world safe from war?
It might prove interesting if the student body would take a stand on the matter. The Scholastic offers its ‘Voice’ as a battle ground.
COMMENCEMENT GUESTS
V	The announcement in The Scholastic today
that Governor Paul McNutt of Indiana will be Commencement Speaker, and that the Reverend Charles Coughlin will deliver the baccalaureate sermon calls for little comment. Anybody who ” attended the football testimonial banquet on the campus this year knows perfectly well the oratorical ability of the state’s chief executive. He is, besides being an able speaker, a man of broad experience. He was at one time dean of the ** School of Law at the University of Indiana and is a past commander of the American Legion.
Father Coughlin, famed for his radio sermons, will give a practical, pertinent, timely talk to No
tre Dame’s graduates. A student of economics, a protagonist in the field of social justice, and an eloquent forensic artist, he will be welcomed to Notre Dame.
With the accompanying news that Alfred E. Smith, Margaret Anglin and several other celebrated Laetare Medallists will .be present at the reunion to be held at commencement time for all living winners of the annual award, Notre Dame is expectant as host to the country’s distinguished.
ST. VINCENT DE PAUL
If you have any magazines, books or clothes that are no longer in use, the St. Vincent De Paul . Society of Notre Dame will gladly pick them up at your room. The group, newly organized by the Reverend John Kelley, C.S.C., is meeting regularly, planning drives to aid South Bend indigent, and all in all is doing a really exemplary bit of work. The members are grateful for the help received to date from the student body and will appreciate further cooperation.
A January copy of Commonweal, or a deteriorated text book might be the salvation of some sick person’s spirits. Give anything you possibly can.
GOLF MANNERS
The University golf course, we are told, represents an investment of over $54,000. Improvements are being made daily. Though the course is in its best condition at present it is improbable that it wil remain that way if some of the current abuses continue.
Bags are dropped on the greens, divots are not replaced, and many a short cut is made through a trap. Ignorance of golf etiquette? Yes, but such people should be put behind Freshman hall.
Twenty
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
Three Meets Here Tomorrow
Track, Golf, and Tennis Varsities To Face Michigan State Squads
Irish Golfers Favored In First Home Meet; Spartans Look Best in Other Events.
By James S. Kearns
Varsity athletic activity returns to the campus in grand style tomorrow when a caravan of athletes from Michigan State college appears here against three Irish varsities. The Spartans will furnish opposition for the local sports element in tennis, golf and track.
Outstanding in the three-way carnival will be the first outdoor appearance of Coach John Nicholson’s track squad on their home cinder circle. The invading Spartans are strong favorites to cop the dual meet, principally on the basis of their showing in the recent indoor season.
State Has Many Stars
Such sterling performers as Ted Bath and Ken Liberty, hurdlers, Otto Pongrace, middle distance man, and Tom Ottey, mile and two-mile runner, will lead the State squad in its attempt to duplicate its feat of last spring when they nosed out the Irish 64 2-3 to 641-3 in a meet at East Lansing.
Against that array of talent Coach Nicholson will pit his most mediocre squad of recent years. The team is not without valuable performers, however, and the Irish may be counted on to be in the running for most of the meet.
Clyde Roberts, Joe Young, Jake Bowers, Vince and Fran Murphy, Jim Fagan, and Chuck Finkel should be well up near the top of the list of point-makers when the last event is completed.
On the William J. Burke University golf course, another Notre Dame team will be making its first home
NEXT WEEK’S SPORTS CALENDAR
(All times given are C. S. T.)
Saturday: Track—Michigan State on Cartier Field, 2:00 p. m.
Golf—Michigan State on William J. Burke course, 10 a. m.
Tennis—Michigan State on University courts, 1:30 p. m.
Baseball—Northwestern at Evanston.
Tuesday: Golf—Northwestern at Evanston.
Wednesday: Baseball — Iowa on Cartier field, 3:00 p. m.
Thursday: Baseball — Iowa on Cartier field, 3:00 p. m.
stand of the year when Captain Johnny Montedonico leads his brilliant golf team in pursuit of its third straight victory.
The top-heavy triumph scored at Purdue last Saturday, and the quality of the play that made it possible, are eloquent reminders that Notre again has a golf squad that can meet the best in collegiate circles without asking handicaps.
To Use Same Lineup
It is probable that the same five men who waded through Loyola and Purdue on the last two Saturdays with the loss of but five and one-half points out of 36 will face Michigan State.
Barring the possibility of an unexpected shift in the line-up, Vince Fehlig, Johnny Banks, Billy Cole, Captain Montedonico, and Bill Veene-man will compose the squad for tomorrow’s match. Only four men will be used as the match will consist of but one 18-hole round. At the request of Michigan State, the local golf (Continued on Page 21)
N.D. TRACK TEAM PLACES TWICE IN DRAKE RELAYS
4-Mile Team Loses in Stretch; V. Murphy Ties for Second.
One second place and a four-way tie for another were the only points registered by the Notre Dame track squad in the Drake Relays held at Des Moines last Friday and Saturday.
With Indiana definitely outclassed in the four-mile relay and Eddie King holding a 25-yard advantage with about 30 yards remaining, things looked like they were all Notre Dame. Then out of nowhere came Pilbrow of Grinnell, who passed Eddie and led him to the tape by five yards. It was a thrilling race all the way and the fact that the local quartet let a commanding lead slip out of its hands in the last 30 yards doesn’t help things any. When Clyde Roberts took the baton from the first Irish runner, he was five yards behind the leader.
Young Builds Up Lead
Joe Young took his place on the track and grabbed the baton from Clyde just before the other men passed the stick on to their teammates. Speedy little Joe stretched out and when his bit of running was over the Irish were enjoying a 25-yard lead which they held until Pilbrow put on his act.
“Vince” Murphy was the only other Notre Dame man to place. “Murph” tied with four other men for second place in the high jump. The Irish ace injured his leg as he cleared 6 feet, 2 inches. Coach Nicholson thought it best that the big Irish lad call it a day unless the injured stem become seriously affected.
Willie Ward, winner of the event, might consider himself fortunate that Vince was injured because Murphy
(Continued on Page 30)
May 5, 1933
Twenty-one
c
MICHIGAN STATE WHIPS IRISH TENNIS TEAM 81
Chreist-Kelly Doubles Team Scores Lone N. D. Win.
Golfers Swamp Purdue 15-3 With Brilliant Play PACE SETTER	7g Js HIGHEST SCORE
By Edward Van Huisseling
Boasting a shutout over Valparaiso in their first attempt this year, the Notre Dame tennis squad journeyed to East Lansing last Saturday and was handed a thorough beating by Michigan State, 8 to 1.
The consistent combination of Captain Louis Chreist and Dick Kelly saved the squad from a complete slaughter with their brilliant victory. For any who might be interested, it might be stated that this was the sixth triumph in seven starts for this pair. Their only defeat came last spring at the hands of a Chicago doubles combination. Weitz and Link were the victims Saturday, 6-3, 3-6, 6-3.
Irish Win But Four Sets
So completely were the State men masters that they allowed the Irish netters to win only four sets. Beside the two taken by Chreist and Kelly in the doubles. Jack O’Hanlon and Kelly forced their singles opponents to play three sets before winning. O’Hanlon bowed to Loose in three sets only after* a brilliant fight, 6-3, 4-6, 6-3. Dick Kelly’s play in his singles match was steady although he too suffered defeat.
It was the third consecutive victory over the Irish by Michigan State, the lads from East Lansing having triumphed twice last year.
The summaries:
Singles
Weitz (MS) defeated Lukats (ND) -6-0, 6-3.
Norris (M S) defeated Chreist (ND)—6-0, 6-4.
Loose (MS) defeated O’Hanlon (ND)—6-3, 4-6, 6-3.
Link (MS) defeated Kelly (ND) — 6-4, 4-6, 6-2.
Goodwin (MS) defeated Staley (ND)—6-0, 6-2.
Nordwall (MS) defeated Weldon (ND)—6-3, 7-5.
Doubles .
Norris and Goodwin (MS) defeated Lukats and O’Hanlon (ND)—7-5, 6-0. '
^Chreist and Kelly (ND) defeated Weitz and Link (MS)—6-3, 3-6, 6-3.
Loose and Stonebreaker (MS) defeated Staley and Weldon (ND) — 7-5, 6-0.
Vince Fehlig
Out:____434 454 443—35
In:___434 454 533—35—70
THREE EVENTS TOMORROW
(Continued from Page 20)
authorities have agreed to have both the singles and doubles matches- decided in a single round. The players will be sent out in foursomes with singles match play and best-ball doubles scores being kept at the same time.
The final event of the Notre DameState carnival day will be the tennis engagement on the campus courts. Last week at East Lansing the Spartan racquet crew stroked their way to a decisive 8-1 triumph, losing only four sets while they won 17.
Playing on their own courts, the Irish are expected to render a better account of themselves against the powerful, well-trained visitors. Some change in the Notre Dame lineup may be-made from that which played last Saturday.
However, it is quite certain that Captain Louis Chreist, Jack O’Hanlon, Nick Lukats, and Dick Kelly will play the first four positions for the Irish.
Fehlig Scores 143 for 36-Hole Honors; Irish Sweep First
Five Matches of Day.
Vince Fehlig, number one man on the Notre Dame golf team, picked last Saturday, with Purdue as the opponent and the Golf Club of Lafayette, Indiana, as the course, to play his best golf of the year. Teamed with Bill Veeneman in the foursomes, Fehlig went out in par 35, came in in the same score for a brilliant par card of 70. Notre Dame won the match 15-3.
This match, which was supposed to have been one of the hardest that Notre Dame would face all year, turned out .to be a disappointment as far as the keen competition that Purdue had promised went. Purdue, one of the two teams to defeat Notre Dame last year, was never in the running Saturday.
Pill Cole Beaten
All of the Notre Dame men were in fine fettle. Bill Cole was the only Notre Dame man to lose his match, dropping three points in his afternoon singles. In the foursomes, however, Cole played brilliantly, going out in 37 and coming in in 36 for a card of 73.
The Notre Dame team had no difficulty in collecting the six points available in the morning best-ball doubles matches. Fehlig, teamed with Bill Veeneman, measured Reitemier and Hobbs easily, while Johnny Banks and Cole handled Russeau and Skinner in about the same manner.
In the singles matches Notre Dame swept through the first three to be completed. Fehlig took the first nine 3 and 2, the second nine one up, and the eighteen 3 and 2 as he upset Reitemier. Banks, four strokes under his opponent in medal score, was at least that far ahead in match play, winning the nine 2 and 1, the second nine 2 and 1, and the eighteen 4 and 3, to garner all the points.
Captain Johnny Montedonico, playing only in the singles, turned in a 75, four strokes under Neuman of Purdue. In sweeping the scoring the (Continued on Page 30>
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
Freshman Gridders Beat Varsity 6-0 On Long Run
ELSER GOES 95 YARDS
Giant Yearling Back Returns Opening Kickoff For Only
Touchdown of Game.
By Howard Waldron
With Varsity men playing like inexperienced freshmen, and with freshmen playing like seasoned veterans, the Freshman team avenged a defeat, incurred at the hands of the varsity last fall, on Thursday when they rang down the curtain on Spring Practice with a surprise victory, 6-0.
From the opening whistle, when Don Elser raced 95 yards for the only touchdown of the game, to the closing gun, the Freshmen out-ran, out-charged, out-thought, and out-fought the supposedly far superior varsity team. During the sixty minute skirmish, the varsity was not able to gain a first down by rushing the ball, they did get a first down from two penalties, but the Freshmen made five first downs. The varsity, with the exception of Tom Gorman, were pep-less and had little fight.
Races Through Varsity
Don Elser, gigantic fullback, took Frank Laborne’s opening kickoff on his own five-yard line, and set off up the center of the field behind his rapidly-forming wedge. He had gathered full speed at the twenty-yard line and seeing a gap to the left, he swung in that direction. He sped through right tackle Roach, past Tobin at right halfback and outdistanced Bonar, the safety-man, to pound down the field and cross the goal line untouched. His ninety-five yard run provided the winning margin for the freshmen and ended the scoring for the day. Andy Pitney missed his try for the extra point.
The Freshmen then kicked-off to the Varsity or Blue team. The only Varsity threat of the afternoon occurred at this time. George Melinko-vich dropped back from his fullback post and tossed a fifty-five yard pass to Johnny Tobin, husky right-halfback, who had raced past the green defense and was in the clear, but Tobin didn’t get full grasp of the ball and the threat ended.
The Frosh made three straight first
downs on runs by Pilney, Elser, Layden, and a pass from Elser to Peters. But the varsity started to appease their injured dignity and hurled the Freshmen back for a fifteen yard loss as the quarter ended.
The Frosh kept up their peppery attack in the next quarter and, after Layden had picked up four yards by running to the wrong side, Elser plunged over center for another first down. The varsity got the ball but not for long. Fred Solari, green center, intercepted a pass from Johnny Young intended for Hughie Devore, and the Freshmen began again.
The Green second team was inserted at the half and was pushed back to its ten-yard line by a new Blue team. The Blue advace was led by Fred Staab, who made two first downs, and Joe Beach, who made another first down. The regular Green team entered and the Blue were held for downs by these huskies. Neither team could do much in the remainder of the quarter and the first Blue or Varsity team returned to action.
Summary:
Freshmen (6)	Varsity (0)
Millner .............LE............. Vairo
Katz ................LT............ Krause
Church ..............LG......... Schiralli
Solari ...............C............ Gorman
Smith ...............RG......... Pivarnick
Michuta .............RT............. Roach
Peters ..............RE............ Devore
Mazziotti ...........QB............. Bonar
Pilney ..............LH........... Laborne
Layden ..............RH............. Tobin
Elser ...............FB....... Melinkovitch
Score by quarters:
Scoring: Touchdiwn—Elser.
Substitutions: Freshmen—Stilley for Katz, Shakespeare for Pilney, Ream for Millner, Martin for Church, Dunn for Solari, Shay for Smith, Sullivan for Michuta, Scafide for Peters, Fromhart for Mazziotti.
Varsity—Quinlan for Vairo, Nabicht for Krause, Shamla for Schirrali, Wituck for Gorman, Shrinker for Pivarnik, Becker for Roach, Davis for Devore, Gaul for Bonar, Beach for Tobin, O’Brien for Laborne, Staab for Melinkovich, Caldwell for Gaul.
Freshman Orators Must
Report By May Tenth
Professor William J. Coyne, forensic director, announced plans for- the annual Freshman Oratorical Contest this week.
Mr. Coyne asks all freshmen interested in this contest to report to him by Wednesday, May 10th.
MICHIGAN STATE NINE
DEFEATS IRISH S TO 3
Jim Leonard Loses Pitching Duel to Pemberton.
By John D. Carbine
“Pem” Pemberton, Michigan State’s star hurler, held Notre Dame’s baseball team to six hits and three runs in a game played at East Lansing last Wednesday. As a direct result of Pemberton’s activities on the mound, the Irish dropped their fourth game of the intercollegiate season to Michigan State by the score of 5 to 3.
Once again George Keogan shook up his lineup in an attempt to find a winning combination. Frank Pal-misani was still at third base and got two hits in three times at bat. White, the erstwhile third sacker, played most of the game at first in place of Al Costello. Hugh Devore appeared for the first time this season in the role of a pinch hitter for Velcheck in the eighth.
Score Two In First
Notre Dame got off to a fast start by scoring two runs in the first inning. Cunha, the first man up, singled. McGrath sacrificed him to second, and White reached first safely. Palmisani drove both runs across with a hard single to center.
The Irish did not score again until the eighth. In this inning, Costello, who had taken White’s place at first, reached first on an error by Pemberton. He went to second on Palmisani’s sacrifice and scored a moment later on a single by Matthews.
Michigan State .scored a single run in the first on a base on balls to Fawcett and a triple to Eliowitz. They scored again in the sixth, added another in the seventh and scored their final run in the eighth.
In the sixth, McCann was hit by the pitcher, and Moore was safe on an error. Both the runners advanced on Norton’s sacrifice, and McCann scored after Langers’ long fly to left. Fawcett singled in the eighth stole second and scored on Rouse’s single.
Norton opened the eighth with a double. Pemberton was safe on Costello’s error. Fidler’s bunt scored Norton, and Pemberton scored on an error by Kane.
Jim Leonard pitched the entire (Continued on Pase 26)

• I
May 5, 1933
Twenty-three
FRESHMAN HALL TAKES
INTERHALL LEAGUE LEAD
Baseball Team Gains Tie, Victory In Purdue Series
Frosh Shut Out Howard 10-0 For Third Straight Win.
By Nick Connor
The second and third rounds of the interhall soft ball league were run off last Sunday and Tuesday afternoons. A few of the 'teams were unable to play on Tuesday, consequently those games will be played later on in the season.
The first year men from Freshman hall are the only team that have played three games and have yet to see defeat, in fact they have to come even near defeat. Their scores include a 7 to 5 victory over Carroll, a 19 to 3 win over Brownson and a shut out over Howard 10 to 0. Bill Ream, hurling for Freshman, Tuesday scored the first shutout of the year when he found little opposition from the junior hall, Howard.
Carroll Rally Fails
In Sunday’s games Alumni cut short a last inning rally of Carroll’s and beat them by an 11 to 9 count. Freshman breezed through the weak defense of Brownson’s to win 19 to 3. Corby went on a slugfest and easily defeated Lyons 19 to 2. Morrissey bunched hits in the first and fourth innings to win from Dillon 12 to 3. The most entertaining game of the day was won by Sorin, when they disposed of St. Ed’s 3 to 2.
Freshman’s whitewashing of Howard 10 to 0, featured Tuesday’s games. The nine from Morrissey thumped St. Ed’s in a heart-breaking game 10 to 6. Sorin won another thrilling game from Corby 4 to 3, and the team from Brownson failed to put in an appearance in their game with Alumni.
Now that most of the teams have three games to their credit there should be some exciting encounters played this Sunday,May 7th. On diamond number one, Howard and Alumni will match bats. On number six, Brownson and Carroll will meet for the championship of the Main Building. Teams from Off-Campus and Walsh will meet on field two. Freshman hall drew a bye this wTeek-end.
On field five, Lyons and Dillon will clash, while on diamond three, Morrissey and Corby will come together for the first time this season. The juniors will have it out with the seniors
Members of Fencing Squad Give Exhibition At Monogram Club Show
Notre Dame students had an opportunity last night to see in action two members of the University fencing team, who are appearing in “High Jinks.” John Caresio and David Ryan, foilsmen on the squad, offer an exhibition match in their specialty as a feature in the Monogram Club’s presentation.
Meanwhile Coach Pedro deLandero is drilling his men for a number of exhibition matches to be held the latter part of next week. The exact date, either Friday or Saturday, will be made known in a few days.
Mr. Delmar Roos, former Cornell University swordsman, who has volunteered his services to assist de-Landero in coaching the team, has been unable because of sickness to report for any of the practice sessions this week. If he is in shape by the time of the exhibition matches, he will engage Coach deLandero in a special match. This bout will give the spectators an opportunity to see a skilled south-paw, Roos, match thrusts with an experienced righthander.
when Badin meets Sorin on diamond number four. St. Edward’s drew a bye and will have a week in which to marshall their forces for their comeback.	‘
SUNDAY’S GAMES Alumni 11, Carroll 9
Carroll grabbed a three run lead in their half of the first inning, but two markers by Alumni cut the lead to one. The junior hall scored three runs in the third stanza and two in the fourth to lead 7 to 3 at the end of the inning. But Carroll garnered four markers in the next inning and the game began to get exciting again, when Alumni chalked up four more markers. A last inning rally staged by the freshmen fell short by two runs. Summary:
Alumni	203 240 x—11
Carroll	300 040 2—9
Batteries: Carroll: Tobin and Gi-ruzzi. Alumni: Quirk and Kiep.
(Continued on Page 26)
SCORE 8-7 TRIUMPH
Frank Palmisani Adds Batting Punch as Keoganites Annex
First Win of Season.
By John D. Carbine
One tie game and one victory. That is the record which the Irish baseball - team brought back from Lafayette after a two-game series with Purdue last Friday and Saturday. The first game, played on Friday, resulted in a 9 to 9 deadlock, and Saturday’s game ended in a 8 to 7 victory for Notre Dame.
Coach Keogan injected some new blood into the lineup in the person of Frank Palmisani who, up to last Friday, had been spending most of his time on the bench. In the Purdue series, Frank replaced White at third base, and was, in no small measure, responsible for the Irish success. He got four hits in six official trips to the plate during the series. One of his hits was a long triple which barely missed being a home run.
.Score Three In Seventh
It was a late rally which' gave the Keoganites a tie rather than a defeat in the first game. Purdue had run up a 7 to 1 lead in the first six innings, and the Notre Dame cause looked almost hopeless. But in the lucky seventh the Irish bats began to lace out hits. When the dust of the rally had cleared, the Keoganites had scored three runs and had put themselves back in the ball game.
The Boilermakers picked up a single marker in the seventh, but a four run rally in the ninth shoved the Irish into a 9 to 8 lead. Purdue came back to tie the score, but Huisking was rushed into the box to relieve Leonard and responded by striking out the final batter.
At the end of the ninth inning the game was called on account of darkness.
Smith started the pitching duties for the Keoganites. He got by the first inning safely, but the Boilermakers nicked him for six hits and seven runs during the next three innings. Leonard took up the twirling assignment in the fifth and pitched (Continued on Page 31)
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING John Montedonico
I talked to Montedonico. Sat there yammering my head off, talking to Montedonico. Making words, breathing sighs, gesturing with my delicate artist hands, talking to Montedonico.
I had made my first mistake earlier in the evening. I was tying my dress tie preparatory to calling on Mr. Montedonico for an interview— precious interview! — which he had promised me three years ago when I ran across him in Paris, when the door opened, and The Man Named Kearns came in. “I’ll see you later Jim,” I said. “I’m going to call on Montedonico.”
“That’s all right,” said he, “I’ll go along.” Jim was always saying things
WATCH YOUR DOLLAR
groW!
Follow the "50 TIMERS" to
EUROPE
It’s worth knowing . . . this little vacation trick the "50 Timers" know so well . . . those veteran voyagers who have chosen W hite Star’s mighty liners 50 times and more! They know that today the luxury . . . the thrill of a trip to Europe in White Star Tourist Class costs less than ever! For Europe is cheaper, travel is cheaper—now’s the time to goacross!
Here are the ”50 Timers’ ” favorites: The Majestic, world’s largest ship; famous Olympic; Georgie (new) and Britannic, England’s largest motor liners; and the favorite Adriatic.
$AQ.5O(ap)ToiristClass^ vvO frOm $175 r°ripd
For sailings to Ireland, England and France, see your local agent — the travel authority in your community.
HOLY YEAR CRUISES
On famous and popular liners— swift connections direct to Rome
WHITE STAR
fetCnnftiMBlIlHCflrtRBMMiMlflMS \ through your /
216 N. Mitlifa Ave. QioiBjR. '*•**^2'
T. S.
like that. That was my first mistake —the first I have made in seven years.
So we went up and talked to Mon-
tedonico. John Scott Montedonico, of the Memphis Montedonicos, golf captain ’33. We stared at each other for some moments. Then he said a funny thing. He said, “Y’all cumon in.” Then he saw The Man Named Kearns, and his face fell. “Ah kain’t convurse long,” he said, “on account of Ah’m stiddyin’.” We that’s-all-righted him airily, and walked into his chambers, which he shares with a person whose name, for obvious reasons, he didn’t want made known.
LEMONTREES
Optometrists 222% S. Michigan Street	102 W. Washington Street
GLASSES ...
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
. □
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately.
He talked for some time before we began to get the drift of the conversation. I listened intently, but the only words I could make out were things like “gouplzk” and a lot of soft, furry sounds which I am told are indigenous to the Memphis bluff. The Man Named Kearns had caught a fly and begun to pull its legs off, laughing softly the while. Still Montedonico talked. I talked too, but the Captain’s soft brown eyes merely looked at me uncomprehendingly, and he went on purring.
And let us leave him there, and tell something about the man. He is ’ golf captain of a team with a splendid golf tradition behind it. For three years here Larry Moller reigned supreme. In the fall of 1930 he won the Medal Play tournament, and a stocky youth named Monte-• donico was not far behind him, in third place. This latter youth was a freshman, and could not go out for the team. And then, in the spring of 1931, came a Saturday when Freshman Montedonico went out to play Senior Moller, and attempt to end his rule.
Toward the end of Saturday morning’s 18 they came to No. 18 and the great Moller was all square with John Scott Montedonico. They played 18. Montedonico got a birdie. Moller got an eagle. They advanced to 19. Montedonico got a birdie. Moller got an eagle, and finished his reign in comparative peace. Montedonico broke (Continued on Page 30)
May 5. 1933
Twenty-five
1
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
TRADITIONS
It has long been our opinion that few, if any, forces in intercollegiate athletics are more powerful factors for success than a tradition of victory, and a tradition of interest. For an example close to home we cite the Notre Dame football teams.
Last Saturday we saw one example of the strength of tradition and read of two others. Two of the three involved Notre Dame teams, one as a winner the other as victim.
At Michigan State College we saw a balanced, well-trained tennis team drub the Irish court squad 8-1. Seeing the facilities, the enthusiasm for the team and the game, and the popular acceptance of tennis as an important sport, we had no delusions left about the probable outcome of the match.
State is well equipped with courts: her teams have room for practice, unimpeded by sand traps in the back courts; her student body has room
to play tennis often, a decided advantage in the development of a strong team.
But most of all	we noted	the
interest.	Even	a grizzled	old
caretaker	knew	a	lob when	he
saw one, recognized signs of weakness	and	strength, esti-
mated—and accurately—flaws in court strategy. He was only one of many in an intelligently interested gallery.
Item No. 2 had its locale on the golf course at Purdue. Notre Dame won 15-3 in that affair.
We have a strong golf tradition here. Whence it came is a mystery, for golf is comparatively new here, newer by some years than tennis. But since the first year of Larry Moller and Louie O’Shea and the brothers Beaupre, Notre Dame links squads have been fit opponents for any college /team.
That the heritage is in safe hands is evident from last week’s scores. Two 75’s were the highest cards
turned in by the Irish in eight 18-hole rounds. The team average was but a shade over 73.
That the tradition will go on is also evident. The first five players of the present varsitywill return next year. And the freshman team is strong. It seems that the tradition looks after its own sport.
The third instance was the performance of an individual: Keith Brown of Yale, who vaulted 14 feet and one-half inch for a Penn Relay mark.
Since the days when 12 feet 6 inches was a phenomenal vault, Yale’s track teams have boasted good vaulters. The New Haven school produced Sabin Carr, cream of the indoor vaulters, the first man to clear 14 feet indoors.
In the next year appeared Fred Sturdy, Carr’s equal but of doors, and practically that good inside. Now, in another generation, comes Keith Brown.
There’s something to this tradition thing.
CARNIVAL
Tomorrow Notre Dame will playhost to practically the entire athletic force of “Michigan State college as the (Continued on Page 30)
O. A. CLARK'S RESTAURANT 104-1C6 North Michigan Street
South Bend’s Oldest and Most Reliable Eating House
;! Catering to !• NOTRE DAME MEN !; for over thirty years ;;
Complete Dinner - - 35c to 50c
For a Real Man’s Meal Drop in Any Time.
SOUTH SHORE LINE Bargain Excursion Sunday!
ROUND TRIP
South Bend to
CHICAGO
One day rate good going on trains leaving South Bend at 6, 6:50, 8, 9, 10, 11 a. m. and 12 noon. Tickets good returning any time up to 11:45 p. m. the same day. (Daylight Saving Time).
Week-end Rate
40 ROUND TRIP South Bend to CHICAGO
Rate good going Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Good returning any time up to 11:45 p. m. Monday night.
See James McGrath, No. 1 Morrissey Hall for Complete Information.
EVERY HOUR ON THE HOUR
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
FRESHMAN HOLDS LEAD
(Continued from Page 23)
Freshman 19, Brownson 3
Brownson’s highly touted diamond pastimers failed to live up to expectations as they fell before the bombardment of hits and runs of Freshman, 19 to 3. Freshman’s best inning was in their half of the third stanza, wh6n they collected twelve hits and made eight runs. Summary:
Brownson	100 002 0—3
Freshman	128 404 x—19
Batteries: Brownson: Barber and Paul. Freshman: Ream and Gannon.
Corby 19, Lyons 2
Corby found no opposition in their near white washing of Lyons, as they clubbed them into submission, 19 to 2. The seniors scored in every inning but the fourth. The big, and for that matter the only scoring inning of the sophomore hall was in the fourth, when they had two runs to cross the plate. Summary:
Corby	323 023 6—19
Lyons	000 200 0—2
Batteries: Corby: Seivek and Tev-erleck. Lyons: Walsh and Cosgrove.
Morrissey 12, Dillon 3
The Dillon nine failed to down the sophomore hall from Morrissey, as the second year men dropped the freshies 12 to 3. Although Dillon was the first of the two teams to score, Morrissey pushed across five tallies in their half of the first stanza. The sophs scored in every inning but the second. The timely hitting and fielding of Ferrell, Morrissey’s backstop, was the feature of the game. Summary:
Morrissey	501 411 x—12
Dillon	101 100 0—3
Batteries: Dillon: McKernann and Manning. Morrissey: Nuss and Ferrell.
Sorin 3, St. Edward’s 2
The best game of the day was staged on the diamond behind Freshman Hall between St. Edward’s and Sorin. Both teams played flawless ball. Sorin scored a run in the last half of the sixth frame and this proved their margin of victory, as the score had already been tied at two all. Sorin won 3 to 2. The battery of Misterly and Uprichard worked like a couple of professionals; this was Sorin’s main factor in downing the talkative sophomores. Summary:
INTERHALL BASEBALL STANDING l________________________:
GROUP I.
Badin ............. Morrissey ......... Sorin ............. Corby ............. Dillon ............ St. Edward’s ...... Lyons .............
-GROUP II.
Freshman .......... Walsh ............. Alumni ............ Brownson .......... Howard ............ Carroll ........... Off Campus ........
w	L	Pct.
1	0	1.000
2	1	.666
2	1	.666
1	1	.500
1	1	.500
1	2	.333
0	2	.000
W	L	Pct.
3	0	1.000
2	0	1.000
2	0	1.000
1	2	.333
0	2	.000
0	2	.000
0	2	.000
St. Edward’s	020 000 0—2
Sorin	000 021 0—3
Batteries: St. Edward’s: Leonard and Simpson. Sorin: Misterly and Uprichard.
TUESDAY’S GAMES Sorin 4, Corby 3
With Misterly on the mound and Uprichard behind the plate Sorin’s nifty indoor ball team gave another exhibition of the national sport, when they defeated the diamond squad from Corby 4 to 3. The score would lead one to believe that the game was very close, but the visitors, under the guiding hands of Misterly and Uprichard, were safe the entire afternoon. Both teams played practically errorless ball, each making but two misplays. Score:
Sorin	020 110 0—4
Corby	010 200 0—3
Batteries—Sorin: Misterly and Uprichard; Corby: Seveick and Tever-leck.
Freshman 10, Howard 0
Bill Ream, from the sunny shores of California, pitching for the first year men from Freshman hall, pitched the first shut out game of the current season by stopping the vaunted diamond luminaries from Howard, 10 to 0. Ream received wonderful support from his teammates, as not one of the freshies made a fumble in the field. Allen, Mortell, and Hause of the Freshman team connected for circuit blows.
Score:
Freshman 031 051 0—10
Howard	000 000 0—0
Batteries—Freshman: Ream and Batrow; Howard: Sandera and Pask-wietz.
STATE 5, N. D. 3
(Continued from Page 22)
game for the Irish. He held the Spartans to five runs and seven hits, which is the best game pitched by a Notre Dame twirler thus far this season.
Box score:
Mich. State (5) AB	R	H	PO	A
Langer, ss 	 2	0	0	0	0
xFidler, ss 	 1	0	0	0	2
Kircher, If 	3	0	1	1	0
Fawcett, rf 	4	2	1	2	0
Elliowitz, lb . — 4	0	1	12	1
Rouse, 3b 	4	0	1	2	4
McCann, 2b 	2	1	1	3	1
Morse, c 	3	0	0	4	0
Gaffner, cf 	2	0	0	0	0
xxNorton, cf . — 1	1	1	1	0
Pemberton, p		 3	1	1	2	o
Totals 	28	5	7	27	10
x Fidler batted for Langer in fifth. xx Norton batted for Gaffner in sixth.				
Notre Dame (3) AB	R	H	PO	A
Cunha, ss 	4	1	9	0	2
McGrath, cf 	4	0	1	4	0
zRobinson 	1	0	0	0	0
White, lb 	3	1	0	5	0
Costello, lb 	0	1	0	5	0
Palmisani, 3b 	3	0	2	0	2
Matthews, rf .... 3	0	0	2	0
Seidl, rf 	1	0	1	0	0
Kane, 2b 	4	0	0	0	2
Velcheck, If 	3	0	0	4	0
zzDevore 	1	0	0	0	0
Powell, If 	0	0	0	4	0
O’Neill, c 	3	0	0	4	0
xUnderkofler .... 1	0	0	0	0
Leonard, p 	3	0	0	0	4
xxRascher 	0	1	0	0	0
z Robinson batted for McGrath in ninth, zz Devore batted for Velcheck in eighth, x Underkofler batted for O'Neill in ninth, xx Rascher batted for Leonard in ninth.
E
1
0 0
0
1 0
0
0
0
0
E
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
4
NOTRE DAME ........200 000 010—3
MICHICGAN STATE ...100	001 12x—5
Summary: Two-base hits—Palmisani. Norton. Three base hits—Eliowitz. Sacrifice hits —McGrath, Palmisani, Langer, Fidler, Norton. Stolen bases—Cunha, Kircher, Fawcett, Morse. Hits—off Pemberton 6 in 9 innings; off Leonard 7 in 8 innings. Struck out—by Pemberton 4 ; by Leonard 2. Base on balls— off Pemberton. 1 : off Leonard 3. Hit by pitcher—McCann by Leonard.
Morrissey 10, St. Edward’s 6
After trailing 6 to 5 at the end of the sixth inning, the Morrissey nine delivered the punch necessary to win a nip and tuck battle, 10 to 6. The winning blow was contributed by Ferrell who connected for four sacks with the bases loaded in the first half of the last frame. This proved too much for St. Edward’s as they seemed to lose heart from this stage of the game on. Relief pitcher Viviano from
St. Edward’s	201 120 0—6
Morrissey	301 100 5—10
Batteries — Morrissey: Nuss and Ferrell; St. Edward’s: Leonard, Viviano, Emmerling, and Simpson.
t
May 5, 1933
Tiventy-seven
ou Can ^ance in iBrown Shoes
But what would your Lady Fair say?
<•
Flowers add to the loveliness of even the most lovely.
For your last Formal — why not be correct?
SEND HER A CORSAGE
Today, it’s well within your budget. For only a dollar and a half we’ll surprise you with a corsage your guest will surely rave about.
WILLIAMS, The Florist
“Where Better Flowers Cost Less"
219 West Washington St.	Call 3-5149
Just West of the Oliver Hotel on Washington
HE GOT THE DUCK OUT
OF A CANVAS BAG FIXED ON THE BACK OF THE CHAIR
OUT
THE.QACK Of the.cha/r;:-:. /EMdrAE---' INNOCENT.-:
AS IF LOOKS.
Velvet panel oon
SL/DEE DOWN-.- -
DUCK. POPS TU&E -
VELVET OU TSI PE
1
CANVAS BAG
Camels are made from finer, more expensive
other popular brand. Try Camels and give your taste a chance to appreciate those costlier tobaccos.
Toknow
Copyright. 1833, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
MATCHLESS blend

H° TRICICy in Camels_.JU*T costlier tobacco*
Thirty
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 24)
the course record with a 71. Moller blasted the course record with a 70. And that year Moller and the Beaupres were graduated, and Monte-donico was foremost among those left to carry on their fine reputation for Notre Dame.
That he has done so, and in rare good fashion, is attested by his scores and wins. A consistently fine player, his form and timing are things of beauty. His irons, both long and short, are the mainstay of his game, and when he is hot with a putter he is hard to beat indeed. But there is more to Montedonico than his golf game. His charm of manner and rare gentlemanliness combine with his athletic achievements to make youthink that golf is the game to play if it can do that to a man. But it isn’t golf. It’s Montedonico.
Not only did John Scott Montedonico have Notre Dame golfing traditions to carry on, but also family ones. His brother, Louis Montedonico, was Tennessee state champion in 1926, and has long been rated as one of the South’s leading amateurs. He taught brother John the game when he could get the latter to listen to him, for the Captain never took golf very seriously until he came to Notre Dame. Despite this he has won gobs of tournaments in Michigan, where he spends his summers, and in Memphis, his home, which he visits on occasion. He numbers among his friends Billy Howell, the famous Richmond star, and numerous well-known golfers.
I still talked to Montedonico. And he still purred r-less and g-less sounds, intelligible to no living human. I rose to go, still talking.
“Pardon me,” I said, determined to sift this matter to the bottom, “just what language was it you were .speaking this evening?”
“Sh-h!” he said, while we got the Man Named Kearns, who had surrounded himself with a cordon three inches deep of legless, suffering flies, well out of the room. “I never say anything before that man,” he replied, in perfect English.
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 25)
Spartan track, tennis, and golf teams appear here.
Having seen the State track team in action indoors and the tennis team perform last week, we pick the visitors to win those events, but to the Irish we concede the golf match.
All of the events promise outstanding attractions. The Notre Dame golf team will be making its first home start and they’re plenty good.
On the track, such performers as Vince Murphy, Eddie King, Clyde Roberts, and Joe Young of Notre Dame, and Ken Liberty, Ted Bath, Otto Pongrace, and Tom Ottey of State will be in action.
The tennis match will feature Jack O’Hanlon against Bill Loose in a renewal of a terrific match played last week. The State man took that match but only after a long, hard fight. Nick Lukats, Louie Chreist, Dick Kelly, and the others will all be after revenge against a fine group of players.
On the golf course pick out any one of the five Notre Dame men, Vinny Fehlig, Cap’n Montedonico, Johnny Banks, Billy Cole, or Bill Veeneman, and you can’t go wrong.
GOLFERS SWAMP PURDUE
(Continued from Page 21)
Irish leader won the first nine 3 and 2, the second, one up, and the eighteen .3 and 2. The Cole-Hobbs match wound up the day’s list of matches.
The complete summary:
Doubles: Fehlig, 35-35—70, and Veeneman, 37-37—74, (ND) defeated Hobbs, 40-39—79, and Reitemier, 3939—78 (P), 3-0. Banks, 39-36—75, and Cole, 37-36—73, (ND), defeated Russeau and Reitemier (P), 3-0.
Singles: Fehlig (ND), 37-36—73, defeated Reitemier (P), 41-37—78, 3-0. Banks (ND), 36-36—72, defeated Russeau (P), 38-38—76, 3-0. Montedonico (ND), 37-38—75, defeated Neuman (P), 40-39—79, 3-0. Hobbs (P), 38-34—72, defeated Cole (ND), 39-37—76.
PLACE TWICE AT DRAKE
(Continued from Page 20)
was seeking revenge for the beating given him at Butler by Ward.
In the other events, Eddie Gough was the only other man to qualify for the Blue and Gold. Eddie’s broad jumping fell off a little bit in the finals, however, and he failed to place.
The one mile relay team and the two mile crew narrowly missed earning the right to compete in the finals. In the 100 yard dash, Francis Murphy was set back a yard for jumping the gun. In such a fast field of sprinters, this was an immense handicap and Frank was unable to catch the field when the race finally got under way.
CAMPUS CHANGES
(Continued from Page 17)
NILES AVENUE RESTAURANT
601-603% N. Niles Avenue	Phone 3-0678
We Serve You GENUINE ITALIAN SPAGHETTI
TRY OUR SPECL4L SUNDAY DINNERS
Spaghetti and Meat Balls Roast Chicken
Raviole — Braciole
Complete Dinner including Beverage.
50c
and The Scholastic moved back to the Press Building into renovated quarters, and Room 222 of the Main Building was left to the Philomathean Society.
And still time marches by. New roads are being built. Old roads are forming new lawns and the new quadrangle is fast following the old one in pursuit of beauty.
Road maps will be furnished present graduates returning in five years. And the old boy stops a freshman in the Main Building and asks him: “Say, where do you fellers eat nowadays?”
May 5, 1933
T’,irty-one
TIE, WIN AT PURDUE
Continued from Page 23)
V
4
r
four and two-thirds innings. Leonard held Purdue to four hits and two runs. Huisking was called in to finish the game and struck out the final batter.
The second game was a see-saw battle all the way, but the Irish finally put the game on ice with two runs in the final frame. To beat Purdue in this contest, the Irish had to beat Lefty Griffin, the Boilermaker’s star hurler and one of the leading pitchers in the Big Ten Conference.
Get To Griffin In Second
The Keoganites, however, lost no time in getting to Griffin. In the second inning they touched him for three hits and four runs. Palmisani started the inning by working Griffin for a walk. Matthews flied out to the centerfielder, but McGrath lined a single to left sending Palmisani to third. Dunn struck out. O’Neill drew a free ticket to first, and Huisking hit a hard single to score Palmisani. Cunha came through with a terrific triple to deep center which scored McGrath, O’Neill, and Huisking. Kane ended the inning with a fly to right.
In the fifth the Irish picked up more runs when Velcheck singled and Palmisani sent him home with a triple. Frank scored a moment later on Matthews’ single.
Irish Score Twice In Ninth
Notre Dame picked up their final two runs in the ninth. Sagartz got to first on an error by Zelko, the Purdue second baseman. Cunha singled to send his pitcher to third, and Kane drove both Sagartz and Cunha across the plate with a hard single to left.
The Boilermakers gathered three runs in the fourth on a single, an error, a base on balls and a double by Campbell. They collected single tallies in the fifth and sixth and scored their final two runs in the ninth. After Duff had been retired, Zelko singled and scored on a triple by Smith. Smith scored on an error by Palmisani. Sagartz, who had relieved Huisking, quelled the rally by forcing Craig to send an easy fly to Velcheck, and Campbell to hit a slow grounder to Kane for the final out.
Box scores:
First Game
Notre Dame (9)	AB	R	H	PO	A	E
Cunha, ss 		. 3	9	9	9	9	1
	. 3	1	1	3	2	0
Palmisani, 3b ...	. 3	1	2	0	4	0
Matthews, if ...	. 3	0	0	1	0	0
’White, rf ....	. 2	1	2	0	0	1
Costello, lb ......3
’■’Robinson, lb .. 0
Velcheck, If ......2
xPowell ...........1
Seidl, If ........ 1
McGrath, cf .......4
xxRascher, cf ____1
O’Neill, c ........3
zDunn, c ..........1
Smith, p ......... 1
zzLeonard, p _____4
Huisking’, p .... 0
0	0	9	1	0
0	0	10	0
0	0	0	0	0
0	0	0	0	0
0	0	10	0
0	0	10	1
1	0	0	0	0
117	2	0
112	11
0	0	0	0	0
110	10
0	0	0	0	0
Totals ..........36	9	10	27	13	4
* White batted for Matthews in the seventh. ” Robinson batted for Costello in the ninth, x Powell batted for Velcheck in the seventh, xx Rascher batted for McGrath in the ninth, z Dunn batted for O’Neil in the ninth.
zz Leonard batted for Smith in the fifth.
Purdue (9) AB
Duff, c-lf .......5
Zeldo, 2b ...... 3
Smith, 3b .......4
Cherico, rf .....4
Husar, lb ........3
Craig, ss .......4
Lang, If ........2
Fehring, c ......1
Olsen, cf .......2
xAnderson ........1
Williamson, cf ... 0
Huml. p .........3
Hartmann, p _____0
zWebker ..........0
Totals .........32
R	H	PO	A	E
3	3	4	1	1
2	12	2	0
0	2	2	2	2
1	2	3	0	0
0	0	9	0	0
0	0	13	0
1	0	0	0	0
0	1	4	1	0
1	0	2	0	0
0	0	0	0	0
0	0	0	0	1
110	2	0
0	0	0	0	0
0	0	0	0	0
9	10	27	11	4
x Anderson batted for Olson in eighth.
z Webker batted for Hartmann in the ninth.
Notre Dame ...........100 000 314—9
Purdue ...............013 300 101—9
Summary: Two-basehits—Palmisani, Smith, O’Neill. Home run. Duff. Sacrifice hits—Kane. Stolen bases—Kane. Smith. Cherico (2). Base on balls—off Smith, 2; off Leonard, 3; off Huml, 6. Struck out—by Smith, 3; by Leonard, 3; by Huisking, 1 ; by Huml, 7; by Hartmann, 2. Hits—off Smith, 6 in 4 innings; off Leonard 4 in 4 2-3 innings; off Huisking, 0 in 1-3 inning; off Huml 9 in eight innings (none out in ninth) ; off Hartmann 1 in 1 inning. Hit by pitcher—Olsen by Smith; Costello by Huml. Wild pitch—Huml. Passed ball —O’Neill. Umpire Rife.
A New Store for Notre Dame Men!
A COMPLETE SPORT SHOP FEATURING THE ENTIRE LINE OF A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
Stocked with the latest in Slacks, Sweaters, Golf Socks, Golf Shoes.
MIKE KELLY’S SPORT SHOP
209 N. Michigan	Phone 3-3702
Second Game
Notre Dame (8) AB R
Cunha, ss ..........5	1
Kane, 2b ...........5	0
Velcheck, If .......5	1
Palmisani. 3b ____3	2
Matthews, rf _____5	0
Seidl, rf ..........0	0
McGrath, cf ........4	1
Dunn, lb ...........3	0
Costello, lb .......1	0
O’Neill, c .........3	1
Huisking. p ........4	1
Sagartz. p .........0	1
H PO
2 2
1 2
1 3
2 1
1 2
0 0
1 1
0 9
0 1
0 6
1 0
0 0
A	E
3	1
3	1
0	0
0	2
0	0
4	4
0	0
1	2
0	0
2	1
3	0
0	0
Totals .........38
Purdue (7)	AB
Peel, rf ..........2
Lang, rf .........1
Zelko, 2b .........5
Smith, 3b ........4
Cherico, If ......4
Fehring. c ........2
Craig, ss ........4
Campbell, lb _____4
Olsen, cf .........3
Griffin, p .......3
Totals ..........32
Notre Dame ........
Purdue ............
8	9	27	12	7
R H PO A E
0	0	4	0	0
0	10	0	0
2	12	3	1
2	4	0	3	0
1	0	2	0	1
1	0	5	0	1
0	0	12	0
118	11
0	0	3	0	0
0	0	2	2	0
7	7	27	11	4
....040 020 002—8 ....000 311 002—7
Summary: Two-base hit. Campbell. Three-base hits—Cunha, Palmisani, Smith. Stolen bases—Matthws, Zelko, Smith. Base on balls— off Huisking, 3; off Sagartz, 0; off Griffin, 3. Hit by pitcher—Cherico by Sagartz. Struck out—by Huisking, 7: by Sagartz 0; by Griffin. 5. Hits—off Huisking 7 in 7 innings: off Sagartz 2 in 2 innings; off Griffin 9 in 9 innings.
UNIVERSITY MEN WANTED Good opportunity for this summer. National organization desires men interested in earning a good income during summer vacation. Apply at once. Mr. Eder, Universal Protective Association, 124 North Main St^ Rooms 206-7-8, South Bend, Indiana. .
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
After College WHAT?
Architecture?
Kenneth Reid, managing editor of the architectural publication, ''Pencil Points,” writes: "The successfill architect needs not only an instinctive feeling for design and a technical skill in construction, but also a complete cultural background. Architecture requires long training, intensive concentration, a keen mind.”
IN ARCHITECTURE, certainly, brains rate too per cent. ". . . intensive concentration, a keen mind.” That’s why in this business, as in college, a pipe is the favorite smoke. Get out your pipe now, light up, and through the curling blue puffs of Edgeworth,* let your mind drift down die road to thoseyears after graduation.
If you’re not already an Edgeworth smoker, there’s new smoking satisfaction waiting for you. Edgeworth’s blend of fine old hurleys is distinctive, different. You’ll know—after the first puff. Want to try it before you buy? Write for free sample packet. Larus& Bro. Co., 105 S. 22dSt., Richmond,Va.
* A recent investigation showed Edgeworth the • favorite smoke at 42 out of 54 leading colleges
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms—Edgeworth Ready-Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. AU sizes—15^ pocket package to pound humidor tin. Some sizes in vacuum sealed tins. _
On Down The Line
Fred	—
SPEED SEEMS TO BE THE ISSUE OF THE DAY . . . consider the SNAIL ... it moves along at % mile a week . . . great SPRINTERS are capable of over 21 miles per hour for a short distance . . . THE BARRACUDA, fastest of FISH, can swim at 80 miles per hour . . . the fastest BIRD, the SWIFT, flies over one hundred miles per hour . . . for years the locomotive was the fastest engine made by man, with a speed of 120 miles per hour . . . GAR WOOD has a speedboat that averages 125 miles per hour . . . SCHNEIDER CUP SEAPLANES do well over 400 miles per hour . . . MALCOLM CAMPBELL DROVE AN AUTOMOBILE 276 MILES PER HOUR ... but the fastest living thing is the CEPHE-NEMYIA FLY, a native of BRAZIL, and it travels at the rate of 14 miles a MINUTE, or 840 MILES PER HOUR.
• ❖
BILL SUMMERS, newly-appointed UMPIRE in the AMERICAN LEAGUE, was a lightweight boxer * in his youth, but he never played on a baseball team . . . GEORGE HILDEBRAND is considered the BEST UMPIRE IN BASEBALL ... he calls everything wrong and makes it fair for both sides . . . CHICKEN FIGHTING IS A BIG SPORT IN CUBA . . . CHESS is becoming the national pastime of RUSSIA ... a chib in MOSCOW boasts 6,000 members . . . POLO was first played by a regiment of the BRITISH army in 1869 . . . PRINCETON will not have the terrifying, terrific point-a-minute football team that some of the boys are predicting next fall.
THE UNIVERSITY of BUFFALO SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY
Established 1892
The next annual session will begin July 3rd, 1933. A three-year course of instruction is offered, quarter plan, leading to the degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery. The course is recognized as class A by the University of the State of New York and the Dental Educational Council of America.
There are many new features in the curriculum which are outlined in the catalogue. An abundance of clinical material is provided at the schooland at the hospitals. Classes are limited in number. Catalogue mailed upon request.	. .,
. ■ ■	For further information address
SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY
25 Goodrich St.	Buffalo, N. Y.
The day of high-priced rookie baseball players is gone forever . . . STRAND cost the ATHLETICS $75,000; CHICAGO paid §100,000 for KAMM and $120,000 for CISSELL . . . BABE RUTH cost BOSTON only $5,000; the CARDINALS GOT BOTTOMLEY FOR LESS THAN THAT; MILLER HUGGINS picked up ROGER HORNSBY for $400 and TY COBB cost DETROIT $800 ... EDDIE COLLINS and LOU GEHRIG came directly from COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY . _. . CLARK GRIFFITH, president of the WASHINGTON SENATORS, declared recently, “The best players I ever had cost me next to nothing ... a guy gave me SAM RICE . . . BUCKY HARRIS set me back $2,500 and OSSIE BLUEGE cost $3,500 . . . call up the Union Station and ask how much a railroad ticket from COFFEYVILLE, Kan., cost in 1907 and you’ll know how much WALTER JOHNSON cost!”

BLAIR NUNAMAKER, of CLEVELAND, is the WORLD’S HORSESHOE PITCHING CHAMPION ... he recently set a world record for scoring ringers, with 198 out of 264 shoes for a percentage of .752 . ./. the previous record was .731 . . . MARCHIONESS, one of the greatest trotting horses ever foaled, is owned by PREMIER BENITO MUSSOLINI, of ITALY ... COCKFIGHTING is flourishing in GREAT BRITAIN despite drastic laws against it . . . there is much betting and the birds, some of which cost between $250 and $500, are specially bred . . . also, there is a cock hospital - “somewhere in Yorkshire” for birds with cut wings, battered beaks, etc. -
V
/
eat-and-run
student?
FIVE minutes for breakfast! That’s plenty of time for a big bowl of Kellogg’s Rice Krispies.
Just pour on milk or cream. Listen a second to that appetizing sound—snap, crackle, pop—then enjoy the finest, crispest rice cereal ever made.
A grand energy food! Nourishing! Easy to digest! And listen—Rice Krispies are a great food to wind up the day. You’ll sleep better. Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek.
Listen!-

The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They inelude All-Bran, PEP Bran Flakes, Corn Flakes, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s whole wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee — real coffee . that lets you sleep.
RICE krispies
ometning to

g
< $
A
feetoHrdoor
CbMteinddBjMgtt
them just m fresh m
ax
i$a&&
_ ,.	.	©1933. - v .l-
-* XiGGnf&MYns Tobacco Co,
A friend of CHESTERFIELD writes us of a salesman who had "something to say”:
"I dropped into a little tobacco shop, and when I asked for a pack of Chesterfields the man smiled and told me I was the seventh customer without a break to ask for Chesterfields. 'Smoker after smoker/ he said, 'tells me that Chesterfields click ... I sell five times as many Chesterfields as I did a while back.’”
_ Yes,there’s something to say about Chesterfields and it takes just six words to say it—"They’re mild and yet they satisfy.” „
(i
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
15 CTS. A COPY $3.00 THE YEAR
May 12 1933
PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY
p. (Office 4-5661	X-ray one 3.4041 DR. E. S. LUCAS Dentist 702 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Opposite Oliver Hotel	Indiana		Expert Eye	Glasses Properly Fitted Service '	at Moderate Prices J. BURKE, Inc. Optometrist and Manufacturing Opticians Established 1900	228 S. Michigan St.
Office Phone 3-3309	Res. Phone 5-1343 DR. B. A. KAMM Ear, Nose and Throat	, Suite 526 Sheriand Building Jefferson and Michigan Hours I1® to 12 m. (3 to 5 p. m.	South Bend, Indiana		DR. J. M. SINGLER DR. E. A. PROBST D entists Phone 3-1254	405 Associates Building
Office Phone 3-2574 Residence Phone 4-6354	Corrective Shoes
DR. O. J. GRUNDY	
Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments	
432-34 Associates Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.
Dr. E. J. Cain	Dr. H. H. Rogers	
ROGERS Eyesight Specialists		1
Phone 4-8251	213 S. Michigan Street	
Space Reserved
FRANK J. POWERS, M. D.	0
University Physician	9
Office at	Hours:	
University Infirmary	12:30 p. m. to 4 p. m.	
May 12, 193,
One
Tired fingers so worn, so white,
Sewing and mending front mom ’til night. Tired hands and eyes that blink, Drooping head too tired to think.
Tired fingers so worn; so true, Sewing and mending the whole day through, From break of dawn ’til setting sun, A Mother’s IFojk Is Never Done.
"TIRED FINGERS”
Tired arms that once had pressed A airly head to a mother’s breast.
Tired voice so soft, so dear
Saying "Sleep well, darling mother’s near.
Say It With FLOWERS Mother’s Day, May 14th
We Telegraph Flowers
SOUTH BEND FLORAL COMPANY, 114 South Michigan Street
Two
The Scholastic
