^Che*^
Dotre Dame Scholastic
d>ISGeQVASI-SemP€R-VICTV2VS- -VIVG^VASI-CRAS-MORITVRV^
* .Vol. XXXIX.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, November 18, 1905. No. 10.
Prospect.
CHARLES L. O’DONNELL, ’06.
MOVEMBER gray comes down in rain, Rain on the roof and window-pane, On sodden fields where dead 'leaves lie, Rain in the winds that hurry by
All down the night rumbling amain.
Gone Summer with her flowered train
And Autumn rich with garnered grain;
Lo, ruling over field and sky November gray.
Yet deem I not all chance of gain
Fled with bright days though keen the pain Their parting brings; life’s long good-bye Thy winds forespeak; man’s final sigh
Breathes through thy rain, a low refrain, November gray.
Feudalism.
WILLIAM A. BOLGER, ’07.
fEUDALISM was not an institution peculiar to Europe of the Middle Age. A system analogous to it in all essential points has prevailed at different periods in many eastern countries. In Japan it was superseded by a strong monarchy only as late as the middle of the last century. Feudalism, wherever it may exist, is.a transitional institution; it is society’s refuge from anarchy when central authority is too weak to protect individual rights. At such a time the weak and timid group themselves about the courageous and the strong. Here society follows the same instinct which impels a panic-stricken crowd to yield prompt obedience to anyone at all
who keeps his presence of mind and commands as if by a natural right.
The origin of the feudal system in Europe is a vexed question. Its beginnings have been traced to the old Roman practices of precaria and patrocinia on the one hand, . and the German coxnitatus on the other. The precaria was a kind of lease, revokable at the wish of the owner, bv which he granted the use of his property to another Small owners surrendered their lands to larger owners and received them back again by this lease with the right to work them. It is easy to see the close analogy between this relationship and the vassalage of the feudal age. Again, in Rome a poor freeman often went to a rich man and offered himself as a client to perform certain services in return for help and protection. A freeman entering into either of these relations lost neither his political status nor his rights nor his duties toward the state. But it happened often that they refused to pay the taxes and were supported by their lord in this defiance of the government. The state could not prevent this evil for the- same reason that it could not prevent the condi---- tions which brought it about. The lord and his clients then became quite independent and formed a little state of their own.
This is almost an exact parallel to the feudal lord and his vassals who by grants of immunities became almost independent of their king. There was an old Germanic . institution which essentially modified this -Roman feudalism, when the Germans conquered Gaul and blended their manners, .. customs and laws with those of its inhab- -itants. This was the comitatus. A band. -of young warriors bound themselves to serve a chief in war. These corresponded : closely to the Roman clients, but on. .their. J
i54	NOTRE DAME
part the relationship was purely personal. It was regarded as ennobling alike to man and chief and was entered upon by a solemn ceremonial. The oath then taken was of the most sacred kind. This institution doubtless had its influence on the later feudalism, a distinctive characteristic of which was that everyone was somebody’s “man;” yet the surviving institution was essentially Roman, not Germanic.
So much for the beginnings of feudalism; its growth was gradual. While the Roman empire lasted its practices were illegal. During the Merovingian period they were legalized, and under the Carlovingians they were encouraged and made use of bv the kings in governing the state.
Obligatory military service on the part of the vassal—one of the essential ideas of feudalism—was not developed until the time of the later Carlovingians. The occasion was the Mohammedan invasion and the conditions which prevailed after the battle of Tours. It w as brought about m this manner. Charles Martel forcibly took possession of and apportioned among his vassals the-lands of the Church in southern France, imposing upon them in return the obligation of military service. He decreed also that the vassals of private individuals should be held to serve in war like those of the king. And in order to enlist the co-operation of the lords of his’realm he allowed the vassals to come' into the field each with his own lord, instead of coming with the general levy of the kingdom as they had formerly done. In this way the obligation of defending the state was changed from a public duty which each man owed to his country to a matter of private contract between each vassal and his lord. While this measure sufficed for the moment in bringing together armies which overcame the Saracens, yet in the end it proved destructive of the power of the. kings, by making the men of the kingdom bound by allegiance to their lord first and to their king through him. This resulted in the almost total destruction of the power of the successors of Charlemagne and delayed- the growth of strong central governments on the continent. In England it was different, William the Conqueror made all the men of his kingdom, lords and vassals : alike, swear allegiance directly to him.
SCHOLASTIC.
Hence constitutional liberty in England was threatened by royal tyranny, while France was still the victim of feudal anarchv.
There was another practice in. the feudal age which promoted decentralization of government: This was the grant of immunities. These were privileges given to churches and. other estates by which they became independent, not of the state but of the officers of the state. The - privileged estate became quasi-sovereign, its officers state officers. Local public courts were transformed. into feudal courts. The lord became an all-powerful personality. He was the judge of those under his jurisdiction, and could impose fines upon them in order to enforce his judgments.	.
It is very difficult to get anything like an adequate view of the feudal system. Its distinguishing mark, it has been well said, was a conspicuous lack of system. A man might be lord over a number of vassals and at the same time be the vassal of several lords to each of whom he owed allegiance. It was not an uncommon thing for a king to be the vassal of a duke, nor for one king to be the vassal of another. William the Conqueror of England was the Duke of Normandy, and as such owed allegiance to the king of France. Such complications of course led to many .quarrels, but were not regarded as either extraordinary or inconsistent situations. -	.
Feudalism was the dominant institution of Europe from the ninth to the fourteenth century and tended strongly to feudalize all other institutions. We have seen its influence on monarchy. It has been well said that the successors of Charlemagne’s sons were not his heirs in office, but the great lords of' their respective kingdoms. Its battle with the ecclesiastical power was hard and long.
The, Church struggled to maintain an organization of its own. But this was exceedingly difficulty Abbots and bishops found it expedient to become lords of the Church estates and bind themselves., by allegiance to the king. Thus, whether they would or not, they found it necessary to become temporal rulers, obliged to furnish their quota of soldiers for the army and to assume the responsibility of governing the. people on their estates. Thus bishops became landlords and judges and even warriors as
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
well as spiritual rulers. These conditions caused endless confusion. Because the vassalbishops owed allegiance to the kings for their temporal estates, kings very naturally desired a voice, in their nomination, and in time claimed the right to invest them with the ring and crosier, the insignia of the episcopacy. This very claim brought on the desperate struggle between the popes and the German emperors. It was absolutely necessary for the integrity of the Church that she should be free in the choice of her bishops, hence the inflexibility of Pope Gregorv VII. The lack of this freedom during' these ages led to the intrusion into o	o
church offices by secular rulers of men whose lives not infrequently belied their profession of holiness. Even the papal chair itself was not free from disgrace, for these were the times of the four or five unwbrthy popes so notorious in history.
Much has been written regarding the influence of feudalism on civilization. We’ think the following point well made by Mr. Guizot: “The first effect of feudalism on civilization was to change the distribution of the population. Hitherto the lords of the territory of the conquered had lived united in .masses more or less numerous, either settled in cities or moving about the country in bands; by the operation of the feudal system these men were brought to live isolated, each in his dwelling at long distances apart. The government of societies passed at once from cities to the country; the baronial courts of the great landed proprietors took the place of the great national assemblies—the public body was lost in. the thousand little societies into which society , was split.”
The part feudalism and its outgrowth, chivalry, played, in the elevation of woman is an interesting question, and the more so because two very great thinkers do not think alike about it. Mr. Guizot writes: “ It was in the bosom of the feudal family that the importance of woman, that the value of . wife and •. mother, at last made itself known. ... It is to, the development, to the necessary preponderance of domestic manners in the feudal system, that this change, this improvement in the condition of woman is chiefly owing.” Mr. Balmes, in his “European Civilization,” denies that to
155 J
feudalism belongs the chief credit for the elevation, of woman. He shall speak for himself:	• t‘
“If the lord returning to his castle found one wife there and not many, to what was; t that owing? Who forbade him to abuse his power by turning his house into a harem?. Who bridled his passions and prevented his making victims of his timid vassals ? Surely these were the doctrines and morals introduced into Europe and deeply rooted there by the Catholic Church: it was the strict laws which she imposed as a barrier to the invasions of the passions; therefore, -even if we suppose that feudality did produce this good, it is still owing to the Catholic Church.” He continues further to the effect that chivalry instead of raising woman . presupposes her already raised and surrounded by respect. Without making for feudalism the rather large claim of Mr. Guizot, that to it is chiefly due the elevation and ennobling of woman, which is primarily an effect of Christian teaching, it is sufficient to say of it that it was the only form of government practicable at a time when kings were too weak to protect and defend rights. It saved society from into barbarism; it was the which kept Europe from utter
individual relapsing makeshift anarchy.
A Mistaken. Thespian.
ROBERT L. BRACKEN, ’07.
It just happened—you know how things will happen, and sometimes in the most unexpected way. The Man happened to be leaving Chicago on the 10:22 on the Lake Shore railroad, and the Girl also chanced to be leaving on the same train from the same station. The Man happened to be walking directly behind the Girl as they came through the gate where the guard holds you up for a look at your ticket. As they came down the platform, the Man could not help but notice that on her suit case was . marked L. H., Rockford. Of course, there might be more than one Rockford, yet for some reason he believed this Rockford, was , the one in Illinois; though that did not make much difference. Anyhow, she was -
ic6	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
good looking, which after all mattered a good bit more than where she was from.
When the Girl came to the day coach she attempted to get on the step and into the car. As the Man was directly behind her, he of course tried to assist her, but the brakeman called out:
“Not here, you two. All show people up ahead.”
“But,” said the Girl, “I do not belong to any show. I simply want—”
“Never mind now, Miss, they always say the same thing. Can’t help it, but them is the orders. Move ahead.”
“See here, Mr. Brakeman” (here is where the Man came in), he began, “you are mistaken. This lady, I assure you, does not belong to any show company; she simply wants to—”
“Here,” interrupted the brakeman, “I know vou two. Now no argument goes. You are together. I saw you coming down the lane, one behind the other, but you can’t fool me. Move ahead now, and no talking about it.”
Of course, it was the most natural thing, and under the circumstances the only thing for the Man to look at the Girl and she in turn at him. ’
“Too bad,” he thought; “expect she does belong to the show, whatever it is, and does not want to be crowded in with the rest. She does look different somehow, quite good looking, real looks, in fact. But because she happens to belong to some show is no reason why I should be obliged to lose my seat— but here goes.”
“Well,” he began, and then stopped, for the-Girl was still looking at him, two big tears could just be seen in her pretty blue eyes, and she said: •
“Won’t you please tell him the truth and go ahead in your car.. You certainly know I do not belong to your company, and you are—a. gentleman, I hope.”
“Tord—” cut in the man—“tell him the truth! Why I do not belong-any more—”
“All aboard!” yelled the conductor. And the brakeman actually screamed at them.
“If you two don’t, want to get left, hurry up ahead.”	.
The train gave a warning whistle, people came, pouring but of the coaches, people who had. helped friends aboard; and the
wheels began to move. Once more the Man 1 looked at the Girl, and she at him. Lifting | his hat he took her suit case out of her g hand and said:	j
“If you want to. trust me, come on, I f must take this train, and—”	1
“So must I,” she said.	-	W
The coach in. which they found themselves 1 was nearly filled with people: women f sitting around in lounging costumes; and	I
men in their shirt sleeves. All were busy;	g
some of the women were sewing, some read-	I
ing; some of the men were smoking and	|
some were playing cards. As the Man and	|
the Girl entered all looked up and for a	I
moment no one said a word. Then one who	!
appeared to be somebody in particular	।
spoke up in sharp interrogation:	'	?
“I expect you two know what you want i in here; and maybe you would just as soon j tell, us about it.”	s
It was not really what he said but the way he said it that made the Man want to strangle him, for he saw at once that the Girl did not “belong,” and as he turned to look at her he saw that she knew, and also that she knew that he knew, and that he did not belong.” But before he could answer some one else spoke up and said:
“Never mind, Jim. Can’t you see? Papa objected or something equally as good, and of course they must get away, and in here is the place where no one would think of looking. Come now, tell us about it—and maybe we can help you.” This last to the Man.
“Now let me explain,” began the Man. “We happened to come down the lane from the gate, nearly together, and when we were about to get on the train—”
“In butted the Old Man,” began one of the men, “but go on. Excuse me. Go ahead. What did he say?”
“In butted no one, you fool. Listen, will you?” -It was like this: We—”
“Well now, don’t get sore, boy. We can’t throw you off along here. But go ahead. What did happen, then ? - When you were about—you know?”
The Man was getting hot now and the Girl was beginning to cry (Now when the Man - was mad and the Girl crying you can see . “things” were getting; ready to happen again.)	. .

NOTRE DAME SCFIOLASTIC.
“Never mind, dear,” spoke one of the older women in the car, a good, motherly looking old soul, reassuringly to the Girl. “You are safe here and no one can get in.”
“Listen, will you?” yelled the Man, waving his arms like a lunatic. “We are not running away. We never saw each other until we happened to come down to take this train. The brakeman stopped us as we were about to enter the day coach and said: ‘ You can not get in here. All show—’”
“Now come,” put in the one referred to as Jim, “you never saw each other until you were getting on the train. Now if you never saw each other before how did it happen you were getting on the train together? Tell it straight boy and maybe we can help you. Come now, tell it all, and tell it right.”
“Well, I’ll be d---d.” This from the Man; and the Girl standing within two feet of him.
“Now, maybe I do not know what I am talking about,—” he continued; “maybe I am foolish or crazy, but I was all right an hour ago. Now if you people can listen I will try once more to tell you. To start with, you know I do not belong to your company; don’t you?”
“We rather think you don’t,” replied Jim.
“And you know the Girl does not belong here; don’t you?”
“Hardly. She doesn’t look as if she could do a step before the lights. Maybe she can, but she does not belong here.”
“Then,” spoke up the Man, “keep your comments to yourself regarding what she can or can not do. That much is settled. As I started in to say, it so happened that I walked directly behind this young lady coming from the gate. As she was alone and about to board the train I helped or attempted to aid her, when that fresh brakeman back there cut in with: ‘ All show people up ahead,’—or something like that. I tried to explain to him, but he thought he knew more about it than I did and would not let us on. The train was about to start. . I had to make it and so did the young lady, so we had no alterna- . tive, either remain behind or come ahead to the coach, and here we are.”
The Girl had by this time recovered her composure and was smiling at him, as he finished his story. First everyone in the
iS7
car looked at the Girl, then they looked at the Man. Finally she said:	,	, '
“I assure you it is the truth; and we are sorry, aren’t we?”—smiling at him again,— “for having caused you so,much trouble.”.
‘ We ’ thought the Man. Somehow he just knew it was all his fault. He caused all the trouble. Had he w’alked a little slower or a little faster coming down the lane to the coaches all this would not have happened. And she was good looking too; and it was all his fault. (Strange way to feel was it not?)
“I guess you are telling the truth,” began the spokesman, Jim, but the look he received convinced him so he added quickly:
1 “You did get into a great mess, didn’t you? Now, where are you going; you might as well tell us that ? Sit down, get comfortable, and make the best of it.”
am going to South Bend,” said the Girl.	•
“And to South Bend for me,” replied the Man.
“I am going down there to stand up with a friend of mine who is going to be married to-night, and I just had to go on this train.” This from the Girl. The Man arose from his seat- and almost veiled.
“You are going to South Bend to stand o o
up with a friend of yours who is to be married to-night? Well, so am I. I am to be best man for Ray Hedrick—”	'
“Ray Hedrick,” interrupted the Girl, “why he is going to marry Jane Strickler and that is where I am going.”
The last night the Harris-Healy Coinedy Company played in Milwaukee the stagemanager handed “Jim” Harris this:
“ Your presence is requested at the marriage of Miss Louise Hackett" to Mr. John Griffin, etc. At Home after September 16, 1905.”
“I always wondered how they came out,” said Harris. “Good-looking girl all right, and the fellow wasn’t bad either.”
The Moon.
Rise up, thou lonely satellite,. .	~
Thou pilgrim of the blue,	?
For day, the harbinger of night, <	.
Is bidding us adieu.	T. E. B.
i58	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
.	Varsity Verse.
FOND MEMORIES.
T REMEMBER, I remember, .	1 Oh, how could I forget,
The small lake into which I fell - And got my clothing wet;
I didn’t fall a bit too slow ■ Or make too long a stay, But now I often wish the mumps Had kept that girl away.
I remember, I remember, The way she laughed at me, And in the silence I can herx That same shrill tee-ee-ee.
I turned to her with scorn, and said: “Young miss, you’re impolite;” She only laughed and laughed again To see my sorry plight.
I remember, I remember, Oh, would I could forget My daddy at the kitchen door, . He was the first I met.
, He didn’t land an easy stroke;
My screaming pierced the sky, And when his work was all complete • _	Near every stitch was dry.
I remember, I remember— ■ Can memory be sweet?
That night they sent me up to bed Without a bite to eat.
And there upon my bed I lay . Until the dawn of day
A-wishing that the little lake
Were fifty miles away.
T. E. B.
■ FIGURATIVELY SPEAKING.
Said Mr. Dufly, full of grief, “Poor Sarsfield’s day soon closes, •	For Doctor.Bannigan-has said
He have tuberculosez.”
. “Oh, if’twere only two,” said Blake,
“He might be long alive, sir,
But, Mr. Duffy,” Blake said low, “I fear th’ boy have five, sir.” '
E. P. B.
-	LIMERICKS.
There once was a lady named Porter, But,never.a man came to court her; .
• The reason was weight—	. .
■ She weighed two ninety-eight,
And ’twas clear that no man could support her.
'	.	W. J. D.
There was once a fellow named Chaucer Whose hair was cut round like a saucer, When he went to an inn . . " He refused to take gin '
So. they gave him a steak, and said, “ Chaw, sir.” ■x-—w,o’d.
“The Gentle Poet.”
LOUIS FAINEAU, ’06.
Corneille, the father of tragedy in France, was rightly called the “sublime poet.” His ' heroes are men of character who possessed the vis roniaila in the highest degree. The fact that he succeeded so well in representing them shows us that he was himself very energetic. Such a powerful will was needed at the beginning of the French classical drama; but when success had crowned the efforts of the pioneer a milder man was perfectly suitable to bring about a still greater perfection;—this was achieved by Racine, “the gentle poet.”
His life, his plays, testify that he was truly the predecessor of those later poets, Lamartine and Alfred de Musset, who shone by their tenderness and sensibility. We can not have better proofs than the words of his own son: “He was all feeling and all heart.” His exterior reflected his soul and character. The records of the time inform us that Racine had very agreeable features, gentlemanly, manners and that he excelled in conversation. There is another testimony which gives relief to his state of mind. Along with our qualities we have defects, some of which are the very . outcome of them because of our lack or control. So it was with Racine; his tender heart became too sensible. He told his son: “The least criticism, however harsh it might be, always caused me. more grief than all the praises gave me pleasure.” Indeed on account of unfavorable judgments on “Phedea,” he left the stage, notwithstanding the warm encouragements of his friend Boileau and although he had almost finished another play. .
Tenderness is a gift of nature that is much developed by suffering. Racine felt the sting of tribulation. He was born on the 21st of December, 1639, and when three years bld was left an orphan. This misfortune may explain his extreme sensibility. His letters to his sister and grandmother show the tender affection of his youthful heart. To anyone who was willing to receive his love he gave himself <with': his whole soul. Unfortunately, in some cases, he was not

1
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
understood and his attachment had no requital. The sorrow he felt under such circumstances contributed greatly to intensify his susceptibility.
In 1655 he was sent to the school directed by the “solitaries-’ of Port-Royal who became renowned under the name of “Jansenists.” These men were mostly psychologists and moralists who lived together according to special rules. They had few students, and their method of teaching was different from the one commonlv used. Though Racine was very independent, since his former masters wept several times afterwards on the deeds of their pupil who disregarded their doctrines, they had a real influence on his mind and especially on his heart. From them he probably received the first lessons of psychological analysis, the use of which distinguished him from . his predecessors as a playwright. Lancelot taught him Greek, and he was so passionate in the study of this tongue that he committed to memory the whole love story of Thisbe.
Shortly after leaving Port-Royal he began to write poetry and became acquainted with the contemporary playwrights. In his friendships we have another testimony of his loving heart. He entered into relations with La Fontaine in 1660 and remained faithful to him till his death. One of his first poems dedicated to Louis XIV. gained for him the affection of Boileau and Moliere. So the four poets, who were the brilliant satellites of Louis the Great*, lived in close contact and in intimate friendship. At times, however, he was too sensitive, as in the dispute with Moliere. His heart felt every sting, however slight it might be. Nicole,..his master /of Port-Royal, wrote in a pamphlet that a playwright was a “corrupter of souls.” Racine took that to himself, and answered by letters so witty and satirical that Boileau remonstrated with him, saying about the last one: “This letter will do credit to your mind, but not to your heart.”
These storms did not last long; he showed himself a tender husband and a kind father. His son tells us that after he left the stage he himself took care of the instruction of his children. In 1678 he was appointed the king’s historian, and was very friendly with the monarch during twenty years. ■
The character of the man is generally brought to light in his works. Racine’s plays give abundant proofs of his tenderness. The spirit that animated , his tragedies is entirelv different from that of Corneille. The latter presented Roman. and Spanish characters, the “gentle poet” tried to imitate the simplicity of Sophocles, and Euripides. Women play all the important parts. His only theme is love. In his “Art Poetique,” Boileau, having in mind the plays of Racine, said: “ The vivid presentation of this passion is the surest wav to reach the heart.” It made Voltaire exclaim: “What a man s Racine! how he touches the heart!” The personages have Greek names, but they are of their own time, and, we might say, of all times. Racine analyzes , the soul with all its feelings. Through his own sufferings he o	o	o
learned how to move the. public. In the seventeenth century they said: “Corneille excites our admiration; Racine; our love.”
In spite of many criticisms he had devoted . friends. He was the favorite of Louis XIV. Unfortunately he expired a victim of his. own extreme sensibility. During seX’eral weeks he was disgraced, and he. died of grief on the 21st of April, 1699. His deathbed, was also saddened by • unfavorable judgments on “Athalie,” his last tragedy.' Till the end he thought he.had made a mistake in writing it, although Boileau praised it very highly. His opinion became that of posterity. Voltaire said: “‘Athalie’ is perhaps the masterpiece of the human mind.”- Racine’s fame is secure; with the great Corneille, “the gentle poet” will live forever. .
Octavius Augustus.
JEAN LECROQ, J06.
Some time ago, while perusing the life of the greatest emperor of pagan Rome, I was singularly struck by the images which his two names, Octavius and Augustus suggested to mv mind. In them I could trace the whole history of that crafty, cunning and. powerful ruler of the Romans.
Who was the nephew of the great Julius Caesar, Octavius, but a young, obscure and inexperienced heir to a name which formed the only ground for his ainbitious claim’ to
160	NOTRE DAME
the empire of the world. Homeless, he was adopted by the dictator who left him a republic weakened and exhausted by continual warfare. Greedy of honor, dignity and power—supreme power—no obstacle could check him in the accomplishment of his plans. What mattered the way to him ? His end justified the means. Goodness, justice and clemency were of little importance in the eyes of his insatiable ambition; the goal was all. If necessary to his own .dear interests he would sacrifice or exile his most intimate friends and elevate his adversaries. He was calculatingly cruel on the road to -power. Anxious to dominate over all, “he came,” as some one has said, “towards the surface with all his nature, like the cork plunged in water.”
Octavius was as passionate, as inexorable and vindictive, as Augustus was mild and almost bonhomie. He who delivered up Cicero to the wrath of Antony; who shamefully refused to Lepidus any share in the triumvirate, pardons Cinna, his minister and conspirator' against his life. He who plundered Italy and put to death hundreds of. inhabitants who merely opposed his aspirations to the supreme authority wept over the massacred and disbanded legions of Varus. Finally, he who subjected to his will a nation worn out by twenty years of war, showed himself an adept in the government of his widely extended provinces. Let it be said to his honor that he who destroyed the republican regime never abused his sovereignly. As he had crossed all the roads of life, from the lowest to the highest, he knew too well the human heart to abandon himself to tyranny. He was fully aware that the happiness of Rome was dependent upon him.
Wise in his political, judicial and military organization, he has obtained an undying fame. The period of his reign, perhaps the most remarkable in pagan history, for its science and chiefly for its literature, has appropriately been termed the “ Age of Augustus.” Thus so far as Octavius was carried forward by unrelenting ambition, he proved himself self-interested and egotistical; once his desires were satiated, he showed himself unselfish and gentle. Why did not Octavius possess Rome at his birth? He . would, perhaps, have always been Augustus,
SCHOLASTIC.
Kindness.
Like distant stars that once in many years O’er the brink of darkness peep, Are those kind words of kinder friends, Which, sowing joy, do glad hearts reap.
“	J. C. McG.
------«••«>-----
The Picture Torn from the Watch.
ALEXANDER H. MCFARLAND, ’06.
On my twenty-first birthday I was given my grandfather’s watch which had been my father’s before me. Opening the case as is the custom or habit of one upon receiving a watch I saw engraved on its inner back George Burton, Christmas, 1860. And on the inner side of the lid was left a mat of paper pasted in, evidently the remnant of a picture which had been ruthlessly tom out. As I am of a romantic disposition I immediately saw possibilities of a beautiful tale in that scrap of paper. And upon investigation I found my surmise true indeed, for the picture tom out was a mute witness that the course of true love never runs smooth. I worried the story out of my Aunt Liza Burton, my father’s only sister. My grandfather had received the watch on his twenty-first Christmas, and a wonderful thing it was for those times, as a watch of such qualities and workmanship was rare. Two years later George Burton enlisted in an Ohio regiment and engaged for three years in the great war of the Secession.
During the summer of ’63, while doing skirmish duty under Clark in the Rappahannock Valley, he came across the old Virginia estate which was to mean so much to him in after-life. As corporal of a foraging expedition he was ordered to search the house and to remain there for two days to try to discover any news of Confederates hiding in the neighborhood. After searching the most likely places for a hidden enemy and having seen the troop pass on with ample provisions Burton and three men settled down to make the best of a two days’ rest, which was not repose, nor, as we shall see, perfect peace of mind to Burton. He had gone into the library of the old colonial . mansion and sat himself down to a quiet
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	.161
smoke whilst his men bullied and abused the servants. Suddenly he heard the door open, and wheeling about he found himself facing a shot gun in the hands of a bewitching young girl who greeted him with:
“Howdy, Yank! Taking things easy, are you? How’d you like if I blew your head off?”
This was said with a determination that caused Burton to feel that he was in no such light predicament as he had been at first inclined to believe. He thought, however, to disconcert the young, girl hoping thereby to obtain an opportunity to secure the gun * or to be rescued by one of his soldiers. The girl’s beautv was a more dangerous thing to Burton than her weapon, and it was on her beauty that Burton commenced.
“A young, good-looking girl like you wouldn’t wish to have murder imputed to her, would she? For that’s what it would be, for you .are not a soldier and can’t legitimately kill me. It would be dreadful to think that one so beautiful could shed the blood of a defenceless man. I am doing no injury to you, only obeying my orders, and if it comes to cost of keeping me I can pay you out of my own pocket.”
“I don’t care. You Yanks haven’t any reason for coming down here killing our men and destroying property and doing inestimable harm. Anyway, I won’t argue with you and you’d better leave here.”
While talking the girl had lowered her gun and Burton creeping up suddenly took - it away from her. The girl whose superb -nerve had enabled her to do as she had done, immediately' was overcome by the reaction, burst into tears and sank to the floor. Now Burton was one of those good and kind-hearted fellows who hated to see a woman cry, and especially when he was J the cause of it. So he set about soothing ( her with quieting phrases much as one ।	. would a frightened child. Soon he had
her quieted, and by questioning heard her story of woe which , had been capped by the t occupancy of the house by the Union soldiers. । Except for three servants she was alone in I the house. Her mother was dead, her father I and brother, were in the Confederate army and the servants, with- the three exceptions, i had fled before the arrival of the Unionists. I . Talking seemed to have a salutary I . influence, on the girl’s mind, for soon they
were engaged in an earnest yet merry conversation. Burton was fast becoming captivated by her lovable character, simple beauty and grace. To save words I need not describe the various stages of the growth of the passion; but.before parting the following day Burton told the girl by various hints and devious wavs that she was the “one woman.” And when on the march that evening in pursuit of the main body, he showed a picture of the late hostess pasted in his watch-case. Separation only tended to increase Burton’s love and he felt that the girl did not exactly despise him.
A year later when, given a furlough he immediately started for a certain plantation in the valley of the Rappahannock and was given a warm welcome by one member at least of the Dalston household. Here Burton met the father who was home with a severe wound which the daughter was nursing. This coupled with the fact that the estate was within the Union lines and subject to the depredations of the soldiers prevented . a very warm feeling existing, towards any Unionist on the part of the Dalstons. ■
The evening of his arrival Burton and ~ Dalston engaged in a hot argument over' the war in w’hich Hilda, who had the fiery disposition of a Southerner, joined. The argument over such great principles led to a quarrel. The girl suddenly asked to see Burton's watch, and when given it she quickly tore out the picture she had given him. Then returning the watch she bade Burton go. as they had had enough of Unionists. Burton left, but the longing for the girl did not. ■
A vear after the close of the war Burton was in. Washington. One day looking over the register of the hotel he saw—“Major Dalston and daughter Hilda, Woodstone, Virginia.” Acting on the instant with a vague hope and daring, he sent, up his card to the Dalstons. The messenger told him in a moment that he would be most heartily welcome. As Burton went up the stairs, he hoped that he worild not have to begin the . courtship all over again. The welcome he received told, him that was not necessary The girl said she had regretted immediately her hasty action, but was too proud to call him back or write.- Happy days followed for the two. That girl was my grandmother.
162
HOTR^ DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame Scholastic
Published every Saturday during Term Time at the University of Notre Dame.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind. ------e-----------------------------------------
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Notre Dame, Indiana, November 18, 1905.
Board of Editors.
STEPHEN F. RIORDAN, ’06
HENRY M. KEMPER, ’05 JOHN F. SHEA, ’06 CHAS. L. O’DONNELL, ’06 EUGENE P. BURKE, ’06 ROBERT L. BRACKEN, ’07 JOHN M. RYAN, ’06 WILLIAM A. BOLGER, ’07 JOHN C. MCGINN, ’06 THOMAS E. BURKE, ’07 LEO J. COONTZ, ’07
.	WESLEY J. DONAHUE, ’07
—Russia is not making all the history in the world to-day. Norway and Sweden have come in for a fair share of it. Some time ago when Norway revolted against Sweden little was thought to be the outcome. But as a matter of fact a new nation has sprung out of the differences. Just within the last few days Norway has submitted to the plebeians the choice of a king. Their preference rested with Prince Charles of Denmark who will assume the title of Carl V. The powers are indeed watching with interest the proceedings of this nursling nation.
feller, and numerous other financial kings, from the sum total of national wealth our wealth per capita would in all probability be closer to thirtv-nine cents than to the same number of dollars.	.
“The good men do is oft interred with their bones;” but not so in this instance where the man is Sir George Williams and his good deed the foundation of the Young o	. o
Alen’s Christian Association. And most remarkable has been the progress of the movement which resulted from the attempt of a humble draper’s assistant to organize a society for the furtherance of religion and society among his fellow-clerks. Still more noteworthy are the prospects for the continued and increased success of the association, the recent death of whose founder only emphasizes the immutability of his institutions as compared with the mortality of the man himself.
—The Chief of Police of one of our large cities believes that “'music can be made one of the greatest of all forces for the diminish-ment of crime.” In fact, fie believes that when music enters the door crime flies out of the window. He professes never to have come across a musical malefactor; but he does not answer our unspoken question as to. the musical policeman. Possibly he leaves the common mind to infer from his possession of a baton that the everyday officer is an unknown Sousa. But until he expresses more definite views we are all doubting1 Thomases.
—The fact that our national wealth has —Prom far Poughkeepsie comes the news risen to a little over thirty-nine dollars per of a lamb far unlike the pet the traditional capita seems to furnish a source of much Alary had. This quadruped chews tobacco, gratification to many people who profess dances to waltz music, chases dogs and cats, to see therein a proof of general prosperity and betrays his fellows to the knife of the and sound financiaT conditions. To a cer- butcher in the slaughter - pen of a great tain extent these views are justified, for packing-house.. The accomplishments of the such statistics represent a huge total of hedgehog politicians who were so promi-real tangible values.	-	nent in the recent strenuous election in New
There are some, however, to whom these York City are so much akin to that of alluring statistics appeal less strongly. To the Poughkeepsie product that we can not the man whose pocket linings are vexed by refrain from noting the analogy, though a solitary nickel these gratifying figures when it comes to the matter of betraying become a source of ironical joy. If we were trust the sheepish Judas suffers in comparison
• to subtract the possessions of William Rock- with these enemies of honesty in government.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	-	162
-	.	■ «J
The St. John Berchmans’ Sodality.
Until the close of the last decade the Seminarians of the Holy Cross Order received their full priestly training at Notre Dame. But after the Community House had been made Corby Hall the aspirants to the priesthood were sent to Washington, D. C., to complete their sacerdotal studies. Prior to this change the Novices had been selected as Masters of Ceremonies along with which dignity went the supervision of the altarboys’ sodality known then as “The Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary.” However, when the theologians were sent to the Catholic University it was thought expedient . to entrust the office of Master of Ceremonies to one of. the collegians. The first to be thus honored was Mr. James H. McGinnis, A. B. ’00, at present curate, of St. Veronica’s Church, N. Y. His successor was Mr. George Gormley, A. B. ’04, now at St. Francis’ Seminary, Milwaukee.
Thus it was that with the new order of tilings the Acolytes’ Sodality was left to fade into oblivion. It was indeed a regrettable oversight, for that society more than any other local organization had established its raison d'etre. The acolyte has played a conspicuous part in the ceremonies of the Church from the days of the Catacombs, and with marked conservatism has held his enviable post through well-nigh a score of centuries, throughout which he so vindicated his presence that now there is hardly a church or chapel which does not boast of its band of servers.
Notre Dame, which observes all the liturgical solemnities with no want of pomp or splendor could not see her altar boys remain in neglected disunion. Accordingly the Rev. William Marr, Prefect of Religion, took the initiative in reorganizing the Junior Division of the acolytes, and through his instrumentality and the assistance of the Directress and of the Prefect of St. Edward’s Hall, a new society was formed on the feast of St. Stanislaus, to be known henceforth as “The St. John Berchmans’ Sodality”—after the patron saint of altar boys. The membership . numbered about forty-five students who were classed into three divisions each of which is designed to form a self-governing
body. A special library was begun for, which . willing contributors were readily fouridb No treasurer was ' nominally appointed' since no assessments will be made, and the necessary fund for . picnics . and banquets has been guaranteed by generous benefactors. Already a booklet has been printed for the express use of the Sodality and the active co-operation of many priests , has been assured. In view of the general encouragement and the auspicious beginning, the Sodality promises to be successful, enjoyable and permanent. .	. ■
The following. are the officers and . the divisions selected for the first semester:
Rev. W. Marr, President; Rev. M. Regan, Vice-President; Rev. Dr. M. Schumacher (Chaplain of St. Edward’s Hall), Spiritual
. Director; Mr. H. M. Kemper, Secretary.; Master H. Baca, Librarian; Master . A. Baca, First Lector; Master J. Kavanaugh, Second Lector.	.
Division A—C. Berteling (Consultor and Leader), E. Keefe (Monitor arid Assistant), W. Bentley-F. Fanning; A. Dee-J. Hein; G. Robinson-H. Cagney; C. Hanna-G. McGrath; M. Burtt-L. Carter; E. Keefe-C. White; L. Martin-A. Hilton.	-
Division B—J. Comerford (Consultor. and Leader),.H. Wilce (Monitor and Assistant), L. Fritch-M. Mann; G. Comerford-S. O’Connell; L. Veazey-A. Cartier; R. Tello-M. Broad; H. Wilce-W. Bensberg; R. Connofly-R. O’Donnell; C. Smith-J. Sheahan..
Division C—C. Gering (Consultor and Leader), J.Peurrung (Monitor and Ass’t); W. Vockey-R. Brennan; 0. Schwalbe-L. Conaty; J. Peurrung-G. Comerford; H. Baca-A. Baca; W. Byrns-J. Follet; J. Schwalbe-A. Cassinelli; J. Kavanaugh-W. Cotter. .
Choristers' and Festive Servers—E. Piel-N. Burtt; J. Fordyce-R. Walsh; L. Heeb-L. Fanning.	.
An Interesting Review;
. —Friends of the University will be glad to read the congratulatory , review in the New York Freeman's Journal of Reverend Dr. Schumacher’s thesis on the Knowableness of God. Especially , gratifying is it that such words should come, from the pen of- Father . Lambert. While the reverend editor of the Journal, the foremost Catholic paper in the
164	NOTRE DAME
United States, is perhaps best known through his success in rebuttin sr the attacks on Catholicity by Robert Ingersoll, he is also conceded to be perhaps the ablest critic in this country in the line of metaphysical philosophy.
“Approbation from Sir Hubert is praise indeed,” and indorsement from such a source 'is a sure sign of success attained. Father Lambert’s editorial is most certainly a striking recognition of the originality of Father Schumacher’s thesis, and bears testimony to the genius and ability of the Reverend Doctor in the difficult field of philosophy. The editorial was as follows:
The above is the title of a philosophical treatise by Rev.. Matthew Schumacher, C. S. C., issued from the Notre Dame University Press, Notre Dame, Indiana.
This is a notable book, worthy of the attention and studious perusal of students and others who take an interest in philosophical studies.
The author belongs to the psychologic school, and his treatment of the Knowableness of God is based on St. Thomas’ theory of knowledge, as he and other psychologists understand and interpret that theory.
All Catholic philosophers recognize St. Thomas as the master of Christian philosophy, but they do not all agree in their interpretation of him. They dispute about his meaning, the psychologists claiming he means one tiling, and the ontologists holding that he means quite another thing. The main point of dispute pivots on St. Thomas’ theory of knowledge, and particularly on that part of the theory which treats of the origin of ideas, or how and by what means the human mind begins to think and know, how it gets out of its own solitary isolation arid comes into touch with all that is not itself. It is a profound problem, worthy of the great intellects that have worked toward its solution.
We must assume that all those workers are equally desirous and zealous to arrive at the true solutiori of the problem, and therefore - equally deserve to have their solutions fairly stated and fairly treated.
The author’s exposition of what he believes to be . the theory of St. Thomas is certainly able, clear, intelligent, and shows a mind capable of dealing with the profound probleriis discussed.- It moreover appears throughout the book that he strives for the attainment of truth and not for mere partisan triumph. And yet ■ in dealing with the systems that go under the name of ontologism he seems, we think, to be under the influence of Bacon’s “Idola Theatri,” and unintentionally does injustice to the advocates of ontologisin, in that he does not take the trouble to state clearly their theories so that the reader may be able to determine
: their. merits or demerits. .	,
Let us give an illustration. On . page 136 of the book before.us we find this: “ Ontologism, or the immediate vision of God, held by Malebrariche, Gioberti and Rosmini.” . >	;	,
. : This is very unjust to Rosmini, whose “idea of being ”. . . was’ of being in general; not of real Being.His idea
SCHOLASTIC.	.
was a universal which may be Englished by the word “isitiveness.” Our word “being” has too many offices j to fulfil to be definite and clear. The explanation of	1
Gioberti’s formula does not give the reader an adequate	!
idea of that philosopher’s theory.	j
Again, on page I3S,	we find: .“Rosmini’s theory,	’
that the idea of being	is innate in us has made him	.
an ontologist, for this	idea is the ‘idea of God, the	;
creative cause of finite	things.'”	|
Nothing could be farther from Rosmini’s “idea” than this. How can the idea of being in general be mistaken for -the “idea of God creative cause of all things?”
The author says: “The view of ontologism is in opposition to the theory of St. Thomas.”
That begs the question, since it is the very point in dispute between the psychologists and the ontologists.
Again, the author says: “St. Thomas rejects ontologism in express words, ‘Some have said that the thing which is known by the human mind in this life is God Himself, who is the first truth, and that through this all other things are known. But this is manifestly false, for to know God through His essence is the beatitude of man, whence it would follow that every man is happy.’ ” On this the author comments thus: “The seeing of God in His essence is logically contained in ontologism, though its supporters explicitly assert we do not thus see God. In God all things are one and there are no distinctions.”	;
Now, there is a vast difference between the ontologists’ vision of God and the beatific vision of God which the blessed in heaven enjoy, the vision which St. Thomas spoke of. This is demonstratively shown by the late Professor Pietro Rossi in his magnificent work “Il Christianesimo ed II Razionalismo,” where he quotes Cardinal Gerdil to the same effect.
But notwithstanding the fact that we can not agree with some of , the author’s conclusions we earnestly recommend students in philosophy to get his book and read it carefully, for it will well repay them.
Book Notice.
—“For the White Rose” is a story by Katharine Tynan Hinkson. As usual it concerns a. beautiful heroine and a faultless hero. They get married, however, in the second chapter instead of the last and the subsequent story deals with the hero’s support of the Stuart cause in the Chevalier St. George’s futile attempt to regain, the English crown. The hero is captured but escapes through the efforts of his plucky little wife. Simple as the plot is the interest is sustained to the end. The characters are not very carefully drawn. In places the conversation is stiff and unnatural but the narrative and descriptive passages are of exceptional excellence. Benziger Brothers.
IVO TRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Athletic Notes.
Indiana, 22; Notre Dame, 5.
Well, it happened again. Wabash did it but let us down easy compared with the way Indiana treated us—twenty-two to five. We scored, but that does not help very much. . We were not looking for a score, but for a victory, and five points is poor consolation. It is certainly all over with us; and our longing for the state championship will continue to be a longing. We will have to do like every other team that goes after something and does not get it, wait—until next year. Of course, if that helps any, the Varsity did the best they could; they did not quit, nor anything like that; they simply lost and Indiana won. The better team won, and that is about all there is to it. Excuses could be made, but neither would that help any; Indiana got the 22 and we the 5, and that , tells the tale.
The only thing we had on the Indiana team was in the kicking department, and there we had it all over them, Draper out-punting Hare on every exchange. Yet Hare kind of made up for his . punts by kicking a goal from the thirty-five yard line and a few minutes before he had gone around our end for a run of forty-five yards and a touchdown.
FIRST HALF. -
Draper kicked off to Steele who returned the ball fifteen yards. Steele kicked and Notre Dame returned to her twenty-five yard line. Notre Dame could not gain and punted again. Hare returned the ball fifteen yards. Hare punted, the ball going oyer the line, and Draper kicked out from the twenty-five yard line. Hare punted to Notre Dame’s thirty-five yard line, Notre Dame advanced the ball to the centre of the, field and then lost it on downs. Indiana bucked .'off our . tackles, and on short end runs carried the ball to Notre Dame’s one-yard line but could not take it over.
McNemymade fifteen yards on a quarterback run and then Draper punted to the centre of the field. Hare punted to McNerny who fumbled the "ball, and Bloom fell on.it on Notre Dame’s three-yard line.
In two a touchdown.
i65
plays Indiana scored. Hare kicked off: to McNerny who returned fifteen yards. Draper made fifteen around left end. Waldorf made one. McAvoy made first down. McNerny lost on a quarter run. and Draper punted, Tighe returning five yards. Hare made ten around the end. McCarthy followed with eight. Indiana was penalized fifteen yards for holding.	-
Indiana kicked to McAvoy who returned ten yards by clever hurdling. Downs lost a yard. McAvoy got away for Notre Dame’s longest run of the day, covering twenty-five yards before he was stopped by Hare. Callicrate made twelve on a fake side-line play. McAvoy added two. Line bucks by Beacom and Donovan put the ball on Indiana’s five-yard line. Donovan went over for a touchdown. McNerny failed to kick goal. Time was called a few minutes later with the ball on Notre Dame’s fifteenyard line.	.
' SECOND HALF.
Hare kicked off to Notre Dame who returned the ball to their thirty-five yard line. Draper was forced to punt. On line plays Indiana advanced ten yards. Hare attempted a drop kick, but Sheehan blocked, Notre Dame securing the ball.
Draper was again forced to punt. Indiana was held, and Hare kicked to McNerny who , returned the ball five yards. Notre Dame punted. . Heckman went around end for five yards. Clark made ten through the line. Hare got around end for forty-five yards and a touchdown.	•
Hare kicked to Waldorf who returned fifteen yards. Draper kicked; Tighe fumbled, and Notre Dame got the ball on Indiana’s forty-five yard line. Notre Dame was penalized fifteen yards for holding. Draper punted to Hare who was downed in his tracks. Indiana took the ball up to Notre Dame’s thirty-five yard line where they were held. Hare dropped back and. kicked a goal from the field.
On the next kick-off Waldorf returned the ball five yards.. Draper kicked to Tighe who returned ten yards.
Steele, Heckman, Clark, Tighe and Wade took the ball up the field to Notre Dame’s five-yard line. Steele was pushed over for
Hare kicked goal.
166
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Indiana		. Notre Dame
Bloom	L E	. Callicrate
Wade	L T	' Funk	_
Payne	L G	Beacom (C.)
Naugh	C	• Sheehan
Davidson	R G	Donovan
Heckman	.	R T	M. Downs
McCarthy	R E	• Draper
Hare (C)	QB	.	McNerny
Tighe	L H	W. Downs
Clark	■ R H	McAvoy
Steele	F B-	Waldorf
T ouchdo wns—	•Steele, Clark,	Hare, Donovan. Goals
from touchdowns—Hare (3). .Goal from field—Hare. Umpire—Hoagland, Princeton. Referee—Talcott, Mich. Head linesman—Kilpatrick, Wisconsin. Time of halves— Thirty minutes.
NOTES OF THE GAME.
Draper played a star game for Notre Dame, his kicks averaging fiftv yards; and his defensive work being especially good.
Donovan played perhaps the best game of his life. His - line bucks coupled ' with the reliable plunges of Captain Beacom resulted in our score. . .	.
McAvoy’s twenty-five yard run was our longest gain. His offensive and defensive work were both good; .
“Bud” Sheehan was always one of the first'men down the field, on punts, and that is something out of the ordinary for a man playing centre.	.
Draper has been declared eligible by the Indiana Conference and by the Conference Board of Appeals, so the matter is entirely and satisfactorily settled.	.
The returns of the game were somewhat unsatisfactory which was due to the fact that messenger boys had to be used to carry the messages to the telegraph office as there was- no wire in direct communication with the field; . - " *
Brownson Hall .is the first to . start things moving for the Inter-Hall Track meet which comes off in -December. Manager Donovan issued a. call for candidates last Monday evening, to which the Brownsonites spiritedly responded, over fifty names being handed in. The first try-out will probably be next Saturday when a captain will be elected.
; - J' - -	. -	* .	.	- - -:. ■	. - -
~ ' < . / - * ‘ ’ .. - . “The Massillon eleven will present the same. line-up in the game j with Carlisle Indians next Wednesday that will face the
Canton team in the game for the professional championship of the West Thanksgiving Day. Salmon, the famous Notre.Dame fullback of a few years ago, will play that position for the Massillon eleven. Salmon is one of the greatest fall-backs that ever o
wore a moleskin.”—Cleveland Plain. Dealer. -
Brownson Hall and Columbia A. A. of South Bend came together for the second time this season last Saturday on Cartier Field. Brownson made the only touchdown. While the Bfowsonites clearly outplayed their opponents, the Columbias had the heavier team.- Another noticeable fact was
the good feeling existing between the teams. Following is the line-up:
Brownson	'	Columbia, A. A Blum	L.	E.	Peters McDonald	L.	T.	D. Boswell	. Burdick, Harber	L.	G.	Keen Hague	C.	Cool Eggeman	R.	G.	Fernandez Lawless, O’Leary	R.	T.	Cummings Rice	R.	E.	Desarmiar R. Schmitt	.	Q.	. Kinsey . A. Schmitt	L.	H.	Wagner (Capt.) 'H. Donovan	. R. H.	Rohrbach Bennett	F.	B.	H. Boswell Umpire—Monahan. Referee—W. Downs. Timekeepers— Escher and Hazinski. Linesmen—Cooke and Troyer. Touchdown—Blum	.
w • * * '
The time for the inter-hall track meet will soon be here. All of the halls have had managers appointed by the faculty board except Sorin, and names have been submitted by the members of the hall from which the faculty will very likely appoint a man. As has been told in the Scholastic before, the man chosen and appointed by the board will act as manager throughout the year. Football, baseball, track, crew, basket-ball, all kinds of athletics will come under him.
The track in the “gym” is being, repaired and everything will be in order for work by Monday, November 20. Every man in the school is earnestly requested to come and try for the team. The team is to be a hall team; but of course the real object is to find men who are capable of making the Varsity track team.: No- other way can be found where as good: a line can be got on the men as a test in a real meet. Then, too, a “prep .” team: is to be organized and handled by. Graduate Manager McGlew. The team
NOTRE. DAME SCHOLASTIC.
will be trained and worked as the Varsity. They will have meets, indoor and outdoor, at Notre Dame and elsewhere. .
The same is true of baseball. A “prep” baseball team will be organized the same as the track team. Games are being; arranged at the present time by. Manager McGlew. He is trying to make out a schedule for the team that will ensure its success and will give the men plenty to do. But the baseball will come later. At present interest in the coming inter-hall track meet is what we want. The more men that come out the larger and better will be the meet. .
Brownson Hall has taken the lead, or so it seems, in the matter; at this early date they have fifty names of men who promise to come. Now that is the kind of spirit we need. Let all the other halls do the same and the meet will be a grand success and the best of its kind ever held at Notre Dame.
* * -
Notice: Men who want information regarding track suits, shoes, etc., are to O	O	7	7	7
consult their hall manager, for he is the man appointed to look after and make known the manner to provide for your wants in the athletic line.	R. L. B.
P ersonals.
—The following account will be pleasant news to all at Notre Dame.
Rome, Nov. 13.—When the Very Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C. S. C., past-President of Notre Dame University, met Pope Pius X. to-day His Holiness told Father Morrissey he knew how much had been done by him during his twelve years as President of the University of Notre Dame and congratulated him on the work accomplished. In recognition of his services to the cause of education in the United States the Pope gave Father Morrissey a special benediction, and also . his portrait, on which he inscribed his appreciation of his services.
His Holiness conversed at length on educational matters in the United States,' and requested Father Morrissey to say to all subjects in the various institutions . of the Order of the Holy Cross that he loved them with all his heart and blessed them.
Father Morrissey will leave Rome in December, accompanying the Superior-General of the Order of the Holy Cross on a. visit to all the institutions of that Order in, the United States and Canada.
—Among the alumni who visited their Alma Mater recently were Mr. Samuel Walker ’95, and Mr. Joseph V. Sullivan ’97.
167
They were members of two famous classes and also former editors-of the Scholastic.
—The Reverend Father O’Callaghan, C. P., had the kindness to pay us a brief visit last: Sunday after the conclusion of. the retreat he had been giving at St. Mary’s Academy. Two years ago this well-known Paulist conducted the spiritual exercises at Notre Dame and made a lasting and wholesome impression on all who had the happiness of hearing him;	.
—It afforded us all sincere pleasure last Sunday to be favored by a visit from Captain J. J. Abercrombie, the memorable orator, of last Decoration Day. His interesting and. instructive address on that occasion will long be remembered, but no less so will the inspiring personality of the man himself. Miss Marion Abercrombie, of St. Mary’s Academy, accompanied her father and delighted her acquaintances with her brief stay.
—The following interesting personal item we take pleasure in quoting from Donahoe’s Magazine for November:
Bom in the quaint old city, of New Orleans, George E. Clarke began his education under the care of the Loretto Sisters of Kentucky,—who conduct many of the leading schools of the South and West—preparatory to his enrollment in St. Vincent’s College, Cape Girardeau, Mo. After a period in this popular institution, young Clarke’s family moved North, and the future lecturer and lawyer became a student in the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind., from which he. received his Master’s degree, and where he gave promise of what* he was to become in later years.
Mr. Clarke has won a distinguished place among the leading orators of the day. He has addressed the State Bar Association of Indiana of which he is a member (his home is in South Bend), is among the lecturers at the various Chautaqua summer schools, is a popular member of the Knights of Columbus, and takes an active part in national and civic affairs. A fluent and graceful speaker, Mr. Clarke possesses the art of making interesting even the dryest facts in history.
Card of Sympathy.
Whereas in His infinite mercy God has seen fit to calTto Himself the father of our friendSj Enrici, Ignacio and Alfredo Canedo, we, the .undersigned, in behalf of Sorin Hall, desire to extend to the bereaved family our sincere sympathy.	.
Luis Palomar ■	Manuel Moreno /
Juan L. Cocuera
Charles H. Johnson Gustavo Trevino
168	- NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Local Items.
—The oratory contest is fast drawing close. Limber up your vocal cords and enter the race.
—The old spirit that prevailed in the St. .Joseph Literary and Debating Society in the days of Griffin and Lyons has again made itself known in the debate: “Resolved, That Ireland be given home rule,” which was upheld on the affirmative by Messrs. Schmitt and Rush, and on the negative by Messrs. Barry and Doyle. The debaters warmed into the subject and brought forth arguments which only careful study could produce. After the debate Messrs. Kelly, Mangan, McMahon and Collier contributed to the successful carrying out of the program.
—A certain pedestrian in these parts has a number of .homely sayings that are worth repeating to a wider circle than that of his own friends and acquaintances. Here are a few of them:	.
Those who can not find time for exercise must find time for sickness. ,
Walk- five miles every day and you need never consult a physician. Any walking is better than no walking.	.
Take all things in moderation except fresh air and sunshine.
While out walking endeavor to find interest in the things in nature—birds, butterflies, bees, trees and flowers.
'■—Immediatelv after the recent election, in which fraud, corruption, and political rottenness in general, received a stunning blow, the members of the Pennsylvania Club, realizing the indefatigable efforts and final victory of the head of one of the most beautiful cities of their native state, sent a congratulatory telegram to Mayor Weaver of Philadelphia. The cosmopolitan and thoroughly democratic official replied with a personal letter of thanks for their expression of appreciation, the letter in part being as follows:
“I wish to thank you for your congratulation, and to say that this has been entirely a victory of the people and that now we , must work together to make the victory permanent and lasting.”
—The halls that have- a literary and . debating society show that they value the many opportunities which are afforded them at college. Not the least serviceable accomplishment is the ability to express one’s opinions in public and to do it accurately and gracefully. But this can be done only after long and careful practice in actual debating. Those halls, therefore, that have not as yet organized a debating club should do so. Let some one or two who know the advantages of such a society “talk up” the matter with the. other
students, and soon an interest and even enthusiasm will be aroused. And besides the many benefits that will accrue to membership in the society, there is the pleasure oi having inter-hall debates. Now that St. Joseph’s, Brownson and Carroll Halls have taken up the good work, let Sorin, Corby and Holy Cross follow their example.
—Have you seen the beautiful altar that Brother Columkille is making ? It is a copy of the one that stands in the rear of the church. This altar, which was designed by Michel Angelo, is an exquisite piece of artistic workmanship, carved entirely by hand. Bro. Columkille’s altar is made in the same way out of white pine boards. The marvellous figures, with varying expression, which grace the altar are the wonder of all beholders. The original, altar has been valued variously from four to ten thousand dollars. The gifted Brother has thus far been at work 171 days, and expects in two months more to have finished the woodwork. It is to be hoped, when the altar is completed, that it may be placed on exhibition before being sent to Holy Cross College, IVashington, D. C., for which it is intended.
—The sharp .sounds of the wood-cutter’s ax, west of the lakes, re-echo in the heart of the ardent and enthusiastic admirer ot self-sacrifice, the. trying and testing days of Father Sorin and his Brother comrades when Notre Dame’s present then loomed before their anxious eyes a dimmed and unsettled future. On the ground where stands to-day our University, a space within a thick growth of oak trees was cleared away, and with the felled trees a log-hut was rudely put together preparatory to the erection of the first permanent college building. This brick structure still stands, its ancient walls reflected in the placid waters of St. Mary’s Lake. The casual observer can see for himself from the steady activities of the last few ■ weeks how dear is this remnant of Notre Dame’s foundation. However, the wear and tear of many years completely destroyed the log-cabin. But the student’s heart, which glows with love for his Alma Mater, will be gladdened to know that the lively sound of the forester’s ax herald the erection this fall of a facsimile of the old log-cabin which gave shelter to those whose zeal and unfaltering faith has raised for his temporal as well as his spiritual welfare the comfortable dwelling halls. Sincere appreciation of the noble qualities, which this monument will stand for, should be an impetus to every student to use to the best advantage the years which are given him at Notre Dame > to drink from its fountain of knowledge, to imbibe for the cause of Catholic education the spirit and sterling characteristics of the founders of Notre Dame.