/It Mate /IMe^ Ca. '
South Bend’s Quality Store since 1913
NAVY OFFICERS
now you can outfit yourself on your $250 allotment without sacrificing quality
THANK THE U. S. NAVY FOR THAT
The U. S. Navy didn’t cut down the quality of these uniforms to fit your $250 — not for one minute. .' They went to America’s best woolen mills for the fabric — to America’s best clothes makers for tailoring-skill. Quality couldn’t come too fine for the U. S. Navy — and these officers’ uniforms show it —' in everything but the price — and you don’t wear that.
We are appointed by the U. S. Navy as official distributors of Navy Sponsored Uniforms
BLUE SERVICE UNIFORM_$40 — OVERCOAT____$50 OVERCOAT-RAINCOAT WITH REMOVABLE WOOL LINING_________________________________$37.50 — DRESS CAP_$10.50
DUNHILL
Made to Measure
NAVAL UNIFORMS
Expertly Tailored and Styled to your Individual Measurements.
STORE IS OPEN
Saturday "til 9 p. m. All Day Sunday
Regulation Fabrics . . . ELASTIQUE —WIDE WHALE SERGE WHIPCORD —GABARDINE TROPICAL WORSTEDS KHAKIS —WHITES
MAX ADLER
ON THE CORNER . . • Michigan at Washington
South Bend’s most conveniently located Navy Outfitters — Just across from downtown bus terminal.
2
COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
ALL HAIL. ERC!
Things aren’t too bright on the college and university front these weeks with the reserves being yanked by the dozens,
JOHN LYNCH
and we got to the point where we expect a front page ERC or Air Corps story in nearly every paper that comes our way. But it remained for The Torch of St. John’s College, Brooklyn, to give this old ERC heart its big-
gest thrill. Of seven front-page stories in a recent issue of The Torch, four were
headed: “ERC Calls 243 St. John’s Men,” “Success of Frosh Dance Endangered By Army Call,” “ERC Call Hits College Weekly Staff,” and “Yearbook to Appear Despite ERC.”
We are proud to belong to such an imposing organization.
SORIN VS. TEMPLE HORSE
Sorin Hall will be gaining national acclaim soon with its Victory Garden, but the novelty of the Sorinites, Evil Eye Chapter, will have trouble outdoing that of a stable enthusiast at Temple University, Philadelphia.
In years gone by a certain horse won purses totalling $50,000 for the Whitney Stables. But that was in years gone by. Now, after tom ligaments had refused to heal and various owners had refused ( to care, the horse is the proud property j of a Temple student and his defenseworking friend.	e
But the owners are going on undaunted. Every day; weather permitting, the horse is given a workout, arid should an entrance fee be forthcoming from some unknown source, the boys are going to enter their nag somewhere on the Eastern racing front.
i On second thought, we’ll stick with the Victory Garden!
; TWISTED STORY DEPT.
We’re a little late in tracking down this story, but we believe it’s worth noting even at this date.
. It concerns the recent Junior-Senior '	Ball and was uncovered in The Daily
Northwestern, from the university of the
same name. We will quote at length so as. not to miss details.
“Notre Dame and Northwestern have always been traditional rivals, but the senior class from the South Bend university had no qualms in selecting a Northwestern coed as the queen of its Senior Ball.
“Marti Loecker received a surprise telephone call from South Bend the other evening. It seems as though the ‘fighting Irish’ got wind of the pulchritude here in Evanston and Marti’s name was presented to the arrangements committee as candidate for the queen of the Senior Ball.
“Marti was unanimously elected by the committee and notified of her selection. A Notre Dame senior will come to Evanston on March 5 to escort Miss Loecker , to the gala affair.”
Go, you Northwestern!
LIFE CAN BE BEAUTIFUL
“ ‘Gremlins’ Visit English Majors”
—The Watch Tower, Marygrove We knew they had some friends!
OPEN SEASON
The Greyhound, of Loyola College, Baltimore, got to this one first, so we’ll pass it along as they have quoted it, and with their comment, which we couldn’t have improved on anyway.
“His rifle shot in the last nine seconds of play sent many a St. Joe student home in a happy frame'of mind.
—The Quill, Mt. St. Joe
“Got the Prefect of Discipline, no doubt!”	'
WAR WIDOW DEPT.
Oh, we’ll be good while you’re away-And never, never, never stray;
We’ll knit you sweaters, socks and mitts, Send you cakes and sewing kits, Write you letters by the ton Saying you’re the only one, Always be your pride and joy, Never date another boy, Always let you know you rate, And ever hope a kindly fate Keeps you nice and uncreative, And not eloping with a native.
—Widow, Cornell
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Viturus Vive Quasi -Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Accepted for mailins at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized ■June 25, 1918.
Daniel Downey, Editor'
Ted Weber--------------Managing	Editor
Bill Boss________________Sports	Editor
Dave Condon____________.e__________Campus Editor Robert Kopf.___________Admin.	Editor
Phil Keen__________Asst. Sports Editor
Robert Lonergan_____________Promotion
Al Schaefer :______Staff Photographer
Rev. C. M. Carey, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor. 313 Sorin Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms. Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p. m.
IN THIS ISSUE
CAMPUS
"Tailor-Made Man." March 21, 22___ 7
Debate Team Again Wins 6
N.D. Men Elected at Congress 8
ADMINISTRATION	-
Announce Details of V-12 Program_Il
Air Field Named for N. D. Man_____I2
Two More Professors Leave 12
NAVY PAGE __________________:______10
SPORTS
Finals of Bengal Bouts Tonight .	5
Trackmen Win Tech Relays - .. - _13
Basketballers Finish With Win 14
FEATURES
College Parade______________-	' 3
The Week _____;_____________~ •	4
Man About Campus 	9
Pressbox Splinters ____________ 16
Warming The Bench_______________20	.
The Ears Have It_______________  21
Music _________________________ 23
3
THE WEEK
JACK WOELFLE
TOP OF THE WEEK
The N.F.C.C.S. crowd — brains and beauty.
FRESHMEN WENT
The Cotillion was about the most representative dance ever held here. “Semi-2 signs. It took two doormen and a cop to convince one lad that “semi - formal,” didn’t mean “sweat shirt schottishe.” One young lady looked around after she was inside the Palais and said: “But I didn’t know this was going
to be a barn dance.” Because of the limited number of imports, St. Mary’s got another break. It’s a shame they don’t go out more often. One girl thought the floor was awfully slippery until she found out her boy friend had just had his shoes shined, From all reports, however, Gracie Barrie had a swell band and the dance was a big success.
formal, read
JACK WOELFLE
THE CLIP JOINT
The barber shop has taken on the appearance of a bingo parlor lately. We refer to the order numbers, of course. They don’t even give away a door prize. The haircuts are perhaps the most original in the country. We have the brushcut, the hedge-cut, and of course, the short-cut. The latter is the one preferred by the barber who is in a hurry. The “Special” consists of an eyebrow shampoo, an ear wash, a back scratch, and dandruff. Their idea of. a dandruff remover over there is your hair. In the barber shop a close shave means, just missing the jugular vein. The belles of St. Mary’s have introduced a new coiffure. It’s better known as the “hut-sut-cut.”
LA DE DA
We’ve said many things about the laundry, but confidentially — it shrinks. . . . Another nasty rumor is rampant to the. effect that the EEC will be used to free the WAACs for vital jobs at the front. . . . “The Tree” busted one of the seats in the bus last week. Commenting on the unfortunate accident he said: “Tra
• la. Soon it will be Spring and I shall be covered with the lovely green foliage of Mother Nature.” Say “hello” to all the twigs for us, Tree. . . . The dining hall’s idea of chicken soup is to serve the water they boiled the eggs in.
SORIN SUCCOTASH
“This is a crisis,” muttered the lads from Tradition Dormitory as they read about the shortage of canned goods. “Let us plant a Victory Garden,” quoteth one. “Two Victory Gardens,” said another. “Three,” added a third. “Four, five, six. You’re faded.” Anyway, the Sorin lads have been assigned one acre of land to the North, which they will cultivate. The digging has already begun. The city farmers are learning a lot. One lad came across three large worms and thought he was digging in Rosie’s spaghetti patch. Another unearthed 10.000 milk bottle caps. Johnny Lynch showed up the first day with a needle and thread explaining that he was going to sow the . seed. Another ran about the field waving his arms. It was learned that he was trying to reap the wild wind. We should have more news on Mrs. Lonergan of the cabbage patch later. Meanwhile the would-be agriculturists are experimenting night and day trying to perfect a greenless banana.
SPRING'S THE THING
The golfers are starting to swing the old clubs again. You can’t buy new ones. The warm weather will soon be here and the Freshmen will be trying to correct their topping the balls by turning it upside down. One hot day last summer one of the lads was going to set a new record and go around in nothing, but they made him put something on. The tennis players are getting ready, too. Tennis is the biggest racket in the school. Ugh! The campus* during these spring days looks, like a commando training course. The grounds are soggier than a cafeteria doughnut. Ah well, remember: “Things will get worse, before they get better.”
HERE AND THERE
It is rumored that because of a shortage of sheep this year the graduates will receive banana skins. . . . We also have it on reliable information that after the
war, the navy fieldhouse and the old one will be joined together to provide winter headquarters for the Ringling Bros. Circus. . . . The way those fellows who peddled The Green Banner sneaked around the rooms, you’d think they were selling hot tires, or coupon 17. ... It is fairly certain that those first-semester seniors who are unable to return for the last semester, will be able to get their credits in another college, have them sent here, and receive a Notre Dame degree.
THUMP THUMP
The Bengals, as usual, were plenty solid. St. Mary’s wanted to enter a dark horse but .they were informed that girls weren’t allowed in the ring. Some ERG men were in the bouts but they had to forfeit their matches because they kept aiming at their opponent’s chin and ended up hitting them in the ankles. One ERC sharpshooter brought down the house when with the accuracy of a cafeteria gravy pourer, he missed his opponent by only three feet. One Cotilliongoer had a hard time convincing his date that a rabbit punch, wasn’t what they served over at the St. Mary’s dances. The knockouts weren’t serious but they poured so much water over some of the boys, it looked like an old-time revival meeting.
SONG OF SPRING
“I’ll be with you in banana blossom time.” •-
TING A LING
Why is it that the gal from South Bend always wants to talk to a lad on the fourth floor when you pick up the phone? Some of the BTOs, figuring one • girl in South Bend is worth five from you know where, try to operate over the phone with such, smooth lines as: “He ain’t in babe but maybe I’ll do, huh?” Finding that in his eagerness, he has caught his nose in the mouthpiece, he repeats. “Do you live on the bus. line, , sugar? You do? Well get off. There’s a bus coming. Ha ha ha! Hello? Hello!” The phone rings again. Our hero lifts the receiver. “Who in the hall do you want?’! He chuckles. Boy, is he making a hit. “Who? Where? 410? No, I’m sorry. ,1 was just up to his room and he isn’t in. He has. a date with some gal downtown. Maybe I’ll do. Tell me, sugar, do you live on the bus line?”
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
Those mid-term results.
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing	.
’	at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918. . .	.
Vol. 78	MARCH 19. 1943	No. 6
Eight Champs to be Crowned Tonight;
Bengal Finals Present Colorful Card
Smothered in shamrocks and tradition, the Bengal Bouts tonight will attract a capacity throng to the Field House. The 12th annual renewal of this carnival of fistiania. boasts a mighty lineage that extends to the time of the immortal Rockne. When festivities are concluded, eight champions will reign over the land of the Fighting Irish.
Inaugurated as an outlet of the student physical fitness program years ago, the fights were adopted by the Scholastic in 1932 and the proceeds sent to far-off- India. Today the Bengals hold the number one spot on the list of student activities. They are another material manifestation of the Spirit of Notre Dame.
On this Friday eve, only the strongest of the brave will answer the call to the center of the canvas, for others not so potent-fell' by ■ the ^wayside, in the Tuesday and Wednesday eliminations. Tonight each fighter is a veteran of rugged, stiff competition. Only eight warriors will have their right arms raised—eight others must bow to the winner. This is a night for men.
Lieut.. Arthur Donovan, honorary referee of this 1943 show, is one of the greatest third men in ring history. To Madison Square Garden regulars, the words, “Arthur Donovan—Referee,” mean the best of title matches is on the card. He is the second of his family to make pugilistic history. Mike Donovan,' his father, was a famous fighter in his own right; and the boxing instructor of the late President, Teddy Roosevelt. Like his father Donovan is a member of the New York Athletic Club and an ardent Notre Dame rooter. The lieutenant’s son is a Freshman now a resident of Breen-Phillip’s Hall.	.
The presence of Donovan tonight maintains the succession of "outstanding personalities from the world of sport that have appeared in past Bengals. Other celebrities whose names grace the list are Barney Ross, champion of athletic heroes
in the present war; Billy Conn, former world’s light heavyweight titlist; Max Marek, one of the few men ever to defeat Joe Louis; Danno O’Mahoney, onetime wearer of the world’s championship wrestling diadem; Jack Elder, Notre Dame; Tuffy . Griffith, former heavyweight title contender; Tom Kenneally, former Chicago Golden Gloves Champion;- and Packy McFarland, Illinois athletic commissioner, and the former lightweight and welterweight champion.
The list of Honorary Judges is one of the finest in years. It includes: Captain Henry P. Burnett, commandant of the Midshipmen’s school here on the campus; Joseph F. Donahue, one of the most rabid Irish enthusiasts among the alumni; Frank W. Leahy, director of athletics; Frank W. Lloyd, comptroller of the University; Ernest M. Morris, trustee of the University and national Republican committeeman; and Otto A. Pfaff, vicepresident of the American Foundry and Equipment Company of Mishawaka. .
Aiding Lt. Donovan in the refereeing department will be two men who have
TONIGHT'S CARD
Harry Osborne ......... ..vs......... Tim Crowe (120)
Frank Debitteto ........ .vs.......... Tom King (127)
Don Hummer .......... .vs....,.:.. Joe Farrell (135) Bob Lee................. .vs........ . Bill Leonard (145) Farrell Quinlan ........ .vs. . .,... Lou Twardzik (155) Frank Lombardo ....... .vs....... Virgil Turner (165)’ Bill Martin........vs...............Mike Cutt (175) Ted Budynkiewicz.........vs.....Dan Scherrer (190)
Honorary Referee: Lieut. Arthur Donovan, U.S.N.R.
Notre Dame Field House: Tonight, 8 p.m. .
Added Attractions: Golden Gloves Champions . “Judo” Exhibition, and the Notre Dame Band , Admission: $.30, $.55, $1.10.
had outstanding backgrounds in the ring. George Nate was the ninth ranking bantamweight fighter in the professional world in 1931. He has had over ten years experience since he abandoned the mittens himself to watch the other lads. George Vanderheyden, the other arbiter was inter-city and international Golden Gloves champion of the 126 pound division in 1933;
William A. Lubbers, Harry A. Richwine, Albert L. -Doyle and Bernard Wi-tucki will fill the all important roles of ringside judges. Upon their verdict will rest the fate of 16 finalists.
On the bell and watch will be Elmer H. Tepe and Cecil A. Wallace.
. Acting as official seconds two Navy men, Chief Specialists John D. O’Keefe and T. M. Wageman will be in opposite comers. O’Keefe was a noted boxer while in college at Rutgers and later at the - Savoy School of Physical " Education.
Wageman attended the Universiy of New Hampshire, and was National Intercollegiate champion in 1933.	- ' *
Traditional as the bouts themselves, the program has the honor of continuing with Training Room Supervisor Eugene Young. Thus Scrapiron has been the doctor of muscles during the entire existence of the Bouts.	;	.
Other in official capacities will be George A. Cooper, commissioner; Frank Maxwell, tournament clerk and Robert Lauer, dressing room clerk.
Formally titled Glove Clerks are Cam-mille Piccone, Jim Mello, Jim Delaney, John Yonaker, Gerry Cowhig and Luke Higgins.
One of the highlights of the entire program will be an intermission exhibition of Judo by two instructors from the Midshipmen’s school, Chief Specialists W. W. Scherrer and C. F. Aherne. It will consist in a demonstration of the elementary holds of the art as employed by the Japanese, and also as taught to our sailors. The correct disarmament of knife or gun from an attacker will be a feature.
Another promotional gem will be an exhibition battle between two top notch finalists from the Chicago Golden Gloves Extravaganza.
Robert “Red” Lonergan is promoter for the fights.
Sixteen Bouts Presented
On Opening Bengal Card
Approximately one thousand boxing fans poured into the Notre Dame field house last Tuesday evening to witness the opening preliminaries of the twelfth annual Bengal Bouts. A total of 16 fights were presented in two action - packed hours, featured by three technical knockouts and one K. 0. The results:
Bob Lee, Off-campus and Cicero, Ill., over Tom Sheilworth, Alumni Hall and Portland, Ore. T.K.O.
John Patane, Breen-Phillips and Glenside, Pa., over Vince Laurita, Zahm and College Point, N.Y. Decision.
Jim Carroll, Walsh and Long Beach, Calif., over JacK Haswell, South Bend. T.K.O.
Lou Twardzik, Zahm and Shenandoah, Pa., over Jack Cooney, Dillon and West Orange, N. J. Decision.
Bill Roney, Zahm and Grosse Point, Mich., over Joe Hegyi, Zahm and Roebling, N. J. Decision.
Danny Hester, Zahm and Chicago, DI., over Dave Walsh, Dillon and Brooklyn, N. Y. Decision.
Don Hummer, Walsh and Defiance, Ohio, over Larry Leonard, Breen-Phillips and Toronto, Canada. Decision.	.
Billy Leonard, Zahm and Schenectady, N. Y„ over Mike Kelly, Sorin' and Indianapolis, Ind. K.O.
Walt Romito, Alumni, and Ravenna, Ohio, over John Murphy, St. Ed’s and Mt. Clemens, Mich. Decision.	*
Frank Lombardo, Dillon and New York' City, over Paul Ragan, Off-campus and Indianapolis, Ind. Decision.	-
Virgil Turner, Breen-Phillips and Dunn, Texas, over Warren Kane, Brownson and Rockville Center, N. Y. Decision.	.
. Roger O’Reilly, Dillon and New York City, over Steve Nemeth, South Bend, Ind. Decision.
Bill Martin, St. Edward’s and Detroit,' Mich., over Dick Arado, Breen-Phillips and Chicago, DI. Decision. -	.
Jack Caron, Zahm and Rochelle. Ill., over Frank Fitzpatrick, Breen-Phillins and New Philadelphia, Ohio. Decision.
Bob Lee. Off-Campus and Cicero. UI., over John Patane. Breen-Phillips and Glenside, Pa. Decision.
Jim Carroll, Walsh and Long Beach, Calif., over Danny Hester. Zahm and Chicago, Ill. T.K.O.
Wednesday Preliminaries
Leave 16 Final Bengaleers
Another crowd of cheering fans saw Wednesday night’s Bengal Bout preliminaries. Tuesday’s and Wednesday’s fights narrowed the Bengaleers down to 16 in number. These 16 will battle for the crowns tonight.
Wednesday night featured 12 good, fast bouts. The Results:
Frank Debitteto, St. Edward’s and Brooklyn, N. Y., over Bob Gaffney, Zahm and Syracuse, N. Y. Decision.
Tom King, Brownson and Concord, N.H., ovei’ Tom Clemens, Alumni Hall and Evansville, Ind. Decision.
Don Hummer, Walsh and Defiance, 0.. over Bill Roney, Zahm and Grosse Point, Mich. Decision.
Joe Farrell, New York City and Sorin Hall, over Chuck Seghers, Cavanaugh and Pittsburgh, Pa. Decision.
Bob Lee, Off-Campus and Cicero, III., over John Caron, Zahm and Rochelle, Ill. Decision.
Billy Leonard, Zahm and Schenectady, N. Y. over Walt Romito, Alumni and Ravenna, Ohio. Decision.
Lou Twardzik, Zahm and Shenandoah, Pa„ over Bill Bevington, St. Ed’s and Nashville, Tenn. Decision.
Farrell Quinlan, Alumni and Lake Bomeseen, Vt., over Brad Bennett, Dillon and Glendale, Calif. T. K. 0.	-	• .
Frank Lombardo, New York City and Dillon over Jim Carroll, Long Beach, Calif, and Walsh Hall. Decision.
Dubie Turner, Breen-Phillips and Dunn, Texas, over Bud O'Reilly of New’'York City. T.K.O.
Mike Cutt, Zahm and Tonawanda, N. Y., over Harry Hanson, Cavanaugh and Cleveland, Ohio. T. K. 0.	.
. .Bill Martin, St. Ed’s and Detroit, Mich., over Bill Leitheiser, St. Ed’s and Clearwater, Fla. Decision. ,
i'	,
Debate Team Wins at
Detroit Forensic Meet
Notre Dame’s debate team has re- . turned from Detroit, Mich., where it upheld University honors by winning a debate meet over about 18 other colleges and universities, including ' Michigan, Loyola, Detroit, Heidelberg, Toledo, Mundelein; Wisconsin, and Assumption.. At a .recent’tournament at North Man- -Chester, Ind.; the team picked up where .. the track, football, basketball, ’arid tennis. squads have .been'going all along as they defeated the eastern title-holders^ . Rutgers, who had conquered Yale and. Princeton.. The Notre Danie teani tied with - Northwestern for first honors, at . the Manchester meet.
At the -Detroit contest, held after the
-
University of Wisconsin called off its annual mid-western tournament, the affirmative team of Bill Lawless, Buffalo, N. Y., and Jim O’Dea, Lowell, Mass., won five out of five. The negative team of Henry Adams, Terre .Haute, Ind., and Tim Kelly, Bay City, Mich., was beaten only by Western Michigan as the team members won four out of five.

Left, Bill Lawless; Right, Jim O'Dea, surrounded by Wranglers.
Lawless and O’Dea made a record for the speech department of the University of Detroit for use at other schools to demonstrate a new kind of debating. This new system of debating, designed to elim-inite useless oratory, consists of an initial period when the contestants and judges gather together and narrow down the issues, avoiding unnecessary repetition of elementary issues, when the main debate gets under way.
Following the Detroit meet the team was guest at a banquet held Saturday night. The team hopes to head south to uphold Notre Dame honors at the Grandeastern Forensic tourney scheduled for Charlotte, N. C., on April 7-10. Whether the team will be able to make the trip is not yet known.
War Correspondents Turn To Irish for Similes
War is the Notre Dame system—the news dispatches say, with all sincere . apologies to General Sherman, who had his own pet definition.
The latest reference to the school and the gridiron warriors came from a CBS i radio correspondent who said that the	j
Russians have stolen a page from the	'
Irish and are now using two first teams.
We quote a-news dispatch:
“The Russian military version of Knute Rockne’s pet theory works in this way. In their drive down the railroad north of Vyazma, infantry battalions, , ■ supported by tanks, kept the Germans	:
. busy throughout the day.	..	।
; ." “At nightfall another first team, which had been sleeping and resting all day, .took over the offensive and kept the
- Germans up all night. Then at dawn the day shift took over again.	,
“This means, of course, that the Rus-	/
siaris have plenty of reserves—or sub-	I
stitutes—just as Rockne had in his great ! days at South Bend.’.’	!
6
N. D. Dramatists Present "Tailor-Made Man" In Washington Hall; Opens Sun., March 21
Students will get a chance to see another University production on Sunday evening, March 21, when school dramat-tists ring up the curtain on the four-act comedy, “A Tailor-Made Man,” starring Dave Curtin as John Paul Bart and Miss Barbara Dolezel as Tanya Huber.
The play, directed by Rev. M. A. Coyle, C.S.C., will also be presented on Monday night.
Supporting Curtin and Miss Dolezel will be a picked cast including Noel Digby as Peter, in a comic role, and Miss Florence Greco, who threatens to steal the show as Kitty Dupuy, while Miss Agnes Haney, familiar for her roles in University Gilbert and Sullivan roles, will portray the role of Miss Shayne.
Written by Harry James Smith, the play was premiered at the Cohan and Harris Theatre in New York City on August 27, 1917, with Grant Mitchell playing the lead role of John Bart. At that time Helen MacKellar took the part of Tanya.
The play, which was the first presented by Father Coyle, is a revival, of World War I days. It concerns a shipbuilder, Abraham Nathan, whose role is ably played by Bill Boss, Scholastic sports editor.
The opening scene is laid in 1916 in
At Rehearsal: At piano. Miss Grace Sullivan; Extreme left, "Tailor-Made Man.” Curtin
New York City at the tailoring establishment of Mr. Huber. The second act unfolds in the reception room at the swanky Stanslaws residence the same evening, and the third act is laid at the offices of the American Oceanic Shipbuilding Corporation nine months later. For the fourth act the scene switches back to Mr. Huber’s tailoring establishment.
Rehearsals have been conducted in Washington hall for the past several weeks. Tryouts for parts were held some time ago, and the play is the first University dramatic presentation held this semester.
K. C. War Stamp Drive Continues on Campus
Lost and unheralded among class dances, student plays, dining hall jokes and conventions at St. Mary’s, the Knights of Columbus sponsored war bond and stamp drive has been billed as a regular Thursday night feature of Notre Dame campus life.
Students purchasing stamps are urged not to mix the denominations in their stamp books as this makes for difficult calculation when the book is presented for redemption.
Every student has been urged to do
South, Central America Affairs Heard at Panel
Notre Dame’s panel discussion group on Latin-American affairs met in a special program at St. Mary’s last Tuesday
evening. The meeting was under the. sponsorship of La Santa Teresa club.
During the first half of the program NotreDamem en from Mexico reviewed Mexican problems
iufael alducin Rafael Alducin, of Mexico City, spoke on the Mexican constitution, and Francis Cabrera spoke on the Sinarquista movement, while Jorge Prieto discussed the position of Mexico in the postwar world.
The second half of the program saw Luis Flores, of Araguipa, Peru, speak on the problems of Peru, “The United States of Central America” by Mario Dutriz of El Salvador, San Salvador, and Rene Otero, of La Paz, Bolivia, speaking on Bolivia and its problems today.
The program was concluded with a talk on “The Church and State in Latin
America” by Samuel Muoz of Madellin, Columbia. Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., was chairman of the panel.
his part in the war savings program! Sponsors of the drive, in the past, have been greeted with success, and have de-dared that some of the Lenten money, saved from cigarettes and movies, would be invested in the miniature government securities.
Thursday evening is official stamp night here at the University; On that night each hall is canvassed, room to rcom, by volunteer workers. Students wishing to purchase stamps may do so at that time—or they can follow the example of the sailors and purchase bonds or stamps at the postoffice.
Officials. of the war bond and stamp drive announced today the following hall averages, as of a week ago Thursday. Sorin is batting in the cellar with .00% but some explained that the Sorinites have entered other forms of patriotic endeavor. The standings, per student:
Walsh hall, .13 %; Alumni, .10 %; Dillon, 0.9%;. Breen-Phillips, .08%; Zahm, .08% ; Cavanaugh, .06%; St. Ed’s, .06% ; Main Building, .03%; Sorin, .00%.
7
DELEGATES FROM SIX COLLEGES AT N.F.C.C.S MEET;
TERRY. METZGER AMONG NEWLY ELECTED OFFICERS
JOE LO CASCIO
The second regional congress of the Fort Wayne region of the National Federation of Catholic College Students was held at St. Mary’s college last Saturday and at Notre Danie on Sunday, March 13, 14. The meeting, representing Nazareth and Aquinas colleges of Michigan, Mary Manse of Toledo, Rosary of Chicago, St. Mary’s, and Notre Dame, was launched into its first general session with a talk by Rev. William T. Craddick, C.S.C., of Notre Dame. Father Craddick is regional moderator of the federation and was honorary chairman of the first meeting.
John Terry, acting chairman, introduced Rev. Matthew Schumacher, C.S.C., who gave the address of welcome in place of Sister M. Madaleva, C.S.C., president of St. Mary’s college, who was unable to attend the meeting because of illness in the family. A synopsis of the National Convention of the N.F.C.C.S. was given by Betty Navarre of Nazareth college and president of the region. The resolutions of the same convention were presented by Helen Asplan, national treasurer. Al Sommers of Notre Dame then discussed “The Fundamental Agreement of the Atlantic Charter and the Papal Peace Plan,” which was followed by an open discussion. The session was brought to a close by Marita Oppenheim with an outline of the activities planned for the convention.
Regional N.F.C.C.S. Delegates Listen to Father Paul Tanner, national chaplain
Rev. Paul Tanner of Washington, chaplain of the N.F.C.C.S., was honorary chairman of the second session of the convention due to the absence of the Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne, who, because of a previously scheduled confirmation ceremony, was unable to attend. The topic “Peace Through Oneness in Christ” was developed by Vicki Henry under the title “The Ultimate Solution of Peace in the World Through the Mystical Body of Christ” and commented on by Dorothy Middendorf. Elizabeth Cole was acting chairman. All three speakers of this session are from St. Mary’s.
“Peace Through Oneness In Prayer” was the theme of the third general meeting. Rev. Matthew Schumacher, C.S.C., acted as honorary chairman and Helen Asplan, of Nazareth college, directed the meeting. Ann Tradii discussed the “Prerequisites For Peace” and Frances Mary Jessup, also of Nazareth, told how the Catholic colleges could spread the prayers for peace through action on campus in the “Liturgy in Regard to a New . Era.” Discussion leaders were Evo Fatagati and Brock Lynch, both of Notre Dame.
The day was brought to a close with entertainment featuring the Notre Dame glee club, dii'ected by Daniel H. Pedtke.
The congress moved to the Notre Dame campus early Sunday morning with a
Mass, Father Craddick celebrant, in Alumni hall. Breakfast and then a tour of the campus occupied most of the morning.
The fourth general session was held in the Notre Dame Law Auditorium under the leadership of Daniel Downey of Notre Dame and the honorary chairmanship of Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C. “Peace Through Oneness in Action” the theme of the session was set forth by James- Cunningham and Brock Lynch of Notre Dame, stating the part Catholic Action must play to return the world to Christ.
Elections of new congress officers followed this session. Dorothy Middendorf of St. Mary’s was elected president; John Terry, of Notre Dame, re-elected to vicepresidency; Frances. Mary Jessup, of Nazareth, second vice-president; recording secretary, Jean Milhaupt of Aquinas; corresponding secretary went to Mary Ellen Muckenhirn of St. Mary’s; and Charles Metzger, of Notre Dame, was elected treasurer.
The fifth and last session was presided over by Byron Zielbeck of Aquinas with the assistance of Jean Milhaupt. Honorary chairman was Rev. Arthur Bukowski, president of Aquinas college. The discussion of the activities of the respective colleges in the war effort was the business of the meeting.
Bringing the meeting to a close, John Terry, national chairman of the National^. Commission for Decent Literature, read a host of resolutions drawn up at the congress which were passed on unanimously.
A banquet held in the ballroom of the Oliver Hotel climaxed the weekend. The principal speakers were Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University; Rev. Paul Tanner, executive of the National Catholic Youth Council; Robert Nelson of the University of Detroit, national president of the N.F.C.C.S.; and Rev. Frank Gartland, C.S.C. Comments by the old and new officers and principal aides of the Fort Wayne region, closed the business of the meeting.
Toastmaster of the banquet was John Terry, while Betty Navarre acted as hostess. Rocco Germano, well known violinist, took care of entertainment with several well-received selections. The recitation of the Prayer of Dedication to the Immaculate Heart of Mary led by George Bariscillo and Dorothy Middendorf brought the congress, dedicated to “Peace in Prayer and Action Through One^ neness in Christ,” to a solemn close.
8
Tuesday Cotillion Draws Large Crowd at Palais
Over 200 couples frolicked to the tunes of Gracie Barrie at the Palais Royale during the Sophomore Centenary Cotillion, Tuesday evening, March 16. Dancing was from nine until one with two o’clock permissions.
Students from first semester frosh to seniors planked down the three-fifty for a bid and more wampum for flowers, cabs, dinners, et al. at the tradition-shattering dance.
Semi-formal and admitting freshmen for the first time in years, the Cotillion was the second sponsored by a sophomore class in consecutive semesters. Last semester, under class president, Frank Cusick, the sophs danced to Eddie Howard and his band and attended the football game the following day when the suddenly inspired Irish routed Stanford 28-0.
St. Marys, after lengthy disputing, led the parade of dates for the mid-week affair.	.
Bid sales opened slow and sophs were looking for a loss on the whole books when the heavens unfolded Monday and sales started skyrocketing.
A fire at Walgreen’s Sunday night and early Monday morning failed to cut down' Cotillion attendance, although clouds of smoke had rolled around the building for hours while firemen were battling the flames.
Miss Janos Murray, guest of general chairman Bob Franz, Portland, Ore., was queen of the Cotillion and Miss Rita Richards, guest of class president Tyke Hartman, was guest of honor.
Gracie Barrie’s music was broadcast from the Palais on a 15 minute spot over WSBT. The University radio department handled the program.
Glee Club Premieres
"Spirit of Notre Dame"
Entertainment of visiting delegates to the National Federation of Catholic College Students convention held on the St. Marys’-Notre Dame campuses last week was highlighted by the Notre Dame glee club’s concert at St. Mary’s Saturday evening when the club presented “The Spirit of Notre Dame.” Approximately 400 attended the concert, which lasted about one and a half hours.
“The Spirit of Notre Dame,” a choral symphony written by Kelly Cook, December Dome editor and consistent contributor to Scrip, was a poetic history of Notre Dame. Mr. Pedtke arranged the music and Dave Curtin was the narrator. The initial presentation of Cook’s effort was enthusiastically received. Cook left a couple of weeks ago for the armed services when the Army Air Corps reserve was called to active duty.
Cotillion Smoke.________
News Rash: The Scholastic’s own Special Service:
Fire swept over the Notre Dame downtown headquarters No. 2. late Monday evening, doing around $75,000 estimated damage as flames ate up from the basement of Walgreen’s and smoke-doused the Palace theatre and the decorations for the sophomore Centenary Cotillion.
Walgreens, unofficial headquarters of the N. D. operators club and the local Curb and Fender union, was closed the following days and proprietors of N. D. O. C. headquarters No. 1 in the Oliver coffee shop made hasty plans to accommodate their homeless brothers.
As regards the Cotillion, one of the committee members hurriedly phoned the Palais management as soon as he had heard flames were rampaging around the building.
“What about the Cotillion?” he asked the proprietor, (phoning, on a borrowed nickel.)
“We have a chemical that will completely get rid of the smoke smell,” the manager assured him.
“Yeh,” said the soph, “but what gets rid of the chemical?”
Fr. Cunningham Attends
Cincinnati N.C.E.A. Meeting
Rev. William Cunningham, C.S.C., and Brother William, C.S.C., attended the final meeting of the reorganization committee of the National Catholic Educational Association at the Fenwick Club in Cincinnati, Thursday, March 18.
Father Cunningham, Notre Dame’s faculty director, is chairman of the committee, which is in charge of a program for reorganizing Catholic education to meet current needs and trends. Brother William, director of the high schools of the Congregation of Holy Cross, is the secondary school representative on the committee.
No details of the recommendations were available, but Father Cunningham stated that they fall under four major headings: elementary school reorganization ; secondary school reorganization, including both high school and college; university reorganization as affected by the preceding recommendations, and the retooling of teachers under the reorganized program.
The Cincinnati meeting of the committee, which met at Notre Dame during the Christmas holidays, put the recommendations in final form, and will present them to the executive board of the N.C.E.A. in a meeting after Easter. This meeting took the place of an annual convention of the Association, cancelled because of war time restrictions. Father Cunningham is a vice-president of the N.C.E.A. and a member of the executive board, also.
Jim Cunningham
Tall man with blond hair and high position.— John Martin Kuhn... senior
class president.____Occupies an Alumni single as true Science major._______________________ walls left bare, a few carefully stacked books, orderly furniture and rugs, precision arrangement.
This Evanston, Ill., chem specialist spent
jonx m. kuhx three years at Saint George’s in the hometown, then graduated from Evanston high.____Played prep basketball and tennis.______In spite of Michigan tradition in family, headed straight for N. D. without considering any other school.
“Bud” Kuhn does a little lab instruct
ing, works on drug substitutes for his thesis, takes some A.B. classes._Of the liberal arts he says, “The courses seem easy—compared to science. ” But he’s never had much trouble keeping a
magna cum average.
In off-time socks golf balls, beats drums, shoots baskets, plays records.... Soph, junior years he threw buckets for interhall champs of Morrissey, Walsh— Seriously collects hot records.... But no sweet tunes.... Claims ballads lose zest after half a dozen playings. .
Spends one of four week-ends in Chicago with friend____Panther, Downbeat rooms.______________Has four pipes but usually bums cigarettes.____Pre-war days rode and fished during summers in Colorado .... Got to quarter finals in Bengals last
year.
Has 2A classification..........Hopes to do graduate work in drrgs.... after war would be research chemist for a corp. — As man of the test tube sees isolationism as dead.... Is cynical, but hopes for cooperative world tomorrow.
Irish Second in Nation
In the final analysis, Notre Dame was ranked second in the nation’s basketball ratings. A few points ahead of the Irish, in the first spot, were the whirling Whiz Kids of Hlinois.
Annually, the cage experts of the nation select the outstanding net fives in America. Banked behind the Illini and Notre Dame were Wyoming, St. Johns, Indiana, Creighton, and Southern California.
9

>	>	> x *Z4e Nawf. at Notte. 2)ame ,	,
1,11 '	SJ     ■"*""***—""1^
Japs Sing 'My Blue Heaven' Between Their Prison Chores
Somewhere in the South Pacific— Behind barbed - wire entanglements at this Marine Corps base is the largest concentration of Japanese Avar prisoners in the world.
To the visitor this prison camp provides a liberal education in the upsetting of firmly-held beliefs about the Nipponese.
Jap officers, enlisted men, and laborers are anything but resilent and sullen prisoners of war, who brood about the misery of their lot, as they are pictured in many reports.
Once over his astonishment that he is being treated like a human being, and given more food than he probably has had for some time, the Jap undergoes a rapid readjustment. Often he becomes a happy-go-lucky prisoner with a passion for horseplay, cigarettes, American slang and swing tunes.
Imagine Tojo’s discomfort if he knew that his warriors were calling each other “Hachi maru,” which is Japanese for “8-ball.”
This started recently when two marines visited the camp to polish up the Japanese they had studied. One leatherneck called the other an “8-ball.”
A prisoner, who possessed a smattering of English, asked what that meant. When it was laboriously explained, a smile wreathed his puckered features. He said “Hachi maru.” Within an hour, these words were on the tongue of every prisoner.
Nor would Tojo appreciate the sentiments displayed by another prisoner, when someone mentioned Germany in his presence. With thumb and forefinger of his left hand he gripped his nose firmly, while the right hand shot forward in a Hitlerian salute.
. The Jap soldier or sailor knows far less about the war than any man in the uniform of the-United Nations. Officers are astounded by the state of general ignorance of world events in which the Japs have been kept.
Eight-man tents, which they keep scrupulously clean, house the prisoners. Reveille is at.^a.m., roll call at.6:30, breakfast at 7, lunch at noon, supper at
IO
5:30 p.m., another roll call at 6, and taps at 8.
The work day begins at 8 a.m., is interrupted at 11:30, resumed at 1, and. closes at 3:30.
. Most of the prisoners are enlarging the camp to handle more of their brethren, expected at all times. Others work on nearby farms. The Jap is often seen in the classic shovel-leaning position.
Wherever possible, prisoners are permitted self-government. The camp commandant has arranged councils among them—10 tents to a council. The councillor appointed by the men acts as liaison.
Bill Jones Is Dead
Bill Jones is dead.
Bill Jones had just graduated from agricultural college. He was ambitious to put into action all that he had learned about conservation of soil, better breeding of cattle, rotating crops, because his dad’s farm was in pretty bad shape. When war came, Bill enlisted.
Bill went to the Philippines and the little town where he was billeted was overrun by a horde of Japs. Bill fought as long as he could, and then under orders surrendered. They tied his hands behind him and three Japs rammed their bayonets into Bill’s guts.
This happened about the time you were telling the folks at your house that it was all darned nonsense to ration sugar because cake and candy were certainly no diet for soldiers.
Bill Jones is dead.
He was a soda jerker in a small, town and when the bands blared and the flags fluttered, he . signed up for. the navy. They put him on a torpedo boat. .He learned to wear his hat on the corner of his head, and to roll when he walked. Then his boat got into a scrap down in the south seas. Bill stood by his gun and laughed as he fired it. But a shell hit the deck beside Bill. When he tried to pull himself to his feet he saw that his right arm was in the scuppers five feet away. He reached for his gun with his left hand, and then things went black. The list of the ship rolled a dead sailor into the scuppers where his dismembered arm lay. Its extended thumb touched the : tip. of his nose, so that in death as in life, Bill was thumbing his,nose at the. Jap ship that got him.
This was the same day you were raising hell because they were rationing gasoline, and for fear you couldn’t go fiishing every week-end last summer you hid four cans of gasoline in your garage.
Bill Jones is dead.
Bill was a boy who had inclinations for the ministry, but when the call came, Bill laid aside his Bible and joined the marine corps. Bill wasn’t much fun around the blanket where they were shooting craps and he was not so hot at the beer drinking contests in the jutes, but he earned his sergeant’s stripes before they sent his gang ashore in one of those hew boats which land through the surf. The fist full of fighting fools charged a machine gun nest, and Bill had just taken careful aim and let go with a hand grenade when another machine gun caught him. Four bullets hit his head but a marine has four speed forward and no reverse, and so Bill fell toward the enemy.
This was the afternoon when you were sitting at the golf club vzith your highball in your hand, telling the other three fellows in your foursome that if income taxes were not reduced, they were going to kill initiative in this country.
Bill Jones is dead.
Bill was an uneducated clam digger on the New England coast, but he knew about boats. He had only one eye, and the uniformed ranks would not take him, so he shipped on a tanker. His ship was bringing oil up the coast when a German pig boat came up out of the slime and sent a torpedo into the hull amidships. The freighter burst into flames and Bill went over the side into the burning oil. When he came to the surface a machine gun was practicing on the bobbing heads. When the bullets hit Bill’s head, it burst open like a dropped egg. His charred bullet-ridden body sank beneath the surface.
That was the night you were telling the folks at your party this war is.being run by a lot of old women in Washington, the 'most mis-managed mess you ( ever heard of.	}
Bill Jones is dead. "	i
When God in His infinite kindness , meets Bill Jones at heaven’s gate. He is going to say “Well done, thou good and 1 faithful servant!”	|
What he is going to say to you God '■ alone knows. ...
=!su :—— ———■ I ■■————■—=—-w*
> , , , ,AdminUi^aiio*t. NewA \	,
1—1^■i^—La»
More Details Made Known on Navy V-12 Program; Local Exams to be on April 2
JIM DASKALOFF	'
The Navy released its latest V-12 program, designed to produce officers for the Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard through the training of college students. This program will go into effect on about July 1 with the enrollment of students to be selected after tests to be given on or about April 2.
Students to be trained under the Navy’s College Training Program for general duties will receive one and one-third years of study at colleges and universities under contract to the Navy. This period of training will consist. of four terms of college work of 16 weeks’ duration each. The length of course for students who are in training for specialized service, including chaplain, medical, dental, and engineering officer candidates, will vary from six to 12 terms. At the conclusion of their college work, students will take specialized Naval training leading to commissions.
All men accepted for the V-12 program will go on active duty in uniform under military discipline. They will be rated as apprentice seamen, U.S. Naval Reserve.
Qualifying tests to be held on or about April 2 will take place throughout the nation. Students selected on the basis of officer-like qualifications including scores on these tests will be assigned to the Navy College Training Program in two - groups. The first group will report to colleges, now being selected by the Navy, on or about July 1, 1943. The second group will report on or about Nov. 1. Another group will report about March 1, 1944, following selection late in 1943.
Preliminary application forms for the V-12 program are ready and being distributed through Father Trahey’s office. Each applicant will be required to submit this form, properly filled out and certified by his college administrator, who will be directed to refuse to certify and thereby to eliminate candidates who obviously are below physical standards or who show evidence of inadequate educational preparation.	.	- -
Following the tests, successful candidates will be requested to report to the nearest Office of Naval Officer Procurement at their own expense. In all probability there will be such an office tempo
rarily established on the University campus. In each Office of Naval Officer Procurement final selection will be made by a selection committee after candidates have passed a thorough physical examination.
Candidates accepted by the Navy will be enlisted in Class V-12, United States Naval Reserve. Those who are under eighteen years of age at the time of their enlistment at Offices of Naval Procurement will be placed on inactive duty until they are ordered to college. Those who are 18 years or older will be inducted under Selective Service procedures and then enlisted in Class V-12, U.S. Naval Reserve, and placed on inactive duty until ordered to college.
Successful candidates will be permitted to indicate their preference for assignment to colleges on the Navy list. The Navy will respect the preference of the student as far as possible. No guarantee, however, can be made that a student’s request for a given college will be granted.
Students may also express a preference for the branch of seiwice, Navy, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard, at the time of their assignment to the V-12 program. This choice will not be binding, however, for final. assignment- will be based on demonstrated ability, the needs of the service, - and counseling during the first two semesters.
Students may also express' a preliminary choice of study, such as medicine, engineering, etc. Assignment and continuance in these courses will be based on the needs of the service and demonstrated competence in the particular- field.
Prof. Menger Speaks
Professor Karl Menger, head of the Notre Dame mathematics department, gave a lecture on the fourth dimension to the Mathematics Club in Science Hall last Wednesday. The meeting was open to every interested student of mathematics.
Accommodations were lacking where the club originally planned to meet, and as a result the more spacious Physics ' Lecture room was used.
Notre Dame's President
Attends Nutrition Meet
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame, attended the spring meeting of the Nutrition Foundations, Inc., in New York last Friday.
The foundation has been established by 15 of the nation’s leading food industries to develop nutrition as a basic science of public health. The meeting of the board will consider grants-in-aid, from the funds contributed to its work, to various colleges and universities in the country.
War, and the problems of rationing have intensified the research, conducted under the foundation, in its first year. ■Now public support is being solicited to further .the purposes of the food industry, and the improvement of the food and diet of the people of America.
Among the other members of the board representing the public are Dr. Karl Compton, president of Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass., chairman of the board, Walter Coffey, president of the University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn., Ray Lyman Wilbur, chancellor of Stanford University, Palo Alto, Calif., and Dr. Thomas Parran, Washington, D. C., surgeon general of the United States Army.
Army Air Field Will Be
Named for N. D. Student
A former Notre Dame student, Richard S. Freeman, who later graduated from West Point and rose to the ranks of Captain in the army, was killed early in the war in a bomber crash. The War Department recently announced it was honoring Capt. Freeman by naming the hew advance army flying base near Seymour, Ind., in his honor, Freeman Army Air Field.
Capt. Freeman entered the University in 1925, coming from Winimac, Ind. After a year here he was appointed to West Point where he was graduated in 1930.
After putting in 6,000 flying hours and earning wings as commander pilot, navigator and bombardier he participated in the mass gdod-will flight of B-17 Flying Fortresses to Buenos Aires in 1938. The
11

following year he made a mercy flight with the Bed Cross to relieve victims of the Chilean earthquake.
Capt. Freeman founded and was commandant of Ladd Field, army air base in .Alaska, and was a crew member- of a B-17 in the motion picture, “Test Pilot.” He was holder of the distinguished flying cross, and the Mackay trophy for outstanding aviation engineering.
He was killed on Feb. 6, 1941, while making a trip from Alaska to Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio, when his ship crashed near Lovelock, Nev.
Kelly to Outline New
Time for Alumni Night
A revision in the plans for the annual Universal Notre Dame Night are being contemplated by Harry F. Kelly, governor of Michigan and president of the Alumni Association of the University. He is working out a new plan with the board of directofs.
Since its founding in 1924 the program has always been held sometime in April but the war and late date of Easter have combined to call for a change in the program.
Local Clubs will be notified before March 20" of the 1943 plans. This year emphasis will be placed on the participation of Notre Dame men in the armed services in the programs of the 93 various Notre Dame Clubs throughout the United States which will meet simultaneously on the date designated by the board.
Speed Up Program Will
Train Citizens For War
More than a thousand workers in the St. Joseph Valley are taking advantage of engineering, science, and management war training courses at the University of Notre Dame. They are learning to speed up war production through training in 31 fields, according to figures just released by Bev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., director of the program.
About 50 separate industries and businesses have representatives enrolled. Bendix, with 170 employees, tops the list and is followed by Studebaker, giving 80 workers.
The University, the local office of Price Administration, the army, the navy, the local U. S. Employment Office, the City of South Bend, St. Joseph County, and St. Mary’s College are among the other institutions with employees in this war training program.
12
Sessler, Waldman To Leave for War Work
Two more Notre Dame professors have left the campus this week to do war work.
Stanley S. Sessler, head of the University’s department of art, received a commissiion as first lieutenant in the army air force. Prof. Sessler, well-known in American art circles as a portrait and landscape painter, will train as a reconnaissance photographer.
Professor Stanley S. Sessler
Mr. Sessler received a diploma from the Massachusetts School of Art in 1927 and completed graduate work at the Hawes Foundation and the Vesper George School of Art, both in Boston. He has been a member of the faculty sinc.e 1928.
Bernard Waldman, assistant professor of physics, was appointed to do special research on a government project. Prof. Waldman, who has worked on Notre Dame’s giant atom smasher, will do government work of a secret nature.
Professor Bernard Waldman
Mr. Waldman receive his A.B. and Ph.D. degrees from New York University in 1939 and after being a teaching fellow at the University for one year became a member of the faculty in 1940.
Cleveland Club
The Campus Cleveland Club, at a recent meeting held at the Town Club, formulated plans for a skating party to be held in the near future and announced that a baseball team was being organized. The baseball team, to be comprised from the club’s 40 members will go south to train—to the left end of Cartier Field.
The first meeting of the club this semester was held in the Bockne Memorial.
A large and representative turnout saw motion pictures of the 1939 Notre DameSouthern Methodist game when the Irish repelled the outlaw Mustangs 20-18.
Officers of the club are: Bill Mulligan, president; Warren Hayes, vice-president; Jim Sheets, secretary, and Dave Champion, treasurer.
Fisk Singers Perform In Washington Hall
Under the direction of Mrs. James A. Myers, the Fisk Jubilee Singers presented a program of Negro spirituals, light classical airs, and solos before a large, appreciative, and applauding crowd at Washington Hall Monday evening.
Luther King, tenor soloist; Terry Alexander, tenor; Elbert Hamner, tenor; Arthur Bostic, baritone; Colston LeGrand, bass; Mrs. King, accompanist, made up the group who entertained faculty, students, and guests for more than an hour.
Among the songs sung by the ensemble were the Spirituals “Goin’ Up,” “Nobody Knows de Trouble I See,” “Goin’ to Bide up In de Chariot,” “I Cried and I Cried,” “Ezekiel Saw de Wheel,” “Look Away,” “There’s a Meetin’ Here Tonight,” “There is a Light” and “In 3-a-that Great Gettin’ Up Morning”; the Airs, “Hills,” “A Star,” and “Song of The Open Boad”; and the Beligious, “The Lord’s Prayer.”
Soloist tenor Luther King, accompanied by Mrs. King, sang Handel’s “Where’er You Walk,” the French “Aubade” by Laie, “Old Mother Hubbard” (as Handel would have arranged it by Hutchenson), “Mountains,” by Basbach, and as an encore “Water Boy.” He was called back for several bows.
As the finale, the group sang the patriotic song they have sung in camps all over the United States, the stirring “This Is My Country.” Applauded long and loudly, they returned for an encore and more bows.
N. D. Okayed for Navy Pre-Medical Training
Notre Dame’s selection by the Navy as an approved school for pre-medical training as well as the new V-12 program has been followed by the visit of an inspection group from the Ninth Naval District.	■
A complete inventory of facilities has been furnished but no details of the demands of the new programs are yet available. It is understood no contracts have been signed.
No doubt the University will continue to function in its own programs with a limited eni-ollment; whatever course the Navy programs take.
--■ _	। g" _i ।	— — — —■ ।	—■ ■■■in—■ ■■" — ii ■ । ——— it.ij,
'	>	, faite ^baffte ^■no^id ,	,	, >	,
_ . '  . _ _	-^—	H । ■» ■ ■! ■■ ——i^—^—^—————

Irish Track Squad Wins Tech Relay Title;
Two Mile Relay Team Sets New Meet Record
BILL BROWN
By taking five firsts and scoring in 11 out of the scheduled 12 events, the Fighting Irish track men annexed the 1943 Illinois Tech Relay crown to their laurels. The five first place finishes and championships were turned in by Jim Delaney, Ollie Hunter, Don Currie, the mile relay team, and the record smashing two mile relay team.
Without a doubt the highlight event at the U. of C. Fieldhouse Saturday night was the performance turned in by Frank Conforti, Frank Martin, Ollie Hunter, and Don Currie in the two mile relay. Pressed all the way by the Illinois relay team, the Notre Dame men finished the course in 7:46.7, knocking some six seconds off the mark set in 1940 by Marquette.
Conforti led off the relay and managed to work up a slight four yard lead when he handed the baton to Martin. Martin had ten yards over the closest man when he gave the reins to Ollie who held the pace. Anchor man Currie and Bill Beile,
Notre Dame Trackmen, still unbeaten, move on Chicago Stadium tomorrow.
an Illinois freshman turned the event into an individual half mile with Beile pulling up next to Currie in the back stretch and Don finally putting on a little sprint show of his own pulling away to finish four yards ahead of the Illini man.
Later on in the evening Currie led the field to the tape in the 880 yard run with Conforti right on his heels for an Irish 1-2 finish and more points on the score board.
Delaney Beats Big Ten Champ
While the two mile gang was out running down a record, Jim Delaney was out throwing the 16 pound around and defeating Big Ten champ, Lou Saban, who showed marked improvement over his showing in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse recently. Jim just managed to nose out Saban’s throw by half an inch for first place. John Yonaker who defeated Saban in the Indiana meet finished in fourth place with Jim White in fifth place both about two feet off the leader’s throws.
Without a two mile race in sight, Ollie Hunter took on the one milers in the building and came out on top of the heap ahead of Michigan State’s Bill Scott, the Central Conference champion. The finish was in doubt until the last half mile when Ollie gave out with everything he had and pulled but in front to a comfortable margin. -
The team championship in the university class which went to the Irish was taken by a wide margin. The Irish earned a total of 51 11-28 points while Illinois their closest rival, had 33 9-14 points to get second place over Michigan State, the defending champions.
The value of the freshman eligibility . rule, recently put in effect, was demon-, strated by Illinois’ Dwight Eddleman who smashed the high jump mark by two and a quarter inches. His best = jump of the night had him 6 feet 6% inches in the air. Bill Beile, the Illinois two mile relay anchor man, had also shown the effectiveness of the new rule earlier in the evening with his performance in that event. .
Spring Grid Sessions
Listed for March 22
Coach Frank Leahy peered from his
office window. “We’ll start Spring Prac
tice Monday,” he, averred and hopefully added that the weath-” A	er would be clear.
FRANK LEAHY
The clarion call to the Cartier lot will bring out a group of uncertain boys, lads that aren’t quite sure that they will see the sharp stain of grass on their jerseys this
fall or the narrow strips of chalk beneath their feet. But, with an alertness
for condition and physical skill that will prove invaluable should they be called to active service the candidates will report with an optimistic attitude and work just as diligently as in previous unshadowed
years.
Over 20 lettermen are ready to report for the spring workouts, a list somewhat weakened by various reserve calls and brown draft board slips.	. .
Spring sports have called a few varsity candidates. Baseball has in its fold John Creevey, Bucky O’Connor and Angelo Bertelli. Trackmen with football monograms include Bill Huber, Jim White, and John Yonakor.
Coach Leahy said that he was very anxious for any men with high school or interhall experience to report for Spring drills this year.
Irish Name Best Cagers Kotz Leads Balloting
John Kotz, Wisconsin’s blond cage ace, was unanimously chosen by the members of the Notre Dame basketball team as the outstanding man they faced during the past season.	'
Polling votes for the all-opponent team the Irish overwhelmingly nominated Kotz as the outstanding forward they faced this year. Anderson, of Great Lakes, was chosen at the other forward spot. Mel Brewer, who was instrumental in Kentucky’s triumph over Notre Dame, edged the center post over such reputed pivot men as Kuffel, of Marquette; Mikan of De Paul; and Knorek, Detroit’s six-foot seven-inch pivot man.	.
Bob Davies,. Seton Hall star now assigned to Great Lakes, and Rudy Akers, of Kentucky, were voted the best guards ; the Irish met during their greatest hard-', wood season since’27.	.

Capt. Butler Paces Irish
In Season's Final Game
Led by Captain Charley Butler, one of the greatest Notre Dame basketball teams defeated the strong University of Detroit quintet, Friday evening, 52-43. This year’s squad equalled the record of the 1931 team on which Coach Ed Krause starred. Only two teams, the 1925-26 and 1926-27, surpassed the 18 wins in 20 starts compiled by this, year’s edition of the Fighting Irish.
Captain Butler pulled the game out of the fire late in the game when the Detroit team came within two points of the Blue and Gold. He returned to the floor and proceeded to rack up all of our final eight points to clinch victory. Charley collected a total of 18 markers on six field goals and a like number of free
Captain Charlie Butler
throws to lead the scoring and, incidentally, recorded his largest scoring total in his career at Notre Dame.
Bob Faught scored six field goals and a brace of free throws to again capture the high-point honors with 196. Frankie Curran swished the nets from the field five times in addition to a free throw to finish second with 186 counters. Bob Rensbergef, the highest-scoring guard in Notre Dame basketball history, finished third with 185 points for the season.
Captain Charley Butler, Bob Rens-berger, and Ralph Vinciguerra were the senior members of the squad; and when the former two left the floor near the end of the game the entire crowd of 3,000 stood in unison to give them a tremendous ovation.
The Irish led from the outset and had a six point lead, 28 to 22, at-the half. They raised the margin to 11 - points
14
early in the second half, but then the Titans stiff defense limited the Blue and Gold to eight tallies while they were scoring 17. That made the scoreboard read 42-40, Notre Dame. Johnny Niemiera hit two free throws, and it was here that Charley Butler turned on the, pressure to gain Notre Dame’s nine point advantage.	■	-
The Irish hit 20 of their 60 field attempts while limiting Detroit to 50 shots of -which 18 of them found the mark. Lee Knorek, the Detroit six foot seven inch center, led their attack with 14 markers.
.—Bob Cronin
Lieut. Arthur Donovan
12th Honorary Referee
Tonight, as hundreds of eager eyes focus on the glittering ring, announcement will echo throughout the fieldhouse —“Honorary referee, Lt. Arthur Donovan.”
For years the name of Arthur Donovan has been linked with the greatest boxing shows of the country. His decisive judgment and thorough understanding of ring..tactics has resulted in his refereeing 12 of champion Joe Louis’ title bouts.
Donovan’s boxing experience dates back to the first World War. Fresh out of amateur boxing in the Bronx, he enlisted in the army and worked up to the rank of sergeant. He later annexed the army light-heavyweight boxing title.
Last October Arthur Donovan again enlisted in the armed forces, but this time it was the Navy. Commissioned a lieutenant, he now holds down the post of physical instructor at Sheepshead Bay, N. Y. where he carries out a program typical of the country-wide physical preparedness.	.
Sixteen years ago boxing saw the solid form of Arthur Donovan slide through the ropes in his first appearance as the third man in the ring. Since that night, America’s number one referee has participated in bouts from coast to coast, but centering his interests in Madison Square Garden.
Lieutenant Donovan is the twelfth notable in the long list of Bengal honorary referees which includes: Jerry Heffer-man, Loyola University boxing coach; Tuffy Griffith, former heavyweight contender; Max Marek, Chicago CYO champion; Packy McFarland, Illinois Boxing Commissioner; Danno O’Mahoney, Irish wrestling champion; Barney Ross, former lightweight champion and currently a Jap-killing national hero; Tom Kenneal-ly, Chicago Golden Gloves champion; Billy Conn, former light heavyweight cham
pion; Frank Leahy, Notre Dame football coach and athletic director; and Jack Elder, former Notre Dame track and football star.
Golf Call—April I
Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., coach of the University golf team, announced this week that the golf course will be opened March 28, weather permitting. A bulletin will be issued early in April calling out all candidates for the varsity > team.
Captain Gene Fehlig and Frank Crowley are the only two remaining men of last year’s team.
Dick Whiting, Joe Moore, and Jim .Casey are all in the Air Corps while Sam Ward and Dave Sullivan departed for the Army. The recent Big Ten ruling on the eligibility of freshmen will provide many possible replacements for the enlisted
men.
Matches are being planned with MidWest universities and will be announced in two weeks.
Forty-Five Fencers
Set For Fast Action
For the first time in the history of Notre Dame, an interhall fencing tournament was started last week by Coach Walter Langford. As this is something new, there is no tradition behind it.
The first call for the training of fencers was made last November and the response was encouraging, considering the number of students who have gone into the service. There are 45 fellows who started action this week. These are grouped into four teams numbering from seven to 12 men. The teams participating are Alumni, Walsh, Cavanaugh, and the All Stars. The All Star aggregation is composed of fencers from those halls which did not have enough men for separate hall teams. St. Edward’s also has a team which is not yet ready for the tournament, but will take part in competition at the end of the season.
Each match will consist of nine foil bouts and four sabre bouts. It is planned to have five men take part in the foil bouts and two men from each team in the sabre bouts. The regular- members of the winning team will receive medals. Complete results of this week’s matches will be published in the next issue of the Scholastic.—Tom Reagan
One Game Remaining For Interhall Netters
A record was made for the high score in a game in the interhall basketball league recently. The men from Zahm defeated the St. Ed’s team, 93 to 26. Four players on the Zahm team each scored over ten points; they were, Santiano with 28, Metzger with 25, Pehar with 16, and Powers with 12. The result of this victory keyed Zahm up for the game with Alumni II, the league champions, only to lose a close battle by the score of 38 to 30.
:	. Every team has one game left to play.
! The leagues will finish their playing ;	around the 25th of the month. The fol-
j	lowing week the playoffs will be held in
the fieldhouse gym.	.
Bill Amann has selected the All Star Heavyweight teams. Next week he will announce the All Star Lightweight team. The Heavyweight team is as follows:

Pos.	Name	Team
F.............Jones............Law	Club
F.............O’Connell.......... Walsh
C.............Santiano .......... Zahm
G.............Duffy ............ Sorin
G..............Beagley.........Dillon II
i	.
j	Heavyweight I'
[ The Cavanaugh heavies have one game i	left to play. This game will decide their
;	place in the league. At present, Cavan-
augh holds first place with six wins and no defeats. Alumni I has five wins and one loss and is in second place. Sorin and Dillon I are knotted for third place, each having won four and lost two.	.
Heavyweight II
Alumni II is the champion of this league. They are now two games ahead and have only one game left to play. Alumni II has won five and lost none. In a tie for second place is Dillon II and Walsh, each team has won four and lost two. The N.R.O.T.C. is in third place with three wins and two defeats.
Lightweight I
There is, a tie for first place between the Breen-Phillips and the Cavanaugh teams. Each has one game left to play and this is with each other. The winner of that game -will be the league champion. Both teams have four wins and no defeats. In second place is Dillon with, two wins and one defeat. In third is the Law Club with two for two.
Lightweight II
The N.R.O.T.C. is one game ahead in League II with one game left to play. They will meet the men of Zahm in the final game. If the Navy boys win they will be league champions, if they lose they will have to play off a tie with Zahm. In second place is the Off Campus
team with two wins and two losses. Alumni is in third with one win and three losses.
Standings as of March 5 to March 13.
Heavyweights
LEAGUE I	w	L	PCT.	LEAGUE II	w	I.	PCT.
Cavanaugh	6	0	1.000	Alumni II	5	0	1.000
Alumni I	5	1	.833	Dillon II	4	2	.667
Sorin	4	2	.667	Walsh	4	2	.667
Dillon I	4	2	.667	NROTC	3	2	.600
Alumni III	2	4	.333	Zahm	2	3	.400
Dillon III	1	4	.200	St. Ed’s	0	5	.000
Law Club	1	4	.200	Brownson	0	4	.000
Breen-Phil.	0	6	.000				
			Lightweights	.				
LEAGUE I	w	L	PCT.	LEAGUE II	w	L	PCT.
Breen-Phil.	4	0	1.000	NROTC	4	0	1.000
Cavanaugh	4	0	1.000	Zahm	3	1	.750
Dillon	2	1	.667	Off Campus	2	2	.500
Law Club	2	2	.500	Alumni.	1	3	.250
Sorin	0	4	.000	Walsh	1	3	.250
St. Ed's	0	4	.000	Brownson	1	3	.250
—Bob Erkins
Phy Ed Men Set Pace In New League Action
The battle for first place in the New League has been a hard fought contest so far. The Hoosier Hot Shots, a new addition to the league, have worked their way into first position. They defeated one of the top teams in the league, the Red Wings. The Hot Shots are said to be the class at present. Their reason for being able to defeat all their opponents, is that they are in good condition and run the other team ragged until they are winded. They then score their points. The team is made up of physical education men.
It is now planned that the New League will end after the Bengal Bouts. There will then be an elimination contest on the fieldhouse floor. The New League will also have a playoff with the Rockne Memorial League.
The Hoosier Hot Shots defeated the Red Wings in a battle for first place: neither team had suffered a defeat before. The Hot Shots won by the score of 37-22. Donovan totaled 14 points, and Livingstone tallied 12 points for the winners. The Zahm Zombies, with the help of Brown’s 10 points, swamped the Cosmos, 30-21. In a close game, the Back Bay Angles won over the Tee A. C., 32-31. Costello scored 10 points for the winners, while Belmont ran up 12 points for the losers. The Phantoms ran over the Colonels by the score of 58-21. Kiefer helped the winners with his 16 points, while McDonnell tallied 15 points for the losers. The Civil Engineers lost to the Bat Roosters by the score of 30-41. Amberg scored 11 points for the winners, Warren scored 14 points for the losers. The B 19’s bombed the Cosmos, 45-15. Graif of the B 19’s tallied 13 points.
Standings as of March 5 to 13. .
Team	.	w .	L Pct.	
Hoosier Hot Shots 				 4	0 - L000	
Back Bay Angles			_■ 1 ' '	O' .1.000	
-Red Wings	—2			L- 3’	I’ •	..750
Zahm Zombies			} 3-	1_. - J50	
Cavanaugh A. C. —			~	2 7	2 '7.500	
Bat Roosters			2	2 -.500	
B 19's „	:			—		2	-2_„,_L500	
Phantoms * * * -	- ~ i „	"T -500	
Cosmos	*	. -	* -i -	3 .	.250
Civil Engineers	i _	3	1250
Tee A. C. 				1	.000	
Colonels	1				0 -	'4 ' -	.000
-Bob 'Erkins.
Pitt, Irish Grid Foe .
On War-Revised Slate
The mastery of Clark Shaughnessy and the gridiron genius of Frank Leahy will match each other with football’s great offensive weapon, the T formation, when the Irish meet Pitt’s Panthers in the 1943 grid opener next fall.
With an optimistic sigh Notre Dame released its wartime football schedule of ten games this week. Pittsburgh, the flaming rival of the Irish less than a decade ago, has been added to the fall line-up and Notre Dame is now measuring just as strenuous a football stretch for the coming term as they did at this time last spring.
Following the opening tussle, the Irish will stalk Georgia Tech, Michigan, Wisconsin, Dlinois, Navy, Army, Northwestern, Iowa’s Seahawks, and Great Lakes on successive week ends.
The revised schedule follows: *
Sept. 25—Notre Dame at Pittsburgh.	'
Oct. 2—Georgia Tech at Notre Dame. ' - * Oct. 9—Notre Dame at Michigan. .	/	-
Oct. 16—Notre Dame at Wisconsin. _	.
Oct. 23—Illinois at Notre Dame. .	*
Oct. 30—Notre Dame vs. Navy at Cleveland.
Nov. 6—Notre Dame vs. Army at New York. Nov. 13—Notre Dame at Northwestern.
Nov. 20-Z-Iowa Seahawks at Notre Dame. '
Nov. 27—Notre Dame vs Great takes at Chicago.
PteAAh&x,
"RED" LONERGAN
REMEMBER THE BENGALS
Tonight is the night, boys, and let’s not forget it. Here’s your chance to get in on some first-class entertainment and to help a most worthy cause. The boys who will be out there throwing the leather have worked many long hours to put on a worthwhile show, and just to make sure they are doing more than their part they
are paying their own way in. Mr. John Scannell has put many hours of work in on this project, too, and it has been labor that is definitely beyond the line of duty. The Navy has cooperated to help make this show a success by putting on a judo exhibition. Arch Ward and the Golden Gloves participants have gone out of their way to insure the success of this undertaking by coming down here to put on an exhibition match for us. Mr. Lee Hope and his band are also offering their services tonight to add color to the event and are also paying their way in. Mr. Lloyd and his staff have aided us financially, as have the numerous contributors who will never get a chance to see the fights. The most genuine example of charity has been the almost phenomenal work of Father Charles Carey, C.S.C., under whose direction this grand show has become a reality. Lt. Arthur- Donovan has gone to the trouble of arranging his business and duties to the Navy in such a manner that would enable him to accept our invitation. So we are asking you to do but one thing. Be present tonight so that we can prove to you that these fights are worth their sacrifices, and your time.
SHARP SHOOTERS
Very few basketeers can beat the shooting records of our two reserves on this year’s basketball team. Leo Klier, sophomore guard from Washington, Ind., has taken six shots in his collegiate career and has connected on four of them for an average of .666. All of these four baskets came in the closing minutes of play, which seems to make Leo both an artist and a money player. . . . John Craddick, a sophomore from Elgin, Ill., ha,s a 1,000 percentage, connecting on his only attempt in the Northwestern game. . . . This was one of Notre Dame’s most successful years in its entire history as
16
far as basketball is concerned. Congratulations are certainly in order for the fine performance put on by this year’s team. It was a most appropriate ending to the coaching efforts of its grand mentor, the late George Keogan. Here is a record of service that has been equalled by few men in the history of the profession. . . . According to Coach Krause the improvement of the squad, when it was on the verge of cracking, was largely the result of the injection of Frank Curran into the starting lineup. He may weigh only 145 pounds but what he lacks in weight he certainly makes up in fight and ability. . . . We may take solace in the fact that the two teams that this season have beaten us have been forced to score at least 60 points and to do that against any top-ranking team you have to be playing mightily inspired ball.
HURRY UP "WALLY"
Yes, Wally, let’s hurry up and get back here as we sure miss you. Wally Ziemba, one of Notre Dame’s most proficient centers, is convalescing in the Billing’s Hospital in Chicago from an operation on his injured knee and elbow. His old roommate, Lou Rymkus, tells us that he is doing fine. His knee and elbow have been a constant source of anguish since his highschool days on the Hammond gridiron. Wally hopes this operation will enable him to go into service immediately following graduation. Joe Ruetz, and exNotre Dame football star, has resigned his commission as an ensign in the Navy’s physical fitness program'and has re-entered the Navy as a flying cadet. Joe was named All-Service guard on last year’s honorary team. . . .
COMPLICATIONS SETTING IN
Coach Jake Kline has that look of security and satisfaction on his face as he works out with his baseball aspirants in the fieldhouse these days. Jake has over 100 men trying out for the great Ameri-can.game and it looks like his most promising season. However, with every pleasure comes a pain, and so it is with Jake. Due to the accelerated program and a May graduation, the Notre Dame nine . will be forced to complete its entire schedule within the month of April. Coach Kline has nine tentative games and he figures that is about all the boys can handle in one month. There is still hope that a game with one of the big league teams can be arranged as the “Grapefruit League” is so close at hand
this spring. . . . The last class elections certainly speak highly for the quality of leadership in our athletes as five of the more prominent athletes were able to get the political support of the student body in their latest elections. . . . Dominic Napolitano, popular trainer and boxing instructor for the Bengal Bouts in the past, is now Lt. (j.g.) in the Navy. He is serving Tom Hamilton’s organization out at the Naval Pre-Flight School in Iowa City. . . . Our athletic director may have football as his main interest in the sport world but he still gets quite a kick out of other competitive sports. This was proven when he attended the Great Lakes-Notre Dame game up at the Naval Training Station, where the boys claimed his enthusiasm in the game reached a fever pitch. . . . Don’t forget your date over at the fieldhouse to watch some spirited fights, the receipts of which go to further a fight against our most dangerous enemies, paganism and atheism.
Sportsmanship Ignored
In Ancient Art of Judo
Sportsmanship has been a characteristic of American athletics and sports events for many, many years. Sportsmanship, however, seems to have been tossed aside since the Nips made their surprise attack in December of 1941 and as a result America has given its answer to this unforgiveable incident. The answer is judo.
Notre Dame will get its first taste of judo tonight when Chief Specialist W. W. Scheerer and Charles Aherne give a demonstration during the annual Bengal Bouts finals. Both Scheerer and Aherne have been teaching the 1,200 officer candidates at the Naval Midshipmen School judo for the past month and their performance this week is gaining widespread interest.
The name judo may appear completely unfamiliar to some, but its principles and methods have been in use for thousands of years. It is commonly referred to as . American ju-jitsu. The rule book is completely left behind when the Yanks take to learning judo in preparing for' an engagement in later days with a Jap or Nazi. The dirtier, fouler, and meaner the methods employed, the better the effects. Instead of using the ancient theory of strength by sheei- power and size, judo works on the spine, nerves, arteries, and kidneys of an enemy in order to get a quick kill.	.
For several months American physical instructors have been teaching this as ah excellent means of fighting when ~ guns or . bayonets are not available. It has been proven to be very effective and is now taught in camps all over the country.—Don Cisle
INTRODUCING
BILL WADDINGTON
Sugar.Bowl.threermile-event - holder of Ohio A.A.U. two-mile... yeah, there’s still a few more if you’ve got . time to stick around and listen . . . NJ), indoor record of 9:01.1 and the N.D. gym record in 9:15, both the two-mile event. . . Enough? Wow!
Oliver Henry Hunter, III.. -. you’ve undoubtedly heard that name before ’cause it’s spreading like wildfire across the sport pages in the nationwide array of two-mile events. . . . Even though Ollie came to N.D. in September of ’39, his greatest date was June 6, ’21 . . . that’s when he first uttered glug, glug. . . . A native of Erie, Pa., . . . for some inside reason, always wanted to be a basketball player, par excellence.... at St. Andrew’s grade school he first realized this ambition when he captained the
intramural cage champs. . . .
Oliver Hunter. Ill
a soph he finished second in state mile, and a member of state track champs . . . only 15 then, at that. ... Was part of the team to win the district mile relay besides holding the cross-country record in Pennsylvania state. . . .
There was a great day coming manana . . . that was when he entered the portals of Our Lady’s campus . . . his late father-always wanted him to come here, besides he wanted to be under John Nicholson, one of his greats. . . . “Nick’s” death was a setback to Ollie, but last year he was tutored by Bill Mahoney and this season he’s under the eye of Doc Handy about which Ollie says, “most interested coach and will be a darn good one in a short while; he’s learning fast, and has a style similar to Nick’s.” Rice has always been his idol and to follow in his footsteps would be no great disappointment, whatsoever. ...
This guy’s got more records than the Victor Recording Company itself . . . (wow, what a pun?) To start from scratch we get to the very initial year with the freshman mile record . . . na-tional intercollegiate cross country . . . state cross country Central Collegiate two-mile title (he’s knocked off this race four times) . . . what a pair of pins! Drake relay champion (two mile) . . .
He’s run against Greg three times, being beaten 300 yards the first time as a junior . . . has reduced it to 60 and 18 yard defeats, respectively, this year . . . gets another crack at him tomorrow in Chicago, but he figures that this will be the setting for a new two-mile world’s record by Greg, anyway he hopes he can push him to it if he doesn’t get there first. . . . “Greg is in his prime and should have another year, at least.. He’s truly a great champion and one really doesn’t appreciate how great he is till you’re even with him on the last quarter . and then he starts his" kick.” He has another indoor chance at Cleveland a week from tomorrow at the K.C. meet.
Setting the new cross-country record has been the top of the many college thrills . . . although he strayed off the course for an estimated 12 seconds, he still notched a good 10 . seconds off the former mark....
He’s a V-7 boy wrho expects to do his training at N.D. after May graduation. . . . Being a foreign commerce major, he expects to get into export shipping after the war. . . . Thinks he’ll hang up his shoes after the Drake Relays in late April. . . prefers the career in commerce after the war. .. . Wants to break Rice’s Drake record of 9:10.... got beat by an (Continued on p. 19)
The track world got its first break as Ollie entered into the cinder path sport . . . soon to become his all. ... At Strong Vincent high school he teamed up with a lad named Clem Martin . . . they became the “miler twins” . . . never lost but one race for their alma mater in two years of competition. . . . Both held state mile title with 4:26, and city record of 4:29. . . . Ollie’s two-minute-flat half-mile was a bit of “aw reet” too. ... As
To CHICAGO--and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
HOTEL HOFFMANN
Dancing
Saturday afternoon, 2:30 - 4:30
JACK WEDELL’S ORCHESTRA
50inHSHOR[
17
STRICTLY INSTRUMENTAL
Frank King
Hats off to Ted Fio Rito and his or
chestra. They are showing a great deal
of intelligence, by dropping the violin
section and the style that has been associated with them for a long time. Lately Fio Rito decided that he was fed up with playing Avaltz time and discarded all the arrangements that
frank king smacked of the old
corn and the instrument most responsible for that corn (in a dance band), the
violin. He got a whole new set of arrangements that have a nice kick to them and started to pad the band with some good talent. Fio Rito’s stock should take a nice jump pretty soon. In fact, he played the Fitch Band Wagon the Sunday after the Jaysee Ball and did a swell job. That 16 year old trumpet man is a comer. In the main, Fio Rito was a good choice for the dance and a good time was had by all.
Fletcher Henderson held down the fort at the Palais Royale a few weeks ago and, although Fletcher is, in my opinion, one of the best arrangers in the business, he seems to lack that certain something necessary to put a band over the top. The arrangements were terrific, but the band was on the mediocre side.
Griff Williams appeared at the Palace theater last Monday and presented a very good stage show. But the orchestra is not the type that happens to appeal to me. If you are a liker of the sweet ballad type of music with violins and soft mellow clarinets etc., which whisk you off into the land of romance, instead of the jump music that brings out the primitive passion to stand up and shriek, then you would like Williams and his band. I am not that type.
It has reached our ears that certain parties in town were a bit perturbed by certain things said about their featured bands lately.... For that I’m sorry, but if they think that I said anything revolutionary oi’ more derogatory than the copy usually handed in about L. W. and A. B., then I suggest that they refer to the musician’s trade magazine, Downbeat, and really get their ears buzzin, cousin. After all, they never sent me a “Thank you” of any shape or form for anything in the way of a blow for giving
their bands a good revue, yet when they get something down there which is not so good', and I say so, one would think that I was on their payroll and owed them good notices.
Jess Stacey is back with Benny Goodman. That should make for some fine piano work on the King’s future platters. Stacey is a fine man and should do a lot of good things for Benny.
-	X
South Bend is kicked around a lot by the fellows here, but it has turned out some very good musicians. Roy Eldridge, great trumpet man with Gene Krupa is a local boy, as is one of Goodman’s present crew of trumpet players. There are probably more kicking around but at the moment I can’t recall. Eldridge alone, however, is enough to put this place on the map musically. (Incidentally, Don Lodice, ace tenor man with T. D. is from my home town, Jamaica, New York... not bragging, just thought I’d mention it).	.
Big blow for J.C.R. and his “Music!” We liked that little phrase in his column a while back in reference to Walter Gros when he said, “Popularity is no indication of whether or not a band is good.” How* true that is J.C.R., but how few are those with the brains to realize it....
PARKER-WINTERROWD
115% N. MAIN ST. — UPSTAIRS — NORTH OF OLIVER HOTEL
REPRESENTING M. BORI>I & COMPANY — CHICAGO
ALL GARMENTS MEASURED AND FITTED IN OUR OWN FITTING ROOM
ENSIGN SUITS
SERGE, 16 OZ. .	.	.	38.00
ELASTIQUE, 16 OZ.	. .	.	47.00
WHIPCORD. 16 OZ.	.	.	47.00
WIDE WALE SERGE,	16	OZ.	47.00
WHITE TWILLS AND ..
KHAKI GABARDINES ;
WHITES, TWO FOR 25.00
KHAKI .	.	.	17.00
CUSTOM TAILORED
RAINCOATS , SERGE .	.	42.00
ELASTIQUE .	42.00
; WHIPCORD .	42.00
ALL ACCESSORIES AT REASONABLE PRICES
SEE OUR CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES — BOB DAVIES — REGGIE. FLYNN
18
Most of the jokers you run into here and everywhere seem to think that because a band is not making money it is no good, and spend their lives flocking to the standards of every new popular hero, just because he has the best publicity agent in the business, or because he cut some records of a swell tune that went over the top, and thus grew popular. Orrin Tucker, with his Wee Bonnie Baker and “Oh! Johnny!” was one of these overnight'favorite sons.	'
CORRejp®W®SWT
TVE GOT THE NEWS FROM AFRICA."
BIGGEST HIT IN EGYPT? THAT'S EASY. HAMBURGERS ANO COKES"
You probably read that in your newspaper a while ago. That war correspondent found how our fighting men everywhere want Coca-Cola. It must have something special to be the favorite of the fighting forces. There’s taste you don’t find anywhere this side of Coca-Cola, itself. And there’s that welcome feel of refreshment that goes into energy. Take it from me, Coke is good.”
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
INTRODUCING—(Continued from.p. 17) inch in last year’s two-mile renewal by Virgil Alston of Miami U. .. . A grudge race in Cleveland with this cohort is what gave Ollie the Ohio A.A.U. record. . . . Want to know who won? Guess. . . .
“We’ve got a wonderful team, in fact, the best all-around team m the history of the school as some people say. We’ve had plenty of invitations to a-lot of eastern meets besides the ones around here but school rulings don’t allow us to take them all in. I think this year’s team could win


the National Collegiate title.” '
To get down to the personal side we find that Ollie favors the sea in almost every instance, besides being in V-7 he’s fond of swimming and sailing ... to top it off he’s .an ardent lover of deep sea food “fish of all kinds” he calls it. . . . Takes a liking to Claude Thornhill.....
There’s 141 % pounds of man in this 5' 9" piece of muscle-crammed endurance . ; . besides being president of the Monogram club at present, he was presented with the Byron V. Kanaley prize for being the most outstanding leader of men. . . . Rice got this award back in ’39. ...	.	■ -
Trained in St. Petersburg this vacation after the Sugar Bowl demonstration at New Orleans. . . . He was swimming and eating plenty of “sea food, Mama” around New Year’s while a bunch of us northern yokels were freez-in’. . . .
Ollie contends that a concentrated schedule makes for the proper condition . — what Notre Dame offers its men is ideal insofar as you’ve got a definite time to go to bed and a regular time for meals, “that’s the whole thing,” he exclaims ; . . besides, he added, “you’ve got to put that two hours a day into it and concentrate your effort, which will and should come from a love for the sport, a necessary must.”
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use bur lay-away plan.
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE yr. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mig. Optician*
228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evening* by Appointment
19
mM
Warming the Bench
With Bill Boss
Gregory Rice was disappointed last Saturday evening. Disappointed because he didn’t whirl around the eleventh of a
mile saucer in Madison Square Garden to a new world’s record. The fact that Greg lapped all but one contestant twice seemed to matter little, the fact that he had just spun through
bill boss the tape with his 62nd
consecutive long distance victory did not dent the little fellow, nor did the realization that he is sole possessor of the cov
eted mark, slice his courageous try.
Gieg, the Missoula Monsoon, is a physical phenomenon. His stretching span of great track victories eclipse the marks of any champion in any sport. Boxing’s dominion clasps little Willie Peop, who has an equal string of ring triumphs, but he has not matched record holders in each encounter. Joe DiMaggio’s 56 game hitting streak tends little toward the greatness of J. Gregory.	•
John Nicholson would be very proud if he could see the dynamic mite today; He would be happy to see Greg’s chain smooth stride lash him around the ovals of America ahead of the greatest runners this nation can produce. Handicapped by a physical injury Gregory never neglects the duties of a champion. Notre Dame will mark the name of Rice on the athletic scroll of honor alongside the great net of Irish sports immortals.
But rising from the same cinder path of Cartier Field is another great little champion. A little taller than Greg and minus the keg chest he is just as durable and amazingly proficient but lacks the natural final polish that Rice didn’t master until his graduation. He is Oliver Hunter, III, who has broken mighty Gregory’s collegiate marks by the score in his senior term.	;
Whether Ollie will ever touch the opportunity of equalling Greg’s distance marks is uncertain. He has bettered most of Rice’s Notre Dame marks. Hunter has bounded around the two-mile lanes in 9:01.1—a mark untouched by Greg while he wore the blue jersey of Notre Dame.
Tomorrow evening, Ollie and Greg will renew an old rivalry. The only current athletic rivalry that can truthfully be termed a friendship. For in the flattened
darkness of Chicago Stadium the two little men will pound around the two mile course together for the third time this year. In each successive meeting Ollie has slipped up a few yards on the spurred Rice. Whether he’ll ever be able to lengthen his stride and lean ahead of Greg only time will tell. We believe the day may come but should it be soon there will be a tinge of sadness mingled with the happiness of the victory.
Greg’s injured leg no longer carries a mental hazard. And secretly we believe, Ollie is nurturing the hope that he will be able to spurt by Rice in an engagement before he substitutes the blue of the Navy for the Gold of the Dome.
Brownson Still Exists
183 Brownson Hall March 14, 1943
To the Editor
The Notre Dame Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana
Dear Sir:
It was with interest that the men of Brownson read in the March 12th issue of the Scholastic that “the passing of aged Brownson has been accomplished without fanfare.” Indeed, we all knew that the “passing” had not even commenced and both officials and inmates were much enlightened by the announcement.	’
Therefore, it must be made clear that the “regiments of green desks are still sagging under the weight of the pens of their owners” and that the “long rows of tented beds” continue to be the haven of us all. The purported “ghosts” have not yet arrived to take over and there
“Regiments of Green Desks are still Sagging under the Weight of Their Owners. —"
does not seem to be any concrete effort on their part to oust us from wherein we live.	’
Incidentally, it has been common knowledge about the campus that Carroll Hall did not even open for this semester. It was the devastating finality of the article from the point of view of a man of Brownson, however, that proved obnoxious.
Then, in this bit of journalistic endeavor, there was the statement that the residents of the evacuated halls would be introduced to the “luxuries of life.” We protest and do so reasonably.
The rigors of dormitory life are not too much for us. In fact, we under the Golden Dome do enjoy, in our own unique way, these so-called “luxuries.” Gold Coast living reeks of softness and differs essentially in the fact that roommates are counted as one or two—not 40 or 50. We need no introduction to luxuries.
Trusting that the Scholastic inadvertently misrepresented Brownson Hall, I remain,
Sincerely, J. D. Usina.
N. D. Bowlers Fifth
In competition with the best bowlers in South Bend, Tom Halligan and his partner, Bud Gans, of Alumni Hall, won fifth place in the City Association Bowling tournament.
Bowling from scratch the two seniors started out slowly with 325 in their first game. But then improvement burst and found the groove to finish with games of 404 and 436 for a total of 1167 and fifth position. Gans had a three game total of 516, while Halligan rolled 651.
20
THE EARS HAVE IT
Vail W. Pischke
Arch Oboler, the director-writer-producer who outshines anyone in radio for twisted and stream - lined surrealism,
VAIL W. PISCHKE
pulled a quickie on his “Free World Theater” series (Blue Network on Sundays) when he gave Dinah Shore hei' “big chance” in radio.... by letting her play a small part without any advance publicity.. Seems that Dinah has long harbored the desire to become a great radio
actress, and wanted her debut as a dramatic “heavy” kept free from her singing rep.... And she turned out to be a better actress than she was a singer (it says here, Oboler). Result: Last Sunday she co-starred with Fred MacMurray in “Your Day is Coming,” under, of course, the Oboler aegis. The moral: If you succeed in one field, try, try again in another, too!
Good Bet: Newscaster Joe Harsch (who was in Berlin when Hitler started his attack and in Pearl Harbor when To jo struck) has a bet which he knows he’s going to win.... but doubts if he’ll collect. He bet Premier Laval 100 francs the Nazis would lose the war. Laval was willing to bet 100 on Hitler but backed down when Harsch offered to tilt the ante to 1000.
Do you want to learn how to be a comedian in several thousand difficult
lessons? Says Ransom Sherman, host of the Thursday night CBS “Grapevine Rancho,” in response to no demand whatever: “I’ve always wanted to tell people how to become a comedian. You can learn to be an elevator operator in one hour__ And a few lessons in riveting would soon nail down that job for any woman. But a radio comedian? It’s a life job. Constant application to work, clean living and proper diet—and what do you get ’ out of it? A lousy fortune.”
Story Behind the Radio Headlines: Here’s a recent story which the press departments missed.... It’s about Ford Bond, CBS announcer. Bond was walking along New York’s 49th Street, between Sixth Avenue and Rockefeller Plaza, when a car roared up and blocked, the street. Another car shot up and blocked the other end of the thoroughfare. Ford, who’s seen his share of gangster films,
Every branch of the Armed Services uses the telephone. One of a series, Anti-Aircraft,
lo his mother and dad it seems only yesterday that he was using the family telephone to call his high school sweetheart. But today the orders he sends and receives over his wartime telephone help speed the day when love and laughter, peace and progress shall again rule the world.
Western Electric
IN PEACE...SOURCE OF SUPPLY FOR THE BELL SYSTEM. I
IN WAR...ARSENAL OF COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT. '
21
immediately- thought of a bank stickup. Suddenly a man whose coat lapels cast a deep shadow into his face stepped up to him and whispered, “Take your hands out of your pockets, please!” Ford hesitated and again the heavy-set man commanded, quietly but with authority, “Take your hands out of your pockets, please!” Ford obeyed just as another car roared in. The vehicle blocking the street half-turned to let it through, then closed the opening again. Out of this last car
DO YOU DIG IT?
SEND US YOUR SLANG AND GET $10 IF WE USE IT
Address: College Dept., Pepsi-Cola Co., Long Island City, N. Y.
Pepsi-Cola Company, Long Island Gty, N.Y. Bottled locally by Franchised Bottlers.
and into the building stepped Madame Chiang Kai-shek.... and Ford heaved a hefty sigh of relief.
N. D. Proper: Add three new names to the Campus Radio staff: Andy Burke, Frank Cronan, and Johnnie O’Neill._____ Best Campus Show Heard in the Last Couple of Weeks: Father Hope’s interview on Joe Flynn’s “N. D. Authors" program.... Sounded like it was entirely ad lib, but all the verbatim was there with white blackground.
Students Obtain Jobs by "Scholastic" Promotion
A considerable number of Notre Dame students have been placed in war industry through the efforts of the Scholastic promotion department, it has been announced here.
Students have been filling out special forms in the comptrollers office, it was said, when one call came for students to work at a local factory on four-hour shifts, the quota was quickly filled.
Students desirous of obtaining part-time employment are urged to fill in the forms at the comptrollers office. The drive is being carried on in cooperation with the government employment office in South Bend.
According to Red Lonergan, promotion manager, efforts have been made to have other local plants go on a four-hour shift, dividing the usual eight-hour swing among two laborers. He explained that students not now employed are more in favor of a four-hour shift than working eight hours, which some believe is too demanding on studies.
Perhaps the largest number of students are employed by the United States Rubber Co. in Mishawaka.
Plans are under way, it was said, for the students to aid in a blood bank. Further details will be announced later.
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEFEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. . . TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $1.00.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
22
Notre Dame HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS GYM PANTS
SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES
CANDY TOBACCO PIPES
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Blds.	South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building
Phone 3-2574
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS 503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY 825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M.D.
M. J. Thornton, M.D.
Patronize Our Advertisers
MUSIC
J. C. R.
Eugene Ormandy recently wrote an
open letter to the patrons of the Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra, asking
them to have tolerance in listening to the presentations of modem works by contemporary American and European composers. Conductors are between “the devil and the deep blue
j. c. r. clark sea”: on one side are
those who get tired of hearing the same old thing and on the other, those who take the presentation of something new as a personal insult.
The Philadelphians revolted at the performance of only one modern piece on a program, but many programs by our leading orchestras have been made up of all modern compositions on several occasions this last season. However, we can sympathize to a certain extent with the Philadelphians when we have listened week after week to the NBC orchestra, hoping they will play something of Brahms or Mozart. Instead we strain our ears to WMAQ, which doesn’t come in too well on our radio, and fail most weeks to hear anything familiar.
Nevertheless, Toscanini and Stokowski are doing a fine job this season in bringing modem music and contemporary composers to the public light; An example was last Sunday’s program which included Vaughan Williams’ Fourth Symphony and two Morton Gould .-marches, “New China March” and “Red Cavalry March.” Also on the program was the modem composition by Debussy, “Afternoon of a Fawn.” With the exception of their last selection, the program was amazingly unfamiliar and unfamiliarity is often quite trying when it persists.
Monday, The Fisk Jubilee Singers gave a program in Washington Hall that was well rounded and well sung. Though in all of the numbers the voices were well blended, in the spirituals the singers har-. monized at their best.
We feel that the band deserves congratulations for its half-time performance at last week’s game with Detroit. The program was well-planned and well played and the student body was quite appreciative. The only ones who could have complained are the coast guardsmen for theirs was the only march the Band omitted from its medley of service songs.
We have received a limited supply of official
Notre Dame Jewelry
Most of it can no longer be replaced.
e
Call now, or see the following salesmen:
Jack Thornton, 251 Alumni
Ed. Dorr, 254 Alumni
Ed. Stumpf, 403 Walsh
Notre Dame Bookstore
Badin Hall
«o-n<MiA nw swth its, mum
Bruggner's in the J. M. S. Building have a fine line of Tobaccos. Cigarettes, Pipes — Novelties — Fountain Service — Billiards.
Maim amd
SOUTH BEHD, INBIANA
Bruggner's News Corner for magazines, books, maps, and greeting cards.	*
^^lien you’re doing a bang-up job vou want a bang-up smoke and for anybody’s money you can’t buy a belter cigarette than Chesterfield.
Try them yourself...you’ll find Chesterfields as Mild and Cool as the day is long...and Belter-Tasting, too.
Copyright 1945, Liggett & Myebs Tobacco Co.
WOMEN AT WORK It is estimated 15,000,000 women are employed in U. S. Industry today
YOU MAY BE NEEDED NOW Ask ct your nearest United States Employment Service Office

WHERE A CIGARETTE COUNTS MOST
It’s Chesterfield,