i
The Notre Dame	I
$
j Scholastic	\
February 28,1958	|
THE CAMPUS SHOP LABEL...
The Campus Shop label is your assurance of quality and style authenticity. It speaks for you as a gentleman of good taste and individuality. Behind this label are America’s outstanding clothing names: HickeyFreeman, Society Brand, GGG, Eagle, Botany ‘500,’ Alpagora, Burberry, and many, many others. It speaks for us, too: through it we thank you for helping us to make the Campus Shop one of the fine University Shops in America.
CHARGE IT—
THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
PAY	PAY	PAY
1 3	3	1 3
MAY	JUNE	JULY
No Carrying Charge
At the Campus Shop you will find a complete selection of nationally famous suits, topcoats, sport coats and furnishings . . . and a convenient charge account with which to buy. If you’re on a budget—like most college men are—why not charge what you need the Campus Shop way. Simply get what you need now and pay one-third in May, one-third in June and one-third in July. It’s that simple—and, of course, there is no carrying charge. Use your Campus charge account tomorrow!
February 28, 1958
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
HANDBAGS
LUGGAGE
Hans/-Rintzsch
PHONE Ce [^^
MICHIGAN AT COLFAX
LEATHER GOODS
GIFTS
SALZBURG SUMMER SCHOOL
Study-Travel Program For College Graduates
Over six weeks in Europe. Two weeks of lectures and Seminars offered by the Catholic Faculty of the University of Salzburg. Discussing: ”The World And Man’s Place In It According To Christian Law And Social Order.” Attend the Salzburg Festival. Travel for 32 days through 8 countries. Includes Brussels World Fair.	PRICE $780
Ocean transportation, room, board, travel and study included. Sailing date: June 23, 1958. Application deadline: May 1.
Write today for brochure and application form.
THE INSTITUTE OF EUROPEAN STUDIES 35 East Wocker	Chicago 1, Illinois
MY CLOSEST SHAVE Bullfighter and Author
“My closest shave was in Mexico when I was 18,” says Barnaby Conrad, author of the best selling books Matador and Gates of Fear. “I went to a bullfight, thought it looked easy, and jumped into the ring with a fighting bull. It charged ... and if it hadn’t been for the quick work of the professionals, I’d have been a goner. Later I went to Spain and really studied the dangerous art, but I never had a closer call than when thought ‘la fiesta brava’ was easy! ”
For YOUR Close Shaves, try new Colgate Instant Shave. It’s the quickest, easiest way ever. Your razor glides as smoothly as a matador’s cape. Shaves your whiskers, saves your skin. A great shave buy for the tough-beard guy!
Colgate Instant Shave Listen to the exciting Colgate Sportsreel with Bill Stern, Mutual network weekday mornings. Check your paper for time and station.
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 99 February 28, 1958 No. 15
----------------------------------------- t
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus	_
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
JIM STEINTRAGER Editor	’
DAVID L. KUBAL
Associate Editor	*
JOHN GLAVIN	_
Associate Editor
GEORGE CLEMENTS ............News	Editor
HARRY McKEE ................ Copy	Editor
BOB EARLY ............   Features	Editor
MIKE FITZPATRICK __________ Sports	Editor	4
BOB WILLIAMS ................ Photography
LORAN SHEFFER......... Business Manager	*
MIKE KURAS.......................Assistant	Business
JOE DEZELAN ....... Circulation	Manager	*)
WALT RUDGE .............. Assistant	News
RON BLUBAUGH.............. Assistant	Copy
BILL CONWAY...............Assistant	Copy	■
TOM EDWARDS ...........Assistant Features	I
TOM LAMONT ........... Assistant	Features
BOB SEDLACK ......... Assistant	Features
ED ROHRBACH ........... Assistant	Sports
TED THOMPSON .......... Assistant	Sports "**
News Staff: Ken Baumgartner, Alan Bosch, Art Dechene. Luino Dellosso, Bob Maruyama, Gil Pap- ■ rocki, Lyn Relph. Charles Rieck. Roy Rubeli. Tom Romans. Milt Streifel. Tom Swanstrom. Dick Zang.
Sports S'taff: Bob Biiggs. Jim Brogan, Dave Cole, Jack Dolan, John Koch, Bob Miller. Mike Murphy, Tim O’Reilly, Bob Schaefer.	* >
Sports Features: Joe Bride, John McMahon, Greg r) Rogers.
Business Staff: Bernie Dobianski, Pete Hasbrook, Bob Horn, Conrad Suski.
Member of Catholic School Press Association and	.
Associated Collegiate Press.	Represented for na-	-
tional advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.	* *
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the , school year, except during vacation and examination periods, at the University of Notre Danie. * Subscription rate, §4.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana, n ,
Publication Schedule for the 1957-58 school year, ** Volume 99: No. 1, Sept. 27; No. 2, Oct. 4; No. 3,	•
Oct. 11;	No.	4,	Oct.	18; No. 5,	Oct. 25; No. 6,
Nov. 8;	No.	7,	Nov.	15; No. 8,	Nov. 22; No. 9,
Dec. 6; No. 10, Dec. 13 (Football Review); No. Il, ■( Jan. 17;	No.	12,	Feb.	7; No. 13,	Feb. 14; No. 14,
Feb. 21;	No.	15,	Feb.	28; No. 16,	March 7; No. 17, I
March 14; No. 18, March 21; No. 19, March 28; t No. 20, April 25; No. 21, May 2; No. 22, May 9; I No. 23, May 16; No. 24, May 23.	;
I
The Scholastic
Where there’s a Man
U'
t
there’s a Marlboro
The cigarette designed for men that women like
Marlboro ~	Sturdiest box of all—  '
The “filter flower of cellulose acetate (modern effective filter material) in just one Marlboro Selectrate Filter.
February 28, 1958
__	_____ _ ____________	with the exclusive
YOU GET A LOT TO LIKE—FILTER • FLAVOR • FLIP-TOP BOX self-starter.


A long white ash good tobacco and smoke.
means a mild
Mild-burning Marlboro combines a prized recipe (created in Richmond, Virginia) of the world’s great tobaccos with a cellulose acetate filter of consistent
dependability. You get big friendly flavor with all the mildness a man could ask for.
A Campus-to-Career Case History
A
Paul A. Twigg, Bachelor of Architectural Engineering, University of Detroit, ’53, in front of the 6-story building whose construction he supervised.
H.
4
Paul A. Twigg had been with Michigan Bell Telephone Company for about a year when he was assigned to a project that was a “dream” for a young architectural engineer. He was to supervise construction of a 6-story, 175,000-square-foot addition to the telephone building in Grand Rapids.
“For the next two years,” Paul says, “I lived with the job as assistant to the Project Engineer. I interpreted the architect’s plans and specifications for the contractor, inspected construction, made on-the-spot revisions where necessary, and worked out the many problems which arise on a project of this size. .
“I kept the Engineering office in Detroit informed through daily logs and weekly progress reports. My boss pro
vided reassuring supervision and advice on major problems by means of periodic visits to the job.”
The building was completed last August. Understandably, Paul thinks of it as his “two-million-dollar baby.”
“An assignment like this really gives you a feeling of accomplishment,” Paul says. “It provides invaluable experience in your field. In fact, I’ve already been able to complete the first section of my Professional Registration Examination as an Architectural Engineer.”
To engineers in many fields, the Bell Telephone Companies offer big and interesting assignments—assignments that challenge your ability, capitalize on your training and provide real advancement opportunities.
Many young men are finding interesting and rewarding careers in the Bell Telephone Companies. Find out about the career opportunities for you. Talk with the Bell interviewer when he visits your campus. And read the Bell Telephone booklet which is on file in your Placement Office.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES

*
6
The Scholastic
by MARTIN T. FRANCIS
the noisy
generation
If Life and Princeton can, why shouldn’t Escape and Ann Archy?
The column’s first writer had a small upbringing in a large city.
. After his parents saw their psychiatrist they sent him to Ann Archy because he was the cause of their neuroses. He is very well liked by his fellow classmates.
Physically, I’m a litt'.e, nervous, thin i fellow—my friends call me Skinny. I look much younger than I am, but that’s only because I wear knickers. I feel sure that I think, otherwise I couldn’t be. Among people I usually can’t think of anything worth saying, so I talk all night. This gives the impression that I’m an extrovert. I am. I also have a tremendous drive that enables me to even read this column weekly.
Originally I thought I wanted to be a fireman, but now I realize that there is more in life. There must be comfort and love. For these I am willing to work my way up. Upon graduation I plan to drive a truck and take lessons on the guitar. Should the omnipotent public then deem me worthy of reward, I shall seek out a companion above the mass. I hate mediocre people—they are so human. I feel I am worthy of at least one expensive teddy-bear with which to share my life and love.
When I come right down to it, I think I have two conflicting goals in life— achievement and security. I’m ambitious, but also a coward. I’m afraid to gamble. I’m sure that I will never chance letting my chauffeur’s license expire.
Writer No. 2 is undoubtedly a typical ideal of Ann Archy. He is the product of a mental miscarriage. His father is a toy pulled by his successful mother’s career. His brother is what is known as a living doll: a stuffed dummy with a wooden head, and
is married to a “pathetic blond heiress.”
When, on my fourteenth birthday, my father said good-bye to me at the reform school gate, he left me with these final words, “You’re nuts!” What did my father mean by these words? Just what he said: “I’m nuts!” That’s why I came to Ann Archy after I was released; I knew I’d be with my own element here. I do not make this observation from a sense of snobbishness. I find that the only people whom I can get along with are also nuts. I would like to call these people America’s new liberals. This new liberal, it seems to me, is one of the finest achievements of our educational system.	.
In search of a career in which I could live according to my idiosyncrasies, I have been interviewed by a dozen companies. These interviews have shown me that everyone is expected to labor for their pay, so I have chosen to work for a toy manufacturer—mainly because I’m a simpleton. I think toys are more fun than people, or even hot fudge sundaes. I desire my advancement to be based strictly on merit, value, and any inveigling I can perpetrate with conformity and impunity.
Given the kind of person I am, I believe that my choice of a life’s companion is very important. To fully develop my mentality I must find someone of similar interests, that is why I plan to continue on with my present roommate. He’s crazier than I; he likes girls more than hot fudge sundaes.
The next writer was born May 7, 1936, was killed September 10, 1941 during his first day at a progressive kindergarten, and has been successfully attending school ever since then.
When I was very young, a fourth grader, my father always made me wear a Little Lord Fauntleroy suit of clothes.
He said that it was befitting to my position in the community. I rebelled against this force by constantly playing in mud puddles. It finally got to the point where my father made me do my own laundry. This early lesson in selfsufficiency was a great boon to me. It showed me that anything could be enjoyable if one set his mind to it. I now plan to run a campus cleaners, and press all the lapels on three buttoned suits down to the third button and put the creases on the sides. The students’ complaints will satisfy my appetite for- acknowledgement.
My first years at Ann Archy were very miserable: I was still forced to wear Little Lord Fauntleroy suits and was consequently rejected by my peers. In my junior year I finally threw off the yoke. I still had only Little Lord Fauntleroy suits, so I went to the Junior Prom in my B.V.D.’s. My date, at first, was very upset because their colors clashed with her combat boots, but we finally-accepted each other for what we were. As a result I am no longer frustrated, but my attire makes me very susceptible to colds. It is something I have now learned to live with.
At this point the reader may be inclined to consider my views as unrealistic, but I ask what is Life if it isn’t a magazin? with ludicrous pictures.
The last writer had a very well adjusted and serene childhood until the day he opened his eyes. He is now fighting a comfortable disease called hypermagical, ultraomnipotent progress.
If some people were to ti-y to find some icon for my generation, they would look for a mythical creature with three eyes. These people go to Ann Archy and are nuts. That’s a hole in the head they’re looking at. I plan to spend my life trying to create corks for those holes. I believe that drafts can be dangerous.
February 28, 1958
7
What's it like to
Mathematician John B. Jackson, like many other mathematicians, engineers and physicists, came to IBM directly from graduate school. Today, an Applied Science Representative, he reviews his progress and tells how he uses his math background in a new field.
be with IBM ?
First of all, what does an Applied Science Representative do? In John Jackson’s own words, “I work constantly with key executives of the many and varied customers served by IBM in the territory for which I am responsible, advising them on the use of their electronic data processing machines. I consult with these customers, analyze their scientific and technical problems for solution with IBM machines. Occasionally, I write papers and give talks and demonstrations on electronic computing. All in all, it’s pretty fascinating . . . ” In other words, he is a full-fledged computing expert, a consultant... and a very important person in this coming age of automation through electronics.
A consulting sales fob
Consulting with top executives
During the three years that John Jackson has spent with IBM as an Applied Science Representative, he has guided innumerable customers to new and better Iways of doing things with electronic computers. For example, a H leading aircraft manu: facturer wanted to L experiment with a radiI cally different design I for a nuclear reactor. I Although the basic forI mat had been established, the project still . required many months si of toil with mathemat-■ ical equations. The aircraft people decided
that they couldn’t afford to wait that long, so they called on IBM. After consultation with top executives, John Jackson helped to map out a computer program that saved the organization over 100 days of pencilchewing arithmetic. Later, for this same company, he organized the establishment of computer systems for aircraft performance predictions and for data reduction of wind tunnel tests. At the same time, he worked with this company’s own employees, training them in the use of IBM equipment. He remains in touch with this customer to assist with new studies and problems as they develop.
A new field for the mathematician—IBM computers
Mapping out a computer program
considering mathematical research. But he liked the excitement and diversification of business and industry, and he wanted to use his mathematical background in that area. It was not until he was interviewed by IBM that he became aware of this new field for mathematicians. A few months later, he began his career as an Applied Science trainee.
John Jackson has progressed rapidly since he joined the Company. He’s now the Washington representative operating with one of IBM’s key Divisions,
Military Products, in the Washington, D. C., office. With his wife Katherine, daughter Lisa, and John, Jr., he enjoys life in the nation’s capital.
*■
i
i
Discussing a mathematics problem
Interesting and challengingresponsibilities, plus the knowledge that he is making a substantial contribution in a rapidly expanding area of IBM that is important to the Company and to the nation, assure John Jackson that he is moving along a road of real future opportunities.
This profile is just one example of what it’s like to be with IBM. There are excellent opportunities for well-qualified college men in Research, Development, Manufacturing, Sales and Applied Science. Why not ask your College Placement Director when IBM will next interview on your campus? Or, for information about how your degree will fit you for an IBM career, just write or call the manager of the nearest IBM office:
IBM Corp.
234 N. Michigan Street South Bend 1, Ind.
Why did John Jackson decide to join IBM? Today, he is exercising his mathematical know-how in a field that was practically unheard of ten years ago. Even now, this kind of work may be news to you. It was to him a few years back when he was an undergraduate at the University of Colorado. At that time, he was
IBM
T
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
DATA PROCESSING • ELECTRIC TYPEWRITERS • MILITARY PRODUCTS SPECIAL ENGINEERING PRODUCTS • SUPPLIES • TIME EQUIPMENT
8
The Scholastic
Oamfud SceM
FOUNDATION GOAL: 100 PERCENT SUPPORT
Drive Opens Monday For Token Donations
» ________________________
, With the theme, “100 per cent participation,” the Student Foundation launches its fourth annual campus drive Monday evening. It extends until Saturday.
Collections will be handled through the Hall President’s Council. Hall rep-»resentatives will be around to collect j from each student. For their contribu-. tion, whether it be only a nickel or a ■ * dime, the student will receive a share of stock in the new ten-year Program as ^-a token of participation.
i The purpose of Foundation Week is 1 * not the money aspect, but rather the idea of 100 per cent student support and to serve as a means of student orienta-_ 4 tion to the work of the Foundation.
The first student Foundation Week, »held in the 1954-55 academic year, achieved 93 per cent participation of । students. In succeeding years, 98.4 and i, 99.5 per cent student participation was accomplished. This year the committee ( is striving for 100 per cent student participation.
Assisting Chairman Bob Toland are Pat Kearney, Tom Solon, Jim Jordan, *and Ed Buckley. Bob Beranek and Phil Allen will direct publicity.
* The University of Notre Dame Foundation was instituted in 1947 by Harry G. Hogan of Fort Wayne when he perceived from Father Cavanaugh’s outline of the University’s problems the _ -need for a widespread field force of alumni. Hogan, together with Father Cavanaugh, the Alumni Board, and the Lay Trustees, then formed the basic structure of the Foundation.
t In 1948, The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., then president of the University, _ .outlined a 25 million dollar long-range goal extending over a period of ten years > to cover 30 per cent of the annual budget not covered by tuition, a Faculty Development program and construction of much needed buildings on campus.
Today the Foundation is headed by 4 Father Cavanaugh and has been responsible for the channeling of funds I towards the construction of the I. A. O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine 1 Arts, the Morris Inn, Fisher and Pang-born residence halls, among others. Through the Foundation’s efforts the alumni of Notre Dame have been welded into a strong composite group.
—Tom Romans.
National Symphony Orchestra to Play Friday; Mitchell to Conduct Performance in Drill Hall
Under the direction of Howard Mitchell, the National Symphony Orchestra makes it appearance at the Notre Dame Drill Hall next Friday, at 8:15 p.m.
Tickets will go on sale Wednesday and Thursday from 3:30 to 8:30 p.m. at Washington Hall. On Friday tickets may be purchased at Washington Hall until 7 p.m. after which they will be on sale at the Drill Hall until curtain time Prices are $1 and $1.50 for faculty, students and employees, and $1.50 and $2 for the public.
The Orchestra has grown in the short time of 26 years to a group numbering 96 and a schedule of 184 performances. Its season has been lengthened to 32 weeks.
The great portion of this growth has been under the leadership of Howard Mitchell. American-born and American-trained, Mitchell is one of the few artists to rise from the ranks of a major symphony orchestra to assume its full conductorship. His success shows that musical talent can thrive on a Midwest accent.
Trading golf lessons for cello lessons over a two-year period, Mitchell ended up with a scholarship to the Peabody Conservatory in Baltimore and the Sioux City golf championship.
In 1933, he caught the ear of Hans Kindler, the conductor and founder of
Debate Team Wins First In Azalea Tournament
Taking the first four places in the individual speaker ratings, Notre Dame won the Azalea debate tournament at Springhill College in Mobile, Ala., with a 10-2 record.
Stating the affirmative case were Bob Dempsey and John Whitney, while Jerry Goudreau and Jack Martzell presented the negative.
Martzell placed first in the speakerratings, Whitney second, Dempsey third, and Goudreau fourth. The tournament was held last Friday and Saturday, Feb. 14 and 15.
The debate team will travel to Washington, D. C., for Georgetown University’s annual Cherry Blossom Tournament on March 15 and 16.
the National Symphony, who invited him to be first cellist. For eight years he made regular appearances as soloist after which Kindler invited him to be assistant conductor.
With Kindler’s health failing, Mitchell began to assume more and more of the responsibilities. At the end of the 1948-49 season, he was appointed permanent conductor of the orchestra.
Mitchell won five important music
HOWARD MITCHELL
Conducts National Symphony
awards last year, threa of them specifically citing his “distinguished services to American music.” His guest conducting engagements have taken him to Europe, Central America and Cuba as well as to leading cities in the U.S.
The symphony opens with the overture to Oberon by Carl von Weber. It is the last of his ten operas and was completed just six months before his death.
The Symphony in D, which follows, is a festival piece composed by John Vincent. A suite by Maurice Ravel, Daphnis and Chloe, Suite No. 2, is third on the program. It was arranged from the score he had composed for the ballet of the same name. Beethoven’s Symphony No. 7 in A major- Op. 92, closes the performance.
February 28, 1958
9
National Debate Tourney Set for March 7-8; Thirty Teams to Compete in Invitational Meet
Notre Dame’s sixth annual National Invitational Debate Tournament will be held on March 7-8. Thirty college debating teams, led by the 1957 National Champions, Augustana College, and the U.S. Military Academy, nationally ranked in second place last year, will be competing for The Rev. William A. Bolger Memorial Trophy.
The first four rounds will be held on Friday, March 7, beginning at 10 a.m. in the LaFortune Student Center. There will be two more preliminary rounds starting at 9 and 10:30 on Saturday morning in the Center. The semifinal rounds will be held in the Engineering and Law Auditoriums at 1:30 p.m.
The final rounds will be held in the Engineering Auditorium at 3 p.m. There is a possibility that the finals will be televised, according to the tournament officials. Students and faculty are in-
Milwaukee Trip Set For Marketing Club
Marketing club members will travel to Milwaukee on April 23 and 24 to visit several firms and get an over-all picture of marketing operations first hand.
Firms visited will include the Miller Brewing Company, A. 0. Smith, Cutler, Inc., and the American Can Company. The approximately 40 members making the trip will stay at Milwaukee’s Pfister Hotel.
Jim Law, president of the club, announced that the students will take short trips through the production sections of the plants visited, but will spend the major portion of their time hearing speeches and conversing with marketing executives.
A chartered bus will transport the group. They will leave the evening of April 22 and return late on April 24. The Miller Brewing Co. will sponsor a banquet for them on April 23. On the way back to Notre Dame, the group will be hosted by the Marketing club at Phil Schmidt’s restaurant near Chicago.
Other projects planned by the club this semester include sponsorship of one of the lectures in the Archbishop O’Hara Lecture Series. They also plan a spring golf tourney.
Any marketing student interested in joining the club may do so at the meeting, Tuesday. The club is intended to give a fuller understanding of marketing by presenting lectures by men in the field and by the annual field trip.
vited to attend the preliminary, semifinal and final rounds of the debate.
Each school, represented by only one two-man team, will be guaranteed six rounds of debate. The top four teams, on the basis of victories, will then be chosen for the semi-final round. All ties will be broken by ballot.
Notre Dame will be represented in the tournament by Jack Martzel and Jay Whitney. They will debate the affirmative and negative sides of the question whether “the requirements of membership in a labor organization as a condition of employment should be legal.”
Bob Dempsey is the chairman of the Tournament, assisted by Bill Barrett, the co-chairman. Other committee chairmen include John Sullivan, in charge of room reservations and chairman of the tabulation committee and Paul Manion, awards chairman, Gerry Goudreau heads the reception and registration committee. Publicity is under the direction of Tom Clusserath, while Tom Banchoff heads the timekeepers committee. Head timekeepers are Tom Scanlon and Vic McCrea.
The Bolger Memorial Trophy, for the first place team, is a rotating trophy, which the winner keeps for one year. Beginning this year, the winner will also be awarded another trophy that they will keep permanently. The first and second place teams will be awarded Tau Kappa Alpha plaques. The top four teams will receive Notre Dame plaques. The top speaker in the first six rounds will receive a Notre Dame plaque.
Debaters will be judged on five points: analysis, evidence, adaptation, refutation, and delivery.
’The Globe* Planned As Commerce Paper
Notre Dame’s Commerce School will soon have its own newspaper. The Commerce Activities Council has received permission from the administration and will begin publication during the latter part of March.
Institution of the publication is a part of the program intended to fulfill the purpose of the Council, which is for each student to leave Notre Dame a better place than when he found it.
The Marketing club will be in charge of making up the paper for the first three years. The four-page publication, to be called The Globe will be released in regular newspaper style and will come out bi-weekly. All Commerce students will receive the paper free of charge.
'Patriot* Gives Seniors
Bleak Outlook of Future *
At last Saturday’s annual Washing- v ton Day exercises Senate investigator Robert F. Kennedy warned that “disaster is our destiny unless certain dangerous changes in American life are re- '' versed.”
Kennedy cited the collaboration of’ American prisoners with the enemy in , Korea and “the moral debasement of the true ideals of organized labor” as reflections “not just on organized labor, but on all of us as Americans.”	’
“What has happened in some segments of organized labor within the past 20 years must shock us all,” he said. *	V
Citing numerous specific examples of labor racketeering, sometimes in collusion with management, Kennedy emphasized that “the role of management 4
ROBERT F. KENNEDY
Gives ominous warning
in all these activities is hardly one of ” which we can be proud.”
“We would do well to study the meaning of Korea,” Kennedy said, as well as * “what is happening in some elements of labor and big business. Before we» master Communism, the Russians, or outer space,” Kennedy declared, “our 4 own house certainly must be put in order.”
“Dangerous changes in American life are indicated by what is going on in America today,” Kennedy stressed. “Dis- * aster is our destiny unless we reinstill the toughness, the moral idealism which 4 guided George Washington and his associates some 160 years ago. The paramount interest in oneself must be re- . placed by an interest in one another, an actual interest in our country.”
Kennedy is the fifth recipient of “Patriot of the Year.”
10
The Scholastic
Blue Circle Schedules Leadership Program;
' Bender Opens Annual Conference Tomorrow
The Blue Circle’s annual Leadership Development Program will be held in the LaFortune Student Center this week end. ’■ ’ James F. Bender, management consultant and Columbia University psychology professor, will be the keynote speak, er.
The proceedings will open with registration at 12:30 p.m. tomorrow. After
v >
Off-Campus Problem ♦ Discussed by Senate
-- The off-campus student problem, the announcement of dates for the spring < * elections, the possibility of combining four of the college balls, and the naming of the chairman for the 1958 Student I * Trip formed the center of discussions J at the Feb. 12 and 19 Student Senate i ■■ meetings.
A committee, headed by Herb Riband, 4 has been formed to meet with The Rev.
A. Leonard Collins, C.S.C., dean of stu* dents, and Emerit E. Moore, director of student accounts. They will attempt to find some solution to the problem of the n retention of privileges of those seniors 1	brought on campus into freshman resi-
V	dence halls.
The date for spring elections is now set for April 20. Nominations will be open March 24 through March 31.
Films on the highlights of the past t year’s football games will be shown in the Engineering Building on Sunday. These films sponsored by the Senate are 40 minutes long and free to students.
* ‘ The welfare committee, headed by Denny Shaul, will meet in the near future with the college senators concerning the college balls.
Jim Short has been chosen as the chairman of the 1958 Student Trip, according to John Hirschfeld, Blue Circle x chairman. It was also announced that Bill McCullough will head Freshman ' ‘ Orientation next year.
The Academic Commission announced that rooms 101, 102, 103, and 104 in the Commerce Building, and rooms 237 and 239 in the Nieuwland Science Building 4 will be open until midnight Monday through Friday nights for student use.
registration, Prof. Bender will deliver his speech.
Following the keynote address, participants will enter discussion groups of approximately 15 members each. Upperclassmen will act as moderators.
The main purpose of the program is to make the underclassmen aware of the problems of leadership. General topics for discussion will include: what constitutes a leader; student leadership; and the psychology of leadership. Special emphasis will be placed on the role of the leader in relation to society.
The program is slated to run through Saturday afternoon and evening ending at 2:30 p.m. on Sunday.
Although this function is primarily designed for sophomores, there will be a number of freshmen in attendance. Also participating will be 50 sophomores and freshmen from St. Mary’s College.
John Dewes, chairman of the Leadership Training Committee of the Blue Circle, said that any sophomore who wishes to attend this program, and who has not registered previously, may register at 12:30 Saturday if there is still room. Dewes also mentioned tentative plans for a group Mass and Communion breakfast.
All general topics for discussion have been developed by the leadership evaluation seminar, which was held on Feb 9.
t e	VAREL AND BAILLY
L	The concert and Lecture Series
I	will present Varel and Bailly with
4	“Chanteurs de Paris” tomorrow
night at 8:15 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets will be sold tomorrow from 3:30 p.m. until curtain time.
Norling Plans to Deliver Leo XIII Talk Thursday
Delivering a lecture entitled “The Soul of the Modern World, Communism or Christianity?”, Bernard P. Norling, professor of European History, will be the next speaker in the Leo XIII lecture series. His talk will take place in room 104 O’Shaughnessy at 8 p.m. on Thursday.
In the course of his speech, Prof. Norling will analyze and discuss the attraction which Communism exerts on modern man as well as the failure of Christianity to meet the challenge in the political and economic spheres. The talk will be open to all students.
Norling, a graduate of Gonzaga College, received his Ph.D. from Notre Dame last year.
He will be the second speaker in the YCS sponsored lecture series, the purpose of which is to discuss the role of the Catholic layman in society. The next scheduled speaker is The Rev. Stanley Parry, C.S.C., head of the political science department, who will discuss “The Role of the Catholic in Political Theory” on the evening of March 13.
REV. ARTHUR L. MELOCHE
Speaks at Marriage Institute
Fr. Meloche to Speak On ’Image of Trinity’
The Rev. Arthur L. Meloche, a well-known spiritual director from Ontario, Canada, will conduct the third of six lectures in the Marriage Institute series next Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. His lecture will be on “The Image of the Trinity in Sanity, Sanctity, and Sex.”
Father Meloche graduated from the University of Western Ontario with a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1937. He was ordained in 1941 for the diocese of London.-
For the past ten years, he has been spiritual director of a Holy Family Retreat House for Laymen. He is a frequent retreat master, Cana Conference leader, diocesan director of Family Life and a lecturer on marriage theology at the University of Detroit. He broadcasts weekly over Windsor station CKLW on family life.
Following Father Meloche’s lecture, on March 12, Dr. Louis B. Leone will lecture on “The Doctor’s Viewpoint." Mr. and Mrs. Arthur J. Schaefer, who had been chairmen of the Cana Conference of Chicago, will speak on “Love in Marriage” on March 19. Concluding the series on March 26 are Mr. and Mrs. Frank O’Dowd’s “Success in Marriage.”
ADVANCE REGISTRATION
Every undergraduate planning to return to school next September must register at the office of Student Accounts next week. The hours are 8:30 to 12 noon and 1:30 to 4:30 p.m. Non-scholarship holders must remit $50 at the time of registration.
February 28, 1958
11
I Civil Rights:
WIT
IS THE
PROBLEM?
I I I
1	by
i
THE REV. STANLEY PARRY and
GERHART NIEMEYER
In his reply to our Civil Rights memorandum, Dean O’Meara attributes to us four views, all of which he rejects on behalf of “the Law School.” Except for this negation, he did not formulate his own views of the matter. This leaves no task for our rebuttal but that of further clarification of the problem itself. For certain parts of the Dean’s letter and the serious aspects of Professor A.-H. Chroust’s remarks indicate that the heart of the disagreement between them and us is the question of what precisely is the crux of the matter.
Let us begin by stating that what we tried to consider is not the question whether the segregation of Negroes is morally good. Let us here agree that racial segregation should be held morally evil. The problem to which we addressed ourselves is a different one. It arises when one ponders the question: What, given our political system, should the Federal government do about it? One answer to this question has now been enacted by the Supreme Court. We think that answer is faulty because it disregards some values of constitutional justice which at the very least are equal in weight to the value the Court sought to protect. It is the problem of the nature and relative weight of these constitutional values with which we dealt in our memorandum. And we discussed
12
it not in terms of political caution or mere expediency, but as an integral element of morals in this situation.
Admittedly, ours is not the orthodox position. Consequently we are aware of an obligation to state fully our reasoning and to expose it to the challenge of others. Dean O’Meara and Professor Chroust have not honored us with a substantive discussion of our assumptions. Instead, we were told by Dean O’Meara that our reasoning was unacceptable— presumably because it differed from the prevailing orthodoxy. Now our point is precisely that the orthodox view on Civil Rights is wrong, and that it is in error because it lacks a sophisticated statement of the problem. This can be illustrated by Dean O’Meara’s letter.
Dean O’Meara begins with our question whether “it is right to apply governmental compulsion against one part of the citizenry that believes in practicing discrimination against another part,” and observes: “The answer, they insist, is no” Actually, our answer is far from being as simple as that. What we do insist on is that the answer is highly complex, and that moral principle requires taking into consideration the full complexity of the matter. Abstractly speaking, of course, we all agree that government is instituted “for the punishment of wickedness and vice” and therefore ought to use compulsion against people doing wrong. But a significant distinction exists between wrong attributed to scattered individuals and wrong attributed, by one body of people, to another body of people held together through common convictions.
We said that when a body of people embraces convictions of justice which conflict with those of another, neither of them can accept as justified a rule that flatly rejects “their” justice. The reason why “bodies” of people should be distinguished in this respect from scattered individuals is that concepts of justice are developed in social entities. Bodies of people are authoritative sources of notions of justice, scattered individuals as such are not (which obviously does not preclude their being often right). In matters of segregation, the segregationist view is the common conviction of an entity called “the people” of several states. “The people,” under our system, is in itself a sovereign law-making authority. From this reasoning we concluded that the Federal government ought not to use compulsion to impose on entire bodies of people a concept of justice directly opposed to the one they held in common, particularly when dealing with “the people” of a state. For when a government begins to rule out a view of justice which has “grown” in the daily social life of a body of people (no matter how mistaken), it has no alternative
Father Parry and Professor Niemeyer will discuss the Civil Rights * issue publicly in Room 104,	\
O’Shaughnessy Hall on Wednesday, March 5, at 8 p.m. ___________________________________________ but to resort to despotic rule (no matter how well-intentioned). But that does not mean that the government should relinquish its purpose of justice. Rather, in a situation where bodies of people hold conflicting views of justice, the government’s order of justice should be mainly compensatory and consist in giving the two antagonistic groups public recognition and chance for participation P so that neither could feel ruled out. In other words, the government would seek to promote the “common good” by taking the edge off the conflict, maintaining and cultivating the spirit of discussion, and -« keeping both sides from drifting toward civil war. (It is, of course, possible that * the men who govern come to regard the convictions held by a body of people within the citizenry as utterly repug- p nant. When this happens, however, one should not gloss over the fact that here an implicit declaration of war is served, a notice by one group of people on an- 4-other that the latter will not be acceptable in common order of justice and peace until they have re-made their convictions in the image of those held by the first group.)
Present developments in the South seem to lend support to these views of * ours. The annual report of the Tuskegee Institute said this year: “Race re- * lations in the southern states are in a more unsettled and disturbed status than a year ago. The divergent seg- < regationist and de-segregationist views are held more resolutely now than in the ■*-recent past.” Moreover, the report deplores the “substantial absence of com- * munications between whites and Negroes.” This hardening of positions is the first fruit of the Federal govern- « ment’s decision to overrule the convictions of the people of southern states, as > embodied in their laws.
Now Dean O’Meara objects that this 41 would leave the law with but a conciliating function. Presumably, he sees the law as an educative institution. So do 4 we. But does the law educate when it is forced upon people who as a public body are convinced that it is unjust? Law, as St. Thomas Aquinas reminds us, should educate, but gradually. The educational intent of the law is therefore necessarily modified by the ability of people to do its bidding. Deeply and commonly held convictions are the foremost factors limiting that ability. Faced
(Continued on page 21)
The Scholastic
Mort Browning is a junior in the College of Commerce. A native of < Fairport, Ohio, he has written several other articles for the Scholastic.
1 They have not, however, been published.
I’m a tradition breaker. Ever since I can remember—and before that, I’m •* told—I’ve been bucking the conventions of society.
' It started right at the beginning. I was a twelve-month baby. And when other kids were outside playing cops and robbers or cowboys and Indians, I was inside reading Dostoevsky’s Crime and ' Punishment. I didn’t even like vanilla ice cream.
When I started my freshman year here (four previous generations of Brownings had been Yale men) I actually went along with tradition for a while; there’s so much of it here I couldn’t possibly break it all at one time. But I tried. Naturally, I walked up the steps ' of the Administration Building the first day. And I went so far as to hold a door open for another student. What I didn’t realize at first was that I was wallowing deep in one of the most estab-i lished traditions on campus. I wasn’t dating St. Mary’s girls.
► As soon as I realized such a venerable custom was open to attack I called this St. Mary’s senior from my home town. She arranged a date for the following Sunday with a girl named Liz Barat. But by Sunday afternoon I was wondering whether to go through with * it. My roommate had asked his brother, George, to come over Friday night to talk to me about this dating business. I figured since George was a junior he’d give me the straight scoop.
“George,” I began. “Why don’t you ever date at St. Mary’s?”
-•* “Listen, you idiot,” he said in this sort of gargling voice he uses when he s wants to be serious, “those dames across the Dixie are poison.”
I winced as he referred to the St. Mary’s girls with the customary figure of speech and continued. “Well, how do you know what they’re like if you’ve never dated them?”
* George adjusted the stogie in the left corner of his mouth and blared, sneer-ingly, from the other corner, “That’s just it! I did date an SMC-gal once. Believe me, that was enough. I still have
4 nightmares about it.”
“Just what happened?” I braved.
► George’s eyes lit up, he dramatically sat down—right on my Tyrolean hat— rolled cigar ashes on the makings of a marketing paper and continued: “She was a blind date—literally—named Ro-malia Blurb. I got her name from the blind date bureau they’ve got over there and this girl on the phone assured me,
STORY
ABOUT
ST. MARY’S
by
R. MORTIMER BROWNING
in her sweetest drawl, that ‘Romie’s just the most livin’ dawl.’ Boy, did I fall for that one.
“So I wore my sharpest suit that night. I even charged up a new tie and some argyles at Gilbert’s. I thought I’d show this girl what a charger I was, so I took a cab over and had the driver wait. I figured she’d be right out, ya know?
“Wait until you see the place where you’ve gotta pick the girl up. You think that Alcatraz is bad. You walk in this big parlor with the lights on full blast and nuns and other women running all around. Then you have to go sit real quiet on a stiff, straight-backed chairwhile this girl on an interhall phone— she’s on fortress duty—checks with the discipline office to see if your date has enough 8 o’clock permissions left.
“Anyway, after about 45 minutes a fat, ugly girl came walking it, giggling,
and holding her hand over a big wart on the end of her nose. She walked right over and said, ‘You must be Georgie. I’m sorry I’m a bit late. I had to put my face on.’ ‘You missed a couple spots,” I mumbled, grabbing her rough, red hand and getting her into the cab in a hurry.
“ ‘The Lido’ will be fine,’ she said as we got into the cab. ‘The Lido,’ I repeated to the driver. All the way into town I tried to think of ways to earn money to buy my books. We got out at the restaurant, I paid the §37.80 cab fare and took her arm. ‘Next time,’ she chastised, ‘try to get a newer model cab, please.’
“By the time our steaks arrived (she had said ‘medium rare will be fine’) we were having a conversation about boy meets girl. And she kept dropping subtle hints, like ‘When are we going to get married?’ all through Quo Vadis (at advanced prices, of course.)
“After sundaes at the Philly, I decided I’d play it cool taking her- back, by doubling with someone in a cab. I only had §3.50 left. It was a great idea, only the other couple got out at Le Mans and that was the last I saw of them or their share of the fare. ‘That’s §3.25,’ the cabbie said when we stopped at Holy Cross. I tipped him a quarter.
“Well, I wouldn’t have crossed this girl off as a total loss, but one thing more broke my entire spirit. I figured a little good night kiss was in order, but when I put my aim around the girl— and that was a feat in itself—this lady came running down the steps, shouting, ‘Here! Here! We’ll have none of that, young man. Get along now.’ So I shook hands with Romalia, I got, and I’ve never gone back,” George concluded.
I decided to go ahead with the date in spite of what George told me. There was something in his account that had a slight ring of exaggeration. Even if he
February 28, 1958
13
was right, I concluded, I could get a good anecdote out of the evening—something to laugh about with my grandchildren some day. Actually, I was pleasantly surprised.
My date, Liz, didn’t turn out to be Venus personified, but she had her good points. She seemed very pleasant and friendly and had a lot on the ball. Liz suggested we do something simple and informal, so we went to this place they call the Pebble and met lots of other kids. I had walked over to St. Mary’s along the path in front of Moreau Seminary and the only money I had spent was for cokes, so I was later able to return the stockpile I had borrowed from my roommates, prefect and maid.
Since then, we’ve discovered many things a couple can do without spending much money. St. Mary’s has a Winter Carnival, and parties in the clubhouse, and even a walk around Marian Lake can be a good time. Our own student government provides big-name entertainment and events such as glee club concerts for those of us who aren’t heirsapparent. Even a Sunday afternoon in LaFortune has proved to be a pleasant pastime.
I don’t get all decked out in a suit on every date with an SMCer, either. It gives the girl just as much of a break. After all, she has to dress up pretty much for classes and enjoys a relaxed atmosphere as much as we do.
Speaking of atmosphere, George was way off in his description of the parlors, too. They’re no rumpus rooms, to be sure, but they’re good places to sit and talk, getting to know a girl. In fact, Liz told me one of the St. Mary’s complaints concerning us is that we go about dating in the wrong way. They’d like to get to know more about us as guys, rather than as dressed-up mani
14
kins trying to make everything on a date seem perfect.
Believe it or not, studies have proven all St. Mary’s girls are not majoring in Home Management. The majority of them are, like us, interested in having a good time. There are few girls who think it necessary to consider marriage with every fellow they date (although it must be admitted Rowena Dordle, ’03, proposed to 217 members of the senior class before meeting Eldredge Farse, who asked for her hand out of admiration of her spirit). St. Mary’s girls are primarily interested in dating as a relaxation.
That’s why they’re somewhat abashed by accusations east of the highway that they take unfair advantage of the malefemale ratio. There is a surprising number of girls who will spend a Saturday evening alone rather than admit to the fellows who call at the last minute that they are dateless. Pride is the factor’ causing the fellow to be turned down, not the idea that the girl had already chosen her escort from among the many possibilities.
Many ND men complain they won’t date St. Mary’s girls because their regulations are too strict. A quick look at the SMC permissions list causes a dismayed frown to cloud the Domer’s face. A closer look reveals their permissions are geared to Notre Dame activities and regulations. And the consensus among St. Mary’s girls is that the majority of them never use up their entire stock of permissions.
The conclusion is that any Notre Dame man can, by expending a little worthwhile effort, and should date at St. Mary’s. “As the opportunity, so the responsibility.” That’s one traditional statement even I’ll go along with.
BOOKS
The Unsilent Generation edited by Otto Butz. (Rinehart and Company, Inc., 1958, 189 pp., $2.95).	j,
This is the book of essays by Princeton seniors of 1957 from which the recent article appearing in Life magazine *, was taken. It came into being from an idea of a Princeton professor, Otto Butz, who was trying to discover the real ideals and standards of American youth. ’ While in some circles Princeton students I might not seem representative, these men display certain longings and aspira-tions not totally unlike those displayed to some degree by different Notre Dame ) students. Because of the questions posed by Butz to these eleven men, they were * required to exercise a real introspection to search out motives and values. Here is what they were required to answer:
What do you want out of life? What , do you want to contribute to life?
How has youi- background affected ■	).
you in this? What do you think of happiness, success, security, God, ed-ucation, marriage, family and your , own generation? What, if any, moral problems have you encountered or do । you expect to have to face? How do you relate yourself to America’s fu-ture and to the future of mankind in general?
In answering these questions, the first 4 two writers were rather shallow in their life goals. The first says he will be b working for his own material comfort and that of others through his scientific endeavor. A factor which led to this . decision was a rejection pf God for sentimental, irrational “reasons.” What really amazes me about him was his statement, “Go ahead! Call me a blind, foolish idealist. I am. I know that I am.” I found the second writer to be the most odious personality of those en- k countered in the book. In his opinion he is a member of a rising new class of lib-erals which will be the leaders of the country. He claims that this class will ♦> “transcend the inevitable material and social self-centeredness and provincialism of the democratic masses.” Yet he says earlier that he would like to enter the world of big business because this offers “the richest rewards by way of money, prestige, and general self-satis- 4 faction.” That he is a super-egoist becomes apparent in his assertion that his thoughts on religion are not crystallized because “up to now I have not yet felt the need for any kind of divine help or guidance.”
One of the most intelligent of the
The Scholastic
•i h
.'I-
K’
h,*
'(
, ■ »
V
V *r
essayists set his goal in life as a secondary school teacher for what seemed to me a very fine reason. He considers the high school years to be in many aspects the most crucial of the young person’s formative years. For many students this is the full extent of their formal education as they go right on to their life’s profession after high school. The ones who go on to college must be prepared for this by learning the basic principles of reading, writing and thinking and he does not believe our high schools have been doing an adequate job of this. At the end of his essay he also expresses a wish to gain financial success, by working his way up in the school systems. Eventually, it is very possible that he will have to choose one or the other of these aspirations. In this case it seems to me that he exhibits enough conviction in his original purpose to follow through with it.
From these eleven essays there remains only one value to which they all seem to adhere—intellectual freedom. Their concept is one of complete independence of all authority or any objective rule which would be followed to relate themselves to the outside world. How can this be called freedom when one is thus cut off from the universe?
Romaneo Guardini in his book The Church and the Catholic defines brilliantly what is the real freedom:
That man should respond to the true nature of things with the integrity of his own nature and in the unique fashion of his divinely ordained individuality, that the divine idea within and that without encounter each other in his personal life—this is freedom.
Guardini goes on to say that it is the Church which enables us to gain this freedom; this provides the eternal frame of reference to which we can relate out finite minds to each real truth. In my opinion this is the advantage in being educated in a Catholic university over a university such as Princeton, which does not necessarily recognize the one final truth.
These men of Princeton, however, exhibit certain qualities which students of any university could well admire and strive for. The first of these is the great capacity for expressing themselves in living prose, no matter what their major or their college.
The second and most important admirable attribute of these men is that they are intellectually alive. We at Notre Dame have the advantage of the real freedom in our intellectual pursuits, but we too often take this for granted and never begin to answer the questions with which these men had to contend.
—John F. Hennedy.
At the Movies
COLFAX
Witness for the Prosecution: (Feb. 28-March 6). The indomitable Charles Laughton, with a beautiful assist from Tyrone Power and Marlene Dietrich, stars here in a triumph of magnificent entertainment. Starting with an ingenious mystery plot by that master of the medium, Agatha Christie, the producers and the cast have created one of the most intriguing and at the same time engaging entries in this category the screen has seen in a long time.
GRANADA
Peyton Place: (Feb. 28). As promised and at long last. Contributing to an excellent rating are Lana Turner, Hope Lange, Lee Philips, Lloyd Nolan, CinemaScope, and Deluxe Color. It is scheduled for a two-week run.
PALACE
Darby’s Rangers: (Feb. 28 - March 5). The title sounds Westernish, but it’s deceiving. Rangers in this case refers to a U. S. commando-type unit	;
trained by the British in World War II. The picture is a.blend of violent	g
realism in the field, fast-moving courtships, and touches of humor that keep g the interest at a high pitch. Features James Garner, star of the well known “Maverick” television program.
Co-Hit: Affair in Havana. John Cassavetes, Raymond Burr and Sarah g Shane work from the age-old premise of jealous lover. Conclusion: hardly worth the bother.
RIVER PARK
A Fareivell to Arms: (Feb. 28 - March 4). There is about this picture a feeling of depth, of substance, of extraordinary validity and of vigor. It is a big picture, big in the beauty of its terrain, the sweep of its masses, the tenseness of its dramatic moments, in its use of color and CinemaScope and incidental music. I won’t berate its B rating, but rather, recommend the picture for adult audiences. Rock Hudson, Jennifer Jones, Vittorio De Sica.
The Ten Commandments: (March 5). God Himself couldn’t have done I better.	|
STATE	j
. The Fighting Wildcats: (Feb. 28 & March 1). Stars Daffy Duck and I Tina Guccione.	This little	cartoon was very	well put together, something	|
it has in common with one of its stars.	I
Co-Hit: The Great Missouri Horse Raid. This sober theme deals with	j
Alcoholism in its extreme. Stars William Hamilton, Leslie K. Shea, and	j
Rosemary Fritz, three unheard ofs who will, undoubtedly, remain that way.	|
The Brain from Planet Arous: (March 2-5). Haven’t seen it and don’t	I
intend to.	|
Co-Hit: Teen-Age Monster. This one headlines Fran Kaveney and other j assorted monsters. Tells the standard yam of a misunderstood girl, in- i fluenced excessively by her dull-witted lover, w*ho eventually turns into a vicious killer. There’s murder, mayhem, and not a few befuddled souls as the killing persists. Death of both the girl and her mentor brings this particular horroi- episode to a much anticipated conclusion.
—Steve Sailer.
February 28, 1958
15
9>uaIi Scene
The Irish co-captain and forward looks ahead a little . . .
Three More, Then the NCAA
by JOHN McCarthy as told to ED ROHRBACH
The big thing in our minds now is the NCAA tournament. Of course we still have three games left on our schedule and everyone on the team realizes that any of them (Holy Cross tonight, Detroit and DePaul) could beat us, or all of them for that matter, if we look too far ahead.
Each will certainly be pointing for us and the last two are away games, which is to our disadvantage. Detroit, who we play tomorrow night, has a good ball club built around Mike Walsh, one of
THE AUTHOR IN ACTION
McCarthy scores against Miami in last year’s NCAA
the finest guards in the country. We play DePaul next Tuesday at their home court, Alumni Hall, and they can be one of the nation’s roughest teams there.
Everyone on the squad, I am sure, was pleased with our showing on the eastern tour we successfully completed last Saturday night in Annapolis. In both these games, against New York University and Navy, we were sluggish in the first half but managed to catch fire in the second half and win. Neither game was our best of the season but I
think by winning them we proved oui‘ victory over North Carolina was no fluke. Both N.Y.U. and Navy had fine, aggressive units and were out to beat us. We had to go all out to win them both.
As for our remaining regular season games, if we play good ball and don’t let up, I think we can come out with a 22-4 record.
Though Notre Dame’s opponent at Evanston has not yet been determined, there is a good chance we will face Miami of Ohio. If you will remember, we just managed to get by them last year at Columbus in the same tournament and they have just about the identical lineup this year. Again, their big star is tall Wayne Embry, who is averaging over 24 points a game this season.
If we win at Evanston, and nobody has to worry about the team’s getting over-confident there, we travel down to Lexington, Ky., to meet the Big Ten representative in our first game. I concur with Tom Hawkins in that I hope we face Michigan State there—for two reasons: first, they stopped us earlier in the season and we would get a chance for revenge as we did against Marquette and Louisville, and secondly, they knocked us out of the NCAA last year after we had beaten them by ten points in the regular season.
I am quite dubious, though, about State’s winning the Big Ten. Purdue, who defeated them last Monday night, probably stands a better chance right now. Also, if there is a tie, Purdue will probably get the nod from the conference officials because the Spartans went last year. Though we beat Purdue 68-61 in the Hoosier Classic during Christmas time, it’s obvious from their record that they have greatly improved since then. I hope we have improved enough to offset this, provided of course we are fortunate enough to play anybody at Lexington.
Many people, including Notre Dame fans, tend to think that we are strictly a five-man basketball team. They think that if any of the starters gets in trouble through fouls, we’re almost reduced to four* men. This is definitely not true. Tom Reinhart and Ed Gleason, plus any of the other reserves, can fill in more than adequately when they are needed. Reinhart has plenty of game experience, in fact, he started the whole first half of the season. Gleason can play either forward or guard for us. He’s one of the best “clutch” players on the team, as shown by the way he performed at Butler.
16
The Scholastic
JORDANMEN MEET CRUSADERS IN FIELDHOUSE 5
NCAA-Bound Irish In Lost Home Action; Detroit, DePaul Complete Regular Season
4
h
A ►
I
Notre Dame’s highly rated basketball squad moves in to their- last home game of the season tonight as they entertain Holy Cross in the Fieldhouse. Coach Johnny Jordan’s eagers have built up a 19-4 record over the season and are ranked with the top ten teams in the country.
Five seniors will be playing their last home game for the Irish tonight. Cocaptains Bob Devine and John McCarthy head the list of graduating seniors. Devine has started every game since he was a sophomore while McCarthy has averaged 18 points a game for the past two seasons. Both will leave big gaps in the lineup when they graduate in June.
LAST TIME
Reserves Ed Gleason, Jim Williams, and Lee Ayotte will also be appearing for the last time in the Fieldhouse. Gleason has been a starter and number one backcourt reserve for the past three seasons. Both Williams and Ayotte have performed capably in reserve roles this season.
Holy Cross has been using a well balanced scoring attack to make up for a lack of height in the starting lineup. Their biggest man is sophomore Ralph Brandt at 6-6. Brandt has been averaging twelve points and twelve rebounds a game. Senior Art Andreoli is the top scorer for the Crusaders. The 6-1 forward has averaged 15 points a game.
Captain Joe Hughes (6-3) has been the top rebounder on the squad and has chipped in 14 points a game to aid the Crusaders. The two guards, 6.-2 Jack Whelan and 5-11 Tom Ryan, have 14 and eight point averages respectively. Whelan is the third leading rebounder on the squad.
TOMORROW
Tomorrow the Irish travel to Detroit to face the Detroit University Titans.
Detroit has been paced this season by its two co-captains, Mike Walsh and Don Haase. Walsh has been the top scorer with a 17 point average. The 5-10 guard is a top defensive star also. Haase, standing 6-6 and weighing 220 pounds, is a rugged rebounder. He has
a 16 rebound average pei- game and a 14 point average. He has been a regular for three years.
The other guard, 5-9, Ray Albee is the playmaker of the squad and has a twelve-point average.
Detroit coach, Bob Calihan calls Albee and Walsh the best guard combination he has had in the ten years that he has coached at Detroit.
The forwards are Ralph Uchison (63) and John Belohlavek (6-2). Both are juniors. Uchison is second in scoring to Walsh with a 15 point average. Belohlavek has averaged less than ten points a game but is a top rebounder and defensive man.
The reserves are led by 6-6 senior Bob Kedzo. Kedzo started the first four games for the Titans but has been hindered with a back injuiy. Bob Butka and Dan Potter, both 6-4, are the other two big men who fill in on the forward wall.
HAWKINS IN WONDERLAND
17 points to break magic number tonight
Against mutual opponents Detroit has fared the same as the Irish. They lost to Michigan State, 71-59, but beat Ca-nisius, 61-54, and Louisville, 68-64.
In their last outing they easily defeated Seton Hall, 69-48.
The regular season finale Tuesday night finds the Irish at DePaul. The Jordanmen already hold a 79-61 victory ovei* the Demons at Notre Dame.
LOSE STAR
The Demons’ cage fortunes took a turn for the worse when they lost sophomore star McKinley Cowsen by scholastic ineligibility at semesters. Cowsen was the leading scorer and rebounder before he became ineligible.
Sophomore Bill Coglianese has taken up the scoring and rebounding burden for DePaul. The 6-6 center is now averaging 14 points and 12 rebounds a game.
Paul Ruddy, a 6-5 forward, has a ten-point average and is second to Coglianese in rebounds. Mike Salzinski (6-2) and Dick Feiereisel (6-0), both sophs, see heavy duty at the forward spot.
Tuesday’s game will end the regular season for the Irish. Next action will be the subregionals of the NCAA tourney in Evanston.
February 28, 1958
17
IRISH HIGHSTEPPER Dornbach a double winner
Thinclads Unbeaten In Dual-Meet Season
Powered by nine first place finishes in their twelve event dual meet, Notre Danie’s indoor track team easily defeated their Iowa counterparts, 69-40, last Friday night at Iowa City. It was the third straight dual meet victory of the season for the Wilsonmen. The win continued the mastery of the Irish over the Hawkeyes in track, as it was Notre Dame’s fifth triumph in five meets. This marked the teams’ first clash since 1948.
Iowa had some consolation from their distance man, Charles “Deacon” Jones. Jones was one of the individual stars with a double triumph in the mile and two-mile events. Jones finished some ten yards ahead of the Irish miler, Dick DiCamillo, with a time of 4:16. In the two-mile chase, the “Deacon” led a surprising Iowa sweep in an amazingly fast time of 9:15.7.
Another outstanding performance was turned in by Notre Dame’s Dale VandenBerg. The Irish senior cracked the meet and Iowa fieldhouse records in the half mile run with a time of 1:52.6. Andy Crawford of the Irish placed third in the event.
In the 440-yard dash, Notre Dame’s Joe Foreman won in :50.7 to break the tape ahead of two lowans.
Iowa’s Hugh Hines captured the 60-yard dash. Irish sprinters Pete Salsich and John Foote finished in that order behind Hines’ time of :06.4.
Reliable Steve Dornbach was again brilliant in the 70-yard high and low hurdles. The Irish star matched Jones’ double triumph, while setting two meet
records. Dornbach’s time was :08.7 in the highs and :08 in the lows. Don Faley got a third in the lows.
Frank Geremia tossed the shot put 49 feet 11U inches and Gerry Wilkes heaved it 49 feet 8 inches to give the Irish a solid one-two finish in this event.
Notre Dame also dominated the other field events. Jack Cote and Tom Reichert both vaulted 13 feet for a first place tie. Glen Cividin gave the Irish a sweep in the pole vault with a 12 feet 4 inch effort.
Tom Sanfacon’s 6 feet 4 inch leap gave Notre Dame a first in the high jump.
Faley copped the broad jump. The winning leap was 23 feet 7/8 inches.
A Notre Dame quartet of Pat Reilly, Mike O’Connor, Foreman, and VandenBerg won the mile relay by covering the distance in 3:24.6. The Hawkeye relay team failed to finish.
Altogether, nine meet records and two fieldhouse records were broken. Marks fell in every event except the 60 and 440-yard dashes and the shot put. Jones in the two-mile run and VandenBerg in the 880-yard run set new fieldhouse standards.
This was Notre Dame’s last dual meet of the indoor season. They defeated Missouri, Purdue, and Iowa to finish unbeaten. Tomorrow, the Irish cindermen will travel to New York’s Madison Square Garden to participate in the IC4A meet. In all probability, Coach Alex Wilson will choose the twelve strongest team members to represent the Irish in the annual New York classic.
Wrestlers Suffer Loss; First In Seven Meets
Notre Dame’s wrestling team suffered its first loss in seven starts Saturday by dropping a 24-4 meet to Western Illinois College at Macomb, Ill. The Irish grapplers failed to win any of the matches.
Two Irish wrestlers tied their opponents in the Western Illinois meet. Jerry Sachsel and Don Burnette drew in the 123-lb. class, and Jack Armstrong tied Bob Elliot in the 191-lb. division. Jim Rankin lost the 137-lb. match, 8-7, and Dick Sapp also dropped a one-point decision, 4-3 in the 157-lb. division. Buddy Day dropped his 130-lb. match, 15-3; Bob Pivonka was edged by Frank Donato in the 147-lb. battle, 5-3; Chuck Henzy dropped his 167-lb. match, 5-1; and Bucky O’Connor was pinned in the 177-lb. bout.
Tomorrow Notre Dame will take on Marquette, a team which "beat the Irish last year. However, Marquette has many new men this year and it is difficult to judge the strength of their team.
Undefeated Fencers Face Greatest Task	„
Notre Dame’s undefeated fencing	,
A team faces its biggest test of the season tomorrow when it faces two of the Midwests’ biggest powers, Wisconsin and Illinois, at 1:30 p.m. in the Fieldhouse.
Fresh from recent triumphs over Michigan State and Ohio State at Columbus last week end, the fencers now have a 15 meet win streak, 12 of which have occurred this year. The longest 1 Irish win streak on record is 17 which can be equaled with victories tomorrow. I
Michigan State bowed 16-11 and Ohio
State 18-9 to the Irish in the triangular f" meet at Columbus. Jim Rossomano and Jerry Johnson, a pair- of sophomores, ‘ 1 led the foil division with 6-0 and 5-1 I decords respectively.
Captain Dick Fagon and Jerry Meyer led the sabre to an 11-7 record. By winning four out of six, Fagon increased , his season record to 23-9. Meyer, who i won five of six, is now 17-8.	*
The biggest surprise occurred in the ) epee division where the Notre Dame entries received only their fourth setback i-in 76 meets. After losing to Michigan State, 5-4, the Irish immediately bounced । back to get revenge and defeat the Buck- j eyes 6-3.	*
This is the third year in succession ■ that the fencers have come this far without a loss and both times it has ''J been tomorrow’s foes, Wisconsin or Illinois, who spoiled their perfect record. Notre Dame defeated Illinois 16-11 earlier in the year but the Illini were then without four of their best men. At pres- a. ent Wisconsin is undefeated in two years of collegiate competition.
With his best balanced team in years, Coach Walter Langford gives Notre Dame a “50-50 chance to win both matches despite the return of the Illinois lettermen.” This balance is pointed fh out by the records of the three divisions: foil, 71-37; sabre, 72-36; and epee, 7929.	k
SENIOR-FRESHMAN GAME «' Tonight in the Fieldhouse before the varsity contest between Notre Dame and Holy Cross, the Seniors, a motley composite of erstwhile 4 football players, basketball players and just plain erstwhiles undergo 4 battle with the Freshmen, a team . made up of yearling basketball scholarship winners. In the three > previous meetings betwen these two rivals, the Seniors have merged i victorious twice. Game time will be about 6:15.
18
The Scholastic
TIME OUT
“The best winter sports season in the history of the University,” says Sports Publicist Charley Callahan. And indeed it is. At present, the basketball team is 19-4 with a bid to the NCAA, the fencers and indoor tracksters are unbeaten, and the wrestlers have a fine 7-1 record. Only the swim club, which is not a varsity organization, shows more losses than wins.
Coach John Jordan and his squad deserve a great amount of praise for the fine job done this season against some of the very best competition in the country. It would be a fine gesture on the part of the student body to fill the Fieldhouse tonight for the last home basketball game of the season. We sometimes overlook the accomplishments of the Jordanmen, who have done almost everything asked of them this year.
Five seniors will be playing their last home game tonight. John McCarthy, Bob Devine, Ed Gleason, Jim Williams and Roger Ayotte have given Irish fans a fine brand of ball for the last three years. These men in particular deserve a great hand tonight, so let’s give it to them.
While this is the last home game, it won’t be the last chance for the students to see the team in action. Plans are in the making for student trips to NCAA tourney games. The Evanston trip should be accessible to all in that it will be quite cheap, right around $5.00. Let’s hope that this plan becomes a reality. Say something about it to your Hall Senator, or whoever takes care of student trips.
THE NEXT THREE
The next three ball games are worth some concern in that with all the pressure for a bid off, there might be a tendency to let-up.
If we drop any of the last three games, our chances of ending in the “Top Ten” are almost nonexistent. However, if we grab all three we should climb, perhaps as high as fifth.
All the above adds to the fact that these last three are important and cannot be taken lightly. Detroit has a good club and DePaul is always tough at home. Both of them could beat us but shouldn’t if we merely play the kind of ball that we have in the past.
THE FENCERS
I really regret that we were so limited space wise this week because the fencers certainly deserve more space than they have received. They are riding on a 15-game winning streak and can tie the school record for consecutive wins with two victories tomorrow.
It would be well worth the effort to watch the matches in the Fieldhouse tomorrow afternoon at 1:30. You will see the Irish swordsmen meet the best competition in the Midwest in Illinois and Wisconsin. If you have never seen a fencing meet by all means drop over, you won’t regret it. And the participants could use some backing.
TYLER CALLED
Tyler called to gloat a little about picking Purdue over Michigan State as his upset of the week. He must have some good informants at Purdue because during the football season he picked the Boilermakers over the Spartans and surprised us all.
The only information that he was able to give was that Iowa is a good long-shot bet for the Big Ten crown. We can’t see it this way though, and must stick with State or Purdue.—M.F.
Former Irish Commodore Vies for America's Cup
Don Matthews, who graduated from Notre Dame three years ago, has been named a challenger for the honor of representing the United States in defense of the America’s Cup. In 1851, the schooner America whipped all English competition to bring the Cup, a symbol of world yacht-racing supremacy, to the United States where it has remained.
Matthews will be helmsman of the twelve - meter Vim, one of the four yachts vying for the privilege of representing the United States this summer against a British challenger.
As Commodore, Matthews organized the club in its present form and is therefore largely responsible for the Irish having an intercollegiate sailing team. After a long string of impressive showings, the club now enjoys national prominence and prestige.
Tennis Team Foresees Successful Season
Notre Dame’s 1958 tennis team looks forward to a highly successful season this year-. The team has lost but one man from last year’s squad, Harry Smith. The returnees include Maxwell Brown, who is ranked number 17 in the nation.
Among the other top men returning this year are Captain Ron Schoenberg, who will be pushing Brown for the top slot; Chuck Vanoncini, working hard to ward off Sergio Garza and Hector Cabello; and junior Charlie Stevens, who won a monogram last year.
The team will start the season with the warmup, Round Robin Indoor Match in Chicago on March 14 and 15. Competing with ND will be Iowa, Michigan, Northwestern and Indiana. This match will help determine the Notre Dame starting lineup.
The regular season begins on April 2 when the team takes its southern trip. Opponents on this circuit include the University of Louisville, Bellarmine College, Marshall College, and in the Cherry Blossom Tourney in Washington, D. C., Georgetown, and George Washington. Others expected to provide tough competition include Iowa, a team that beat ND last year, Kalamazoo College, Northwestern, and Michigan, the NCAA champions last year.
The team has been working out in the Fieldhouse for the past week. Coach Tom Fallon expresses his optimism saying “We should have a very fine season. With the same team back and a little experience, we should be pretty tough.”
February 28, 1958
19
R.WTURBOW \PPTOME TRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel
Phone CE 4-5777
WHERE NOTRE DAME SHOPS WITH CONFIDENCE
Fine Quality Diamonds
Nationally Advertised Watches Jewelry and Gift Items
Jewelry and Watch Repairing
126 N. Michigan. Ph. CE 2-1202
HUIJIIS LMYaii NOK SIOP
'Dome* Board to Choose Seniors for 1958 Award
Joe Bumbleburg, editor of the 1958 Dome, reported that 35 graduating seniors are now under consideration by a board of Juniors for the 1958 Dome award.
The members of the board are: Bum-bleburg, chairman; Bill Graham, secretary of the Student Senate; Mark Shields, president of the Junior Class; Bob Janoski, social editor of the Dome; John Thurin, sports editor of the yearbook; and Ron Durand, Leon Keyser, and John Beliveau, representing the undergraduate colleges.
This award is given to from one to four members of the Senior class on the basis of their spiritual, academic, and extracurricular activities in their four years at Notre Dame. The final selection is given to those men who most nearly measure up to the ideal of the true Christian gentlemen.
The committee will meet again in the near future to make its final selections. Those who merit the awards will then be notified and the results will be announced in a forthcoming issue of the Scholastic.
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
Tom Maupin TOUR ASSOCIATES
1236 Massachusetts Lawrence / Kansas
MAUPINTOURS/1958 ADVENTURE! EDUCATION! I tan
TRAVEL! SUMMER 1958!
Join a special American-directed, student/teacher tour through the Soviet Union. Choose from six departure dates_travel to seldom-visited cities such as Kiev of the Ukraine, Stalingrad. Odessa, Yalta, Sochi, Tbilisi of Soviet Georgia, Kharkov . . . enjoy a Volga River or Black Sea cruise ... see Leningrad and Moscow. Visit Warsaw, Prague and the Brussels' World Fair ... glus^extensions to the European Inclusive rate from $1369, from New York. Reservations limited, apply now for sufficient time to secure Russian visa. Write today for descriptive folder.
See your travel agent or
SUMMER TRAVEL TALK
A member of the NSA Travel office will present a movie and a short talk on travel to Europe during the summer of 1958. All students from ND and SMC who are interested in traveling abroad are invited. The presentation will be given in the Student Center amphitheater Thursday, at 7:30 p.m.
Army Drill Team to March At Basketball Game Tonight
The Army ROTC Cadet Drill team will make its last appearance before the entire student body between the halves of tonight’s Notre Dame-Holy Cross basketball game.
The Drill Team, commanded by Cadet Captain Andrew Donahue of Chicago and drilled by Cadet Sergeant Major Hugh Murphy of New York, has won trophies the last two years in the Cook County Annual Fifth Army competition. The team’s next appearance at Notre Dame will be at the Tri-Military Smoker just before Easter.

//AV
LOST
Glasses—Dark Frames— Green Morroco Case Peg Burke, University Press Ext.—416
AROTC TOURNAMENT
The Army ROTC is sponsoring a basketball tournament for eight of * the best teams on campus. These are the Chemical Engineers, the Minnesota, Chicago, Cincinnati, Milwaukee and Buffalo clubs. Also included are the winner of the ? Navy-Air Force game and the host Army team.
The tournament will be held during the week end of March 9 and ’’ 10 in the Fieldhouse. The admission is free to student spectators.
•......................................I
Eight Students Chosen '• For Fulbright Grants
Fulbright Fellowships, enabling ' American students to spend a year at the foreign school of theii- choice, have been awarded to eight Notre Dame -graduate and undergraduate students. The announcement of the decision of the * Fulbright national selection committee , was made recently by The Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of the AB school. 4
The eight students are William Griffith, Victor Kopidlansky, Thomas Walsh, 4. Theodore Collins, Richard Navin, Michael Kennedy, Ralph Nelson and James 0 Brunot.
All these awards are pending the final ’ approval of the Board of Foreign Scholarships. This approval is virtually automatic unless the student withdraws from competition, Father Sheedy said.
Griffith, a senior from Smithfield, Tex., * plans to apply his grant to studying phi-losophy in Belgium, while grad student Kopidlansky, who comes from Cato, Wis., will take up medieval studies in Denmark.
Organic chemistry is the field chosen x by Walsh, a senior from Chicago, and economics is Collins’ choice. He is from Waitsburg, Wash. Navin, a grad student from Desplaine, Ill., will study sculpture. They will study in France, Germany, and Italy, respectively.
, Kennedy, one of the leading members of the University Theatre, will study theatre arts in England. He is from Boston, Mass. Nelson, a grad student from Park Ridge, Ill., will study philosophy in France while Brunot wishes to study modern Spanish literature in Chile. He is a senior from Richmond, Va.
In addition, Fulbrights have been awarded to eight former students of 4 Notre Dame. They are Edward Doyle, ( ’54, Pasquale diPasquale, Ronald Henderson, and John Slovick, all of ’55.	।
Also included are Paul Clemens, John Heineman, William Slovick, and Bernard Browne of last year’s graduating class.
The Scholastic
20
■< 4
- r*
4- (9
0 *
Civil Rights
(Continued from page 12) with such limitations, the government has still many ways to move people in the right direction by gentle pressure. The Federal government could—as it did —de-segregate all Federal facilities and institutions. It could, within the framework of the “separate but equal” principle, have insisted on effective “equality.” It could have worked toward the full realization of Negro voting rights. In choosing the most inflammatory of all issues: the issue of the company in which children go to school, it took a course that needs must entail bitter resistance and overriding compulsion. Would that the Court, like Dean O’Meara, had regarded the law as an instrument of education rather than imposition 1
Which brings us to Dean O’Meara’s charge that we would want the Court always to bow to the majority of the conununity. The Dean claims that in holding this view we reject both natural law and constitutional rights. Actually, we neither said nor believe that the Court should defer to the majority. What we did say was that, in case of doubt, the Court should be guided by the enduring consensus of the community. This view does not reject natural law. Natural law is embodied.into positive law by authoritative decision. The enduring consensus of the people has always been considered authoritative in this respect, and there are good reasons why nine men, even though deeply learned and inspired with the loftiest motives, should not lightly set aside that on which the enduring consensus of the commonalty has settled. If they did, they might possibly set aside a good chunk of natural law embodied therein. Moreover, the real issue was not the relation of the Court to a chance majority but rather to the system of public law and order—including constitutional rights — in which and along with which this country’s customs and traditions have taken shape. The Supreme Court has now undertaken to revolutionize this system at three’ crucial points: It has sought fundamentally to alter the order under which the people of the South have lived for generations;
* COMMERCE FORUM ELECTIONS
. . The Commerce Forum recently ’ held election of officers for the i second semester. Ed Buckley was elected president, succeeding Hugh
| | Plunkett. Frank Fox was named to the office of vice-president, Don Reilly, corresponding secretary, and Bob Brennan, recording secretary.
it has reversed the meaning of the Constitution, as that meaning had been known to Americans for more than half a century; and it has begun to unbalance the relations between the states and the union.
Dean O’Meara exhorts us to “pay attention” to the decisions of the Court. The Supreme Court has not merely made a judicial decision but it has, of its own accord, initiated a Federal policy. Have we lost our right to criticize the policies of our government? We do agree with the Dean that the Supreme Court is our topmost judicial authority and that its decisions must be respected. But does that mean that the Supreme Court enjoys dictatorial power by which it can make of the Constitution whatever it chooses to? In our system, every organ wielding sovereign power is subject to critical scrutiny by others. Is the Supreme Court to be the sole exception? Is it to have unlimited title to encroach even on rights that antedate the Constitution?
If Dean O’Meara, accepts this corrected summary of what we consider the problem to be, we should like to learn from him what the Law School stands for in this respect.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 NORTH NILES AVENUE
Diamonds Jewelry Watches J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
Ask Your Travel Agent
25th Year
Also $149
332 So. Michigan Ave. INC. Chicago 4, HA 7-2557
low-cost trips to Mexico .	up. South America $699up,
Hawaii Study Tour $498 up and Around the World $1398 up.
Nave a WORID of FUN!
Trave! with fITA
Unbelievable Low Cost
Enroot
60 Days from $585 Orient
43-65 Days	from $998
Many fours include college credit
Km him nt a BfTTfg POINT AVIMC0 Don’t let that "drowsy feeling” cramp your style in class ... or when you’re "hitting the books”. Take a NoDoz Awakener! In a few minutes, you’ll be your normal best... wide awake ... alert! Youf doctor will tell you—NoDoz Awakeners are safe as coffee. Keep a pack handy!
15 TABLETS, 35e	.
StWets j iehandytin j
NOQOZ
AW A K E N E R S
HOTEL
KNICKERBOCKER
JU-2-4200
i^BX 2 FINE HARRIS HOTELS NEW YORK
HOTEL 1
si* sr. cast or moadwat 400 line rooms with radio from
MWAIS cnoost
_ TELEVISION
■ AIR-CONDITIONED
9 Other Harris Hotels
TIMES SQUARE
sr. wtST or moaoway
' -.>u| 1000 meme with radio C A
•>!9< oodMUtM trem *
LA-4-6900
CINCINNATI. Metropole Broadway Kemper lane ________________________	MIAMI BEACH. Sovereign
HOTEL METROPOL^ CutctnuuHe Oftt*	**»___
ALBERT HARRIS, PMcfe* .	.	DETROIT, Fort Wayne HaM
AKTHUN H. HIHWAN. Meeopieg Director COLUMBUS. Irood-baeelo

February 28, 1958
21
Hack Pom
k
by BRIAN WOODS
Washington’s birthday
afterthoughts ’
i
Patriotism is one of those abstract words so often tossed out in discussions on the intellectual level, and on other levels as well. Like so many abstract terms it has been used to mean many things by many different people, with the result that it is in danger of losing all meaning. For some Patriotism is a carte blanche in the sphere of political action, used as the answer to all adverse criticism. The worst sort of lies, calumnies and smears are perpetrated in its name. But this, for those who so use it, is not a misunderstanding but a deliberate misuse. And it is usually sooner or later recognized for what it is.
The real danger lies in the fact that well-meaning people have come to misunderstand what Patriotism really is. The word can be defined simply enough. Patriotism is loyalty to one’s country. There is general agreement on this as long as no attempt is made to say what loyalty is, and why one should be loyal to one’s country anyway.
For a great many people, loyalty to a country is like loyalty to an athletic team. The United States is their team, and if it is winning they will cheer, but if it begins to lose they start to lose interest. I am not trying to criticize the habits of sports fans, but to suggest that the loyalty of a man to his country is of a different nature entirely. The fact that one lives in Chicago does not prevent one from being indifferent or even hostile to the Cubs or White Sox. One can even be a Yankee fan; it is a matter of personal preference, determined by taste and emotion. I hope to show that loyalty to one’s country is not a matter of preference, but I am afraid that the notion is pretty widely accepted that it is.
Before I go on to what I think it is, I want to look at this idea of loyalty being a matter of preference, and see to what extremes it leads. A person prefers that which he thinks best, and most Americans think their country is best
just as they think their team is best, and frequently for no sounder reasons. One man’s best is often not another’s. And there are many thoughtful and sincere people who reject the attitude that everything American is good, and everything non-American bad. Since they are intelligent and thoughtful, they dismiss as provincialism any contention that the American way must be best because it is American. They are able to see a great many faults and flaws in our society. They can point to materialism, they can point to hypocrisy, they can point to selfishness, they can point to secularism. They can demonstrate that in a great many important respects America is not the best country that ever existed. And their objections do not admit of easy dismissal or disproof, for many of them are true. And having come to this conclusion, they are tempted to reject Patriotism as an ideal.
They make this mistake because they have accepted the idea that loyalty is a matter of personal preference, and they do not happen to prefer the United States. It is not that they are wrong in their judgments about their country, for there is much room for honest disagreement, but they have misunderstood what loyalty is, and why a country deserves its citizens’ loyalty. To be loyal simply means to love, help and defend the object of loyalty. It may require more, but surely it requires this much. There are a number of calls upon our loyalty, some of which are a matter of choice, and some of which are a matter of obligation. When we marry we assume the obligation of loyalty to our wife and family. When we go to a school, we have an obligation of loyalty to that school. True friendship requires loyalty. In each of these cases the degree of loyalty and the element of free choice differ, as well as the obligation. But in each there is the element of obligation or duty, that which is owed. Why are we obligated to be loyal to our coun
try? As citizens we are all members of a society or community. The whole of that community is our country. Each of - u us also belongs to smaller communities on the regional, state and local levels. But these are the parts of the whole, and as citizens our first obligation is to ) our nation.	(
A society exists for the common good of its members. Each of us derives a 1 $ great many benefits from the society in which he lives. In justice we owe something to the society in return. What we owe is simply loyalty or patriotism. We 1 have all received a great many benefits „ from our society, and our corresponding obligation to that society is great. It is simple to list some of the things we have ' received: our freedom, oui- health, our material benefits are all outgrowths of 4 society, in whole or in part. In return we have a duty to love, help and respect K that society. As Christians we have an	|
obligation in simple justice to be patri-	<
otic. Others have paid taxes so that we ' might have schools and roads and the 4 protection of law. We owe as much. A. j Others have sacrificed their time for our J benefit. We owe as much. Others have ? given their lives to defend us. If the necessity arises, we owe as much.
If we once understand Patriotism in , this light, it becomes obvious that if we 1 see corruption, if we see a loss of spirit- * ual values, if we see injustice, if we see many of the myriad of spiritual, intellectual, and physical evils that exist in this country, we are not justified in turning away. Nor are we justified in . pretending they do not exist. On the contrary, we are obliged to do what we 4. ' can to bring about a change. If our background and education enable us to < J see what is wrong, we must do what we can to improve the state of things, not * lapse into sneering cynicism. As college i students, we are supposed te have greater abilities than most. The demands of i loyalty to our country are that much more binding upon us.
22	The Scholastic
1
9M0
Star Performers! the ARROW pin-tab and tabber
They’re the smoothest shirts anywhere. And both are yours in a barrel cuff as well as French and Link Cuff*, British stripes, miniature checks, solid colors. Thank exclusive Arrow Mitoga® tailoring for their subtly trim lines, collar to waist to cuff. “Sanforized”-labeled. From $4.00 and up. Cluett, Peabody, & Co., Inc.
ARROW- first in fashion •Trade-mark

Just in... a glittering selection of ARROW "tabs"
Be the first to add this new pacesetter to your wardrobe. And don’t miss out on the Arrow “extras” that come with these stripes, checks and solids: trim Mitoga®-tapered lines and the “Sanforized” label, to mention two. See us soon.
GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St, South Bend
A new idea in smoking!

I refreshes your taste
'Ate
‘I
4?
£4^


■*"**•<. ’

&

* menthol fresh
Salem brings a wholly new quality to smoking...Spring-time-softness in every puff. Salem refreshes your taste the way a Spring morning refreshes you.
★ rich tobacco taste
Smoking was never like this before! You taste that rich tobacco...then, surprise!... there’s an unexpected softness that gives smoking new comfort and ease.
★ modern filter^ too
Through Salem’s pure-white, modern filter flows the freshest taste in cigarettes. You smoke refreshed, pack after pack, when you buy Salems by the carton.
Sita