A new idea in smoking!
refreshes your taste


* menthol fresh
Salem brings a wholly new quality to smoking,..Spring-time-softness in every puff. Salem refreshes your taste the way a Spring morning refreshes you.
★	rich tobacco taste
Smoking was never like this before! You taste that rich tobacco...then, surprise!... there’s an unexpected softness that gives smoking new comfort and ease.
★	modern filter, too
Through Salem’s pure-white, modern filter flows the freshest taste in cigarettes. You smoke refreshed, pack after pack, when you buy Salems by the carton.
Salem
S3
Created by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
Fl.LTE R ,Jc1 gar ETTES ‘
I—
1
A Campus-to-Career Case History
Bill Rhode (left) at the site of New Orleans' new Claiborne Street Industrial Canal Bridge.
“Problems keep life interesting for a telephone engineer”
“I’ve taken part in all kinds of engineering projects during the five years I’ve been with the telephone company,” says Bill Rhode, M.E., Tulane, ’52. “Each project brings special problems to solve.
“Take a couple of recent jobs I did as examples. One was to plan and oversee the relocation of telephone facilities near a new drawbridge. The job included designs for attaching telephone cable to the finished bridge and for providing service to the bridgetender’s office and the locks.
“The other job was completely dif
ferent. I was asked to make an experimental installation of some newly developed line concentrator equipment. After selecting the test location. I engineered facilities for the remote concentrator unit, and trunk plant to the central office.
“Another tiling about these jobs — they’re a result of the growth of the telephone business. Not only do problems like these keep life interesting for a telephone engineer, but they mean that careers are full of opportunities to show what you can do and °;et ahead.”
Wilmer J. Rhode is with Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company. He is one of many young men who are finding interesting and rewarding careers with the Bell Telephone Companies. Ask your placement officer for information about the careers these companies offer.
BELL.
TELEPHONE COMPANIES
February 21, 1958
3
On Campus
MaxShulman
{By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!” and “Barefoot Boy with Cheek”)
The Notre Dome
Scholastic
Vol. 99 February 21, 1958 No. 14
Disco Quasi Semper Victunu Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
THE PLEDGE YOU SAVE MAY BE YOUR OWN
Founded 1867
Today’s column is directed at those young female undergraduates who have recently pledged sororities and are worried, poor lambs, that they won’t make good. Following is a list of simple instructions which, if faithfully observed, will positively guarantee that you will be a mad success as a sorority girl.
First, let us take up the matter of housemothers. The housemother is your friend, your guide, your mentor. You must treat her with respect. When you wish to speak to her, address her as “Mother Sigafoos” or “Ma’am.” In no circumstances must you say, “Hey, fat lady.”
Second, let us discuss laundry. Never hang your wash on the front porch of the sorority house. This is unsightly and shows a want of breeding. Use the Chapter Room.
Third, meals. Always remember that planning and preparing meals for a houseful of healthy girls is no simple task. Your cook goes to a great deal of trouble to make your menu varied and nourishing. The least you can do is show your appreciation. Don’t just devour your food: praise it. Exclaim with delight, “What delicious pork jowls!” or “What a yummy soupbone!” or “What scrumptious fish heads!” or “What clear water!”
Fourth, clothing. Never forget that your appearance reflects not just on yourself but on the whole house. It was well enough before you joined a sorority to lounge around campus in your old middy blouse and gym bloomers, but now you must take great pains to dress in
a manner which excites admiring comments from all who observe you. A few years ago, for example, there was a Chi Omega named Camille Ataturk at the University of Iowa who brought gobs of glory to all her sorors.
Camille hit on the ingenious notion of suiting her garb to the class she was
The makers of Marlboro wish to announce that Mr. Shulman has been paid for this column and will continue to be paid for bringing you his homely philosophy throughout the school year.
attending. For instance, to English Lit she wore a buskin and jerkin. To German she wore lederhosen and carried a stein of pilsener. To Econ she wore 120 yards of ticker tape. Her shiningest hour came one day when she dressed as a white mouse for Psych Lab. Not only her Chi Omega sisters, but the entire student body went into deep mourning when she was killed by the janitor’s cat.
Finally, let us take up the most important topic of all. I refer, of course, to dating.
As we have seen, the way you dress reflects on your sorority, but the men you date reflect even more. Be absolutely certain that your date is an acceptable fellow. Don’t beat about the bush; ask him point-blank, “Are you an acceptable fellow?” Unless he replies, “Yeah, hey,” send him packing.
But don’t just take his word that he is acceptable. Inspect him closely. Are his fingernails clean? Is his black leather jacket freshly oiled? Is his ukulele in tune? Does he carry public liability insurance? And, most significant of all, does he smoke Marlboros?
If he’s a Marlboro man, you know he’s

a lot of man. You know he has taste and discernment, wit and wisdom, character and sapience, decency and warmth, presence and poise, talent and grit, filter and flavor. You will be proud of him, your sorority will be proud of him, the makers of Marlboro will be proud of him, and I will be paid for this column.
© 1958, Max Shulman
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
JIM STEINTRAGER
Editor
DAVID L. KUBAL
Associate Editor
JOHN GLAVIN
Associate Editor
GEORGE CLEMENTS .............News Editor	„
HARRY McKEE  ________________ Copy Editor
BOB EARLY................. Features	Editor
MIKE FITZPATRICK ............ Sports	Editor
BOB WILLIAMS ................ Photography	i
LORAN SHEFFER................Business Manager
MIKE KURAS ..............Assistant Business JOE DEZELAN ............. Circulation	Manager
WALT RUDGE ................ Assistant	News	.j
RON BLUBAUGH...............Assistant	Copy
BILL CONWAY................Assistant	Copy
TOM EDWARDS ............Assistant Features TOM LAMONT ______________Assistant Features ' BOB SEDLACK _____________ Assistant	Features
ED ROHRBACH _____________ Assistant Sports I?
TED THOMPSON ............ Assistant Sports
News Staff: Ken Baumgartner, Alan Bosch, Art Dechene. Luino Dellosso, Bob Manivama, Gil Pap- , r - . . rocki, Lyn Relph, Charles Rieck, Roy Rubeli, Tom J ! Romans, Milt Streifel, Tom Swanstrom, Dick Zang. 1 •
Sports Staff: Bob Briggs, Jim Brogan, Dave Cole, Jack Dolan, John Koch, Bob Miller, Mike Murphy, Tim O’Reilly, Bob Schaefer.
Sports Features: Joe Bride, John McMahon, Greg Rogers.
Business Staff: Bernie Dobranski, Pete Hasbrook, Bob Horn, Conrad Suski.
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City-
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examine- v tion periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $4.00 a year. Address all manu- i scripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Publication Schedule for the 1957-58 school year, fl Volume 99: No. 1, Sept. 27; No. 2, Oct. 4; No. 3, *. I Oct. 11;	No. 4,	Oct.	18; No. 5,	Oct. 25;	No. 6,	I
Nov. 8;	No. 7,	Nov.	15; No. 8,	Nov. 22;	No. 9,	.1
Dec. 6; No. 10, Dec. 13 (Football Review); No. 11, Jan. 17;	No. 12,	Feb.	7; No. 13,	Feb. 14;	No. 14.
Feb. 21;	No. 15,	Feb.	28; No. 16,	March 7;	No. 17,	,
March 14; No. 18, March 21; No. 19, March 28; No. 20, April 25; No. 21, May 2; No. 22, May 9;
No. 23, May 16; No. 24, May 23.
4
The Scholastic
vox et praeterea nihil
. by MARTIN T. FRANCIS
„ While sitting on the floor of my room, chipping out flint heads for an aborigine friend, my bust of Rousseau toppled off the spear rack — I’m a member of the Field and Stream Sports Club — and landed on my skull. In the resulting delirium I conceived of a university : whose rules I present for your approval.
They are not to be considered as guides to any sort of personal development, but l rather as a challenge.
f UN-STUDENT MANUAL
. UNIVERSITY OF ANN ARCHY
(	A. PROLOGUE
i The University of Ann Archy is a i society composed of faculty and unstudents whose only aim is to antagonize
। each other. It has, therefore, the responsibility of purporting to ensure to all the minimum chaos necessary for the
’ attainment of this ideal. As a residence i university, it shares, furthermore, the ' responsibility of a guardian and social director for making these years exciting and amusing.
To fulfill this twofold responsibility, the university enacts certain regulations designed to please those who break them with impunity. On the part of the un* students is expected an understanding that this life is a complete waste of time.
'	B. PENALTIES
, The following penalties may be imposed not for the violation of the below r rules, but for the discovery of said violations.
A MOST GRAVE PENALTY: permanent dismissal from the game.
* A MORE GRAVE PENALTY: suspension from the game for at least one season.
’ A GRAVE PENALTY: suspension of drinking privileges for any length of time, including a season.
A PROPORTIONATE PENALTY: This penalty varies according to the offender’s capability to prevaricate.
C. UNSATISFACTORY UN-STUDENTS
Any un-student who constantly cooperates with the authorities by missing social functions, maintaining an air of sobriety, ignoring the suggestions of unstudent conformity, or scholastically enjoying his course of study may become an injurious influence to the rest of the un-student body, hence he may be required to withdraw from the game.
1.	IDENTIFICATION CARDS
“Why am I at all, and in any way whatsoever?” Until this is answered, it is unnecessary to know who one is, therefore all un-students will remain anonymous and carry no means of identification other than a laundry number. (MOST GRAVE PENALTY.)
2.	MOURNING CHECKS
In view of the dissatisfaction or mourning consequent to introspection, the Un-Student Society for Conformity sponsors many dances, balls, picnics and carnivals. Any un-student who repeatedly ignores these benefits shall be considered a student and therefore deemed detrimental to the welfare of the un-student body. (MOST GRAVE PENALTY.)
3.	WEEK ENDS
Week ends are fun, unconstructive and chaotic. Consequently they should be taken as often as possible. Any unstudent who places himself in the proximate danger of becoming a student by remaining on campus for an extended period of time will prove to be disconcerting and adverse to the principles of, this U n i v er si t y. (MORE GRAVE PENALTY.)
4.	CURFEW
“Curfew must riot ring tonight” — or any other night. (PROPORTIONATE PENALTY.)
5.	ILLNESS
No un-student should become so sick that he cannot enjoy his rest. (PROPORTIONATE PENALTY.)
6.	AUTOMOBILES
No un-student may drive an automobile in the corridors of the residence halls before two in the afternoon. The un-students must be permitted to rest. (MORE GRAVE PENALTY.)
Parking is permitted when one of his friends is in the car with him.
7.	AIRPLANES
Those airplanes propelled by jet engines must use only the runway reserved for them. (GRAVE PENALTY.)
8.	DRINKING
The authorities of antiquity state: “In vino veritas” — in wine there is truth. — Unknown; and, “Too much and too little wine. Give him none he cannot find truth; give him too much, the same.” —Pascal.
A word to the un-wise usually isn’t worth it. (PROPORTIONATE PENALTY.)
9.	LIBRARY
This building is out of bounds to all un-students, except for the purpose of reading magazines. (MOST GRAVE PENALTY.)
10.	OFF-CAMPUS UN-STUDENTS
Off-campus un-students should stay there; it’s more fun. (GRAVE PENALTY.)
February 21, 1958
5
WHArS NEW FOR SPRING, 1958?
The Campus Shop can show you, now! The new suits, topcoats, sportcoats and haberdashery for spring, 1958, is in — or arriving almost daily. Why not come in soon and select your spring and Easter outfit. Choose from America’s finest makes . . . Hickey-Freeman, Society Brand, GGG, Eagle, Alpagora, Burberry and others. The suit or topcoat you want — at the price you want to pay.
On the Campus—Notre Dame
6
The Scholastic
February 21, 1958
7
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY...
If you are a Notre Dame man, your charge account is open at the Campus Shop. You can buy what you need now and, if you wish, charge it the Campus Shop way — one-third in May, one-	**
third in June, and one-third in July.
Naturally, you pay nothing extra for this convenience — no carrying charges.	;
Why not use your charge account tomorrow?	i
■ . I
8
The Scholastic
‘FOUR FRESHMEN’ TO SWING ON THURSDAY
Vocal Group to Make University to Hold Union-Management Parley; Debut at Notre Dame Finnegan to Speak at Conference Next Friday
The Four Freshmen will make their
first appearance at Notre Dame this Thursday at 8:30 p.m. in the Fieldhouse.
Tickets will be on sale today and Monday in the Fieldhouse from noon to 6 p.m. and at the door Thursday night. The price of admission is $1.
Doubling as their own accompanists, the Freshmen have scored successes in concert engagements from coast to coast, on network television, in motion pictures, and on records.
The Four Freshmen became a vocal group at Arthur- Jordan Conservatory in Indianapolis in 1948, while they were in their freshmen year. Their sound started with a distinct “barber-shop” flavor. After a few months of literally “singing for their suppers,” they conceived the idea of trying to get a five-voice sound with only four voices.
This germ of an idea has grown and has been polished and perfected until today the Four Freshmen are known throughout the country for their distinctive, original style.
Since 1955, and their highly successful single of Day by Day, the Four Freshmen have had a succession of hits, including Graduation Day and Charmaine, and topped by their albums, Four Freshmen and Five Trombones, and Four Freshmen and Five Saxes.
A unique feature of the Four Freshmen is the fact that they provide their own instrumental accompaniment — a fact that permits them almost unlimited versatility in concert performances.
Bob Flanigan sings the top voice, plays trombone, and doubles on bass. Don Barbour, the second voice, is featured on many solos and plays guitar. Ross Barbour handles all the introductions, sings third voice, and plays drums and trumpet. Ken Albers, the bass voice in the group, plays trumpet and mello-phone and is featured solo-wise, vocally and instrumentally. Bob, Ross, and Don are original members of the group, and all are from Indiana. Ken, who replaced Ken Errair with the Freshmen in April, 1956, hails from New Jersey.-
The Four Freshmen have won the “Best Vocal Group” category in the poll
February 21, 1958
Joseph F. Finnegan, director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, will be the opening keynote speaker at Notre Dame’s sixth annual UnionManagement Conference next Friday, according to The Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., founder and director of the event. A specialist in industrial relations, Finnegan will discuss “When Is Mediation Most Helpful?”
Albert J. Hayes, president of the International Association of Machinists, Washington, D. C., and Samuel L. H. Burk, New York City management consultant, will also address the conference.
More than 500 industrial relations executives and labor- officials are expected to attend the sessions in Washington Hall beginning at 9:30 a.m. The conference, whose theme is “Pending Impacts on Collective Bargaining,” is sponsored by the University’s department of economics and the Notre Dame Law School.
Included in the program will be addresses by representatives of management and labor and panel discussions on “Issues with Long Range Consequences” and “Some Problems Dealing with Income.” Serving as panel chairmen will be Ronald W. Haughton, director of the Institute of Industrial Relations at
THE WINNERS
Charles Picek of Lawton, Okla, was the winner of the 1958 Cadillac awarded at the Mardi Gras last Tuesday night. The winning ticket in the drawing was sold by Chuck Sawicki, a sophomore in Morrissey Hall, from W. Lafayette, Ind. Picek is Sawicki’s grandfather.
The winner of the Ford Thunderbird was Jack O’Brien, a freshman in Breen-Phillips Hall from Cleveland, O.
held by Metronome Magazine the last three years, and in the Downbeat poll the last four yeai-s.
Their performance is sponsored by the Student Senate Social Commission and is under the direction of Steve Smith, assisted by Paul Anderson and Brian Foley.	—Ken Brown
Wayne University, Detroit, and . Prof. W. Willard Wirtz of the Northwestern University Law School, Chicago.
Finnegan was appointed director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service by President Eisenhower in January, 1955. Prior to assuming the government post, he was engaged in the private practice of law for 18 years in New York City, specializing in trial work and all phases of labor law.
Hayes has been a vice-president of the AFL-CIO and chairman of its Ethical Practices Committee since 1955. A
JOSEPH F. FINNEGAN Opens Union-Management Conference member of the International Association of Machinists since 1919, he became its international president in 1949. During 1950-51 Hayes was a special assistant on manpower for the Department of Defense.
Burk is associated with the management consultant firm of Rogers,- Slade and Hill, New York City. He formerly served as director of personnel administration for the General Foods Corp., director of industrial relations for the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co., and director of organization and methods for the Atlantic Refining Co. Burk has been a „ consultant te the War Production Board and Postmaster General.
Butler, Sen. Capehart
Seniors to Present 'Patriot of Year' Award
To Speak at Banquet To Robert Kennedy in Ceremonies Tomorrow
Indiana Republican Senator Homer E. Capehart and Paul M. Butler, Democratic National Committee chairman, will be the featured guests at the Academy of Political Science banquet Thursday.
The banquet will be held at 7 p.m. in the Mahogany Room of the Morris Inn. Non-Academy members may obtain tickets by contacting Jack Carpenter in 414 Walsh or Gary Webster in 166 Dillon. The price will be $4.
Senator Capehart was elected in 1944 to the U. S. Senate. He is a member of the Senate Foreign Relations committee and the Banking and Currency committee. His home is in Washington, Ind., where he is a farmer and manufacturer.
Butler became Democratic National Chairman in December of 1954. He is also the National Committeeman from Indiana. A native of South Bend, he is a graduate of Notre Dame. He has been active in party politics for 30 years.
The guests for the evening will be prominent political figures in the South Bend area, their wives, and Notre Dame alumni. Also attending will be the faculty from the Political Science department and members of the Academy.
The two speakers will talk on “The Value of Active Participation in Politics.” There will be a short question and answer period following. The invocation will be given by The Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University.
Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, is moderator for the Academy, an organization of political science majors.
HOMER E. CAPEHART
Republican Senator, Democratic Chairman
PAUL M. BUTLER to speak at banquet
Senate investigator Robert F. Kennedy will be presented with the annual “Patriot of the Year” award at traditional Washington Day exercises tomorrow night at 8 in the Navy Drill Hall.
Kennedy became the fifth recipient of this award by a vote of the senior class last fall. Other winners include J. Edgar Hoover, Bishop Fulton J. Sheen, Gen. Curtis LeMay, and Senator John Kennedy, Robert’s brother.
The award will be presented by Don McNeill, senior class president. Upon receiving the award, Senate Counsel Kennedy will deliver a short address to the assembled seniors.
Following the acceptance speech, Senior Class Vice-President James Walsh, in accordance with tradition, will present a United States flag to the University. Accepting the flag will be The Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University. Father Joyce will deliver a speech afterwards.
The seniors will assemble in the Fieldhouse at 7:30 p.m., according to college. From there they will proceed to the Drill Hall at 8 p.m. Master of Ceremonies George Van Kula announces that any senior not having a ticket may gain admittance by signing his name to a piece of paper and presenting it at the door.
Kennedy graduated from Harvard College with a BA degree in 1948. He then went to the Virginia Law School from which he received a LL.B, in 1951. In the same year he was admitted to the Massachusetts State Bar.
In 1954 Kennedy was selected as “One of the Ten Outstanding Young Men in the United States.” Since that time he has moved from the position of chief counsel and staff director of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations to his present position as chief counsel of the Senate Select Committee on Improper Activities in the Labor or Management Field.
An experienced traveler, Kennedy has traveled around the world several times. In 1948 he was a correspondent covering the war in Palestine for the Boston Post.
He is a member of the Advisory Council for the Law School of the University of Notre Dame. He is also president of the Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr. Foundation.
Quiz Program Planned By WSND for Thursday
WSND will inaugurate a new radio quiz program this Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the amphitheatre of the La-Fortune Student Center. The show is entitled “Where in the World.”
This new program will be one of the first audience participation shows in the history of WSND. It is a development of the current “Co-ed Quiz.”
The program will be a panel quiz show, the idea of which is to guess a place of historical importance. The panel will have to guess the correct place by asking questions requiring a “yes” or “no” answer. Clues will be given by a mystery voice.
Each week a guest challenger will test the ability of the group as they try to guess where he has been. The number of questions to be asked will be fixed.
The members of the panel will be Jim Cooney, Claire Ann Byrne, Jerry Broderick, and “Babs” Hilger. Jim Cooney will be the master of ceremonies.
All who wish to attend are invited. They are requested to come early because no one will be admitted after 7:15 p.m.
The show was written and will be directed by Rudy Hornish. Gilbert’s Campus Shop will sponsor the program.
AERONAUTICAL TALK
Dr. Melvin Gerstein of the National Advisory Committee on Aeronautics will speak at a graduate chemistry seminar next Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. The topic for the talk will be “Chemistry in Aeronautics.”
10
The Scholastic
“LES CHANTEURS DE PARIS'
Varel and Bailly lead group for Washington Hall performance
Varel, Bailly to Appear on Campus March 1; 'Les Chanteurs de Paris' Also on Program
Singing a program of their own songs, satires and vignettes, French composer-, performers Varel and Bailly will be the next attraction of the Concert and Lec-; ture Series. Along with their seven-y man vocal ensemble, “Les Chanteurs de | Paris,” they will appear at Washington J Hall on Saturday, March 1, at 8:15 I- p.m.
* Tickets for Saturday’s concert will be i on sale from 3:30 to 8:30 pan. on Thursday and Friday, and right up to curtain v time on Saturday. The usual prices, ’ $.75 for students, faculty, and University : employees, and $1 for guests will be L in effect.
' Often called the French counterparts of Rodgers and Hart, Varel and Bailly have enjoyed success on both sides of 1 the Atlantic. Among their best known works are such songs as Amour and Le 1 Ciel. “Les Chanteurs de Paris” is com-• posed of seven young Frenchmen, all former members of the childrens’ choral group, “The Little Singers of Paris.”
Both men showed early signs of talent ■ ( in what were to become their chosen fields, poetry for Andre Varel and musi-' y cal composition for Charly Bailly. They met in Algiers during the war, and subsequently starred as a singing duo' on their own highly popular radio show.
After the war, they separated to pursue separate careers, but teamed up again on popular demand.
After several years of successful collaboration in both writing and performing, they added “Les Chanteurs de Paris” and last year made their first trip to the United States. They appeared at the Empire Room of the Waldorf-Astoria and were seen on the Ed Sullivan show. Their intended tour of six weeks was lengthened to six months.
The performance scheduled for Washington Hall is part of their second trans-continental tour. Later in March, they return to New York for a recital at Town Hall.
BLUE CIRCLE APPLICATIONS
The Blue Circle membership drive will continue until March 1. Applications should be addressed to Blue Circle Membership Chairman, 304 Walsh.
The five application requirements are a letter, stating high school and college activities, a recent photograph, an accumulative average of 80, a satisfactory disciplinary record, and the. completion of at least one semester at Notre Dame.
Open House Planned For Science College
Dick McCarthy, chairman of the Science Open House, reported that 1800 high school students are expected to attend tonight’s open house.
The open house, beginning this evening at 7, features an array of experiments, exhibits, demonstrations and movies. These scientific attractions will be conducted in both the Nieuwland Science and Biology buildings by students and faculty in the fields of biology, chemistry, geology, and physics.
Special group tours thru the laboratories and libraries of both buildings will be another highlight of the open house. Some of the various exhibits will be an atom smasher, and a Van de Graaff generator. An experiment conducted by Lobund and a movie on missiles narrated by Dr. Von Braun will be two of the features, of the open house.
The idea of a science open house was originated last year by John Kennedy, science representative to the Student Senate. Its twofold purpose is to make high school students aware of the importance of science, and, specifically, to show them what the Science College has to offer them. Teachers from the South Bend area are also invited to the open house in an attempt to help them stimulate interest in science in their own schools.
All campus students who have an interest in science are encouraged to attend.
'A Party for Washington' Set tn Student Center Tomorrow
“A Party for George Washington” is the name for the Student Senate sponsored party scheduled for the LaFortune Student Center tomorrow evening at 8:30. A freshman mixer on Sunday afternoon rounds out the social activities for the Washington’s Day week end.
The party, which has been arranged by Paul Anderson and Jim Harrington, will feature a mystery door prize. Music will be provided by records and the Center will be appropriately decorated. Tickets, which cost SI per couple, will be sold at the door.
Between 2 and 4:30 p.m. the following afternoon, the freshmen are invited to a mixer with girls from St. Mary’s College, St. Mary’s Academy, and Holy Cross Central School of Nursing.
Refreshments and recorded music will be provided for the mixer in the Rathskeller. An" admission charge of fifty-cents will be collected at the door. Chair-men are John Christen and ' Bob MacKay.
February 21, 1958
11
Bine Circle
HIT IIWU
by
JOHN C. HIRSCHFELD
Chairman
Blue Circle Honor Society
Thirty-five years ago this month, a small but devoted group of Notre Dame students met to discuss the problem of maintaining the “Spirit of Notre Dame” throughout the year, and not just during the football season. From this rather insignificant meeting in 1923 emerged one of the most active groups on the campus—the Blue Circle Honor Society. Although its initial aim was directed toward the maintenance of school spirit, this embryonic purpose has been expanded until today the activities of this organization center around more than twenty functioning committees, each attempting to advance the interests of the University of Notre Dame.
In reflecting only upon the past five months, it certainly seems that the Blue Circle has been vigorously advancing these wide interests. Beginning with the Freshman Orientation Program, such
projects and activities as the Student Trip to the Army game, the Freshman Advisory Program, “Who’s Who,” the Concert and Lecture Series, the Christmas Charity Parties, the traditional pep rallies, and many others have fallen within the scope of this organization and have been successfully completed. Perhaps even more important than the above social projects, however, was the assistance given by the Blue Circle in the administration of the Salk vaccine and the Asiatic flu shots to both the administration and the student body.
Having the responsibility for such a variety of activities often imposes a severe strain on an organization whose constitution limits it to a maximum of forty-five members. Yet almost without exception the greatest difficulties are overcome as a result of each member’s devoting a great deal of time and energy to the projects at hand. Such devotion is not characteristic of all men, and because of this the Blue Circle must be very selective in choosing its members. In fact, the membership drive is probably the most important problem which faces the members of the Blue Circle each year. One poor choice immediately weakens the organization’s potential output by one forty-fifth.
During the past week the Blue Circle’s membership drive began. For those among the student body who have not noticed them, posters have been placed in all the halls and in various other localities announcing that applications for membership are now being accepted. Because there have been marked changes made in the manner of selecting new members, I feel that it is my duty as chairman of the Blue Circle to explain this new membership policy and the reasons underlying its adoption. In beginning, allow me to state what should be obvious, namely, that the new procedure is an honest and sincere effort to eliminate some of the problems which the present Blue Circle officers and the Membership chairman felt existed- under the old method.
Before listing the membership requirements and explaining the rationale for their existence, it should also be pointed out that this article is addressed to every underclassman in the University. Too often in the past, when the membership drive was announced, the only students who applied were those who are often referred to as the “B. M. O. C’s.” This is very definitely a wrong impression. The Blue Circle is most assuredly not an organization which is looking for prestige. Speaking very frankly, most of the activities undertaken during the year are thankless jobs, and in many cases few people even realize what group is performing or sponsoring them. Because
of this fact it is not our purpose (1)	?
to attract only the “wheels” into our ; organization or (2) to constantly advertise our functions throughout the campus. Instead, we are interested in accepting those men who show evidence of high standards of character and are willing to put the activities of the Circle first and their other extracurricular activities second. These two qualifications are certainly not limited to those students who hold, or may hold, key positions on the campus. The possibility of membership is open to every individual who can satisfy the following requirements :	'
1.	Submit a letter of application to the Blue Circle Honor Society.
2.	Submit a recent photograph of himself.
3.	Possess an accumulative academic < average of at least 80% at the time of application.
4.	Have a satisfactory disciplinary record at the University.
5.	Have completed one semester at the University of Notre Dame prior to his application to the Blue Circle Honor Society.
Since the last two requirements are v self-explanatory, they will not be discussed. Of the first three, the only new point is the one requiring the enclosure of a photograph. We feel that this is a necessity, for during the past few years there have always been between 150-200 applicants. Because of this, a person sitting on an interviewing board finds it next to impossible to remember the * first few men’s faces after consecutively conversing with twenty or thirty individuals. It is, therefore, to the ap- ‘ plicant’s advantage to submit some type of recent photograph of himself. It would be very unlikely that a candidate would be dropped for not submitting a r photograph. It would seem to indicate, however, that this particular applicant had but a very meager interest in the Blue Circle at the time of his application.
There is also a very definite reason for requiring a letter of application. In the 41 first place, it lets the Membership chairman know just who has applied, and B therefore enables him to notify the ap- i plicant of the time of his interview. More important than this, however, the letter enables the interviewing board to see what activities the applicant has en- *" gaged in in college and high school, and • in what fields his interests lie. Let me caution all those who intend to apply > by informing them that the letter is read before the entire interviewing board and is therefore not something
12
The Scholastic
which should be hurriedly or carelessly written.
The third important requirement concerns the 80% average. This has often < been a bone of contention in the past, for many feel that this average should be raised. It is the opinion of the present officers that by making the grade re* quirement remain at 80%, the Blue
Circle can appeal to many men whose average is not exceedingly high pri-4. marily because they have devoted a great deal of time to other valid interests. I do not wish to subordinate the academic life in the least. The point to T be understood is that the Blue Circle is not an organization whose membership is limited to Dean’s List students. We , hope that our appeal is much wider.
To make this possible, the academic ' average of 80% is now the application requirement.
1 Without a doubt the most radical changes made in the Blue Circle’s mem; bership policy concern the method of 14 interviewing. In previous; years the ; maximum number of interviews which ! any one man received was two. If an , applicant failed to get through the first ' one successfully, he was dropped from L any further consideration. It does not take too much insight to see the error it in such a system. If, for example, an applicant should become extremely nervous during his initial interview (and i this has happened), it would be ex-f tremely difficult for him to make a favor-L able impression on the members of the t board. Another fault with this old sys-r tern rested in the possibility of an ap-1 plicant “snowing” the interviewing board. This, too, was detrimental, for | it reduced the active manpower of the I organization. The third fault of the old j system lay in the interviewing procedure J itself. Several different boards inter-£
• viewed members of the same class at the ! same time, and were therefore unable to * compare and contrast the quality of the : individuals concerned. Their viewpoints I and decisions were based only upon the i quality of the particular group they had j interviewed.
; The new policy, though a great timeconsumer for those Blue Circle men who
* will be serving as members of interviewing boards, is an effort to eliminate the above mistakes and by so doing 4 to increase the effectiveness of the interviewing procedure. Everyone who applies for membership this year will receive at least two interviews. There-4 fore, if a person should “clutch” in the first interview, he will have anothei-chance to advance his cause. The other r advantage of the new system rests in the fact that a different interviewing board will be used for each interview. In the course of two interviews the ap
plicant will go through both boards, and will consequently be compared with all the candidates from his own class. In this way the boards hope to achieve a fairer evaluation of each candidate.
If a person successfully passes this first group of two interviews he will be entitled to receive two more. During this second gi’oup, however, the individual will be compared with all advancing applicants and not just those from his own class. All those who pass this second group of two interviews will then come before a single board whose members will be handpicked by the Membership Chairman and the officers of the Blue Circle Honor Society. This will be the final screening, and all those men who successfully pass this last interview will be accepted by acclamation as new members of the society. Unsuccessful candidates will be notified of their failure within a very few days following their interviews. If they should desire to find out why they were not accepted they may contact the Membership Chairman and he will refer them to the head of the proper interviewing board.
Blue Circle Selection Committee.
Admittedly the above procedure is involved and lengthy. The inteiwiews themselves, foi- example, will be conducted during both March and April. But the necessity of eliminating past mistakes and of choosing the best men from among the many candidates mitigates the two factors of time and trouble. As -1 mentioned earlier, this system is new and untried. Although we feel that it is sound, we realize that it is some distance from perfection. Nevertheless, I am certain that it is a progressive step to bettei- enable you, the students, to gain membership in the Blue Circle if you so desire.
In conclusion, might I only wish those men who intend to apply for membership ■ in the Blue Circle Honor Society the best of luck in their endeavors. Since over one-half the membership of the present Blue Circle will be .graduating in June, this year’s applicants are fortunate in having more positions open than ever before. May those who possess the most merit apply, enter, and caiTy on the traditions which have been established during the past thirty-five years.
February 21, 1958
13
Mar di Gras
Words are superfluous.
Mardi Gras mambo in action.
Looks like post time.
14
And so goes the money.
15
BOOKS
Draftee's Confidential Guide by Levy, Krisher, and Cox, (Bloomington University Press, 1958, paper back).
For anyone who, after graduation, is planning to trade his dirty old white bucks for a pair of new combat boots, or his slide rule for an M-l rifle, there is currently a book offered at most leading bookstores which will be of real interest. This book is the Draftee's Confidential Guide: How to Get Along in the Army, and its 244 pages are intended not only for the potential enlisted men, but also for potential army officers. Draftee's Confidential Guide is without a doubt the best book of its kind, if for no other reason than it is the only one of its kind. It was written by two newspapermen (Alan Levy of the Louis ville Courier-Journal and Bernard Krisher of the New York World-Telegram and Sun) and a schoolteacher (James Cox of Ryegate, Mont.), all of whom have recently finished serving two years in the Army as draftees.
This book wasn’t written by the Army. It wasn’t written for the Army. It was written for the man about to enter the Army, willingly or unwillingly. The Draftee's Confidential Guide has one primary purpose, and that is to let the potential private or second lieutenant know what is in store for him in the six months, or two years which he will spend in the Army. The authors realized, as do all GI’s, that the biggest question constantly facing most men in uniform is: “What is going to happen to me next?” This book should answer this question quite explicitly in practically all cases. Another cause of the great uncertainty which exists especially in the ranks of the EM is the abundancy of rumors which seem to naturally circulate around any Army installation. These rumors may range from a tip that “everybody is being shipped to the Far East,” to “The CO’s been run over by a deuce-and-a-half.” This book will tell you which rumors bear listening to, and which are to be laughed at.
Here’s a rundown of some of the chapters you’ll find in the Draftee's Confidential Guide. Because the book begins with the Selective Service regulations and ends with your return to civilian life there will probably be some information given which does not apply
in each individual case, but you can be sure that this book is all-inclusive, and : does not overlook anything which a college graduate, who faces the prospect of । life in the Anny, should know.
Chapter two, entitled “Greetings and , Warnings,” assumes that you’re physically fit and eligible to serve. It tells , you what pitfalls to beware of; how to time your entry; what not to sign; how to leave your civilian affairs in order; and what to bring with you when you ♦ report for induction.	I
Chapter four is about Basic Training.
It gives a cross section of what may be ‘ * the grimmest — and possibly the funniest — eight or sixteen weeks of your life. It contains a handy, week-by-week r master schedule of basic training activ-	।
ities, which should make you better in-	i
formed than most first sergeants.
Chapter five, six, and seven cover the assignments which you will probably receive after Basic. These chapters inform you of the possibilities of Advanced Specialized Training, Permanent Assignment, and Overseas Duty. Also included are numerous tips on how to swing the best deal no matter what your assignment is after Basic.
Chapter eight isn’t a substitute for the v. Marriage Institute, but it presents argu- , ments both for and against the mixing ; of matrimony and military life. This is ; perhaps one of the most important chapters of the book since it tells what marriage means to a soldier and what the Army means to a wife.
Chapter 16 is entitled “Food,” and it gives a picture of what your menu will be in the Army (not much different than , it is here on campus). Chapter 20 tells how to get the most out of your six * months or two years in the Army. Here you can learn how to get anything from an extra field jacket to a free vacation in Europe. Chapter 22 transfers you smoothly from soldier to veteran status.
Draftee's Confidential Guide isn’t as <• red, white and blue as the recruiting posters, but it’s more realistic and every bit as patriotic. The book definitely isn’t anti-Army, but the authors recognized the fact that a fellow facing a tour of duty in the Army “needs more help than d the Army does.” This book is intended < ] for the man who recognizes his military obligation and wants to make the best of it. The authors state their purpose explicitly: “To help you get along in the h peacetime Army and, if by easing your , way along over some of the rough spots, it improves your morale, then it will w have made you a better soldier.”
—Joe Dezelan
16
The Scholastic
9>hUk SctM
High-scoring forward of NCAA-bound hoopsters tells why he thinks... The Irish Can Be Unbeatable
by TOM HAWKINS as told to JOHN GLAVIN
Well, now we got the NCAA bid. All that work, those long practices and of course, our record, have finally paid off. You go through the season, playing them one at a time but always hoping you will get that bid and a crack at all those big name teams with the stars.
I guess you have to say that the win over North Carolina just about cinched it for us. We showed everyone, that we can play and beat the best of them. They were a real good ball club but a club that didn’t play as well as we expected. I don’t think they played their best ball game. Look at last Tuesday night. They came right back and beat a fine North Carolina State team, 81-69.
Since that game, every one has been asking me what I think of North Carolina’s Pete Brennan. Of course, there is one player’ who always gives me the most trouble — Johnny Green from Michigan State. I’d have to say though, that Brennan is the better scorer al
though Green is the better rebounder. You might think that Brennan didn’t look very strong in the Stadium last Saturday. That can be explained by the fact that that game was their fourth game in eight days, three of them conference games. Pete was a pretty tired boy out there. He has been carrying much of the scoring burden throughout the season. Before I get off the subject of big men, I have to mention Barney Cable of Bradley who played like one of the best the night they beat us.
I was beginning to wonder, though, in the first half last Saturday. Things were pretty rough in there and I got a good elbow treatment. Bobby (Devine) and Gene (Duffy) began to throw them up from outside. The forward that was playing Bobby was double teamming me and I couldn’t do much of anything. When Bobby started to hit, that forward had to pull off of me and gave me a little more room.
We started off that game by forcing our shots too much. I was the biggest offender but once we opened up the defense by hitting from outside, the offense began to click.
Right there is the story to our success.
We need that scoring from outside to keep the defense honest. If they double team either Mike (Graney) or myself, we have a little trouble. When every man is hitting, the defense has to play each man. Give us that, and we will beat anyone.
While speaking of Mike Graney, you have to give him a lot of credit for our success of late. Teams can’t box both of us out and therefore, we are getting the majority of the rebounds. Mike is strong and once he gets his hand on the ball, no one is going to take it away from him. He’s been a big factor.
This Navy game coming up tomorrow night could be a difficult one, although we will have a definite height advantage. Their record is not too impressive, 9-7, but they only lost to Pittsburgh last Saturday by two points. Pitt just accepted a bid to the NCAA, also. (Navy had a game Wednesday with the Atlantic Coast Conference leader, Duke.)
THE AU-AMERICAN TOUCH
The Hawk soars in Stadium Battle
The three men to watch for on the Navy team are Frank Petinos, Al Swanson and Dick Johnson. Petinos played against us two years ago and gave us quite a bit of trouble. Swanson is the captain and was also a halfback on the football team.
Now that the season is coming to an end, we realize how much we are going to miss Devine and McCarthy, two of the greatest competitors in the game today. And we can’t forget three very important guys on the bench, Ed Gleason, Jim Williams and Lee Ayotte. I guess I shouldn’t be looking forward to next year, but whenever I do, I can’t help realizing how important these guys are this year.
Our job now is to sharpen up for the tournament by beating these remaining clubs. I don’t think that our offense has reached its full potential. But as of late, our scoring is increasing rapidly which is an indication that we will reach our potential. If we can control the boards and have our 1-3-1 offense working to perfection, I’ll match our team against any team in the country.
In the Big Ten, I’m hoping for Michigan State to win it. They beat us this year and they were the team that knocked us out of the NCAA last year. It will be more of a challenge to play them. Remember, I have a personal score to settle.
February 21, 1958
17
DICAMILLO LEADS FIELD
Irish ace en route to 4:14.4 mile
Indoor Track Team Crushes Purdue, 70-34; VandenBerg’s 1:51.4 Half-Mile Paces Irish
Dale VandenBerg’s record breaking performance in the half-mile led Notre Dame’s indoor track squad to a 70-34 win over the Purdue Boilermakers last Saturday in the Fieldhouse. The victory was the second of the season for Coach Alex Wilson’s cindermen.
The Irish won ten of twelve events and broke records in three. Purdue was able to win only the pole vault and the mile relay.
VandenBerg, in running the 880 yards in 1:51.4, broke both the fieldhouse and indoor track records. Al Schoenig of Notre Dame had held both existing recards with a time of 1:53.1 set in 1955. VandenBerg’s time is one of the best posted this yeai- in the collegiate ranks.
Others placing in the 880 besides the winner VandenBerg were Purdue’s Ron Etherton, who took second, and Notre Dame’s Andy Crawford, who ran third.
Pole vaulter Jim Johnston of Purdue ilso shared the limelight with Vanden-3erg. Johnston vaulted 14 feet 14% nches to snap the field house record leld by Notre Dame’s Jim Harrington, larrington’s mark of 14 feet 3% inches vas set in 1953.
Bill Jones of Purdue came in second n this event with 13 feet 4 inches. Jack lote of Notre Dame placed third.
Notre Dame’s Steve Dornbach was the nly double winner of the afternoon as le took both the 60-yard high and the ;0-yard low hurdles. In winning the lighs Dornbach set a new Notre Dame
18
indoor track mark of :07.4. This bettered the old mark of :07.5 held jointly by Harvey Newquist, set in 1953, and Booker Rice, equalled in 1957.
Dick Stillwagon of Purdue was second to Dornbach in both the high and the low hurdles. Ron Parker of the Irish was third in the highs, and Don Faley of Notre Dame was third in the lows.
In the first event of the afternoon Dick DiCamillo of Notre Dame took an early lead and won the mile run with a time of 4:14.4. Hugh Enicks of Purdue came in second and Vic Dillon of Notre Dame ran third.
In the 60-yard dash sprinter Pete Sal-sich of the Irish took first and was timed at :06.5. Teammate John Foote ran second, and the Boilermakers’ Delmar Young finished third.
Barkley Ewart won the 440-yard dash for Notre Dame as he overtook teammate Joe Foreman in the last 30 yards. Foreman ended in second place, and Purdue’s Ben King ran a distant third. Ewart’s winning time was :50.6.
Notre Dame’s Faley won the broad jump with a record-breaking leap of 23 feet 7% inches. The jump broke the old Purdue-Notre Dame meet record set in 1950 by Al Worthington at 23 feet 2% inches. Cote finished second and also passed the old record as he jumped 23 feet 4% inches. Don Dalzell of Purdue was third.
In the other distance event, the 2-mile run, Hugh Enicks of Purdue pressed
Jablonski and Grace Pace Bowling Team
Notre Dame’s entry in the M.I.B.C. (Midwestern Intercollegiate Bowling Congress) traveled to Valparaiso, and the team averaged 960 for- five games with junior Tom Jablonski’s 208 plus average leading the way. Despite these tremendous figures, the Irish were able to win only two games. They lost a third game by a single pin. Captain Joe Grace leads the varsity with an average of over 180 for the entire campaign.
In the Kampus Leagues, the hottest battle is occurring in the Monday night Classic League. Virg Minnick’s squad is in first place, but The Brunswick Shop, Project Construction, and Jablonski’s are close behind. Only four points separate these top four teams. Lew Solomon of The Brunswick Shop leads in the individual average race with 180. Others behind him with 177’s are Minnick, Nick Ranieri, and Hank DeCaluwe.
In Wednesday’s two leagues, Detroit “A” leads the one at seven o’clock, while the California Club and St. Louis Club fight for the lead of the later league. At present the Cal Club is leading. The Architects head the Thursday Night League by a fairly good margin, and the Padres have command of the Friday night keglers.
The St. Mary’s-Notre Dame Mixed League rolls on Sunday afternoons. Although complete averages and standings aren’t available, the girls are leading the boys in both departments.
Mike Haverty of Notre Dame all the way, but Haverty sprinted in for the win. Enicks was a close second, and Ed Monnelly of Notre Dame was third. Haverty’s time was 9:36.5.
The Irish trackmen shut out the Boilermakers in the shot put. Big Frank Geremia won the event with a heave of 48 feet 10% inches. Ken Scarborough threw the 16-pound ball 46 feet 8 inches for second, and Jerry Wilkes was third.
Tom Sanfacon easily won the high jump for the Irish with a low 6-foot jump. Jim Johnston of Purdue was second at 5 feet 10 inches, and Johnny Reilly of Notre Dame took third with a jump of 5 feet 8 inches.
Purdue’s one mile relay team, composed of Chuck Griffith, Paul Hoenstine, Don Halliday, and Ron Etherton, defeated the Irish relay team. Purdue’s winning time was 3:26.0.
The meet closed out Notre Dame’s brief home indoor track schedule. The Irish now have a two-win, none lost record foi- dual meets and they scored 16 points at the Michigan State Relays.
The Scholastic
Irish Fencers Extend Win Skein to Thirteen
Notre Dame’s fencing squad ran its I unbeaten streak to 13, including ten this season, by winning two triangular meets last week end.
Friday the fencers traveled to Buffalo, N. Y., where they defeated Buffalo, 14-13, and Syracuse, 22-5. On Saturday the fencers were in Detroit and won over 1 Wayne State, 18-9, and Chicago University, 23-4.
Irish sophomore Jerry Johnson’s victory over veteran Bison Aaron Ament in the foil gave the Irish the Buffalo match. Johnson was down 4-3 in his five point match but took the last two * touches and won 5-4.
Notre Dame took the epee, 5-4, and the foil, 5-4, but the Bisons copped the sabre, 5-4.
Coach Walter Langford called this match “ . . . the most thrilling one of
'	TYLER’S PICKS
TOMORROW NIGHT
Notre Dame over Navy Colorado over Air Force California over Washington State Clemson over Furman
p Dartmouth over Princeton Butler over DePauw Georgia Tech over Georgia Oklahoma State over Houston Iowa over Illinois Kentucky over Alabama North Carolina State over LaSalle Dayton over Louisville North Carolina over Maryland Purdue over Minnesota Michigan over Northwestern UCLA over Oregon State Seattle over Idaho State Tennessee over Auburn Miami (Ohio) over Toledo Cincinnati over Tulsa
, Temple over Villanova
Michigan State over Wisconsin
FEBRUARY 24
Pitt over Geneva
Georgia Tech over Florida
Wichita over Houston Kansas over Iowa State ' Kentucky over Auburn
Indiana over Michigan
Pacific Lutheran over Montana State , Bradley over Tulsa
UPSET OF THE NIGHT
Purdue over Michigan State
FEBRUARY 25
Butler over Ball State
Duke over Virginia
Kansas State over Oklahoma
' San Francisco over St. Mary’s Two-week record: 51 right, 9 wrong;
85 pct.
the year. Buffalo presented a big challenge to our streak with an all-veteran team but the squad came through unscathed.”
The Syracuse match was won easily by the Irish fencers, 23-4. The Irish won the foil and sabre by 8-1 scores and the epee, 6-3.
Notre Dame had no trouble with Wayne State and Chicago. In the Wayne victory, the fencers won the epee, 8-1, and the sabre, 7-2, but dropped the foil, 6-3, after the match was safely tucked away.
The Chicago match witnessed a rarity in fencing, a shutout in an event. The Irish shutout Chicago in the epee, 9-0.
JIM RUSSOMANO
Expert foil
Ron Farrow and Jim Jock were the outstanding individuals in the two meets. Farrow won all twelve of his epee matches to boost his season record to 24 wins and two losses. Jock, also in the epee, won ten of eleven to up his record to 24 and two.
Jim Russomano, in the foil, won eight and dropped three, giving him a 20 and six season slate. Johnson won nine of twelve. His record is now 19-7. Captain Dick Fagon also won nine of 12, giving him the same record as Johnson. Pat Green boosted his season record to 18 and eight by winning eight of twelve.
Coach Langford can pick only one man from each division to enter the NCAA tournament held at Texas Tech the third week in March. The next six matches will determine the Notre Dame entries in this tournament.
Tomorrow the fencers take on Ohio State and Michigan State at Columbus, Ohio. Both the Buckeyes and the Spartans have good teams but Coach Langford feels that, if the Irish fencers turn in good performances, they will remain unbeaten.
Wrestling Team Ties For 4th at Wheaton
Notre Dame’s wrestling team finished in a fourth place tie with Illinois Normal last week end in the annual Wheaton invitational tournament. The Ii-ish finished the two-day event with a total of 17 points. Southern Illinois won the tournament with 68 points.
Jerry .Sachsel, Bucky. O’Connor, Jack Armstrong, and Captain Bob Pivonka were the individual point getters for the Irish. Each took third place in their respective weight classes. Sachsel finished behind Jim Bledso, Southern Illinois, and Fred Sandoval from Wheaton in the 123-pound class. O’Connor placed behind Roy Conrad of Northern Illinois and Gary Berdick of Southern Illinois in the 177-pound division. In the 191-pound class Armstrong was behind Clifford Hudson, Northeim Illinois, and Bob Eliot of Western Illinois. Fred Donato of Western Illinois and Louis Jarez, Illinois Normal, finished first and second respectively ahead of Pivonka in the 137-pound division.
Other individual winners in the meet were Bill Edwards, 130; Jerry Grubbs, 147, and Herman Ayres, 157, all from Southern Illinois, and Paul Kaberec, 167, from Northern Illinois. Grubbs beat Notre Dame’s 147-pound representative, Dick Sapp, and Kaberec beat Dick Henzy, Notre Dame’s 167-pounder. Bill Moore lost to the runner-up in the 157-pound division.
This week end, the Irish will meet Western Illinois in a dual meet. Coach Fallon expects them to be tough in that they finished 13 points ahead of the Irish in the Wheaton Tournament.
JACK ARMSTRONG
A tiger at 191
February 21, 1958
19
Have a WORLD of FUN!
Travel with fITA
Unbelievable Low Cost
^Europe
Orient
43-65 Doyi from $998
Many fours include college credit
Also low-cost trips to Mexico $149 up. South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour $498 up and Around the World $1398 up.
Ask Your Travel Agent
60 Days .X
from $585
25tt
Year
L 332 So. Michigan Ave. INC. Chicago 4, HA 7-2557
Annual Retreat Planned During Easter Vacation
The annual retreat to the Trappist abbey of Gethsemani in Kentucky will begin after the last class before the Easter vacation. Like last year, the transportation will be by bus.
Applications will be accepted on a “first come, first served” basis. They will be received on Monday beginning at 8:30 a.m. in the YCS office in the Student Center. There will be accommodations for 29.
A §5 fee will be required to register. In addition to this, the bus will cost approximately §6. At the end of the retreat a voluntary donation will be accepted by the Trappist Fathers. The retreat will last three days.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 NORTH NILES AVENUE
»* RW TURBOW
\OPTOMETRI»T
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
•>'
1
A MAN’S SHAMPOO
in Shower-Safe Plastic!
SHAMPOO for men
NOW!
Old Spice Shampoo conditions your scalp as it cleans your hair. Removes dandruff without removing natural oils. Gives you rich, man-sized lather that leaves your hair more manageable, better-looking ___with a healthy sheen! So much better for your hair than drying soaps...so much easier to use than shampoos in glass bottles. Try it!
san J

“ Notre Dame Bookstore X™
20
The Scholastic
Elgart's Band Signs To Play for Juniors
At the Junior class meeting last Tuesday night in the Engineering Auditorium, Pat Gorman, Junior Prom en-' tertainment chairman, announced that Les and Larry Elgart will provide the * music for the Prom on May 9. Plans for the Parent’s Week End and a Junior party were also discussed.
The Elgart group, formed in 1954, is one of the most popular orchestras for college affairs. Les Elgart, former trumpeter with Woody Herman, Harry ’ James, and CBS, has recorded seven albums for Columbia and is noted for his “sophisticated swing.” Larry 4 Elgart is the featured soloist of the
Architecture Contest Selects Crucifixes for Student Center
As a result of a contest among the students of the Architecture department last fall, 20 new crucifixes are now hanging in different rooms of the La-Fortune Student Center.
Judges for the contest included Fred Holzl, manager of the Center, and his two assistants, Tom Carroll and Bob Daily. The crucifixes adorning the rooms were chosen with due consideration to their style and the appropriateness for the individual room.
The entire contest was under the supervision of The Rev. Anthony J. Lauck, C.S.C. of the University’s Art Department.
LES ELGART
To Swing for Juniors
.	group and the mainstay of the sax
। section.
. It was also announced by Hugh • Murphy, dance chairman, that tickets ‘ for all the functions of the week end will be sold in the Navy Drill Hall on March 16.
Parents-Son Week End plans were presented at the meeting. It was pointed : out that all the parents received information concerning the week end at the same time and therefore all have an equal chance of getting the accommoda-> tions they prefer.
Plans for the week end include a breakfast for the parents following the 9 a.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church. * In order to accommodate the large number of parents dining after the High Mass, a cashier will be placed in one . of the dining hall lines to wait on the parents.
A class party will be held with St. Mary’s College and Holy Cross Central ’ School of Nursing next Friday in the Student Center following the Holy Cross
game.
AQUIW LIBRARY and BOOK SHOP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
A Non-Profit Organization
Diamonds Jewelry Watches J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
RllSifl
MAUPINTOURS/1958
ADVENTURE! EDUCATION!
TRAVEL! SUMMER 1958!
Join ■ special American-directed, student/teacher tour through the Soviet Union. Choose from six departure dates ... travel to seldom-visited cities such m Kiev of the Ukraine, Stalingrad, Odessa, Yalta, Sochi, Tbilisi of Soviet Georgia, Kharkov . . . enjoy a Volga River or Black Sea cruise ... see Leningrad and Moscow. Visit Warsaw, Prague and the Brussels' World Fair . . . plus extensions to the European Capitals.
Inclusive rate from $1369, from New York. Reservations limited, apply now for sufficient time to secure Russian visa. Write today for descriptive folder. See your travel agent or
Tom Maupin
TOUR ASSOCIATES
1236 Massachusetts Lawrence / Kansas
SENIORS AND GRADUATE STUDENTS
IN ENGINEERING
The Douglas Aircraft Company
INVITES YOU TO
ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
FEBRUARY 26, 27, 1958
Find out about the interesting positions, assistance in furthering your education and outstanding promotion opportunities with the world’s largest manufacturer of aircraft and missiles. Get facts on living conditions, research facilities and opportunities to advance professionally at the various Douglas locations.
Reserve your career decision until you have talked with the Douglas representative. It may be the most important interview of your life.
SEE YOUR DIRECTOR OF PLACEMENT
FOR YOUR INTERVIEW APPOINTMENT
February 21, 1958
PICTURE YOUR
FUTURE
IN THIS GROWING COMPANY
career with a vigorous company in a growing industry? American Air Filter Company, Louisville, Kentucky—world’s largest manufacturer of air filters, dust control and heating and ventilating equipment —needs graduate engineers to fill responsible jobs in sales, engineering and production in its 125 field offices and nine manufacturing plants located in six cities.
In July of 1958, AAF will inaugurate its next five-month technical training course for a select group of engineering and commerce graduates. This full-time program combines classroom work, under the direction of competent instructors, with field trips to both company plants and large industrial users of AAF products.
A representative of American Air Filter will visit the campus to interview interested seniors on
Monday, March 10, 1958
Make an appointment, now, through your Placement Office.
American Air Filter Company, Inc.
Louisville, Kentucky
Debate Tourney Set For Student Center
The sixth annual Notre Dame National Invitational Debate Tournament will be held in the LaFortune Student Center March 7-8, according to an announcement by Robert Dempsey, vice-president of the debate team.
Debate teams representing 30 colleges and universities throughout the country will compete for The Rev. William A. Bolger Memorial Trophy. Awards also will be made to the four teams placing in the semifinal round and the ten best individual debaters. The tournament debate topic will be whether “the requirement of membership in a labor organization as a condition of employment should be illegal.”
Notre Dame’s own debating team won the tournament in 1.956 and 1957. Earlier winners were Dartmouth College, the U. S. Military Academy, and Wilkes College, (Pa.).
Institutions to be represented in this year’s competition include Augustana College, (Ill.), whose debaters were the 1.957 national champions; Bradley; Butler; Case Institute of Technology; Dartmouth College, and Duke.
DR. and MRS. L. J. MAINO
To speak at Marriage Institute Wednesday
Dr. and Mrs. L. J. Maino will deliver the second talk in this year's Marriage Institute Series next Wednesday at 7-.30 p.m. in Washington Hall. The Mainos, who spoke at the Institute in 1954, will lecture on “The Psychology of the Male and Female in Marriage.” Dr. and Mrs. Maino are presently living in Detroit with their three children.
The third in the series of six lectures
Campus Drive to Begin March 3 for Foundation
The fourth annual Notre Dame Stu- : dent Foundation Drive will begin March ; 3. The drive will continue for five days. > >
Chairman Bob Toland is confident I that this year’s percentage will surpass ! the 99.5% participation of on-campus students last year, which was an all- ’ f time record.
The members of the committee are Ed Buckley, Jim Jordan, Tom Solon, j I Pat Kearney, Bob Beranek, and Phil Allen.	j
The primary goal of the Student ] Foundation is 100% participation by the student body. The purpose of this is to	>
show the student support of the work	•
of the Foundation itself.	% r
CIRCLE APPOINTMENTS
The Blue Circle named Bill McCullough chairman of next year’s freshman orientation program at last Monday’s meeting. Jim Short was named chairman of next Fall’s student trip. Preparations were also made for the coming membership campaign and the next four Concert and Lecture Series attractions.
will be given March 5 by The Rev. A. L. Meloche, speaking on “The Image of the Trinity in Sanctity, Sanity, and Sex.” On March 12, Dr. Louis B. Leone will give “The Doctor’s Viewpoint,” and Mr. and Mrs. Art Schaefer will speak on “Love and Marriage” on March 19. Concluding the series on March 26, Mrs. Frank O’Dowd will talk on “Success in Marriage.”
22
The Scholastic
Sailing Team Plans For Annual Seminar
The second of four sessions of the Sailing Seminar will be held Thursday evening at 7:30 in Nieuwland Science hall. The seminar is held annually just , before the opening of the sailing season. Prospective members of the sailing team and any interested students will have the opportunity to acquaint themselves with ♦ the different phases of sailing.
Two separate courses will be con-» ducted concurrently. The elementary j course will be taught in room 265 by j Joe Boland, who will discuss methods, nomenclature and other basics of sailing.
The advanced course will be conducted V by Ron Meissner, Tim Rice and Lou b Morgan. They will discuss tactics, rules ' and advanced sailing theory. Instruction will be given in the form of movies, ‘ slides and accompanying lectures.
The remaining sessions will be held on 1 March 6 and March 13. At the termi-f nation of the seminar, those interested may take a test to qualify for a skipper’s 1 card. This card is necessary for colL legiate racing and also to obtain use of | sailboats at boat clubs. The skipper’s cards will be issued to qualified persons j by Boland, who is a certified Red Cross small craft instructor.
1 --------------------------
WSND Appoints Bennett To News Director Post
; Jim Bennett has replaced George Van ; Kula as WSND news director, according to Jerry Slater, station manager.
; Van Kula was forced by pressing com-1 mitments, as chairman of the Washington Day Exercises, to resign as news director. He also felt that someone else . should be given an opportunity to gain ■ experience in this position. Van Kula •t will remain with WSND as a newscaster.
Bennett, a junior in the College of Commerce from Rockville Centre, N. Y., ■ was appointed news director immediately , after Van Kula’s resignation on Feb. 10. Bennett will also take over the 5 p.m. > daily news summary.
Warren Albright, publicity director for WSND, said this alteration of staff will not cause any further changes within the campus station.
Easter
will soon be here and we’ll
be going home. Field trip time is here and many of us are going visiting. The most fortunate of us will be going on a chartered
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
John Birk, agent 158 Alumni Hall
That’s why American Express Student Tours are expertly planned to include a full measure of individual leisure— ample free time to discover your Europe—as well as the most comprehensive sight-seeing program available anywhere! Visit England, Scotland, Ireland, Holland, Belgium, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Italy, The Rivieras and France—accompanied by distinguished tour leaders—enjoy superb American Express service throughout.
10 Special Tours ... 48 to 63 days ... via famous ships: United States, Liberte, Nieuw Amsterdam, Atlantic,
Italia, New York. $1,198 up.
Other tours available . . . from 35 days . . . $769 up.
You can always
TRAVEL NOW—PAY LATER when you go American Express!
For complete information, see your Campus Representative, local Travel Agent or American Express
\ Travel Service, member: Institute of International Education and Council on Student Travel
. . or simply mail the handy coupon
DEYER-BENNET TONIGHT
The Concert and Lecture Series presents Richard Deyer-Bennet tonight in Washington Hall at 8:15.
Tickets can still be purchased at the box office until curtain time.
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••a
American Express Travel Service
65 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y. e/o Travel Sales Division
016
Yes! Please do send me complete information about 1958 Student Tours of Europe!
Name................................
Address.......................................
City.................Zone.......State.........
PROTECT YOUR TRAVEL FUNDS WITH AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES — SPENDABLE EVERYWHERE
• •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••a** I I
February 21, 1958
23
The £i(U
RESTAURANT
127 N. Main Street
Welcomes Notre Dame Students
TO TRY OUR FINE FRENCH AND AMERICAN FOODS
•
Prepared By Our French Chefs
•
Call For Reservations CE 3-5606
Leo XIII Lecture Series Begins Next Tuesday; Fr. O'Connor Scheduled as Opening Speaker
The Rev. Edward D. O’Connor, C.S.C. will deliver the opening lecture of the 1958 Leo XIII Lecture Series. The talk, open to all students, will be presented in the Law Auditorium at 8 p.m. Tuesday.
The Leo XIII Lecture Series is presented this Lent for the third straight year by the AB College Group of the Notre Dame YCS Federation. The primary purpose of the talks is to supplement the formal religion curriculum of the University by relating Christian thought to current problems in the social order. Secondarily, they present members of the Notre Dame faculty to the general student body outside the atmosphere of the classroom.
This year’s lectures are unified around the general theme of the role of the Catholic college graduate in society. Each of the five talks is concerned with
a facet of this theme and is generally concerned with the implications of Catholic belief on problems of current political and cultural significance.
Father O’Connor’s talk, “The Social Implications of the Mystical Body,” will keynote the series and establish a theological basis for the remaining lectures.
Father O’Connor is a graduate of Notre Dame. He was ordained in 1948, and from 1948 to 1952 studied in Paris, spending two years at L’eau Vive, an international house of studies. He has taught at Notre Dame since 1952 as a member of the Religion department, and is currently connected with the Medieval Institute and the General Program.
Ie **
43th ST. WEST OF BROADWAY
hot it
KNICKERBOCKER
•’•jjyl 45th ST. EAST OF BROADWAY , 400 fin* rooms with radio' '	from
JU-2-4200
Inatln officer—
HOTEI METROPOLE, Cincinnati, Ohio ALBERT HARRIS. Prerident
ALWAYS
CMO0SC
TELEVISION AIR-CONDITIONED Other Harris Hotels
LA-4-6900
CINCINNATI, Metropole Broadway Kemper Lane
FATHER O’CONNOR
Keynotes Lenten Lectures
MIAMI BEACH, Sovereign DETROIT, Fort Wayne Hotei
ARTHUR H. FRIEDMAN, Managing Director COLUMBUS, Broad-Lineal*
SALZBURG SUMMER SCHOOL
Study-Travel Program For College Graduates
Over six weeks in Europe. Two weeks of lectures and Seminars offered by the Catholic Faculty of the University of Salzburg. Discussing: "The World And Man's Place In It According To Christian Law And Social Order." Attend the Salzburg Festival. Travel for 32 days through 8 countries. Includes Brussels World Fair.	PRICE $780
Ocean transportation, room, board, travel and study included. Sailing date: June 23, 1958. Application deadline: May 1.
Writ* today for brochure and application form. THE INSTITUTE OF EUROPEAN STUDIES 35 East Wacker	Chicago 1, Illinois
The second lecture, on March 6, will be presented by Professor Bernard P. Norling of the History department. Norling’s topic will be “The Soul of the Modern World: Communism or Christianity.”	‘
The three following talks are concerned with specific areas of activity in the social structure. On March 16, The < Rev. Stanley Parry, C.S.C., head of the department of Political Science, will speak on “The Role of the Catholic in Political Theory.”	*
On March 18, Prof. Thomas J. Strich, head of the department of Journalism and Communication Arts, will discuss v “The Position of the Catholic in American Culture.” The concluding lecture will be given by The Rev. John Walsh, C.S.C., head of the Education depart- ’ ment. His topic will be “The Catholic Position in the Education Controversy.”
24
The Scholastic
Manufacturing Engineer Lee H.Baker, like many other engineers, mathematicians and physicists, came to IBM directly from college. Here he tells how he found an excellent opportunity for creative engineering in his area of the expanding electronic computer field.
What's it like to be with IBM
“It’s difficult.” Lee Baker admits, “for a college senior to feel confident when choosing a job. For four years the college student has been trained to be critical and deliberate about making decisions. Now, faced with the biggest decision of all, he has only a few months in which to have job interviews, weigh the facts, and select a company—not to mention passing exams and graduating at the same time.”
Lee Baker, with a B.S. in Industrial Administration, came to IBM in 1953. Starting as a Technical Engineer in Production Control, he was immediately assigned to the General Manufacturing Education Program—a ten-month course with rotating assignments in all phases of the work—manufacturing, purchasing, production. In addition to formal classroom study, he spent some time in the Boston Sales Office, calling on customers with an IBM salesman.
His career was temporarily interrupted by two years with the Air Force in Japan. Back at IBM in 1955, he has since been promoted to Production Control Engineer. His present job is to design systems to insure a smooth flow of work through the plant where the famous electronic computers are manufactured. “It
takes creative engineering ability to design these systems,” he says, “and it takes administrative ability to ‘sell’ a system to higher management and make it stick.”
Many creative opportunities
There are many creative opportunities in IBM Manufacturing Engineering for men with B.S. degrees in electrical, mechanical or industrial engineering. You may be concerned with the analysis, design and procurement of tools and equipment needed to produce a wide variety of computers and other business machines. Or you may deal with plant layout, methods, production control or systems testing. “So much of our work is creative that it is often necessary to produce unique manufacturing equipment. This affords a chance for creative engineering of the first order.”
How to select an employer
To the college senior faced with a job decision, he
has this to say: “Pick your employer by this simple test: Is the company expanding fast enough to provide adequate scope for your talents and ambitions? Is it interested in your long - range management development? Will it treat you as an individual and match your abilities with the most challenging assignments?”
For his part, Lee Baker feels IBM has met this test. Since 1953, he has seen new plants open, dozens of new products
evolve, hundreds of “Selling” the system
management positions created. Increased stature, responsibility and reward have come his way. And he
Company growth means opportunity
knows they will continue, for IBM sales continue to expand.
Recently married, Lee Baker advises seniors to pay special attention to company benefits. “They may seem like a yawning matter when you’re single, but they mean a lot when you assume family responsibilities. IBM benefits are certainly generous.”
This profile is just one example of what it’s like to be with IBM. There are many other excellent opportunities for well-qualified college men in Research, Development, Manufacturing, Sales and Applied Science. Why not ask your College Placement Director when IBM will next interview on your campus? Or, for information about how your degree will fit you for an IBM career, just write to:
Mr. R. A. Whitehorne
IBM Corp., Dept. 812
590 Madison Avenue
New York 22, N. Y.
DATA PROCESSING • ELECTRIC TYPEWRITERS • MILITARY PRODUCTS SPECIAL ENGINEERING PRODUCTS • SUPPLIES • TIME EQUIPMENT
February 21, 1958
25
Bom Pof£
by JOHN KEARNS
diary of a sufferer
The writer wishes to affirm that this account is in no way expressive of the conditions of his own life.
Today my suffering has been intense — the agony often overwhelming. The death wish has been ever with me, but then, it is my constant bedfellow of late. No longer is fleeting joy a joy, now lost in my night of affliction. But for that joy which will not leave — had I not the assurance of God’s love — I must surely die.
I feel some envy for those whose suffering draws to a close, since theirs is no suffering at all. True suffering is hopeless, without expectation, though it never stops hoping against hope. I must surely be that Knight of Infinite Resignation. See my head bowed, my shoulders drooping — oh God, despise not my affliction! Only death can end my agony (so will it God!), but I cannot will that death.
My life is not my doing. What have I created? A reed before the wind, the wind of that unquenchable night. Christ on the Cross, thou art no stranger — I know you as few can. I know the tearing force of the nails, the rent of the spear. Never did such darkness descend on Jerusalem as envelops me! I am that curtain tom in two! I would also that my cup pass from me, but I am no Christ. For were I able to refuse my cup, I would. I have not the power of Christ. Thank God I have it not!
My despair is my joy also. Merciful God,, never let my despair cause me to despair! O comforter of the afflicted, comfort in my affliction, comfort by means of my affliction! Would that I knew also the joy of the Cross. Yet something of that is mine. Through this cross am I with Christ on his.
My vocation is given me — let my talents multiply! Not in the field will I bury them, but in Christ! Not in myself will I live, nor in my suffering; I will live in Christ. Pray Christ to live in me!
I am no longer powerless. The strength of that Other is mine! See how he lifts me up! See how he strengthens
me! In him do I find myself, in him I truly live. In Christ my life is at last my own. Now can I shape it — a creator now am I. All things become possible in my agony, by means of my agony. No reed am I, but a giant! Who dares lay hands on the annointed of the Lord? I will cast down Jericho, Babylon will I destroy — all nations of the earth shall bow before me. I am powerful with the power of the Lord. His wrath is upon my enemies.
Praise the Lord all you Gentiles. Let all nations do Him honor. Abundant His mercy to us; He remains faithful to His word.
The Lord is my shepherd; how can I lack? He gives me a resting place with pasture and leads me out to cool water, that I may live anew.
Alas, I cannot maintain this pitch. I needs must drop lower. My suffering is blinding — what misery to see the light and lose it! Yet all is not lost. I struggle to offer my suffering. I will to be a sacrifice, to be the sacrifice.
I must never forget my calling. A life of suffering is as much a vocation from God as the priestly life. The only humanism is that of the Cross, and this is my mission. How ironic that I, who can do nothing, am placed where I must do everything. I, who have nothing, must do more than they who have more. My life of suffering is the greatest misery and the highest honor. Job could lament to God for his misfortune — I must thank Him for mine. My suffering is not my own affair, it is everyone’s, for we must all live that same life. We are all that same Body. My life is not mine, it is my neighbor’s — it is Christ’s.
I must not fail in this mission. I must be on the Cross with Christ. Deign to bless, O God, what I offer, make it approved, effective, right, and wholly pleasing in every way. Let me be that fortunate bread, that happy wine! Bless me and break me so that I may be part of that body with Christ at its head. At today’s Elevation, at all Elevations, wherever they be through time and space, let me too be consecrated. Let
my life, with all its terrors, be ever an offering to you, 0 Christ.
Wonder of the Mass! Remembered and real sacrifice. Dread, joyful event before us! Consecration where I am consecrated! Altar where I am offered! Accept at my hands, 0 God, this pitiful offering which is myself! Grant that I live in Christ and he in me. Let my suffering be his and his be mine.
Through him and with him and in him is all glory. Let me live thus. Accept me, let me live in thee, that your sacrifice may be shared. Take my life that it may be more truly mine. Consecrate me to place me on your cross. Let each sacrifice offered find me also offered, also sacrificed. Grant me that salvation which I so ardently desire.
Life in Christ, of Christ, is my salvation. In Christ my anguish is no longer mine, it is his. In Christ, I am no longer mine, I am his. My whole life, my self, is placed upon that altar, that Cross. Grant thy holy angel bring this before thy Divine Majesty. For only thus can I be saved, Lord, only thus would I be saved.
Holy Eucharist, sign of our acceptance, signify my acceptance. Live in me ever, Christ. Form my life, my very self. Be not my judgment and condemnation, but my safeguard and , remedy. Lord, I am not worthy that you 1 should grant me this, but I beseech it of you nonetheless. Communicate your life to me, raise me up. See, my shoulder droop without you, my head sinks low. I must lose myself, I will lose myself, to find myself. Fill me with life, with love. For this I was made, for this I must live, and for this I will be saved.
My life has not been empty if I offer it to Christ. My suffering will not then be valueless. My agony becomes Christ’s, his life becomes mine. I come to him only through his Cross. This is the > center of all that is made, this is the gate of heaven. Eye of the needle, let me be the thread, that camel. Let my sorrow be my pass to eternity. In love shall I offer it. I love, Christ, help my failure to love!
26
The Scholastic
4
)
Mighty handy! that's the ARROW wash 'n' wear Glen
Save time—anytime—with this Dacron* and cotton Wash ’n’ Wear. Just wash, hang up to dry and wear. You’ll look smart all the time in the Glen’s Mitoga®-tailored lines. They give you that trim, tapered look, collar to waist to cuff. Just $6.95. duett, Peabody & Co., Inc.
polyester fibre
ARROW^
—first in fashion
We're ARROW
Wash 'n' Wear headquarters
Easy-livin’ starts with an Arrow Wash ’n* Wear shirt, the way to start any day smartly. Just wash and let drip dry (or launder as any other shirt). Save time, save work, choose from our collection today. Only $6.95.
GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St, South Bend
You'll be siftin' on top of the world when you change io EM
Light into that
BM live Modem flavor
Only L&M gives you this filter fact— the patent number on every pack.
LIGGETT X MYERS TOBACCO CO.
fo&rrff4 tnc&u&np ’atf-mate vl/nftr/f W&f	£805
This is it...
Free up! Freshen up your taste! put yourself behind the pleasure end of an L&M. That’s when you live the most... get the full enjoyment you deserve in your cigarette. L&M gives you the flavor, the good rich taste of the Southland’s finest cigarette tobaccos.
the pleasure end of your LSM. . . the patented Miracle Tip ... pure white inside, pure white outside...as a filter should be for cleaner, j better smoking. .. modern smoking at its best.
Your choice . . . smoke L&M’s in BOX or PACK. @
t LtRisett & Mjcts Tobacco Qompanv