THE
NOTRE DAME
MEN
Our unmatched experience in knowing what is correct—and practical—in clothing for the Notre Dame man is reflected in our huge selection of fine clothing and furnishings. Why not come in soon and look them over?
THE RIGHT
CLOTHES FOR
On theCampus—Notre Dame

?

GILBERT'S (SampugSihop


The Scholastic

RENEW YOUR SCHOLASTIC SUBSCRIPTION NOW!
THE BOOK SHOP
Paperbacks •
Contemporary Cards and Glassware •
All the Best Sellers •
130 N. MICHIGAN STREET
Right down from the Bus Stop
OUR COVER: This week marks the return of Ivan Osorio to the cover of the SCHOLASTIC. Neither Ivan nor his drawings are strange sights to our readers, and like his other covers, this one is quite likely to provoke a considerable amount of comment.
This week Osorio’s cover deals with the annual homecoming festivities which take place this week end. Some familiar figures (St. Mary’s girls?) will no doubt be noticed but some additions have been made. Other than this nothing more need be said about the cover.
3
3
NivMsivH
o vl
3 S
asms DEIS] MEH
ujediuh

|W
O
SI3 s
J3 a a
KODL (CROSSWORD
ACROSS
1. Flat-top hill
5. Cowpoke’s colleague
9.	Of Oxford
10.	Cooler, but not the clink
11.	Dissolve her defenses
49.	Kind of Vegas
50.	One for the pot
13. It looks like H
15.	Actress Hagen
16.	Target for French blade
18. Downs in England
20. This one you've gotta dig
23.	With the lip curled
24.	Mr. Yale '
25.	And so forth
26.	What gagmen paradoxically try to produce
29. When your throat tells you it’s time for
a.
come
up to Kool!
33.	This is the way to go, formally
34.	Ill-advised pre-date vegetable
35.	Half ersatz
36.	Catskill without a cat
40.	Make like the new Marilyn
41.	You are (French)
43.	Steady number
44.	Struggle memento
45.	French novelist
46.	It’s after Sept.
47.	Colleen-land
48.	Country-style Slaughter
DOWN
1.	A refreshing 	with Kools!
2.	Prep with a rep
3.	It's a comfort
4.	It does the crawl
5.	Sweetie’s last name
6.	Blame
7.	Head man at some colleges
8.	Describing certain boats
14. Kool kind of magic
17. What Grampa had to do to propose
19. A nut
21.	A type of room
22.	There’s one for every her
23.	Dry
26.	He started “The Tatler”
27.	Buy your Kools by the_______
28___________ the occasion
30.	One of the Vitamin B’s
31.	Vehicle for juvenile drag race
32.	The main course
37.	Epitome of cleanness, . smoothness in smoking
38.	Durante chant: “_______, dinca,
doo”
39.	Answer to “Shall we?”
42. Little sister
44. Ocean
SEE
Sid
W
3 3 Sid
□ 3 a
n □
N 3
□ 3 S
a v o
3
S
H
O
N[3|a
3
3 X 3
N 3 W o w
tflMSNV TGDM
No. 4
5
10
12
11
13
16
20
23
26
33
40
35
45
48
ARE YOU KODL ENOUGH TO KRACKTMIS?
19
25
29
30
4
MILO MENTHOL
G 1959. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.
When your throat tells you its time tor a change^
you need a real change
YOU NEED THE

K©L
The Scholasti
Sicapt
( by CHRIS FOLEY
so what else
is new?

1 There’s lots of news across the campus this week, so let’s get right into it:
AS WAS REPORTED LAST WEEK, our interhall footballers have begun a series of engagements against the lads from Michigan State prison; fortunately I can report that none of our boys del cided to stay within the walls as D. Jim i Ausum feared — instead the afternoon proved quite profitable. Morrissey coach Mike Lind has informed me that his squad, badly in need of players, was able | to pry a couple of linemen away from the talent-rich state team. They are end Dave Cobalt, a converted safecracker, and Alvin (Slash) Williams, a homicidal maniac. Cobalt has enrolled in the College of Science, while Williams will enter the College of Arts and Letters. Watch for them in interhall action soon.
SOCIAL COMMISSIONER Bill Blip > reports that the new “free for all” sys-
ARE YOU A WALL-FLOWER?
Do you find yourself standing alone soberly in a corner while your friends cavort around raging roaring drunk at parties, dances, etc.? Are you a victim t of your own metabolism which keeps you miserably sober no matter how much ' you drink? Suffer no more! Medical science has solved your problem in the form of a miraculous new product, SMASH, which will enable you to join in the fun. Just slip one of these wondrous SMASH tablets into your glass r and in no time at all you’ll be flat on your back in a deep satisfying intoxica-. tion that lasts the whole night through! Now YOU can be the center of attraction, the life of the party. If you are now an alcoholic, or if you are seriously interested in bceoming one, you can’t afford to pass up this offer. Send only 't 25c in coin to SMASH, South Bend, Indiana, for a trial size. Specify age, weight, and degree desired (high, tipsy, or stoned).
tem of selling dance tickets, used so successfully in Shangri-La sales, will be adopted for all future social events. Under this system 380 students got “bids only,” 73 got bids and football tickets, 157 got bids, tickets, and accommoda
| October 23, 1959
tions, 34 got crushed ribs in the line, and one member of the social commission got slugged for wising off to an irate senior.
MY WEST COAST CORRESPONDENT advises that we should be wary of the Southern Cal Trojans who will be here to take on the Irish Nov. 28. He states that the unbeaten Trojans transport that big defensive line to “away” games in a special airplane equipped with double security steel mesh cages and that the boys are accompanied not by a team physician, but by a veterinarian.
ID PICTURES WILL NOT BE TAKEN this week. I am pleased to report that the last set of pictures was acceptable, and shall take this opportunity to explain the original mix-up. As some of you doubtless know, the wrong machine was sent from Chicago. Instead of a picture taking apparatus, an X-ray machine was sent, and while the resulting films were quite interesting, they were unsuited for ID purposes. Don’t worry though, fellows, for an infirmary spokesman has said that few if any students recieved a lethal dose of X-rays the first time through. A Geiger counter has been set up at Nieuwland if you would like to check your radioactivity rating, however.
ALWAYS A SUBJECT OF INTEREST to all students is the summer jobs held down by varsity football players. This year most of them worked construction or something of that sort, but some came up with really unusual summer jobs. Sophomore end Les Traver, for instance, peddled marijuana to teenagers in his home town of Toledo, Ohio. Big Bob Sholtz spent the summer as a diamond cutter, while Monty Stickles was a dentist and Bill Mack, junior halfback, a brain surgeon in his home town of Allison Park, Pa.
FIRST REPORTS ON THE SENIOR TRIP to East Lansing are good. The Spartans proved themselves fine hosts despite the unfortunate outcome of the game, and a good time was had by all. In fact, some seniors didn’t want to leave Sunday afternoon when it was time to
come back. In fact, some of them haven’t come back yet. In fact, Father Collins sent a little message to all those who haven’t come back yet. It goes something like this:
Seniors, seniors, shame on you;
It’s been a week since we heard from you.
All of its at the Golden Dome
Wish that you would come back home.
But have a real good time even though it’s late
’Cause fellas, you ain’t gonna graduate.
HERE’S A REAL BONANZA
Do you enjoy practical jokes? For a limited time only I have been authorized to offer to you, the public, the most colossal assortment of jokes and tricks ever assembled. Here’s just one of hundreds of gags you receive in this collection: You offer a friend a free sample of toothpaste, Rotadent, and ask him to try it and tell you how he likes it. Naturally the poor boob will try it, and imagine his reaction when within a few days his teeth begin to turn black and actually FALL OUT! That’s just one of this terrific group of laughs, which’ includes the famous “exploding razor” (dad’ll get a big charge out of this one) and our “poison ivy flowers” (for mon).' Send only $1.98 today to LOTS OF-LAUGHS, South Bend, Indiana.
ALL THE TALK about quiz shows being fixed brings to mind a little matter that has long puzzled me. Is that Deans’ List really on the level? Think about it a little — how could anybody get an average that high without being crooked? Now myself, I didn’t pass any courses last year so I don’t have any average, but I know some guys who passed some and they aren’t on the Dean’s List. Just what do you have to do? A little pay-off maybe? I would like to know why none of my friends are on the Dean’s List. Take my roommate, for instance. He only took two courses last semester, and he passed them both! How come he isn’t on there? I think an investigation of the whole crooked deal is in order.
5

On Camps Mk Shulman
(Author of “I JFos a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.}
AN OVERSIGHT
Editor:	,
I notice with regret that in the list of “Facilities” in the October 9 issue of i
FOOTBALL: ITS CAUSE AND CURE
Next Saturday at the football game while you are sitting in your choice student’s seat behind the end zone, won’t you give a thought to Alaric Sigafoos?
Alaric Sigafoos (1868-1934) started life humbly on a farm near Thud. Kansas. His mother and father, both named Ralph, were bean-gleaners, and Alaric became a bean-gleaner too. Later he moved to Oregon and found work with a logging firm as a stump-thumper. Then he went to North Dakota where he tended - the furnace in a granary (wheat-heater). Then he drifted to Texas where he tidied up oil fields (pipe-wiper). Then to Arizona where he strung dried fruit (fig-rigger). Then to Kentucky where he fed horses at a breeding farm (oat-toter). Then to Long Island where he dressed poultry (duck-plucker). Then to Alaska where he drove a delivery van for a bakery (bread-sledder). Then to Minnesota where he cut up frozen lakes (ice-slicer). Then to Nevada where he computed odds in a gambling house (dice-pricer).. Then to Milwaukee where he pasted camera lenses together (Zeiss-splicer).
Finally he went to Omaha where he got a job in a tannery beating pig hides until they were soft and supple (hog-flogger). Here he found happiness at last.
Why, you ask, did he find happiness at last? Light a firm and fragrant Marlboro, taste those better makin’s, enjoy that filter that filters like no other filter filters, possess your souls in sweet content, cross your little fat legs, and read on.
Next door to Alaric’s hog-floggery was an almond grove owned by a girl named Chimera Emrick. Chimera was pink and white arid marvelously hinged, and Alaric •was instantly in love. Each day he came to the almond grove to woo Chimera, but she, alas, stayed cool.
* * *
When you go to next Saturday’s game, take along the perfect _	football companion—Marlboro Cigarettes or Philip Morris
-	Cigarettes or new Alpine Cigarettes—all a delight—all spon-
' sors of this column.
6	•
Then one day Alaric got a brilliant idea. It was the day before the annual Omaha Almond Festival. On this day, as everyone knows, all the almond growers in Omaha enter floats in the big parade. These floats always consist of large cardboard almonds hanging from large cardboard almond trees.
Alaric’s inspiration was to stitch pieces of pigskin together and inflate them until they looked like big, plump almonds. “These sure beat skinny old cardboard almonds,” said Alaric to himself. “Tomorrow they will surely take first prize for Chimera and she will be mine!”
Early the next morning Alaric carried his lovely inflated pigskin almonds over to Chimera, but she, alas, had run off during the night with Walter T. Sever-idge, her broker. Alaric flew into such a rage that he started kicking his pigskin almonds all over the place. And who should be walking by that very instant
but Abner Doubleday!
Mr. Doubleday had invented baseball the day before, and he was now trying to invent football, but he was stymied because he couldn’t figure out what kind of ball to use. Now, seeing Alaric kick the pigskin spheroids, his problem was suddenly solved. “Eureka1” he cried and ran to his drawing board and invented football, which was such a big success that he was inspired to go on and invent lacrosse, Monopoly, run sheep run, and nylon.
© 1959 Max Shulman
the Scholastic, you had failed to include the Notre Dame Book Exchange. This operation is a non-profit one, its sole purpose being for the student and his pocketbook. We would appreciate it if you would correct an oversight and inform the students of the hours of this worthwhile organization.
Hours: 12:30 to 2:30 p.m., MWF. Robert Bennett, mgr. 28 Pangborn
HOT AND BOTHERED
Editor:
It should be obvious by now that the adverse criticism of station WSND has reached its limit, and a comment made in [Jim] Ausum’s “Escape” column of October 16 exceeded that limit. I quote, “our own sixteen hours per day, seven-day-per-week version of ‘It Pays To Be Ignorant.’ ”
This is not only an insult to the radio station, but also an insult to the intelligence of the student body, the greater percentage of which I would imagine tunes to 640 at least some part of every day.
J. J. Ranallo
247 Alumni QUESTIONNAIRE
Editor:
After reading the student government article of October 2 by Bruce Babbitt, I wonder what has become of our §2.25.
It would seem that dues to the NFCCS must indeed be immense since it takes
25 cents from 4000 or more students to pay them. Are the dues really that high

or is this just an excuse for obtaining more money? As for the social program p of victory dances, outside entertainment, j and the other activities (all of which charge admission) it hardly operates at § a loss.	J
This article says that support of student scholarship aid, charities and other § projects comes from traditional projects, such as the Mardi Gras. Well, if this support comes from money-making proj- || ects, how does this concern our §10,000 or more?
Paul O’Bryan 344 Lyons
TIMES HAVEN’T CHANGED
Editor:
In your “Years Ago” we find the account of the death of a poor defenseless rabbit due to his exposure to the four J gray walls of a student’s room and his attempt to subsist on dining hall products. However that was seventy-five® years ago! Today thousands of hardyg Noter Doters indulge at Ziggy’s Place: daily, proof of improvement. Not all theg walls are gray anymore either.
Mike Brienza 202 Fisher
The Scholasti
Si The Notre Dame
solved.
—B. T. & T.
7
STHOMA
ddeCla
rancisSmith
William
Vol. 101
No. 4
OCTOBER 23, 1959
ROYRUB
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL: This Sunday evening the second series of Student Fora gets under way with a discussion of “The Khrushchev Visit, Was It Good or Bad?” Certainly this is a timely topic (See “Back Page”), and it should provoke a good exchange of views on a very crucial issue. Dr. Vincent DeSantis, associate professor of history, will take the stand that the Krushchev visit had beneficial results, while Rev. Stanley Parry, head of the political science department, will take the opposite stand.
As in any discussion of this type, the success of the Student Forum depends to a great extent on audience participation, or to be more precise, student participation. The best fora last year were the ones early in the year at which students turned out in large numbers to argue such questions as recognition of Communist China. Later on, when student interest subsided, discussions began to lose their liveliness. Certainly there were reasons why student participation dropped. One was the failure of those in charge to cut off the forum after considerable time had elapsed. This was already rectified by the end of last year. Another reason was the fact that topics tended to drift into specialized fields requiring a great deal of research for intelligent discussion. It is hoped that this type of subject will be avoided this year. The title of the first forum indicates that it will. Finally, it seemed to us that students preferred faculty speakers and tended to stay away from fora with student speakers. This year’s series will most likely feature more faculty members, thus the quality of the Student Fora will doubtless improve.
If the students wish to make the Student Forum a success, then it is necessary that they attend the meetings and take the floor. Only in this manner will it become a true forum of student opinion.

rtseditor
BONFIRE PEP RALLY: Tonight will feature the return of an old and long abandoned custom at Notre Dame. That, of course, is the bonfire pep rally which will begin at 7:30 on Green Field near the stadium. The fire will be lit after the guests have spoken and we urge the “Washington Hall-oriented” crowd to cooperate with those in charge by listening to the speeches in silence and by not milling about like corraled horses.
As near as we can establish, the last such pep rally was four years ago. Thus it is that while a few individuals remain who attended that last rally, the great majoi-ity of the present student body has never seen one. Although it is certainly a fact that many such ancient traditions are no longer appropriate, we feel that this is one meriting permanent resurrection. It would seem that this could be the little twist which might make at least one pep rally a year more than a barbarian display of mass hypnosis.
TECHNICAL PROGRESS: This week our news section carries a story dealing with the Technical Review which is in the capable hands of its new editor, Tom Shishman. Notre Dame’s engineering school can be proud of its publication. At the annual convention of the Engineering College Magazine Association held in Philadelphia this summer, the Tech Reviezv won two prizes, one in the best single editorial category and another for a non-technical article. This year promises to be even better. Among the things to come are articles on space travel and a lead feature on the nuclear reactor at Notre Dame. The first issue is November 20; watch for it.
THE RETURN OF IVAN: As a result of popular demand from both Notre Dame and St. Mary’s (Scholastic, Oct. 16), this week’s magazine features the return of the famed artist Ivan Osorio. Although the current issue displays only one drawing, the cover, future Scholastics will contain Ivan on the inside as well as on the outside. Ivan’s present work follows along the lines that made him famous, but the Nicaraguan architect promises that a completely different type of cover will appear on a subsequent issue. Be that as it may, we must relate a sad fact to Ivan’s fans. He will graduate in January; never more to return.
WHERE’S THE FIRE: Sirens roared and tempers flared last Monday evening as Walsh Hall joined the circle of buildings claiming false alarms to their credit. The last such alarm that we know of was about a month ago at the ROTC building. Monday’s affair was touched off by a fire detector on the third floor, a device which reacts to any sort of heat, such as that generated by a match or cigarette lighter. Both the South Bend and Notre Dame fire departments answered this alarm. Both went back to their respective fire stations after exchanging comments behind Walsh Hall. The cause of the alarm still remains a mystery. As of this writing, the case remains un-
minis
UBKUY and BOOK SHOP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., South Bend
A Nonprofit Organization
S-P SPEAKER
C. M. MacMillan, director of Industrial Relations for Studebaker, will speak to the Economics Round Table Thursday, at 7:30 p.m. in the Amphitheater of the Student Center. MacMillan will speak on the “Management Aspects of the Labor Problem.” All economics majors are urged to attend. The meeting is open to all and refreshments will be served.
D*RWTURB0W
\0PT0METRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
CONTACT LENSES INQUIRIES INVITED EYES EXAMINED
PHONE CE 4-5737
207 W. WASHINGTON—OLIVER HOTEL
Examine tke "Mix"
AT GRUMMAN AIRCRAFT
The Defense Department policy of relying on a “WEAPONS MIX” as the best war
deterrent is reflected at Grumman. The company has always abided by this concept by
putting its corporate effort into many diversified projects, both military and commercial. It is precisely this “COMPANY MIX” that is creating a wealth of engineering opportunities
MOHAWK, a new observation plane on which production began in 1958—Grumman's First Army airplane—is designed to operate from small unimproved fields and will be used for purposes of tactical observation. Featuring a 59-knot stall speed and relatively the same short take-off and landing (STOL) capabilities as the Army's present light-weight singleengine airplanes, the Mohawk will be able to virtually "live" with the Army in the field.
ANTI-SUBMARINE WARFARE The award to Grumman by the U. S. Navy of a contract for a new anti-submarine airplane, the S2F-3, is the result of an intensified effort on the part of our Anti-Submarine Warfare development team (ASW). The S2F-3 was designed to combat what may well be considered to be the free world's greatest menace ... the submarine!
COMMERCIAL AVIATION—TH GULFSTREAM Grumman's new prop-jet bill ness transport. The Gulfstream marks the return'd Grumman to commercial aviation. This 350-mile-ci hour pressurized aircraft, now in full-scale productioi has been ordered by many of the nation's leadiri corporations.
EARLY WARNING An early warning airplane serves as an "electronic fence" for the Navy. Designed to operate from aircraft carriers far at sea, the plane patrols the extremes of defense perimeters to detect impending attacks by enemy air and sea forces. Carrying detection gear in a huge saucer-like radome atop its fuselage, the early-warning plane identifies approaching "strikes" and relays data to task fence Combat Information Centers for the immediate dispatch of defensive fighters or missile units.
MISSILE & SPACE TECHNOLOGY.
The Navy Department selected the Bendix Aviation-Grumman Aircraft proposal as the winning design, in a sixteen-com-fiany competition, for its new ong-range air-to-air guided missile. The Eagle. The Eagle will equip the Navy with a new generation of air-to-air missile capabilities.
Top design engineers and research scientists are studying a wide range of problems connected with space and its exfiloration to meet the chal-enges which stand somewhere between the present and the realization of a true space age.
HYDROFOIL SEACRAFT A contract design a high-speed hydrofoil-equipped vessel;' able for operation on the open seas has been a Grumman Aircraft Engineering Corporation byS; Maritime Administration. The feasibility of employ hydrofoils to increase ocean transportation speeded comfort has been recently established by a Gru Study. The study's results showed that hydrofoil were well-suited to a wide range of high-seas tions.


Our representative will interview Engineering Degree Candidates majoring in aeronautical, mechanical, electrical or civil engineering, math or physics on November 10


Tumma.
Contact your Placement Bureau.
If this date is not convenient, send your resume to the attention of Mr. H. E. Anderson, Dept. GR-300.
w "Mat
GRUMMAN AIRCRAFT ENGINEERING CORPORATION
Bethpage, Long (stand. New York
8
M-
The ScholasbC i l

Camfud Scum
QUEEN PHYLLIS McDANIEL
Week-end reign
Science Grants Total $125,000 for Research
University of Notre Dame faculty members have recently been awarded research grants totalling over $125,000.
Rev. Cletus S. Banchofer, C.S.C., associate professor of biology at the University, is studying the effects of radiation on nerves and muscles. The U. S. Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) is - suporting the project with a grant of | $13,165.
Notre Dame’s radiation biology laboratories have just recently been awarded another grant by the AEC of $15,000 for the purchase of equipment for courses applying nuclear technology to the life sciences.
The National Science Foundation has allocated a grant of $40,200 to Dr. Vladimir Seidel, professor of mathematics. His two-year research project is entitled “Boundary Behavior for Functions meromorphic, Holomorphic and Harmonic in the Unit Circle.”
Dr. Thomas G. Ward, a virologist and •, authority on the common cold, has received a National Drug Co. grant of $25,300 to continue his work.
A grant of $20,700 for research in the department of physics has been given by the AEC to Prof. David W. Juenker. The project is entitled “External Photoelectric Effect in Semiconductors and Me-A tals.”
The project of Rev. Thomas J. Lane, C.S.C., “Cholate Formation Studies of Heterocyclic Compounds,” has been awarded a grant of $8,030 from the National Institutes of Health.
The Army Chemical Corps has awarded a grant of $5,000 for research on “Mosquito Genetics” to be conducted by Mesomorphic, Holomorphic and Har-biology department.
LES ELGART TO SET ORIENTAL MOOD FOR BIG NORTHWESTERN WEEK END
Decorations to Feature Japanese Rivers and Pagodas;
Reorganized Group to Present Imaginative Arranging
An oriental atmosphere and the sentimental strains of Les Elgart will provide the setting for those attending the student government dance “Shangri-la,” tonight.
The dance, which initiates the activities of Homecoming Week End, will be held in the LaFortune Student Center from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. The sellout crowd of over 500 couples will be dancing in an “Oriental paradise” complete 'with 60 authentic Japanese lanterns.
Miss Phyllis McDaniel from Joppa, Md., is to be crowned Queen of “Shangri-la” by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. Miss McDaniels attends St. James Business School in Baltimore, Md., where she is president of her class.
Senatorial Date. Her escort for the dance is General Chairman John Clark. A language major in the College of Liberal Arts, John is also from Baltimore, Md. He is a member of the AB Advisory Board and also holds the positions of student body treasurer and AB Senator.
Les Elgart organized his orchestra in 1954 with the purpose of playing music that would satisfy dancers. He swiftly became known for his easy unruffled treatment of swing numbers and his imaginative orchestration of favorite tunes. His orchestra plays music that is mellow, danceable, sentimental and keyed to those last memorable moments of the dance. He has recorded a number of albums for Columbia Records, his latest being “The Great Sound of Les Elgart.”
Real Rice Paper. Reflecting the Oriental motif, the backdrop for the bandstand will consist of screening made from rice paper. The screening will be ornamented with Japanese lettering and illuminated from the back. The lighting for the main ballroom will consist of 60 Japanese lanterns which have been imported from Japan. Completing the ballroom decorations, will be a Japanese rock garden with rivulets of running water.
In the main lobby there will be a Japanese Oriental road shrine with pagoda gates. Placed in front of the shrine will be an Oriental idol and an incense fountain with gold fumes.
The man behind all this imaginative artistry is Decoration Chairman Don Chmiel, a marketing major in the College of Commerce. Don, whose home is
in Bayonne, N. J., is no stranger to the art of decoration. He was decoration chairman of “Aquarelle” and the “Mardi Gras” last year, and of the Freshman Formal in 1958
Just prior to the dance, a pep rally bonfire will be held next to the parking lot which' is directly across from the Morris Inn. The marching band will visit all the halls to lead the students to the rally area in time for the beginning of the festivities at 7:30 p.m. Following a short talk by the guest speaker, the bonfire will be lit.
Tomorrow is Homecoming, and tomorrow morning brings the judging of the annual hall decorations contest. This year’s theme is Notre Dame’s “Pigskin Past.” The displays will use a person or an event from Notre Dame’s football history as their theme. A trophy will be given to the first, second and third place winners; and a special trophy will be awarded to the best freshman display.
Saturday afternoon, of course, is the game between Notre Dame and a very highly rated Northwestern team. Tomorrow night Wally Jones and the Lettermen will be on hand to provide music for the Victory Dance. The dance will be held in the Drill Hall, beginning at 8:30 p.m. Tickets for the dance may be purchased for $1 at the entrance to the Drill Hall.	—Art Graham
LES ELGART Swinging serenade
October 23, 1959
9
'Juggler' to Present Fall Issue in November; Student Art Work Accents New Approaches
Within the next week, the editors of the 1959 Juggler will write the last notes on the paintings, make the final changes in layout, and then watch the first issue of their “new” magazine locked up and put to press. Subscribers will be reading their copies before the first week of November.
Simplicity marks the new cover where Jim Carney’s drawing of a juggler tumbles within the narrow confines of his box. Carney’s juggler reappears in various positions separating the texts. Among the literary features are: two scenes from Bernie McElroy’s awardwinning play, poetry by Jack Engler and Bill Jungles, reviews of Jacques Mari-tain’s Degrees of Knowledge and T. S. Eliot’s The Elder Statesman, and essays by Paul Body and Dave Christian.
Chinese Paintings. This year the Juggler includes reproductions of student art work, the first issue presenting the paintings of Ou Mie Shu, a Formosan art student, and drawings by Carney. This is the beginning of what the editor hopes “will be a tradition of future Jugglers to represent and record the work of the Fine Arts and Architecture schools as well as independent artistic achievement.” Within financial limitations, color appears in the print section. Many of this year’s changes, such as color and prints, could not have been effected without the patient assistance of the publisher who worked out the problems.
The editors and staff, who have attempted to make the current campus aware of the Juggler by both advertising and personal contact with the students, consider subscriptions valuable not so much for the money they provide (subscribers pay only a third of their issues’ cost) but rather that they serve as a testimony to campus interest in and enjoyment of the Juggler and what it represents. By these efforts they have successfully increased subscriptions to more than double last year’s.
In Memoriam. Even as preparations for this issue draw to a close, the editors have begun the next issue, the major issue of the year, commemorating the thirtieth anniversary of the JugglerScript tradition of Notre Dame student literary magazines. This commemorative issue will contain over a hundred pages of Notre Dame student writings — selections from past issues, a pictorial essay on the old campus buildings once behind the Main Building, an extensive review of a monumental work, The Image of Man, edited by three noted professors of Notre Dame, as well as current student fiction.
Mail subscriptions as well as campus subscriptions will be accepted and recorded by any member of the staff or by mail through Jack Cahallan, 315 Badin. The editors are now inviting
JUGGLER’S JIM YOCH
“a tradition of achievement"
manuscripts for the Winter and Spring issues. Contributions may be sent to Jim Yoch, 316 Walsh. Those manuscripts not returned to their authors before publication of the first issue are being held for consideration in the coming issues.
Senior Class To Hold Election For Patriot Award on Oct. 29
Elections will be held next Thursday for the annual Patriot of the Year Award, which is presented by the senior class, to a distinguished citizen of the United States. The announcement was made by Bill Scheckler, this year’s general chairman of the Washington Day Exercises. Scheckler was appointed by the senior class officers.
A suggested list of nominees has been compiled by a committee of seniors under chairman Paul Hundt. Members of the committee are Denny Shaul, Larry Turner, Tom Banchoff and John Sears.
Blanks will be left on the ballots for write-in votes if the electors are not satisfied with the committee’s opinions. The election will be carried out by using the Preferential System, now used in hall elections.
Short biographies of each of the nominees, along with a summary of the purposes and meaning of the Patriot of the Year award will be distributed to seniors and posted on bulletin boards on Wednesday.
The necessity of complete participation by the senior class is being stressed this year, due to difficulties encountered in last year’s election. The elections, which have been characterized as a “responsibility and a privilege of the senior class,” are expected to be received much more favorably by this year’s senior class.
Missionary Priest Reported Missing in Michigan Vicinity
A missionary priest, who was formerly stationed at Notre Dame, was reported missing last Saturday and was still being sought throughout southern Michigan by the Michigan State Police up until Scholastic press time.	.
Rev. John M. Sheridan, C.S.C., a member of the Holy Cross Fathers Mission Band, was to have reported to St. Henry’s Catholic Church in Lincoln Park, Mich., but did not arrive.
Michigan State Police broadcast an alert for Father Sheridan after he was reported missing by Rev. Richard Papen, C.S.C., another member of the Mission Band. Father Papen stated that Father Sheridan was to have met him at St. Henry’s Church last Saturday. The two were scheduled to begin a mission at the Church on Sunday.
Father Sheridan had been suffering from a recurrent tropical fever which . has caused amnesia-type incidents in the ; past. The nature of the ailment has not been diagnosed but it is thought that ; Father Sheridan contracted the disease ; while conducting missions in the Orient ; several years ago.	|
Biology Teachers Attend^ Association Conference I
Last week end approximately 150 sci- ~ entists from 70 institutions attended the ? third annual conference of the Midwest College Biology Teachers Association in^ the Engineering Auditorium.	|
A welcoming address was delivered by g Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., j president of the University, who is an? active member of the National Sciences; Board. Father Hesburgh has just re-| cently returned from Vienna where he^ served as the Vatican City delegate tos the third general conference of the Inter-1 national Atomic Energy Agency. Jg
On Friday evening a conference din-g| ner was held, followed by a meeting offe the Association held in the Biology Audi-^ torium. “Biogeography and Continental^ Drift” was the main point of discussion® by the principal speaker, Dr. Theodor^ Just. Dr. Just is chief curator of botanA at the Chicago Natural History Museung and is former editor of The America^ Midland Naturalist, a journal of Notre|| Dame observing its 50th anniversary this year.	S
GET ’EM WHILE THEY LAST g
Season tickets for the University Bl Theater’s 1959-60 series are now on H sale at the theater office in back of g Washington Hall. Tickets are sold® from 12 to 4 p.m., Monday through^ Friday until October 30; student^ prices are $3 for orchestra and cen-Wj ter bacony seats and $2 for sid^RI section seats in the balcony. Thre^H plays will be presented by the Uni^Q versity Theater this year, including® “The Hasty Heart" and “Tiger afSB the Gates.”
10
The SchoL
'Tech Review' Captures j Two Awards in Contest
Awards presented to the Technical Review at the Engineering College Magazine Association’s annual convention at Penn State University testified to its literary and technical excellence. The E.C.M.A., which is composed of 52 representatives of most of the better engi' neering colleges in the country, awarded the Technical Revietv two second place ’ ribbons for Best Single Editorial and Best Non-Technical Article.
The award-winning editorial was written by last year’s editor, Rogei- O’Neill, and was entitled “The Engineering Cri-,. tic.” The author of the honored non' technical article was Jim Niesen, who , was graduated last spring. His article / was titled “The Science of Baseball.”
Editor of this year’s Technical Revieiv is Tom Shishman, senior Dean’s List student who is prominent in the engineering society, Nu Delta Epsilon, and in the Joint Engineering Council. He is assisted by associate editors Jim Hayes, also active in Nu Delta Epsilon, and Jim Wulf, who is a member of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.
According to the editors, the outlook for this year’s Technical Review is very bright. The first issue, coming November' ~ 20, will be largely devoted to a discussion of the problems of space travel.
1 The lead feature will define in detail ; some of the functions and handling techniques of Notre Dame’s nuclear reactor, one of the newer and more costly additions to the University’s plant.
Although it is the purpose of the first issue to give a general outlook on the 1 current developments in the College of Engineering, the succeeding issues will . be devoted to outstanding projects of the engineering students themselves. This year, for the first time, coverage will also be given to the activities of the graduate engineering students.
EDITOR SHISHMAN Repeat performance?
New Year's Deadline For NSF Applicants
The National Academy of Sciences-National Research Council will again advise the National Science Foundation in the selection of candidates for the Foundation’s program of graduate and postdoctoral fellowships. All applicants for the graduate awards will be required to take an examination designed to test scientific aptitude and achievement.
This examination, administered by the Educational Testing Service will be given on January 16, 1960. Application forms for this exam must reach the Council by Jan. 1, 1960. The closing date for receipt of applications for the postdoctoral fellowships is December 22, 1959.
The Foundation plans to award approximately 1,100 graduate and 125 postdoctoral fellowships in these two programs during the 1960-61 academic year. The annual stipends for graduate Fellows are $1800 for the first year; $2000 for the intermediate year; and $2200 for the terminal year. The annual stipend for postdoctoral Fellows is $4500.
Open only to citizens of the United States and awarded solely on the basis of ability, the fellowships may be applied to advanced study in the mathematical, physical, medical, biological and engineering sciences, and for- social sciences.
Further information and application materials may be obtained from the office of the Dean of the Graduate School.
Dr. Fred Basolo To Give Annual P. Reilly Lectures
Dr.Fred Basolo, professor of chemistry at Northwestern University, Evanston, Ill., will give the final P. C. Reilly lectures in chemistry at the University of Notre Dame October 23-28. His general subject will be “Mechanisms of Substitution Reactions of Metal Complexes.” He is scheduled to speak in 123 Nieuw-land Science Hall at 4 p.m. on October 23, 26 and 28.
The yearly series of lectures by an outstanding chemist or chemical engineer- was established in 1945 by a gift of more than one million dollars from the late Peter C. Reilly, Indianapolis, Ind., industrialist and a member of Notre Dame’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees. The fund also provides five annual graduate, non-teaching fellowships.
Professor Basolo, whose research deals primarily with coordination compounds, has been associated with Northwestern University since 1946. Earlier he was a research chemist with the Rohm and Haas Chemical Co., Philadelphia, Pa.
He was educated at Southern Illinois University and at the University of Illinois which awarded him a master’s degree in 1942 and a doctorate the following year. During 1954-55 he was granted a leave of absence from Northwestern to accept a Guggenheim Fellowship. He used the fellowship to engage in research at the Technical University of Denmark in Copenhagen.
y* Otte
Contrast
The campus cynics, those self-appointed local yokels who are experts at everything, would easily have been shocked had they attended Monday’s Senate session. Bids, budgets, and bonfires were featured, and a new rate of efficiency set as the items were clipped off in a most businesslike fashion.
One part of the meeting was held Sunday morning, but there was no similarity to Monday’s streamlined gathering. On Sunday, they voted to accept the watered-down constitutions of the Young Democrat and Republican Clubs. It was neither the clubs’ nor the Senate’s fauld that the constitutions were weak and relatively powerless. The overbearingly cautious limitations imposed by the University Council forced a “take-this-or-nothing” vote.
Two major restrictions inseited in the constitutions were that a complete roster of membership is to be filed with the University, and any departure from the set procedure will result in “the immediate and permanent dissolution of the Club without hope of future resurrection.” Could it be any more clear? Actually, the hope is that the ends of the clubs will be achieved through an academic and educational approach to politics. There is no other- approach open.
At the Monday meeting, Student Affairs Commissioner- Ed Butler told of progress on the bonfire pep rally that is coming off this Decorations Weekend. The Blue Circle hopes that it will be as effective as the emotional outbursts put on in the Field House. For the $250 it budgeted for platforms, lights, kindling, and public address systems, so does the senate.
John Christen, social commissioner, reported that his committee studying dance bid selling has come up with a lottery system as one possibly better method. Tom Scanlon of the Blue Circle said the 595 tickets for the Pittsburgh Student Trip were sold in 55 minutes. John Keegan promised a formal report on the Student Discount Service at next week’s meeting.
Dennis Murphy, finance committee chairman, and Jim Wysocki, Mardi Gras chairman, gave an orderly and well-spelled-out budget for the 1960 Mardi Gras. Over $60,000 gross and $38,000 net income is planned for the pre-Lenten festivities which aid the numerous charities. The Military Ball budget was also heard.
One othei- thing: Bill Scheckler and NFCCS suggested that Oct. 25 through Oct. 31 be proclaimed National Catholic Youth Week. It was. Goody.
October 23, 1959
11
FOR COOPER UNDERWEAR!
Rasmussen Men's Shop
MAIN & WASHINGTON STS.
A column of incidontai intoUigonco by JtKkfli hrmd^^r
CYR'S BARBER SHOP
Michiana's Leading Barber Shop
.	Specialists in
the Art of Cutting Hair
•
100-102 South Main Street Opposite Court House 5 BARBERS	MANICURIST
“Variety is the spice of life.” Enjoy
GOOD—WHOLESOME DELICIOUS & DIFFERENT CANTONESE FOODS
•
Steaks - Chops Fried Chicken Sea Foods
Reasonably Priced
MARK'S CAFE
SEN SAI GAI
134 N. Main St.
12
"THE WORM TURNS"
Shakespeare said it this way: "The smallest worm will turn, being trodden on." But Miguel de Cervantes beat him to it in "Don Quixote", Part II, Book 3: "Even a worm when trod upon, will turn again."
It
"MUSIC HAS CHARMS"
The 17th Century playwright, William Congreve, was the first to set down this classic metaphor concerning the powers of sound and rhythm. You'll find the whole quote in "The Mourning Bride", Act I, Sc. 1:
"Music hath charms to soothe the savage breast, To soften rocks, or bend a knotted oak.”
"RHYME OR REASON"
Edmund Spenser, 16th Century poet, expected a pension. He didn't get it. So he wrote this rhyme: "I was promised on a time/To have reason for my rhyme,-/From that time unto this season,/ I received nor rhyme nor reason."
JocktiiUnderwear
■ RAND
Of all the kinds of underwear, only Jockey brand is especially tailored to feel better because it fits better. This superior comfort is assured by exclusive construction features that no other underwear has duplicated. Tb enjoy real comfort, insist on Jockey brief—the world’s first and finest. Look for Jockey at your campus store.
West of the Iron Line . . .
Dixie RaiNers, Europe
Nightclub Marquee in Frankfort
June 12. . . time for the trip was drawing near. Jack and Kevin had arrived at my home early that moi-ning, after driving from Ohio, while Ron flew in from New Orleans that afternoon. We spent the next two weeks rehearsing, copying arrangements, working up a floor show,
and making final plans for the trip. On June 29 we met George and Charlie and traveled to NYC where we played alternate sets with Wilbur de Paris at Jimmy Ryan’s on 52nd St. We learned much that night which was to prove helpful later on.
The following evening we loaded the trailer and car and set out for Montreal. We arrived at the dock early the next morning, July 1, and got our first look at the Seven Seas, our home for the next 10 days. The days on the ship were relaxing and we had much free time. We worked out a favorable schedule with the ship’s steward and we played every other night.
After docking in Rotterdam and clearing customs, we picked up and boarded what was to be our means of transportation throughout Europe during the coming month, a Volkswagen Microbus. Needless to say, we presented quite a picture to these Dutch people as we rode down the main street of Rotterdam in this bulging vehicle, complete with overloaded luggage rack. At first, driving was rather hazardous since we were only vaguely familiar with the European system of road signs and none of us spoke Dutch. Nevertheless, we made it to Brussels that evening after many sporadic prayers, consultation of eight road maps, and diligent observation of the aerial compass we had brought along in anticipation of just such emergencies. Once in Brussels, the question which was soon to become the keynote of the entire tour arose, “Where’s a good hotel and restaurant — CHEAP!!” After bargaining with several hotel managers, we settled for a pair of rooms offered by an old lady who also happened to own the beer hall on the first floor of the same building.
Departing from Brussels at noon the next morning, we arrived in Paris at six that evening where the familiar cry for hotel and food began once again. This time we ended up at a student hotel on the Left Bank within excellent hearing distance of the monotonous clang of the Sorbonne bells. Bastille Day celebrations were nearing and we could sense the excitement in the air. Although we didn’t speak French, we did our best to join in the festivities.
It was at this time that ,we first sensed the American influence in European popular music. Dixieland combos were playing in the streets and we even heard a group that sounded much like Erroll Garner, obviously influenced by American records. I had the privilege of sitting in for a few numbers with a French Dixieland band set up on a street corner. I was amazed at the way we played together, without the aid of written music and with no means of language communication. The thought of music being an international language crossed my mind and never before was it manifested so clearly.
by Bruce Cosacchi
Allowing ourselves two days for the trip from Paris to Frankfurt, we stopped overnight in Verdun where we were fortunate to get a shower with one of the rooms, a luxury we couldn’t afford in Paris.
We arrived at the outskirts of Frankfurt, a thriving metropolis of some 800:000 inhabitants, completely lost and without the slightest idea of where we were going. While stopped for a traffic light, George signalled a nearby gentleman on a scooter (a common sight in these countries), and asked how to get to Storyville night club on Stiftstrasse. The gentleman was vei-y obliging and we wound up with a scooter escort through the heart of the city with all its traffic jams. This was our first impression of the German people, and it was obviously a favorable one.
Having arrived at the nightclub, I met the manager and arranged our schedule. We were sharing the stand with a five-piece group from Yale who were doing the same thing as we were for the summer. Mr. Marshall, the manager, expressed his gratitude to us and we were glad to be finally secure after all our traveling.
On week ends, the seiwicemen from the nearby Army base would come to the club and enjoy hearing American music, played by Americans. Five Notre Dame alumni from the base wandered in one evening and sat at the first table until closing time, requesting the Victory March every half hour. Soviet officers in uniform were not an uncommon sight at the club and at times they even seemed to enjoy themselves.
After finishing at Storyville, we took the Autobahn, which resembles a modern U. S. highway, from Frankfurt to Zurich, Switzerland, where we spent three days swimming, sightseeing, and resting. It was a three - hour drive over beautiful countryside to the small town of Olten, Switzerland, the spot of our next engagement. Posters in store windows, billboards, theater marquees, and hotel lobbies announced our arrival, and we were amazed at all this publicity. We registered at the hotel and Mr. Willy . Kuhn, agent for the Jazz Club Luzei-n, picked us up for dinner and took us to the movies. Red Skel
ton was stalling in the movie but we couldn’t understand him since German had been dubbed into the soundtrack. We spent most of the next day rehearsing for the concert and George spent much time at his new sport, firing his newly acquired air pistol out the hotel window at the drain pipe across the street. That evening we stepped onto the stage of the Municipal theater, and as the curtains opened, we were surprised to see a full house of happy, cheering Swiss people. They were enthusiastic and seemed to enjoy the music very much. With this kind of a reception, the band gave an active, somewhat (Continued on page 15)
Leaving Storyville in Frankfort
October 23, 1959
13
Oldest College Band
BAND OF THE
FIGHTING IRISH

“. . .and here they are, Ladies and Gentlemen, the University of Notre Dame Marching Band, the Band of the Fighting Irish.” These words are familiar to thousands of football fans who have seen the Notre Dame Marching Band perform pregame and half-time shows, and to thousands of others who have heard the Band over radio and have seen them on television.
Leading the band out of the stadium tunnel is the high-stepping Drum Major, Bruce Cosacchi. As Drum Major, Cosacchi is responsible for the entire performance of the band while on the field. .
Following closely behind the Drum Major is the famed Irish Guard. In ancient times ranks of Pipers dressed in their kilts were used to lead the attacking armies. They inspired the men following them and struck the opposition with awe and terror. Even today, the kilt has remained the colorful uniform of the Scots and Irish. It is still as impressive as it was in the historic battles between the Scots and the Romans during the Roman occupation of the British Isles.
The Scots have various plaids for different clans or families, while the Irish have different plaids for different organizations like the several famous Irish Military Bands. The Irish kilts, wom by the Notre Dame Irish Guard, represent years of research and comparison to insure authenticity. Inasmuch as it has been determined that the kilts of each organization differ according to individual customs, the Notre Dame Band has designed its unique kilts in the Irish tradition—from the Bearskin Shako, which makes the Guardsmen tower over eight feet high, to the white spats that accentuate their spirited step.
In the center of the band is the Percussion section. This section includes every rhythm instrument from cymbals to bass drums. The Notre Dame Band carries two rows of percussionists led by Drum Captain Paul Marto. One of the trademarks of the Fifing Irish is the rolling tympani. This trademark has helped establish the company front entrance of the band and dresses up the many formations used each Saturday.
The latest first of the band is the high-stepper drum holders in use today. This innovation was tested during the 1958
season. This drum
carry is the most revolutionary since the
Bruce Cosacchi and the Irish Guard
Civil War. As you will notice today the drum section maneuvers and marches identically with the rest of the band, making about faces, to the rear marches, flanking movements, and so on. The special holders eliminate the use of the legs for drum carrying purposes. The instrument is supported by a special sling from the shoulders and the waist.
This first drum carry change since the nineteenth century, coupled with brand new, two-toned snares, Scotch tenors, and Scotch bass drums give the band a bright and different color that is rapidly being imitated by the many great bands of the country.
The music of the Victory March, so familiar to alumni and subway alumni from coast to coast, has become known the world over. In the official Navy film Appointment In Tokyo the marines can be heard singing the Victory March while going in for a beachhead landing. When the 36th Division hit the beaches at Salerno, several national magazine articles wrote about the troops singing the march while waiting to land. American troops tell of the children in a Roman orphanage who sang it for them in English. The music even reached the concentration camps. In a letter sent to Father Cavanaugh, then University President, Captain Trevor E. Hughes of the British 51st Highland Division told of hearing the Victory March in a concentration camp at Lodz, Poland. “When the Allies invaded Normandy,” he writes, “the German Camp Commandant granted our request for a grama-phone. Though we were not allowed to play our national songs, I thought you might be happy to know we began and ended each program with the Notre Dame Victory March.”
The Rev. Michael J. Shea, later a student at the Pontifical School of Music in Rome, composed the Victory March in 1908. Written in collaboration with his brother Jack, the composer was then just Mike Shea, a graduate student at Notre Dame. Jack, who wrote the lyrics, often had arranged Notre Dame words to songs from Eastern colleges. The Shea brothers hit upon the idea of attempting an original song for the Irish while watching an Indiana-Notre Dame football game. The result was the Victory March. First played at Notre Dame on Washington’s birthday, 1909, the song soon became
1
£
&



0
?2
international. A friend told Father Shea of hearing it in the| Soviet Union.	fe
The Victory March has been played from flea cir-g cuses on 42nd street to official Washington, D.C. parties. This^ story is told of the Christmas Eve ball given in honor otyf West Point and Annapolis dignitaries, at which members ofQ the Cabinet, Senate, and Washington society were in attend ' ance. When the time came for the grand march the band^ leader became worried, for he feared slighting Army and Navyij officials by playing one or the other’s school song. At a sug-g gestion from a kindly Army officer, he compromised andB played the Victory March.
The Notre Dame Band has had a long and tradition-Wj wrought existence. Except for the first few years of the Uni-^; versity there has been an instrumental group on the campus^ band, orchestra, or both, playing for school functions, gradua tions, flag raisings, sports events, and evening concerts, bot^ indoor and outdoor. (Recent studies seem to indicate that aj-band of some sorts existed from the beginning.) In past yearsg the favorite place for setting up the band for al fresco coi^ certs was on the porch of the Main Building. In recent years^ the band has become too large for the porch, so now outdoor^;, concerts are played on the lawn in front of the Main Building?:;
The first mention of the Notre Dame Band was in conne^fg J
The Scholastic^

i
tion with the 1846 commencement program. Father Gouesse formed the band which played for the commencement program of that year. In 1866 a complete set of band instruments, thirty-one pieces, was purchased from Gautrot in Paris. Mr. John O’Neill led the band during the war between the states. The longest tenure of any director was twenty-three years, by * Joseph Casasanta, from 1919 to 1942. Mr. Casasanta is the composer of Notre Dame, Our Mother; When Irish Backs Go Marching By; and several other school songs now in use — the most famous of which is Hike, Notre Dame. Mr. H. Lee • Hope succeeded Mr. Casasanta in 1942 and remained until
1952. Mr. Robert F. O’Brien is the present band director.
The band has appeared in many of the finest stadiums in the country. Among these are Yankee Stadium in New York, Babe Ruth Stadium in Baltimore, the Municipal Stadium in Cleveland, Soldiers Field in Chicago, as well as many college stadiums throughout the country.
The present band is a student organization in the full
A Notre Dame Band Trademark: the Block ND
meaning of the word. Much of the work of organization and administration falls directly in the hands of the elected and appointed officers. Although the average half-time show lasts for approximately seven and one-half minutes, it takes in the vicinity of fifteen hundred man hours to prepare it. This is after all the papei’ work, the idea for the show, the appropriate .music, and the formations, have been worked out.
The University of Notre Dame has three bands in operation throughout the year with approximately one hundred and fifty men participating actively. The Marching Band, probably the best known of the bands, presents an elaborate program of music and maneuvers at each home football game, and usually accompanies the team on at least one extended, away from home, trip during the season. This year the band will accompany the team to the Pitt game at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. In addition to the presentation of spectacular pregame, half-time, and post-game programs at football games, the marching band plays for pep rallies and parades in cities in which the games are held. Furthermore, they represent the University at many other events that occur during the year. In 1958 the marching band appeared before 524,000 people, 344,000 of them at football games. This figure excludes over a million people who have seen the band by television.
As soon as the football season is over, the process of reorganizing the marching band into a concert organization is started. The University of Notre Dame Concert Band is unique in the college band field in its extensive concert tour
October 23, 1959
work. This group usually travels over 3,500 miles and entertains thousands of people annually. The band is made up of sixty players, selected from the 120-piece marching band and various other applicants who wish only to play in concert band.
It is estimated that the four-year concei-t band member travels at least 14,000 miles. It is band policy to play a different section of the country each year during the Easter vacation. This year the band will travel through Missouri, Kansas, Texas, New Mexico, Colorado, Nebi'aska, and Iowa.
Many interesting mementos have been presented to the band on its trips throughout the country. The mementos include an engraved plaque in the shape of a dome and made of hard coal from Pennsylvania; a set of dinosaur tracks from New Haven, Conn., by the author of the Victory March, Mr. John Shea; a director’s baton, carved from a 100-year-old fence rail in Illinois; a stuffed pheasant from South Dakota; and many more.
The Varsity Band is open to students who do not play in the Concert Band. This band provides music for the basketball games and several other University functions. It becomes the marching unit that appears at the Old-Timer’s game, the St. Patrick’s Day Parade, and other University functions during the second semester.
The University’s bands are an intricate part of the well-known Notre Dame Spirit. The value of the bands is easily seen, or rather felt, at football games, basketball games, pep rallies, etc., not to mention the enjoyment and education they render to the members.
Greg Gillies
Dixie Ramblers
(Continued from page 13)
overexuberant performance. The Swiss seemed to have many favorite tunes including “St. Louis Blues,” on which George sang the vocal, “When the Saints Go Marching In,” and “Battle Hymn of the Republic” which they had never heard before. They especially liked Jack’s dram solo when he wore the monkey mask as I introduced him as Mr. Elvis Schwartz from Africa, even though nobody understood what I was saying.
Perhaps the highlight of the entire tour occurred in Lucerne, Switzerland, where we played in the famed “Kursaal Casino” on August 1, Swiss Independence Day, to an audience of more than 4,000. Here again, Notre Dame was well represented in the persons of Jerry Murphy, Jim Harrington and Tom Gaffney, who had been passing through, saw the publicity posters, and stayed for the conceit. .	’
The following morning we received notice in the Lucerne paper, the Luzerner Tagblatt. It was in German, of course, but when translated it told how well the critic had enjoyed the previous evenings’ performance and that, “it was a fine example of American good will, and the quality of American youth.” Needless to say, this is something each of us will cherish for a long time to come.
The ship from Le Havre sailed at midnight and we were on our way home. The weather was a bit rough on the way back and our small ship tossed from side to side during the more violent periods. This disturbance cancelled all dancing aboard ship and thus left us with a few extra free nights on the return trip. Yet, the Chief Steward seemed satisfied with our performance and on the last night out, we were presented with a bottle of champagne.
The Seven Seas docked in Montreal on Monday, Aug. 25, bringing to a close a summer job; it was an experience in which we met many friends, most of whom we will never see again; it was a time when we learned that this world is a large place with people who live, talk, eat, dress, and act differently from us; it was a wonderful adventure into things we had never- done before.
After clearing customs, we left for home, Jack to Michigan, Kevin to Ohio, Ron to Missisippi, George to New Jersey, Charlie to Connecticut, and myself to New York. As I was leaving, I turned to wave good-bye and heard, “Yeah man, see ya’ at school!”
—PBC
75
Beleagured Splendor—Nottoway Plantation, 1857
GHOST ALOI
THE
capture some of the poetic beauty of this
has tried to architecture.
— Photographs by Clarence John Laughlin New Orleans, Louisiana
(Left) Magnificence in Wood— Nottoway Plantation, 1857
In this group of pictures, the photographer has dealt with the doom of Louisiana plantation culture — the last great non-urban culture in this country. The material has been approached not merely from the viewpoint of architectural record alone but also in terms of its poetic and haunting qualities giving thus the magic and enigma of old houses. He has tried to show that the best of Louisiana plantation houses should have great meaning for the contemporarry mind and in terms of the objectives of the modern architect because of the pure feeling which has developed in 19th-century Louisiana for use of local materials and the final rooting of an indigenous style in these materials.
This exhibition, then, outlines the evolution of the plantation architecture of Louisiana — from its origins under strong French provincial influences in the 18th century to the onset of the Civil War.
Within recent years, fire and flood, levee set-backs, the ravages of time, and neglect have all taken their toll of the houses left from the great 19th-century prosperity. Working against this destruction, the photographer



(Above) The Portents of Disaster—Zenon Trudeau House, c. 1820 (Left) The Final Act—Belle Grove, 1857



MISSISSIPPI
>m the ART GALLERY
The Ruinous Columns—Ormond Plantation, 1790
I The Moss Weep dlawn Plantation, 1849
Pink Slip, Pnimeft,:

FRESHMAN ENGLISH
AT NOTRE DAME
by Professor Robert Chi-istin, Director of Freshman English
In many of the universities in this country, students in Freshman English write a theme each week and receive a grade on each theme. Here at Notre Dame the course is designed so that students will not be penalized by low grades while they are practicing writing and critical reading. Each semester is divided into four units of four weeks each. Each unit is devoted to one problem of writing or reading. For three weeks, students turn in a weekly paper which is returned to them with comments by the instructor, but without a grade. In the fourth week, a paper or test is written on topics similar to those that have been practiced for the preceding three weeks. This fourth paper or test received a grade.
Students are therefore provided with more than three weeks of practice, discussion, and criticism, with an opportunity to discover and to improve upon their weaknesses, without being graded for the faults that show up while they are learning.
It is probably true that a few students will not try to do their best on weekly papers that they know will not be graded, but this attitude will merely prevent such students from improving as well as they might; the instructor’s comments on a hastily written paper will not really cover that writer’s skill, his virtues or his weaknesses in writing. Most students will take full advantage of the opportunity to learn without penalty by doing their best work each week, by profiting from the comments on the paper, by trying to overcome faults noticed by the instructor, in order to write at the end of four weeks
a better paper than they could have written at the end of one week.
During the first semester the four units to be covered include (1) writing the outline and the precis, (2) a knowledge of the principles of writing: words, sentences, whole essays, and a review of grammar and mechanics if necessary, (3) practice in various kinds of expository writing, and (4) practice in analyzing prose. The final examination will be based on a close analysis of the non-fiction text read outside of class.
The four units of the second semester are (1) practice in descriptive writing, (2) practice in narrative writing, (3) a study of the short story, and (4) a study of the novelette. The final examination will be based on one novelette read outside of class.
The above plan does not apply to several sections in which the emphasis is on the literature rather than the writing. These are advanced sections and students assigned to them were chosen on the basis of their high scores on the college entrance examination.
In Freshman English, as indeed in all courses, most of the writing and reading is done outside of class, and unlike high school, it is up to each student to decide when he does this work and how much time he devotes to it. Since this course is devoted to each student’s skill in reading and writing, it is impossible to say how much time it requires. Each student’s skill when he enters the course varies, and each student must determine how much time he requires to read an essay or book carefully, or to write and revise a theme. Certainly, neither critical reading nor careful writing can be done well if done hastily.
Teachers will arrange to confer with each student privately at least once each semester, but all students are urged to arrange for a conference at any time.
The Freshman English course is your course. It is devoted largely to your skill, to pointing up what you do well and what you do poorly and to suggesting ways for you to read more critically and to write more effectively.
1
I
Art versus the Adequate
G. P. Scarpia
ON SUNDAY afternoon, October eighteenth, the South Bend Symphony Orchestra made the first appearance of its twenty-seventh season. Edwyn Hames, the conductor, made his entrance and stood patiently next to the podium for at least five or six minutes, while a good part of the audience, evidently thinking it fashionable to be boorish, continued to be seated.
Three excerpts from Berlioz’s The Damnation of Faust headed the program. Except for an adequate Rakoczi March, the Berlioz excerpts never quite got off the ground. In the program notes we find the Dance of the Sylphs described as “delightful,” and the Minuet of the WUl-o’-the-Wisps as piquant. The Dance of the Sylphs went by so rapidly and raggedly that one was not quite able to determine just what significance the term “delightful” had. As for the Minuet of the Will-o’-the-Wisps, Webster defines “piquant” as “agreeably stimulating to the palate.” He also lists an archaic definition, “disagreeably sharp”; sharp implies some kind of discipline and order, but, under the circumstances, disagreeable is adequate.
The second item on the program was Dvorak’s Symphony Number 2 in D Minor, Opus 70. The orchestra fared better on this number than it did on its predecessor. While the scherzo movement seemed interminable because of its unexplainably slow tempo, the other three movements were interpreted with taste and dignity, if not with inspiration. At certain times throughout the performance of the symphony the audience was greeted by a blast of cacophony, noticeably centered in the Horn section. I have never quite determined what makes French or English Hom players play off-key, but whatever technique is required, the South Bend Symphony has it
18
mastered. At this point I also noticed that Edwyn Hames a holds the singular distinction of being able to bring the orches- J tra from a piano to a fortissimo without the change in volume ? being perceived by the audience. On the other hand, the flute | section, notably George Opperman, is to be commended for its ; splendid trio work. It is also to be noted that the South Bend | Symphony is fortunate indeed to have a violincello section of | such depth and beauty of tone.	|
After the intermission I returned to my seat expecting to | hear one of the most talented violinists of the concert stage® and I was not disappointed. Michael Rabin, performing the I Beethoven D Major Violin Concerto, Opus 61, proved | to be a mature and competent artist and brought the program to its peak with a delicate and interesting rendition of the aforementioned concerto. Although the work itself has lyrical and structural beauty it is by no means one of the greater Beethoven works, nor did it give Rabin the opportunity to display the virtuosity for which he is renowned. Throughout the piece the solo violin is pitted in counterpoint against several sections of the orchestra and various solo instruments. Especially pleasing was the work of the solo bassoon and the ac companiment of the pizzicato strings. Also charming was th interplay between the solo violin and the woodwind choir.
In its first concert of the season, the South Bend Symphon Orchestra has shown promise and ability despite the short comings in the horn, trombone and violin sections of the or chestra and the lack of imagination on the podium. The sue cess of the season depends, therefore, on improvement in the sections and an increase in sensitivity on the other end of th . baton.
The Scholas
Student
The Meher W
by John Kevin Walsh
At 7:30 p.m. on Sunday, October 25, a group of Notre Dame’s radicals, conservatives, bipartisans and assorted intellectuals will assemble in the Law Auditorium for the first Student Forum of the year. The subject of the Forum will be, “The Khrushchev Visit — Was It Good or Bad?” Rev. Stanley Parry, C.S.C., head of the Department of Political Science, will express his pointed and critical opinions, which are decidedly against the Khrushchev visit, and Mr. Vincent P. DeSantis, of the History Department, will express his opinions in favor of the visit.
The Student Forum movement is a student-initiated, student-sponsored venture which began last year and attracted large and interested audiences of undergraduate students, graduate students, and members of the faculty. A project of the Student Government’s Academic Commission, this year’s Student Forum movement will include approximately ten forums. Andrew J. Lawlor, Senate Academic Commissioner, Michael Bird, Chairman of the Student Forum Committee, and members of the Student Forum Committee are now in the process of planning these forums, with tentative topics covering current vital issues and controversies in literature, philosophy, politics, and theology.
The procedure of the Student Forum follows that of a debate in which the first speaker* presents his thesis and is followed by a second speaker who presents an opposing thesis. After the second speaker has concluded, the audience is invited into the debate.
At each of the forums, the speakers will be two prominent members of the faculty who have extensive knowledge in the subject in controversy and have chosen to defend one particular side. But all students and members of the university community are given
Three Wind Mice Revisited
by TERRY BURKE
In an alley damp and dreary, back behind the grimy garbage cans which lean against the wall, lived a trio of rapacious rodents. Blind they were to the ways of men, or mice for that matter. (Their sight was not so much impaired by physical imperfection, as a pair of hardened hearts apiece, which to say the very least was odd.) Hard were their hearts as the grey granite blocks which support the house across the way. Yes made of rock, they were at heart. No further than the tips of theii* pointed snouts could they see, which was not strange actually, for we all know that torpid tickers impair sight, so how much more do hunks of stone? At any rate, these three mischievous mice one night (it was a bad, blustery evening) decided in their own mild manner to have a little fun. (Only a little fun, for they were little mice.) The plan was that they would dash, when the time was ripe, through the open door of the great house across the way. Then they’d run like crazy after that ol’ lazy rotten carver’s wife, who was fat, besides being lousy-lazy. This woman had recently gotten a cat (small creeping cat) and besides she had cut off the tails of the three rodents. (They thought it unkind at the time.) As a matter of course, they had it in for her, which is to say that they hated her guts. This night they were going to get even (or so they thought, the crazy little mice). Little did they know that the cruel knife which had brutally bobbed their tails was poisoned.	Poor crazy little mice.
the opportunity to discovei* fallacies in their arguments or to offer additional evidence in favor of one position. In the past, some students have gone so far as to energetically attempt to
tear apart the whole thesis of a speaker, and in some cases they have been successful. As you will notice, the procedure of the Student Forums is a healthy one, with origins in the democratic notion of freedom of expression. As one Notre Dame professor often reminds his students, “There is nothing more disconcerting or discouraging than finding oneself in the position of having a wonderful idea but having no one to whom you can express it.” The Student Forum is the opportune place to avoid any such frustrations.
The topic of the first forum, “The Khrushchev Visit —
Was
It Good or
Bad? certainly is enough to suggest a fruitful and possibly heated evening.
Dr. Vincent DeSantis, History
Fr. Stanley Parry, Political Science
No event in the year has attracted so much interest or given rise to such varied opinions than the recent visit of the Russian Premier. No event has attracted more coverage, with newspapers, magazines, radio and television following every moment of Khrushchev’s stay, from his occasional compliments (quickly supplemented by So-
'A , viet analogies) to his moments Jli of temperamental anger. From the time when it was first announced that the Premier had
notions of visiting America, controversies over the merits or threats of the visit became the nation-wide debate. The Russian Premier was denounced, caricatured, satirized, or even praised in almost every American publication. Articles ranged from an editorial by David Lawrence of the “U. S. News and World Report,” in which he paraphrased the words of St. Paul, “What is a ruler profited if he shall gain the moon, and he lose his own soul?” to a delightful satire, “Khrushchev and I,” by E. B. White, which ‘ appeared in the September 26 issue of the “New Yorker.”
More emphatic opinions were expressed by such men as Senator Hubert H. Humphrey, who cited a new “Khrushchev Doctrine”:
“Khrushchev has declared war on us, but a strange and new kind of war.... a total war fought with the weapons of political maneuver, economic competition, sceince, technology, propaganda — and all directed toward making Moscow the center of world power, with Asia, Africa and Latin America the new frontiers to be explored, exploited and controlled.
“Khrushchev may not intend to blow the world to pieces — he prefers to pick it up piece by piece.”
With such various views and such disparities circulating the country, and our own campus, the evening of October 25 promises to be another demonstration that not all Notre Dame students are members of the “Silent Generation.”
October 23, 1959
19
F
£
Refund: 2
W ... a personal view
by Jerry Murphy
As a student very interested in Eastern European History and the Communist system, I consider myself fortunate to have been in Vienna this summer during the Communist-controlled World Youth Festival. I spent most of my four days at the Kuenstlerhaus, the center of the Austrian student’s propaganda campaign against the Festival, and talked with students and adults from all over the world who gathered there.
One of the first people with whom I talked was a self-styled Marxist from New York, who was speaking with a group of Europeans on the merits of the Communist system, as compared with the “declining capitalist United States.” When I questioned him closely on “freedom” in th Soviet satellites, he admitted that there had been some reversals with the advancing success of socialism, but how could one fail to see its merits, as exemplified in the relative freedom of Poland. Remembering the savage Russian reprisals in the Hungarian Revolution of 1956, my answer was that freedom might increase to a minimal point, but that if it were allowed further, it would certainly have to be repressed eventually, for fear that the satellite system would collapse. As for his claim of lack of racial oi’ religious persecution within the Soviet system, I questioned the official policy of anti-Semitism in, for example, the Ukraine or Rumania. The argument progressed, but the crowd became aware of his lack of knowledge of the theory and practice of Communism and joined in against him. He soon left.
Perhaps my most interesting conversation was with a Hungarian student who had left Hungary during the Revolution and was now studying in Vienna. We began talking about the Festival and the relative merits of Communism and Democracy. He surprised me with his assertion that he had no desire to go to America, since Negroes were persecuted there and freedom was greatly curtailed. To my question he replied that he had never been to the United States but knew of the great lack of freedom because the Communists had shown him a film explaining it. At this point an Austrian who knew a little English joined us and was a great help in bridging the gap in our German. I denied the student’s view of life in America, and while I admitted that there were certainly cases of injustice in America they were individual cases and not the result of any official or government plan of persecution, so prevalent under the Communist system. On the contrary, I explained that our system is open to the correction of abuses which might conceivably arise, as witnessed by our determined effort to halt existing racial inequality in America. I explained that it was people such as he, aware of freedom and the struggle to attain it, who were needed in our country, to keep Americans aware of the great freedom they were bora into. As the argument progressed he weakened considerably in his newly found Communist beliefs and when I left him I had strong hopes that he would reconsider his political orientation.
A third discourse took place between a female member of the Czechoslovakian Delegation, and a German worker and myself. The woman complained bitterly of the restrictions on her freedom of travel in the West and even in Vienna, as contrasted with the absolute freedom which would be ours if we visited Prague, the capital of Czechoslovakia. Regardless of the truth of this latter statement, which we seriously doubted, we insisted that she was entirely free to travel anywhere in the West, and that I’d be glad to take her to any place in the city she wished. She was stunned — obviously she had been told by her superiors that the Viennese police would restrict hex- movement to festival activities, and my statement had planted a doubt. Well versed in party line, however, she regained composure and said that she couldn’t travel around for “enemy agents and saboteurs” would capture her. The discussion continued until one of her comrades had the sense to
20
make her leave. <;The Communist delegates had been well in- ; structed.	•	,
The free trip to the Hungarian border had a sobering ef-
fect. Any person would have difficulty believing the Commu- ; nist promises after viewing the barbed wire fences and machine gun towers spaced every half-mile guarding the border, ‘ in addition to heavily mined fields and dog patrols. This scene' i of the system was far different than one might imagine from ! the cries of “Frieden—Freundshaft” (“Peace—Friendship”) ; which filled the stadium on the opening day of the festival. This cry was taken up by a largely sympathetic and picked audience of some 60,000 people, many of whom were in tears, and were successfully losing themselves in dreams of a better world under Communism.
Coosely Defined Shadows
by Bernie McElroy
A theatrical production is a highly complex entity in which many separate and widely different arts and skills must be combined to produce the final total effect. If any one of these parts is inadequate, the entire fabric of the production can be irreparably damaged. A good example of this was seen in the production of Shadow and Substance offered at St. Mary’s last week.
There were a number of fine points to be found here, the finest being the play itself, complex in structure, but skillfully wrought, and advancing with steady strides to its climax. Perhaps the most unique thing about this play is that its internal life and movement hinges not primarily upon plot or character, but upon character relationship, and it is in this department that the production suffered its most notable failure. Julie Haydon could hardly be improved upon as Brigid, the young serving girl feverish with her fervor and convinced that she has visions of St. Brigid. Throughout the evening, she made determined efforts to breathe life into the machinations and free the production from the superficiality that dogged it. But she succeeded only in giving a superb acquittal of herself.
Howard Lord as the Canon was all shadow and very little substance. He succeeded in conveying only the surface sternness of the domineering pastor, and left untouched the deep j inward conviction of this man in his ideals and his sense of j isolation because of them. Lord fared best in the moving emo- | tional climax of the play, but neglected to prepare us for it | by the subtleties of more quiet moments. The delicate relation- i ship between the Canon and Brigid was never realized and this is unfortunate since it can be a particularly touching one and one of the most important in the play. Nor were the intricate undertones of moral problems outlined in anything but the sketchiest manner, particularly the conflict between the simple, basically emotional Catholicism of the people and the intellectual, traditional faith of the Canon. Hence several scenes, particularly the interviews between the pastor and his I four parishioners degenerated into talkiness. Mr. James Cro- | nin adopted the principle of doing what is theatrically expedi- | ent at the moment in favor of what will be more effective in s the long ran for the production. Thus, in the smaller parts, he presented us with caricatures instead of people, and while their antics were amusing, the total effect once again paid the price. There were a few notable exceptions to this rale, particularly John Toth and John Patrick Hart, who turned in fluent and very genuine characterizations. Norman Ornellos j was at times a bit too energetic as the young radical school- * master, but he too rendered a very real character and was 1 particularly moving in the closing moments.	:
Shadow and Substance is a complex and very tricky piece of work to fool around with, and the people at St. Mary’s • deserve credit for producing it at all. Part of Miss Haydon’s ; purpose in appearing here is to generate interest in Irish . plays, and it’s a worthy purpose indeed. Both amateur and M professional threaten could well take the hint and look at a few of these neglected pieces; many of them are plays that U should be seen!
The Scholastic®^
At the Movies
Have a WORLD of FUN!
Look no further; this is it. It’s time you guys looked for more in a movie column than just what’s playing where. So, in order that you may relish this feature more fully, you will have to pick your way through my personal enjoyment to find yours.
AVON
Some time ago, in 1944, Joyce Cary wrote a hilarious novel about a man named Gulley Jimson, artist and social rebel. Now this story has been made into a thoroughly enjoyable movie with Sil* Alec Guinness jack-of-all-trading as adapter, star, etc. The name of both book and movie is The Horse’s Mouth (Oct. 22-Nov. 4) and, take it straight from the horse’s mouth, it is worth your trouble. That’s why, after hardly any deliberation, I have decided to name this one the MOVIE OF THE WEEK.
COLFAX
Showing at another of South Bend’s unpredictable theaters is a hard-to-wrap package which comes complete with a stupid caricature of Sam Goldwyn. Henry Fonda suggests there is a drabness about aspiring actress Leslie Caron, and she resents it. It turns out he is crazy and she finally lands him; the big fish, The Man Who Understood Women (Oct. 22-28). La Caron spends the rest of the movie running after him, while the audience begins to feel restless and some leave. This will spare them.
.	GRANADA
TILT: A bit of wrong information was passed on to you by means of this column last week, but blame me not for the GRANADA tradition of switching movies on unsuspecting customers. How can we cater to unannounced shows? This thing they have on now, which will run to the 28th, is called The FBI Story and stars Air Force Ace Jimmy Stewart, getting into more trouble than usual. However, the movie moves along at a fast pace, this being accomplished by lumping into a matter of minutes all the FBI’s exciting assignments since its conception in 1908. Jimmy doesn’t age more than an hour, and you will find him, as always, stammering from one jam to ■ another.
RIVER PARK
.	I feel sorry for the RIVER PARK, I really do. It’s so far out (distance-
wise, not other-wise) that Notre Dame men can’t afford the bus fare over. It’s costly enough getting downtown in our friendly speedliners. But they hang on, and that’s spirit. For this week end (Oct. 22-25) they have Don’t Give Up the Ship and Tarzan’s Greatest Adventure, and it might be a good show; if you think there’s a theater big enough for Jerry Lewis and Gordon Scott. This newest Tarzan movie is a landmark, though, being the first one for which the budget exceeded the rental of a much-used loincloth. No more shall we see the same old river with its world-weary crocodile on which Tarzan deliberately picked at the slightest provocation. The crocodile retired on Social Security, the river tank was drained and finally cleaned, and the paper cypress trees are being used for interoffice memos. In a word, Tarzan has finally gone to Africa! Inspiring, isn’t it? Then there’s Jerry Lewis.
STATE
Ah, the good old STATE theater; what would we do without you? Needless to say, life would be dull without the great hits presented there. Hits like Girl’s Town and Nowhere to Go (Oct. 22-28). The first gives the impression of being a sort of Fathei- Whatsisname YWCA, but maybe it’s different, since no studio claims the credit for having made it and since Mamie Van Doren “plays” the lead (female). Mamie is, as usual, barely candid, '	and .her interpretation has won her the White Owl award of the week. Have
a White Owl, Mamie. Nowhere to Go, on the other hand, is an English murder baffler in which you are never allowed to come to a conclusion. It stars George Nader and a veiy plain (charity should moderate our language) girl well-known only in the inner circles of her friends and relatives.
That’s all, folks. If you don’t like this new method of telling you what jewels of the cinema grace our local theaters, why — protest, heave a mighty yell of discontent — and I’ll see you next week in the same new place.
—Tony Wong
travel with fITA
Unbelievable low Cost
SPENDS
Many fours inc/ude-college tredit.
Orient
43-65 Days
Europe l iteilir $675
Also low-cost trips to Mexico $169 up. South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour $59* up and Around the World $1S9* up.
27tfe YtM Ask y0(jr
Are.
■ ■^^CMcogs 4, NA 7-2SS7 WORLD TRAVEL
JACOBS JEWELERS
I N.D. SPECIAL I
17 JEWEL-WATERPROOF WATCH 18®
INCLUDING ALL STEEL EXPANSION BAND
PAY ONLY
| Weekly
•	Shockproof
•	No-break Mainspring
•	Antimagnetic
•	Steel Back
•	Luminous Dial
•	Fully Guaranteed For 1 Year By Our Own Repair Dept.
JEWELERS
121 W. Washington
October 23, 1959
5? :
fl
1
£
SPECIAL STUDENT DISCOUNTS

Servins ND Students and
Faculty for the Tenth Year
•	1.500 suits in stock
•	All the newest styles
•	Boys’ size 2 to Men’s 56
•	No Deposit for ND Students
•	See our New Colored Coats
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
LOGAN’S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
22
NORTHWESTERN
Notre dame
THIS WILL BE ONE TO REMEMBER!
Whether you are just visiting campus for the week end or you’re a full-time resident, you’ll want a souvenir’of this game. ... So stop in before or after with your friends.
We’re always happy to serve you and we know that you’ll find just what you’re looking for.
Notre Dame
BOOKSTORE
5 4
IJ
The Scholasti
Spo&fc Pidu/n
UNDEFEATED WILDCATS TEST YOUNG IRISH
I	by JAY KILROY
I
I Coach Joe Kuharich’s young and determined gridders, victorious in two of four games, return to Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow afternoon to resume an old rivalry against powerful Northwestern University. The Irish, holding a 23-3-2 record in the series, last met the Wildcats in 1948, defeating them by a score of 12-7. The highest score in the series was in 1945 when Notre Dame rolled up a 34-7 triumph.
The highly regarded Northwestern team is still undefeated, having recorded
ARA PARSEGHIAN
Hopes for first Big Ten title

victories over Oklahoma, Iowa, Minnesota and last week beating Michigan by a score of 20-7.
Speed and Experience. Coached again this year by young Ara Parseghian, the Northwestern attack will feature the variable T formation. With a faster and more experienced team than in 1958, Coach Parseghian feels, however, that this year’s squad lacks the psychological factor- that was predominate in the Wildcat upset wins over Ohio State and Michigan last year and a 5-4 record. But this lack has not been apparent in the Wildcat’s first four games.
Northwestern is not a big team, but makes up for lack of size with speed and finesse. Twenty-six letter-men, including nine starters, return. Lost are Andy Cvercko, All-American tackle, and Wilmer Fowler, a fleet right halfback. The Wildcats will also be severely hampered by the loss of junior quarterback Dick Thornton, out with a leg injury suffered in the Iowa game.
Filling the injured Thornton’s shoes
at quarterback are Senior Chip Holcomb and Sophomore Bob Eickhoff. Playing reserve behind Thornton last year, Holcomb was especially effective in the 14-10 win over Iowa. Eickhoff is a fast and shifty signal caller who has also responded well in varsity competition. Senior John Talley also proved his effectiveness at quarterback in the Michigan game last week.
Burton Returns. Northwestern’s attack will again be keyed by the fast and hard running of halfback Ron Burton. Last year Burton was one of the standout halfbacks in the nation, gaining 613 yards in 141 carries for a 4.3 average. Burton, who has exceptional speed and hits with great power, ranked third in the nation in scoring with 76 points.
Al Kimbrough, a speedy junior whose twin brother Elbert is an end, and Mark Johnston, a senior shifted from fullback, are the top right halfbacks for the Wildcats. Both are outstanding pass receivers. Sophomore Al Faunce, a surprise power runner, and speedy Ray Purdin, a junior, are also slated to see a lot of action at the halfback positions. Burton is the left halfback.
Two juniors hold down the starting end positions for Northwestern. Elbert Kimbrough is an outstanding pass catcher and is also a stout defender. Irv Cross, holding down the other flank, is a dangerous blocker and defender. Kimbrough and Cross are backed up by senior Doug Asad and junior Paul Yanke, both of whom have seen considerable action.
BILL CLARK STOPPED AFTER SHORT GAIN AGAINST SPARTANS
A large hole has been opened in the Spartan line by Monty Stickles and Joe Carollo and Captain Ken Adamson is leading the interference but an unidentifid Spartan tackler has caught Clark from the side. MSU won 19-0.
RON BURTON
Injured star returns to action
Gossage Stalwart. Right tackle Gene Gossage is the anchor of the Wildcat line. Second only to Cvercko in playing time last year, Gossage is equally tough on offense and defense. Senior DeWitt Hoopes, a strong and fast 210-pounder who is an aggressive blocker, will start at left tackle. Sophomores Fate Echols of South Bend and Boyd Melvin, both
(Continued on page 27)
October 23, 1959
23
ODDS and ENDS
TIME OUT
Failing to score a touchdown with first-and-goal on the Michigan State two-yard line was not only a decisive factor in the game itself, but it summarized in capsule form the whole tenor of the Irish offense against the Spartans. With reference to the future also, this thwarted scoring effort could affect the ensuing play of the Notre Dame eleven, especially the sophomores.
Coach Kuharich’s gridders were frustrated in that early fourth quarter scoring bid and they were frustrated on offense all day long. Whenever the Irish did begin to move the ball a fumble, an interception, a penalty or a long loss snuffed out their effort. Notre Dame gave up the ball three times on fumbles and three times on interceptions. The Irish ran only five fewer plays than the Spartans and yet Michigan State outgained them 420 yards to 185 yards. The sputtering offense which the nation saw at Michigan State bore no resemblance to the powerful attack which Notre Dame unveiled against North Carolina in the season’s opener.
Perhaps an even more serious aspect of the embarrassing failure to cross the goal line last Saturday is the effect it is likely to have on the attitude of the team. It could make the sophomores panicky, fearing that they will lose their starting berths. Or even worse, it could cause discouragement and the loss of confidence. At any rate, it is the most impoilant psychological event of the season so far. Whether it will help or hinder the squad is up to the players and their coaches. It could be used as a goad to an inspired performance or it might well turn out to be just a bitter memory persistently eating away at the players’ hearts.
Speaking of heart, there was a great deal of it shown by some of the Notre Dame linemen last week. Captain Ken Adamson, Nick Buoniconti and Bob Hill each played close to 58 minutes of football. All three played without rest until they were taken out with about two minutes remaining. These three men accounted for close to 40 tackles and were literally exhausted when they left the game.
TEAM REMAINS A MYSTERY
As of now this Notre Dame team is still a mystery. It has shown flashes of brilliance but long sieges of mediocrity and the lack of poise. Most people say that this team should beat Navy and Pittsburgh and possibly pull one upset in the other four remaining games. Even the optimists will not predict better than a 5-5 record. But in my opinion it is still too early to judge. The Irish have not played one game in which their performance accurately reflected their capability. Notre Dame has not as yet met a team which beat them in spite of a great effort on the part of the Irish. Against Purdue the Kuharich eleven was mediocre and the Boilermakers were outstanding. Against Michigan State the Spartans were above par and Notre Dame was obviously throwing the game away and not getting beat.
This vacillating grade of performance which we have seen so far this year is the calling card of a sophomore squad. Injuries have aggravated the situation, making heavy contact impossible for some of the players between games. Izo especially seemed to be unadjusted to actual game conditions last week. George threw several passes far off the mark and in general seemed to lack a familiarity with his job that can only be acquired by playing each Saturday and scrimmaging in between. One bright spot in last Saturday’s loss is that apparently no major injuries were sustained. If the injury situation can be kept in control, the team should finally begin to perform as a unit. Much of the trouble so far has stemmed from missed assignments. These errors should begin to disappear. If they do not, the Irish will continue to be a frustrated team, knowing in then- hearts that they can win but failing to do so.
Tomorrow Ara Parseghian brings his unbeaten Wildcats into South Bend with just as much desire to beat Notre Dame because of Notre Dame’s tradition as because Northwestern wants to stay unbeaten. This is a situation that all Notre Dame teams have faced since the Rockne era. Almost all the inspirational assets are on the opposition’s side. This is why the Irish make national headlines when they upset a major football power. Such an upset is achieved not at the expense of an emotional letdown by the other team, but in spite of the very best which the other team has to offer. It’s about time Notre Dame made headlines. After all, last December was a long time ago.
—T. R.
When Notre Dame was shut out by Michigan State last Saturday, it marked the first time in 28 consecutive games that the Irish were blanked. Oklahoma turned" the trick in 1956 when they won here at South Bend by a 40-0 score. It also marked only the second time in the last 176 games that Notre Dame has registered a “goose egg” on the scoreboard. The Spartans were the culprits this time also, swamping Frank Leahy’s team 35-0. . . .
Nick (Skip) Buoniconti distinguished himself in the Michigan State loss with 58 minutes of playing time, 17 tackles and one broken nose. The 210-pound sophomore terror now has 39 tackles in four games, 15 more than his injured predecessor Myron Pottios. Nick also calls defensive signals for the Irish. . . .
In an attempt to replace the injured Dick Thornton, Northwestern mentor Ara Parseghian has called on three different signal-callers to lead the Wildcats to victory in the last three games. After Thornton was injured on the opening kickoff in the Iowa game, Chip Holcomb sparked the Cats to a 14-10 win. The following week sophomore Bob Eickhoff led a drive for the only touchdown of the game as the Evanston team eked out a 6-0 victory over Minnesota. Last Saturday it was the fine passing of John Talley that finally helped subdue a stubborn Michigan eleven. Both Talley and Holcomb are seniors, and the latter is the son of Northwestern athletic director Stu Holcomb, who for many years was a highly successful coach at Miami of Ohio and more recently at Purdue. . . .
Bob White, the linesmashing Ohio State fullback, finally got rolling in the 15-0 upset of Purdue at Columbus last Saturday. He totaled 101 yards on 31 carries and for ; the first time this season resembled the blockbuster who slashed relentlessly at enemy lines in 1957 and 1958. . . .
Fumbles were much in evidence in the , Spartan-Irish tussle. Thirteen times the ball d was fumbled with the Spartans taking the | honors with nine. They lost four of these bobbles. The South Benders lost three of their four fumbles. ...	■
• - 1
Olen Treadway of Iowa turned in a bril- , liant individual performance against Wis- g consin last week. The senior passer made f good on 26 of 41 tosses for 304 yards and® one touchdown. He set Big Ten records for ' most passes attempted and completed both by an individual and team. He set Iowa j records for most passes attempted, com- J pleted and most yardage by passing. His | favorite target was Don Norton, who set ag new Iowa record for most passes caught® with nine receptions. ...	S
Last week it was mentioned in this col-O unin that Wilt (the Stilt) Chamberlain wasffl held to nine points by Clyde Lovellette.g Since that time Wilt has improved. Las^V Friday he poured through 41 points an^® picked off 26 rebounds. It’s hard to se^3 how he can miss being the greatest playeMj yet . . .
24
The Scholastic
Gray, Scarpitto, Sefcik Lead Irish Offense: Buoniconti Paces Defense with 39 Tachies
Sophomore fullback Gerry Gray is the ‘ leading Irish ground gainer with 134 r yards in 28 carries for a 4.42 average after four games. Junior Bob Scarpitto surged to the second spot in last Saturday’s game by bringing his yardage total up to 115 yeards. He has toted the ball 19 times for a 6.05 average.
Scarpitto leads in passes caught, both number and yardage-wise. He has pulled in six for 90 yards and one TD. Sefcik has caught five aerials for 49 yards. Les I Traver has snared four for 81 yards and one TD while Monty Stickles has caught three for 62.
Injured Jim Crotty still leads in scoring with three touchdowns for 18 points. Scarpitto is second with twelve points from two TD’s. To complete the Irish scoring leaders: White has eight; Rat-kowski, Gray and Traver, six; Stickles, five; and one team safety for two points.
In their first four games the Irish have scored 63 points to their opponents’ 61. The enemy has 54 first downs to their credit while Notre Dame has 53. Notre
Notre Dame Swimming Team Prepares for Winter Season
The Irish swimming team has been preparing for the 1959-60 season for over three weeks now. With 45 men reporting, Coach Dennis Stark has been running the tankers through prewater drills and soon will begin water drills. The team will be cut to 25 before the first meet, which will be the Loyola Relays on December 5.
Graduation has hit hard in many key positions, but with a good group of sophomores coming up there will be increased competition for the various openings. This year’s captain is Gene Witch-ger, a junior from Indianapolis. He is a f reestyler and specializes in the dashes. Other lettermen returning are divers Paul Chestnut, a senior, and James Carroll, a senior; two junior freestylers, Bill Cronin and Mike Mahaney, will be back along with junior Tony Haske who specializes in the butterfly.
The promising sophomores are: John Dwyer, diving; James Grever, freestyle; James Lowe, backstroke; and Dave Witchger, who is the brother of Gene.
Last year was the first year of varsity competition and the team compiled a 5-5-1 record. This year’s young team will be faced with the following sched
ule:
Sat. Dec. 5 — Loyola Relays......Away Sat. Dec. 12 — St. Louis U.......Home Wed. Jan. 13 — Central Mich......Away Sat. Jan. 16 — Northwestern......Home Wed. Jan. 20 — Riviera ..........Home
Sat. Feb. 6 — Ohio U..............Away
Sat. Feb. 13 — Western Mich......Away
Fri. Feb. 19 — Bowling Green Away Sat. Feb. 20 — Detroit. U. ......Away
Wed. Feb. 24 — Loyola U...........Home
Sat. Feb. 27 — Pittsburgh .......Home Fri. Mar. 4 — North Central......Away
NICK BUONICONTI
Leading Irish tackler
Dame and their opponents have made 34 and 41 first downs respectively by rushing and 20 and 9 respectively by passing.
To date, Notre Dame has ground out 1030 yards on offense as to 1119 for their rivals. This yardage breaks down into 582 rushing and 448 passing for the Irish and 828 rushing and 291 passing for North Carolina, Purdue, California and MSU.
ND has attempted 82 passes, completing 34 for- an average of .415. Their opponents have attempted 53, completing 20 for an average of .377. The Irish have intercepted five passes but also have had six intercepted.
Sophomore Sefcik has pilfered two of the opponent’s passes and returned them for 20 yards. Ratkowski, White and Schulz each have intercepted one pass for 43, 30 and 13 yards respectively.
In their fist four games the Irish have punted 28 times for an average of 33.1, while their opponents have punted 26 times for an average of 33.3.
Sefcik leads in punting, having booted the ball 18 times for a total of 675 yards and a 37.5 average. Scarpitto trails him with eight punts for 290 yards and a 36.2 yard average.
Notre Dame has fumbled 14 times and lost the ball on seven of these occasions. They have recovered twelve of their opponents’ 22 fumbles.
Defensively, the injured Myron Pottios led in tackles before the MSU game with 24. His replacement, Nick Buoniconti, had 22, Traver and Stickles 17 each, Bill, 15, Adamson and Schulz, 13, Scholtz, 12 and Dabiero, 10.
Ratkowski leads in passes broken up with two. Flor, White, Sabal, Colosimo, Sefcik and Scarpitto each have one.
Heenan has recovered three of the op-
Tyler Jr.’s Picks of the Week
TONIGHT
Auburn over Miami (Fla.) TOMORROW
California over Oregon State Holy Cross over Columbia LSU over Florida Georgia Tech over Tulane Kentucky over Georgia Illinois over Penn State Iowa over Purdue Oklahoma over Kansas Minnesota over Michigan Pennsylvania over Navy Northwestern over Notre Dame Wisconsin over Ohio State Pittsburgh over TCU Texas over Rice USC over Stanford Syracuse over West Virginia Yale over Colgate
GAME OF THE WEEK Mississippi over Arkansas
UPSET OF THE WEEK Indiana over Michigan State
TOTALS LAST WEEK 13 right, five wrong, two ties 72.2 per cent
TOTALS TO DATE
39 right, 17 wrong, four ties ties
69.6 per cent
BOB SCARPITTO .
Averaging six yards a carry
ponents’ fumbles while teammates Roy, Powers, Pietrzak and Scholtz have each recovered one. Traver and Stickles both have blocked an enemy punt.
As can be seen by a careful study of these statistics, the Irish have been out-gained in most cases by their opponents. The failure to move the ball consistenly in the last half especially has been a major factor in the Irish setbacks by MSU and Purdue.
October 23, 1959
Up from Interhall by BILL ( ABY
Former In+erhall Star First String Irish End
A person attending a Notre Dame game for the first time this season might wonder who the right end for the Fighting Irish is. His jersey number is 83. He is a senior with no previous experience. He is listed as standing 6-0, 185 pounds. He is the starting right end for Notre Dame and plays the position as if he were born there. His name is Pat Heenan and his is an interesting story.
Until this season, Pat was known only as a very fine interhall football player. As a freshman, he played with the Zahm
PAT HEENAN
From Interhall to varsity
Hall team that fought its way to the finals of the interhall league. Sophomore year found Pat continuing his winning habit by leading his Stanford Hall team to the campus title. Last year it was Pat who led Dillon Hall to a 14-0 win over Stanford in the bleakness and snow of the stadium. It seems to be more than a coincidence that Pat’s team made the final of the interhall competition three years running.
Last spring when Coach Joe Ku-harich opened his first spring practice session at his alma mater, Pat decided to give big-time football a whirl. During the regime of Terry Brennan, Pat had been approached on the subject of varsity ball but he had always given a polite “no thanks” as his answer. Last spring was different. So at 3:30 every afternoon Pat was out on Cartier Field with the rest of the behemouths.
It didn’t take long for Pat to convince the coaching staff as well as his fellow players that he deserved a starting role. But all was not peaches and
26
cream for the likeable wingman. The first week was a very hard and discouraging one for Pat. But one day everything started to go well. Pat kept up the improvement and soon Bill Daddio, the Irish end coach, knew he had some real help for a serious end problem.
No. 83 started in the annual Old-Timers football game which climaxes every spring football practice at Notre Dame. He not only started but played a very fine game for the varsity. It was his key block at the goal line that cleared the final defender out of the path of Red Mack on Mack’s second touchdown of the game. Pat also caught a pass and blocked and tackled well until he was injured in the second half.
In this current campaign, Pat has been one of the bright spots in the play of the Irish. His recovery of a North Carolina fumble in the opening minutes of this game set the stage for the first Irish score of that rainy afternoon.
Next came the Boilermakers of Purdue. Pat was forced out of that game midway in the second quarter because of an old shoulder injury. When he went out, it was a damaging blow to the Irish.
Pat was ready again for the Cal game and he spent most of the afternoon shaking hands with the Cal passers. He was very effective as a rusher when the Bears decided to pass.
Pat didn’t play last week against Michigan State because of a broken finger suffered in the 28-6 Cal win. It was obvious that the Irish were weaker without their battling right end in the ball game.
Many of the newspapers around the country have sought to point out the weakness of the Irish ends simply by stating that Pat had to be recruited from the interhall league. By now these scribes should be convinced that Heenan is a good, solid football player who can hold his own with the rest of the big boys in the college game. He gives no quarter and asks none either. He is a hard-nosed competitor who likes to mix it up in there. He’s the type of lad the Notre Dame coaching staff wants.
Pat might never make an All-American team, but he is unique in that he made the difficult jump from interhall ball to the starting lineup of the varsity. True, there have been others who have gone on to play varsity ball after interhall competition but few, if any, have made it big like Pat has.
In tomorrow’s game, No. 83 will be back at his familiar right end post. Watch for him to rush the quarterback, crash hard on a running play. On offense watch him throw the block that springs loose the runner or catch the pass that keeps the march going. But whatever you do watch No. 83 and you will be watching a real football player in action.
Sailing Team Travels I To Meet Invitational J
On Friday, October 9, twelve Notre Dame sailors left the campus and traveled to Madison, Wisconsin, to compete in a race hosted by the University of Wisconsin.
On Saturday morning with the aid of a heavy wind, the racing was faster than 1 usual. A lunch break was taken at the completion of the first six races. With a lighter wind in the afternoon, the Irish sailors proved to be more effective, and by Saturday night had gained a first place tie with Wisconsin.
The Sunday morning races were begun in winds of up to forty-seven miles an hour. Because the first boat had such trouble with the wind, a meeting of the skippers was called to determine whether the regatta should be continued. It was finally decided that the races should go on.
Due to the weather and unfortunate circumstances, the Irish fouled and were protested, thus placing third in final point totals. Dan Schuster, one of the ace Irish skippers won a cup for the most points scored by an individual skipper.
Last week end the sailors traveled to the University of Michigan and were victorious in a dual race series.
The series, a best five out of nine races, began Saturday morning in moderate breezes. Michigan, sailing their own club’s boats, quickly took a 2-0 lead. The Irish won the next two races and evened the score at 2-2. At nightfall, the score was tied, 4-4. On Sunday morning the Notre Dame sailors, with a determined team effort, captured the final race, winning the series, 5-4.
The Irish, skippered by Dan Schuster, Frank Bohlen and Ed Bukowski, raced in Jet fourteens against numerous Michigan combinations.	fl
This week end the sailors go to Michi- g! gan to compete in the Michigan Fall In- 9 vitational.	9
Gregory Finishes First As Irish Bow To Indiana
Notre Dame’s cross country team hosts a six-team meet today after a powei-ful Indiana team whipped the Irish harriers last Friday at Bloomington, 21-35, despite the first place finish of the Irish’s Ron Gregory.
Gregory, a junior who was running in his first meet this year because of a knee injury, won with a time of 20:35.5. But the Hoosiers captured six of the first ten places.
Gregory was followed by Captain Galen Cawley who finished third with a time of 20:53. Senior Dave Cotton, first in the season’s opener against Mar-1 quette, finished seventh for the Irish. I Ninth was Notre Dame’s Dennis John-j ston.	I
Indiana, figured only three weeks ago] as an uncertain team, racked up its sec-| ond victory in a row because of theirf superior depth. The Hoosiers were paced!
The ScholastiC
by sophomore Russ Lash who finished six seconds behind Gregory.
■ Today the Irish host a six-team meet on the Burke Memorial Golf Course featuring teams from Western Michigan and Central Michigan. Notre Dame Coach Alex Wilson feels that Western
1 Michigan will be the strongest opponent the Irish have faced this year.
Bowling Leagues Underway; K-K-Green Is Newest Entry
After considerable leg work on the | part of Secretary Ron Dvorak and ex-| tensive publicity through the various acmpus news media, the Kampus Keglers we^ able to add a fifth league, Kampus Keglers—Green, to their roster last Friday night. The secretary-treasurer of this league is Brian Brady. My most humble apologies to Joe Kirk, whom I renamed Joe King (after a certain famous place in New York) in my article last week. Joe is secretary-treasurer- of the Kampus Keglers—Blue league.
This week’s pat on the back goes to Lennie LeRose for his 145-145-145—435 triplicate in the White league. Are you proud of it Lennie?
Classic League
Brunswick Shop...............  8	0
Pete Glovna ................   5	3
Fred Hoey .................... 5	3
Tom Schroeder’s ............   5	3
Ray Stefani, 211-226-168—605; Dan Halloran, 139-194-233—566; Ted Nekic, 168-189-209—566; Greg Schwartz, 219; Frank Prantil, 212; Larry Naymik, 212; Tom Schroeder, 204; Earl Mossner, 203; Chuck LeRose, 200.
Kampus Keglers—Red
Rochester Club    ........... 7 1
5-J’s ........................ 7	1
Dan Halloran, 180-192-168—540; W. Hill, 130-203-203—536; B. Gatti, 220; Ray Stefani, 193.
I	Kampus Keglers—White
Sixty-Niners ...............   7	1
Offbeats ..................... 7	1
T. Astrologes, 181-179-196—556; M. Connolly, 168-192-196—556; D. Reilly, 206; E. Staab, 203.
Kampus Keglers—Yellow
Shady Grove All-Stars........ 8 0
Lucky Strikes ................ 8	0
Kurt Moylan, 225-170-169—564; Frank Araneta, 141-174-186—501; Ed Tejeira, 195; John Dwyer, 190.
Kampus Keglers—Blue
Detroit Club “A” ............. 7	1
Detroit Club “B” ...........   6	2
1 Jim Lefere, 207-150-164—521; Earl
Mossner, 207-158-144—509; Joe Ryan, 195; Ron Paul, 187.
Kampus Keglers—Green
Irish  ....................... 4	0
Five Jokers................... 4	0
Jim Lewis, 173-236-195—604; Dave Akers, 161-168-198—527; Bob Hayes, 211; Tom D’Annunzio, 184.
— Ed Silliman
Football
(Continued from page 23) vastly improved, have proven that they can handle the position capably also.
The guard position is manned by a pair of sturdy seniors, Pete Arena and Joe Abbatiello. Abbatiello compiled 400 minutes of playing time last year, proving himself to be a rough two-way performer. He is also used as a linebacker on defense. Arena, a 216-pounder, is one of the quickest men in the line despite his size. Last season he was desertbed as the most improved player on the squad. Russ Asala, Jim Lutz and Wayne Chamberlain are also lettermen back at the guard post.
Senior center Jim Andreotti is a definite All-American candidate. As captain in his junior year, Andreotti became an excellent two-way performer and inspirational leader.
Fullback is no longer a weakness for the Wildcats although it remains a major problem in the Northwestern offense because of inexperience. Mike Stock, a converted halfback who weighs 185 pounds, now holds the job. Stock is known principally for his defense, but is also a hard runner. Behind Stock are four candidates, all of whom are inexperienced. Mike Sommers provides the main relief for Stock.
Notre Dame will again be without the services of Myron Pottios and Jim Crotty but George Izo and Bill Mack are now rounding into top form. Pat Heenan, who missed the Michigan State game, should see action tomorrow.
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
*	MAGIC HOUSE OF NUMBERS
Adler
*	EXODUS
Uris
*	MEN AND IDEAS
Huizinga
*	HOW TO READ A BOOK
Adler
*	ALLEGORY OF LOVE
Lewis
*	ON MY OWN
Roosevelt
*	TRIGONOMETRY REFRESHER Klaf
*	SAINTS FOR SINNERS
Goodier
*	SELECTION OF POEMS
Hopkins
*	LONELY CROWD
Riesman
*	HANDBOOK OF HERESIES Cozens	-
*	THE HILLS BEYOND
Wolfe
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE on-the-campus
You’re a triple threat man in this Heathrow
Blazer Trio
High-spirited 3-piece sport outfit for that “big wheel” look! Easy-going, colorfully lined jacket with natural shoulders and narrow lapels is accented by bright metal buttons. Matching Post-Grad slacks are slim, trim and terrific. Matching vest reverses to a lively Ancient Madder or Foulard print. Deftly tailored by H*I*S in soft Corduroy, luxury Woolens or interesting Hopsackings, $29.95 to $45.00. Handsome shades. At your favorite campus shop.
< wah*** _ IETTBK .W STYlf
GO OUT FOR his
October 23, 1959
$40,000 in Grants Awarded To Notre Dame; Office of Naval Research Supports Projects
The Office of Naval Research has awarded the University of Notre Dame grants totalling over $40,000 to renew its support of three metallurgical engineering research projects being conducted by Prof. George C. Kuczynski, professor of Metallurgical Engineering.
High Total. A grant of $25,000 will underwrite Kuczynski’s research on “Sintering Phenomena in Ceramic Systems” for the year ending October 31, 1960. An award of $12,000 will support an investigation of “Photomechanical Relaxation in Semi-Conductors,” and another grant will assist in the study of . “Order-Disorder Transformation in Alloys.”
Working with Prof. Kuczynski in this research are Assistant Professor of Metallurgical Engineering Charles W. Allen, who is the assistant director of the first two projects, and six graduate students, Ronald G. Vardiman, Anantha Murthy, Hugh J. McQueen, Hiroyuki Ichinose, Alexander Rozner and Donald Haskell.
NOTRE DAME DANCE CLASSES
Mr. Murray this year will subsidize Notre Dame dance classes. The regular rate for 10 class hours is $24.00. Notre Dame students only will receive 10 class hours for $15.00. This amounts to only $1.50 per hour.
You’ll be surprised at how quickly you will become a good dancer at Arthur Murray’s. Even beginners will master several steps the very first lesson. Become a confident dancer and really have fun at your next dance.
ENROLL NOW!
CE 2-3339
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. WAYNE
CE 2-3339
“Sintering Phenomena in Ceramic Systems” involves the process of fusing or sintering powdered material, parti-* cularly oxides and sulfides, into continuous solids. This fusion is accomplished by the controlled heating of the powdered substance somewhat below its melting point and depends on a union of the individual particles. The nature of this sintering process is the principle interest of the research projects. Sintering is widely used in industry because it is a means of making a variety of shapes economically.
“Photomechanical Relaxation in Semi-Conductors” concerns phonomenon discovered by Prof. Kuczynski at Notre Dame four years ago. In his work with semi-conductors, those substances which made possible the transistors and solar batteries, he noticed that the surfaces became weaker under a given stress when struck with certain wave lengths of light.
AEC Support. The Atomic Energy Commission also awarded the University of Notre Dame a grant which has been in effect since March, 1959, for research on “The Effects of Coloi* Centers on Mechanical Properties of Alkali-Halide Crystals.”
Involved in this project are Prof. Kuczynski, the director; Dr. Allen, the assistant director; and three graduate students, Jack Feller, Don Scherpereel, and K. S. Venkatu.
The project concerns the interaction of color centers with dislocation in the crystals, which are imperfections responsible for growth and plasticity characteristics of all crystals. The color centers in alkali-halides, like sodium chloride (common table salt) may be produced by radiation damage, that is, by alpha particles, gamma rays, x-rays, etc., or by introducing into the crystals an excess of the positive ion-sodium in the case of sodium chloride.
— John Ohala
Politicos Choose Early April For Demo's Convention Date
The Academy of Political Science recently met to orient its members on the upcoming Mock Democratic Nominating Convention. The convention will be staged in the Drill Hall on April 3 through April ’6.
Immediately following the meeting Larry Turner and Bill Mapother, president and vice-president of the academy, chose the chairmen of the committees fori the convention. They are: Bill Leser campaign committee; Leo Gorman, pu licity; Tom O’Connell, house commit and Bill Mapother, delegation commi
The publicity committee will distribu literature within the next two weeks in forming the student body of what p mises to be the largest convention ev presented on the campus.
The Scholas
Two Books Published | By Faculty Members I Two Notre Dame faculty members 1 have recently had their new books published here by the University of Notre
' Dame Press.
Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., has edited I a book called Ethics and the Social Sciences, a collection of writings by six prominent scholars who have been investigating ethical and social problems.
Contributors to the work include Christopher Dawson, the celebrated English scholar and visiting professor of Roman Catholic Studies at Harvard Uni-i versity; political scientist Francis G. Wilson, University of Illinois; Kenneth E. Boulding, University of Michigan economist; and Professor Herbert Johnston of Notre Dame’s philosophy department.
Ethics and the social sciences “need each other,” according to Father Ward, who has taught philosophy at Notre Dame for more than thirty years. “Most really aware persons today,” he writes in the preface, “would say that a political science, standing by itself, and left denuded of ethics, would be little good to the solutions of the world’s big and deep problems.”
( Dr. Marshall Smelser, professor of history here, has penned the other book lately published by the Notre Dame Press. Smelser, an authority on naval history, expresses his views in The Congress Founds the Navy, 1787-98. He carried on much of the research for the new volume when he held the James Forrestal Fellowship in Naval History at the U. S. Naval Academy during the 1956-57 school years. He is the author of an earlier book on 18th-century amphibious warfare, The Campaign for the Sugar Islands.
According to Smelser, men like John Paul Jones were “fathers of naval customs and tactical practices, but they were not founders of the Navy. The United States Navy, like other navies, was not founded by sailors but by politicians, and the story of its founding must deal with politics.”
ROCCO'S
NEW Restaurant
STEAKS - SEAFOODS
Also the Finest Italian Dishes
MODERN PRIVATE ROOMS AVAILABLE
Call for Reservations *
Open Sundays	CE 4-7224
18142 South Bend Ave.

Still Operating at Our Old Location
537 N. St. Louis
Hamilton Appointed Head Of WNDU-TV and Radio
William Thomas Hamilton has been appointed as acting general manager of WNDU-TV and AM, the University of Notre Dame stations. The announcement was made by Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice president of the University.
A sales manager of WNDU-TV as well as manager of WNDU Radio, Hamilton replaces the late Bernard C. Barth who passed away on Sept. 22 after an illness of several months.
Prior to joining the staff of WNDU-TV when it was organized in 1955, Hamilton was a sales executive for CBS in New York. He is a veteran of nearly 25 years in radio and television.
Barth, who was also vice president of the stations, had earlier been program manager for WLW radio and television in Cincinnati. He was a twenty-three year veteran in the broadcasting industry, having served in varied positions.
Barth assisted Notre Dame in securing authorization from the Federal Communications Commission to erect a television station on the campus. He organized its staff and supervised construction of the station which took the air- precisely on its target date.
In addition to managing WNDU-TV and AM, Barth served as a lecturer and coordinator of the telecommunications course offered by Notre Dame’s communication arts department.	,
Top Appelate Selected For Chicago Competition
Notre Dame’s top student in appelate advocacy was selected last Saturday night at the annual Moot Court competition in the Engineering Auditorium. He is Paul H. Titus of Bradford, Pa., a graduate of Saint Bonaventure University. The second place winner was Lawrence D. Wichmann, of Erlanger, Ky., who graduated from the University of Cincinnati.
The two winners will represent the Notre Dame Law School in the national Moot Court competition next month. They will also receive the Dean’s Award, which was established in 1950 by the former dean, Clarence E. Manion. Cash prizes are also awarded to the winners.
William B. F. Custer of Fredonia, N. Y., a graduate of St. Bonaventure University was selected as an alternate candidate.
WHO WANTS MONEY?
All minor sports budgets are to be handed in to the student senate before October 31. These budgets must be for the entire year as there will be no more money available from the minor sports committee the remainder of the year. For further information contact chairman Greg Walsh, 229 Walsh. Minor sports at Notre Dame include swimming, sailing, fencing, golf, and tennis.
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
•
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
Contact Lens Specialist
DR. T. R. PILOT
Optometrist
e
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
GendeTs Surplus Sales SPECIAL-—A Used Alpaca Lined
Parka—Only $7.95 YOU SAVE EVERYDAY AT GENDEL’S 512 SO. MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND
SHIRTS EXPERTLY LAUNDERED
5 /or $1.00
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. JEFFERSON Downtown on the Bus line
Serving Notre Dame Men ' for Over 39 'Years!	:
29
October 23, 1959
Back Pa^c
by PAUL BODY
three years!
Il
ago
The author of this week’s article, Paul Body, is a graduate student in the history department. A native Hungarian, he fled his country during the great exodus which followed the Communist coup d’etat in 1946.
In this “Back Page” which appears on the third anniversary of the Hungarian Revolution, Body shows ivhat the Communists have in mind when they speak of negotiation.
Premier Khrushchev’s visit to America has probably convinced many Americans of his effectiveness as a public debater and of his fanatic conviction to Communist theory and practice. What is more significant, however, the Premier has not been able to give proof of his intention to negotiate candidly on vital international questions. His reputation as a propaganda speaker has in fact been reinforced by his American tour, but precisely this point should make us wonder, whether his marvelous slogans have any other purpose or function. These observations are prompted by the truly great crisis which Western diplomacy seems to have reached at this stage. America as perhaps never since the end of World War II holds the key to the future in its hands. The American decision to invite the Soviet premier represents the first phase of a new diplomatic policy; shortly we are to witness a summit meeting, which may decide for the next decade or so the course of international life.
A COMMON GROUND?
For this reason it seems imperative that the American government and people assess the realities which they face and determine in advance the policy they should follow toward the Soviet diplomatic offensive. In my view, two fundamental problems are involved in such an evaluation of foreign policy objectives. The first is, whether it is possible for the U. S. government to have a common ground of discussion with the Soviet government, regardless of all ideological differences. The second is the question of what possible concessions the U. S. should try to achieve from the Soviet Union and in what way. This second problem necessarily depends in its solution on the answer to the first and I shall deal therefore with the first one at the present time.
The charge is often leveled by both Marxist and non-Marxist apologists of Soviet policy against critics of the Communist system, that they rigidly oppose any kind of contact or discussion with the essentially peace-loving Soviet lead
30
ers. Perhaps this is true of many people in the West, who are instinctively antiCommunist in feeling and action. In this case, however, let us take the most tolerant attitude possible and try to follow the Communist dialectic. Let us believe in the value of discussion, of dialogue, of negotiation: let us have faith that sooner or later somehow something positive will be accomplished. By this act alone we have achieved one thing: both we and the Communist side agree. We agree that it is good to have discussion. These commonplace statements may seem unimportant, yet they show best the basic difficulty in the dialogue between East and West. For as soon as we try to agree on something more specific than words, meaningless slogans, generalities we find out that it is impossible. Should we merely try to agree on the meaning of the word “discussion,” we would immediately come face to face with an insoluble barrier. For us a discussion means a “give and take” in an atmosphere of trust and good will. We also presuppose that the other side’s conception of such terms as national independence, personal rights, democracy, peace corresponds to our own. A third characteristic of the two partners, in our view, should be mutual respect for each other’s persons.
Anyone only slightly familiar with Mr. Khrushchev’s American appearances will know that even in his veil as universal peacemaker, he completely rejected such an idea. In the first place we may discuss only certain subjects with the other side, those which are not “provocative” or which do not try to create “difficulties.” Second, we should not be puzzled by the speech of Mr. Khrushchev at the U.N. in which he stated that the Soviet Union has always striven to reduce world tension, while the Western powers have consistently tried to increase them. Thus for example it was the Soviet Union which completely demobilized in 1945, while the U.S. has kept its full forces in the field. Evidently our concepts of demobilization differ. Third, the respect of Soviet leaders seems to be confined to very few cases which history can record. It is highly doubtful, whether they know what it means.
I do not try to give here a causal explanation of the behavior of Soviet leaders; that may be found in the biographies of these men. I regard it as essential, however, that we know the difficulties of bargaining with them. The psychology of the Kremlin ruling class is molded by the laws of the Soviet party machine: survival can only be achieved
by force and murder, while permanent terror is its only incentive device. In view of these facts, we can see that the liquidation of ethnic groups during World War II, the mass deportations since 1945, the repression of the Berlin rebellion of 1953 and the mass executions of 1956 in Budapest were but extensions of the old Bolshevik usage on a grand scale. What is significant about these tragedies for us at the present moment is that the Soviet leaders regard these acts as perfectly just and justified from their viewpoint and cannot understand why we too do not regard them in this light. When we try to explain our belief in certain principles of decent human conduct, they are truly puzzled, because such ideas have no place even in their wildest phantasies. In their view this insistence on nonexistent principles surely proves that the Western leaders are only interested in discrediting the Soviet Union, viz., continuing the Cold War.
END OF A DIALOGUE
The best known recent victims of the Soviet theory of the dialogue are the leaders of the Hungarian Revolution of 1956. General Paul Maleter as representative of the legal Hungarian government, was arrested by Soviet military officers, with whom he was to conduct negotiations on Novembers, 1956. Prime Minister Imre Nagy and his associates were given a safe conduct from the Yugoslav Legation in Budapest and immediately arrested by Soviet authorities. The Prime Minister and General Maleter were executed in June 1958.
As an illustration of the Soviet idea of a dialogue in practice is the attempt of the International PEN Club to secure the release of several distinguished Hungarian writers, jailed and tortured following the Hungarian Revolution. The general secretary of thei PEN Club cabled to the Hungarian gov-| ernment and requested confirmation of the fate of three well known Hungarian । writers. After a delay of four weeks | the following answer came: “Dery, Kar- j dos and Bibo are under arrest.” |
This is the end of an East-West dia-j logue. It represents clearly a direct and unmistakable insult to all principles of justice, respect and decency for which] the West stands. Such a dialogue is J indeed, the only one the Soviet poweif can prosecute with success. Yes, let u| have dialogue, discussion, negotia-| tion, but let us always remembeil who our discussion partners are. It] will help to avoid similar mistakes iiil the future.	I
The Scholastic





New Mooks from Notre 'Dame
WHAT AMERICA STANDS FOR, edited by Stephen D. Kertesz and M. A. Fitzsimons. The issues of American identity and the world’s image of the United States are the chief concern of the articles in this volume. The authors’ evaluation of American institutions, ideas, and purposes should eliminate many of the stereotypes that so often becloud the world’s vision of what America stands for. $4.75
DIPLOMACY IN A CHANGING WORLD, edited by Stephen D. Kertesz and M. A. Fitzsimons. Diplomacy must play an increasing role in the negotiation of the differences of a changing world. The problems and resources of diplomacy in a world characterized by a radical departure from the past are surveyed in this volume, which holds forth the hope that with sacrifice, perseverance, and imagination diplomacy may be flexible enough to tame the furies of the contemporary world. Dag Hammarskjold, George F. Kennan, Sir Pierson Dixon, and Hans Morganthau are among the distinguished diplomats and scholars
who have contributed to the volume.
$7.50
FREEDOM AND REFORM IN LATIN AMERICA, edited by Frederick B. Pike. Provides an insight into some of the changes that have shaped Latin America’s recently commenced struggle to erect a society in which the values of individual freedom are safeguarded at the same time that social and economic reforms are achieved. The essays range from a philosophical consideration of the concepts of freedom and reform to an economic study of urbanizing and
industrializing Latin America.
$6.00
SOVIET POLICY TOWARD THE BALTIC STATES, 1918-1940, by Edward N. Tarulis. In 1918 Red troops attacked Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania but were repelled and for more than two decades the Baltic peoples consolidated their statehood. This fascinating book tells how these three nations were finally overpowered and annexed to the Soviet Union; it is a story of broken pledges and broken treaty obligations, diplomatic duplicity, connivance between Communism and Nazism, application of force in international relations, and the most naked and brutal
imperialism.
$5.50
ETHICS AND THE SOCIAL SCIENCES, edited by Leo R. Ward, C.S.C. Positivistic social science, stand-
ing by itself and denuded of ethics, can contribute little to the world’s major problems. Scholars who
are authorities in both ethics and various social sciences discuss the inter-relationship of the two in
this symposium.
$3.25
THE IMAGE OF MAN, edited by M. A. Fitzsimons, Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., and Frank O’Malley. A selection of some of the best essays to appear in the Review of Politics during its first 20 years which show why the Review has become one of the world’s
most influential journals.
$6.00
THE RUSSIAN REVOLUTION AND RELIGION, 1917-1925, edited and translated by Boleslaw Szczes-niak. This comprehensive collection of documentary material is intended to give an understanding of the historical change inflicted on organized religion by the Communist revolution from 1917 to 1925. The introduction is a concise historical survey that points
out the complexity of the problem.
$6.75
THEORETICAL ASPECTS OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS, edited by William T. R. Fox. International relations have to be viewed as a subject which is something more than contemporary history if it is to yield results relevant to the major choices which governments and opinion leaders must make in world politics. This collection of essays grew out of an inter-university seminar at Columbia and is a speculative approach to the study of international
relations.
$3.25
INTRODUCTION TO MODERN POLITICS, by Ferdinand A. Hermens. The discussion of various patterns of government, both from the historical and functional viewpoint, is useful and even indispensable. Professor Stephen K. Bailey of Princeton states: “The book brings together in brief compass one of the best statements on the historical and philosophical background of democracy that I have ever
seen.”
$3.50
THE CONGRESS FOUNDS THE NAVY, 1787-1798, by Marshall Smelser. The author traces the acrimonious debate in Congress and throughout the young nation that preceded the birth of the navy. He shows how the Algerian piracies, French privateering, and the flouting of neutral rights in an Atlantic war aroused the nation and finally forced Congress to
provide and maintain a navy.”
$5.00
THE EARLY LITURGY, by Josef A. Jungmann, SJ. This is a fascinating outline of the history of the Church’s worship to 600 A.D. by the foremost litur-gist of our day. This period surpasses all others in importance because it is concerned with the formation of the ground-plan of the present Roman Rite. Rev. Gerald Ellard, S.J., himself a renowned liturgist, has this to say: “The climactic last chapter, a brilliant sketch of the Latin Mass at Rome from about 400 to 600, will be conned most carefully by readers. There are many other matters treated with distinc-
tion by the Innsbruck scholar;
$5.75
Coming in April, 1960:
ROMAN CATHOLICISM AND THE AMERICAN WAY OF LIFE, edited by Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C. April selection of the Thomas More Book Club; Distinguished Protestant, Catholic, and Jewish authors assume that Roman Catholicism is an accepted part of the life of the nation and discuss the social problems, Church and State relations, and the Americanization of Roman Catholicism which have
resulted from this acceptance.
$L50
Order from the Notre Dame Bookstore and all leading booksellers.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS
October 23, 1959
A Campus-to-Career Case History	!
“My talk with the Bell System
interviewer is really paying off*
Today, less than five years since he graduated from Michigan State University, Donald j. Zigman is an Accounting Manager for Wisconsin Bell Telephone Company in Oshkosh—with seven supervisory and 93 clerical employees reporting to him. His group handles billing for 350,000 telephone customers and processes SI,500,000 in revenue each month.
Don has moved ahead fast—and steadily—but no more so than the Bell System interviewer told him he might.
‘‘That guy made a real impression on me," says Don. “He didn't guarantee a bright future for me. He simply described the kind of varied j ob experience I’d get, outlined the on-the-job training I’d go through, and pointed out the advancement opportunities I’d have along the
way. The only thing he promised me was that I would have ‘maximum exposure for self-development.’ He was 100 per cent right there. My training has been terrific—and I’ve had every chance to advance that I could possibly hope for.”
After joining the company, Don spent eight months in the Plant Department learning the roots of the business. He got experience as a lineman, installer and repairman. He was transferred to Accounting in December. 1956. working in the Methods and Results section. Thirteen months later, he was Supervisor of that section—and, 14 months after that, he became Accounting Manager.
“How much farther I go now is entirely up to me,” says Don. “One thing I know: the opportunities are here”
Don Zigman graduated with a B.A. degree in Economics and English. He’s one of many young men who have found interesting careers with the Bell Telephone Companies. Learn what opportunities you might have. Talk with the Bell interviewer when he visits your campus—and read the Bell Telephone booklet on file in your Placement Office.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES