The Notre Dame Scholastic
419
1
COMMENT
You have just returned from a dance. The orchestra leader has twisted himself into various contor-tionistic poses in an attempt to be in harmony with the jazz. For several hours you have heard pleas to release the heat, to maintain a singing voice in the midst of a deluge. But what have you now that you did not have when you went to the dance? What has been added to your inner self? What is present that was not present some time ago?
r

You have just returned from a concert. Some of the admittedly great spirits of the race have had ’ their visions of the world and of reality interpreted, for you, by a group of musicians.
The views that certain men entertained of the eternally present truths, their reports on their meetings with the air-stalking Giants of Beauty, have been presented to you. And you, supposedly, have listened, impressionistically, to their reports. What has been added to your inner self? What is present that was not present some time ago?
T. Vincent McIntire Emil L. Telfel...... Thomas A. Cannon.. J. Archer Hurley. ... Walter Langford..... Joel Egerer......... Ramon G. Smith...... Alfred E. Gall...... Paul J. Hallinan...
You have just returned from a visit to a picture gallery. There you have seen intense visions of life given intense form in an intense medium. You have seen life given a colored equivalent, you have seen experience find black and white to translate • itself, so that you might share the original experience. You have seen a canvas still quivering from the brush of the wings of Beauty. What has been added to your inner self? What is present that was not present some time ago?
>
s’
You have just finished reading a book. You have read what the writer would have told you had he been present. A vision of life, a vision of people, a vision of the world, still wet with the dew of the claws of the morning. What has been, added to your inner self? What is present that was not present some time ago?
*
Comment on our two persistent questions is needless. In fact words of any kind, save some six, are unnecessary. Those six form, peculiarly enough, a question: have you a sense of values?
Gke
Noirre Dame 5cholas^ i c bisee - Quasi - 3 ermper -VidJurus-Vlva-Quasi-Cras-Moriturus
Founded in 1872
Murray Hickey Ley, Harley L. McDevitt.
EDITORIAL STAFF
... ..Editor-in-Chief Graduate Manager
.........Managing.Editor .Assistant Managing Editor Assistant Managing Editor 	The	Week .......................The College Parade .......................Music and Drama .......................Campus.Clubs ..............Script Editor
Features
Editor
James J. Kearney James Collins Howard Webster
Austin Boyle
NEWS STAFF
John Bergan, News Editor Richard J. O’Donnell Neil Hurley Joseph Reedy Edward Brennan
John Motz
Chester M. Ashman. .Foreign Circulation Frederick N. Davis Local Advertising James L. Rizer..........Foreign Advertising
James H. Rorke Frederick J. Bauer Merle V. Baldwin
William Sherman Frank J. Conboy
George Allan -Leslie Raddatz Edward Connors William Karl James Carmody
John A. Kiener, Sports Editor Harry A. Sylvester, Jr.
SPORTS STAFF
William J. Magarral,
InterhaH Sports Editor
Henry B. Asman
James E. McFeely, Jr.
BUSINESS STAFF Harrington J. Noon.........Local Circulation Manager
Manager Manager Manager
John Blanda Andrew McGuan Norman E. Duke
VOL. LXIIL
JANUARY 10, 1930.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Sacred Heart Statue___________________ Coming Events_________________________ A Man About the Campus—Emil L. Telfel_ New Law Building to be Erected________ Music and Drama—Joel Egerer_________________
Campus Clubs—Ramon G. Smith----------a------
College Parade—Walter Langford------------------ The Week—Archer Hurley_ Editor’s Page__________ “I Am the Beginning and the End”—Alfred E. Gall- The Wink_______________2------------------------
Blue and Gold Quintet Beats Indiana—John A. Kiener. Splinters From the Press Box—Harry A. Sylvester- On Down the Line--------------------------------
No. 14.
.Frontispiece
______ 422
______ 423
______ 425
______ 425
______ 428
______ 429
______ 430
______ 431
______ 432
______ 434
______ 435
______ 445
______ 448
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may he addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men.
...........?..........................................................,...........,.,.....,.....,..................
420	The Notre Dame Scholastic
Sacred Heart Statue

The Notre Dame Scholastic
421
SCIENCE ACADEMY HOLDS ~	FIRST 1930 MEETING
The Notre Dame Academy of Science opened the year* with a lively session Monday night in Science Hall. A large attendance was present.
Mario Ramacciotti, of Wheaton, Ill., senior* in the pre-medical school, presented a paper on the ductless glands, pointing out their general influence on - bodily functions.
Edward T. Yorke, of Carteret, N. J., president of the Academy, presented some considerations regarding insanity, showing the stubborn resist> • ance mental diseases offer to cure. A discussion among the members fol-$ lowed the presentation of this paper.
Freeman Longwell, of South Bend, secretary of the organization, announces that the Academy will have an open meeting January 20, at which r time Dr. Savery, of South Bend, will _ talk. The meeting will be held in the south room of the library instead of Science Hall.
(b) Pre-legal students will be required to take Mental Disorders and Criminal Law only. Two additional hours to complete the number of required hours in the major subject may be selected. [See (a) above.] It is urged that all students in this group take as their elective course Accounting for Lawyers, a new course taught in the College of Commerce to meet the need of pre-law students. This course will be taught three times a week, (c) Probation Work students will be required to take Delinquency and Probation, Principles of Social Case Work I., and Field Work I. Either one or two credit hours may be earned in Field Work. One elective course may be taken. Mental Disorders and Criminal Law are required in the senior year.
“The elective courses open to students not majoring in sociology are Mental Disorders, Criminal Law and Rural Sociology.”
SOCIOLOGY COURSES FOR SECOND SEMESTER
ANNOUNCED
The Department of Sociology makes the following announcements concerning courses in the second semester: “The scope of the course, Mental Disorders and Criminal Law, will be broadened so as to include such matter as is usually taught in courses which attempt to give social workers some idea of the general rules of law, as well as to point out needed social legislation. In this way the course will meet the need of the student who merely wishes to find out something about law, as well as the pre-law student. Rural Sociology, announced in the catalog as an evening class, will be taught during the day instead. Delinquency and Probation, Principles of Social Case Work, and Field Work will be limited to students majoring in Probation Work and Boy Guidance.
“Students majoring in sociology are divided into three groups, General .?	Sociology, Pre-legal Sociology, and
J	Probation Work. Information coni'	cerning courses in each group is as
-i-	follows: (a) General Sociology stu-
f	dents may take Mental Disorders and
j	Criminal Law, and Rural Sociology.
■	A list of certain courses in closely
i	related departments which may be
taken for credit in sociology may be obtained at the office of the Dean.

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE RELEASED
Two more weeks are left to prepare for the semester examinations. Tire tests will start on Friday, January 24, and will continue until Tuesday, January 28. The Reverend Emiel DeWulf, C.S.C., has announced that the examinations will be the customary two hours in length. The complete schedule follows:
Friday, January 24—Classes taught on Mondays (but not Tuesdays) at 8:00, 10:00, 1:15, and 2:15 will be examined at 8:00, 10:00, 1:1-5 and 3:15.
Saturday, January 25 — Classes taught on Tuesdays at 8:00, 10:00, 1:15, and 2:15 will be examined at 8:00, 10:00, 1:15, and 3:15.
Monday, January 27 — Classes taught on Mondays at 9:00, 11:00, and 3:15 will be examined at 8:00, 10:00, and 1:15.
Tuesday, January 28 — Classes taught on Tuesdays at 9:00, 11:00, and 3:15 will be examined at 8:00, 10:00, and 1:15.
PROMINENT EXECUTIVES TO SPEAK HERE
Mr. McJunkin, President of the McJunkin Advertising Company, Chicago, and iMr. F. H. Massman, VicePresident of the National Tea Company have been scheduled to speak before the students of the University during the month of January, as an
nounced by Dean James E. McCarthy, of the College of Commerce.
Mr. McJunkin will lecture in Washington Hall on Tuesday, January 14, at 3 o’clock. He will speak on some phases of advertising, and his lecture will mark the second of a series instituted by the College of Commerce for the special benefit of the Juniors and Seniors in that school.
Mr Massman will speak on Tuesday, January 21, in Washington Hall at 3 o’clock, and his lecture will be concerned with chain store methods of advertising-.	•
In view of the fact that Mr. McJunkin and Mr. Massman are executives in nationally known concerns, it is indeed fortunate that the College of Commerce has been successful in securing them to speak before its members.
A. S. M. E. VISITS STUDEBAKER PLANT
The first inspection trip of the newly organized branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers was taken Wednesday, December 18, through the Studebaker power plant. The boiler and turbine rooms, as well as the fuel analysis laboratory, were included in the trip, which was conducted by Mr. Toby, chief operating engineer of the plant.
Mr. J. H. Clouse, instructor in mechanical engineering, and fifteen upperclassmen made the trip.
A business meeting will be held Wednesday, January 15, at 7:45 p. m. in Badin Hall basement. A constitution, registration of members, the national charter and other items of importance will be taken up.
“ALUMNUS” OUT WEDNES-
DAY, JANUARY 15
According to James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary, the January number of the Alumnus will be released the 15th of this month. The new plan for the co-operation of the alumni association with the University officials, which has been drawn up by Judge John D. Eggeman of Fort Wayne, president of the Alumni Association, and James E. Armstrong, will be one of the features of the issue. The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, has written an article, “The Needs of the University,” which will be one of the features of the January Alumnus.
422
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Coming Events
FRIDAY, Jan. 10—Scholastic Editorial staff meeting, Publications office, Main building, 7:00 p. m.— Movies, Gary Cooper and Fay Wray in “The Legion of the Condemned,” Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.
SATURDAY, Jan. 11 — Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Marquette University, gymnasium, 8:00 p. m.
SUNDAY, Jan. 12 — Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00 and 8:00 a. m.—High Mass at 9:00 a. m.—Benediction, 7:30 p. m.
MONDAY, Jan. 13—Cap and gown measurements, Carroll Hall refectory, 2:00-5:00 p. m.—A. I. E. E. meeting, Engineers’ Room, Badin Hall, 8:00 p. m.—Knights of Columbus meeting, Council Chambery Walsh Hall, 8:00 p. m.
TUESDAY, Jan. 14 — Philadelphia Club meeting, Law building, 8:00 p. m.—Wranglers meeting, Public Speaking Room, Walsh Hall, 8:00 p. m.—Scribblers meeting, Journalism Room, Library, 7:45 p. m.— Last day for cap and gown measurements for seniors, old Carroll Hall refectory, 2:00-5:00 p. m.— Press Club meeting, Lay Faculty dining room, 8:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, Jan. 15 — Rocky Mountain Club meeting, Law building, 7:45 p. m.—Alumnus will appear on the stands.
THURSDAY, Jan. 16—A. S. M. E. business meeting, Badin Hall, 7:45 p. m.—Spectators meeting, Journalism Room, Library, 7:45 p. m.
FRIDAY, Jan. 17—Scholastic Editorial staff meeting, Publications office, Main building, 7:00 p. m.
NOTICE!
Contributions for “Scrip,” the literary quarterly, must be in not later than January 27. They may be sent to Louis C. Heitger, 305 Walsh Hall. No matter what pseudonym contributions are published under, the author’s name must be known by the editor. This applies to some anonymous compositions already in the hands of the board, as well as any contributions submitted in the future.
VILLAGERS TO HOLD POSTEXAM DANCE
The Villagers’ Club of Notre Dame will sponsor a Post-Exam dance to be given Tuesday night, January 28, in the Palais Royale ballroom in South Bend. The dance, an annual affair, will mark the close of the mid-year examinations at the University.
Myron Waltz and his Hotel LaSalle orchestra, one of the best known dance orchestras in this vicinity, have been engaged to play for dancing. The band will offer several distinct novelty acts during the evening.
Forrest Hazen has been named general chairman of arrangements for the affair by John R. Marcus, president of the club. Assisting him will be Robert Holmes, Charles Cashman, Jack Fritzer, Al Malling, Rolland Poulin, and Edward Riley.
COACH ROCKNE TO LEAVE ON SOUTHERN TRIP
Knute Rockne, the University’s director of athletics and famous football coach, is leaving the snowy rigors of South Bend’s climate within the next few days for the sunny charms of Miami Beach, Florida. Coach Rockne was still undecided this week as to whether he would leave Sunday or Monday, but was evidently anxious to start on his long-promised vacation. Only a few members of his immediate family are to accompany him.
The trip will not be a pleasure jaunt, but an opportunity for the much needed rest “Rock” courageously denied himself while fighting through the football season with his championship team. When asked if he would return in the spring Mr. Rockne said, “I hope so, but I’ll stay until I get well.”
ANNOUNCE K. OF C. MEETING, JANUARY 13
Next Monday evening, January 13, a special meeting of Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, has been called by Grand Knight John Chevigny. It will be the first meeting of the new year and the last before examinations. Final plans for the initiation will be announced and various other business matters discussed. A prominent speaker has been secured for the evening. Grand Knight Chevigny urges that all the members attend. The importance of this cannot be stressed too much; in fact the meeting will see transacted much business of pressing import:
SCRIBBLERS ANNOUNCE POETRY CONTEST
With this issue of the Scholastic the Scribblers announce the opening of the annual poetry contest. This contest is open to all students of the University, and all campus writers, regardless of class rank or club affiliations, are urged to submit verse.
In past years the poetry contests which the Scribblers have sponsored have been brilliant successes. Last year over one hundred manuscripts were submitted to the judges and prizes were awarded to Murray Young, Brother Emil, C.S.C., and Cyril Mullen. It is hoped that as great interest will be shown in this contest as has been in those of the past. .
Further information concerning the poetry contest, the rules, judges, and the closing date, will be announced in subsequent issues of the Scholastic.
।
MANY SHAKESPEARE STUDENTS SEE LEIBER IN
CHICAGO
Many of Mr. Rufus Rauch’s Shakespeare students have been fortunate this season in seeing some of the plays of Fritz Leiber. Mr. Rauch, after observing the Shakespeare movement for some time has made some pertinent remarks anent the neo-Shakesperean tendency.
“The test for any drama is the stage, ultimately and finally. We, in the Middle West, are fortunate, in fact most fortunate, in having such an organization in our midst as The Chicago Civic Shakespeare Company. The repertoire of the group consists of ten plays of three different types, comedies, tragedies and histories. It would be easy to be hypercritical but on a whole the work is very well done.”
Mr. Leiber is considered best in the tragedies and of these Hamlet is his finest achievement. The Company has a five year contract in Chicago and next year hopes to add other Old English plays to its repertoire. It has been financially successful, and New York producers have entered into rather serious competition for road showing. -
“In this day of hoped for ‘big runs’ Leiber is to be highly commended for his excellent work in this field. Let us only hope that more students will take advantage of this truly fine opportunity next season.”

J
The Notre Dame Scholastic
423
A Man About the Campus
When one interviews “Ooney” Donovan one also interviews his roommate, Frank Dailey. At least, that was our experience. The interview at times took on the aspects of a duet. Dailey kept suggesting very intimate touches for the article; and “Ooney” kept emphatically vetoing the suggestions. From the two of them we finally managed to get enough printable material, but it was a tough job.
%
Clarence J. Donovan
“Ooney” is captain of the basketball team, which statement is more or less unnecessary. The captaincy is his reward for three years of extremely efficient guard play. Donovan is one of the cleverest guards to be developed at Notre Dame—with all due respect to players like Dahman, Conroy, and Smith. His floor work and passing are superb, and his accuracy at long range is .uncanny.
Donovan’s basketball honors are equalled by his distinctions in other fields. The phrase, “a scholar, an athlete, and a gentleman,” can be applied to him very fittingly. That he is a scholar- is proved by the fact that the Keach-Hering award for the monogram man having the highest scholastic average of his class was awarded to him in his junior year. That he is a gentleman is attested to by all who know him, including the writer, who once received financial proof of it.
In his sophomore year “Ooney” was elected president of his class. In his junior year he became secretary of the Student Activities Council; he was also on the Junior Prom Com
mittee and the Lawyer’s Ball committee. He has been a member of the Monogram Club for three years; this year he is secretary-treasurer of that organization. The Law7 Club numbers him among its members. Last—at least in his estimation—he is a member of the Blue Circle, and he has been a member of its Vigilance committee, though “Ooney” is doubtful as to whether that may be listed as an honor.
Being a law student, “Ooney” was somewhat cautious about making any statements. He kept referring us to Dailey, who was quite willing to say something about his versatile roommate.
“Donovan,” said Dailey, “was quite a lad in his day, in fact, he still is. He lives in Bedford, Indiana, and the Sorin Sub, and is a junior in law. When he first came to Notre Dame he had ambitions to be a mechanical engineer, and accordingly, enrolled in the College of Engineering. But— realizing his mistake two days later, he decided that he wanted a broadening education rather than a narrowing specialization; so he changed his course to liberal arts. He has never-regretted the change, as he has discovered that the good old classical course is an excellent and necessary foundation for the study of that noblest of the professions—law.”
Being properly impressed by such oratory, rve did not further importune Donovan for a statement, but “Ooney,” with the professional jealousy of the lawyer, made this rather cryptic remark as w^e were about to leave:
“The Navy and Elder forever.”
VILLAGERS HOLD JANUARY MEETING
The January meeting of the Villagers’ Club was held last Monday evening, January 6, at the Rose Marie Tea Room.
The Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., and Professor H. C. Staunton, of the English department gave short, interesting talks.
The principal business of the meeting was devoted to making plans for the post-exam dance which is to be held on Tuesday, January 28, at the Palais Royale.
A report was also given on the Christmas Formal the most successful affair evei- sponsored by the club.
“JUGGLER” ARTICLE REPRINTED IN “JESTER”
An article by Coach Rockne, entitled “My First Football Game,” which appeared in the Football Number of the Juggler, was reprinted in a recent issue of the Jester, humor-our publication of Columbia University, New York City. In its editorial, the Jester commented very favorably upon Mr. Rockne’s article, and upon the general excellence of the Juggler.
John L. Nanovic, editor of the Juggler, announces that the next issue, the Home Town Number, will be out sometime between the 15th and 20th of this month. He promises an exceptionally fine number, with many new- and striking .features, the nature of which he wishes to keep a surprise. However-, he gave out the information that the various home towns of the students will be featured.
MCDEVITT ELECTED TO IN-
TERCOLLEGIATE PIC-
TORIAL COUNCIL
Harley L. McDevitt, Graduate Manager of Publications at the University, was elected one of the seven members of the executive council for the Intercollegiate Pictorial Association, at the first meeting of the Association, held December 27, 1929, at the Dartmouth Club in New-York City.
The purpose of the Association is the betterment of relations between American and foreign universities. With this purpose in mind, the Association will publish a magazine: The Intercollegiate Pictorial. The proceeds from the sale of the publication will be placed in a scholarship fund which wall be used to enable American students to study at foreign universities and foreign students to study at American universities. Nelson Rockefeller of Dartmouth College w’as chosen editor of the Intercollegiate.
Mr. George Eastman of the Eastman Kodak Company and Mr. John D. Rockefeller, Jr., are the sponsors of the movement, which embraces most of the leading universities and colleges of the country. The next meeting of the organization is to be held during the Easter vacation at the Princeton Club in New York City.
424
The Notre Dame Scholastic
COFFIN FELLOWSHIP AP-
PLICATIONS NOW BEING MADE
The Charles A. Coffin Foundation, established some years ago by the General Electric Company, has announced that applications are now being made for the Charles A. Coffin Fellowships for 1930-31.
The terms of the Charles A. Coffin Foundation made provisions for the award of five thousand dollars annually for- fellowships to graduates ■ of the universities, colleges, and technical schools throughout the United States who have shown, by the character of their work, that they could, with advantage, undertake or continue research work in educational institutions either in this country or abroad.
The fields in which these fellowships are to be awarded are Electricity, Physics and Physical Chemistry.
The Committee, composed of Mr. Gano Dunn, representing the National Academy of Sciences, Mr. R. I. Rees, representing the Society for Promotion of Engineering Education, and Mr. Harold B. Smith, representing the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, desires to make the awards to men who without financial assistance, would be unable to devote themselves to research work. The fellowships will carry a minimum allowance of five hundred dollars. This allowance may be increased to meet the special needs of applicants to whom the Committee decides to award the Fellowships.
CORBY HALL MAKES CLAIM
FOR CAMPUS HONORS
Corby Hall, one of the old and uniquely situated buildings on the campus, makes its debut this week as not only a hall of fame and honor, but also as a portrayal of Notre Dame history. Its picturesque location affords a panoramic view of the campus, grotto, and Saint Mary’s lake.
The hall received its name in honor of the Very Reverend William Corby, C.S.C., who, following the Civil War, served as president of the University and later as Provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross. His statue, erected near the entrance of the hall, pictures an historical scene preceding the battle of Gettysburg, when Father Corby gave general absolution to his battalion. He was Chaplain of the Sixty-Ninth New York Irish Brigade.
The hall was erected under the
ATTENTION, SENIORS!
Absolutely no orders will be taken for caps and gowns after Tuesday, January 14. Measurements will be taken in the old Carroll Hall refectory between the hours of 2:00 and 5:00 p. m. on Monday and Tuesday. Those who are late this time will he assessed for the cost of a special measurement. It will be remembered that Wednesday, December 18, was set as a deadline for measurements, but the number of tardy seniors was so great that this extension is being granted. Don Sullivan wishes to remind the unmeasured seniors that the caps and gowns must be ready in time for the ceremonies on Washington’s Birthday, February 22.
architectural guidance of an early Brother and was completed in 1893. The building was used as a Community House until 1896, when due to the congested conditions in Brownson and Carroll dormitories it was opened ' to the students. For years athletes of the University, including our present football coach, Mr. Knute Rockne, chose Corby “Sub” as their exclusive residence. Many priests of the faculty also lived in Corby.
The personnel of the Hall has always been represented in campus organizations, and this year Corby men are to be found in some of the most outstanding campus clubs, such as the Wranglers, Scribblers, and Spectators. Last year’s vice-president of the Junior class, John Moran, resides with Jim Deely, senior representative of the Students’ Activities Council. Two other members of the S. A. C., Jack Keefe, secretary, and Harold Duke, treasurer, also reside within its portals. Emil L. Telfel and Thomas Cannon, assistant managing editors of the Scholastic, and J. Harrington Noon, circulation manager, reside on the second floor. Mr. Telfel, aside from his editorial duties, conducts several columns, including “A Man About the Campus” and “A Man You Know.” The Corby varsity football players and letter men for this year are: Richard Donoghue, tackle; Thomas Kassis, guard; Norbert Christman, quarterback; Marchmont Schwartz, halfback.
Scholastically, Corby Hall is well known as holding high averages, and f oi- this a great deal of credit is due to the Reverend Dominic O’Malley, C. S. C., who for eight years has served as rector.
SPECTATORS TOUCH DIVERSE TOPICS IN MEETING
Last night saw the first meeting of the Spectators Club for the year 1930. President Hasley called the meeting to order and briefly outlined the program to be followed by the club this year. The schedule calls for the introduction of many diverse topics, and an attempt at an intelligent formulation of a scale of values to govern the selective process.
John Hickey presented some pertinent data on Oriental Religions, discussing the personalities of their founders and pointing out the significance of the enormous numbers of their followers.
Murray Hickey Ley spoke on “Criti-, cism Today,” setting forth in the course of his remarks the differences between the “Impressionist” and the “Objectivist” schools of critical thought. Walter Pater and T. S. Eliot, Arthur Symons and Norman Foerster were lined, one against the other, in critical battle array.
The meeting concluded with a heated discussion anent the relative values of subjectivism and scrupulous observance of standards.
❖----:---------------------------*
College of Law Notes
The new Law Bulletin and Alumni Directory, which is published by the students in the College of Law, has recently been released for distribution. An architect’s drawing of the new law building, which will be ready for use by September, 1930, appears on the frontispiece.
* * ’ #
Dean T. F. Konop has returned from New Orleans, where he attended the annual session of the Association of American Law Schools. The session lasted four days, and he reports that it was interesting as well as instructive. The Political Science Association was also holding a convention in New Orleans at the same time.
Judge M. M. Oshe, of the Chicago Title and Trust Company, will delivei-a lecture to the law students on Friday, January 10, at 2:00 p. m.
* * ' *
Professor Brandt, of the University of Minnesota, will deliver a series of lectures at the law school during the week of January 13 to 17.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
425
New Law Building to be Erected
The Notre Dame College of Law will be housed in a new building after completion of the present school year. Work has begun on the new structure, and the Ralph Sollitt Construction Company has contracted to finish it by the beginning of the term next September. The building will be erected on the site directly across from the Post Office and will have a frontage of 100 feet on Dore Road and of 157 - feet on Notre Dame Avenue. The excavation, which is already well underway, is being carried on by the same crew that has been working on the new stadium.
The building will represent an outlay of approximately $400,000. It will be three stories high, and of true Gothic form. The exterior will be of Gothic brick trimmed with Indiana limestone and granite, and will be richly ornamented with Gothic tracery and embellished with statues and carvings. The structure will harmonize with its near architectural neighbor, the University dining hall, but will present a more faithful ex-
❖----------------—
Music and Drama
Last night the Roxy String quartet was heard in Washington Hall and with them was an old Notre Dame favorite, Chicago’s contribution to the world of melody, nimble-fingered Lee Simms. Mr. Simms is about as clever at jazz tunes as anyone could wish. He is the sort of person that starts out with Broadway Melody, runs through Home, Sweet Home, a Haydn Sonata, Yes We Have No Bananas; and he will possibly end with The Star Spangled Banner. He leaves his audience in a perfect maze as to what has been going on, but it is conscious of a wonderful bit of tune weaving and variations that is seldom found in a modern pianist of his type.
Harald Kreutzberg and Yvonne Georgi! Two names that have recently flashed across the billboards of our larger cities and two names that are impressed in the minds of those fortunates who happened to see one of their incomparable performances. They are as unique in the world of
pression of the Gothic art, the dining hall being a somewhat modified Gothic, and less ornate than the contemplated building.
The interior will be richly fitted with floors of marble and terrazzo composition, and marble walls in the main reading room. In this room will be three magnificent stone columns, and an exposed hammer-beam ceiling luxuriously furnished in oak. Unit heaters using both steam and warm air will supply heat and there will be a modern ventilation system.
Inside the entrance there will be an elaborately decorated hall with a great double staircase leading to the upper floors. The class room and stack rooms for the filing of books and papers will be designed for beauty as well as for utility, in keeping with the plan of the rest of the building.
The plans for the new structure were drawn by Maginnis and Walsh, architects of Boston. This firm is considered the foremost in the country in this type of -work, and many of the buildings at Boston College were designed by them.
. the dance as the Theramin is in the world of music. For several years they have been working in Germany and have at last perfected a style that is subtly fine in- its beauty. The chief characteristic of their dancing is lovely movements of the hands and a sense of perfect, unbroken rythm. They seem ethereal in their movements and at the same time perfectly substantial. They are fleeting visions of graceful and perfect bodies guided by intelligent minds: personified music seems to approach as near as any other term in describing them. They gave a concert at Orchestra Hall, Chicago, last Sunday afternoon, and unfortunately it is their only appearance in that city this season. Among the numbers on their program were the famous “Angel of the Annunciation,” and “Jester’s Dance.”
Well, June Moon was a success insofar as a sparkling bit of humor and a really well staged play go, but it was anti-climactical in comparison with the Royal Family. George Kaufman’s lines were brimming over with their usual bright wit and presented quite a contrast to Ring Lardner’s more subtle contributions. It is playing at the Adelphi Theater in Chicago and it surely is worth while
in spite of its being slightly inferior to the former* attempt of Kaufman in collaboration with Edna Ferber.
Sunday evening Rosa Raisa and Giacomo Rimini will give a joint recital at the Civic Opera House. It is for the benefit of the Rosa Raisa Scholarship Fund and begins at 8:15.
If you should like to hear Mischa Elman on Sunday afternoon, January 19, it were better that you write to the box office of Orchestra Hall for your tickets immediately.
ARMSTRONG PRESIDES AT
ALUMNI MEETING
Mr. James Armstrong, secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association and editor of the Notre Dame Alumnus, departed January 9 for Wooster. Ohio, where he will preside at a meeting of the American Alumni Council which is being held at Wooster College. Mr. Armstrong is chairman of the Fifth District of the Council which includes the alumni of colleges and universities of eight different states. All the schools in these states have been invited to send representatives to the meeting, and it is expected that more than fifty will attend. The purpose of the meeting is to further the organization and activities of the alumni of the schools which are represented in the Council.
SCHOLARSHIP DANCE NEXT SATURDAY
The Scholarship Club will sponsor its third dance of the school year next Friday evening, January 17, in the gymnasium of Saint Joseph’s School, Hill Street and Colfax Avenue, South Bend. Music will be furnished by the “Jugglers”, from 8:30 to 11:30 p. m.
This will mark the last dance of the semester for the student body, and the committee in charge has announced that a large number of girls will be present. The usual prices for admission will prevail.
ALUMNI HONORED IN SOUTH BEND
Walter L. Clements, ’22, and M. Edward Doran, ’21, were signally honored in the new city administration that took office Monday in South Bend. Mr. Clements was appointed city attorney and Mr. Doran president of the Board of Public Works.
Both -men are graduates of the Hoynes College of Law and were prominent in student affairs while at the University.
426
The Notre Dame Scholastic
HOWARD WINS INTERHALL DEBATE TITLE
Howard Hall led the race at the conclusion of the interhall debating. Both the affirmative and the negative teams came through in fine style. Howard triumphed throughout the season, scoring well-deserved victories over Carroll and Brownson Halls. Freshman Hall forfeited its contests.
President James J. Walsh, of the Wranglers Club, who sponsored the debates, pronounced the season one of the best ever held at Notre Dame, although he regretted the inability of Freshman Hall to compete.
Tim Benitz and Frank Noll, coaches of the victorious team, deserve a great deal of credit for- their work. The men were well prepared to meet all the objections brought up by their opponents, a feat which they handily accomplished.
The varsity question of disarmament was used in all of the contests. Thomas Keegan, of the Wranglers, was chairman of the committee in charge.
In a few weeks a banquet will be given by the club in honor of all the participants, during which the presentation of the Wranglers Cup, emblematic of success in interhall debating, will be presented. Also, an All-Interhall debating team will be selected by the coaches and published in next week’s Scholastic.
The members of the victorious Howard Hall affirmative team are Roger Bierne, Jacob Leisen, and Roger Allan. The negative team is composed of John Barry, James Wade, and Frank Cawley.
“TAMING OF THE SHREW” NOT TO BE GIVEN AGAIN
Reports circulating about the campus that another performance of “The Taming of the Shrew” will be given in the near future are without foundation, those in authority declare. The production was so successful and was received so enthusiastically before the holidays that many who missed it would like to have it staged again. No such action is contemplated, according to Mr. Frank Kelly of the Speech and Drama Department, unless perhaps another performance might, be given during Commencement week for the seniors and their friends. It is expected, however, that several more productions will be given during the year- by the University Theatre in co-operation with Mr. Phillips’ playwriting class.
NEWS SERVICE FOR RELATIVES OF COLLEGE STUDENTS
A college news service called Collegiate News Flashes is now issued by the Radio Department of College Humor Magazine and released through the manufacturers of Majestic Radio. This should be of interest to relatives of the one million college students in this country as well as those in Canada and abroad.
The hew service will be broadcast on the Majestic Hour over 46 stations of the Columbia Broadcasting System every Sunday evening, beginning December 22nd, 8 o’clock Central Standard Time.
All news of students and student activities in all institutions of learning in this country, Canada and Europe will receive deserving mention in these news flashes. Outstanding achievement by individual students and campus groups will be reported weekly. Also, particular attention will be given to sporting events, faculty news, and individual achievements.
DEBATE HEARD OVER STATION WLS
On Monday, Dec. 16, Notre Dame and Purdue varsity debaters engaged in a non-decision debate over station WLS in Chicago. Mr. Morris and Mr. Otto of Purdue defended the. affirmative side of the question, Resolved: that the prosperity of the farmer is more important to the cities than cheap food. Mr. Francis Mc-Greal and Mr. Thomas Keegan very ably upheld the negative side for Notre Dame.
The debaters were cordially received by Mr. Edgar Bill, announcer for WLS and the Notre Dame team feels indebted to the station management for the courtesy shown them during their brief stay.
■Favorable comment on the debate was extended by many in the WLS radio audience and it is hoped by those connected with the station that more debates of this type might be engaged in during the future.
SCHOLASTIC STAFF MEETS TONIGHT
All members of the editorial staff of the Scholastic are urged to be present at the regular staff meeting this .evening, at seven o’clock in the-Publications Office, Main Building. Plans will be made for the year’s work.
Gleanings
Newspaper writers in Hollywood insist on dwelling on the rumor that ’ Knute Rockne is to appear- in the talking picture version of the musical play, “Good News.” “Rock”, however, has publicly denied that he will enter the talkies, although he admitted that he received an offer.
—o—
Harold Lloyd has also been the recipient of some publicity through the coupling of his name with the “Fighting Irish.” Lloyd, according to the papers, wishes to use the Notre Dame football team in his next picture which centers about college life.
If we are to believe the Alumnus, John McMahon, who graduated from tire school of journalism in 1928, has already attained prominence as sports writer in New York City. He is conducting a column on sports in the New York Sun. John is the boy who alliteratively dubbed our football team the “Galloping Gaels.”
—o—
Frank Allen Smola, who became an alumnus last June, is at present one of the privileged members of George Pierce Baker’s famous Yale Theater. He spent his holiday vacation commuting between Notre Dame and Chicago.
—o—
Professor Charles Phillips is about to edit a volume of poems entitled, “Wings of Sunset,” written by Ina Coolbrith, well known California poet. Miss Coolbrith is a personal friend of Mr. Phillips, who will write a preface to the edition.
Jack Cannon seems to have exhausted the adjectives of the sport writers of the country. All he has to do now to consummate his brilliant athletic career, is to get a match with Art Shires.
—o—
The Reverend E. Vincent Mooney, C.S.C., ex-Dean of the Physical Education Department here, is now stationed at St. Thomas Military Academy in St. Paul. Father Mooney spent several days of the holiday vacation in Pittsburgh, and dropped in on some of the local boys who made their debut in Freshman Hall under his guidance.
1
The Notre Dame Scholastic
427
CONLEY CHOSEN FOOTBALL CAPTAIN AT BANQUET
Tom Conley, end on the 1929 football team, was elected to captain next years’ football team at the conclusion of the annual football banquet held Wednesday evening in the Dining
Tom Conley
Hall. Conley, a native of Philadelphia, was elected to succeed John Law by the monogram winners, and will be playing his third year on the varsity next year.
Next years’ captain is a junior in the college of Arts and Letters, and played right end consistently during the past season. His greatest exhibition of play was in the Southern California game when he speared two forward passes, making a long run on one, and scoring a touchdown on the other. He is also a member of the varsity basketball squad, and was president of the Sophomore Class, and a member of the Student Activities Council last year.
AIR VISITOR ON CAMPUS
The monoplane which aroused the curiosity of the campus last Wednesday belonged to Max Conrad of Winona, Minn., a former student at the University who at present conducts a flying school at Winona.
Max was recently injured in an aeroplane accident and for that reason the plane was piloted by one of the two students who accompanied him from Minnesota.
Conrad is leaving soon on an extended air voyage to Florida and the west coast, with the intention of staying in California for some time.
DEBATING SCHEDULE IS ANNOUNCED
The Reverend Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., coach of debating, announces that this year’s debating team faces the most difficult schedule ever attempted by the debaters.' Many interesting debates have been arranged. Western Reserve is one of the noted teams to be met. Year in and year- out they have one of the best teams in the country, and this year’s team promises to be no exception. April 7, Notre Dame is to be host to the Harvard Chinese debaters. This team numbers among its members last year’s winner of the Harvard-Yale debating contest, one of the debating classics of the East. This same individual was also the winner of the All-China debating contest before coming to America.
An honor to be appreciated is the invitation received to debate Northwestern at the new McClintock campus. It will be held March 28. Purdue will be the other Big Nine school to be debated on March 16. Over a hundred letters were received by station WLS, Chicago, regarding the recent radio debate between these two schools. The response was so favorable that another debate will be arranged with an opponent as yet not selected. Other schools on the schedule are: City College of Detroit, Michigan State, and the University of Florida.
For the first time in many years the team will travel to the East, April 22. Princeton will be met at Trenton, and April 23, New York University at New York City. The prospect of this trip has encouraged many to try for the team and all are working hard.
From the large squad of over 60 men who began work as candidates for the team over a month ago, only twenty remain for the finals. These have been divided into two groups, the first of which is to speak Friday evening, January 10, and the second on January 13. From these twenty, six will be selected for the Varsity. The team was hard hit by the loss of many good men through graduation. Haskell, McNamara, Williams, Beamer, and Happer were the men lost. Those remaining from last year are: Baer, Kier, Charles Hanna, Frank McGreal, Walter Stanton, and James Walsh. Many of the new men show promise and threaten the veterans seriously for theii’ position.
The topic chosen for debate this year is one of great interest to every
one, at the present time. It is, “Resolved, that all the nations- should adopt a plan of complete, disarmament, excepting such forces as are necessary for police protection.” This is one of the world’s foremost diplomatic problems today. A good deal is being written on the subject and every person is vitally interested.
FOOTBALL BANQUET HELD
The 20th annual football banquet was held Wednesday evening in the • Dining Hall under the auspices of the Athletic Association. The varsity, reserves, freshman squad and student managers, were the guests of honor.
The football banquet -was notable for the presence of Coach Knute K. Rockne, athletic director of the University, who gave the first speech of the evening. In his short talk he expressed his gratitude for- the work done • by the team, coaches and managers. He introduced Tom Lieb, assistant coach, who acted as toastmaster, and called upon the following speakers: the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University,who congratulated the team of ’29 on their splendid showing during the season; Joe Byrne of New Jersey, a prominent alumnus of the University; the Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C. prefect of Discipline of the University and a member of the athletic board; Coaches Ike Voedisch, Jack Chevigny, “Cap” Edwards, and Hartley Anderson, former coach, William Jones, freshman coach, and Tommy Mills, who is leaving the University. He spoke briefly, and stated that he regretted leaving Notre Dame and. that the school -would always remain in his memory.
Professor Frank Dickinson of the University of Illinois presented the Ressman trophy, symbolic of the national football championship, to Coach Rockne, who accepted it for the University.
Short talks were given by the members of the team, who have played their last game: Captain John Law, Jack Cannon, Ted Twomey, Jack Elder, Ed Collins, John Colrick, Joe Nash, Bud Gebert, Joe Locke, Tim Moynihan and Tom Murphy. Student Managers, Quinn and Conroy also spoke.
The graduates were given presents of life insurance policies by Lester Livingston, ’13, of Chicago, and the monogram winners were awarded gold footballs emblematic of the National Championship.


Campus Clubs this week will be rather a disappointment to a great many club members who hoped to see their club mentioned as having the most successful dance of the Christmas season. If there are any reading this page with no other purpose in mind, they might well discontinue the wear and tear upon their eyes at once; there are but three, clubs directly mentioned. Then too, there were so many successful Christmas dances given by the various clubs this year that we couldn’t keep track of them. We were forced to resort to the radio to even hear music from any of them. Johnnie Hamp, as far as we have found out, entertaining approximately one-half of the Chicago Club, was the only member of that numerous group of Campus Club entertainers who succeeded in performing before a microphone. Nor could we even audit the Villager’s Formal, although we were in South Bend. Rumor, however, praised it highly.
We have gathered by this time that very few clubs tender complimentary tickets—even if they did, we would seldom be able to take advantage of them—but we must thank the Pittsburgh Club for their nice bid although we couldn’t have made Pitt on a bet. We must also thank those numerous other Clubs whose officers offered assistance in “crashing the gate” should we be able to appear. We couldn’t enjoy a single Club dance this Christmas, so we will have to take your own words for the various successes,—“The Christmas dance of the..........Club was the best I ever attended in all my life.”
Now that we are erasing 1929 from our papers and letters as incorrect, it might be a good idea for the Campus Club Editor to make an attempt at getting better acquainted with the people he has to deal with. It would be impossible for him to attend each club meeting, dance and smoker even if invitations were extended, so he asks that there be greater cooperation between all club secretaries and himself this year. He seems to think that an editor must have some dignity about him to live up to his position, and after a few forced marches, oftentimes fruitless, about the campus in search of write-ups, he feels that this dignity must suffer. Some club secretaries, he complains,
have not as yet been found . It might be well for a few to drop a note or so in the post office so that he, if no one else may benefit by the news, might know what is going on within the club.
If we had not promised at the beginning of this article not to mention more than three clubs, we might here add a great many more whose officers have not, as yet, mailed us a writeup. It seems to us that it should be considered one of the prime purposes of a club to let someone know what is going on among its members. The Campus Club Editor promises that he will not be tempted to “play favorites” if all club secretaries either mail details to him in Science Hall, the Publications Office, or stop him on the campus with adequate write-ups about their campus clubs.
We make this promise because we are, after all, human, and consequently have our “pet clubs”' —the kind that always have something to give us if we call,—yes, we call,—if the secretaries live somewhere between Science Hall and the Dining Halls.
Not only would the Campus Club Editor benefit by more numerous write-ups in 1930, but if regular meeting dates, and regular places of meeting were announced to him a good week in advance, the Coming Events Editor would benefit greatly also.	.
Now that we have got this far in saying a great deal about nothing, we shall close with a promise. This time next week, since it has been called to our attention that only a few clubs on the campus have complete charters, there will appear on this page a copy of a Campus Club Charter. All club presidents who have not as yet secured a charter for th^ir clubs are recommended to fill out one, using our form as a model, and hand it to the Student Activities Council immediately.
Now we might be excused for taking up much valuable time, in wishing you a Happy and Prosperous .New Year, even this late in the game, and we sincerely include in that wish, a desire of our own to know more, of you in 1930.
>.
The Notre Dame Scholastic	429

Altitude counts for at least something at the San Jose State College out in balmy California. All the fellows of the college who extend upwards for six feet, three inches, or more are eligible for membership in the Longfellow Club, the platform of which organization includes such planks as these: All awnings on stores should be elevated to a height of eight feet in order that the Longfellows may meander along the streets without having their hats constantly flipped off; all hotels should provide beds eight feet long to allow these elongated gentlemen to stretch out and wiggle their toes in comfort; the rows of seats in street cars and in theatres should be farther apart so that the long boys won’t be forced to sit with their knees up around their shoulders.
—o—
Only a few students are privileged to operate automobiles at the University of Michigan. Of course that is neither very interesting nor very unusual, but now we come to something that is. Those students who are fortunate enough to have cars are strictly forbidden to give rides to other- students. And there is also another interesting point in regard to the auto ban. The only students who can drive ■ cars are the ones who are married, and since the ban has . been in effect a record number of students have come to the office of the dean with demands for permits to drive automobiles on the grounds that they are married. It is feared that, at the present rate, marriage and matriculation may soon become coordinated as ceremonies attendant on registration at Michigan. No doubt this effect is entirely at variance with the motive of the Regents in passing the ban, but anyway the justices of the peace up in that neck of the woods look upon the whole affair as a mighty good proposition.
—o—
It seems that all we need here in The Rainy State are a few chimes. At Ohio State when the rain is falling with that maddening steadiness and puddles are everywhere, when students both flickered and otherwise are splashing to classes and from them through the mud and water, when once-dignified professors are frantically leaping puddles with brief cases clutched close to their bosoms and with hang-dog expressions on their faces,—in short, when everyone has the blues because it’s raining, they simply start playing some song like “Singin’ in the Rain” on the Orton Hall chimes, which can be heard all over the campus. The effect, according to all reports, is immediate and miraculous. Everyone starts singing the chorus, no matter where or who he be. Those few who do not know the words hum the tuneful refrain, whistling being too difficult in the rain. Slickers and umbrellas fairly glisten with joy. The students all grin and even the profs smile a little bit. The whole campus is turned into an ecstasy of song and good will. So it looks like we shall certainly have to install some chimes. But we will have to have at least two sets of them, for you know continuous action will wear out almost anything.
Once more it is safe for a peaceful, law-abiding citizen of Kansas to venture forth after nightfall, for a treaty of peace has stopped, temporarily at least, the feud that raged between Kansas University students and Kansas Aggie students. While it lasted it was a war in which night raids were the principal sport. Painting and barber-ing also played quite a part in the activities. It seems that a bunch of Kansans would sally forth towards Manhattan, there to paint up the town and make things in general very embarrassing for the Aggies. Even while they were engaged in these intellectual doings, a similar expedition would be on its way from Manhattan to Lawrence with the same purposes in mind. It so happened that on some occasions the raiders met with a huge and hearty reception. Sometimes the hospitality was so great that the visitors just wouldn’t be allowed to return for several days, and even then the hosts insisted on fixing their guests all up with beauteous haircuts a la prison. And, while we are speaking of Kansas, we are reminded that Vachel Lindsay proclaims the Kansas Jayhawk yell as the best college yell in the country. And everyone must admit that Vachel knows his yells.
—o—
The Eunomian fraternity at Michigan State recently suffered what might have been a very embarrassing loss in slightly different circumstances. Someone stole the bathtub of the society, and for a day or two no one succeeded in locating the truant vessel. The Eunomians, however, had already decided that bathing in a bathtub is a practice to be associated with the folks in history and accordingly had installed other and more modern conveniences. The theft, therefore, was not nearly so bad as it might have been, from their point of view. But the thing that made the recovery of the tub imperative was the fact that they had inveigled some unsuspecting person into buying the tub and now could not make delivery until it was found. Finally it was discovered and the news went forth that it had been taken by a certain professor, who claimed to have been under the impression that the Eunomians had set the tub outside for anyone who wanted it to cart away.
—o—
Those co-eds of Ohio State who are more-than-pleasingly plump have resorted to reducing tables in an effort to regain or attain the sylph-like figures we hear so much about and see so little of. Each of these co-eds receives 1500 calories a meal and no more. If this campaign proves a success there will probably be .an influx into that university of co-eds who rather run to avoirdupois.
Here is one for the masculine element to gloat over. The journalism classes at Oregon State College were given an exam on current events, and in each of the three classes the twelve highest scores were made by men. These three dozen gentlemen are due a vote of thanks for taking the co-eds down several notches.

^2) NE of the accidental pleasures of going home is in seeing what has become of the men who left college a few . years ago—what they are doing, and why they are doing it.
College men are supposed to differ from the rest of mankind, to which race, most, if not all of us belong, in the arrangement and number of cracks on their brain. True, education has never pretended to change the shape of the nose, the color of the eyes, or the texture of the hair—hence the comparative recency of female education. But collegian’s heads are slow in developing. Some heads are shaped like bullets; yours, and most others, are formed like eggs; while myself and a few other egregrious eccentrics are blessed with pates following roughly the contour of the peak on Mount Olympus.	*
A bullet head sort, probably with his head shaved, used to sit near you in grade school. And when you went on to high school you found that he and many others had dropped out, having achieved their educational saturation. All along through high school pupils were leaving, until at commencement you graduated in a class about a third as large as the one in which you started.
You went to college, or, more probably, were sent there, and found that history was being traditional and repeating itself. By the senior year all the bullet heads have disappeared, most of the Olympian pated herd either have been put in psychopathic homes or have turned to modern literature as being one of the vocations where baldness is well paid.
Their one consolation is that they are all in one basket— the collegiate basket. This basket is dropped once a year, at commencement, and but few of the eggs survive the shock. Most of them are rather soft shelled, and run all over the place until they are hardened by exposure. A very few eggs, usually those that have never taken themselves or their education too seriously, • manage to roll along through life, always knowing that no one will ever know very much, and as contented as a discontented mortal can be. Like any number’ of ham actors I must fry a moral with this egg tale—Instead of your worrying about how to make a living, why not wonder about how to have living make you?
official request that no sleeveless gowns be worn. In order to make the Prom really distinctive, and to assert for all time the right of the male to rule, the Juniors might well uemand that every girl attending their affair wear one green and one pink glove. It would help to assert the colorfulness of the wild and revolutionary dance of youth.
EN in the Academy of Science, especially fervent
bacteriologists like Bill Moran, are of the opinion that the Bunsen burner and test tube are two of humanity’s greatest discoveries, and that no man really understands life until he has been awarded a scientific recognition. Moran, for instance, has a little book, “Bacteria—Their Parlour Games and Folk Lore,” which means more to him than a book of hymns does to a revivalist. And among the recent happenings in the world of science he says that at a recent meeting of the South Bend chapter of the Isaak Walton League the state board of health sanitary engineering division gave a report on the condition of the St. Joseph River. The sluggish old stream was found to have livei' trouble, a chronic case of hymophelia, and was further judged to be in the earlier stages of sleeping sickness. Science has found numerous little bacteria innocently bathing in the river to prove all this, and everyone is very thankful. After such an investigation we should have an editorial praising the thoroughness of scientific methods, as being the usual thing. Science is welcome to all the bacteria, and when members of the Academy of Science begin conversing in technical terms of over six syllables I am going to keep on eating spaghetti and looking innocently stupid.
M J NDERCLASSMEN are doing their best to get out from under—from under inferiority, and from under misapprehension. Imagination is at a premium; the market is phenominally high, and experts predict that the bottom must soon drop out. Everyone is trying to retrospect to paint his holidays and his home town with just a few more daubs of a trifle deeper red than can any other man in the hall. Consequently no one believes what anyone else says about vacation, not excepting the ones who snarl—“Yeah! it was awful, the deadest vacation I ever had.”
HAT it is that makes fashion fashionable has always been pretty much of a mystery to me, hence it is rather reassuring to know that it is possible for a woman to change the style of her gown almost as readily as she changes her mind. Monsignor Robinson, new papal nuncio, is to have a reception at Mansion House in Dublin soon. And the Irish girls are all flocking to their dressmakers because of an
OCKNE was back with his players for a while during the Monogram banquet Wednesday night. And the good cheer they evidenced at again having then- coach smiling down on them made the banquet the success that it was. Tom Conley, the captain-elect, has well earned the confidence of his team-mates. May his yeqr as captain be as memorable in the annals of sport as is that of John Law.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
431
ftSTC SLEEP EEEOPE EVENING
As the year nineteen hundred thirty notches itself in the arch over Time, there comes to us the knowledge that we again face a new country, with its lands and waters, its mountains and valleys, which, though lying concealed, are nevertheless present!
From the crest of the hill of previous years we look out over the one before us; and we realize that each and every day we rise to, will burn with a light only as bright and brilliant as we make it. One of the most charming writers of the past century has told us that there are few courses of action more mistaken than, “on this short day of frost and sun, to sleep before evening.”
“To sleep before evening!” The words have a beauty and a quiet intensity of meaning all their own. Like scarlet and purple bees they gently buzz round the great white lilies of thought. There are many ways of sleeping before evening. But there are some ways of living that will never permit of hastened rest.
Chiefest in importance, if one would never surrender his right to hear the bugles of the light, is the formation of a sense of values.
Life today presents us with such a multitude, s uch a gayly clad array of attractions and attention ciaimers, that it is indeed difficult to choose among the proffered objects, and, in choosing, select those few things which will contribute to the growth of the inner being.
When I say inner being I mean that within us, which, like a silent silver sun, lies untouched by automobiles, moving pictures, social affairs, airplanes, jazz, and all’the externalities of a civilization that is all too given to externalities, a civilization that, in lieu of a warmly frigid pole of reference by which to measure all outward events, has seized these same outward events and fastened on them its own unfastened attention.
And all the time the wild candles of day flare down to the dark waters of the night; our hours shorten, and we know that our remaining time must be a range of mountain peaks of living.
The mind, too, has its Mount Baldys and its Mount Everests; and they are climbed only by that same mind, and only when that mind climbs up through the mist with the aid of thought and beauty and human sympathy. Only a proper sense of values can finish the climb.
Our privilege it is to lace our air with the fireworks of thought; our privilege it is to draw thunder from the vast organ of the world’s fierce beauty ; our privilege it is to help a fellow human being who has not attained to the good fortune that is our enjoyment.
The external things, precisely because they are external and can never really touch that which is deep within, would, while waking us in life, put us to sleep in living.
The dark panthers of evening are on us all too soon, as it is; let us not dream their coming, till, arising lazily, we meet them before us; rather let us live, climb the mountain peaks of being, and, when we see the great cats in the distance, descen d to meet them with a smile and a graceful gesture of welcome!	—H- L-
> <
The Notre Dame Scholastic—Page -IJ2
The Bernini Altar
“/ Am the
Beginnin
By Alfred E..
A PLACE to go to, and not a place to write about; a basilica of religion as well as a treasure house of relics for the veneration of all. the faithful; where sins are told and absolved; the repository of the Blessed Sacrament; its vaulted ceilings and buttressed sides enclosing the hallowedness of ages; hushed footsteps moving down th? long aisles to kneel before the Almighty in whose Hand lies the realization of the future; praying for ailing friends, spiritual grace, modest successes; the alpha and omega of the careers of Notre Dame men—Sacred Heart Church.
War Memorial
Realizing the place in which I stand, I pause before going farther. My mere words might add to the history of its beauty. They might serve, too, as a monotonous repetition of what is already known of its exquisiteness. But will the account of its various treasures, symbolical paintings and historical background, encompassed by its four walls, better exemplify the subtleness which is characterized by its imposing massiveness, by the halo of holiness which seems to permeate those sacred walls? I pause.
The alpha of our careers—yes. As freshmen we caught our first glimpse of real University life through its huge portals. We often paused to wonder at the almost faultless Gothic architecture, designed by one of the good Brothers of Holy Cross, whose modesty will not permit
“Lord! ’tis not ours to mt | And earth and sky a hout 1 Bitt in Thy sight our offe = A humbler temple, ‘made< El.......................
us to reveal his name.
We bless ourselves at the font, and upon entering, glance down a long, double colonnade of verdantique columns, capped with gold. A number of cherubic angels peer down at us from the gilded capitals. We can barely make out the tiny light of the sanctuary lamps in the distance and we genuflect in the presence of God.
How can I adequately describe what you see weekly? What shall I say of the gifted master, Gregori of Rome, who so magnificently embellished the temple with his genius? What about the wonderful frescoes, aisles, the apsidal chapels, the main altar, and the unique Bernini altar? Or of the Blessed Virgin’s crown, gift of the Empress Eugenie of France? Or of the richly ornamented windows, marvels of beauty and delicate workmanship?
We walk slowly down the long center aisle. The arcades have the effect of allowing the ceiling to soar free, thus giving it the apparent note of greater height than it really possesses. The spandrels between the columns are occupied by life-size saints, depicting mortification, ardent piety and beauty of the sanctified. St. Dominic, St. Francis Assisi, St. Rose of Lima, first American saint, St. Mary Magdalen, St. Cecilia—“All ye blessed saints, pray for us.”
Between the long windows are placed the wonderful Stations of the Cross, which have been admired by many connoisseurs. They are set in Gothic frames, elaborately ornamented with gilded gables, pinnacles and crochets. Above the stations are pendants with beautifully sculptured capitals upholding the roof, the panels of which are frescoed in ethereal blue, gemmed with a myriad of stars.
Sacred Heart Chu
Over the entrance of the nav& organ, whose pipes reverberate th
“..............The	song
Which He ivho listens to tl. Of choiring Seraphim deligl
On both sides of the organ ar?'j paintings, one representing the ch the desert attacked by venomous i frescoe representing Christ walki This latter picture is in thanksgiv of the Very Reverend Edward Sori of being lost on the steamer “L’A
We have now reached the tran cross arms reminds one of Christ’s
The Notre Dame Scholastic—Page 4-i-l
and the End”
(Apocalypse 1, 8)
Pho grand le edifice j
lias ir."
rge mural t Israel in f the other the waves, the rescue in danger
vhose long ;d arms on
the cross. The upper walls, we find, are decorated with a connected series of paintings portraying the life of the Blessed Virgin. Each one represents a mystery and one or two corollary scenes. Over the entrance at the east end one sees a golden grille, behind which St. Bridget of Sweden and her daughter, St. Catherine, used to hear daily Mass. An addition has been put on the east transept, in the form of a War Memorial porch, dedicated “To God, to Country and to Notre Dame,” in silent tribute to our gallant dead of the late war.
Oui- nomadic footsteps lead us to the baldachinoed main altar, rich in its rubrical simplicity. Seven lamps, reminding-one of the seven Spirits of God spoken of in the fifth chapter of the Apocalypse, hang in the sanctuary. The apsidal chapels significantly suggest the same idea. The main altar represents a perfect symbolism of the great artisans of the Middle Ages.
The early idea of an altar included its erection over a tomb. Liturgically speaking, an altar is not complete in its significance unless relics are placed beneath it. In this one we find particles ex ossibus St. Stephen, the first martyr, St. Vincent and St. Sebastian. Pilasters support the altar of sacrifice and form niches for detailed statues representing the virtues.
The rear altar, in the recess directly back of the main one, is the only example of the celebrated artist, Bernini, in America. In the niche above stands a lovely statue of Notre Dame. Suspended over her head is a jewelled crown, gift of the Empress Eugenie of France.
The Reliquary Chapel, containing relics of the twelve apostles, a piece of the Bethlehem mangei-J pieces of the veil and girdle of the Blessed Virgin, relics of all the saints of the Church for the year—a veritable devotional center in its entirety. The bones of St. Severa, one of the third century martyrs, rest in a box beneath her waxen image at the foot of the altar. In the third apsidal chapel on the left of the main altar hangs a replica of the Miraculous Madonna of Czustochowa (pronounced, I believe, Chestokofa by our Polish-speaking neighbors). "And thereby hangs a tale” as Petruchio (correctly pronounced Petrukio) would have it. The story of how the Blessed Virgin repelled an attack of Swedish soldiers at the shrine
The Stately Gothic Interior
of this icon in Poland is a tale handed down by devout Polish mothers.
“St. Dominic Receiving the Rosary from the Blessed Virgin,” hangs on the wall of the Holy Cross Chapel. In the tabernacle of
this chapel reposes a tiny relic of the True Cross, exposed on the feast of the Holy Cross.
Our eyes, riveted first on one object of art, now on another religious reliquary, are vainly striving to visualize the accumulation of such beauty. Glancing upwards over the main altar, one sees three of Gregori’s paintings: “The Coronation of the Blessed Virgin,” “The Death of St. Joseph,” and “The-Apparition of the Blessed Virgin to Bernadette at Lourdes.” On the ceiling of the arched recess of the Bernini chapel we have his “Exaltation of the Cross,” a gift in honor of Father Sorin. The value of this treasure is priceless.
The careful study of Gregori’s paintings would entail pages of description. Needless to say, an afternoon spent in the church just drinking in the beauty of his art, would be an afternoon well spent.
A
The deep rich note of a bell reaches our ears, interrupting our reveries. It is the huge seven-ton bell knolling out its chant to a devotion. Like the proverbial Arabs of old we fold up our tents and steal away, leaving the temple of God to the incoming young men to
/•ACRUl Utiur CUVRCU . norat. in® .
present their petitions anew at the
feet of an Almighty God.
434
The Notre Dame Scholastic
T. Talbot Tabloid had occasion to journey down East to the charming little village once known as New Amsterdam during Christmas. She was a brunette and insisted on playing Contract Bridge, the bugaboo of all middle-west social climbers. T. T. T. got going and doubled the dealer’s bid, thinking that his partner would get wise that he had a good hand. On the contrary he found that there is no longer “an informatory double.” It was not until he bought a Judge that he found an advertisement telling him of his error. It read:
“You can now play Contract and avoid murder and its consequences.
“For the informatory double, more responsible than any other bridge convention for excusable housewifely homicide, has been replaced by the new Challenge. And George Reith’s new book is the only place you can get the complete rules and tactics governing the Challenge.” This, of course, is an error because T. T. T. now has mastered a number of tactical maneuvers for accomplishing the Challenge.
The first and most obvious is as follows. North deals and bids at least three spades. On his left sits North by Northwest out of Man O’War who is playing opposite his wife Battle Axe by Capone out of a Machine Gun. North by Northwest bids nothing, merely mumbling to himself something about turning off the radio. Battle Axe kicks him under the table and, taking a poor aim, kicks Mrs. North who is sometimes called Gertie by the people who knew her when. Mrs. North promptly slaps Battle Axe, saying “I challenge.” B. A. hands over her calling cards which were neatly but not gaudily engraved by Gorham-Spaulding, Black, Starr and Frost just a week before. Mr. North and North by Northwest order coffee and pistols for two but nothing ever happens because that type of person cannot afford the publicity.
This first method takes care of the average Contract game. But occasionally one has to play with a group of fellows. Let us say you are playing with a Mr. Richards of Yale (who lives in Harkness Memorial Quad which cost thirteen million and which no Yale man ever forgets to mention), a Mr. Karl of Penn (who is about as gauche as they make them, having come from that kind of family which was originally Karlovitzki-ol’ rags and iron), and finally Mr. Port of the Ports of anywhere in the Middle West (who is extremely class conscious and inclined to realize that not so long ago Mothaw—he picked that up in N’Yawk—did her own laundering). It will take some time for any of these people to speak to a Notre Dame man but when they find out what you have in your bag besides playing cards they forgive you for not being Eastern and the game starts. You, of course, are playing with Yale because he’s the only one you can stand. Mr. U. of P. challenges your bid of three no trump. If it is possible you give him a very dirty look and manage to knock his glass off the table. If you are riding on the Pennsy it will fall off by itself. Somehow you and your partner get the bid enough times to get all the dough Karl and Port were going to '
spend in New York and they quit. Although bridge bores you, you stick it out until all are ready for bed. Then you drop off at Pittsburgh so you won’t have to see them in New York.	'
The third embarrassing circumstance is the week-end in .
Chicago. Sometimes this is blamed on a mythical uncle but uncle or no uncle you are now in Chicago playing Contract on the thirteenth floor of the Stevens. Steamer is there because he always is—just as he consistently remains quiet and at one of the Big Ten (pardon us, Hypocritical Nine) Universities. Steamer, thinking you have plenty of bucks, plays a dumb sort of game but in spite	v
of him you manage to break even. Finally everyone pivots	’
and you get that long-hoped-for chance to challenge. How-	J
ever, just before you challenge Steamer lets out what looks	!
to you like a “two command” bid. Your chagrin is so great	j
that you run around the corridors looking for 1354-A. On	I
the trip you run into several people whom you push down	।
an elevator shaft. As a result they name the place Chagrin Falls and as soon as the Rapid Transit goes through, half of the South side of Cleveland moves out there. The I. C. C. -complains because they had a crazy idea that Chagrin Falls i was in Ohio and they can’t for the salaries paid them by / you-know-who think how Chagrin Falls got to be in the ’ Stevens Hotel. Then after it’s all over, you learn that , Steamer didn’t know it was a two command bid he was making and the I. C. C. has him arrested for violating the recapture clause in -the 1920 Act.
—Donnie D.	>
Well, that’s that. And what I want to know is: “How * did Donnie D. check up so well on everything that happened in those two weeks?” We’re willing to bet he’s one of them there mystic guys. And something else he missed up on . was the morning Johnnie froze his feet.
—o—
Now that blondes and brunettes of various classifications quantities have been disposed of until Easter, we hope that we’ll get gobs of uninhibited verse from various student bodies in the vicinity. Of course if you think you have an inhibition or a repression just keep it to yourself.
There is a rumor current that a local hero set fire to a M certain place so that he could take off his tux. “Dear Jack” and “MY Frank” say there is not a word of truth in the rumor.
—o—	‘
There is another rumor. That semester exams begin two weeks from today. We stand back of this one. It is vouched for by the University Catalogue.	!
—o—
If we don’t get any contributions for this hodge-podge . we will have to begin imitating someone else’s column, and if you don’t like us now think how griped you’re going to . be when the unexpected happens. Well . . . .
—T. Talbot Tabloid.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
43-5
3 PORTS
Blue and Gold Quintet Beats Indiana, 30-29
COACH MUIS GETS APPOINTMENT
i Rockne Aid For Three Years ।	To Coach Georgetown
j	Grid Team
■ Close on the heels of the announce-P	ment that Knute K. Rockne had aban-
,	doned his sick bed came the report
'*	last week of Tommy Mills’ appoint’	ment as head football coach at
i	Georgetown University, Washington,
L	D. C. Mills replaces Lou Little who
recently accepted a similar position at Columbia University.
The loss of Mills will be felt sorely at Notre Dame and if his work of the „ past in coaching the baseball teams and aiding Rockne with the gridiron squads is to be held as any criterion of his ability the supporters of the Georgetown team may be assured of a very competent and likeable coach.
The official announcement of Mills’ . appointment was given in New York City before a convention of representatives from the athletic boards of the various colleges by the faculty direc-j tor of Athletics at Georgetown, y. Mills came to Notre Dame from Be,	loit College, Beloit, Wisconsin where
h	he had held for one year the position
of athletic director and coach in football and basketball. Previous to this engagement he was athletic director and football mentor at Creighton University, Omaha, Neb. for five years. , A graduate of Beloit College in 1905, Mil|s began his coaching career at . Omaha (Neb.) High School prepping the football and basketball outfits ' there.
Tommy Mills has been Rockne’s chief assistant and the head baseball S coach at Notre Dame since 1926 and ‘r his absence will be missed greatly. Just who is to replace him as baseball coach at Notre Dame is not 3 known at the present time, but it is ’ believed that an appointment will be made in the near future.
Final-Minute Goal by Norb Crowe is Margin
A LAST-MINUTE effort right under the basket by Norb Crowe, a replacement for- Bill Newbold who had been ejected from the fray for four personals, gave Notre Dame the necessary margin to win a thrilling 30 to 29 decision over Indiana before 6,500 rabid fans in the latter’s field house at Bloomington, Indiana, last Tuesday night.
Starting off with a fast attack Notre Dame took the Hoosiers away with them and by the half were in possession of a 12 to 7 advantage. With but a scant two minutes left to play in the final period Strickland gave Indiana a 29 to 28 advantage, but instead of playing a safe game the downstaters elected to try to add another basket. A bad pass gave the ball to Crowe and he dribbled down the floor and sank the goal unmolested.
McCracken began the second half with an under-basket shot to bring the score to 12 to 9. Donovan, Smith, and DeCook collaborated in making three to put Notre Dame far in the lead, 20-11. At this point Notre Dame began its usual delayed offensive but with seven minutes to play McCracken dribbled through the whole Blue and Gold five to tie the score 24-24.
Donovan then counted for Notre Dame, but Zeller repeated with a basket from the side. Crowe went in for Newbold and sank a short one; Strickland gained the lead for Indiana again by popping in one from far out. Crowe missed both shots when Veller
fouled him, but a few seconds later made his attempt good under the net for the winning point just as the gun sounded.
NOTRE DAME (30) B F P
Newbold, rf 1 0 4
McCarthy. If 4 0 1
DeCook, c 3 0 1
Donovan, rg 4 0 0
Smith, Is 10 3
Crowe, rf 2 0 C
INDIANA (29) ' B F P Strickland, rf 4 0 1 B. Miller. If 0 0 0 McCracken, c 1 4 1 Veller, rs 3 3 4 Biasrave. Is 0 0 1 Zeller, If 3 10 Eber, rs 0 0 0
GAGERS WIN 3 OUT OF 5 GAMES
Split with Northwestern; Beat Iowa and Albion; Lose to
Ohio State
The interval of three weeks prior to and during the Christmas vacation found Coach George E. Keogan’s Blue and Gold eagers playing five games and victors in three of them. Albion was first and was snowed under 59 to 11. The game with Northwestern on the home floor followed and in a great extra-period rally the Wildcats managed to eke out a 30 to 28 triumph over the Fighting Irish.
Iowa’s sophomore squad were the next visitors and they were taken into camp very handily, 32 to 19. Playing at Columbus, Ohio, Ohio State took the measure of Notre Dame, 29 to 22, through the sterling work of Jack Evans, speedy little Ohio forward. The first game of the 1930 part of the schedule resulted in a revenge victory over the Northwestern Wildcats in a sensational last minute rally. Northwestern led 19-18 with one minute to play but the Blue and Gold quintet broke through and a field goal by Smith and two fouls by Newbold turned the loss into a 22 to 18 victory.
NOTREDAME 59; ALBION 11
At Notre Dame, December 13th
Albion’s highly touted quintet was taken for a rout and left battered and bewildered. The visitors from Michigan were able to garner only two field goals, one of these being a long shot heaved desperately from midfloor. The play throughout was in Notre Dame’s favor and the Nor-theners put up such a vicious attack in attempting to obtain the ball that McCarthy and Newbold suffered gashes over their eyes before the game was well under way.

436
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Newbold led the scoring with ten points, three goals and four fouls, with McCarthy right behind him with three from the field and three from the foul line. Gavin netted four baskets for third honors. O’Rourke was the sole light of the invaders with one goal and two fouls for four markers.
NOTRE DAME G F P
McCarthy, 13 3 0
Newbold, f 3 4 0
DeCook, c 3 13
Donovan, g 1 0 0
Smith,	g	0	0	2
Gavin,	f	4	0	4
Busch,	c	10	0
Crowe,	f	3	0	0
Johnson, g 0 0 1
Heenan, f	2 11
Host, f	2 10
Carideo, g	10 0
Forsee, f	10 0
W. McCarthy 0 10
Totals 24 11 11
Referee—Young,
Warren, South Bend.
ALBION G F P
Gray, f 0 13
Koblin, g 0 14 Renkiewicz, f 0 0 2
O’Rourke, f 1 2 0
Huff, f 110
Sheridan, g 0 0 0 Weller, c 0 2 0
Wadsworth 0 0 0
Rice, g 0 0 0
Totals
2 7 9
Illinois Wesleyan; umpire,
NORTHWESTERN 30; NOTRE DAME 28
At Notre Dame, December 19th
In an extra period rally which brought to the Notre Dame court some of the most brilliant playing since the triple-overtime Michigan State battle two years ago, the Northwestern Wildcats, led by the rangy Bergherm, pushed over a stinging 30 to 28 defeat. Notre Dame at one point appeared to have the game virtually won after one of the most superb rallies ever seen on the local court. They had been floundering around in the forepart of the second half until the count mounted to 24 to 15 against them and eight minutes left to play. Then they shifted into high speed.
Closing rapidly on their opponents the Fighting Irish tied the score at 25 all with a minute to go and Newbold put Notre Dame ahead 27 to 25, but Bert Riel grabbed the tipoff and went straight down the floor to sink an easy shot and tie the score. DeCook’s attempt as the gun blew went awry and an extra session was called. Northwestern quickly raised it to 30 to 27 and a free throw by Crowe was all Notre Dame could accomplish.
Bergherm and Walter were easily the stars of the game, the former making six field goals and a free one, mostly from a position near the sideline about 20 feet out. Rut Walter’s new one-handed tossing attack netted three goals and a like number of free throws. Newbold and Smith turned in the outstanding Blue and Gold performances.
Score: NORTHWESTERN (30)
B F P .
Riel, f	2	0	3
■ Berghem, f 6 12
Walter, c	3	3	3>
Lockhart,	g	1	1	0
McCarnes,	g	0	1	0
NOTRE DAME (28) B F P
M’Carthy, f. 1 . 0 0
Newbold, f 3 0 3
DeCook, c 12 3
Donovan, g 1 2 2
Smith, g 2 10
Crowe, f 2 10
Gavin, f 10 1
Totals 12 6 S Totals 11 6 9
Score at half—Northwestern, 9; Notre Dame, 9.
Referee, Feezle, Indianapolis; umpire,.Lane, Cincinnati.
NOTRE DAME 32; IOWA 19
At Notre Dame, December 23
Scoring almost at will, Notre Dame steamrolled over Iowa’s depleted squad to an easy and listless victory. Although the first half ended with the score knotted 9 to 9, Notre Dame’s quintet opened up with a lightning fast passing attack which combined' with the resultant field goals ran the score up to 26 to 14 with eight minutes of the half played. During this period the Blue and Gold forwards were meeting the guards with more alacrity and the typical Notre Dame short-passing attack was seen for the first time this season.
The first ten minutes of the game resulted in some very sloppy passwork and not until 12 minutes were up did Notre Dame score the first points of the evening.
Donovan contributed the bright spot to the program by sinking five baskets for ten points, Crowe rivaling him with three' goals and one foul. Spradling and Hildreth played well for the lowans.
Score:
NOTRE DAME (32)	IOWA (19)
B F P	B F P
M’Carthy, f 1 2 1 Hildreth, 12 10
Newbold, f 2 0 2 Rogge, f	0 14
DeCook, c 3 0 3 Spradling, c 3 0 0
Donovan, g 5 0 1 Jebens, g 111
Smith, g	0 0 1 Kinnan, g 12 2
Crowe, f	3 10 Talbert, f 0 0 0
Gavin, f	0 10 Reinhardt, g 0 0 0
Busch, c	0 0 1
Conley, g 0 0 0
Burns, g	0 0 0
Host, f	0 0 0
Heenan, f 0 0 0
O’Connell, c' 0 0 1	•
—	—	-	—	— 1 ■
Totals	14 4 10 Totals	.757
Score at half—Notre Dame, 9; Iowa, 9.
Referee, Feezle, Wabash; umpire, Kearns,
DePaul.
OHIO STATE 29 NOTRE DAME 22
At Columbus, Ohio, December 28th
Starting fast with an 8 to 4 lead, the Buckeyes let Notre Dame take a 12 to 8 lead at the opening of the
second half but with Jack Evans, speedy forward, in complete charge of Ohio State’s offensive, the latter school soon had a 26 to 16 lead, holding it safely till the final gun sounded. ’
Under the basket work by Evans and Ervin, with the floorwork of Fes-ler and Larkins, two fotball stars, accounted for the Buckeye victory. Donovan and Smith safely guarded the outer court but follow-up and rebound shots proved to be the nemesis of Notre Dame. .
Ragged playing and disorganized team play marked Notre Dame’s share of the second half and contributed for the most-part to the defeat. Evans totaled nine points and Ervin made eight during the game, each man looping in four goals. DeCook was high man for the Irish with three and one for seven points.
'J

Score:			
OHIO .STATE B Ervin, f	4 Evans, f	4 Such, f	0 Wrigley, c	2 Fesler, g	1 Larkins,. g	0 Hinchman, g 1	(29) F P 0 2 1 2 0 1 1 2 0 2 2 3 1 2	NOTRE DAME B Newbold, f 0 M’Carthy, f 1 Crowe, f	0 DeCook, c 3 Kizer, g	1 Smith, g ‘ 1 Donovan, g 0	(22) F P 2 1 3 3 0 4 1 1 0 0 2 0 2 1
Totals	12 5 14 Totals	6 10 10 Score at half — Notre Dame, 11; Ohio State, 8. Free throws missed—Notre Dame, 9 ; Ohio State, 8. Referee, Frank Lane, Cincinnati; umpire, Stanley Feezle. Indianapolis.			

NOTRE DAME 22; NORTHWESTERN 19
At Evanston, Ill., January 1
George Keogan’s Fighting Irish managed to come from behind in their second meeting of the season with the Wildcats and eked out a 22 to 19 win. It was the first Notre Dame win over the Purple basketeers in five starts, the Wildcats having won the second meeting of the 1927-28 season, both engagements last winter, and the first of this season’s series two weeks before.
With one minute to play and on the heavy side of a 19 to 18 score, Northwestern went off into a stalling game but Notre Dame rushed them and on a tip-off after a held-ball, Smith pivoted and sank a goal from center floor about 20 feet out. Newbold was fouled by Walter as he dribbled down the hardwood and his two shots brought the score to 22 to 19. Notre Dame then successfully “froze” the ball the remaining seconds.
The second half was marked by exceedingly close basketball. Notre Dame held the. lead, the Wildcats
The Notre Dame Scholastic
437
would then take it and after each succeeding' basket the trick would be reversed. Both teams missed heavily in the matter of free throws, Notre Dame making only six out of 16 while the Purple got three out of 14.
Riel, McCarnes and Walter were the outstanding performers for the losers with Newbold and DeCook carrying the greater part of the burden for Notre Dame. These two accounted for 17 of Notre Dame’s 22 points, each netting three field goals apiece.
Score:
NOTRE DAME B	(22)		NORTHWEST. (19)	
	F	P	B	F P
McCarthy, f X	0	3.	Bergherm, f 0	X X
Newbold, f 3	4	X	Riel, f	2	X 3
DeGook, c 3	X	3	Walter, c 2	0 2
Smith, g	1	0	2	McCarnes, g 3	0 1
Donovan, g 0	I	X	Lockhart, g X	1 3
Crowe, f	0	0	X	Mundy, g	0 Whelan, f	0 Hails, f	0	0 X 0 0 0 0
Totals	8	6	XX	Totals	8	3 XX
Score at half—Northwestern, X( •. Notre Dame, 9.
Referee, Feezle, Indianapolis: umpire, Schommer, Chicago.
Erskine Cup to Notre Dame;
Named “National Champs”
Notre Dame was named as having the champion football team of the United States fox’ 1929 in a ballot of the leading sport winters of the country which was sponsored by Albert Russel Erskine, president of the Studebaker Automobile Corporation. The result of the ballot was announced by W. 0. McGeehan, noted sports writer and columnist for the New York Herald-Tribune, on January 2.
A silver cup, emblematic of the national championship award will be in Notre Dame’s possession for one year.
The result of the ballot showed how Notre Dame completely outclassed her closest rivals, Pittsburgh and Purdue.
Notre Dame received 179 votes with Pitt totaling 38. Purdue finished in the rear -with two ballots. The solid vote of the Committee of Award gave an additional 11 votes to Notre Dame, making a grand total of 190. The’ vote of Theodore Roosevelt, member of the Committee, was received by cable fronx Porto Rico by way of the Wax- Department in Washington.
In an earlier’ ballot to determine the first three teams, Notre Dame, Pittsburgh, and Purdue also finished in the order named. Here again Notre Dame completely swamped her field in the number of votes acquired. It is significant in the final selection that the solid vote of the Committee of Award should be given to Notre Dame. This makes it practically an unanimous award for the championship team of the United States.
“FIGHTING IRISH” IS LATEST CAGE TEAM
The lure of hardwood competition has brought Johnny Colrick and Joe Jachym into the professional basketball limelight. Stephenson’s “Fighting Irish,” sponsored by a South. Bend mill, is the name which became quite popular throughout the Middle West during the Christmas vacation. Colrick and Jachym form the nucleus of this cage team and their initial game was played as a prelims inary to the Chicago Bruins-Rochestei* Centrals American professional league game at Chicago recently, defeating the Midwest A. C., 18-16.
They intend to play a schedule of high class teams in and about South Bend, and Jack Cannon and Johnny Nyikos, former Notre Dame star, may also play with them.
Interhall Basketball Season
To Begin on January 1 9
SCHEDULE FOR PRACTICE GAMES
SUNDAY, JANUARY 12 Heavies	Lights
Varsity Floor	Apparatus Roam
Freshman vs. Sophomore	9:00—10:00	Freshman vs. Sophomore
Morrissey vs. Lyons	10:00—11:00	Morrissey vs. Lyons
Sorin vs. Corby	11:00—12:00	Sorin vs. Corby
Walsh vs. Badin	1:30— 2:30	Walsh vs. Badin
Carroll vs. Brownson	. 2:30— 3:30	Carroll vs. Brownson
Howard vs. St. Edward’s	3:30— 4:30	Howard vs. St. Edward’s
Two Off-Campus Teams	4:30— 5:30	Two Off-Campus Teams

. DON MILLER MAY COACH AT CASE
— Persistent rumors that Don Miller, / member of the “Four Horsemen” of Notre Dame in 1924, would coach the /football team at Case School of Applied Science in Cleveland, have been denied by both Miller and the school j ' officials but it is understood that such I an arrangement would be suitable to ' both parties. Miller served as assistant coach at Ohio State this year, and in 1928 was backfield coach at ,Georgia Tech. Miller would replace Art Fletcher who resigned recently.
Although the Interhall basketball schedule does not call for the regular slated games to begin until January 19, preparations fox- the present campaign have advanced at a rapid pace this past week. Practically all of the halls have organized their teams and the first practice sessions were held during the week. Practice games have been booked for Sunday to enable the various coaches to weed out their- respective teams fox- the season proper. '
Again'-this year there will be two leagues, with each of the twelve halls and off-campus represented. Each
hall will have a team fox- those players weighing ovex- 150 pounds and a lightweight squad for participants under- that weight. Off-Campus is to be represented by two teams in each class.
The coaches have been assigned to the various halls and are representatives of either the advanced course in Physical Education or of the Boy Guidance department. Ax-rangements have been made whereby varsity and freshman basketball men will act as referees and umpires. This system will provide for the varsity and freshman players a scientific view of the games and will enable them to better
438
The Notre Dame Scholastic
their own knowledge of the game. Freshman managers will act as scorers and timers for the contests.
As was the case last year, the heavyweight team of one of the halls will be playing on the varsity floor at the time the lightweight team from the same hall is playing in the apparatus room. Inasmuch as the first game on the regular schedule of tilts will not be played until Sunday, January 19, the coming week of January 13 will be taken up with merely practice sessions to better organize the squads.
❖------------------------------------------* COACHES
Heavyweight Lightweight
Hall	Division	Division
Off-Campus___________________Fitzgerald-Taylor Chevallier-Krull
Sophomore____________________Brown	Mahon-Carr
Lyons________________________Butorac	Duff-Hoxie
Morrissey____________________Griffin	O’Brien-Rusk
Howard_______________________Carideo	Kaplan-Ouelette
Walsh________________________Lyons	Artman-Flynn
Sorin________________________Savoldi	Heenan-Romanin
Badin________________________.Conley	Moroni-Izo
Brownson_____________________J achym	Kosky-O’Connor
Carroll______________________Dilley	Yarr-Csorda
Freshman_____________________Eaton	Brill-O’Connell
St. Edward’s_________________Reaume	Leahy-Walsh
Corby________________________.DeCook	Capter-Bohnsack
❖---------------------------------------------------------------------------—<•
Introducing—
CAPTAIN JOSEPH ABBOTT
Joseph A. Abbott needs no introduction to Notre Dame men. Prominent in track events during the last three or four years, Joe took on new honors last Fall when he was appointed head trainer of Notre Dame’s embryo football champions. Everyone knows the success which accompanied his work in that position with such a great responsibility.
Captain Abbott began his varsity track career in the 1927 indoor season. His efforts that year were crowned with the success which usually accompanies everything he sets his hand to, and Joe was awarded his major monogram, a notable feat for any sophomore at Notre Dame.
He reached his peak the following year during the indoor season when he lowered the Central Intercollegiate Conference half-mile record to 2:00 4-5, a mark which he still holds.
Later on in this same season, he set a new record for the Illinois University indoor track when he stepped
All men who intend to play in the lightweight division will weigh in at the manager’s office any evening during the week of January 13. Any player whose weight has not been certified will not be permitted to play with the lightweight team of his hall when the session opens.
The practice sessions are so arranged that the. lightweight and heavyweight teams will work out together on the same floor. The schedule will be made so that each hall will alternate in using the varsity and apparatus room floors.
❖			
PRACTICE SCHEDULE	
Varsity	Apparatus
Floor	Room
Monday, January 13	
Off-Campus	7 p. m. Freshman
Howard	8 p. m.	Lyons
Carroll	9 p. m.	Badin
Tuesday, January 14	
Brownson	7 p. m.	Walsh
Sophomore	8 p. m.	Corby
Morrissey	9 p. til..	Sorin
Friday, January 17	
Freshman	7 p. m. Off-Campus
Lyons	8 p. m.	Howard
Badin	9 p. m.	Carroll
J L		
	
the 880 yards in 1:58 2-5 in that memorable race with Joe White, the Illini speedster.
At the end of the 1929 season Joe received the unique honor of being elected to the captaincy of a team in a major sport after being out of competition the previous year. He was forced to resign from the track entirely last year because of sickness and injuries to his legs suffered the previous summer. It was after this lay-off that his teammates showed their confidence in his ability to come back by electing him captain of the 1930 Blue and Gold track squad.
With prospects for an exceptional season very bright, Joe is being counted on heavily by Coach Nicholson in all the middle-distance events. By virtue of his past records and his • early season form this year, he is virtually assured of a position on the two-mile relay team from which “Nick” expects so much this spring. That he will come through better than anyone expects is almost a sure bet for Joe does things only in a big way.
Captain Abbott is a native of Paterson, New Jersey, and is a senior in the Department of Physical Education. He has always been prominent in campus activities, having held offices in the Monogram Club, New Jersey Club, and various other organizations during his days at Notre Dame. He will receive his degree in June.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
439
-	Track Team
4
i	SO OPINES NICHOLSON AS
I	75 MEN REPORT
j
| Nearly 75 aspiring candidates an-i	swered Coach John P. Nicholson’s
|	call for varsity track men last Mon-
J	day afternoon. From this group
|	Coach Nicholson expects to develop
'	one of the strongest teams ever to
represent Notre Dame in that sport. The greater part of last year’s outfit, t strengthened by valuable additions ’	from the 1929 frosh, make prospects
L ,	the brightest they have been in
“Nick’s” regime here.
Led by Captain Joe Abbott, who is slowly but steadily returning to his old form after a year’s lay-off, the C squad was put through the usual ff	first-day exercises Monday. Calis-
L	thenics, followed by short work-outs
| in their respective events, was the order for most of the men.
| Boagni, Redgate, Trandell, and Mc-?	Connick vied with each other in
j *A
THE SCHEDULE
Indoors
* '	Feb. 8—Melrose Games, New
. York (special relay entry).
Feb. 15—Illinois at Notre Dame.
Feb. 22—Indiana at Bloom-
'	ington.
;	March 1—Wisconsin at Madi-
’	son.
k	March 7 and 8—C. I. C. at
*
Notre Dame.
;	March 15—Illinois Indoor Re-
I	lays at Champaign.
lj	Outdoors	•
March 29—Texas Relays at
'	Dallas.
B	April 19—Kansas Relays at
Lawrence.
■ April 26—Penn Relays at I z	Philadelphia.	Drake Relays at
•	Des Moines.
May 3—Ohio Relays at Co,	lumbus.
( j	May 10—Michigan State at
Lansing.
, h . May 17—Indiana State meet
|	. at Notre Dame.
May 24—C. I. C. at Mil-
i	waukee.
p'	May 31—Illinois at Charnel /	paign (tentative).
}	June 7—U. S. Naval Acad-
I	emy at Baltimore.
‘	. June 13 and 14—National In-
■	tercollegiates at Chicago.
•>----------------------------*
To Be Strongest In History
Coach John P. Nichelson
getting away from the starting blocks on short sprints. O’Brien, Bailie, Acers, and Reimans again accustomed themselves to the hurdles while the middle-distance men spent most of their time jogging around the track. Captain Abbott, Joe Quigley, captain of the cross-country team, Wilson, Little, McConville, Sylvester, and others were among this group.	'
“Spike” McAdams, Fishleigh, and Slattery, all veterans from last year, were the outstanding men in the first day’s pole-vaulting. Nordy Hoffman appeared near to mid-season form when he consistently heaved the shot around the 40-foot mark. Donoghue and Herwit are also back this year, and it is understood that Bob Walsh, Central Intercollegiate Conference champ last year, may return to school next semester.
The distance men, including Biggins, Howery, Connors, Lawler, and Bauers, worked outdoors for a short time. Bailie, Reimans, Abernathy, and Darling worked out at the high and broad jumps.
Even with all of this material, however, the loss of such men as Captain Jack Elder, Tom Quigley, John and Bill Brown, Pete Morgan, and John Viachulis will be keenly felt by Coach Nicholson’s squad. “Nick” has a wealth of material coming up, but no team can suffer such losses without feeling it strongly.
The official schedule was announced by A. W. Kegowicz, senior track manager, in the name of Coach Nicholson this week. Without a doubt, this schedule is one of the most difficult ever arranged for a Blue and Gold team and is a strong example of the confidence “Nick” has in his 1930 squad. It includes entries in all of the principal relays in the country, besides dual meets with the most representative teams in the Big Nine and Central Intercollegiate Conferences.
The high lights of the season are the C. I. C. indoor championships and Indiana State championships here at Notre Dame, and a dual meet with the U. S. Naval Academy at Baltimore.
Rockne Views Outlook
Coach Knute Rockne’s New Year’s proclamation as given to the Associated Press carried his usual hard-luck story but this time as more or less subtle optimism. Rockne also paid tribute to his campetent assist-tants and reminded that he would be back soon again and be of some aid to them. The complete quotation as received from the Associated Press is as follows: “We lost, nine first-class football players by graduation and face a stiff ten-game schedule in 19-30 but don’t feel too sorry for us. We’ll have a fair team and be scoring a few touchdowns. Pm almost well again and should be of some help to my very able coaching staff.”
«-----------------------------♦
440
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Corner Michigan and Colfax
THE SOUTH BEND CLEARING HOUSE BANKS
Indiana Trust Company
Marsala or Hallcraft
72 Sheets per pound.........50c
50 Envelopes per box........50c
' Fountain Pen Inks
Conklin Fountain Pens Writing Tablets and Other Needs
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS OF NOTRE DAME MEN
122 NORTH MAIN. STREET
Follow The Crowd, Men,
to
The Rainbou)
Restaurant
South Bend’s Most Beautiful Place Opposite Palais Royale
.	—o—
We serve
Special Breakfasts, Lunches and Dinners.
Mid-night Specials also.
—o— OUR COOKING AND FOOD ARE WONDERFUL.
SODAS	PAPERS
UNIVERSITY CAFETERIA
—and—
Soda Grill
DAILY SPECIALS
Open 6:30 A. M. to 9:40 P. M.
CIGARS	CIGARETTES
The Notre Dame Scholastic
441
To pipes, Men, to Pipes!
Tradition has it that ye shall know the fellowship of pipes with seasoned, masculine, mellow men of every age and degree.
Some try to join this brotherhood, yet fail, and are absolved as bom to pipeless lives. But honest effort is required—each man’s own test with good tobacco in a good pipe.
That is the formula. Both pipe and tobacco must be good. The pipe must be pure of bowl, and the tobacco must be-----
Well, Edgeworth, if you’ll permit —good old Edgeworth, Class of ’04. Tried Edgeworth yet? Now’s your chance? Use the magic coupon, and we’ll rush right back to you a free-for-nothing packet of genuine Edgeworth to fill your good pipe with.

Edgeworth is a careful blend of good tobaccos —selected especially for pipe-smoking. Its quality andflavomever change. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms— “Ready Rubbed” and “Plug Slice”—15e pocket package to pound humidor tin.
YES SIREE! IT’S A REAL
CLUBHOUSE
Perhaps you have noticed it also since you have returned. It is a little frame house situated right in back of the first tee on the golf course. Art West, the genial publicity man of the University and at present a very active person about the links, refuses to divulge any more than that it has “the makings of' a real honest-to-goodness clubhouse.”
Mr. West promises that he will have several more surprises in the next week or two along the same line, and that students may watch the course for further developments. Whatever they may be, he consented to let us in on the secret very shortly.
KIZER SUCCEEDS PHELAN AT PURDUE
Noble Kizer, Notre Dame graduate of 1925, who has been assistant to Jimmy Phelan for the past five years, was recently announced as the latter’s successor at Purdue University. President Edward C. Elliott of Purdue approved the recommendation of Col. Nelson A. Kellogg, director of athletics, that Kizer be made head foot
University Book Store
Authorized Dealers for REMINGTON UNDERWOOD ROYAL	CORONA
Porta ble Typ ewriters
CASH or TERMS
ball coach to replace Phelan who leaves Purdue to coach the University of Washington team next season. The Purdue trustees ratified the three-year contract with Kizer when they held their annual meeting last Wednesday.
During his collegiate football career at Notre Dame in 1923, ’24, and ’25, Kizer was a lineman and, although weighing only 165 pounds, filled a guard position and opened up holes through which the famous “Four Horsemen” rambled. For the past five years Kizer has coached the Purdue line and during the season just closed, his forward wall gained recognition as one of the strongest in the conference.
NOTRE DAME TO BE HOST TO UNIV. OF MEXICO
Coach George Keogan announced prior to the game with Iowa on December 23 that his basketball team would meet the University of Mexico quintet on the home floor, January 20. The foreign team will be touring the country on a good-will expedition at that time, and their presence on the local floor should attract one of the largest crowds of the season.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
i
LARUS & BRO. CO.	I
100 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.	1
I
I’ll try your Edgeworth. And I’ll try I it in a good pipe.	■
I
Name____________________________ I
I
Street__________________________ J
„	I
Town and State__________________ ।
Now let the Edgeworth come! V J
Robert Cahill
Agent
Morrissey Tower
— —__________J
442
The Notre Dame Scholastic
HELLO MEN!
SMITH S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
SMITH’S COFFEE SHOP
West Washington Ave.
GEORGE L. MILLER 103 North Main Street South Bend, Indiana
—o—
20% discount
ON
SUITS OVERCOATS TOPCOATS SHIRTS
TIES
PAJAMAS
PIPES LOUNGING ROBES
AND ALL HABERDASHERY
IMPORTED AND DOMESTIC MENS WEAR
GILBRO’S
FORMERLY U. S. ARMY STORE 330 South Michigan Street
Bine Corduroy Trousers . . . $2.95
Sheepskin coats . . . $6.95
4 Buckle Galoshes...........$2.98
U. S. Army Style DOUBLE. SOLED Field-Shoes Riveted Vamps $3.65
Sizes 6 to 11 Boys* Sizes 2 to 5 $2.98
Royal Portables
Are The Best
THE OFFICE ENGINEERS 126-128 S. Main St.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
443
I
MARQUETTE FIVE HERE TOMORROW NIGHT
For the first time in almost a month the students will see Coach George E. Keogan’s Blue and Gold eagers in action on the home floor again tomorrow evening when they buck up against the Marquette five. Last year Notre Dame was victorious in both of the games played with the Hilltoppers. The first played on the Milwaukee floor was an easy 29 to 17 victory for the Fighting Irish. In the second contest played here, Notre Dame rested content in playing a strong defensive game and lopped out a 19 to 16 win over their opponents from the Badger state.
NOTRE DAME STARS PLAY NEW YEAR’S DAY
Notre Dame’s national championship football team was well represented in both intersectional games New Year’s Day. At San Francisco in the East-West clash Jack Cannon and Ted Twomey played stellar roles in the 19-7 victory of the Eastern stars over the Western aggregation. Cannon’s brilliant performance embarrassed the westerners and made the onlookers gasp in amazement. His uncanny defensive play, it is
said, was the most sensational ever witnessed on the coast. Our All-American guard modestly insists that without the aid of Twomey he would have been greatly handicapped and accredits much of his spectacular play to the fine co-operation of his teammate.
In the MidWest-Southwest Dixie classic at Dallas, Texas, “The Fighting Irish” had for its representatives Gebert at quarterback, Nash at center, and Collins, end. This trio contributed quite creditably to the midwesterners 25-12 triumph over the stars of the southwest.
TEN TEAMS ON 1930 GRIDIRON CARD
The 1930 grid card was announced by Coach Rockne on December 14, following a meeting with the faculty board of control. Five contests of the ten-game schedule will be in the new stadium now being constructed, and five of them will be on the road. Southern Methodist, rated as one of the best teams in the south this year, will be the initial opponent on the new gridiron. Navy will have the honor of dedicating the new stadium, and preparations are already being made for this contest.
Southern Methodist University, Pittsburgh, and Pennsylvania, are the only additions to those on the 1929 schedule, and Wisconsin and Georgia Tech are the teams dropped. The 1930 team will close its season with the annual Army game in New York and another- with Southern California on the Pacific coast the following week.
Three teams from Pennsylvania— Carnegie Tech, Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania—are on the schedule with Indiana and Northwestern of the Big Nine, and Drake, Missouri -Valley champs for the past two years.
The complete schedule is as follows:
Oct. 4 — Southern Methodist at home.
Oct. 11—Navy at home (dedication game).
Oct. 18—Carnegie Tech at home.
Oct. 25—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh.
Nov. 1—Indiana at home.
Nov. 8 — Pennsylvania at Philadelphia.
Nov. 15—Drake at home.
Nov. 22—Northwestern at Evanston.
Nov. 29—Army at New York.
Dec. 5 — Southern California at Los Angeles.
Flesh & Blood Acts
REMEMBER—it is the PALACE and ONLY the PALACE in South Bend that gives you “flesh and blood” entertainment IN ADDITION to talking pictures ! Think it over.
AL AC
Radio -Keith-Orpheum
It’s RKO-Lefs Go
The trade-mark “RKO” is a guarantee of absolute satisfaction in the entertainment market. When shopping for entertainment, look for “RKO” —You can’t go wrong!
DON’T MISS TOIS CREAT SHOW STARTING SUNDAY
/■
&
i |
OUR STAGE OFFERING;-
ROSE’S MIDGETS
9C TINY ENTERTAINERS
MW TO THRILL YOU MW
TWO OTHER VODVIL ACTS
----OUR SCREEN ATTRACTION —
“Nix On Dames”
With
Mae Clark and Robert Ames
An entertaining, human story of stage people at home—of their likes and loves and songs —of a Damon and Pythias friendship that withstood war and women alike, until a girl came along who was “different.” A story that sparkles ,that’s natural, that’s appealing.
Hear Mae Clarke Sing "Two Pals” and "Say the Word,” by Gilbert & Baer
444	*	The Notre Dame Scholastic'
For school supplies
and appropriate reading material patronize
The Book Shop
119 North Michigan St.
Follow the
Basketball Team at home and abroad thru the columns of
THE
NEWS - TIMES
For the	.
BEST HAMBURGER SANDWICHES
AND
THE BEST HOME-MADE PIES in South Bend or Mishawaka
STOP AT THE
2x4
LUNCH ROOMS
232 N. Main St.	123 S. Main St.
South Bend	Mishawaka
WE GRIND OUR OWN MEAT DAILY.
NO extra charge for toasted buns.
Open All Night
For week-ends in Chicago	.
take the South Shore Line	?
J
Trains leave South Bend	■ <
every hour on the hour
See Charles Woods in the Bookstore or call	* '
2-5764 for complete information.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD

The Notre Dame Scholastic
445
Splinters from the Press Box
i________________________________
V--------------- --- if
To this writer the Southern California game seemed indicative of one great truth of sport: That a great team can nearly always beat a group of great players. Pittsburgh had possibly the best group of individuals that any team has had in quite some time; Southern California had a great team composed of individuals which were riot quite as good, perhaps, as those of Pittsburgh, but which Howard Jones, one of the game’s greatest coaches, has molded, with painstaking care, into a really great team. And to our mind the one glaring weakness which the*Panthers had was in the 'matter of pass defense. How a group of individuals, however great, ever got by even a moderately tough schedule undefeated, with the high school pass defense that Pittsburgh presented against the Trojans, will always remain somewhat of a mystery to me. But at that, Nebraska discovered this weakness just too late in the game with the Panthers;
towards the close of the Pittsburgh-Nebraska game, the Cornhuskers were going places via the air route, an unusual, but in this instance effective method of gaining ground for Nebraska. Not for nothing does the greatest of the coaches stress pass-defense as the most important part of a backfield man’s play on defense.
* * «
A feature writer of an esteemed metropolitan daily, for the second or third time this current season and post-season, remarks the effect of the cold on Army’s play thusly: “Then they came home, to take Notre Dame on a day when the turf was like the frozen tundras, when Cagle’s cleats wouldn’t hold, when his ends and backs couldn’t hang on to his passes because their hands were blue with cold.”
Of course it is a matter of common knowledge that Notre Dame players are immune to the cold, and even a blind man could have heard, if not seen, the bright red muffler that Jack Elder was wearing to keep himself warm, as well as the lavender gloves which Carideo, Schwartz and most of
the ends were wearing. And the expert seems also to have gotten the dope on Tom Lieb’s latest invention which the Notre Dame backs were wearing: a set of small anti-skid chains designed to be used on just such occasions, and which the Notre Dame backs were using, although they were so small as to be invisible to the spectator. Really, Army did very well, when one considers these things. And—oh, yes—of course no one knew that the O’Shea Knitting Mills, expecting weather of the sort experienced, had sent a shipment of red flannel earmuffs to New York which arrived the day of the game and which everyone wore save Joe Savoldi, who stuck to the old green ones he had worn when he starred foi' Three Oaks (Mich.) High School.

The indoor track season opened in New York last Saturday night, but not with its usual bang. The times were mediocre for the most part, although Gus Moore, slim negro speedster, ran a fast two mile, and Carl Wildermuth, Georgetown’s diminutive flame, equalled the indoor record for the 60 and 100 meter races in winning
RA X AD A For Only Four Days VJ Radio-Kieth-Orphe,im 1A STARTING SAT. JAN. 11
Bebe Daniels
The sensation of “ Rio Rita” in her newest picture
“Love Comes Along”
See the fury of a thwarted soul . . . see the even her great work* in “RIO RITA.” See surging tumultuous drama . . . hear Bebe her in a thousand moods—this glorious girl, singing gloriously, and completely outdoing
446
The Notre Dame Scholastic
K U P P ENHEIMER
One of the Publix Theatres
Home of Paramount Pictures
Stock Now!
Every suit and overcoat greatly underpriced for quick clearance! including many styles preferred by University men.
Saturday thru Tuesday
Laugh Their Laughs! Sing Their Songs! Dance Their Dances!
THE DUNCAN SIS TERS in “It’s a Great Life” An M. G. M.
All-Talking, Singing Riot with
Scenes in Technicolor
$35-40.
Suits and Overcoats
$45-50.
Suits and Overcoats
2650	3650
Wednesday thru Friday
Kuppenheimer suits and overcoats $55-60-65. values $44.50 and $53.50
An Absolutely Outstanding Event!
GEORGE ARLISS in “Disraeli”
A Warner Bros. Vitaphone
ALL-TALKING PICTURE with JOAN BENNETT and FLORENCE ARLISS
i
GOOD CLOTHES FOR UNIVERSITY MEN
1
I
1
The Notre Dame Scholastic
447
T	.
J ust how/ asked Bill’s roommate, "do you shell financially?’’ "F-i-n-a-n-c-i-a-l-l-y,” spelled 'Roomie' with a grin- "and there are also two R’sin embarrassed.’'
|	Phone 3-1254	1
I	Drs. Singler & Probst	I
I	DENTISTS	I
|	*	261 Associates Bldg.	I
QioiiiitiiininiiittitiiiiiiiiiiioiiiiiiiiniiitiittiMiiiaiiiitiiiiiiiiiintiiiiimiiiinitiniiiiHiiiiimiiiiuiimitiiiimoiiiiitE]
Patronize Scholastic Advertisers!
Bur why on earth,” Bill’s roommate ■went on, “do you take time to write a letter home, when there's a telephone right here on the desk?
“Call ’em up! I make it a point to call on my folks once a week, whether it’s about money or just to say ‘Hello.
“Ine telephone folks just reduced their Long Distance rates again the first day of tnis year, too. Telephoning is by far the quickest way home in any emergency.”
Telephone... of Course
T Toll telephone rates are lower T X today than ever before a
Indiana Bell Telephone Company
the Olympic sprint series for the third successive time. Ray Conger was beaten in the Mayor Walker half, which Fred Veit won in the slow time of two minutes flat, but it is evident that the courageous Olympian from Iowa is not in shape.
The not so amateur Amateur Athletic Union goes right along its merry was pulling peculiar plays right and left. This time Piedkiewicz, young Polish law student, who holds a victory over Nurmi, has been barred from running in this country. No one seems to know exactly why, but he is none the less barred. The A. . A. U. just wouldn’t feel right if it wasn’t barring someone, no matter what the reason.
!£
Notre Dame seems to be going in for international sport in a big way. What with the Meiji ball club that played here last spring, and the University of Mexico basketball team playing here January 20, all that we need is John Yelland and a few more of the boys from the great Northwest to form a winter sports team and meet the Swedish and Norwegian All-Stars, who are reported to be even now on the high seas on their way over here for a barn-storming trip.
We sincerely wish to congratulate Tommy Mills on his appointment as head football coach at Georgetown University. He goes there with the best wishes of the men who have served under him, and who know him for what he really is, that which only too few are today, a very earnest man.
:£	3:	:£
Navy seems to be going in for crosscountry rather successfully. In the past the Navy cross-country team was “quaint,” something like the horse marines or some other mythical organization, but this year, under the skillful guidance of Earl Thompson, one of the greatest runners of all time, the Middies have defeated Duke, Georgetown, Virginia and Maryland, while the plebes beat Tome, Mercersburg, and the Maryland and Virginia freshmen.
448
The Notre Dame Scholastic
U NDERNOURISHMENT and a pleasant disposition don’t
Man”
mix. The “best natured man” of the senior class isn’t the one who spends his time smiling through a series of minor ills.
high. It’s easy to digest and provides the bran to keep the system clear.
If you want to start the day with a cheerful outlook eat
Shredded Wheat is the
two Shredded Wheat biscuits
natural breakfast for good-natured college men. It supplies all the vital food elements that keep their spirits
every morning with good rich milk and plenty of fruit. It clears away those dark mental clouds in a hurry.
THE SHREDDEDWHEAT COMPANY
0~— -------------— ----...........
| Patronize Scholastic	Advertisers !	I
❖-------------------
On Down the Line
*----:----«---------<
. . . The “Four Horsemen,” Notre Dame’s famed backfield quartet, went through the seasons of 1923 and 24 with the loss of only one game out of ■ 17 . . . which is a record to be mighty proud of... “Wild Bill” MEHLHORN once hit the cup with his second shot on four consecutive holes during a golf match . . . JACOB HYER was the first American heavyweight boxing champ ... 33 years later his son TOM HYER won the same title when he defeated YANKEE SULLIVAN . . .
.. . DAME RUMOR has it that 1930 is to be the last year that the Catholic cage tournament sponsored by Loyola University of Chicago is to be held . . . BOB HART, veteran National league ump, was a prominent roller skate polo player about, fifteen years ago . . . that sport was exceedingly popular in those days . . . And CHARLEY MORAN, another Nat’l league guesser, is considered among the best judges of hunting dogs in the United States . . . No wonder the Nat’l league players think CHARLEY is “going to the dogs” . . •
. . . Notre Dame’s first string basketball team is composed of four Hoosiers . . . JACK McCARTHY is the only “alien”! . . . and South Bend and Mishawaka claim one apiece in SMITH and DeCOOK . . . “Crafty Sam” HENDERSON, coach of the Davis and Elkins wonder football team, is head coach of all sports at D & E ... He has no assistants either . . . HUSTLE ON, purchased as a yearling, in 1927 for §70,000, so far hasn’t faced the barrier . . . and few think he ever will . . . How could he be such a bummer with that name . . .
. . . Weekly believe it or not . . . The Chicago Cubs are still waiting for $1,000 worth of world series customers who have not claimed their refunds for the unplayed sixth game ; .. line forms to the right please . . . According to PARKE H. DAVIS in his annual football statistical guide, there were 5,000 high school teams . . . 150,000 school boy players were in action last year . . . Only 450 college teams with 16,000 players performed in 1929 ... which explains why the colleges get the star players . . . Ain’t dat sumpin! . . .
The Notre Dame Scholastic	449
Now in Progress! Max Adler’s Semi-Annual
1200 FINE QUALITY
$25.00 O’Coats,	Now........................12.50
$30.00 O’Coats,	Now.......................$15.00
$35.00 O’Coats,	Now.......................$17.50
$40.00 O’Coats.	Now.......................$20.00
$45.00 O’Coats.	Now.......................$22.50
$50.00 O’Coats, Now.................-.........$25.00
1,000 New Style
JU IT J
$25.00 Suits,	Now.........................$12.50
$30.00 Suits,	Now.........................$15.00
$35.00 Suits,	Now.........................$17.50
$40.00 Suits,	Now........................ $20.00
$45.00 Suits,	Now.........................$22.50
$50.00 Suits,	Now.........................$25.00
Shirts—Ties—Mufflers—Sweaters—H osiery
HALF-PRICE
Inc
ON THE CORNER	MICHIGAN AND WASHINGTON
450	TheNotreDameScholastic
y
FLORSH EIM SHOE
For the man who cares . . . about his appearance and his purse . . . this is the time to buy several pairs . . Florsheim'S' nationally famous smart styles to choose from
Adler Brothers