— Che-
Dotrc Dame Scholastic
DlSCe-QVASl S^mPGR- VICTVRVS- VIVG ^VASl- CRASIMORITVRVS-
Vol. XLIV. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, Commencement, June, 1911. No. 36.
The Way of Life—Class Poem.
THOMAS A. LAHEY, LITT. B.
LWE measures out a working-day of years, But somewhere at the setting holds a star
That glorifies our little world of tears.
Dimly we see it o’er grey hills afar, And read therein the common hope that kings
Share with the toil-worn tillers of the sod, When aspiration leaping skyward wings
A swift flight to the great white throne of God. For every struggling brother in the strife Knows this, that life is living unto Life.
The eyes of Youth, so gladdened with the morn, Are sorrowed in the white noon of the day, And hearts drip blood and eager feet are torn With gaining points of vantage on life’s way;
For Sin has wrought such discord unto earth That Mammon holds dominion on the mart, And man to toil is wedded from his birth, With Heav’n and hell a-struggle in his heart.
Yet by our labor in the daily strife
We gain or lose in reaching out. to Life.
Some wrest the harvest from the rugged soil, . Some mount the heights that crown a great career, Yet man can only sanctify that toil
By living like a toiler in his sphere;
For Love hath pow’r to touch the things of earth And reap its failures into golden grain,
If man but feel the glory of his birth, . Nor deem this constant warfare all in vain. Though every thought make question of the strife,
Life still remains a living
The pomp of empire or the wreath of fame,
What are they where the light of reason gleams, But honor rising to adorn a name,
Or crown, mayhap, a dreamer’s dream of dreams? Though mind may search the wonders of the skies, It beats in vain at Heav’n’s holy gate,
If man grasp not the heav’n that in him lies;
Who earns that gains it, for there is no Fate.
Tools weave their crowns from spoils of earthly strife* For life has one reward, and that is Life.
unto Life.'
Fair Alma Mater of the golden Dome,	'
This was the noblest labor of thine art, '
To quicken longing for the soul’s true home
Within the fibres of each youthful heart;
And queen-like thou hast armed us for the fray, To guard thy treasure till the goal is won..
Oh, may thy sons be faithful on the way,
Till death reveals, when life’s brief work is done, That all the burden of our daily strife Was but the living unto- greater Life.
570
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Duties of the Lawyer.*
HIS EXCELLENCY JUDSON HARMON, LL. D.
IEN one is about to. set out on a journey in a region new to him, no matter how complete his study and preparation may be, he is always glad to get suggestions from a previous traveler over the same route.	.
Each of this class of earnest young men starts today, after years of training and teaching, in quest of fame and fortune in .the realm of the law. I, who for more than forty years have traveled that way, salute you and put my observation and experience at your disposal. Doing this brings to grateful memory the men who did the same for me in the years of my beginning.
The law differs widely from all other fields of human study and effort. It embraces in its broad sweep every human relation, personal and collective, private, social and public. It deals with life in every aspect— with life itself—and with liberty, property and conduct. It defines or creates, and en
forces all rights. It is the basis fabric of society.
There can be no civilization and when from rude beginnings
of the entire
without law, a system of
law commences to emerge, the necessity arises for a body of men to study, develop and put it into practice. So where there is law there have always been and always will be lawyers, and to them is chiefly committed the duty of making it and keeping it what is worthy of the name of a science in its principles and a useful art in its application.
In the early days when superstition led to trials of criminal charges and private disputes by ordeals of fire or water, or by battle, there were no lawyers. Nor yet when the accused or sued went free if he could secure a sufficient number of his neighbors to pile up their hands under his while he on oath denied the accusation. But when it was found that not by these means was truth to be discovered or the right upheld, but 'that there must be intelligent investigation and sifting' of facts and testing of assertions, when--precedents began to give rise to rules,
* Opening Address of Commencement delivered in Washington Hall Saturday evening, June 10.
and, instead of verbal pleadings, more exact methods of invoking judicial action were required, the need of men skilled in such work became urgent.
So hundreds of years ago the law became a profession in our mother country. In French and Latin and Old English we find its beginnings and early development, and in writings which are recognized as authority to this day the first leaders of the bar have preserved for us the learning and logic of their times. From then until now a system of law has grown and developed under the hands of the many successive generations of lawyers, and been transmitted from one to another with spirit and traditions as well as knowledge and power of . practical reasoning unimpaired. And you are to stand in your turn in the line of transmission.
These lawyers of the olden times were, we may justly think, sometimes too technical. They expended too much learning and ingenuity on forms and niceties. They were perhaps too hostile to changes simply because they were changes, clinging, as their motto, to the historic reply of the barons to pope and king: “We are hot willing to change
the laws of England.” But by at the . bar and on the bench of unwritten law, which we common law, and the methods
their labors the system style the of its ap-
f
$
plication by court and jury became the bulwark of the liberty and rights of men,- the heritage of every Englishman, so . precious to him and his children that, brought across the seas by our ancestors, it survived the revolution, and is today the law of our landsave in a few localities, like Louisiana, which were settled by other races. In some particulars it is not adapted to our form of government and our different conditions, and to that extent does not prevail among us. In some respects it has been changed or modified by statute. But the great body of the law you have studied and are to practise is this growth of the centuries. Nobody ever enacted it. Nobody ever wrote it down. It was brought forth by the reason 'of a virile race tempered by a. strong sense of justice, enriched by a knowledge of other systems of law and brought to bear on the common ideas and customs of. the people. And it may justly be said of this most unique product of the human mind that the common law is founded on the law of
r
5
3
J ?
V
I I I
I t

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
57i
morals in all matters which have moral bearings.
You are to devote your lives to applying the law to the affairs of others. You are to control conduct by service. You are to defend conduct as advocates. You are to uphold the claims of some against the claims of others. What is to be your code of professional morals? ’	.
Listen to no one who suggests that morals concern the clients only, while you have to do with legal rights alone. It is true that one may do a moral wrong by enforcing a legal right, and in such cases the lawyer does not necessarily share the blame. And there is no substance in the charge that lawyers must become lax of conscience because they sometimes uphold the side of a case which proves to be the wrong one. In most cases the truth in fact and the justice in law are not disclosed until the .trial is had, the object of which is to elicit them, and the lawyer does his full duty before God and man who produces all the proof and advances all the considerations which support his side when the case is of sufficient doubt to require a trial and when his side might prevail without impairing the system of law^vhich it is his highest duty to maintain. But when a lawyer discovers that his client is willing to, succeed by ignoble methods or becomes convinced that the law is plainly against him, he can not justify persistence in maintaining his client’s cause. If the matter can not be compromised his plain duty is to withdraw.
A lawyer’s honor is his crown, and no hand but his own can ever discrown him. To the judges, to his brethren, to his clients, to his adversaries, he must keep his name from the slightest' suspicion of unfairness or tolerance of wrorig.
Reversals of judgments for mere technical errors tend to discredit the law. The object in view should always be substantial justice. And I have just approved with pleasure a law in Ohio which requires the affirmance of judgments in spite of such errors when it is found that the result reached at the trial was right on the merits of the case. Otherwise pales intended to aid the administration of justice obstruct it instead, and the practice of law becomes a mere game.
The chief source of danger to the profession in these days is the desire for wealth, which, first spreading elsewhere with amazing speed,
has not left lawyers untouched. Its results are deplorable enough in other quarters, but work with more deadly effect among those who stand guard in the Temple of Justice. Truth does not change with the ages, and Solomon’s declaration stands good today, “They that make haste to be rich shall not be innocent.”
I have no patience with those who affect to despise wealth. Honorably gained it should be a joy to anyone; and every lawyer looks to the practice of his profession to support himself and those who depend on him as well as for a competence in his old age, and great success may bring even more. But while
the accumulation of wealth is the prime object in other pursuits and the extent of it the usual measure of success, it is not so with the lawyer. Eminence is not gained or measured for him by the mere abundance of his possessions. He is to excel in mind and character—by learning, wisdom, love of justice, fidelity and moral courage. And he may be certain if he fulfil this mission all else in sufficient measure will be added unto him. Let me warn you now that if your chief desire be wealth you are on the wrong road, if you wish also to rank among the first lawyers of your day. Some lucky chance may bring you riches as well as just
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
512.
legal fame, but it is too remote to count on. You will be more likely to find your growth as a lawyer checked, if not your standing compromised, by the desire for mere gain.
A lawyer occupies a public position which is in a sense official. For, while examinations and other requirements are made in case of other professions, lawyers are the only ones who act under an oath to support the Constitution and discharge their duties with fidelity.. This is because they are a part of the ministry of public justice.
So I have always had, and acted on, the belief that it is a lawyer’s duty to render professional service to all who seek it, whenever he is free to do so. This is to his advantage, also, for it broadens his knowledge, sympathies and faculties.. His employments will give him a closer view of the elements and forces, often in rivalry and contention, which constitute society. He will better keep in mind and appreciate his own relation to the public which imposes an obligation that he may forego for no client, and that is to stand always for the prompt, just and impartial administration of justice by the State. This is the only sure guaranty of the rights of all citizens and' it must be kept secure amid the heat and stress and exigencies of contending parties.
The barons exacted the Magna Charta from King John for their benefit only. It was the lawyers who fought the long battle which made its principles and safeguards common to all the people. The}’- have been in all ages the chief champions of .personal liberty.- Coke’s great fame as a lawyer is overshadowed by his resistance on the bench and in Parliament to encroachments on the rights of the people.
Lawyers had a very large part in the plan-mnpr- and founding of our own government, and have ever since had more to do with conducting it than any other class of citizens. This is only natural since ours is a government of law, and the experience of lawyers brings them in contact with every form of human activity..
You are certain, merely as citizens, to exert a great influence on public opinion, and it is likely that at some period of your lives you will be called to public office. Unless it be in the line of your profession, and probably even then, this will involve a sacrifice on your part. Success in the law requires undivided attention, and. few men are able to build up
a large clientage more than once in their lives. So I have always thought that, as a rule, a lawyer should not enter public life until he has perfected and established himself at the bar and reached a position where he is not wholly dependent on the practice of his profession. Then his training and experience fit him better than most others to take part in the conduct of the government.
If he be called to the bench it should be in such a way that he will be free from all obligations which might interfere, or be thought to interfere, with the fair and fearless performance of his duty. Failure to observe this rule largely accounts for the discontent which in some parts of the country is expressed by demanding the right to remove judges by popular vote before their terms expire. We do not think in Ohio that the recall would be a wise measure in the case of judges, if in that of any officials, but we have just enacted a law by which all judges are to be chosen by a non-partisan ballot, so that not even a party obligation will stand between them and the entire community to which their duty runs.
If a lawyer be called to legislative or administrative work his knowledge and training are quick assets. He can perceive the scope and wider bearings of a proposed law or change of law. He can make certain and accurate expression of the intended purpose. He knows men and the play of motives on conduct. He can present his views so as to impress them on others. He is skilled in detecting and exposing unsound arguments.
And it is easier for the lawyer than for most others truly to serve the public interest and that alone. His whole life and training have been in representing others. And he can have no client so strongly to appeal to him as a people who have won their liberty and undertaken to govern themselves, by the rule of equal rights, through chosen representatives. He can detect the insidious encroachments of special advantage and privilege. Seekers after these, through various devices of legislation or official conduct, are present on every side, plausible and persistent. The people who chose and trusted him do not appear. They are busy in field, workship, office and elsewhere, most of them working out the problem of existence. They have nd protector but him. Sovereign though they be, they are helpless, for. the- time being, if he in whom they put
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
573
their faith forgets or deserts them. More will be taken from their earnings for public expenses. They will be committed to policies that are wasteful or unwise. They will find themselves subjected to disadvantages for the benefit of the self-seeking.
There is nothing more inspiring than the silent trustfulness of this multitude of freemen, nothing that lies so sweetly in the breast of the consciousness of having spared no effort to deserve it. And if there be some sacrifice of personal interest in their behalf so much the better, because this is what exalts patriotism from a sentiment into a virtue.
The more varied a lawyer’s practice has been the better able he will be to render effective public service. His duty to the people requires him to see not only that the common interest is safeguarded, but also that no legitimate enterprise or industry is subjected to injustice, because in our free country the activities of all citizens are so interdependent that all must ultimately suffer from an injury to any.
It is not always easy to distinguish between correcting a wrong and doing one, especially when general resentment has been aroused, but it is necessary that the distinction be drawn, and drawn correctly. Class legislation often assumes deceptive forms, and selfish ends are given a patriotic garb, while measures are drawn whose real purpose and effect are artfully concealed, and official’’action is urged
in furtherance of undisclosed designs.
A lawyer in office is under a double obligation. When he accepts the people as his client he is bound to serve no interest but theirs. He takes the official oath besides. Lawyers generally who enter public life respond fully to this obligation. The exceptions which now and then occur are a warning. No betrayal is so dreadful or so certain to be exposed as that of a public trust. A lawyer is disgraced who in his practice represents interests which are adverse. Infinitely deeper is the shame of such double dealing in office. It is a species of treason, and an offence against an entire people is greater than one against an individual.
No man can long escape a just estimate by his fellows. This is especially true of a lawyer, because he acts in the open under the eye of judge and adversary. If he be tricky or faithless he wrill fail, whatever his talents, though he may seem to prosper for a time. With high moral qualities and even fair ability he needs only patience and diligence to succeed.
Let me extend to each of you the wish that you may realize the hopes with which you look forward to your chosen career. And, whether you serve private clients or your city, state or nation, may you always be a credit to the good and faithful men who have taught and trained you, and to this noble institution which sends you forth with the pride of motherhood.
574.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Dominion of Canada.*
RIGHT HON. SIR CHARLES FITZPATRICK, LL. D.
romance
OR many reasons the best way to approach Canada from Europe is through the Straits of Belle-Isle,- and so up the lordly stream of the St. Lawrence, forever inseparably associated with all the id the industrial development of
the Dominion. The St. Lawrence was the old highway to the heart of the continent, and up its waters passed the long procession of warriors and priests and traders who laid the foundations of the nation. The very winds that sweep down its shores seem to moan with memories as all along they pass this spot or that consecrated by the story of some deed of heroism done in the half for
gotten conflicts of the past. So it is essentially and in every sense a Canadian river and an overwhelming proportion of the waters it carries to the sea are collected in Canadian valleys. It is the “via sacra” of Canadian history. It was the way chosen from the beginning by all men, who, for good or evil, had a share in the shaping of the destinies of
Canada, the men who made her and the men who fought to win her, the men who lived to serve her and the men who died to save her. The pioneers of France in the old time, whose handiwork has left to our days such enduring traces in the land, held the St. Lawrence as at once the royal road and the master key of the king’s possessions. For generations of men the mastery of that single river was thought to carry with it the overlordship of the American continent; and it was the scene
for the future. Whatever developments may await the railway systems of Canada, the line of the St. Lawrence connecting the Atlantic with the Great Lake system in the heart of the continent must, in my opinion, always remain the true commercial highway of the country. Travelling at ease on board the same ocean liner in which he started from Liverpool the stranger, leaving Quebec behind him, finds himself at Montreal 986 miles inland from Belle-Isle. At Montreal, although he must say good-bye to the ocean liner, he learns that on stepping on another vessel he can journey still onward, in uninterrupted course, to the head of Lake Superior, another 1200 miles away, or almost half way to the Pacific. He may suffer sea-sickness, and even shipwreck, 2000 miles from the Atlantic, and before he leaves the vessel, say at Port Arthur, in Ontario, he may feel he has traversed a succession of lakes which contain together more than half the fresh water of the globe. And when he has begun to understand what that means, it will be time to mention to him that the basin drained by the St. Lawrence is not so large as that of Hudson’s Bay, and much smaller than that drained by the Mackenzie River, and that still this incomplete summary of the hydrography of Canada leaves
out of account the water systems both of British Columbia and the Maritime Provinces.
How to utilize to the utmost the splendid advantages with which nature has thus dowered the Dominion is a problem which must tax the statesmanship of the country for many a year. With unresting haste we must press on the great work of development; until Europe is made effectively aware that Quebec, 846 miles inland from Belle-Isle, is yet nearer to Liverpool than New York by 600 miles.
of the final triumph of. England in the long
But "in these busy times it is not the number
struggle with France for which the prize was of miles that matters, but only the number the New World. Nor is there any other sight of days in which the distance can be covered, in Canada which can quite compare with the and so the relative nearness of Quebec or scene which breaks upon the stranger when Montreal to Liverpool * was never understood the steamer turning the point of the Island • in Europe until we secured that steamer service of Orleans, shows above h’m the domes and which rivals in swiftness the ocean greyhounds towers and the Citadel of Quebec. More- which today course between England and the over, there is to be considered that, as the American ports. The vaster possibilities of the hydrography of Canada determined its history ’Canadian waterways, however, are associated in the past, so a knowledge of its wonderful . with “ cheapness rather than speed. ‘ It will network of waterways and waterfalls is neces-? be the cost of carriage and not any fractional sary to an understanding of its every hope ‘saving of time which will determine the route
* Address to the Graduates, Monday, June 12. by which the produce of the West is taken
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
575
to the sea. The permanent prosperity of all the Dominion depends in a large measure upon the extent to which the plenty of the prairies can be converted into wealth. For a man may be poor in the midst of plenty and learn in the bitterness of experience that abundance is not wealth, unless and until there is a market to convert it. The farmer of the Northwest may measure his plough furrows by miles, and then look out over a sea of golden grain stretching to the horizon, but whether he is a poor man or a rich man depends wholly upon whether the cost of transport will permit him to carry his harvest with profit to the market. If the cost is prohibitive, then his plenty lacks the conditions which would change it into wealth, and he may as "well spare the labor of the reaj er and leave the grain to stand in splendid waste until at last it ripens into rottenness. That of course, is not what commonly happens. A man counts up beforehand the expense of carrying his produce to market and, if the conditions are unfavorable, he leaves the prairie unbroken; or, in other words, leaves the doors of one of the great granaries cf the world still locked up. It is a matter- cf common knowledge here as well as in Canada that a very small reduction of the costs cf transportation of the wheat at once increases the area of the production and adds encr-mously to the output. It comes to this: that in the plains of the Canadian Northwest there is a vast treasure house still waiting to be unbarred, whole districts ‘ of virginal soil’ which will be brought into cultivation as soon as the hand of the engineer shall have applied the touch which with the swiftness of the alchemist shall transmute the potential abundance of the great plains into a stream of golden coin. Much has been done, but there is much still to do. The question upon which all our efforts in Canada must centre is the St. Lawrence route, and large sums of money are now being spent by the Federal Government to fit it to deal with the grain traffic of the West.
From Lake Superior to the open sea, at the mouth of the St. Lawrence, there is already unbroken water communication; but unfortunately while the Welland Canal between Lake Brie and Lake Ontario has a depth of fourteen feet, the canals which enable the grain barges to pass by the rapids of the. St.
Lawrence above Montreal have a depth of only nine feet. The grain carrying capacity of the barges which can use the Welland Canal is about five times those which can pass canals having a depth of only nine feet. The result is that all the money spent upon the Welland Canal has, so far, been unproductive, as far as the carrying trade of Canada is concerned, and the bulk of the grain is now diverted at Buffalo and goes off by way of New York instead of going to Liverpool via Montreal and Quebec. The present government, by deepening the St. Lawrence canals to a uniform depth of fourteen feet, will enable the barges
from the lakes laden with wheat from the west to go straight to Quebec and there to tranship to Liverpool at less cost than by any other route. If we take the grain carrying capacity of a large liner as a quarter of a million bushels with other cargo, we shall find that the Canadian export last year would supply cargoes for a hundred vessels. If the export rises this year, as it is expected to rise, to 100 millions bushels, there would be enough to supply 400 steamers, or nearly 2 a day during the period for which the navigation of the St. Lawrence is open.
Bven in the winter Montreal and Quebec
576	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
would continue to do a large business as a centre of distribution for the railways. _ For the fact that the navigation of the St. Lawrence is limited by the ice to about eight months in the year does not handicap Montreal and Quebec as seriously as might be supposed. For even bolder projects are on foot. A direct waterway from the Georgian Bay to Montreal via the French and Ottawa Rivers would divert to the louver waters of the St. Lawrence a vast traffic which now goes to sea mainly by the Erie Canal. Not only would .such an outlet from Lake Huron tap the resources of millions of acres west of Chicago and Duluth and Port Arthur, but it would mysteriously fertilize lands its waters have never visited and situated hundreds of miles away. It would be a case not only of diverting traffic, but also of creating it. The shorter distance to an open port would mean now cheapness in transport, and that at once would -widen the zone of profitable cultivation. The advantage therefore would be twofold: not only -would there be larger freights to handle at Montreal, but whole areas of the • Dominion -would for the first time be invested with their true value as wheat lands. It is enough here to glance at the possibilities of this beneficent scheme and to note that of the 430 miles between Georgian Bay and Montreal, 350 are already provided with natural navigation. . ,
This wonderful -wealth of -waterways weights the scales when we are balancing the probabilities as to the future which , fate has. in store for the Dominion. It is a commonplace.' of economics that, the industrial place: of any country among the nations is determined mainly by the amount of mechanical? force at its command, and that however fertile its soil or mild its climate or virtuous its people, it must remain in a primitive condition of barbarism so long as its mechanical force is limited to the draught of beasts or manual labor. That, hitherto, has been the fate of vast tracts in Asia and Northern Africa. The vivifying presence of the steam engine which has revolutionized the markets of the world, is practically unknown in these lands as far as manufacturers are concerned, for the reason that the fuel, -which is the pulsating heart of machinery, is conspicuous by its absence. The country which has in abundance the fuel which can be most easily translated into ~ mechanical power satisfies the. first condition of industrial
success. We .think of England with her splendid commerce, her manufacturing triumphs, and her ships crowding every sea, and then perhaps according to our mood or upbringing, or political bias, attribute her success to her geographical position or the character of her people, or the fact that her trade is sheltered by the one free flag of the world. But consider how soon her furnaces would be cold and her mills be at a standstill if the secret of her vast mechanical force were suddenl}’- to fail her, and the common fuel of London were of the same sort as that which is esteemed in Erzerum. I take Erzerum at random as a type of the towns which dot the map of Asia Minor. A recent traveller describing the occupations of the people says:—“A large portion of the population is perennially absorbed in the manufacture of tezek or animal fuel, that of asses is specially prized, which they collect from the stables, bake carefully in the sun and then stack for winter consumption.” Now think what would be the position of the cotton mills and smelting works and great iron foundries of England, if they all had to be worked on a basis of asses’ dung. Substitute animal fuel for .coal, and Sir William Armstrong’s great works on the Tyne would cease to roll out its annual tribute of sheet armour and guns, and Newcastle would be as silent as Erzerum. And this potent part which is played in the development of a country by its fuel as a generator of mechanical power is being illustrated before our eyes in the Soudan. The normal fuel in all the country traversed by the upper reaches of the Nile is the dried dung of camels, and even Egypt itself has to depend largely for other fuel upon coal imported from Great Britain. Nature tempers ’the wind to the shorn lamb, and this absence of more efficient fuel as far as the comfort of the people goes in such a climate hardly matters. ■ But with the British occupation great reproductive works at once began to be -planned, and wants which generations of Egyptians had never known soon made themselves felt. For mechanical energy the people will trust in the main to the old universal and indestructible forces of'the world, the hands of men, the draught of beasts.- The obvious difficulty of carrying coal over such immense distance's and-the treeless nature of the-country has caused the new Governor to Soudan to be inundated with more or less ingenious sug-
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	577
gestions for the supplying of a primary wantOby side beneath her fields. Colonel Stewart of an active race. Thus Colonel StewartjBHarrison has called the glowing bars of the Harrison has urged that an unsuspected sourceWfurnace the foundation upon which the in-
of fuel wealth, and therefore of mechanical ‘ energy, may be found in the masses of water weeds which obstruct the Nile in the regions beyond Khartoum. The “sudd,” which often stops navigation altogether in the upper reaches of the river, and the mossy deposits which extend over hundreds of miles of morass on either bank, consist of a combination of carbon and water. Expel the water and compress the carbon, and the problem is solved. The Colonel contends that all that is needed to provide the Soudan with a cheap and abundant fuel is “a gigantic mechanical camel,” that is a machine for digesting the water weed and making it dry and hard and so fit to burn. In fact the vegetable deposits of the morasses of the upper Nile are really put in one or other state of development, and if treated and dried scientifically might be converted into as good a fuel as that which is commonly used in Ireland and parts of Italy. It is suggested that the simple and inexpensive machinery required might be worked by donkeys or oxen or by steam engines fed with the vegetable fuel itself.» These more or less wildcat schemes are interesting because they show us the sort of difficulty with which the most virile races in the wmld have to struggle when once it-is set down among conditions which are common to a large part of the earth’s surface. When next we are tempted to smile at the stationary civilization of the Mohammedan we may usefully reflect what would be the speed and power of the Maritime Express and Imperial Limited if the engines were fed with the dried dung of camels or asses instead of Cardiff coal. It is not necessary to stay to remind Canadians that these Asiatic and African are far enough removed from those of the Dominion. Nor do I insist here upon the part which is played by the rivers and canals of Canada in bringing the produce of the coal field and forest to the engine and the furnace. I refer rather to a resource which is only beginning to be tapped and which ought some day to go far to secure for the Dominion a long lead in the great world struggle for manufacturing supremacy. The supreme advantage which Great Britain has enjoyed all through the Victorian era has been just this, that in an age of steel she has found iron and coal to work it with, lying side
"dustrial ■ prosperity of the United Kingdom rests. Speaking of the recent past, this is certainly true, but today we are in the presence of another force which in many ways is likely to take the place of steam. People sometimes talk very foolishly about electricity, as though it were a form of mechanical energy which could be had for nothing. Some writers talk -of electricity in the same sort of vague way in which scientists of another school account for every obscure problem by attributing it to . the effects of magnetism, as though you had satisfactorily explained the difficulty by calling it a nickname. To talk of working a machine by electricity is very much like saying you will draw a cart by the shafts or the traces. As the question remains how you are going to pull the traces, so in the case of electricity ‘ you have got to consider how you are going to generate it. If you take the ordinary power house of the European cities you are just as dependent upon fuel and just as hampered and limited by the cost of it, whether coal from Cape- Breton or choicest asses’ dung from Asiatic Turkey, as if you put your trust directly in steam. There is one way however in which given the right conditions, mechanical power in the shape of electricity may be stored, as if the full gift of Heaven. Thus you may compel into your power the passing clouds and the everlasting hills, and harness the unresting rivers to work in unending labor while you sleep.' Every torrent and cascade in Canada may be so used as to arrest and chain up and keep for service an energy as powerful for good or evil as any ever conjured into being, by the magicians of the Arabian Nights. It is the one instance in which the primeval curse- that condemns men to earn their own bread by labor seems to have been lightened; and in a new sense the old saying that rivers teach men what is good by blessing them, comes true. The lands drained by the Amazon and the La Plata may perhaps have ampler rivers even than Canada, but rivers do not necessarily mean water powers. Along the thousands of miles of the Laurentian Hills, not to take count of all the streams that fight and foam their way to the Pacific, Canada has an unnumbered succession of torrents and cascades which today either run wild to the
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
578
sea, or lend some tithe of their strength for slicing timber into lumber. Sooner or later as the land is filled with people all this riotous waste of force will be stayed and the owner of half the fresh waters of the planet will enter the industrial struggle with an unbought energy at their backs which will enable them to defy competition.
But speculation as to the possibilities of even the near future must not make us unmindful of the giant resources of the Dominion in the immediate present. The produce of her fields and forests and mines, though each represents a still undeveloped industry, entitles Canada to a high place upon the economic ladder of the world. The agriculture of the Dominion is worked by contrasts and a variety which are in keeping with the wide divergencies of climate to be found between the Atlantic and the Pacific. The continuous line of homesteads along the St. Lawrence, which make the river banks look like a straggling, interminable village, is in odd contrast with the system which prevails on the great plains where in places each settler seems lord of a farm which is bounded only by the horizon and of which the plough furrows are measured by the mile. And those old farms of Lower Canada with their narrow frontage on the river tell their own tale of the past. I recall the days before railways were thought of, when the river was still the ‘ King’s’ moving highway, access to which was so important that land concessions had to stretch in narrow strips far inland. In the same way, the great holdings of the West, in their turn tell of another change in the garment of the time-spirit, and point to a general use of that labor-saving machinery, that practical application of mechanical ingenuity to the eternal processes of husbandry, which has nowhere been done so successfully as on the American Continent. In older Canada the slow subduing of nature was the work of generations, and every acre had to be painfully wrested from the forces of the wilderness and the forest. The old struggle is still forging on, and the frontier of industry and husbandry are forever being pressed inward, while the scarred and blackened stumps standing in the meadows and cow-lands witness to the stranger that the old conditions of the contest yet endure. And all the while away in the West nature was waiting to' be wooed. Hers was not resistance nor coyness but welcome.
In the East, men made their farms with years of labor, but out in the prairies they found them ready-made, and at once entered into possession of a promised land. In the near future, when immigration from abroad and the annual overspill of the cradles of older Canada have supplied the requisite labor, the former roaming grounds of the buffalo will assuredly become one of the great -wheat belts of the world. But however different may be the methods of husbandry in the valleys of British Columbia, on the great plains and in older Canada, the note of abundance is upon the fruits of them all. The untravelled Britain who sees the icebergs as for the first time he nears the Straits of Belle-Isle probably regards them just as typical pieces of Canada which have broken away from the mainland, as fragments which have been dropped from the basket of our Lady of the Snows. He has heard of railways across the ice of the St. Lawrence; he has pictured to himself the glories of the Carnivals and ice palaces of Montreal; he is aware that the Canadian frontier borders on the North Pole; he has often seen the Dominion symbolized by a polar bear in public processions; he reads of the delights of tobogganing and other typical winter pastimes; he has listened with awe to tales of snowdrifts and avalanches and knows the story of the snow sheds of the C. P. R., and then calling to mind the moistness which in Europe passes for snow, he feels that he can construct a pretty good picture of the Canadian climate. It is something of a revelation to him to learn that a staple crop in the great provinces of Quebec and Ontario is a cereal which will not grow in his own favored isle. He has associated maize with lands more blessed in climate than Great Britain; it is therefore a distinct shock to him to find that it flourishes in a country whose people are understood never to go about except in snowshoes. He has further to readjust his ideas when he learns that melons and pumpkins and tomatoes which in England are carefully grown under glass or at best under the shelter of some southern wall, in Canada ripen in the fields. After this discovery it is less surprising to learn that tobacco, which is a failure in the British Isles, is a common crop in the land popularly associated with the polar bear. Unless, however, you would see the eyes of the Britisher expand to the dimensions of small
1 NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
579
580	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
saucers, you would break it to him gently that grapes, which he has been accustomed to see grown with artificial heat in glass houses, in southern Ontario ripen in the open and form an industry of national importance. If, after hearing that there are miles of vineyards in Canada, he has any faculties for astonishment left, you will startle him again by explaining that in many parts of Ontario peaches are grown by the acre and without any help except that supplied by Canadian labor and Canadian sunshine. Here again all his preconceived notions have to be rudely corrected, for, in all his previous experience, he has known the peach only as a costly product of the hothouse. A little later when you have got your English guest, say at Quebec, and have heard his comment that the Chateau Frontenac has no rival in Europe and have persuaded him that a calash is quite as comfortable and twice as safe as a London hansom, you will have an opportunity of disabusing his mind of the idea that a large portion of the houses he sees by the wayside are uninhabited and deserted. Before you have gone many, miles he will probably ask you how you account for the fact that the whole .country, side is so rapidly becoming depopulated. When you stare and wonderingly ask what he means, he will confidently point to some house shaded by aspens and willows or poplars, carefully planted as a shield against the heats of the Canadian summer. To' the British, ‘mind; familiar with the deadly effects of a damp climate, the sight 6f a house . overhung and. surrounded by .trees suggests at once the idea of desertion and decay. In fact houses so shut in with foliage as many of ours are, would be simply uninhabitable in England, would be rotten with mildew and damp. Hence the necessity for warning against hasty inferences and an explanation as to the value of shade in Canada during hot weather, and as to the absence of atmospheric moisture in the winter. In a word, thou^i the climate has its drawbacks, they are certainly not those which are so often imagined for us by our friends from Europe. The essential thing to note is that Canada can grow almost everything which will flourish in the temperate zone;of Europe and much else besides, and so for generations to come will be able to add to the wealth of her people by the sending of her surplus, vast supplies of wheat and food stuffs
to be changed for the finished products of the older world.
In its forest products Canada has a national asset which economically gives her a place apart in the world. If properly managed her vast forests, estimated to cover a million and a quarter square miles, are practically inexhaustible. That in itself would count for little, for timber becomes wealth only when it can be handled under conditions which enable the demand for it to be profitably supplied. But the stars in their courses are fighting for Canada today. At no time until within the last few years could it be said that the great sub-Arctic forest, which stretches from the eastern coast of Labrador to the spurs of the Rockies, was an element of national wealth, or indeed had any but a remote potential value. Two causes, however, have been at work which have changed the face of the whole situation. The progress of scientific discovery, which has led to quite new applications of wood fibre to the arts, has revolutionized the timber trade. The constantly increasing use of wood pulp for the manufacture of paper and clothes and many other articles, has not only increased the demand for timber, but by a happy accident has invested with a new value precisely the class of trees which is found in the greatest abundance and which has hitherto been passed over by the lumberman as unworthy of his notice. The great tracts to the north covered with forests of spruce and poplar owe their value entirely to the new uses to which wood pulp is now applied, for as timber, of course, they are of little account. The other cause which has increased the importance of the Canadian forests applies both to the coniferous trees and to the hard-woods.
. Taking the northern hemisphere as a whole, it may be said with an approximation to accuracy that there are only two countries, besides Canada which can afford to export timber. A brisk trade is done with England and Central Europe by Sweden and Norway, and Russia has still an enormous surplus supply. But contrast the circumstances of Russia with those of Canada. We need not insist on the far larger forest area possessed by the Dominion, for what turns the scales decisively in her favor is the fact that Russian rivers run the wrong way. The cost of carriage when distance are increased by hundreds of miles makes the conveyance of logs in great quantities almost
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	581
prohibitive except by water, and the RussianOsettle upon its shores. The virile and en-rivers which run through the timber districtyduring qualities of that simple and manly nearly all flow north. There is a commercial * people are witnessed still in the unchanging
as well as a geographical inaccessibility, and the absence of convenient waterways to float down logs to the sea subjects the main Russian forests to the former disability. In the United States the demand for both the ordinary building timber and for pulp wood has already exceeded the supply, and now to import from Canada is an American necessity. The tendency of the coming years will be to add to the value of all sorts of wood, and at the same time to strengthen and emphasize the Canadian monopoly of the only commercial available supply.
The wonder of the Canadian mines, whether in the-Kootenay districts or those of the Yukon is so sounding in the mouths of all men that anything more than a passing allusion to this branch of the national resources would be a piece of high superfluity.
There is one thing that is more important and precious to Canada than rich mines or fertile wheat lands, or ample waterways and splendid forests: I mean the character of her people. First in the list of the assets of the nation must stand the moral fibre of the races which are combining to build up and give its distinctive traits to the Canadian nationality. The population of Canada could not until recently boast of the same variety of descent which may be claimed by our neighbors across the frontier. We have had and still have a less rich assortment of Huns and Italians and Polish Jews, and the task of assimilating the alien elements of the population and impressing upon them the stamp of the dominant nationality has been proportionately easy. Two great streams of race and descent meet in Canada, and the world may be safely challenged to show any nobler lineage. England and France have been rivals in many fields and through many ages, but, standing together, their story of achievement whether in peace or war entitles them to a front place in the vanguard of the human race, and to be hailed among the nations as the twin leaders of the thought and the worth of the world. And each has given of its best and of its richest heart’s blood to cement the nationhood of Canada. Never was any land peopled by a nobler band than those soldiers and priests and merchants .who set sail from France in the long ago to explore the St. Lawrence and
faithfulness with which their descendants even now hold byv the language, and the religion and the traditions which were brought to Canada by Cartier and Champlain, by Frontenac and Laval. And this fidelity to faith and principle and sacred memories, which has so distinguished the French element in Canada, is surely also a singular tribute to the high wisdom and the liberality of the rule which has made it easy, and won for-the late Queen Victoria the Good the willing allegiance of hundreds of thousands in the Dominion who on the day of her death could bless her name only in the tongue spoken by Cartier.^It has been fortunate also for Canada that the French branch of her people separated from the parent stem before instead of after the political cataclysm which seems to put such an unending space between ancient and modem France. The bold colonists of the past, who swarmed into every sea, multiplied and filled the land, have their true descendants here in Canada, and could have little in common with the modern nation whom the legacy of the revolution has left unfit to deal with that problem of the filling and refilling of the cradles of the nation, upon which all hopes of national expansion must ultimately depend. If we turn now to the other section of our people and note the circumstances which mark the coming of the English, Irish and Scotch to Canada, we shall find that which may well make us proud of the men whose honor and good fame and high ideals are so closely woven with all the later stories of the Dominion. These men schooled' in the uses of adversity, and led to their ruin by that passion of loyalty which has seldom failed to prove an ennobling influence, if only for this reason, that it means some effacement of self in the presence of a larger ideal, were the English counterparts of the comrades of Cartier and Champlain. And may we not say that the Canadians of our own time have proved themselves worthy of the double stock from which they have sprung? Eager, alert, enterprising, energetic, their cities are an abiding wonder to the stranger from Europe. Some happy fate has endowed nearly all our Canadian towns each with some separate beauty or attraction of its own, while in some things, as in the application of electricity to
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
many forms of industry and in the use of the telephone, they are far ahead of much larger cities of the older world. This is more remarkable because the strength of Canada has not all run to a few great centres of population, as it has done, for instance, in Australia. Sydney or Melbourne are mushroom cities when compared with Montreal, Quebec or Toronto, but their population is far greater. The destinies of the Dominion are being worked out not solely by men herded and cooped up in a few towns, but by a people busied in the great silent task of subduing nature from sea to sea, tunnelling her mountains, turning her rivers, furrowing her prairies and sifting her riches from the very hearts of her rocks. For instance of that public spirit and that care for the common good which are the healthiest and surest expressions of national consciousness, no Canadian has to look far afield. In this connection it is hard to say whether the poverty of one district or the wealth of another has the stronger claim upon the gratitude of the people. Take the facilities for higher education offered by Laval University, and you shall find that the blessings of a liberal education are brought within the reach of a poorer class of people than is probably the case in any country in the world. There are no great endowments to make fees a matter of slight consequence, but the spirit of sacrifice is an abiding tradition within its walls, and its doors are open to all comers, because its professors are content to work for a pittance. On the other hand, nowhere has private wealth recognized its public utilization with greater generosity than in Canada. It is not necessary to recall in the presence of a university audience the names of men whose benefactions have endowed McGill University with the revenues of a principality. It may be of interest, however, to mention that a 'writer in the London Times was recently moved to express a hope that Cambridge University might yet find friends to emulate the example of the benefactors of McGill. I am bound to’ add the writer . did not seem very hopeful. If we care to consider public spirit in another aspect we may add whenever did a people perform such, a great feat as that of ours, when, still numbering less than four millions all told, we laid the railroad across the plains, and through the Rockies and Joined the oceans and made the Dominion. It was a sublime instance of
national faith, supported by untiring energy and courage, and guided by the highest will. Even today we may look with confidence across our southern border to see whether even the seventy million of this Republic can show anything which will bear comparison will the all-Canadian route to the Orient. The hammer stroke that drove the last rivet in the last rail in the line which now unites the west and the east with a band of iron did something more than complete one of the greatest engineering feats of the kind. It put an end to the old era in which Canada was a geographical expression for a number of sundered, mutinous squabbling provinces; and it gave to the conscious nation what it shall ever show in the face of peril, a backbone of steel.
And now my task is nearly ended. For who so bold as to try to forecast the future, or say what fate Heaven shall hold in store for a people so blessed in the past and so eagerly expectant of the morrow, so cradled in freedom and so truly the heirs of the best the Old World had to give. The earth and the richness thereof are stretched out before the people of Canada, inviting them to the work of developing to the utmost the resources of their great inheritance, and the task may well- occupy the noblest energies of ourselves, our children and our children’s children. But if we look back to the small beginnings of our history we shall see that fidelity and constancy have been the conspicuous qualities in the characters of both the great stocks from which the Canadian people are mainly derived. Perhaps, therefore, it may be inferred without rashness that we are not likely to run after strange fads, but rather to stand in the ancient ways; not likely to be driven by stripes or attracted even by the most brilliant stars; but instead a free and contented people, to work out our national destinies under the shadow of the flag that has braced the breeze for a thousand years.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
583
BACHELORS’ ORATIONS.
I.—The Press and Religion.
CHARLES C. MILTNER, PH. B.
HIS is a reading age. The questions most frequently asked are: Have you read the “news”? Are A	you following such or such a case
in the papers? Do you read this C magazine or that? Today men have an insatiable thirst for novelty, and to
satisfy that craving they turn to the daily press. The triumphs of mechanical invention have conquered distance, eliminated time and brought the world within the focus of the printed page. What the nations of the world are doing in a practical and an ethical way is daily reported and daily read. What the journalists of the world print concerning politics, science, art, literature, morality, religion—all this men read, ■ and because they read so much they think but little, and therefore their conduct is very7 largely affected by what they7 read. Hence it is that the most effective weapon of selfdefense possessed by society7 today7 is the press.
But the flaming headline, the column of news, the clever illustration, the variety7 of opinion, and the bulk of advertisement do not exert so great an influence in the mere communication of certain information as in the language used to communicate that information, as in the tone of the words in which it is expressed. For the press is a living, active agency7 that collects and tabulates the thoughts and the actions of men and sends them forth on the
printed page colored by the judgments and prejudices of a hundred personalities. And therein lies its power. In a large measure this power has been used for good. Realizing that its lease upon liberty7 depended upon its faithful service as a “tribune of the people,” the press has fought the battles of the helpless majority7 against the injustice of the selfish few, and it has won many7 of them. The faithful sentinel upon the constitutional walls of 'this democracy guarding with sleepless eye the treasure of our new-found liberty, has been the press. The daring spy that has discovered and exposed and baffled the ambitious schemes of political and corporate greed has been the press. Looking into the history
of every victory for the integrity of civic or municipal government, of every beneficial reform in social methods, of every successful campaign against the enemies of the public health or resources, we find that none has been attained without the aid of the press and very few without its leadership. The press has destroyed our local prejudices, enlarged the world for each one of us and thereby broadened our sympathies and made possible a more useful and a happier life.
But giving to the press all the credit for good to which it is entitled, and appreciating every service it has rendered for the preservation and development of social order, we find, nevertheless, that because individual journalists in their efforts to propagate a par-
ticular ideal have not refrained from offering critical comment and authoritative, opinion upon every7 phase of human thought or activity, they often come in contact with the higher ideals and the broader interests of religion, the state and the home. It shall be my duty to consider the press in relation to religion.	-
Religion does not depend upon the press for its existence. Religion is as old as humanity, and the press is a modem institution. The power of religion has bolstered up the wavering . authority of civil rulers, restrained the rebellious passions of men and led them onward * and upward as the press has never done nor can ever do. Religion is stronger than the press and therefore she does not fear it. Religion stands for truth and authority. Whether
584	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
it be within the privacy of the family circle, the varied activity of the work-a-day world, serving in the ranks of toil or in exalted position of state, or even within the solemn seclusion of the cloister itself, religion prospers in the measure that there is reverence for the old principles of truth for truth’s sake, honor to whom honor is due and obedience to those who have a right to command.
There is a type of journalism today which destroys this reverence, because there are journalists today who consider their profession merely a commercial enterprise. They consider “news” merely a marketable commodity whose character must vary with the demands of the buyer. To detect the common intellectual tastes of the greatest number and to satisfy them is, therefore, their sole concern. What appeals to the multitude? Certainly nothing solid, nothing serious, nothing solemn. The public is like the child. It longs for the sensational, the sensuous, the shocking, and to gratify these desires is the distinctive work and the distinctive wrong of yellow journalism. The ideal journal is one which best presents a picture of the world’s progress. The,ideal yellow journal portrays little but the world’s miseries and the world’s tragedies. It is a motley panorama of crime and scandal, of disaster and outrage, of dissension and war, upon a huge background of advertisement, grave scandals in polite society and the corrupt practices of those in high station made attractive by every device of suggestive verbiage and descriptive rhetoric; violent contrasts of class and conditions; a studied effort to pander to the prejudices of the discontented; often a tacit approval of their unlawful methods; exaggerations, distortions, sensations 1 Is it any wonder that the men of the street lose confidence in our institutions, lose reverence for law civil or religious, and throwing off all restraint defeat the purposes of both? And yet' the advocates of such journalism tell us that the constant exposition of these things prevents wrongdoing. If that were true, murders ought to be less frequent, but they are not; divorce ought to become unpopular, but it is annually on the increase; corruption and graft ought to be stifled, but they are mounting from ward politics and the police court to the legislature and the senate chamber. It can not be true that the . daily presentation of these things prevents crime. Such journalism furnishes its
own refutation. Advertising cri ne must make criminals as surely and for the same reason that advertising goods will make purchasers, since the same law of the mind governs in both instances. A single tale of horror may disgust and awaken to shame , and remorse, but daily contact with the horrible soon banishes fear and begets fascination. In vain will religion inveigh against the evils of the times, in vain will she plead from her pulpits for greater respect for the law and the lawgiver, in vain will she command reverence for anything that is sacred in life so long as the minds of men are daily filled with the mockery of a degraded press.
On the other hand there are journalists who realize the dignity of their profession and recognize the responsibility of it. They are men of literary ability, leaders not followers in the service of the public. They disclaim any enmity to religion. They admire religious men and women and praise the noble work they are doing. But in their enthusiasm, in their consciousness of authority and influence with the people, they fail to realize their own limitations, and hence injure the cause of religion by sitting in judgment upon what she, after infinite study and a universal searching into the hearts of the faithful, has declared to be fundamental and necessary truths—her dogmas. Strange inconsistency! A missionary, a consecrated and anointed minister of religion, youthful, talented, accomplished,'with every indication of a successful career in his native land and perhaps with every position of honor in the Church beckoning to him, turns aside, and beneath the torrid sun of some far-distant wilderness lives and labors and dies with the world’s unfortunate, the nations groping in the darkness of paganism. Upon the battlefield, in the hospital, binding the b'ceding wounds, and smoothing the fevered pillow, and soothing the wearied hearts with maternal tenderness and love, moves the Sister of Mercy, her identity hidden away under her religious title her only ideal the ideal of religion, and these journalists pay eloquent tribute to their sacrifices. But let there come an occasion, such as so often does come, when religion in defense of truth must command the retraction of error, when she must say to the masses: “Heed this because it is true, shun that because it is false,” and at once these, journalists set up a protest of dogmatism;!
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
585
a protest not strong, conclusive, resonant of the candor of conviction, but a protest weak, spasmodic, carping, clothed with^high-sound-ing words which, to the faithful are “trifles light as air,” but to the-wavering* are “proof strong as Holy Writ.” And yet it is not a sense of. altruism or natural compassion, or a vague interest in the betterment of future generations that prompts the heroes and the heroines of religion to renounce all that the world offers and nature desires and to lead such lives of humble service as compel the admiration of these men, but it is the faith, faith bom of conviction in the living, absolute, unchangeable dogmas of religion, from which they draw inspiration, and it is confidence in the promises of religion that sustains and comforts when the spirit droops. These heroes and heroines are not injured by the narrow judgments of the press, nor do they need the praises of the press. But it is those to whom they minister that the press injures by this insistent ridicule of dogma. If religion were a thing of. sentiment and not- of sense, if it were a matter of* opinion and not of infallibility, if truth depended upon reason merely and not upon revelation mostly, then and then only would the position of those journalists who scoff at dogma be consistent. But life has many problems which baffle even the master minds. Society has many problems which centuries of study and experiment have not solved. The great science of duty has many laws which require expert interpretation. Yet the vast majority of men have neither the time nor talent nor have they the opportunity to investigate these laws for themselves, so that their conduct may be rational and their ideals lofty. The masses must accept the guidance of the cultured few if social life is to go on harmoniously and happily. They must regard the dogmas of religion if they would attain the proper end of human life. A religion without dogma is a religion of compromise, and a press without respect for dogma, a press that destroys reverence for the sacred things of life is religion’s greatest enemy.
The press has a negative and a positive duty toward religion. The press can do religion the highest service. It has done so in the past. It was the press which, at a time when those hostile to religion, if they did net indeed^ holdin contempt, at least, gave little notice and less credit to her teachings, brought before the
world in terms of highest commendation one who stood at the head of the largest of religious o	o
bodies, one whom before his death it had taught thinking men of all creeds and of no creed to respect, and one therefore whose religious principles men began to examine with unbiased minds—Leo XIII. It is due largely to the press, both on account of its impartial attitude toward all sects and by its creation of a broader feeling of brotherhood among men that most mutual prejudice and bitter religious controversy has disappeared. And so the press can benefit religion today. Not all the specious arguments of the philosophers nor the. lengthy researches of the apologists, not all the profound deductions of theologians nor the eloquence of a thousand orators could win over half the hearts of the wayward that the daily press could win by a concerted and continuous presentation of a single religious ideal. The average man is not swayed so much by logic as by suggestion, not so much by abstract reasoning as by concrete evidence, and there are more concrete examples of good in the world than of evil. These the press can present. Let the press hold up the example of respect for rightful authority wherever and whenever it be found and religion need fear no dissension. Let the press portray to the world the beautiful instances of conjugal fidelity and divorce will speedily wither away; let the press carry on its Mercury-like wings into every home the sweetly sad story of the patient poor, and the desperate ranks of the anarchist will no longer be recruited by deserters from the banner of religion.
It is not demanded that the press turn evangelist, for that is the business of religion. But it is demanded above all that the press realize its own limitation and refrain from using the flippant remark, the grotesque cartoon, which destroy -that sense of reverence for the sacred things of life and the common trust in the integrity of the dogmas of the Church.
When the press has escaped the bane of the commercial idea, when journalists recognize their moral responsibility, and respect not only the work but also the teaching of religion, when it shall use the power of the printed word to inspire men to good by presenting . the beautiful in life instead of inciting them to evil by uncovering the vicious in life, then will the proper relation between the press and religion have been established.

586
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
H.
The Press and the State.
JAMES L. HOPE, LL. B.
HEN the attention of the present ruler of Italy was called to a brilliant piece of newspaper work he said: “If I could not be a king, I should be a j'ournalist.” This tribute to the men who
wield power through the press today was not extravagant. The king realized that this power was second only to that of a supreme ruler. And if this mighty agency was recognized in a land where freedom of expression is limited, how much greater it is in a country where practically no restrictions are placed on editor or reporter.
This power of the press is especially felt in the upbuilding of a nation. The history of mankind is to a large extent a list of political changes. As the Assyrians supplanted the Babylonians, so the Romans supplanted the Greeks. And so on down to modern times, forms of government have altered as the influences that directed men in their social relationships were changed. Centuries ago men made themselves leaders through their physical courage, and gathered about them the multitudes, and so by the sword empires were gained and empires lost. Then came respect for tradition, bringing with it fealty to a family or class; and this regard for traditional rights fostered by the reigning family has been a strong influence in conserving the state. In ’ our day a new agency of political power has arisen.
Likewise through the history of mankind all the elements of civilization have been inconstant. . Systems of education, theories of science and theories of art have undergone many changes. But of all our intellectual forces the press is new. Two centuries ago there was no such institution. The relation of the press to the state, of journalism to the public is a thing which only historians of our own age can dwell upon. A generation now lives which can recall the birth of our modem newspaper. That generation can look back to the day when the cornerstone of this gigantic edifice was laid. They have seen this institution develop year by year; they have seen it work its way to its present influence, an
influence second only to that of religion—the most potent force coming in contact with man in his social and political relationships.
The growth of our modern press has run hand in hand with the intellectual growth of man. It is not many years ago that the happenings of the world, the news of the community, was given to our people simply by word of mouth. Around the pulpit and the platform gathered the eager listeners. Political parties in the early history x>f our country had few newspapers devoting their space, few gifted writers devoting their time to the advancement of party policies. The stump speaker who, year after year, traveled from one section to another, was the medium through which our people derived their political education. The newspaper, with little news and a minimum of editorial comment, was a luxury. . It came only, at rare intervals, and was read but by few. Now, the newspaper is a daily visitor and its welcome world wide. It reaches all homes, all classes.
Journalism is a bond of international acquaintance. Hence there is an obligation on the part of the papers of our nation and cf every nation, to keep that bond of acquaintance a bond of friendship. It may happen that the cup of patriotism will overflow, that national jealousy and selfishness will manifest themselves through the printed sheet. But the wise citizen and true patriot is he who not only takes a pride in the achievements of his own country, but who also gives credit to other countries for the good that they are doing. Through the press, then, we can learn from others the good accomplished, and the people of our country may in this way be benefited. In a similar way other nations may partake of the benefits which we enjoy. Through the press, then, the advancement of one nation may be the advancement of the whole world. Let us examine how the press today is fulfilling its high mission.
There is agitating today a world-wide peace. ' Large sums of money have been dedicated to the furtherance of this cause. Noble minds are lending it their aid. Here is a thing of vital importance tb every nation. Yet how seldom do our eyes fall upon the newspaper that is putting forth'its efforts to crown this cause with success. .
A few years ago the United States entered into war with Spain. Whether there was suffi
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
587
cient cause for such war has been questioned, but to the newspapers of that time there was more than sufficient cause. From the very beginning of our strained relations, their aim was to stir the people into a mood for war. It meant to them news, it meant a state of anxiety and excitement, which, in turn, would lengthen their subscription lists. War was the cry, war the demand-of the press. In type half the size of the sheet upon which it was printed their aim was pictured to the masses. We had the war. The newspapers reaped in dollars the harvest of their efforts. It is not an ideal press that will unthinkingly advocate war for our oto or any other nation through ghastly headlines and glaring type. It is not an ideal press that will so inflame the public mind that, at their clamor, the rulers and councillors of a nation must throw calm deliberation aside. “Suspend judgment,” was Captain Sigsbee’s message to us when the Maine was destroyed; but the press gave the verdict, and that became the judgment of the masses. Should not the newspapers feel it their duty to suppress the war-spirit—should not their desire for inordinate gain be supplanted by a motive looking to peace? The happiness and the welfare of the people, the advancement of the nation, that should be the aim of the press.
We are a nation different from all others, a representative democracy, whose govern- ' ment possesses a variety of functions, a people presenting all types, all races, all customs. That those types, those races and those customs have been blended together into a unified people, is largely due to our press. Reaching all, the press has been the most powerful influence in creating from these heterogeneous elements a unit. From this unified people are the officers of our government chosen from the highest to the humblest. The newspaper is called upon to deal with these men in public life. Its eye of criticism and of praise is cast upon all equally. This can not be said of the press of most countries—the foreign press does not possess this liberty. It dare not print that comment upon the sovereign power to which the head of our nation is subjected. In the press of those nations no caricatures appear that might hold up to the ridicule of the masses their ruler and the other men in power. There the hands of the press are tied, its' activities curbed; in a word, it is not. a free press.
But how different is it-within our own land? Here conditions have given our press a peculiar liberty in this regard. Our constitution expressly grants a certain freedom to our press; yet, can it be gathered from that provision that that liberty impliedly empowers our journalists to reach the guardians of our nation both in warranted and unwarranted criticism? Our press has a privilege which the foreign press does not possess. Our libel laws are not so framed that they may reach this fair and unfair comment. And so our papers unrestrictedly comment on the actions of public officials. A corps of writers is stationed at our capital who daily record the acts of our congressmen, who daily send forth to their readers what this or that senator has said
with reference to some public question. Should the utterance of that man be contrary to views held by the editor, should he advocate a policy differing from that laid down by the paper, he is held up to the public as one unworthy of trust. Accusation after accusation is made against him. Oftentimes he is accused of seeking personal gain and devoid of patriotism. Seldom do the newspapers inquire into the motive of the man in office, unfrequently does their search extend to the causes that prompt his conduct. His act has not met the approval of the paper, and he, not the principles he advocates, must be attacked. How often has a public man been compelled to seek oblivion so that his very mind may-not fail under the burden of unjust criticism. Our public servants are numbered by the score
588	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
whose service is lost to us, because they have been unable to cope with a venal press. An over - eagerness to bring to the attention of its readers rumors of unfaithfulness is oftentimes the cause of such unwarranted attack. Would not the press better serve the public by hesitation in printing such reports, even though one unworthy official should go for a time unpunished, than by its haste drag the innocent and faithful servant into public disfavor? Men of character, of ability and loyalty are all too few and too precious to permit their ruin by the attack of a conscienceless press. The patriotic journalist will make disclosures of dishonesty in high places, but he will do it with moderation, lest he sow seeds of bitterness and suspicion against all officials and so destroy respect for authority. . That lessening of respect is a danger that' threatens the state today through the agency of the press, and a grave danger it is; for if men are taught to sneer at civic virtue, to suspect all public servants of dishonesty, obedience to authority, the keystone of our national edifice will soon fall. It is true that it is essential in our form of government that the people should watch and know. When a combination of capital and enterprise has been formed creating a monopoly of a certain necessary commodity; when a public official dishonestly disposes of public property and public rights to designing individuals, we are benefited in knowing of such grafting methods, for they will find correction. When, through bribery, men have won public offices, it is the right of the people to know the fact. For our • proper development we must create new institutions, enact new laws to deal with ‘ growing evils. It is good, therefore, that flagrant ill practices be brought to the attention of the public. For the protection and stability of our nation such disclosures are essential. The newspaper can promptly reveal these dangers and keep us informed of such disorders. In it l:es our safety, but in it lies also a danger. Having the responsibility of revelation; our press must be such as will command our confidence.. In it is reposed the greatest trust that society can give. Not by colored and prejudiced presentation is that confidence to be had, but by a truthful and full exposition of facts, where the public interest is at stake. Not by wholesale denunciation, which can only lead our citizens to suspect all institutions
of authority; not by ridicule of men in high office, for that will diminish respect not for the man, but for his office; not by bitter personalities which may stir unthinking fanatics to murder—not in these ways does a press upbuild the state, for any journal taking from . even the meanest, citizen loyalty and respect is uprooting the virtues absolutely necessary for conserving our republic. In dealing with our judiciary especially the aim of the press should be to advance steadily the standard pf respect for authority which our courts must have. How often have certain of our papers by snap judgment convicted a man before he was brought to trial. Note the energy they use to persuade the public of this or that man’s guilt. How quick they are to criticise the judge or jury whose finding is contrary to theirs. The law must be respected if it is to have force, and it is the duty of the press to do all in its power to create and conserve that respect.
Today we are confronted by a mighty wave of false socialism that is sweeping over not only this land of ours, but all others. As the vulture with his spreading wings, this false philosophy of society is year by year gathering thousands under its fold. Thinking men are perplexed and amazed that anyone should be drawn to the standards of such a body. Most of these disturbers of social order lend their efforts to such a cause from ignorance, perhaps .some from baser reasons. That part of the press today which is creating unrest and suspicion is fostering socialism. The cartoons that appear in our papers, picturing men cf wealth and the men in public office as the usurpers of the people’s rights, as giants crushing and trampling the masses beneath their fe.et—these weird exaggerations act as an impetus to this flow of socialism. Do not the untutored thousands who pick up such papers believe the conditions pictured there to be real conditions? Can we not say that such radical methods of our press do actually lead thousands into the school of anarchy? The laboring millions who have little time to read and less to think, take on faith everything they see in their newspapers, and their authority for belief is too often the yellow journal. And who are they whose minds are becoming depraved with socialistic ideas? They find in such journals the fruits of discontent, their passions are stirred and all the power
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
589
of religion, all the power of the legitimate journals, all the power of high-minded men, is necessary to allay bitterness and teach the lessons of patience and honesty. While the abuses of capital and the evils which assert themselves through capital are to be opposed, yet the methods of correction must come from a sane and legitimate source. Not from the creation of a body that will literally wipe out all law, all respect for authority. Journalism today should have such a devotion to old-time patriotism, such a devotion to the advancement and welfare of our people that it would not allow a single word or act tending to the increase of this social unrest to be uttered through the newspaper. Our legitimate press is a force that can effectively reach this element that follows after socialism and anarchy. By the “yellow-journal” these men are educated; it is their master. Now let the legitimate press supply the corrective. Let this part of the press cease to give men through their daily columns the ghastly portrayals for which they crave. And then if their cause continues to flourish, history can not say that the press brought on a destruction of our social well-being, destroyed respect for authority and put in power a lawless horde.
The men whose calling it is to edit and con
tribute to our daily press have an important duty to perform. Never was there such an influential agency. operating on men in their political life—never was the power of our press greater than it is today. The press is to our nation what the pilot is to the ocean liner.
It may be that our press has come to stay until the end of time, it may be that it is still to grow in importance and influence. On the other hand it may be short-lived, it may be but temporary in its power and influence. A decade or a century may witness its decline. As forces of old have supplanted others, a new force may supplant the press. But whether it be of our own age only or whether it has come to stay forever, let the editors, the men in control, let all those who in any way help to make the paper, bend their efforts to form an influence that will ennoble and preserve; let their sole aim be to give to the people and to the nation and to the whole world the best journalism can offer. Through this medium they can be the masters of their age; the lessons which they teach will pass down to the generations that are to follow, and will be cherished as the seasoned wisdom of a great institution that has done its work for the betterment of mankind.

590
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
III.—The Press and the Home.
FRANCIS J. WENNINGER, LITT. B.
a sanctuary-most sacred
IE home is a most sacred institution. Divinely constituted, existing bv divine sanction and perpetuated by divine command, the home should be an abode of peace and love and purity, of innocence. Around this their shrine, men should build a wall
of lire through which no impurity may enter. Positive evil threatening desecration and ruin to this holy institution must, therefore; meet with vigorous opposition. But more than this. Men must consider it their high duty to guard that home from even possible defilement; for in the purity of our homes lies the salvation of society. As the river can never rise above its source, in like manner, social morality can never rise above its fountainhead, the home. Irreligion, social vice, drunkenness, divorce,—all these are dangers to be feared and to be fought; vampires sucking the red life of society and threatening her with ultimate degeneracy and decay. But we are not concerned with positive dangers such as these, for they are met individually by opposing forces. The drunkard is scorned from the high places, immorality of the baser type brings its own condemnation. And ’ so every particular danger threatening the home is met by some force strong enough to impede its progress. Our problem concerns a power whose influence, if misdirected, may spread more havoc than any other power in the land. We are dealing with a' force that can make or mar the moral destiny of the nation; a gigantic agency7 whose dominion .is felt alike in the palace of the mighty and the cottage of the lowly; an organ that may - lead men on to the high-road nf saintliness or lure them to infernal depths .of despair:—that power is the press. -	'	. .	. .
The power of the press is as. potent for evil as for good. Half a century ago, the literature in the home of the average American laborer consisted of the family Bible, an almanac and such few books as his small savings could buy.. Men . read, little and thought more. But the evolution of the printing-press wrought a change. The daily circulation of the news
paper increased from five hundred copies to fifty thousand; the price of production was reduced till it became so moderate that now even the poor man can have his paper every day. Men of all classes now read, but few, indeed, are they who pause to reflect on the bulk of news laid daily- before them. They devour without digesting news-items, editorial comment, views on religion, on politics, on the everyday conduct of men. They7 gobble up the current scandal in high society and the account .of the most recent murder; they7 seize ■ upon the latest disclosures in corrupt politics, and drink in the newest ethical teachings of some self-appointed and, usually, unprincipled evangelist,—and all this without serious consideration of the correctness of the news presented. Why7 is this done? Why7 do men cram into a brain already7 confused by7 a hundred cares, these weird - details of crime and scandal and passion? Why7 do they7 devour greedily all the sensation and distorticn and exaggeration of the present-day “yellow journals”? They do it because in the hurry and crowding of our American life men have not time for reflection; because some men have little, or no aptitude for serious consideration; because some lack the capacity for right thought and calm decision. Is it any wonder then that the minds. of the great multitude become unfit to form right judgments concerning the facts laid before them? Is.it any7 wonder that men living in an atmosphere of excitement and sensation mistake prejudice for impartiality, bigotry for fidelity to principle and falsehood for truth? Error can and often does array itself in an attractive garb which truth may never wear, and to detect the deception is not always an easy matter. To every man there come doubts, great .life-problems to solve. How shall these doubts be dispelled, how these problems solved? The ordinary man goes to the lives of other men for his solution; he notes their conduct as presented in his paper and fashions his mode of action after theirs. But is the newspaper a trustworthy criterion of conduct? Does it rightly interpret the actions of men? Does it answer the eager inquirer as he should be answered, correctly, truthfully, justly?
Here is a man whose knowledge is limited to reading and writing and “the rules of thumb of his trade.” He has never entered a lecturehall and knows nothing of the “tangled mazes
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
59i
of thought” spun by the master-minds of the world. His travels are measured by the path leading from his home to the work-shop. His companions are the sweating toilers of the factory. He enjoys few of the world’s comforts and none of its luxuries. His ambition is to provide a home for his family, and his only reward is the thankful smile of his devoted wife and the eager caress of his innocent children. This man is not alone in the land, he is only one of the “heaving masses of humanity with all the cark and care of life upon them.” His case is typical of millions, his home is one of a hundred thousand scattered over the country. Into this home, as into those hundred thousand other homes, there comes every day a penny newspaper. From the pages cf that paper this man is to gather his ideas concerning society, from it he is to learn hew to think and live and act. That paper is his mirror of American life, the standard to which his own life will conform. But that paper presents a weird spectacle of crime and disaster and outrage; of scandal and violence and passion; of bitter class antagonism and social intrigue and political corruption, and all these grossly exaggerated and distorted. Observe the ready wit of the reporter who fills half a column of his paper with a detailed account of a drunkard’s brutality toward his patient wife. Note how the facts are colored and “doctored” beyond all limits of truth and propriety. Mark the nauseating detail, the suggestive phrase, the delicate touch in the account of a particularly sensational divorcescandal, or of a divorce-scandal not sensational at all, but simply made so by an unscrupulous editor in an effort to increase the circulation of his paper. And what prolific sources of sensational story are not the divorce courts of the country. Flourishing as they never flourished in all our history, these courts are grinding out divorces at the rate of one thousand every week, or a hundred and forty every day. It is a - principle of book-psychology and a fact of actual experience “that increase of public appetite for any form of printed matter grows with what it feeds upon.” If, then, the intellectual food of three-fourths of the people in the country’’ consists, as is actually the case, of tire news-reports of the daily papers; if these papers, instead of making for truth and purity, ’ print matter that is neither true nor clean; if some papers’engulf their readers
in a deluge of unclean story, then the only logical result can be the creation in the public of an appetite for that kind of news. But worse than this. An evil suggestion is nearly always followed by an evil action. Every age of history is replete with illustrations cf this principle. From the infamous Henry at whose petty complaint a cringing courtier slew England’s sainted chancellor, down to the writer of the malignant editorial' that caused the attack on the mayor of- New York City, there has been an unbroken series of crimes resulting from insinuation and suggestion. Today similar results are followingsimilar causes. • Today our yellow journals are sowing the cockle; today these journals are scattering broadcast their lessons in the false philosophy of life. Some of the seed is
falling upon stony ground; more of it is choked by strong influences laboring for moral uplift; but some of the kernels are falling into promis-' ing soil,—the hearts of the youth of the land. Already the harvest is yellowing, already men are reaping the whirlwind where they sowed the storm. What shall the future be? The answer lies with the men of the nation. It is they to whom she must look in every need; ;it is they who must champion her every cause. And, thank God, they have never failed, they never will fail, for theirs are the weapons of ■truth, and “Truth is mighty and shall prevail.”
Vice has a peculiar fascination for the young; -virtue passes them by unnoticed. The mad escapades of’ an outlaw charm the youthful fancy to admiration; the silent heroism of
592
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
God’s saints is so much fragrance wasted on the desert of youthful hearts. Strange that the season of development should be also a season of decay; that the seed springing into yellow maturity should ripen among corruption; but stranger still that the strong, living mould destined to develop into the fullness of manhood and womanhood should be ruined. Still how true it all is. Yet men fail far too frequently to recognize the necessity of restraining youth, and youth is blind to its own folly. The young man sees only the ideal in life, he fails to grasp the true import *of the real. His interpretation of the things of life is as apt to be erroneous as right. He readily mistakes license for freedom, coarseness for wit, profanity for manliness and disrespect for independence.- Such’ is youth,— careless, irresponsible youth. Now place into the hands of that youth a paper filled with sensational accounts of riots and murder and deeds of violence. Teach the growing boy or girl, at a time when impressions are lasting, that men and women may treat the’marriage contract as’ something temporary, a bond to be broken at the whim or will of either . contracting party, and you destroy the notion of the sanctity of the home. Show the precocious lad, hungering for excitement and eager for daring romance,—show this boy by glaring examples, if not by editorial comment, that the taking of human life is justifiable when honor, real or imaginary, is at stake; let him see that money and influence afford immunity to the’offender and his idea of the holiness of life is gone.
Yet this is done every day by the journals of the land, and the extent of the evil resulting from such a course of action can only 'be conjectured. The prevalence in the papers of this -kind of news is alarmingly apparent. Witness the action of a chief executive of the .nation in barring from his home any reference to a particularly sensational divorce scandal whose disgusting details were being flaunted openly before the public. Why this action bn the part of the President? Certainly not because Mr. Roosevelt needed to be on his guard against this type of news. No, but because he desired publicly to express his ■ indignation at the journalistic impudence which dared to foist such news upon the public.
All these are the larger sins’ of the press and are committed but infrequently. Take
another offense, less grave in character but none the less pernicious in its influence upon the young mind,—the fostering of a spirit of irreverence and indifference toward our sacred conventions of obedience and loyalty to authority. A young lad runs away from home. The occurrence is of sufficient importance to elicit comment from the press. But instead of stating the bare facts in a way that will impress the wrongfulness of the act upon the mind of the young reader, the reporter presents the escapade in the gaudy embellishments of a mediaeval romance, glosses over the flagrant con tempt for parental authority, and pictures the hero as a person who is not to be blamed but rather excused on account of his years. The whole incident makes attractive, perhaps entertaining, reading, but a. great harm has been done. The editor has missed a chance to declare for filial reverence and the justice of parental authority. He has failed in his duty as public teacher; he has usurped the power that is his and has used it for evil instead of for good. Not that we would have the newspaper turn public moralist; no, but an incident like the foregoing should, by the introduction of a telling word or pithy phrase, produce in the reader a sense of the wrongfulness of such action and renewed reverence for authority.
One of the highest duties of the press should be the setting up of right ideals of conduct in private and in public life. Virtue should be encouraged and vice condemned wherever found. Not all the power of a Caesar, nor all the wealth of a Croesus; not all the wisdom
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
593
of a Solomon, nor all the sagacity of a Solon, should be sufficient reason for setting aside the old standards of right and wrong. But there are those who proclaim such creeds obsolete and unworthy of an advanced civilization. There are those who subscribe to the philosophy of pessimism,—men who contend that evil always was and always will be; - that time spent in fighting social vice is time lost; that some men will always refuse to walk the high-road of virtue, will always be mired in the filth of the so-called “social vice.” But these men are wrong. Pessimism is a philosophy of cowards, and moral pessimism is moral cowardice. Was ever creed more pernicious or doctrine more damning than that which contends for the necessity of social evils? Yet even a philosophy as mistaken as this numbers among its followers some of the best talent among the journalistic profession. There are journalists who regard social vice as a necessary evil, deplorable, indeed, but essential to our social existence. They present vice and crime and outrage to the reader without rebuke for the offender or condemnation for the methods responsible for such results. They exploit by picture and story the low and base in life under pretense of supplying a public demand. Conduct of this kind has at least the questionable merit of frankness We know the pessimist, for he takes no pains to conceal his philosophy, he stands out in the open and espouses his cause frankly. But there is another 'type of journalist whose methods are dangerous because concealed. He is the man who looks Mith indifference on the panorama of life as it passes before him. Instead of inveighing against glaring faults, he observes the silence of consent ; instead of declaring for honesty and truth and purity in affairs social and politic, he assumes an attitude of indifference, of acquiescence. He is content to let things remain as they are, to let affairs shape themselves as they will. He is the journalist who has a dual standard of morality, one fcr the man, the other for the woman. Where could a more disastrous tenet be found? The journalist who preaches that it is right to hold in contempt her who has fallen by the wayside is a criminal if he considers virtue sufficiently exonerated when that woman is declared an outcast of society, while he who compassed her ruin is allowed to hold a position of
honor and trust in the community.
If, then, the press will fulfil its sacred obligations, its duty is plain. It is not asked that the daily newspaper shall be a mere catalogue of events, a prosy dissertation on public morals or private conduct. A newspaper may be a record of events and a teacher of morals without bearing the finger marks of studied effort at “being good.” High up, holding the foremost places, there are journals that record without distortion and exaggeration, that teach without exploiting the low and base in life for glaring examples of their teaching. It is hot asked that news should be repressed, that faults be glossed over, that vice be varnished and coated, and that editorial comment be simply an echo instead of a voice in the wilderness. No, but it is asked that the press realize its own limitations and its own sphere of action. It is demanded that the press present to the reader the truth as it is,—plainly, simply, without exaggeration or coloring or distortion; that it have one standard of judgment for men and women alike; that it refrain from picturing in lurid phrase and suggestive sentence, disrupted homes and broken family ties; that it speak out boldly and fearlessly for authority rightly constituted, and that it expend its enormous power in doing good instead of evil, in showing the sunshine in life instead of the shadow, in fostering among men that spirit which will give us a manhood and womanhood, pure of heart, clean of mind, aspiring of soul.
Thomas A. Lahey, Litt. B.
Poet-Laureate of the Class of 1911.
594
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
k Valedictory.
ARTHUR JOHN HUGHES, PH. B.
NCE there was a college man who stood on this stage and bade his Alma Mater farewell. Gifted in mind and generous of heart, he paid her the homage of a devotion filial and deep.
A long and happy course had been his, and year after year as he sat in this hall and heard class after class bid good-bye to their college his heart filled with the feeling of the hour. He entered into the spirit with a prescient sympathy; for he looked ahead to days that were to come when he too should stand gazing for the last time upon the venerable brow of his fostering mother, Notre Dame, and receive her last parting benediction. And so for him all commencements borrowed meaning from his own that was to be. And then at length his own commencement came. He was no longer a spectator, he was a participant. It was for him, for his class, that this gala week had been set aside, for him that distinguished orators had been invited to cheer his parting with a last strong “God speed;” it was for him that parents and friends had gathered here, loving and proud. His were the laurels now. It was his hour, and it found him cold. He did not know why. For years commencements of others had stirred his heart, at his own he was unmoved. The day he had looked forward to with surmise of heavy soul found no chord vibrant, and so he said “Good-bye,” the formal farewell to his Alma Mater, heavy not with the grief of parting but with the thought that he should feel no grief. And so his day of commencement passed, a day of smiles and handshakes, congratulations and best wishes, and a distraction of activity. He did not depart at once, yet he did not remain for any reason of sentiment. For two days he was busy, and on the third day he awoke and suddenly realized what had happened. He awoke to find himself in another world. Alacant halls
and empty campus made Notre Dame seem twice as large and altogether strange. The silent refectory with its vacant chairs smote upon him, and he himself seemed a spirit out of his native element. “Ghostlike I paced round the haunts of my childhood,”
he might have said with the poet because he too was seeking “the old familiar faces.” Now he knew what graduation meant; he realized in full measure that commencement if it is a beginning is also an end, a death as well as a rebirth.
And that, men of nineteen hundred and eleven, and members of the faculty, is what this commencement means to us. Tonight we have assembled to witness the closing hours of our life as college men at Notre Dame. Finding ourselves confronted with the necessity of severing ties which have been formed by the duties and pleasures of four years of student life at this University, we realize that these last hours of our college life are really the last hours of a life that is slipping from our hands.
For four years we have had before us, in a
remote way, the occasion which th s evening brings, but rather as a revery than as a reality. At last, however, the time of anticipation is over. This day’s exercises dissolve a goodly company—in all the history of Notre Dame no larger class has ever stood together as her graduates. In the greatness of numbers there is always honor, but it is not enough for the class of nineteen hundred and eleven to rest its laurels on this distinction, for with such a distinction goes the obligation of giving evidence of the power and strength to wear our honors nobly and gracefully. By our fruits we shall be known, and not by any external qualifications which we possess will the judgment of our worth as a class be given, o
Classmates: In this the concluding hour
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
595
of our college course we are happy in the satisfaction of work accomplished. Tonight we go forth from Notre Dame never to return as students. In spite of all we may wish and hope and vow we can not hold together as a unit once the branch is cut from the tree. We must go our several ways hoping at the best but to meet from time to time, here and there,— may it be often literally here—while holding in our hearts memories and ideals that will keep us one. At this moment of parting no word so suits our understanding as plain Good-bye.
Members of the Faculty: I have said we realize the twofold meaning of this hour. Commencement is a death and a birth. It is of the birth that we would speak to you. It is in
that life mainly that your work will be fulfilled. We are far from forgetting the days in which we passed in and out among you when your influence made us realize that life was with us a present reality, but we think of you most as the custodians of our future. And our confidence for days to come, the strength with which we shall meet contending time, shall be a confidence and a strength borrowed from our faith in you. In all we do our hand will include vours. Our harvest shall be vour harvest. We take with us the consciousness of our parentage, being your sons and the sons of Alma Mater.
And so we say: Good-bye, Notre Dame. Nou have been good to us, and we love you.
Corby
have Pleasurc *n reproducing a ven’ y y good photograph (by Staples, South Bend) of the Corby monument on the campus of the University. The sculptor is the famous artist Air. Samuel Murray of Philadelphia, who was selected by the State of Pennsylvania to crown Pennsylvania’s monument (the best on the battlefield of Gettysburg) with a Winged Victory.	‘
It adds to the interest of the statue to know that the great boulder on which it rests was
Monument .
brought from the battlefield of Gettvsburg on purpose to serve as a pedestal for this statue.
The President of the University desires to express his obligations to the Commissioners of the battlefield and especially to the venerable Father Hayes, pastor of Gettysburg, whose tact and energy secured from the Commissioners this great favor. We regret to state that a sudden and serious attack of illness prevented the beloved Father Hayes from being present at the unveiling of the statue.
596	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Scholastic
Bntered as Second-Class Mail Matter
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the University of Notre Dame
Terms: Si.50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: The Editor Notre Dame Scholastic
Notre Dame, Indiana
Vol. XLIV.	June, 1911.	No. 36.
—The Sixty-Seventh Commencement of which we present a detailed account in this issue brought together a number of very notable men in widely different walks
A Notable of life. Governor Judson Commencement. Harmon of Ohio, a very possible Democratic nominee for the presidency, and at present the best-known man of his own commonwealth • to all people of the country, delivered a thoughtful address Saturday evening especially intended for the Law students. Father Elliott, the distinguished Paulist, who began that now well-organized movement of preaching to non-Catholics, was heard on Sunday^ and will long be remembered. Father Elliott’s ripe scholarship is surpassed only by his rare modesty. Monday evening, Sir Charles Fitzpatrick, Chief J; Justice of the Supreme Court , of Canada, spoke of the opportunities of his country to an^exceptionally large audience J and ^received an ^ovation worthy of his high position. / Any^one of these men would have’ added lustre'rto a commencement. All „	A,.	__
comingAogether^sets^ipii in a class by itself. WeAiaveJrefrained^from mentioning Dr. John Talbot Smith who delivered such a tellingly practical address at the Preparatory Commencement, because we consider Dr. Smith one of ourselves. To praise him would scarcely indicate due modesty. In the case of Dr. Walsh we have taken somewhat the same attitude. He drops in any time and gives us a lecture. He also is one of the family.
Everything considered, the commencement of 1911 will rank high among the great commencements of the past. It will rank high because of the number and quality of the graduates, the notable men that assembled to make it memorable, the large gathering of Alumni and visiting friends, and the fine spirit of loyalty shown to the University on all sides.
—During the past decade or so, there has been a marked tendency towards organization both on the part of the employer and employee.
This means the loss Two Efficient Workers for of individualism in Industrial Peace. ’ the commercial world, and a corresponding difficulty in settling disputes as collective bargaining advances. This movement towards concentration of forces has been very noticeable in the case of the managers and employers of the railroads in the United States. Each manager and each wage-earner on the road no longer represents a unit in the industrial world, but stand as the representative of a most powerful combination, pledged to make every sacrifice rather than surrender. The labor disputes of the last few years have made these facts clear to us. Knowing the spirit that animates the party involved in these labor disputes, it is a matter of great satisfaction to hear, at times, of advance made toward the settlement of our too numerous labor quarrels. A notable example of what may be accomplished by wise counsel and cool arbitration is the recent settlement of the sharp controversy between the Southern railway and its trainmen. It was a case in which the Erdman Act was tested in a very striking way. The act provides for both mediation and arbitration, but as yet the compact mediation of Judge Martin A. Knapp and Dr. Charles P. Neil, who compose the commission constituting the act, has made unnecessary an appeal to the arbitration claims. There has been much talk of -peace during the past few years, mostly of an international kind. But the question of peace at home should not be lost sight of while labor and capital are at variance on so many points. The work that Messrs. Knapp and Neil are engaged in is to preserve peace at home; to maintain friendly relations in the world of industry. A strike always means suffering; it means loss of life and property and lawlessness of every kind. And yet in the last few years Mr. Neil and his associate have settled scores of disputes that involved hundreds of thousands of men. With dishonesty making its way into the council chamber of employer and workman alike, it is most gratifying to point to a governmental committee the fairness of whose decisions has never been questioned, and whose noble work has helped so materially the progress of industrial peace.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
597
Sixty-Seventh Commencement.
Opening Address.
ATURDAY evening, June io, the exercises of commencement were formally opened by the Hon. Judson Harmon, Governor of Ohio. Washington hall was
crowded with students and visitors to hear the noted jurist and statesman in his address to the outgoing students of law. After the
high mass sung by the Rt. Rev. Herman Alerding, bishop of Fort Wayne, and to listen to the eloquent baccalaureate sermon delivered by the noted Paulist missionary and lecturer, Father Elliott. As the great tower clock chimed the hour, the sacristy doors swung wide, whence clergy and acolytes marched in solemn procession to the University parlors to escort the faculty and graduating class to the church. The re-entrance of the procession was an impressive and inspiring sight. The members of the faculty in their academic robes, the
The Very Reverend AV alter Elliott, C. S. P., LL. D.
Governor had been introduced by the President of the University he was given an ovation not often witnessed in academic audiences. Governor Harmon read a manuscript which was filled with wise counsels from an experienced laivyer to young men as yet unacquainted with the difficulties of the legal profession. We publsh the address in full in this issue..
Baccalaureate Sunday.
Promptly at eight o’clock Sunday morning, June ii, students and visitors assembled in the Sacred Heart Church to assist at pontifical
large body of graduates in cap and gown and the ministers of the altar resplendent in their handsome gold vestments lent an air of dignity and solemnity to the scene which had a profound effect upon those -witnessing it. The pontifical mass ivas immediately begun, and beautiful as are its ceremonies considered alone, they were made doubly impressive by the able rendering of the Gregorian chant by the University choir.
The sermon, while not so formal as in past years, ivas unsurpassed in depth of thought,
598
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
felicity of expression and wealth of valuable instruction. After making a touching reference to his own happy days at Notre Dame, and congratulating the senior class on the opportunities here afforded them and their success in improving them, the preacher reminded the class of the great things which the world expected of them and their responsibility to uphold the honor and glory of their Alma Mater by the example of their lives. The sermon was strikingly practical and full of priestly insight.
Father Cavanaugh, ’90, acted as assistant priest, Fathers O’Donnell, ’06, and Irving ’04, as deacon and subdeacon, and Fathers Schumacher ’99, and Walsh, ’04, as deacons of honor. The ceremonies closed with a pontifical blessing by the bishop and the singing of the Te Deum by the congregation.
Alumni Meeting.
The Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame held their fourth annual meeting June ji, at 5 p. m. in Brownson study hall. Francis O’Shaughnessy, President of the Alumni, presided. The minutes were read and, approved. On motion, the class of 1911 was formally admitted to membership in the Association, and was led into the meeting by the committee appointed by the chair. The following were elected members of the Alumni: Joseph M. Byrne, Newark, New Jersey; Patrick T. O’Sullivan, Chicago; John. Malone, Chicago; Charles Reuss, Fort Wayne, Ind., and John C. Shea, Dayton, Ohio.
Letters from members who could not be present were then read. A list of the deceased members of the Alumni 1910-1911 followed. The name of Brother Leander, C. S. C., was added to the list. A committee—William Mclnerny, George Pulskamp, Peter Ragan— was appointed to draft suitable resolutions of sympathy. Another committee—Harry Hogan, Thos. Hoban and Harold Fisher—was appointed to draft congratulations to the athletic and debating teams of the University.
The president’s report that followed contained a suggestion, that special effort be made to build up Notre Dame clubs in the various cities of the country and thereby create a strong Notre Dame spirit whenever opportunity presents itself. If these N. D. clubs are strong and active the power of the Alumni Association is assured. In the absence of the Hon. Warren A. Cartier, the treasurer, Dezere E-
Cartier read the treasurer’s report. According to this report there was a balance in the treasury June 11, 1911, of S202S.71.
The following officers were elected for the ensuing year: Honorary President, Rev. John T. O’Connell, LL. D., ’01, Toledo, Ohio; President, Daniel Patrick Murphy, ’95, New York City; Vice-Presidents, Mark Foote, ’73, Chicago, Ill.; Michael O. Burns, ’86, Hamilton, Ohio; Harry Grattan Hogan, ’04, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Samuel Michael Dolan, ’10, Albany, Oregon; John C. Shea, Ti, Day ton, Ohio, John Carl Tully, Ti, El Paso, Ill.; Secretary, Rev. William A. Moloney, C. S. C., Notre Dame; Ind.; Treasurer, Dezere E. Cartier, ’92, Ludington, Michigan; Trustees,’10-’12, Henry A. Steis, ’85, South Bend, Indiana; Dr. James M. Dinnen, ’96, Fort Wayne, Indiana; Clement C. Mitchell, ’02, Chicago, Ill.; Trustees, ’n-’i3, Rev. A. B. O’Neill, C. S. C., ’91, Notre Dame Indiana;; Prof. William Hoynes, ’91, Notre Dame, Indiana; Byron V. Kanaley, ’04, Chicago, Ill.; Trustees, ex-officio, Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., D. D., ’90, President University of Notre Dame; Daniel Patrick Murphy, ’95, President Notre Dame Alumni Association.
The committee on condolence made the following report:
Whereas the Alumni Association here assembled has learned with regret of the death of the following members: Augustus Albert Browne, B. S., ’86, M. S., ’98, Aug. iS, 1910, Brownsville, Texas; Rev. Timothy D. O’Sullivan, A. M., ’SS, Nov. 1, 1910, Chicago, Illinois; Prof. James Farnham Edwards, LL. B., ’75, A. M. ’S3, Jan. 15, 1911, St. Joseph’s Hospital, South Bend, Indiana; John Patrick Curry, LL. B_, ’01; LL. M., ’02, April S, 1911, Hartford, Conn.; Edward Augustus Moseley, LL. D., ’10, April 18, ’11, Washington, D. C.; Rev. Martin J. Regan, C. S. C., A. M. ’85, May 2, 1911, St. Joseph’s Hospital, South Bend, Indiana; Charles F. Porter, B. S., ’85, January 16, ’ 11, Eau Claire, Wisconsin; Louis Snowden Hayes, A. B., ’74, Bec. 1910.
Therefore: Be it resolved, that while we regret the going of our departed brothers, yet we are not without hope. They lived such exemplary Christian lives, we feel we shall again meet them after the struggles of this life are over.
May their souls and the souls of all the dear dead rest in peace with Christ-Our Lord.
William McInerny
-	George Pulskamp
Peter Ragan—Committee.
The committee on- congratulations reported as follows:	•
The Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame at their annual meeting on June 12, 1911, wish to congratulate the young men of Notre Dame
f.

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
who so brilliantly upheld her honor in athletics during the past year.
It has been a source of gratification to note the long list of victories in the various forms of athletics as well as in debate and oratory by representatives of Alma Mater.
It is sincerely hoped the records of the future will keep pace with the records of the past.
Harry Hogan Thomas Hoban Harold Fisher—Committee.
After a number of interesting impromptu speeches and a stirring talk by the retiring president of the Association the meeting was declared at an end.
The following members of the Alumni Association were present at the meeting and at the commencement exercises:	•
Timothy E. Howard, A. M., ’64; Rev. John R. Dinnen, A. B., ’65; Mark M. Foote, A. M., ’75; William Hoynes, A. M., ’77; Rev. A. M. Kirsch, C. S. C., M. S., ’78; Very Rev. A. Morrissey, C. S. C., A. B., ’78; Martin J: McCue, B. S., ’79; John B. Berteling, B. S., ’80; Rev. James Solon, B. S., ’84; Henry A. Steis, LL. B., ’S5; Michael 0. Burns, LL. B_, ’S6; E. Rolland Adelsperger, A. B., ’90; John S. Hummer, LL. B., ’90; Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., Litt. B., ’90; Rev. A. B. O’Neill, C. S. C., A. M., ’91; Dezere A Cartier, B. S., ’92; Patrick J. Houlihan, LL. B. ’92; Peter M. Ragan, LL. B., ’92; Rev. M. A. Quinlan, C. S. C., A. B., ’93; Edward J. Maurus, B. S., ’93; Francis A. Bolton, Litt. B., ’94; Francis J. Powers, B. S. B., ’94; Rev. Hugh O’G. McShane, LL. D., ’95; James M. Dinnen, A. M., ’96; Rev. T. A. Crumley, C. S. C„ A. B„ ’96; Rev. J. A. Maguire, C. S. C., B. S„ ’96; G. F. Pulskamp, Litt. B., ’96; Arthur W. Stace, Litt. B., ’96; Rev. John B’. Scheier, C. S. C., A. M., ’97; Rev. M. F. Oswald, C. S. C., A. B., ’98; F. Henry Wurzer, LL. B., ’98; Rev. J. Nieuwiand, C. S. C., A. B., ’99; Rev. M. Schumacher, C. S. C., A. B., • ’99; Thomas M. Hoban, LL. B., ’99; William A. Mclnerny, LL. B., ’01; Joseph J. Sullivan, Litt. B_, ’01; Raymond Vitus Stephan, LL. B., ’03; Rev. J. I/. Carrico, C. S. C., Litt. B., ’03; Rev. M. J. Walsh, C. S. C., Litt. B., ’03; Francis X. Ackermann, M. S., ’04; Rev. Joseph H. Burke, C. S. C., A. B., ’04; Gallitzin A. Farabaugh, A. B., ’04; Rev. Thomas P. Irving, C. S. C., A. B., ’04; Byron V. Kanaley, A. B., ’04; Robert E. Proctor, LL. B., ’04; Thomas A. Quinlan, LL. B., ’04; Thomas J. Swantz, B. S. B., ’04; Edward H. Schwab, LL. B., ’05; John Worden, B. S. B., ’05; Rev. John T. O’Connell, LL- D. ’06; Rev. Charles L. Doremus, C. S. C., A. B., ’06; Daniel L. Madden, LL. B., ’06; Frank A. McCarthy, L. B., ’06; Harold P. Fisher, C. E., ’06; Rev. Francis C. Kelley, LL. D_, 1907; Rev. John Talbot Smith, ■ LL. D., ’07; Maximilian J. Jurschek, LL. B., ’oS;
Varnum A. Parish, Litt. B., ’oS; Rufus W. Waldorf, M. E., ’08; Henry W. Carr, B. S. A., ’09; James Lee Cahill, LL. B., ’10; Darney Anthony Kelly, LL. B., ’10; Martin Harold Miller, Ph. B., ’10; Emile Valere Molle, A. B., '10; Denis Agustine Morrison, Litt. B., ’10; Harry Francis McDonough, LL. B., ’10; Myles
599
Hilt Sinnot, Ph. B., ’10; Jesse Eustaquio Vera, M. E., ’10; George Patrick Walsh, B. S., ’10; Rev. Walter Lavin, C. S. C., Litt. B., ’10; Lucius Buckley Andrus, E. E., ’10.
The Alumni Banquet.
On Monday evening at 7:15 the annual Alumni banquet took place in Brownson dining room which was graced by various Notre Dame pennants and flags. During the progress of the feast, the university orchestra rendered a number of well chosen selections. Following the banquet the toastmaster, Francis O’Shaughnessy, LT. B. ’1900, introduced the speakers of the evening in his own inimitable way. Mr. Joseph Sullivan, ’01, responded to the toast “First Impressions,” and effected a happy blending of humor and pathos in recalling his arrival at and departure from Alma Mater. Mr. Arthur W. Stace, ’96, showed how opportunity is the one great factor which determines success in the different walks of life. The importance of little things was demonstrated by Mr. Daniel Madden,’06. Mr. Michael Burns, ’86, treated the advantages of a Catholic education. Mr. Burns began by assuring us that he, unlike the first two speakers, did not have Mr. O’Shaughnessy act as best man at his wedding. Dr. Walsh, ’11, showed how deplorable is the disregard for religion in our public schools, and enlivened his subject with frequent sparks of wit. Father Morrissey, 78, closed the speeches of the evening with a few extemporaneous remarks on the “Spirit of Loyalty among the Alumni.” After the toasts those present, accompanied by Professor Petersen’s able contingent, sang N. D. songs con mucho gusto.
Mass for Deceased Alumni.
Monday morning, at 8 o’clock, solemn requiem mass was sung in the Sacred Heart Church for the deceased Alumni. A large congregation of Alumni, students and their relatives assisted at the holy sacrifice. The celebrant of the mass was Very Rev. John Dinnen, ’65; Rev. Hugh O’Gara McShane, ’94, deacon, and Rev. J. A. Solon, ’84, subdeacon.
Bachelors’ Orations.
Monday morning at ten o’clock the bachelor orations of the outgoing class were delivered by Messrs. Miltner, Hope and Wenninger. A large audience of friends and students assembled, drawn thither many of them by the reputation which the young men had already made, both in collegiate and inter
6oo
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
collegiate work. Mr. Millner, as first speaker in the development of the subject chosen, dwelt upon the relationship which now exists between "The Press and Religion.” After showing that religion is not only of an older but also a stronger birth than the press, Mr. Millner with fine emphasis delineated the press <if todav as endeavoring to alienate itself from the influence of that great [lower.
hollowing Mr. Miltner, Mr. Hope of the graduating law class, continued the sequence of thought bv showing in what manner the press has become a dominating [lower in state formation and government. The extreme liberty.
lack of higher education and better readingmatter makes it a potent influence. The three orators acquitted themselves admirably of their task, not only in composition but in expression and deliverv as well. The exercise was interesting, instructive, and. as indicated bv the frequent and vigorous ajiplau.se of the audience, verv well received. The intervals between the orations were well filled by the University orchestra and a quartette composed of Messrs. Wasson, .Murphy, Conway and Yund. Regatta and Swimming.
The time set for the regatta was 1.30 p. m. Monday. Long before that hour, however.
Senior Crew.
or rather license, of the press in preventing the activities of honest public officials in the exercise of their duties by cartoons, articles, etc., was especially decried by the orator.
Mr. Wenninger, as last speaker, dwelt upon the press in relation to the home. Well and favorably known among college oratorical circles of the state, Mr. Wenninger was perhaps better than usual in his speech of Monday, holding at all times the closest attention of his audience. He brought before his listeners the true moral influence of the penny newspaper in . those particular homes where the
the lake was lined with visitors, alumni, seniors in cap and gown, and undergraduates. The University band played during the races and added much to the pleasure of the hour. The first race was won by the Freshman engineers who out-rowed the freshman lawyers by over a hundred yards. The distance was covered in 4:32 2-5.
The second race was won by a freshman crew over the sophomores. Time, 4:39. The first-year men gained an advantage at the first turn which won them the race.
The last race was the most hotly contested and easily the best exhibition of the day.
HOT RE DAME SCHOLASTIC
6ot
The Juniors in the Silver Jubilee won, but only after the pluckiest kind of rowing on the part of the seniors in the Golden Jubilee. Fifty yards from the finish, the third-year men put up a great struggle, and, by br.lliant rowing, succeeded in winning by a quarter length. Time, 4:22.
The following is the personnel of the win-
ning crews.
Freshman Engineers—L. Sotomayor, bow; Rochne. 2; Dorias, 3; Jones, 4; Stansfield, 5; Oaas, captain and stroke; Handlin, cox
swain.
Freshmen—Skelley, bow; Fordvce, 2; Schind-
Varsity-Alumni Game.
The annual commencement baseball game between the Alumni and the Varsity was captured by the old boys, 6 to 2. Heyl, who has rendered noble service for his Alma Mater in the pivotal position for four years was handled without gloves by the old fellows, and retired after the third inning. Regan replaced him and did well. Waldorf for the Alumni was gracious and gentle, but allowed onlv five scattered hits. Before the game monograms were awarded to baseball, track and basketball men. In basketball: Granfield Ulatowski, Moloney, Fish, Feeney; Track:
JrxioR Crew.
ier, 3; Scott, 4; Corcoran, 5; Gushurst, captain , and stroke, Birder, coxswain.
Juniors—Condon, bow; Howard, captain and 2; Robinson, 3; Broussard, 4; Johnson, 5; Lange, stroke; Rush, coxswain.
The swimming races were exciting and highly interesting. Hebner’s “Minnows” won the relay. Mehlem’s “ Dolphins ” took second honors and Lynch’s “Whales” were third.
The “Minnows” were LeBlanc, Rochne, Bruce, Corcoran and Hebner. The “Dolphins” were Rempe, Steers, Feeney, Carolyn and Mehlem. Lynch, Crowley, Duncan, McNulty and McNichol composed the “Whales.”
Bergman, Hogan, Philbrook, Devine, Williams, Wasson, Fletcher, Fisher, Steers, Rush. Martin; Baseball: Quigley, Williams, Phillips, Farrell, O’Connell, Ulatowski, Regan, Heyl, Somers, Arnfield, Wilson, Fish, Sherry, Granfield.
Comm enc ement Exercises.
On Tuesday evening at 8 o'clock the commencement exercises proper were held in Washington hall. Every available foot of space was occupied by members of the Alumni, students and their relatives and friends. After a selection by the orchestra, the President of the University accompanied the Right Hon. Sir Charles Fitzpatrick, Chief Justice of Canada,
602
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
to the stage. In a few brief, well-chosen sentences the President introduced the distinguished Canadian, and when he stood before the audience he must have felt that he was not among strangers, the reception he received was so cordial and enthusiastic. He spoke on Canada and its manifold resources and opportunities as a growing country. We publish the address in full.
The Universit}’ quartette rendered the traditional “Home, Sweet Home” in its best manner, after which Mr. Thomas A. Lahey read the class poem. The thought and phrasing were in Mr. Lahey’s best manner; and those who have followed his work in the Scholastic for the past four years will not consider this faint praise. Mr. Hughes’ Valedictory was characterized by dignity and simplicity, with here and there a pathos that had nothing of the conventional commencement dole. When the orchestra had concluded the program, honors were awarded, and an exceptionally large class received degrees.
A Bit of Old Color.
The following letter from the founder and editor of the Kansas City Star is so full of hope for the boy who has trouble with discipline that we feel obliged to share it with our readers. Colonel Nelson is not only one of the most influential men in the United States, but he is also a fine example of manly character. His letter proves that no educator should ever lose faith in a boy no matter how grave his delinquency may seem to be, or how constant.
June 13th, 1911.
My Dear Father Cavanaugh:—
Let me assure you of my very deep appreciation of the honor Notre Dame has done me. I only regret that illness prevented me from being on the ground to receive the degree in person, but, as I wrote Father Dalton, my regret is tempered by the fact that I had a much more competent representative for such an occasion than I could have hoped to be myself.
Had I been able to be present, I should perhaps have ventured to say a word in behalf of the bad boy as exemplified in my own case. The bad boy gets so much correction on all sides that perhaps a word of reassurance to him would not be altogether amiss.
1 recall that my chief end in life before I was sent to Notre Dame was to break up whatever school I was attending. My good father finally determined
on Notre Dame as a last resort, and I was sent there in the hope that the Fathers might succeed in bringing me up in the way 1 should go. My first experience was shortly after my arrival when a circus came to town. We boys sent a petition asking leave to attend, and our request was promptly denied; whereupon we held an indignation meeting in the yard and unanimously resolved to revolt. As I had been there only a few days, I did not feel justified in taking a lead in this revolution, but was ready to go along. To my intense surprise when the angry mob reached the gate there were only three of us left. We persisted, and saw about the worst circus it was ever my lot to attend. I suppose our apprehension had something to do with our failure to enjov the performance. When we got back there was some discussion as to whether we should be expelled or merely disciplined. The more lenient counsel prevailed, and 1 was assigned several pages of Pollock’s "Course of Time” to commit to memory. Aly instructor, I suppose, thought he had laid out a three days' task for me, but I had in those days an unusually alert memory and I was ready for him in a short time. When he saw how light the penalty was he assigned several more yards of the poem for me to commit. Whereupon 1 refused, and said I had done my task and proposed to do no more. So I found a nail and drove it through the book and clinched it on the other side, thus making sure that any further study of Pollock was out of the question.
He at once appealed to Father Dillon, and I have never forgotten the principles of justice as laid down by that broad-minded man. His judgment was that I had done my task, fulfilled the penalty and was entitled to release. As the others, who were not so guilty as I, were all at work and as it was manifestly unfair to give them a severer punishment he suggested that justice and mercy demanded that they be set free at the same time.
During the year I was at the school I suppose there was never an opportunity for a rebellion that I did not take advantage of. I have always attributed my insurgent instincts to the one-eighth of Irish blood that I have. I always resented parental restraint—not from lack of affection for my father, but because I never enjoyed being bossed. I have to confess that I don't to this day. It was my disposition to feel that nobody had any rights over me. Notre Dame, however, did the best it could with such unpromising material, and I have always looked back on it with regard and affection, even though it did inform my father at the end of the second year that the instructors felt they could get along without my influence thereafter. But the fact that in spite of such a record the University has conferred a Doctorate of Laws upon me ought, perhaps, to afford encouragement to mischievous boys and make them feel that their case is not altogether hopeless.
Once more I assure you of my thanks for your kindness and of my hope for the continued success of the school.
Very sincerely yours,
W. R. Neeson.
Dr. John Cavanaugh,
Notre Dame, Indiana.	,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
603
604
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Notre Dame Club of Fort Wayne, Ind.
On Saturday, June 17th, some twenty-five old students of the University met in the Wayne Hotel to organize the Notre Dame Club of Fort Wayne, Indiana. The President of the University and Father Schumacher were present as guests of honor.
After an exceptionally good supper had been disposed of, Dr. James M. Dinnen assumed the duties of chairman, and officers were elected, committees appointed and various matters of importance discussed. Toasts were responded to by W. P. Breen, Brother Marcellinus, John Eggeman, Charles Niezer, S. Fleming, H. Hogan, Father Schumacher and Father Cavanaugh. The following officers were elected: president, John Eggeman; vice-president, Harry Hogan; treasurer, Robert Fox; secretary, Joseph Haley.
Local Items.
—Found.—Some cuff-links and pins left in clothes sent to the laundry. Owner may obtain same by writing to Brother Alphonsus.
—A ver)7 beautiful Corpus Christi procession was held on Sunday, June 18. Members of the Community, the First Communion class of the parish, and the clergy moved around the usual route in front of the University. Benediction was given from the front porch of Sorin hall, Science hall and the Main Building. A class of thirty received First Holy Communion in the morning, to whom Father French preached a brief but fervent exhortation.
—A baseball team representing the University clergy tried conclusions with the first team of Holy Cross hallj'on June 2O.f.The Seminarians won by the merest pittance—8 to 4. Father O’Donnell copped two hits, and took care of the right garden handsomely. Father Farley pitched delightfully till they started a rapid -fire in the seventh, when. Father Walsh assumed command and held the enemy back of the trenches ab illo tempore. Of Father Maguire at second, who acted as manager and captain besides, too much can not be 'said. On the whole, perhaps, it will be best to leave it unsaid. We may add ditto to Father Irving, not to mention a few more. We all played fine ball individually considered. The Seminarians did too, but we were watching us. Of course!
Corby Monument Fund.
{Complete to date.) Anthony J. Brogan.........................S25.00
W. Bourke Cockran......................... 50.00
M. Rumley................................. 25.00
H. Kelley................................. 50.00
B. C. Backrach............................ 10.00
P. T. Barry............................... 50.00
Eugene A. Delaney......................... 50.00
Mrs. L. Griesbach......................... 10.00
J. J. Dempsey............................. 15.0a
L.	M. Antoine............................. 2.50
M.	Bastrup.............................   10.00
T. W. Burkitt............................. io.oo
T. M. Hoban............................... 25.00
George A. Houck........................... 10.00
T. C. Cavanaugh........................... 15.00
F. F. Duquette............................. 5.00
R. L. Fox.................................. 5.00
William Colby............................. 50.00
Mr. and Mrs. David G. Jones.............. 100.00
Charles Murdock........................... 50.00
W. J. Murphy ............................. 25.00
A. Friend................................. 50.00
Rev. E. P. Murphy......................... 10.00
F. Maloney.................................. .25
John Darbar................................. .25
S653.00
Brownson Hall. Cremer Bros.................................Si.00
A. Clay.......................................50
R. Schindler............................... 1.00
A. Boldt......................................50
R. Scott.................................... 1.00
F.	Kroth.....................................50
N. Brucker................................. 1.00
G.	Marshall............................... 1.00
E. McGough....................................50
G. Dinnen.....................................25
L. Eick.................................... 4.0a
L. Donahue....................................50
L. Rebillot................................. 1.00
, W. Blackburn............................. 1.00
J. Marquez....................................50
J. Robins.................................. 1.05
F. Brooke..*..................................20
F. Mulcahey...................................25
M. Walter.................................. 1.00
C. Hayes......................................50
R. Newton.................................. 1.00
W. Cotter................................... 1.00
E. Taylor...................................  25
J. Plant.................................... 1.00
D. Pepin......................................25
J. Spillane.................................  50
D.	Bennett................................ 1.00
R. Dinnen.....................................25
’ G- Hanldn......................'........... 50
E.	Reidmann..................................50
S23.50
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
6o6
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Sorin Hall.
J.	Herr...................................Si.oo
A. San Pedro............................... i.oo
C.	XX'olff................................ i.oo
R.	Rubio.....................................50
J. Moloney................................. 1.00
D. McDonald................................ 1.00
J. Ely..................................... 1.00
A.	Keys................................... 1.00
C.	Lahey.................................. 1.00
R.	McGill................................. 1.00
J. Kelly................................... 1.00
H. Piper................................... 1.00
J. McNulty....................................50
J. Mullen.....................................50
W.	Phillips..................................50
H.	Ku hie................................. 1.00
P. Rush..................................... 1 .co
A. Sanchez..............................  .	.	.25
R. Garcia................................... 1 .co
E. Delana................................•. .. 1.00
J. Pish.......................................50
AV. Fish......................................50
P. de Landero.............................. 1.00
J. Romana.................................. 1.00
Jas. O’Hara...................................50
J.	Cortezar............................... 1.00
F.	Enaje.................................. 1.00
F.	Johnson...................................50
XV.	McAllen................................ 1.00
C.	Curran....................................50
J.	Daily.................................. 1.00
XV.	Helmkamp..................................50
P.	O’Brien................................ 1.00
S.	Trumbull..................................25
L.	Kiley.....................................50
C.	Dixon.....................................50
R.	Shenk.................................. 1.00
E. Story.........•......................... 1.00
N.	Hickey................................. 1.00
XV.	McGarry...................................50
J.	Bracho................................. 1.00
M.	Arias.................................. 1.00
M.	Hayes.................................. 2.00
L.	Condon................................. 3.00
A.	Saravia................................ 1.00
XV. Heyl................................... 1.00
M .Gurza.................................... .. 1.00
G. Delana.................................. i.oo
XValsh Hall.	S43.00	‘
R.	Lang...................................S5.00
J.	Lang................................... 2.00
G. Billingsley............................. 2.00
C.	Sax.................................... 1.00
F.	Countiss............................... 1.00
XX7. Case.................................. 1.00
O.	Griesbach.............................. 2.00
J.	Wheeler...................................50
Rizo-Patron Bros..........................  3.°°
Carroll Hall.	$17.50
F.	Mahaffey...............................S2.00
R.	and N. XVagner......................... 4.00
F.	Logue.................................  i.oo
.	S7.00
Corby Hall.
H. Moritz.................................S	5.00
M.	Somers............................... 10.00
XV.	Tipton............................... 4.00
\\r.	Duncan............................... 3.00
G.	Fleck................................. 5.00
R.	Cavanaugh............................ 10.00
XV.	A'und................................ 10.00
E.	Barrett............................... 5.00
Jos. XValsh............................... 3.00
John Fordyce.............................. 5.00
J. P. Murphy.............................. 5.00
C. and E. Murphx......................... 15.00
T. Shea.................................. 10.00
F. Durbin................................. 2.00
J. Mehlem................................. 1.00
R. Noud................................... 1.00
N. Hebner................................ 10.00
Si 04.00
Degrees and Awards.
The Degree of Doctor of Science was conferred on: Dr. James Joseph XValsh, New York City. Thesis: The Popes and Science.
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on:
Rev. Walter Elliott, C. S. P., New York City: Judson	j
Hannon, Columbus, Ohio; Sir Charles Fitzpatrick, Ottawa, Canada; William Roc', hill Nelson, Kansas	1
City, Missouri.
The Degree of Master of Science was conferred on;
Edgar .krmistead ?4ilner, Portland, Oregon.	J
The Degree of Master of Science in Cliemistrv was	J
conferred on: Guillermo Patterson, Jr., New York	;
Ci tv.	.	1
The Degree of Master of Science in Mathematics	||
was conferred on: Jose Angel Caparo y Perez, Peru,	■
South America.	j
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on:	'
XX’illiam Arthur Carey, Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Peter	'
Paul Forrestal, Watertown, XVisconsin; Joseph Charles	j
Goddeyne, Bay City, Michigan; Michael Conran	|
Hayes, XX'aterbury, Connecticut; John Henrv Mullin, Pittston, Pennsylvania; James Francis McElhone, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania; Joseph Andrew Quinlan, Chicago, Illinois; Joseph Michael Toth, South Bend,	•
Indiana.	|
I
The Degree of Bachelor of Letters was conferred on:	fl
Maurice John Breen, Fort Dodge, Iowa; Edward	I
Keenan Delana, Cortland, Illinois; Joseph Nicholas	|
Donahue, South Bend, Indiana; James Leo Fish,	|
Boston, Massachusetts; Thomas Aloysius Havican,	?
Homestead, Pennsylvania; Albert Andrew Hilkert,	i
Canton, Ohio; Thomas Aquinas Lahey, Michigan Citv,	|
Indiana; Charles Joseph Marshall, Doylestown, Ohio: XVilliam Everett McGarry, Boston, Massachusetts;	■
Anthony John Rozewicz, 'South Bend, Indiana;
Wenceslaus Sobolewski, Chicago, Illinois; Francis Joseph XVenninger, South Bend, Indiana.
The Degree of Bachelor of Philosophy was conferred on: Arthur John Hughes, Budd, Illinois: Henry
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
607
6o8
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
John Kuhle, Salem, South Dakota; Richard Herbert Keeffe, Sioux City, Iowa; Charles Christopher Miltner, Lake City, Michigan; John Francis ' McNulty, St. Louis, Missouri; John Francis O’Hara, Indianaoplis; Indiana; James Clement Sexton, Canton, Ohio.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Biology was conferred on: James Gerard Kramer, Canton, Ohio; Jasper Howard Lawton, Notre Dame, Indiana; Harry Joseph Zimmer, Millvale, Pennsylvania.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Chemistry was conferred on: Edward Jerome Glynn, Spring-field, Massachusetts; Edward John Quinn, Antwerp, New York.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Architecture was conferred on: William Bernard Helmkamp, Delphos, Ohio.
The Degree of Civil Engineer was conferred on: Pedro Antonio L-eLandero, Guadalajara, Mexico; Nicholas August Gamboa, Cienfuegos, Cuba; Anton Raymond Hebenstreit, Shullsburg, Wisconsin; Juan L. Romana, A'.equipa, Peru, South America; George William Wolff, Mexico. City, Mexico; George Edward Washburn, Chicago, Illinois.
The Degree of Mechanical Engineering was conferred on: William Simpson Arnold, Holyoke, Massachusetts; Arthur James Cooke, Freeport, Long Island, New’ York; Thomas Cleveland Hughes, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania; Robert Raymond Shenk, Delphos, Ohio.
The Degree of Electrical Engineering was conferred on: Paul Keeley Barsaloux, Chicago, Illinois; Rafael Garcia, Puebla, Mexico; William John Heyl, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania; Herman C. R. Piper, Stillwater, Minnesota; Rudolph Otto Probst, South Bend, Indiana; John Carl Tully, El Paso, Illinois; John Marion Wilson, New York City, New’ York; Jesse Eustaquio Vera, Queretaro, Mexico.
The Degree of Chemical Engineering w’as conferred on: Guillermo Patterson, Jr., New- York City, New York.
The Degree of Engineer of Mines was conferred on: Albert Lorenzo Metcalf, Shullsburg, Wisconsin.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws w’as conferred on: Leo Francis Buckley, South Bend, Indiana; John Jerome Brislin, Homestead, .Pennsylvania; Joseph James Collins, East Boston, Massachusetts; Ralph Chester Dimick, Hubbard, Oregon; Robert John Dederich, Saginaw, Michigan; Joseph Thomas Dixon, Connellsville, Pennsylvania; J. Wilfred Ely, Jeanette, Pennsylvania; Daniel Rolf Foley, Deerfield, Michigan; Thomas Hugh Ford, Dayton, Ohio; Edward L. Figel, Chicago, Illinois; James Leo Hope, De Kalb, Illinois; Albert Michael Kelly, Morris, Illinois; Joseph Benedict Murphy, Day ton, Ohio; Justin James .Maloney, Crawfordsville, Indiana; Joseph John Maroney, Red Creek, New York; Wilmer Leo O’Brien, Elkhart, Indiana; James Baldwin O’Flynn, Butte, Montana; William Richard Ryan, Cleveland, Ohio; Arthur Anthony Schellinger, Mishawaka, Indiana; -Fred Llewellyn Steers, Chicago, Illinois; Clement L. Ulatowski, Chicago, Illinois; John Wesley Welch, Mishawaka, Indiana.
The Degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist was conferred on: Leon Francis Barbazette, Terre Haute,
Indiana; Fred Charles Dana, Fond du Lac, Wisconsin; Otto Sylvester Hanon, Langford, South Dakota; Henry Charles Moritz, Peoria, Illinois; Fred George Wirthman, Kansas City, Missouri.
The Degree of Graduate in Pharmacy w’as conferred on: Edward Joseph Story, Elk City, Oklahoma; Michael Francis Somers, Bloomington, Illinois.
Certificates for the Short Program in Electrical Engineering were conferred on: John Proctor Dant, Louisville, Kentucky; Philip Louis Fleck, Tiffin, Ohio; Jose M. Mendoza, Chihuahua, Mexico; James Joseph McCaffrey, South Bend, Indiana; Carole Joseph Schmidt, Tiffin, Ohio; Vaughan Henry Talcott, Louisville, Kentucky.
Certificates for the Short Program in Mechanical Engineering were conferred on: Forest Clay Hyten, Ladoga, Indiana; Julius Meuninck, Mishawaka, Ind.; Lawrence Philip Schubert, South Bend, Indiana.
Certificate for the Short. Program in Architecture was conferred on: Dalton Bacon Shourds, Terre Haute, Indiana.
Prize Medals.
The Quan Gold Medal, presented by the late William J. Quan, of Chicago, for the student having the best record in the Classical Program, Senior Year, and a money prize of twenty-five dollars, gift of Mr. Henry J. Quan, in memory of his deceased father, was awarded to Joseph Andrew Quinlan, Chicago, Illinois.
The Meehan Gold Medal for English Essays, presented by Mrs. Eleanor Meehan, Covington, Kentucky, was awarded to Thomas Aquinas Lahey, Michigan City, Indiana.
The Martin J. McCue Gold Medal, presented by Mr. Warren A. Cartier, Civil Engineer of the class of ’77, for the best record for four years in the Civil Engineering Program, was awarded to Nicholas August Gamboa, Cienfuegos, Cuba.
The Breen Gold Medal for Oratory, presented by the Hon. William P. Breen of the class of ’77, was awarded to Charles Christopher Miltner, Lake City, Minnesota.
The Barry Elocution Gold Medal, presented by the Hon. P. T. Barry of Chicago, was awarded to Patrick Henry Cunning, Pittsburgh Pennsylvania.
Seventy-five Dollars for debating work was awarded • as follows:
Thirty-dollars to William Joseph Milroy, Chatsworth,-Illinois.
Twenty-five dollars to John Thomas Burns, Kalamazoo, Michigan.
Twenty dollars to James Leo Hope, De Kalb, Illinois.
Ten dollars in Gold for Junior Oratory, presented by Mr; James V. O’Donnell of the class of ’89, was awarded to William Joseph Parish, Momence, Illinois.
Ten Dollars in Gold for Sophomore Oratory, presented by Mr. John S. Hummer of the class of ’91, was awarded to William Joseph Milroy, Chatsworth, Illinois.
Ten Dollars in Gold for Freshman Oratory, presented by Mr. Hugh O’Neill, of. the class of ’91, was awarded to Alfred John Brown, Portland. Oregon