The taste folks take to
f and talk about/..WI £3STO1
You’ll like the extra good taste of Winstons, too! And the way that exclusive Winston filter — snowy-ivhite and pure — really lets the rich flavor come through! So, if you aren’t already enjoying today’s most talked-about flavor-filter combination, get yourself a pack of Winstons right now — for flavory filter smoking!
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO..WINSTON-SALEM. N.C.
Smoke WIFf STOW ...enjoy the snow-white filter in the cork-smooth tip!
What’s it like to be
AN IBM SALESMAN?
Selling to management is perhaps the best training for management, and it’s the reason Gene McGrew joined IBM. Today, he possesses a thorough practical Business Administration education, responsibility, an excellent income—all at age 27. Read about an unusual career.
You’re Gene McGrew ... high school footballer and class officer. You won a scholarship and went through Princeton in the top third of your class . . . managed varsity track... commanded an artillery battery in Korea . . . “When you put a lot of preparation into your career,” Gene McGrew feels, “you should expect a lot of opportunity in return.”
Makes first sale
Gene’s first sale, to a bank, required thorough study; consultations; a written recommendation. The climax came, Gene remembers, when he submitted his analysis to the vice president and received that gentleman’s signature.
Meets IBM representative
Out of the Army in 1953, Gene met an IBM representative. It sounded like opportunity. A few interviews later, Gene was sure. Although sales was only one of the many jobs he felt he could handle, this kind of selling— (IBM machines are as much an idea as a product)—promised to occupy every talent he possessed. Besides, he’s learned that “no other form of training produces so many top busi-.ness managers.”
Gene outline* programming test
Then began a 13 months’ training program marked by merit salary increases. First—3 months’ schooling and observing operations in Pittsburgh (Gene’s hometown). Next—2 months’ studying the applications of IBM’s electronic data processing machines in business, science, government, and defense. Followed by 7 months’ practical training in the field, with customer contact. Followed by IBM’s famous course in selling methods. Finally, assignment to a sales territory near Pittsburgh, responsible for about 14 companies and their executives who used IBM equipment, and a dozen or so more who were logical prospects for it.
Gene’s latest sale was to a large industrial corporation. He’s now preparing this customer for the installation of an IBM electronic system designed to simplify financial procedure; inventory and other systems problems. At 27, Gene finds himself top man on an important account. He’s educator, salesman, administrator.
How would Gene define selling? “We feel the best way to sell is to be able to consult. The best way to consult is to know something of value your customer doesn’t. IBM’s ‘something of value’ is profit through automation.”
Gene’s thoughts on competition:
“The entire Office Machine Industry feels the lead pencil is the biggest competitor. You’ve no idea how many time-consuming clerical jobs can be mechanized, thus freeing people for important, creative jobs. IBM’s success in the field is due to service, knowledge, ‘know-how’.”
Does Gene find his youth a handicap?
“It’s what you know—not how old you are—that counts. I deal with executives twice my age on a basis of
DATA PROCESSING
ELECTRIC TYPEWRITERS
equality, because they respect my training and my business judgment.”
Future wide open
“I’m getting married soon, and I was amazed to realize how much security IBM’s growth (sales have doubled on the average every five years since 1930) and benefits represent. But I think my real security lies in the chance to use my own ability fully and freely. There are nearly 200 Branch Managerships, 15 District Managerships and executive positions in 5 other divisions ahead of me. IBM is introducing new machines, systems and concepts so fast that, every Monday, we have a ‘new idea’ meeting just to keep up.”
IBM hopes this message will give you some idea of what it’s like to be a salesman at IBM. There are equal opportunities for E.E.’s, I.E.’s, M.E.’s, physicists, mathematicians, and Liberal Arts majors in IBM’s many divisions—Research, Product Development, Manufacturing En-
Checking out new client’* system
gineering, Sales and Technical Service. Why not drop in and discuss IBM with your Placement Director? He can supply our brochure and tell you when IBM will interview on your campus. Meanwhile, our Manager of College Relations, Mr. P. H. Bradley, will be happy to answer your Questions. Write him at IBM, Room 9401. 590 Madison Ave., New York 22, N. Y.
TIME EQUIPMENT
IBM
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
MILITARY PRODUCTS
The Notre Dame

Scholastic
8o6Pefat
BASKETBALL CHAMPION, SAYS :
it
Vol. 98 March 15, 1957 No. 18
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
VICEROY HAS THE SMOOTHEST TASTE OF ALL!"
SMOOTH!
From the finest tobacco grown, Viceroy selects only the Smooth Flavor Leaf... Deep-Cured golden brown for extra smoothness!
SUPER SMOOTH!
Only Viceroy smooths each puff through 20,000 filters made from pure cellulose— soft, snow-white, natural!
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
e
CHARLES McKENDRICK
Editor
JOE NORTON
Associate Editor
DAVE THOMPSON Associate Editor
JIM STEINTRAGER ________..News Editor
JAMES McDONALD ...........Copy Editor
DAVID KUBAL .........Feature Co-Editor
JOHN QUAGLIANO ....Feature Co-Editor . FRANK SPIERING   Assistant Features GEORGE CLEMENTS...........Assistant News JIM DULAN ................ Assistant	News
BOB WILLIAMS .......   Assistant	News	.
HARRY McKEE.............Assistant	Copy^
MARSH PIDGEON...........Assistant Copy	■
DON STUHLDREHER....Circulation Mgr.	'
HARRY CONLON .............Business Mgr.	■■
JOHN GLAVIN .........?....Sports Editor
BOB EARLY...............Assistant Sports
MIKE FITZPATRICK  Assistant Sports
News Staff: Tom Banchoff, Mark Bradley, John Fitzpatrick, John Ford, David Kar-nath, Jim Lenox, Gerry Leppek, Roger|® Leto, Ed Plumly, David Schwartz, Don ‘' Shoulderg, Pete Stafford, Jim Sutter, Jim ’ Yoch.	.
Sports Staff: Pat Defoe. Jim Goethals, ‘ Jack Grady, Roger Laur, Jim Merz, Greg ' Rogers, Ed Rohrbach, Ted Thompson, Doug Zilliox.
Sportt Features: Joe Bride, Tom Edwards, Bruce Huot, John McMahon. , :
Business Staff: Loran Sheffer, Mike'-> j Kuras, Pete Hasbrook.	;
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Ai- • sociated Collegiate Press. Represented for national ; advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., : 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examina- \ tion periods at the University of Notre Dame. Ad- -dress all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Norre^ 1-Dame, Indiana.	L ;/
The Scholastic L
Flight Test Engineer
Electronics Engineer
Propulsion Engineer
Aerodynamics Engineer
Project Engineer, Missiles
Project Engineer, Fighters
In which one of these
fields of Engineering would
you do your best work?
FOLLOW THE LEAD OF CHARLES BIXLER
B.S.M.E., CLASS OF '51

Chance Vought offers the graduate engineer a wide range of opportunity
Chuck Bixler knows how variety helps the young engineer find a career field that suits him best. In Chance Vought’s missile and fighter activities, he discovered every specialty he’d considered in school. He found others he hadn’t known existed. Vought measured him for all these fields, and together they selected a perfect fit: structures and preliminary design work, where Chuck has advanced to lead engineer in about five years time. The same variety can be found at Vought bj- graduates from every field of academic training. Electrical, civil, mechanical and aeronautical engineers alike find a rich selection of avenues for growth. Moreover, they find the guidance they need to make a wise choice. Chuck, for example, was selected for Chance Vought’s nine-month program of job rotation. After working in six different groups he gained a backlog of experience
that has since proved invaluable. Frank counseling, a versatile, growing company — everything that helped Chuck can help you. As a starter, ask our campus representative to point out the specialties you’re qualified to enter. (You’ll be surprised at the length of the list.) Your Placement Office can arrange your appointment. Or you may write for immediate information to Mr. C. A. Besio, Supervisor, Engineering Personnel Dept. CN-3, Chance Vought Aircraft,
Incorporated, Dallas, Texas.
&
Our representative will be in your Placement Office Monday and Tuesday, March 18 and 19, to describe firsthand Chance Vought’s program for young engineers. Reserve time for your own interview by making your appointment today.
OUGHT AinCHA^r
March 15, 1957
5
Parker-Winlerrswd Inc. TAILORS-CLOTHIERS 115^-117% No. Main St. UPSTAIRS Phone CE 3-6318
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - towear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.
Parker-Wiiterrowd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
115y2-117y2 No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
Phone CE 3-6318
Consult our campus representative:
JOHN E. KUHN, 366 Alumni
At the Movies
GRANADA
Battle Hymn (A-l). Rock Hudson, Martha Hyer, Dan Duryea. This is the true story of Col. Dean Hess, the Air Force officer who gave up the pulpit for the cockpit of a jet fighter. Hess was a minister* in a small Ohio town, and when the Korean War came along he re-enlisted. He was assigned to train ROK air force officers in Korea. There are several action sequences involving the jets, but the real story is the Korean orphans. Rock Hudson does a good job as the Colonel, and Martha Hyer is very good as his wife.
Summing up: A true story slightly distorted in Hollywood tradition.
COLFAX
Oh, Men! Oh, Women! (A-2). Dan Dailey, Ginger Rogers, David Niven. Psychoanalysis and its devotees are the targets of this light-comedy produced and directed by Nunnally Johnson. The plot tries to show that analysts are human beings and have the same problems their patients do. The trouble with the jokes is that too few of them are really funny. A good performance is turned in by the stars but they really don’t have much material to work with.
Summing up: Oh, Brother!
STATE
Union Station (A-2). William Holden, Nancy Olson, Barry Fitzgerald. An old picture about catching a kidnapper in a busy railroad station.
Co-hit: Silver City (A-l). Edmond O’Brien, Yvonne DeCarlo, Barry Fitzgerald.
WASHINGTON HALL
Macbeth. Tonight and Saturday at 8:30 p.m. Sunday matinee at 2:30 p.m.
AVON
The Gamma People (A-2). Paul Douglas, Eva Bartok. Paul Douglas finds himself in an iron curtain country where a scientist has evolved a gamma ray operation which turns children into brilliant robots, subject to his will. Those who fail to come through the operation become brainless, robot-like creatures called goons. Douglas is an American reporter who enters the countiy by mistake but remains to clear up the mess, and there is a mess. The movie is complete with all the science fiction trappings, including henchmen decked out in uniforms straight out of a Romberg operetta.
Summing up: If you enjoy this movie, you’d better see the one about the psychiatrist.
Co-hit: Utah Blaine (A->1). Rory Calhoun, Susan Cummings. Gunfire punctuates most of the activity in a Western obviously dedicated to the theory that a Western is for shootin’ and fightin’ and lots of hard riding. The gun holds a fleeting upper hand for the badmen through the story and finally it is the gun that lets good triumph over evil.
PALACE
Fozir Girls in Town (B). George Nader, Julie Adams. A gossamer-thin plot wrapped around four young Hollywood starlets. The girls are brought to Hollywood to try out for the starring role in a movie. Actually none of the girls gets the part but they all find “true” love.
Co-hit: The Night Runner (A-2). Ray Danton, Colleen Miller. A unique story about an intelligent, agreeable fellow who turns into a criminal lunatic when the pressure gets too great.
6
The Scholastic
by Bryan Woods
for service vote for wimpy
In the past this space has been devoted, in theory at least, to the humor-| ous side of life beneath the Gleaming :	Pot*, though there are those who claim
there is nothing very funny about spending four years here. Not so, this • week. Escape is this week given over to the furtherance of the great crusade for responsible student leadership. In an issue of such colossal importance as the forthcoming election of a President for the Student Senate, the most august legislative body ever to hold a meeting in the Student Center (yes, even more influential a group than the board of directors of the ND Field Hockey f Society) we should, nay, we must, elect the best man. In the judgment of Escape that man is none other than that greathearted, unselfish student leader and man of affairs, X. Doppelganger Smyth-Montmorency, familiarly known to his classmates as Wimpy.
A short rundown of Wimpy’s activities hereabouts for the last three years ought to be enough to show his qualifications, but if that doesn’t do it, wait till w you hear his platform.
' Soon after his arrival here as a freshman, Wimpy gave real evidence of the spirit that has marked his whole tenure here. I still remember him walking out of Knute Rockne, All-American, tears running down his face, but a burning light of dedication in his eyes.
And who could forget the swell job ■ 0 he did passing out paper plates at the ; freshman picnic. He hadn’t been here a week and already he* was hard at work, serving.
*If sports announcers can call the basketball foul line the charity stripe, I don’t see why I can’t call a Golden 4| Dome a Gleaming Pot.
Nor did his noble qualities go long unrecognized by his fellow students. He was elected lightbulb commissioner of the second floor B-P by an overwhelming majority. And never once did the men of the second floor regret their choice. On the basis of this splendid record, the following spring he decided to run for class historian. His campaign song, “Memories are made by Smyth-Montmorency,” became an overnight hit, and he was swept into office by an overwhelming majority. Everyone must have known what would happen, because no one dared run against him. It was just about this time that his classmates began to call him Wimpy—a name that immediately stuck. No one knows exactly how the name came about, and when asked, “Wimpy” only smiles a mysterious smile.
But not content with serving just one class, Smyth-Montmorency decided to put this ability and qualities of leadership at the disposal of the whole student body. In his usual self-effacing way he started off as a Student Center floorwalker in charge of confiscating lighted cigarettes at mixers. The second floor became his territory, and so diligently did he go about his duties that even the most inveterate cigarette sneakers learned their lesson.
But it is of his career this year that I wish to speak. Immediately upon his election to the Senate, he began to make his weight felt. His first project, individual busts of each Senator and Circle member to be sculptured in bronze by Mestrovic, and placed around the Student Center, was enthusiastically received, but unfortunately was vetoed by the Administration, which felt that the money required for the project could be better used in building a new hall.
At present, though he is meeting with
opposition from mysterious forces, he is working hard to get us enrolled in a well-known international association of students often called the Mafia. (His motto: Replace the Blue Circle with the Black Hand.)
But he needs your help, men. How can you give him this help? Simple: when you get your ballot, vote Wimpy.
Well, now that we’ve looked at the record of the past, and a glorious one it is, let’s look to the future. What do you stand to gain by a vote for X. Doppelganger Smyth-Montmorency? First, closer relations between the administration and students. (Who ever heard of a platform without that plank J)
Second, an improvement on the present state of affairs as far as St. Mary’s is concerned. In order to accomplish this, a committee will be formed to study ways and means of doing this. (Sample ideas: Ban them from the campus and use the various ROTC drill teams as aimed guards to enforce it.)
Third, a six piece Dixieland Jazz band to play in the Dining Hall during meals.
Fourth, a continuation of the present policy of unlimited car permissions for faculty members over 35.
If space allowed, there are many more planks to the platform, but . . .
As you can see here is a candidate who has the best interests of you, the student, always before him. Get on the X. Doppelganger Smyth-Montmorency bandwagon while there’s still room. Go Wimpy!
PREVIEW OF COMING EVENTS
Don’t get your hopes up too high, but there’s a chance that Roger “Golden Aim” Kiley, star blackjack dealer for the Chicago Club at the Mardi Gras, may be a contributor to next week’s Escape. . We’re still talking terms.
March 15, 1957
7
OUR FAMOUS HASPEL WASH 'N WEAR RESORT-WEAR SUITS .... 39.75
Perfect for your spring vacation southern trip and all summer long. The look and feel of a fine imported fabric . . . yet, because it is 75% Dacron and 25% Cotton, when it is soiled you just dip it into the suds, rinse, and hang up to dry. It dries quickly . . . selfrefreshed and self-ironed. Truly the most practical warm weather suit a man ever owned. You’ll find a complete selection of all resort wear at the Campus Shop now!
On the Campus—Notre Dame
8
The Scholastic
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY...
PAY	PAY	PAY
1 M 1 M 1 3	3	3
JULY ■ AUG	SEPT
NO CARRYING CHARGE
There’s no need to do without clothes you need now or for your spring vacation . . . get them whenever you need them and charge it the Campus Shop way. Pay for it, if you like, out of your earnings this summer. Nothing to pay ’til July. Pay only one-third in July, one-third in August and one-third in September. Use this convenient charge account to buy all of your clothing needs if you wish. No carrying charge, of course.

DRESS RIGHT
You can't afford not to!
On the Campus—Notre Dame
ILBE RT5
e
March 15, 1957
■J


K4.

Here’s a perfect place
to build vour career!
The Columbia Gas System offers you, as an engineer, the perfect place to grow. The seven states Columbia serves with natural gas—Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York, Maryland, West Virginia, Virginia and Kentucky—comprise one of the fastest growing areas in the country. And natural gas is one of the fastest growing industries in the U.S.
This growth combination means many rewarding careers ahead for young men with ideas.
Variety in your job, promotion from within, an individualized training program —tailored to fit you—and liberal employee benefits, are some of the things Columbia Gas offers.
If you are a chemical, civil, electrical, mechanical, welding, petroleum, or general engineer, our representative would like to talk to you during his visit to your campus soon.
THE COLUMBIA
COLUMBIA GAS SYSTEM
GAS SYSTEM
120 EAST 41ST STREET • NEW YORK 17. N. Y.
IVAN THE TERRIBLE
Editor:
Although a comment by the Rev. J. A. Lorusso, C.S.C., has already been made
on this subject, I believe it necessary to have a protest by a student. Obviously, I am referring to the so-called art work of one Ivan Osorio.	<
It is my honest belief that a magazine of the Scholastic’s high caliber cannot afford to lower itself to use such poor excuse for art and humor on its cover week after week. Or is the Scholastic’s art department trying to compete with the Mad comics series? If so, my efforts in writing this are wasted, because a simple protest will not help to remedy the situation. I must £ say, at the moment I feel ashamed to mail my copy of the Scholastic to my family because I am sure they would be disappointed in the quality of the
Notre Dame student publication.
I have nothing personal against Osorio or his work. But to have to at his bloated creatures in their
Mr. look gro-
tesque and weird surroundings week after week is sickening. If the typical human being (if Osorio’s drawings can be interpreted as representations of humans) in Mr. Osorio’s mind resembles any of his caricatures, I suggest that he open his eyes and examine the world around him. Why not try to capture the beauties of human life and nature, instead of degenerating man to an ugly, fat, miserable creature living in a world of rats and other animals?
Thomas Shishman 424 Cavanaugh
CHEER . .
“CHEER,
Editor: A few
pleasure
weeks ago I had the extreme of watching Notre Dame de-
feat a hustling DePaul team. But along with the pleasure derived from the victory, I had a feeling of displeasure derived from an atmosphere of inconsideration and common discourtesy. An ' explanation is in order.
I am a transfer student, having come to Notre Dame at the beginning of my junior year. My first contact with the Notre Dame student body, as a whole, was afforded me at the first home game of the 1955 football season. I noticed (Continued on Page 34)
ON THE COVER this week Freshman Barry Maguire attempts to soothe the sons of Erin on Ireland’s most famous day. While the spirit of the Fighting Irish will no doubt be at its highest, spirits should be somewhat scarce as St. Patrick’s Day is celebrated on a dry Sunday in South Bend.
10
The Scholastic
UiUK
•<
suggestions
order and values
My landlady tries very hard to keep life from ever becoming too. dull for me, and from time to time she shoves useful bits of information under my door. Usually they range from clippings about her granddaughter’s progress in home economics at West Claypoole High to pronouncements by Ann Landers on the evils of drink. But the other day she came up with something that did interest me.
It was a reprint in her church magazine of an article published by the World Council of Churches, discussing the breakdown of international law and order in the twentieth century. The reason for the breakdown, said the article, is the abandonment of the basis for the conception itself, the Christian tradition.
0 The article went on to refer to the thoughts of St. Augustine, and his proclamation of the Church on earth as the extension of Christ’s kingdom and director of the world order. This was the tradition that perdured in international relations until the development of the modern states, when it was replaced by the new doctrine of liberalism.
This new thought arose out of the decision that society had had enough formal guidance and was ready to go off on its own to realize its true potential, a greater good than . clerical authority was able to provide. From now on, Christian ideals alone would be. sufficient to maintain order among men and states, and adherence to international law would be taken for granted.
But man and society have never quite lived up to this optimistic forecast, and the events of our time have done little to reinforce it. Rather, the present world situation shows clearly a need for a strategic retreat to an absolute standard of values if civilized life is to survive. The article affirms this and further declares that there must be a return ; from policies of self-interest to international relations based » on the divine law as promoted by St. Thomas Aquinas. ;; It’s an interesting article if only for the fact that it indi-l cates the necessity of returning to the authority and direction that the forerunners of these people rejected as false and inhibiting. And it’s satisfying to know that more and more people are beginning to realize the real struggle for man’s progress has been resolved to two conflicting extremes, r Society must either accept the absolute standards leading to a ultimate perfection, or abandon itself to chaos under ma:	terialistic expediency.—]. N.
t	March 15, 1957	-
With the advent of spring just six days away and the South Bend monsocn season just a few weeks further on down the calendar, the condition of several well-used traffic arteries deserves some comment.
As the warmer weather approaches, more off-campus students will be employing a great deal more shoe leather to cover the distances between their homes and the University. Likewise more auto traffic will be found in the area of the Circle when the sun finally returns to the Valley of Progress.
It has long befuddled me as to why there are no street lights on Notre Dame Avenue from the Circle to Angela Boulevard. The lack of any lighting system presents a definite hazard to pedestrians who travel in that area after dark.
I don’t believe that the threat of attack by vandals is the primary risk. But anyone who has walked those four blocks on a winter night will testify that Mt. Everest could not be a more grueling journey.
The sidewalk is in poor condition. Actually the walk is not really a sidewalk but more of an extension of the Cartier Field running track. The present cinder path is a permanent quagmire.
At night the walk becomes a daring adventure. The area in front of the cemetery is extremely hazardous. The driveways are not illuminated in any fashion. An older person walking along Notre Dame Avenue at night is in serious danger of falling and suffering permanent injury.
Another source cf headaches, especially for those who drive to school each morning, is the miniature Grand Canyon at the Circle. I am speaking of the numerous pits in the street at the University end of Notre Dame Avenue. Campus motorists should not be subjected to driving their vehicles over such a run-down area. Not only are their cars suffering in the process, but the holes create a most unsightly entrance to the University.
If plans have not already been made, there are three steps I would like to see the University take to alleviate the present situation.
First, I think it would be wise if light standards were placed on Notre Dame Avenue from the end of the Morris Inn parking lot to Angela. The standards would not necessarily have to be of the mercury vapor type, but a kind that would provide adequate illumination for pedestrian traffic. By competent planning the lighting system could add beauty as well as utility to the campus approach.
Secondly, at least one of the two walks might be blacktopped. If the sidewalks were paved in some way,, the hazard of students walking in the street to avoid the muddy ground would be avoided.
And lastly, a method of repairing the pock-marked area in front of the Circle could be investigated. It could be a one-day job to fill in the existing holes, but the saving in broken springs and drivers’ oaths would be well worth the expense.—C. McK.
11
A Campus-to-Career Case History
>
4
“The future looks unlimited"
“I wanted a career that offered variety, opportunity and a chance to work with people,” says Lewis William Post, C.E., Michigan State, 1950. “That’s why I went to work for the telephone company.
“My initial training—two full years of it—probed every phase of company operations and acquainted me with all of the jobs in the Plant Department, where I was starting.
“Today, as Plant Engineer, I’m responsible for preventive maintenance of all field equipment, installation of new facilities for wire and cable, and I work with architects and builders on telephone needs in new buildings.
“Selling’s part of my job, too. I sell ideas—like the wisdom of planning for telephone service when you’re building. Recently I advised an architect and an owner on telephone wiring and outlets in a new $160,000 medical center. I enjoy getting in on the ground floor of such projects and making contributions both as a civil and a telephone engineer.
“In my area of Chicago there are 80,000 telephones, home and business. More are being added every day. There’s expansion everywhere in the telephone business—all across the country. To me, the future looks unlimited.”
Lew Post’s career is with Illinois Bell Telephone Company. Many interesting career opportunities exist in other Bell Telephone Companies, Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. Tour placement officer can give you more information about them.


Beil Telephone System

12
The Scholastic
Clique
by John Quogliano
photos by Chick Martin
“! I don’t consider myself much of a player you understand. I like the game but I’ve learned to keep away from it. I was fifteen the first time I went down to the pool room in Brooklyn. It was too late then. It’s not smart money to learn a game the hard way. I know you’re going to write in and tell me how “The Arab” got hustled all his freshman year but spent his whole summer practicing-up. It was a close shave but he made the big time. Still “The Arab” is a crazy guy and anyway, as I was saying, I never click a few, except maybe with Chuck McKendrick down at the K. of C.
I couldn’t figure out where the new place was but Chick said that he had an idea. It’s under the Huddle if you’re interested.
“It’s gone high-brow.” Cluck said.
“You know it,” answered an intellectual looking guy in a black turtleneck and hornrims.
“Remember those fights with Li’l Paul chasing a guy around with a cue?” Chick said, blinding the guy with a flashbulb.
“You know it.”
A character in the PFA frisked me for my ID. He wrote my name down. He asked me if I wanted a cue. I told him it would help. I walked up a little stairway and there was enough felt to map out a putting green.
A little guy came over. “Want a game bud? Oh, hi, Quag.”
“Hi,” I said. “Look, isn’t there something wrong here, Bill?
“Oh that, you’ll get used to it. You should bring down sun glasses the first few times. It’s a tough handicap without the smoke. You can see your shots and you miss them all the time. You can’t throw your cigarette on the floor; you have to smoke it.” He went over to Chick. “Want a game, Bud?”
“I’ll play Bill.”
“Moneyball?”
“Hi, Larry. I didn’t see you. No, I just want to get some material for an article.”
Bill leaned on his cue. “I won’t talk to anyone but Frank Spiering.”
“Have a heart, Bill. No matter what I do that guy gets his name in every Scholastic somehow.”
“Ok, rack the balls and I’ll tell you
what you want to know. You heard about Art, haven’t you? He was on a Willie Hoppe Scholarship. I won’t say that the guy was good but he certainly lived in a nice suite in the Morris Inn.”
“Your break, Quag,” Bedford said. Chick blinded me and the cue slipped.
“Oh, I say it do look like it gonna be a bad one,” Larry said as he started a run. I told them I’d see them around.
“It’s a good thing I got away, Chick. I understand that a guy can lose his shirt.”
“I don’t know anything about that but John Walsh bought a suit that Harry Smith won.”
“That Smith must be something.”
“Nah, he’s always in training for the tennis team but that guy Walsh is some brain. He knows the odds on every shot in the book. That must have been some suit. Speaking of clothes, that guy at the end table is the best dressed guy in the pool hall. The guy with the buttondown collar.”
“Hey, Dude, what do you think of this place?”
“What’s the gimmick? Oh, you want some nostalgic reminiscences of my
March 15, 1957
13
“It sharpens your reflexes.”
“All the sharks use it!”
prowess as a billiardist in the pernicious antiquated but beautiful establishment ■? adjoining Washington Hall?”
“Yeah, something like that.”	:
“Well, I miss the Chiroptera.”
“Huh,” Chick asked.
“You know placental mammals—bats.	•
We used to relax chasing them in the late hours at the pool hall.”	;■
His friend left a set-up. “I miss the food. They don’t let you bring in any § : food in here. I haven’t had lunch for S' two weeks.”	k
I’ll have to describe this guy since L-he was traveling incognito. He wears a gray coat with a gray cap ovei- his red hair. He has a pimply face and he’s always laughing and heckling. The guys called him “Redman” and I sized him up as a kibitzer.
“You want to say something?” I asked real polite-like you understand.
“Me? ‘The Arab’ sinks the nine-ball on me nine-out-of-ten with six-to-five odds. I’m flunking out. I’m flunking three and Jordan is gonna find me down here making quips. You’re not gonna get any quips from me.”
We got disgusted watching Pete “The
14
The Scholastic
Crutch” Corrigan using his Lady’s Aid. “You know what this place needs is a little back room. It would make all the difference in the world,” I said to Chick.
“You know it,” said the guy in the turtle neck. His name’s Tony, I think, but I didn’t see him take a shot while I was down there.
I could see that Caldwell wasn’t used to the new cushions. “You know what gripes me, John,” he said. “They collect youi- ID’s and most of the boys down here have their own custom-made jobs which we don’t want to lose.”
Jerry Gould went over to powder-up. “This stuff is perfumed. Pretty soon they’re going to have St. Mary’s girls down here.”	•
“That wouldn’t be a bad idea,” Chick said.
We went into the other room to watch the ping pong players. Jim Doherty looked pretty good. I asked him how he liked the place.
Little table for little people.
and Vanden-He said he and got back
He wiped the sweat off his glasses. “It’s something us freshmen never had before. It sharpens your reflexes. It’s better than the old pool hall. The ping pong tables are better. You just have more fun here.”
I asked Chick if he wanted to wait
to get a shot of Banton berg when they came in. was out of film so I went my ID.
March 15, 1957
STRIKE BREAKERS
by James McDonald
The author is a Junior English major and is Copy Editor of the SCHOLASTIC. His first short story, “The Other,” was published last semester and was well received by all who read it. Jim is preparing for a teaching career, and hopes to continue writing fiction as a professional hobby.
It was 7:45. The house smelled of pancakes and syrup and coffee. The radio was on and there was music coming from the radio.
The house was old and wooden and it had a large front porch. It had a dusky gray color, for it needed to be painted. There were trees in front of the house and bushes lined the sidewalk and the concrete path leading up to the house.
An old wooden garage was set in back of the house. Bushes grew along both sides of the driveway. The bushes and the trees were bare. It was winter and a cold wind blew through the lank limbs.
Daniel Ryan was in the garage. He was bent over the engine of a 1947 model Chevrolet. He was tinkering with the carburetor. The car had not been running well lately.
“Dan, the pancakes are hot now. Come on in.”
“All right.”
He wiped his hands on a greasy rag, closed the hood, and walked out of the garage. He went up the steps of the back porch and into the kitchen. The two oldest children were already eating.
“Boy, I better get a movin’ or there won’t be any left for me,” he said as he washed his hands at the sink.
The children laughed and Ellen smiled as he sat down and filled his plate with pancakes. She poured syrup over them and walked over to the stove.
“Baby awake?”
“Yes, I’m heating his milk now.”
16
“Paper come yet?”
“It’s in the living room.”
“Get your nose out of those pancakes and get the paper for me, Chuck.”
“Okay.”
Chuck ran into the living room and got the paper. He walked slowly back and handed it to his father.
“Can I have the comics, Dad?”
“You’d better get off to school,” Ellen said. “It’s eight o’clock.”
“Okay. C’mon, Bobby.”
The boys left the table, put on their coats, picked up their books, and left for school, giving their parents a hasty peck as they went out.
“Well, what’s new today?” Ellen asked.	-
“Milk drivers going to strike tomorrow,” he muttered.
“Well, if Jack goes on strike with them, I’m just going to change milkmen as soon as the strike’s over. I said I would last time.”
“They’re all going on strike.”
“That means we’ll have to drive down to the daily and pick up the milk again.”
“You make any more pancakes?”
“You have to leave for work. Look at the time.”
“And I have to take the bus. Still haven’t got the car fixed. I’ve got to rush.”
c
He got up from the table, pecked Ellen’s cheek, put on his overcoat, and went out the door.
Ellen tested the baby’s milk on her wrist and, satisfied, went to the baby’s crib, picked him up, and sat down. The baby gulped at the bottle.
She thought about the strike. It made her angry. She wondered if they would ever be satisfied. Just last month there had been a strike. There had been no milk deliveries for two weeks. Charles had driven to the dairy every night to get milk. The dairy had been picketed for the last week of the strike. It had
been very hard to get milk. It was bad for the baby.
She pressed her lips together and began drumming her foot against the floor. She would speak to Jack when ; he brought the milk.	•_
* * * *
At 9:30 she heard Jack’s truck pull up outside. She went to the back door and opened it as he came up the steps. , He carried bottles of milk in a wire £ tray.
“Good morning, Mrs. Ryan.” His voice , was tight and forced in the cold air. ;
“Will you come inside for a moment, Jack?”	•
“What is it?”
“Please come in for a minute.”	:
He stepped inside the door and shut	j
it behind him, still holding the filled	j '
tray in his hand.	i
“It it true that you’re going on strike j tomorrow? I want to know.”	{
“I’m afraid so, Mrs. Ryan.”
“Aren’t you men ever satisfied with your wages?”	j
“Honest-to-God, I’m satisfied. I was (
The Scholastic
I
satisfied last time. I don’t want to go ‘	on strike. A lot of the fellows don’t
!	want to. They’re all satisfied, but the
union says ‘strike’ and we got to strike, that’s all. There’s nothing we can do about it. We can’t argue.”
“Don’t you have anything to say about it? Why don’t you do something?”
“We can say a lot. We can get up and talk at the meetings, not that it $ makes any difference.” He laughed. “I didn’t even go last night ’cause I knew it would be a waste of time. From what I heard this morning, the fellows didn’t even vote. The union said ‘you go on strike.’ What could we do? Nothing. I can’t quit the union and deliver the milk on my own.” •
“Well, here it is then. Maybe it’s not right for me to say this, but if there’s no milk on this doorstep tomorrow, I’m going to change dairies when the strike’s over, that’s all.”
“Mrs. Ryan, how can you blame me? I got to work same as anybody else. I got a wife and a kid to support.”
“And I have two boys to feed and a three-month old baby who needs milk.”
“Well, I’m sorry ... I can leave you a few extra quarts now if you want.”
“Perhaps you’d better.”
9 He set the bottles on the kitchen table. He turned and he walked out the door and down the steps. His shoulders were stooped.
Ellen turned away from the door and she sat down at the table. She stared at the milk and at the wall and at the stovepipe that went up the wall.
* * * *
*
The following day the milk drivers were on strike and there was no milk on the doorstep. A day later, Daniel Ryan took a bus and went to the dairy to buy milk. There was a line of men in the front of the door and they were carrying signs and there were two policemen standing on the sidewalk. Three women were standing in front of the line of men. They were carrying w shopping bags but the bags were empty. A man was talking to one of the policemen.
Daniel looked at the men and at the women and at the policemen. He bit his lip. He turned and he walked toward the bus stop. He leaned against the pole and waited for the bus. There was tight angei- in his stomach and it burned in £ his throat and in his chest and it was hard for him to swallow. His fists were clenched in his pockets.
There was no milk for supper that night. Ellen had to save what was left for the baby.
* * * *
The ground was spangled with snow on the following morning and a freshly wet, stiff snow smell soaked the air. Wind blew stinging and cold and deeply swift.
Inside the house it was warm but there was no milk for breakfast. There was one quart left in the refrigerator. It had to be kept for the baby.
“I can stop and get some condensed milk after work,” Charles said.
“It makes him sick.”
“I’ll stop by the dairy again then, all right?”
“Why bother!”
“Now don’t blame me. I didn’t start the strike.”
“You boys get off to school . . . and keep away from that dairy, you hear me?”
The boys went off to school and Daniel took the bus to work.
* * # *
At 10 o’clock, a car pulled up outside the house. Snow was beginning to fall. A man got out of the car and walked up the cement walk to the front porch. He was carrying a bag tucked against his chest. He hesitated. Then he walked up the steps and rang the bell.
“Jack?”
“Mrs. Ryan I ... I got three quarts of milk here. My brother’s got a farm outside town. Maybe you can use it.”
Ellen opened her mouth. She did not speak.
“I know you can’t get milk from the dairy.”
“Well Jack ... it certainly is very thoughtful of you to do this ... very thoughtful. I’m very grateful and I really appreciate you doing this, I mean that . . . Why don’t you come in and have some coffee. I just put some on.”
“Well, it would hit the spot. Wind’s cold.”
“Wipe your feet. The snow.”
He wiped his feet and followed her into the kitchen.
“Mrs. Ryan, you know, those men that are picketing the dairy . . . they aren’t milkmen. The union hired them to picket. In case there was any trouble ...”
MANUSCRIPTS
All fiction,- satire, or any type of humorous essays should be submitted to the Scholastic. Address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. Enclosed postage will guarantee return of manuscripts.
AN ALARM
Where are the creative powers of the students? This question comes into the many distraught conversations of the editors of both the Scholastic and the Juggler. This year we have received alarmingly few works of fiction from the students. It seems as though writing of any type has been confined to term papers or letters to home. However, more alarming than the lack of manuscripts that are received is the scanty number that deserved to be published.
MANUSCRIPT SCARCITY
The feature section of the Scholastic has avoided using the weekly ‘Showcase’ just because of this fact. But where can the accusing finger be pointed? Liberal Aris students are subjected, or, rather, exposed to creative courses in then- first two years at the University, but fiction of high quality, if there is any, has not found its way to editors’ desks.
There is a course in ‘Writing of Short Fiction’ that may . be taken as an elective. but this semester only some 30 students are registered for the two classes. Students are chosen for the class by Mr. Sullivan on the basis of previous fiction. The classes are so small, of course, out of expediency. However, if the demand were large for such a course, the English Dept, would most likely set up additional facilities. These facts lead one to believe that either there is a scarcity of talent in this field or interest has completely disentegrated.
FRESHMEN DISCOURAGEMENT
However, this failure has not been only in the field of prose, but also of poetry. In the last issue of the Juggler there were only three poems. The Atlantic Monthly, nevertheless, stated last month that the number of poems that they have received is at a maximum, especially, from undergraduates. Notre Dame does not seem to be included in this literary surge.
Looking at our records, the greatest number of fictional manuscripts have come from the freshman. However, the majority of these writers have not developed their style to an acceptable point. Many become discouraged after their first rejection. At all times the Editors attempt to give a constructive critique of the submitted work, but most of this time seems ill-spent, since few authors submit a story after that first rejection. We sincerely hope that the facts that have been observed do not spell a serious recession in the output-of literature from young Catholic men.
—D.K.
March 15, 1957
17
A Triumph
by John Quagliano
Michael Kennedy has scored a triumph. The entire success of the University Theater’s current production, “Macbeth,” is due to Mr. Kennedy’s superb portrayal of the title role. Michael Kennedy is Macbeth, carries “Macbeth,” and makes “Macbeth.” His dynamic and immensely moving portrayal is, in this reviewer’s opinion, the best individual performance in the history of the University Theater.
Michael Kennedy justly deserves this critical acclaim. Don’t miss this play. You will most probably find it to be the most rewarding theatrical experience of your college career.
Michael Kennedy is, in a sense, a newcomer to the Washington Hall stage. He comes a magnificent talent and a star of the first magnitude. Last year, he played the part of a psychiatrist in “The Caine Mutiny Court Martial.” In the Theater’s first production of the year, “Death of a Salesman,” he adequately portrayed a self-centered, insensitive sales manager. But this is a new Michael Kennedy.
The most frequently heard comment during the intermission and after the performance was: “He was made for the part.” Mr. Kennedy made the part. He truly created Macbeth.
Tall and straight with a high forehead and sunken, burning eyes, Mr. Kennedy symbolizes a Shakespearean tragic hero the moment he entered the stage. From this entrance to the final death scene, he captivated the audience. His clear resonant voice masterfully expressed the changing emotions of a man fighting against his fate.
Mr. Kennedy delivered his lines with a most judicious change of pace. His performance was never forced, which so often happens when modern actors forget that Shakespeare’s lines do not need overemphasis to be effective. He projected his role and did not need to hurl his lines at the audience. His gestures were superbly executed and his timing was excellent.
The scene in which Macbeth sees an illusionary knife is exemplary of his tact and restraint. This difficult scene is so skillfully performed that for a moment
18
the audience shares the terror of a man whose senses begin to lie to him. Then Mr. Kennedy evokes compassion and we are prepared for a murder scene which must be much more than that. It is the turning point in Macbeth’s career.
After we see that “what has been done cannot be undone,” Michael Kennedy shows the strengths and weaknesses of an unscrupulous man, who will stop at no atrocity to satiate his overpowering desire for power.
Barney Morris was brilliant as Macduff. His diction was forceful and most distinct. Mr. Morris had the difficult
task of portraying a man racked by almost uncontrollable emotions, which must be tempered if he will ever defeat Macbeth. He accomplishes this feat admirably.
Miss Marilee Young played Lady Macbeth, one of the most challenging of Shakespeare’s roles. She executes her part well but her performance is marred by an over-earnestness. She does not always seem fully cognizant of the meaning of the lines she is speaking. She seems to lose her control at the end of her lines although a flurry of gestures may compensate for this. Although there was a prevalence of coughing during the
second act, her sleepwalking scene is one of the highlights of the play.
Paul Willihnganz gave us a steady, comforting and dependable Lennox. He .has made the most of his part and fulfills each scene with skill and vigor. Another rewarding performance was Frank X' Draine’s Banquo. In Mr. Draine’s more relaxed moments, we are gifted with a superlatively executed role. His sensitive portrayal indicates a fine talent.
Although he aptly portrayed the immature Malcolm, Reginald Bain could not transform this boyishness into the young manhood of the new king. His hurried, emotionless speech of acceptance of the crown was disheartening. f Throughout the play, Mr. Bain did not seem to have mastered the intricacies ;
of his lines.
Neil Ball impressively spoke Duncan’s lines through his beard. Andrew Stan-iszewski was a scene stealer with his deft portrayal of the Doctor.
John Kent skillfully relieved the building tensions with his characterization of the Porter. He is a wonderful comedian. Constance Stalma was an exceedingly attractive Lady Macduff who kept her sense of humor while informing her son that his father was a traitor. Her scream was a masterpiece.
Mr. Gilbert Rathbun must be congratulated on his marvelous sets which with simplicity and economy truly portrayed an ancient Scottish castle. The lighting was extraordinarily effective and the projection of the prophesying spirits on a screen was a clever and striking innovation.
Although it may appear that Mr. Kennedy’s performance overshadows the other players in this fine cast, it is, on the contrary, the subtle balancing of the cast which makes this production so highly satisfying. Michael Kennedy transforms the Washington Hall stage into a Scottish castle and the other players are at home there. The energetic performances of Barney Morris and Marilee Young are extremely vital to the success of this challenging classic.
And a gratifying success it is. Again, the University Theater has produced a satisfying evening of superb workmanship and pleasing drama.
The Scholastic
graduating electrical and mechanical
ENGINEERS
You know it ... we know it'. . . so let's be frank about it.	/
The demand for engineers—experienced or graduate —far exceeds the supply/And, from now on in, you are going to be sought after more than a triple threat halfback for next year's varsity.
You will be promised many things (including the moon with a fence/around it), and for a young man just getting started these things are pretty hard to resist. /
So, again, let's be frank. We at Farnsworth won't promise you/the moon. (Although we are working on some ideas that may eventually get you there and back.)zWe are an old, young organization. O/d, in the sense of being pioneers in the field of elec-tronics.y^Our technical director, Dr. Philo Farnsworth invented electronic television.) Young, by being the newest division of the world-wide International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation, devoting our efforts exclusively to research, development and production of military and industrial electronics, and atomic energy.
All of which makes Farnsworth big enough for stability and technical perspective, yet small enough for mobility, flexibility and recognition of the individual. Here you will be associated with and encouraged by a team of eminent scientists and engineers with many "firsts" to their credit in the field of electronics. Here you will be heard . . . not just one of the herd.
We earnestly invite you to hear the whole fascinating Farnsworth story. We're pretty certain it will make the decision for your future easier.
0
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
APRIL 5
MISSILES • 1*11*1. ANTENNAS • MICROWAVES • INFRARED • SOLID STATE • TEST EQDIPMENT • INDUSTRIAL T. V.
FARNSWORTH ELECTRONICS CO., FORT WAYNE, INDIANA
io
The Scholastic
Junior Parents Weekend Opens Tomorrow; Campus Tours, Dinner, Reception Scheduled
Four hundred parents of Notre Dame juniors are expected to participate in the 1957 Parent-Son Weekend, which will begin early tomorrow with regis-_ trations in the Morris Inn lobby. The traditional purpose of this weekend is to show parents the normal daily life of a student in its academic, social, and spiritual aspects.
One of the highlights of the weekend will be the reception tomorrow afternoon in each of the colleges with the deans and faculty members and with ROTC instructors. Parents will be able _ to personally meet their sons’ teachers • and see the classrooms where their sons are instructed.
Tomorrow evening, parents and their sons will be invited to a dinner given in the Dining Hall. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will be the main speaker. Toastmaster will be Bernard Pellegrino, president of the Junior Class. The Notre Dame Glee Club will provide entertainment.
Other events for the parents will include tours of the campus, movies on
Wilson Grants Won By Four ND Seniors
Four seniors from Notre Dame have been awarded Woodrow Wilson National Fellowships enabling them to pursue graduate studies in the fields of their choice. The recipients of the award are: Robert Sasseen, Harry Heyl, Douglas Cole, and Michael Todd.
The fellowships, which are sustained by graduate schools throughout the country, grant a stipend of $1,250 for students nominated by their schools on the basis of intellect, character, and personality. _ Tentative plans of the fellowship win-• ners vary. Sasseen, a senior from Rockville Center, N. Y., intends to study political science at the University of Chicago. He has been active in the University Theatre and is a member of the Wranglers.
Heyl, editor of the Notre Dame Juggler and also a member of the Wranglers, will take graduate study in A English at Northwestern University. Heyl is from Peoria, Ill.
Cole, who will study English at Stanford University in California, is on the editorial staff of the Juggler. Cole comes from Forest Hills, N. Y. and is also a member of the Wranglers.
Todd, who comes from Chicago, Ill., a will study Art at the University of ™ California at Los Angeles.
“Campus Life” in the LaFortune Student Center, and open house in the Center after- the dinner tomorrow evening.
The weekend program for the parents also includes having lunch with their sons in the Dining Halls under the normal student dining conditions.
As a close to the weekend activities, students and their parents will attend the 9 a.m. Sunday Mass in Sacred Heart Church, where a special reserved section will be roped off for them.
The Parent-Son Weekend was begun five years ago by Mr. J. Arthur Haley. In 1953, the Junior Class took oversponsorship of the weekend and has managed it ever since.
General chairman for the 1957 Parent-Son Weekend is Bernard Pellegrino.
Scuth Bend Symphony To Give Concert Here
The South Bend Symphony Orchestra will appear in the Drill Hall on Sunday, March 24. They will give a concert including compositions by Beethoven, Lalow, and Greig. The concert will begin at 4 p.m.
Michael Rabin will appear as guest soloist on the violin. Rabin, who is only 20, made his Carnegie Hall debut in 1950 at the age of 14, and has since gained wide recognition for his ability.
Tickets are $1.50 and $2.50 for the general public. Notre Dame students will be admitted free on presentation of identification cards.
AB Sophs View Majors At Conference Thursday
A general meeting of all sophomores in the College of Arts and Letters will be conducted by the Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of the college in the Law Auditorium at 7:45 p.m. Thursday. The purpose of this meeting is to acquaint the members of this class with the objectives and course of studies of each of the AB majors.
After Father Sheedy’s brief talk, a representative of each department will be available to explain the program and answer questions.
All sophomores, who are eligible to begin their major sequence of studies next semester, will be given an information booklet prepared by each department prior- to the meeting. This will be given out through the professors of English 22. The brochure will present a basic outline of each academic major.
Indiana Architects Meet On ND Campus April 6
Walter Dorwin Teague, a noted industrial designer, will be the featured speaker at the annual meeting of the Indiana Society of Architects, to be held on the Notre Dame campus, Saturday, April 6. Mr. Teague will speak to the visiting architects in the Engineering Auditorium on Saturday evening.
The members of the Society will attend meetings Saturday morning, and in the after-noon will attend a talk given by Mr. Walter Netch, a Chicago designer from the architecture office of Skidmore, Owings and Merrill. Architecture departments of neighboring universities have been notified of the meeting and students of these universities have been invited to attend.
Color Slides
Pick up a free chance on the Anscoflex camera set with every purchase from the Photo Dept.
KODAK Si^iut4O CAMERA
Brilliant new styling... convenience... performance
Newest in Kodak's superb line of Signet color-slide cameras... and a really outstanding buy in precision miniature equipment. Has fine f/3.5 lens, 1 /400 shutter, rangefinder, jiffy loading and other easy-operation features . . . comes with flasholder and dual reflectors. See it soonl
Notre Dame Bookstore
March 15, 1957
21
Is College Boxing Disappearing?
by Tom Judge
“Boxing is fast disappearing from the intercollegiate sports program,” says Dominic Napolitano, trainer of the Bengal Bouts.
Nappy says that many reasons have been offered for this and are probably -true. However more than anything else he thinks that the bad publicity of the abuses inherent in professional boxing have led to the discontinuing of college boxing as a sport by college presidents and faculties.
He says that many have advanced the theory that in boxing the ultimate objective is to incapacitate an opponent and therefore such action is immoral. “I have to disagree,” says Nappy, “I feel the only person who can decide whether an action is moral or immoral is the contestant himself. It has to be based on intent and intent alone. I am sure that the majority of students who box do so with the prime purpose of outscoring their opponents, and if a knockdown does occur, it would be incidental to the bout and not the sole objective of the bout as is the case when a knockdown occurs in other contact sports.”
Nappy says that the many hours a boy spends in a boxing gym are devoted to the conditioning of the body and to the acquisition of skills and not to the development of brute force, and that a study of past college boxing records would show that knockouts are few and far between.
Nappy continues, “If administrators feel that a knockout is the primary objective, then why do they allow it in their schools on a class and intramural basis where competition among students of the same school is just as keen as competition among students of different schools?”
Another reason Napolitano gives for the decline of intercollegiate boxing is the selection of poor boxing coaches. “Too often that duty has been given to the coach of another sport as a corollary duty to a professor; in each case the
man has little background in boxing.”
Nappy feels that if boxing is more dangerous than other sports it should follow that more care should be given to the administration of it, and definitely
Dominic Napolitano
more care given to the selection of a coach to administer the program.
A good coach would assure the school that all of the boys under his direction would be properly conditioned, properly trained and properly coached. “This would eliminate mis-matches, protect the boys by putting in effect all safety measures, and assure the administration of sound leadership if educational outcomes are to result from such a program,” he added.
The third reason Napolitano gives for the decline of college boxing is the subsidization and recruiting of students with an extensive boxing background. He feels that here the coaches themselves have been at fault.
The NCAA once had ;a rule that eliminated this abuse. It stated that no
student who had participated in Golden Glove competition or amateur boxing outside of his high school program would be eligible to compete in collegiate boxing. Nappy says that, “This particular rule should never have been eliminated. It was a disastrous blow to college boxing.”
When asked about the reasons for the present state of professional boxing Nappy said: “It had been due to: (1) the elimination of the many small boxing clubs; (2) television; (3) and the control of boxing getting into the hands of non-boxing people.”
One remedy Nappy gives is the establishment of a boxing czar like Ford Frick is to baseball. This office would handle all phases of boxing in every state. “Individual state boxing commissions have many drawbacks,” Napolitano says. “Among the chief ones being the political appointments and the lack of reciprocal agreements among states.”
Next in line Nappy feels would be the establishment of a sound body of rules governing boxing in all of its phases including training periods, matchmaking, officials, etc.
Nappy says these rules should include the most modern safety features for the protection of boxers, and a rule to make it mandatory for a referee to stop a bout if he thinks the competition is so unequal that a contestant might be injured. Today, such a match would continue to its ultimate end—a knockout.
“Regulations should set specific training periods to assure contestants of proper conditioning before matches. Also individual record cards should be kept on each boxer as to victories and losses.” In this way a boxer who is being continually knocked out would be barred from boxing.
Nappy feels that only men skilled in the art of boxing should be used as match makers. This would tend to eliminate the hazards of mis-matches and
insure the public a legitimate contest. He feels that only these men with extensive backgrounds should be used as referees, trainers and managers.	*"
Nappy says that “Television of bouts must be restricted by the czar.” The reason he gives is that those in control have weekly, bi-weekly, and sometimes tri-weekly commitments, whether talent is available or not. Also, a share of the profits of television should be used in the establishment of small boxing clubs and the support of the clubs, which J once again would assure the proper teaching, training, and conditioning of boxers.
Nappy says that, “Boxing as a sport is good. It is never the contestant who is responsible for the abuses which exist in it, but the people who teach, manage, coach oi* administer the sport.”
22
TAe Scholastic
>1
Bengal Plea
Archbishop’s House
Ramna, Dacca, Pakistan
Dear Notre Dame Student Body:
No Notre Dame man ever completely leaves the campus. Wherever he may find himself, he keeps returning for the bits of mind and heart he left behind. Few owe her more memories than this “exile.” Graduation, and a return four years later for priestly ordination in Sacred Heart Church. Twenty years later, consecration as Bishop of . Dacca, Pakistan, in the same church. Before that, induction as a member of the Notre Dame Chapter of the Knights of Columbus. You should not wonder at the closeness I feel.
The winds that storm across the lakes blow hot here in Bengal. Their coming brings mingled memories of March, Fighting Irish, the fieldhouse, hardy lads vieing in a small roped square, the world’s most vocal student body cheering the victors. And, rightly, the losers. Each has taken the challenge and personally proved himself a man.
The specific reference is, of course, to the annual Bengal Bouts. Everyone on campus recognizes the name. I wonder how many know just what the purpose of the Bouts is. Beyond this, I wonder how many know what this program means to a small, but solid, group of Notre Dame men on the other side of the world, who are carrying on the traditions of Notre Dame in theii- purest form.
I wish I could conduct you and the whole student body on a complete tour of the Bengal missions here in Pakistan. I believe your enthusiasm for the Bouts and for the Bengal missionaries of Holy Cross would know a blessed closeness and intensity never before felt.
I could open our mission records to show you the tens of thousands of Christians in a territory famous for its difficulty of conversion. I could show you the statistics from 25 established mission centers and high schools, seven orphanages and foundling homes. All this and much more manned by a personnel of more than 200 priests, brothers and sisters, over 90 of whom are members of Holy Cross.
I would take you across Dacca City to see our new Notre Dame College. Less than ten years old, it is now in a new building completed three years ago, and has a registration of 400. In another section of Dacca I would show you Holy Family Hospital, the finest equipped and staffed in eastern Pakistan. It is administered by the American Medical Mission Sisters, who have anothei- fine hospital in our mission at Mymensingh.
Then we would go on to Jalchatra, in the fabled Madhupur Forest to inspect Our Lady of Mercy Leprosarium. It is small and inadequate compared to the numbers of lepers in this region, thousands of them. But the care given by the Marianite Sisters of Holy Cross is the best the field of medicine knows.
From here we would swing outward on a tour of the Garo “hill missions.” It is largely jungle country, the way of life primitive. From half a dozen main centers you would find the priests caring for numerous surrounding villages, the Brothers administering village schools and building projects, the Sisters dispensing mercy through small hospitals and medical dispensaries.
This is a jet-swift view of the work. But it might give you some idea of the enormous missionary enterprise you and youi- fellow workers and students share in through your Bengal Bouts and other mission help. A little band of Holy Cross missionaries “wrought a miracle in the Indiana wilderness,” which is today Notre Dame. Another band is sweating in a spiritual wilderness where the miracle being wrought is perhaps not so' famous, but is every bit as impressive to those of us who see it coming true.
From a Notre Dame man in Bengal to the Notre Dame men at school today, the assurance of the gratitude of all the missionaries of Holy Cross — Notre Dame men — for the success you will make of the Bengal Bouts this year.
Gratefully in Our Lady,
Lawrence L. Graner, C.S.C.
Archbishop of Dacca, E. Bengal, Pakistan.
March 15, 1957
23
Claramae Turner to Appear Here March 22; Tickets for Concert to Go on Sale Wednesday
!
|
Rev. Brennan to Give Next Lenten Lecture
Tickets for the March 22 appearance of opera and movie star Claramae Turner go on sale Wednesday at the Washington Hall box office. Tickets will be sold from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. in the afternoon and 6 to 8 p.m. in the evening. Prices for students and faculty are $.75 for the balcony and §1 for orchestra. Prices for the general public are $1 and $1.50.
The concert, part of the Notre Dame Concert and Lecture Series, will be held at 8:15 Friday evening, March 22.
Miss Turner’s appearance here is part of her eighth annual trans-continental tour. It follows successful engagements earlier in the season with the San Francisco Opera and the Chicago Lyric Theatre. Miss Turner has sung in all of the 48 states, Canada, Mexico, Central America, and South America. During the course of this concert season she will briefly interrupt her extensive American tour to make her European debut.
Miss Turner is one of America’s busiest concert artists, appearing regularly each season with major symphony or-
Law Groups Sponsor Undergraduate Talks
Two major addresses and an informal “Law Evening” sponsored jointly by the Notre Dame Law School and the prelaw club, have been scheduled for the coming month.
The two talks, the third and fourth in the series on “Law as a Career,” will be held on March 20 and April 3 at 7:30 p.m. in the Law ■ Auditorium, and will be open to all undergraduates interested in the study of law.
Mr. Richard C. Stevenson, Chicago corporation lawyer and member of the firm of Stevenson, Conaghan, Velde and Hackbut, which claims the United States Steel Corp, among its clients, will deliver the Wednesday address. Scheduled for April 3, is Mr. Carl McGowan, chief counsel for the Chicago and Northwestern Railroad and member of the firm of Ross and O’Keefe.
Previous speakers in this series have been Justice Walter Schaeffer of the Supreme Court of Illinois, and Mr. Edmund A. Stephan, prominent Chicago attorney.
On April 10, the Law School will play host to all undergraduates interested in law at an informal “Law Evening.” Student representatives of Law School organizations will be present to answer visitors’ questions “from the student’s point of view.” Refreshments will be served and a movie will be shown.
chestras. Among those she sings with are the New York Philharmonic, the Boston, San Francisco, Minneapolis, and Los Angeles Symphonies. In addition she stars frequently on coast-to-coast television and radio programs.
The singer is the master of 75 major operatic roles, but her versatility also extends into other directions. Musical comedy is one of her specialities, and as a result she is often called upon for such occasions as the 1953 Rodgers and Hammerstein night at the Hollywood
CLARAMAE TURNER ‘Carmen’ and ‘Carousel’
Bowl. This appearance led to an appearance in the 20th Century-Fox version of Carousel.
One of the recent performances of Miss Turner was the singing of Ulrica in Un Ballo in Maschera, the last opera directed by Maestro Arturo Toscanini. Toscanini personally selected Miss Turner to sing the part.
Sacred Heart Exhibit Opens In O'Shaughnessy Ait Gallery
Forty-eight drawings of the Sacred Heart are included in a special Lenten exhibit which opened last Wednesday in the art gallery in O’Shaughnessy Hall.
Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., of the Notre Dame art department, who was one of the judges in the competition, will speak on “The Sacred Heart in Art” Monday at 8 p.m. in 104 O’Shaughnessy Hall. Gallery hours are 2-5 p.m. daily. The exhibit will also be open for an hour prior to Father Lauck’s talk.
The second in a series of five lectures in the annual Leo XIII Lenten Lecture Series will be given by Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., on Thursday in the Amphitheater of the LaFortune Student Center. The lecture, titled “Christian Intelligence?” will begin at (<8 p.m. and is sponsored jointly by the YCS and the Student Senate.
A member of the philosophy department, Father Brennan graduated from Notre Dame in 1939. He joined the faculty as an instructor in 1946.
Father Brennan will elaborate on his often repeated injunction: “Don’t use the Faith as a pillow to go to sleep intellectually!” He will examine the ideals . of Christian intelligence and the conditions in which we find it today.	I
The lecture will last about one hour and will be followed by a question period. The lecture is free and open to the public.
On March 28 the Lecture Series will present the Rev. Thomas Barrosse, C.S.C. in “Scripture Today,” a discussion of the Dead Sea scrolls. “Why Newman Anyway?” will be the title < of the talk given by Rev. John Keating on April 4. Authoress Mary Perkins Ryan will describe the “Layman—1957” in the final lecture on April 11.
Former South Bend Mayor To Receive Marine Award
John Scott, former mayor of South Bend, will be awarded an honorary membership in the Notre Dame Semper Fidelis Society on Monday. Scott is being awarded the membership because of his accomplishments in the Marine Corps as well as in civic and governmental functions. ’
A native of South Bend, Scott graduated from Notre Dame in 1938. He did graduate work at Indiana University, American University, and Notre . Dame, later serving as a special lecturer here.
Enlisting in the Marine Corps Reserve as a private, Scott rose to his present rank of Lieutenant Colonel. His record in World War II and the Korean conflict won him numerous decorations.
In 1953, Scott was one of 14 mayors from all parts of the country chosen by the American Municipal Association to • visit Europe and the Middle East to study conditions there. Presently Scott is a partner in the firm of Linder-Scott associates, public relations counsel.
Others who will receive honorary memberships in the society will be Major William Kelly, Sgt. William O’Brian, and Lt. Col. Harvey Feehan.
24
The Scholastic
Leading Roles for 'Good News' Announced; Production of Spring Musical Set May 8-12
Leading roles in the University Theatre spring musical, Good News, were announced this past week. Dan Ferrone will take the part of Tom Marlowe; George O’Donnell portrays Hooch Kear-g ney; Marilee Young, Constance Lane; Sue C’ark. Babe 0‘Day; Sue Brown, Flo. Jerry Dodge as Sylvester and Peggy Barnish as Millie have the dancing leads in the production.
The musical comedy, a concoction of music, football, love, laughter, and dancing had a long and successful run in New York and all the large cities of America. Dates for the presentation here are May 8 through 12.
® Many of the cast members have had
ND Debate Tourney Scheduled April 12-13
Twenty-four of the nation’s top collegiate debate teams will compete in the fifth annual Notre Dame National Invitational Debate tournament here April • 12-13.
They will vie for the Rev. William A. Bolger Memorial Trophy which will be awarded to the winner of the tourney. The collegians will argue the pros and cons of this year’s national debating topic, “Whether the United States Should Discontinue Direct Economic Aid to Foreign Countries.” The two-day competition will be held in the LaFortune Student Center on campus.
Notre Dame’s o\m debate squad won the 1956 tournament. Winners in earlier years were Dartmouth College, the U. S. Military Academy, and Wilkes College.
Among the schools already entered in this year’s competition are the University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa; Augustana College, Rock Island, Ill.; Bradley University, Peoria, Ill.; Butler University, Indianapolis, Ind.; Case Institute of Technology, Cleveland, 0.; Kansas State University, Manhattan; Loyola University, Chicago, Ill.; University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, and Northwestern University, Evanston, Ill.
Also the University of South Carolina, Columbia; University of Southern California, Los Angeles; U. S. Air Force Academy, Denver, Colo; U. S. Merchant 0 Marine Academy, Kings Point, N. Y.;
U. S. Military Academy, West Point, N. Y.; U. S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.; University of Utah, Salt Lake City; Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tenn.; Wake Forest College, Winston Salem, N. C.; Western Michigan College, Kalamazoo; and Wisconsin a State Teachers College, Eau Claire.
previous experience in both Notre Dame and St. Mary’s stage productions. Dan Ferrone appeared this year in Death of a Salesman, and last year was a dancer in Finian’s Rainbow. George O’Donnell had the lead role in Death of a Salesman, and also appeared in The Caine Mutiny Court Martial last year.
Marilee Young is presently playing Lady Macbeth in the University Theatre production of Macbeth. Jerry Dodge has had feature dance roles in Finian’s Rainbow and recently in Carousel. Sue Brown, wrho will sing three of the Good News hit tunes, has had lead parts in both Carousel and Finian’s Rainbotv.
Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., is directing Good Netos, and he will be assisted by Fred Syburg. The choral director is Rev. William MacAuliffe, C.S.C., and Allan Powers is in charge of choreography. Gilbert Rathbun is technical director of the play, and Miss Carol Cruze is designing the costumes. Mike Coche, assisted by John Carlin, is in charge of the stage.
The supporting cast includes Bruce Junius, Beef Saunders; Dave Shanahan, Bobby Randall; Phil Donahue, Bill Johnson; Don Zeifang, Charles Kenyon; Barbara Ann Adamson, Patricia Bingham; Joe Maier, Windy; and Rudy Hornish, Slats.
Tickets for the play will be available at the box office on May 6. Mail orders are accepted at any time, and phone orders will begin on April 1.
Admen to Make Field Trip To Chicago on March 25-26
The Admen and 20 students in the recently intensified course in outdoor advertising have planned a field trip to Chicago for March 25 and 26.
They will tour a numbei- of Chicago’s leading advertising agencies, outdoor advertising associations, and the Cuneo Press, one of America’s larger publishing firms. The students will be accompanied by Professors R. S. O’Neil and F. S. Beckman.
To Europe . . . 8th Annual Travel Program sponsored by National Fed. of Catholic College Students, National Newman Club Federation. Tours from $695 (47 days) all inclusive. Limited June/July departures still available. For reservations and details write immediately to
CATHOLIC YOUTH TRAVEL OFFICE
1 Thomas Circle, N.W., Washington 5, D. C.
Freshman Frolic Committee Makes Plans for May Dance
General Chairman Larry Martin announced this past week that the Freshman Frolic committee is making progress in their plans for the May dance. A senes of newsletters has been planned to keep everyone informed on the latest details available.
Definite arrangements are being made for the entire Frolic weekend, beginning with the dance on Friday night, May 17, until the Communion Breakfast Sunday. The orchestra will be announced at the Freshman Class meeting, Monday evening, March 25 in the Engineering Auditorium.
The theme is being planned for the dance by decorations chairman John Saladino. Joe Albright and Robert Dow have been chosen as business manager and refreshments chairman respectively. Ticket Chairman Lenny Muller has tentively set the date for the sale of bids for the latter part of the week before Easter vacation. He adds that there will be a one-day sale after the holidays if any tickets are still available.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches J.TRETHEWEY JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. JJIJ. Bldg.
March 15, 1957
25
SONIC Cupfii. ]
Ever since Jack bought his new Sonic CAPRI phonograph at the local college store—he’s become the biggest B M O C ever. You can join him and be the biggest ever, too, for you can buy a Capri phonograph for as little as $19-95. This month’s special buy is the Capri 550. It’s a portable 4-speed hi-fi phonograph with WEBCOR automatic changer Features are twin speakers, a quality amplifier and a smartly styled cabinet in attractive Two-Tone Forest Green. Specially priced at your local dealer.
SONIC INDUSTRIES, INC. 19 Wilbur Street, Lynbrook, N. Y.
Win an Elgin Watch!
Next 4 Prizes:
17 jewel Stanwood dependable and masculine
2nd 3 Prizes:
Elgin 17 jewel self-winding Lakeshore, 'aterproof and shockproof
First 3 Prizes: 21 jewel Lord Elgin Direct Reading watches.
A complete, 3-pair
WMBNBf
Nothing to buy—just sign your name to enter
Just write your name, address, town and state on any stationery or post card and mail it to Box 826, Wesboro Shoes for Men, Peters Shoe Co., Chicago 90, Ill.
Winners will be drawn by impartial judges and notified by mail. Judges decisions are final. Offer null and void where prohibited by law. Further rules are available at your Wesboro Men’s Shoe dealer.
Contest opens March 15, 1957—ends April 30, 1957.
26
for only $29?5
WESBORO WARDROBE
Peters Division, International Shoe Company, St. Louis 3, Missouri
■—————
Classified Advertising
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed at the University Press Office in Farley Hall at . a cost of 50c per line. A minimum of 3 lines is -necessary and all advertising must be presented * 7 days before insertion date.
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS
ENGINEERS EE — ME — ChE
If you are inteiested in pioduct safety testing, design analysis, immediate responsibility.’ see the man from Undei writers Laboratories on Thursdav. March 21. UNDERWRITERS LABS—Chicago. '
ROOM FOR RENT. Furnished comfortably for student. Excellent Location. Moderate rate. Call CE 3-4-703. Address: 107 W. Noi th Shore Di ive.
VOUGHT AIRCRAFT. Monday and Tuesday. March 18 and 19—Placement Office.
COLUMBIA GAS. Tuesday. March 29—Placement Office.
SUNDSTRAND. Friday. March 22—Placement Of- ... fice.
FARNSWORTH. Friday, Api il 5—Placement Office.
Senate Sets Social Calendar; Mixer Scheduled for Tonight
The second in a series of Friday night mixers sponsored by the social com-mission will be held tonight in the LaFortune Student Center. Food will be served from 6:30 to 7:30 p.m., Club Italiano-style.
A floor show, skit, bridge playing, a . hi-fi concert, and dancing will follow the meal.
This Sunday, from 2:30 until 5:30 > p.m., a St. Patrick’s Day mixer will be held in the Center. Music for the mixer £; will be recorded and admission will be® $.50.	>
Girls from St. Mary’s Academy, St. g; Joseph’s School of Nursing, and St. ? Mary’s College will attend.
Next Saturday night in the Center i the commission is running a Pan-Amer-ican Dance. At the same time, in St. Mary’s O’Laughlin Auditorium, there : will be a concert by the Little Singers of Paris.
On Sunday, March 24, the South Bend t Symphony will present their annual con- & cert in Washington Hall.
The remaining social events of the g month include a performance of L Shakespeare’s Henry IV by the Players’ Incorporated of Catholic University of ? America on March 30, and a Knute i Rockne Day mixer in the Center for A that Sunday.	&
Order a full year’s subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
The Scholastic
Uliik Scan*
ND FACES SPARTANS AT LEXINGTON TONIGHT
_ NCAA Championship Hopes Continue to Soar After Easy Victory Over Miami at Columbus
Lexington, Ky., March 15 — Notre Dame, riding on the crest of a ten-game winning streak, meets Michigan State here tonight in the NCAA Midwest Regional Basketball Tournament. The Irish won the trip to Lexington with a 89-77 win over Miami of Ohio on ♦ Tuesday.
Pittsburgh will play Kentucky in the other contest tonight with the winner of that game meeting the winner of the Irish-Spartan contest for the Midwestern championship and a trip to the NCAA finals at Kansas City.
For the Irish, it will be the second time they have faced the squad from East Lansing. On January 15, they outplayed the Spartans most of the way in beating them 86-76 at Notre Dame.
But after the loss to Notre Dame, Michigan State caught fire and rolled to ten straight conference victories and a tie for the Big Ten title before losing to Michigan in their final regular season game.
Leading State will be four regulars who carried the brunt of their attack throughout the year, Jack Quiggle, (j) Larry Hedden, George Ferguson and John Greene.
Quiggle, a 6-3 guard, is a fine playmaker and an excellent rebounder. He is a native of South Bend where he
ON THE WAY TO NINE IN A ROW
Morelli and Sullivan battle under the boards.
played his prep ball at South Bend Central.
Hedden and Ferguson are the starting forwards for the Spartans. Hedden ranked eighth in Big Ten scoring this past season, while Ferguson was named the Most Valuable Player on the Michigan State team.
Greene is a 6-5 sophomore who handles most of the rebounding chores for Coach Fordy Anderson’s squad. He has tremendous jumping ability and possesses a good hook shot.
The fifth spot on the Spartan starting five goes to Pat Wilson, a senior guard. Wilson is an outstanding defensive ball player.
In tonight’s second game, Coach Adolph Rupp brings a Kentucky team into the NCAA for the ninth time in the 19 years that the National Basketball Championships have been conducted by the NCAA. They are the only team ever to win the tournament three times.
Johnny Cox, though only in his first year on the Wildcat varsity, has been responsible for a great deal of the Kentucky success this year. He scores well and is exceptionally tough under the baskets.	’
Along with Cox, the Wildcats have two fine guards in Vernor Hatton and Gerry Calvert. Hatton was named
JACK QUIGGLE	|
Leads Spartans in tourney.	:
Sophomore of the Year in the South- < eastern Conference a year ago. Calvert j at 5-11 is the smallest man on the squad ; and a good playmaker.	j
Kentucky won their right to the ] NCAA by winning the SEC Champion- j ship, their 17th in 24 years.	)
Pittsburgh won the right to meet the	|
Wildcats by defeating Morehead in a	|
surprise, 86-85. The Panthers were	i
sparked by their sophomore sensation,	*
Don Hennon.	i
In the first	half against Miami,	Notre	|
Dame jumped to the lead and were	|
never headed. John McCarthy scored	I
the first six	points. Hawkins	hit a	I
jump, Smyth	scored from underneath,	j
Hawkins tipped in a missed free throw | and Notre Dame led 12-4.	I
Miami couldn’t come within six points until, with 12 minutes remaining, they narrowed the score to 22-20.
Sparked by the rebounding and scoring of Smyth and Hawkins, the Irish began to pull steadily away. With five minutes remaining, Notre Dame had a eleven point lead and then stretched it to 47-31 at the half.
In the half, Notre Dame out-rebounded Miami by 33-21.- Hawkins had eleven and Smyth had nine. In the scoring Smyth had 15' while Hawkins and McCarthy had 14.
Notre Dame had leads throughout the first ten minutes of the second half that ranged anywhere from 15 to 19 points. Wien Miami went into a full-court press (Continued on Page 30)
March 15, 1957
27
Basilio Named Recipient of Bengal Award;
Welter King to Be Guest Referee March 29
Carmen Basilio, the welterweight champion of the world, has been chosen by the Bengal Mission Bout committee as this year’s Bengal Award winner, the man in boxing who has contributed the most to the youth of America by example and competitive spirit during 19.56.
Basilio will appear at the Notre Dame Fieldhouse March 29 to referee the final bouts. Afterwards he will receive the award.
Carmen is the seventh of 10 children, born April 2, 1927 on an onion farm in Canastota, N. Y. He helped on the farm during his school days but quit high school after one year so that he could work in a factory and help out financially at home.
It wasn’t until he joined the Marines that he began boxing . . . winning 11 of 14 Golden Gloves bouts.
Two defeats could be said to be the turning point in Basilio’s career. The first one came at the hands of Chuck Davey in Chicago Stadium. Davey was at the time the nation’s TV Darling and few dispute the loss. However, Basilio put up such a good fight, especially in the late rounds, that he was tabbed as a “comer.”
Then came the championship bout with Kid Gavilan in September, 1953. The Kid found himself on the canvas early in the bout. Probably the only one in the Syracuse Arena that wasn’t surprised was Mr. Basilio, who always knew he was a good fighter but was having trouble proving it. Gavilan ultimately won a very disputed decision,
CARMEN BASILIO
Bengal award winner.
but it was inevitable that Carmen would get another shot at the welter crown.
Not only did he get his chance, but he knocked out Tony DeMarco. Just to prove his point he turned the trick again in a rematch in almost the exact fashion just nine seconds sooner than the first time.
Basilio has won 48 fights, lost 11 and has fought to 11 draws. His managers are Joe Netro and Joey DeJohn. He is a converted southpaw which accounts for his devastating left hook. He is an accomplished fighter and is willing to take two to get home his one lethal blow. Carmen likes to spend his leisure time hunting and fishing, sports which his wife Kay enjoys with him.
Among his victims in the ring are Billy Graham, Carmine Fiore, Vic Cardell, Johnny Cunningham, and of course Tony DeMarco. Last March Carmen lost his title in a disputed match to Johnny Saxton. He came back in September as the challenger and won by a TKO in Syracuse. Saxton asked for a rematch which he got last month in Cleveland. Basilio knocked him out in the second round with a left hook.
It goes without saying that Basilio’s No. 1 fan is his blonde wife. She revolves her whole schedule around Carmen’s training grid and usually makes the trip to wherever the fight is. The two of them make it a point to attend Mass and Holy Communion together the morning of a fight. ’
Basilio follows a long line of ring champs as guest referee. Some of these champions include Tony Zale, Billy Conn, Barney Ross, Jim Braddock, Jack Dempsey, Kid Gavilan and Rocky Marciano. Other men have been Bishop Shiel of Chicago, Arch Ward, Jack Elder, Elmer Layden, Budd Schulberg, and Jim Crowley.
SAILING SEMINAR
The sailing team will continue with its seminars this Wednesday, March 20, at 7:30 p.m. in room 123 Nieuwland Science Hall.
The topic of the discussion will be Reaching and Running, two legs of a race. This will be followed in later weeks by Finishing the Race and Theories of Sailing and Racing.
The sailing team hopes to get those attending the seminars down to St. Joe’s Lake before vacation and show them sailing by practical application.
ED HURLEY
Veteran second-sacker
Kline Says Infield Set Except at Third Base
Irish baseball coach, Jack Kline, who has the rest of his infield line-up well set, faces the perplexing problem this s. spring of finding an adequate player for the third base slot. Kline is quite ■, satisfied with the talents of veterans Jim * Cusack at first base, Ed Hurley, the second baseman and dependable Jim Carideo, the shortstop.	;
Rated by Kline as the leading candidates for the third base position are seniors Steve Johnson and Roger Allan, a service returnee, along with juniors Joe Geneser, Jim Morris and Pete De If Vito.	f
Jim Cusack, whose past record at the y plate makes him a cinch to be in the 5 line-up somewhere, played the outfield last season. However, he was originally r
a first baseman and knows that position . best. Cusack, co-captain of the squad from Peoria, Ill., is a left handed hitter _ who batted .342 in 1955 and .316 last® s'
spring.	g
The double play combination of seniors Ed Hurley and Jim Carideo has been performing as an efficient unit for the past two campaigns and coach Kline is depending on them again this season. He feels that they are adequately seasoned now and expects them to carry out their fielding duties in an exceptionally smooth manner.
Carideo, who has registered batting averages of .257 and .283 over the past two years, is another seasoned veteran. Hurley, who has had his troubles at the plate in the past with hitting averages of .243 and .259, still is looked forward to be a mainstay in the infield.
28
The Scholastic
I * Twenty-Two Lettermen Candidates to Report As Spring Football Practice Begins Monday
Pangborn Beats Badin For Basketball Crown
by JACK GRADY
Monday afternoon on Cartier Field, approximately 65 candidates will an-swer Head Football Coach Terry Bren-nan’s call opening spring football drills. On this day the aspirants for the 1957 Irish varsity will take part in the first of 20 spring practice sessions.
March 18 marks the earliest opening day for the Irish in several years, since for the past five or six years they did not commence until the beginning of April. However, the lateness of Easter vacation this year more or less neces-* sitates the earlier starting date.
It is Brennan’s plan to hold five workouts a week, for four weeks, with the Old Timers game tentatively slated for Saturday, April 13. Friday will be the scheduled off-day, providing a crutch should the workouts fall victim to the customary poor spring weather.
Since Brennan and his aide.s are well aware that 1957 is possibly the most crucial season in football history at " Notre Dame, emphasis during these drills will be placed primarily on defense in preparing for what is hoped will be a comeback in ND football fortunes. The coaching staff approaches the workouts with the attitude that “there is a lot to be made up for, which in turn means that a great deal of hard work will be necessary from both the staff and players”. Competition should ^be extremely keen since at this time all the positions are “wide open”.
In all, a total of 17 monogram winners will be lost from the 1956 team. Biggest losses to be suffered will be the
COACH TERRY
Problem solving begins Monday.
departure of All-America Paul Hornung and Captain Jimmy Morse, both of whom will graduate in June. Other men who played considerable time and who will be graduated include Jim Munro, Bob Scannel, Lou Loncaric, Larry Cooke, Jim Milota and Dean Studer.
The 22 monogram winners returning are ends Gary Myers, Dick Prendergast, Dick Royer and Bob Wetoska; tackles Frank Geremia, Bronko Nagur-ski and Don Lawrence; guards Al Ecuyer, Dick Ciesielski, Gene Hedrick, John McGinley, Bob Gaydos and Dick Shulsen; centers Ed Sullivan and Frank Kuchta; Bob Williams at quarterback; Aubrey Lewis, Dick Lynch, Frank Reynolds, and Bobby Ward, halfbacks; Chuck Lima and Jim Just, fullbacks.
Mile, Two-mile Teams Enter Chicago Relays
The Irish track team will travel to Chicago tomorrow afternoon where they will compete in the Chicago Relays. The Wilsonmen are entered in two events this year. The two-mile relay team of Marty Clynes, Al Porter, Ed Monnelly and Dale VandenBerg will again face the strong Pitt team. The mile relay team will run in the featured event of the afternoon. The team of Aubrey Lewis, Joe Foreman, Bill Keegan and Barclay Ewart will face the Villanova club in a match race. The Wildcats relay team recently won the IC4A Championship in New York.
Last Saturday, the track team traveled to Marquette where they ran in the Seventh Annual Milwaukee Relays. The Irish showed well, taking a second and two fourth places in the competition. The best effort of the afternoon was turned in by Dale VandenBerg. VandenBerg, the anchor man of the two-mile relay team, starting in the second spot in the last quarter mile twenty yards behind Pitt, he quickly closed the gap only to lose by one yard, finishing a close second. In the mile runs, the Irish copped fourth place in both the collegiate and the open runs. Dick Cam-millo finished in the fourth spot behind winner Hackett from Wheaton while Ron Gregory copped the identical slot in the open run, while Wheeler, formerly of Iowa, garnered first place.
In the mile relay, the team of Lewis, Foreman, Keegan and Ewart were well on their way to victory but were disqualified.
Pangborn used deliberate, weave-style basketball last Sunday night to win the campus intermural basketball crown by soundly defeating Badin, 61-39 in the Fieldhouse.
Badin connected on three free throws at the beginning of the game to take a 3-0 lead but Pangborn came swarming back to climb ahead 15-4 and posted a 15-6 first period lead. Relying on a fast break, Badin forged back quickly and narrowed the deficit to four points mid-way in the second period but the champions were equal to the challenge and remained on top for a 25-17 halftime lead.
The third quarter- was marred by numerous fouls, most of them called on Badin and Pangborn swiftly pulled away to a commanding 47-30 advantage at the close of third period. Pangborn sealed the outcome by converting 14 free throws in the period.
Still continuing their rapid scoring pace, Pangborn out scored Badin in the final quarter, 14-9 and went on to the victory.
Many of the Pangborn players were hold-overs from the team that represented Badin last year when as sophomores they won the same championship.
Tim Sullivan, playing guard for Pangborn, led both teams in scoring by pumping in 20 points. Don McNeil, stationed at centei- for Pangborn, tallied 12 points. Hitting consistently on long one-handers for Badin, Bill Whaley, finished with 15 points. Tom Marquez, their other guard, came through with five field goals for 10 points.
Saturday evening in the Fieldhouse, the Badinites qualified for the finals by dumping Farley, 63-51. Jim Colosimo and Jim Just, each with 17 markers, paced Badin. Consistent scoring in all quarters and an aggressive defense earned Pangborn their spot in the finals. The champions beat the Indianapolis Club, 54-31. Ron DeNardo supplied the winners with 14 points.
ssKasNEawa
ALL-CAMPUS TEAM
Jim Colosimo _____________Badin
Bill Newbold ....Indianapolis Club Tim Sullivan .......—Pangborn
Bob O’Neil ___________   Farley
Tom Prendergast ....Chicago Club Joe Belselza __________ ..Badin
Jerry Owengs......Pittsburgh Club Steve Powers ..... Pangborn
John Fitzpatrick _..Off-Campus Charlie Fredrick_Cincinnati Club
Co-coaches of the Year
Mark Shields ............ Badin
Vince Naimoli ------------ Badin
March 15, 1957
29
TIME OUT
While Scholastic Sports Editor John Glavin is enroute to Lexington, Ky., Joe Bride, who is already in the land of the Blue Grass, will act as guest
columnist.
Lexington, Ky., March 14—One year ago tonight Johnny Jordan was an
unhappy man. He had finished his fifth season as Notre Dame’s head basket
ball coach, and it was a
JORDAN
most unrewarding one. For the first time in those five seasons he was the coach of 'a Notre Dame team with a losing record.
Now it’s a funny thing about sports fans, Notre Dame sports fans in particular, and Irish basketball fans specifically. They become too used to the good and are only too ready to criticize what they term bad.
These basketball fans (they must be nothing more than fans because they began to doubt Jordan’s ability as a coach) started the clamor that John Jordan was not the man to coach Notre Dame. They seemed to forget everything about his four other seasons as head coach. They forgot that he sent two teams to the finals of the midwest re-gionals in the NCAA tourney, had an over-all
record of 80 wins against only 43 losses, and developed three All-Americans.
They cited false, inaccurate and phony reasons why he was not the man to be a Notre Dame coach. The officials of the University were not bothered by these comments, just as they weren’t bothered by the comments made after this year’s football season. They paid no attention to these idiotic thoughts.
This December 4th Johnny Jordan began his sixth season as the Irish coach and it was a good thing for the 1956-57 Notre Dame basketball fortunes. After the first ten games of the season, the Irish had a 5-5 record and a second place finish in the New York Holiday Festival Tourney. Then, early in January, Jordan made two changes in the Irish starting line-up and the team won 14 of their next 16. Throughout the season the Irish used effectively a doublepivot offense which was made to order for the team. These are two major
changes made by Jordan which sent the Irish on their way.
The squad had only two holdover regulars, but tonight the Irish are again waiting for that chance to advance to the finals of the NCAA midwest region-als. They have already defeated their opponents, Michigan State, by a sound margin. They have also soundly thrashed the other Big Ten co-champ, Indiana, and the Mid-American Conference champ, Miami (Ohio). The winner of tomorrow night’s contest wall earn the right to meet the winner of the Pitts-
burgh-Kentucky game for the midwest championship.
If, and when, the Irish defeat Michigan State tonight and advance to the final game on Saturday night, John Jordan will deserve the credit. The hustle, spirit, ability and determination of this 1956-57 Notre Dame basketball squad is a tribute to him.
* * *
The late surge of the basketball team has made us unaware of the exceptionally fine record turned in by the indoor track squad. As a team they won two indoor dual meets and captured the Central Collegiate crown. Their only loss was to Big Ten champ Indiana, 68/2-45’/>.
An even finer gauge of the ability of this year’s track squad was received in the latest NCAA track and field statistics sei-vice. Four Irish performers and the mile relay team rank among the top in the country in their events.
Dale VandenBerg, junior half-miler, has the best recorded time in the country for his specialty. His time of 1:53.2, recorded in the Purdue meet, is seven-tenths of a second better than his closest competitor, Dave Lean of Michigan State. Miler Dick DiCamillo’s time of 4:11.1 is second only to Olympic 1500 meter champ, Ron Delany. Jack Cote’s leap of 23 feet 11 ’/2 inches in the broad jump is third in the nation and Mike Haverty’s 9:26.5 two mile ranks sixth. The Irish mile relay team of Bill Keegan, Joe Foreman, Barclay Ewart and Aubrey Lewis have a best time of 4:19.3 which ranks them second in the country.
Ranieri, Soloman Hold ? Campus Bowling Lead
The 6:30 Thursday League continued . to hold the spotlight in the Campus Keglers this past week with the Chicago Club moving into a tie with the California Club for the lead. The Irish Club still maintained their hold on the third @ slot. The strength of the Chicago and California Clubs may be seen in the in- i dividual scoring statistics. Nick Ranieri of the Chicagoans has bowled the highest game, a 256, and also possesses the highest average in the league, a 177. Lew Soloman of the Californians has : rolled the best series based on three : successive games, a 622.
On the same night at 8:30, the Archi-tects have jumped into the lead with the Washington, Maryland, and Virginia • Club holding down the second slot. The Villagers dropped from second to third. Frank Neubek continues to hold high average honors with a 167. Ervin Pu-rucker has compiled a high series of 175 and Jones has a high game of 240.
In the 6:30 Wednesday League, the Press and the Italian Clubs trail the Cleveland Club by a close margin. High(§> average honors are currently held by j, Tom Jablonski at 181. Tom also is the possessor of the highest series to date with a 608. Dick Torda has bowled the . high game, a 254. At 8:30 Wednesday, the St. Louis Club is still on top by a slim margin over the Wisconsin Club and the Student Law Association. The Law Association replaced the ASME’s in the third slot. Frank Perbenda has \ the top series total with a 601. High® game honors are held by Dan Clancy |-who rolled a 234 game. Bill Bebot has the top average at 165.	£
The Friday League still finds the Holy •• Rollers on top. The Met Club and the ; De-Effers follow in second and third places respectively. Joe Pivnicka has . rolled a 225 for the high game lead. Verge Minnick continues to hold the -high average honors at 172 while Ed^ Silliman holds the high series lead with~ a 596.
ND Faces Spartans
(Continued from Page 27) and with 6:54 remaining the score read 76-68. Hawkins’ tip made it 78-68.
McCarthy hit for the next two Irish f baskets and from there on in, Miam^: couldn’t get any closer than ten points.’^ The Redskins fouled attempting to catch up but ND converted on most of them | to cop the 89-77 victory.
Hawkins led the scoring parade with 25 points. McCarthy scored 22 and Smyth had 23. Wayne Embry and John Powell led the Miami scoring with 2^ and 23 points respectively.	' •
30
The Scholastic
Swimmers Place in Midwest Invitational Meet
To Complete Second Intercollegiate Season
Returning Champions Highlight Bengal Bouts
The Notre Dame Swimming Club closed its second season of intercollegiate competition with a strong second place in the Midwest Invitational Swim-^ming Meet. The meet was held March 9, at North Central College, Naperville, Ill. Ten schools competed in the meet, which is annually one of the toughest in the Midwest.
Notre Dame copped top spot in two . events. Tom Kennedy won the 100 yard freestyle in 54.5 seconds and Dick Kattis tied Sam Morse of Beloit for first place in 2:24.
£ Mike Connelly took a second place to George Mollitor of North Central in the 400 yard freestyle. Mollitor, incidentally, set a new meet record of 5:00.3 in win-i ning the event.
Connelly again scored for the Irish in the 220 yard freestyle event, this time grabbing third place behind Mollitor and J. Arthur Rank, both of North Central.
Paul Fenlon of Washington Uni-^versity won the 50 yard freestyle. Alex Hamilton of North Central grabbed second, closely followed by Kennedy and Kerwin of Notre Dame.
Morse set a new meet record in winning the 100 yard backstroke. Jim Garrity of Notre Dame was second and Katis of Notre Dame finished third.
Rank of North Central captured the 100 yard butterfly, followed in order- by | ^Norbie Bagenschild of Wisconsin, La I Valie of North Central, Tom Moran of
Notre Dame and Dick Dunn also of Notre Dame.
The 200 yard individual medley was one of the two events in which Notre Dame did not place. The event was won by Mollitor of North Central. Jean-Jacques LaValie also of Beloit was second.
The Irish were also shut out in the 200 yard breaststroke, which was won by Terrence Biekofsky of Illinois Wesleyan. McCormack Kiefer of Loyola took second and Candy Crane of Hillsdale grabbed third.
The Notre Dame relay team, composed of Kerwin, ■ Dick Nagle, Katis and Kennedy, finished in third spot in the 400 yard freestyle relay. The event was won by North Central. Wisconsin finished second.
BOXING TICKETS
Season tickets for the Bengal Mission Bouts, March 25, 27, and 29 are on sale in the halls. By buying a season ticket you will see all three nights for $1.00. The same reserved seat the final night would cost $1.50. No tickets will be sold at the door the final night.
The ticket is also a pass to the mixer held afterwards. Over 200 girls from four colleges will attend.
The off-campus sale will be March 20, 21 and 22 from 1 to 4 in the Shelter.
A .host of former champions and experienced boxers are working out in the boxing room of the Fieldhouse in preparation for the upcoming Bengal Bouts. This fact indicates that this year’s Bengals should be the best boxing entertainment presented on campus in many years.
Charlie Connor, heavyweight champion in 1955, is back to make a strong bid for his former crown. Pete Noz-nesky, title holder in the light heavyweight class as a sophomore and 190-lb. champ last year, is going after his third Bengal championship. However, Noz-nesky will have to contend with John McGinley, last winter’s heavyweight winner.
In the lightest weight division, Al Stepan, victor in the 127-lb class two years ago, will be stepping into the ring after another trophy. The winner of the 155-lb. title last year, Dick Murphy, is also back to defend his title.
Several men have three years of experience in the Bengals. Included in this veteran group are Ray Barnas, boxing in the 135-lb division, Dave Cowdrill, weighing in for the 142-lb. class, Bill Glass, a 175 pounder and Robert Miller, recipient of last year’s coveted Sportsmanship Trophy as a boxer in the 165-lb. group.
Runner-up last year in the 135-lb division, sophomore Leighton Young is a strong contender for that crown in the coming fights. Ed Ricciuti is another sophomore who wasn’t defeated until the semi-finals in 1956.
TRAINING IS HALF THE BATTLE
Fighters prepare for Bouts March 25, 27, 29.
March 15, 1957
31
NEED A PEN? WIN A WATCH!
BULOVA: 17-jewel $42.50 men's senator ladies' jill A given free to a purchaser of SHEAFFER pen item
drawing May I I
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
International Affairs Conference to Examine * Growing Problems in Soviet Union, Satellites
A series of workshops on a variety of international problems and a speech on decay in the Soviet world will highlight the International Affairs conference to be held at Antioch College this weekend.
Composing the ND delegation will be: Pat Logan, student body president; NSA Regional President Bob Kiley; Bob Hil-ger, NSA regional travel director; and Warren Albright, John Abbate, Bruce Babbit, Dan Cullen, Jim Livingston, and Jim Rose.
Prof. Landrum Bolling of Earlham College will deliver the main speech, covering the current unrest in the Soviet Union and her satellites. Prof. Bolling was a journalist in Europe during the war and afterwards became head of the Overseas News Agency in Berlin. He is a leading authority on Eastern Europe and was the first foreign correspondent to enter Yugoslavia to see Tito.
Following the speech will be workshops on colonialism and nationalism, international organization, foreign aid, problems of underdeveloped countries, and neutrality.
The workshop on international organization will be led by Barrett Hollister, professor of state and local government and international organization at Antioch. Between 1954 and 1956, Hollister was director of the American Friends Service Committee Leadership Conference program for junior diplomats in Geneva.
Another member of the Antioch faculty, Mr. Victory Ayoub, an anthropolo-gist and also a specialist on the Middle East, will conduct the workshop on colonialism and nationalism.
Mr. K. V. Sridharan, professor of sociology from India, will lead the workshop on neutrality.
Grooms your hair while it treats your scalp. Controls loose dandruff. 1.00 plus tax
<s
TONIC
SHULTON New York • Toronto
32
The Scholastic
FATHER MUCKENTHALER
Dies suddenly.
Mass Offered Monday
For Fr. Mucken+haler
Rev. Joseph A. Muckenthaler, C.S.C., died suddenly in his room in Dillon Hall Wlast Friday morning after celebrating his usual 6:30 a.m. Mass in the Dillon Hall Chapel.
Father Muckenthaler, a professor of modern languages, had taught here at the University since 1931. Before coming here, he had previously taught at Columbia Preparatory School in Portland, Ore.
Born in South Bend in 1898, Father ^Muckenthaler entered the Holy Cross Seminary in 1914 and made his final profession of vows to the order in 1923, the same year he was graduated from Notre Dame. He was ordained to the priesthood in Sacred Heart Church June 24, 1927.
Father Muckenthaler received his master’s degree in 1938 from Catholic University of America.
Besides teaching German in the mod-^ern language department, Father Muckenthaler also acted in the role of prefect or rector since his coming to Notre Dame. He was rector of Badin Hall from 1932 until 1939. From 1939 until 1944, Father Muckenthaler was rector of Cavanaugh Hall. For the past twelve years he was a prefect in Dillon.
Father Muckenthaler was buried in ^>;he community cemetery at Notre Dame following a Solemn High Requiem Mass in Sacred Heart Church last Monday morning.
Father Muckenthaler’s death marks the third death in the Holy Cross order here at Notre Dame in the last three weeks. Previously Rev. John J. ^Burke and Rev. Philip Mitchell had passed away.
That’s why American Express Student Tours are expertly planned to include a full measure of individual leisure— ample free time to discover your Europe—as well as the most comprehensive sight-seeing program available anywhere! Visit England, Scotland, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Holland, Belgium, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Italy and France—accompanied by distinguished tour leaders—enjoy superb American Express service throughout.
11 Special Tours ... 53 to 63 days ... via famous ships: He de France, United States, Liberty, Saturnia,
Guilio Cesare, Flandre. $1,448 up
Also Regular Tours ... 42 days .. . $1,301 up
You can always TRAVEL NOW—PAY LATER when you go American Express. For complete information, see your Campus Representative, local Travel Agent or American Express Travel Service, member: Institute of International Education and Council on Student Travel
... or simply mail the handy coupon.
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••a American Express Travel Service
65 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y. Io Travel Sales Division	I
Yes! Please do send me complete information G-69 about 1957 Student Tours to Europe!	.
Name................................
Address......................................
City...............Zone.....State.......
PROTECT YOUR TRAVEL FUNDS WITH AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES—SPENDABLE EVERYWHERE • ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••MM
1QIIIW
LIBKAKY aid NIK SUP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
DRRWTURB0W \pPTOMETRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
March 15, 1957
33
Repercussion
(Continued from page 10) at that game, and at all the games thereafter, that the Notre Dame students were perhaps the most loyal and the most enthusiastic fans a team could ask for; but they were, and still are, one of the most discourteous assemblages I have ever witnessed.
The Blue Demons came to the Fieldhouse backed by a strong contingent of DePaul rooters. They came to encourage their five representatives on the floor, hoping they could beat the Irish. I am sad to say, however, the Notre Dame student body and Notre Dame cheerleaders wouldn’t allow the fans from Chicago to fully voice their enthusiasm. Now bear in mind that I am not saying we should allow the visiting team to take advantage of all the time outs, but I do say that we should allow them equal opportunity to do some cheering.
I can cite one example from the evening that showed a complete disregard for the DePaul fans. Their cheerleaders
Want to get more fun out of Life?
If you’re seeking more good times then learn to dance. It’s easy! Anybody can become a popular dance partner thanks to Arthur Murray’s Magic Step method. Yes, young or old timers, Arthur Murray has taught them all the secret to good times and popularity. And they’ve all had fun learning to dance his way, have developed more attractive personalities, too.
You have to know more than the right steps to be a popular partner. You must have poise, confidence. That’s why you’ll love our Student Parties! These are held frequently, and all our students are invited. You meet new people, dance with all kinds of dancers in a gay, informal atmosphere. It’s a grand way to get actual ballroom experience. So come in or ’phone now and see what fun it is to learn to dance the Arthur Murray Way. Arthur Murray Studios,
had taken the floor in preparation to leading the DePaul section in a cheer. Just before their cheer began, our blue-and-gold clad young men ran on to the floor and proceeded to lead a cheer which completely drowned out the DePaul effort. I am not condemning the idea of cheering for our athletes, but I am condemning the inconsideration shown by the students.
Nor is this an isolated case. Many times throughout the football season, and the basketball season, we have shown this type of bad manners. I am as much for Notre Dame as Father Sorin was, but I contend that this type of conduct isn’t Notre Dame at all.
I was told by my roommate that I am merely reiterating what other “reformists” have said. If I am, then I think there should be other “reformists” after me reiterating what I and my predecessors have said. This discourtesy and inconsideration is not part of Notre Dame and should not have been allowed to linger as long as it has.
Stephen D. Penny 226 Alumni
"At first some pupils think that fun and good times are not for them. But, they soon discover to their delight that Arthur Murray dance lessons and greater popularity go together,” say Dell Grey.
Junior Prom Tickets Go on Sale Monday
Sale of tickets for the 1957 Junior Prom will begin Monday and continue through Thursday according to plans set by the Prom committee. Ticket sales will be held in the basement of the Dining Hall.
Applications for tickets sent in this , past Monday have been placed in order according to postmark and distribution will take place according to this list. Each hall has been allotted a certain quota of tickets. The members of that hall who applied will receive postcards informing them of the time they are to pick up their tickets. This will prevent any long lines.
Students must appear at the time as- -signed to them or they will forfeit their < right to buy a ticket. Distribution of tickets for each hall will continue until either the quota of tickets is gone or until every man on the hall list who applied has had a chance to buy a ticket.
Should there be any tickets left from the hall quota, they will be placed on general sale on Friday in the Dining Hall basement.
Applicants are advised to bring enough ' money with them to pay for their bid and any other costs. Prices for the bids are $8, for the dinner-dance $8, for the Communion Breakfast $3, and $.50 for each memory book. Registration for hotel rooms for dates will also take place at the time of ticket sales.
The Prom will be held Friday, May 3,_ from 9:30 p.m. until 1:30 a.m. in the -LaFortune Student Center. The theme for the dance will be “Compositions in . Spring” and Jimmy Dorsey and his orchestra will provide the music.
Two Guest Speakers Heard At Marketing Club Meeting
The Marketing Club, at their monthly® meeting last night, heard two guest speakers from Stone Container Co. They also saw a movie and inspected samples related to the evening’s topic.
The two executives heard were Mr. Joseph Vesely and Mr. John Dinges. Mr. Vesely is a sales executive of Stone Container. He is a graduate of Blackburn College. Mr. Dinges, advertising,^, manager for the corporation, is a 1942 j graduate of Notre Dame.	f
Arthur Murray’s
120 E. Wayne St. CE 2-3339
YCS OFFICES
The YCS offices have been . moved to the southeast corner of the basement in the new section of the LaFortune Student Center,
The Scholastic


Cramming for Exams?
Fight “Book Fatigue” Safely
Your doctor will tell you—a NoDoz Awakener is safe as an average cup of hot, black coffee. Take a NoDoz Awakener when you cram for that exam ... or when mid-afternoon brings on those “3 o’clock cobwebs.” You’ll find NoDoz gives you a lift without a letdown... helps you snap back to normal and fight fatigue safely!
, QCr larBe economy lize flOr
15 tablets-<»1C (for Greek Row and UKC Dorms) 60 tablets—
European Holiday Tour under leadership of Dr. Charles E. Parnell, Ph.D. Associate Professor Modern Languages Notre Dame, Indiana
Leaving Montreal June 12, 1957 Returning New York August 12, 1957 All-Inclusive Tour Price $1060 by Private Motorcoach
For complete information see
I FIRST BANK & TRUST CO.
Travel Department
Notre Dame Campus: Book Store
Telephone, Notre Dame 554
Limit for Subscription March 31st'
Debaters Win Awards At Tulane Tournament
Two members of the Notre Dame Debate Team, President Jack Martzell and Vice-President Paul Coffey, won high honors in the recent Tulane University Invitational Debate tournament. The tournament was held in New Orleans over this past weekend.
Martzell, a junior from Shreveport, La., captured the trophy as the outstanding individual speaker in the tournament. Coffey, a junior from Corain, O., finished behind Martzell to take the award as second individual speaker in the meet.
Other teams participating in the tournament, in addition to Notre Dame and Tulane, included Baylor, Houston, Rice, Florida, SMU, Texas, and LSU.
The Notre Dame debate team is currently participating in the Kansas National Tournament. Composing the team in this tournament are John Hirsh-feld, Brendan Fagan, Tom Banchoff, and Dennis Shaul, who are debating the proposition: “Resolved That the United States Should Discontinue Direct Economic Aid to Foreign Countries.”
SCHOLASTIC OFFICE
The new SCHOLASTIC offices in the annex of the LaFortune Student Center are open each weekday afternoon from 2:30 to 4:30 p.m. The new telephone number for the office is Extension 515.
End of Pizza Hour
NOTRE DAME GRADUATES
IN SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING
Reach the height of Scientific Achievement
JOIN THE RESEARCH AND ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT DIVISION OF AVCO
•	A challenging Position to stimulate your professional growth.
•	Rewarding associations with men of unusual achievement.
•Top compensation and over-all employee security.
•	Liberal educational program.
•	A long range future with limitless possibilities.
•	Suburban living near metropolitan Boston, Mass.
Contact your placement office to arrange an interview with our campus representative.
If a personal interview is not convenient, please submit your resume to Mr. E. W. STU-PACK, Personnel Manager, Dept. N.D. Your reply will be held in the strictest confidence and will receive prompt attention.
■ Research & Advanced Development Division
AVCO
MANUFACTURING
CORP.
LAWRENCE, MASSACHUSETTS
I March 15, 1957
35
DR. N. HZDALE OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
Flying Somewhere?
Now You Can Make AIR LINE RESERVATIONS Right on Campus at No Extra Cost
First Bank & Trust Co.
Travel Department Second Floor, Book Store Telephone, Notre Dame 554 Also Steamship Reservations; Domestic and Foreign Tours
1 26 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202
Summer Jobs Geared For Student’s Future
College students no longer need spend the summer months in work unrelated to their future professional careers. They now have a good chance of finding summer employment within their own major field of interest with salaries often large enough to pay their tuition for the following school year.
A recent survey taken at Notre Dame’s placement bureau shows that 36 business and industrial firms have listed summer job opportunities for college undergraduates.
About five-sixths of the companies are primarily interested in engineering and science majors, but commerce and liberal arts students are in demand too, it was announced by Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., placement bureau director here. One nationally known manufacturer is offering 700 summer jobs to college students, he said.
“A carefully selected summer' job can be a valuable supplement to formal academic training in one’s chosen field,” Father Thornton stressed. “It enables the student to see textbook theory put in practice,” he said, “and it orients the collegian as to what he can expect in the world of business and industry after graduation.”
Noting the attractive salaries being offered to college students, including freshmen, Father Thornton points out that in many instances it is possible for a student to develop in his field and at the same time earn enough during the summer months to pay his tuition at a private college or university during the following year.
Rev. Murchland to Conduct € Graduate Students' Retreat
Rev. Bernard Murchland, C.S.C., has been selected retreat master for the annual Graduate Student Association retreat, Joe Grandy, GSA president, announced this past week. Father Murchland is on the staff of the Ave Marin magazine.
The speaker at the Communion Break- £ fast following the close of the retreat on Sunday morning, April 7, will be Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. All students who have not registered for the breakfast are urged to see Hugh McQueen in metallurgy or any of the associate officers as soon as possible.
Current GSA activities include a mixer in the Rathskeller of LaFortune Student Center on Sunday evening at 7:30 p.m. Refreshments will be served. There is also a GSA Mass every Sun- ■ day at 9 a.m. in the Lyons Hall Chapel.
SUNDSTRAND
Interviews March 22
The Sundstrand Manager of Technical and Professional Employment will visit yoor campus March 22 to interview mechanical engineers, electrical engineers, chemists, and physicists for positions in:
Sundstrand Aviation
Growing fast because of the famous “constant speed drive”—the power plant for AC electricity on modem aircraft.—also manufacturing electrical controls, gear boxes and hydraulic motors for aircraft.
Sundstrand Hydraulic
Leader in oil burner fuel units, stack valves and fluid motors and expanding into truck refrigeration drive units.
Sundstrand Machine Tool
Nationally known manufacturer of special tooling machines, lathes, mills, broaches, broaching presses, and magnetic chucks and in the forefront of automation progress.
For Further Information Write: Personnel Center, Sundstrand
1401 23rd Avenue, Rockford, Illinois
36
The Scholastic
"Yes, you’ll start in the thick of things as a Burroughs engineer.”
(Put yourself in this student engineer’s shoes for a minute as he asks a Burroughs representative some important questions.)
0. What do you mean Hl start “in the thick of things”1?
I mean you’ll start on the work you’re ’ trained for; you won’t be a man who gets lost in a shuffle.
0. What kind of work would be open to me at Burroughs?
A Research and development in ballistic * missiles, electronics, computation, data processing, optics, magnetics, communications and electro-mechanics—to mention a few.
Q. Will all my work be in defense?	’
No. Burroughs is a worldwide leader in the * business machines and data processing fields.
Of course, we’ve many defense contracts too. And that involves fascinating work in mechanics, electro-mechanics and electronics.
Q. Are all your plants in Detroit?
A No. We’re really on a global scale. Detroit’s * the home office, of course. Our big research center’s in Pennsylvania. We have plants in New York, Michigan, New Jersey, California and Pennsylvania in the U. S., and in Canada, Great Britain, France and Brazil.
What about my future at Burroughs?.
A We at Burroughs feel that young engineers ’ are the key to Burroughs’ future expansion.
Though our engineering staff has increased seven times since the end of World War II, we are just on the threshold of our biggest expansion. This, plus our promotion-from-within policy, assures an outstanding future for engineers joining Burroughs now!
0 What about retirement plans, hospitalization, vacations—you know, the fringe benefits, I think they’re called?
A Burroughs is noted for these! In fact, Bur’ roughs pioneered many of them. You’ll have hospitalization insurance for both you and your dependents, secure retirement, and educational aid programs, paid vacations and sick benefits, to mention a few.
Send for free booklet today. Why not get more information on the opportunities Burroughs offers engineering students. Find out how you, too, can get in on the ground floor of Burroughs’ great expansion. Send for our new career booklet today. Write in care of:
Placement Coordinator
BURROUGHS CORPORATION
Detroit 32, Michigan.
March 15, 1957
37
Back Paqc
by JOE TAFT
suggested, lenten readings:
The bed felt unusually soft. Charles felt his body and mind melting within the softness of the release. There was no need for the concentration toward oblivion this evening—all molded into a white ball of softness. The last sensation of his clear consciousness was the waxing of his eye lids to complete the metamorphosis. The only measurable proportions were his relaxed, evenflowing release of pacified air. A murky fog drifted through his horizon until it lazily plotted the vacuum stupor; the fog was juxtaposed by an intricate net of taut and loose strands—strands that fluctuated with the rising velocity of his breath. The net snapped and he laboriously crawled through its entangling strands until he seemed suspended within bright, humid air. Slowly, objects appeared in a whirling whisp. He blinked his watering eyes until they began to crackle like pop corn.
The objects whirled by him and through him for an eternally maddening period of gasps. He turned and noticed a handless clock. This seemed to be his compass for the objects cleared and settled in a room.
“I simply must stand up,” he said. He stood only to see the clearing objects begin their whirling again . . . bread boxes, spatulas, knickknacks, home freezers, party-packs, pressure cookers, toasters and many of the other kitchen implements. He could not determine where he was—he screamed and reached out for an anchor.
“There can’t be an anchor here,” he laughed. All faded into darkness.
3«
Suddenly he noticed a bright red light emitting from his forehead . . . everything was red. He noticed something awkward in his hand and he jerked it into the oven of his stomach. A mail box . . . “It’s that damn flag,” he shouted triumphantly. The red flag kept flapping up and down frantically signaling its message. He never thought to open the box . . . now it was too late.
He tried waddling out of this kitchen of horror but the taut gasline stung his back. He tried to jerk it free, but it pulled his back into painful distortions. He thought he would be sick; he fell forward to the floor. The mail box and a steak broiler rolled out of his stomach; the red flag kept flapping in the tilted light. He reached for it but the barbs of the gasline spread through his back. He tried to reach behind him but he only smashed the clock on his forehead.
A spring dangled like a yo-yo in his line of vision and cast a black shadow toward a doorway on the far side of the room. He blinked his eyes violently as he studied the open doorway. He held his breath and the red light clicked brighter. Clothes were spinning round in a red-faced washing machine.
“If it were only a whirlpool bath,” he thought. The cuffs of a shirt began to rap from within the glass face of the washer. “Sorry.” he said. He exhaled gently. The red light of his forehead clicked to normal and the embarassed washer turned black. The pain in his back returned and he coughed.
The mouth of the bread box plopped « open indignantly at his plight. The in- ; articulate new refrigerator kept hum- -ming as the vibrations of his renewed struggle provoked the usually conservative cookie jar piggy to wiggle his ears.
“HIS” grabbed “HEES” dish towel and ran down the drain. The disposal grunted. This last outburst of horror* stirred the racked mama, papa and baby knives to nod their heavy headsj^, in succession. The gothic toaster mir-'- 1 rored the frowns of the often temper- ; amental pressure cooker. The spatula dived into the open bread box. The reddened linoleum bravely bore his scratches from the struggle ... he knew that his scars would always shine through myriads of glowcoat.
There are many of us who have an obsessive fear of destiny—not fate but£ destiny. Life’s short tunnel of time'* i j should not be a narrow restrictive dark path where each step is carefully calculated by the stares and comments of those who stand in the complacently lighted dooi’ways; it should be a selfpropelled pilgrimage guided by God’s gift of equilibrium.
If the tunnel seems too dark or leery^,;. —crawl back to the lighted room for'' the path will inevitably deceive you. If , you want to live your destiny, you must create it by exploring this path. You may discover attractive tunnels as you test your way through the maze of living but if you forget that time holds its austerity even in the dark—you are lost.	T
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS I
Brand new-the Arrow
Windshield Jacket
i
Windproof, water repellent—and good looking. That’s Arrow’s all-new Windshield jacket styled in tattersall checks, stripes and solid colors. Bi-Swing action back gives freedom of movement. Elastic waist and adjustable cuff and collar tabs for changeable spring weather. “Sanforized-labelled” cotton fabric, $12.95.
ARROW
CASUAL WEAR
WB
XfW:-	'** **
Style and comfort
j JH
*? *,****:~	1-.3S'
:**«<! 4* «*** SS- 3*
ffk'nnKMR.WiaHU.
win in a breeze!
i sj’Slfes if	4
A \	■ v ■
£	1
t A 3	a
This smart Arrow Windshield jacket belongs in every man’s spring wardrobe. & Lightweight, water repellent, windproof— g it just can’t be beat for style and wearability. | Bi-Swing back for action a-plenty. Stylish | tattersall checks, stripes and solid colors. * “Sanforized-labelled” water repellent cotton, $12.95. Come in and see ’em now!
J
J

*
jpO
$

L

GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS (Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
IT’S FOR REAL! by Chester Field
“Now there's an interesting face— Ugly, but not commonplace . . .
Full of charm, I must admit Full of character and wit!
Why on earth can’t women see All the things I see in me?”
MORAL: No matter what face you live behind, it will look happier with a real satisfying Chesterfield out front! Enjoy that BIG full flavor plus the smoothest taste today, because it’s packed more smoothly by Accu-Ray! You’ll be smoking smiles!
Smoke for real • • • smoke Chesterfield!
$50 for every philosophical verse accepted for publi- I cation. Chesterfield, P.O. Box 21, New York 46, N.Y. <
© Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.