

Join us for three weeks of high excitement. Sure, we11 teach you basic wilderness skills. 
But the point is, we11 teach you how to cope withHfe wherever you live. 
You can learn you have the power· to do almost anything you reallywant to do. Surprising, this new self-confidence. 
All this we call "survival." And it might just last you-a lifetime. 
Photography:Jonathan T. Wright 
7
IScholastic I
ILaFortune Student Center J 
I Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
I 
11Please send ............ _years of Scholastic I 
.· I
!at $5.00 per year to: _ . . j I ·· · · I 
1 Name ........................................................... , 
I . . I
IAddress ....................... , ......................... :: ... I . I
I 
C. -I
l1ty...................._............................... · ............__ , S · t ·· · z· '· 
ta e ................. :.................. 1p................ I 
. . . I 
Send me full information. Name Street City State  Zip  Outward Bound. Dept. CS. 165 W. Putnam-Ave .. Greenwich.CT 06830. Phone toll free (800) 243-8520. No experience necessary. Outward Bound admits students ofany sex. race. color and national or ethnic origin. We are a nonprofit organization. Scholarships available.  
School  
Phone  

Check the courses that Interest you. Canoeing _ Desert expeditions__ White water \Vllderness 
rafting backpacking Salling Mountaineering 

A GREAT CHRISTMAS IDEAi .Give ·a subscription to Scholastic and get a FOOTBALL REVIEW freel 
j 
l, 

scholastic 
Vol. 120, No. 5, November 17, 1978 Notre Dame, Indiana 
FEATURES 4 Catholicism at Notre Dame Jake Morrissey 6 A View from the Top Bob Southard 

'· 
8 Campus Ministry -In the Mainstream Tom Westphal 10 Windmoor Ther_esa Rebeck 13 Renewing the Word Kathleen Sullivan 24 Hoop for the Best · Paul Mullaney 26 Men of Letters Bill Scholl 
REGULARS· 15 Gallery Augie Jennewein 18 Fiction Mark Amenta 20 Perspective Joseph Gill 22 Perspective Anthony· Walton 27 Book Review Jan Pilarski

Illustrations: All illustrations· by Mike Cant­well, except p. 27, courtesy. of Juniper 28 Letters Press. · Photographs: Phillip Johnson, pp. 3, 5, 6, 7, 30 People at ND Mary Ann Tighe and 20, 24; 25, 26, 30; Jeff Huhta, pp. 10, 12, 
Bill Fuller
30; Enrique Lulli, p. 9; p. 25, courtesy of Observer. Cover: Mike Cantwell. 
Editor 
John Morrissey 
Managing Editor 
Theresa Rebeck 
Art Director 
Mike Cantwell Production Manager · Bernie Valenti 
News Editor Elizabeth Donovan Culture Editor . 
Dave Satterfield Sports Editor Mike Kenahan · 
Fiction Editor Tom Balcerek Copy Editor 
Bob Southard Layout Editor 
Lisa· Hartenberger 
Photography Editor 
Phil Johnson 
Business. Manager 
Kimberlie Gumz 
Advertisement Manager 
Marcy Weigle 

Advisory Board 
Elizabeth. Christman, Mario Pedi, Thomas Werge, Thomas · Jemielity, John Miriam Jones, S.C. ­

NOVEMBER 17, 1978 
Staff 
Cynthia Dykhoff, Keith Caughlin, Ken Scarbrough, Eileen Durkin, Eddie Holden, Betsey Sheridan, Sonia Chopko, Clay Malaker, Bob Barnes, Mike Brennan, Mike Greene, Tom Lucid, John Cassidy, Jeff Young, Greg Vansueh, Paul Theil, Kevin McCarthy, Sue Micinski, Mary Clare Toffanetti, Bill Scholl, Jim Trausch, Mike Walsh, Craig Smith, Greg G. Gregory, Leo J. Mulcahey, Dave Mayernik, Sean F. Faircloth, Paul Hurley, Jim Trausch. 


Hall Representatives: 
Eddie Holden, Mark Sniegowski, Sean Berry, Brad Engelland, Keith Caughlin; Ann Gleason, Sonia Chopko, Bill Swift, Craig Smith; Kevin Courtois, Glenn Killoren, Dave Bartish, Lisa Jaquez, Mike Szkrybalo, John Ryan, Mary Fran Welch, · John Cuckovich, Greg G. Gregory, Leo J. Mulcahey, Dave Mayernik. 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the ·entire staff and editorial board of 

. Scholastic or the University of Notre. Dame, its administration,· faculty, or the ~tudent body. , . .. . . 
·. ' 
The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556.. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All _unsolicited material becomes ,the property of _Scholastic. . copyright © 1978 Scholastic / all" rights reserved / none of the contents may be repro~ duced witho'ut permission. · 
3 




Cfatbolicism at jl}otre il\ame 
by Jake Morrissey 

"Notre Dame, America's fore­The emphasis placed by students departments, students will not see most Catholic university." on the academic aspect of Notre the links between them. If we really 
The words are everywhere, ap­Dame has not escaped the notice of analyze who is · graduating from pearing in a dizzying number of Sister Judith Ann Beattie, C.S.C., here, the priorities might go to­pamphlets, booklets and articles. director of Volunteer Services. ward the financing of chairs. But if It has become the slickest, most "When students come to Notre Dame a chair isn't likened to ethical ques­succinct phrase for categorizing this they consciously have said that tions," it loses some of its impact. University, for putting it in its they'll come here as, say, a pre-med. "But I would not want/to give proper place. But this pigeonholing But in their junior or senior year, academics a raw deal," he continued, is inaccurate, because Notre Dame it dawns on students I've talked "because they are important What is not static, it is in a constant state with that there's more to this col-I think is that they should work to­of evolving into an institution de­lege education than they originally gether with Catholicity in an intel­voted to academic achievement thought. Decisions on life-styles and ligent manner to respect everyone's while maintaining a C,atholic per­partners have to be considered, for personal journey. We should encour­spective. example. Other questions, even con-age students to respect where they_ 
Striking a balance between these cerni_ng their chosen profession, such are in that journey. I would not two ideas is not as easy as it as 'what does it mean for me to be want to turn the clock back. When sounds. It requires constant vigi­a doctor in today's world?' are ques-students come here they "'.ill be chal-_ lance, noted John Reid, director of tions of consciousness of relating to lenged to rethink their beliefs. A lot Student Activities. "At· its best," he yourself that are important. may think it too liturgically boring said, "Notre Dame is interested in "How you define Catholicism when they go back to the outside education that deals with the whole is very important," she commented. world because of the religious de­person. It offers many opportunities "Notre Dame offers the opportunity cision they hav~ had to make here." to reflect upon personal spiritual for students to live out Christian be-McNeill noted, and Reid, Luna, journeys," as well as learning in a liefs in a concrete way. It is strug-and Beattie echoed, the· fact that rigorous academic atmosphere. gling with the integration with aca-Notre Dame should foster an intel­
Sally Luna, a lay staff member demic life. Certain ideas and princi-lectual exchange on .. Catholicism. of Campus Ministry, agrees with pies are put forth in the classroom, "The world is a diverse place," Reid Reid's .estimation. '.'I believe Notre and it is up to the student to. come .. said. "It's important to know about Dame should be a Catholic institu­to terms with his own ideas. But · other religions, other life-styles. The tion of academic excellence. I don't life ·is also lived out in other parts University would be mistaken if it know which one comes first. But we of the community; hall life says taught only their beliefs. It should must maintain the exposure, the op­. something -about your · Catholicism, offer students an opportunity to see" portunities for exploration that we . too." . · what is right for them. Luna ex-have here. Coming to grips with a person's plained, "What I've noticed since 
"To lose the traditio_n of Catholi­Catholicism in an academic frame-I've been here is that students 
cism would be a. great loss, because work is made niore difficult "when seem pushed to academic excellence . 
. . . it gives the University's students the student body has. experienced They do not have time or the free­
an. opportunity to think, to discuss, Catholicism in suburban . parishes, dom to sit and talk with somebody; 
to say.whether)t is·moraliy good or suburban scho~ls," according .to We have the exposure of ·new ideas, 
bad; . To . articulate these feelings is, Father Don _McNeill of the Center the opportunities to try to come to 
I think, healthy." for Experiential Learning, "the per-grips with our Catholicism. It's all 
Luna was quick to point out that spective is going to be with a good here." 
she has not had the advantage of academic . background. The class-Perhaps this optimism that Notre 
time to prove .her qpinion about room is making more demands on Dame can meld Catholicism and 
Notre Dame's Catholicity, since she students," with attempts toward academics into a cohesive whole will 
has been here only since the begin­Catholicism getting shortchanged. pacify alumni, who refuse to con­
ning of this academic year. An ad­The goal of a Catholic university, tribute to the University on· the 
vocate of creating a religious con­McNeill said, is to put the teach-grounds that it has become "Protes­
text for education, · she noted, :"A . ings of Catholicism, the Word, the tant" in its outlook. But more im­
degree will help you get an eight-to­Sacraments, and Education for Jus-portant, perhaps its emphasis on 
five job, but how will you· live out · tice into action. · Faculty members both of these areas will give the 
the rest of your life? Catholicism, should be made aware that. "unless students of today the maturity and 
in its true sense, allows people to the Philosophy and Theology de-personal insight to solve these di­
grow." partments are . talking with other lemmas for themselves. . 
4 ·· SCHOLASTIC. 


A 


View 

from the Top 
by Bob Southard 

Catholicism. had on the environment here, the solved the doubts by committing it-
Notre Dame. environment that students so often self to' insuring that Notre Danie 
Father Theodore Hesburgh. take for granted. . · remain a Catholic university; they 
Synonyms, all, at least in the con-Once in Father Hesburgh's office, emphatically stated that theology 
sciousness of many Americans. So seated beside his desk, it struck me and philosophy should be ·an im­
why should I belabor the obvious again how easy it is to accept the portant part of the University, and 
by questioning their relationship, statement that Notre Dame is a that the Holy Cross Fathers should 
their workings, and their . mean-·catholic-school, without really . actively continue their roles as pro,; 
ings? Why would I converse with thinking about what makes it so. fessors, administrators, and spiritual 
Father Hesburgh, the premier rell-With these inbred notions,·. it made leaders. Father Hesburgh concluded 
gious university leader, about what it seem almost ridiculous to sit .that this is the way in which Notre 
it means to operatea Catholic learn-across .from the President and ask, .. · Diune is aCatholic school: it is_ by 
ing institution, and specifically "In · what way is . Notre Dame a virtue of· an explicit commitment 
about Notre Dame's Catholic ori-·· Catholic university?" I liye here, I .from the governors of the University 
entation? A.fter all, it's so vecy study here; what was I tcying to to keep Notre Dame truly, vitally, 
apparent, isn't it? find out? · · . in word as weUas deed, Catholic.:· 
On the surface, yes. But when you· I began by ·questioning. Father· , Of course, this is historical fact; 
delve beneath these automatically Hesburgh about the . largely lay Notre Dame is officially dedicated to 
accepted associations, and tcy to ex-Board of Trustees governing the . being a . Catholic school. But the 
plain and analyze the apparency of Catholic school. How could Notre Trustees' saying so doesn't give the 
the issues,· problems arise -"Notre Danie retain its strong·.. religious University its character and worth 
Dame is a Catholic university be-focus while technically being under -Father Hesburgh suggested deep­
cause ... well ... because it's nonclerical control_ over the last 11 er,: "dynamic" reasons why Notre 
Catholic. And Catholic. universities years? . Dame· is. a Catholic institution. 
in general are Catholic because . • • Father Hesburgh recalled .· 1967, • · He first wished to modify any 
well . . . because they're Catholic." · when the Holy Cross Fathers trans-. .false · distinctions which might be 
It. becomes "curiouser and curi-.ferred control of the University to made between a . "Catholic" atn10;. 
ouser"; the obvious is suddenly hard a Board of Trustees, in keeping with sphere arid the· more general "Chris­
to translate .from experience to intel-. Vatican's Council . II's statements tian" atmosphere. Father Hesburgh 
ligible specifics. . · about bringing. qualified laity into .felt that about "90% of the time'" 
So, fully realizing ~at the essence positions .formerly occupied solely . Catholicisin agrees with the rest of 
of Notre Daine as a Catholic univer-by clerics. There was concern at the Chrfstiarifty about matters of .faithl 
sity . would be hard to capture, I . time that Notre Dame would suffer . and that Notre Dame's Catholicism 
turned to Father Hesburgh, .won~ because of the change,. that . the . is . manifested . iri the very· Christian 
dering how he viewed the s·chool he school would somehow lose .• its ideals of accepting the Word, the 
has done so much to mold.· It would ·"Catholicity" and · surrender · to Spirit, and teachings of Christ. ·. 
be interesting, at ieast, to see. wha.t . creeping secularization. But in : its I wondered still about how Notre 
perspective Notre Dame's president first meeting, the Lay Board . re-Dame approaches this Catholici 
. . 
SCHOLASTIC• 


Christian ideal; is it the philosophy and theology requirements, the availability and accessibility of the Holy Cross Fathers on campus, or the mere fact that tjle student body happens to be practically all Cath­olic? Once again, just what is it? 
In answering, Father Hesburgh saw Notre Dame Catholicism as something more complex and less easy to pinpoint than any .. one of these features. The University,_ as a Christian school, must· provide an atmosphere, be committed to an at­titude, be an actual incubator for r es po n s i b 1 e Catholic/Christian thought. Father Hesburgh doesn't view the University's role · ending when it draws up the course require­ments; he points out that certainly . the theology classes help, especially if the . student · studies Christian faith, but that if one "takes a class on Zen Buddhi~m,. for instance" the requirements _are only indirectly helping to build a . Catholic aware-. ness.. . 
As he talked. about· the· more_in­tangible qualities that make Notre Dame aCatholic university, Father Hesburgh highlighted important factors that students usually just accept .as facts of life. Simply living with fellow students, he feels, provides opportunities for Christian· growth that makes Notre Dame unique. When issues come up during the course of a student's four years here, they ~-inevitably. discussed in a context of. Christian values and beliefs. This close association with, even immersion in, an . intelligent, articulate, and largely Catholic soci­ety cannot but help to develop· each individual's spiritual self .... 
Beyond .even this social ·proximity with . Christians:-Father-Hesburgh sees the University furnishing _stu­dents . with a . Catholic orientation through. its academics. and adminis­tration. This,. perhaps, . is· what he 
feels the Catholic/Christian ·school should truly strive.for: delivering-a fine education, examining all: .the facts in aU the disciplines,'. while maintaining the commitment to the Word of Goci as expressed·111 _the Old and New Testaments.. No. restric~ tioris, . no close-mindedness; just.·a. fully Christian theological and phil:; o~ophical background -with. which ·to explore .the myriad questions facing humankind. Notre Dame, .he . feels, ''while. never ·being as_.perfect. as.I 
~OVEMBER_ 17,1978 
would like," aims at these goals, and 
is true to its mark. 
I listened and began to understand 

more clearly about what Notre 
Dame feels its duty is as a Catholic 
university. I asked Father Hesburgh 
if Notre Dame's· task has become 
any more difficult as the school 
has evolved, over the last several 
decades, into an academic "power­
house," on par with any secular in­
stitution .in the country. Does the 
increased academic emphasis de­
tract from the spiritual mission? 
In other words, more studying and 
less attention. to Christian develop­
ment? · 
Father Hesburgh · admitted that 

there would· always be a few stu­dents . who paid too much attention to their books, just as there would always be those who played too much;· but he affirmed his faith in the Notre Dame experience in gen­eral, commenting that he is "con­. tinually: amazed at the degree of theological sophistication displayed 
by the University's students." 
He feels that Notre Dame has suc­

cessfully integrated a first-class 
curriculum with a true Catholic/ 
Christian . focus, blending both and 
detracting _from neither. The aca­
demic. excellence · speaks for itself, 
and Father Hesburgh sees real spir­itual growth and dedication campus­wide. He notes that whatever time he passes through the Grotto, he can be pretty · assured of finding someone there, praying. He sees Catholicism as thriving; he cites the number of Masses being said each day, and the interest shown in them by the students' attendance. Father Hesburgh . believes Notre Dame is as successful now as it ever was in creating ·in .its community members a Catholic outlook. 
Father Hesburgh .stated at the outset it would be impossible to cap­ture what he had spent so many years 'thinking and living in the rel­atively short time we had to talk. Still, he did manage to communicate a clear sense of what a Catholic/ Christian university should be, what its goals are, and how it tries to remain true to its religious commit­ment while offering an education. 
He sees the. University's purpose and foremost goal as "grad~ating mature Christians.". In the final analysis, Father Hesburgh feels the students of Notre Dame, through their intelligent pursuit of the Chris­tian ideal, are the ones who are·com­pletely and totally denying George Bernard Shaw's acerbic quote that "A Catholic university is a contra­diction in terms." 
,;•,,A..-. 'I,.•:: 

Campus Ministry In the-Mainstream 
. Campus Ministry. The name cer­
. tainly rings a bell. But how many students and faculty at Notre Dame know what it really is arid how it · affects their lives? Campus Minis­try is not an intangible force that somehow sheds its aura of spiritu." ality over the campus duLac. The Office of Campus Ministry is a small, dynamic group of people that works energetically for the members of the Notre Dame community. · 
Throughout the decades since Fr. Sorin started this university, vari­ous methods of ministry have been in vogue. One of the more significant and widely used· practices was the idea of assigning certain clergymen to individual classes and their re­spective dorms: (For most of Notre Dame's history, freshmen · lived in freshman·· dorms, sophomores in sophomore -·dorms, etc.) These priests,· who acted as chaplains for one of the four classes, did not live in ·the residence halls, but worked out of a makeshift, informal "of­fice" in one of the dorms. 
Not until 1970 and the arrival of Fr. William Toohey could Notre Dame claim a full-fledged Office of Campus Ministry. Fr. Toohey and his six-member staff operate as a co­ordinating team. The various mem­bers of the group assume responsi­bilities for projects according to their abilities and interests. 
Father Toohey sees himself as "the co-ordinator of the co-ordinat­ing effort." The· organizing·_ unit meets two or_ three times a week and, according to Toohey, all seven mem­bers are integral in the decision­making process. 
Campus Ministry as a co-ordinat­ing unit serves three major roles in the Notre Dame community. First; the staff plans for religious events that occur at specific times of -the school· year. Scheduling a · full slate of Masses at Sacred Heart-Church every Sunday is a fundamental re­sponsibility of Campus Ministry. In addition, Fr. -Toohey and his co­
8 · 
workers devise special . agendas for religious seasons such as • Lent and Advent. . 
A second niain endeavor of Cam­pus Ministry is the preparation and institution of educational programs. Retreats, surveys, the Pre-Cana pro.: gram, training sessions for religious workers in the Notre Dame commu­nity and research projects are all organized_ by the Ministry staff. 
Asserting its viewpoints on con­troversial campus issues is a third significant _contribution of Campus Ministry. Fr. Toohey and_ his asso­ciates have taken stands on issues ranging from the groundskeepers to Dean Roemer's alcohol directives. In fact, ·the Director was instru­mental in initiating a meeting of rectors and · assistant rectors before break to discuss the alcohol situ­ation · from a -"pastoral point of view." Fr. Toohey claimed that:the meeting went very . well and gave the attending clergy and their sub­ordinates a good chance to vent their feelings on a touchy subject at Notre Dame. 
One of the principal ways of spiritually affecting the Notre Dame student, aside from the general ·methods described above, is through the rector and assistant rector of his/her particular dorm. "The rector is the Director of Campus Ministry. within a · very small part of the campus,11 declares Toohey. Rectors assume the dual role of an adminis­trator of a hall and a person who deeply cares about their · spiritual 
· growth. Their mere closeness to the students facilitates more -knowledge of students' individual problems and needs.. "That's one thing that makes · Notre Dame unique," commented Fr. Toohey. "We don't just send stu­dents out of the classroom without caring what they do after ·classes. We really feel that part of the edu­cational experience is outside the classroom· experience." ··Even more direct contact is made 
by Tom Westphal 
. . 
with the· students through the as­sistant rectors and the RA's.: Assis­tant rectors are trained for ·_ their positions through programs· co-ordi­nated by Campus Ministry. Personal experiences with hall staffs·· that exemplify the Christian ideals are an indirect reflection on the job Campus Ministry is doing. _ 
The · principal . beneficiaries of all of the activities of Campus Ministry are the students themselves. Part of the task of Fr. Toohey .and·_ his staff is to try to provide the im­petus from the outside so that the members of th_e ND community can strive to grow inside as people: Ac­

. cording to Fr. Toohey, students have had "very narrow backgrounds' with little exposure ·or contact with the real crucial questions of _··society." Thus, Campus Ministry attempts to assist young . people in increasing their own spiritual growth and be­
. coming more aware of the needs of the community. ..· A perennial problem faced by reli.: . gious co~ordinators and counselors is how to measure the ·effects of their. actions. The "spiritualpulse" of the community is indeed an· in­tangible quality thatcannot be accu­rately measured by simple statistics such as the attendance at Masses or. the number·· of students doing· volunteer work. The Campus Minis­try Office has various· methods of-ob­taining feedback on · the· success' · of its_ efforts such . as conducting sur." veys, . analyzing student ___ opinions and actually talking' to students to obtain their views on religion' at Notre Dame. Presently,· the staff is creating a survey to be answered by the Class of '79 which asks them if and how they have grown spiri~ tually over the last four years. . Father Toohey · has · been the Director of Campus Ministry· at Notre Dame for eight years of the controversial '70s.· When asked how he ·felt religion fits in today at the premier Catholic university in the country, he-· stated that: "Vve're at 
. SCHOLASTIC 


. Campus M~nistry Staff: Sr. J. Pitz, Fr. J. Fitzgerald, Br. J. Mc'l'ag­gart, Fr. T. Mc'l'ally, D. Jenky, (Kneeling) Fr. W. Toohey, S. Luna. 
. .. 
a critical point right now. We have to decide whe~her Notre Dame really wants to· be unique and different and if sothey:really have to work_aUt so they don't. just become a good secular university that's got a_ lot of academic excellence but. has -severed Us spiritual roots like aHarvard or Princeton." 
-The religious co-ordinator :indi­cates that. he has enjoyed working for .. the. spiritual growth of the Notre Dame students over the past several years. , He Hkes -his. job's focus _on the 17-22 age· bracket of young people. He hopes, that "they will respond to the little bit I might be able to add by entering into their . 
. ,. 

lives and wallting with them a bit 
and becoming a -part of their 
stories." . 
Fr. Toohey's personal goals are 

virtually synonymous with the g9als 
of Campus Ministry. He would .like 
to see a '_'continuing expansion of 
involving more and more people in 
_the co-ordinating efforts of Cam-. 
pus Ministry." .. 
The training and educational pro­grams, research, surveys and analy­ses are all in the introductory stages and he feels they can all be en­hanced and _improved upon. Special · projects, such as evaluating the effectiveness of theology courses and using. husband-wife teams as 
counselors, are possibilities for the future. _ _ Campus Ministry,_· to quote a hack­neyed cliche, . means many different things to many different people. Granted, the effects .of the seven­member staff on the individual stu­dent are difficult to pinpoint; but as you, .. the human being, progress 
;through your four years· at Notre Dame, take an occasional moment to reflect on your· own religious growth. It's. a good bet ..that Fr. Toohey . and his cohorts are play­ing a small part in your fulfillment as a person. 




"7indm0or 
Perhaps you will get the urge to wander off campus some warm, sunny afternoon. If you choose to stroll down Notre Dame Avenue, a little beyond Angela Avenue you will come upon ·a· large white and red house with a distinctive sign over the door which proclaims "Windmoor." If your curiosity gets .the better of you and you decide to approach this house and ring the doorbell, you will be greeted by an impeccably dressed, clean-cut young man named Brian McAuliffe..· He is the director of the house. •If you like, Mr. McAuliffe will show· you around the ground floor. The .interior of the house is deco­rated with tasteful elegance; the walls are paneled with rich, heavy wood and · the furniture is mostly done in· wanri, autumn colors. Per­h11ps · Mr. McAuliffe will ·volunteer. to show you the chapel. He will take you through a narrow doorway in the back of the house into a small, square room· with three short rows of pews. There is an altar, a sacris­ty and two candles against· the front wall. Mr. McAuliffe will genuflect in the aisle, move into the closest pew, and kneel down to say ·a short 
devotion. 

Perhaps you will be slightly be­wildered by thi_s entire setup. You have company; it seems that many people on ihe Notre Dame campus are slightly, even very, bewildered by Windmoor Houseand what goes on 
by Theresa _Rebeck 
there. A little investigation into the matter probably won't get you very far, either; definite facts concerning Windmoor are hard :to come by. It seems that whenever one "author­ity" says "black" another is probably saying "white." 
A few points are clear-cut: Wind­moor House is an Opus Dei Center. Opus Dei (translation: Work of God) is a worldwide Catholic organ­ization which was founded in Spain on October 2, 1928, by ·Msgr. Jose­maria Escriva de Balaguer. It is an organization · dedicated to helping Catholics lead a fully Christian life by teaching . them to be faithful to Catholic doctrine. ·The Windmoor center is particularly concerned with the spiritual development of college­age men.. Several Notre Drune stu~ dents live at the.house. _ _ 

Almost any statement dealing with 
Opus Del ·_ and _Windmoor beyond
\, 
these is open to debate. Even the origins of the movement'an_d the rea­sons for its birth in 1928 are hard to pin_ down. Fr. Claude Pomerleau of , the . Government Department sees Opus . Dei as a_ . · religious/political movement , originally organized to put meaning back into the collapsed 
social and. financial structure of a pre-civil war. Spain. Pomerleau ex­plains that Opus De{ combines reli­gion and capitalism in an.attempt to preserve social. order.-This is fine. in Spain or any predominantly _Catholic country, but P~merleau thinks it makes little _sense in a democratic country such as the United States. 
According to Pomerleau, "They_go back to religion_as the essential moti­vator of both personal and social action." He further explains his view of the organization by pointing out that "They bring together in a very unique way professional action and religious values by crystallizing reli­gious development and · maintaining a religious infancy in their mem­bers." 
Briari McAuliffe, director of Wind-· moor, disavows ~any political-inten­tions whatsoever on ·the part of Opus Dei. "Opus Dei has no aims other than spiritual aims," he states emphatically. In regard to the situ­ation in Spain in 1928 he claims that "What happened is that there were some members of Opus Dei who in fact were in positions of -govern­ment-just because they were darn good economists or darn good politi-· cians; and Opus Dei didn't have any­thing to say about their decisions in government or anything else." Mc­Auliffe stresses that members of 
.Opus Dei always -act with complete 
-. personal freedom and responsibility irf all decisions that ·bear on ·their professional fields. Windmoor's main purpose, he says, is to_ teach_ young men ori a very• practical·1evel the "living of· the Catholic •faith and knowledge of the Catholic· faith." This is partially achieved through · their teachings concerning "sanctify­ing work." · 
NOVEMBER 17, 1978 
It .was this concept that first at­

tracted Peter Murphy (not his real 
name), a .senior Engineering Major. 
Murphy says that the idea of sancti­
fying work _involves carryi~g your 
religion through the day with you 
and giving glory to . God through 
your everyday work. ·. Murphy em­
phasizes that Opus Dei and Wind­
moor are preparing a Catholic laity 
in this way. "The whole concept 
caught . me off guard, made me 
think," he smiles. Murphy explains 
that Windmoor . helps students 
through· seminars and discussions on 
such topics as Church doctrine or 
Christian values, frequent .retreats 
an·d days of recollection. He says 
that his involvement in Windmoor 
(begun when he was a sophomore) 
has been an extremely positive expe­
rience. 
Paul Ryan (not .his real name) is 

a junior Engineering Major whose 
experiences with Windmoor have not 
been quite so favorable. Ryan had 
been a part of an Opus Dei group in 
his hometown throughout high 
school, and he assumed that he 
would continue this involvement 
with the group in South Bend. After 
several months, however, he decided 
he wanted to expand his interests and 
he became involved in other campus 
activities. Ryan says that · his at­
tempts to spread himself out were 
met with opposition from other 
members of Windmoor, who wanted 
more of a commitment to the center 
from him. Finally, Ryan withdrew 
completely. 
Now that he has been apart from 

Windmoor for almost a year, Ryan says he sees the center and the whole Opus Dei organization in an entirely different light. He expresses disillu­sionment with Opus Dei's methods of achieving their goals while still be­lieving that the goals. themselves are admirable. "Their problem is one of mechanics," he explains. "Their goals are·right, but their. means just ·seem to be a little cockeyed." . To · illustrate his point, .Ryan explains that Opus Dei has a policy -concern­ing certain philosophical and literary works · which,· in essence, recom­mends that certain books should not be read. Ryan says that the rationale behind this policy is grounded in the 
belief.that at certain stages in a per­son's life, he or she is very pliable and open to different kin~~ of ideas, and that reading certain works would raise -destructive thoughts or doubts in.that person concerning his 
-or her faith. Ryan disagrees with the policy, suggesting that some control might be wise but better applied in the form of an advisor or teacher who would be able to help the stu­dent understand the readings and their implications in a Christian context. . . , . 
Ryan is ._ also dismayed. by-Opus 

· Dei's rather forceful opposition .. to any . kind of change -within the Church. He points out that although they don't like to be-described as "traditional" or "conservative," that is essentially what they are. While not being openly'opposed-to change, they resist ·u subtly. "They say; 'well, this is• what the Church ;ays, and that'i; fine, but riot for us.'" McAuliffe explains ·that one of Opus Dei's main concerns is remain­ing faithful to the spirit of their founder, Msgr. Escriva. The birth of Opus Dei through Msgr. Escriva _ was, he says, a "supernatural" thing, and the followers feel that because of this it is very important to honor _the original spirit of the organ­ization, which is to serve the Church. McAuliffe explains the· rationale behind the conservative attitudes concerning controversial books by emphasizing that "It is abasic teach­ing of the Church that it can go against faith if a person unduly endangers -faith and morals.,. This "endangering" of faith and morals is what they are trying to protect against,· so they recommend that un­less a person is well-versed in Chris­-tian theology and doctrine and can keep these works in the proper con­text, he should avoid them if pos­_sible. What it comes down to, · says McAuliffe, is a matter of· con­science-Opus Dei recommends that each person consult his own rightly formed conscience and decide wheth­er or not he is capable of reading the piece without endangering his faith. 
Another point of controversy con­· cerns Windmoor's attitudes .toward women. Windmoor is a totally fra.,; 
ternal organization-no women are permitted in the group. The reasons for this stem from a desire to re­main faithfui to the original spirit of Opus Dei, which .was first set up as a men's organization with a branch for women forming two years later. These two branches have always been totally separate, their only link being the founder of the entire movement and in a small priestly society. · 
McAuliffe explains that· Opus Dei continues this policy of keeping the sexes separate because it has always worked for them. They feel that they can serve the spiritual needs of each sex best under this system. Mc­Auliffe emphasizes that they do not claim that this method of spiritual guidance is the only or ·the best method, only that it works for them: 
Pomerleau thinks that their fidel­ity to this policy is one of the rea­sons Windmoor's influence on the Notre Dame campus is minimal. "Who wants to get involved in a totally fraternal organization these days?" He also thinks that another reason their influence will continue to be minimal is that they are "phys­ically and intellectually separate from the Notre Dame community." 
Fr. Bill Toohey and Bro. Joe Mc­Taggart, both members of Campus Ministry, agree with Pomerleau in thinking that Windmoor's influence at Notre Dame is minimal. McTag­gart explains that Notre Dame did not invite Opus Dei ·(they began their work here in 1960) but that the open speaker policy here gives them the freedom to recruit for members on campus. Campus Ministry thinks that their efforts have not met with very great success because their meticulous interpretation qf Catholic doctrine and .almost fundamentalist approach to tile Bible do not speak to most students. 
The basic controversy boils down . to a conflict of methods. Everyone agrees 1hat it is important for a Christian to find a way to integrate his religion into his everyday life, and everyone sees the need for a heightened sense of spirituality. Joe McTaggart explains that Campus Ministry tries to answer this need by helping students direct themselves into this deepened spirituality. Through the different services Cam­pus Ministry makes available, they try to "enhance the positive experi­ences of. a student's past, provide him with new experiences-to gently nudge the student to a mature· Christian stance in life." McTaggart goes on to point out that searching for a deeper spirituality can be con­siderabiy different for different peo­ple; Windmoor's approach· .·offers students a strict set of guidelines, defined values and a sense of stabil­ity. They do not insist that this ap­proach is the "only" or the "best" approach, only that it is there. for students ·who respond · to basically conservative interpretations · of Church doctrine and an ordered phi­losophy of life. Peter Murphy thinks that many students :would benefit from it,' but he agrees it's noCfor everyone. · "You can't expect that on a campus of 8,000 people everyone wiil have the same way of doing things," he smiles. "But for us, it 
works." 





Renewing the Word 
M u c h misunderstanding sur­rounds the Catholic Charismatic Movement. The Movement or Re-· newal is a controversial subject for many people. Catholics accept the Charismatics more now than at the Renewal's beginning. Mani parishes . support prayer groups. Some are charismatic in nature. The Catholic Charismatic Renewal's history cen­ters at South Bend and Notre Dame. The Charismatic Renewal in the " Catholic Church began at Duquesne 
. University in Pittsburgh. Around 1967, a group of· religious Catholic faculty members there decided ·to try to expand their faith by praying for the Holy Spirit to renew their lives. These men. went through a deep religious experience. Through friends at Notre Dame who prayed together in small groups, news of their experience came to Notre Dame. Some of the men involved at Duquesne· came to Notre Dame to teach. Through similar connections, this news· traveled· to Ann Arbor, Michigan. 
The Charismatic Renewal, or C a t h o 1 i c Pentecostal Movement, grew out of . a stormy beginning. Little acceptance by the-Catholic Church and a now-dissolved commu­nity's activities which started some theological trouble in South Bend marked this period of growth. At present in South Bend, the LaSalle Hotel houses the Charismatic Re­newal . Services' headquarters along . 
. with a community center for the People of Praise community and a · publishing business for charismatic books and tapes. Last summer, 
. 20,000 people. came to attend · the International Charismatic Renewal Conference. The People of Praise, a large charismatic community, exists in South Bend as in other commu­
-nities such as Ann Arbor, Michigan, 
by Kathleen Sullivan 
and Minneapolis, Minnesota. Recent­ly, a charismatic group came from California to join the community. 
Many questions arose at the Cath­olic Renewal's beginning that still concern many Catholics. Some peo­ple see a separation occurring be­tween the charismatic groups and · the Catholic Church because they see the Renewal as a large step to­wards ecumenism. Many people wonder if the animated prayer and presence of the charisms at prayer meetings does not signify erratic emotionalism. Opinions vary con­cerning the movement's relationship with the Church and the direction and form the -Renewal should take in the future. 
At Notre_ Dame, some faculty, members and students belong to var­ious -charismatic prayer groups. When contacting people for infor­mation about the charismatic groups here; some students and faculty• did. not want .to discuss their involve-­ment in. the Charismatic Renewal. Often people not involved in the charismatic movement easily mis­understand ·the radical prayer forms; speaking in tongue&, gifts of prophecy, interpretation and other charisms;that occur at many charis­matic prayer meetings.' Also, many Charismatics· go · through changes_ in their lives when they accept the · Holy Spirit. On the whole, most stu­dents did not mind talking · about · their experiences and their reasons for belonging to the Renewal. Most students talked about a change in direction in: their lives. All spoke about receiving a new understand­ing of what Christian life entails. A new· awareness of God's love came when they decided to accept the Holy Spirit; ·Some felt a new inner peace and joy that came from their involvement in the Renewal. 


Group talked about his enriched . · the,conimunity to 'tive the commu~ . 
•. dents., do:'.•·. not_< commit·.·• .then-iselves ·. ·. rounds the .. ·.Charismatics.. ··: People 
Their prayers now use the S6rip­tures more tha.n • before their in­volvement in theRenewal. Many felt. that by accepting the Holy Spirit, God now guides their lives. An older member of the Notre DamePrayer 
· ..· spiritual arid prayer life, since he began going to the prayer meetings. Not alL the students involved in 
.the Charismatic Renewal belong 'to . 
prayer groups at Notre Dame dur~ ing the' school year. Ma.ny,_students . 
. ·. may pray in informal prayer groups notnecessarily charismatic in na­ture or belong to groui>s athome.. But some, students belong to, orga­nized charismatic groups· on campus: 
. The ,Notre. Dame..Prayer Group · meets every Tuesday . night, at the . Log°'.. Chapel. Many ,townspeople, brothers, arid nun,s belong to·. this group. Perhaps .10 to ·15 ,students .~ atthe most will attend, the meetings. .· About 4.Q .members meet together for. Mass~c andtO share.. Scripture.'pas­. · sages and .inddents ., ill their)ives. . About 40~50 students at ND-SMC >belong to a•· more .structu~d group .. than the N,ofre' Drune Prayer Group'. These· st,udents belong•·to the People . of . Praise. community.. While. stu~ 
.completely to the: community's way· of life, they do 'participateas full' members .in the 'commtinity•s:sched-. ule-of prayer meetings. and gather-. ings. each week:. . '. ·.. . . . 
Some people ·contacted 'discussed . the Renewal's .. directioni11the fu~· 
ture; What should someone do after . their initial involvement in prayer ·.. groups·.·and• the Renewal?.ManyfeU . a responsibility tolive·forGod. and 
'to acf accordingly in ·their iives. ·.. s,ome.i:nentioned plans to do social work-after graduation.:CommunitY, 
·,Iife·-:attracted-.otlieriL berauSe,,·or "the 
. ways tliafthe corrim1.mitf c~n sup­
•. port Christian Hfe~ ·> . · ·.. ·· i; 
Many .. religious. co~niunal fo~~. exist such as mon~teries: In South . 
Bend, People· of Praise is a cove­. nanted community. After an initial period when. the individual tries living .with the community, the per~ son can take asimple .vow andjoin the commtinity. He agrees before; 
look askance,af aprayer group· that uses such.•.· radical and animated prayer forms. Also; the Renewal's · spiritual basisjs not well ·understood . by . those not ••.. Involved .in'.·th~ Re­
· newal. At 'Notre :na:·me,< some stu~ . ·dents belong.to various charismatic· groups, Here and at their homes.' . Through.their involvementdn the 
· questions <concerning,. the ,'dangers .. , within a' communal group. Without a·:..definite authoritative strucfore; a·.•. . guidance. or' authority 'figure COllld .•.• play . a m9re' important role . in /111 • individua}'srlife thanjust a spiritua( one. This ·occurrence depends upon . ,th'e . em'otional .a_nd ... psyrhologicaJ: makeups of. the individuals ·involved; · ·· .. '. l\iu Ch.·.·. misunderstanding\ .. ~ur~ • 
nity's way oOife. People ofPraise's , · structure· . consists of . households .· where most comm'unity (members . live..These households. may' consist ofa married couple and their fam­ily .with some single; .'people, As members of ari ' extended family, each member is utider the ca.re. of a guidance>figure·: called: a/'head/' Thfs C'headship'' (>r guidance, rela~ : tionship .. forms. an Jnformal social . 
'structure in the community: Ahead; 
may be the .fathe/ in the family or ; 
an older and .respected 'friend. ·.. ·•. 
. People o.f Praise's structure raises . 
Charismatic. Renewal,.·these· students found a''deeper faith and anunder­standingof what being a Christian demands from them..• 
A resident· of Lyons Ha leen.Sullivan.. is a)uniorE
major. This. is .her rstc· . 
y •, , ••, ·,, 


Gallery 
Augie Jennewein 
"SPREADING MY WINGS" 

15








The Crying Room 
As I stepped inside, I could not see. Moments passed before my eyes adjusted to the dark inside. I paused, still holding the large, carved door, sifting through the grey. I moved. forward, letting go of the handle. As the door shut tight, the room came into view. Outside, the sun had been very bright. 
The room was not a lobby but a vestibule. Certain terms are linked to a church. Vestibule is one of those terms. You enter from the vestibule; this one, red tile floor, old but well kept; heavy plaster walls, thick with paint, always · cream · colored; wooden racks filled with leaflets and missalettes' (two other church terms);· the stairway to the choir loft; . a large marble font be­hind black iron gates.· I walked over to the gates and looked in. One tiny stained-glass window lit. the area with red light. The marble, ·grey­streaked white, was heavy looking, solid,· seemingly ·molded out of the floor like a tree out of the ground. The bowl was dry, gritty. A small altar stood to .the side, gold para­phernalia, ·a cloth. The altar was made of the ·same marble as the font. Altar and font, more terms. 
I knew this church. This was my church when I was growing up. It hadn't changed, it seeined; the font · still the same. . Of course, I don't remember my baptism. I do remem~ ber witnessing my cousin's baptism when I was thirteen. I stood by the altar, silent, wide-eyed, s·miling at times. The priest was very gentle, young and freshly scrubbed. The baby was wrinkled, wriggling from the closeness of the room, whining at the taste of.· the salt, cooing at her godmother's comforting voice. All the voices were quiet, .soothing. There were no harsh lights, nci bells, no incense. It was soft, like a lullaby. .. . . 
I moved·away from the-iron gate to the second. set . of doors, shorter than the first, carvedjust the same. The wood was heavy, set thick with varnish, worn somewhat from over­use. The handie, brass, I suppose, 
-was blackened. The door swept open with a clack-whoosh as I stepped in­side the church. 
by Mark Amenta 

I hadn't been inside this church throughout the church, became for seven years. This was my first doubled. I looked up at the front­visit back to the old hometown. No a small, bent-over man had walked one lived here anymore, no one I from the sacristy onto the altar. He knew. My parents had moved away was· carrying a folded altar cloth. after. I did. Most of the old neighbors. The sextant, Mr. Jennings. He must are gone. The others I have for-have been at least seventy by now, gotten. I was on my way to a busi-· still hard of hearing, · I assumed. ness meeting and I thought I would Slowly, he unfolded the cloth onto stop by to see how the town looked. the altar. He did not see me. I moved I passed by the church and knew. I · on. had to make a visit. I hadn't been The confessionals were ahead. inside a church for seven· years. Three doo·rs each, the middle larger 
Everything was silent. No lights for the priest, a red cross on top. had been turned on, so the only Bless me Father for I have sinned. illumination came_ from the towering It has been a much longer time than stained-glass windows. The air was I ever admit to since my last .con­still, like fallen snow, thick and fession. I looked up to the front. clean. The rows of pews led uni-Jennings was gone. I opened one of formly to the altar, far off, straight the side doors and looked in. ahead of me. The arches on each First Confession was, gruelling. side' followed the same rhythm as Everything had to be just right. The the pews. My eyes fixed on the altar, Act. of'Contrition was impossible to still, .then startled by the sound of learn. The little .dark room seemed the door cl9sing behind me. ominous. Practice sessions with our 
Everything was the same. The nuns as priests helped to soften the emptiness of the church filled my anxiety, I suppose. It was so impor­body. I was insignificant inside this tant to remember every sin so the angular cavern, small as· I had not· milk bottle could be filled again, the been for a long time. God was there, black spots could be wiped away. was he not, looming over the sturdy First Confession before First Com­choir loft with its long pipes and munion-the soul must be clean be­music stands; above, spreading his . fore receiving the flesh of the Lord. arms over the carved ceiling and I had a hard time thinking of sins. gold chandeliers? The Lo_!"d your I was such a good child. Disobedience God was there, keeping you silent, was a catchall. Father, I was dis­softening your steps, hearing your obedient to my parents. Pardon me sins, giving you grace. Nothing had. for this sin and all the sins of my changed; I felt the same. A wed, past life. Ah, there was the answer. struck with a sense of silent wonder. If I had ·forgotten any, that last 
But I was no· fool. · I had learned statement picked them all up. Tricks 
· my iessons. Vestibule,· altar, font, like this I learned, and· confession pews. · Church is for prayer and became less gruelling. praise. In the name of the Father . The inside was the same: dark, and of the Son, and of the Holy • small. The wire mesh in front of 
· Ghost, then Spirit. Lamb of God, velvet, to talk but not be seen, rt:o who. takes away the sins of the . .hear but not look at; the electric world, . remember, the third time is kneeler that flashed a red light when Grant us peace;· if you forget, you're · pressed; the little ledge fo place your the fool. I never forgot, and was arms that were joined at the hands often the loudest. I was an example and leaned in toward the face. The to the rest, always singing, always wood was old; the rubber kneeler responding. · pad had peeled, worn from sinners' 
-A ·reflex, I dipped the fingers of knees.· my right hand into the bowl of holy I did not like Confession. Even water. In the name of the Father, ·after the tricks were learned, or per­and of th~ Son, and then a mumble. haps because of them, I lost interest. I moved behind the last pew to the Who cared; would it really make or side aisle. My footsteps, resounding break me? Was it really worth fr? 
SCHOLASTIC 



Cross, thecrstory of. _Christ's cruci­fixion in fourteen sculpted scenes. An Our Father, Hail Mary, and Glory Be at each one. I remember; I.was an _altar boy. Supplementing Masses, weddings, and funerals were the Stations of the ,·cross during Lent, with incense, candles and a gold cross held high. ·· The fans; the face­
r'', ' 

wiping, the wailing women, the tomb. The whole story always there for us to see. Christ has died, was killed, was crowned with thorns . so large they pierced through his skull and out again, was whipped and beaten, was nailed to a wooden cross, the nails . hammered through flesh and bone; very bloody, agonizing and excruciating. That is why we came here. Christ had died for us, and rose. We came together in his honor as one body. · And we stood · there, all of us,. in one direction, eyes mov­ing from page to altar, · repeating · well-known phrases that · ran to­gether like the paint on a palette, blending into grey, color lost, spirit dead. We cried out for the crucified Lord in swallowed verses and quick ringing the bells when the host was exits following Communion. raised, always genuflecting when 
I moved up the aisle to the altar. passing the front of the altar. I was The rail held back the racks of can-the head altar boy in eighth grade, dies, little red and blue cups holding · the leader of the pack. None holier, small wax cylinders,· most of them I suppose, than I. I remember it all; lit, flickering. Special intentions ris-nothing had changed. Except me. I ing to God, longing to be answered. had grown up. I lit. one every Sunday for my .· I had come to this rail hundreds mother. It was her candle, not mine. of times. The Holy Eucharist, the She would give me the money, which Body, and then sometime early in I would drop in the slot, and I would high school, the Blood of Christ. light. the candle. She knelt at the ·. Amen. I remember, at first taste, the rail, praying for her special intens . utter tastelessness of the host; not tion. I knelt next to her, asking God . chewing it but grating it on the roof to give her whatever she was pray-of my mouth until it was dissolved. ing for. I addressed God · freely in And the wine, wincing at first and those days. They told me he listened. then· getting used to its bitter taste. My mother was very devout. I believe that is a good phrase, get-
NOVEMBER 17, 1978 
ting used to. The wine did not taste bitter after a while. It tasted like wine, like the wine at the dinner table; not .. bitter · but·. smooth. An acquired taste. 
I raised my eyes to the crucifix. · The sad face looked downwards at me. · His hands and feet were still nailed tightly to the. cross. I hadn't seen him for a long time. I hadn't talked to him for an even longer time. It was as if he were caught here in this church, and when I left here, I left him. I didn't know what to say to him. I felt embarra~sed, standing there alone, looking up at him. He was something out of my . 
Yes, yes, yes, all the new, modern, sideburned; Mp.sters · and Johnson priests at,high school told us. Letting all your friends know you are sorry is fine, but you must let God know, they told us between sips of their vodka martinis. God knows, I told myself, laughing at how much more pious I was than these fashion-plate priests. · Then laughing at myself for taking all this so seriously. And then not laughing anymore, but straight­faced and serious. 
. I had grown up. · I moved out of the dark confes­sional back into the side aisle. Along the walls hung the Stations of the 
Moving along the rail, I reached the center. The· altar stood before me, actually two altars: the old one up against the back wall, complete 
· with tabernacle and candles and last Sunday's floral arrangements; the new one at the center, more of a table than the other, newly covered. A bookstand and two candles were its only accoutrements. And all else-two lecterns, kneelers, chairs, side altars with statues of Joseph and Mary, all laid out before me . 
None of these things were strange to me. This was an altar boy's ter­rain as much as it was a priest's. Wine and water at the side table, past, like Lincoln Logs and skate­boards. I would have liked to have brought him along with me when I left this place, but I _think I lost him long before that: 
"What happened to. us?" L said, standing there, looking up at his sad face. As I had come to expect, he was silent. 
After a quiet sigh, no, more like an exaggerated exhalation of breath, as of frustration,. I turned and walked back down the center aisle, past· the rowi of pews, past the sta:. tions of the Cross and the confes­sionals, towards the door of the vestibule. Before Lreached this door,· I noticed something new at the. back 
Continued on page 21 _ 





.A . . ti. T:,H: White writes,'·iri The.Once an¢ 
,.. :~~P~-~ '1e ·)+ ·: ·{;J~I~~:~-iiifi:;~~rit!1rss:?h:h·_::;:i·\::-: -----~------..;..........;.._,.;..;____..;...___..;.....;...;....;...;.....;.:..;..;..__;..;...__;.;._____;...;;;.;. .• he ·is ·able io: balance his. breaking of·_.·..... 
ail. the commandments' and' his belief. ;_ 1ri-''eod :and :a.; rncirat systelll:>quit~ .naturally/ Buflt'is 'a>Iovely;: terrible ... 'balance:<ieeling ·good about 'one's: 

:;:)~~-~r.n~-~~~~t :t~\~~raI -i~v!_c~~n/:".., :, _all :.the whlle·'ign0Ji11g the:.externaL:\ 1 responsibility tliat' is i>arf ·•,>f ·thifi'.<'··· · asse1if:' Surely. those livirig~:'in this ·:: _, ,_=Joseph::•c;ju·. >temble''balance' an?•rio( th,t:1iite12::·'\/:
. ligent graduates of: our_.flner ·institu-~-. : . , . Li~tening to -~lph\Nader:rage But ,!.,was really riioved bY:··~hat .-tions;' certainly 'these''people''musf. '. , against,. co_rporate:. irresp' onsibility: ·_Nader said., .'Reall_.Y-I. was._ .And ,1 ·be 'intellectually'ai 'well' as'mofally_,: . />brough{ backimages" of-. adolescence/ . lmow·· that. if etiitcai: probleim :·arise .· .ignorant":': Yet Nader;'after:'speaking',·,_J_ /...j: .· of ~hat time.~lien ·issues "oCright . _ii1 ·_my business, ru: do what's :right.· :_atlehgtb::ofrorporate disas'fersstich'> ': i1 · and wrong and good and 'evil \vere · for me and, my family~ I have to .as offshore oil spiJJs and .ca.nc:e:rous·· . )! . of uitimate iniportance 1:0 :our y<>tµig; ;, c~~sider my,famHy; :, they're the_ m~st • :: -I>~l~uia_n~~. }insists\t_h~t: ''tli~~-"00Il_i::'.;:,::·: (··11 lives/-Nader's lecture .was subc:iued, ;•iniportanf_: thing, . aren't they? : I jianies ~ad·_a lot of-'bi:ight'JieoP,le,· a';·· ., , : humorous, but powerful;' and ihen .. mean, if there's a chance I might get lo(of Phi. Beta Kappas;"; 'Arid~v,ery\ : . he said that "moral courage is our . ·fired· for_ protesting :the. way. rord . little _external consent to.moral con~/>" :. : 
. most: precious/~mmodity; ,, 'the :,all~ ..,bu.i~~s' cars_''or. Exxori' raises fates,. r·>:~iJiiJn: .. _''/':'.? -....'.'.. >' , ...'·"-· ,, ,,_,. C. ·? ::: ::.: . .· .: dience as one internally'assentett > m11y have to turn riiy.,head alittle. . ''.·:sut ·wh'a( is ·•~xterri~l :~~ii~·en~•ii; · .. -· >. ..· .. ~ut _callin(to mind;pne's Iii.oral ·r g~tta keep my jo~ to keep ·my·, N~d~r:spoke ~ot of.-:hi~~eit',-but:ot'.-. . 
.. ,. i : ~:~t~:Ji~:~:·~:-·:~;;~;;:::·_J!~•tptt~~i.f?_·.J)(\::th~---•-~:11 ••· doYft:;~:i~:e:~::fn::b:tsm;::fH\·?)
• really_ not .the; salient. point\of -•· _· Na.der spoke oL-the too-famHiar ,. · ·..._ ,.P . P •.. ·•-: ·· ....., .P ·••··.,· ·..·. ; · · Nader;s talk. . Rather, beneatfr•'the '· idiomatic phrases people use when sured and harassed, people :Who had;;' • 
· veneer.. of his: _messag~_,:an~ re~ealed <__fa~d with _c~~i>roini~ing'1:heit rnoral ·': los~ · their jobs_· an~: ~-h~ir rt:P_pta~i~n~, .:· / __ _in; the ~enor\o! his voice was:.: the · yii:tues in orderto ke¢p their jobs or. -:~~c:~!JSe _of .~ei~ ·.~o~~I, _ccmvi_ct1()ns.;:: · · :1 ·_distinction between-what .I call· '.'in~ . Hfe~styles:. ••1·only: work here"; "To.·• .·qne ·quality: contro~·-speciaUst .for:-> 
. ternal. _assent,-• ..·and ,;external con-.• get along you got_to·:go along',';. and :Jford;havin,.g°been,r~peatedly;warried !>i;'
· ; .. ·_ •.: • ...• -·.· • ---·., ... _ .·. -. ·,.: .-··· -.•" ··.,.-.• •,.,.· ..·• ·· -"···•---.•-,•~.~-;·-•··----•-;,.-,._~.--/!l•,-i,.•"~.:·•:--.,-••-,,,·~•-'::'.:!.--••~.;:,_;·.;r-..!~~-._..;.'·... ,•·•.•_-1 
.·•·sent.•~.-,!'Internal assent'}~s·· the pleas~ . _·: especially; -"Mi_nd youi" o~business:11 . <-n..~t ._·.to::;r.epor~·-· fauJty :. welding: thaf-: :, '.•/;c 
;~1!:h0:!~~-~~i:~~~~i~~~~ri~~ ·: s·~~~~~j~--~ ;:· ;• ..·-~~~·~ ~~ii~~~~ .};~~~~::.. '.,rt:.;·~·~~_:<·?) .': ~:,:·'. ~~t,:~~~fj~d~~=rir:~ot;~2 x~r;~~¾~~d~~--. ~!~t ,__ : ~~\ :-l~ti?~Jfi;''.; ·~~i/ /.-~; 
·•· ·. otlier<iiand .iS' the -aliiiinatiOn. Of · 1-;!'.J!;.ilt·.~•~c· ~ .:· .·"" •· ... '"!',~t :: '.'."i\<
.,t:Et~tr~~~r~ ~ -~~r.~:-.... :.·· --~~~.'-< }Ji;{' / 

. : sense . .-.?(satisf~crtion. ·_E~termll · con-· 11[i;! ~~~i-" '{A~#-~. _~ .· 
,.s~~t~~uiri?~,_ey~rytl,lirig; it_~s 9:)~fe; ii . ,g~ k/·•conimitnieriti:\to' · honor·!': whaf-:>:.'is· : •f"· ,~ .·. -,;::;(·: ·:·. :-: 111orallf rigli~b{the a~o11Sof:orie1s --'-~ ,,._.,,..,,,-.,., -~f .. 




~J~,\~·<i,S~f~,~,, ~ 
,:: ,. "Ralph'.Nade:i-:', .. ' ... was' :right:' corpo·.. ~' ''t':F ::.__~ 
. '.. ,..,-;-,•~ 
rations do run this country in a way lli!''~ 
· ·et~!cally -'.~ponsible,;·· Btit:J-{ .•'.:-' '!-" . }'~ glad he talked about some. people:.; ... ' · ·who· are 'doing·. something about: all .; , ·.P.'­·1. tliiS: corruption.'(:it's) reassuring to ·.: '. .I;' · 
,<~1~:-~i·t~Ei~orid'.~ys'~f~!¥_nf\t 
<~~~e or;~ pattl~.,.s9h; s~~, 1_th~·::· .. • :victories are· slllall/but:whaf the. hell/ ,.


-iit£!tf~l,~SrJ:~i·· 
. _-.:c~reer·in 'corporate'tiaw' won't_giv~:.:.: ', .· . 
. ';' -_;:.", .. : ·:·. 

1!:.·_-.:-'.,_:.:::::.~--·__ 
.-.-:_::_m2'':o:-\_rn~cp1•time:fo~./~~y·of._~:i~ ~t~i-)f.'::,.3•'{ 
. ·.·.

•,~_ ~• ••j•,·)•: ·~ • • •,,.-'..':··::,.:,:,I 
, ' ,.~ ::,: I 

I:·;._ • 
!:,> ' ···,;_::j}•::.:::;
~ ;_7-.~-~:'..: _:•· .;, • • • ' -• ~--·•-': ·' ', 
....._., ,.; ..•'. ~ : '·, _;:•.:.:... ~-;:·~:-:. ·• , 
. : .. -. ~-·,·. ·-•-_ : ._,"~•-~-.\••~ .. _-~-~ -~•·•::_:l•~ ..,·:~: ;_•· , 
might cause a gas leakuponthe car's · iri educating ·the community. to the modity signified' by passive internal . impact, finally . sent. samples. of . this . plight of these' prisoners .as well as assent. or. active external. consent? Is welding .to· Washington, a1:ithe risk sponsoring letter~writing campaigns one 'a "prisoner of. conscience" be­of losing his job because of ethical to persuade the influential ·people in cause • his conscience bothers him considerations he felt he had to other nations of the problemsof in-when he does what is wrong or be-­honor. justice-committed in their country.., cause his conscience will not let him ' On another level of external con.:: But more importantly, underlying .do whai is wrong? Does not the L· : : . sen( there are today, Jn 1978, over ..•. this work is. the external consent to · . process of consenting . externally to t•· half a ·millioll people.imprisoned 'in· moral conviciion, here and now,'of one's moral convictions, of working [... :. more than 100 countries all'over the the students involved. Asked why he for reform in one's own life and in 
f. world.because of their moral convic-' had joined AI, senior Mike Guay ex-one's own world, begin now, so that r Hons. Amnesty International (AI), plained, "I. was moved by aletter. I .. later in life when it realllmatters..:.._
l··· a worldwide humanitarian organiza-had read about the forms of.torture . when one's future or job. is on the 
L. . tion that works for the release of used in Nazi prison camps. Theletter ·line-:..-the foundations of convictionf .these prisoners, calls. these people went: oil -·to ,describe·· the '-torture will stand firm? . .. ·• ! '.'Prisoners of Conscience/' . "Pris-· which· goes· on~ today in ~ivilized Not only the value of 'our world ! oners'' in .the literal sense because • countries. This letter came from the but_ the value of :ourselves rests in 
of the reQressive governments which special campaigns of AI,.and I felt :part upon this choice between assent­punish those'•espousing contradictory: •'.I• had to\do. something." .Another. _ing internally or consenting exter­. ideologies, "Prisoners''.. in' the _figu~ senior, Mike_ Pierret, said •.. that .he nally to our moral convictions. And rative senseJI think, because their llwas impressed by the success ·rate this choice, this'. responsibility, is · conscience .would not give them .the of AI/Even .governments as repres-. neither a remnant of adolescence nor "freedom" to live a life that was sive as the Soviet Union ha.ve felt residue from the idealism' of youth. morally wrong." "Prisoners'' because·>. called··_ upon . to> answer their . ques-It is a practical choice. that confronts the ringing of:their internal assent Hons. At·the same time, I don't de-us now. As the war resister Phil 

·. to moral conviction was• too loud to ·. lude myself that the . fight will ever _Berrigan . said,. after spending three ignore or cmnpromise whenit ·came . fully be won; But I feel that even in years in Danbury prison for burning . to .the externai living of'.tiieircon-> the times' I have. trouble seeing re~ •. draft.cahis a.nci subsequently finding victions, no matter what the con-suits__ frolll, my actions, if nothing · the war. much worse. than when he . · sequences: . . . else, I run doing.what I can in help-·had entered prison, "In. the final .. On. yet another level of:external' · ing a cause in .which I believe." .. analysis; our: protest is not only to . consJnt, one that<is closer to home,:.· · '!Moral courage is· our most pre~ change the world but just as much to 
there is_ the workof the Notre Dame. cious commodity,'.;_ said RalphNader ... -prevent the world from changing . chapter of AI; The group f1mctions · But is the possession of..this com~ ·us." 

Fiction -. 
(cont.) from 19, 
of the church. It -~as quite obvious since its structure' was so overt and its style was in contrast to the rest of the·: church; Mostly_ glass, the room was a modern addition, square and sleek. I ha.d .seen the·m in more modern churches ·-·of neighboring parishes. Parents with small,· espe­cially loud, offspring attend Mass in · this room '.so as not to disturb the ceremony: · I _walked to the side of . _the_ room, to where the door was stopped · open/ I walked in, absent­mindedly closing the door, sealing out the silence of the huge church; forming an inner silence _within the room. There were eight rows of pews,.· riioderri, with · light, uncarved wood. · The floo·r was carpeted, the walls, all glass except for the bottom panels. In: the back wall · was a speaker that allowed the people in · 
NOVEMBER 17, 1978 
the' room to hea.r the Mass. 

As I stood there, familiar with the modern decor of the room, which. was so much like the offices and hotel rooms I am used to, I wondered how· much the pe~ple that used this room participated in the Mass. Be­sides having their children to look after, they had to concentrate on the service from behind a glass wall. No one could hear·them. They could be screaming· their lungs out for· all anyone cared. It would all be in· vain. No· sound came from out of the room. No baby's cry could dis-:. rupt the monotonous strains of the bored congregation. 
· I looked at my watch and realized how late it was getting. I would have to be moving on. I turned to­ward the door and: reached for the knob. Attempting to turn it, I dis­covered that the door had locked. I tried the door again but to no avail; I looked around 'for another exit, but there was none. My eyes shifted to the front of the church. Every­thing remained the· same. Every­thing was still. I tried the door again, this time forcing it back and forth. It was locked tight. "God­dam," I muttered under iny breath.· I looked back at the altar. His head was still down. Nothing. I sensed some movement and looked to the right. Mr. Jennings was moving up the center aisle. I waved, but he had gotten too far up the aisle to see me:· I called out to him, shouting at the top of my voice, finally realizing how ridiculous that was. I began to pound on the glass, but his distance from· the room and his bad hearing made my attempts futile. · Dropping my hands from the glass; I watched him walk across the front of the first pew and out the side door of 1he church. My eyes fixed on that door for a few moments. Then I leaned against a pew and waited. 
21 


Perspecti\7e 
Another 


Point of View 
by Anthony Walton 

. Walking about the campus of the University of Notre Dame, I cannot help but appreciate .the · stunning beauty. Itis fall now, and the leaves are turning into their various shades of red, brown, and yellow. Much of the ivy remains upon .the walls of the buildings.· .As I stand taking. all of this in, I can't help but feel awed, yet I also feel secure. This is what college was meant to be; this is Notre Dame. 
Ah yes,. Notre Dame. Nestled among two picturesque lakes in northern Indiana, Notre Dame is the epitome of American higher educa­tion. It combines outstanding aca­demics, world-renowned athletics, a spectacular campus, and perhaps the most important ingredient of all, a certain aura which surrounds and envelops the place, a thing unknown at any other university in this country.. 
Who wouldn't want to go to Notre Dame? Well, a lot of times I think I wouldn't. Notre Dame is one heck of a school, but I often wonder if it is for me. I am a member of two 
often overlooked and forgotten com­munities at Notre Dame: the minori­
. ties and the non~Catholics: ·we com­prise, respectively, about 6% and 8% of the student population here. Notre Dame is overwhelmingly white and Catholic, and while this is to· be expected, it is ·not necessarily an ideal situation. 
Before I go on,. perhaps I should clear up a few points. I.am not a· sign-waving, radical activist.scream­ing about discrimination. At the risk of being. facetious, some of my best friends are white. I am a quiet, basi­cally shy (or so I'm told) subur­
banite with a background much like 90% of the students here. I do, how­ever, have a few observations that I would like to make note of concern­ing Notre Dame. I admit that I will make some broad generalizations, but I feel that they are valid and necessary to get my point across. 
As stated before, Notre Dame pretty much represents the ideal in American 'education. It has become the pet of white, upper-middle-class Catholics. This . is reflected by the 
student body ·as a whole: Glancing at the student directory illustrates 
. this. There are not really very many people. here· from a·city. Generally; ·. students· are not from Chicago or Cleveland, but instead they live in Elk Grove Village or Shaker Heights. Many others hail from small to me­dium-sized towns across.the country. By having ia student body that comes from a generally similar background, the University loses a much-needed diversity.~ We could use a few more longhairs ·or Hare Krishnas around here.-I don't think that you can have a really "catholic;' education without them. If you grow up in a suburb and then go to school with people who themselves all grew up in sub­urbs, one could start believing that life is a suburb. By having such a homogeneous group, we are not in­troduced to how "some. of the other half lives.'' Part of this situation is innocent, created naturally by people who simply wanted to go to a Christian institution and get a good education: . But there are those who want this 

situation deliberately, and would like the same way. If those guys were a ference to minorities that is both to keep it.this way. To those, Notre part of the community, maybe we good and baa. It is good in that Dame becomes a sort of haven that could talk to them and come to minorities should be able to fit into a their kids can be sent to in order to understand each other a little better. population without much ado. But it avoid the real world. The other example that . I would is bad in that a whole different set 
The danger o~ · these views lies in like to cite is the racial situation on of _ideas and values are just passed the fact that college is the only time campus. There are not any real evi­over.· we .are really able to hear and try dent problems, but there is a need I have. no big gripe or super solu­new arid different ideas. In a more for change. I think many whites tion. · But I hope that we< can be heterogeneous mixture, there are here .view blacks as athletes who aware of things that are happening more . opportunities for things to help win national championships, but around us. Notre Dame is basically challenge your beliefs. This either whose contribution to the University a good school and it has great poten­makes you strengthen your convic­ends there. The minorities here ten(J tial to be even better. One of the tions or formulate a new viewpoint. not to fit into much of the "society" ways that it can be made better is I would like to cite two examples here on campus. By being in such a for us to be aware of its short­that might lend some support to my drastic minority, many aspects ·of -comings; ·theory. "normal"_. college· life are reduced .or , I -remember when ·I was a seriior 
· I remember the day that the "holy lost. -I am talking about· the . social !n·· high school and thinking about rollers" were preaching outside of side of life.· It is not that much fun -coming here. I had the pleasant op­'the South Dining Hall. The general to go on a hayride if .chances ai-e portunity to· ask Fr. -Hesburgh a reactions Were either to ridicule the that there is not going to be anyone question.. I·asked him why I should preachers or to· look at them with .· for you to talk... to. I know. I am come here. He said, "We need a disbelief, . shake your head, and walk going to get some of the· "Oh, but diverse student body so that we can ori. . It was probably the first time you're welcome," replies, but I wo.uld all learn to live· together." Are we that niany· in the audience had expe­ratller be realistic .. learning? rienced such. religious "fanatics." As a. minority, in the. complete While : no. one . around here ·usually sense, I· feel, to a great extent,. on exhibits such behavior, many· people .the outside of many of the happen­across the country. worship in much ings here: There is a general ind!f­
NOVEMBER'17~ 1978 23 
.I 
Hoop for the· Best 
by Paul Mullaney 

A lot of fingers will be pointing towards Coach Digger Phelps' 1978­79 Notre Dame basketball squad as one of the top contenders to win the national title. After all, Phelps has 10 lettermen back from last year's 23-8 NCAA final four entry, includ­ing eight of the team's top 10 scorers and nine of the top 11 rebounders. 
Nonetheless, Phelps remains some­what_ cautious _when speaking of. the possibilities of duplicating the most successful Irish cage campaign ever. 
"You have to realize that no team has made back-to-back. appearances in the_final four in the last four sea, sons," notes Phelps, who is the only collegiate coach to claim five straight postseason tourney -bids heading into the new season. 
"It •-· keeps you _rather humble. You've just got to go .out and get · your 20 wins to get the bid.'! Once again, the Irish will have to face one of· the toughest schedules 
· in the country, with a road slate that is nearly suicidal • The Irish pack their bags for games at UCLA, Ken­
. tucky (Louisville), Marquette, Mary.­land, North, Carolina State,• West Virginia, DePaul and Michigan (Pon­tiac Silverdome), in addition to fac­ing_ UCLA, .San Francisco, South Carolina and LaSalle on·the·familiar wooden planks of the Athletic and ­Convocation Center. . 
"Our road •schedule is more toned points and finished 13th on the all­toward NCAA play :than ever be-time Irish scoring list. fore," emphasizes Phelps. "They'll "We'll just have to see who'll pick all be like tourney games, with those up the slack," Phelps said. "We've certain conditions. got a lot of experience coming back, 
"Last year we scheduled 13 teams so we didn't recruit heavily because that took part in postseason play; . we have a lot of freshmen from a No other schedule in :the country year ago, and they all deserve to could say that. And this year's sched-play." ule will help us do the same as far Leading the long list of returnees as tourney preparation is concerned." will be senior ·co-captains Bn1ce 
The picture will not be totally the Flowers and Bill Daimbeer, who will same this year, however, with the · take turns controlling the Irish pivot loss of two players Phelps considers this season. Flowers, from Hunting­"two of the most dependable players ton Woods, Michigan, and Laimbeer, I've ever coached. from Toledo, Ohio, split the pivot 
"We're really going to miss (Dave) duties the final 14 games of the 1977­Batton ·and (Don) Williams. They 78 season, and combined to average did a lot for us offensively, shooting-15.0 . points and 11.4 rebounds be-wise." tween them. 
The Irish co-captains shared team Kelly Tripucka, a 6-7 native of MVP honors a year ago. Williams, · Essex Falls, New Jersey, leads the who scored 13.3 points per game in group of sophomore forwards. The last year's balanced attack, finished team's top returning scorer with an his career as Notre Daine's sixth all-_ 11.7 average his freshman season, to 
. time leading scorer. Batton, who led · go with a 5.2 rebound average, the club last year in scoring and re-Tripucka was the most effective Irish bounding, scored over 1,000 career player in the NCAA tourney, scoring · 
~Wj
(.~/
~,,..,., .. 
•••if 
.

-. . ' 
.. SCHOLASTIC 
15 points a game and being named 
MVP of the Midwest Regional. 
Orlando Woolridge, also a sopho­
more at 6-9, seems to have the in­side track at the other forward spot. The native of Mansfield, Louisiana, is one of the most innovative slam­. dunkers in the country. He averaged 
4.1 points a game last year and should improve vastly with expe­rience. 
Two more sophomores, Tracy Jackson and Gil Salinas, also figure to see . plenty of playing time after playing . valuable reserve roles in 1977-78._. Jackson, from· Silver Springs, Maryland, is invaluable.be~' cause of his ability to play at either forward o; guard. Last season he averaged 5'.6 points and shot 55 per-· cent from the field. Salinas, the 6-11 San Antonio, Texas, . native saw limited _action_ last year, but should aid the Irish often with his soft cor­ner j·ump shots. · . 
The backcourt is the area which Notre Dame fans are most concerned about, despite the return of. Rich Branning, the heady junior often re~ ferred to as the "glue" of the Irish.. The overall skills of 6-3 sophomore. Stan Wilcox and 6-2 ·freshman Mike· Mitchell will aid the Irish caµse aside Branning. 
Notre Dame's floor general the last two seasons, Branning scored 11 points per contest last year while dishing out 129 assists. He'll prob­ably move into more of a shooting role this year, with Wilcox and Mitchell working out of the point position. 
Wilcox, nicknamed "Silky," played in 29 games last year as a backup for Williams. The North Babylon, New York, native is a smooth ball handler and consistent shooter. Mitchell, the only scholarship newcomer to the squad, was an All~American at Capu­chino High School in San· Bruno, California. There he averaged 31.8 points· per contest and was chosen player of the year in Northern Cali­fornia. In one two-game set, during one of the final weeks of last season, Mitchell connected on 44 of 54 field goal attempts and scored 108 points. 
Bill Hanzlik; a 6-7 junior from Beloit, Wisconsin, will also pressure· Branning, Wilcox _and Mitchell for one of the guard spots. Hanzlik, with the· size to· play either guard or for-. ward, shared team defensive player­of.:.the-year honors with Flowers last year and received national acclaim for his. outstanding defensive_· effort 



Kelly Tripucka muscles in for a · lay-up. 
against Marquette All-American guard Butch Lee. 
Three walk-ons-6-1 junior Tim Healy, 6-0 sophomore Kevin Haw­kins and 5-10 freshman Marc Kelly­will also provide depth in the back­court. 
"We can't get complacent about the fact that we should get to the final· four;'' stresses Phelps. "You're going to see more teams like Fuller­ton State making it now. 
"We have three basic items of im­provement we're working on_ right now. First, we have to concentrate on our clock situations. We have to· have total awareness out on the· 
-court at all times. ·"Secondly, we have to work on our foul-shooting as a team.. And lastly, we have to realize that we can't have that complacency of 'automatically appearing in the final'four." Although March is along way off, one can bet that the thought of'the NCAA tourney lies·somewhere in the minds of Notre Dame's 1978-79 bas­ketball players ,and coaches: 
,,. ~~t ,, 
.. _ \ . ' -,.,_ ! 



~,'t}1~ 

..,r . 
•.t-..~ 


Father James Ri!,?hle ' 

For we are .devoted to. the con­tinued pronwtion _of the primary goal of the University which we understand to be the spiritual, intel­lectual, and physical development of its students and alumni. Our inten­tion is to strive for the realization of that goal by channeling the insights and energies of monogram winners. through diverse projects commen­surate with Notre Dame's image and tradition. :-Excerpt from Notre Dame . National Monogram Club Constitution 
MEN Of lE'"C'"CERS 
In an effort to achieve the goals set forth in its constitution, the Notre. Dame National Monogram. Club, which is made up of graduated . varsity monogram winners, is cur­rently undergoing a· revival. 
"We're trying to make it a muc~ more . viable institution than it has been in the past," says Father James Riehle, C.S.C., the club's newly ap­pointed 'executive secretary. ''In past 
·years it has.not' been a very_ organ­ized club · arid this has caused it to become an inactive organization. But we're working to.reactivate it.';_ . . The first steps•.. towards rejuve­nation were taken two years ago, according to Riehle. At that time, a constitution was developed, marking the first time the club·had any offi­cial bylaws. The club's next move,• another first, was the election of of­ficers. The list of officers and direc­tors includes the names of former· basketball star Sid Catlett, · football great Jim Lynch, and -·Montreai 
. Expos president John McHale. 
--"It was important that we gave the club a formal structure, and the constitution did that," says Riehle.• "Previously, it had just been run out of one ·man•s head so very few rec­ords and such things were· kept." . 
Searching for and compiling rec­ords is the task with which Riehle is currently faced. Until his job is finished; Riehle can only give an esti­mation of the size of the club. "Right now we have about 3,100 members but I hear about more and more members all the time," says Riehle. 
According to Riehle, a graduate of the Notre Dame class of 1949, the Notre Dame · National Monogram Club is open to all varsity monogram winners immediately upon gradu­ation. Eligible students are given one year's free membership follow­ing graduation and then must pay dues of ten dollars per year to re-
by Bill . Scholl 

main a member. The club's benefits 
include a. scholarship fund available 
to tlie sons and daughters of mem­
bers and the assurance of two Notre 
Dame football tickets. Riehle points 
out, . however, that. if a member 
wants football tickets his dues are 
increased to $25 per year. . . .. , . 
Other activities · the · Monogram 

Club has undertaken, in an attempt 
to become more active, include the 
presentation of awards to the out­
standing offen.sive ·· and defensive 
football· players as chosen .by their 
teammates. "Giving awards and 
making scholarships available are a 
couple of the ways that we are try­
ing to . become more involved with 
the University," says Riehle .. 
According to.Notre Dame Athletic 

Director Edward "Moose" Krause, 
the revival is progressing well. "l 
think it's a great idea. The club used 
to be very active on campus years 
ago arid it's good to see them getting 
involved again..·For example, they 
recently donated $20,000 for the new 
track _on Cartier . Field, ..· which · we 
needed very badly." 
Revival of the student portion of 

the Monogram Club is another action · 
being considered by the_· National · Monogram Club..The student club, . which was first broken up about ten years ago, according to Krause, would be comprised of undergrad­uates who have earned their Notre Dame monograms. Cheerleaders and varsity female athletes would be in­cluded just as ·they are currently 
members of the National Club. 
"The student club was broken up 
the first time because there were too 

many other activities' for the ath­
letes," says Krause. "Between sports, 

studies, and other events they just 
didn't have the time. This could still 
be a problem today, hut it would be 
nice if the National Club could get 
the students involved again." · 
SCHOLASTIC 


Book· Review 

by Jan Pilarski 

Virgins and l\fartyrs; uy Dolores W. secretly arranges to have an abor­
Frese, Juniper Press; 1918, 87 pages, tion. In .a subplot, Marcus pressures 
$2.75. . 
his son to get an abortion for his 
· pregnant girlfriend so as not to 
It has· oecome fashionable in re-humiliate the family. Marcus's ver­
cent years for women.writers.to ex-bal abuse and pressure tactics have 
pfore the question of what it means the impact of bending the wills of 
to be a woman in· today's society. mother and son to choose the same 
Bookstore shelves. are well-stocked act. The extend of Marcus's domi­
with volumes,designed to raise the nation is demonstrated by the little 
consciousness..of their feminine we discover about his wife. Frese 
readers. · The subject of Dolores deliberately fails to flesh out this 
Frese's latest work is women and character; though we learn that 
their relationships with men. Frese's Marcus: finds his wife physically 
collection of four short stories is in-appealing,· we know virtually noth­
( . . . . 



· C!JUl]l]UGJ§·

cisive but does not ·preach, unlike .· ing about her as a person. The 
many works of popular literature ·. ·. . · strained relationship between Mar-
dealing with .women. Much of the cus and his wife seems everything 
effectiveness of Virgins and Martyrs ~mft).. a marriage should not be. 
stems from the use· of the short WWL:.J "By the Streams of Babylon" and 
story as· Us medium. While the con-"Women Alone" are also strong 
cise nature of the short story is stories. "Babylon" involves a nun 
somewhat limiting, it ·torces the ~/;i.~.r¦J,U(JJ.. r¦J~ _who feels stifled by her vow of chas­
skilled ·writer to. make every word LfLJWW LJ '1.,f WC' tity and awakens to her capacity· to 
count. Frese's prose is highly read-love. "Women Alone" describes a 
able. She writes in a fluent, high-woman college professor deadlocked 
powered style that is stripped of DoloresWarwickFrese----in a man's world, attempting to 
superfluities. The women characters ·find them-break out from the shadow of her 
Frese demonstrates keen sensitiv-· selves in situations both of their own deceased husband, a· distinguished 
ity toward the experiences of worn-making and imposed on them by . scholar. "Funeral Games" takes a 
en, exposing the intricacies of male-men. They aim to break free· from different approach, giving an ac­
ferriale relationships.' Each story is · subservience to men or from atti-count of_ the way women look at 
independent ·of the others· and de-· tudes of their own that keep them . other women. 
velops a different facet of woman's . from ·advancing. . .. In a community such as ours struggle for personafidentity. All of IITaking Stock," the· first story·. which seeks to improve the under-· ·the main women characters·are por-.and in many . ways the best of the . standing between men and women, trayed as either virgins or martyrs. .collection, differs from the others in Frese's Virgins and 1\-lartyrs is a Suspicious· husbands and double tliat it is written from a man's per.;· welcome addition. Men will·flnd the standards;· · stifling · vocations, ' a spective. Milton· Marcus,: the pro-stories an insight into the concerns "cheap" woman stealing away a son, tagcinist, .is depicted as a domineer-: . of today's women; women will prob­and· male-dominated professions are ing, calculating man in his ·homelife'~ ably see something of themselves , the obstacles confronted by Frese's and ori the job.. Frese describes him in the volume. Whatever the sex of characters. . as bending the liv_es ·of others. t~ do the reader, he or she will see 'it as Frese· is not militant in her ap-·his will. He accumulates a series of a challenge to grow in sensitivity. 
proach; ·rather; ·her stories are in-arbitrary clues _and 'falsely. accuses •· 
tense and searching treatments·· of his wife of adultery.. Marcus crudely Jon Pilarski i8 a senior philosophy 
the barriers opposing women. Taken lashes out against his wife, who mis-·major from Milwaukee, Wis. . . 
as a whole, the stories function as' a · understands· him and thinks he is 
purgation, ·a: casting ·off of those angered at something she has tried,_ 
~hings that prevent women froin . to hjde from. him:. ·she' is·. preg-. 
coming to grips with who they are. narit at the age of 46. ·Marcus's wife. 
NOVEMBER 17, 1978 


.Cetters 
, , , 
• > • • ' •• :··· • • • • 
Scholastic encourages its readers to comment on the mag~ine's con­tent. Letters should be addressed to Editor Scholastic, LaFortune Stu­dent Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
Dear Editor: 
In exercising your right to "The 

Last Word" in the Scholastic maga­-zine, you allude to your -desire ­
nay, your duty -to "produce a 
magazine of quality" (November 3, 
1978). I would like to commend you 
and your editorial board for taking 
such a noble stand. Unfortunately, 
however, there seems to be some dis­
crepancy between your goal and 
your final product. 
In your column, you state that "a 

publication must print what it feels 
to be the best writing, photography 
and artwork, not because someone 
has 'requested' it, but because it is 
the best." Certainly you can't be re­
ferring to · such insipid articles as 
"If Rome Were Home," by John 
Maddog _Muldoon or "Paradise Re­
visited," by Greg Solman and Tim 
Gulstone (both · Sept.. 22) which 
started off. so promisingly but then 
quickly degenerated_ into so much 
tedium, Also, the overwhelmingly 
self-defeating and self-contradicting 
editorial by _Theresa Rebeck in the 
same edition is · by · far the --most 
worthless waste of two pages that I 
have ever seen come out of the 
Scholastic office. (Ms. Rebeck pro­
poses that not starting food fights, 
not starting riots, and not throwing 
up all over the halls is somehow 
radical; she treats maturity and 
responsibility as some· sort of _novel 
challenge.) · · · -· · 
. In the same edition (perhaps n~t 

your finest) the Scholastic does a 
grave injustice to Joe Gill and Rick 
Pinkowski by misrepresenting them 
and twisting their words around en­
tirely out of context. I believe, how­
ever, that they have written to y~u 
about this matter, an_d hence I feel 
no need to elaborate on it here. 
Somehow I wonder, is this. article 
iri keeping ~th your uduty to print 
the-truth"? _ ··­
-Your choice o_f_ -th~ W_9~d "trut_h.'~ ­

is indeed a curious one. You state 
that In its "quest fo~ truth, publica­
tions _such as _the Scholastic must 
remain aloof from outside forces." 
Yet you leave the issue· at that and 
never give reasons for_ this assertion. 
(Are .we to assume-that the faculty -. 
and. administration do not know the _<'truth'' which the Scho~tic grasps and espouses?) You then go on to say that !_'best'' is not "the pretUest picture or the cutest story," yet the Scholastic -editions·_ thus _far have 
reeked of "cutesiness." As evidence, I point to your own columns on such topics as a test for preppie:.ness (Sept. 8) and your state of health (Oct. 6). Come now, Mr. Morrissey, let us not delude ourselves with pre­tensions about "truth." 
Let us now return to your self­stated duty to print the best mate­rial. In your drive to reach this goal, you claim that a publication should not "be afraid of editing or deleting altogether a piece."_ If ..Autumn 
.Wonderland" by Joseph Evans·is an _example of such policy, may I com­mend you on your fearlessness! Granted; the editor's duty is to edit as he seesfit, butto carelessly and uncaringly snip out the flesh of the article . and merely _leave a few bones -this is not editing; it is 

•
butchery. To wait an entire_ month 

•
before offering_ an "apology" is dis­graceful. To not even have the cour-_ ·age· and. humility to admit that you committed a grave injustice_ is un­forgivable, and -certainly. -beneath the dignity of a quaUty _magazine. I 


, 'feel embarrassed for,, you and the Scholastic. ­
_  
Sincerely,  _  _  
-Thomas G. Hamel  
P.S. Incidentally, though I do  not  

consider myself to be a preppie, I . understand that backgamm9nis no · longer "in."· 
Dear Editor: 
Your story,, ''How I -Spent My Summer with Pete Rose,'' .in the September 22 issue . of Scholastic, brought back memories of another summer :..,-many years ago _c-:,--when a twelve-year~old "hit" safely in fifty-six consecutive games with the greatest baseball playl?r of,the_Jirst fifty, years of the twentieth. century 

,-Joe Dimaggio! ___ • .-_-. ­When Mr. Rose. is so honored, or when he hits _safely • in _flftr-seven consecutive games, or whe~ _there is a song wrjtteri about him, or when Simon and Garfunkel -and. Mrs. Robinson 7:"": wonder where_ he has gone, then he. may be_ considered as _an equal_ of M_r. Dimaggi<>. __ Your story is enjoyable.. 
John P. Morrissey . 
SCHOLASTIC 

Dear Editor: 
This letter is in reference to the article_ ''Rich Dorm, Poor Dorm" by Bob Southard and Lisa Harten­berger, which appeared in the Scholastic of September 22, 1978. 
We feel that several salient points were missing from. the article and that these points are critical to the complete understanding of the facts and the true representation of Stu­dent Government's role in the social space issue. 
The first point. is not only critical to the issue, but also a violation of the cardinal rule of good reporting --"Tell both sides of the story." 
Father Riehle, rector of Pangborn Hall, is quoted as. saying, "I was not consulted. U my ha.Hpresident was, it was done casually."_ During our two-hour conversation with South­ard and Hartenberger, we mentioned 
-that despite many phone calls to· Riehle over the: two-week period in which we met with the other rec­tors, Fr. Riehle was never available for consultation. Therefore, we met with Chris Edelen, then Pangborn's Hall President (who is still on cam­pus, . but_· apparently was-not con­tacted by. Southard and Hartenber­ger) who presented his hall's plans for social space development, which had been drawn up five years earlier waiting for the chance to be used. 
Our _second point is that, accord­ing to Southard and Hartenberger, Howard. submitted a detailed set of . blueprints. Student Government never . received a set of :blueprints from Howard. Our proposal was · that the. University would finance the removal of some of the rooms on the first floor of Howard in order. to 
·create· sociil space. The haU was th~n to take on the burden.of fi­nancing the interior decorating. This .was to be done at a cost of approxi­mately ten times lower than the present cost. 
Obviously, sometime in . between the time that the Board of Trustees han:ded over the proposal to Student Affairs . and this summer when the renovation of the halls was under­taken, somebody screwed up the proposal and it sure wasn't Student 
· Government. Finally, just as a bit of irony, Southard and Hartenberger use the word "superficial" twice at. the end of their article. Apparently, the word is used as a way of describing 
the way matters are handled here on campus. However, given that Southard and Hartenberger did not contact Chris Edeien, did not trace the proposal once it touched the hands of Student Affairs, and did not accurately report both sides of the story, we feel the word "super~ ficial" can also describe the way in which this issue was reported. 
Joe Gill 
·Rick Pinkowski 
Cochairmen of the 
Student Goverrurient Proposal 
to the Board of Trustees 

Dear Editor: 
I recently received the latest cata­log from the Notre Dame Bookstore. On leafing through its pages I came to an item that I coul_d not believe was being offered for sale. I refer to the attempt to sell.-the_ Irish-. Tri­color with that foolish-looking. Lep­rechaun stamped on the white field. I was appalled, insulted, disgusted ·. and angry at such crass commer-· cialism. 
The Tricolor is not a toy. It is the flag of a sovereign state and even more important to me as an Irish-American, the symbol of Ire­land's long and bitter fight against the oppression of England. The orig­inal Tricolor was based on the French. Revolutionary Tricolor and· was handmade. by Irish exiles living in France in the 1840's. It is the sa­cred symbol of nationhood .to all true republicans. The Tricolor, along with. Starry Plow Flag of James Connolly's Citizen Army, hangs in my home. It is a great source _of pride to me. I object to your at­tempts to ·turn a profit by such a desecration. 
Would you do the same thing with the flag of the United States·or old mother England? I Jhink not. As a Notre Dame Alumnus (1955). and an Irish-American, I demand that you withdraw this item from,saie. 
. Seamus Metress, Ph.D. Notre Dame '55 


People At ND 



put it, ''These books. have been 

tossed around by the most lea:r:ned ministration Building, contains an · stances twenty-two years ago when, men in history. Who am I to pretend interesting and colorful assortment,; desperately needing work, she ap­that I'm. an authority on them? of items-from mittens and eye-·'. plied for a job ' at the University. Anyway, almost every day students glasses to jewelry and notebooks. Notre Dame, she recalls, took her in; come up with fascinating interpreta­Upon closer inspection, however, one and not only did June Urbanski find tions of the' readings which I never concludes that the most colorful and a job,· but·a home as well. would have thought of." interesting object in the office is not -Mary Ann Tighe Dr. Martin's grade-assessment a thing but a person, June Urbanski,·. measures ·also showed his concern who has worked at the University for students. • ·He abolished tests, for twenty-two years. since "they cannot possibly assess Although the department known creative thinking ability, which is 
; . primarily as "Lost and Found," Mrs. the key to an understanding-of the
i 
Urbanski, who prefers to be called classics we've read." In the place of "June," claims that her main job is tests, students were. allowed to sub­to excuse and cancel cuts and ab­stitute papers, free verse, songs, sences. "The first thing I ask the satire, plays, and skits. One· group students when they come in here for ·It was late August, 1977. Twenty­of students 'created a discussion· en­an excuse is: 'Do you have verifi-five tee-shirt-clad· students plopped titled, "Is there ari afterlife?';_where­cation?'" and she waves her finger into chairs in Room 415 of the Ad­in each assumed the persona' of ·an emphatically. Her trained eye can · ministration 'Building. AlF of them author read during the semester. usually discern a malingerer, but she shared one feeling; an intense desire · Outside the classroom, Dr. Martin admits to being deceived once in a to be anywhere, anywhere but sit~ . has also shown his concern for stu­while. ting in a required class called Col-dents. :He has ; willingly written 
Mrs. Urbanski urges anyone who legiate Seminar. CO u n t 1es s. recommeridation.s' for has lost anything to visit her, for all · 'A few · minutes later, the door scholarships and jobs; when he articles end up in her office unless squeaked open, and in strode the pro­writes· a recommendation for· a· stu­they are found at the Morris Inn or fessor, a man about thirty years old. dent, he always gives that student CCE. "And don't give up," she He informed us that ·his name was a copy of the recornmendationi since advises, "for missing things have ap-Dr. William Martin, and promised he feels "A student has tlie right to peared after months." A widow, Mrs. us "that this will be a course whose know whether or· not a professor Urbanski is mother to fifteen foster major -focus will be you, the stu-feels·_· he's qualified for a certain children, and she acknowledges ex-dents."· . honor." tending this role to the students she Dr. Martin kept his promise. His -Bill Fuller sees at Notre Dame, declaring, "I'U . ability to stimulate student interest go to bat for them any day!" Her · in the course carried· us through job, she says, has led her to believe books by Aquinas,· Plato,-Homer, people are inherently honest. . and Dante, among others. Classes 
Mrs. Urbanski Js fond of quoting always followed a discussion format, Robert Frost: '_'Home· is the place in which Dr. Martin talked no more where, when you have _to go there, -than any one·stmlent, because, as he 
SCHOLASTIC 


· A Public Service of this newspaper&The Advertising Council ~ 
i 
1 ' 
' 
' 
. 

Call Red Cross _. _ 
-· todayaboutleamingCPR-···.. · ·. cardiopulmonary resuscitation. . 
. . 

Red Cross ­·is counting onyou. -­
-. -.-j
·,~_ 

' ' ' 

.oecember,1, 2, 3, 6, 1,·a, 9 
-' ' 
8:00 p. m~-. 

O'Laughlin Auditorium 

For tickets· call. 284.~4176 ·.· ..·. 
Note: Thi~ production does n~t utilize the regular auditori~m sep,ting. Audience will be seated randomly within the environmentaZ,set'­ting of the play. · 




